NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361
Habitat. — Barbadoes. Types in my collection, obtained from Mr. A. H.
Alexander, by whom they were killed on that Island.
Remarks. — This very distinct species comes nearest to Q. lugtibri^, Sw., in
its dimensions, but is rather smaller ; that species is more violaceous in liis're,
with longer and stouter legs, also a longer, straighter and more feeble bill,
with the commissure straight; the bill of the new species is comparatively
large, at the base being wider and fully one-third higher than that of Q. Iwjh-
bris.
4. Thamnophilps virgatus.
Entire head, hind neck and all of the under plumage, of a grayish fuligi-
nous color, blacker on the head and grayer below, with a broad stripe of pale
ochreous white down the centre of each fea'her ; these are clearer or nearly
white on the head, and duller on the abdomen ; back, t»il and exposed por-
tion of the, wings cinnamon red ; the inner webs of the quill feathers liver
brown ; the under wing coverts and inner margins of quills pale cinnamon ;
under tail coverts pale rufous ; upper mandible black, the under whitish
horn color ; tarsi and toes black, claws whitish.
Length about 6 in. ; wing 3 ; tail 2|- ; bill about | ; tarsi 1 .
Habitat. — New Granada, Turbo. Collected by Lt. Michler. Type in Mus.
Acad, of Nat. Sciences, Philadelphia.
Remarks. — In distribution of colors this species much resembles T. palliatua,
but it is smaller and differs notably in the white markings throughout, being
longitudinal; the crown in palliatus is immaculate, on which in the present
species the stripes are strongly dehned ; the red coloring is paler and duller
than that of T. palliatus.
From analogy I judge it to be a male, as the female of T. palliatus has a
rufous crown.
The bill is injured by shot, the end being deficient; at first I was puzzled
to know where to place it, but feel confident it is assigned its true poiitioa.
Analytical table of th? Species of BARIDITI3 inhabiting- the United States.-
BY JOHN L. LE CONTE, M.D.
According to the form of the antennae the species before me may be
divided into three principal groups, of which the second contains all the
strongly pubescent species. The first group is the most numerous, and may
again be subdivided by the presence or absence of the apical constriction of
the prothorax. We will thus have the following scheme of arrangement.
A. Antenn;e thick; 2d and .3d joints of funiculus equal.
a. Body nearly glabrous. Thorax not constricted near the apex. Sp. 1 — 8.
b. Body nearly glabrous. Thorax constricted near the apex. Sp. 9 — 22.
c. Body densely pubescent ; thorax constricted near the apex. Sp. 23 — 25.
B. Antenuic slender ; 2d point of funiculus longer than the 3d. Sp 26 — 28.
A— a.
Intervals of elytra coarsely and irregularly punctured. 1.
'• '■ with single rows of usually well marked punctures. 3.
" " with very fine inconspicuous punctures. 4.
1. Color black. 2.
Color bronze-black ; prothorax longer than wide, gradually narrowed from
base, rounded near the apex ; dors il carina very indistinct ; beak stout, curve<l,
moderately long, punctured. Long. 4-5 mm. Middle States, l.subasneus.
2. More shining ; prothorax not longer than wide, very slightly nirrowad
from base, much rounded near the apex ; dorsal carina not apparent ; be.ik
stout, short, curved, punctured. Long 4-5 mm. Kansas (one s|)eciinen).
2. quadratus.
1868.] 24
