362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
Similar to the last in size, form and sculpture, but the dorsal carina of the
prothorax is well marked. Long 4-5 mm. Texas, Illinois. (Two speci-
mens) , 3. carinulatus L(c.
Less shining; punctures of elytra soaaller and closer; prothorax more
equally rounded on the sides, not broader than long, without dorsal carina ;
beak moderately long, stout, curved, punctured. Long. 4-5 mm. Kansas.
(2 specimens) 4. transversus Sny.
3. Black bronzed, shining ; prothorax not longer than wide, very slightly
narrowed from the base, much rounded near the tip, dorsal carina not obvi-
ous. (Resembles B. subaeneus, but differs by the more full thorax, rather
stouter form, and less irregular interstitial punctures of the elytra.) Long.
4 — 4-5 mm. Middle and Southern States 5. tumescens.
Smaller, black bronzed, shining ; prothorax not longer than wide, more
obliquely narrowed at tip and less rounded, dorsal carina not obvious ; elytral
striae less strongly punctured than in B. tumescens; intervals with rows
of well marked or very fine punctures. Long. 3 mm 6. confinis.
Black bronzed, very shining, prothorax more sparsely punctured, slightly
narrowed from the base, broadly and obliquely rounded near the tip ; elytra
more finely and less deeply striate, intervals wider, nearly smooth. Long.
2-5— 3 mm. Louisiana 6. a e r e u s iScA.
4. Bluish black, shining ; prothorax not longer than wide, obliquely narrowed
from the base, broadly rounded near the tip, punctures more distant than
usual, dorsal carina not obvious ; elytral striae scarcely perceptibly punctured,
interstices nearly smooth, or with rows of very small punctures. Long.
4-25-4-75 mm. Middle and Southern States; five specimens. (DifTers from
.6. af?-«ws in color and in form of prothorax.) 7. i n t e r s ti t i a 1 i s ^Soy.
Black, shining ; body narrow, prothorax longer than wide, sides broadly
rounded in front, disc strongly punctured, without dorsal carina ; elytra with
a feeble oblique impression near the base, striae scarcely punctured ; inter-
stices with rows of very fine punctures. Long. 3-5 mm. California; two
specimens ; San Francisco 8. m ac e r Lee.
A— b.
(The beak is longer and more slender than in A — a, and the thorax
is transversely impressed near the tip, at least on the sides )
Prothorax at base nearly as wide as the elytra. 1.
Prothorax at base narrower than the elytra; black, shining, very coarsely
sculptured, elytral intervals not wider than the strise, and marked with single
rows of deep punctures. Long. 5'5-6-5 mm. Illinois, Kansas, Arizona.
9. striatus Say.
1. Body nearly glabrous, color black, 2.
" " color bright brown, 8.
Body rather robust and convex, brownish black, more pubescent than
■usual; prothorax wider than long, gradually narrowed from the base and
feebly rounded on the sides ; elytral intervals with rather confused rows of
somewhat transverse punctures. Long. 4 — 5 mm. Kansas. (Resembles in
appearance a Cenlrinus) 10. farctus.
Body robust, black, more pubescent than usual, prothorax wider than long,
feebly narrowed from the base, sides much rounded in front almost straight
behind, very densely and coarsely punctured, with a slender carina ; elytral
intervals wider than the strise, densely and confusedly punctured. Long.
4 mm. California, 3 specimens. S.Diego IL d e n s u s i/ec.
2. Prothorax with distinct smooth dorsal line. 3.
" without " " " 6.
3. Elytral intervals usually not wider than the striae, with rows of very
strongly marked punctures; body larger and wider. 4.
Elytral intervals wider than tbe striae, with single rows of finer shallow
punctures ; body smaller and narrower. 5.
[Dec.
