NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363
4. Prothorax gradually narrowed from the base, broadly rounded on the
sides, more strongly towards the lip, coarsely punctured, the punctures more
distant than the length of their diameters ; (elytral intervals and striae as in
B. striatus; resembles B. carinulatus, but the prothorax is distinctly
impressed on the sides near the tips,) Long. 6 mm. Kansas and Wiscon-
sin 12. strenuus.
Resembles the preceding in form and sculpture, but the punctures of the
prothorax are larger and more distinctly umbilicated, and the sides more
deeply constricted near the tip. Long. 5 mm. Penna., one specimen ;
Mr. Rathvon 13. umbilicatus.
Somewhat narrower and more regularly oval, prothorax gradually but more
strongly narrowed from the base, and more obliquely rounded near the tip,
less coarsely but somewhat more densely punctured than in B. strenuus;
elytra with the intervals wider than the stria;, with rather confused rows of
fine but well marked punctures. Long. 6 mm. Wisconsin, 1 specimen.
14. s ub o V a 1 i s.
5. Punctures of prothorax more distant than their diameter, sides scarcely
narrowed from the base, more broadly rounded near the tip, dorsal line
wide; elytral intervals wider than the striae with rows of distant large
shallow punctures. Body less convex than usual. Long. 3-5 mm. New
Mexico, 1 specimen 15. d i s t a n s.
Prothorax more densely punctured, sides slightly narrowed from the base,
more obliquely rounded near the tip and more distinctly constricted ; elytra
as in the preceding, but with a small white pubescent basal spot each side,
and a few scattered white scale-like hairs. Long. 3 — 4 mm. Southern
States, 3 specimens 16. nigrinus Say.
6. Body oval or elongate. 7.
Body broadly ovate, black shining, prothorax wider than long, strongly
but not densely punctured, with very feeble dorsal carina, sides narrowed
from the base, strongly rounded in front, and deeply constricted near the tip;
elytral intervals wider than the strise, with rows of small but deep punctures.
Long. 2-5 — 3 mm. Middle States, 4 specimens 17. ovatus.
7. Bod}' oval, black shining, j)rothorax not wider than long, strongly and
densely punctured, without dorsal carina, sides narrowed and broadly
rounded from the base, slightly constricted near the tip ; elytral intervals
broad, with rows of very fine but well marked punctures. Long. 2-5 mm.
Middle States, 2 specimens 18. p u s i 1 1 u s.
Body elongate oval, black, less shining, prothorax longer than wide, more
coarsely punctured, punctures less distant than the length of their diameters,
without dorsal carina, sides converging from the base, rounded only near the
apex, which is feebly constricted ; elytral intervals a little wider than the striae,
with rows of well marked punctures, disc feebly impressed obliquely each
side behind the shoulder. (Of the same form as B. m a c e r, but otherwise
quite distinct. It differs remarkably from all the others of this division by
the 2d joint of the funiculus of the antennae being somewhat longer than the
3d, though much less conspicuously than in the species of division B.) Long.
3 — 3-5. Illinois and Kansas. 5 specimens 19. a n g u s t u s.
Also slender in form, black, not very shining, prothorax punctured as in
the preceding, with the sides not converging from the base, but parallel, and
more strongly rounded in front, tip feeblj' constricted ; elytral intervals wider
than the striae, with rows of well marked punctures. (Resembles B. m a c e r,
but the thorax is more full in form, more densely punctured, and is feebly con-
stricted at the tip ; the beak is also longer and more slender.) Long. 2-5 mm.
California, 1 specimen. San Francisco 20. s e r i a t u s //ec.
Somewhat less slender, bronzed black, shining, prothorax scarcely larger
than wide, narrowed from the base and feebly rounded on the sides except
1868.]
