364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
near the tip, where it is more strongly rounded and slightly constricted disc,
coarsely but more sparsely punctured than usual, punctures more distant
than the length of their diameters; elytral strife impunctnred, intervals much
wider than the stria;, with single rows of small punctures. Long. 3 mm. One
specimen, Oregon 21. sparsus.
8. Body elongate, bright brown, very shining, prothorax rather sparsely
punctured with a broad undefined smooth medial line ; elytral uneven,
with a transverse impression before the middle, an oblique one behind the
humeri, and a verj^ faint one behind the middle ; striae feebly punctured, in-
tervals much wider than the striaj, with scarcely perceptible rows of very fine
punctures. Long. 3 mm. Ohio and Illinois ; (depredates on grape vine, pro-
ducing the gall described by Mr. Walsh as vitiscunnus.).... 22. S e s o s tr 1 s.*
A— c.
The species contained in this group are of a slender form like some of
those in b, and like them have an elongated moderately slender beak; the
antenna; are not quite so stout, though the 2d joint of the funiculus is not
conspicuously longer than the 3d. The body beneath is densely clothed with
depressed ash colored hairs, and is equally densely pubescent above. The
prothorax is constricted near the tip, and the disc is strongly and densely
punctured with a slightly elevated dorsal line. The species of this group
have the last larsal joint more elongated than in the other species of the
genus, and the claws closely approximated, and somewhat connate at base ;
the males are also distinguished by the last ventral segment being armed at
tip with a small tooth. These differences, combined with those of appear-
ance, produced by the dense covering of hair, would indicate the propriety
of separating them as a distinct genus.
Prothorax feebly constricted near the tip. 1.
" more strongly " " " 2.
1. Small, pubescence less dense, prothoraxlonger than wide, feebly narrowed
in front, slightly rounded on the sides, and feebly constricted near the tip.
without basal glabrous spots. Long. 3 mm. Maryland, 1 spec. .23. p 1 u m b eu s.
Larger, pubescence very dense, prothorax very little longer than wide,
gradually narrowed in front, slightly narrowed on the sides, and feebly con-
stricted near the tip, with three basal glabrous black spots extending upon
the scutellum and base of elytra. Long. 4-5 mm. Atlantic States, abun-
dant 24. t r in o t a t u s ;S(/y.
2. Larger, pubescence dense, prothorax scarcely longer than wide, subtra-
pezoidal gradually narrowed from the base, sides nearly straight, suddenly
rounded near the tip and more strongly constricted, coarsely and densely
punctured, distiucily carinated, marked with basal spots as in the preceding.
Long. 45 — 6 mm. California, also at Cajje San Lucas, 3 spec.
25. mucoreus Lee.
B.
The species of this division have the beak longer and more slender than
those of A, and the antenna; are much thinner, the 2d joint of the funiculus
is much longer than the 3d, thus showing an approacli to Centrinus, which
these species resemble in their form ; the body is nearly glabrous, and the
prothorax is constricted near the tip.
The three species before me may be distinguished as follows :
Body black, somewhat shining, prothorax strongly punctured, without dor-
sal carina, gradually and strongly narrowed from the base, and rounded on
the sides ; elytral intervals with single rows of strongl}' marked punctures,
humeri scarcely wider than the base of prothorax. Long. 3-5 mm. Kansas,
one specimen 26. na s u t u s.
* Vide Herodotus, Euterpe, cap. 102.
[Dec.
