366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
DINEUTUS McLeay.
Cyclinus Kirby.
The species of this genus are of larger size than those of the other two, and
of less convex form ; the elytra are marked with nine very slightly impressed,
sometimes almost invisible, striae or furrows; the labrum is rounded in front
and ciliated, the scutellum is invisible, and the mesosternum is sparsely but
coarsely punctured in front.
In the males the front tarsi are moderately dilated, and clothed beneath with
feathery papillre densely arranged in transverse lines, forming an elongated
narrow brush ; in D. sublineatus, emarginalus, serrulatus, and probably in caro-
linus, the front thighs of the male are dilated near the knee, on the anterior
margin, into a more or less developed tooth, varying somewhat in form, accord-
ing to the individual degree of development, but always well marked ; in D.
vittalus, discolor and assimilis, the tooth is entirely wanting.
The hind margin of the elytra is not toothed, nor strongly serrate, in any of
our species, which may be divided into two groups as follows :
A. Sutural angles of elytra rounded.
B. Sutural angles of elytra well defined, sometimes slightly prolonged.
A.
14-5 — 15-5 mm. Black or black-bronzed, very shining ; elytra usually with a
brighter bronzed vitta ; striae faint ; sutural angle very much rounded ; under
surface dark chestnut-brown, middle and hind legs pale 1. vittatus.
15-5 — 16-5 mm. Dark olive above, not very shining; elytral striae distinct ;
sutural angle moderately rounded ; under surface black ; middle and hind legs
iridescent, with the tibiae and tarsi brown 2. sublineatus.
9 — 12-5 mm. Black, or black-bronzed, not very shining; elytral striae very
faint ; sutural angle very much rounded, apical margin flat ; under surface
dark brown or blackish, slightly bronzed; middle and hind legs, narrow mar-
gin and tip of abdomen paler, nearly testaceous 3. emarginatus.
10-5 mm. Black-bronzed, more shining; elytral striae very faint; sutural
angle less strongly rounded ; apical margin narrowly reflexed ; under surface
brown ; middle and hind legs, broad margin and tip of abdomen pale.
4. c a r 1 i n u s n. sp.
B.
a. Body brown or testaceous beneath, oval, narrowed in front ; hind mar-
gins of elytra very feebly sinuate ; sutural angle of (^ not, of 9 very feebly
prolonged.
12-5 mm. Body broadly oval, narrowed in front; upper surface black,
slightly bronzed, shining ; lateral margin of elytra broadly flattened ; apical
edge very finely serrate 5. serrulatus n. sp.
11 — 12-5 ram. More convex and narrower, narrowed in front ; upper surface
black-bronzed, rarely black, shining; lateral margin of elytra less broadly
flattened; apical edge entire 6. discolor.
b. Body beneath black, slightly bronzed ; middle and hind feet, and fre-
quently sides and tip of the abdomen, pale ; elytra distinctly sinuated near the
tip in the 9 1 ^nd sutural angle very prominent in that sex.
10-5 — 12 mm. Black, usually slightly bronzed, ^ more shining than the
9 ; middle and hind legs testaceous ; margin and tip of abdomen pale ; elytra
feebly striate, sparsely and finely punctulate ; (^J* with the elytra not sinuate
near the tip, feebly sinuate at the tip; sutural angle slightly prominent ; 9
deeply sinuate on the side near the tip ; margin elevated at the sinuosity, sinu-
ate again at the tip, with the sutural angle very prominent.).. 7. a s s i m i 1 i s.
[Dec.
