oG8 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP
givcu me greater advantage in distingnishing and defining the forms to whicA
specific names must, in the present condition of science, be given.
The species before me may be arranged in the following groups, the meso-
sternum being of normal form in all except pectoralis:
A. Scutellum flat :
a. Under side margin of prothorax and epipleurse testaceous.
b. Under side margin of prothorax and epipleurse metallic black.
B. Scutellum finely but distinctly cariuate :
(Under side margin of prothorax and epipleurae testaceous.)
A — a.
* Under surface uniform testaceous, or brown.
6 — 6-75 mm. 9- Elongate oval, polished black, more or less bronzed;
punctures of the elytral rows approximate, rather fine; tip much rounded,
outer angle not distinct 1. confinisXec.
6 mm. 9- ^ little less elongated, polished black, not bronzed; punctures
of the elytral rows stronger, and equally closely placed. 2. fraternus Couper.
4-5 — 5 mm. Smaller, not very elongate, polished black ; margins and sides
broadly bronzed ; punctures of outer elytral rows stronger and moderately ap-
proximate ; abdomen sometimes dark at the middle 3. 1 i m b a t u s Sai/.
5-5 mm. 9- More elongated, uniformly black bronzed; punctures of elytral
rows rather strong, moderately approximate 4. ae n e olu s, n. sp.
4-5 — 5 mm. ' Of the same form, color and sculpture as 1 i m b a t u s,
scarcely bronzed and a little wider; the ventral segments of the abdomen in
mature specimens are darker brown, the punctures of the elytral rows more
approximate, with the last segment paler 5. d i ch r o us, n. sp.
5-25 mm. (^. More elongate, strongly attenuated before and behind, and
more elevated at the middle than usual, black, highly polished, broadly bronzed
on the sides, but not on the suture or reflexed margin of the elytra; rows com-
posed of larger bronzed punctures not very approximate, becoming coarser at
the sides; tip truncate, slightly rounded ; outer angle not very obvious; body
beneath and legs ferruginous. (Easily distinguished by its more compressed
convex form and coarser punctures.) , 6. e 1 e v a t u s, n. sp.
5-5 — 6-5 mm. Elongate oval, more narrowed in front, black, highly polish-
ed ; margins and sides slightly bronzed ; tip of elytra more concave than usual ;
(margin not interrupted) ; rows of elytral punctures bronzed, well marked,
approximate; under surtace uniform reddish-brown. (Resembles c o n ti n i s,
but is much larger and more narrowed in front, from the base of the ely-
tra) 7. consobrinus Lee.
5 — 6-5 ram. Of the same form, color and sculpture as consobrinus, but
a little broader and with the reflexed margin of the elytra interrupted near the
tip by a small flattened space, and the tip less rounded 8. pi i c if e r Lee.
g.5 — 7 mm. Oval, less elongate, black, very highly polished, iridescent ;
margins and sides bronzed ; rows of punctures of elytra well marked, approxi-
mate ; under surface reddish-brown, sides and tip of abdomen a little paler.
(A beautiful species, easily known by its larger size and more brilliant irides-
cent surface; in one specimen the under surface is nearly black.)
9. ventralis Kirby.
6-5 mm. Similar in size, color and sculpture to v e n tra li s, and equally
brilliant, but somewhat narrower in form, with the tip of the elytra more sud-
denlv truncate, less rounded and with the outer angle obtuse, only slightly
rounded and quite distinct 10. aquiris, n. sp.
**Trunk dark piceous ; abdomen with tip and lateral spots pale.
6 — 6-75 mm. More elongate than usual, black, highly polished, slightly iri-
descent; margins bronzed ; punctures of elytral rows bronzed, fine, well marked,
approximate ; tip more rounded than usual 11. m a c u 1 i v e n t r i s, n. sp.
[Dec.
