NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391
J. A. McCoxNELL. Pearls from Unios from Little Miami River, Warren Co., 0.
John Ford. Animal of Pyrula canaliculatn.
R. E C. Stearns. Very fine specimens of forty sjiecies of west-coast shells.
Dr. John L. LeConte. One hundred and thirty-four species of Uniouidaj, be-
ing the collection of the late Major John LeConte.
J. Van A. Carter. Four species from Dakota and Wyoming Territory.
T. N. Dale. Specimens oi A7iomia epphipium.
In presenting this list of the year's donations to the Conchological cabinet,
amounting in the aggregate to about 6000 species, your special attention is
called to the fine collection of upwards of 3000 species of marine, fluviatileand
terrestrial shells presented by Mr. Wm. M. Gabb. This collection is particu-
larly rich in west-coast species, and supplies a very large number of desiderata
to our museum The number of rare and interesting species in our possession
has also been greatly augmented by the addition of the shells purchased by
subscription from G. B. Sowerby, the greater part of which belonged to the
collection of the late Hugh Cuming ; by nearly 500 species of Australasian
shells received from Mr. Wm. Harper Pease, of Honolulu ; by the unique col-
lection of Alaskan shells presented by Geo. Davidson, and by many rare and
valuable species of Unionidai contained in the LeConte collection.
Shells have been sent during the year in exchange to Dr A. Brot, of Geneva,
A. P. Terver, of Lyons, and W. Harper Pease, of Honolulu. For farther in-
formation regarding our foreign relations reference is made to the reports of
the Corresponding Secretary and the Publication Committee.
Catalogues of all the families from Pholadidse to Tellinidffi, inclusive, having
been completed and published during the year, it is the intention of the Sec-
tion to commence immediately the systematic arrangement of the Conchologi-
cal collection. A number of members having volunteered to assist, the shells
will now be cleaned, labelled and arranged as rapidly as circumstances will
permit.
The Conservator has in his possession a photographic album containing
si.xty-one portraits of members of the Section and of distinguished Concholo-
gists throughout the world. It is hoped that no opportunity will be neglected
of soliciting contributions to this interesting collection from our correspond-
ents.
In conclusion, the Conservator would congratulate the members of the Sec-
tion that, from the successful operations of the past year, they have so much
reason to draw encouragement for the future.
Respectfully submitted by
Edw. J. Nolan, Conservator.
lilBRAKIAN'S REPORT.
The Librarian respectfully reports that there have been presented during the
past year to the library of the Conchological Section, 11 volumes and 113
pamphlets. Of these 58 were received from authors, 31 from editors, 15 from
Societies, 7 from the Publication Committee, 4 from Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., 4 from
John Cassin, 4 from H. Crosse and 1 from Wm. M. Gabb.
In addition, twenty-seven pamphlets and continuations of Conchological
works have been received by the Academy.
In consideration of the comparative completeness of the Conchological Li-
brary, the Librarian proposes, with the sanction of the Library Committee, to
number the works in this department at as eai-ly a date as possible. It is
hoped that this plan will facilitate the work of those wishing to refer to the
books, while it lessens the chances of volumes being lost or misplaced.
Edward J. Nolan, Librarian.
1868.]
