394 CORRESPONDENCE.
CORRESPONDENCE OF THE ACADEMY,
For 1868.
January. — La Society Hollandaise des Sciences, announcing that they have
forwarded the Archives Neerlandaise, t. i, 3, 4, 5.
K. K. Zoologisch-botanische Gesellschaft, Wein, acknowledging receipt of
Proceedings.
Geological Museum, Calcutta, with their publications for the Library.
Nassauischen Vereins fiir Naturkunde, Weisbaden, acknowledging receipt
of Proceedings and sending publications in return.
Der Naturforschende Verein zu Riga, acknowledging receipt of Proceed-
ings and with publications sent in return.
Geo. W. Davidson, Edinburg, Scotland.
Harrison Allen, resignation of office, Corresponding Secretary.
Real Observatoire de Madrid, with donations for Library.
February. — American Entomological Society ;
Der Naturwissenschaftliche Verein Liineburg ;
Naturforschenden Gesellschaft, Berlin, severally acknowledging receipt of
Proceedings.
Universite Catholique de Louvaine, acknowledging receipt of publications
of the Academy, and sending the publications of the University in return.
Die Naturhistoriche Verein, Hanover, with publications.
Geo. Davidson, U. S. Coast Survey.
Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Gottingen, with publications.
Thomas A. Scott, Phila.
B. Dyer, S. Abington, Mass.
D. E. Macpherson, conveying information of the death of Sir David Brewster,
Feb. 10, 1868.
From Neuwied, conveying information of the death of Prinzen Maximillian
zu Wied.
March. — Geological Museum, of Calcutta, India ;
Museum at Bergen, Norway ;
Essex Institute and Die naturforschende Gesellschaft, severally acknowledg-
ing receipt of Proceedings.
Universitatis Carolinas Lundensis Rector.
Prof Joseph Henry, Smithsonian Institution.
Chicago Academy of Natural Sciences, with transactions.
Canadian Sec. of State, with Report of the Progress of Canadian Geologi-
cal Survey, from 1863 to 1866.
K. K. Zool. botan., Gessellschaft, with donations to the Library.
Edward L. Berthoud, Golden City, Colorado, acknowledging receipt of
diploma.
April. — Rector de la Universidad de Chil6.
L. S. Ward, Treas. Foreign Missions, New York.
H. H. Jessup, Montrose, Pa.
R. Odinet, Agent of Havre, Boston and Philadelphia Steamship Company.
E. B. Cary, Ann Arbor, Mich.
G. Schwartz, Vienna, acknowledging election as correspondent.
H. B. Wetzell, Phila.
Samuel Jeanes, resignation of membership.
Naturkunde Gesellschaft in Wiirttemburg, acknowledging receipt of Pro-
ceedings.
Naturwissenschaftliche Verein zu Bremen ;
Acad^mie Royale de Belgique ;
Akademie der Wissenschaften, severally sending publications.
May. — Prof. Joseph Henry.
J. S. Wilson, Geological Museum, Gen. Land Office.
