24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
a decidedly different shape, owing chiefly to its greater depth at base, as com-
j)ared with its length, and much greater convexity of culmen. The only ques-
tionable relationship is with arctica ; the bird is certainly not corniciilata.
This species is usually cited by New England writers as occurring off the
coast of Maine in winter. (Grand Menan, entrance of the Bay of Fundy.) In
this, however, they only quote Audubon's authority, Avhich is not reliable in
this instance, as he himself says that he " rather supposed than was actually
certain that the birds observed were large-billed Puffins." The case is ren-
dered still more problematical by the fact that Audubon's " Large-billed
Puffin, Mormon glacialis Leach," is really the corniculata Naumann, described
and figured from specimens procured in Loudon, from Mr. Gould, who also, in
the " Birds of Europe," mistakes the true glacialis Leach for corniculaia Nau-
mann Subsequent writers will do well to expunge the name of this species
from their local lists of the birds of New England. It is exceedingly improb-
able that the true corniculata occurs on the New England coast.
This species is usually cited as having been introduced in Stephens' Con-
tinuation of Shaw's General Zoology (1825) ; but must have appeared some
years previous, since Naumann quotes '■^ Mormon glacialis Leach," in the Isis,
1821. It was probably named by Leach about 1816-18.
FuATERCULA coRMicuLATA, {N'oumami), Gray.
Mormon corniculata, Naumann, Isis v. Oken, 1821, p. 782, pi. 7, figs. 3, 4.
(Kamtschatka.) Cassin, Pr. A. N. S. Philada. 1862, p. 324. (Behring's
Straits.)
3Iormon [Fratercula) corniculata, Bonaparte, Comptes Rendus, 1856, p. 774.
Cassin, Baird's B. N. A. 1858, p. 902.
Fraterciila corniculata, Graj', Gen. Birds, iii, 1849, p. 637, pl. 174.
Fratercula [Ceratoblepharum] corniculata, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Petersb. ii,
1837, p. 348. Quotes " Mormon corniculatum, Kittlitz, Kupfer, i."
Mormon glacialis, Audubon, Orn. Biogr. iii, 1835, p. 599, pl. 293, fig. 1. Id. B.
Amer. vii, p. , pl. 463. Not of authors. Gould, Birds Eur. v, 1837, pl.
404. Not of authors.
? Fratercula glacialis. Vigors, Zool. Voj\ Blossom, 1839, Ornith. p. 33. Prob-
ably not true glacialis.
Lunda corniculata, Schlegel, Urinatores Mus. Pays-Bas, livr. ix, 1867, p. 28.
Coasts and Islands of the North Pacific and Arctic oceans. Kamtschatka,
(Mus. Acad. Phila.) Sitka, (Schlegel, Mus. Pays-Bas.) Kotzebue Sound, and
St. Michael's, Russian America, (Mus. Smiths. Inst.) Southern extension on
west coast of America not determined. Not recorded from the North Atlantic.
Adult, breeding plumage. (No. 46,503, Mus. Smiths., St. Michael's, Russian
America, June 27, 1866; H. M. Bannister.) Bill very large, especially high at
the base for its length, the height being about equal to the chord of the cul-
men, exclusive of the width of the basal rim ; base of culmen and angle of
gonys both produced far backward, giving a greatly curved outline to the base
of the bill along the feathers of the sides of the head ; sides of the bill not dis-
tinctly divided into two compartments ; nearly plane and smooth in their entire
length, with only three faintly pronounced short grooves ; culmen exceedingly
convex, regularly arched in the arc of a perfect circle ; the tip of the upper
mandible acute, moderately overhanging, the basal rim broad and prominent ;
rictus (not including the part beyond the basal rim of the upper mandible)
very short, only equal to the height of the upper mandible at base ; gonys
sinuate, at first convex in outline, then slightly' concave; its length but little
less than the chord of the culmen.*
Appendage of the upper eye-lid produced into a long, slender, acutely pointed
* The lower mandible in this specimen is so thin near the angle of the gonys as to be
transparent. Ordinary type can be read through it.
[Jan.
