Description of Seven Now Species of AMERICAN BIRDS from various locali-
ties, with a note on ZonotricMa melanotis.
BY GEO. N, LAWRENCE.
[Continued from page 359.]*
5. RhYNCHOCYCLUS MAROINATtrS.
Front, top of liead and hind neck dull plumbeous ; back, rump, smaller
■wing coi;rerts and upper tail coverts of a clear olive green ; tail blackish brown
with edges the color of the back; larger wing coverts and quills black,
the primaries narrowly edged with'yellow, the other quill feathers and the
larger wing coverts broadly margined with clear light yellow ; under wing
coverts yellow ; chia, throat and upper part of breast gray ; middle and lower
part of abdomen and under tail coverts light yellow; sides olivaceous gray;
upper mandible black, the under whitish, clouded with brown; " irides
brown ;" tarsi and toes light brown.
Length (fresh) 5J in.; wing 2 l-16th; tail 2; bill scant ^; tarsi 9-lGths.
Habitat. — Panama. Lion Hill, near Aspinwall. Male and female alike.
Types in my collection.
Remarks. — In my Catalogue of Birds from New Granada (Annals of Lye. of
Nat Hist. N. Y., Vol. vii, p. 473) this species is referred to R. sulphurescens,
Spix. I have always been impressed with a doubt of its correctness, and only
during the past summer was I enabled to make comparison with undoubted
specimens of R. fulp/ii/rescens fvom Brasil. They differ in the Brazilian bird
■being larger, with the head Ic-'s plumbeous, the yellow of the under parts of a
deeper color and more extended, the throat only being gray, and the under
mandible of a much clearer color.
■ It differs from i?, cinereicepis, Sol., which at first sight it much resembles, in
toeing smaller and of a darker green, not inclining to yellowish, as in that spe-
cies. It may be readily known by the broad yellow margins on the wing cov-
erts and quills. In this last character it is most like R. sulphurescens, but the
markings are paler and more conspicuous than in the specimens of that spe-
cies which I examined.
6. PiPRA? CINNAMOMEA.
The general plumage is of a clear cinnamon color, brighter on the rump and
tail, duller or somewhat brownish on the back and wing coverts, and paler on
the under surface ; the top of the head and occiput are of an olivaceous brown,
with a concealed crest of reddish orange ; the quills arc liver-brown, with an
edging of pale cinnamon on the outer webs; upper mandible dark brown, the
under whitish at base with the end brown ; tarsi and toes reddish brown.
Length 4 in.; wing 2^ ; tail If; bill 5-16ths; tarsi ^.
Habitat. — The Upper Amazon. Type in my collection.
Remarks. — I have placed this species provisionally in Fipra, to which it most
nearly assimilates, but it has the wings shorter and the tail longer, relatively,
than in any other member of the genus I have been able to examine, and I
know of no other species resembling it in color.
7. Harpagus FASdATrS.
Plumage above blackish-brown, glossed with dark purple ; the tail is black-
ish-brown, crossed above with four narrow bars of grayish-white, and ending
with ashy-gray; the quills on the upper surface are umber-brown, crossed with
dusky K'lackish bars, and on the under surface are white for two-thirds their
length from the base, the remaining part ashy-gray, barred throughout with
blackish-brown ; the under wing coverts are buffy-white, spotted with dark-
•brown ; each feather of the entire under surface is closely barred with white,
Tufous and dark brown, the rufous color prevailing most on the breast and
* This portion of the paper was inadvertently left out by the editor.
