^ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
MEETING OF BIOLOGICAL DEPARTMENT OP THE ACADEMY.
April le^A, 1868.
Director, Jos. Leidy, M. D., in the Chair.
Six members present.
The Director stated the object of the meeting to be to take into
consideration the revival of the Biological Department of the Acad-
emy, and its union with a proposed Microscopical Department.
After some discussion, it was voted that a committee of three, in-
cluding the Director, be appointed to confer with the Microscopical
Society and point out the advantages to accrue from the proposed
union, and afterwards to take such action in the Academy as shall
be required to bring about such union. Drs. Leidy, Mitchell and
J. A. Meigs were appointed.
Adjourned to meet on 1st Monday in May.
Ajyril 25th, 1868. Proposed Microscopical Society.
President, R. S. Kenderdine, M.D., in the Chair.
Twenty-three gentlemen present.
The Committee reported that on April 18th, 1868, they met a
Committee of the Biological Department of the Academy, consisting
of Drs. Jos. Leidy, Dr. S. W. Mitchell and J. A. Meigs, and as
the result of this conference, were empowered to offer the following
propositions to the meeting, if, in accordance with the resolutions
of the first meeting, it be deemed desirable to unite with the Biologi-
cal Department of the Academy.
I. The name of the present Biological Department shall be
changed to Biological and Microscopical Department.
II. All microscopic apparatus and preparations now owned by
the Biological Department will be freely available to the new De-
partment.
III. The extensive microscopic library of the Academy will be
accessible to them, and the purchase of new books can be secured
from a fund provided for the purpose.
IV. Meetings can be held in the Hall of the Academy at what-
ever time appears desirable to the members of the Department,
except the evenings of the stated meetings of the Academy, and the
order of business can be arranged as desired.
V. A motion shall be urged upon the Academy that the amount
of entrance fee and the annual contribution for the first year, of
new members joining the Academy for the sake of becoming mem-
bers of this Department, shall be voted as an appropriation to the
Department.
On motion of Dr. "Wm. Pepper, it was voted that if the advantages
above detailed are granted by the Academy, it is deemed desirable
that the gentlemen wishing to form a Microscopical Society unite
with the body known as the Biological Department of the Academy,
under the title of the Biological and Microscopical Department of
the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
