NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. O
It is -svell knowu to botanists that in the pitcher of Nepenthes disHUatoria
there are numerous glands lining its internal surface, and extending from the
extreme bottom up nearly to the middle of the pitcher. This system of glands
has been described by Treviranus but never correctly figured that I am aware
of. But if we examine with a common lens, the frill, or thickened edge sur-
rounding the top of the pitcher, looking carefully along the inner and lower
margin, we may detect numerous' little apertures, leading into short canals,
and terminating in as many large cj'lindrical glands which lie around the top
of the pitcher like guns around a fortification. These glands lie imbedded in
a parenchyma, made up almost entirely of large spiral cells, and this would
seem to indicate considerable activit}' in their function, which, no doubt, is to
pour down a multitude of trickling rills into the cavity of the pitcher. I am
not aw'are that botanists have alluded to these glands before, and it is prob-
able analogous ones exist in the other species of this genus.
Dr. Hunt also exhibited preparations illustrating the anatomy of
Drosera rofundifolia, and remarked that
The glands terminating the filaments growing on the leaves are beautiful
structures when rendered sufficiently transparent for observation. A spiral
vessel traverses the centre of each filament and terminates at its free end in
several large, elongated spiral cells. Around, and entirely enclosing this clus-
ter of spiral cells, many columnar cells filled with granules are arranged,
their long diameters pointing outwards, and a delicate epidermis envelops all.
If the mature leaf be severed from the plant and placed in favorable condi-
tions, adventitious buds will be formed on it, and thus a crop of young Dro-
seras may be obtained. We have examined this plant in all its stages of
growth, under lenses, and without them, and failed to detect any evidence of
irritability, and while it doubtless does catch flies and other small objects by
means of the adhesive liquid on the glands, it would seem that the conclusion
drawn from this fact, namely, that the Drosera needs animal food thus for
its growth, is, perhajjs, premature. Has such fact ever been jiroved ?
Jul// 20th, 1868.
Vice-Director, J. G. Hunt, M. D., in the Chair.
Sixteen members present.
donations. — A preparation of epithelial cancer of the larynx,
presented by Dr. J. J, Woodward.
A photograph of acarus sacchari.
An official communication was received from the Recording
Secretary of the Academy of Natural Sciences, containing an ab-
stract of the minute of a recent meeting of the Academy, at which
the following by-law was passed after the third reading.
"Art. xxi, of Chap. XHI. The Department A shall be denomi-
nated the Biological and Microscopical Department of the Academy
of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia." Thus authorizing officially
the new title of the Depai'tment.
BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL DEPARTMENT.
Au!j. Sd, 1868.
Mr. Chas. Bullock in the Chair.
Eleven members present.
Aug. nth, 1868.
Director, Wm. Pepper, M. D., in the Chair.
Fifteen members present.
