b PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
Dr. J. Gibbons Hunt exhibited and described an improved Sec-
tion instrument.
A brass tube, two inches long and three-fourths of an inch in diameter, is closed
at one end ; a circular brass plate two inches in diameter attached to the other
end, and ground properly fiat, forms the surface to guide the razor. Into this tube
fits another, which is worked up or down by a screw working in a thread cut in
the bottom of the outside tube. A slot cut through the upper end of the ovter
tube affords room for a lateral binding-screw, which is attached to and carried
by the inner tube. The binding-screw presses against a moveable tongue of
metal armed at the upper and inner side with minute points. On the opposite
side of the inner tube are also points designed to hold an object more securely.
The advantages of this improvement are obvious. It is cheap, and is peculiar
in really answering the purpose for which it is made.
Cork is unfit for holding objects in a section instrument ; some firm vege-
table, such as a turnip or potato, for all very delicate preparations being far
better.
Sept. 1th, 1868.
Director, Wm. Pepper, M. D., in the Chair.
Seventeen members present.
Dr. Wm. Pepper read a paper, illustrated by microscopical prepa-
rations, " On the action of phosphorous in poisonous quantities upon
the animal economy."
See American Journal of the Med. Sciences, April, 1869.
George Roberts M. D., and Ferdinand A. Hassler, M. D., were
chosen members of the Department.
Sept lUt, 1868.
Director, W. Pepper, M. D., in the Chair.
Twenty members present.
A complete set of photographs of the 19 bands of Nobert's most
recent test plate, the last four showing spectral bands only, were
presented by the Surgeon General U. S. Army, through Dr. J. J.
Woodward.
Dr. Leidy observed that having noticed in the recent edition of Gray's
Manual of Botany, the description of a species of Wolffia, for the first time
published as occurring in the United States, he was led to seek for it in the
vicinity of Philadelphia, under the impression that he had long been familiar
with a plant of the kind, but without knowing its true character. He was
successful in his search, having found it growing abundantly in a ditch skirt-
ing the road near the Delaware River, below the built up portion of the city.
It is accompanied by a profusion of Lemna polyrrhiza and L. minor.
Dr. Leidy exhibited specimens of the plant in a glass vial and also beneath
the microscope. This, the smallest and simplest of all the true flowering
plants, appears to be the Wolffia Columbiana of Karsten, to which the United
States plant of other localities has been referred in Gray's Manual. The de-
scription in the latter is very brief, and the original is not accessible in our
library. The plant is larger than indicated in Gray, and may be looked upon
as a variety. It was described as follows :
The frond is oval or nearly globular, uniformly bright pea-green, smooth or
slightly muricate, shining. Plant floating at the surface of the water, about
two-thirds submerged with the long diameter horizontal. No distinctive
appearance between the upper and lower surfaces. In a state of multiplica-
tion usually observed with the new frond projecting from within one end of
