12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
divides into two, four, &c., cells, so that in the filament a number of cells lie side
by side, and from this compound filament the large matured trichoma is formed
by a continuation of growth and division. The zoospores are formed only in the
younger fronds, these old compound trichomata appearing to be incapable of
developing them. The endochrome in a cell about to produce zoospores
divides into several more or less irregularly globular or pyriform masses. This
change takes place almost simultaneously in a number of consecutive cells. The
walls of the cells now undergo some alteration, whereby they become soluble
in water. And as the division of the endochrome occurs first in the most
distant cells of the filaments, so does also this change in the cellulose coats.
Solution of the walls now takes place, the partitions between the cells disap-
pearing, and the outer walls opening out, separating from one another. At the
same time the zoospores begin to move uneasily, rolling on themselves, pushing
forward, &c., and soon make their exit in a long stream which issues from the
end of the filament.
This plant appears to be the same as tliat described by Kiitzing under the
name Schizomeris Leibleinei. No European observer has, however, as yet
noticed the manner in which the latter produces its zoospores, and therefore it
is impossible to be certain in the identification. US. Leibleinei should be Ibund
to differ essentially in the mode of giving birth to zoospores from the Ameri-
can species, the latter will form the type of a new genus.
For the present it seems better, however, to consider the two identical.
Jiio. Tomes, F. R. S., London, was chosen a corresponding
member of the Department.
Nov. 2d, 1868.
Mr. Chas. Bullock in the Chair.
Twenty-six members present.
Mr. T. W. Starr presented to the Department twelve slides, illus-
trating the anatomy of miscellaneous insects, among which is the
seventeen-year locust.
Nov. l^ith, 1868.
Director, Wm. Pepper, M. D., in the Chair.
Twenty-six members present.
Mr. W. H. Walmsley donated twelve slides illustrating vegetable
structure.
Dr. F. W. Lewis donated slides of miscellaneous objects.
Dr. Wood exhibited to the Department fruiting specimens of a fresh-water
Alga, which he had found near Chelten Hills, Montgomery County, growing in
a rapidly flowing creek, on stones, which it covered more or less completely
with a dark purplish, mucous coating. He stated that it might be referred,
with some doubt, to the European plant, Chaniransia chah/bea, from which it
differs, however, in its habit of growth, as well as in the filaments being much
thicker and nearly twice as long. He gave the measurements of the oval
spores as about 37^50 ii the transverse, by ^^'qq in the long diameter. The
diameter of the filaments is about the ^sV)^ ^^ '^'^ inch.
The doctor also exhibited specimens of a new species of Palmella, collected
on the banks of the Schuylkill above Manayunk, which grew on the faces of
rocks, kept constantly wet by dripping spring water. He proposed for the
plant the name of Palmella Jesseni, after Prof. Jessen, of Prussia, and gave the
following specific description of P. Jesseni, n. sp.
P. thallo expanse, initio dilute aut late viride, molle, pellucidulo, a?tate
