NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27
fleshiness. The crest springs chiefly from what would otherwise be a naked
linear groove iu the plumage from the eyes to the extreme occiput. Some of
the feathers begin to grow much above, if not a little anterior to, the eyes.
The crest in perfectly adult birds is more than /our inches long. The feathers
have exceedingly slender, delicate shafts, and loose, entirely disconnected,
though quite lengthy fibrillae ; and a peculiar silky glossiness.
The wings are of the usual size and shape in this family. The tail is com-
paratively somewhat longer, perhaps, than in any other Alcidine bird ; the
lateral feathers a little graduated ; the central pair shorter than the next, pro-
ducing an emargination. The legs are as in Fratercula. The claw of the inner
toe presents the curious character which has already been dwelt upon in con-
nection with F. arclica.
Adult. — Bill orange-red; the basal moiety of both mandibles livid horn or
enamel color; the punctulated basal ridge, and rictal callosities more yellow-
ish. Legs and feet obscure reddish ; the webs bright coral red ; claws brown-
ish-black. Edges of eyelids red ; " iris pale blue." Crests pale straw-yellow ;
some of the posterior feathers, which grow from the black part of the head,
black at base. Face pure white, abruptly defined. This white occupies the
lores and sides of the head to the base of the crest, and encircles the bill,
broadly on the sides, narrowly above and below. The black of the crown
comes down the forehead to within a fourth of an inch of the culmen ; just fill-
ing the crown between the crests, and ending with a directly transverse out-
line. The white on the side of the lower jaw extends to within about the same
distance from the under mandible. A narrow, very distinct pure white line
along the anterior edge of the fore-arm. Entire upper parts, and under tail
coverts glossy black ; sides of head and neck, and throat and breast fuliginous
brownish-black ; other under parts the same, but more grayish ; under surfaces
of wings smoky gray. Wings and tail black ; the inner webs of the feathers
brownish-black ; the shaft of the first primary whitish on its under surface to-
wards its base.
The preceding description is taken from an unusually fine specimen (No.
46,494, Mus. Smiths. (J*, Sitka, May, 1867), representing the very highest con-
dition of maturity. The crest is more than four inches long. It is not often
that such very perfect specimens are met with in collections.
Length between 15-00 and lG-00 ; wing 7-75; tail about 2-00; tarsus 1-30 ;
middle toe 200, its claw -50 ; outer toe 1-80, its claw -40; inner toe 1-25, its
claw -50 ; bill : greatest depth (a little in front of extreme base) 1-90 ; greatest
width (at angle of mouth) -90 ; chord of culmen 2-40, of which the terminal
portion is 1-40 ; rictus about 1-90 ; gonys 1-60 ; greatest depth of upper mandi-
ble 1-15; nostrils -25 long.
Young (full grown). — Bill smaller than in the adult, and not so deep at the
base ; sides of terminal moiety of upper mandible perfectly smooth ; chord of
culmen 2-00 ; depth of bill at base 1-40. No crest; slight indications of it in
some short yellowish filamentous feathers on the auriculars. White line on
fore-arm imperfect. White about head as in the adult ; but the black reaches
nearly or quite to the base of the culmen and gonys. Otherwise like the adult ;
the under parts rather more grayish. The bill and feet appear to have been
less brightly colored.
This strange bird fairly disputes with Phaleris psittacula the claim to be re-
garded as the oddest of the odd species of this family. The peculiar configura-
tion of the bill strongly characterizes it at all ages, independently of its re-
markable head-markings. Though known for about a century, it has received
no specific synonyms from any of the writers whose works have been examined
in the preparation of the present memoir. Specimens are contained in nearly
all the American collections. The bird is authenticated as occurring on the
coast of Maine.
1868.]
