14
PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
miuation, being intended to be used with diffused daylight, or di-
rected towards a source of artificial illumination.
At the annual election for officers held this evening, the following
were chosen : —
Director, S. W. Mitchell, M. D.
Vice Director, Wm. Pepper, M. D.
Recorder, James Tyson, M. D,
Corresponding Secretary, J. H. McQuillen, M. D.
Conservator, Herbert Norris, M. D.
Treasurer, C. N. Pierce, D. D. S.
Dec. 21st, 1868.
Director, S. W. Mitchell, M. D., iu the Chair.
Twenty members present.
Dr. J. H. McQuillen exhibited, in further illustration of his pre-
vious communication, slides of blood corpuscles of men and lower
animals to which chloroform and nitrous oxide had been adminis-
tered, to show that there was no 'morphological chauge in these
bodies after administration of anaesthetics, as contended for by B.
W. Richardson, Sanson and others. The doctor also exhibited
slides of blood corpuscles with which chloroform and ether had
been brought in actual contact, producing under these circumstances
actual disintegration. Dr. McQ,. believes that the anaesthetics act
primarily upon the nervous centres, as early contended for by Flou-
rens and" the French physiologists generally.
Mr. W, H. Walmsley called the attention of the Department to the very
great merits of Glycerine jelly as a medium for preservation of every descrip-
tion of objects, animal or vegetable, and exhibited specimens of both. I was
led to experiment willi it about one year ago, owing to the unsatisfactory
results obtained from the use of balsam in many classes of objects, its high
refracting power rendering many delicate tissues invisible, which are seen
perfectly in the jelly. At first I was not very successful, having followed the
formula; of Davies and other English authorities in making it ; the intense
heat of our early summer liquified it, and spoiled many specimens. After
many experiments, I arrived at a satisfactory result, the fluid readily jellying
in an hour or two during the hottest days of August.
The advantages of this medium I deem to be various and obvious, and that
it combines within itself more than are possessed by any other with which we
are as yet acquainted. Its preservative qualities I believe to be unsurpassed,
for nearly every description of tissues or structure, animal or vegetable ; it
preserves the colors of the latter in absolute perfection, it is very readily pre-
pared and used, it attaches the covering glass to the side with sufficient tena-
city for all practical purposes, whilst the finishing ring of varnish will render
it quite secure. It is equally available for objects requiring to be mounted in
deep cells, and there is no danger of leakage, as is the case with all fluids ; it
can be readily removed from slide and cover with hot water, if necessary.
The refractive powers of the glycerine are sufficient to render all inert struc-
tures transparent, whilst even the delicate lines upon the scales of a mosquito's
wing, are as distinctly visible as though mounted dry.
Finally, I desire, in bringing the subject before the Department, and mention-
ing my experience with its use, to interest other members in the matter, to in-
duce them to try it, and to bring together from time to time the results we
may severally arrive at. For I conceive it to be almost as important to arrive
