NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31
al or sexual character of the horn (page 905, Birds of N. A.)* would probably
not have been expressed, had the writer enjoyed the opportunity of examining
such an extensive series as have been at command in the preparation of the
present monograph.
This species was first named Alca monocerata by Pallas in 1811. Prince Bo-
naparte called it " Phaleris occidentalis " in 1827; which name has been
usually adopted, Pallas' description being overlooked or disregarded. Brandt
appears to have accidentally misquoted Bonaparte's name in calling the bird
" Cerorhina orientalis, Bp." Eschscholtz called it " Chimerina cornuta " in
1829. These are the only synonyms which the writer has been alile to collate,
except, of course, those resulting from the reference of the bird to diverse
genera, as has been already noted.
SAGMATORRHINA, Bonaparte.
Sa^TTiatorrhina, Bonaparte, P. Z. S. Lond. 1851, p. 202. Type S. Lathami, Bp.
" Bill twice as long as high, upper mandible straight at the base, covered
with a very large cere, incurved at the tip ; lower mandible ascending imme-
diately beyond the middle, forming an obtuse angle ; nostrils linear, margi-
nal." — Bp. 1. c.
The above is a translation of the diagnosis of a genus framed by Bonaparte
for the reception of a bird he calls S. Lathami. It apparently differs from
Ceratorhi/ncha in the contour of the bill, the presence of a soft cere saddled on
the base of the upper mandible in the place of a horn, and, it may be pre-
sumed, in the absence of the peculiar accessory corneous element at the man-
dibular synphysis, as no mention is made of such a character. The type and
apparently only known specimen is in the Br,itish Museum.
The possession of a soft hat cere in place of an upright horn, and the want
of the accessory mandibular piece are precisely the features which characterize
Cerorhina Suckleyi Cassin ; and in fact are about the only ones by which the
latter can satisfactorily be distinguished, specifically, from C. monocerata. It
therefore seems a procedure of obvious propriety to refer Suckleyi to the pre-
sent genus. At the same time Suckletji can by no possibility be confounded
with Lathami ; nor is the latter by any means a young C. monocerata, as some
authors have ventured to hint, and others have boldly assumed. An inspec-
tion of the figures accompanying the present memoir ought to set all doubts at
rest.
Species — (2.)
" Length 16 inches ; wing 7-50 ; bill 2 long, 1 high, five-eighths
wide at the base" 1. Lathami.
Length 14-50; wing 6-50; bill along culmen 1-30, depth at
base -60, width at base four-eighths 2. Suckleyi.
Sagmatorrhina Lathami, Bonaparte.
'! ? ? Alca lahradoria, Gmelin, S. N. i, pt. ii, 1788, p. 550. Very doubtful.
Rather referable to Fratercula arctica, which see.
Sagmatorrhina labradoria, Cassin, Baird's B. N. A. 1858, p. 904.
Sagmatorrhina Lathami, Bonaparte, P. Z, S. London, 1851, p. 202, pi. 44.
'• Largest among its allies ; blackish, beneath pallid fuliginous : bill and
feet red ; cere and webs black. Length 16 inches ; bill 2 inches long, 1 inch
high, five -eighths wide at the base, three-eighths in the middle ; wing 7^
inches ; tail 3i ; tarsi l\ ; longest toe 2 and 3-eighths inches.
Hab. — •' North-west Coast of America.
•Spec. No. 10G98, there enumerated, seems to have called forth the remark above allu-
ded to. This specimen, however, is believed to be the adult of S. Suckkj/i, of which only
the young bird was at that time recognized.
