32
PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
"This species is tlie largest of tlie subfamily, which ig well known to con-
tain the dwarfs of the water birds ; it is one-third larger than Ceratorrhina
monoceraia, of which it has precisely the coloring, wanting only (at least in
the state we have it) the little white feathers above the eye and at the corners
of the mouth. The proportions of the wings, tail, feet and toes are the same ;
the bill and toes must have been reddish ; the cere and membranes black.
Like the Ceratorrhina. it seems to be confined to the north-western Arctic
region of America; and we are led to believe it does not extend to the Sibe-
rian shores, from the circumstance of its not having been noticed by Russian
Jiaturalists."
Fig, 3. — Sagmatorrhina Lathami, By. Nat. size.
The preceding is Bonaparte's notice of the species, containing all that is
known about it by American ornithologists. The writer takes pleasure in
acknowledging his indebtedness to Dr. P. L. Sclater, of London, for the accom-
panying figure, drawn from the type specimen in the British Museum. Dr.
Sclater says very positively that the bird is a perfectly valid genus and species,
and the figure evidently warrants the assertion. Independently of the differ-
ence between the cere and the horn, the shape of the bills of U. monocerata and
S. Lathami are quite diverse. The dimensions of the latter are much larger
than those of the former.
Saqmatorrhina Suckleyi, [Cass.) Cones.
Cerorhina SucUeyi, Cassin, Baird's B. N. A. 1858, p. 906. Based on spec. No.
4579, Mus. Smiths. Young. Puget Sound. Cooper ajid Suckley, Pacific R. R.
Rep. xii, pt. ii, 1860, p. 284. Refers to same specimen.
American and Asiatic Coasts of the Pacific. Spec, in Mus. Smiths Inst —
Young, (type of the species, Puget Sound ;) adult, breeding plumage (San
Diego, Cal.) Adult, (Hakodadi, Japan.)
Adult! breeding plumage! (No. 31908,* Mus. Smiths, 9i San Diego, Cal.
Feb. 3, 1862, J. G. Cooper.) " Iris white; bill black and orange; feet pale
yellow, black below," (label.) Bill now obscure yellow, the culmen and basal
membrane blackish. Feet dull whitish ; tarsi behind and feet below blackish ;
claws black. Colors of the plumage almost precisely as in the adult monoce-
rata ; white feathers on sides of head exactly the same. Breast rather deeper
grayish-ash, the color extending a little further, and more abruptly defined
against the white of the other under parts.
• F^ured in Hliot's Bird« of North America.
£Jan,
