NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA.
33
Fig. 5. — S. SucTileyi, Juv. Nat. size.
Fig. 4.-5. Suckleyi, Adult. Nat. size. Cassin's type specimen.
No vestige of a horn at base of upper mandible ; this being covered with a
soft skin, overlapping the culmen, extending to the nostrils, which open be-
neath its lower border. That part of the bill occupied by tlie membraue is
depressed below the level of the rest, both on the ridge and sides. The mem-
brane is shrunken and shrivelled in its present state. There appears to have
been a slight tumidity, in the fresh state, of this membrane, just on the ridge,
which may have elevated it to the level of the rest of the culmen, and which
could possibly even have been inadvertently called a '' knob " by one who re-
garded it as the beginning of a horn. No trace of an intercalated piece be-
tween the mandibular rami, which have thin, sharp, smooth edges, and come
together in a fine point at the symphysis. Bill much smaller, weaker, and
particularly less deep at the base than that of C. monocerata ; but not much
shorter, nor comparatively even so much compressed as in the latter bird.
Culmen regularly decurved from base to tip ; the latter moderately overhang-
ing ; rictus at first nearly straight, then gently declinate ; gonys nearly straight,
slightly concave ; outline of mandibular rami about straight.
Decidedly smaller than monocerata ; the wing comparatively longer. Length
about 14-00 ; " extent 25-50," (label) ; wing 7-25 ; tarsus 1-10 ; middle toe and
claw 1-90, outer do. 1-80, inner do. 1-45; bill: chord of culmen 1-30, of which
the membranous part is -30 ; rictus 1-85 ; gonys .75 ; depth of bill at base -60 ;
its width at same point -45.
Young. (No. 4579, Mus. Smiths. Fort Steilacoom, W. T. Jan. 8, 1856.
Dr. G. Suckley. Mr. Cassin's type of the species, as described I. c.) " Membrane
at base of upper mandible grayish dusky black ; middle of both mandibles
dingy orange, their tips dusky ; iris pale hazel ; under surface of the webs of
the feet, and the posterior aspect of the tarsi dusky black; upper surface of
the toes bluish white, darker about the articulations ; nails black." (Suckley,
1. c.) The colors of the plumage are precisely as described for the }'oung C.
monocerata ; possibly a shade darker, with rather more white on the under parts
than in the corresponding age of the other species.
Much smaller than the adult ; length " about 12.50; extent 24.00;" (Suck-
ley, 1. c.) : wing 6-50 ; tail 2-00 ; tarsi 1-00 ; bill along culmen 1-20, of which
the membranous portion is -30; along rictus 1-60; along gonys -60; its depth
at base -40. The bill is small and slender; its general shape calls to mind the
bill of a young gull of one of the smaller species. The several outlines, par-
ticularly that of the culmen, are straighter than in the adult; the tip is less
decurved. The bill is much longer, relatively and absolutely, than that of the
corresponding age of monocerata ; it is comparatively more slender. There is
no trace of a knob ;* the membrane has precisely the same characteristics as
• Dr. Suckley (1. c), speaking of this specimen, uses the word "knob" in connection
with it. His expression is to be taken as indicating merely the turgidity of the soft
membrane during the life of the bird ; which raises the membrane to or above the level
of the rest of the culmen. The membrane, being very soft, shrinks and shrivels in dry-
ing, and the prominence disappears.
1868.] 3
