84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
that of the adult bird above described. There is no trace of an accessory
piece between the rami.
The bird above described was first indicated as a distinct species by Mr.
Cassin in 1858; that gentleman founding his specific characters mainly ujion
the small size, somewhat darker colors, and much smaller, slender bill, as com-
pared with monocerata. The species has always been looked upon wiih con-
siderable mistrust, and very generally regarded as only a young manocerata.
At the time of the introduction of Sitckleyi, C. monocerata was not known in all
its ages and stages of plumage, as it is at present. The horn which charac-
terizes it was believed to be frequently wanting, particularly in the young
bird. The accessory symphj'seal piece had not received attention. These
facts, together with the almost perfect identity in plumage of the two birds,
very naturally led to the suspicion above mentioned ; seemingly borne out,
too, by the fact that the type of Suckleyi was a very young bird, the adult of
which was unknown, or at least unrecognized. But it has been shown in the
preceding article that indications both of the horn and of the accessory inter-
ramal element appear in monoceraHi even before it is fully feathered, and that
these two distinguishing features are preserved in all ages, at all seasons,
with both sexes. The discovery of Suckleyi in perfectly adult breeding plum-
age settles the question of its identity with monocerata. Specimen No. 31,908,
above described, has no trace of a horn or accessory symphyseal piece ; and is
smaller, and otherwise conspicuously different from monocerata, though of
almost precisely similar colors of yilumage.
There is something highly interesting, very singular, and, with our present
information upon the subject, totally inexplicable, in the fact that the plumage
of the two birds is so nearly identical as not to be satislactorily distinguished
in any particular ; while the bills diflFer in such radical characteristics. The
suspicion comes unbidden, that the whole truth in the matter of C. monocerata,
and S. Suckleyi — and S. Lathami, too — remains to be developed; while it is
certain, at the same time, that nothing but the truth appears upon these pages.
In the reference of this species to the genus Saymatorrhina, the writer is
guided simply by Bonaparte's diagnosis, and by the figure of the head of S.
Lathami, kindly furnished by Dr. Sclater. The dimensions of S. Lathami and
the form of the bird are sufficient to distinguish S. Suckleyi from it.
SIMORHYNCHUS, 3Ierrem.
AIca, Pallas, Spic. Zool. v, 17(59, in part ; and of some authors.
Uria, Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. ii, 1811, in part.
Limda, Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. ii, 1811, in part.
Simorhynchus, Merrem, , 1819. T^'pe Alca cristatella, Pall. Fide G. R.
Gray. (Where is this genus named ?)
Fhaleris, Temminck, Man. Orn. ii, 1820. Type Alca psittacula, Pallas. (Also
includes cristatella.) And of most authors.
3for7non, Lichtenstein, 1823, in part. (J/, svperciliosa = camtschntica, Lep.)
Ombria, Eschscholtz, Zool. Atlas, 1831. Type Alca psittacula, Fallas.
Cyclorrhynchus, Kaup, 1829. Type Alca psittacula, Pall. Fide G. R. Gray.
Tylorhamphvs, Brandt, Bull. Acad. Imper. St. Petersburg, ii, 1837. Type Alca
cristatella. Pall.
Ciceronia, Reichenbach, 1853. Type Fhaleris microceros, Brandt.
Of moderate and very small size ; general form stout. Usually with a crest,
or witli elongated feathers about the head. Bill variable : sometimes simple,
oftener irregular in form, with various elevations and dejjressions, often with
nodules or other accessory elements ; always stout, compressed, shorter than
the head, the culmen very convex, the tip acute. Nostrils entirely unfeathered.
Wings and tail of the ordinary shape and length. Feet small and short ; tar-
sus compressed, entirely reticulate, shorter than the middle toe. Toes long,
outer and middle about equal in length, the claw of the latter largest. Claw
[Jan.
