NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA.
35
of inner toe reaching base of middle one. Claws much arched, compressed,
acute, the inner edge of the middle one scarcely dilated.
The genus as above defined is framed to include a number of species, all more
or less closely allied, yet presenting differences from each other in form in
almost each instance. The various species are all nearly identical in the
structure of the wings, feet and tail ; in the bill no two entirely agree. Each
presents sueb specie! characters in the shape of the bill ; but the very fact that
this organ varies so much seems to indicate that the differences are no more
than of specific consequence. A glance at the synonyms above adduced will
show what forms have been made indicative of genera. Paittacula is perhaps
the species which has been most generally separated from the Olivers, in view
of its oval upper, and falcate under, mandible. But if this bird is to be gen-
erically distinguished, so also must cristatellus ; for the latter differs in still
greater degree, in the presence of an anomalous accessory element in the bill.
This one being taken out, what to do with caintschaticus, so very closely allied?
It is almost identical with cristatellus in all points of structure, except in the de-
tails of the configuration of the bill, and in these points it stands intermediate
between this species and some others. Then microceros a.ud pusi/lus would have
to stand by themselves. So also would tetraculus and Casdni. These two, par-
ticularly, differ more from all the rest, in their short, simple conic bills, than
any of the rest do from each other. In fine, ii' psittacula be allowed generic rank,
so also must crisiatcllm, and pari passu must no less than three more genera
be recognized. It seems much the most philosophical to group all these forms
together in a single genus, regarding the differences in the bills as specific.
In such an acceptation, the genus comprises eight species, which may be
thus analj'sed :
Species — (8.)
I. Phaleris Temm. Upper mandible oval, under mandible
falcate ; rictus curved upwards. No crest.
Blackish ; white below from the breast ; a white spot
below the eye 1. psiltaculus.
II. Simorhynchus, Merrem. Upper mandible triangular,
under mandible nearly straight; rictus horizontal,
sinuate. A long recurved crest.
Angle of the mouth with a supernumerary corneous
piece. Sides of under mandible unfeathered. One
series of white feathers on the head 2. cristatellus.
Unknown. (See Pallas' description, infra).. 3. duhius.
Angle of mouth without a supernumerary piece.
Sides of under mandible feathered. Three series
of white feathers on head 4. camtschaticus.
III. {Unnamed subgenus.) Bill very small, short, conic,
simple, destitute of any irregularities whatever.
Large ; bill moderately compressed ; a long re-
curved crest ; fuliginous black above, fuliginous
gray below. Wing 5-50 ; rictus -TO ; width of
bill at base -30 ; tarsus, middle toe and claw to-
gether 2-50 5. tetraculus.
Small ; bill excessively compressed ; no crest (?) ;
uniform plumbeous, lighter below, whitish on the
abdomen. Wing 4-25 ; rictus -60 ; width of bill
at base -15! Tarsus, middle toe and claw to-
gether, 2-00 6. Cassiiii, n. s.
IV. {Ciceronia, Reich.) Smallest of the genus. Short
white hair-like feathers over the forehead.
1868.]
