38
PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP
of Temminck, PL Color. 200, which is Alca camlschatica Lepechin Bona-
parte, Synopsis, 1828, p. 426.— Id. Compt. and Geog. List. 1838, p 66.
Vigors, Zool. Voy. Bloss., 1839, Orn. p. 33. Gray, Gen. B., iii. 1849, p. 638.
PhahriH {Simorhynchus) cristaldla. Cassin, Baird's B. N. A. 1858, p. 906.
Tylorhaniphus cristalellus, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Petersb. ii, 1867 p. 348.
Pknleris superciliata, Audubon, Orn. Biog. pi. 402 ; oct. ed. pi. 437. Not
Mormon sujierciliosa Licht., nor Phaleris superciliosa Bonap.,which refer to
Alca camlschatica Lepechin.
Asiatic and American coasts and islands of the North Pacific, to Behrino-'s
Straits ; perhaps into the Arctic Ocean.. Kamlschatka and Behrino-'s Straits,
(Mus. Acad. Phila.) Japan, and north-west coast of America, (Mus. Smiths.
Inst.) Not known to occur on the American coast so far south as Washing-
ton Territory, U. S.
Bill surpassing that of all other spe-
cies of the genus in the extent and di-
versity of the irregularities of its sur-
face and contour; these irregularities
chiefly centered in the base and com-
missural edges, and produced by the
addition of a supernumerary corneous
element to the base of the upper man-
dible just at the angle of the rictus, as
well as the expjtnsion and projection
upwards and outwards of the sides of
the lower mandible towards and at its
base. Bill, except in the length of its
unfeathered commissure, rather short
and wide, the length of culmen scarcely
surpassing the width of bill at its
base. Upper mandible with the cul-
men short and regularly very convex
from base to tip, which latter is rather acute, and slightly overhangs the
lower mandible : its tomial edge extremely sinuate and irregular, lightly
notched just behind the tip, at the base widened and somewhat everted, for
the reception of the cutting edge of the lower mandible ; lower mandible not
nearly' so deep as the upper, somewhat ascending towards the tip, which
latter is slender and acute ; the gonys short, perfectly straight, moderately
ascending, the sides of the lower mandible elongated, everted, their tomial
edge elevated and dilated at the base, posteriorly corresponding in contour to
the antero-inferior outline of the supernumerary piece. The latter is a sub-
circular or subquadrate corneous plate, slightly concavo-convex, wedged in
between the bases of the tomial edges of the two mandibles, and forming the
angle of the rictus ; in color and texture it resembles the rest of the bill, of
which it is a true component element. Nasal fossae small and inconspicuous,
not deeply furrowed, filled in by corneous substance like the rest of the
upper mandible; the nostrils small, short, linear-oblong, placed close by
the tomial edge of the mandible, overhung by an arched and much dilated
corneous scale. Feathers extending on culmen to a point op])osite the angle
of the gonys, thence descending perpendicularly along the sides of the bill,
just past but not touching the posterior extremity of the nostrils ; thence fol-
lowing the sinuosities of the commissural edge of the upper mandible to the
supernumerary piece, and around the border of the latter,* but not encroaching
upon it. Interramal space of lower mandible densely feathered; but no
feathers encroach upon the sides of the lower mandible, contrary to the usual
rule in this group.
* This supernumerary corneous element is not attached by its whole surface to thesub-
cumbent bone; but a part of its upper border is free and projects a little away from the
sliull. The fossa down behind this free raised border is fully feathered.
[Jan.
Fig. 1 .—Simorhynchus cristatellus, (Pallas.)
Nat. size.
