NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41
uniform excellence and accuracy, necessitates no small degree of caution in
a decision against the validity of one of his species. It will be evident upon
the least reflection that, for example, such a perfectly valid species as ietra-
culus, might be so described, in a few sentences, that no striking impression
of its difference from eristatellus should be conveyed. It is also to be borne
in mind that Prof. Brandt, probably unsurpassed by any one in the accuracy
and extent of his knowledge of the Alcidie, and particularly well fitted to
judge of Dr. Pallas' works, admits the species in question as distinct. And
in the present instance it seems preferable to coincide with the views of these
naturalists, and to allow the species to hcreaftiiF stand upon its own merits,
until the proof that it has none is forthcoming, notwithstanding Dr. H.
Schlegel's summary assignment of it (as well as of (etraculus) to cristatellus.
There is no specimen purporting to represent this species in any American
Museum; and the only information regarding it which can be furnished at pre-
sent writing is embodied in the above citation from the "• Zoographia." It is
hardly, if at all, noticed by other writers than those here cited. Mr. Cassin,
however, queries it as a synonym of cristatellus.
SiMORHYNCeus CAMTSCHATicus, [Lepech.) Schl.
Alca kamtschatica, Lepechin, Nova Acta Petrop. xii, 1801, p 369, pi. 8.
Fhaleris camischatica, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Petersb. ii, 1837, p. 347. Gray,
Gen. Birds, iii, 1849, p. 638. Cassin, Baird's B. N. A. 1858, p. 908.
Tylorhamphus camtschaticus, Bonaparte, Tab. Comp. Pelag. Comptes Rendus,
1856, xlii, p. 774.
Simorhynchus camtschaticus, Schlegel, Urin.Mus. Pays-Bas, 1867. livr. ix, p. 25.
Uria mystacea, Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. ii, 1811, p. 372, pi. 89. Quotes Alca camt-
schatica Lepechin, having just previously cited it for cristatella.
Phaleris cristatella, Temminck, PI. Color. No. 200. Not of authors.
Mormon super cilia sum, Lichtenstein, Verzeich. 1823, p. 89.
Phaleris superciliosa, Bonaparte, Comp. and Geog. List, 1838, p. 66.
North Pacific Coasts. Unalaschka, (Pallas.) Kamtschatka, (Mus. Bost, Nat.
Hist. Soc.) North-west coast of America, (ilus. Smiths. Inst.)
Bill much smaller, simpler, and differently
shaped from that of S. cristatellus, though not
distantly resembling the juvenile undeveloped
condition of the latter. Width at nostril
very slightly less than depth at same point,
about two-thirds of the length of culmen ; bill
regularly > shaped in lateral outline ; culmea
very convex, regularly arched from base to
tip ; gonys nearly straight, rapidly ascending ;
commissure slightly sinuate, a little curved
upward at tip ; apices of both mandibles acute,
fairly meeting each other on the level of the
commissure ; tomia of upper mandible slightly
nicked near the tip of the bill. Wings and
tail of usual shape for this genus ; the length
of the latter contained about three and a half
times in the length of the former from the car-
pal angle to end of first primary. Tarsus
Fig. 8.— Simorhynchus camtschaticus, ^^c^ shorter than middle toe and claw;
(Lep.) Nat. size. middle toe a little shorter than outer toe ;
middle toe and claw just as long as outer toe and claw ; inner toe and claw
a little shorter than middle toe without its claw.
The form of the bill alone is characteristic; the other details of structure
are shared by the rest of the Simorhynchi.
A very long recurved crest of exceedingly slender, delicate, filoplumaceous
1868.]
