42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
feathers, six (to ten?) in number, springing from the anterior part of the
forehead, about opjjosite the anterior edge of the orbits, brownish-l)lack ; a
single series of slender filaraentous feathers from each side of the base of the
culnien, and thence to the superior border of the orbit; a second similar but
shorter series from the edge of the commissure, and thence along the lower
part of the side of the jaw; a third similar series from the posterior can bus
of the eye, and thence adown the side of the neck ; yellowish white. Body
colors almost uniform ; brownish black, sometimes with more of a grayish,
sometimes with more of a fuliginous hue; the wings and tail most intense in
color, frequently nearly black ; the under parts, particularly the belly, lighter
and more grayish brown, Inclining to mouse color. Bill orange red, its apex
salmon color, or more decidedly yellowish. Legs (in the dried specimen)
posteriorly dark brown, anteriorly lighter, more reddish-brown ; feet dull
brown ; claws reddish-brown.
Length of body (approximately) 8-00 inches; wing 5-60 ; tail 1-GO; bill:
chord of culmen -45; depth at base -28, width at base nearly the same;
length of rictus -95; tarsus 1-00; middle toe 1-25, its claw -35; outer toe
1-30, its claw -30 ; inner toe and claw MO ; length of outstretched crest 1-40 ;
length of longest whitish feathers over eye 1-00.
Os hyoides examined : The apohyals are slender cylindrical bones -6 long,
slightly knobbed at the end, devaricating at an angle of about 40°. The
ceratohyals are absent in the specimen. The urohyal is a delicate style for
•10 of an inch, then suddenly expands into a broad, flat, very thin spatulous
lamina, subrectangular in shape, or rather cordate, transversely concavo-con-
vex. This lamina is as long as the rest of the urohyal, and its breadth is
rather greater than the length of the stylous portion. The basi-hyal is -15
of an inch long, slender and cylindrical; bearing upon its apex an exceed-
ingly thin, expanded, somewhat cochleariform glosso-hyal. No opportunity
has presented itself of examining the tongue bones of other species of the
family.
The present is a long and well known species. First made known, at the
beginning of the present century, by Lepechin, (see above) it was redescribed
as Uria mystacea, in the Zoographia Rosso-Asiatica, by Dr. Pallas, whose ex-
pressioa " * * pennulis setaceis albis elongatis superciliaribus mysla-
ceisque," leaves no room for doubt as to the species he had in view. It was
redescribed in 1823 by Prof. Lichtenstein, under the name of 3Iornion super-
ciliosum. Unfortunately, it furnished the subject of Planche Coloriee, No.
200, at the hands of M. Temminck, under the palpable pseudonym of Phaleris
cristatella ; which event might have been the occasion of confusion and un-
certainty, were the bird a less strongly characterized species. As it is,
there is no difficulty in detecting and correcting M. Temminck's error. S.
carrJschatica is so very distinct from cristatella, that no special comparisons of
the two are required. It is only necessary to point to the configuration of
the bill, and the presence of superciliary and maxillary filoplumes, for their
ready discrimination. For the rest, the present is a much smaller species
than cristatcllus ; and the plume is perhaps longer, certainly less recurved,
usually composed of fewer feathers, which are rather more filamentous. The
setaceous feathers are essentially arranged, as may be seen above, in three
distinct sets or bundles ; one from the side of the bill along the commissure
and lower part of the cheeks; one from the culmen over the eye, and a third
from the posterior canthus of the eye backwards over the auricular region
and side of the neck; though the first and last sets may appear more or less
directly continuous with each other. It is possible that the plumage described
above may not be the most perfect one ; still, the perfect development of the
crest and other ornaments warrants the belief that the bird from which it
was taken is an adult. Authors speak of the under parts, particularly the
abdomen, as being frequently nearly white ; which may be the coloration of
those parts in very mature or very old birds.
[Jan.
