44
PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
on the unfler parts ; under wing coverts like the rest of the under parts ; crest
colored like the back. Bill an undelinable dusky* in the dried specimen ; legs
and feet livid gray, (probably greenish or bluish in life) ; membranes black ;
claws Ijlack.
Dimensions. — (Spec, in Mus. Acad., Phila.) Length about 8-50 ; wing 5-50 ;
tail 1-60; chord of culmen -35; gape -60; gonys -25; greatest height of bill
■33, greatest width '25 ; tarsus 1-UO; middle toe and claw 1-50, outer 1-40,
inner 1-25.
Another specimen, (Xo. 22,258, Mus. Smiths. Inst.) Wing 5-60; tail 1-T5:
chord of culmen -40; gape -80 ; gonys -40 ; height at base of bill -40 ; width
at same point -30 ; legs and toes as in the preceding specimen.
Three specimens of this species examined : one in the Philadelphia Academy
from Kamtschatka, which served as the subject of Mr. Cassin's description in
the "Birds of North America;" another in the Smithsonian Institution, (No.
22,258,) received from the Bremen Museum, labelled " Phaleris cristatella,
(Pall.); Winterkleid; Kamtschatka;" another also in the Smithsonian, (No.
15,805,) labelled "Phaleris cristatella; Bay of Yedo, Japan ; Apr. 1854; eye
gray ; iris black ; Rodgers' North Pacific Exploring Expedition." The last
mentioned specimen is in a very poor state of preservation, and is a young
bird, as evidsnced by the short straight crest, directed backwards ; though the
bill is nearly perfect in size and shape, aud the general aspect of the bird is
precisely that of the adult. The other two specimens are in fine condition,
and represent the perfectly mature state. These three include all that are
known to exist in any American Museum. It is not a common bird in collec-
tions, and is frequently mistaken for the j'oung cristatellus, to which species,
however, it bears only a distant and superficial resemblance.
The bird here described is indubitably the "Dusky Auk" of Pennant, a
species more perfectly and satisfactorily described and figured by Ur. Pallas
as Alca tetracula. It is a strongly marked species, not distantly allied to,
and somewhat resembling cristatellus in everything but the bill, which is of a
radically different formation, as will be impressed upon the mind by a
perusal and comparison of the descriptions given under head of these species.
Telraculus requires no special comparison with cristatellus or with camlschaticiis
for the substantiation of its distinctness. S. Cass iiii of this paper is the most
closely allied species, and might just possibly be confounded by a careless or
ignorant observer. The difiTerences will be found under head of the latter.
The diagnostic points of this species lie chiefly in the small size and pecu-
liar shape of the bill (cf. descr.) ; the length of the wings, proportionally
greater than in any other species of the genus ; and the greater length of the
feet and toes. The wings, tail, feet and toes are about of the same absolute
dimensions as those of cristatellus, although telraculus is rather a smaller bird.
The various shades of the dark color of the plumage are produced by admix-
ture of black, brown and gray; there is no pure cinereous or plumbeous on
any part of the plumage.
This is a species which entered at a very early day into ornithological
literature, notwithstanding which it has not a single accredited synonym.
Its claims to recognition as a valid species, distinct from cristatellus, have not
been impugned, except by the learned Director of the Museum of the Pays-
Bas. It has been the occasion of no confusion or conflict of opinion among
writers, except in those few instances in which it has been erroneously sup-
posed to have furnished the subject of Audubon's plate of cristatellus. The
most cursory examination of the plate will convince the mind upon this
point. Mr. Pennant, in virtue of his "Dusky Auk," which is this species,
would have been entitled to the proprietorship of the bird, had he given it a
binomial name ; but as it is, Dr. Pallas stands as its lawful sponsor, having
christened it Alca tetracula in 1769.
* Pallas gives its color as " fusco-rubrum ;" Gmelin, as "ex fusco-lutescens ;" Latham,
as " luteo-fuscum."
[Jan.
