NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 45
SiMORHTNCHUS Cassini, Coucs, n. sp.
Phaleris Cassini, Coues, mss.
DiAG. — S. rostro parvo, breve, valde compresso, longitudine vis altitudinem
excedente, latitudine dimidii altitudinis ; fere triangulare a spectu laterale •
simplice, nee ullis additamentis cornels instructo ; culminejeviter declinato-
couvexo, rictu recto, carini fere recta, a scendente; supra nigro-plumbeus
vertice, alis caudaque nigerrimis ; subtus griseo-plumbeus, abdomine crls-
soque seusim albicaatibus ; longitudo tota corporis 7-75 (poll. Aug.)- alse
4-25 ; caudffi 1-40 ; tarsi "80 ; digiti medii cum ungue 1-20 ; rostri -40 alt. -30
lat. -15 1 rictus -60. ' * '
Typical and unique specimen, No. 46,564 of the Smithsonian Museum • a
male (adult?) collected Aug. 3, 1866, at Ounimak Pass, Russian America
by W. H. Dall. '
Bill very small and short,
only half as long as the tai;gus ;
extremely compressed, being
hardly more than half as wide
as high at the base; its height
at base three-fourths the length
ofculmen; lateral aspect of the
bill nearly triangular; culmen
regularly lightly convex'in out-
line ; rictus perfectly straight ;
gonys almost straight, ascend-
ing ; tip of bill rather obtuse ;
no tubercles, sinuosities, or
other irregularities of surface
or of contour. Nasal fossce
well marked, oval in outline,
Fig. Vi,—Simorhywihm Cassini, nov. sp. Nat. size, reaching the culmen at its base
separated by a ridge from the commissural edge of the upper mandible; nos-
trils low down in the fo.''sa, small, short, narrowly linear. Frontal feathers
laid straight across the base of culmen, descending nearly perpendicularly
along the posterior edge of the nasal fossas, just attaining the posterior end of
the nostrils, then retreating obliquely backwards and downwards. Feathers ou
side of lower mandible extending to a point opposite those on culmen ; some-
what further into the iaterramal space, which is densely feathered. Wings
and tail of usual size and shape. Feet small, tarsi moderately compressed,
much shorter than the middle toe and without its claw; only two-thirds the
middle toe and claw; outer toe as long as, or slightly longer than the middle,
its claw much smaller than that of the middle ; tip of inner claw just reach-
ing base of middle claw.
Entire upper parts blackish-cinereous, or very dark lead color, deepest and
very black oa the crown, wings and tail. Entire under parts much lighter
and more grayish plumbeous, insensibly blending with the color of the upper
parts on the sides of the head, neck, and body, fading very gradually into
whitish on the abdomen and under tail coverts. Inner webs of primaries,
secondaries and tail feathers dusky gray ; the outer glossy black ; under sur-
face of wings dusky gray, nearl}' black along the edge. Bill dusky, tinged
with red ; tarsi behind and toes below black ; rest of feet an undefiuable
color in the dried state; perhaps reddish in life. " Eyes white and black,"
(collector's label).
This is a very strongly-marked species, differing to a remarkable degree
from any other of the family. The chief peculiarity of form lies in the bill ;
so small, simple, extremely compressed, destitute of appendages, and otherwise
unique, as will be seen by the description, and still more clearly by the dia-
gram. As regards color, the tinge of clear plumbeous which pervades the
uniform dark color is very characteristic. Tliere is no trace of a crest, nor
1868.]
