46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
of elongated filiform feathers about the head. Their absence, however, is
not to be regarded as a specific character, since it caunot be positively
afiirmed that the specimen is fully adult.
The affinities of the species are clearly with »S'. teiraculus, which it resem-
bles in the small simple compressed bill. But it is unnecessary to compare
the two and point out the differences. A glance at the dimensions will alone
suffice to show specific distinction. There is no other bird in the family that
<S. Cassini in the least resembles.
SiMORHYNcnus MiCROCEROs, (Brandt,) Coues.
9 Alca pygmiea, Gmelin, S. N. i, pt. ii, 1788, p. 555, Nj. 12; and of the older
authors, liased on the Pigmy Auk of Pennant. Not identifiable.
Simorliynchus pygmoeus, Schlegel, Urinatores JIus. Pays-Bas, 18G7, livr. ix, p.
23. identifies A. pugmcRa Gm. as Phahris viicroceros Brandt or P. nodirostra
Bonap., and Uria pusilla Pall, as young of the same.
Phaieris microceros, Brandt, Bull. Acad. ISt. Petersb. ii, 1837, p. 346.
Phaleris {Ciceronia) microceros, Cassin, B. N. A. 1858, p. 908.
Clceronia microceros, Reichenbach.
Phaleris 7wdiroslra, Bonaparte, Comp. and Geog. List, 1838, p. 66. Equals
microceros Brandt. Audubon, Orn. Biog. v, 1839, p. 101, pi. 402. Audu-
bon, B. Amer. vii, 1844, pi. 4G8. Gray, Genera Birds, iii, 1849, p. 644.
Ciceroma nodiroslris, Bonaparte, Consp. Gav. Comptes Rend., 1856, xlii. p. 774.
"?Phaleris corniciilata, Eschscholtz," (Gray.) Doubtful citation. Perhaps
Fratercula corniculata? or Cerorhina monocerata?
Asiatic and American coasts of North Pacific ; Karatschatka ; Kurile
Islands ; Plover Bay ; Sitka ; Japan. Numerous specimens in the Mus. Acad.,
Philadelphia, and Mus. Smiths. Inst., from various locali'ies. Not known to
occur as far south as Washington Territory, U. S., though found in the
Japan Sea.
Smallest of the Auks with the ex-
ception of S. pusillus. Bill very short,
not half as long as the head, stout,
deep, wide, little compressed, obtuse
at the tip ; its width at base nearly
equalling its heighth at the same
point, and but little less than the
length ofculmen. A small but con-
spicuous globular tubercle arising
from base of culmen, beyond which
the culmen is strongly arched, very
regularly convex, rapidly descending,
its tip not very acute, obsoletely
notched on the tomia, very slightly
overhanging the tip of under mandi-
Fi^.W.—Simarhynchus microceros, (Branili). ble. Commissure almost straight its
Nat. size. whole length, the extremity very
slightly ascending. Gonys short, rapidly ascending, very slightly convex.
Nostrils in a short but wide and deep fossa, placed rather higher up above
the commissure than in some species; narrowly linear, not reached by the
frontal feathers. Frontal feathers extending to the node on the culmen,
then retreating obliquely backwards as they descend along the sides of the
upper mandible ; feathers on side of lower mandible extending farther than on
up;)er mandible. Proportions of wings, tail, legs and feet as in other species
of the genus.
Adult. — Forehead and lores conspicuously marked with delicnte hair lines
of white, produced by numerous short, stiff, but very slender white setaceous
feathers scattered thickly thereover ; a few of which filaments, more elon-
gated and thread-like than the frontal ones, stretch adown the sides of the head
[Jan.
