NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51
mere presence or absence, therefore, of the node upon the base of the culmen,
cannot be allowed to constitute a specific character in the present case, and
may be left out of consideration, as may be, also, the color of the bill. Too
much stress should not be laid upon the presence of white scapulars and of
white tips to the secondaries, since in some specimens of undoubted microce-
ros unmistakable traces of the former are to be found, and the ends of the
inner secondaries are decidedly lighter than the body of the feathers. All
the observable differences iu the quantity and distribution of the whitish se-
taceous feathers upon the forehead and other parts of the head might readily
enough depend upon a difference in the age of specimens. The pure unin-
terrupted white of the under parts of />i«/WMs stands in apparently strong con-
tradistinction to the black mottling of the same parts of microcerus ; but it is
to be remembered that the coloration in this respect of the latter species is
very variable, ranging from a very sparse and scanty marbling to a nearly
uniform black, particularly upon the breast, and is therefore not to be too
implicitly relied upon, at least until it is more definitely ascertained than at
present whether the black mottling tends to decrease or to increase with ad-
vancing age. If microceros grows more and more marbled with black as it
grows older, we might with entire propriety presume upon the existence of a
youthful state of plumage, in which the under parts are entirely white, like
those of pusillus. Such is very likely the real state of the case ; for the
youngest examples of microceros examined — those which have no trace of a
tubercle — are nearly white below, only very sparsely and indistinctly mottled
with blackish. Still, aside from all these varying and therefore uncertain
points, there appear good grounds for separating the two species, as will be
observed on comparing the descriptions given in this and in the preceding
article.
As the case stands with our present information upon the subject, P. pusil-
lus is to be separated from F. microceros: first, by certain differences posi-
tively known to occur : or, in size, which is decidedly less, as evidenced by
the measurement of all its dimensions ; b, in form of bill, which is slenderer,
more acute at the tip, not so deep at the base, particularly not so wide at the
base, yet not shorter, than that of microceros ; secondly, by certain differences
very constantly observed, yet not proven to always hold good : a, absence of
tubercle; 6, conspicuously white scapulars and tips of secondaries: c, pure
white under parts, uninterrupted by blackish mottling, and extending around
on the sides of the neck; d, shortness and scantiness of the white setaceous
feathers on the forehead ; e, color of bill, mostly black, not mostly red.
It only remains to notice the synonymy of this species , and all that is to
be said on this score relates to the identification of Alca pygmxa Gm. This
name is founded upon the "Pigmy Auk" of Pennant, — a small species first
described very loosely and imperfectly by the latter writer, whose account
Gmelin merely renders into Latin, in applying a binomial name. There is
no doubt that the bird was one of the little Auks of the North Pacific, as its
very name, and the dimensions assigned (seven inches), clearly indicate, but
there is no possibility, at the present day, of identifying it with precision. It
was very possibly based either upon the present species or the preceding
(microceros), and should these two ever be united, as young and old of the
same, the name pygmma might without undue violence be assigned to the
species so constituted. So long as they are regarded as distinct, the name
pyymxus must not be applied to either of them. As far as we can judge by
the description, particularly the expression "jugulo et pectore glaucis,"
pygmxa may not impossibly have been based upon Ptychoramphus alevticvs.
But Mr. Gassin's supposition is perhaps as near the truth as any that could be
advanced: " It is possible that the Pigmy Auk of Pennant, which \& Aka
pygrmea Gmelin. may be the young of this species [_microcrros'\, but it is more
probable, judging fiom the descriptions of Gmelin and Latham, that several
small species have been confounded under this name." The same gentleman
1868.]
