52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
also calls attention to the fact, that some of the expressions in the diagnoses
of the old authors have no basis in the characters of any Alcidine bird. Under
the circuraslances, it behooves us to ignore the name /)(////««« altogether, since
it cannot be identified; and to accept pu>iUlus of Pallas, to which no possibil-
ity of doubt attaches, as the proper name of the present species.
PTYCHORHAMPHUS, Brandt.
Uria, Pallas, Zoog. R.-A. 1811, ii, p. 370, in part; not of authors.
Plychorhaviphus, Brandt, Bull. Acad. Sc. St. Petersb. ii, 1837, p. 347. Type
Uria aleutica, Pall.
Mcrgulus, Gambel, Pr. A. N. S. ii, 1842, p. 266, in part ; not of Ray, Vieill.
Arclica, Gray, Genera, iii, 1849, p. 638 ; in part ; not of Moehring.
Scinorhi/nchus, Schlegel, Mus. Pays-Bas, 1867, livr. ix, p. 26, in part ; not of
Merrem.
Size moderate; general form stout; not crested, nor with any elongated
feathers about the head. Bill about two thirds as long as the head, three-
fourths as long as the tarsus, very stout, straight, somewhat conical in shape,
slightly if at all compressed, without nodes or irregularities, the tip acute ;
culmen very moderately declinato-convex in outline, the ridge broad, more or
less corrugated transversely at the base ; the sides of upper mandible bulg-
ing, the tomial edges inflected ; sides of lower mandible nearly upright, flat,
longitudinally grooved for the greater part of their length, their tomial edges
somewhat inflected; rictus straight; gonys straight, or nearly so, very long.
Nasal fossai long and wide, shallow, filled in with soft skin ; that of the two
fossffi meeting over the base of the culmen, and there corrugated as just de-
scribed ; nostrils rather long, narrowly oval, subbasal, opening at the lower
border of the fosste, the edge of the membrane that overhangs them elevated,
flaring. Frontal feathers in a nearly transverse line across the base of the
culmen, thence descending a little obliquely backwards, just behind the nos-
trils, to the commissure; those on lower mandible extending, in the inter-
ramal space (which they completely fill), to a point rather beyond a perpen-
dicular from those on culmen; then, encroaching very liltle on the sides of
the lower mandible, they retreat in a s'raight line rapidly backwards and
obliquely upwards. Wings moderately long, narrow, pointed, the primaries
somewhat falcate, narrowing rapidly at the tip to an acute point, first longest,
rest equably graduated. Tail short, broad, rounded, contained about three
and a half times in the length of wing from the carpal joint; the feathers
broadly rounded at their tips. Tasus much shorter than the middle toe
without its claw ; about two-thirds as long as the middle toe and claw;
greatly compressed, covered with small, very irregularly shaped polygonal
reticulations ; no large transverse scutellae. Outer lateral toe as long as, or
slightly shorter than the middle; its claw not reaching the tip of the middle
claw. Tip of inner claw reaching base of middle one. Claws compressed,
acute, moderately arched, the inner edge of the middle one dilated.
This genus was instituted in 1837 by Prof. Brandt, for the reception of the
Uria aleutica of Pallas, its type and only species. It is strongly characterized
by the bill, which is of a shape not even approximating towards that of any
other Alcidine bird. Its points of structure in other respects are shared by
the majority of the family.
Ptychorhamphus alkuticus, (/'«// ) Brandt.
Uria aleutica, Fa-Uiis, Zoog. R.-A. ii, 1811, p. 370. " Corpore supra fusco,
subtus albo liturato, rostro producto, triplici plica inter nares."
Ptyrhorhamphus aleiilicus, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Petersb. ii, 1837, p. 347. Bo-
naparte, Tabl. Comp. Pelag. Compt. Rend., 1856, xlii, p. 774. Cassin, Baird's
B. N. A. 1858, p. 910. Heermann, Pac. R. R. Rep. x, 18^9, Route to Gala.
Birds, p. 75. Elliot, B. N. Am. part iv, 1867.
Fhaleris aleutica, Gray, Genera Birds, iii, 1849, p. G38.
[Jan,
