62 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF
? Uria hrevirostris, Vigors,* Zool. Journ. iv, 1828, p. 357, and Zool. Beechey'a
Toy. Blossom, 1839, Ornilh, p. 32. Evidently a young bird ; may be of this
species, or of B. Wran(/eli,
? Brachyrhamphm Kialit2u,f Brandt, Bull. Acad. So. St. Petersburg, ii. 1837, p.
346. Young bird ; may be of this species, or of Wrangeli^ or a distinct
species.
Coasts and Islands of the North Pacific. On the American side, south in
winter to California ; breeds as far south as Vancouver's Island. Numerous
specimens in Mus. Acad. Philada., Mus. Smiths. Inst., Cab. G. N. Lawrence.
Form typical of the genus as just described. Bill along culmen just the
length of the tarsus, tarsus scarcely three-fourths the middle toe without its
claw.
Adult, breeding plumage. (Description from No. 49655, Mus. Smiths. Inst,, ^,
June 9, 1867, Vancouver's Island. ;]: Bill black. Tarsi posteriorly and both
surfaces of the webs blackish ; legs anteriorly and toes superiorly livid flesh
color, or dull bluish gray. Iris brown. Entire upper parts brownish black,
everywhere transversely barred with chestnut brown, or bright rust color,
except on the wings, which are uniform brownish black, the primaries darkest,
their inner webs brownish grey towards the base. Under surface of wings
smoky brownish black. A few whitish feathfers variegated with chestnut and
dusky on the scapulars. Entire under parts, including sides of head, neck
and body, marbled with sooty brownish black and white. The feathers are
white, with the tips of the dark color. The white rather predominates on the
middle of the breast and belly, the dusky on the other parts ; the latter color
being nearly uniform across the throat, and on the long feathers of the sides
and flanks.
Specimens vary a great deal in the precise amount of rusty brown on the
upper parts, and of dusky mottling on the lower ; but, so far as known, are
never without this distinctive coloration in some degree ; and it becomes
heightened at the breeding season..
Length about 10-00 ; extent about 18-00 ; wing 5-00; tail 1-50 ; tarsus -70 ;
middle toe 1-00, its claw -20 ; outer toe and claw 1-15, inner do. -90 ; bill along
culmen -70, along rictus 1-35, along gonys -55, heighth opposite base of nos-
trils -25, width at same point -20.
This species was originally described by Pennant as the Marbled Guillemot,
whence Colymbus marmoratus, Gm. His description is that of the adult, in
breeding plumage, but has been almost universally supposed to refer only to
the young; and a very different species has been usually held to be the adult,
as shown in the next article. It is also evidently the Cepphus perdix of
Pallas.
* " U. suprk griseo-fusca, capite, dorsoque albo notati.s ; subtus alba, fusco undulatim
maculata, rectricibns albi.s, duabiis mediis fuseo-notatis, rostro brevi, gracili. — AUe supri
et infrk, teetricesque iuferiore.s fusepe. Rostrum nigrum. Pedes flavi, membrani.s ungui-
busque brunneis. Longitude corporis 9 ; rostri ad frontem }^, ad rictum IJ/g, alse 5^/4 ;
caudse 1 ; tarsi 34." Vigors, 1. c. From San Bias.
f' Supra cinerea nigrioante et pallide e fusco-flavescente undulata et submaeulata.
Subtus alba, subfuscescente tenuissime lavata, nigro etquidemin pectore frequentius un-
dulata. Alse e einerascente et fasco nigrie. Rostrum brevissimum, capitis longitudinis
tertiam partem circiter ad;iequans. Tarsi digito medio breviores. Longitudo a rostri
apice ad caudse apicem 9. Patria Kamtschatka," — Brandt, 1. c.
X The following is an extract from a letter to Prof. Baird, from J. Hepburn, Esq., dated
Victoria, Septs 5, 18(17, which accompanied a lot of specimens of which No. 49655 was one.
It confirms the views maintained in the present paper, and gives some interesting facts :
"You will find in the liox a specimen of B. marmoratus. On comparing it with Mr. Cassin's
description, (ia Birds N. A.) I find it is what he calls the young bird. In this he is mista-
ken. In the first place, if such were the case we should see some red birds among the
large numbers that are to be found here, whereas till this year I never saw but one speci-
men, * * In the next place, when I fell in with them last May, every bird was in
the red plumage, including the one which, as I told you, would have laid an egg in two
or three days ; and lastly, proof conclusive, I have shot the young bird, two-thirds grown,
in the winter plumage of the adult, except that the breast is more thickly barred tlian in
any specimens I have seen in the winter, and at the very time the adults were in their
red plumage."
[Jan.
