NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63
Audubon's figure and description of the supposed young of this bird, under
the name of Uria Townsendii, is really that of the adult. His figure of the
supposed adult appears rather to represent Wrangeli.
It is difficult, perhaps impossible, to determine Uria hrevirostris Vigors. This
is evidently, as far as can be judged by the description, a young bird. It be-
longs to the short-legged group of the present genus ; but whether it is the
young of ?narmor at us or of Wrangeli^ is a point which cannot be decided. The
expression "cajjite dorsoque albo-notatis,'' and the absence of any mention
of rust-color in the description, would lead one to assign it rather to
Wrojigeli.
Brachyrhamphus Kittlitzii, Brandt, is another bird which has not been identi-
fied since its original description. Like U. brevirostris, it is evidently a young
bird, of the short-legged group; and the expression " fusco-flavescente undu-
lata" induces the presumption that it is really only a young mnrmoratus. But
it is possible that both it and B. brevirostris may be the young of the same spe-
cies, or of two different species, which yet remain to be identified. It is not
probable, however, that either of these names represent valid species, distinct
from each one of those recognized in this paper.
Brachyrhamphus Wrangeli, Bratidt.
Brachyrhamphus Wrangelii, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Petersburg, ii, 1837, p.
344. " Rostrum capitis dimidii circiter longitudine. Caput supra, nucha et
dorsum e nigricante grisea. Ahv et cauda nigra?. Reliqute partes, nee uon
stria longitudinalis supra alam, alb*. Tarsi digito medio breviores. Longitu-
dine a rostro apice ad caudae apicem 9J. Patria lusulce Aleutica;." Cassin,
Birds N. A. 1858, p. 917. Copies Brandt's diagnosis.
Brachyrhamphus marnwraius, Cassin, B. N. A. 1858, p. 915, in part. Descrip-
tion of supposed adult viarmoratus is that of Wrangeli.
Aleutian Islands, and north-west coast of America; south to Puget's Sound,
and perhaps further. Numerous specimens in Mus. Smiths. Inst. (No. 11,457,
perfectly adult, Puget's Sound, in February; No. 46,547, just fully fledged,
Sitka ; and others from same locality in various stages of adolescence ; No.
46,542, Sitka, in January.)
Description (from No. 46,541, Mus. Smiths., perfectly adult male, Sitka,
March, 1866). — With the size and proportions of the several members as in mar-
moratus; the bill absolutely shorter, relatively rather stouter. Bill scarcely as
long as the tarsus. Tarsus much less than middle toe without claw.
Adult. — Entire upper parts, except the scapulars, very dark cinereous, the
centres of the feathers, particularly on the back and rump, blackish, causing
these parts to appear obsoletely waved with blackish and cinereous; the crown
of the head, the wings and the tail, almost black, the larger wing coverts just
appreciably white-margined; scapulars almost entirely pure white, forming two
conspicuous broad longitudinal bands. Under wing coverts dusky brown ;
inner webs of the primaries the same, not fading, even at their extreme bases,
into whitish. Entire under parts pure white, immaculate, except some dusky
streaks on the long feathers of the sides and flanks. This white on the sides
of the head invades the lores to the level of the top of the orbits, and extends
into the nasal fossffi ; then lowers a little, so that the eyes are left in the dark
color of the top of the head; then on the nape extends almost to the median
line, across which a few white leathers extend to the white on the other side,
forming an imperfect nuchal collar; then extends in a straight line down the
middle of the side of the neck. On the sides of the rump the white extends
around so far, that the cinereous is only left as a band an inch wide. This
white on the sides of the rump is as apparent upon the upper surface as that
on the scapulars ; it is directly continuous with that of the under i)arls, but on
the flanks the long overlying cinereous feathers appear to separate it. Bill
wholly black. Tarsi posteriorly and toes interiorly blackish ; rest of the feet,
1868.]
