64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
including both surfaces of the webs, probably flesh-colored in life ; dull yellow-
ish-white in the dried skin.
Length " 10-00, extent 18-00" (collector's label); wing from carpus 5-00;
tail 1-50; tarsus -70; middle toe without claw -92, its claw -20; outer toe and
claw 1-10 ; inner do. -88 ; bill along culmen -60, along rictus 1-25, along gonys
•45, its height at base of nostrils -22, its width at same point -19.
Young. (No. 46,5-i'7, Mus. Smiths., Sitka, July, 1866 ; just fully fledged ; the
bill has still the white horny knob at tip of upper and under mandible, show-
ing the juvenility of the specimen). — Bill very small, weak, short, imperfectly
developed, about a third as long as the skull; -45 along culmen; tarsus -55;
middle toe and claw 1-00 ; wing only 4-25. Entire upper parts blackish, much
darker than in the adult, with only a just appreciable shade of cinereous; the
scapular white present, but restricted in extent, and interrupted by imperfect
bars of dusky across the feathers. Entire under parts white. Everywhere, ex-
cept on chin, middle of abdomen, and under tail coverts, thickly marked with
delicate waved lines of dusky, most numerous across the throat, largest on the
sides and flanks, where some of the longer feathers are mostly dusky, finest on
the lower breast. The whitish on the sides of the head does not extend so far,
and merges insensibly into the dark color ; on the nape a delicate line of
white featliers almost forms a collar. The under wing coverts are as in the
adult. Bill blackish. Legs and feet anteriorly more dusky than in the adult.
Another specimen (No. 46,542, Mus. Smiths.), taken in January, marked
female, and evidentl}' hatched the preceding summer, has the size of the adult,
and the colors generally as in the young bird just described. But the upper
parts are much lighter and more decidedly cinereous, as in the adult ; the
scapular white well developed ; the dusky waving of the under parts confined
to the sides and throat. The under wing coverts are dusky along the edge of
the wing; but are elsewhere variegated with dull whitish; only to a small
degree, however, not approaching the condition seen in hypoleucus.
In mature plumage this is a very handsome bird, and recognizable at a
glance by the pure white of the under parts, and blackish cinereous of the up-
per, relieved by the conspicuous white of the scapulars and sides of the rump.
It belongs to the short-legged division of the genus, being very diff'erent from
hypoleucus and Craveri in the proportions of the tarsus and toes. It has the
size and form of marrnoralus in every respect except a just fairly recognizable
difference in the shape of the bill. But it is quite a different species from
marnioratus ; so different, in fact, that no special comparison need be insti-
tuted.
The recognition, in the bird here described, of Brachyrhainphus Wraiiffeli,
Brandt, is a matter of unusual interest, identifying, as it does, a species long
ago described, but almost unknown to ornithologists at large, and throwing
light upon what has always been a very obscure point in American ornitho-
logy. The writer is mainly indebted to Prof. Baird's suggestions for the for-
tunate direction of his investigation in this case. The present species has
hitherto been regarded and described b^^ American writers as the adult of the
well-known marmoratus, whose curious colors, as described by all authors from
Pennant downwards, and as figured by Audubon under the name of Uria Town-
sendii, have always been considered as indicative of immaturity. But numer-
ous specimens, in adult breeding plumage, demonstrate the falsity of this view,
as is satisfactorily set forth in the preceding article. Beyond the possibility of
a doubt, the present species is not marmoratus ; and it is certainly Wrangeli of
Brandt.
Brachyrhamphus hypoledcus, Xantus.
Brachyrhamphus hypoleucus, Xantus, Proc. Acad. Phila. Not., 1859. From Cape
St. Lucas. Baird, eodem loco.
Coast of California. Specs, in Mus. Smiths., and Mus. Acad. Philada. So
far south, in summer, as Cape St. Lucas, Lower Cal.
[Jan.
