66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
dori, also from the coast of Lower California ; but the latter appears to be a
different species, as will be discussed further on. It comes nearest to hrachyp'
terus, from Unalaschka ; iu fact there is nothing in Brandt's brief diagnosis
preventing the reference of the present species to brachypterns, except
the expression "tarsi digito medio longiores." But in view of this
discrepancy, and of the widely-separated localities whence the two species
are described, it would be unsafe to take their identity for granted. It is much
the best course to retain the present species as it stands, under the name
hopoleucus, which has the merit of being positively identified, as is not the
case, as yet, with brachypterus.
Several excellent examples of this species from various points along the
coast of California are in the collections of the Smithsonian Institution and
Philadelphia Academy. They present no individual differences worthy of
special mention ; except in the instance of the type specimen, which is
brownish above, from the faded and worn condition of the plumage.
This species has probably the southernmost range of any of the family;
occurring in summer at Cape St. Lucas. It was observed by the writer in
December, 1865, off the coast of Mexico, about latitude 21° N. 1 Its extension
northward remains to be ascertained. At present, it is not known to occur
north of the coast of Lower California. Its southern habitat, as remarked by
Prof. Baird, is a fact of great interest, when it is recollected how truly boreal
are nearly all the species of the family.
Brachyrhamphus Craveri, [Salvad.) Cones.
TJria Craveri, Salvador!, Descrizione di altre Nuove specie di ITccelli esistenti
nel museo di Torino, 1867, p. 17. Estratto dagli Atti della Societil Italiaua
di Scienze Naturali, vol. viii, 1866.
" Jiin. — Uria minima, crassitie Merguli alle ; supra fusco-nigra, dorso ac alls
nonnihil griseo-tinctis. Subtus alba ; rostro valde elongato, subuhito, nigro ;
tarsis postice nigris, antice viride-luteis ; unguibus nigris.
" Long. tot. 0,245 ; al. 0,125 ; caud. 0,018 ; rostri a rictu 0,037 ; tarsi 0,022 ;
dig. med. cum ungue 0,024 ; (millimetres.)
" Parti superiori, lati della testa, le piume del mento lungo il margine
inferiore della mandibula, lati del collo, del petto, e fianchi di color bruno-
nero con una leggera tinta grigio-lavagna sul dorso, sul groppone e sulle ali ;
parti inferiori candide ; becco nero ; tarsi neri posteriormente, anteriormente
giallo verdastri como auche le dita ; unghie nere.
" Questa specie sarebbe commune lungo le coste del Golfo della California,
e neir Isola della Natividad posta nel Pacifico, a poca distanza dalla costa
occideutale della Bassa California." — Salvador!, 1. c.
This recently described species has much the same habitat as B. hijpoleucus,
and very much resembles the latter. The dimensions are the same in both,
and the colors are verj^ nearly alike. The expression "fusco-nigra, * '*
griseo-tinctis," exactly hits some specimens of hi/poleucas, — those somewhat
faded and worn in plumage, — though not applicable to more perfect specimens.
In the above copied description, no mention is made of the under surfaces of
the wings ; but the needed information in this regard has been supplied
through a private channel. Prof. Baird has received from Sig. Salvadori, and
kindly transmitted to the writer, a life-size figure of the bird, accompanied by
a note in which it is stated that " the lining of the wings is blackish, and some
feathers are white-edged." This fact at once distinguishes the species from
hi/poleucus, providing the latter, in all stages of plumage, has the under sur-
faces of the wings white, as is most probable, judging by what is known of
the variations in plumage of the birds of this genus.
Waiving the bare possibility of this bird s being a young hgpoleucus, it cannot
be referred to any described species, and must be regarded as a valid one.
That it is not brevirostris, Vigors, is sufficiently evident from the dimensions ;
the tarsus of the latter being only half an inch long.
[Jan.
