NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67
Brachyrhamphus brachyptkrus, Brandt.
Brachyrhamphus hrachypterus, Brandt, Bull. Acad. Imper. St. Petersb. ii. 1837,
p. 34G. Quotes "?7rw brachi/ptera Kittlitzii, MSS." Gray, Genera, iii, 1849,
p. 644. Cassin, Birds N. A. 18"i8, p. 917. Merely copies Brandt's description.
Anobapton [Brachyrhaniphus) hrachi/plcrus, Bonaparte, Tab. Comp. Pelagiens,
Comptes Kendus, xlii, 185G, p. 774.
"Supra cinerea, alls caudaque nigricantibus. Collum subtus et in latcribus,
pectus et abdomen alba. Rostrum capitis dimidii circiter longitudiue. Tarsi
digito medio longiores. Longitudine a rostri apice ad caudaj apicem 9. Patria
Unalaschka." — Brandt, I. c.
This species is whollj' unknown, at least on this side of the Atlantic, except
by the aboye cited description of Brandt. It has nothing to distinguish it
from some other Brachyrhamphi exceyit the length of the tarsus. This, however,
if it really obtains, is sufficient to distinguish the bird from all others, not
only of the genus, but of the family ; for no known alcidine bird has the tarsi
longer than the middle toe.
URIA, {Moehr.) Brisson.
Columba sive Columbus, Anct. antiq. ex parte. Vria, Moehring, Av. Gen. 1752,
p. G7, No. 73. Type Columba groenlandica, Willoughby.
f'T/ff, Brisson ; Briinnich, Orn. Bor. 1764; and of authors generally.
Alca, Linnjeus, Syst. Nat. i, 1758; in part.
Colymbus, Linna?us, S. N. i, 1766, in part, and of many of the older authors.
Cepphus, Pallas, Spic. Zool. y. 1769, in part.
Gryllc, Brandt, Bull. Acad. St. Petersb. ii, 1837, p. 346. Type U. grylle, Briinn.
Bill much shorter than the head, about equal to the tarsus, straight, rather
stout, moderately compressed ; culmen at first straight, then rapidly deflected ;
rictus straight, except just at tip ; gonys ascending, straight, short, about half
as long as the culmen. No groove in sides of upper mandible near its tip ; com-
missural edge of upper mandible scarcely inflected. Nasal fossa wide, long,
deeply excavated, partially bare of feathers, which do not wholly obtect the
nostrils. Feathers extending on sides of lower mandible with a salient rounded
outline. Wings and tail very short, the latter contained about two or two-
thirds times in the length of the former from the carpal joint to the end of
longest primary; tail slightly rounded. Tarsus much compressed, entirely
covered with polygonal reticulations, somewhat scutelliform on the inner
aspect ; slightly shorter than the middle toe without its claw. Outer and
middle toes equal in length ; the claw of the former much smaller than that
of the latter, tip of inner claw just reaching base of middle one. Claws com-
pressed, moderately arched and acute ; the outer one grooved along its outer
aspect, the middle one greatly dilated along its inner edge. No postocular
furrow in the plumage.
In the preceding diagnosis the characters of the genus are so drawn as to
exclude the large species of Lomvia. Few writers have made this generic
distinction, for which, notwithstanding, there is abundant reason, as may be
seen upon a critical comparison of the two types of form ; and as will be
satisfactorily demonstrated at length under head of Lomvia. It need only be
noted here, that the structure of the bill and feet are in many respects very
different in the two genera.
The genus as here framed comprehends three distinct species, intimately
allied to each other.
Species : — (3.)
Disregarding other and less prominent though very valid distinctions, the
three species of Uria may be at once recognized by the following character-
istics : —
1868.]
