NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91
60. Heliconius Guarica, nov. sp.
Upper surface dark brown, glossed with bluish black ; anterior wings crossed
by a broad central transverse scarlet band, abruptly terminating after the
first median veinlet, and not touching the outer margin ; posterior, immacu-
late.
Underneath, the band becomes pale rosy white, edged only with dark pink ;
the costa of forewings, presents a short basal scarlet bar, that of the hind
wings a longer yellow one ; upon these are also five basal spots, one yellow,
surrounded by four scarlet ones.
Body black, with some yellow stripes on thorax below and a yellow ventral
stripe ; some yellow spots on the collar ; first and second joints of palpi
yellow ; third black. Antennae black.
Expanse 2*65 inches.
Hab. — Insagasuga, New Granada. (Coll. Tryon Reakirt.)
Closely allied to HI. Hydara, Hewits, but constantly diifers in the absence
of a scarlet spot on the upper side of the secondaries.
In the same number (63) of his " Exotic Butterflies," he has redescribed
Cal/idryas Thauruma, Reakirt, as Call. Fiaduna ; his name must therefore be
regarded as a synonym.
March Bd.
Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair.
Twenty-three members present.
March 10th.
The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair.
Forty members present.
The following papers were presented for publication :
"A new species of Osnierus." By Thaddeus Norris.
" Description of nine new species of Uniouidse, from Lake
Nicaragua, C. A." By Isaac Lea.
" An examination of the Keptilia and Batrachia obtained by the
Williams College Expedition to Equador and the Upper Amazon,
with notes on other species." By Edw. D. Cope.
A letter was read announcing the death of Sir David Brewster.
The Publication Committee announced the issue of No. 4 of the
Proceedings for 1867.
3farch 17 th.
The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair.
Thirty-three members present.
Mr. Benj. Smith Lyman made the following remarks on a bent
marble stone presented by Mr. Edward Shippen to the Academy.
The bent gravestone of Dr. William Shippen, who died 11th July, 1808,
and of Alice his wife, who died 25th of March, 1817, was formerly in the
1868.]
