NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93
dially than in Brimosaurus or Cimoliasaurus, and none except cervicals Avitli
such small antero- posterior diameter as the latter possess.
The general characters of the species would be presented in a special
essay.
He called it Elasmosaurus platyurus Cope, from the caudal lamina?, and
the great plate bones of the sternal and pelvic regions. It was a marine
saurian, whose progression was more largely accomplished by its tail than by
its paddles.
The teeth and muzzle showed it to be an ally of Plesiosaurus. The former
were cylindric, implanted in very deep alveolse, and furnished with a very
small pulp cavity. The exposed surface closely and sharply striate to the nar-
rowly acuminate tip.
The beds were argillaceous, with much gypsum ; the latter mineral coating
the bones. The age was cretaceous ; perhaps, according to Le Coute, the
upper middle. The matrix beneath the dorsal vertebras contained remains of
perhaps si.x species of fishes, several ctenoid, among them a known Enchodus,
and a Sphyraaia, to be called Sph. c a r i n a t a Cope.
The complete and mounted skeleton of the fossil Irish Elk, now
in the Museum, was presented to the Academy by Mr. J. A.Wright.
On motion the Academy tendered to Mr. Wright a vote of thanks
for his magnificent donation.
March cilst.
The President, Dr. Hays, in the Chair.
•.. Thirty members present.
The deaths of Mr. Thos. Earp, and Mr. C. F. Hagedorn, were an-
nounced.
On leave being granted, the following paper was presented for
publication :
" On a new mineral in Cryolite, Ivigtite." By Theo. D. Eand.
The following gentlemen were elected Members :
Dr. Thomas B. Reed and Mr. Richard Peltz.
The following were elected Correspondents :
Dr. Fred'k Stoliska, of Calcutta, Maj. Geo. Clendon, Jr., of
Glenn's Falls, N. Y., and Mr. R. H. Stretch, of San Francisco, Cal.
On favorable report of the Committees, the following papers
were ordered to be published :
Kemarks on the New Species of OSMERUS (0. Sergeanti.)
BY TIIADDEUS NORRIS.
At a meeting of the Academy of Natural Sciences, March 2G, 1801, the
writer presented "Remarks on a new species of Osmerus taken in the Schuyl-
kill below Fairmount dam," describing its specific characteristics as com-
pared with those of the Northern Smelt, 0. viridiscctis, also naming other
rivers besides the Schuylkill in which it is found.
Although I was then well convinced of the difference between the two,
those who composed the committee on Ichthyology could not admit sufficient
peculiarity in this to constitute it a new species ; I therefore suppressed the
specific name given above, which I now renew : having no less authority than
1868.]
