96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
in;iequilaterali, antice et postice rotundata ; valvulis subtenuibns ; natibus
])rominulis ; epiilerniide transverse striata, tenebroso-viridi, redundater radi-
ata ; margarita c;Bruleo-alba et valde iridescente.
Hib. — Lake Nicaragua, Cent. Amer. Mr. W. M. Gabb.
Anodonta Granadensis. — Testa la?vi, elliptica, subinflata, inpeqiiivalva, ina-
([uilaterali, postice obtuse angulata, antice rotunda ; valvulis subtenuibus ;
natibus prominulis ; epidermide vel lutea vel viridi-radiata ; margarita cseru-
leo-alba et valde iridescente.
Ilab. — Lake Nicaragua, Cent. Amer. Col. E. Jcwctt.
An Examination of the REPTILIA and BATRACHIA obtained by the Orton
Expedition to Equador and the Upper Amazon, with notes on other Species.
BY E. D. COPE.
The expedition for purposes of scientitic exploi'ation, to which the present
paper relates, was undertaken during the autumn and winter of 1867 — 8,
under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution. Prof. James Orton, of
Williams College, Massachusetts, directed the expedition, which was composed
mainly of students of the same institution. This enterprise, particularly
worthy of a popular institution of learning of the grade and position which
an American College ought to occupy, has been attended with success in many
departments of natural and physical sciences. In the present department,
valuable in furnishing a reliable key to the history of the mode of creation
and distribution of animal life, a considerable amount of material has been
collected, which is reviewed summarily in the following pages.
The party divided, a portion ascending the Orinoco River to meet the other
portion in Eastern Equador. The course of the latter was as follows, as I am
informed hy Prof. Orton :
They first touched the continent at Payta,Peru, and afterwards at Guayaquil ;
then proceeded inland over the Andes to Quito — collecting in the valley about
three months ; thence via Pafallacta (on the east slope of the eastern Cordillera)
and Archiaona (the largest town in the Oriental part of Equador,) to Napo on
the River Napo ; thence by canoe down the Napo to the Maranon and Amazons.
They collected Reptiles chiefly from (luayaquil, PaRatanga (on the west
slope of the western Cordillera south of Chimborazo) ; Ambato (in Valley of
Quito); Avestern slope of the volcano Antisana, 13000 ft. above sea (a small
black frog:) Archiaona — in the depths of the Napo forest (lizards chiefly;)
Santa Rosa on the Napo (lizards chiefly ;) Pebas, Peru, on the Maranon — 2200
miles from the Atlantic (snakes chiefly,) and Tabatinga on the Brazilian
frontier, (snakes chiefly'.)
CROCODILIA.
Crocodilus AMERICANOS Liuu. C. ciculus Cuv.
From Guayaquil.
TESTUDINATA.
Testudo elephantopcs. Harlan.
From Guayaquil, identical with sp. from the Gallapagos Islands. This
species presents the broad posterior vertebral shield of the American T. tabu-
la t a and p o 1 y p h e m u s.
Chelydra serpentina Linn. Schweigger.
One sp. from Guayaquil, identical with nearctic specimens. This species
furnishes a case of distribution unparalleled among reptiles, ranging as it does
from the cold regions of Canada to the torrid region of Equador. Peters has
already noticed Guayaquil as its most southern habitat, via. Mouatsber., Berlin
Ac. 1862, p. 627.
[March,
