NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97
SAURIA.
NYC TIS AURA.
PiiYLLODACTYLus REissii Petcrs, Monatsbericlite, Preuss. Ac. Wiss. 1802, 62G.
Several specimens of this liandsome species from near Guayaquil.
GoNioDACTYLUs CAUDiscuTATUS Giinther. Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond. 18 , p.
From near Guayaquil.
GoNioDACTYLuS FERRUGiNEUS Copc. Gotiatodes ferr. Cope, Pi'oc. A. N. Sci.
Phila. 1863, 102.
From the Napo and Maranon.
A Central American species of this genus is G. fuscus [Stenodaclylus
Hallowell. (Ji/mnodactyhis scajn/Iati/f: Dumeril. The G. tenuis of Hallowell is
a Eublepharis Gray, from the Philippine Is.) G. gillii Cope, (1. c. 18G3,
102) is G. vittatus Licht. von Martens Nomeucl. Mus. Berlin. Was the
latter ever properly published ?
Thecadactylus rapicadda Gray, Houttouyn.
From the Xapo and Maranon. Identical with specimens from Yucatan and
St. Thomas, W. I.
riEURODONTA.
Igu.ana tdbercdlata Laur.
One sp. (No. G645) from Napo or Upper Maranon.
Basiliscus mitratus Dum6ril. Ptmosaura seemannii, Gray.
Near Guaj-aquil.
Hypsiisates agamoides Weigmann.
Napo and Maranon.
LiocEPHALus iRiDESCENS Giinther, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond. 1859, icon optima !
Specimens from the Plateau of tlic Andes, near Quito, No. 6710, and from
near Guayaquil.
MiCROLOPHCs PERUviANus, Girard.
Paita, Peru.
Anohs viridiaeneus Peters, Monatsberichte Preuss. Ac. Wiss. Berlin, 1863,
147,
From Napo or Upper Maranon.
Anolis ortonii Cope, sp. nov.
Of the same group as the last, that is, with smooth abdominal scales, and
the median series of caudal scales not larger than the lateral ; the tail is,
however, only partially preserved, and as it is somewhat compressed the char-
acter of the vertebral scales may have been different in tlie lost portion.
Muzzle convex, wider than long, (measuring at anterior angle orbit,) covered
with scales of different sizes. Occiput small, separated by several rows from
superciliaries. Scales between tlie facial rugaj hexagonal, smooth, in four
longitudinal rows, a little smaller than the plates of the ruga which extend to
the central row. Dorsal and lateral scales granular, nearly equal, and smaller
than the rounded ventrals. Brachial scales a little larger, weakly keeled, anti-
brachials much larger, keeled. Labials 8 — 8, the two posterior very small ;
loreal rows six. Frontal cavity distinct ; superciliaries separated by one row
scales. Sides of muzzle M'ith longitudinal, smaller, weakly keeled scales.
Auricular meatus two-fifths length eye fissure. Infralabials longitudinal
smooth, in two or three rows. Supraorbital disc of some seven broad smooth
plates, separated from superciliaries by a row of granular scales. Gular fan
large.
When the limbs are extended the end of the metacarpal reaches end of
muzzle, and the longest toe nearly reaches the orbit. The digital dilatations
are well developed.
Top of head, nape, a rather narrow dorsal region and upper surfaces of
limbs Ijlackish coppery ; sides and below golden, fan deep saffron yellow.
1868.]
