98 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
Lines.
Length from end of muzzle to vent 216
" " " " axilla 9-1
" " " " ear 5-5
Greatest width head 36
From Nape or Upper Maranon.
This handsome lizard differs from A. veridiaeneus Pet. in the shorter
muzzle with larger plates and fewer large labials, and in the shorter limbs, as
well as in coloration. I take pleasure in dedicating this species to Prof. Jas.
Orton, of Williams College, to whom Science is indebted for this and other
species of much interest included in the present essay.
DiPLOGLOssus MONOTROPis Wcigmaun, Peters. Camilia jamaiceiisis Gray, Catal.
Liz. Brit. Mus. 118.
This large scink is not an inhabitant of Jamaica, as given by Dr. Gray, but
of Equador, as given by Prof. Peters in Mus. Berlin. I cannot think it right
that the species should bear the name erroneously given, and accordingly
adopt Weigmann's as above.
One sp. (No. 669 1) from Guayaquil.
Centropyx pelviceps Cope, sp. nov.
This species bears much resemblance in structure and coloration to the
Monoplocus d o rsa 1 i s Giinther, and would seem to be a mimetic represen-
tative in an allied genus. The presence of femoral pores in both sexes sepa-
rates it generically, and the three additional series of abdominal plates is a
marked specific feature.
Dorsal scales small, hexagonal, keeled, graduating into the smaller lateral ;
abdominals large, keeled and mucronate. in fourteen rows; preanals smooth, of
equal size (except a marginal row of small ones) in three oblique series.
Spurs large, appressed, two on each side. Caudal scales large, strongly keeled.
Large scales on top of foot, tibia below, femur in front and below, fore arm
above, humerus above and behind. Collar of a row of large mucronate scales,
with three smaller series anterior. Middle gular region with scales little larger
than the lateral. Nineteen pores on each femur.
The head slightly compressed, elevated, the superciliary ridges bounding a
median concavity and continued back into a strong ridge which follows the
margin of the occipital plates and encloses the plates of the parietal region in
a deep basin. This margin is cordate behind. In younger specimens this
elevation is not prominent, and is entirely absent from specimens of length of
(head and bod}') two inches and less. Rostral shield nearly prolonged back
to internasal ; the latter broad as long, with straight lateral margins. Fronto-
nasals in extensive contact. Frontal longer than broad, undivided, angulate
before and behind. Frontoparietals elongate ; interparietal wider than parie-
tals, surrounded by the latter and occipitals, which form a regular disc, emar-
ginate behind and extending nearly to the zj-gomatic angles. Nuchal scales
granular. Nostril on naso-frenal suture. Two frenals, the anterior much the
larger, the posterior not extending above the three or more small preoculars.
Suboculars two or (divided) three. Superior labials six, inferior five. A
symphyseal, a postmental, and on each side three large and two small infrala-
bials, the anterior pair separated by a row of granules. Molar teeth tricuspid,
the lateral cusps nearly as long as the median, but much narrower. Premaxil-
laries eight. Toes long, claws curved ; outer toe markedly longer than inner.
Color in spirits bluish green, with a pale dorsal band from the nape to
beyond the middle of the back ; this is bounded on each side by a heavy black
band of the same length, which sends in short branches nearly meeting simi-
lar ones from the other. In younger specimens the light dorsal band is brighter
and extends from the tip of the muzzle ; it is more frequently crossed by
black bars. In these short black bars descend on the sides, and cross the
upper surface of the tail. Yellowish olive below in all.
[March,
