NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101
extensively in contact, tlie posterior smaller and separated from temporals by
four narrow plates, and from each other by fonr plates. The median pair of
the latter are the larger and join the anterior pair of infralabials. A groove
surrounds the throat behind the jaws, which is succeeded by five annuli of
equal ovate scales. These are followed by a cross series of six more elongate,
which precede a pair of large sternal plates extending between fore limbs.
Abdominal scales differeat from the dorsal, truncate, not hexagonal, in six
series. Dorsals in fourteen longitudinal, thiity-seven transverse rows between
nxilla and groin. Three elongate parallel anal plates ; a series of seven small
quadrate scales behind vent, each with a pore in the centre. Caudal scales
below, angulate like dorsal.
Hind limbs style-like, minute, half as long as anal plates. Fore limbs as
long as three anterior labials, consisting of humerus, forearm and carpus, but
no digits ; three termiual tubercles are probably metacarpal. Tail very long,
subquadrate in section; the portion preserved, though nearly as long as the
body, presents no diminution of diameter ; the general form is probably snake-
like, as in Ophiosaurus.
lu. Lin.
Length head to rictus oris 2-25
" " to gular fold 3-75
" " to axilla G-5
" " to groin 2 5
" " to vent 2 6 25
\Yidth head at angle mandible 2
Color: below brown; sides with a brown blackish band, which is bounded
above by a rather narrow yellow band which commences on the superciliary
region. Dorsal region between the latter yellowish gray, bounded exteriorly
by a distinct blackish line, and divided medially by an indistinct blackish line.
The colors of the tail are similar. Head brownish, paler below.
This species presents several points of resemblance to the Chalcides d o r-
bignyi Dum. Bibr. The specific differences, apart from the generic, may be
readily observed on comparing the descriptions. This is no doubt a sluggish
animal, and moves ranch in the manner of a snake. It is the most snake-like
of the Chalcididffi, approacliing somewhat the Amphisba^nia.
One spec, No. 6G37, from the Napo or Upper MaraQon.
AMPHISBJENIA.
Amphisb.kxa fcliginosa Linn. A. amcricana Sclireber, Gray.
Napo and Marauon.
OPHIDIA.
SCOL ECOPHIDIA.
Typhlops reticclatus Linn.
Napo and Maranon.
A&INEA.
Trachyboa gularis Peters, Monatsberichte Acad. Berlin, 18 , p. Emj'jrus^
Jan.
The character of the rostral shield appears to separate this genus from Eny-
grus, as Peters observes; the cranium is quite similar to that of Ungualia Gray.
From Guayaquil (No. 6G83.)
Boa constrictor Linn.
The loreal plate larger than the preocular ; two rows scales between orbit
and labials. No vertical or loreal brown band.
Guaj^aquil.
XiPHOsoMA HORTCLANUM Waglfcr. Boa Linn.
From Napo or Upper Amazon. (6679.)
NiNiA ATRATA Cope. Coluher almtiis Hallowell, Strcpto2)horus drozii Dum. Bibr.
Elevated valley of Quito.
1868.
