102 "PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
Rhabdosoma microrhynchum Cope, sp. nov.
Seventeen series of scales ; supralabials seven, the first very small, the third
and fourth entering the orbit. Prenasal larger, very nearly reaching lip. Pre-
frontals very small, equal postnasal, cue-sixth the size of postfroutals. Latter
longer than broad. Rostral contracted above by approach of prenasals. Lo-
real very long. No preocular, on one side two, on the other one postocular.
Last upper labial longer than high. Urst pair of labials united; two pair only
in contact with genials. Frontal subtriangular ; occipitals elongate. Tempo-
rals 1 — 2. Total length 4 in. 7-5 lin. ; tail 8 lin.
Coloration like that of a Tantilla. Above dark brown, beneath pale brown,
with a faint line along the margins of the gastrosteges. Top of head blackish,
brown behind ; a partially complete yellow collar, which widens at the angle
of the jaws. A deep brown band from eye to angle of mouth ; upper labials
yellow brown edged.
Tail slender acute.
ISo. G6'J3, from Guayaquil. Nearest the R. b a d i u m D. B.
Tantilla melanocephala. Calamaria Schl., Homalocranimn D. B.
Two specimens, the longest measuring 17 inches. In both the postfrontals
and labials are in contact, as in our other specimens, and as given in a synop-
sis of the genus (Proc. Acad. 18G1, 74,) and not separated by postnasal and
preocular in contact, as given in Jan's Jconographie. ^
From the valley of Quito.
Opheomohphcs typhlhs Cope, Proc. A. N. Sc. 1862. Coluber ci Xenodon typhlus
auctorum.
From Maranon or Napo.
Opheomorphus alticolus Cope, spec. nov.
Scales in seventeen rows, all rather broad. General form typical, head dis-
tinct, plane. Rostral plate flat, very broad, advancing by its whole posterior
convex margin on the internasals. Latter broader than long. Frontal with
straight, nearly parallel sides, not encroaching on the superciliaries in front;
front margin not quite equilateral. Occipitals a little narrowed and divaricate
behind. Nasals narrow, postnasal longer than high ; loreal very small, quad-
rate, on one side confluent with postnasal, and not encroaching on the single
preocular. The latter is therefore wide ; it just appears on the upper plane.
One large postocular, the place of a small inferior is occupied by the angle of
the large sixth upper labial.
Superior labials eight, seventh higher than long, fourth and fifth and scarce-
ly the third entering orbit. Temporals ^, the anterior only enlarged. In-
ferior labials ten, six in contact with the genials ; the pairs of the latter about
equal.
Total length 24 in. 6 lin. ; length of tail 5 in. 2 lin. ; of gape of mouth 9 lin.
Above green ; lower surfaces with lips, and lower part of rostral plate, yel-
low, separated from nostril to rictus oris from the green by a black band. A
black line commences about the length of the tail in advance of the vent, on
the suture of the third and fourth rows of scales, and extends to the end of the
tail on each side.
From the elevated valley of Quito. No.
Since its establishment by the author, in 1862, this genus has received
several additions. The species known are as follows :
0. cobella L. 0. breviceps Cope. 0. doliatus Neuwied. 0.
m e r r e m i i Neuwied. 0. alticolus Cope. O. typhlus Linn. 0. vi-
ridis {Liophis viridis Giinther, Ann. Mag. N. H. 1862). 0. dorsal is Peters,
{Liophisd., Monatsberichte Ac. Wiss. Preuss. 1863, 283).
Liophis regin^ Linn., Wagler. Coronella Schl.
From Napo and Amazon.
Liophis almadensis. Notrix a/marfa Wagl. Liophis iv a gleri Sa.n.
The adult; the specimen figured by Wagler and Spix appears to be young.
Napo and Maranon.
[March,
