NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103
LloPHis PYGM^EUs Cope, sp.fnov,
Tbis species is much the smallest of its genus; in size and appearance it is
like a burrowing snake of the Calamarinae, but its dentition, squamation,
pores, and even style of coloration, are those of this genus. It is undoubtedly
adult or nearly so.
Head slightly distinct, ovate, narrowed in front, muzzle slightly prominent.
Rostral plate much broader than long, just visible from above. Internasals
broader than long. Frontal large, elongate, longer than muzzle in advance of
it, sides straight; superciliaries rather narrow. Occipitals elongate, including
a notch behind, each bounded by two large teni[)orald and Ij small scales.
Postnasal lower than prenasal, loreal still lower, subquadrate encroaching on
the preocular. Latter scarcely visible from above. Fostocnlars two, inferior
half superior, both in contact With temporal. Upper temporal bounded by
three scales, anterior larger, joining last labial. Superior labials seven, third
and fourth entering orbit, sixth largest. Inferior labials eight, five in contact
with genials. Latter, pairs equal.
Scales in seventeen rows, uniporous, those of the first larger.
Total length 7 in. 2 1. ; tail 1 in. 1-5 lin. ; that is 6'3 in the whole. Thus
this portion is shorter than in the genus generally ; it is quite stout. Gastro-
steges 12'8, anal 1 | 1, urosteges 31.
Above deep olive, leaden on the sides and the ends of the scuta. Below
uniform yellow. A black line from orbit to anterior lower angle of last labial.
A broad black collar which encroaches on the occipitals, which is directed
backwards and does not reach the gastrosteges. Continuous with the ex-
tremity of this, on the second, third and fourth rows of scales is a series of
small black spots se[)arated by intervals of from three to two rows ; near the
middle of the length these join and form a black band, which extends to the
end of the tail. The median dorsal region becomes darker, and on the pos-
terior fourth forms an indistinct band. Where the epidermis is lost and the
skin is stretched the scales are white-edged. Top of head darker brown than
sides. Lips not margined.
One specimen, 6,668, from Napo or neighboring pt. of Maranon.
Dromicus LATEKISTRIGA? Z(o/?/»« /(/<(Ti3/r/^a Berthold, Jau's Icouographie des
Ophidiens.
The individuals in the collection differ from Jan's figure in a less distinct
lateral stripe, and presence of occipital cross-band. It is not probably distinct.
A description is, however, added :
Body cylindric, head flat, muzzle short. Scales in seventeen rows. Supe-
rior labials eight, fourth and fifth margining orbit, second to sixth inclusive,
higher than long. Loreal higher than long; nasals nearly equal ; one large,
one small inferior preocular ; the superior sometimes divided. Postoculars
two, both in contact with the only elongate temporal. The latter is followed
by two rhombic temporals, the first one above the seventh and eighth labials ;
and two scales on margin of occipital. Occipitals narrowed behind, as long
as width between outer margins of superciliaries behind. Frontal, anterior
and superciliary borders equal ; prefrontals broader than long, rostral scarcely
visible from above, much broader than high. Length of muzzle from opposite
anterior margin eye, equal width frontal and one superciliary shield in front.
Inferior laliials eight, fifth largest, seventh next. Posterior genials equal an-
terior. Gastrosteges 155 ; anal 1 | 1 ; urosteges 69-}- ; tail probably one-
third or more lost.
Color above, a rich dark brown, the sides of the head darker; an irregular
yellow band passes across the middle of the superior labials and passes round
the nape on the fifth row scales behind the o<'cipital plates and jc>ins its fellow.
A yellowish band passes along the outer margins of the two pairs of frontals, the
superciliaries and the anterior third of the occipitals, interrupted at each suture.
The dark of the upper surface extends on the gastrosteges, and is traversed
for a considerable part of the length, and by a faint line forward, by a streak
1868.]
