NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105
Anterior touching both postoctilars. Labials 8—10; the upper with fourth
and fifth entering orbit, chiefly the fourth, which is longer than fifth. All
longer than high, the seventh largest, longer above than on labial border.
Genials long, anterior longer than posterior. Frontal elongate with nearly
parallel and slightly concave sides; occipitals moderate, narrowed behind.
Scales in seventeen rows, all of nearly equal size and rather broad.
Total length 8 in. 4 lin. ; of tail 1 in. 6 1.; of gape 5-35 lines. The tail is
thus as short as in Opheomorphus. Eyes rather small. Internasals about as
wide as long. Gastrosteges 157 ; anals 1 | 1 ; urosteges 57.
Upper surface of head and body dark-brown, which is bordered, except just
behind the head, by a series of small round brown spots on each side, which
become a band on the posterior fourth. Below this and ground of belly yel-
low, which is prolonged as a band along upper labials to rostral, leaving a
black labial margin. Belly with black cross-bars and halves, more sparse
posteriorly, confluent anteriorly on the fourth of the length ; this is here and
there spotted with yellow.
From the Napo or Maranon. No. 66G5. This single specimen is probably
not fully grown.
Masticophis pulchriceps Cope. sp. nov.
This species is described from a specimen twenty-one inches long, and not
probably adult. The coloration of the dorsal region has considerable resem-
blance to that of the young of M. r a p p i i Gthr.
Ratlier slender, the head quite distinct, rather short, somewhat flattened and
with broad muzzle. Tail 3-6 times in the total length. Superior labials eight, the
anterior short, the two posterior elongate, the third, fourth and fifth in contact
with the eye, the fifth and sixth elevated. Orbitals one — two ; the loreal
higher than long ; temporals 2 | 2 on each side, the upper anterior the small-
est. Internasals broader than long, rostral prominent, scarcely visible from
above. Frontal little concave laterally, least width little less than -5 length
and equal greatest width the superciliaries. Greatest length occipitals ex-
ceeds same of frontal ; they are truncate behind, and with straight outer mar-
gins. Inferior labials ten ; pregenials much shorter than postgenials.
Scales of body smooth, in seventeen rows, second as large as the others.
Gastrosteges 170, anal 1 | 1, urosteges 100.
Ground color above and below dark-blue gray, which is largely obscured in
the following manner A series of quadrate black spots extends from nape to
near end of tail, alternating with a lateral series of the same, without line of
demarkation between. Each spot is separated from the next by a cross-bar of
ground color, in which all the scales are white-edged. These bars are pro-
longed on the gastrosteges, and their extremities fall into a line of yellow spots
on a blackish band, which extend on each side to vent. The cross-bars are
only one scale wide. A black nuchal cresent, which extends as a band on
each side through orbit round end of muzzle. This sends a bar to the edge of
the lip at the orbit and angle of mouth, which connect on the lip. Gular
region black with numerous yellow spots. Top of head dark brown, with
numerous paler brown marks within the margin of each scale.
One sp. (G704) from the plateau valley of Quito.
Masticophis brunneus. Hcrpeiodryas brunneus Giinther, Catal. 11 G. Drymo-
bim Cope, Pr. A. N. Sci. 1860.
Two sp. (6705), one from Guayaquil and one from valley plateau of Quito.
Both belong to a variety with an indistinct series of small dark spots on each
side of the vertebral line, forming an incomplete longitudinal streak.
Herpktodrws carinatus Boie, Linn.
Valley of Quito; Guayaquil; Napo and Maranon, 6706, 6682, 6G61, the last
all of the var. fuscus.
Spilotes piceus Cope, sp. nov.
This species exhibits the isodont dentition and entire anal plate of Spilotes,
1868.] 8
