NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill
Inches.
Total length 60-7
Length of rictus oris 1-75
Length of tail V-5
Width between outer margins superciliary plates... 0-7
From Pallatanga, Equador. Two specimens.
BATRACHIA.
ANURA.
ARCIFERA.
C1NCLIDIU.M GRANULATUM Cope, Journ. Acad. J\at. ?ci., 1867, 202.
Length body and hind limb together 8-5 inches. One specimen. No. 6659.
From the Napo or Upper Amazon.
Hyla marmorata Daudin, Dum. Bibr.
This species is quite distinct from that described and figured under this
name by Burmeister.* The latter being without name may be called H. seni-
c ul a.
I append a description of the fresh coloration of this species, which does
not appear to have been recorded.
Ground color above gray, with two large blackish blotches which extend
backwards on the sides, one from the iliac, and one at the axillar regions.
These are confluent on the middle line of the back, leaving only the scapular
regions and insignificant spots of the ground, which is more or less replaced
by bay. The last color forms a V-shaped figure with broad black border,
whose limbs reach the orbits and enclose a pink gray space which is bounded
in front by a black interorbital cross-band. Top of muzzle light bay. Gular
region pale, with dark gray speckles. Belly and femora, except a narrow band
above, with basal part of humerus, yellow black spotted ; the spots smaller and
thicker on the belly. Upper surfaces of limbs dark gray with rufous shades,
cross-})arred with darker. End of humerus and femur, fore arm and band
with tibia and whole foot black below ; the distal halves of the webs yellow.
Dermal margin of ulna and tibia white.
From the Rio fVapo or Upper Amazon below its mouth. Eleven specimens.
This species is strikingly different from others of this genus, in the great ex-
tent of its webs, and the singular coloration. It appears to be abundant in the
region named. No. 6649.
Hyla leucophyllata Beireis. II. frontalis Daud.
A variety in which the brown dorsal patch does not bifurcate to the lateral
band, and the muzzle is rather more elongate.
Napo and Upper Maranon. No. 6650.
Hylella carnea Cope, sp. nov.
This is a small species with a broad rounded head, and slender body and
limbs. The canthus rostralis is moderately distinct, and the tympanum indis-
tinct and small, and surmounted by a fold. Eyes large and jirominent, diam-
eter -25 greater than length of muzzle in advance of them. Nostrils terminal,
end of muzzle vertical. Tongue round, -25 free behind. Ostia pharyngea equal
inner nares. Fingers -33 webbed, and with dermal margins; dilatations of
moderate size. Skin of bony above smooth.
The exterior coloration does not appear on the femur, which is unicolor
behind, and onl}^ as a faint line on humerus. This pigment is light rose yellow ;
three narrow bands across tibia, two across fore arm. A broad blood-red band
between the eyes, each extremity sending a blood-red band on each side the
back to the vent, with a connecting spot of the same on the coccyx. A deep
* In Erlaut. z. Niiturg. Braziliens.
1868.]
