112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
red band from scapular region to end of muzzle ; and line below the eye.
Below uniform whitish.
Lin. Lin.
Length head and body 9 Width head 3
" hind limb 14 Length gape 2
" hind foot 6
From tlie Napo or Upper Maranon, (6728.)
The third species of this little known genus.
PlTHECOPDS TOMOPTEKNUS Cope, Sp. DOV.
Tliis genus with Agalychnis Cope, and Phyllomedusa, embrace the most
brilliantly colored of tropical Batrachians. Their characters were first pointed
out by the writer in Journal Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1806. The species of Pitheco-
pus Cope, are now four, two having been added by the William's College Ex-
pedition ; tliej' may be distinguished as follows :
I. Parotoid stratum of crypts not visible externally; no external surface pig-
ment on humerus.
*. A yellow band round upper lip to middle of sides ; pigment of fore arm
extending on two outer fingers ; dilatations small ; second toe shorter
than inner.
No dermal processes on heel; lower eyelid transparent; no vomerine
teetli ; concealed portions of limbs and sides with vertical brown bands ;
small „ P. AZURKUS Cope.
No dermal processes on heel ; lower eyelid reticulate ; vomerine teeth ; con-
cealed surfaces of limbs with vertical brown bands; fewer of the same on
sides, and brown spots behind axilla; small. ..P. hypochodnrialis Daudin.
aa. No yellow band on upper or lower lip or side ; external pigment not
extending on outer fingers ; dilatations large, second toe longer than
inner.
Lower eyelid reticulate ; vomerine teeth ; tM'o angular dermal heel pro-
cesses, together having a truncate posterior outline ; concealed surfaces
brilliant yellow, with broad vertical purple bars ; size larger —
P. TOMOPTERNUS Cope.
n. Parotoid stratum of crypts distinct, extending from orbit to sacrum ;
humerus covered with the external pigment.
*. No yellow band on upper lip, an imperfect one on side ; outer fingers
and toes covered with the external pigment; dilatations large, second
toe shorter than inner.
No dermal processes ; lower eyelid not reticulate ; vomerine teeth present ;
green, upper arm with a yellow band ; concealed surfaces of limbs with
purple clouds; below purplish ; large P. tarsius Cope.
P. tomopternus has much the coloration of Agalychnis sp., and the
whole form a series leading from Hyla to Phyllomedusa* The P. tarsius ap-
* One species of this genus has been long known, but has been confounded by modern
authors with the longest known species of the genus Pithecopus. A second species is
here added.
Inner toes equal; dilatations large ; sides little, limbs unspotted; skin
with stellate bony deposits scleroderma.
.Second toe shorter tiian first; dilatations small ; sides, throat and limbs
largely yellow-spotted; skin smooth bieolor.
P. SCLERODERMA Sp. HOV.
One of the largest of the Hylid®, measuring from end of muzzle to vent 4 in. 1-5 lines,
same to posterior border tympanum 1 in. 34 I.; between parotoids and scapula. 1 in. 65 1.
Axilla to carpus 1 in. 11-6 1.' Carpus to end of third finger 1 in. 2-5 1. Femur and tibia 3 in.
0-6 1.; tarsus 1 in. 3 1.; tarsus to end fourth toe 1 in. 4-6 1.
The general form is much that of P. bi eo 1 or, but the toes are longer and provided
with larger dilatations; the under face of the tarsus, and the skin generally, are devoid of
dermal tubercles. The integument of the whole upper surface of the head and body is
studded with aggregations of osseous radii, which surround, more or less, numerous
[March,
