NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113
proaches the last named genus most closel}-, and equals them in size. Of the
P. azure us I have seen three specimens from Brazil, two from the upper
Paraguay, and one from Pernambuco ; of the P. hypochondrialis one
specimen from Dutch Guiana.
The P. t o m o p t e r n u s is of elongate form ; width of head 3-3 times from
end of muzzle to end coccyx. Loreal region elevateil, plane, canthus rostralis
contracted, muzzle not quite vertical in profile. Tympanum one-third the
large eye. Vomerine in two small fascicles opposite the anterior part of inner
nares, as far apart as each is from the choana. Inner nares very large, rather
larger than ostia of eustachian tube. The elbow reaches end of muzzle, the
heel to front of orbit. A dermal fold on lower arm, strong on elbow ; a weak
one on tarsus, terminating above in two heel processes, one projecting inwards
and one outwards. All the fingers and toes entirely free, thumb ojjposable,
fourth finger considerably longer than second. Longest toe the fourth, then
5, 3, 2, 1. Palm and sole with strong tubercles.
The colors are very brilliant ; above green, below with hands and feet yel-
low ; outer fingers and toes bound with jjurple, like the concealed surfaces.
One specimen has an exceedingly narrow yellow margin to the uj)per lip. No
tjrown margin inside lower lip.
Lines.
Total length head and body 23-
Length to posterior margin tympanum (axial) 6-1
'• fore limb 15*6
" band 5-6
" hind limb from groin 32-6
" tarsus "''"t^
" metatarsus and longest toe T-
Two specimens of this tree-frog are in the collection from the Rio Napo, or
Upper Amazon, below the mouth of the former. They are males and have the
corneous thumb shield of the breeding season. No. 6651, Mus. Smiths.
PiTHECOPDS TARSIUS Cope, Sp. HOV.
Form slender ; width of head at jaws, enters from end nose to vent, 3-5
times. Loreal region elevated, with the canthus concave ; upper lip project-
ing beyond muzzle. Diameter of eye three times tympanum. Tongue elon-
gate, largely free and openly marginate behind, narrowed in front. Vomerine
teeth in two transverse fasciculi, which are equi- distant from each other and the
anterior margin of the large internal nares. Ostia large and less than nares.
Skin everywhere granular, perhaps more properly glandular, those of the
sides largest. Areola; verj' large and flat on the pectoral region ; a series of
larger glandulous areolre on each thigh below. No distinct dermal margin on
forearm or tarsus. Digital dilatations of hand largest, larger than the tym-
panic disc ; that of the thumb smaller. Elbow to opposite nares ; heel to front
of orbit. Second toe much shorter than first, third less than fifth.
Color everywhere green, shaded with purple on gular and thoracic regions ;
also along sides and on under surfaces of thumbs. Femur green, except below,
two external digits of the same color. An irregular yellow band on side from
central points. These do not penetrate through the derm, which is thick, and entirely free
from the skeleton in every part. Muzzle elevated, loreal region straight, canthus rostra-
lis strong, concave. Male with vocal vesicle. Tympanum one-half of orbit; inferior pal-
pebra medially transparent, dermoid at the circumterence. Vomerine fasciculi oblique
between nares as near the latter as each otiier. Minute areolations on postcrinr gular
region. Tongue small. Elbow extends to end of muzzle; hand and longest tiugir ciiual
forearm. Heel to orbit; sole and longest toe exceeding tarsus; cuneiform tubercle
minute; base of thumb broad, with a flattened tubercle.
Blue-green with faint light margin to posterior parts of upper and lower lips, and one
series of very narrow longitudinallateral spots. Limbs blue above, except the pale brown
spotted upper arm; antebrachium and tarsus yellow margined; femora uniform pale blue
behind. Below uniform pale.
//«6i/j<.— Surinam, Heriny, Mus. Academy Nat. Sciences. Burmeisfer suspects the spe-
eies of the Amazon to be that found in Surinam, and different trom the P. b i c o 1 o r.
1868.]
