114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
angle of mouth and margin of mandible. Two isolated yellow spots on breast,
and one on each side the vent below.
In. Lin.
Length head and body 3 9''25
" head, axially, to line tympanum 1
" fore limb 2 8-
" hand.. 1
" hind limb from groin 5 3-
" tarsus 1 415
" remainder of foot • 1 2-25
This tree-frog, it is to be observed, exceeds the Phyllomedusa bicolor in
size. One male with the file-like corneous plates on the metatarsus of the
thumb is in the collection, from the same locality as the last. No. 6652, Mus.
Smithsonian.
Hemiphractus divaricatus Cope, sp. nov.
A single specimen of this species has afforded the first opportunity of inves-
tigating the structure of this genus. The result convinces me of the propriety
of recognizing in it a peculiar family as Peters has done, and confirming en-
tirely the position I assigned it in the essay on genera of Arcifera.* The form
of the distal phalanges is a compromise between that of many aquatic frogs
aud that of the Hylidte, the proximal globe being not recognizable, and much
flattened. Its structure is different from that of Hylodes, though- it does not
probably inhabit trees any more than that genus, or Chorophilus and Acris
among true Hylidas.
The coracoid and epicoracoid are much less divergent than in other families,
and the arched cartilages are very wide, overlapping more extensively than in
any genus I am acquainted with.
The H. d i V a r i c a t u s is nearer the H. scutatus than to the H. fascia-
tu s. It differs from the latter chiefly in the form and proportions of the hel-
met; this is shorter and broader, with more divergent outlines, and is plane
and flat behind, and not so convex ; it lacks the recurved margin represented
by Peters. In profile the upper margin of the mouth is straight, not curved,
and the eye is median, not anterior. Other ditterences are that the anterior
vomerine tooth, or teeth, are abruptly longer than the others, and the throat is
l)lackish, with a broad yellow median band. There are transverse rows of
tubercles on the sides of the belly.
Interorbital width about one-third expanse of supratympanic ridges ; from
end muzzle to interorbital point 1-5 times from latter to concavity of posterior
margin helmet. From bony orbit to tympanum equal from latter to angle of
helmet.
Orbital fissure •'75 long (vertical), diameter membranum tympani, which
latter is double width of same. Margin of helmet behind, medially slightly
elevated. Muzzle flat with a short terminal dermal process ; eyelids with a
marginal prolongation. Head slightly granular above; body smooth above;
oblique rows of tubercles on forearm. Belly closely, throat sparsely, granular.
Both fingers and toes with rudimental web~. A large palmar tubercle ; two
indistinct metatarsal tubercles, the inner elongate. A fold along tarsus and
outer toe; slight dermal margins on all the toes. A similar fold on forearm
and outer finger, and on the other fingers.
In. Lin.
Length head and body to vent 2 2-
" of casque on mediad line ; least 10-5
" " " " » greatest 13-25
" hind limb 2 11-5
" foot 1 4-5
" tarsus 7-
* Journal Academy, 1866.
[March,
