116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP
Cranium with the curved orbital margiu elevated into a ridge, and con-
tinued into a strong suiiratympanic ridge ; a short preorhital ridge, no postor-
bital. Parotoid gland divergent towards the sides, elongate triangular nar-
row, continued into a lateral dermal fold. Two metatarsal tubercles, both
small; a smooth-edged tarsal fold. Tympanum distinct, less than half diame-
ter of eye. A trace of a parietal branch ridge on cranium. Canthus rostralis
very strong, concave short. Muzzle elevated, profile vertical, not as long, in
a straight line, as the long diameter of eye fissure. Nostril terminal. Greatest
width of head 2 6 times in length head and body ; length foot without tarsus
2-75 in same. Hind foot, outer toes with last phalanges only free ; 3i of medi-
an free. Heel to hinder edge orbit. Skin covered with small round tubercles
above. Palms and soles rough, and limbs generally, metacarpus with two
strong tubercles. Half the femur included in the skin of the body.
Gray above, with small paired dark-brown spot on each side the median
line ; these are more or less confluent, and have a few smaller spots external
to them. Sides below lateral fold brown-marbled. Lip with two brown spots
on each side, a large brown spot on each side tympanum. A brown band
across eyelid and verter. Pale below, with brown blotches on breast and
belly.
Lin. Lin.
Length head and body 19-5 Length tarsus 45
" " includ. tympanum... 5-4 " long toe 7-5
" tibia 7-4 " hind limb 23-
Several specimens (Xo. 6712) from the valley of Quito. Originally brought
from Carthagena, New Greuada. (No. 4350 Mus Smithsonian.)
This species is nearest the B. a g u a. It differs in its very much smaller
size, being one-eighth or tenth the bulk of the latter, in its relatively smaller
and narrower parotoid glands, and in its pincheil, narrow, angulate muzzle.
It is also near the B. d i p t y c h u s Cope, a still smaller species. In the latter
the toes are much less palmate, the muzzle longer and the parotoids broader.
Bdfo agua Daud. B. marinus Schneider.
From the Napo and Upper Amazon.
RAXIFORMFA.
Atelopus longirostris Cope, sp. nov.
The muzzle prolonged, the ethmoid cartilage overhanging the labial border,
and forming an acute-angled prominence. The muzzle a little longer than
the long diameter of the eye ball ; nostril just behind a lateral projection
formed by the extremity of the prefrontal. Canthus nostralis a right angle,
lores nearly plane, upper profile entirely plane, transversely a little
concave in front of the orbits. Greatest width of head behind nearly
one-third length from end muzzle to end coccyx. Extended backwards
the fore limb extends beyond the vent ; forward the hind limb meas-
ures to the front of the orbit with the heel. Toes about half webbed,
the inner quite rudimental ; fingers slightly webbed, the inner short.
Skin above and below entirely smooth, .a line of granular elevations
along the side. A faint tarsal fold; metatarsal tubercles not developed. Ostia
of eustachian tubes, each half an inner nostril ; latter small lateral. Tongue
narrow, elongate. One large round metacarpal tubercle. Total length 10-6
lines. From nostril to posterior extremity supratympanic ridge 3-3 lines.
Total length fore limb 6-6 lines; of hind do. 13-1 lines ; foot 6 lines; tarsus 3-5
lines ; extent of sacrum 3 lines.
Above black ; under surfaces and upper lip yellow. A greenish spot on each
scapular region, and two or three pairs of the same on each side the vertebral
line. Femur behind yellow, with a proximal longitudinal, and two distal
transverse black bands. All the toes blackish, thumb yellow.
From the valley of Quito.
[March,
