NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117
This species i? in general appearance somewhat similar to the A. var i u s,
from Central America, but that has a relativtly longer body and shorter limbs
and head, and lacks the singular nasal appenuuge. In this species the clavi-
cles and coracoids are considerably more divergent. It constitutes among
Atelopodes, an approximation to Rhinoderma.
In the writer's examination of the Families of Raniform Anura* the genera
Atelopus and Phrynidium were accidentally retained as distinct, as was done
by Giinther, the fact having been lost sight of while correcting the proofs that
Peters had shown them to be identical in the structure of the auditory appa-
ratus. I do not think it probable that they should be retained as distinct on
account of the remarkable difference in the degree of ossification of the
ethmoid, which I have there pointed out.
Tlie structure of the sternum in Atelopus longirostris throws much
light on that of the genus Hemisus, discussed in the essay above quoted. The
latter genus ought probably to have been compared with Phryniscidre rather
than Engystoumidffi. I have already shownf that the clavical and coracoid
are not in contact in Atelopus, but are connected by a simple longititudinal
cartilage. This is the structure in all the Phryniscidfe I have examined, and is
quite different from the truly Raniform character of the Dendrobatida and
Colostelthidie. This elongation of the confluent epicoracoid cartilages — for
such is its homology — reaches its greatest extent in the family, in Ate-
lopus longirostris, making a distant approach to what is probably
the condition in Hemisus. The anterior transverse element of the latter genu3
is therefore probably rather clavicle than coracoid, as suggested above.
Atelopus l^evis Cope. Phrynicus Ixvis Gthr. Catal. B. M.
From the valley of Quito.
Ranula affinis ? Rana affinis Peters, Monatsberichte, Berlin Acad.
This may be Peter's species, though the latter is so briefly described that it is
not readily identified. Having examined the type in Berlin, I am not prepared
to agree with its learned describer that it is a climatal variety of Rana tem-
po r a r i a.
Dr. Steindachner recognizes this genus, :]; but renames it Poklia, and gives
it a character of cartilaginous "Stirnbeine" in front, rather than cartilaginous
ethmoid.
The genus Ranula turns out to have simple terminal phalanges as in Rana,
therefore three of the species formerly assigned to it by me, which have T-
shaped phalanges must be regarded as belonging to another and unnamed,
genus. This 1 call Trvpheropsis and refer to T. c h r y s o p r a s i n u s m. as
the type. It represents the Hylarana of the Old World, and bears the same
relation to Ranula that the former does to Rana.
Size and form that of Rana c 1 amita n s, but with small merabranura tym-
pani — equal to orbit, and 1-5 length of muzzle. Toes palmate to near end of
last phalange, to basis of the same of longest toe. Head plane above,
fronto-parietals broad without posterior crests, equal between orbits the
length of ethmoid cartilage. Canthus rostralis sharp, loreal region concave ;
muzzle truncate in profile. Prefrontal bones three times as long as wide.
Vomerine teeth in two small fasciculi, exactly between inner nares, nearer to
each other than to the latter. Nares considerably less than ostia pharyngea.
Outer nostrils half as far from end of muzzle as from orbit. Skin everywhere
smooth, except a few minute granulations on posterior pelvic region. Fingers
elongate, the inner longer than the second, all with a narrow dermal margin.
When extended, the bases of the metacarpals mark the end of the muzzle.
The hind limbs extended, nearly measure to the end of the muzzle with the
heel.
1868.]
• Journ. Ac. Xat. Sci. 1867, 189.
t Nat. Hist. Review. ISHS.
X Characterized Proc. Academy, 1866, 129.
