118 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF
Length of head (to opposite hinder margin tympanum) 14 | 5 times in
length, vent equal width of head behind.
In. Lin.
Length head and body 2 6-5
" of muzzle to orbit , 4-6
" of fore limb 1 6
" of hand 8
<' of hind limb 3 11-5
" of foot 1 10
" of tarsus „ 8
Color above light olive, with a few small black spots on the pelvic region.
A black line on caathus rostralis on edge of upper lip and one round tympa-
num. Femur and tibia each with two narrow black cross bands. Numerous
black spots on groin and front of femur. Femur and tibia behind closely marbled
with deep black. Tarsus aud forearm black below. An indistinct yellow band
from nostril to axilla.
Two specimens from the Napo or Upper Maranon.
This species differs from the R. p a 1 m i p e s of Spi.t, according to the com-
plete description of Steindachner in having a considerably shorter and more
truncate muzzle. In the last named the nostril is equidistant between muzzle
and orbit, and the diameter of the latter is one half the same distance ; in tliis
species it is two-thirds. Our species has the thumb longer, and the black
marbling of the femoral regions is probably characteristic, as Steindachner
does not mention it.
How it differs from the R. affinis (Rana Peters) the description of the
latter author does not furnish the means of determining. The latter has the
same obtuse muzzle.
GYMNOPHIDIA.
CECILIA PACHYSEMA Giiuther, Proc, Zool. Soc London, 1859,
Two specimens from Guayaquil. They have 170 — 180 annuli respectively.
In the larger the eyes are distinct ; there are eight teeth on each side the
upper and six on each side the lower jaw, with five vomero-palatines on each
side. In the smaller specimen the eyes are invisible ; in both the narial
valvules are present on the tongue. Giinther did not find these, nor eyes, and
counted only 5 J 3 .] 3 teeth. He describes blue spots on the sides ; these are
accidental and dependent on the condition of the integment.
SiPHONOPS ANNCLATUS Dum. Bibr«n.
From Lower Napo or Amazon.
The whole number of species brought by the Expedition is :
Crocodilia 1 Ophidia 34
Testudinata , 3 Batrachia 16
tSauria , 19 —
Total 73
These are from three distinct faunal districts — those of the Western Coast,
the Table land of Quito, and of the Eastern Slope of the Andes. The number
of species found in each is as follows:
Western , 27
Table Land 1(3
Eastern 44
In the Western district are five species which occur in Brazil, and one
(Chelydra) which extends from Mexico to the cold regions of North America.
Two species of the same list occur in Middle Mexico. Of the species from
near Quito, four occur in the Western List, and four also found in p]astern
Brazil ; one is common in Middle Mexico. Of the species of the Eastern list,
the Sauria were chiefly obtained from points within the limits of Equador, and
the Ophidia from near the Brazilian frontier. Of the last, twelve are also
[March,
