NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121
rows. Three loreal rows, the lower continued below the suborbital. Labials
5 — 6 ; two rows infralabials, the inner shorter, of broader scales, the first pair
in contact. Auricular meatus large, no marginal scales.
Scales of dorsal region small, not larger than ventral, little larger than
lateral, not longer than broad, with a keel on the distal half and obtuse mucro.
They are in series, which converge upwards and backwards. Sixty-nine series
from rump to occiput ; fourteen across the nape. A broad granular band ex-
tends from the ears to more than the length of the humerus behind the axilhe.
A pair of longitudinal folds extend from above and below the meatus, and
unite half-way to the axilla, to which point the single fold extends. Another
extends along the side.
Lateral and abdominal scales smooth, the latter rounded, smooth, occasion-
ally slightly notched; gulars entire ; caudal scales small, in whorls, strongly
keeled. Extended fore limb reaches -66 to groin ; hind limb to union of side
folds of neck.
In. Lin. Lin.
Total length (tail mutilated) : 5 11-2
Length to vent 2 V Length to orbit 2-5
" axilla 11-5 Width of head 5-.')
" meatus of ear 1 Lengthofpes 10
Color above brilliant green, with a double series of black dorsal spots, with
angles projecting laterally, which posteriorly meet similar angles from a late-
ral series of larger deep black spots. The green continues as a band to orbit.
A series of vertical black bars on sides ; limbs green-black, cross-banded ; tail
brown-black ringed; top of head black, brown and green specked. Lower jaw
black-barred. Belly light green.
From 603. Museum Comparative Zoology, Cambridge. From Chili.
LIOCEPHALUS Gray.
Having had a large number of individuals of this genus at my disposal, as
the species are but little known I give the following synopsis. Gray, who
gives the fullest list (Catalogue Sauna Brit. Mus. 1845), enumerates five. There
are at present fourteen known.
L Several series supraorbital scales ; no transverse plates. Abdominal
scales smooth.
L. o r n a t u s Gray, Catal. L. t r a c h y c e p h a 1 u s Dum., Catal. Method.
The former from Guayaquil, the latter from Bogota.
IL Transverse series of plates on the supraorbital region ; abdominal
scales smooth.
a.. Parietals and interparietals united.
Supraorbital region scaled in front ; a black spot on
throat. Gallapagos Is L. grayi.
a*. Parietals and interparietals distinct ; the
former transversely divided.
Three pairs frontonasals ; three interparietals ; a black
spot on throat. Equador L. iridescens.
ax. Parietals and interparietals distinct ; the
former longitudinally divided.
f3. Four pairs frontonasals (four rows plates
across front).
Outer parietals larger than inner ; interparietal short,
triangular; two rows scales above infralabials;
tail crest high. Brown, with many light cross-
bars L, e r c m i t u 3 .
1868.] 9>
