122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
/?/?. Three pairs frontonasals.
y. Outer parietals much larger than inner.
Top of head smooth ; plates of front wide ; interparie-
tal long and narrow ; one row above infralabials.
Light olive. Bahamas, Cuba L. carinatus.
yy. Outer parietals narrow, equal inner.
L. vittatus Hallow, and L. macropus Cope, both from Cuba. L.
schreibersii {Fristonotus schreibersii Gravenhorst, not L. schreibersii Gray
= L. vittatus), and L. melanochlorus Cope, from Hayti.
00. Two pairs of frontonasals.
Scales smaller ; temporal scales small, keeled ; of
front much keeled ; auricular scales elongate ;
interparietal very small. Hayti L. raviceps.
Scales larger ; temporals large, smooth ; auriculars
short, thick ; scales of front little keeled. From
Hayti L. personatus and L. t r ig e m i n a tu s .
The last two are much alike in structural features, but differ greatly in
coloration ; they do not appear to be sexes of the same animal, as I have seen
both (-J* and 9 of the latter.
III. Transverse series supraorbital plates ; abdominal scales keeled.
Scales on nape in 5 — 1 — 5 rows ; seven supraorbitals ; frontal scales many,
keeled.
L. h e r m i n i e r i Dum. Bibr., from Martinique.
I am not acquainted with L. m a c 1 e ay i Gray, from Cuba ; it is probably
allied to the L. carinatus and L. vittatus.
LlOCEPHALUS EEEMITUS CopC, Sp. UOV.
Head moderately elongate, profile an inclined plane. Front with four cross-
rows of plates posterior to supranasals, the posterior smallest ; two pairs of
internasals, separated from each other, the anterior from the rostral also ; the
posterior pair of the same in line and continuous with the divided frontal.
Interparietal very short, the parietals largely in contact behind, the outer twice
as wide as the inner. All the scales of head smooth, except the supraorbitals.
The latter weakly keeled, six on each side, separated by one row scales from
supraorbitals ; also by one row small scales from superciliaries. Parietals
bounded externally by two rows larger scales, then minute scales, then medium
keeled preauriculars. Auricular scales elongate, four. Postauriculars not
granular. Scales above large, eight rows on median nuchal region. Dorsal
crest high on tail, elsewhere moderate. Lateral and abdominal scales smaller
than dorsal. Scales of lower surfaces entire, the preanals smaller, keeled.
The muzzle marks the end of the metacarpus on the extended fore limb, and
the front of the orbit the longest toe. Tail moderately compressed. Folds of
side of neck strong ; two oblique, one nearly horizontal. Scales of tail shiny,
keeled below except at basis.
Coloration plain. Ground dark olive-brown, with a deep brown dorso-
lateral longitudinal shade, connected by numerous indistinct cross-bars, which
are light margined behind. Lower surfaces brown, with numerous scattered
whitish scales, which are most thickly gathered on the pectoral region. A
dark brown spot between eye and ear.
In. Lin.
Length from end muzzle to vent 2 55
" '• to ear 8
" of hind foot 13-5
Width of head 6
One specimen of this species was sent to the Smithsonian Institution by W.
J. Rasin, from the island of Navassa, W. I., which lies to the south-west of St.
Domingo, in line with Jamaica.
[March,
