NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123
LiOCEPHALUs scHREiBERSii. Pristonolus schreibirsU Gravenhorst, Nova Acta
Curios, xviii, 739. Tab.
This species is not anywhere described in the English language. I therefore
append the following, which I took from specimens in the Mus. Leyden :
Crest very long, equal ; scales longer than high, other sc. small, keels not
prominent. 7 — 1 — 7 sc. on nape ; on rump, 7 or 8 — 1 — 7. Smaller lateral sc.
in a not wide band. Abd. sc. in 23 rows, rhombic. Sc. from ear to shoulder
granular ; tail compressed. Extended hind limb, near to ear. Interparietal
narrow ; 8 supraorb. Supercil. not separated. 3 pair frontonas., the poster.
often double ; 4 in the median row ; the frontonas. as broad as long. Head
sc. keeled.
Olive-brown ; with or without traces of a light band on each side of back,
which are most distinct on tail ; sides with a band of brown speckles. Green
below, with 4 or 6 cross-bands of blue-white bordered spotlets ; obsolete ante-
riorly. Bluish on gular region. Head lighter, uniform ; feinus with two transv.
series of spots? Fem. with 2 longit..dors. stripes, and a distinct one on lower
part of each side. Transverse angulated brown bands behind white border,
from side to side. A yellow band on post, face of femur. Dors, crest very
small, scarcely on tail. Head sc. broad, keeled.
CELESTUS Gray.
Catal. Lizards Brit. Mus., 117.
This genus, in my opinion, embraces the Diploglossinse, with normal extre-
mities, in which the frontonasal plates are fused together in one shield; it
therefore includes most of the species of Diploglossus, as understood by Gray.
Diploglossus was originally based by Wiegmann on D. m o n o t r o p i s and
D. fas ci at us, species in which the frontonasals are quite distinct. Both
are from the South American continent ; the first-named is the type of Camilia
[C. jamaicensis) of Gray. The correspondence of the Smithsonian Institution
has procured numerous additions to this genus, which are here added :
A. Internasal plates confluent with frontonasals.
I. Scales in 32 — 6 rows.
Two frontals, one above the other ; two postnasals do. ;
scales all 8 — 10 keeled; olive, sides black-spotted, steindachneri Cope.
One frenal and postnasal ; scales smooth in front, keels
increasing to 16 on tail ; sides and limbs black ;
above olive, the scales black-edged chalyb^us Cope.
Keels of the scales eight to ten ; one postnasal, two fre-
nals, both on labials ; meatus of ear large : anterior
limb two-thirds head. Brown, with blackish band
on upper part of each side pleii Dum. Bibr.
Keels of the scales eleven, all equal, on posterior re-
gions ; anterior scales smooth, together in 36 rows ;
nasal plate extending to rostral ; two loreals, both
higher than long ; ear minute, head and limbs very
short, latter -75 former, and -2 from axilla to groin;
a blackish lateral band above, cross-lined before,
spotted behind dbgener Cope.
Keels of the scales fifteen, all equal ; one postnasal,
two frenals, both on labials ; ear meatus small.
Serpentiform, fore limb five-sixths head. Brown,
with dark lateral band above sagr.e Coct.
II. Scales in 41 — 2 rows.
Keels 14; none larger; head narrow, sharp, muzzle
longer than interorbital width ; front plane ; parie-
tal separated from supraorbitals by two plates,
loreal longer than high ; gray, sides black, cross-
banded ; loreal higher than long phoxinus Cope.
1868.]
