124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
Keels 15, a median stronger ; front convex; distance be-
tween orbits in front equal length muzzle ; both
loreals higher than long ; one plate between parie-
tal and supraorbitals ; brown, a deep brown dorso-
lateral band, and numerous longitudinal series of
brown spots on the back weinlandii Cope.
Keels 25, none larger ; head flat, acute, muzzle longer
than interorbital width ; many close, short bay
stripes; loreal higher than long badius Cope.
Keels 25 to 35, one median much stronger; head short-
ter, obtuse, muzzle equal width between eyes ; uni-
color, with vertical lateral bars ; two loreals, longer
than high stenurus Cope.
III. Scales in 49 — 51 rows.
Keels 34 — 8, the median stronger on dorsal region ; form
stout, fore-limb one-third longer than head ; tail
much compressed ; yellow or light brown, with
about fifteen brown cross-bands occidous Shaw.
Keels 17, scales with a cross elevation and marginal de-
pression, making rows of pits ; head wide, muzzle
short, equal interocular width ; tail cylindric ;
brown, with 18 cross-bars on dorsal region impressus Cope.
Keels 19, equal, scales plane ; head elongate, narrow,
muzzle longer than interocular width ; brown, with
14 cross-bars on back ?striat0S Gray.
AA. Internasal plates separate, small.
Scales in twelve longitudinal series on the dorsal re-
gion, with fifteen stripe and a weak median keel ;
body anguiform, anterior limb long as head. Pale,
Avith numerous short longitudinal reddish bands.
Otherwise as C. c ci d u u s ." Dum. Bibr owenii D. B.
Species unknown to the writer: C. hewardii Gray, Catal. 1. c, from
Jamaica, and C. macrolepis Gray, 1. c, West Indies.
Synopsis of Species.
C. STEiNDACHNERi Copc. Diploglossus Cope, Proc. Ac. N. Sci. Phila. 1864.
Vera Cruz, Mexico. Mas. Smithsonian.
C. CHALYBJEus Cope. Diploglossus Cope, 1. c. 1866.
Vera Cruz, Mexico. Mus. A. N. S. ; Smithsonian.
0. PLEii m. Diploglossus Dum. Bibr., v, 605. Do. (oneyda) Gray, Catal.
Hab. — Martinique (Mus. Paris).
Celestus degener Cope, sp. nov.
This is the most Seps-like of the genus, having shorter and weaker limbs
than the C. s a g r je , and a shorter and broader head. The toes are very short,
though of the normal number j it perhaps will approach the genus Sauresia
Gray.
Width between fronts of orbits 1'5 times in length of muzzle anterior to
same. Length of head to middle postparietal plate equal width of same at ear
openings. Width of frontal plate behind greater than length of the same.
Supraorbitals five, separated by two scales from parietal. One preocular ; two
loreals, both higher than long; an elongate oblique postnasal in contact with
anterior supranasal. Nasal meeting rostral by a suture. Eight upper labials,
fifth and sixth supporting a long suborbital, which is convex below. Two
rows of infralabials, the upper of longer, lower of wider scales. Toes short;
behind, fourth much shorter than first. Whitish below ; chin reticulated with
[March,
