NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125
brown. Sides with longitudinal brown lines, the upper confluent, much darker,
and with a zig-zag upper margin. Above, fawn brown, with seventeen cross
lines to middle of back, and small brown spots in quincunx behind them. Tail
with a deep brown band on each side.
In. Lin. In. Lin.
Length to vent 3 2.25 Length fore limb 4-6
" to axilla 11.75 " hind limb 7-
" to ear 5-6
A single specimen of this interesting species is contained in a collection
from Porto Rico, West Indies, sent to the Smithsonian Institution by George
Latimer, correspondent at that island.
C. SAGR^. Diploglossus Cocteau, Hist. Isle Cuba, Dum. Bibr. v, 602.
Hab. — The whole of Cuba. Mus. A. N. Sci.; Smithsonian.
Celestus PHOxiNus Cope, sp. nov.
A fusiform species, the body rather stout and flattened, the outlines tapering
gradually to end of muzzle and tail. Head flattened, with strong canthus ros-
tralis, and concave loreal region. Postnasal and postloreal longer than high :
preloreal higher than long. Five supraorbitals ; scales behind postparietals
not larger than those of the nape. Dorsolateral angle strong on scapular
region. The eighth upper labial is the first one angulated above ; rostral plate
broad and low. The limbs, when pressed to the sides, fail to meet by the
length of the hand. Keels of the scales strong. Tail slightly compressed.
Above light gray; sides from orbit to groin dark brown, with regular ver-
tical brown bars, which are margined behind by a close series of light spots.
Two series of small brown spots on each side the dorsal region, the median
stronger on the nape, all vanishing behind. Below immaeulate ; limbs with
brown light-edged cross-bars.
In. Lin. In. Lin.
Length to vent 3 3- Length to orbit 3-
" to axilla 1 2-8 Greatest width head 4-8
" forelimb 8-6 Length hind limb 1 0-1
This elegant species was found by Dr. D. F. Weinland, near Jeremie, Hayti,
and was placed by him in the Museum Comparative Zoology, Cambridge,
Mass., in care of Prof. Agassiz.
Celestus weinlandii Cope, sp. nov.
This species is near the last, but is less regularly fusiform ; the body, and
especially the head, are less depressed; the canthus rostralis is depressed and
the loreal region plane. Both loreals higher than long, and the seventh
upper labial is the first angulated above. Rostral deeper, rounded above.
Five supraorbitals, separated from parietals by but one plate besides fronto-
parietals. Auricular opening small. Limbs when pressed to sides meet.
Larger median carina of scales wanting on those of anterior nape and tail.
Vent with three cross rows, rather larger scales in front.
Below the dorsolateral brown band is another formed of spots in line ; they
continue with a vertical series of brown spots on the sides, Ground above
dark brown ; sides of neck and gular region brown-lined. Limbs with brown
reticulations.
In. Lin. In. Lin.
Length to vent 3 6-8 Length fore limb 9-7
" to axilla 1 4- " hind limb 1 2-4
" to orbit 3- Width head 5-9
This species is found on Gonave Island, on the western side of Hayti. Mus.
Smithsonian. From T. Younglove. Named in honor of Dr. F. Weinland, M.D.,
ot Frankfort o. M., who has contributed much to the history of the Reptilia
of Hayti.
1868.]
