126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
Celestts badius Cope, sp. nov.
This species, tliougli larger than either of the preceding, possesses a more
acute muzzle; the front is plane as in D. phoxinus, but the snout lightly
convex, though less so than in D. weinlandii and with obtuse canthus
rostralis and plane loreal region.
The (sixth or) seventh upper labial is the first angulated above, while the
suborbital and lower postorbital plates are shorter and deeper than in the pre-
ceding species ; both loreals higher than long. There are two plates besides
the fronto-parietal between parietal and the posterior of the five supraorbitals.
The limbs are short, and when pressed to the side fail to meet by the length
of the hind foot. The digits of the fore foot are relatively shorter and weaker
than in the two species preceding.
The eye fissure is small, measuring 2-5 times from its hinder margin to the
ear ; but twice in the D. w e i n 1 a n d i i ; it is less than double the diameter of
the meatus. Transverse series of scales, from groin to above middle of meatus,
ninety-four ; those of the tail keeled like the rest. Three rows larger preanal
scales.
In. Lin. In. Lin,
Total length (?tail reproduced.) 8 Leaigth fore limb 9-
Length to vent 4 !• " hind limb 13-5
" to orbit 4-5 " hind foot.. 6-3
Greatest width head 7-5
Ground color cream, almost obscured above by many longitudinal bands
and lines of bright bay ; these are more or less broken up, of irregular width,
and often confluent. Top of the head and sides closely spotted with bay, on
the latter region in a longitudinal direction or in lines directed obliquely
downwards and forwards. A dorsolateral band of ground color extends from
superciliary region, more or less completely to the iliac, and is bay margined
below and sometimes above. Throat and belly uniform yellow. Limbs bay
red with white spots.
From Island of Navassa, W. L From W. J. Rasin.
The collection sent to the Smithsonian Institution from this small Island
consists of the following species :
Typhlops sulcatus Cope, Metopocerus cornutus Wagl.,
Ungalia pardalis Gosse, Celestus badius Cope,
Liocephalus eremitus Cope.
Celestus stenurus Cope. Diploglossvs Cope, Proc. A. N. Sci. Phil. 1862.
From near Jeremie, St. Domingo. Mus. Compar. Zoology, Cambridge.
I append a description of another specimen, referred to this species with
doubt.
This is a large species with broad head, and short muzzle, the latter being
shorter than the width between anterior margins of eye fissures. First upper
labial angulated above the seventh ; suborbital and lower postorbital elongate,
narrowed. Nasal very small ; preloreal higher than long, loreal nearly square.
Front convex, canthus obtuse. Eye fissure one-half distance to meatus of ear.
Eighty transverse rows scales from above meatus to groin. Supranasal
plates small, narrow, the posterior nearly divided by the anterior (right) angle
of the elongate internasal. Scales with from 26 to 35 keels, a median one
rather stronger on some. Two scales bound the parietals in front besides
the fronto-parietals. Four rows large scales in front of vent. The limbs
pressed to the sides nearly meet.
Light-brown, with three rows of small subquadrate dark-brown spots on the
median dorsal region. Limbs brown with light spots arranged in indistinct
cross-bars. Head above light-brown with darker shades ; labial plates above
and below broadly brown margined. Below immaculate.
Length to vent 5 in. 9-7 lin. To orbit 51 lin. Width head behind 9-6 lin.
A number of digits in this single specimen exhibit a loss of the claws, others
[March,
