NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127
have lost one, two or three phalanges. This may have a natural cause, since
the allied genus Panolopus is deprived of these members entirely, though with
well developed limbs.
From Gonave Island, near Hayti. From Thos. Younglove. The reptiles
found by this correspondent in this Island are :
Homalochilus fasciatus Fisch., Diploglossus weinlandii Cope,
Dromicus parvifrons Cope. {D. pro- Diploglossus ?stenurus Cope,
teiius Jan), Ameiva chrysolffima Cope,
Uromacer catesbyi D. B., Trachycephalus marraoratus D. B.,
Uromacer oxyrhynchus D. B., Lithodytes lineatus Grav.,
Liocephalus.
Celestus occiduus Gray, Catal. Lacerta occiduus Shaw. Diploglossus Shawii
Dum. Bibr., Erp. Gen. v, 590.
Jamaica. Mus. Smithsonian.
Cblestus impressus Cope, spec. nov.
This is an elongate species with a tail cylindric for its proximal half, a little
depressed at base ; the body is quite cylindric and the limbs short. The ear
is large and the head abruptly widened at the temples. The muzzle is short
and flat, and the superciliary regions are slightly elevated above the frontal
plane. Loreal region grooved. Ten upper labials, of which the eighth rises
between suboculars. Postnasal distinct, prefrenal much higher than long,
frenal square, two preoculars. Scales with equal keels, their hinder halves
depressed.
The limbs appressed to the sides fail to meet by the length of the anterior
without the hand.
In. Liu. In. Lin.
Length to posterior edge ear... 10-2 Length fore limb 11-66
" to axilla 19.75 " hind limb 15-3
" to vent 3 8-'75 " tail (reproduced) 5 9-
Color above olivaceous, below yellowish. Back and sides crossed by about
18 narrow brown bars, which are three times broken and alternating on each
side the middle line. Tail ci'oss-lined, throat and breast cross-banded less dis-
tinctly. Lateral plates, a short band behind orbit, and four quadrate spots
above throat and axilla, deep brown.
Two specimens in Mus. Academy from Jamaica, collected by Charles B.
Adams.
Celestus striatus Gray, Ann. Xat. Hist, ii, 288. Catal. Brit. Mus. Diploglossus
diftii Dum., Bibr. v, 596.
Jamaica. Mus. Academy, Phila.
Celestus owenii m. Diploglossus Dum., Bibr., do. [Oneyda) Gray, Catal. B. M.
Habitat. — Unknown. (Mus. College Surgeons, London.)
AMEIVA Cuvier.
Ameiva chrysol^ma Cope, sp. nov.
Char. — Twelve series abdominal plates : ^o horny tubercles on the heel ;
median and lateral gular scales equal. Frontal undivided, supraorbitals four.
Teeth mostly bicuspid. Olive with numerous series of white spots, sometimes
indistinct on dorsal region. Gular fold black, throat yellow ; belly green and
yellow.
Description. — One of the larger species. Four parietals and one interparietal,
subequal. Two posterior supraorbitals bounded hj granules within ; frontal in
front nearly broad as long ; prefrontals longer than broad. Nostril in nasal
plate near suture. A postnasal, one very large frenal, two preoculars and two
suboculars. Labials 6 — V, the anterior in both series very narrow. Infralabi-
als eight in lower series, three iu upper behind, all separated from labials by
1868.]
