128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
granules. Gular fold margined broadly with granules, with three larger series
of hexagonal scales.
Brachials rather small, in seven rows above, and two below, not separated
from antebrachials by granules, but joining an area of small scales in seven rows
above, and ending in one row of broad and one of narrow antebrachials be-
low. Postbrachials small, three rows larger. Tibial plates in four rows, two
on under face, the outer of seven plates, of which the third and fourth are very
large. Outer toes just exceeding inner. Femoral pores twenty.
In. Lin. In. Lin.
Total length 16 9. Length to orbit 8-
Length to vent 5 5- " of fore limb 2 1-
'• to edge collar 1 10.5 " of hind limb 3 9-
" of anterior claw 3- " ofhindfoot 1 10-5
Olive-green with five series of small white spots on each side, and seven on
the dorsal region. The latter tend in a smaller specimen to form two pairs of
incomplete dorsal stripes. Upper arm and hind leg with small white spots.
One or two series white spots on the lateral abdominal scales. Latter black-
ish olive-yellow margined.
The anterior claws of this species are particularly large, and slightly curved.
There are twenty teeth on each maxillary bone, which are nearly all bicuspid,
the longest cusp posterior. In one individual there are mingled with these,
posteriorly, three tricuspid.
Two specimens sent to Mus. Smithsonian from Gonave Island, on the west-
ern side of the Island of Hayti, by Thos. Younglove.
OPHIDIA.
TYPHLOPS Schn.
Typhlops sulcatus Cope.
This species exhibits most of the characters of the T. 1 u m b r i c a 1 i s. These
are, the presence of a preocular plate, the obtnseness of the muzzle plates, four
upper labials, a nasal entirely divided by the suture through the nostril, and
twenty longitudinal rows of scales.
It diffVrs in the much greater prolongation and depression of the muzzle,
and hencte more slender form of the rostral and nasal, and greater prolonga-
tion backwards of the upper part of the preocular. In the existence of a strong
groove along the sutures of these plates, giving the muzzle a trilobate outline
from above. In similar deep grooves along the upper sutures of the labials and
around the small frontal superciliary and interparietal scales. These scales
are not larger than those of the body ; a pair in place of the parietals are
larger. The body is more slender than in T. 1 um b r i cal i s , the length of
the tail entering it 44-1 times. Tail short, acuminately conic. The length of
the muzzle beyond the mouth equals from the nostrils to the opposite side of
the rostral plate, or one-half the tail's length.
Color pale yellowish-brown ; a darker brown line in the middle of each row
of scales, on the anterior third of the length.
Total length 6 in. 5-2 1. ; of tail 1-75 1. ; greatest diameter 2 lines.
One specimen in Mus. Smithsonian from Navassa Island, southwest from St.
Domingo.
UNGALIA* Gray.
Tropidophis Bibr. Notopkis Hallowell.
Thirty-five individuals, representatives of this genus before me, indicate
a greater number of species than are at present recognized by naturalists.
Some of the additional ones have been already named and imperfectly de-
scribed.
All that are known are from the Bahamas, Cuba, Navassa and Jamaica, a
remarkably local distribution. They are distinguished as follows :
* The correct spelling of this name is probably Ungual ia.
[March,
