NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA.
131
postnasal longer. Vertical (frontal) angulated in
front, more acutely behind, where it has two su-
tures on each side, owing to its confluence with
the superciliaries — the exterior being the posterior
sutures of the latter. Parietals much longer than
wide, only margining anteriorly the whole of the
narrow single postorbital. Labials six, all higher
than long except the sixth, which only is separated
from the parietals by a single temporal. Second superior labial in contact
with postnasal and more with boreal; third and fourth with orbit and post-
ocular. Inferior labials seven, five in contact with genials. Scales in contact
with parietal, 1 temporal, 4j squamae. Gastrosteges 144, urosteges 30; in
a second specimen 140 — 41. Length of largest specimen 12 inches ; tail 2 in.
1-5 lines.
Color of upper surfaces a rich slate brown, very iridescent ; lower surfaces,
including first series of scales with labial and rostral shield, red orange.
Three specimens of this species were brought by Dr. Van Patten from the
elevated country in the neighborhood of the city of Guatemala. It bears con-
siderable resemblance to the Catostoma chalybaeum Wagler, but besides
the lack of superciliary shields, its eye is smaller and the head more com-
pressed. In the C. chalybaeum there are but six inferior labials, of
which four margin the genials ; it has also shorter nasals, and a vertical
more truncate anteriorly.
CATOSTOMA Wagler.
Catostoma nasale Cope, sp. nov.
This species has, like that preceding and that
following, seventeen rows of scales, of which those
on the posterior part of the body and tail are
weakly keeled, thus differing from the C. ch aly-
b ae u m where theyare smooth. It also differs much
from the same in the elongated form of the head
and the great disparity in size between the pre-
and postfrontal shields. In this species the former
are less than one-fourth the latter in longitudinal
extent, and about half in the transverse. The su-
praorbitals are very small and subtriangular, the
vertical broader than long, and what is unusual,
as much angulated anteriorly as posteriorly. Pa-
rietals longer than broad, the anterior margin
touching the postocular and superciliary. Supe-
rior labials eight, the last only separated from pa-
rietals by a temporal, which is large in two, small
in one specimen. First labial very small, third
longer than high. Inferior labials seven, four in
contact with genials. Seventeen rows of scales,
which are small and more crowded above the vent than in any other species.
Gastrosteges in three specimens 131 — 3 — 4 ; urosteges in the same 25, 30.
Color above, including labial region and chin, iridescent slate brown ;
belly and gular region pale yellow. Length of largest specimen 11 in. 1-5
lines ; tail 2 in.
This species is probably nearly allied to the C. s i eb ol d i i of Jan, of
which but few peculiarities are described. Jan's account of the scutellation
indicates a more elongate species no doubt distinct; the scuta vary from g.
146—154, u. 34—8.
Several specimens from near the city of Guatemala, presented to the
Smithsonian Institution by Dr. Van Patten. Mus. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila.
1868.]
