viii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING.
Entertainment.
Robert G. LeConte, M.D. Daniel M. Barringer
Albert P. Brubaker, M.D. Herbert Fox, M.D.
Edwin I. Simpson Henry Winsor, M.D.
Henry Tucker, M.D. Francis X. Dercum, M.D., Ph.D.
Hon. Charlemagne Tower William D. Winsor
Roland G. Curtin, M.D. Thomas G. Ashton, M.D.
Francis E. Bond Walter Horstmann
Witmer Stone, A.M. Charles Z. Tryon
Finance.
Hon. Samuel Gibson Dixon, M.D., LL.D.
George Vaux, Jr. Walter Horstmann
Edwin S. Dixon Henry G. Bryant, LL.B.
George S. Morris John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D.
A formal announcement of the occasion was mailed in January, 1912, to
correspondents and scientific institutions throughout the world by the Corre-
sponding Secretary, J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. :
The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia founded in the year eighteen hundred and twelve
for the cultivation of the natural sciences, in March, nineteen hundred and twelve, will have completed
one hundred years of active devotion to this purpose.
For the adequate celebration of its centenary anniversary the Academy will call in convention at its
Hall the learned men and institutions of the world its collaborators.
The Academy has the honor to invite to be present at this event, which will take
place at Philadelphia on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, the nineteenth, twentieth, and twenty-first
of March, nineteen hundred and twelve.
As will be seen from the letters published in connection with the proceedings,
the responses have been most gratifying. Many of these documents are beautiful
specimens of illumination and chirography. The appointment of one hundred
and forty-seven delegates by corresponding societies and institutions was also
a demonstration of the practical interest taken by the scientific world in the
occasion.
Cablegrams and letters of congratulation and appreciation continued to be
received after the commemorative meeting had adjourned.
On the recommendation of the Publication Committee it was decided to
issue in connection with the celebration an Index to the complete series of the
Proceedings and Journal, a detailed history of the Academy, and a com-
memorative quarto volume (the fifteenth of the Journal) to consist of the
Proceedings of the Sessions and a collection of adequately illustrated memoirs
contributed by members and correspondents.
The sessions extended over three days: the 19th, 20th, and 21st of March.
The first was held on the evening of Tuesday, the 19th, because that was the
time of the stated meeting of the Academy, but the 21st was the actual date of
the anniversary.
