PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. ix
The meetings were held, not as usual in the Reading Room, but in the Lecture
Hall which afforded more ample accommodation and which was well filled on
the occasion of the opening session, the front seats being occupied by delegates.
On the platform were seated the President, the Mayor of the City, the two
Vice-Presidents, the Corresponding and Recording Secretaries, and Sir James
Grant, the representative of the Royal Society of Canada.
The weather Wednesday morning was bright, sparkling, and genial, but
that of Thursday was in violent and undesirable contrast, a fall of snow being
driven along by a penetrating wind. It was a most gratifying evidence of the
earnestness and interest of those in attendance that but little decrease in their
number was observable when the meeting was called to order.
The announcement of the death of Thomas Harrison Montgomery was a
pathetic incident of the opening session. As stated in the memorial note pre-
ceding his paper Dr. Montgomery had been deeply interested in the arrange-
ments for the celebration and was the first one to hand in a contribution to this
commemorative volume. It had been arranged that he should read the first
paper on Thursday morning, but instead of hearing the voice which many
present loved so well, the Chair announced that his funeral would take place
the following morning from St. Mary's Church, West Philadelphia.
The midday luncheons provided on Wednesday and Thursday were thor-
oughly enjoyed and furnished the opportunity for social intercourse which was
generally taken advantage of.
A brilliant reception was given as part of the anniversary celebration by the
President, Mrs. Dixon, and Miss Dixon at the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel on the
evening of the 20th. It was attended by upwards of fifteen hundred invited
guests, the Philadelphians being manifestly delighted to meet the Academy's
correspondents and delegates. A charmingly sociable tone prevailed during
the evening and the occasion will long be remembered by those present as a
most enjoyable feature of the program.
The indispensable banquet was also a brilliant success, owing to the dis-
cretion and good taste of the Chairman of the Committee on Entertainment,
Dr. Robert Grier LeConte, who had the cooperation of Dr. Henry Tucker and
Dr. Thomas G. Ashton. The luncheons and the banquet were served in the
New Hall, the preparation of which in time for such service was due to the
executive ability of the President and the energy of his Secretary, Edwin I.
Simpson. The system of lighting produced the effect of a soft diffused illumina-
tion as pleasant as daylight. It imparted full value to the floral and other
beautiful decorations.
Thanks to the cooperation of those best able to judge of the value of the
work accomplished, the general success of the Centenary Celebration was com-
mensurate with the influence exerted by the Academy on the development of
the natural sciences during the past one hundred years.
Edward J. Nolan,
April 8, 1912. Recording Secretary.
