x PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE SESSIONS.
Tuesday, March 19, 1912.
The meeting was called to order promptly at 8 P. M., the President, the
Honorable Samuel Gibson Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair.
The Recording Secretary requested the delegates, as the names of the societies
and institutions represented by them were called by the Corresponding Secretary,
to arise and hand their letters of credential and congratulation to the President
without reading. As the exercises of the evening were likely to be lengthy, he
asked, if remarks were considered desirable, that they should be brief. Thus
advised, as a matter of fact no one spoke, and as much the greater number of
the letters had already been delivered by mail, this otherwise tedious part of the
program was not unduly prolonged.
The President, introducing the Honorable Rudolph Blankenburg, the
Mayor of the City of Philadelphia, remarked:
Science never makes such rapid strides as when we are governed by pro-
gressive, intelligent men, who appreciate education and the work of original
research. We are to be congratulated on having such a man with us tonight and
it is my especial privilege to present to you the Honorable Rudolph Blankenburg,
Mayor of the City of Philadelphia.
Mr. Blankenburg spoke as follows :
THE MAYOR'S ADDRESS.
Mr. President, Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen: It is a pleasure for me to
appear this evening before a body of scientific men and scientific women, and
to be relieved for a little while of the cares of office and especially to be able, in
a few words, to welcome you on this auspicious occasion. I am little of a sci-
entist myself, but I have always appreciated science and those interested in
scientific investigations. If it were not for such institutions as the Academy we
would not be nearly as far advanced in learning and civilization as we are.
Everything pertaining to the enlightenment of mankind naturally leads to the
development of knowledge, of ideals, and to an evolution of truth, a higher char-
acter, and higher aims in life.
From what I learn, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia stands
at the head of similar institutions in this country. This is hardly to be wondered
at, because we are at the head and front of so many things in America that
this is only one small additional token of what Philadelphia does, of what Phila-
delphians have done, and of what Philadelphians can do, if they will. The
collections within the walls of this beautiful building are among the best to be
found in our country. The building itself is conveniently located and easy of
access in fact it is so convenient to my house (living, as I do, only half a square,
or a stone's throw away) that I have not been within its walls for ten years.
I am really almost ashamed to make this confession. If the Academy of Natural
Sciences were a hundred or five hundred, or a thousand miles from Philadelphia,
I am sure that I should have visited it on numerous occasions.
