PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xi
In looking over the history of the Academy of Natural Sciences, I learn that it
was founded one hundred years ago by a few young, intelligent, and public-spirited
men, who met at first in their private homes, and gradually grew in number and
interest until The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, from its small
origin, erects a proud head to-day. I mention this simply as showing how great
things spring from the very smallest causes: I believe this is a scientific maxim.
If the few men who organized the Academy could look down upon what has been
accomplished in one hundred years, they would certainly feel amply repaid in
the thought that their work has been well done.
Look at the Philadelphia of a hundred years ago. The city itself then had
only 53,722 inhabitants. To-day that part of the city which then comprised
the whole of Philadelphia has but 89,357 inhabitants; there has hardly been any
growth at all. The men who founded this great Academy hardly knew how
well they were building. Philadelphia was at that time only a small place;
the whole of the city was not much larger in area than the adjoining Fifteenth
Ward. Gleaning from the past, should the work of old not be an incentive to
people living to-day, whenever the opportunity offers, to build likewise? Many
important undertakings had their origin in a small way. Never let us despise
small things, my friends, but encourage all those who desire to do something for
the progress of the world. It may sometimes seem idle to encourage their
ambition; but even a seemingly small effort in laboring for the good of mankind
and the welfare of the community should be encouraged.
Your great institution to-day stands as one of the landmarks of Philadelphia.
It is being visited by hundreds and thousands of people every week: and since,
through the unceasing efforts and the genius of your President, Dr. Dixon, you
have secured at last this great building, one of the finest homes of its kind in
this country, with so much accomplished, I am sure the future of this organi-
zation is assured. Doctor Dixon tells me that there is a fund to-day which gives
you fifty thousand dollars a year for the maintenance of the wonderful collection
housed in this building, and -that not one cent of the Academy's capital was
touched for the great improvements that have been made within the last few
years.
I do not intend to make a speech. My purpose is to welcome you to
welcome you gentlemen and you ladies who come from a distance to the
City of Brotherly Love. You know of Philadelphia's hospitality. Everything
will be open to you. We shall be glad to take you to the great and renowned
places of which only Philadelphia can boast. There may be some among you
who have not even seen Independence Hall. If there be any let me know, and
I shall be glad to take you there to-morrow morning so that you may be able to
say, on your return home, "I have seen Independence Hall: I have visited the
Cradle of Liberty." I welcome all of you, ladies and gentlemen, whether from
home or abroad, and let this meeting be the forerunner of even greater success
for this great institution for all the centuries to come.
