xii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING.
After announcements by the Secretary the President delivered an historical
address as follows :
THE PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS.
Fellow Members and Guests: This is one of the occasions which stimulate
reflection. To-day we must all feel a regret that we cannot inherit the learning
of those who have gone before us. So keen an appreciation do I possess of the
unselfish devotion of my predecessors to science and to this institution, and so im-
pressed am I at the monthly meetings in our Reading Room by their faces looking
down upon us from their respective canvases hanging on the walls, that my feel-
ings impel me to call upon them in spirit to join me in extending to our guests the
heartiest of welcomes and to say that we, the present workers, fully appreciate
how much credit is due them for our present success.
To-day this City of Brotherly Love, with the mother Commonwealth,
Pennsylvania, in common with the great union of states, is at peace with all the
nations of the globe. This blessed condition did not prevail on the day when
our fore-fathers assembled one hundred years ago, to organize an institution for
the study and advancement of the Natural Sciences. During the last days of
the year 1811, the dispute between the United States and Great Britain and the
doubt as to the attitude of France seemed to indicate that the national honor
was hurt and that another contest with a European power was at hand. The
commerce of the country had suffered. The Committee on Foreign Relations
recited the wrongs that the United States had sustained from Great Britain, and
declared it to be the sacred duty of Congress to call forth the patriotism and
resources of the country. Extensive military measures were recommended.
The Pennsylvania Legislature passed acts for enlarging the regiment of artillery
and for the organization of the cavalry of the city of Philadelphia. Although
war was not declared until June, 1812, in anticipation of the necessities of the
situation Congress approved a loan of eleven million dollars, of which one million
six hundred and forty-five thousand dollars were raised in Philadelphia.
Large meetings of people were held all over the city to consider the needs of
commercial interests and to pass resolutions for the equipment of privateers and
for building up the defences of the city.
The legislature relieved the tension of its patriotic resolutions by requesting
a special committee to examine a machine made by Charles Redhefer, who
claimed that it possessed the power of self motion, and naively stated that "if
the machine be found to be imperfect the public interest will be promoted by
exposing its fallacy."
In the midst of excitements due to impending war the youth of the city
naturally sought the taverns and oyster cellars as meeting places, as indeed there
was little in the way of diversion provided for the people of that period. The
theater was seldom opened, and the feeling against it was so strong that a peti-
tion was presented to the legislature requesting it to abolish forever the exhibition
of "Theatricles." Peale's Museum enjoyed great popularity, and here the lusus
