PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xvii
Almost a century ago Thomas Say blazed the trail for conchologists,
while Dr. Isaac Lea and Timothy Abbott Conrad were his successors. Lea's
work, largely published by the Academy, is the basis of all later syste-
matic study of fresh water mussels, while to Conrad we owe the founda-
tion of American tertiary geology and paleontology, his work in this line
overshadowing that on the living mollusca. Gabb was another famous
worker in this field, while to George W. Tryon, Jr., we owe the conception
of the Manual of Conchology, begun by him in 1878 and continued by the
Academy after his death in 1888. Very few works have led to so many reforms
in classification or have had such a broad influence as this. Dr. Joseph Leidy, who
may be termed the Cuvier of America, should be mentioned in this connection
because of his fine contribution to Binney's Terrestrial Air-breathing Mollusks
of the United States, published in 1851. This was the first American work on
the morphology of the soft parts of the mollusks.
Thomas Say, already referred to as a pioneer conchologist, is also known as
the father of American entomology. Owing to his energy, the Academy's col-
lection in this department was begun a collection which by steady growth has
reached a total of a million specimens and has become of world-wide renown.
The long list of entomologists who have contributed to its development, contains
the names of most of those whose activities constitute the earlier history of
entomology in America.
Titian R. Peale, Wilson, LeConte, Horn, McCook, Cresson, Martindale, and
others have made our entomological department one of the most important in
America. The Cresson collection of hymenoptera has made the Academy the
greatest in America in this particular branch. The Bassett collection of galls
and gall insects is the most comprehensive ever brought together.
In palaeontology the names of Leidy and Cope are preeminent. The
Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, published by Dr. Leidy as
the seventh volume of the Journal, is a classic. Students of paleontology still
come to consult the types of his descriptions, which are preserved in our collection.
Professor Cope's part in the development of American paleontology is too
well known to require detailed mention and was carried on side by side with his
studies of reptiles and fishes, in which his reputation was equally great. Even
on his death-bed he placed the finishing touches to his report on the Pleistocene
remains discovered at Port Kennedy, Pennsylvania, a paper which attracted the
attention of the paleontological world and which appeared in the Journal of the
Academy soon after his death.
In botanical research the Academy has always held an important place and
its herbarium, now numbering some 900,000 specimens, contains the types of
such pioneers as Nuttall, Pursh, Muhlenberg, and deSchweinitz, besides compre-
hensive collections from all parts of the globe. Among those whose researches
have been carried on at the Academy may be mentioned in addition to the above,
Durand, Charles E. Smith, Meehan, and Redfield.
1* JOURN. ACAD. NAT. SCI PHILA., VOL. XV.
