PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xix
man to man by means of the Anopheles mosquito, that the yellow fever virus
can only be transmitted through the Stegomyia calopus, that the bubonic plague
may be carried from man to man or from rat to man by means of the rat
flea (Pulex cheopis), that the Trypanosoma gambiense of African sleeping sickness
can be communicated only by means of the tsetse-fly, that the organism causing
human filariasis is transmitted by the Culex fatigans and certain species of
Anopheles, and evidence is gradually accumulating that the bacterium of leprosy is
transmitted through the bed-bug, Cimex lectularius. A knowledge of the natural
history of these insects was absolutely essential for the scientific study of the dis-
eases with which they are so closely associated and public health work has only been
effective in eradicating the disorders in proportion to the efforts of the sanitarian
directed toward their destruction and for the protection of the individual. The
entomologist, the zoologist, and the bacteriologist are each required to contribute
their share in the research that means so much to public health and to mankind.
If much has already been accomplished, still greater are the fields open for
scientific investigation.
With the lower forms of animal life parasitic to man and known to cause
disease, the connecting link, the intermediate host, the full life history are missing
in many instances where it would seem that the most fertile field for the scientist
has not yet been invaded. A very large province lies open for those who under-
take a careful study of the relation between the vermes and the human being.
Much indeed has been learned about parasites inhabiting the intestinal canal,
but the parasitologist has not yet concluded the final analysis of the life history
of many of these forms.
The work of the Academy has been so distinctly pure science that the lay
public have not until recently appreciated the great practical relationship it has
to health and economics. The description of the various species, their life
history, their geographical range, have enabled those working in applied sciences
to conduct the already successful war against the enemies of man, of the lower
animals, and of plant life.
Let it be remembered that in 1793 half the population of Philadelphia either
died from yellow fever, or voluntarily exiled themselves to escape from the
scourge, that all the southern tier of states were kept in a state of constant
terror every summer for fear of its invasion, causing a loss of millions to the
commerce of the country, and then recall the fact that through entomological
and medical cooperation this disease was practically eliminated from Cuba, its
breeding place for ages, and that in 1905, a violent epidemic of the same plague
was actually checked in New Orleans by the application of the knowledge gleaned
by the medical department of our army in the more southern field.
That mysterious blight to human life and energy known as malaria, to which,
as much as to the fire and sword of northern barbarians Greece and Rome owed
their downfall, has been traced to its entomological source so that these two
devastating diseases have ceased to be a menace to civilized communities,
