xx PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING.
allowing that great work, the construction of the Panama canal, heretofore
impossible owing to their prevalence, to go on uninterruptedly under conditions
of unparalleled health. The sacrifice of 5,000 American troops during the
Spanish-American war, was finally found to have been due to the transmission
of Bacillus typhosus by the common house fly, and this knowledge has been so
judiciously applied by our army surgeons that a recent considerable mobilization
of our soldiers was entirely exempt from that disease, conveying some faint con-
ception of the immense debt that humanity owes to the patient workers in the
field of pure science.
Economic entomology, based upon abstract work, shows an annual money
loss in the United States of North America occasioned by insects amounting to
$1,272,000,000.
The congratulatory letters, with the autographs of our foreign co-workers,
received from the great institutions of the world relating to this our one hun-
dredth birthday, cannot be read owing to a want of time, but will be recorded
in our Commemorative Volume.
Before closing I have a pleasant duty to perform on behalf of the Building
Committee. At the request of those entrusted with planning and erecting the
improvements made possible by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and
as Chairman of the Committee, I hand over to the corporate body, under the
title of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, this building com-
pleted for its use, comprising fireproof stacks for its library, a reading room,
lecture hall, and work rooms.
In the rhythmic language of another I reverently invoke the blessings of the
God of Nature upon this temple of the Natural Sciences.
Great God of nature, let these halls
The hidden things of earth make plain ;
Let knowledge trumpet forth her calls,
And wisdom speak, but not in vain.
Help us to read with humble mind
Thy larger scriptures day by day
True bread of life! O be thou kind,
If, erring, we should go astray.
For deep resounding unto deep,
Declares the wonders of thy plan ;
Life struggling from its crystal sleep
Finds glorious goal at last in man.
The mysteries of the eternal laws
Are but the shadows of thy might.
God, ruling all in final cause,
Enshrine the world in love and light!
Harvey Matiland Watls.
It was explained that the routine of a stated meeting would then go on, in
the belief that an illustration of the formula by means of which the Academy had
transacted its business as a society for one hundred years would be of interest
to those familiar with the results which had made the celebration worth while.
