PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xxi
At the call of the Chair the Recording Secretary read the minutes of the last
meeting and the minute of the first Recording Secretary, Dr. Camillas Alac-
mahon Mann, defining the date of foundation as follows:
Year of the United States the 37th.
Saturday, March 21, 1812.
In Committee agreed: The year of the institution shall commence at the
present natural evolution: the spring equinox, 21st of March and the year shall
be named according to the era of the United States of America in the principal
city of which we assemble.
Additions to the museum and library were announced.
The Corresponding Secretary reported on letters received since the last
meeting.
The Publication Committee, in conjunction with the Centenary Sub-com-
mittee on Printing and Publication, reported the titles of papers presented for
consideration and also announced the details of works to be issued in connection
with the celebration.
The Chair announced the death this morning of Thomas Harrison Mont-
gomery, Jr., Ph.D. 1
Under the head of "verbal communications" the Recording Secretary gave
some "Reminiscences" of his fifty years' connection with the Academy as Assist-
ant Librarian, Librarian, and Recording Secretary, his first list of accessions to
the library being dated February 4, 1862.
It had been his intention to glance rapidly at a few of the interesting char-
acters in the first half century of the Academy's history: such men as Maclure,
Say, Troost, Lesueur, Morton, Correa da Serra, Bonaparte, and Keating, but
the time at his disposal confined him to some of those he had personally known
since 18G2.
It was a cause of keenest regret that he had not recorded the recollections
of a few of the contemporaries of the founders who still survived when he entered
on the scene, but it could be readily believed that in the boy's most sanguine
moments he had never entertained the thought that fifty years later, on the
occasion of the Academy's Centenary, he would be called on to deplore his lack of
foresight before such an audience.
He had seen George Ord, the biographer of Alexander Wilson and one of the
ex-presidents, three or four times; Jacob Peirce, elected a member in 1813, two
years before Ord; Isaac Hays, who had practically kept the early Journal alive
by his energy, tact, and zeal; Titian R. Peale, the intimate friend of Say and
Maclure, all cordially willing to talk of the early days.
Dr. Nolan then spoke of the beginning of his work as an untrained assistant
in the library and the unvarying kindness and consideration he had experienced
from all the men met with at the time but especially from his dear chief, J.
Dickinson Sergeant, and his beloved future preceptor, Joseph Leidy.
1 See note in advance of memoir.
