xxii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING.
It was an extraordinary epoch in the history of the Academy, the beginning
of its second half century, and the youth was associated with a stimulating group
of men, including Leidy, Cope, Conrad, Try on, Stewardson, Lea, Slack, Rand,
Warner, Vaux, Cassin, Heerman, Meigs, Gabb, and Wilson, all men of marked
individuality, many of whom had made permanent records as leaders of science
in America.
Continuing, Dr. Nolan gave his impressions of some of his contemporaries
of later date: Allen, Horn, LeConte, Meehan, Warner, Hawkins, Ruschenberger,
Redfield, Ryder, McCook, Heilprin, Chapman, Isaac Jones Wistar, and Arthur
Erwin Brown. He adopted a more intimate tone than would be desirable in a
printed record in the belief that such confidences would not be objected to by
his auditors, many of whom were familiar with the work of the men whom he
was describing. 2
In the one hundred years of the Academy's history four men had stood out
prominently, with, of course, many associates, as dominant in its material and
intellectual advancement. These were Thomas Say, Samuel George Morton,
Joseph Leidy, and the present chief executive. The work of Say, Morton, and
Leidy formed part of the history of the Academy, and if an impression were
desired of the accomplishments of Samuel Gibson Dixon his auditors had but
to look around them.
Closing his recollections the Secretary was distressed to remember the names
of the many dear friends whom, for lack of time, he was forced to leave in the
undesirable class "and others."
In conclusion he remarked:
Those whom I knew during the first years of association with the Academy
are nearly all dead. The old building, if it still existed, would be full of ghosts,
and even in the present halls, in the dusk of the winter days, dear shades encounter
me in the alcoves and passage ways and remind me of the time when I too shall
be a recollection and a tradition.
But in the meantime it is with a feeling of profound gratitude that I bear
testimony to the kindly patience and sustaining encouragement of those who are
still with me and who relieve the daily task almost entirely of stress and strain.
For obvious reasons I cannot deal in personalities in the case of my living
contemporaries, but I am at liberty to say that they are worthily taking the
place of those who have labored so loyally for the advancement of the Academy
and who, we are not forbidden by the highest reason to hope, are now rejoicing
in this splendid commemoration of their labors. Had they lived when men
cherished the same truths under different formulae their motto, as I have said
elsewhere, would have been, Ad majorem Dei gloriam.
May the men who come after us be as zealous and as disinterested in the
development of truth as were those whom I have been so ineffectively remem-
bering tonight, so that when the second Centenary is celebrated it also may be
2 Much of this information and more of the same character will be found in Dr. Nolan's History of the
Academy, to be published in connection with the Centenary Celebration.
