PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xxvii
is known throughout the world. I was amused, a few years ago, to see in Switzer-
land the title of a certain hotel, U Hotel de I 'Universe et de Geneve. The title of
this Academy might, from this time forth, be, "The Academy of Natural Sciences
of the World and of Philadelphia."
Some of you who have not been here very frequently have been amazed, I
am sure, as I have been, at the transformation that has taken place. Those of
you who met in the old library in the days not very far in the past will fail to
identify that hall with this bower of blossoms. In truth the Academy has had
a new birth within a few years past; or, speaking biologically, I might say that
it has undergone a complete metamorphosis. It has passed from the tadpole
stage into that of an imago. This metamorphosis has come about through the
good management, wise foresight, skilful care, of one man, he who sits on my
right, the Commissioner of Health of Pennsylvania, the President of the Academy,
Dr. Samuel Gibson Dixon. That for which so many in the Academy have
longed and labored has at last come. It came in the form of a good, substan-
tial fireproof building. It is said of one of the Emperors of Rome that he found
that city brick and left it marble. It can be said that Dr. Dixon found the
Academy serpentine and left it reinforced concrete.
It is not my function, however, to make an address. My duty is a
very minor one: I have merely to call on those who shall instruct and entertain
you. I do not say that I am to "introduce" those who are to give this pleasure
for I should not care to introduce those who are better known than myself.
You may have heard the story of how President Stanley Hall, of Clark University,
arrived on the evening train at a town, just before the hour at which he was to
give a lecture, and was met at the station by one of the committee. He was
taken in a carriage to the lecture hall, and at once went on the platform. The
man who had brought him from the carriage walked to the front and said,
"Ladies and Gentlemen: I have the great pleasure and honor of introducing to
you to-night a man whose name is a household word, one who is known from the
Atlantic to the Pacific and from the Canadian border to the Gulf of Mexico a
man whose name, as I have said, is a household word. I cannot think of the
name at this moment, but he is the President of that very well-known university,
a university that has been heard of all over the world, not merely in this country,
but in Europe, an institution that everybody knows. It is so well known that
I need not mention the name. The name of that university is . Well, in
truth, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know the name of the university; but, as a
matter of fact, on the way from the station up here, I found that this gentleman
was a very delightful fellow, and I introduce him."
Now it is that way frequently, I think, with introductions, so that I shall
merely call on those who are to speak.
During the latter part of last week, I received a telegram from the President
of the Academy. It was reported to me over the telephone from the telegraph
office, and the message came to me that the President had appointed me Post-
