xxviii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING.
master. That sounded pretty well, and I inquired at what place I had been
appointed the Postmaster. I wanted to know that, and also what the salary
was; and then I learned (I must confess, with a good deal of disappointment)
that I was not a Postmaster after all, but only a Toastmaster. Some who agreed
to speak have backed out. Still, there is plenty of talent here; and I am glad
that we have with us to-night His Honor, Mayor Rudolph Blankenburg, of our
goodly city of Philadelphia.
Mayor Blankenburg:
Mr. President, Members of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and
Guests: I do not know what you have done that I should be inflicted upon you to-
night. I came here confident that I would not be called upon to speak on this aus-
picious occasion. One of the prerogatives of the office of Mayor of Philadelphia is
an invitation to every banquet that takes place; the penalty, almost invariably,
that he must earn his "meal ticket" by a speech. If I only had the capacity,
I could eat enough during the four years of my term to last me for the rest of
my life should I live to be a hundred, but unfortunately, I have not that capacity.
A feeling of awe overcomes me when I look into the faces of learned and
scientific men because they are so far beyond my ken that a sense of profound
humility overcomes me in their presence. This sensation of insignificance has
been materially dispelled this evening as I look at the magnificent dining room
presided over by Dr. Dixon. We have before us beautiful decorations, and the
elaborate menu which we have discussed, as well as everything else connected
with it, including liquids, has convinced me that scientists are only mortals
after all.
I know that you have enjoyed yourselves thoroughly. You have partaken
of the good things set before you and some of you may even have indulged in
something besides Schuylkill water; (I should have said, "some of us.")
I have made a discovery this evening which is of such importance that it
must be announced first before this august assembly. It is nothing less than
that the forty women who are as much members of the Academy as any of you
men, do not seem to be able to eat. This is the most remarkable discovery of
recent years. I am sure these ladies would not be excluded from the feast
had they learned to eat like men! 6
I shall be brief, as there are many speakers to follow me. We are proud of
The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. It is known all over
the world and is one of the institutions that appeals to every citizen. The
Academy has done much to give Philadelphia the name and the fame to which
we are justly entitled as a center of learning. I believe the collections in your
building are as extensive and as valuable as those in any similar institution in the
United States. They have been gathered through the energy and care of the men
who have, in one hundred years, from small and humble beginnings, succeeded
in giving to Philadelphia its foremost scientific society. How it has flourished in
6 In allusion to the fact that there were no ladies present.
