PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xxix
recent years, and especially during the term of your office, President Dixon,
is well known to all. A splendid future is in store for us of service to the City,
the State and to the whole country, in collaboration with the many other edu-
cational institutions of a similar character of which we boast.
We should not duplicate too much, but try to have every institution attend
to its own province and functions. Every institution of learning ought to have
an individuality of its own, and I believe that the Academy has an individuality
that is not part and parcel of any other institution of our city.
Philadelphia is going to build a new Free Library. This Library will be
located on the Parkway. (Whenever I hear the Parkway mentioned, I feel like
crawling into a hole and pulling the hole in after me.) There are many people
in Philadelphia who think that the Parkway is the most important project
before the public to-day. I am not of this opinion. We all favor the Parkway;
we all want to beautify Philadelphia, make her something like Paris, at one
time the most beautiful city of the world. As we know, Paris has the Champs
Elysees. There is nothing quite equal to this Paris "parkway," as we would
call it in our vernacular. We shall give Philadelphia a Champs Elysees, only
let us be reasonable as to time. We have no Baron Haussman nor Emperor
Napoleon, who simply demolished and built up as they pleased, because they
were accountable to no one for their acts. If we had commenced operations
forty years ago, Philadelphia to-day would probably be as beautiful as Paris,
but we were utilitarians then and had little thought for the beautiful. Now we
have awakened, and it is not yet too late.
We are going to finish the Parkway, and on this Parkway, almost opposite
the Academy of Natural Sciences, we shall build a new Free Library. We
mean to make this library one of the institutions of the country. I ask of you
here present, as I request the gentlemen at the head of the Free Library, not to
enter the domain of the other; that is, not to duplicate or to waste force in the
same direction. Let each be original in its own way. What is the use of a
library with books of reference that will be rarely used and then have these
books duplicated across the street? You have a library with many rare sci-
entific books that are useful to you in your own researches. There is no sense in
having in a library across the street the same books. Let us cooperate. With
cooperation we can have everything in Philadelphia that will tend towards the
benefit and welfare of the whole community.
We are all proud of Philadelphia, even those who live at a distance, even
those from Boston, the "Hub of the Universe." Philadelphia is one of the great
and leading cities of the world. We have many institutions that are not to be
found elsewhere. Take Girard College, with its vast grounds and fine buildings.
Stephen Girard, a Frenchman, gave us Girard College; his name is honored and
will be revered for all time. Fifteen hundred is the average number of orphan
boys who are there educated year in and j^ear out, free of charge. They are
housed, fed, clothed, and educated, and many of the graduates of that college
