xxx PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING.
are to-day citizens of prominence in our commonwealth and all over the United
States. We have the finest public schools, we have the University of Pennsyl-
vania and many other educational institutions, each in its own way adding its
share toward the education of our people and the advancement of our great
country.
One more thought a thought that has been dear to me for many years:
Science is one of the great powers for progress and light, but it must be combined
in its teachings with hard, common sense. Let us get as close as we can to
nature, for all science comes from and is closely related to nature, and the more
natural we are, the wiser we shall become. Sense and science should govern us
in the problem of government, especially that of municipal government, for it
comes closest to us and is all-important in the destinies of our land. If we have
honest, efficient and pure municipal government, the question of the future of
our country will be solved.
We are to-day attempting in Philadelphia to solve this important question.
Our people suffered for many years because selfishness had taken the place of
public spirit; avarice, that of high-minded devotion to the public good; cowardice,
that of courage; partisanship had conquered patriotism. The people had for
many years failed to rule Philadelphia, just as they failed in other municipalities.
At last we proclaimed in our own city a new Declaration of Independence. The
people arose in their might, threw off the shackles, declared for and obtained
freedom. This is a government, as Lincoln so vividly and tersely expressed it,
"of the people, by the people, and for the people." Let us have this kind of
government. It is the legitimate rule; the natural, the scientific and philo-
sophical direction of public affairs. You members of the Academy of Natural
Sciences can help to establish a "Public Academy of all the Sciences," of splendid
common sense and patriotic spirit for the whole city. Then we shall solve the
great question of municipal government, of honest and progressive government
on business lines.
Forgive me for speaking of myself, but thirty, aye forty years of my life have
been devoted to this problem. The opportunity has at last presented itself
for solution. We have commenced and are doing the best we know how.
We are applying scientific methods to every department of the city government,
and I ask you, members of the Academy of Natural Sciences, to help us apply the
principles that prompt your devotion and energy, to the solution of the question
of municipal government. Then one hundred years hence, at your bi-centennial
celebration, it will be related as a proud historical fact that, when the Centenary
of the Academy was celebrated, the prediction was made and has been fulfilled
that this great society could, would and did lend its weighty influence to the
popular cause. That it applied the same thoughts and ideas to the solution of
municipal government that it has given to the investigation and expansion of
the natural sciences.
Then the second centenary of this influential body will not only be identified
