xxxii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING.
Zoological Garden, has brought to our doors the wonders of the living world;
and who, in the American Museum of Natural History in the Central Park, has
made to live again the strange monsters of a past world. I have pleasure in
calling upon Professor Henry Fairfield Osborn to speak to us upon the culti-
vation by the Academy of the science of paleontology.
Dr. Osborn:
In addressing the Mayor of Philadelphia, the President and members of The
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and the Toastmaster, I rise with
the greatest pleasure to the toast of "The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila-
delphia and its Relation to the Development of Paleontology in America."
I bring greetings to the Academy from the scientific institutions of New
York City, the American Museum of Natural History, and Columbia University,
as well as an expression of the debt that all of us constantly feel to the men who
have worked within these walls and have developed that division of the biology
of the past known as paleontology.
This country has ever afforded peculiar opportunities for the development of
this branch of science which was founded in France by the genius of Cuvier.
There were first the Pleistocene fossils discovered in the Eastern and Middle
States, some of which Thomas Jefferson considered of greater interest than the
political developments in the stirring period of 180S. Then came our Western
Territory, an arid region constituting an unknown continent. The first explorers
of the Mauvaises Terres brought back a revelation of the existence of wonderful
records of the world's life. Fortunately for science as early as 1851 these frag-
ments were brought to Philadelphia, and to the hands of one who lives immortal
in the history of American science and the world's science, Dr. Joseph Leidy.
Never was there a greater opportunity and never was there a man more ready
to grasp it than that quiet, unpretentious, unassuming, wonderfully gifted ob-
server of nature. It is particularly interesting to review his work, which was
written in the exact spirit of Cuvier, and to see his long record of direct observa-
tion of the entire extinct fauna, not only of the East but especially of the great
western territories, to find how permanent that work is, how well it stands the
test of time, how accurate his descriptions, how perfect his figures and illustra-
tions, and how, even today, they form the best standards for all the work which
has been done since. So I think it may fairly and truly be said, without any
exaggeration incidental to this historic moment, that Joseph Leidy was the
founder of the paleontology of the vertebrates in America. After a continuous
series of epoch-making papers and contributions which he was in the habit of
contributing year after year to meeting after meeting he brought his work to
a climax in 1869 when he published his great monograph, The Extinct Mammalian
Fauna of Nebraska and Dakota, in the Journal of the Academy. That work still
ranks in its breadth and its accuracy as one of the finest contributions that has
been made to vertebrate paleontology in this country. In fact, Leidy started
