PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xxxv
after I received from New Haven all of Marsh's manuscripts; that is, everything
not published which related to his unfinished monographs. Where was the
best place to put these manuscripts? Why, in the same drawer in which Cope
had collected his Marshiana, and there they may be found today.
Well, gentlemen, let me in closing wish the Academy of Natural Sciences the
company and association of many more such men as Leidy, Cope, and Marsh;
let me express the hope that this present life of the Academy with its new oppor-
tunities, may be a continuation of the old life, but that with improved conditions
there may come the discovery among the young students of the public schools
and your University, men of genius to succeed those we are honoring tonight.
If you have in this great city, as is undoubtedly the case, young men with
a talent for such studies, here is where they will find their opportunity, here is
where they will be welcomed, and here is where the Academy will develop the
men who will continue its glorious traditions.
The President:
I had declined to speak this evening because I thought it my place to
listen to what others had to say about the institution that has been so
effectively sustained by the citizens of Philadelphia and of the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania, but after listening to the history of the wars between the
naturalists of the past, at this time when the Academy has just received the
most gracious testimonials from her sister institutions all over the world assuring
us of their sympathy and cooperation in our work, one is encouraged to hope for
an international code of peace. I realize more fully than ever that scientific
and educational institutions are effective agents in establishing such a code.
Most gratifying to our members and to the citizens of Philadelphia in general
are the compliments paid the Academy by scientists from every part of the
world and such assurances of cooperation give rise to reasonable hope that the
work of the Academy and kindred institutions will be an important factor in the
establishment of peace on earth and good will among men.
Dr. Conklin:
We are greatly honored to-night in having with us the Nestor of Amer-
ican Zoology, a man who was contemporary with Joseph Leidy, and the
other men of whom we have just been hearing. I refer to Dr. Theodore N.
Gill, of the National Museum at Washington. Here at the Academy we have
the custom of dating events as before or after Nolan. Dr. Gill tells me that he
was elected a member of this Academy in the year 1860. Now, since Dr. Nolan
became connected with the Academy as a boy in 1862, we have to admit that
Dr. Gill belongs to the pre-Nolan period. Dr. Gill has recently been very ill,
and he has paid us the great compliment of coming here and staying throughout
the whole celebration; and I am now glad to call on him to tell us whatever he
may please, just as his spirit may move him.
As this is the seventy-fifth birthday of Dr. Gill I propose that we stand and
drink his health.
This was cordially done.
