xxxvi PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING.
Dr. Gill:
It is fifty-two years since I was elected a Correspondent of this Academy.
When Dr. Nolan gave his address, night before last, it was with the greatest
pleasure that I listened to his reminiscences. When admitted to association I
was given all the privileges of the society: I had a pass-key, and could visit
the Academy not only by day, but also by night. I take the greatest pleasure
in acknowledging the advantages enjoyed by me at that time, and to testify as
to how greatly I enjoyed the benefits conferred by the institution and how
persistently I attempted to derive from it all the benefits possible.
The Academy was then a comparatively small institution, but nevertheless
far ahead of any other of the kind in the country. In that early time (that is,
during the last of the 50's and the first of the 60's), there were in Philadelphia
quite a remarkable collection of young students of about the same age, almost all
of whom belonged to the Academy. One of these that I recall (and I think that
I recall almost all of them) was Edward Cope. Another was Horatio Wood,
who is the only one of the lot now living.
Cope, as you know, was versatile. At that time, he was almost exclusively
interested in the reptiles, but he developed year after year, in many ways, so
that he covered all nature, not even confining himself to the vertebrates.
Horatio Wood was at that time more especially interested in the myriapods
and the horny corals.
George Horn was also active. He was at that time also interested in the
corals. A short time after he took up the study of Coleoptera, in which he
became a past master.
Gabb was actively engaged in the study of invertebrate paleontology.
These men occasionally assembled together. One such meeting was in March,
1861, when William Stimpson was present. Absenting himself for a time he
came back with some doggerel, in which he included those present. It was
dedicated to the "Polymythian Society of Monosyllables, who contributed nine-
tenths of the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences in 1861," and
as nearly as I remember it ran somewhat as follows :
"Into this well of learning dipped,
With spoon of Wood or Horn
For students, Meek and lowly,
Silver spoons should treat with scorn.
Though Gabb should have the gifts of Gill,
As Gill has gift of Gabb,
'Twould show a want of judgment still,
To try to Cope with Meek."
The Academy was a most delightful place. I made frequent visits from
Washington, and in 1861 I held a Jessup Fund Scholarship for three months,
enjoying largely my continued stay in Philadelphia. During that time, I had
the free use of the building, and still had a pass-key, which I freely used.
Among the older members who impressed me were Leidy, Conrad, Isaac Lea,
