PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xxxvii
and Tryon. Leidy was a handsome man of striking personality but somewhat
round-shouldered. He was a man of the widest range of knowledge and infor-
mation and was able to put his hand almost immediately on any book of reference.
He was familiar with all forms of life from Amceba to Man. I entered the Uni-
versity as a medical student under him. As a lecturer, he was not eloquent, but
he gave the facts in a trenchant, impressive way which arrested the attention and
gave direction to the thoughts of the student. In range of knowledge, he excelled
anyone that I have ever known even Cope was much inferior in that respect,
but Leidy was not a generalizer and did not care to consider questions from a
philosophical point of view. Cope, on the contrary, was willing to discuss any
philosophical question. One of the subjects of the day (that was before Darwin's
day, you know) in which Cope was deeply interested was the vertebrate theory
of the skull. That has been so completely buried that I fear many of you may
not be familiar with what the theory was. It held that the skull was composed
of four vertebra?. It was more especially advocated by Richard Owen, and
widely accepted in England. The first discussion of any length I had with Cope
was on the subject of this vertebrate theory. He strenuously advocated it;
I contended against it, and gave my reasons. We went to Leidy and appealed
to him, and he said: "I do not take any interest in these questions. I do not
believe in the theory."
Dr. Conklin:
Gentlemen: We have with us the director of another museum, one of the
greatest of this country, that of the Carnegie Institute of Pittsburgh. Wherever
you go, in the great museums in this country or abroad, you will see life sized
models of that prehistoric beast, Diplodocus carnegii, a creature which always
reminds me of the poet's description of the comet: "Ten thousand miles of
flaming head; ten million miles of tail."
I call upon Dr. William J. Holland, of Pittsburgh.
Dr. Holland :
Through the kindness of the Toastmaster I have been spared the agony of
suspense, which sometimes afflicts those who are called upon to make after-
dinner speeches. You may have heard that Daniel accounted for his escape
from the lions by stating that they were to make an after-dinner speech and had
therefore lost their appetites. I have dined in peace and face you with a glad
heart and unimpaired digestion.
When I was a boy of ten my mother brought me to Philadelphia. I had
in my pocket four gold dollars little gold dollars some of you remember them.
I went to the bookstore of J. B. Lippincott, and I bought Dr. Livingstone's
first volume. I have that book in my library to-day. It is the first book bought
with my own money, and stands first in a long list of thousands of volumes which
are in my library. It is on that account one of my treasures. My mother was
