xxxviii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING.
wont to tease me afterwards because I used to express fear that Dr. Livingstone
would discover everything in Africa before I could have a chance. The day after
visiting Lippincott's bookstore I visited the Academy of Natural Sciences,
lodged in that tall narrow building, which has been referred to this evening as
having stood where later stood the Hotel Lafayette. There I feasted my eyes
upon Dr. Kane's polar bear. For years the memory of that wonderful sight has
lived with me, and whenever thinking of the arctic regions, Dr. Kane's polar
bear, by the laws of natural association, has come back in memory, glorified, as
are all the visions of childhood. Yesterday, after more than half a century,
I saw Dr. Kane's polar bear again. Horrible! How the now time-worn relic
has shattered the memories of childhood! Taxidermy has made great advances
during the past half of a century. We can do better in the way of stuffing polar
bears to-day. We had three polar bears sent in cold storage to us from within
the Arctic Circle only a short time ago, and prepared them in Pittsburgh. Had
anybody told me more than fifty years ago, as I stood looking at Dr. Kane's
bear, that I should myself have three bears of the same species shipped to me
from Siberia to Pittsburgh, and that I should have them skinned there and
mounted for a museum, I should have declared the idea supremely ridiculous.
But the thing has actually happened.
To be a member of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia seemed
to me in my youth the highest honor which could come to mortal man; and later,
when good old Doctor Ruschenberger, Mr. John Jordan, the President of the
Historical Society of Pennsylvania, and Dr. Nolan proposed me for membership,
I was one of the happiest young men in America.
The memories which cluster around this institution are precious to me.
I will not speak of those who are living. I knew Durand and Fiot, and many
other botanists, who in my youth were connecting links with the early days of
this institution. When Mr. Stone entertained us this afternoon with his most
interesting account of the pine-barrens of New Jersey, there came back to me a
flood of recollections of certain golden days which I passed in company with
Durand, Fiot, my own father (who was a botanist), and my mother's cousin,
Francis Wolle, on the occasion of an excursion to New Jersey to study and
collect plants. I am glad to recognize here to-night the son-in-law of Francis
Wolle, Professor Doolittle, the honored professor of astronomy in the University
of Pennsylvania. These halcyon days, when all the world was young, and my
friends were the wisest of all men, when the flowers we gathered were the
brightest, and the bird-songs we heard were the sweetest, will never come
again.
It has been my lot for a number of years to preside over the destinies of the
great museum established by the generosity of one of the most noted sons (by
adoption) of Pennsylvania at the headwaters of the Ohio. Supported by the
generous gifts and sympathetic counsels of Andrew Carnegie we have undertaken
to do in the western part of this great Commonwealth work allied to that which
