xl PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING.
Dr. Nolan:
Gentlemen: I can say metaphorically as well as literally that I am not yet
too full for utterance, but I am reminded of a friend who has undergone so
many surgical operations that she declares she has nothing left but lungs and
recollections. I have, however, in addition, a tongue, and as long as the lungs
continue to supply the motor force, I am willing to talk in the interest of the
Academy.
I have been dealing earlier in the proceedings somewhat extensively in
"recollections" but were I not surrounded by friends, I should feel tonight as
a stranger in a strange land. The Academy moved into this building in 1876,
when I had for fourteen years been administering the affairs of the Library
and the Publication Office to the best of my ability and with little or no assist-
ance. Many of you remember the aspect of this old hall, austere, not to say
dingy, in which the work was continued until the completion of the stack building,
and we are startlingly conscious tonight of how it has been transformed by the
energy of the President. In the northeast corner was the little room in which I sat
and worked for more than thirty-six years. Its only attraction was the view it af-
forded of the beautiful trees in Logan Square. Directly to the west, separated by
an alcove, was the even darker and gloomier room inhabited by my beloved pre-
ceptor, Joseph Leidy, of whom you have heard so much tonight. There he did
much of the work which has rendered this society illustrious, always ready, no
matter what his engrossment, to give his time for the assistance of others. Ar-
ranged around the hall were equally small and gloomy study rooms, every one
teeming with recollections of men who have been efficient in promoting the
credit of the Academy. These were placed, as far as possible, at the service of
visiting naturalists as well as resident students, and in one of them the genial
Elliott Coues from time to time did much work in ornithological bibliography.
He told me on one occasion that it was the most satisfactory room in which he
had ever worked "for if I had a good fishing-pole I could draw to my table
every book I need without getting up." A little beyond, Heilprin, for a time,
discharged the duties of Executive Curator, and the last room on the north side
was for some months inhabited by the venerable Titian R. Peale, a contemporary
of the founders.
Recollections become more vivid as I go on, regardless of the lovely lights
and plants and draperies and evidences of good cheer that everywhere delight
our senses tonight. There to the right of where I now stand Tryon was en-
sconsed for years, engaged on his epoch-making work in conchology, and just
beyond Henry C. McCook elaborated the results of his fine field-work among the
ants and spiders. The other rooms were occupied from time to time by equally
illustrious men. It was to the door directly opposite mine that the good angel
of a distinguished arctic explorer directed his steps when he succeeded in enlisting
the Corresponding Secretary's interest in his plans. Had he turned to the right
instead of to the left he would have met with but scant encouragement.
