PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xli
I have a vivid remembrance of another social gathering in this hall. It was
a very generous dinner given by the lamented William S. Vaux to the Centennial
Commissioners in 1876. The affair was a distinguished success, the provision
both of solids and liquids being generous and the spirit of the gathering most
genial, but when I contrast the surroundings of that occasion with those we are
enjoying tonight, I am impressed with the fact that "the world do move."
The only other event of the kind in the history of the Academy is a pleasant
tradition, and not one of my recollections. It was a dinner given in 1854, at
the instance of Dr. Ruschenberger, who acted as Chairman, in Musical Fund
Hall. One hundred and four members enjoyed the feast and joy was unre-
strained. At the risk of causing discontent with the elegant and sufficient bill
of fare provided for this evening's entertainment, I shall, as an illustration
of the change in social usage, call your attention to the perfectly exuberant
catalogue of eatables provided on that occasion. Without dwelling too much
on details I may say that while there was but one soup, and that nameless,
there were two kinds of fish, four boiled meats, ten side dishes, the French
names of which I shall not pronounce out of regard for the feelings of
Mons. de Pulligny. Then there were five roasts: beef, capons, saddle
of mutton, turkey, and ham. Under game were served pheasants, prairie
grouse, partridges, terrapin, and (it is to be hoped not too game) fried oysters.
There were six entries under "Pastry"; ten under "Dessert," and the whole
was washed down with Madeira, Champagne (Heidsieck and Mumm's), Pale
Sherry, Claret, Brown Sherry, Scharzberg, Steinberg, Liebfraumilch, Brandy,
Coffee, Whisky and, last but probably not least Punch. Curiously enough there
is no mention of ice cream, so apparently indispensable at the close of our
contemporary feasts.
Strange to say the work of the Academy went on as usual, no notable ad-
ditions to the death list having been recorded on the minutes of subsequent
meetings.
I think our admirable committee on entertainment, while they no doubt
have done as well as they could, have supplied no such provision for the inner
man as is set forth on that bill of fare of 1854.
Of course, congratulations are in order. The President has indicated our
feelings on that subject, and it is not necessary to say more. It is very
likely, almost certain, so far as we know at present, that nobody here now will
participate in the second hundred years' celebration of the Academy's birthday;
but we do not know what may eventuate in this era of progress in biological
science, and Metchnikoff or some one else may discover a life-renewing bacillus
that will leave at our discretion the extent of our lives. If this be so, one
reason for wishing to prolong our existence would be the anticipated joy of
participating in the celebration of the Two-Hundredth Anniversary of the
Academy; and if I meet with any of you on that occasion I am sure we shall be a
bunch of jolly old boys. And so Good Night.
