PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. lix
American Association for the Advancement of Science.
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C,
March 16, 1912.
The American Association for the Advancement of Science, through its
delegates appointed for this purpose, presents to The Academy of Natural Sci-
ences of Philadelphia its heartiest good wishes on the occasion of the celebration
of the Centenary Anniversary of the founding of the Academy.
It further congratulates the Academy on the admirable work it has accom-
plished and upon its prospect for more good work in the future.
By L. 0. Howard,
Permanent Secretary.
Through Delegates Appointed.
American Association of Economic Entomologists.
Dallas, Texas, March 11, 1912.
Corresponding Secretary, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia:
Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the invitation of The
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia to the American Association of
Economic Entomologists to be represented at the Centenary Anniversary cere-
monies soon to be held in Philadelphia. In behalf of this Association I desire
to thank the Academy for the honor of this invitation.
From the beginning of its long and active career The Academy of Natural
Sciences of Philadelphia has fostered and encouraged entomology. Many of the
most prominent contributors to the science in America have been connected
with the Academy. Many others who have played conspicuous parts in Amer-
ican economic entomology have received their inspiration from the work of the
Academy. In fact, there is not an entomologist in the United States who does
not, directly or indirectly, owe a debt of gratitude to the Academy.
Doctor L. O. Howard, of Washington, has been requested to represent this
Association at the coming ceremonies and to express its good wishes, high appre-
ciation of the uniform good work it has done in the advancement of science, and
its hope that this work will continue to grow.
Very respectfully
W. D. Hunter,
President.
