PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. Ixv
Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences.
February 14, 1912.
Corresponding Secretary of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Dear Sir:
At a meeting of the Board of Managers of the Buffalo Society of Natural
Sciences, held Friday evening, February 9, 1912, your courteous invitation
to the Society that it should be represented at the One Hundredth Anni-
versary of the founding of your Academy was presented to the Board and the
following resolution was unanimously adopted: Resolved: That this Society
extend to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia its most hearty con-
gratulations upon the near approaching Centenary Anniversary of its founding
and with such congratulations to express the sincere feeling of respect and
appreciation which, in common with all workers in natural science, this Society
feels for the splendid and valuable work accomplished by the Academy during
the one hundred years of its useful existence and to bespeak for it a further long
continuance of its active and honorable life.
By direction of the Board it gives me great pleasure to transmit to you this
resolution which now appears upon our minutes.
Very respectfully yours,
Henry R. Howland,
Superintendent, Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences.
Bureau of Entomology, United States Department of Agriculture.
Washington, D. C, March 16, 1912.
To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Pa.
All the members of the staff of the Bureau of Entomology of the United States
Department of Agriculture join in hearty congratulations to the Academy on the
occasion of its celebration on its One-hundredth Birthday. No body of men
appreciates more highly the high character of the work done by the Academy
than does this force, and none can congratulate the Academy more heartily on
its present commanding position in the field of American Science.
For the Bureau,
L. O. Howard,
Chief.
4* JOURN. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA., VOL XV
