THE BFST ANNUAiy.
The Best Annuals.
I WOULD always advise amateur floriculturists
to select old and tested varieties of anauala for
the summer flower garden. In doing this, they
are sure of gettiug something they can depend
on. They run no risks. Others have given these
plants repeated trials, and they have not been
"found wanting." But if the amateur gets a
craze for " novelties," he is quite sure to meet
with disappointment. Some of the new plants
are good, of course ; some very good indeed,
but the majority prove worthless after being
given a thorough trial. To prove this, look over
your old catalogues, and you will find that by
if'ar the greater share of the " novelties" intro-
duced with such a verbal flourish of trumpets
gpnerally drop out of the list after a year or two,
and are heard of no more. Why V Because they
had nothing but their novelty to recommend
them to the flower-loving public, and as soon as
this was found out there was uo further use for
them. To become popular and remain so, a
flowpr must have real merit. To indulge a de-
sire for novelties, one must often put as much
money into one or two kinds, as the plants with
which a large garden is filled would cost him,
because these new plants are always sold at
fancy prices. It is always -wise to invest this
money in something you know to be good. If
the new plants are really meritorious, you will
fiad it out later on, and then you can buy thom.
But let those who have plenty of monpy to ex-
periment with ascertain the facts relative to
tfapir merits or demerits.
Because the test of many years has proved
how meritorious the standard flowers of the
catalogues are, I feel safe in advising amateur
florists to confine their selections to that list.
They can be sure of having good flowers from
them if thi'"y give them a reasonable amount of
care, and without that care no flower will be
satisfactory. Most of them are kinds that re-
qiiire but little attention after they have got well
started. Given a good, mellow soil to grow in,
fret'dom from weeds, and water, if the season
should prove to bo a dry one, they will bloom
profusely ; and if kept from perfecting seed,
most varieties will continue to bloom throughout
the greater part of the season.
Sweet Peas.
Of these moat beautiful flowers you will want
a variety. Some of the newer sorts are simply
exqoisite, with their charming combinations of
dainty and delicate colors. Pink and white,
pink and cream, pale yellow and pure white,
scarlet and white, blue' and white, mauve and
lilac— there seems no end to the list of desirable
varieties. The seed should be sown as soon as
possible in spring. Sow in trenches at least
tour icchi^s d^ep. If sowed late in the season
or in shallow soil, they will be jDretry sure to
fail. They must get an early start, and their
rooTs must reach down below the upper soil,
where moisture and a certain degree of cool-
ness is to be found at all times. This is one of
the best flowers we have to cut from. Be sure
to have a row of them.
Nattturtiums.
These are excellent for bedding, also for cut-
ting. Do not give them a ve-y rich soil, as that
induces a rank growth of vine, and gives but
few flowers. The Nasturtium com»s in exceed-
ingly rich colors, orange and scarlet predomi-
nating. Some varieties are a pure yellow,
marked with maroon, others a soft cream with
darker veins. Plant by themselves.
Petunias.
This flower is of the easiest possible cul-
ture. It comr>8 in various shades of violet, pur-
ple, red, mauve and pink, and in pure white,
and white striped and blotched or veiued with
other colors. We have yeiy few flowers that
make a braver show of color, or that bloom
more profusely or constantly. By cutting back
the tops from time to time, new shoots will be
sent up that will bear flowers quite as Ireely as
the first ones. Some of the latest varieties,
with fringed petals, are very fine. B^ all means
keep this plant in a bed by itsolf, as it does not
combine well with anything else.
Calliopsis.
This annual is one of the best flowers we have
in yellow. It is very bright and rich in color,
ranging from a rich golden yellow to a deep
orange, and its central markiiigs of dark brown
or maroon are exceedingly fine. It is a profuse
bloomer and excellent for catting. This is one
of our best flowers for fildng the center of a bed
from which a dazzling show of color is desired.
Unlike most other annuals, this combines well
with other flowers of harmonizing colors, pro-
vided it is massed in th*^ center and the others
are planted about it as a border.
Ten Week Stock.
This flower is a late bloomer, and, on. that
account, very desirable. It is also a very beau-
tiful flower and very sweet. It blooms profusely
up to the coming of snow, and, if potted care-
fully and cut back pretty well at the time of
potting, can be made a good winter bloomer.
It comes in various shades of red and purpie
and pure white. About half the young plants
will produce single flowers. These should be
pulled up as soon as the character of the flowers
IS seen. . This is the Gillyflower of our grand-
mothers. It is very fine for cutting.
Balsams.
Charming summer bloomers of many colors
and shades. The double varieties are as large
as a Camellia, which they resemble so much lu
form that one strain is called Camellia-flowered.
In order to get the finest efi"ect8 from them, tne
leaves must bp clipped ofi" or the flowers will be
hidden. The blossoms are set thickly together
all along the main stalks and the branches.
Asters.
This is our very best fall flower. It comes into
bloom late in August and continues until frost.
