THE PRACTICAL GUIDE TO FLORICULTURE.
There are several distinct varieties, all of which
are very fine. 8ome are tall fjrowers, others
dwarf. Their colors are red, blue, pink, purple
ami pure white, and many sorts combine these
colors in a most charming manner. In form they
closely resemble the popular Chrysanthemum,
for which sorno of the white varieties are sold
in fall. No garden should be without this flower.
Because of its late-blooming character, it should
be given a place at one side, as it is not orna-
mental during the summer.
Pblox.
This flower is a favorite because it bloms
with such wonderful profusion all through the
snason if prevented from forming seed, aud be-
cause of its rich and varied coloring. The piuk,
and rose, and pure white sorts are best. It is
of the easiest culture. Fine for bed where a
great show of color is wanted.
Morning Glories.
The best tall flowering climber we have. Ex-
cellent for covering verandas, porches and
screens. It often reaches to the top of the
second story windows if given stout strings to
climb by. its colors are blue, purple, pink and
white, exceedingly rich and delicate. An old
favorite.
Poppies.
Old, but none the worse for that. Very showy
and easily grown. Some of the lately introduced
varieties, like the Shirley strain, 're intensely
bright in color, and give a grand show if planted
in masses.
NeJnopbilH.
Very dainty, delicate flowers, of soft, light
colors. Useful for cutting.
Portulacea.
The best plant I know of for a very dry, sunny
location. It flourishes under conditions that
would be death to most plants. Its flowers are
of many rich colors, some siugl*^, some double.
All pretty, and produced in the greatest profu-
sion. It is a low grower, and therefore fine for
beds near the path, or under the windows where
one can look down upon them.
Amarantbus.
This flower is not very desirable on account of
its individual beauty, but for massing, or plant-
ing whore it can show its mass of color striking-
ly, it is very effective. The foliage is red and
greon, the flowers in long, drooping racemes of
dark red. Exceedingly showy for large beds,
especially if bordered with Golden Feather Py-
rethrum of some of the orange Nasturtiums.
Ageratum.
A noat little bushy plant, bearing clusters of
feathery blue and white flowers, which are very
fine for cutting. Very delicate in tint. Fine for
boquet work.
Antirrhinum.
The well-known old Snapdragon. Very bril-
liant in color. Scarlet and yellow, orange and
scarlet with white throat, crimscn and white,
yellow and blotched.
Allyssum
A good edging plant, bearing small, pure,
white flowers m clusters. Very fragrant. Fine
for cutting. Effective when grown in masses,
whe'-c a broad show of white is desirable.
Candytuft.
A profuse bloomer, fine for massing or edging.
White and carmine. Of the easiest culture.
Celosia.
A peculiar flower, that never fails to attract
attention, ^etter known as Cockscomb, because
of the resen-blance of its ruflle spikes of flowers
to the comb of Chanticleer. Rich in colors of
red and Cximeon and yellow. Very desirabli^,
not only because of its rich coloring, but be-
cause of its strikiBg form.
I^arkspur,
The annual Larkspurs are all charming flow-
ers. Double and single.
Bscbscboltzia.
One of the most showy of all plants. Colors,
orange, yellow and creamy white. Better known
as California Poppy. Great bloomers.
Gaillardias.
Very free blooming flowers, of red and yellow,
red and orange, red and white, and various other
combinations of colors.
Mirabilis.
The old Four-o'clock. Fine for a hedge or
screen. White, violet and crimson ; some va-
rieties blotched and striped in a most peculiar
manner. Very free bloomer.
Marigold.
One of the good old flowers which ought not
to be overlooked. The French varieties, with
their rich yellows and velvety browns, are very
fine. Fine for massing.
Mignonette.
Not showy, but so sweet ! Every garden should
have plenty of it to cut from,
Scabiosa.
Very richly colored dark flowers, which are
excellent for cutting, as they are borne on long,
wiry stems. Good, when dried, for winter
flowers.
Zinnia.
A strong - growing, branching plant, that is
most effective when grown in the background,
in beds, hedges, or as screens. Colors, scarlet,
yellow, orange, red, purple, salmon and pure
white. Mostly very double and shaped like the
Dahlia.
I shall not extend the list of desirable annuals,
because it would be impossible to give space to
the mention of all, and 1 have already named
