THE PRACTICAL GUIDE TO FLORICULTURE.
Carpet Bedding.
Carpet Bedding— in other words, such an ar-
rangement of plants of varioua colors as to work
cut patterns and d^-signa similar to or suggestive
of those seen in carpets— is very popular, and
moat yards or gardens have a specimen or two
of this kind of gardening each summer, and on
large lawns we find many of them, some large
beds often containing several thousand plants.
The great city parks contain most elaborate do-
signs, many, "if not most of them, being more
striking than beautiful. ^ The only " designs" I
have ever seen that I 'admired were tbose in
which geometrical patterns were worked out.
Portraits, animals and the like attract attention,
but there is nothing artistic about them ; indeed,
they are burle-^qucs on art, and one soon be-
comes tired of ibem, while a less pretentious
bed in which angles and circles of contrasting
colors interlace with each other, affords the eye
a bit of brightness that pleases, at least if it
does not educate, the taste to a love for and
appreciation of something more truly artistic.
Flowering plants should never be used in
workiog out these designs, for several rea.sons :
-F'lVsm/.— Because a flower was made to be ad-
mired for its own beauty— that beauty which
consists in form and color and habit of growth.
If you use it for mere color-effect, as you must
when you work it into a carpet, bed, you degrade
it, because you do not grow it for individual
beauty; rather, for the mass of color, which can
be secured by planting it so close together that
all individuality is lost sight of in general efifect.
Flowers were not made for such purposes, I be-
lieve, and the true lover of them will not care
to use them in such a manner as to destroy their
principal charm.
Secondly.— T^o flowering plants with which I
have had any experience bloom so profusely
throughout tlie season that they can b^ relied
on to give good results when used in combina-
tion with plants having richly-colored foliage.
In order to secure a solid effect of color, some-
thing having more "body "than that afforded
by most flowering plants must be tised. We of-
ten say that a plant is " covered with flowers,"
but the truth is that it is never really covered in
the literal sense of the word. There may be a
great many blossoms, biit they are seldom so
plentiful as to give the fffect oif a solid mass of
color. Instead, they give us blotches of color on
a green ground, which is not what we require in
order to produce most satisfactory results. Such
results ran only be secured by using plants
whose foliage furnishes a mass of color among
which no other colors are seen, unless it bap-
pens to be variegated, in which case the effect
IS quite different from that given by flowers
scattered over a plant.
r/iircHy— There is a lack of complete har-
mony between "foliage" plants and flowering
plants. The former can be clipped and kept
even as to height without, interfering with gen-
eral effect, while flowering plants throw up
stalks of unequal height and of spreading habit,
thus breaking up regularity aiul eliarpnoss ot
outline, on which much of the success you aim
r
at depends. You cannot clip these plants back
as you can the others, because in doing that
you would cut off the flowers, thus destroying
quantities of that color on which you depend
for the effoct sought. The onlv way in which
you can secure this color-effect from them is by
letting them grow, and when this is done, as I
have said, the effect is rough and uneven. It is
not so with plants having foliage whose color
enables you to work out a design. Cut off their
tops, or shorten their side branches, and leaves
still remain to give sufiicient color, and other
leaves will be produced alonj? the branches,
thus making it possible to keep up a show of
color throughout the entire season, without sac-
riflciog rpgularity and symmetry.
The only way in which I would'combine flower-
ing plants and plants having bright foliage, is
bv using the latter as edging or border for a
tied. In doing this great care should be taken
in the selection of varieties, or inharmonious
effects will result. Iroagioe a bed of pink Phlox
surrounded with crimson Coleus! Border such
a bed with Madame Salleroi Geraniums, with
their pale green and pure white foliage, and the
combination would be most charming.
The plants most used for carjjet bedding are
Coleus,' Achyi-anthes, Alternantheras, Feverfew,
or Pyrethruin, Centaurea and Geraniums.
In" Coleus we get several shades of red, rang-
ing from a light tint to one so dark that it is al-
most maroon. Verschafelti, an old sort, is still
one of the best amoug the red-leaved class. It
retains its color well throughout the hottest
season, bears fr^^quent and severe clippings
well, and furnishes a mass of solid color which
forms an excellent background for the relief or
display of lighter colors.
Yellbwbird, a variety having foliage of a bright
yellow, furnishes perhaps the best mass of this
color of any variety we nave. It compares very
favorably in all ways with Verschafelti, with
which it can be most effectively used, the con-
trast and harmony between the two being very
fine. There are "other varieties having yellow
foliage, but the one named is as good as any I
have any knowledge of.
The varieties of Coleus having foliage varie-
gated with red, white and yellow are pretty, but
because of the broken effect of the many colors
in the same loaf they are not as useful as the
plain-leaved sorts in bringing out a pattern.
Achyranthesand Alternantheras are mostly in
red and yellow, with combinations of pink and
white. Some of the crimson sorts are very fine.
They do not produce such a solid, clear color-
effect as the Coleus does, because of their
blended colors, but they are favorites becaiise
they form a dense, low mass of f\)liage which
has", at a little distance, a vdvety look, and their
mixtures of hues and tints gives them a
"changeable" effect which is quite pleasing,
and imitates to some degree the gi-ound of a
Turkish carpet, in which several colors are used
together without any attempt to work out a pat-
tern bv them.
The"Golden Fevorfew, or Pyrethrum— "Gold-
