CARPET BEBBING.
en Feather '" — as catalogued by some dealers, id
a charming plant, where maasea of delicate
yellow are required, its feathery foliage produc-
ing a light and graceful effect. It cannot be
clipped closely as the other plants can without
destroying considerable beauty, which consists
almost as much in the delicacy of its foliage as
in its peculiarity of color.
The'Centaurea has foliage of a soft gray, and
this neutral color makes it very valuable for use
as a background to richer and brighter colors.
It is of nearly the same habit of growth as the
Feverfew described above, and mu.jt not be too
closely clipped.
The Madame Salleroi Geranium is a favorite,
because it rquu-es no clipping, no training of
any kind. When left to itself, it forms a rounded
mass of foliage, thick to the base of the plant.
It seldom grows to be more than a foot in height
and about the same acroas, and can bo used to
form liies or masses of solid foliage of most
symmetrical outline, because of its close, com-
pact habit of growth. Its leaves are a pale
green, edged and flaked with pure white. It is
extremely eflfeclive when used in combination
with the darker varieties of Coleus.
Blarshal McMahon Geranium is a good bedder,
having greenish-yellow leaves with a dark-brown
zone. This is suitable for beds in which tall-
growing plants are used, as it is a sturdy grower
and does not branch much when kept low— that
ia, not sufiScii'ntly to form thick, low plants well
set with foliage. The Jloun'ain of Snow variety
can be used with it quite effectively, as it is of
about the same size and habit. Its foliage is
green and white.
In selecting designs for carpet-bedding on a
small lawn, or in a yard of ordinary size, I would
advise choosing those in which the " pattern "
to be brought out is quite distinct and simple.
Those having elaborate or intricate patterns are
better left to the professional gardner, who not
only understands the habit of the plants used
better than the amateur dooa, and consequently
knows what care is required by them, but will
be more likely to give them the necessary atten-
tion, upon which the greater share of success in
this line of gardening depends. It requires a
great deal of work and daily attention to make
an intricate pattern successful ; but a simple
design is less exacting, consequently bptter
suited to the amateur, who will not be likely to
devote a large share of his time to taking care
of bis garden.
When you have your beds planted, the work is
only half done. After the plants become estab-
lished and growth begins, you must go over
them frequently with the pruning-shears and
trim them into symmetrical shape, and they
roust be kept so. If allowed to grow undipped
and uncarod for, they soon become straggling
and awkward in shape, and the sharpness of
outline on which the clearness of the pattern
depends is lost. Each color and variety must
bo kept within proper limits. Plants in one row
must never be allowed to send into or over those
in another row. The plants must be given to
understand that " thus far shalt thou go and no
farther." Clipping off all branches showing a
tendency to "reach up" must be attended to
quite aa regularly as those inclined to " spread
out."
I wish to emphasize this advice, because
most amateurs are prone to neglect this part of
the work, and the consequence is that their
beda, as a general thing, have a hazy and indis-
tinct appearance as to design. If properly cared
for, each color will be as clearly defined as con-
trasting colors in a carpet pattern, and the sur-
face of the bed will bo a thick, close mass of
foliage of the same height, rounding down on
the edges to the sward in which it is set.
As a general thing, beds in which these plants
are usod should not be given much manure, as
that encourages too rank a growth.
A slow, steady development is what is wanted.
In a soil of moderate richness, the joints of the
plants will not be far apart, therefore there will
be many leaves, and those will not be coarse or
overgrown. In a rich soil you will have long-
jointed plants, few leaves, and theae large, giv-
ing a much less satiafactory effect than you get
with slower growth, such as soil of only moder-
ate richness gives you.
Perhaps some reader would be glad to have
me suggest some combinations of the plants
named tor small beds. I take pleasure in do-
ing so :
A star is always effective, and it is easily
made. One containing but two colors has the
merit of great simplicity, and is quite sure to
please. Fill the center with crimson Coleus,
edging the design with yellow Coleus, or Golden
Feverfew. Should you care to use three colors,
run a row of the gray Centaurea between the
two colors of Coleus, or use this in the center
with the two Coleuses to fill out the design. If
your star is a large one, a group of Cannas will
be very pretty in the center: or, if you want
something still more tropical in appearance,
have a Ricinus, or Castor Oil Bean, with its
great palmate leaves three feet across, forming
a most attractive object as a center-pieco.
A Maltese cross is very pretty with a center of
Achyranthes or Alternantheras, edged with red
or yellow Coleus. Or the center can be Mad-
ame Salleroi Geraniums, with an edging of red
Coleus.
Circular beds are very easy to make, and look
well in the curve of a path. In small beds, have
but two or three rows of plants. If your bed is
a large one, have a row of small circles around
the outside, overlapping each other. A fine
effect can be secured by planting the overlap-
ping circles in red and yellow Colenaes, the cir-
cles of each color alternating. Fill in between
with Achyranthes or Alternanth'^ras, and edge
the bed with Centaurea or Pyrethrum. This will
make a very pretty bed if well taken care of. If
raised in the center the effect will be finer than
if flat. If situated at a prominent point on the
lawn, a large group of Cannas or Eicinus as a
center will add greatly to its effect.
Do not adhere to old designs. Originate some,
and thus avoid having your garden a duplicate
of your neighbor's. But do not make the mis-
take of selecting a too elaborate design, or of
having too many of them. A small yard cannot
stand many beds of this kind. One is quite
enough for "the ordinary yard.
