THE FEAGTIGAL GUIDE TO FLORICULTTntE.
Summer Blooming Bulbs, and Plants for
Tropical Effects.
The very best snmmer-blooming bulb we have
is the Gladiolus.
Nothing can compare with it favorably in rich
and varied coloring. It ranges through all
shades of scarlet, crimson, rose, violet, lilac and
carmine, to white and pale, delicate yellow, and
nearly all varieties have such combinations of
all these colors, in blotches, flakings and stripes,
that words fail one in attempting to describe
them. The only term that suits this flower is -
magnificent. It has the delicacy of the Lily, as
to texture, and the brilliant tints of all our most
vivid flowers in its wide range of colors.
No flower is of easier cultivation. The soil
should be Ught, rich, and mellow. Plant the
bulbs six inches deep. Do this in May, when
the ground has become warm, but not before.
The finest effects are produced hy planting in
groups, or masses. I would advise planting
never less than half a dozen bulbs together. Do
this, and you got a large enough number of
flower-stalks to give a massive effect, which is
not th<^ case when bulbs are planted singly.
If planted in rows, put tbo bulbs close to-
gether, and string wires along tho rows, fmm
stakes set at each end, to tie the flow^r-stalka
to. If this is not done, they are likely to be
blown over or broken dowu by sudden winds.
In fall, after frost has killed the tops, dig tho
bulbs, and expose to the sunshine for three or
four days, covering at night. Then cut the
stalks to within six inches of the bulb, and put
them away in a cool room un(il the stalk is ready
to separate from the root. Then put the roots
in dry sawdust, or buckwheat hulls, and store in
a room safe from frost, but not warm enough to
induce growth.
Very fine collections of tho Gladiolus can be
bought for small sums of money, of all dealers.
In no way can more satisfaction bo gained for
money expended on the garden.
Tuberose.
This bulb would be cultivated extensively by
flow'^r- lovers everywhere, if it could be de-
pended on. But there is so much failure with
it that not many attempt to grow it. It must be
started early, given a light, rich, warm soil when
put out in the garden, and protected from the
slightest frost. Care mnst bo taken to get flow-
ering bulbs. At the north a bulb does not flowir
a second time. Some unscrupulous dealers will
gf'nd out old bulbs, knowing that they will not
bloom. Buy your bulbs of reliable dealers only.
Dahlias.
This plant is not of bulbous nature, but refer-
ence to it belongs hero, as it is a summer
bloomer, like the Gladiolus.
It is not a satisfactory plant at the north, un-
less started into growth early in the season, be-
cause it is a native of the south, where the sea-
son is long and warm, and generally moist. To
succeed with it at the north, wo must start ir,
early, give it a rich soil, when planted out, and
largo quantities of water. If this is done, we
can bring it into bloom in July and August, thus
getting flowers before the time of frost. If the
tubers are not started to growing before being
planted out, the plants will generally be full of
buds by the time frost comes, and a slight frost
will kill them.
The double varieties are very showy, but I do
not like them as well as the semi-double and
single sorts. The range of colors is very wide,
and richer colors are found in no flower.
Iiilies.
Perhaps these flowers ought to have been
treated of in another chapter, because they are
hardy plants ; but they are summer blootiier.--,
and I speak of them here bf-cause they come
into bloom along with the Dahlia and the Gladi-
olus. They should be planted in fall, when Hya-
cinths and Tulips are, and in soil prepared ex-
actly as advised for those bulbs.
I Every garden should have its bed of Lilies ;
I or, if one does not care to have them in beds,
they can be planted in groups, among shrub-
bery, or in the border. They are beautiful any-
where. After becoming well established, they
require very little care. Once a year, dig some
old and well-rotted manure in about them, tak-
ing care to not disturb the roots. Throw some
leaves or litter over them in fall.
The following are good kinds for the amateur
to begin with :
Speciosum ruhrum, white, spotted with red.
Speciosum album, white, slightly tinged with
rose.
Auratum, the Gold-Banded Lily. A superb
sort, white, spotted with chocolate-crimson, with
a bright yellow band down the center of each
petal. One of the best.
BatemauniiB, apricot yellow.
Tigrinuni, the well-known old Tiger Lily—
orangf, spotted with black.
Candidum -pure white, and exquisitely b<>au-
tiful. Flowors large, and trumpet-shaped. Very
fin<^, but not entirely hardy at the extreme north.
Where it can be depended on, it is one of the
most desirable varieties.
CaJudium.
This plant has enormous leaves, and is very
eff"ective when grouped in the center of a large
bed. It must be given a rich soil and plenty of
water.
3Iusa.
Musa ensete, or Banana, is a very striking plant
wbou well growQ. Like the Caana and Cala-
