HERBACEOUS PLANTS.
11
in the center, with white varieties about the out-
side of the group, contrast is secured which
heightens the general effect.
Next to the Phlox, I would place the Holly-
hock. I would give it first place on the list
were it as hardy and robust as the Phlox, but it
is not, therefore it is not as well adapted to gen-
eral cultivation. It generally does well for one
season. The second season the plants soem
weak, and the third they are worthless. This
applies to the new and double varieties, which
seem to have gained their beauty at the expense
of their vitality. The old, single sorts were
very robust, and gave good crops of flowers
year after year. The newer varieties are won-
derful improvements on the old. Their flowers
are as double as Koses, ranging through all
shades of red, scarlet, purple, crimson, rose,
yellow and maroon, that is so deep and intense
in tone aa to seem black, to pure white. Noth-
ing is more effective for bold and prominent
locations than large groups of the Hollyhock,
I consider it a mistake to give this plant a very
rich soil. Such a soil may give you larger and
finer flowers than a moderately fertile one ; but
it is my experience that those grown in a soil
highly manured do not contioue in flower for so
long a time, and their blossoms do not last as
long, as those not so highly stimulated. In
other words, that plants not forced to a rapid
development have more strength and " staying"
qualities than those under high cultivation.
I would advise sowing seed each year, so that
a supply of strong, young plants can be always
on hand. Seed should be sown in June or July.
The young plants should be given a covering of
leaves in fall. The next spring plant them where
they are to bloom.
The Aquilegias, of which there are several
varieties, are among our best border plants. I
E refer the pare, pale yellows, the rich, delicate
luos, and the white varieties. By all means
have a bed, or several clumps of tliem. There
are double and single kinds, both very deeirable.
