SHRUBS.
17
Shrubs.
Every garden or yard should have at least a
few shrubs. There "is a dignity and i<iea cf per-
manence about them that other plants do not
possess. They give a charm to the home that is
only second to that afforded by a good tree, and
because they can be grown in so short a timp,
they recommend themselves to many persons
who do not feel willing to wait for a tree to de-
velop. But I would not advise any one who
plants shrubs to neglect to plant trees. Plant
both, and enjoy the shrub while the tree is
growing.
In planting shrubs, it is necessary to give con-
siderable attention to the soil. You cannot grow
good shrubs in a poor soil. You ought not to
exp<''ct to do so, but many persons seem to think
a shrub ought to grow if given a place in the
ground, and they wonder why it is that their
shrubs do so poorly, while those of their neigh-
bors flourish. I think a great many persons get
the idea, that a shrub will do well under all con-
ditions from seeing bushes growing rankly in
pastures and the roadside. They forget that the
native shrub has a robustness and hardiness
which shrubs from foreign countries do not have.
They also overlook the fact that even our native
shrubs improve so greatly under cultivation that
they Bi'em quite different in all ways from the
plaot which grows in fence-corner or highway.
It pays to give anythmg in the garden the best
of care, and most things that are grown thi^re
will no* prove satisfactory without such care.
Let the amateur gardener remember this, and,
unless he is willing to do what ouRht to be done,
let him stop before he begins, and give over to
others who are willinK, the work be would bo
pretty sure to make a failure of.
"The soil best adapted to all classes of plant-
life," says John Berry, "is one of a rich, ft-iable
nature, such as we make after a few years' culti-
vation of an old pasture. All soils' should be
provided with proper drainage. Heavy, clayey
soils are improved vastly by taking the extra
amount of water out of them, and such soils
should have added to them coarse sand or fine
gravel, and old garden soil, leaf-mold, or thor-
oughly rotted manure in liberal quantities, with
a free application of muscle to mix and incorpo-
rate thoroughly the various elements which go
to the making of such a soil as every yard should
have, in which shrubs are to be set from which
tho highest and best results are expected."
Planting is generally done in a slipshod fash-
ion. A hole is dug large enough to contain the
roots of the plant, they are dropped into it, the
earth is crowded in about them and stamped
down, and the operation is over.
This is all wrong.
The first thing to do, after making the soil rich
and mellow, is to dig a hole large enough to con-
tain all the roots of the little shrub when they
^re spread out in a natural manner. Never
crowd them together. Never force them to take
on unnatural shapes. Aim to imitate the condi-
tions from which they wore taken. Have some
very fine and mellow soil to work in between the
roots, and have, also, a pail of water to pour over
this soil and settle it firmly before the top soil
is put on. Make an effort to save all the young
and fibrous roots possible, for these are general-
ly feeders whose work is of the greatest import-
ance, and they should be injured as little as
possible.
Set the plant a little lower than it previously
grew, and be very sure to have the soil firm
about it, so that the wind cannot move it back
and forth and loosen it. It is a good plan to
tramp the top soil down very solidly. It is nec-
essary that tho roots should remain firm in the
soil until they have a chance to take hold of it.
The best time to plant shrubs is in spring, for
then they are making growth, and in the best
possible condition to take hold of the soil in
their new quarters. In fall the plants are in a
dormant conrlition, and must remain so until
spring, and the exposure to the winter in a weak-
ened condition such as must come to any trans-
planted shrub which baa had no time to estab-
lish itself, often results in death the following
season.
Never allow the roots of a shrub to be exposed
to the pffect of wind and sun. If they have to
be moved any distance, cover your shrubs with
a thick blanket, which should be kept moist.
This is v(!ry important. More shrubs are lost
by exposure of this kind than from any other
cause. The young and tender roots are very
susceptible to" injury from exposure.
Before setting out shrubs, one should study
up about them. He should understand their
habit. He ought to know how large thpy grow
to be, in order not to make the very common
mistake of planting them so closely together
that, after a few years, th^y crowd each other.
Every shrub that grows "to any size, unless
grouped, should have sufficient "space about it
to admit of its development in such a manner as
to display its individuality. It must be given
plenty of elbow-room. Crowd a half dozen shrubs
togf^ther in the space that one or two would fill,
if left to sproad naturally, and you spoil all of
them. Because shrubs are small when planted,
one gets an idea that a good many are required,
but a careful study of shrubs of a similar sort in
old gardens will cause one to look ahead and
plant for the Ifuturo. Do not expect to make
much show with newly planted shrubs. You
must give them time to develop before that can
be expected of them.
Before closing these remarks it may be well
to say, in this connection, a few words about
pruning. Before applying the knife, study the
habit of each kind, and prune in such a manner
as to assist it to develop its natural and indi-
vidual beauty, rather than to interfere with this,
as you very surely will do if you prune without a
knowledge of its habit of gro"wth. No two shrubs
are alike in their peculiarities, and these pecu-
liarities should always be considered and re-
tained, as far as possible, by judicious pruning.
