18
THE PRACTICAL CrTTIBE TO FLOItlCULTURK
The best timo to prune is after thf^ flnworing
Beaaon. This is dono by shortening iu the
branches and cutting out the old and worthless
wood, and all wood that does not seem neces-
sary to tbo symmetry of the plant.
In pruning, aim to preserve a symmetrical
form, without making it stiff and formal. If
branches are shortened occasionally, to cause a
thickening up of the plant, and the old wood is
removed, the plant can be safely left to train it-
self, as a general thmg. Sometimes it will seem
inclined to be erratic, but not often. In case it
does, cut back the straggling limbs, and oblige
it to give up its vagaries.
While the following list of shrubs is not very
double, pink and white, and cluster along the
slender stalks, giving them the appearance of
wreaths of delicate flowers.
Berberis, or Berberry.
This is a very hardy shrub. The flowers ar«
not 80 ornamental as the fruit, which is a dark
red, borne very profusely, and remains on the
bushes during winter if feft alone by the birds.
The purple-leaved variety is charming whea
used in connection with lighter colors.
Cornus, or Dogwood.
A native shrub, bearing white flowera.
HYDBANGEA.
extensive, it will be found to contain the very
best varieties for general culture. And it is well
for the amateur to confine himself to the old and
tested sorts until he acquires oxjit^rionco enough
to enable him to undertake the care and culture
of kinds requiring more careful treatment. New
varieties can be added from time to time, as old
ones fail or prove worthless, as somotuiies they
will because of not being exactly adapted to the
conditions under which they are grown.
Almond.
These shrnbs are old favorites, generally ppr-
fectly hardy, but coming through the winter in
better condition if laid down on the ground and
covered with leaves or litter. Thpy bloom very
early in the season. The flowers are small,
Cydonia.
Better known as Japan Quince. A small shrub,
of compact habit, bearing intensely rich scarlet
flowers very early in the season. Its foliage is
shining, and very ornamental. Excellent for
low hedges.
Deutzia.
A variety of shmbs from Japan, which for
hardihood ."graceful habit, and freedom of flow-
ering are unsurpassed. Tbeir flowera are small,
hut borne in such clusters as to make thom very
conspicuous. Cronata flore plena is a double va-
riety, white and rose. Orenata alba is a single
white kmd. Pride of Rochester is a new Variety,
something after the habit of Crenata. but with
larger flowers, and a week or two earlier.
