SHR UBS.
21
The insects which intest the Rose may be
kept down by using tbe kerosene emulsion
spoken of ia another place. Hellebore, either
in tho powder or as an infusion, is often efifect-
ive, if used early in the season.
The hardy June Roses will not require much
covering in winter, but they are better for hav-
ing some protection. If it ia not given them,
quite frequently the ends of the branches will
nure, which shouW be forked into the soil about
tbe roota of the plants.
Hybrid perpetual and moss Roses bloom best
00 strong, new wood, therefore they require
cutting back pretty sharply before growth be-
gins.
Climbing Roses should have all the weak
wood removed, and as much more as is neces-
sary to keep the plants within proper limits.
^V^'^t.^VVW.Wv
MRS. CHAS. WOOD.
be killed. I would advise laying all varieties of
Roses dowu on the ground, aod covering with a
few inches of leaves or litter. Sods can bo
placed on the branches to hoid them in plac»^,
and pieces of boards or evergreen brmches can
be placed over tho leaves to keep them from
blowing away.
One of the principal causes of failure with
Roses is uncovering thotn too early in spring. It
is seldom advisable to remove the covermg
before tho first of April, and then only a portion
of it should be taken off at first, leaving the re-
mainder about two weeks longer. It will be
bbtter, in many cases, to leave it on for a still
longer period, ah'^uld the aeasou be backward.
The plants should then be pruned, and tLe
beds receive a good dreseiog of well-rotted ma-
Some of tho best hardy varieties are :
George the Fourth, rich crimson, in clusters.
Full aud sweet.
Persian Yellow, very rich in color, profuse, and
extremely hardy. The best yellow.
Provence, or Maiden's Blush, an old favorite
of exquisite sweetness. Identical with the old
Damask.
Blanche Mcreau, a moss, pure white, of large
size and very fine form. .
Henry Martin, moss, pink, tinged with crim-
son, exquisitely mossed.
Lnxembourg, moss, bright, rosy crimson,
finely mossed.
The two best climbing Roses are :
Baltimore Belle, blueh white, double, borne iu
very large clusters.
