22
THE FBACTICAL OUIDE TO FLORICULTURE.
Prairie Queen, bright rosy red, clusters, and
wonderfully tree.
The most beautiful class of Roses is the hybrid
perpetual. The term perpetual is eomethingof a
misnomer, as it gives these not familiar with this
section the idea that it is an evor-blooming one.
Such is not the case, however. The perp^tu-
als bloom most freely in early summer. Some
of them bloom somewhat freely at inter-
vals thereafter, if given proper treatment, but
Mabel Morrison, pure white Boautiftil.
Marie Bauman, carmine. Superb.
Prince Camille de Rohan, crimeon-maroon,
Large and very fine.
General Washington, soft rosy-scarlet.
Jules Margottin, cherry red. Fine.
Paul Neyron, very large, and of fine form.
Satiny rose.
Magna Charta, carmine.
. Maurice Benardin, bright crimson.
BARONESS BOTHSCHILD.
most kinds produce but few flowers after the
first blooming period, but tbeso few will be prized
more highly than those of early summer because
of their perfection at a season when Roses are
rarities.
To succeed with this class, a very rich soil
must be given them, and they must be cut back
after each period of flowering. Rich soil and
pruning stimulates the production of new
branches, and new wood is essential if you
would have flowers.
Below I give a list of the best of this class :
Annie dos Diesbach, bright rose color.
BaroneKS Rothschih), piuli, with satiny texture.
Very beautiful in form.
General Jacqueminot, a great favorite, and
onf* of the best. Velvety crimson.
Madame Alfred Carriere, fleeh color, tinged
with salmon,
Alfred Colomb, crimson tinged with carmine.
Mrs. John Laing, bright rose, very sweet, and
free flowering. One of the best.
Captain Christy, pink, with a silvery luster.
American Beauty, bright rose. Very large and
fragrant.
Mrs. Charles Wood, rosy crimson. One of the
freest flowering kinds.
Her Majosty, large, of a delicate pink.
John Hopper, rose, shaded with carmine.
One of tbe best.
Coquette des Blanches, white, tinged with
flesh.
Perfection dt^s Blanches, milk white, in clus-
ters. Very free flowering.
I Madame Alfred Ituqucmont, white, tinted
with pale rose.
I Ulrich Brummer, cresire-red. Superb,
I Giant dee Battajlos, brilliant crimeoa,
