24
THE PliACTTCAL GUIBE TO FLORICULTURE.
The Culture of Outdoor Bulbs.
0>rLY those who havo grown bulbs in the gar-
den know how to appreciate them fully. Com-
ing into flower with the going of the snow, and
continniDg through the remaindpr of the spring
months, as tbey will if one is cai'eful to plant a
sufficient variety, they help to extend the yearly
season of flowers wonderfully. Were it not for
tliem, we would be obliged to wait un'^1 June for
flowers, except those of a few early herbaceous
kinds, and all of us know what a long and dreary
time of waiting it is between the last March
enowbtorm and the warmth and beauty of a real
June day. But with a bed of bulbs we may have
a Hhf'W of bloom ^vhose beauty is quite equal to
that of any of the fall months'through the entire
month of April, and May becomes almost a sum-
mer month, so far as color and brightness in the
garden is concerned.
Grow one bulb successfully, and after that you
will not willingly be withouta bed of them, and
in all probability one bed will not satisfy you.
That one first bulb will give you a hint of the
wealth of beauty and pleasure in store for you
if you plant Snowdrop and Crocus, Tulip and
Hvacinth, and the charming Narcissus or
"bafiv-down-dilly" of the poets, who have
loved this flower from time immemorial, and
who have sung its praises in such lavish fashion
that, were it possible to make a flower conceited,
it would be a verv vain, conceited flower indeed.
There is something about this flower that wins
the heart of the flower-lover at first sight. It is
among the bulbs what the Rose is among the
class to which that favorite belongs, and not
even the queenly Lily outrivals it in its hold
upon the heart of the lover of all that is beauti-
ful and sweet among flowers.
In order to grow bulbs well they must planted
in fall, and as early in the season as possible.
Bulbs make their annual growth in spring.
They ripen during the early part of summer.
After that they are prepared for market by the
dealer. The sooner they are put into the ground
after they come into the market the better for
them.
September is as early as the bulbs can be ob-
tained from the dealers, under the most favora-
lole circumstances, and, as a general thing, about
all you will be likely to get from them during
this'montb is the catalogue, which is sure to be-
wilder and fascinate you with its engravings and
its charming descriptions of the beauty you can
buy for a small amount ol money.. Ord"rs are
not filled to any great extent until October.
But all necessary work in the bulb-beds should
be done in Septeml)er, so that the bulbs can be
put into the ground as soon as received.
The firi>t thing to consider is location.
If possible, select a place eloping to the south,
and let it be naturally well-drained. You can-
not expect to have fine flowers from any bulb
if the drainage of the soil in which it is planted
is not good. If water.'" from heavy spring rains
and melting snows stand about their roots the
bulbs will be sure to become diseased, and that
is the end of all chances for good flowers. Bulbs
insist on having a soil to grow in in which water
is not retained for any length of time in sfring.
If you cannot give them such a place, do not
try to gi'ow them.
Even if you consider the location of your bulb-
bed a fairly well-drained one, it will do no harm
to treat it as if you were not quite sure about it.
It is better to be positive about it than doubtful.
Let us suppose that you are beginning work
on a bed or bulb. The first thmg to do is to
take a spade and turn up the soil to the depth of
at least a font. It will do no harm it you go
deeper than that, but on no account fail to work
the ground to a depth less than a foot if you
want good plants. Throw the soil out of the
bed, and let it lie where the sun can get at it.
It will come out in chunks, but after the sun
has shone upon it for a day or two, you will find
it ready to crumble beneath the hoe or rake.
Before returning the soil to the bed, collect
all the old rubbish in the shape of tin cane,
broken dishes, boots and shoes, and the like,
that can be found about the premises, and dump
these into the bottom of the excavation. Let
there be at least six inches in depth of it. By
doing this you will be killing two birds with one
stone — you will be providing material to assist
in the "perfect drainage of your bod, and you
will be getting rid of refuse that is unsightly.
Having provided for drainage, till the bed
with soil. Mix with it a liberal quantity of thor-
oughly rotted cow-manure, if possible to obtain
it. VVork it into the soil as evenly as possible.
You need not be afraid of making the soil too
fine or too mellow. Indeed, cne of the secrets
of success in bulb-culture consists in having a
rich, deep, mellow soil for them.
Use no fresh manure. Unless you can get
that which is at least a year old it is better to go
without.
If the soil is a somewhat heavy one, lighten
it by mixing in sand, old mortar, or coal ashes,
if you have nothing better at hand. A light,
open, porous soil that never becomes hard in
the dryest weather is the beet one you can have
for buibs.
You will find that your bed is considerably
higher than th(^ ground about it when you at-
tempt to put back the soil thrown out of it, espe-
cially if you have provided liberally for drain-
age. This is as it should be. Have the center
at least eight inches higher than at the edges,
and if it is a font it is just as well, for when the
loose soil comes to settle, as it will after a little,
there will be none too much elevation. Not
only does such a bed display the flowers on it
more eflectively than a nat one, but it prevents
water from rain or snow from standing on it.
The size of your bed will of course bo deter-
mined by the quantity of bulbs you intend to
plant. If you look over the instructions in your
catalogue ciirefully, you will tind rules to guid«
you in planting the bulbs described in it, and I
need not take space here to give them. It will
