THE CULTURE OF OUTDOOR BULBS.
tell you how far apart to plant tho ■various kinds,
and a little calculation will enable you to tell
how large a bed you must prepare for the num-
ber you order.
Never make the mistake of planting any bulb
singly if you want a strong eflfect. Always
group them.
I would advise planting each kind by itself.
A much more satisfactory efiect is secured by
keeping Tulips, Hyacinths, and other varieties
in beds by themselves. While they are all bulbs,
they do not all harmonize, either m habit, color,
or season of flowering. If you do. not have
enough of any one kind to fill a bed, give up
the bed system, and jslantthem in little clumps.
The Hyacinth, which is a general favorite
among bulbs because of the bright color of its
blossoms, and its delightful fragrance, comes in
advance of tho Tulip, and is preferred by many
to that brilliant ana justly popular flower. If I
were obliged to choose between the two, my
choice would be the Hyacinth.
There are single and double sorts. My pref-
erence is for the single varieties, because the
flowers standout more clearly and gracefully on
the stalks, not being as crowded as the double
ones are. I am inclined to think, from past ex-
perience, that the sin file kinds are more to be
depended on for a good crop of flowers than the
double varipties.
As to color, we have red, white, blue, and
yellow, with many intermediate shades, so that
all tastes in this direction can be suited.
I would never advise planting a mixed collec-
tion, if separate coior.s can be afforded. Where
all colors are planted together, the effect is
very much the same as where different kinds of
bulbs are grown in the same bed. There is a
lack of harmony, and a weak effect generally.
Eods, blues, and yellows growing together pro-
duce a brilliant mass of color, but the combina-
tion is not pleasing to the critical eye.
If you like a contrast of colors in the same
bed, and can afford the expense of buying bulbs
in collections whose colors are guaranteed by
the florist, fine effects can be produced by
planting in rows of distinct colors, either red
and white, blue and white, or red and yellow.
Designs of stars, diamonds, and the like can be
worked out quite effectively by using the vari-
ous colors in solid masses.
If both double and single kinds are grown, I
would give each kind a bed by itself.
In planting Tulips, care should be taken to not
mix the early and late varieties. If you do, you
will have a straggling procession of flowers,
instead of a massive and satisfactory displuy of
each kind, during its proper season, as you may
have if you i^lant intelligently. There are s'^v-
cral classes of Tulips, and it is well to keep these
by themselves.
The range of colors in the Tulip family is
wonderful in variety and brilliancy. There are
scarlets and crimsons so vivid as to dazzle the
eye ; brilliant yellows, and delicate, soft pinks,
pure whites, deep purples, and glowing vermill-
ions, and many varieties in which contrasting
colors are blended in stripes, flakes, and blotches.
The Parrot section is well named, as it includes
all colors j^eculiar to the bird from which it takes
its name, but it is not as beautiful as the other
kinds, and it is not as reliable as they are.
Among the most desirable varieties of single
Tulip for the amateur, I would name the follow-
ieg:
Artus, deep scarlet.
Ghrysolora, pure yellow.
Joo9t von Vondel, rose, striped with white.
A lovely flower.
La Reine, white, tinted with rose.
Wouverman, purple.
Colour Ponceau, crimson and white.
Duchess de Parma, crimson and orange.
Proserpine, deep rose.
Grani due de Russie, violet aad white.
The Due von Thol varieties come in scarlet,
crimson, yellow, rose, and white. They can be
bought cheaply in collections in which the sev-
eral colors are kept separate. Where one has a
good sized bed to fill, and wants the colors by
themselves, this is the best kind to order.
If you want specially fine varieties, the list
given above can be relied upon as including
the best of their class.
The doubles come in early and late varieties,
and each class should be kept by itself in order
to secure evenness of bloom. I name a few cf
the most distinct varieties of the early doubles :
Couronne d'Or, golden yellow.
Duke of York, rose, edged with wh'ite.
Marriage de me Fille, crimson striped and
flaked wiih pure white.
Rex Ruborum, bright scarlet.
Salvator Rosa, pink and white.
La Caudeur, pure white.
If a bed is planted with Rex Ruborum and
La Candeur, the result is very satisfactory, as
they bloom at the same time, and the size and
height of fliwor is the same.
Below I name a few of the late doubles. Thfso
will come into bloom after most other sorts have
passt^d their prime :
Orange Kroon, bright orange.
PouprePordre Blanc, violet, edged with white.
Rose du Printemps, white and rose.
Rose Eclante, crimson.
Admiral Kingsbergen, yellow, striped with
red.
There are two other classes of Tulips, a few of
which should be included in all collections—
Pybloems, with white ground marked with lilac,
purple, or black, and Roses, with scarlet, pink,
or red markings on a white ground.
The Daffodils are mostly in white, cream, and
bright yellow. Some show tints of red and
.■scarlet. Some are single, some double, all
beautiful. They are most effective when planted
in clunips hero and thero, in the grass of the
lawn, in the border, and among the shrubbery.
You cannot have too many of them. They are
excellent for cutting.
The Crocus is a charming little thing wh.=n
planted in masses or groups. It comes in white,
purple, and yeUow, and some varieties are beau-
tifully variegated. Be sure to have a bud of
them.
The Snowdrop is a dainty flower that oftea
shows its smiling face before the snow is gone.
There are three good varieties — the single
whitf, the double whit«, and the Giant, a variety
having large flowers of pure white with emerald
throat. Plant these flowers here, there, any-
where, evprywhf^re, and you will be delighted
with them.
Two good flowers to plant in connection with
