FLOWERS FOR OUTTTNa.
'11
Flowers for Cutting.
Until within the last few years flowers have
not been planted to any great extent with a view
to cutting from them. They were grown to or-
nament tbe garden, and it mattered not at all
whether they had long stems, or short stems,
or no stem at all, so long as there was plenty of
flowers and a good show of color.
But this has changed, and to-day almost every
woman who grows flowers considers their desir-
ability for cutting, in selecting them. Flowers
are rapidly growing in favor as a moans of pt- r-
sonal adornment, and I am very glad of this, for
nothing is more beautiful in connection with
woman's apparel than a flower chosen in har-
mony with the color and general effect of her
dress.
A flower is one of Nature's jewels. It is always
appropriate where any kind of decoration is ad-
missible, and always in the best of taste, pro-
vided good taste is exercised in its selection.
Not all flowers are suited to all persons. Some
can wear those of heavy texture and vivid colors
who could not wear delicate sorts. A graceful,
willowy form seems in harmony with the colors
and outlines of some of the rare Orchids, while
on a woman of stout build and considerable
adipose tissue such a flower would seem out of
place. Suit the flower to the woman who is to
wear it, and one can well do without "jewels of
gold and precious stones."
Id selecting flowers from which to cut for per-
sonal decoration, one of the first things to con-
sider is length of stf^m. Short-stemmed flowers
may be very attractive in themselves, but they
cannot be arranged attractively. Yoa cannot
form them into a bunch for the throat or corsage
without huddling them so closely together that
all individuality is destroyed. You get a mass
of fine color pr'rhaps, but nothing else, while
what you want most is a flower standing out so
prominently from the foliage which should
always accompany it as a foil and contrast to
its beauty that its individuality is distinct. Its
form, and every outline, should be apparent to
each observer.' One flower, so displayed, is
always more effective than many so arranged
that "they become a mere mass of color. One
reason why Sweet Peas and Chrysanthemums
are so popular is, that they have long stems
which enable the individual flowers to display
themselves to advantage. It is never ceeessary
to crowd them, hence it is possible to preserve
tbe delicate outline and natural grace of each
blossom, no matter how many you use at a time.
Individuality is not sacrificed.
Have you never thought of flowers as persons ?
In a small congregation of people you do not
lose sight of the peculiarities of each one ; but
in a large crowd you cease to notice the pecu-
liarities which characterize the individual. It
ia precisely the same with flowers. A few are
better lor most purposes than many. This is
always true where it is desirable to call att-^n-
tion to beauty in its highest aspects, which is
another term fir individuality. Always treat a
flower as you would a person if you want it to
appear to the best aflvantige. Think this over,
and you will see the force and justice of the
advice.
The Eose is a favorite for personal adorn-
mpnt, but most persons living in the country,
away from greenhouses, are not able to enjoy
Roses throughout the season, because the col-
lection in tbeir garden does not include sorts,
as a general thing, which bloom after July.
Some may have a few hybrid perpetnals from
which a few flowers can be gathered at intervals,
but these cannot be depended on with the treat-
ment which they usually receive at the bands
of amateur gardeners. But tbere is no reason
why Roses should not be enjoyed from June
to tbe coming of cold weather by every woman
who has, or can have, a garden. The teas. Noi-
settes, and Bengal varieties are constant bloom-
ers, when given proper treatment, and they
ard excelled by none m beauty of form, color,
and delicious fragrance. Nearly all are borne
on long stems, and nothing can be more beau-
tiful than a spray bearing a half-opened flower,
a bud just showing the rich color of its folded
petals, and a few of its own leaves. From a
dozen plants, costinga very small sum of money,
it is easy to have flowers for personal adorn-
ment every day throughout; the season, and
some to give to friends. I know this to be true,
because every year I have my bed of ever-
blooming Roses, from which h'andfuls are cut
daily, and what is true of a large bed is true
in degree of a smaller one. It is surprising to
see what a number of flowers can bo cut from
one plant in a season, if the right kind of treat-
ment is given. " I couldn't use half the Roses
that grow on my eight plants," said a lady to
me last year. " I was envied by all my lady
friends who had no Roses to wear after the
summer-blooming varieties were gone." One
lady said to mo that she thought I must be get-
ting extravagant, as Roses cost so much, and I
was wearing them every day. " But mine cost
mo next to nothing," I told her. '• I did not buy
them— I grew them in my own garden." She
could hardly believe me until I showed her my
little bed of ever- bloomers. She had got into the
habit of thinking, as many other women have,
that Roses after July are to be had only of the
florists, who ask such a price for them that peo-
ple in ordinary circumstances cannot aff'ord to
buy them. If women knew how easy it is to
grow these Roses, every one would nave some
of them.
That's it— if they only knew ! But they don't.
Year after year I have written about their
merits as bedders, and I am glad to see that
many are growing them who had given them
over to wealthy people as something not meant
" for poor folks." All that remains to be done
to make tbe ever-blooming Rose as popular
among the masses tor summer culture in the
