VI]!iES.
33
three feet of the ground, and lay the top down j Celastrus.
on the ground, covering with loaves or litter.
Honeysuckle.
This old shrubby vine is always a favorite, as
it deserves to be. Its flowers are beautiful,
8we>'*t, and produced in great profusion during
the season.' Its culture is as easy as that ot any
shrub.
The leading varieties are :
Halleana, white, changing to yellow.
Scarlet Trumpet, scarlet.
Monthly, red and yellow.
Wistaria.
For locations south of Chicago this is one of
the finest vines that can be selected. North of
that point it cannot be depended on, though I
have seen very fine specimens much farther
north. It is a wonderful grower, often reach-
ing the cornice of three-story houses. Its flow-
ers are pea- shaped, and produced in great, pen-
dulous clusters. There are two leading varie-
ties, pale blue, and white. Planted together,
the two sorts are very effective.
Ampelopsis.
This is our native Virginia Creeper. It is one
of the finest vines we have, clambering all over
the walls and roof, and goina where the Ivy
goes, in places where the latter is hardy. In
autumn the foliage becomes a brilliant crim-
son, and the plant seems a mass of flowers of
most brilliant color. Probably oar best native
vine for general use,
Celastrus scavdens, or Bittersweet, is another
excellent native vine. It is a very rapid, vigor-
ous grower. Its foliage is always bright and
pleasing, and never attacked by worms or in-
sects. It bears great quantities of fruit, in
drooping clusters, each berry of bright crimson
being enclosed in an orange capsule, which di-
vides in three parts, and discloses the fruit
within. These clusters are as ornamental as
flowers, and remain on the plant all winter if
not taken by the birds.
Aristolocbia.
A vine of rapid growth, with very largo, heart-
shaped leaves, and brownish flowers, shaped
something like a pipe, hence its popular name
of " Dutchman's Pipe."
Akebia Quinata.
A very beautiful and luxuriant vine, with mag-
nificent foliage, and flowers of chocolate-purple,
having a delicious perfume. A rapid grower,
and unsurpassed for covering trellises and ve-
randas.
Bignonia.
A most beautiful vine for the central and
southern s'^ctions of the United States. Too
tender at the north. Foliage very beautiful.
Flowers trumpet-shaped, orange-scarlet in color,
and produced in large clusters, contrasting
charmingly with the foliage. Known in many
localities aa Trumpet Creeper.
