34
THE PRACTICAL GUIDE TO FLORICULTURE.
The Propagation of Plants.
Most plants that are grown in the window or
greenhouse are propagated from slips or cut-
tings. " Slip " is the term in general uso among
amateurs— it moans the same thing as cutting,
which is the professional florists' name— and re-
fers to branches cut or broken from the old
plant, and inserted in soil or water, where tbey
form roots of their own and become independent
plants. Nearly all kmds in general cultivation
root readily under proper conditions. Some aro
quite diflScult to make grow from cuttings, and
these aro best propagated by layering, which
process will be described farther on.
I have spoken of proper conditions. Let me
explain what I mean by that.
I find that most cuttings strike best— that is,
for roots— in an open soil through which the air
can circulate freely. This soil should bo kept
moist at all times, and warm, for moisture and
warmth are conducive to a satisfactory develop-
ment of young roots. Under these conditions,
cuttings of Geranium, Heliotrope and Fuchsia,
and nearly all other plants of a similar class,
will strike in a week's time, and not oiie in a
hundred need be lost, if care is taken to have it
in the right condition at the time of taking it
from the old plant. Imperfectly developed wood
is not good, neither is too old a branch. There
is an intermediate stage of development, wben
the branch is neither tough or brittle, and that
is the condition your cutting should be in. A
little experience in rooting cuttings will enable
you to tell at a glance when one is too young or
too old. Until you have had this experience,
perhaps the best way to tell is to take the branch
in your hand and give it a sudden, sharp bend.
If it about half breaks, but still seems loth to
part, it is just about right, and you will be justi-
fied in making a cutting of it. Too green, soft
wood rots easily before roots form, and too old
wood takes so long to form roots that the vitality
in the branch is about used up before roots are
formed to feed the plant.
Cuttings having a tough bark, like Oleander,
Ivy and other plants of similar habit, often root
most surely in water. For this purpose use a
large-mouthed vial. Fill it partly full of pure
rain water, and hang it in a sunny window where
the sun can strike the water, but have a paper
or shade arranged in such a manner as to pro-
tect the top of the cutting from the snn. Drop
the cuttings loosely into the bottle. As the
water evaporates add more, keeping the bottle
about half full. In two or three weeks many
cuttings will show tiny white roots at the base.
Some will not form roots in as many months.
When the roots have grown to be an inch or two
in length, and there are several of them, the
young plant can be lifted carefully out and set
in very light, fine soil, taking great care to not
break or bruise the roots, which are very deli-
cate at this period of growth. I would advise
sifting the soil about th(; ])l!iuts rather than put-
ting it on with pressure, lirniing it by putting on
a Buflicient quantity of wat(.T to settle it.
1 generally use some such shallow vessel as a
soup-plate filled with coarse sand in which to
strike cuttings. Of course, if one is goiLg to
make much of a business of it, a regular cut-
ting-bench with bottom heat is the proper thing
to have, but amateurs will find the soup-p'ate
quite equal to their requirements. The sand
should \>Q pure sand, not a mixture of sand and
clay, or sand and loam. These make a muddy
mass, in which cuttings do not form roots read-
ily. If you have no sand that is free from these
elements, wash it until you get rid of the clay
and loam, by putting it in a sieve and pouring
water over it. The finer portions of soil will run
through with the water, leaving a sharp, clear
sand, which is what you want. Fill your plate
nearly lull with it, and shake it down into a com-
pact mass. Pour on enough water to moisten
it all through, but not enough to make it icet.
As evaporation takes place -and it will be rapid,
because the sand is so porous if kept in a warm
place— add more water, aiming to keep it in a
condition of moisture all through at all times.
In this sand insert your cutting, pinching the
soil firmly about its base. By following the ad-
vice given— that is, keeping it warm and moist
— you can be reasonably sure of success. But
if jou let it get cold at night, or it dries out.
you can be pretty sure that your cuttings are
spoiled.
If your cuttings root, you will soon notice that
young leaves are being sent out at the top of
the slip. When four or five leaves have devel-
oped, It will be safe to transfer the cuttings to
pots. Use very small ones at first, but be sure
to see that tliey never dry out. Unless you
watch them carefully they will be likely to do
80, as the bulk of earth in each to retain mois-
ture is very small, consequently easily aflectod
by the atmosphere. It is a good plan to set
your little pots close together on sand, and fill
in about them with more sand. In this way you
can keep them moist at the roots very easily,
until it is time to put them in larger pots. If
you put them in large pots at first, you make a
great mistake. They generally die when treated
in this way, and the amateur florist is at a loss
to understand why. It is because there is more
soil in the pot than the young roots can make
use of, and th»3 plants are over- fed. Their
stomachs are too delicate to digest the great
quantity of food forced upon them, and they die
of dyspepsia. Give a young plant just out of
the 'cutting-plate a pot not larger than two in-
ches across. When this is filled with roots, and
not before, shift to a pot of larger size.
In selecting cuttings, do not make the mistake
of having them too large to begin with. One,
two or three inches in length is quite enough.
Clip ofi" the leaves on the part to be insertO'l in
the soil close to the stalk, and leave but one or
two at the top. But do i.ot trim off all the leaves,
as some do, because there must be a little leaf-
age left on to enable the plant to breathe while
roots aro forming.
