THE PROPAGATION OF PLANTS.
35
In this manner most plants can be propagated
readily, as I have said, but some out- door
plants are propagated more certainly by layer-
ing. Tbis method consists in taking a branch
that is thrown out near the base of an old one,
and bendiog it down so that a portion of it can
be inserted in the soil near the old plant, leav-
ing it still connected, however. If a slight
break is made on the lower side of the branch,
at the point where it goes under the soil, or a
little cut is given at that point, roots form more
readily, as the flow of sap is checked at that
point, and a callous form, from wbi^h roots are
sent out. It is well to peg the branch down
firmly where it is inserted in the soil, so that it
will not be shifting about. A stick should be
set near it, and the end of it tied so that it re-
tains an upright position. It often takes weeks
for a branch to root under this plan, but is gen-
erally successful. If you have any doubts about
roots having formed, do not sever the connec-
tion between the young and the old plant in
fall, but let them remain until the following
spring. This ia the best way in which to root
Ivies.
The Gloxinia and Rex Begonia can be propa-
gated by taking the thick leaves and laying
them down on a saucer of moist sand, which
should be kept warm. Before putting them in
position on the sand, cut across the thick ribs
on the back of the leaf in several places. Then
place them so that these places will come in
contact with the sand, pinning them down, or
fastening them by laying small stones on them.
80 that they cannot be shitted. In a short time
young plants will start at the points where the
cuts were made.
Dahlias can be propagated by division of the
tubers, after the manner of Potatoes, being sure
that each portion has an "eye," or growing
point. Also, by rooting cuttings. Better plants
are grown in this way than one will be likely to
secure by planting a whole bunch of tubers, as
many do. By division, you can get a great many
plants, while by planting the whole bunch to-
gether you get but one.
In starting Tuberoses into growth in the house
early in the season, as it is advisable to do at
the North, where the season is short, it is always
best to cut off the old and withered roots at the
base of the bulb before planting them. Cut
them off pretty close to the solid portion of the
bulb. If this is not done, these old roots often
decay before new roots are formed, and decay
ia communicated to the bulb througli them, and
failure results.
Dahlias and Tuberoses, being natives of the
South, where the seasons are long and warm,
requu'e early starting at the North, in order to
insure success with them. Unless started into
growth in March or April, they seldom come into
bloom before time for frost, and a slight freezing
ends them. Dahlias can bo potted in large pots
or boxes, without separating the tubers. When
it is safe to plant them in the open ground, the
tubers can be broken apart. In starting Tube-
roses, plant the bulbs in pots of light, sandy
soil, and keep them quite warm and modei'ately
moist until growth sets in. When you plant
them out, turn them out of their pots without
disturbing their roots.
Many persons want to got a " start of the sea-
son " with their annuals. They sow the seed in
pots and boxes. The plants germinate, grow
rapidly for a short time, and then die off. Why?
Generally because they have been forced to
make an unnatural growth. They are kept too
warm and too moist at the roots, but too dry at
the top, and they get bnt little frfsh air.
In order to grow seedlings well in the house
in the spring, great pains must be taken with
them. They must not be kept in too warm a
place. A temperature of 65 degrees is quite
warm enough for them. Do not water them too
much. Just keep the soil moist— never wet.
Have the air of the room moist, by showering
the young plants with a fine spray, or by evap-
orating water on a stove or register. And be
very sure to admit all the fresh air possible.
Do not open the window so that cold air from
out of doors can blow directly on them, but open
a door or window at a little distance from them,
and let the fresh air come in and mix with the
warm air in the room before it reaches them.
This is very important. You cannot grow plants
well in the house from seed unless you follow
these instructions. On all sunny, warm days, it
is well to set the pots or boxes out on the veran-
da, if it is sheltered from the winds, and let
them remain there until three or four o'clock.
In this way they become somewhat used to out-
door conditions before the time comes to plant
them out in the open ground, and they will be
all the healthier for it. If kept too close and
warm, and away from pure, fresh air, the young
plants will be so weak and spindling, and so
lacking in vitality when the time comes to plant
them out, they will suffer greatly from the check
caused by change of conditions, and very fre-
quently they die because of it. Plants so weak
that this change checks them are a long time in
recovering from it, and, as a general thing,
plants grown from seed sown in the beds at the
time of putting out, the house-grown seedlings
get the start of them. The way to prevent this
is to take such care of the plants started in the
house that thf y are strong and healthy, and able
to stand the change when it comes. If care is
taken to grow them in this condition, at least a
month can be gained by starting them in the
house. But I would not advise it for the hardier
sorts of annuals, because they are better able
to take care of themselves tnan the amateur
florist is to take care of them, when growing in
pots and boxes. A good deal of labor, and a
very great deal of attention i-i required by seed-
lings in early spring, if you want them to be
what they ought to be.
