THE PRACTICAL GUIDE TO FLOBICULtUiiE.
Soil for House-Plants, Potting, Etc.
When the writer of this little manual on flori-
culture bogran to grow plants in the house, it was
generally supposed by the amateur— because it
was taught by the writers on floricultural topics
—that a special preparation of soil should be
made tor each plant.
Since then amateurs, as well as professionals,
hava found out that most kinds of plants euit=id
to culture»in the house or greenhouse succeed
very well if grown in the same kind of soil-
that is, that the compost that grows one well
will answer as well for the other kinds.
This simplifies the work vastly.
A very good compost, in which nearly all
kinds of plants can be grown satisfactorily, is
prepared as follows :
Odo- third good garden loam.
One-third leaf-mold, or, if this is not obtain-
able, turfy matter scraped from the bottom of
old sods in roadside or pasture.
One-sixth old, wt>ll-rotted manure.
One-sixth sharp, clean sand.
These elements should be mixed well together.
The result will be a compost that is mellow,
friable and rich.
K turfy matter is used instead of leaf-mold,
care should be taken to have it full of the fine
roots of the grass, as it is this vegetable matter
that takes the place of leaves.
Sand is a most important itigredient. Without
it, most soils become so firm and compact that
water is retained, and souring takes place, lead-
ing to an unhealthy action of the roots and the
consequent death of the plant. With a proper
proportion of sand in the soil it will be always
friable, provided the item of drainage is given
proper attention.
I consider sand of more importance to the
well-being of a plant than manure is. If I could
have but one, I would choose sand every time,
as the condition of the soil has quite as much to
do with a plant's development as the quality of
it. Very fair plants can be grown in a soil of
only moderate richness, if it is open and light,
but plants can never be grown well in a heavy,
BOggy soil, no matter how rich it may be.
In getting ready to pot plants, the first thing
to do IS to soak the pots, if new. Put them in a
tub of water, and let them absorb all the water
they will. If this is not done, the porous clay
will draw the moisture from the soil and the
roots will be severely injured at the very time
when they ought not to be interfered with by
any such drawback as lack of sufficient moisture.
If old pots are used, they should be scrubbed
clean with a stiff brush and soapy water.
I consider clay pots, unglazed, preferable to
anythivg else in which to grow plants.
Boxes answer very well, but the constant
moisture inside the box soon brings on decay.
It is a much more difficult matter to transplant
plants grown in boxes than in pots, because the
mass of earth in which the roots are will not
slip out of a box smoothly, as it will out of a
pot, consequently there must be more or leas
distru'baoce of the mots of the plant when
change is made. Tin cans are frequently used,
but their use is always to be discouraged unless
boles are punched in the bottom for drainage.
Glazed pots are not as good as unglazed ones,
because their glazing destroys their porosity,
but if drainage is attended to they answer very
well in the living-room. In the greenhouse I
would never use them.
In potting plants, have a quantity of drainage
material ready for use along with your potting
soil. This can be made of broken pottery,
crockery, brick, or small stones— anything that
will not'decay. There should be from an inch
to three inches of this put into the bottom of
each pot, according to its size, before soil is
added. Care should be taken to not have this
material too fine, as that causes it to pack firmly
in the bottom of the pot, and the application
of water brings the soil down among it until the
crevices are filk-d and drainage is prevented.
Use largo pieces in the bottom, filling in with
smaller as you work towards the soil. It is a
good plan to put a layer of sphagnum moss over
the drainage material. This lasts for a long
time, and prevents the soil from getting down
among the crockery or whatever is used oelow.
By the time it decays the roots will have reached
and penetrated the cracks and crevices between
the bits of matter used, and when that is done
thf re is no danger of soil working in.
In potting a plant, do not fill the pot with soil
at first. Put in a suflScient quantity to cover the
material in the bottom, and then set in your
plant, and fill in about the roots with soil, work-
ing it down among them well. If this is done,
the pot will not be so filled when the process of
potting is completed, that there is no space at
the top for water. At least an inch, or an inch
and a half, should be left between the top of the
soil and the rim of the pot. In watering, you
can pour on enough to thoroughly penetrate the
soil by filling this space. If the pot is filled with
soil most of the water applied runs over its edge,
and the result is that very little moisture gets
down among the roots where it is needed, unless
there are frequent applications daily. More
plants die from lack of moisture at the roots than
from any other cause, 1 think. A slight appli-
cation makes the surface of the soil look moist,
and from this the owner gets an idea that it is
moist all through. But an examination would
show that the soil a short distance from the top
is dry. Enough must be given to thoroughly
penetrate all the soil in the pot in order to grow
a plant well. An inch and a half space between
the soil and rim of the pot will accommodate
enough water to moisten the soil in the pot all
through, as a general thing. Of course such a
space is not necessary on small-sized pots, but
small-sized "pots must be given more frequent
attention than large -sized ones, because they
dry out more rapidly, the quantity of soil in
them being so much less that evaporation takes
place very fast.
