SOIL FOR HOnSE-PLANTS, POTTING, ETC.
37
It is not necessary to use such largo pots as
many seem to think absolutely necessary to the
auccesstul cultivation of ordinary plants. I have
found that the majority of plants gi-own in the
sitting-room do not need pots moro than seven
or eight inches across when fully developed,
while the average plant is satisfied with a six-
inch pot, if the soil is good. By the term
" average plant," I mean Geraniums, Helio-
tropes, and plants of that class of the size
usually seen in the window-garden. Aa a gen-
eral tbing most amateurs renew their plants
yearly, consequently they never r^^quire a great
amount of root room. Older plants should have
larger pots, but most persons who have limited
accommodations prefer to keep their plants to
small sizes, so that they can have more of them.
I think they would find larger plants, and fewer
of tbein, more satisfactory.
When plants are young and increasing in size
rapidly, it is necessary to give them frequent
shifts to pots of larger sizes than those in which
they have been growing. In order to know when
it is necessary to do this, the condition of the
roots must be examined. This is easily done by
inverting the pot across the left hand with the
plant passing through between the fingers.
Then give tlie edge of the pot a sharp tap
against something solid, and the ball of earth
in it will be loosened, and the entire mass will
slip out readily without disturbing the roots of
the plants in the least.
If the roots of the plant have filled the mass
of soil, and there is a network of tbem around
its edge, it is safe to conclude that a shift is ad-
visable. If only an occasional root shows itself,
the plant does not require a larger pot just yet.
Older plants get along very well with a yearly
repotting. It is a good plan to remove the top
of the soil in fall, if the plant has grown much
during the summer, and put fresh earth in its
place, aa considerable nutriment will be re-
quired to take the plant through the flowering
period in good condition. If some fresh soil is
not given, or the plant is not repotted entirely
in fall, I would advise the application of some
reliable fertilizer at least once a week, after Sep-
tember, if the plant ia growing actively. If not,
give no fertilizer until such growth begins.
Some persons use fertilizers when their plants
are standing still, thiaking that something of
this kind ia needed to start them into growth.
This is wrong. No plant is in proper condition
to make use of rich food unless it is in a state of
development, and to give such food to a plant
that ia taking a rest is to injure it. Bear this in
mind always, and be governed accordingly, if
you would grow your plants healthily.
In repotting plants, if a portion of the roots
are broken off or injured in any way, alwava be
sure to remove a corresponding amount of
top.
The best time to repot plants from which
winter flowers are desired is spring. This gives
them a chance to grow during the season, and,
as a general thing, when a plant is growing well
it does not blossom much. After a develoc-
ment of branches, flowering begins. When huda
appear, give the fertilizer vou deci-^e upon, and
assist ttie plant in the production of fine flowers.
If repotting were done in fall there would be a
likelihood of bringing about a growth of top
rather than flowers, and because of this danger
I advise repotting in spring.
