38
the' PRACTICAL GUIDE TO FLORICULTURE.
Plant Enemies.
If " ot^mal vigilance is the price of liberty,"
it is DO less so of bealthv plants. In order to
have fine apecimena it is very necessary that
they be watched carefully, and kept fr»'e from
the various insects and other ent-mies that will
b« pretty sure to attack them, if not given con-
stant attention.
One of the most common insect pesta with
which the plaot-grower has to deal is the aphis,
or green fly.
The surest method of getting rid of this pest
is that of fumigation.
If you have a pmall, close room, put the plants
in it, at some distance above the tioor, ana burn
tobacco stems and leaves under them, by drop-
ping them, after haviug molat^'nei them, on
coals, which, for safety's sake, should be kept in
an iron pot. The moi^jtened leaves will givf* off
a dense smoke, which, if confin-^d long enough
about the plants, will be quite sure to kill all the
aphides.
If you do not have such a room, a large dry-
goods box can be fitted up tor fumigating pur-
poses, which will answer very well. Tf the smoke
18 generated in a large room, a great deal more
is required than will be necessary in a smaller
space, and this smoke is vi^ry disagreeable to
moat persons, and braves a strong stale pcent on
everything with which it comes in contact. It
will be necessary to air the room repeatedly in
order to get rid of it. It is therefore advisable
to have a room or box fitted up especially for fu-
migating purposes.
The smoke must be dense and strong in ord^r
to be effective. I have seen some ladies scatter
a small quantity of tobacco on a little bunch of
coals in a basin, making about the same amount
of smoke that a man gets from the ordinary
pipe. This they would blow gingerly among
their plants tor a minute or two, and the next
day they would pronounce the fumigating plan
a failure. Their way of applying it moat certainly
was.
There must be smoke enough to stupefy the
insects at once, and it must bo confined about
the plants long enough to kill the stupefied
aphides, in order to make the plan effpctual.
Unless you can fumigate your plants in this way,
th'^re is but little benefit to be derived from the
use of tobacco as an inaectide. It is aome-
timf'8 ateepod in hot water, and the infusion
ayringed over the plants, but this is a most dis
agreeable thing to do because the tea stains
evcrv thing with which it comes in contact, and
it seldom puts the enemy to rout. Strong smoke
will stupefy the pest so that it can be shaken
from the plant, or, if confined about the plants,
will surely kill it, and because of this certainty
of results it is vastly preferable to any other
method of using tobacco in fighting this enemy.
Coarse stems and leaves, such as cigar-mak-
ers have left after mannfacturing cisars, are
much preferable to tobacco eold at the store, be-
cause the latter is often drugged to such an ex-
tent that it loses the peculiar quality which is
neceseary in fluccesaful fumigation.
r
The red spider is quite sure to attack plants
kept in a very warm room where the air is dry.
This pest is one of the moat destructive one s
with which I am familiar. It is so small that it
can hardly be seen with the naked eye, and
quite often its presence is doubted because it
cannot be seen. But if you notice the leaves
turning yellow and dropping off, and the under-
side of tbom seems covered with a thin web,
you may be satisfied that the spider is at work.
On examination you will find little specks among
the webbing, and these specks— which look more
like grains of Cayenne pepper than anything
else-are the insects which do so much damage
to your plants.
The < nly remedy for this pest that I know of
is water. He wi.l net remain in a moist atmos-
phere. In order to get rid of him you must
provide yourself with a syringe which will
throw a spray with considerable force. Then
daily, or oltener, shower your plants all over.
See that no part of them escapes wetting. Be par-
ticularly careful to get at the underside of every
leaf, for there is where be lurks. The thorrufih
and often repeated application of water will
surely drive him away, but it is often quite diffi-
cult to use enough of it in the sitting-room to
accomplish this purpose. It is a good plan,
therefore, to fill a tuo with wat^r and immerse
the plants in it. allowing them to remain some
tim". This will drown the insect and effectually
rid the plants of the enemy, and after this is
done it la possible to keep it from obtaining
another foothold on them by the liberal use of
water daily, being careful, as I have said, to see
that every portion of the plant is reached by the
application.
The mealy bug is a hard creature to fight, be-
cause he gets down in the axil of the leaf, in
every crack and crevice of the pot, and under
the bark of rough-wcoded plants. But by the
use of an emulsion of kerosene ho can bo routed.
Prepare this emulsion according to the fjillow-
ing formula :
5 parts kerosene,
1 part fir-tree oil,
20 parts water.
Put these together in a watering-pot and agi-
tate rapidly for a moment by putting the syringe
into the mixture and drawing it up and expell-
ing it with considerable force. The oils and
water will unite readily. Apply the emnleion to
every portion of the plant infested with the
mealy bug. Scale is killed by this emulsion ;
therefore its value in the greenhouse will be
readily understood by those who have fought
these two enemies unsuccessfully with other
preparations. I am told that if 40 parta water
are added to the oils, instead of 20, as ad-
vised above, a preparation is secured which kills
the aphis.
For worms in the soil I use a preparation of
lime water. Take a piece of fresh lime as large
as a tea cup. Put it in a pailful of rain water.
It will dissolve, and a white sediment will settle
