THE CARE OF HOUSE PLANTS.
41
their appearance, for a plant coated over •with
duet is never attractive, and it cannot be hoalthy,
becauae plants breathe through pores in the
leaves, and a coating of dust clogs these pores
to such an exteutthattheair cannot get in in suf-
ficient quantity to supply the needs of the plant.
But do not shower your plants in summer
when the sun shines upon them, because the
hf'at is often intense enough to cause the leaves
to blister from its effect on the moisture, which
often collects and stands in drops. Wherever
these drops stand on a leaf in strong sunshine,
a black spot is generally left, or a blotch that
looks as if hot water had been applied. It is a
good plan to drop a shade between the plants
and the light for a little time after showering
them, if they stand in a sunny window. If show-
ered at night this is, of course, unnecessary.
Plants should be turned about in the window
at least once a week to prevent their becoming
drawn over and one-sided. They reach out
toward the sunshine, and before one becomes
aware of it, unless she watches them very closely,
their branches have taken such a turn toward the
glass that it is hard work to get them back into
symmetrical shape without staking them, and in
order to get the greatest amount of pleasure
from a plant as few stakes as possible should be
used. If care is taken to turn the plants fre-
quently, it is an easy matter to keep them
shapely. Give all aides the benefit of the light.
Sometimes plants persist m sending out
branches on one side while the other looks as
bare aa if you had gone over it with a pruning-
knife. What you must do in this case is to cut
back the branches that it puts forth, and keep
them from growing until it has started branches
on the vacant places. This you can force almost
any plant to do by persistent effort.
If you want a plant to take on a tree-like form,
keep it from sending out aide-branches until
it IS two, three, or four feet high, as you may
think best. Then cut off the end of it. In a
short time it will send out branches. Some of
these will be at the top, and eome below the
top, but all except those nearest its extremity
should be picked off" as soon as they start. Al-
low several at and near the top to grow. When
they have reached the length of four or five
inches nip the end of ihem off. This induces
them to branch, and in this way you soon have
a compact little head for your tree formed.
If you prefer a shrubby form for your plant,
cut the main stalk back when it is about six or
eight inches tail, and encourage the growth of
several stalks instead of one, from the base of
the plant. I prefer this plan to any other for
such plants as the Chrysanthemum and plants of
similar habit. Abutilons make pretty little trees,
and take to that form readily.
Many plants are inclined to grow in awkward
shapes if left to themselves. This is particu-
larly true of the Geranium. Left to take care
of itself it often sends up one long stalk which
will have a tuft of leaves at the top, and nothing
more. But a little training will make a most
shapely plant of any Geranium, if given at the
right time, which is, while the plant is young.
By nipping off the top as soon as the stalk begins
to grow freely, you can induce it to send out
several other stalks nea r the base, and if these
are nipped in turn, you eventually get a plant
with a dozen or more stalks, and these can be
made to branch at any desired height, so that it
is a comparatively easy matter to make a com-
pact, bushy specimen of the plant which, left to
itself, would have made itself as awkward as it
IS possible for a plant to be. These busby Ge-
raniums will have flowering points all over them
—every little branch being such a point — while
an untrained plant will generally not have more
than four or five, if as many. From this it will
be seen that it pays to give a plant proper treat-
ment while young, if you want it to take on a
graceful form, and put itself in a condition to
afford a liberal quantity of flowers. Old plants
can be cut back and made to throw out new
branches, but they can never be made as
shapely and symmetrical as young plants
which receive training while they are develop-
ing.
Most persons crowd their windows to such an
extent that some of the plants suffer from lack
of sufficient light, while all are injured because
of lack of room in which to fully develop them-
selves. I would advise having fewer plants at
the window, and these few finer sisecimens than
those usually seen there. This can be done by
allowing more room for each. Half a dozen
fine plants will afford a great deal more pleas-
ure ttian two or three times that number of or-
dinary plants, and half a dozen plants of fair
size are quite as many as a window of the aver^
age size will accommodate satisfactorily.
