42
THE PRACTICAL GUIDE TO FLORICULTURE.
Bulbs for \A/'inter Blooming.
No collection of flowers is considered com-
plete nowadays if it do' s not include a varioty
of bulbs so treated tbat they will come into
bloom in mid-winter, when few other flowers
can be depended on to furnish flowers.
The amateur florist can succeed with bulbs, in
the house, if she will be guided by certain rules
which experience has proved to be good ones ;
rules that it is imperatively necessary one
should follow in order to insure suc.-ess. A
gr^at many persons have an idea that about all
tliey must "do to get tine flowers from bulbs, in
the' house, in winter, is to put them in a pot of
earth, give it a place in tbe window, and water
it whenever they happen to think of it. These
are the persons who " don't have any luck " with
bulbs, and who tell all their friends that they
aren't worth growing. The fact is, with proper
and intelligent care, it is very easy to flower
bulbs well, but without such care they are sure
to fail. Wh^'n grown as they ought to be, few
flowers give better satisfaction, and, as I have
said, no collection is complete without some of
them.
It must be borne in mind that when we bring
a bulb into bloom in winter, we are reversing
the natural order of thingn, which is, that these
bnlbs shall be dormant at that time. It is,
therefore, an unnatural orocess, but in order to
obtain as great a degree of success as possible,
we must follow out the methods of Nature so
far as we can understand and imitate them.
If we plant a bulb in the garden in September
or October, it will make oo visible growth of top
that season. But if you were to dig it up any
time before the closing in of winter, and exam-
ine it closely, you would find that it had begun
to make a root-growth. All the fall, after plant-
ing, and during the winter, it is making active
preparation for work in spring. As soon as the
snow melts and the sun shines, it will send up
a top, and the vigor of its growth at this season
depends largely on the condition in which its
roots are. If there is a good development of
them, this growth will be strong and healthy.
If the roots are not strong, the growth of the top
will be proportionately weak.
In potting bulba from which we desire winter
flowers, it is necessary, as I have said, to imi-
tate the processes of Nature, and therefore the
bulbs must be put away in the dark, after being
potted, to form roots before they are placed in
conditions which will induce them to make a
growth of top.
If put in a light, warm place as soon as potted,
roots and top would begin to grow at the same
time, and as there would be no strong roots to
nourish and support the top, the development
of that portion of the plant would be weak, and
if any flowers resulted they would be inferior.
By potting the bulbs and putting them away in
a cool, dark place until roots have formed wo
imitate tbe conditions which prevail when we
put them in the ground. It is quite important
that the dark place in which we store them
(Should be cool, for too warm a place induces a
premature top-growth. Absence of light and a
low temperature encourages the formation of
roots, because that is natural. In planting
bulbs in fall, we hide thorn away from the sun-
shine, and the warmth which characterizus
summer has gone by, and the soil in which we
put them is cool, if not cold. Under such con-
ditions, they form roots. Light and warmth are
necessary to the formation and development
of a vigorous, healthy top. Therefore, give the
bulbs a chance to complete the formation of
roots first, tben bring them under conditions
which will encourage a development of leaves
and flowers. In this way, and in no other, we
can grow bulbs well in the house.
I am told bv many who have been advised to
follow this plan of growing bulbs for winter-
flowering tbat it is a "whim." But there is no
whim about it. It is, as I have said, simply
following Nature's plan. Those who study into
the matter will see that it is strictly in accord
with that plan. Those who have planted bulbs
in the ground in spring, will be sure to tell you
that they never get good flowers from th>'m.
The reason why tbey do not is, that thi^y plant
them under conditions which induce growth of
root and top at the same tim'^, precisely as is
the case when we pot bulbs and put the pots
containing them in the window, at once. There
is a weak growth resulting in each instance, but
never a healthy one, because we have interfered
with the natural method, which is, tbat but one
kind of work shall be done at a time. The first
work to be done is the putting forth of roots,
because they are necessary to the nourishment
of leaves and flowers. The next stage is that of
top-growth, which should be delayed until the
completion of the first. When bulbs are planted
in the ground in fall. Nature takes them in hand,
and by her management of conditions she makes
it easy for them to do such work as is necessary
at that time, and no other. When we plant them
in the house we must take the plant in hand,
and regulate it as nearly as possible as Nature
would.
From what I have said above, it will be under-
stood, by giving the matter a little study and
thought, that the method of starting bulbs which
is advised is strictly scientific in its nature, if I
may be allowed this use of the term. In other
words, that it is a strictly natural one, or, at any
rate, is one in which the processes of Nature are
imitated as closely as possible under the condi-
tions which prevail. I have made this some-
what elaborate explanation to convince the in-
telligent and thoughtful reader that it is not the
" whim " that some ignorant persons assert it to
be. Grow bulbs after this plan, and then try
a few after the plan of those who declare it is
entirely unnecessarv to be to " all the trouble "
of following the advice; given, and I know which
plan you will be lik<dy to follow in the future.
Tbe proper soil for bulbs in pots is made up
of loarh, well-rotted manure, and sand in about
equal parts. It should be worked until very
mellow, and the manure must bo thoroughly in-
