BULBS FOR WINTER BLOOMING.
43
corporat"d with the oth»»r elomects of the soil.
On no account use fresh manure. It will al-
ways injure bulbs.
ta potting bulbs of Hyacinth or Tulip, if six,
seven, or eight inch pots are used, piu several
bulbs in the same pot. A mucb better effect is
secured by massing them in this manner than
can be secured by planting but one bulb iu a
pot. Two Tulips or Hyacinths can be grown in
a five inch pot. Fivo or six can be grown in
an eight inch pot. In potting the bulbs, press
them down into the soil so that just the top ot
the bulb is seen above the surface. Then water
well, and set them away to form roots.
It is generally advised to put uewly-polted
bulbs in the cellar. Prom this it must not be
understood that a cellar is imperatively neces-
sai-y to their successful culture. What is needed
is a place where they can be kept dark and cool.
The cellar may furnish these conditions, or they
may be secured by sinking the pots in the
ground, and banking up about them with coal
ashes or anything that will effectually exclude
the light.
Bulbs that are put out of doors to form roots
will not be injured by freezing if allowed to
thaw out gradually. On no account bring them
into a warm place while frozen. To do that
would be to put an end to your prospect of
flowers from them.
Alter your bulbs have been in the cellar or the
ground for a month, exarainw them. Turn the
ball of earth out of a pot, and see if the roots
have reached the "outside of it. If they have,
you can begin to bring the pots to the window,
for you will koow that I'oois enough to healthily
support th« top have been formed. But do not
bring them ali at once if you want a succession
of flowers. By keeping some cf them in a low
temperature, the growth of top can be retarded.
It is a good plan to pot bulbs at intervals of two
weeks, for by doing this, and leaving some in
the cellar a longer time, we can succeed in hav-
ing flowers from bulbs for many weeks during
the winter.
Most varieties will require to be left in the
dark for at least a month, and some need a lon-
ger time in which to root well. All do not come
forward alike. Some will very likely insist on
making a growth of top shortly after being
potted. If you find any that show an inclina-
tion to do this, it is well to bring them up at
cues, as they will keep on, after having begun,
and if they are left in the dark ihf-y will amount
to nothing. The reason why some bulbs begin
to grow at once, after potting, is that they have
been kept in conditions which incite premature
development. Probably they have been stored
in too light and warm a place. In a cooler,
darker place they would have remained dor-
mant.
Right here let me anticipate the question
which many might like to ask relative to the
care that should be given bulbs after thev have
completed their winter flowering. Do not at-
t»^m\it to carry them over for another season.
While it is true that some bulbs may give a sec-
ond .reason of bloom in the house, it is equally
tru<^ that but few of them will do so. As a gen-
eral thing a bulb that has been forced ia worth-
less afterward. It cannot be depended on. ft
is much the best plan to buy fresh, strong bulbs
eacb seaeoD,
On bringing your bulbs to the light, after they
have rooted, do not put them in a very warm
room. A temperature of 65 degrees is" better
for them than a higher one. In a low tempera-
ture, such as would correspond to spring weath-
er, their development will be healthy, while a
high one forces them unduly, and you are sure
to get poor poor, short-lived flowers, if any.
The probabilities are that in too high a temper-
ature they will blast.
When in bloom, the cooler you can keep them
the longer they will last.
Hyacinths often show buds shortlv after be-
ginning to grow. Indeed, leaves and buds fre-
quently appear at the same time. Quite often,
when the tip of the flower-spike is seen at such
an early stagf^ it seems to have exhausted itself
in getting a start, and will make a very slow de-
velopment. Sometimes the blossoms will be all
in a bunch, down among the leaves. As soon
as you notice a tendency on the part of the
flower-stalk to not reach up as it ought to, make
a paper cone the size ot the pot, and, after cut-
ting off about an inch of its apex, invert it ovrr
the plant. Through the hole at the top of the
cone the light will exert its influence on the
plant, and both leaves and flowpr-stalk will
reach up toward the opening, and in this man-
ner you succeed in coaxing the plant out of its
sulkiness.
The Hyacinth is one of the most satisfactory
of all bulbs for forcing. It comes iu beautiful
colors, is very sweet, and not one bulb in a hun-
dr'-d will fail to bloom if treated as I have ad-
vised.
I Erreatly prefer the single to the double vari-
eties. They are surer to bloom, and the spike
of flowers is more graceful because they are not
so crowded as in the double sorts.
My favorite Hyacinth is the Eoman. Several
stalks of flowers are thrown up from each bulb.
The flowers are loosely and gracefully arranged,
and the prim effect peculiar to the ordinary vari-
eties is lacking. They are deliciously sweet.
Tney come in pink, white, blue and pale yellow.
You get more flowers from them than you do from
the ordinary varieties because the latter seldom
throw up more than one stalk from each bulb.
Among the Tulips the single sorts are gener-
ally selected as being most sure to give satis-
faction.
The Narcissus or Daffodil is one of the most
charming bulbs wo have, and all collections of
winter blooming, plants should include at least a
dozen cf them. The Chinese " Sacred Lily " be-
longs to this family. They should be given tho
same treatment as is advised for Tulip and
Hyacinth. The best varieties for forcing are :
Princeps, a magnificpnt flower, with rich yel-
low trumpet and perianth of pale sulphur.
Trunapet Major, rich yellow.
Horsneldii, trumpet, rich yeUow, pure white
perianth.
Maximus, orange, large.
One of the popular forcing flowers is the Ber-
muda Lily, better known, perhaps, as the Easter
Lily, because it is brought into flower largely
about that time. If I were to confine myself to
one bulb, I should choose this. Nothing can be
finer than a large specimen of this noble plant,
crowned with a great cluster of trumpet-shap-'d
flowers of th'< purest white, and most delight-
fully fragrant. I grow a great many of them
