48
THE PRACTICAL GUIDE TO FLOBICVLTUIiE.
hpst lor the bonsc. I have named but one va-
riety of each color. You will find long lists of
most desirable kinds in all the catalogues, and
nearly all are good.
The double varieties are better adapted to
bedding out.
Among the variegated sorts, I like Mad. Salle-
roi best. It is a low, bushv sort, with pale green
foliage bordi-red with white. It requires no
training, and always has a profuse quantity ot
pleasing odor. Dr. Livingston has finely-cut
loUage, and is excellent lor cut-work. The Nut-
meg and Apple Geraniums have small leaves,
possessing a spicy, fruity odor.
The Ivy-leaved section is of slender habit of
growth, and must be given a trellis or some
similar support. Their leaves are shaped like
tUose of the English Ivy, hence the name. Their
flowers are double and single, in a great variety
of colore.
foliage, which is something that cannot bo said
of the tall-growing green and white varieties.
It is excellent for use among other plants, as its
green and white leaves are almost as attractive
as flowers. Marshal MacMahon is a variety
having dark-green leaves heavily zoned with
brown. Happy Thought has a green leaf
blotched with yellow at the center. A few plants
of these varieties add greatly to the attraction
of a window in winter, or at times when there
are few flowers.
Among the fragrant-leaved kinds, the Kose
stands at the head for beauty of foliage and
Fuchsias.
These flowers are summer bloomers, with bnt
one exception. Specioea will bloom in winter,
and all the year round if allowed to do so. I
cannot advise any other variety for winter cul-
ture.
This plant likes a light, spongy soil. Leaf
mold and sand, drained well, suits it exactly.
Shift from time to time as the roots fill the old
pots. If allowed to get dry at the roots, or to
become pot-boimd, the leaves and buds often
droop. Great care must therefore be taken to see
that the soil is always moist, and that the roots
