SOME OF THE BEST HO USE PLANTS.
53
Portia, scarlet.
Col, Wilder, scarlet, flaked with maroon.
Buttercup, yellow, marked with carmine.
Do not give very large pots.
The Calla.
An old favorite. The foliage, in itself, is very
attractive, and the plant would be well worth
growing if it had no flowers. The blossoms are
creamy white, large, and borne on long, stout
ptalks, lifted well above the foliage. To grow
this plant to perfection, one must give it a very
rich soil. The finest specimen of this plant that
drouth cornea on, during which the soil in
which the plant grows becomes perfectly dry.
The Amaryllis.
The Amaryllis is a magnificent plant for win-
dow culture. Its large, lily-shaped flowers, of
rich colors and stately habit, always attract at-
tention and admiration. Many persons fail with
it because they keep it growing all the time.
This is wrong. Growth should be encouraged
until it ceases— that ia, the growth of foliage.
When no more leaves are sent up, withhold wa-
ter, and allow the soil to get moderately dry.
CYCLAMEN.
I ever saw was grown in a tin powder-can as
large as an ordinary pail. The bottom was
punched full of holes. This can was placed in
a large pail containing liquid manure, which
the roots of the plaut drank up at will. The
result was leaf-stalks nearly four feet tall, and
twenty-one flowers from one plant during the
winter. The Calla likes a good deal of water
while growing, and does best if allowed to get
dry during the summer. This gives it alternate
periods of growth and rest, which is natural, as
the plant comes from the Nile, where, at certain
seasons, everything is flooded, and tbeu a
Generally, a flower-stalk will be the first indica-
tion of renewed growth. If the plant does not
intend to bloom, new leaves will be the first in-
dication of growth. Then give water more
freely until the growing period comes to an
end. By giving alternate periods of growth and
rest, the culture of this bulb can be made suc-
cessful, but by keeping the plant growing all
the time, or rather, by keeping it mojst at the
roots all the time, and consequently in a condi-
tion favorable to growth, it becomes weakened
to such an extent that it often fails to bloom.
There are several superb sorts to be obtaiaed
