SOME OF THE BEST ROUSE PLAINTS.
Imantopbyllutn.
This is a member of the Amaryllis family, but
ia not bulbous. It has thick, fl>'ehy roots like
thn Agapautbus. At intervals, during the year,
ii. sends up a stalk afoot or more in height, bear-
ing from six to a dozen blossoms of a soft orange
with yellow throat, shaped like a Lily. Of the
very easiest culture. An evergreen, therefore
to bo kept growing all the time.
Vallotta.
A member of the Amaryllis family, bloomins;
every year in August and September. Its
flowers are of a very rich scarlet. Treat like
Imantophyllum. Disturb the bulbs as little as
possible.
Cacti.
This class of plants is well-adapted to culture
in living rooms, as it likes a warm place, and
does not suffi'r from dry air as many other
plants do. The Pbyllocacti are among our most
magnificent flowering plants. Their flowers are
of the richest colors and striking form. The
Epiphyllums are very free bloomers, and will
grow under most unfavorable conditions. But
it pays to give these plants good care. If one is
unfamiliar wilh the Cactus family, I would advise
her to send to A. Blanc, 314 'North Eleventh
St., Philadelphia, Pa., for " Hints on Cacti"— a
very valuable little book on the culture of this
most interesting class of plants, which will bo
sent free. The grotesque forms assumed by
CHINESE PRIMROSE.
Acbania.
A constant-flowering plant, of habit similar to
that of the Abutilon. Flowers scarlet. Never
attacked by any insect. Not a free bloomer,
yet never without a few flowors. One of the
most reliable of all plants. Can be kept for
years, and rei»ewed from time to time, by cut-
ting back sharply.
Cestrum.
This is a member of the Jessamine family, of
exceedingly easy culture. Grows rapidly in a
rich loam. C. auranticum has tubular yellow
flowers, borne in spikes. C. porquii is the night-
blooming variety, having greenish-white flowers
which emit a very rich, powerful odor after
nightfall. Both varieties become good-sized
Bbrube.
many varieties gives them a sort of fascination
for the student of plants, which soon develops
into a genuine Cactus craze. In this class is
found the Night-Blooming Cereus, and other
celebrated varieties, of which we frequently
read or hear mention made.
The Chinese Primrose.
This is one of the best winter-bloomers we
have. It is too well known to require descrip-
tion. The single and d 'uble white varieties
have long been cultivated by plant-growers, al-
most to the exclusion of the pink, red and darker
sorts. The florists have lately taken this plant
in hand, and some of the nf>w strains are won-
derful improvements on old varieties, both in
size and color of the flowers. Be sore to have
half a dozen plants of this Primrose. Give a
