56
THE PRACTICAL GUIDE TO FLORICULTUTiE.
light, spongy soil, and pot high— that iw, have
the crown of the plaut elevated above the sur-
face of the soil well, so that water, when applied,
will run away from the crown and toward the
sides of the pot. If allowed to run about the
crown, and stand there, decay often sets in, aud
in a short time the plant is injured. I would
advise getting young, strong plants each year in
spring.
Itnpatiens Sultani.
This plant, sometimes called Zanzibar Balsam,
is an ever-bloomer. It bears scares of flowers,
daily, of a soft carmine, which contrasts well
with the rich green foliage. It likes a good
Its long fronds are sent up from the roots in
great profusion. T:iis does well in the sitting-
room, if kept moist at the roots.
Otbanna.
One of our verv best hanging plants. Flow-
ers yellow. Fond of the sunshine.
Sauseviera.
A plant having long, thick foliage of green,
curiously mottled with gray. Of the easiest pos-
sible culture. Will grow in shady places where
nothifjg else will. Fine for halls and vestibules.
Capable of standing heat, dust, and dry air much
deal of water and a light, spongy soil. Give a
shady place. Avery bright, cheerful, attractive
plant.
Ferns.
Some varieties of Fern oan be grown quite
successfully in the house, if care is taken to
give them proper soil, and it is kept moist at
all times. Leaf-mold and sand suits them
better than loam. Ptoris tremuia is a pretty
variety. P. argenta is a variety having a strip
of silvery whito down the center of the fronds,
and is a charming plant. Adiantum cioietUnm
is a delicately fronded sort that always attracts
attention. There are many other varieties from
which selection can be made, but I would not
advise choosing tho delicate kinds, as they do
not succeed in living-rooms. They must have
a moist atmosphere. Nephrolepais cxaltaia is
the Sword Fern, and is excellent for baskets.
better than any of the Palms. A very desirable
plant.
Oxalis.
Another good baaket-plant, also fond of sun-
shine. Flowers pink, freely produced, and very
sweet. Foliage uke that of" clover. Grown from
tubers.
Pltiniha^o.
A free-flowering, shrubby plant, having flow-
ers shaped like those of the Phlox, in loose
clusters. Their color is a most delightful, soft
blue— a quite unusual one among house plants.
Of easy culture. Cut the branches back well
after each period of blooming. New ones will
soon be sent out, and those will produce new
flowers. P. caiJen.iix is the blue variety. P. alba
is whiiie. P. rosea has red flowers. P. capensis
is the best sort.
