The Practical Guide to Floriculture.
By EBKX E. REXFOKD.
HoM^ to Have a Good Flower Garden
Most lovers of flowers will want a garden if
donditiona are favorable to their Laving one.
Those living in the country will find few diflScul-
tiea in the way, but those living in the city will
often have "to make a tight of it " to overcome
the conditions which prevail there. But " where
there is a will there is a way " holds good here
as in other undertakings, and the woman who
has a genuine love of flowers in her heart will
contrive to have at least a few common kinds
growing in her back yard, if she lives in the city
whore front yards are the property of the
wealthy.
Let me give a few simple, practical inetruc-
tions about making a garden in the country, and
the dweller in the city who would like to grow a
few flowers for herself can apply them to her
gardening operations as completfly as possible.
being sure that the nearer she comes to having
her city garden prepared like the country gar-
den the surer she will be of getting good results.
Of course she cannot overcome all unfavorable
conditions, but she can attempt to do so, and
the more successful ber attempts the better her
chances of having good flowers.
Tho initial step in making a good garden con-
eists in having the ground spaded or plowed at
least a foot deep. Do this as early as possible in
spring. You need not try to pulverize it at the
time of spading or plowiog. It will generally be
80 wet and heavy at that time that this cannot
be done with any degree of sucoess. Let it lay
and take the benefit of a sun-bath for a few
days. Gradually the water will drain out of it,
and in a week's time you can go over it and
knock the chunks of soil apart with a hoe.
After this is done, spread a liberal application
of manure over the bed, and take especial pains
to work this in well with the native soil.
The best manure is that from the cow-yard. It
should have lain long enough to become thor-
oughly rotten. If black and easily crumbled, it
IS in the proper condition. Fresh manure is
never advisable. Rather than use such a fertil-
izer I would depend on slops and soap-suds from
washing day to furnish nutriment for my plants.
If in the city, stable manure is not easily obtain-
able, and bone-meal or other commercial fertil-
izers can be used. Instructions as to quantity and
manner of application will accompany each kind,
eo that no mistake need be made in their use.
Don't be afraid of expending too much work
on your flower-beds. You cannot have them too
fine or mellow. Much of your success depends
on the condition of the soil at the time of sowing
seed ; therefore dig it over, and stir it, and {.pul-
verize it, until it 18 free from all lumps, and see
that whatever fertilizer is used is thoroughly in-
corporated with it.
If you want a good garden, you will have to
work m it a good deal after you have made your
beds and sowed your seed. That is merely the
beginning of the season's work.
Look out for weeds every day. Pull all you
find to-day, and to-morrow you'll find more to
pull. Eternal vigilance is the price of a good
garden. No garden is a good one in which
weeds are permitted to grow. There can be no
compromise between weeds and flowers. If
weeds are allowed to develop, the flowers will bo
crowded out early in the season ; therefore it is
of the greatest importance that they should
never be allowed to get a foothold. Let war be-
gin against them as soon as they put in an ap-
pearance, and let it be kept up until you have
convinced them that they stand no chance of bo-
coming established in your garden-beds.
Stir the soil about your plants at least twice a
week, using a narrow- bladed hoe among tho
larger ones, and a weeder among the smaller
kinds. Water at evening, if the season is a dry
one. This is very important early in the exist-
ence of the plant, because then it has short
roots which do not penetrate the soil far enough
to get tho benefit of moisture several inches be-
low the surface. Later on they will be able to
dy this, but until they reach that stage of devel-
opment they must be carefully watered if there
is lack of rain.
In long seasons of drouth, and in localities
wh^re thp soil is light and dries out rapidly, it
will be necessary to supply water frequently and
regularly. In giving water, do it at night, never
in the morning. If given in the morning, tbe
sun gets at It, and causes it to evaporate so rap-
idly that tho plant receives but little benefit from
the moisture before it is dissipated. It does not
have time and the chance to get down to tho
roots of the plants where it must get in order to
do any good. If applied at night evaporatioa
does not take place to any great extent, and the
soil drinks it in, and before morning the plants'
roots have appropriated it.
Many persons cease to hoe their gardens in »
dry season, thinking that the more open and po-
rous the soil is the more rapidly it wiU dry out.
So they let the beds become crusted over. Their
inference is wrong. The plants in those beds
that are frequently stirred will retain their
freshness long after those in the crusted-over
beds have became to turn yellow. Why? Be-
cause the light, op<'u, porous soil is in just the
condition to take in and make use of all the
moisture that comes ^long— and there is more
