THE PEACTICAL GUIDE TO FLORICULTURE.
in an ordinary dew-fall than many suppose—
wbile the bed that is covered with a crust does not
permit any moisiure from such a source to pen-
etrate it. Light, open soils absorb moisture as
a sponge does. This is wliy the hoe should bo
used on the garden-bed in a dry season.
You will see the benefit of having the soil in
this condition if you apply water. Every drop
of it will be takenin just where and as soon as
it is applied, but on the crusted-over bed a large
amount will run away before the crust is soak^-d
through, and no water can get down to the roots
ti.l this 18 done.
Therefore, stir the soil often and thoroughly
ia a dry season.
Save the suds from washing day and the slop
basin and empty tbem on your flowerbeds.
They are too valuable to throw away.
Oneof theessnntialsof a good garden is— good
seed. You should always aim to get the best
that is to be had. Never buy the cheap stuff
which is freely offered. It is always sure to
prove dear in the end. Most of it is old seed,
bought at a low price, and it cannot be depended
on. Buy only of those dealers who have a repu-
tation for hoDOsty and fair dealing. They han-
dle only such seed as they know will prove satis-
faciory.
1 would advise sowing seeds of most plants in
pots or boxes out of doors, rather than in the
bed where you intend them to grow, because
you have them under better control when young
when sown in this way. If sown in the beds,
fine seeds often fail to germinate because they
an^ covered too deeply. Weeds are sure to ap-
pear as soon as you give them a chance to start,
and if you sow flower-seeds in the beds, it is
often difficult and sometimes impossible to tell
" which le which " at first, and by the time you
are able to distinguish weeds from flowers, the
former have got the start of the latter. If seed
is sown in boxes, this is not likely to happen.
In transplanting seedlings from boxes, there is
no waste of plants. You use enough to till your
b°ds, and no moro, and what you have left can
be given to your friends, or to those who cannot
afiford to buy seed. If flower lovers would start
their plants in boxes of fine, light soil, and caro
for them properly, I am sure there would bo
less complaint about worthless seed. When I
see how many persons sow their seed in the
garden-bed, I do not wonder that many kinds
tail to grow. They are scattered over a rough
surface, raked in in such a manner as to cover
some two or three inches deep with soil, and
others not at all, and then left to be dried out
by hot sunshine, or soaked to death by heavy,
cold rains. By starting your seed in boxes all
this can be avoided. I would not sow very early
in the season in boxes out of doors, because
nothing is gained by it. We are not attempting
to get early plants by this method, simply to
start plants in such a manner that they can get
better attention during the early stage of growth
than they would be likely to receive if sowed
directly in the beds. In short, as I have already
remarked, by sowing them in boxes, we have
them under better control than when sowed in
the bed, and that is quite important. April is
quite early enough to start hardy annuals into
growth, if you wait until that time your seed-
lings can be kept out of doors nearly all the
time. Should a cold spell come along, the boxes
can bo covered with blankets, or old carpet, or
newspapers. Grown without fire heat, and where
they have a free circulation of air, th^y will be
as strong and healthy in all ways as plants sown
in the beds ever are.
If you want your plants to flower freely during
the greater part of the season, it is very impor-
tant that you keep them from ripening seed. If
you allow them to form and develop seed, as
they will attempt to do, you will get but few flow-
ers after the first crop. All their energies will be
bent to the one purpose of p»»rfecting seed
whereby to perpetuate themselves. But if you
thwart them in this attempt by cutting off the
seed-veasels as soon as seen, they will straight-
way set about making another effort to carry
out their desire, ami you will get another crop
of flowers. By persistent eftbrt on your part to
prevent the formation of seed, you can keep
most plants blooming until quite late in the sea-
son,
