THE LIMITATIONS OF THE HEALING ART. 81
affect the processes which play in hallucinations their wild pranks
in the ganglion-cells and associative paths.
We can certainly by the application of certain substances
cause changes in particular cells which are expressed, albeit in
some unknown way, by physiological effects. Thus many alka-
loids, alcohol, ether, chloroform, bromine, curare, digitalis, etc.,
operate directly on particular cell-groups, and bundles of nerves
and muscles ; pilocarpine, arsenic, and iodine on certain glands ;
phosphorus on growth processes in the bones. When the cases at
present known are analyzed, it is found that bromine restrains
the paroxysms of epilepsy for a short time, but does not remove
the processes in the central nervous system from which they
originate. Alcohol in moderate doses temporarily excites the
brain and heart to activity, but does not cure a single pathological
condition the presence of which made the administration of alco-
hol necessary. Morphine alleviates the pains of neuralgia, but
does not effect any fundamental change in the disease. Some-
times effects appear like those of iodine in certain diseases corre-
sponding with a real cure brought about by the means itself ; but
it is still the last experience of medical art that the restoration
from the diseased condition, in the true sense of the word, must
come to pass through the organism itself. Whether an order of
thoughts like that which Robert Koch developed in his studies of
tuberculin will lead to this end must be learned by clinical ex-
periment. It may be that the healing art will make its advance
in this way. For the present we must learn, the more impress-
ively as medical knowledge becomes more perfect, that the doctor
is only the servant of Nature, not its master.
Although the expectation and the possibility of controlling
the fundamentals of pathological processes are so limited, the
healing art is nevertheless not doomed to vain contemplation and
inactive dallying. While art can not master Nature, it can follow
it with diligent observation. The truth of this remark covers a
genuine progress, and furnishes the key to the secret of the suc-
cess of really great physicians. To investigate the exact origin
of pathological changes, to ascertain by what methods and under
what conditions disturbances of the organism are most easily
overcome or counterbalanced, deliberately to support and imitate
these methods if possible, and before everything to do no harm,
is the way by which the healing art can accomplish something
important and good. History proves incontestably that practical
efficiency at the sick-bed goes in an exactly parallel line with the
cultivation of scientific methods. Medicine to-day, without yet
being able directly to cure the pathological condition, reaches,
simply by following the principles here laid down, incomparably
more favorable results than formerly. It has learned, first of all,
VOL. XLI. 8
