82 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
not to interfere so as to destroy the course of natural compensa-
tions ; but seeks by dietetical, hygienic, and climatic influences,
here by the removal of excitants, there by methodical stimula-
tion of the matter-changes of the nervous system to put the
organism into a condition to overcome the pathological disturb-
ances. To use such measures, carefully adapted on principles of
scientific observation and enlarged knowledge of the course of
disease to the most diverse conditions, continually to furnish a
closer support to the natural compensations and adaptations
that is one of the ways to which the healing art must turn in or-
der to enlarge its scope.
Since we know that already developed pathological processes
can be only imperfectly or not at all affected by art, it should be
our more inflexible purpose to guard against their beginning, to
recognize the causes of disease, and render them harmless. But
this purpose must be comprehended in its widest sense ; it should
not be confined to the prevention of infectious diseases alone, or to
mere measures of sanitary policy, but should also include specific
means of cure. Thus, the treatment of malarious disease with qui-
nine is to all appearance etiological. The changes that have already
taken place in the blood-cells and the spleen are not reversed by
quinine, but the plasmodia of malaria are in some way destroyed,
and then the disease may be cured.
The hope is not unjustified that in a nearer or further future
we shall learn to nullify by specific means the promoters of dis-
ease in many other infections. After nullifying the irritating
causes, the processes of Nature may be relied upon to complete the
cure. It is possible that this advance will be perfected incident-
ally, as has happened with quinine and malarious disease, and
with salicylic acid and rheumatism. There is also good ground
here for the hope that methodical research will be rich in re-
sults. The fruitful investigations of numerous contemporary
laborers permit much to be expected. And though the conflict of
opinions sways hither and thither, and although the knowledge
that has been gained relates only to diseases of animals, there is
no vital reason for supposing that the same results will not also
be reached for man.
The efforts of the present are turned in three directions: to
cure bacterial diseases that have already become clinically visi-
ble ; to make infections harmless while in their incubatory stages ;
and especially to ward off infection. The last-named object is
the farthest-reaching one. It can be attained in two ways: by
sanitary protective measures against epidemics, and by confer-
ring immunity on the individual organism, of which vaccination
for small-pox is a typical example. Securing artificial immunity
by inoculation, and its scientific basis, are now in the full flow
