84 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
DENDRITES.
By M. STANISLAS MEUNIER.
THERE is a universal tendency to seek and sometimes to see in
the forms of objects around us representations of the human
figure or of animals and plants. Many interesting examples have
been recorded and pictured in La Nature of rocks and mountains
presenting resemblances to animated forms. We are quite ready
to discern in the clouds all sorts of personages ; and at periods
when superstition has been active, apparitions have been described,
the whole existence of which consisted of misinterpreted simple
resemblances. Stones have usually been considered especially
worthy of attention in this category ; in tubercles of sandstone
and nodules of flint it is easy to find features analogous with the
most various objects. A block of sandstone is exhibited in the
forest of Fontainebleau on which one willing to see it may recog-
nize a petrified knight on his horse, all of the natural size. A
nodule of sandstone was once brought to me in the geological
laboratory of the museum, on which the owner saw the portrait
of our Lord on the cross. Some persons are specially ingenious
in finding resemblances in flints ; and Boucher de Perthes admit-
ted into his Atlas of Celtic and Antediluvian Antiquities a whole
series of figures of imitative forms of that mineral.
There is no limit to this line of curiosities. All sorts of sub-
jects may be found calves' heads, which are quite common, and
eyes, birds, fishes, detached hands, feet, and ears, and human pro-
files. A large flint was kept for a long time at Meudon, on which
everybody recognized the bust of Louis XIV. To such accidents
M. J. B. Robinet, in 1778, devoted a part of his ingenious Consid-
erations on the Efforts of Nature in trying to make Man (Con-
siderations sur les essais de la Nature qui apprend a faire
Vhomme). As we turn the leaves of this curious work we see
described, in distinct paragraphs, anthropocardites, representing
the heart of man ; encephalites, or brains ; crano'ides, or skulls ;
otites, or ear-stones ; leucophtlialmos, or white eyes ; chirites, or
hands ; stones representing a muscle, and even the olfactory
nerve, etc.
The drawing of the distinction between fortuitous resemblances
and true fossils was protracted and made difficult by the fact that
the two forms are often mingled, sometimes associated in the
same specimen or originating in beds having the most essential
characteristics in common.
Sometimes, for instance, fossils are reduced to the condition of
impressions squeezed between two beds of rock or between two
laminae of a schistose stone. Fishes and insects are found in this
