ENERGY AS A FACTOR IN AGRICULTURE. 87
of them by placing pieces of marble or lithographic stone in a
dilute solution of chloride or sulphate of manganese. The hope
of success is all the more legitimate because carbonate of lime
has already permitted the imitation in this way of several natural
minerals, particularly of limonite, an iron mineral, and bauxite,
or the mineral of aluminum. But the experiment has not been
successful, and, instead of the desired black deposit, we get only
chocolate-brown flakes having no resemblance to the substance
of the dendrites.
Seeking for the causes of this want of success, I have found,
by analysis, that the dendrites said to be of manganese contain
oxide of iron, in minute proportions it is true, but in proportions
that seem to be sufficient. And the addition of traces of ferric
salts to the solution of manganese salt has really determined the
deposit on the limestone surface of a perfectly black compound,
presenting in many cases the exact form of the dendrites of
Nature. I have in the museum specimens that leave no doubt
on the subject, the inferiority of which to the models which I
sought to copy is most probably due to the inferior slowness of
the process of producing them. Translated for The Popular Sci-
ence Monthly from La Nature.
ENERGY AS A FACTOR IN AGRICULTURE.*
By Dr. MANLY MILES.
THE rapid development of science and its numerous applica-
tions in the industrial arts are leading to a general recogni-
tion of its importance as a factor in the material and intellectual
progress of the age. The aid of science is now invoked in every
department of human activity, and, judging from what has already
been accomplished, we can not perceive any indications of a limit
to its useful applications in the industries.
While the general outlook encourages optimistic views in re-
gard to the present and prospective advantages that may be real-
ized from the applications of science, we should not overlook the
shadows involved in its progress, which seriously interfere with
its own advancement, and at the same time increase the difficulties
attending original investigations relating to many industrial prob-
lems.
The scope and extended range of modern science, that necessi-
tate a subdivision of its lines of research into numerous branches,
* An abstract of this paper was read at the Washington meeting of the American
Association of Science, and also before the Society for the Promotion of Agricultural
Science.
