88 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
each of which requires a lifetime of diligent study for its mas-
tery, are serious obstacles in the investigation of a certain class
of problems that can only be solved by contributions from the
entire circle of the sciences.
Prof. Huxley has sounded a note of warning which should be
heeded, especially by those who are engaged in conducting experi-
ments for the advancement of agricultural science. In his retir-
ing address as President of the Royal Society he says : " Of late
years it has struck me with constantly increasing force that those
who have toiled for the advancement of science are in a fair way
of being overwhelmed by the realization of their own wishes.
We are in the case of Tarpeia, who opened the gates of the Roman
citadel to the Sabines, and was crushed under the weight of the
reward bestowed upon her. It has become impossible for any man
to keep pace with the progress of the whole of any important
branch of science. If he were to attempt to do so his mental fac-
ulties would be crushed by the multitude of journals and volu-
minous monographs which a too fertile press casts upon him.
This was not the case in my young days. A diligent reader might
then keep fairly informed of all that was going on without de-
moralizing his faculties by the accumulation of unassimilated in-
formation. It looks as if the scientific, like other revolutions,
meant to devour its own children ; as if the growth of science
tended to overwhelm its votaries ; as if the man of science of the
future were condemned to diminish into a narrower and narrower
specialist as time goes on.
'' I am happy to say that I do not think any such catastrophe
a necessary consequence of the growth of science ; but I do think
it is a tendency to be feared, and an evil to be most carefully
provided against. The man who works away at one corner of
Nature, shutting his eyes to all the rest, diminishes his chances of
seeing what is to be seen in that corner ; for, as I need hardly re-
mind my present hearers, that which the investigator perceives
depends much more on that which lies behind his sense-organs
than on the object in front of them.
" It appears to me that the only defense against this tendency
to the degeneration of scientific workers lies in the organization
and extension of scientific education in such a manner as to secure
breadth of culture without superficiality ; and, on the other hand,
depth and precision of knowledge without narrowness."
From the exceeding complexity of many of the problems in
agricultural science, and the number of factors that require con-
sideration in attempts to solve them, there is especial need of
guarding against the dangers attending the exclusive prosecution
of special lines of research, which are so forcibly stated by Prof.
Hnxley with reference to the general advancement of science.
