ENERGY AS A FACTOR IN AGRICULTURE. 89
In almost every problem in agriculture the complex phe-
nomena of life are directly concerned, under various forms and
activities, which can not be expressed or formulated in chemical
terms, from the self-evident truth that the part can not contain
the whole. The significance and interdependent relations of the
biological factors in agriculture are unavoidably obscured by the
exclusive consideration of specific details "which, with the ad-
vance of knowledge, may prove to be but incidents in the mani-
festations of general laws.
The solution of these Protean problems can only be secured by
abstract researches to determine the relations of the several fac-
tors to each other, and to the general laws of which they are the
expression. The principles of science that are admitted to be of
general application are the only safe guides in developing an
improved and rational system of agriculture, while the purely
empirical lines of research that aim to discover specific rules
of practice, and thus gain immediate practical results, retard the
march of progress by the delusive importance assigned to non-
essential details.
The truth of these statements may be illustrated by the re-
markable progress of the physical sciences in the past quarter of
a century, and the rapid development of the industrial arts
through the recognition and applications of the principle of the
conservation of energy, which Faraday looked upon as " the high-
est law in physical science which our faculties permit us to per-
ceive," and Huxley refers to, in connection with evolution, as
" the greatest of all of the generalizations of science."
The principle of the conservation of energy, which is now gen-
erally admitted to be a prime factor in Nature's operations, has not
received adequate attention in agricultural science. It is true
that in general terms it has been incidentally referred to as a fac-
tor in biology, more particularly with reference to mechanical
work, but the dominance of purely chemical considerations has
prevented its real significance in all organic processes from being
fully recognized.
More than twenty-five years ago, Dr. William B. Carpenter
pointed out to physiologists the " distinction between the dynami-
cal and the material conditions ; the former supplying the power
which does the work, while the latter affords the instrumental
means through which that power operates."
The material conditions have, however, continued to receive a
predominant, and almost exclusive, share of attention, and the
manifestations of energy in the processes of vegetable and animal
nutrition have practically been ignored.
In the applications of science to agriculture, and especially in
planning and conducting experiments, the transformations of
TOL. XLI. 9
