ENERGY AS A FACTOR IN AGRICULTURE. 91
economy of plant growth that is closely related to that presented
"by the water absorbed by the roots of plants and exhaled by their
leaves.
Energy has been defined as " the power of doing work, or over-
coming resistance/' and its varied transformations into heat,
motion, electricity, etc., without gain or loss, are expressed by the
general term conservation of energy. In the nutrition and growth
of plants an expenditure of energy is evidently required in the
work involved in a number of distinct, but correlated, processes,
the most important of which are constructive metabolism, or the
building of organic substance; the exhalation of water by the
leaves, which is constantly taking place in their processes of nu-
trition ; the evaporation of water from the surface soil ; and the
warming of the soil to provide optimum conditions of tempera-
ture.
The energy expended in constructive metabolism, or tissue-
building, is stored up as potential energy, and reappears as heat
when the plant is decomposed by any process, as, for example,
when it is burned. The mechanical force exhibited by growing
plants is a phase of the constructive process that has often been
noticed. President Clark's squash raised a weight of 4,120 pounds
in its processes of growth. Sprouts from the roots of a tree push-
ing their way through an asphalt pavement have been observed
by myself, and many similar exhibitions of the force exerted by
growing plants are often seen.
These obvious manifestations of energy in constructive metab-
olism are, however, so familiar that they require but a passing
notice, and we will proceed to consider the much larger expendi-
tures of energy involved in vaporizing the water exhaled by the
leaves of plants and evaporated from the surface soil, as these un-
obtrusive and incidental processes, as they might be termed, are
quite as significant factors in plant growth as the direct work of
building organic substance, to which the attention of physiologists
is more particularly directed. In field experiments the results
obtained with manures must largely depend on the expenditure of
energy, under the prescribed conditions, in the work of exhalation
by the plants and the evaporation of water from the surface soil.
The supply of plant food in the manure may, in fact, be a matter
of secondary importance to the growing crop.
Experiments at Rothamsted, England, and on the continent
by Hellriegel, on the exhalation of water by a variety of farm
crops, including wheat, oats, peas, beans, and clover, show that
about three hundred pounds of water are exhaled by the leaves for
each pound of dry organic substance formed by the plants. It
was estimated by Lawes and Gilbert that the average annual ex-
halation from the wheat grown on some of the experimental plots
