ENERGY AS A FACTOR IN AGRICULTURE. 93
discussed in detail, it appears safe to estimate the soil evaporation
in the Middle States at approximately twice the amount exhaled
by a growing crop of fair luxuriance. Of an annual rainfall of
thirty-two inches, or over, fairly distributed, we may then as-
sume, with apparent good reason, that about sixteen inches will
be disposed of by evaporation from a fertile, well-drained soil, and
about eight inches by exhalation from a growing crop, or an aggre-
gate of about twenty-four inches will be disposed of in the form
of vapor from soil and crop, involving an expenditure of energy
represented by the heat produced by burning 320 tons of coal per
acre, or the equivalent of the work of seventy-three horses, day
and night, without intermission, for six months. If to this is
added the energy expended in constructive metabolism and in
warming the soil, which we will not now estimate in specific
terms, the sum would represent the normal demands for energy
in growing a crop of one acre.
This enormous expenditure of energy appears to be quite as
essential to the well-being of the crop as the supply of food con-
stituents, to which attention has been too exclusively directed,
and any conditions that tend to materially increase or diminish
it must be looked upon as injurious.
From this standpoint the principle of the conservation of
energy furnishes most satisfactory data for discussing the philos-
ophy of farm drainage. On undrained, retentive soils, the rain
that falls in excess of the normal requirements of the crop and
soil metabolism must be removed by evaporation, and this calls
for a very considerable expenditure of energy that on drained
land might be made available in useful work, to say nothing of
the influence of removing surplus water by evaporation on the
physical and biological characteristics of the soil.
For each inch of surplus rainfall removed from the soil by
evaporation, the energy expended would be represented by 26,600
pounds of coal per acre. With an annual rainfall of forty inches,
which is not unusual in the Middle States, and is considerably
exceeded in some localities, there would be sixteen inches of water
in excess of the normal demands of an ordinary farm crop, and
to remove this by evaporation would require the equivalent
of about 213 tons of coal per acre, representing the continuous
work of forty-eight horses, day and night, for six months. The
removal of this surplus water by drainage would obviate the ne-
cessity for this enormous expenditure of energy, besides other
incidental advantages which we need not notice here.
In the economy of animals the manifestations of the law of
the conservation of energy are quite as striking and significant.
The potential energy of their food is the sole source of the energy
expended in work, and in their processes of nutrition and growth.
