94 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Animals have been looked upon as machines for converting the
vegetable products of the farm into animal products of greater
value, and this in the light of the law of the conservation of
energy may be interpreted as the conversion of the potential
energy of field crops into the useful work of an animal machine.
Considered as machines for the manufacture of definite products,
the efficiency of animals must depend upon the amount of work
performed for a given supply of energy in their food.
An ordinary steam-engine formerly converted less than one
tenth of the potential energy of the fuel consumed into useful
work, and the attention of engineers has been directed to improve-
ments in construction to secure greater economy and efficiency in
the work performed, by a more complete utilization of the poten-
tial energy supplied in the form of coal or other fuel. The re-
markable industrial development of the past few years, resulting
in a material reduction of the cost of production and transporta-
tion, is largely owing to improvements in the steam-engine
which have been brought about by a more intelligent application
of the principle of the conservation of energy.
There are good reasons for the belief that the animal machine
works with greater economy than the steam-engine, even in its
improved form, but, according to the most favorable estimates,
only a small proportion of the potential energy of foods is utilized
in useful work, and there is a broad margin for improvement,
even in what we call our improved breeds, to secure a more
efficient expenditure of energy.
The problem of paramount interest in animal husbandry is
essentially the same the mechanical engineer has been dealing
with in his efforts to improve the steam-engine. It is simply to
obtain the largest net returns in useful work from the potential
energy of the food consumed. It is evident that improvements in
the animal machine itself must be the leading object to receive
attention, and the breeders of pure-bred stock must recognize this
principle in their efforts for improvement. The form and pro-
portions in which the chemical constituents of food are provided
are of far less importance than the inherited capacity and capa-
bilities of the animal machine to utilize and economize energy in
the work involved in the manufacture of animal products.
When speaking of foods we should bear in mind the fact that
there is but a limited demand in the animal economy for the
so-called nutritive constituents, aside from their agency in the
transformations of energy involved in the metabolism of the
system. But a small proportion of the chemical constituents of
foods are stored up in the body, even during the period of growth,
when the demands for new materials in constructive metabolism
are most active, while an abundant supply of energy in an avail-
