BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 97
production, the one having a ratio of 1 to 5, and the other of 1 to
5*1, but there is a difference in potential energy in the two rations
equivalent to over 2,411,000 kilogramrne-metres of work, or one
and a quarter horse-power in the day's rations.
In two other rations for milk-production with nutritive ratios
of 1 to 5 and 1 to 5*1, the difference in potential energy would be
represented by 3,112,000 kilogramme-metres, or 1*6 horse-power
for the day's feed.
There are likewise rations with exactly the same nutritive
ratio (1 to 5), prescribed for Jersey cows giving milk, in which
the difference in potential energy is equivalent to 1,123,600 kilo-
gramme-metres, or more than one half of a horse-power for the
day's feed. There are also rations for horses, with nutritive ratios
1 to 6, and 1 to 6"4, which have a difference in energy of 2,834,000
kilogramme-metres, or the equivalent of over one and a quarter
horse-power for the day.
It is unnecessary to cite further instances of the obvious fal-
lacies in rations that have been formulated in accordance with a
theory which ignores the significance of energy in animal nutri-
tion. The facts already presented must be sufficient to show that
the law of the conservation of energy should be recognized as an
important factor in the nutrition and growth of both plants and
animals, and that it should receive due attention in planning and
conducting experiments for the promotion of agricultural science,
and in interpreting their results. In the development of a rational
system of farm economy the applications of this general law must
have a dominant influence in determining the most profitable and
consistent methods of practice.
BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH.
Br HAEOLD WAGER and AUBEEON HEEBEET.
\_Conclu ded.~\
EXERCISE, as well as pure air, helps us in our constant strug-
gle against the poisons that we manufacture within ourselves.
It does this by driving the blood charged with oxygen, by means
of the pressure of the muscles called into play, more thoroughly
through the tissue (Foster, page 219) ; and thus it would quicken
the breaking down of dead tissue into its safe and final waste
products (water, carbonic acid, and urea), and shorten the pe-
riod during which the dead tissue was passing through various
dangerous forms which it temporarily assumes. From this fact
we may infer that the man of sedentary life, above all others,
requires pure air.
In truth, pure air and exercise are equal forces acting in the
VOL. XLI. 10
