98 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
same direction. They both get rid of waste, and with it of the
poisons in the system, which are depressing various organs. We
need not, therefore, be surprised when we are told by Sir D. Gal-
ton that after barracks were better ventilated the rations of the
men had to be increased ; or by " the pathetic story " of certain
seamstresses whose work-room was ventilated, and who then
begged that the old state of things might be restored, as their
appetites had increased beyond their earnings. Sir D. Galton
gives another experience, illustrating the depressive effect of
these poisons upon the functions of life. A New York medical
man rather cruelly shut up some flies without food, some in foul
air, others in pure air ; the pure air being constantly changed.
To his surprise, the flies in the pure air died first, these dying
from simple starvation ; while the flies in the foul air died from
poison, and with the tissue of their bodies unexhausted, indicat-
ing how the functions of life were carried on to the last where
oxygen was available, but had been slowed and depressed by
the presence of the poison, so that life was actually maintained
longer in the foul than in the pure air. To take one more ex-
ample. Parkes tells us (page 159) that it was found in the case of
miners that they required six thousand cubits of air introduced
per man per hour (this included the air necessary for horses and
lights) to be able to work at their best. When this quantity was
reduced to one third or one half, there was a great reduction in
their working energy. In other words, the poison within their
system being imperfectly oxidized, impaired their faculties.*
We could wish that it were possible to write the whole of the
noble story of oxygen from a physiological point of view. It is a
double service that it performs for us. It not only, as we have
seen, neutralizes the deadly poisons resulting from waste, but it
provides the heat and energy, by the oxidizing or burning up of
this waste. All through animal life the consumption of oxygen,
serving this double purpose, is the measure of activity. Just as
reptiles and cold-blooded creatures consume small amounts of oxy-
gen and develop little activity, so birds and insects consume im-
* We may also take the case of races living in hot and cold climates. In hot climates
we breathe a smaller quantity of oxygen (owing to the expansion of gases) than in cold
climates. Thus, taking two climates, one of 32 F. and the other of 80 F., we should in-
hale about 2,164 grains of oxygen per hour in the one climate (the cold), and only 1,971
in the other climate (the warm), or a difference of about nine per cent (Galton, Our
Ilomes, p. 498). This would in part account for the difference of energy that exists in
the races of hot and cold climates ; just as our own energy varies considerably on hot
days and keen frosty days, though we think some allowance ought to be made for the more
open-air life that would be led in the warm climate. The bearing of these facts upon
crowded rooms should be perceived. As the room gets hotter, not only are we breathing
more poison, but less oxygen, which is the only remedy for the poison. We are therefore
doubling the causes of evil.
