BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 99
mense quantities of oxygen and develop immense activity. Each
animal has, as Prof. Foster believes (page 812), its own peculiar
quantity, its coefficient, so to speak, of oxygen, which it consumes
an amount which, judging from the few instances he gives, seems
to vary with intelligence ; thus the dog consumes more than the
rabbit per pound of its weight, and a man more than a dog. In
the same way, a waking man consumes more oxygen than a
sleeping man, a man at work than a sedentary man, a young man
than an old man, a young child more than the young man. The
restless activity of children marks both their great consumption
of oxygen and their pressing need for it by being allowed to
breathe abundance of pure air. Rapid and extensive waste is
going on in every child's body. Tissue of every kind, including
bone, is being constantly broken down in order that it may be built
up anew on a larger scale, and it is therefore the greatest cruelty
in their case not to provide them in fullest measure with the
purest air. Unhappily, very little thought is given to this mat-
ter ; and with quite young children whose need is the greatest
of all our nurseries are only too often mere slaughter-houses.
Mothers of all classes should try to see the meaning of the fact *
that out of four deaths of infants one takes place from lung col-
lapse, a state that often follows bronchial inflammation (see R. D.
Powell, Lungs; Quain,page 861), and probably of ten indicates the
source of the mischief. Dr. Douglas Powell significantly says,
" All causes that interfere with respiratory efficiency favor the
occurrence of the condition named."
It is now right for us to look at the subject of these waste-
poisons in special reference to the skin. Without referring here
to the different calculations made on this subject, it is enough to
say that much less carbonic acid escapes from the skin than from
the lungs; more water (if we are to follow Prof. Foster who
differs from other authorities, who again differ among them-
selves we may say roughly, 1*5 pound from lungs, and 2'5 pounds
from the skin per day), and a larger amount of solid matter The
solid matter is put at one or two per cent of the whole 2*5 pounds
and two thirds of this one or two per cent is organic matter con-
taining the poisons in question. \ We can see the importance of
the skin, as an organ of excretion, in various ways. In the first
place, the provision of an enormous number of sweat-glands un-
* So it has been stated. It is also interesting to quote the statement from the Regis-
trar-General's Report for 1889, that there were in that year 71,056 deaths of male infants
(not over twelve months) in England, and out of this number, 13,805 (roughly speaking,
about one in five) died of diseases connected with the respiratory system. It is right to
add that lung collapse may follow many different kinds of illness.
f Thus we should have from 118 - 3 to 236'6 grains of organic matter excreted by the
skin in twenty-four hours.
