ioo THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
der the skin, supposed by Krause (Baker's Kirk, page 427) to be
between two and three millions in number in the parts where
they are least abundant they are over four hundred to the square
inch offers evidence of a physiological character on the point,
even if, as is stated, some small part of skin perspiration takes
place independently of these glands. Then we have the evidence
of the disagreeable odor from the skin and clothes where cleanli-
ness is not observed ; again, we have the curious facts of death
having both actually and nearly occurred in cases where the body
has been covered (the mouth having been left free) with gold-leaf
or plaster of Paris. Various explanations have been given,
but Prof. Foster seems to think (page 697) that the retention
of poisonous matters " constituents of sweat, or the products of
some abnormal metabolism " (change) which would have been
discharged through the sweat-glands, is largely concerned in the
matter. We venture to believe quite independently of certain
experiments that this conclusion can not be avoided.
We have also a most remarkable case recorded by Sir D. Gal-
ton. Some men in the horse artillery had left their bedding rolled
up for two months, without its being opened to the air. When
first used again, man after man who had slept on this bedding
came into hospital with " a suspicious fever." It would be diffi-
cult to find a case that more vividly illustrates both the poisonous
character of the emanations of the body and the necessity of free
ventilation in order to render them harmless. Again, when se-
rious consequences result from a chill owing to the constriction
of the blood-vessels of the skin and interference with the sweat-
glands such as a dangerous affection of the kidneys (Richardson,
page 283), or a congestion of the spleen (Richardson, page 307), or
the inflammation of bone and periosteum (Richardson, page 323), it
seems probable that the cause of mischief in all these cases is
either the retention of normal poisons that ought to have escaped
through the skin, or the formation of abnormal poisons during the
inaction of the skin. [We think it is Dr. Richardson who makes
this suggestion.] Again, the fetid exhalations from lungs and
skin in starvation seem to show that the breaking down of tissue,
which is very rapid in these cases, is resulting in a larger dis-
charge than usual, through skin and lungs, of putrescent matter.
From what has been already said, we ought not to feel surprised
that those who live in foul air are not only lowering their health,
but are carefully preparing themselves both for lung and bron-
chial affections, and for such diseases as scarlet fever, typhoid,
small-pox, dipththeria, dysentery, cholera, etc. As regards cholera,
we extract the following interesting account given by Dr. Car-
penter. He states (page 360) that in the fatal autumn of 1849 there
was at Taunton an exceedingly badly ventilated workhouse. In
