SPENCER AND THE SYNTHETIC PHILOSOPHY. 3
of ages behind us ; and that such vague vestiges of our race as
have been handed down to us in sacred book and popular legend
are as nothing compared with that tremendous mass of human
experiences which will never find their historian. Worse than all,
turning full upon the doctrine of special manufacture, she opened
up the grand geologic record, and read thence, as from the pages
of a mighty volume, the long, stupendous story of those vast
cosmic changes which, through aeons of unreckoned time, have
slowly molded and fashioned the world into the condition in
which we find it to-day.
That these revelations were of the most vital interest to all
thinking men needs hardly be said; nor is it necessary here to
dwell on the feverish panic of the theologians, who hurried into
the field with all their heavy artillery, prominent amid which was
the great-gun argument, which had already done yeoman service
on many another such occasion, that the very existence of Chris-
tianity was bound up with the story of creation as narrated in the
first chapters of the Hebrew Scriptures.* What is here of
moment is to notice the general effect of the new discoveries upon
the scientific mind. That effect was at the outset almost entirely
a negative one. The old theories had been destroyed, but as yet
there was nothing to take their place ; the theological interpre-
tation of the world's history was seen to be absurdly insufficient
and unreasonable, but for the time being no scientific interpreta-
tion in lieu thereof appeared to be forthcoming. Hence followed
a kind of intellectual interregnum, during which everything was
vague, shifting, tentative. Meanwhile, however, things were not
by any means standing still. The unceasing activity of inves-
tigators in the special sciences resulted in vast accumulations
of well-established facts, and thus yielded the materials in the
absence of which nothing of real or permanent value could have
been accomplished. And at the same time (largely, indeed, as a
consequence of this extension upon all sides of the scientific
domain) there was ever growing and deepening a conception of
unbroken causation in cosmic changes, of the universality of law,
and the unity of Nature and of natural processes a conception
in no small degree led up to by such discoveries as those of the
undulatory theory of light and heat, and of the correlation of all
the forces known to exact science. Thus, in spite of the tempo-
rary suspense and hesitation, no time was being lost. As we can
now see, the way was being slowly prepared for a great scientific
generalization a generalization which, overthrowing all the old
* How fierce and obstinate was the opposition offered to the doctrine of evolution from
this standpoint, we of the present day find it no easy matter to imagine. Even such a
man as Hugh Miller went so far as to declare that acceptance of evolution meant nullifica-
tion of the central truths of Christianity.
