io 4 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
sumption the bacillus finds its food prepared for it in the unhealthy
state of the blood and tissues altered by the poisons that have
been rebreathed from foul air so also must it be in pneumonia ;
if we are to accept the statements made about the bacterium of
pneumonia (Crookshank, page 273). Secondary pneumonia, which
is a lung attack resulting from the poison in the system from
such a fever as typhoid, throws some light upon this matter, and
seems exactly to explain the origin of ordinary pneumonia. In
ordinary pneumonia we believe that it would be found that the
person attacked had been living in rooms where the air was
tainted, had breathed consequently, again and again, the exhaled
poisons, until these poisons had so altered the tissue as to allow
the bacterium to form its lodgment ; in other words, that he was
as much " poisoned " as the person suffering from secondary pneu-
monia. Of course a slight chill, by arresting the action of the
skin and thus increasing the poison in the system, is likely enough
to be the immediate precursor of the attack by rendering the con-
ditions still more favorable for the germ. Again, latent pneu-
monia in quite young children is sometimes masked (Quain, page
880) by the signs of the nervous disorder which precedes it. This
nervous disorder tells the story. It is caused by the poisons
which are acting on the system, and which at last produce the at-
tack of pneumonia.*
It might, however, be urged that a person leading a healthy
outdoor life might, after severe exposure, be attacked by pneu-
monia. Certainly, and in his case the attack would mean poison-
ing (that is, predisposing for the germ by poisoning) through the
skin ; just as in the case of the man living in bad air it would
mean poisoning through the air taken into the lungs.
Now, granting that this is a true explanation, that pneumonia,
or even common cold, is a case of poisoning, and only a case of
cold in a secondary sense, it is worth noticing that the effect of
these poisons must be felt in the throat and bronchial passages
and lungs much more than in other organs. These poisons would
cling to the sides of the throat and bronchial (and nasal) passages,
and would often enter the lungs. In the case of persons living in
foul air, these organs, being more exposed and in intimate contact
with the poison, would probably be saturated with it, and there-
fore would be always prepared for disease. We can then under-
* If on the other hand it is believed that pneumonia can arise without the intervention
of the bacterium, we must regard it as a case of direct instead of indirect poisoning. That
there is such direct poisoning we know from those attacks of the liver and kidneys which
follow a severe chill, and throw back the poisons, which should have been excreted by the
skin, on to those organs. Parkes (p. 164) strongly believed that bronchitic affections are
often produced from the breathing of foul air. He does not, however, as far as we are
aware, enter into explanations.
