BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 105
stand at once why the leading symptoms of a cold are violent
flow from the nose, sneezing, coughing, with the accumulation of
phlegm, and painful soreness in the throat.* These symptoms
"become intelligible at once from the point of view of local poison-
ing, and we see in all the circumstances of a cold the " protective
efforts" which Nature makes to eject the poison of whatever
kind it may be from the parts which are specially attacked, just
as we often see in diarrhoea the effort to get rid of an irritant,
or' in fever, with its rapid disintegration of tissue, of the poison
that has attacked the system. Of course, as in pneumonia, some
slight chill often immediately precedes the attack of cold the
chill, by its arrest of skin action, throwing more poison into the
blood, which is sufficient to determine the attack in the predis-
posed part.
We believe, therefore, that few healthy persons would be sub-
ject to cold, unless they lived in impure air. With an old person,
or a person in lowered health, it is different. A defective ma-
chinery for the circulation of the blood or for respiration might
readily result in the waste-poisons being imperfectly separated
from the blood, and thus such persons would live in the same state
of blood-poisoning and preparation for attack as a young and
healthy person does who constantly breathes bad air. Where we
have cases of liver or kidney attack following upon a severe chill,
we may suppose either that the poisons retained (or formed) near
the surface of the body pass into the blood, and then act through
the nervous centers upon those organs which happen to be spe-
cially susceptible ; or that the poisons, imperfectly breathed out at
the lungs, are carried directly to those organs.
We wish that it were possible to follow the subject further, but
we have already overstepped the limits which the kindness of the
editor has allowed. We can only say, in conclusion, that we are
convinced that very grave issues are dependent upon the question
of pure air in our houses. We suspect that not only liability to
cold, but to gout, rheumatism, lumbago, neuralgia, some forms of
headache, and many forms of nervous irritation are to be con-
quered by constantly giving lungs and skin a fair chance of get-
ting rid of these poisons ; we feel sure that the irritable temper
that so often accompanies severe literary work, and at last
ends in the " break down/' must largely be put to the account
of the impure air breathed through long hours ; and we suspect
* The fact that the air that we breathe is delayed for some little time in the bronchia
passages before reaching the lungs probably increases the local poisoning, and therefore
the predisposition for attack by the germ of the parts when we breathe bad air. In this
way perhaps the lungs are protected at the expense of the bronchial passages ; and a cold
is the violent occasional expurgation of those parts which are specially exposed to the
poison.
