io6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
that much of the intemperate drinking in towns results from
the depressed feeling which follows work done under similar
conditions. We think a great society should be formed to arouse
the interest of all classes in this subject, and that inquiries
should be made the answers being published as to the pro-
vision for fresh air existing in hotels, concert-rooms, theatres,
schools, churches, etc. We are, both of us, opposed to action
being taken through state inspectors. The present evil will
never be really overcome until individual interest is aroused;
and the state inspector does not develop individual interest.
We shall be glad to communicate with any persons anxious
to take steps in the matter, and shall hope to draw up a short !
paper containing a few practical suggestions of a simple nature.
Meanwhile, without discussing systems of artificial ventilation,
we say to everybody : " Live as much as you can with open win-
dows, wearing whatever extra clothes are necessary. In this way
you will turn the hours of your work to physical profit instead of
to physical loss. If you can not bear an open window, even with
an extra coat, and a rug over your knees, when you are sitting in
a room, do the next best thing, which is, to throw the windows
wide open not a poor six inches whenever you leave it, and
thus get rid of the taint of the many dead bodies that we have
breathed out from ourselves, and that hang like ghosts about
our rooms. Smuts, as we confess, may be bad, but they are
white as snow compared with impure air. Pay special atten-
tion to the constant exposure to pure air both of clothes and
of bedding. Avoid chill, that is one form of poisoning. Avoid
impure air, that is another and much more insidious form of
poisoning."
Our present addresses are : Harold Wager, Yorkshire College,
Leeds ; and Auberon Herbert, Larichban, Cladich, Argyllshire.
Several gentlemen have been kind enough to read the forego-
ing paper, and to express the following opinions upon it. Sir
Lyon Playf air writes :
I return your proof with only a few suggestions. The paper is a good expo-
sition of air in its relations to public health, and. is likely to he very useful. You
ought to follow it up with another paper on water, and conclude with one on
cleanliness. Pure air, pure water, and cleanliness, personal and objective, are the
three great factors of public health, provided that people are adequately fed. Na-
poleon, reciting his long personal experiences at St. Flelena, made a wise remark:
" Life is a fortress which neither you nor I know anything about. "Why throw
obstacles in the way of its defense? Water, air, and cleanliness are the chief arti-
cles in my pharmacopoeia." You and Mr. Wager have made an excellent begin-
ning with air. Follow it up with essays on water and cleanliness, and then, as
a veteran sanitary reformer, I will begin to think that my time for preaching is
ended. T write this, withholding my judgment on certain special theories yon
have advanced.
