BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. ^07
Prof. Huxley writes :
When you insist upon the importance of fresh air especially in combination
with exercise I go heartily with you. I have long been convinced (and to a great
extent by personal experience) that what people are pleased to call " overwork" in
a large proportion of cases means under-oxygenation and consequent accumulation
of waste-matter, which operates as a poison. The " depression " of overworked
nervous organization is very commonly the " oppression " of some physiological
candle-snuff not properly burned.
Furthermore, it is highly probable that the decaying organic matter given off
from the whole free surface of animal bodies, taken in conjunction with its micro-
bial contents, is a source of danger, but whether directly or indirectly is a point
about which I sbould not like to speak confidently.
The fact is, while the virtues of fresh air and the wisdom of physical purity
as a prophylactic may be very confidently justified by experience, the theory of
the subject is full of difficulties, and the present views of physiologists must be
regarded as merely tentative hypotheses. I should not feel justified in putting
the theoretical points you advance as safely established truths before the public.
I began to mark some paragraphs I thought specially open to objection; but I
can not go into the matter, as I am myself struggling out of the influenza poison,
which afflicts one's brain with mere muddiness.
Dr. Clifford Allbutt writes :
Whether there be room for question in parts of your argument or not, it is in
the main true, and your practical conclusions are as solidly true at they are im-
pressive.
If any one doubt, let him try the marvelous recreation of a few nights camped
out sub dio and be converted.
Moreover, the marvelous effects of an open-air life in the cure of such mala-
dies as consumption are known of all men. But is it kind to tell us these dread-
ful things when we'are helpless to amend them?
Your home solution of the problem is known to your friends, and is excellent
in your circumstances, but is impossible in towns, where every inch of window
means an inch of grime on walls, ceilings, and furniture. Not only so, but our
big common dwelling-halls are gone, our high-backed chairs and settles are gone,
our tapestry is gone, and air supplied in modern fashion by slits or pipes means
"drafts."
Now, " drafts " will kill some of us as quickly as ptomaines and far more
painfully.
Please write another paper to tell us what is to be done !
Dr. W. B. Cheadle writes :
I am sure that you are doing a valuable sanitary service in calling attention to
the chronic poisoning by foul air which goes on ?o constantly without being real-
ized in the homes of both rich and poor, and in business offices and in workshops.
The poor suffer from the small, ill -ventilated cubic space available for either
sitting-rooms or bedrooms and the crowding of work-rooms ; the better classes
partly from the close offices in which some of them work, but chiefly from de-
fective bedroom space and ventilation. Few people, I imagine, realize the fact
that about one third of their whole lives is spent in their bedrooms, and that they
pass this third part of their existence in an atmosphere so poisoned by organic
