io8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
matter that it would not be tolerated in a sitting-room for a moment. The amount
of space allowed in bedrooms and dormitories is frequently altogether insufficient.
Doors and windows are tightly closed, and there is practically little ventilation
going on for six or eight hours of sleeping time, whereas in sitting-rooms the ad-
mission of air is promoted by persons passing in and out.
This steady nightly poisoning goes on in many public institutions, I am afraid,
in the "houses" of some public schools, and the dormitories of charitable institu-
tions. They are well ventilated during the day, closed at night, and the allow-
ance of cubic space is quite insufficient to supply fresh air enough with the very
small influx which can take place.
Night nurseries, again, especially in large towns, are liable to be grossly over-
crowded. I have seen a small, low room in the attics of a London mansion used
as a sleeping apartment for five or six children and a nurse which had not space
or ventilation enough for two persons.
Without indorsing the whole of the pathology suggested in your excellent
paper, I am sure you are right in attributing a large proportion of ill health, con-
tagious disease, and especially the increased virulence of this, to air fouled by
organic matter.
Prof. W. H. Flower writes :
I am not sufficiently acquainted with modern physiology to know whether all
the scientific details of the paper are correct, but I quite agree with you in the
very great importance of the subjeot being pressed home upon all classes. How,
for instance, could people travel in a railway carriage with perhaps six or more
companions shut up together for several hours, and insisting on keeping all the
windows closed, as they often do, if they were made to realize that the air which
they are breathing must necessarily be passing in and out of the lungs, not only
of themselves, but of all their fellow-travelers as well, over and over again in the
course of the journey, and each time becoming more and more contaminated ?
I have always thought, though I have not medical experience enough to prove
it, that the greater prevalence of tuberculosis and other lung disease in cold over
warm climates is owing, not so much to difference of temperature, as to the fact
that in the former there is a greater tendency to breathe impure air for the pur-
pose of warmth. My theories on the subject are, however, rather staggered by
the thought of rabbits, sand-martin, etc., passing a considerable part of their lives
at the bottom of burrows, where anything like ventilation seems absolutely im-
possible, and yet remaining perfectly healthy.
Mr. Lawson Tait writes :
What can I add to an article, so lucidly written, save that I agree generally
with it, and hope that it may be productive of great good, as it well may?
Contemporary Review.
Dr. Junker expresses, in the narrative of his travels in Africa, a somewhat
favorable opinion of the intellectual qualities of the negroes among whom he trav-
eled, and pronounces them capable of higher moral development. He everywhere
found the upper classes, princes and nobles, the most highly endowed with intel-
lectual qualities. This he attributes to the fact that the negro ruler is compelled
to think and act in his capacity of judge, lawgiver, and captain. He notices, too,
the wonderful fluency of speech acquired from the custom of making long ora-
tions, embellished with simile and metaphor, in their public assemblies.
