A DESERT FRUIT. 109
A DESERT FRUIT.
By GRANT ALLEN.
WHO knows tlie Mediterranean, knows the prickly pear. Not
that that quaint and uncanny-looking cactus, with its yel-
low blossoms and bristling fruits that seem to grow paradoxically
out of the edge of thick, fleshy leaves is really a native of Italy,
Spain, and North Africa, where it now abounds on every sun-
smitten hillside. Like Mr. Henry James and Mr. Marion Craw-
ford, the Barbary fig, as the French call it, is, in point of fact, an
American citizen, domiciled and half naturalized on this side of
the Atlantic, but redolent still at heart of its Columbian origin.
Nothing is more common, indeed, than to see classical pictures of
the Alma-Tadema school not, of course, from the brush of the
master himself, who is impeccable in such details, but fair works
of decent imitators in which Caia or Marcia leans gracefully in
her white stole on one pensive elbow against a marble lintel,
beside a court-yard decorated with a Pompeiian basin, and over-
grown with prickly pear or " American aloes." I need hardly say
that, as a matter of plain historical fact, neither cactuses nor agaves
were known in Europe till long after Christopher Columbus had
steered his wandering bark to the sandy shores of Cat's Island in
the Bahamas. (I have seen Cat's Island with these very eyes, and
can honestly assure you that its shores are sandy.) But this is
only one among the many pardonable little inaccuracies of paint-
ers, who thrust scarlet geraniums from the Cape of Good Hope
into the fingers of Aspasia, or supply King Solomon in all his
glory with Japanese lilies of the most recent introduction.
At the present day, it is true, both the prickly-pear cactus and
the American agave (which the world at large insists upon con-
founding with the aloe, a member of a totally distinct family)
have spread themselves in an apparently wild condition over all
the rocky coasts both of southern Europe and of northern Africa.
The alien desert weeds have fixed their roots firmly in the sun-
baked clefts of Ligurian Apennines ; the tall candelabrum of the
"Western agave has reared its great spike of branching blossoms
(which flower, not once in a century, as legend avers, but once in
some fifteen years or so) on all the basking hillsides of the Mau-
ritanian Atlas. But for the origin, and therefore for the evolu-
tionary history, of either plant, we must look away from the shore
of the inland sea to the arid expanse of the Mexican desert. It
was there, among the sweltering rocks of the Tierras Calientes,
that these ungainly cactuses first learned to clothe themselves in
prickly mail, to store in their loose tissues an abundant supply of
sticky moisture, and to set at defiance the persistent attacks of all
