no THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
external enemies. The prickly pear, in fact, is a typical instance
of a desert plant, as the camel is a typical instance of a desert
animal. Each lays itself out to endure the long droughts of its
almost rainless habitat by drinking as much as it can when oppor-
tunity offers, hoarding up the superfluous water for future use,
and economizing evaporation by every means in its power.
If you ask that convenient fiction, the Man in the Street, what
sort of plant a cactus is, he will probably tell you it is all leaf and
no stem, and each of the leaves grows out of the last one. When-
ever we set up the Man in the Street, however, you must have
noticed we do it in order to knock him down again like a nine-pin
next moment : and this particular instance is no exception to the
rule ; for the truth is that a cactus is practically all stem and no
leaves, what looks like a leaf being really a branch sticking out
at an angle. The true leaves, if there are any, are reduced to
mere spines or prickles on the surface, while the branches, in the
prickly -pear and many of the ornamental hot-house cactuses, are
flattened out like a leaf to perform foliar functions. In most
plants, to put it simply, the leaves are the mouths and stomachs
of the organism ; their thin and flattened blades are spread out
horizontally in a wide expanse, covered with tiny throats and lips
which suck in carbonic acid from the surrounding air, and disin-
tegrate it in their own cells under the influence of sunlight. In
the prickly pears, on the contrary, it is the flattened stem and
branches which undertake this essential operation in the life of
the plant the sucking-in of carbon and giving-out of oxygen,
which is to the vegetable exactly what the eating and digesting
of food is to the animal organism. In their old age, however,
the stems of the prickly pear display their true character by be-
coming woody in texture and losing their articulated leaf-like
appearance.
Everything on this earth can best be understood by investi-
gating the history of its origin and development, and in order to
understand this curious reversal of the ordinary rule in the cactus
tribe we must look at the circumstances under which the race was
evolved in the howling waste of American deserts. (All deserts
have a prescriptive right to howl, and I wouldn't for worlds de-
prive them of the privilege.) Some familiar analogies will help
us to see the utility of this arrangement. Everybody knows our
common English stone-crops or if he doesn't he ought to, for
they are pretty and ubiquitous. Now, stone-crops grow for the
most part in chinks of the rock or thirsty, sandy soil ; they are es-
sentially plants of very dry positions. Hence they have thick and
succulent little stems and leaves, which merge into one another
by imperceptible gradations. All parts of the plant alike are
stumpy, green, and cylindrical. If you squash them with your
