LITERARY NOTICES.
131
three folded plates illustrating the relation
of diphtheria to geology and topography.
Direct Legislation by the Citizenship
through the initiative and referen-
DUM. By J. W. Sullivan. New York :
Twentieth Century Co. Pp. 120. Price,
cloth, 75 cents ; paper, 25 cents.
When an American learns that Switzer-
land is far in the lead of her sister republics
in the practice of democratic government,
many questions arise in his mind. This lit-
tle book is designed to answer them. Mr.
Sullivan concisely recounts the progress of
Switzerland in direct legislation during the
past sixty years, and shows the remarkable
influence of this legislation on the institu-
tions of the country. The statistics he cites
prove a very notable diffusion of prosperity.
He next shows that to a considerable length
direct legislation is practiced in the United
States in township, county, and State gov-
ernments, as well as in the national trades
and labor organizations. In his concluding
chapter Mr. Sullivan, although a strenuous
individualist, argues that in direct legislation
lies an open way to a peaceful political and
economic revolution. To the Swiss referen-
dum it is often objected that many legisla-
tive questions are above the ordinary voter's
comprehension, and demand the specially
trained mind of his representative. But
would not this check of comprehensibility
keep law-making within legitimate bounds,
and abolish the antagonism which so often
exists between the interests of the people
and those of their legislators ?
Elementary Text-Book of Zoology. By
Dr. C. Claus. Translated and edited by
Prof. Adam Sedgwick. Second edition.
London and New York : Macmillan & Co.
Two vols. Price, $8.
Among the German scientific text-books
that have won high favor among American
instructors is this work on zoology by
Dr. Claus. It is in two volumes, the first
comprising the General Part and the first
Special Part Protozoa to Insecta ; the sec-
ond volume containing the other Special
Part Mollusca to Man. In the General
Part a bird's-eye view of the organization
and development of animals in general is
given, and this is followed by a brief histori-
cal review of the science of zoology, an ex-
planation of the classification of the present
day, and a statement of the evidence in favor
of Darwin's theory of descent. In the spe-
cial chapters which constitute the rest of the
work, types of the several families are de-
scribed with considerable detail. The text
is illustrated with seven hundred and six
woodcuts in Volume I and two hundred and
five in the smaller Volume II.
Besides the list of towns and cities hav-
ing water- works, and accounts of their works,
The Manual of American Water - Works con-
tains summaries and statistical information
of great value to persons who are concerned
in this subject. From it we learn that there
were 2,037 water-works in operation on July
1, 1891, supplying 2,187 cities, towns, and
villages ; while in Canada there are 95
works, supplying 102 towns. Tables are
given showing the distribution of this supply
in the several States and provinces and
groups of the same; towns having more
than one plant; summaries of populations
supplied ; miles of mains, etc., also by States
and groups. The last tables show that 22,-
814,061, or about 36 per cent of the inhab-
itants of the United States, live in towns
having public water-works, and that only a
few towns having 8,000 or more inhabitants
are without works. The reported cost of
1,802 of the water-works in the United
States and Canada aggregates $504,035,492.
Other tables represent growth by number of
works and populations supplied ; dates of
construction by groups of States and half
decades ; like summaries of works com-
pleted or under construction since 1880, and
of works projected ; information respecting
the management of public water-works and
tenure of office of governing bodies; con-
sumption of water and use of metres ; own-
ership, whether by the public or by private
companies; franchises of water-works com-
panies ; and other facts of related character.
The main part of the book comprises the list
of water-works, given by States according to
their geographical arrangement and by towns
alphabetically, and comprising the items of
history, source of supply, mechanism, finan-
cial condition, and managing boards.
A Preliminary Report on the Coal De-
posits of Missouri has been prepared by the
State Geologist, Arthur Winslow, in order
