132
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
that something may be at hand to meet im-
mediate calls upon the survey for information
concerning the coal deposits of the State. It
embodies part of the results of such obser-
vations in the coal-fields as the author was
able personally to make in 1890 and 1891.
While the descriptions of the details of sec-
tions, the correlation of the different coal-
beds, the definition of the individual areas
of the coal-beds, and the adaptabilities of
the coals for steaming purposes are reserved
for future reports or only briefly touched
upon, and the report is not exhaustive or
elaborate, it is comprehensive. It aims to
present, in general terms, an outline of the
conditions of occurrence and distribution of
coal in the entire State, and contains a de-
scriptive reference to every county in which
coal is known to exist. Special effort has
been made to obtain and include all infor-
mation and results particularly relating to
coal that were not obtainable at the time
the earlier surveys of the State were in op-
eration. Of especial value are the records
of the various deep shafts and drill-holes
which are included in the report. The well-
executed sectional diagrams of the several
coal mines described contribute much to the
satisfactory impression made by the re-
port.
The principles of sound physical develop-
ment, graceful carriage, and easy posture
are taught in the little manual on Dclsarkan
Physical Culture, which has been prepared
for seminaries, classes, private teachers, and
individuals by Carrica Le Favre, and is pub-
lished by the Fowler & Wells Company. The
rules and exercises prescribed are simple
and plain, and such as, with patience and
attention, are easily carried out.
In The Modern Cook-book (Mast, Crowell
& Kirkpatrick, Springfield, Ohio) an accept-
able addition has been made to this class
of books by Mrs. T. J. Kirkpatrick. The
recipes are numerous, various, and simple,
and are classified. The author has found
that all the cook-books that have come under
her observation lack something of complete-
ness, and has endeavored to fill the want so
far as she could by presenting a book con-
taining a moderate number of recipes, all
practical and working. The recipes are tabu-
lated wherever it is possible ; the bills of
fare are not for state occasions, but for
plain, every-day cooking ; and the directions
are full, minute, and systematic.
In the series of catalogues compiled by
W. M. Griswold (Cambridge, Mass.), we no-
tice the Descriptive List of Romantic N. vels,
the object of which is to direct readers, who
would enjoy books of this kind, to a num-
ber of novels, easily obtainable, but which,
in many cases, have been forgotten within a
year or two after publication. The purpose
has been to include only such works as are
well written, interesting, and free from sen-
sationalism, sentimentality, and pretense.
The list is alphabetical, by titles, and is sup-
plemented by an alphabetical index of au-
thors.
A pamphlet on Roads Improvement, pub-
lished by the League of American Wheelmen,
contains three papers enforcing the impor-
tance of good roads, and showing by citations
of what has been accomplished abroad what
can be done toward making them. The
papers are : The Common Roads of Europe
and America, by Isaac B. Potter ; Highways
and National Prosperity, by Edward P.
North ; and The Importance of Good Wagon-
roads, by Prof. Lewis M. Haupt. The argu-
ments of these papers are re-enforced in the
most striking style by contrasted photo-
graphic views of scenes on the common
roads of the United States, even near large
cities, and the finished highways, even in
rural districts, of England, Ireland, and Brit-
tany.
A summary of Recent Advances in Elec-
tricity, Electric Lighting, Magnetism, Telegra-
phy, Telephony, etc., edited by Henry Greer
and published at the New York Agent College
of Electrical Engineering, contains articles on
The Storage of Electricity ; The Brush Stor-
age System ; other notices of storage bat-
teries, accumulators, etc. ; Telegraphing from
a Moving Railway Train (Phelps's system) ;
Navigable Trains of Air-ships (electricity
being the motive power) ; and Edison's paper
on his Pyromagnetic Dynamo, or machine
for producing electricity directly from fuel,
Price, $1.
A second series of Papers in Penology,
compiled by the Editor of the Summary, and
published at the New York State Reforma-
tory at Elmira, contains papers on The Pris-
ons of Great Britain, by Jay S. Butler; Mod-
ern Prison Science, by Prof. Charles A. Col-
