4 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
-ions once and for all, was in the sequel to alter absolutely
and fundamentally the whole trend and current of thought, not
only as regards the outer organic world and the phenomena pre-
sented by it, bnt as regards also the countless practical problems
in life and s.-cidy, in morality and religion, which are forever
pressing on as for solution.
Such, in the brief est possible summary, was the general intel-
lectual character of the period at which Mr. Spencer began the
Labors of his life. Even the sketch just given, crude and imperfect
as il arily is, will help us to understand the growth of his
own ideas, and their relation to the changing thought of the day.
During the year 1842 Spencer, then in his twenty-second year,
had contributed to a weekly newspaper, called The Nonconformist,
- of letters which were afterward republished in pamphlet
form under the title of The Proper Sphere of Government. "With
the political doctrines of this production we have here no special
concern, though it may be worth while to mention that the key-
note is there struck of that famous doctrine of governmental non-
Interference, since so fully worked out and so frequently insisted
on by the author. The pamphlet is significant for us from quite
another point of view. In the attempt which is made in it to
kblish the nature, scope, and limits that is, the fundamental
principles of civil government, there is everywhere implied a
belief in the ultimate dependence of social organization upon
natural causes and natural laws. In other words, society is from
first to last regarded, not as a manufacture but as a growth a
view which, it maybe remarked incidentally, though familiar
enough in our own day, at all events in its theoretic aspects, was
then little known, even as a matter of mere speculation. Through-
out the entire argument there run the conceptions of gradual
changes naturally necessitated, and of the possibility of a better
and lutter adjustment of man, physically, intellectually, and
morally, to the needs imposed by the conditions of social life. As
Mr. Spencer himself wrote, many years later, "In these letters
will be found, along with many crude ideas," a " belief in the
conformity of social phenomena to invariable laws," and "in hu-
man progression as determined by such laws."* All this revealed,
even at bo early a Btage of mental growth, a marked tendency to
.card the complicated and entangled phenomena of society from
rictly scientific point of view as phenomena exhibiting rela-
and effect, and thus to be included in the realm of
iral law. But it meant something more than this. The dis-
ad conscious acceptance of the doctrine that society is a
thing, not artificially pieced together, but of slow and natural
* Reasons for Dissenting from the Philosophy of M. Comte.
