LITERARY NOTICES.
133
lin; The Philosophy of Crime, by William
T. Harris ; Criminal Anthropology, by Ham-
ilton D. Wey ; New York's Prison Laws, by
Eugene Smith ; Prison Labor Systems ; and
The Elmira Reformatory of To-day. The
mechanical work upon the publication, in-
cluding the etching of the cover, has been
done by inmates of the reformatory.
The Report on the Coal Measures of the
Plateau Region of Alabama, made to the
State Geologist by Mr. Henry McCalley,
treats of all the coal measures of the plateau
region, except those that were included in
the Report of the Warrior Coal-field, pub-
lished in 1886 ; and also speaks of the coal
measures of St. Clair and Shelby Counties,
whose measures are principally of plateau
strata, and have not been considered as a
whole in any previous report. A general
description of the plateau region is given in
the introduction ; and notes and a short re-
port by General A. M. Gibson are added on
the Coal Measures of Blount and Berry
Mountains. Some parts of this plateau re-
gion are likely to prove important coal areas.
A map of the coal-fields and two geological
sections are inserted in the volume.
The Report of S. P. Lane/leg, Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution, for the year
ending with June, 1891, includes the work
placed under its charge by Congress in the
National Museum, the Bureau of Ethnology,
the International Exchanges, the National
Zoological Park, and the Astro-Physical Ob-
servatory. By saving in other quarters, the
Institution has been able to revert in some
measure to an early practice of offering aid
in original research. It has made grants
for work on a universal standard of meas-
ure, founded on the wave-length of light ;
for determinations of the densities of oxy-
gen and hydrogen ; for photographs of the
moon ; and for investigations upon chemical
compounds. In the Bureau of Ethnology
efforts are made to secure records of Indian
languages before they pass away.
A Catalogue of Prehistoric Works East
of the Rocky Mountains, preliminary to a
complete and thorough catalogue to be made
as soon as the work can be accomplished,
has been prepared by Dr. Cyrus Thomas,
and is published by the Bureau of Eth-
nology. It contains lists of all the works
. within the territory described, of which
mention has been found in any books or
reports, as accurately located and described
as the accounts given in the original or
other best authorities will permit. The no-
tices are perhaps often indefinite and fre-
quently incorrect, on account of defects in
these original authorities ; but it is hoped
that their appearance in the present shape
will lead to more careful examination and
to the preparation of the complete catalogue
which it is hoped to make. The list is ac-
companied by a map of the distribution of
mounds in the United States, and by State
maps showing the location of prehistoric
works.
The Report of the Botanical Department
of the New Jersey Agricultural Experiment
Station, by Byron D. Halsted, botanist, is
one of the most valuable publications that
have yet issued from the experiment sta-
tions. A considerable part of the report is
devoted to the record of the study of fungus
forms injurious to crops, made during a
season in which fungoid growths were very
prevalent including cranberry scald, sweet-
potato rots, etc. The causes of the failure
of the peach crop in 1890 are investigated.
Considerable space is devoted to the account
of the work done on the weeds of the State,
including a listing of them with botanical
and local names, estimates by different ob-
servers of their relative degrees of noxious-
ness, and twenty-four page plates of the
worst weeds.
In a Doctor's Thesis on The Right of the
State to Be, an attempt is made by Prof. F.
M. Taylor to determine the ultimate human
prerogative on which government rests.
The author assumes that most previous
efforts to answer the question presented in
the title have referred to incidentals and have
not been sufficiently directed to the main
question. He seeks the solution of this.
First, he maintains the reality of the prob-
lem and defines its nature ; next he reviews
previous theories, and points out their de-
fects ; and, finally, he explains and defends
his own theory. This theory bases the right
on the prerogative which is assumed to be-
long to every person as such to rule, or to
interfere coercively with the liberty of other
persons in order to maintain his version of
the jural ideal. Government then becomes
the collective exercise by the community of
