134
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
their individual prerogatives combined into
a single authority.
The third edition of Prof. Simon Henry
Gage's manual of The Microscope and His-
tology has been entirely rewritten, enlarged,
and more fully illustrated; and, while ele-
mentary matters have received fuller treat-
ment than in previous editions, special effort
has been made in this to give more adequate
accounts of certain apparatus which are
coming to be used more and more in the
higher fields of investigation in pure science
and in practical medicine. In order to en-
courage students to do their own work, exer-
cises illustrating the principles of the micro-
scope and the methods of employing it have
been made an integral part of the treatise.
To this branch of the subject the volume
now before us, constituting Part I of the
work The Microscope and Microscopical
Methods is largely devoted. (Printed and
for sale by Andrus & Church, Ithaca, N. Y.
Price $1.)
In the report of Mr. Tlieodore B. Corn-
stock, On the Geology and Mineral Resources
of the Central Mineral Region of Texas for
1890, about a thousand miles are added to
the area given in the previous report as that
of the pre-carboniferous rocks comprising
the regions described, Silurian and Cambrian
strata having been discovered in fields that
were supposed to be covered by the Creta-
ceous. In order to give special prominence
to economical results, the outline of the
stratigraphy introduced is prepared with the
primary object of affording a kind of key to
those whose practical needs preclude the task
of selecting from the mass of technical de-
scription the particular details which apply
to individual cases. For the benefit of the
same class of persons a most useful series of
directions are given for finding in the re-
port at once the information concerning the
reader's particular locality, by the aid of
which he may judge what method of develop-
ment may be most economical and profitable.
Part II of the fourth volume of The
Journal of the College of Science, Imperial
University, Japan, contains seven papers,
five of which are by Japanese authors, while
one is a joint production. They are On some
Fossil Plants from the Coal-bearing Series
of Nagato, and On some Cretaceous Fossils
from Shikoku, by Matajiro Yokoyama ; Com-
parison of Earthquake Measurements made
in a Pit and on the Surface Ground, by
Prof. S. Sekiya ; Laboratory Notes, by Prof.
C. G. Knott ; Diffraction Phenomena pro-
duced by an Aperture on a Curved Surface,
and Effect of Magnetization on the Perma-
nent Twist of Nickel Wire, by H. Nagaoka ;
and On Certain Thermo-electric Effects of
Stress in Iron, by Prof. Knott and S. Kimura.
Edward Fliigel's study of Thomas Car-
lyWs Moral and Religious Development is
published in a translation by Jessica Gilbert
Tyler, by M. L. Holbrook & Co. The main
object of the book is defined by the author
to be to consider Carlyle as a moral force.
Before turning attention, however, to his
moral and religious views, a brief considera-
tion is given to the history of his inner life,
especially with reference to its moral and
religious side. In this sense chapters are
given among the others to Carlyle's Belief,
his Relation to Christianity, his Position with
Reference to Science, and especially to Phi-
losophy, to Poetry, and Art, his Attitude to-
ward History, and his Ethics.
A series of articles upon the trees of
Salem, Mass., and its neighborhood, pre-
pared by Mr. John Robinson, in 1890 and
1891, for one of the newspapers of that city,
have been published by the Essex Institution
in book form under the title of Our Trees.
They give a popular account of the trees in
the streets and gardens of the city and of the
native trees of Essex County, with the loca-
tion of the trees and historical and botanical
notes. They were written wholly with an
eye to popular entertainment and instruction,
but prepared with considerable care and a
regard to scientific accuracy. In them we
have accounts of the character of the mag-
nolias, tulip tree, lindens, tamarix, sumachs,
horse - chestnuts, maples, locusts, apples,
pears, cherries, dogwoods, tupelo, witch-
hazel, ashes, catalpa, sassafras, elms, box-
tree, mulberries, buttonwood, walnuts, hick-
ories, birches, hornbeams, chestnut, beech,
oaks, willows, poplars, pines, spruces, fir,
hemlock, larches, cedar, gingko, and yew.
One hundred and fifteen species grow in the
region, of which fifty-six are natives of Essex
County.
A collection of papers on the Quaternary
Geology of the Hudson River Valley is in-
tended as a preliminary contribution by Mr.
