POPULAR MISCELLANY.
*37
ice-foot, which collects in winter beneath
the sea-cliffs, is placed in the best possible
position to receive any seeds or masses of
soil which may fall during the winter. This
shore-ice is drifted away in the spring, and
may easily discharge its burden on some far-
distant shore uninjured, and with the seeds
just ready to germinate. Winds, migrating
birds, and migrating mammals, would all
help to transport seeds across the straits.
Early Title-pages. In the earliest print-
ed books and in manuscripts any information
on the workmanship of the book was written
at the end, in what is called the colophon.
It was not till 1470, according to Mr. A. W.
Follard, in his History of the Title-page, that
a title-page was introduced, and in England
not till shortly before 1490, when W. de
Machline issued one to his little book on the
pestilence. Caxton never used them, but
Wynkyn de Worde employed them in nearly
all his books. At the beginning of the next
century are found the most interesting, if
not the most artistic, titles. Popular de-
mand then required a large woodcut on the
front page, whatever was the subject of the
book. Even school-books were adorned with
representations of masters and scholars, the
most striking object in the cut being a for-
midably large birch. The nature of most of
the religious books required a frontispiece
containing devils. The little books of poetry
and romance which issued from the press by
hundreds contain the best specimens of this
kind of art. Looking at these title-pages
from the artistic side alone, England makes
but a poor show against France and Italy.
Nothing could be finer than the title-pages of
the Parisian books in the early part of the
sixteenth century. After this time the deca-
dence began, and the printers finally became
" dreadfully utilitarian and unromantic."
The Primary Color of Leaves. Having
concluded, as has already been mentioned in
the Monthly, that the primary color of flow-
ers is white, from which the characteristic
hue is developed as a secondary color, E.
Williams Hervey asks, in Garden and For-
est, What is the primary color of the green
parts of the plant? Leaves do not gener-
ally have a different color at the base from
the usual one, as has been shown to be
the case with flowers ; and they rarely, ex-
cept in the purplish leaves of vigorous sap-
lings and a few cultivated plants, have any
other color than green. But the leaves of
some cultivated plants are spotted, striped,
or bordered with white ; bleached celery
stalks are white, and the inner leaves of
cabbages are white. From these instances
'" we get pretty strong hints that green is
derived from white. There remains one
more clew. Every botanist knows that the
seed contains a miniature and rudimentary
plant; that generally the most prominent
parts of the seed are the cotyledons or seed-
leaves, and these are, of course, the first
leaves of every species of plants. Now, if
we ascertain the color of these seed-leaves,
we find the original color of all leaves.
This color is uniformly white ; ... of course,
we do not refer to the colored integument of
the seed, which, as in the case of garden
leaves, may be white, red, yellow, blue, black,
or of mixed colors, but to the kernel, or
meat. There are a very few instances only
where the green color has impressed, some-
what, that characteristic upon the seed, as
in peas, nasturtiums, and maples, which pre-
sent a pale-green color in the pod or shell.
In some instances these cotyledons appear
above the surface of the ground, changing
from white to green ; while in others they
remain below." We learn from this study
of color, therefore, the author adds, " that
white is the primary color of root, stem, and
flower, and the foundation of all color."
A New Electric Light. A vast improve-
ment in artificial illumination is promised in
the light which Mr. Tesla, " the able lieuten-
ant of Mr. Edison," has been exhibiting in
London. An experiment performed by him
before the Royal Institution consists, accord"
ing to the Spectator's account, in joining two
sheets of tin- foil, one over the lecturer's head,
the other on the table, to the poles of the
generator. The space between these two
sheets immediately became electrified, and a
long vacuum-tube waved about in it, without
attachment to any conductor, glowed in the
darkness like a flaming sword. The experi-
ment was intended to illustrate the possibili-
ty of rendering an entire room so electric,
by plates in the ceiling or under the floor,
that vacuum-bulbs placed anywhere within it
