i 3 8
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
would yield a light. Thus we shall be able
to fill our rooms with the potentiality of
light, and then, by the simple introduction
of vacuum-tubes, to obtain any quantity of
it. Those who want a daylight without heat
will be able to run a vacuum-tube round the
whole length of the cornice, and so obtain a
diffused illumination of almost any brilliancy.
The fact is noticed, in connection with the
experiments, that the lecturer stood in an
" electrostatic field " capable of illuminating
a lamp without wires, and felt nothing.
More, he held a vacuum-tube in one hand and
touched a " terminal " with the other, a pro-
cess which made him " the channel for a
current of something like fifty thousand
volts," and yet did not receive any injury.
Venerable Trees. A very interesting
work is in course of publication by M. Ga-
deau de Kerville, on the ancient trees of Nor-
mandy. The most remarkable trees so far
described are the two yews of La Haye de
Koutot, in the department of the Eure. They
are respectively 9^ and 8y metres in circum-
ference at the base of the trunk, and 17
and 14 metres high. Their ages are esti-
mated by the author to be not less than
fifteen hundred years. A chapel has been
constructed in the hollow trunk of one of
these yews, three metres high and two me-
tres deep. Before it was transformed into
a chapel the hollow would hold forty per-
sons, and eight musicians have played in it
in concert. The beech of Montigny, esti-
mated by the author to be between six hun-
dred and nine hundred years old, is 18 me-
tres high and 8 - 20 metres in circumference
at the base. There are oaks from two hun-
dred to nine hundred years old, one of which
is nearly forty metres high.
Curions Effects of an Earthqnake.
Some striking features are described by
Prof. John Milne as marking the recent de-
structive earthquake in Japan, by which
nearly 8,000 persons were killed and at
least 41,000 houses were leveled. The move-
ments of the wave were horizontal, and a
defect of the seismograph was noticed in its
failure to record anything of them except
the " dip." In many places so-called " for-
eign" buildings of brick and stone fell in
heaps of ruin ^between Japanese buildings
yet standing. " Cotton-mills have fallen in,
while their tall brick chimneys have been
whipped off at about half their height.
Huge cast-iron columns, which, unlike chim-
neys, are uniform in section, acting as piers
for railway bridges, have been cut in two
near their base. In some instances these
have been snapped into pieces much as we
might snap a carrot, and the fragments
thrown down upon the shingle beaches of
the rivers. The greatest efforts appear to
have been exerted where masonry piers
carrying two - hundred - foot girders over
lengths of eighteen hundred feet have been
cut in two, and then danced and twisted over
their solid foundations to a considerable dis-
tance from their true positions. These piers
have a sectional area of twenty-six by ten
feet, and are from thirty to fifty feet in
height. Embankments have been spread
outward or shot away, brick arches have
fallen between their abutments, while the
railway line itself has been bent into a
series of snakelike folds and hummocked
into waves. . . . Here and there a temple
has escaped destruction, partly perhaps on
account of the quality of materials employed
in its construction, but also in consequence
of the multiplicity of joints which come be-
tween the roof and the supporting columns.
At these joints there has been a basket-like
yielding, and the interstice of the roof has
not, therefore, acted with its whole force in
tending to rupture its supports."
Meteorology Five Centuries ago. "What is
probably the oldest journal of the weather in
existence has recently been recovered, printed
in photographic transcript, and translated.
It was kept by the Rev. William Merle, rec-
tor of Driby, Lincolnshire, England, from
1337 to 1344, or during seven years of the
earlier part of the reign of Edward III.
The author was evidently a keen observer,
and recorded his facts succinctly and intel-
ligently, so as to give a graphic, even pict-
uresque description of the weather by the
week or month ; and a reference in one of
his notes to a feature of the season of 1331
shows that he had been watching the changes
of the seasons for a longer time than was
covered by his journal. Some of the entries
are suggestive of the conditions and ways
of thinking of the times. The frequent men-
