POPULAR MISCELLANY.
141
is a chance whether the insanity or drunken-
ness, say, of the parent, will appear as such
in the child or be transmuted in transmission
to one or other of the alternate degenerate
conditions. The present system of treatment
has proved a disastrous failure ; short pe-
riods of punishment can have no effect,
either curative or deterrent. Everything
points in the direction of prolonged or in-
definite confinement in industrial peniten-
tiaries.
Oscillations in Latitude. At the recent
anniversary meeting of the Royal Society, the
president, Sir William Thomson, spoke of the
investigation of oscillations of latitude which
has been instituted under the auspices of the
International Geodetic Union. Comparative
observations have been begun at Berlin, and
at Honolulu, which is very near the opposite
meridian to Berlin. The first several hun-
dred determinations of latitude made at
Honolulu during three months of a proposed
year of observations, compared with the
corresponding results at Berlin, showed that
the latitude during that time had increased
in Berlin and decreased at Honolulu by
about one third of a second. " Thus we
have decisive demonstration that motion,
relatively to the earth, of the earth's in-
stantaneous axis of rotation, is the cause of
variations of latitude which have been ob-
served at Berlin, Greenwich, and other ob-
servatories, and which can not be wholly at-
tributed to errors of observation." This, Prof.
Foerster remarks, gives observationalproof of
a conclusion which the author had expressed
in 1876, to the effect that irregular move-
ments of the earth's axis to the extent of half
a second may be produced by the temporary
changes of sea-level due to meteorological
causes. It is proposed that four permanent
stations for regular and continued observa-
tion of latitude at places of approximately
equal latitude and on meridians approxi-
mately 90 apart, be established under the
auspices of the International Geodetic Union.
The reason for this arrangement is, that a
change in the instantaneous axis of rotation
in the direction perpendicular to the merid-
ain of any one place would not alter its
latitude, but would alter the latitude of a
place 90 from it hx longitude by an amount
equal to the angular change of the position
of the axis. Thus two stations in meridians
differing by 90 would theoretically suffice,
by observations of latitude, to determine the
changes in the position of the instantaneous
axis ; but differential results, such as those
already obtained between Berlin and Hono-
lulu, differing by approximately 180 in lon-
gitude, are necessary for eliminating errors
of observation sufficiently to give satisfactory
and useful results.
Swedish Wood and Iron. According to
our minister in Stockholm, the two great
products of Sweden after agriculture are
wood and iron. The Norland is still covered
for the most part with an extensive black
forest, consisting largely of pine and spruce.
Upon the great water-shed called the fjdd
or Kblen (the keel of the country likened to
a boat turned bottom upward) stand the
chief timber forests ; and extensive lumber-
ing operations are carried on along the nu-
merous rivers and their tributaries that flow
thence. At the mouths of most of the rivers
are towns which take their names as well
as their business and prosperity from the
streams where are large saw-mills. Lumber
operations are also conducted south of Stock-
holm on both coasts, and there is a consid-
erable export from Gothenburg; but the
great bulk of the timber is cut and sawn in
Norland, and eighty-five per cent of the lum-
ber exports come from the north of Stock-
holm. The Swedish lumber trade has as-
sumed its present importance only within
the present century, and in fact during the
past thirty years. More than one quarter of
the wooded area of Sweden, or 14,300,000
acres, belongs to the crown. The forests are
supervised with great care, and all Sweden
is divided into forest districts, and these, in
turn, into revirs. Each district is under the
supervision of a chief forest inspector, and
each revir is guarded by a forest ranger and
a number of under-keepers. Our minister
thinks that the vast forests of Sweden will
be preserved and maintained substantially
as they stand to-day, and that Sweden's lum-
ber export her greatest source of reve-
nue will be maintained and kept good for
ages to come. The Swedish iron, celebrated
throughout the world, is soft and ductile,
and preserves great pliability and strength.
It still furnishes the raw material for the
