142
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
best tools and weapons, the finest springs
and drawn wire, and the best kind of nails
for riveting and clinching. Its excellence
depends partly on its being free from phos-
phorus and sulphur, and partly on the supe-
rior manner of the smelting, which is done
with charcoal. The supply of ore is practi-
cally inexhaustible. It is found all over the
country ; it occurs in the thick strata of the
rock and forms the bulk of great mountains
in various parts of the kingdom. The largest
of these iron mountains is Gellivare, situ-
ated in Swedish Lapland, beyond the Arctic
Circle. The ore occurs here chiefly in four
gigantic strata, and covers so large an area
that it is estimated that, if only one metre
in depth is taken out a year, the yield would
be 943,600 tons, nearly equal to the amount
now produced by all the mines in Sweden.
The ore contains seventy per cent of iron.
Much of it, however, contains apatite, and
in such large quantities that the question of
turning to account the phosphoric acid held
in that mineral is entertained. Iron is chiefly
mined in central Sweden, but the best iron
comes from the Dannemora mines, a little
east of the chief area. Besides making the
rougher forms of iron, the Swedes build iron
steamships of fine quality, and are very skill-
ful in the manufacture of cutlery, for which
they have a dozen factories.
Suspended Matter in Flame. In a com-
munication to the Royal Society of Edin-
burgh, Mr. G. C. Stokes announces that he
has secured an optical proof of the exist-
ence of suspended matter in flames. Pass-
ing a beam of sunlight, condensed by a
lens, through the flame of a candle, he no-
ticed that where the cone of rays cut the
luminous envelope there were two patches
of light brighter than the general flame,
which were evidently due to sunlight scat-
tered by matter in the envelope which was
in a state of suspension. The patches cor-
responded in area to the intersection of the
double cone by the envelope, and their thick-
ness was insensibly small. Within the en-
velope, as well as outside, there was none of
this scattering. When the beam was passed
through the blue base of the flame, there
was no scattered light. A luminous gas-
flame showed the patches indicating scat-
tered light like the flame of a candle, but
less copiously. They were not seen in a
Bunsen flame or in the flame of alcohol, but
were well seen in the luminous flame of
ether. The phenomenon shows the separa-
tion of carbon, associated, it may be, with
some hydrogen, in the flame, and the ex-
treme thinness of the layer which this forms.
It shows, too, the mode of separation of the
carbon namely, that it is due to the action
of heat on the volatile hydrocarbon or vapor
of ether, as the case may be. At the base,
where there is a plentiful supply of oxygen,
the molecules are burned at once. Higher
up, the heated products of combustion have
time to decompose the combustible vapor
before it gets oxygen enough to burn it.
Since making his communication, Prof. Stokes
has found that he was anticipated in part of
his observation in a paper published a few
years ago by Mr. Busch.
The Ylachs of Turkey. The Vlachs of
Turkey are described by Mrs. L. M. J. Gar-
nett, in her Women of Turkey and their
Folk Lore, as a nomadic people, shepherds or
traders, who leave a great deal of responsi-
bility to their wives. The women, besides
managing their households, have to cultivate
the vineyard and garden, herd the sheep,
shear the wool, weave the cloth, and gen-
erally perform every variety of labor, " not
the least arduous part of which is the assid-
uous attention required by their lords and
masters when they return from their wan-
derings for a spell of domestic repose."
The customs of this people are a mixture of
Greek and Roman tradition. They belong
to the Orthodox Church, and their cere-
monies at birth and baptism are essentially
similar to those of the Greeks. The marriage
forms (save the sacred rite) are more like
the Roman. These ceremonies are very mi-
nute and protracted ; and " it must require
a liberal education to master all the details
of a Ylach or Greek wedding: to find the
five-twigged branch and decorate it with an
apple and tufts of red wool and fix it on the
top of the bride's house; to prepare the
ring-cake and then engage in a hot struggle
for it. . . . The unfortunate Vlach must be
perpetually trying to remember what func-
tion he or she has to perform each week.
On New Year'3 day come the children with
olive branches ; on the morrow every visitor
