NOTES.
H3
must throw salt on the fire, and then put an
egg in the hen-house in prayerful hope that
a considerate fowl may sit on it ; in Febru-
ary all the dogs must be thoroughly beaten
as a precaution against hydrophobia in-
deed, there is always some ceremony to the
fore, generally accompanied by songs and
ballads." To the Greek, too, every accident
has its interpretation. To drop oil is un-
lucky, but wine may be spilt with advan-
tage ; a rainbow over a cemetery means a
coming epidemic ; and the recipe concerning
" the hair of the dog that bit you " is prac-
tically enforced by inserting tufts of the
dog's hair in the wound made by his teeth.
India-rubber Trees. India-rubber trees,
according to W. R. Fisher, in Nature, are
extensively cultivated in flourishing planta-
tions in the Charduar forest, at the foot of
the Himalaya Mountains, in Assam. The
climate of the place is essentially damp.
The forest contains a great number of woody
species, both evergreen and deciduous, with
a few enormous old rubber trees dissemi-
nated through it. Trees have been measured
here 129 feet high, with a girth around the
principal aerial roots of 138 feet, while the
girth of the crown was 611 feet. As rubber
trees can not stand shade, and the seeds
damp off unless fully exposed to light and well
drained, the natural reproduction of Ficus
elastica generally takes place in the forks of
stag-headed or lightly foliaged trees high up
in the crown, where the seeds are left by
birds ; and from such a site the aerial roots
in process of time descend to the ground
and develop into a vast hollow cylinder
around the foster-stem, and it is speedily in-
closed and killed by the vigorous crown of
the epiphyte, which eventually replaces it
in the forest. In its epiphytic growth the
aerial roots of Fiats elastica may take sev-
eral years to reach the ground, but, once
well rooted, nothing can probably surpass it
in its native habitat for rapidity of growth
and vigor. At first attempts were made to
propagate by cuttings, which struck easily ;
but it was soon discovered that rubber seed
germinates freely on well-drained beds cov-
ered with powdered charcoal or brick-dust,
and that the seedlings, though at first as
small as cress, grew rapidly, and became
about two feet high in twelve months, and
were much hardier against drought than
plants produced from cuttings. The base
of the stem of the seedlings swells out like
a carrot, and this probably enables them to
tide through the dry season in safety.
Tin Production of Cornwall. A review,
by Mr. J. H. Collins, of the tin production
of Cornwall during seven centuries shows
how rapidly it has grown. An extensive com-
merce in the metal was already carried on
in extremely ancient times. In the thirteenth
century of our era, 486 tons of tin were
taken annually from the mines ; in the four-
teenth century, 828 tons ; in the fifteenth
century, 732 tons ; in the sixteenth century,
802 tons ; in the seventeenth century, 1,300
tons ; in the eighteenth century, 3,93S tons ;
and in the nineteenth century (ninety years),
8,795 tons. The total quantity raised is not
less than 1,938,800 tons. The mean aver-
age for the fifty years ending in 1849 was
6,008 tons per year, and for the fifty years
ending in 18S9, 12,278 tons per year. This
remarkable increase during the last forty
years has been in the face of extensive pro-
duction in the Strait of Malacca and Aus-
tralia. Of sudden advances in production,
the most noticeable, in the latter part of
the fourteenth century, was probably occa-
sioned by the great demand for bell-metal.
The second period of rapid advance was in
the latter part of the eighteenth century,
when bronze was commonly used for can-
non. The third period is that of the general
use of tinned metals.
NOTES.
Involuntary Movements. The article
on Involuntary Movements, by Prof. Jas-
trow, published in the April number, will
appear in a more extended form in the forth-
coming issue of the American Journal of
Psychology.
A promising account is given of the cop-
per mines of French Congo. They lie in the
district around the source of the Ludima-
Niadi, about two days south of Stephanie-
ville. The ore, a malachite, is brought to
the surface by about three hundred and fifty
negroes, whose methods of work are ex-
tremely simple. They reach the mineral by
digging out, with implements of hard wood,
holes or shafts three feet wide and twice
as deep. The malachite is broken on the
ground, and afterward when pulverized is
put into a furnace on a tray with charcoal,
