144
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
on which bellows arc made to play. In due
time the tray is removed by means of pieces
of bamboo and the metal is poured into sand
molds. The entire distiict is said to be rich
in copper, and masses of malachite are fre-
quently found in the Ludima.
It has been shown by Mr. Aitken that
the presence of dust, affording a free surface
on which vapor may condense, is essential to
the production of fog. The specific action
of the dust varies considerably according to
its composition and to the size and abun-
dance of the particles present. Sulphur
burned in the air is an active fog-producer ;
so are salt and hygroscopic bodies generally.
Non-hygroscopic bodies also produce it, es-
pecially if they are good radiators of heat.
The exceedingly minute amount of matter
capable of inducing fog is a noticeable feat-
ure in the investigation. The condensation
of moisture upon dust offers an effective
process for removing all kinds of impurities
from the air, for the floaticles are weighted
by the moisture settling upon them.
OBITUARY NOTES,
Sir Andrew Crombie Ramsay, an emi-
nent British geologist of the last generation,
died December 9, 1891, at the age of about
seventy-six years. He was first brought into
notice by a geological model of the isle of
Arran, constructed from his own survey,
which he exhibited at the Glasgow meeting
of the British Association in 1840. He was
afterward appointed, through the influence
of Sir Roderick I. Murchison, on the Geo-
logical Survey, with which he labored in
"Wales. His monograph on the geology of
North "Wales presented the results of his
labors in this field. Between 1848 and 1851
he was Professor of Geology in University Col-
lege, London; in 1851 he was chosen one of
the professors of the newly founded School
of Mines. As a geological lecturer, the Athe-
nffium says, he probably never had an equal.
He retired from active life about ten years
ago.
Herr J. W. Ewald, a well-known Ger-
man geologist, died in Berlin in December,
1891, aged eighty-one years. He was the
traveling companion of Leopold von Buch
in his scientific expedition ; succeeded him
as a member of the Berlin Academy of Sci-
ences ; and issued, in conjunction with Roth
and Eck, a collected edition of his works.
Mr. Henry "YV. Bates, an English natu-
ralist, died February 27th, in the sixty-eighth
year of his age. In 1848 he went with Al-
fred Russel Wallace on a natural-history ex-
ploration of the Amazons, where he remained
for several years after Mr. Wallace returned
home. On his return he published a paper
on "mimetic resemblance" in animals, re-
cording some of the first observations made
on that subject. After 1864 he was As-
sistant Secretary of the Royal Geographical
Society, and editor of its journal and pro-
ceedings. He was the author of the books,
The Naturalist on the River Amazon, Illus-
trated Travels, The German Arctic Expedi-
tion of 1869-'70, and Central America, West
Indies, and South America.
The death is announced from St. Peters-
burg of the African traveler and naturalist,
Dr. Wilhelm Junker. He made several valu-
able explorations in central Africa, in the
country west of the Nile, and between the
Bahr-el-Gazel and the equator; among the
Niam Niams ; and of the course of the river
Welle.
Prof. "William Guy Peck, of Columbia
College, died suddenly, February 7th, in the
seventy-third year of his age. Besides sev-
eral text-books in mathematics, he published
The Elements of Mechanics in 1859, an edi-
tion of Ganot's Physics in 1860, and was
joint editor with Charles Davies of the
Mathematical Dictionary and Cyclopaedia of
the Mathematical Sciences.
John Francis Williams, Professor of
Geology and Mineralogy in Cornell Universi-
ty, who died last November, was only twenty-
nine years old ; yet he had, after taking his
degree at the Rensselaer Polytechnic Insti-
tute, studied three years at Gottingen, acted
as assistant to Dr. Klein in Berlin, served
as curator of the mineralogical and geologi-
cal collection of Pratt Institute, participated
in an important part of the State survey of
Arkansas, collecting minerals for a complete
report on the mineralogy and petrography
of the State, and published several impor-
tant papers and two (including one in press)
large works on subjects within the sphere of
his specialty.
Prof. Sereno Watson, Curator of the
Harvard Herbarium, died in Cambridge,
Mass., March 9th, in the seventy-second year
of his age. He was graduated from Yale Col-
lege in 1847 ; served as a tutor in Iowa Uni-
versity; studied medicine and practiced it
for two years ; was engaged in business in
Alabama, where he also paid some attention
to botany ; afterward co-operated in literary
work with Dr. Henry Barnard at Hartford,
Ccnn. ; was botanist of the surveying expe-
dition of the fortieth parallel, or Clarence
King Expedition; and after 1870 passed
most of his time at Cambridge in the study
of the North American flora. He published
an Index to North American Botany; in
conjunction with Prof. Gray and Prof. Brewer,
the Botany of California; completed the
work of Lesquereux and James on Ameri-
can Mosses; and after Prof. Gray's death
became curator of the university herbarium,
and continued the editing of the Synoptical
Flora of North America. He was botanical
editor of the earlier volumes of the Century
Dictionary, and published many papers in
the Proceedings of the American Academy
of Arts and Sciences.
