SPENCER AND THE SYNTHETIC PHILOSOPHY. 5
growth, implied dissatisfaction with, the current ideas of progress
as an irregular and fortuitous process, and bore testimony to at
least a vague germinal belief in a social development or evo-
lution.
The momentous questions thus raised and briefly dealt with
by Mr. Spencer in this youthful production came in for more
thorough and extended treatment a few years later in his first con-
siderable work, Social Statics, which was published in 1850, when
the author was just thirty years of age. The conception of this
work had entered his mind not long after the appearance of the
just-mentioned pamphlet; for, owing to the rapid growth and ex-
pansion of his ideas at the time, Spencer soon became aware of
the inadequacy of his handling of the various problems there
opened up. " The writing of Social Statics," he has since said,
" arose from a dissatisfaction with the basis on which the doc-
trines set forth in those letters were placed." * Even the briefest
comparison of the earlier and later books is sufficient to show the
enormous strides which his mind had taken during the seven
critical years which divide them one from the other. In Social
Statics almost everything is made to turn upon the doctrine pre-
viously hardly more than hinted at that from the very begin-
ning of social life down to the present time there has been going
on, and that there still is going on, a process of slow but none the
less certain adjustment of the natures of men to society, and of
the social organization to the natures of its constituent units :
this adjustment being the result of a perpetual interaction be-
tween units and aggregate which ever tends to bring them into
more perfect adaptation the one to the other. Such adaptation,
it is further shown, is produced by the direct action of circum-
stances upon the natures of men, and by the preservation and
accumulation by inheritance from generation to generation of
the modifications thus initiated ; though another process comes
in for passing recognition the process of the dying out of those
individuals who fail to adapt themselves to the changing con-
ditions of their environment : which process may be conversely
stated as the survival of those only who so far change as to fit
themselves to the necessities imposed upon them by the totality
of their surroundings. Here, it will be seen, is a faint and partial
adumbration of the doctrine of the survival of the fittest in the
struggle for existence. Moreover, another important point is em-
phasized the point that all our social evils and imperfections are
due to want of complete adjustment between men and the con-
ditions of social life are, indeed, nothing more than the tempo-
rary jarring and wrenching of a machine the parts of which are
* Reasons for Dissenting from the Philosophy of M. Comte
