NEW CHAPTERS IN THE WARFARE OF SCIENCE. 151
Catholics themselves. In 1870 a Roman Catholic clergyman in
England, the Rev. Mr. Roberts, evidently thinking that the time
had come to tell the truth, published a book entitled The Pontifi-
cal Decrees against the Earth's Movement. In this were exhib-
ited the incontrovertible evidences that the papacy had committed
itself and its infallibility fully against the movement of the earth.
The Rev. Mr. Roberts showed from the original record that Pope
Paul V, in 1G1G, had presided over the tribunal condemning the
doctrine of the earth's movement, and ordering Galileo to give up
the opinion. He showed that Pope Urban VIII, in 1633, pressed
on, directed, and promulgated the final condemnation, making
himself in all these ways responsible for it. And, finally, he
showed that Pope Alexander VII, in 1664, by his bull, Specula-
tores domus Israel, attached to the Index, condemning " all books
which affirm the motion of the earth," had absolutely pledged the
papal infallibility against the earth's movement. He also con-
fessed that under the rules laid down by the highest authorities
in the Church, and especially by Sixtus V and Pius IX, there was
no escape from this conclusion.
Various theologians attempted to evade the force of the argu-
ment. Some, like Dr. Ward and Bouix, took refuge in verbal
niceties ; some, like Dr. Jeremiah Murphy, comforted themselves
with declamation. The only result was, that in 1885 came an-
other edition of the Rev. Mr. Roberts's work, even more cogent
than the first ; and, besides this, an essay by that eminent Catholic,
St. George Mivart, acknowledging the Rev. Mr. Roberts's position
to be impregnable, and declaring virtually that the Almighty
allowed Pope and Church to fall into complete error regarding
the Copernican theory, in order to teach them that science lies
outside their province, and that the true priesthood of scientific
truth rests with scientific investigators alone.*
In spite, then, of all casuistry and special pleading, this sturdy
honesty ended the controversy among Catholics themselves, so
far as fair-minded men are concerned.
ure," the answer may be found in the Roman Index of 1704, in which are noted for con-
demnation "Libri omnes docentes mobilitatem terra? et immobilitatem solis." For the
way in which, when it was found convenient in argument, Church apologists insisted that
it was " the Supreme Chief of the Church by a pontifical decree and not certain cardinals "
who condemned Galileo and his doctrine, see Father Lecazre's letter to Gassendi, in Flam-
marion, Pluralit6 des Mondes, p. 427, and Urban VIII's own declarations as given by
Martin. For the way in which, when necessary, Church apologists asserted the very con-
trary of this, declaring that " it was issued in a doctrinal decree of the Congregation of the
Index, and not as the Holy Father's teaching," see Dublin Review, September, 1865.
* For this crushing answer, and by two eminent Roman Catholics, to the sophistries
cited an answer which does infinitely more credit to the older Church than all the per-
verted ingenuity used in concealing the truth or breaking the force of it see Roberts and
St. George Mivart, as already cited.
