152 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
In recalling it at this day there stand out from its later phases
two efforts at compromise especially instructive, as showing the
embarrassment of militant theology in the nineteenth century.
The first of these was made by John Henry Newman in the
days when he was hovering between the Anglican and Roman
Churches. In one of his sermons before the University of Oxford
he spoke as follows :
" Scripture says that the sun moves and the earth is stationary,
and science that the earth moves and the sun is comparatively at
rest. How can we determine which of these opposite statements
is the very truth till we know what motion is ? If our idea of
motion is but an accidental result of our present senses, neither
proposition is true and both are true : neither true philosophi-
cally ; both true for certain practical purposes in the system in
which they are respectively found."
In all anti-theological literature there is no utterance more
hopelessly skeptical. And for what were the youth of Oxford
led into such bottomless depths of disbelief as to any real exist-
ence of truth or any real foundation for it ? Simply to save an
outworn system of interpretation into which the gifted preacher
happened to be born.
The other utterance was suggested by De Bonald and devel-
oped in the Dublin Review, as is understood, by one of Newman's
associates. This argument was nothing less than an attempt to
retreat under the charge of deception against the Almighty him-
self. It is as follows : " But it may well be doubted whether the
Church did retard the progress of scientific truth. What re-
tarded it was the circumstance that God has thought fit to ex-
press many texts of Scripture in words which have every appear-
ance of denying the earth's motion. But it is God who did this,
not the Church ; and, moreover, since he saw fit so to act as to re-
tard the progress of scientific truth, it would be little to her dis-
credit, even if it were true, that she had followed his example."
This argument, like Mr. Gosse's famous attempt to reconcile
geology to Genesis by supposing that for some inscrutable pur-
pose God deliberately deceived the thinking world by giving to
the earth all the appearances of development through long periods
of time, while really creating it in six days, each of an evening
and a morning seems only to have awakened the amazed pity of
thinking men. This, like the argument of Newman, was the last
desperate effort of Anglican and Roman divines to save some-
thing from the wreckage of theology.*
* For the quotation from Newman, see his Sermons on the Theory of Religious Belief,
sermon xiv, cited by Bishop Goodwin in Contemporary Review for January, 1892. For the
attempt to take the blame off the shoulders of both Pope and cardinals, and place it upon
the Almighty, see the article above cited, in the Dublin Review, September, 1865, p. 419,
