i 5 4 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Nor can Protestantism rightly taunt Catholicism for excluding
knowledge of astronomical truths from European Catholic uni-
versities in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, while real
knowledge of geological and biological and anthropological truth
is denied or pitifully diluted in so many American Protestant
colleges and universities in the nineteenth century.
Nor has Protestantism the right to point with scorn to the
Catholic " Index/' and call attention to the fact that nearly every
really important book in the last three centuries has been for-
bidden by it, so long as young men in so many American Protest-
ant universities and colleges, and university extension schemes,
and " approved courses of reading/' are filled with " ecclesiastical
pap " rather than with real thought, and directed to the works of
" solemnly constituted impostors," while they are studiously kept
away from such leaders in modern thought as Darwin, Spencer,
Huxley, Draper, and Lecky.
It may indeed be justly claimed by Protestantism that some of
the former strongholds of her bigotry have become liberalized ;
but, on the other hand, Catholicism can point to the fact that
Pope Leo XIII, now happily reigning, has made a noble change
as regards open dealing with documents. The days of Monsignor
Marini, it may be hoped, are gone. The Vatican Library, with its
masses of historical material, has been thrown open to Protestant
and Catholic scholars alike, and this privilege has been freely
used by men representing all shades of religious thought.
As to the older errors, the whole civilized world was at fault
Protestant as well as Catholic. It was not the fault of religion ;
it was the fault of that short-sighted linking of theological dogmas
to scriptural texts which, in utter defiance of the words and works
of the Blessed Founder of Christianity, narrow-minded, loud-
voiced men are ever prone to substitute for religion. Justly is it
said by one of the most eminent among contemporary Anglican
divines that " it is because they have mistaken the dawn for a
conflagration that theologians have so often been foes of light." *
* For an exceedingly striking statement, by a Roman Catholic historian of genius, as to
the pojndar demand for persecution and the pressure of the lower strata in ecclesiastical or-
ganizations for cruel measures, see Balmes's Le Protestantisme compare au Catholicisme,
etc., fourth edition, Paris, 1855, vol. ii. Archbishop Spaulding has something of the same
sort in his Miscellanies. L'Epinois, Galilee, pp. 22 et seq., stretches this as far as possible
to save the reputation of the Church in the Galileo matter. As to the various branches of
the Protestant Church in England and the United States, it is a matter of notoriety that
the smug, well-to-do laymen, whether elders, deacons, or vestrymen, are, as a rule, far
more prone to heresy-hunting than are their better-educated pastors. As to the cases of
Messrs. Winchell, Woodrow, Toy, and the professors at Beyrout, with details, see the
chapter in this series on The Fall of Man and Anthropology. Among Protestant histori-
ans who have been recently allowed full and free examination of the treasures in the
Vatican Library, and even those involving questions between Catholicism and Protestant-
