FIRST ACTIONS OF WOUNDED SOLDIERS. 155
FIRST ACTIONS OF WOUNDED SOLDIERS.
By GEOEGE L. KILMER.
AFTER observing for thirty years the questions of the curi-
ous on the subject of battle-field experiences, I should say
that nine times out of ten the one first asked by a layman, old or
young, relates to the sensations of a soldier when wounded.
Even though the questioner has been maimed in a railway
smash-up, or torn or fractured or bruised in some peaceful and
therefore safe (?) occupation, the interest is the same, on the sup-
position, doubtless, that to be hurt by one of the engines of
destruction in war is productive of unique sensations.
First of all, generalizations will not cover this intricate and
expansive subject. An infantry soldier at Gaines's Mill, who
was hit in the knee by a bullet and ultimately died of the wound,
said that he thought he had run against a standing thistle ; and
the fact that he marched on, until his comrades drew his attention
to blood flowing down his leg, indicates that he did not make too
light of the first sensation. An officer, whose ankle was shattered
by a bullet as he stood upon a pile of fence-rails to reconnoitre,
thought that a rail had turned under his weight and sprained the
joint. He felt only a slight burning sensation, although the
wound proved a mortal one in the end. On the other hand, a
strapping, coarse-grained fellow, whom I knew well, and often
remarked making light of the very idea of pain and suffering,
quickly collapsed under a wound that he survived. And well he
might. He was hit by a section of mortar-shell weighing three
or four pounds that cut edgewise through his thigh, bone and
all. He happened to be resting with his thighs across a small
log that served as a block to the jagged cleaver. I was look-
ing into his face, about to speak to him, at the very moment the
missile struck, and, despite his callous fiber and almost brutal
stoicism, he winced as though he felt exactly as a human being
might be supposed to feel under such a blow all " broken up "
by the calamity.
"Wounds that almost kill on the spot seem to be the least felt
at the outset. Slight ones often produce enough disturbance to
suggest the work of a dozen death-hurts. A spent missile that
only raises a lump will make the victim feel as though an arsenal
full of balls had struck him ; and often soldiers with ghastly mor-
ism, are Von Sybel, of Berlin, and Philip Schaff, of New York. And it should be added
that the latter went with commendatory letters from eminent prelates of the Catholic
Church in Europe and America. For the closing citation, see Canon Farrar, History of
Interpretation, p. 432.
