FIRST ACTIONS OF WOUNDED SOLDIERS. 159
be sent home to disband, and with others I speculated not a little
on the chances of escape in the impending fight. There had been
times in my career as a soldier when I was "too anxious for
wounds and scars/' as General Grant once remarked of Ned
Buntline, and even at the eleventh hour, with the prospect, as I
believed, of a speedy return home, I consoled myself with the
thought that if wounded I would carry a glorious badge on the
homeward march. But I went into action that day, convinced on
the whole, that the fellows across the line would not pay special
attention to me, for I held that I was an indifferent mark for
good ammunition a lad of seventeen years, small inches, and
light weight.
It turned out that our position, though supposed to be well
sheltered, was closely inspected by a number of Confederate sharp-
shooters, but, as it was very important that we remain at that
point, we had to make the best of it. I was near the head of the
line of the regiment, and, as we lay strung along on the slope of
the ridge, I could see every man in the command. One after an-
other the sharpshooters' bullets began to tell. I noticed a lieu-
tenant in one of the companies moving about on some official
errand and making a splendid target, and, while I was thinking
how cool he was, something struck him and twisted his body
around so that I detected the break in his locomotion. He did not
halt, but went on calmly and freely for some paces, and in a few
minutes, having delivered some orders and exchanged words with
some of his men, he went to the rear with a decided limp. Be-
tween the moment of his wounding and the accomplishment of his
purpose he did not limp at all, and probably did not know that he
was hit (it was a flesh-wound in the thigh) until told of it. Then,
when he knew what had happened, he yielded to new mental pro-
cesses and acted as wounded men are supposed to do. When the
lieutenant had disappeared from view, I turned my face to the
front, bolstering my trembling hopes with the thought that this
last victim was a shining mark, as I certainly was not. Besides,
I believed that the sharpshooters could not get the range on our
end of the line. Then followed a " thud " close to me, and my
next sensation was that I was prostrate on the ground, pierced
through my left arm, heart, and spine with a rod, and pinned to
the earth. This was the physical sensation, but, of course, was
not the fact. Then through my brain there flitted quickly a vision
such as the thought of a battle most commonly brings to mind
masses of warring men struggling individually for the mastery.
I seemed to be in the midst of the melee, and with all the indigna-
tion I could express was shouting to the men in gray, " There,
you have hit me ! " Next I was being lifted and supported by
some one, and a voice said, " He isn't hit, but something is the
