FIRST ACTIONS OF WOUNDED SOLDIERS. 161
to respond. He thought that his head only was lifted from the
ground, and tried to speak, but could not. He recognized a fellow-
officer who passed at the moment, and remarked upon the accident.
Then he concluded that the battery had been fired, and that his
head had been shot off. This puzzled him, and he began to specu-
late upon the phenomenon of a head carrying on reasoning pro-
cesses while separated from the body. Was it not a mistake, after
all, to believe that the soul is located in the body ? Was not the
experience he was passing through proof that the seat of all con-
sciousness, will, and reason, and every spiritual attribute was in
the head ? (Helms was orthodox, and a remark from a skeptical
physician, some time before, to the effect that dissection revealed
no such an organ as the soul, had left a strong impression upon
his young mind. He was yet in his teens.) Metaphysical thoughts
were at length interrupted by a pricking and stinging sensation
in the neck, and gradually full consciousness and motor power
returned. He had been lifted and carried out of the reach of
balls, head and all intact. A bullet had hit the leather straps of
his haversack and canteen where they crossed his shoulders, cut-
ting two and stopping at the third, as they lay close to the neck.
(The flying ends of the severed straps caught his eye the moment
it was done.) The collar-bone was broken, and the large muscles
and tendons of the neck were badly bruised. Evidently there was
temporary paralysis caused by injury of certain nerves at the
neck, with but slight derangement of the functions of the organs
in the head, while the sensory functions of the body were cut off
from participation in sensations registered at the brain.*
In contrast with Captain Helms's counterfeit is a case of
actual decapitation, noted vividly and vividly recalled by com-
rades of my regiment, particularly by one who was a careful and
sensitive observer, Captain A. H. De Graff, now an engineering ex-
pert. On the 17th of June, in the charge of the Ninth Corps on
the Confederate works east of Petersburg, a sergeant of the
Fifty-seventh Massachusetts leaped upon the parapet, and, with
his cap in his left hand and his musket in his right, stood cheer-
ing and gesturing with his arms to incite his comrades to come
on. Suddenly a shell took his head off as completely as a knife
could have done, but the tall form continued erect for some
seconds, the arms still waving frantically, but with ever-lessening
sweep and power, until the forces of the body collapsed, when the
headless trunk toppled over to the ground. f
* Physiology assumes that complete separation may take place at the Deck and the
functions of the divided parts go on for a space. A head freshly guillotined gave back
mocking gestures of the mouth and eyes when a bystander made faces at it.
f A swift bullet will pass through a pane of glass and not jar it enough to crack it.
The shell did its work without upsetting the body by the force of the blow. Dr. S. G,
VOL. XLI. 14
