i62 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Virtual subordination of the physical or material senses to the
nervous centers controlling the intellectual or spiritual faculties,
and for an appreciable length of time, seems to be quite common
in wounded men, even in the severest cases. It is easily conceiv-
able that a thoroughly mad man might ignore an ordinary wound
until his anger cooled a little ; but that men wounded to the
death should, even while actually dying, persist in their purposes
as though nothing had happened, at first staggers belief. Yet
such things do unquestionably occur. Every veteran of the field
will recall instances, and history in one way or another records a
great many. In the attack on the Ninth Corps lines at Peters-
burg, known as the battle of Fort Steadman, I noticed a mounted
Confederate officer leading a body of men in a charge upon a can-
non near which I stood. The last view I had of him and that
was across the sight of a Springfield rifle showed him riding
boldly forward,' sword on high. Others saw him later and nearer,
and his fearless action in riding a white horse under a storm of
bullets, grape, and shells attracted much notice. Suddenly man
and horse disappeared, and after the fight we found the bold
rider lying dead about sixty to eighty yards from our parapet.*
His form was prostrate, his sword-arm outstretched and grasping
the weapon firmly, with its point toward the cannon he had aimed
to capture. His face was partially upturned, as though he had
struggled at the very last to see something or to speak. The
horse had wheeled about and gone to the rear some distance, then
had leaped at a breastwork and fallen dead across it. Whether
this was after his rider had been hit or before couldn't be deter-
mined. In any case the Georgia major breathed his last with
his face to the foe, evidently warlike and defiant in death. His
wound was in the head.
An instance similar to the last was that of General Elon J.
Farns worth, at Gettysburg. At a crisis in a charge, Farnsworth
raised his saber and rode toward the ranks of the Fifteenth
Cook, now President of the Board of Police Surgeons in New York city, witnessed a simi-
lar instance in the Atlanta campaign, where he served as surgeon in the One Hundred and
Fiftieth New York Volunteers. The doctor, with other officers of the medical corps, was
riding rapidly across the range of a Confederate battery, which was shelling a column on
the march. Hearing a " thud " behind, as a shell passed near him, he turned around and
to his amazement saw that one of his companions, Surgeon H. S. Potter, of the One Hun-
dred and Fifth Illinois, had been decapitated, and his horse was galloping on with a head-
loss rider sitting perfectly erect and natural in the saddle. With a little steadying the
body remained upright until shelter was reached, the pace being all the while a gallop.
* From conversation with the late Henry W. Grady, respecting his father, who lost his
life in this attack, I believe this officer to have been Major Grady, of Georgia. I did not
shoot him. After drawing bead on him perhaps half a dozen times, admiration for his un-
exampled daring got the better of me, and I lowered the weapon with the exclamation,
" He is too brave I can't do it."
