FIRST ACTIONS OF WOUNDED SOLDIERS. 163
Alabama Infantry, meeting a volley of balls. Shortly afterward
his riderless horse dashed through the regimental lines. The
general had fallen, with five mortal wounds, and when found
still clutched his outstretched saber, and bore the appearance of
having been unhorsed when dead or dying, much as in the case of
Captain Nolan.
In the excitement of such actions as those where the Georgia
major and Farnsworth fell, it is not possible for any observer to
note the symptoms minutely. The fact that a man is down and
out of the fight is about all that friend or foe can take account of
for the time being. It is reasonable to suppose, however, that
some deaths are instantaneous, the men being literally killed in
action. One such case I had an opportunity to study with un-
usual care at Fort Haskell, in the Fort Steadman battle at Peters-
burg. The action there was defensive on our part, the scene very
small, and the fight prolonged, hence many things were observed
that would escape notice on an open field. At one time, just in
front of me as I looked toward the enemy, there was a soldier of
our garrison firing his musket from a gun-staging that raised his
head and shoulders above the parapet. He was the oldest man I
ever saw in battle, and for that reason doubtless I observed him
closely. His hair was white, and his form had reached the stage
of unsteadiness. He fired very slowly, and after each shot would
scan the enemy's lines, as though watching the results of his last
ball or spying out a target for the next. Finally, when I had my
attention almost wholly on him, he half turned to reload, and I
saw his cap fly off smartly without any visible help, and the large
and bony frame shrink together and sink down into a heap.
There was no spasm, no agitation whatever. It seemed to me
that he simply sat down slowly until he rested on his legs, bent
under the body, his head going down to his knee, or to the trail
of the cannon. A little stream of blood ran from his forehead
and made a pool on the plank, and this blood reached the plank
about the time that his frame settled itself down motionless.
From the time that his cap flew off until the blood appeared on
the staging, and the motionless body led me to say, " He is dead,"
could not have been more than thirty seconds, and was probably
about twenty. The fatal ball had penetrated the left temple or
near it. This was the only case where I noted all the external
manifestations of a soldier killed " so quickly that he never knew
what hit him," as the saying is.
All that are found dead on the battle-field figure in the lists as
" killed in action." Of these quite a percentage may meet with
instantaneous death, but the majority show proof that both
body and mind were at work after the fatal blow was received.
One of the most convincing cases of the kind, and at the same
