164 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
time the most terrible, that came to my personal knowledge was
at Antietam, where General Hooker conducted the fight when he
received his wound. The Confederates were massed in a field of
tall corn, and Hooker ordered his batteries to open on them with
canister. In his report he says that the shot cut every stalk of
corn in the greater part of the field close to the ground as neatly as
though done with a knife. Of course, the men in that field did not
escape the biting hail. Neither did they stand like lambs and
accept their doom. After the first cannon volley the survivors
started toward Hooker's batteries, mounting a rail fence that
barred their progress, and just in front of and along this fence
several hundred lay dead after the action. The regiment in which
I served took position at one end of the fence some hours after-
ward, and as this field was between the lines the bodies had not
been disturbed. About sundown there was a sort of truce to re-
move some of the wounded, and with others I passed along the
fence to see the line of the dead. Some of the poor fellows had
passed over the fence and begun creeping forward, gun in hand ;
some had gained the top of the fence, and death had left them
balancing across the rails ; others, in the act of climbing, had
died leaning against it or dangling from it head foremost, having
passed partly over and been caught by the feet. Generally the
sword or musket was held in firm grip, the eyeballs turned for-
ward, and every muscle and organ bearing evidence of having
been strained to get at the batteries that were making such dread-
ful havoc. When I returned to the end of the line and glanced
back again at the prostrate column, I said to my comrades who
had not gone out to get a close view : " Boys, it is just as it looks
from here. Those men were caught at it, and were struck down
in the act." It is not to be wondered at that General Hooker
was too much absorbed at the time of this fighting to notice
his wound. He wrote of the action that the "slain (Confederate)
lay in rows precisely as they had stood in the ranks a few
moments before." *
Very, very few of these dead bore the look of having passed
away composedly. Yet, on the ordinary battle-field, where the
killed outright number but two or three to every hundred of
combatants, the exceptions are those who do not die in a quiet-
state of mind or body. Men who are cut down in a charge,
while the tide of heated action sweeps on, leaving them alone,
bend their thoughts at once to themselves, and, if death is felt
approaching, turn their faces up to the quiet skies, compose their
* The scene here described was visible from two o'clock p. m. until sundown from
the northern edge of the East Wood along the fence running from the East Wood westerly
to the Sharpsburg pike, and separating a corn-field from the elevated cleared field lying
south of the Miller farmstead.
