166 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Returning to the question of persistent aggressiveness in se-
verely "wounded men, two instances remarkable in a special way
are worthy of note. There was no warlike anger, but simply
sudden excitement, for a cause. In one instance two soldiers
were practicing at bayonet exercise and became very much
warmed up, as men do in a boxing match. Finally, when one of
them made a lunge at the breast of the other, the muzzle was
knocked down slightly by the opposing piece and a discharge
followed, the bullet going through the groin. With this fright-
ful wound, given at a couple of feet at most, the unfortunate
victim kept a tight grip on his piece, staggered forward, and
made fitful lunges at his opponent, who dropped his gun and ran,
terrified by the unearthly stare and grimace and the frenzied ac-
tions of the other. It was supposed that the balls had been
drawn, and the man whose piece went off did not know at once
that the charge was fatal. The injured man gave chase for a
few paces and then fell dead.* A case where there was even less
external incitement to extraordinary endurance is recorded by
Captain J. F. J. Caldwell, in a history of Gregg and McGowan's
South Carolina Brigade. During the engagement at Sutherland's
Station, below Petersburg, April 22, 1865, Captain Caldwell, while
riding over the field on staff duty, met two Union soldiers who
had broken through the Confederate lines with a charging col-
umn that had been repulsed, and become separated from their
comrades. Resistance was useless, and they dropped their guns
and followed the captain toward the Confederate rear. One of
the prisoners lagged on the march, and, on being told to step
lively, he held up one arm and showed such a bloody and dis-
tressing wound that the captain allowed him his own gait. All
the time both prisoners chatted briskly about the Union tactics,
and boasted that the tables would soon be turned upon the Con-
federates. When the party came to a fence the wounded man
helped to let down rails for the captain's horse, and in every way
showed good spirits and fair condition. At the first medical
bivouac Captain Caldwell turned his charge over to a surgeon,
who found a second wound in the patient's breast, and in a few
minutes after halting death ended his captivity. The man had
borne up under a mortal wound, with the spur of personal enthu-
siasm and expectation. He had hoped for a recapture by the ad-
vance of the Union lines.
The conduct of wounded men after an interval I do not pur-
pose to describe. So soon as the mind gets settled down to the
*Pare, the French surgeon, recorded the case of a duelist who received a sword-thrust
through the heart, large enough to admit a finger, and who followed up his fleeing antago-
nist, thrusting repeatedly, for two hundred yards before he fell.
