FIRST ACTIONS OF Y/OUNDED SOLDIERS. 169
Possibly his five mortal hurts were received simultaneously, hut
probably he carried two or three of them while persisting in his
fight.
The Georgia major had been selected or had volunteered to
lead a forlorn hope upon which the salvation of an enterprise de-
pended, and he was called upon to pass eighty rods under cross-
fire of cannon and muskets. That feat he essayed, conspicuously
mounted upon a white horse.
The attack in which the Massachusetts sergeant engaged was
the third day of fierce and progressive onslaughts, and was di-
rected against the last but one of Lee's interior lines around
Petersburg. The stubbornness of the Confederate resistance had
aroused the spirits of the assailants to the supremest pitch.
General A. S. Johnston at Shiloh was engaged in a campaign
for the recovery of territory valuable to the Confederacy ; he had
been transferred from the East to supersede other generals ; his
fame was at stake ; he had engaged upon one of the most daring
and delicate enterprises known in warfare, a surprise of his enemy,
to end in a wholesale slaughter or capture of the routed hosts on
the banks of a bridgeless river. The movement carried well up
to a point ; there, a Union division showed what Johnston pro-
nounced stubbornness ; his men hesitated, and he went personally
with one brigade in a charge ; the charge succeeded, and he drew
back to bring up another brigade, when a musket-ball severed an
artery in his leg. He made no sign, but kept on giving orders and
watching events until spectators saw that he was pale. He was
asked if he was wounded, and, as if acknowledging it to himself
for the first time, said : " Yes ! And I fear seriously." He was
then on the point of death from haemorrhage.
Under normal conditions the symptoms in each of the cases in
this recapitulation, except that of the headless man, should have
been trembling, tottering, pallor, faintness, nausea, with expres-
sion of anxiety and distress, the whole frame being instinctively
sympathetic with the injured part. But the several nerve-cen-
ters were not in a condition to perform normal functions. The
mental excitement acting in the nature of a stimulant upon the
center of the brain, monopolized the capacity for keen sensation,
and centers that should have registered the hurt suspended their
functions. So there was no concentrated shock, as ordinarily hap-
pens. The shock was distributed and showed itself, when finally
potent, in an instantaneous collapse. This is the theory generally
accepted by science the theory of a law that two nerve-centers
can not be excited at one and the same time. Is there not
confirmation of it in the complicated case of the wounded pris-
oner reported by Captain Caldwell ? The man doubtless suffered
laceration in the arm and the cutting of an internal artery, by
