i 7 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the same ball in the order named. His arm-wound would register
its shock first upon the intellect, and it would be of a kind that a
soldier in his situation would speedily resolve to " grin and bear " ;
and the second, though mortal, would be overlooked, and suffered
to do its quiet and fatal work. His first wound increased the ex-
isting excitement at the chief nerve-center, and aided to suspend
the functions of the center mosff vitally involved in the wounding.
The case of the beheaded man is again anomalous. Spasmodic
action or discharge of the motor-forces stored in the nerve-centers
of the trunk may have produced the phenomena.
Incidentally there arise from the consideration of the fore-
going these two questions : First, could the expenditure of stored-
up nerve force, either in sound or injured parts, or in both com-
bined, generate all these erratic manifestations, or do impulses
issue direct from the brain so long as life holds out ? Second,
is there a battle frenzy peculiar to certain natures, and in cer-
tain conditions to average men as well, that may lend them ab-
normal powers of nervous vigor and endurance ? But, what-
ever the efficient cause, at least one compensating thought follows
a study of these phenomena, and the poet and orator may extract
some comfort from it, cold and speculative though it may appear.
The soldier in war bears up under a severer hurt than the same
man could endure in every-day life, and collapses under a lesser
one than would ordinarily be required to disable him. He bears
up longer and collapses more quickly. Therefore, the provision
of Nature that renders him insensible of wounds in heated action
may be a twofold blessing, in that it spares him pain and terror
at the moment of his hurt, and while doing this service rapidly
exhausts in his system those reserve forces which might other-
wise tide him over the inevitable prostration succeeding wounds
and warlike ardor, and embitter him with a sense of his vulner-
ability and weakness. How many noble fellows, missing the
lethal stroke, have besought their comrades, their captors, and
their medical officers to put them out of misery, annalists of the
field would shudder to make known. So the hero's impulse, be it
patriotism, fanaticism, or frenzy, in spurring him on, saves his
high-strung soul from the rack of physical torture, and brings
death in a moment of rapturous exaltation, weaving about his
last deeds the halo of that glory which is the soldier's most
coveted reward. Not alone soldiers, but men of action every-
where, long for a death that shall be but a pause no, that could
be perceptible a lightning leap between a fiery fullness of being
on earth and the dazzling dawn of new life beyond the veil.
