THE YUCCA MOTH AND YUCCA POLLINATION. 171
THE YUCCA MOTH AND YUCCA POLLINATION.*
By C. V. RILEY, Ph. D.
THE common belief, based upon the theological assumption
that all things upon this terrestrial sphere are for man's espe-
cial benefit, was, and perhaps yet is, that flowers were endowed
with beauty and fragrance for our particular pleasure. Let us
look somewhat more closely into this matter, and see what mod-
ern science has to say about it. Ever since Linnseus used the
sexual characteristics of flowers in classification, and Erasmus
Darwin sang of the loves of the plants, the philosophy of fertili-
zation in the plant kingdom has been fairly apprehended. It has
long been recognized that plants are divisible into homomorphic
or self-fertilizable, and heteromorphic or cross-fertilizable species.
All diclinous plants, or those having separate male and female
flowers, belong to the latter category, which is further classifiable
according to the means by which cross-fertilization is effected.
One class (termed anemojiliilcz) depend almost entirely on the
wind, and in these, of which our pines and other conifers, our
poplars, willows, grasses, etc., are examples, the pollen or male
element obtains in enormous quantities, is easily detached, and is
generally produced early in spring, when winds prevail, and fre-
quently before the development of the leaves, which would tend
to impede its dispersion. The flower is inconspicuous and the
stigma or female organ generally branched or hairy, so as to in-
crease the chance of catching the wind-borne pollen. "Water is an
agency in the fertilization of a few plants, of which the singular
Vallisneria is a striking illustration ; while a few are aided by
birds and higher animals; but by far the greater number are fer-
tilized, or, more strictly speaking, pollinized, by insects.
The most casual observer of Nature must have appreciated,
years ago, the fact that flowers are very important to insects, fur-
nishing the essentials of life to those of several orders, and espe-
cially to the Hymenoptera (bees, wasps, etc.) and Lepidoptera
(butterflies and moths) in the form either of pollen or nectar.
But that insects could be of any especial benefit to plants has
only come to be acknowledged and fully appreciated of late years.
Toward the close of the last century Christian Konrad Sprengel
published an important work Das entdeckte Geheimniss der
Natur in which he maintained that the color, form, odor, secre-
tions, and the general structure of flowers had reference to insects
which are essential as pollinizers. The importance of insects as
* Adapted from advance sheets of the Annual Report of the Missouri Botanical Garden
for 1891.
