THE YUCCA MOTH AND YUCCA POLLINATION. 173
are at rest, would protect the flower from spoliation by useless
raiders. This belief is also strengthened by the fact that ane-
mophilous flowers, or those fertilized by the wind, never sleep,
and that flowers which attract insects by smell emit their odor at
particular hours.
But the most interesting fact not commonly understood, that
has now been very fully established by the most thorough re-
searches, is, that a very large number of plants, even where the
sexes are united in the same flower, absolutely depend on insect
aid for pollination, and that the contrivances to induce cross-fer-
tilization are infinite in diversity, while the modifications in struct-
ure which these insects have undergone the better to fit them to
perform this service, are equally remarkable. Yet in most cases
we have adaptation of the plant only, and except in a few in-
stances, as, for instance, in that Madagascar orchid, Angrcecum
sesquipedale, where the nectary is so deep that its nectar can be
reached only by a moth (like Macrosila cluentius) with a very
long tongue, our orchids are not dependent for pollination on any
one Lepidopterous species, but may be aided by many which have
tongues of sufficient length.
There are, in fact, few plants which are dependent on a single
species for pollination. So far as I know, the yuccas furnish the
only instance of this kind, for they
actually depend on some particular
species of little white moths belong-
ing to the Tineina and to the genus
Pronuba. The yuccas are a very in-
teresting genus of lily-like plants, so
familiar to every one in our public
and private gardens that I need not
say very much about them (Fig. 1).
There are numerous species and even
sub-genera, but they are all character-
ized by anthers not reaching any-
where near the stigma, so that fertili-
zation unaided can take place only by
the merest accident. In other words,
the stigmatic tube is nowhere within
reach of the stamens, and the pollen either remains attached to
the open and withered anthers or falls and remains in different-
sized lumps on the inside of the perianth, and can not be intro-
duced into the stigmatic tube without artificial aid.
Our commoner garden yuccas, forms of ftlamentosa, depend on
the commoner yucca moth, Pronuba yuccasella (Fig. 2, b, c), and
so do all the different species found east of the Rocky Mountains,
so far as we yet know. During the daytime we may, by knowing
Fig. 2. Pronuba yuccasella : a, lar-
va ; b, ? moth with closed wing ;
c, $ moth with wings expanded
natural sue ; d, side view of larval
joint ; e, head of larva, beneath ; ,/",
head of larva, above ; g, thoracic
leg of same ; A, maxilla; *', mandi-
ble ; y, spinneret and labial palpi ;
k, antenna enlarged.
