174
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
what and where to seek, often find this moth, either singly or in
pairs, resting with folded wings within the half-closed flowers.
It is then not only hidden from ordinary view, but well protected
by the imitative color of the front wings with that of the flower,
so that close scrutiny is necessary for its detection. If we visit
the plant after
"... the garish day
Has sped on his wheels of light away,"
and when, with full-blown perianth, the yucca stands in all her
queenly beauty, and sends forth her perfume more strongly upon
the night air, we shall, with a little patience, meet with this same
moth, flitting swiftly from flower to flower and from plant to
plant the dusky nature
of the hind wings and of
the under surface of the
front wings almost com-
pletely offsetting and neu-
tralizing, when in motion,
the upper silvery white-
ness of the latter, and
thus still rendering the
insect a little difficult of
detection. It is principal-
ly the male which we thus
see flying and, by the aid
of a " bull's-eye," we shall
find the female for the
most part busily at work
in the flowers. He, with
relatively stronger wing-
power, can afford to spend
in the most pleasurable way the few brief days allotted to him ;
but she is charged with a double duty, and loses little time in its
performance. As a part of the maternal task of continuing her
race, she must act as foster-mother to the plant in order to insure
a proper supply of food to her larva?, which, as we shall presently
see, feed on its seeds.
As preliminary to a better understanding of the habits of the
female, it will be well to draw attention to those structural pecul-
iarities which distinguish her from all other species of her order,
and which so admirably fit her for the work she has to do. Fig.
3 gives some details of the head (a), and an important structure
which more particularly characterizes her and interests us is the
maxillary tentacle, shown with its palpus at b. She has a pair of
these organs, which are prehensile and spinous, and it is chiefly
by means of these that she is able to collect and hold a relatively
Fig. 3. Generic Characters of Pronuba yuccasella :
a, side-view of head and neck of female denuded,
showing how the collected load of pollen (1) is held
by the tentacles (2) ; b, maxillary tentacle and pal-
pus; c, an enlarged spine; d, palpus separated; e,
scale from front wing ; /, front leg ; ff, labial palpus ;
A, i, front and hind wings denuded ; j, anal joint of
female with ovipositor all enlarged.
