THE YUCCA MOTH AND YUCCA POLLINATION. 175
large load of pollen for the purpose of pollination. Another or-
gan which is characteristic is the ovipositor (Fig. 4, b, d), which
is delicate and ex- , .
tensile, being a com-
bination of lance
and saw, and admi-
rably adapted for
cleaving through
the young fruit and
then running the
long
filiform, into
the ovarian cavity.
Though all the
egg, which is
and
Fig. 4. Genital Characters of Pronuba yuccasella : a, tip
of <j> abdomen rendered somewhat transparent; b, basal
joint of ovipositor ; c, its sculpture ; d, terminal joint of
same ; e, tip still more enlarged ; f, genitalia $ from side ;
<7, genitalia $ from above ; h, undeveloped egg from ovary
enlarged.
acts of the female
are nocturnal, it is
not at all difficult
to follow them with
a la,ntern, for, albeit
ordinarily shy, she may be closely approached when she is about
to oviposit. Her activity begins soon after dark, but consists at
first in assiduously collecting a load of pollen. She may be seen
running up to the top of one of the stamens, and bending her head
down over the anther, stretching the maxillary tentacles, so won-
derfully modified for the purpose, to their fullest extent, the tongue
uncoiled and reaching to the opposite side of the stamen (Fig. 6).
In this manner she is able to obtain a firm hold of the same
while the head is kept close to the anthers and moved peculiarly
back and forth, something as in the motion of
the head of a caterpillar when feeding. The
maxillary palpi are Used in this act very much
as the ordinary mandibles are used in other in-
sects, removing or scraping the pollen from the
anthers toward the tentacles. After thus gath-
ering the pollen, she raises her head and com-
mences to shape it into a little mass or pellet by
using her front legs very much as a cat does
when cleansing her mouth, sometimes using only
one leg, at another time both, smoothing and
pressing the gathered pollen, the tentacles mean-
while stretching and curving. After collecting
all the pollen from one anther, she proceeds to another and re-
peats the operation, then to a third and fourth, after which, with
her relatively large load often thrice as large as the head held
firmly against the neck and front trochanters, she usually runs
about or flies to another plant : for I have often noticed that ovi-
Fig. 5. Pronuba yuc-
casella : I, male ;
77i, female chrysalis
hair-line showing
natural size.
