176
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
,- M.
*- 'P^> /Zl '*->
position, as *i rule, is accomplished in some other flower than that
from which the pollen was gathered, and that cross-fertilization
is thus secured.
Once fully equipped with this important commodity, she may
be seen either crawling over or resting within the flower, gener-
ally with the head toward the base. From
time to time she makes a sudden dart and
deftly runs around the stamens, and anon
takes a position with the body between and
the legs straddling two of them, her head
being usually turned toward the stigma. As
the terminal halves of the stamens are al-
ways more or less recurved, she generally
has to retreat between two of them until the
tip of her abdomen can reach the pistil (Fig.
7). As soon as a favorable point is reached
generally just below the middle she rests
motionless for a short time, when the abdo-
men is slightly raised and the lance-like ovi-
positor is thrust into the soft tissue, held
there the best part of a minute, while the
egg is conducted to its destination, and then
withdrawn by a series of up-and-down mo-
tions. Fig. 8 is a transverse section of the
young fruit at this stage of the growth, in-
dicating the manner in which it is punct-
ured at a, <x, and how the egg is conveyed
into the ovarian cell at b, while Fig. 9 shows
a longitudinal section of the pistil at a, the
puncture of the ovipositor at b, and the
egg within the ovarian cell at c.
The stigmatic liquor is not nectarian, and the flower secretes
but a small amount of nectar at the base of the petals ; and while
these facts serve to disprove any positive value of their nectar in
the pollination of the yucca flowers, they add to the importance
of Pronuba by showing that the acts of collecting pollen and
transferring it to the stigma do not result in any food compensa-
tion, as I was at first inclined to suppose. In other words, there
is no nectar to allure other nectar-loving insects and cause them
to go to the stigma ; but, on the contrary, those which are drawn
to the plant by the slight amount of nectar are led in the very
opposite direction, viz., to the base of the style or of the flower.
It is also an interesting fact that I have never noticed Pronuba
feeding, as contradistinguished from pollinizing, for the motions
of the tongue of Lepidoptera when feeding are quite character-
istic and easily recognized. Indeed, the two pieces which form
Fig. 6. Pronuba tdccasel-
la, female, in the act of
gathering pollen from the
anthers ; five times en-
larged.
