io
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in the preeenl oonnection ero we pass on. In the first place, it is
well thai we should remind ourselves how enormously this book
was in advance of the whole thought of the time not the com-
mon thoughl only, but the cultivated thought as well. It was in
: fullest sense of the term an epoch-making book epoch-mak-
ing because it placed the study of mind, theretofore in the hands
of the metaphysicians as sterile a subject as it had proved in the
days of medifflval scholasticism, upon an entirely new and prom-
ly fertile basis. Hitherto, mental philosophy had concerned
itself only with the facts of adult human consciousness. Spencer,
realizing as we are now all able to realize, how little could ever
be accomplished by this time-worn and superficial method, broke
away from all the traditions of the schools, and started out on
an original investigation of the phenomena of mind, in the wide
sweep of which ho took in not only the mental growth of children
and savages, but also the phenomena of intelligence as displayed
by the whole range of the animate world down to the lowest
creatures. To quote his own words, "Life in its multitudinous
and infinitely varied embodiments has arisen out of the lowest
and simplest beginnings by steps as gradual as those which
evolved an homogeneous germ into a complete organism." Start-
ing from this conception, the author proceeds to treat of the
whole subject of intelligence and its forms of manifestation from
an evolutionary point of view; the Principles having "for their
object the establishment by a double process of analysis and of
synthesis, the unity of composition of the phenomena of mind,
and the continuity of their development." * My second remark
Ls pa rely a personal one, yet one which has its interest and im-
portance though these are of a somewhat melancholy character
in any account of Mr. Spencer's earlier writings. It was in con-
sequence of overwork while producing the volume now referred
to, that Mr. Spencer suffered a nervous breakdown which com-
pletely incapacitated him for a period of eighteen months, and
which, even after his general recovery, left him stranded in that
condition of partial and varying invalidism in which he has con-
tinued fr,, m that day to this, and under the burden of which all
subsequent great work has been done.
It is not, I think, needful to pause, after even such a rapid
summary of the activities of these ten momentous years, to say
any thin- about the extraordinary perversion of judgment which
I critics from whom, having regard to their positions and
I culture, something better was to have been expected, to
treat these writings as "stock-writings," and to refer to their
author as having "the weakness of omniscience" and a desire to
Th. Ribot, English Psychology, p. 148. London, 1873.
