THE YUCCA MOTH AND YUCCA POLLINATION. 181
those individuals of the larger, fleshy-fruited species like aloifolia
which happen to bloom about the same time of the year.
Thus we find that some species of Pronuba is connected with
all the yuccas so far studied in this connection, and I have no
doubt that this will be found to be generally true, so far as the
indigenous species are concerned, and that in the native home of
any of the species we shall find that pollination depends upon
some species of Pronuba. This is rendered certain by the fact
that, wherever I have been able to examine the mature or partially
mature fruit of other yuccas in herbaria, I have in almost every
instance observed the constriction and in most instances seen
traces of the puncture and the work of the larva.
We have, in the structures and functions which are so charac-
teristic of this yucca moth, admirable adaptations of means to an
end, whether for pollinizing the plant or providing for a future
generation. The Pronuba larva rarely destroys more than a dozen
of the seeds, so that several may develop within a single pod and
yet leave many perfect seeds, while, for the reasons already stated,
we occasionally have pods without a trace of the insect.
There is between Pronuba and its food-plant a mutual inter-
dependence which excites our wonder, and is fraught with inter-
esting suggestions to those who are in the habit of reasoning
from effect to cause. Whether we believe, as I certainly do, that
this perfect adaptation and adjustment have been brought about
by slow degrees through the long course of ages, or whether we
believe that they were always so from the beginning, they are
equally suggestive. The peculiar structure of the flower which
prevents self-fertilization, though on a superficial view it strike
one as a disadvantage, is, in reality, of benefit, as the value of
cross-fertilization has been fully established ; while the maxillary
tentacles of the female moth are very plainly an advantage to her
species in the " struggle for life " ; and it is quite easy to conceive,
on Darwinian grounds, how both these characteristics have been
produced in the course of time from archetypal forms which pos-
sessed neither, and in reality we get a good insight into the pro-
cess in studying the characteristics of other species of the family
ProdoxidcB. These peculiarities are, moreover, mutually and re-
ciprocally beneficial, so that the plant and the animal are each in-
fluenced and modified by the other, and the same laws which pro-
duced the beneficial specialization of parts will maintain them by
the elimination of all tendencies to depart from them.
The pollen grains would not adhere by chance to the rolled-up
tentacles, and we have seen how full of apparent purpose and de-
liberation Pronuba's actions are, It may be that all her actions
are the result merely of " blind instinct," by which term proud
man has been wont to designate the doings of inferior animals ;
