i8z THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
but no one can watch her operations without feeling that there is
in all of them as much of purpose as there is in those of the
female Pelopa3us who so assiduously collects, paralyzes, and stores
away in her mud-dabs the spiders which are to nourish her
young; or in the many other curious provisions which insects
make for their progeny, which, in the majority of instances, they
are destined never to behold. Nor can I see any good reason for
denying these lowly creatures a degree of consciousness of what
they are about, or even of what will result from their labors.
They have an object in view, and whether we attribute their per-
formances to instinct or to reason depends altogether on the
meaning we give to those words. Define instinct as " congenital
habit " or " inherited association " or, as I prefer to characterize it,
as the inevitable outcome of organization, and most of the doings
of the lower animals may justly be called instinctive ; but instinct
and intelligence are both present, in most animals, in varying
proportion, the last being called into play more especially by
unusual and exceptional circumstances, and the power which
guides the female Pronuba in her actions differs only in degree
from that which directs a bird in the building of its nest, or
which governs many of the actions of rational men.
THE SURVIVAL OF THE UNFIT.
By HENRY DWIGHT CHAPIN, M. D.
rS modern civilization advancing along satisfactory lines toward
-L a higher development ? We hope and believe so, but there
are not a few who consider such a question an open one. Both
the pessimist and optimist can have much to say on either side of
this problem. The forces at work in society are diverse and com-
plex, acting like the ceaseless operation of a complicated engine
that is constantly pushing on, throwing some up and some down,
and leaving many a wreck behind. It is of pregnant interest to
study the destructive factors at work in society that not only
produce the unfit, but also tend to their survival. This question
derives its principal significance from the apparently hopeless
task of dealing with the unfit. Science and theology, from widely
divergent poles, appear to reach much the same conclusion with
regard to delinquents. Darwinism and Calvinism present about
an equally hopeful consideration for the unfortunates of our race.
One says heredity and environment; the other, predestination
and foreordination. Both suggest the witty aphorism of Dr.
Holmes, that the proper time to begin the treatment of some
diseases is a hundred years before birth.
