186 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
29'4G per cent.* It is thus shown by recent statistics that the
various grades of criminal population are increasing more rap-
idly than the population at large. The same results have been
shown by previous census reports. It must also be remembered
that a large number of actual criminals are not under confine-
ment, and are hence not included in the figures showing their
increase. It has evidently become a vitally important question
for decision by society as to the best plan to pursue toward the
criminal. In dealing with this problem too much stress is popu-
larly laid upon merely punishing the malefactor. Popular con-
ceptions of the nature of punishment have varied widely with
the age. The earliest enactments of penalty were, in form, vin-
dictive ; next retributive ; and, finally, as the highest conception,
reformatory. While the State, uninfluenced either by vindictive
feeling or pity, deprives criminals of liberty for a time as a
measure of self-protection, it must adopt some mode of treatment
during incarceration. The old plan consists in getting a certain
amount of work out of them to aid in their support, but without
making any effort at reform. The unexpressed idea appears first
to get even with them, and then kick them out upon society, usu-
ally to begin depredations again. An abnormal mental and moral
atmosphere is diffused in such a prison, and the large congre-
gation of criminals is a school for confirming the vicious. The
reformatory plan aims at the prisoner's rehabilitation, so that
there may be some hope of right behavior after release. This
result is sought by means of physical renovation, industrial and
intellectual education, and general moral impression. In order
to satisfactorily apply these agencies the science of penology has
shown an indefinite sentence with a conditional discharge, in-
cluding partial oversight after discharge, to be necessary. It is a
fact proved by statistics that a large percentage of criminals are
defective either physically or mentally, and have had an unfavor-
able heredity and environment.! Under the general system in this
country no attempt is made to rehabilitate them during confine-
ment. Criminals are first made to a certain extent by unfor-
tunate heredity and unfavorable social conditions, and then
confirmed by imprisonment. "Weak character and environment
bring out the unfittest elements, and society by its treatment
hastens to provide for their survival. When we see that, accord-
* Census Bulletin, No. 72, May 27, 1891.
f Of 552 convicts received at the State Penitentiary for the Eastern District of Penn-
sylvania in 1886, 263 were found in a condition of impaired health, and 174 were in an
unsound mental condition, as follows : Insane, 12 ; epileptics, 7 ; mentally undeveloped, 61 ;
weak intellect, 77; idiotic, 17: 159 were inclined to grave diseases of the neurotic type,
which tend to modify the moral, mental, and physical condition from inheritance of bad
formation.
