ANCIENT CIVILIZATIONS OF AMERICA. 189
at night, guarded by police, that contained palaces, temples, courts
of justice, schools of law, medicine, music, and literature, with
parks, aqueducts, fountains, and artificial lakes.
The cities were connected by graded roads, on which were sta-
tions and relays of messengers for the rapid transmission of intel-
ligence. The population was divided into various castes, includ-
ing royalty, nobility, different grades of traders and artisans, and
finally slaves. The country was cultivated with much agricult-
ural skill, and in the towns were workers in gold, silver, copper,
and bronze. Their military organization was thorough and effect-
ive, and strategic points were guarded by fortifications, some of
which have had no rivals in magnitude in the history of the
world.
This civilization, imposing as it was, at the advent of the Span-
iards had passed its golden age, was then in its decadence, and
has since, chiefly by the brute force, cruelty, and rapacity of the
European invaders, been nearly driven from the earth.
So much has been written of these two American civilizations
that of the mound-builders of the Mississippi Valley, and that
of the palace-builders of Central America and their study has
been pursued with so much interest and success, that it may seem
presumptuous that I should venture to occupy the hour kindly
granted me with a theme so broad and already so familiar. But
it has happened to me to traverse much of the territory in Central
America, Mexico, and the United States where the relics of these
bygone races are most abundant, and as the subject has always
been one of intense interest to me I have lost no opportunity of
gathering by my own observation such information as came within
my reach ; hence, it is possible that I may be able to contribute
something to what you may have learned of our predecessors in
the occupation of this continent, and of the real and original
American citizen.
The Mound-builders. As has already been mentioned,
traces of a people more advanced in the arts than the nomadic
Indian are spread over the entire valley of the Mississippi and
the Lake basin. These have been so fully described that you are
familiar with their general character, but few of us have a just
idea of their number and magnitude.
It is estimated (but I fear with little accuracy) that not less
than ten thousand monuments of the mound-builders are con-
tained within the limits of Ohio, and they are scarcely less numer-
ous in the adjacent States of Indiana and Kentucky. In some
places, as at Newark and Circleville, they cover square miles of
surface, and it is hardly to be doubted that they are the work of
a people or peoples not less numerous than the present popu-
lation.
