i 9 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
They are most abundant where the agricultural capabilities of
the country are greatest, and we find them associated with areas
of special fertility in such a way as to prove that they had
stripped the forest from these areas, and chiefly derived their
subsistence from their cultivation. Hence we learn that they
were a sedentary and agricultural people. Yet their structures
are for the most part earthworks walls for defense, or to form
inelosures, sepulchral mounds, etc. ; and while we find what seem
to be raised foundations of extensive buildings, those buildings
have disappeared, and we must hence conclude that they were for
the most part structures of wood.
The mound-builders were ignorant of the use of iron, and prob-
ably possessed no other metals than copper, which they mined
extensively, but never smelted ; for we find their implements com-
posed of the native metal, often with specks of silver, thus betray-
ing its source on Lake Superior, and only hammered into shape.
From this copper they made battle-axes, daggers, knives, awls,
and ornaments; but most of their tools and weapons were of
stone, and many of them were laboriously and tastefully wrought.
They have left no evidence that they had a knowledge of
masonry an art in which the inhabitants of the table-lands so
much excelled.
This is the more remarkable, as stone easily quarried abounds
in the vicinity of their works, and some of the great structures of
our Western table-lands, whose builders apparently had not the
use of metals, show what good work could be done without me-
tallic tools.
I have said that the mound-builders made use of but a single
metal copper and yet they were industrious and enterprising
miners. Their copper mines on Lake Superior have been often
and fully described. They must have been worked for genera-
tions, since the ancient excavations exceed in magnitude all the
work of the white man in that region ; but the methods which
they used were exceedingly rude and simple.
They had no knowledge of metallurgy, and the Lake Superior
copper was only available for their purpose because it occurs in
the metallic state. They excavated the rock by the use of fire,
stone hammers, and wooden shovels.
They never penetrated the earth to a greater depth than sixty
to eighty feet, and for ladders they used the trunks of trees from
which the branches projected at frequent intervals, and these were
cut off to form steps. Since no considerable structures belonging
to this people have been found near the Lake Superior mines, it
seems probable that their mining operations were carried on only
in summer, and by parties who, migrating from the lower country
in the spring, returned in autumn.
