ANCIENT CIVILIZATIONS OF AMERICA. 191
Although the copper mines of the mound-builders were their
most important ones, they had others by which they procured
things that were of no less value to them. Of the coal, which con-
stitutes the mainspring of modern civilization, and of iron, its
most important adjunct, though existing in unequaled abundance
in the country they inhabited, and trodden under foot in their
daily vocations, they seem to have been utterly and strangely
ignorant. Yet they worked with much labor the mines of mica
in North Carolina, from which they procured what was by them
highly prized as an ornament ; the soap-stone quarries of the Alle-
ghany range, where they obtained material for their domestic
utensils and the all-important ceremonial pipe ; and those of flint
in Ohio and elsewhere, from which came the material out of which
the greater number of their tools and weapons were fashioned.
In addition to these, I can assert from my own observation
that they worked at least one lead mine in Kentucky, and sank
wells from which they obtained petroleum in all our principal
oil regions.
As these facts have not been reported by others, and yet are
unquestionable, I venture to emphasize them with a few words of
description.
Near Lexington, Ky., is a vein of lead ore which is traceable for
half a mile or more through cultivated and forest land. The ore
is galena in heavy spar, which has resisted the solvent carbonic-
acid water that has removed the limestone wall rocks and shows
conspicuously at the surface. Thus it attracted the attention of
the mound-builders, who seem to have prized the galena only for
its brilliancy, as we find it in many of the mounds, but so far we
lack evidence that it was smelted. To obtain it in the mine to
which I have referred, they made a deep trench along the course
of the vein, taking out the ore to the depth of perhaps ten or
twenty feet. One hundred yards or more of this trench is now
visible, running through forest which has never been disturbed
by the whites. Here it is five or six feet deep, and is bordered on
either side by ridges of the material thrown out. On these, trees
are growing which have reached their maximum dimensions,
showing that at least five hundred years have elapsed since the
mine was abandoned.
The working of the oil wells by the mound-builders is as
plainly proved. When drawn to Titusville by the first successful
oil wells, I was struck by the peculiar pitted surface of the soil of
the forest which covered the bottom lands of Oil Creek. The pits
were ten feet or more in diameter, and two to three feet deep, con-
tiguous, and innumerable. Subsequently I discovered that each
of these funnel-shaped depressions marked the site of an ancient
well, sunk through the alluvial deposits, but not into the rock.
