i 9 2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
One of these, just opened in an excavation for a new oil well,
showed a pit twenty-seven feet deep, cribbed up with timber, and
containing a rude ladder like those found in the Lake Superior
copper mines. The timber used for the inclosure of the ancient
pit had been cut with a blunt-edged instrument, doubtless of
stone.
I afterward found similar pits in the oil regions of Kentucky
and Tennessee, at Mecca and Grafton, Ohio, and at Enniskillen,
in Canada. In the latter locality the oil was obtained by sinking
pits to the depth of forty or fifty feet in the Drift clay, the oil issu-
ing from crevices in the underlying rock and accumulating be-
neath the clay. In the excavation of one of these pits an ancient
one of similar character was brought to light. This was filled
with rubbish, twigs, leaves, etc., and a pair of antlers was taken
from it at a depth of thirty-seven feet. The antiquity of this pit,
like those of Oil Creek, was proved by the large trees growing
over it.
The contents of their sepulchral mounds have supplied some
information though less than we desire of the domestic habits
of the mound-builders. Usually the bones they contain are so
much decomposed in the lapse of time that they have given us
but an imperfect knowledge of their osteology. From the few
remains found well preserved we may, however, infer that as a
people they were of average size, of fair proportions, and with a
cranial development not unlike that of our modern Indians. The
jaws were somewhat prognathous ; their teeth as is usual with all
peoples who make much use of their jaws for mastication are
strong and regular; and the wisdom-tooth, which in our jaws,
shortened by disuse, has inadequate room and is of little value,
was with them one of the largest and most useful of the set. On
account of the lengthened under jaw, the incisors met in direct
opposition, and apparently because they used their teeth for grind-
ing seeds of which the envelopes contained much silica, they are
often found uniformily worn down nearly to the jaw. We know
little of the crops the mound-builders cultivated except that their
great staple was corn, and that they raised and used tobacco.
They buried their dead with imposing ceremonies, and not un-
frequently cremated their remains on a kind of altar which occu-
pies the center of the sepulchral mound, and, as is the habit with
perhaps all primitive people, vases, weapons, tools, and ornaments
were buried with the body. Of these the pottery sometimes shows
considerable taste and skill the vessels having graceful forms
and being often ornamented with colors or with incised designs.
The weapons and implements that are found so abundantly in the
mounds and scattered over the surface are rarely of copper, gen-
erally of stone. Of these the arrow-heads, spear-heads, daggers,
