SPENCER AND THE SYNTHETIC PHILOSOPHY, n
discourse on a great diversity of subjects, from the nebular hy-
pothesis to music and dancing. We are now, I believe, in a fair
position to realize how much, or rather how little, these curiosi-
ties of oracular criticism are really worth. So far from Mr. Spen-
cer's various essays during this epoch being merely examples of
flippant journalistic versatility (as such remarks as we have
spoken of would imply), we have seen how they are all united
and held together by that thread of common principle and com-
mon purpose which runs through them all. Random and unre-
lated as they may appear to superficial or careless readers, they
may, broadly speaking, be regarded as separate and methodical
studies in preparation for a complete working out in general and
in detail of the doctrine of universal evolution.
And now, why have I devoted so large a portion of the present
paper to the consideration and analysis of these earlier, more mis-
cellaneous, and, as it might seem, less important of Mr. Spencer's
writings ? Passing over the fact that in the merest sketch of the
growth and development of such a mind as his we are presented
with a study of which it would not be easy to overrate either the
interest or the value, I may say that I had hopes of achieving two
objects by following the present course. In the first place, by
thus making ourselves to some extent acquainted with the pro-
gression and consolidation of Spencer's thought, we have, I think,
very materially aided in fitting ourselves for the study of those
ideas in the full and highly developed forms in which they ap-
pear in the pages of the Synthetic Philosophy ; and, in the sec-
ond place, it is by traveling together over this preparatory
ground, as we have done, that we have been enabled to reach a
vantage-point from which I trust it will now be easy for us to
take such a survey of the general field as will help us to estimate
with some degree of accuracy the real relation of Herbert Spencer
to the great modern doctrine of evolution.
And this is a question upon which I would fain make myself
particularly clear, because it is one in reference to which there
has long been and still is current an enormous amount of miscon-
ception, not only among the mass of men and women (which would
be only natural), but also, and as it seems a little strangely, among
even the thoughtful and generally well informed. A vagueness
and instability in the meaning of certain words in common use
has been in this case, as in so many others, a main cause of con-
fusion of ideas; another instance being thus furnished of the
truth of Lord Bacon's dictum that, while we fondly suppose that
we govern our vocabulary, it not infrequently happens that, as a
matter of fact, our vocabulary governs us. In the common speech
of the day the word Darwinism is almost invariably employed as
if it were absolutely synonymous with the word evolution : the
