ANCIENT CIVILIZATIONS OF AMERICA. 193
augers, and hoes are usually of flint ; their axes and celts are gen-
erally made of green-stone, a tough and heavy rock specially
adapted to such use ; the celts were inserted in handles and closely
resemble those of the polished-stone period in the Old "World.
Their axes, all grooved for a withe, were frequently wrought with
great skill and patience. The most common ornaments found
with the remains of the mound-builders are anklets or armlets of
copper, and strings of beads of shells or bone, of copper or baked
clay. In addition to these are many large ornaments of shell or
stone perforated for suspension from the neck or for attachment
to the head.
Of the clothing of the mound-builders we have as yet little in-
formation, since the lapse of time has caused fabrics of vegetable
or animal fiber to perish. In a few instances, however, the anti-
septic properties of copper salts or special conditions have been
the means of preserving some fragments of cloth made from the
fibers of a plant. Of these the workmanship is so good that we
may believe that woven fabrics were largely used for clothing.
In regard to the ethnic relations of the mound-builders, the
age in which they lived, and the causes of their disappearance, much
has been conjectured, but little can be asserted. As to the time
in which they lived in the country they inhabited when and how
long this at least may be said, viz., that they occupied all the
forest-covered region of the Mississippi Valley to which they
seem to have given a decided preference for many hundreds and
perhaps thousands of years. This is indicated by the general
occupation of this wide-spread area, the magnitude and number of
such of their works as have resisted the ravages of time, and the
great abundance of the stone implements of their manufacture
found scattered over the surface ; also by the extent of their min-
ing operations on Lake Superior and elsewhere. All this can
mean nothing less than the long-continued possession of the
country.
The general distribution throughout the valley of the Missis-
sippi of shells obtained on the Gulf or Atlantic coast ; the copper,
mica, galena, flint implements, etc., all of known origin, indicate
considerable internal interchange of commodities, but furnish no
proof of a foreign commerce.
In regard to the origin of these peoples little is known. We
may infer from their bony structure that they belonged to the
American family of men, and were not unlike, in structure, physi-
cal aspect, and color, the red Indian of to-day.
A few stone tablets have been found in the mounds, which are
decidedly Mexican in character ; and if, as seems probable, the
authenticity of these relics should be established, they would go
far to prove synchronism and intercourse between the mound-
VOL. XLI. 16
