i 9+ THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
builders and civilized races of the South ; but this does little or
nothing toward establishing a relationship between them.
As to when and ivhy and how the mound-builders disappeared
we can form a more accurate and reliable conception. A large
number of the monuments left behind by them are of a defensive
nature ; in some localities, as in the valley of the Cuyahoga, near
Cleveland, every headland which overlooks the river is crowned
with a fort or citadel ; and it is evident that those who occupied
this and many other areas of the Mississippi Valley were engaged
in a constant struggle with persistent, harassing enemies.
Following the migrations of the various tribes of the modern
Indians (as we are able to do chiefly by the clew of language) we
learn that they have come from the North, and have for hundreds
of years been pushing by devious and interlacing routes south-
ward to occupy the territory once possessed by sedentary, peace-
ful, and agricultural peoples the mound-builders in the East and
the stone-house builders in the West.
Limitation of time forbids the citation of the proof of this
northern invasion, but it is sufficient to convince those who have
most carefully studied the subject. We may therefore accept the
conclusion that in America, as in Europe, hordes of northern
barbarians (multiplied by the fecundity of a cool and healthful
climate, and inspired by the force and restlessness acquired in
their strife with Nature's obstacles) invaded southern lands whose
more fertile soil and genial but enervating climate developed the
arts of peace at the expense of those of war.
The commoner belief has been that the ultimate fate of the
mound-builders was entire extinction ; but there is good reason to
believe that in the Natchez and Mandans, and perhaps some other
tribes still existing, but in small numbers, at the advent of the
whites, we have their lineal descendants. The grounds of this
conclusion can not be fully set forth here, but it may be said that
the tribes referred to in many respects contrast strongly with
the more numerous and characteristic inhabitants of the country ;
and also that their customs and arts, their implements and struct-
ures, bear a close resemblance to those of the former occupants
of the Mississippi Valley.
As to the time which has elapsed since the mines and struct-
ures of the mound-builders were abandoned we have only nega-
tive evidence. The heaps of debris about the Lake Superior cop-
per mines, the filled-up oil wells, and the earthworks of Ohio,
Kentucky, and Tennessee, were found by the incoming whites
covered with dense forests in which the trees had attained their
maximum size. Beneath this present generation of trees, and
overgrown by their roots, were lying the prostrate and decaying
trunks of a preceding generation. We thus have evidence that
