ANCIENT CIVILIZATIONS OF AMERICA. 195
at least a thousand years had elapsed since the country was
abandoned by its former inhabitants, and their fields and villages
were overgrown by the forest. Beyond this point all dates are
left to conjecture.
One interesting feature in the Western mounds is that many
of them, especially in the prairie regions of the Northwest, are
made to imitate, on a gigantic scale, the forms of men, quadru-
peds, and birds, and among the animals thus represented is what
seems to be the elephant or mastodon. Small figures of an ele-
phantine animal also appear in the archaeological collections of
the Northwest, and are claimed to be authentic. These relics go
far to prove the acquaintance of the mound-builders with either
the mastodon or mammoth, and may be accepted as presumptive
evidence of the synchronism of man here, as in Europe, with
one or both of these great pachyderms and hence of his great
antiquity.
The Palace-builders. The remains of an ancient civiliza-
tion, scattered over the west coast of South America, the Isthmus,
and Mexico, are so varied and interesting that they form a theme
to which nothing like justice can be done in the few minutes at
my disposal. Detailed descriptions of these great monuments
are, however, the less necessary, since many volumes have been
devoted to their exposition. Those who have access to Squier's
Peru, Stephens's and Catherwood's, Norman's and Waldeck's
books on Central America, or Lord Kingsborough's great work
on Mexican Antiquities, will find there, and in the documents cited
by their authors, a literature scarcely less rich and interesting
than that formed by the records of the Egyptians or Assyrians.
Of this vast field I can give you but the merest sketch, but, as
part of it lies within our own territory, and as in its exploration
I have taken part, I can perhaps add some facts additional to
those you have learned, and such as will compensate for the time
they may occupy. To summarize, as briefly as possible, the
knowledge we have of this subject, I may say that from the
frontier of Chili to Salt Lake, there exists an almost uninter-
rupted series of monuments of a civilization which, though locally
peculiar, was generically the same, and unquestionably the prod-
uct of divergent streams flowing from a single source. The
typical and characteristic remains of this civilization consist of
great works of masonry and engineering (fortifications, temples,
palaces, communal houses), which in their magnitude and per-
fection of workmanship rival the masterpieces of ancient archi-
tecture. Bridges, aqueducts, and thousands of miles of paved
and graded roads attest the engineering skill of the people by
whom they were constructed.
Honduras, Yucatan, and Colombia would seem to have been the
