196 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
center of this civilization. It is true that the monuments of Peru
are equally extensive and imposing as those already discovered
in Central America, but they are far better known ; and we have
reason to believe that, buried in the almost impenetrable forests
of Honduras and the Isthmus, there still remain more extensive
and interesting ruins than any yet brought to light. There is
little doubt that here we have the richest field for future explora-
tions, and a source from which we may hope for more light upon
the history of the peoples whose works we are considering.
In regard to these peoples, however, there is no such mystery
as clings about the mound-builders. Though stripped of much
of its former power and glory, the civilization of the Incas and
the Aztecs was still in active life at the time of the invasions of
Cortes and Pizarro; though, under the hand of the oppressor,
the native population, with all its complicated systems of laws,
religion, customs, and literature, was rapidly destroyed or degraded
beyond recognition. As we know, the chronicles of the old Span-
ish historians are somewhat highly colored, and the wealth, mag-
nitude, and splendor of the cities they conquered were magnified
by the Spaniards to enhance the glory of their exploits. There
can be no doubt, however, that in both North and South America
there were found civilized and wealthy nations, far advanced in
all the arts then known in Europe, except the working of iron,
and with a perfection of political, social, and religious organiza-
tion that can not fail to excite our wonder and admiration.
As proof of the reality of the advancement in the arts and the
solid achievements of the Peruvians, Mr. Squier tells me that the
great Incarial road, which reaches from Quito to Chili, is a work
of far greater magnitude than our Union Pacific Railroad ; that
some of the public buildings of the Peruvians were constructed
of masonry that in its perfection is not surpassed by the finest
monuments of ancient or modern architecture ; also, that a single
fortress guarding one of the passes through which the wild
hordes of the upper Amazon sometimes entered Peru, was a
mightier mass of masonry than would be formed by heaping to-
gether all the forts upon our coasts from Maine to Mexico.
As an evidence of the wealth of the country, it is reported that
the gold and silver vessels brought for the ransom of Atahualpa,
and which, as we read, filled his prison as high as he could reach,
had a value of something like twenty-five hundred thousand dol-
lars ; and it is said further that the gold plates and ornaments
stripped from the Temple of the Sun at Cuzco were worth not
less than one million dollars.
The essential unity of the civilization which covered all the
country containing the monuments referred to is attested by the
resemblances in religion for all was sun-worship in language,
