ANCIENT CIVILIZATIONS OF AMERICA. 199
small beginnings in the country where it subsequently attained
its full development, or was imported in its embryonic state from
the Oriental Archipelago. There are some things which indicate
that its germs were derived from the latter source. On Ascension
and Easter Islands there are large structures of stone with huge
columnar engraved monuments. Remains of similar character
are reported from the Sandwich, Kingsmill, the Ladrones, Navi-
gator's, and other islands of the Pacific ; and it is evident that, in
times so ancient that all memory of them is lost, a people inhab-
ited these islands who had many of the arts of civilization, and
who were essentially and characteristically workers in stone. The
similarity of the works on these different islands indicates their
progressive occupation by a people who were compelled, in pass-
ing from one to another of their stopping-places, to traverse as
great a breadth of ocean as separates some of these from the
American continent ; and it is not improbable that the final rest-
ing-place of this people was upon the western coast of the great
double continent, of which the continuous Cordilleras, like a great
wall, arrested their eastward migration. Here they spread from
their center of radiation to Chili on the south and to Utah on the
north, elaborating in the course of time a civilization that was
locally colored by the varying conditions of existence, but retain-
ing enough of its original character to show that it was all an
outgrowth from a common root.
If this was the history of our Mexican and Peruvian civiliza-
tion, its original founders must have belonged to the same general
stock with those who built the architectural monuments of India,
and erected in the island of Java those wonderful temples now
buried in the forests, and in ruins.
Still, the time of separation must have been so remote, and the
culture of the period so low, that each form of civilization grew
up independently of the others, and they now show little relation-
ship.
It is the opinion of geologists that a great continent once occu-
pied portions of the present areas of the Indian and Pacific
Oceans a continent to which they have given the name Lemuria
and it is speculated that this was the cradle of the human race.
Be that as it may, from this section of the earth the brown
Polynesians, Malays, Tahitans, Sandwich-Islanders, and Maoris
spread, carrying with them characteristics and faculties which
might very well be developed into a civilization such as that
found on this continent by the European whites; and there is
direct and collateral evidence that they sometimes landed on our
shores.
Considering the balancing probabilities, I may say that it
seems to be most probable that the west coast of America was
