200 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
colonized from that source, and that the development of great
and cultivated nationalities was the result of ages of quiet resi-
dence in countries which favored by their climate and resources
the special phase of development which we here find recorded.
As to the date of the planting of the first seeds of this civiliza-
tion we can only say that it is lost in the obscurity of the past.
Everything indicates that some of the monuments in the cate-
gory we have reviewed are among the oldest records of the human
race ; and it is certain that the gradual growth and spread of this
civilization, the long noonday of its maturity, and its progressive
decadence which began long before the advent of the Europeans
must be measured by thousands of years. Thus it will be seen
that in antiquity this indigenous and peculiar American civiliza-
tion takes rank with that of the Egyptians, Assyrians, Hindoos,
and Chinese, and in respect to culture, numerical importance, and
territorial area will bear comparison with either.
---
WHAT ARE DIATOMS ?
By EMILY L. GKEGOEY,
OF BARNARD COLLEGE.
SINCE the microscope has become so familiar in our homes and
ordinary places of resort, many terms are frequently heard
which have an unfamiliar sound. For example, a lady asked the
other day, with a laugh over the open confession of ignorance :
" What are diatoms ? I hear the word used very frequently, and
with such an air of acquaintanceship and familiarity, that one
must suppose they are the most common, every-day affairs, and
yet I must confess I have never seen one and don't know really
what they are."
Thinking possibly there might be others interested in a brief
description of this curious plant, the following story is told of a
visit paid this summer to a gentleman said to know all about
diatoms. The plants in question are so small as to be seen only
with the aid of the microscope ; those of ordinary size, when mag-
nified about three hundred and fifty diameters, appear about a
quarter of an inch long. Others are much larger. They are curi-
ous little plants with a silica shell, which, in certain places, is pro-
vided with little apertures through which living parts of the
plant protrude. In this way they are enabled to move about
freely in the water by which they are generally surrounded, for,
though they are not all strictly water plants, they all need consid-
erable water to enable them to thrive, and so are always found in
wet places.
