202
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
thousands of them and a great many different forms though it is
quite easy to find them almost everywhere, it is still very difficult
to make out their manner of existence. For example, how they
perform the feat of locomotion is not well understood. There are
two ways of explaining this : one is, that the diatom moves from
place to place, owing to the osmotic changes constantly taking
place inside the shell ; the other and perhaps better authenticated
opinion is connected with the peculiarity already referred to that
is, the presence of little apertures in the wall through which por-
tions of the protoplasmic contents protrude. Those who believe
in the osmotic theory claim
Y
iw
//
-.TrMA?.
m>
Q
^H
Fig. 5. Stictodiscus Californicus.
that no such apertures exist,
and consequently no proto-
plasm finds its way to the
outside of the shell. In
connection with this point
comes the story of the visit.
While working in the
Botanical Laboratory of
Berlin this past summer,
the writer was invited to
visit a gentleman having
the reputation of knowing
more about diatoms than
any other person now liv-
ing. It is rather a strange fact that this gentleman is not a
learned professor who has spent a long life over scientific prob-
lems, but a retired book-seller who owns a beautiful villa in the
suburbs of Berlin, and has for many years been gathering in-
formation of various kinds about this wonderful little plant. He
has nearly all the literature treating this subject, several large
volumes of which are now out of print, and for which he told me
he had been obliged to pay exorbitant prices.
Before proceeding to the inspection of the laboratories, speci-
mens, models, etc., coffee and cakes were served in the garden, a
distinctively German hospitality which no scientific interests are
allowed to interfere with. We then began in the preparing labo-
ratory, a small but very completely fitted room, where the mate-
rial for investigation is stored, treated, and classified for use.
Here are the chemicals used in preparing the plant for examina-
tion. Some processes serve to preserve the form and general
structure of the living part within the shell, so that this may be
studied ; other reagents, on the contrary, destroy the living por-
tion, whereby the shell may be more easily examined. In this
laboratory was a microscope of somewhat older style than our re-
cent ones, but a very good, reliable instrument, which he told me
