WHAT ARE DIATOMS?
203
he used in the coarser manipulations, but, owing to the presence
of chemicals in this room, none of his finer instruments were kept
here. He explained his methods of treatment in clearing the soil
and dirt from the land specimens, and also showed me the little
silk nets which he uses when fishing for the water forms. Certain
kinds grow only on the surface of the sea ; so, to collect these, it is
necessary to go out in a small boat and row very slowly, for the
cloth of which the net is made must be very fine in order to pre-
vent the escape of the tiny plants through its meshes. Owing to
this extreme closeness of the meshes, the water drains through
very slowly. The form of the net is quite like those used to catch
butterflies, but is held with the handle up and close to the boat.
At very short intervals of time it must be taken up and the water
poured out; the inside of the cloth is then carefully rinsed in
clear water, which is kept in a jar or bottle for that purpose. The
most difficult part of the process is to row slowly and steadily
enough to prevent tearing the nets.
These diatoms found on the surface of the water are fur-
nished with long arms or projections, from which protrude hair-
like bodies, which apparatus he conjectures is for the following
purpose: One means of deciding that this little organism is a
plant, is that it performs the function of assimilation, as it is
called, by which it gives out
oxygen. Now, this gentleman
thinks the little hair-like out-
growths are for the purpose of
holding the oxygen in their
meshes so as to enable the plant
to float.
After looking through this
room and learning as much as
possible about his methods of
treatment, we went into an-
other much larger and more
elegantly furnished apartment,
where all the nice and delicate
work of studying forms and
making models was done. Here
were kept the books, all that
have been written on this plant, and they filled a case of consid-
erable size ; also a very complete collection of microscopical ap-
paratus. All that modern artisans can do in the way of fine and
delicate instruments may be found here. Nothing less than the
best oil-immersion lenses can be used in the study of form neces-
sary to understand the inner structure of these plants. Several
models have been made by this gentleman, and he told me of the
Fig. 6. Living Diatoms : a, Cocconenia lanceo-
latum ; b, Bacillaria paradoxa ; c, Gompko-
nema mariuum ; d, Diatoma hyalina.
