204
THE POPULAR SCLEXCE MONTHLY.
Fig.
-Eohinella Flabellata, a fan-like
marine diatom.
hours of patient labor which it cost to bring out so much, as one
little turn of the inner canal whose windings hold the living and
active part of the plant, and also the explanation of the manner
in which it moves. He has studied the mechanism of several
forms and made models of plaster of Paris, and others of wire.
Pinnularia major (see Fig. 2) is
the plant from which the most
conclusive results were obtained,
and he claims to have demon-
strated the existence of aper-
tures on the surface of the shell
through which the protoplasm
may protrude. He does not, how-
ever, claim to have actually seen
the protoplasm on the outside of
the shell, but holds that, accord-
ing to other known facts, it must
be forced out, though in very small quantities. These apertures
do not open directly into the interior, but by a series of winding
canals whose action prevents the too easy expulsion of the con-
tents. The movement of this protoplasm along the lines between
the openings causes the movement of the diatom in a similar
manner to the action of the fins of fishes. All this labor, after
all, has reference only to a certain class of these plants ; there are
many others of such different forms that much study will yet
have to be expended on them before their secrets are laid bare.
There are some curious little forms which grow in clusters on
stem-like bodies which are often fastened by their other extremi-
ties to some object in the water. Some of these are shown in
Figs. 6 and 7 ; and, finally, a variety of miscellaneous forms may
be seen in Fig. 8.
There are large collections of these plants in nearly all the
large herbaria of Europe, and the manner of preparing them for
such collections may almost be said to form a special branch of
industry. Experts are able to mount and arrange in order hun-
dreds of these little organisms under a circular cover-glass of
about five eighths of an inch in diameter. The dexterity which
these experts acquire in the use of instruments is something
almost as marvelous as the organisms themselves. It must be
remembered, however, that this mechanical labor has nothing to
do with the work of the scientist who studies the plant. It would
be impossible for an investigator to give enough time to enable
him to acquire this skill. A gentleman in Wedel, Holstein, has
acquired a great reputation in this kind of work, and has plates
holding from four to sixteen hundred different forms. These cost
from twenty dollars upward, and he has recently finished a plate
