206 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
THE RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO SOCIOLOGY.
By Dr. LEWIS G. JANES.
IN the preface to his recently published volume on Justice,
Mr. Herbert Spencer newly emphasizes his conviction of the
importance of the bearing of biological laws upon the study of
sociological phenomena. Comparing the method of his present
w< >rk with that of Social Statics, which covered a similar field
of discussion, he asserts that "whereas, a biological origin for
ethics was, in Social Statics, only indicated, such origin has now
been definitely set forth ; and the elaboration of its consequences
has become a cardinal trait." The influence of this conviction is
everywhere observable throughout the work.
It is not the purpose of the present writer, however, to discuss
the applications which Mr. Spencer has made of this principle,
except incidentally ; but rather to reaffirm its importance, and
to call attention to certain inferential dangers which spring from
an unqualified acceptance of the conception that there is an en-
tire identity of principle between the laws of social and organic
growth.
While it is my firm conviction that Mr. Spencer has in no
way exaggerated the importance of recognizing the bearing of
biological principles in the study of societary evolution, it* is
equally important to guard at the outset against a fundamental
though common misapplication of the analogy which would lead
to results entirely divergent from the actual trend of social prog-
ress, as bearing upon the true scientific relations of the individual
to the state.
On the one hand, it is undoubtedly true that nearly all our
writers upon sociological, ethical, and economic topics are insuffi-
ciently grounded in a knowledge of the scientific method as re-
vealed and illustrated in the physical and biological sciences.
Their arguments rest largely upon an a priori and metaphysical
basis of reasoning. They treat man as a being dissevered from
the world. They fail to recognize the fact, demonstrated by the
triumph of the doctrine of evolution, that man is one with the
universe ; that he can not be studied apart from his connection
with the laws and principles which govern the physical world
and the vital activities of the lower organisms. It may not be
necessary for the sociologist, moralist, or political economist to
be a complete master of physics and biology in all their branches
life is too short for such a preparation ; but he should at least
be sufficiently acquainted with these sciences to be thoroughly
conversant with the scientific method of investigation, the tone
and temper of mind requisite in the investigator, and have a
