2 3 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
view from any prominent height is always the same ; the eye
ranges over an expanse of hill-tops, now running in a succession
of long, billowy lines, now broken up like the wavelets in a
choppy sea, often green with forest, but just as often bare and.
forbidding. Clear mountain brooks or shallow streams rushing
over beds of gravel are never wanting in the valleys below, where
a rude long bridge, or curling smoke, or the presence of cultiva-
tion, leads you to observe the brown thatch of some huts clus-
tered under the lee of a hill." On the fifth day Mr. Campbell
" branched into untrodden country for the purpose of visiting a
remarkable range called the Keum Kang San, or Diamond
Mountain, where the most notable collection of Buddhist monas-
teries in Korea is to be found. There was a considerable change
in the configuration of the land as we passed eastward from
Keum-Seng. The valleys contracted into narrow, rocky glens,
forests of oak, pine, maple, and chestnut clothed the steeper and
loftier slopes, and cover sufficiently thick to delight the heart of
the sportsman abounded everywhere." A pass too steep for laden
animals had to be crossed with the help of bearers. It is known
as the Tan-pa Byeng, and is the western barrier of the Keum
Kang region. " The summit is about twenty-eight hundred feet
above sea-level. Thence in clear weather a view of the Dia-
mond Mountains was said to be obtainable, and tne name Tan-
pa, which means ' Crop-hair,' was given to the ridge in the
early days of Korean Buddhism, to signify that those who reached
this point had taken refuge in the cloister, and should sever their
connection with the world by parting with their hair.
" From Tan-pa Byeng, a journey of sixteen miles in a north-
easterly direction brought us to Ch'ang-An-Sa, or the Temple of
Eternal Rest, a Buddhist monastery at the foot of the Keum Kang
San (Diamond Mountains). These mountains are a remarkable
section of the main range which practically determines the east
coast of Korea. Elsewhere the aspect of the chain is tame enough,
but in the north of the Kang-wen province it suddenly starts into
a towering mass of irregular, precipitous rocks, whose appearance
earned for them many centuries ago their present designation.
Viewed from the Eastern Sea, which is not more than thirty miles
off as the crow flies, their serrated outline is very striking, and
must always make them conspicuous. The district they occupy
is a fairly well defined one, some thirty miles long by twenty
broad. Few places are more renowned in any country than these
mountains are in Korea ; in popular estimation they are the beau-
ideal of scenic loveliness, the perfection of wild beauty in Nature.
I found that both Chinese and Japanese spoke and wrote of them,
but more because they are a Buddhistic center than for any other
reason. At Seoul a visit to Keum Kang San is quite fashionable,
