KOREAN MOUNTAINS AND MOUNTAINEERS. 233
hemp. At first our way lay through a forest of spruce, pine,
birch, and oak, broken by an occasional marshy glade ; to this
succeeded an undulating country, which bore traces of being
recently cleared. Clearings were made simply by setting fire to
the forest a process which I saw in operation. The population
was scanty, but evidently increasing; the houses were log-huts,
plastered with clay, roofed with thatch or shingle, and fenced
with palisades of stakes six or eight feet high. Game hereabouts
was very plentiful. . . . Tigers, leopards, and bears are also said
to be easily obtainable. The tiger, indeed, is a fruitful subject
of discussion. From Wen-san to Peik-tu San, and thence to
Peng-yang, I heard endless stories of the brute's ravages, and
more than once I was asked to delay my journey to shoot a ' man-
eater.' In the Yalu backwoods I passed through a deserted
clearing, where four out of a total of ten inhabitants, had become
the prey of a man-eating tiger during the previous winter and
spring." Large tracts of cultivated land became common near
Kap-san ; and the neighborhood is said to contain most of the
mineral wealth of Korea ; gold, silver, and lead being worked at
several places, but with sorry appliances and little skill. There
is no doubt that the country is rich in useful and valuable min-
erals, but it has yet to be ascertained whether they can be worked
at a profit.
The first view of the White Head Mountain was obtained from
the crest of the ridge overlooking the Yalu, about thirty miles
north of Kap-san. " Its renown was at once comprehensible, for,
distant as it was, the view was majestic. The white, irregular
mass towered, without any marked or prominent peak, head and
shoulders over the surrounding hills, though one could see that
it was not lofty, as mountains go. . . . Just at the point where
this mountain is first visible a small temple has been erected for
the purpose of offering sacrifices, which is done by the King of
Korea every year on the 4th of the eighth moon (August) to the
Peik-tu San deities. At Seoul I was led to believe that the offi-
cials deputed to perform this function actually ascended the
mountain, but they evidently preferred a compromise, the efficacy
of which has apparently never been doubted."
The rest of the journey to the mountain, with only hunters'
paths and blazes through the forest, which was made in the first
days of October, was beset with difficulties on account of the
wintry weather. The last settler's hut was passed, and after that
the party had to depend on the hunters' huts, which had been
deserted for the winter. When two or three miles from the end
of the journey, the best guide who could be depended upon fell
in a fit brought on by overexertion. The superstitious Koreans
attributed his paroxysms to the malevolent san sin, or mountain
