DUST AND FRESH AIR. 239
is less, the mercury sinks in the tube, and the barometer is said
to fall. Therefore, every change of height of the quicksilver
which we observe is a sign and measure of a change in the vol-
ume of air around us. Further, this change in volume tells no
less upon the air inside our cases and cupboards. When the ba-
rometer falls, the air around expands into a larger volume, and
the air inside the cupboard also expands and forces itself out at
every minute crevice. When the barometer rises again, the air
inside the cupboard, as well as outside, condenses and shrinks,
and air is forced back into the cupboard to equalize the pressure ;
and, along with the air, in goes the dust. The smaller the crevice,
the stronger the jet of air, the farther goes the dirt. Witness
the dirt-tracks so often seen in imperfectly framed engravings or
photographs. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, whenever you
see the barometer rising, that an additional charge of dust is
entering your cupboards and drawers. So much for the barom-
eter, which is a very restless creature, rarely stationary for many
hours together. But this is not all. We also have the ther-
mometer. The temperature of our rooms varies daily often con-
siderably between midday and midnight, and greatly between
summer and winter. What does the thermometer tell us ? Not
less than the barometer does it tell of change of volume of the
air, though it is probably not so rapid in its effect upon the air
in inclosed spaces as is the change of volume indicated by the
barometer. Many of you have seen a fire-balloon. The heated
air, filling the balloon, expands, and becomes lighter than the sur-
rounding air, and up goes the balloon, until, the source of heat
having become exhausted, the contained air cools, contracts, be-
comes as heavy as the surrounding air, and down comes the
balloon again. So, also, as temperature rises outside our cases,
the increased warmth is slowly conducted to the air inside the
case, which expands and escapes through the crevices. Then,
when the time for cooling comes, the air inside slowly contracts,
and back rushes the air through the crevices, and again in goes
the dust. Thus, we see we have two factors constantly acting,
one or other tending to produce daily, nay, hourly, changes in
volume of our dirt-carrying air.
In order to inform myself of the amount of change of volume
that could, under extreme conditions, possibly take place, I asked
Prof. Riicker to kindly calculate for me the change of volume
that would take place in one hundred cubic feet of air, between a
temperature of 30, i. e., just above freezing-point, in combination
with the barometer standing at thirty inches, or about " fair," and
a temperature of 60, combined with the barometer standing at
twenty -nine inches, or " stormy." He told me that the difference
would be about ten cubic feet, or one tenth ; in other words, that
