240 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
a closed case of one hundred cubic feet, if hermetically sealed at
a temperature of 30, with the barometer standing at thirty inches,
would have to resist the pressure equivalent to the addition of ten
cubic feet, when the temperature rose to 60, and the barometer fell
to twenty-nine inches. Have we not now discovered the reason
why dirt enters closed spaces ? What shall be the remedy ?
Seeing, then, that air will find an entrance, and in the nature
of things must get in well, we must let it in, not at innumerable
uncovenanted small crevices, but at our own selected opening,
specially provided. Then we are in a position to strain off the
dust by providing the selected opening with a screen, which acts
as a filter. These, then, are the general principles on which we
must act. The rest is a question of detail. The details range
themselves under three heads : 1. What is the most effective, or
the most generally applicable filtering material ? 2. Given the
filtering material, what ought to be the proportion between the
area of the screened opening and the cubic contents of the case to
which it has to be fitted ? 3. What, in any particular instance, is
the best situation for the filter ?
What is needed in our filtering material is that it shall readily
allow air to pass through, and shall also possess the quality of ar-
resting in its meshes fine particles of dust. For some purposes it
may suffice to use a coarse canvas, the threads of which are not
too closely twisted and have an abundance of fine fibers project-
ing from them, thereby reducing the small squares of the woven
texture to a still finer mesh. The material I have used most fre-
quently is " bunting," but it has disappointed me. When exam-
ined by the microscope many of the small squares of mesh are
seen to be deficient in delicate fibers standing out from the
threads, which would enhance the filtering power of the texture.
Lately I have tried other materials, domette, flannel, and cotton-
wool between layers of muslin, such as is used for dressing
wounds under the name of Gamgee tissue. Cotton-wool is prob-
ably the most perfect filter. Indeed, so perfect is it that in the
new science of bacteriology it is used as an effective means of ex-
cluding dust and germs from flasks in which experiments are to
be carried on. In order to put various textures to an exact com-
parative test, an experiment was tried. Having selected six quart
bottles with wide mouths, I tied over the mouth of each a piece of
the filtering tissue which I wished to test. The bottles are not
liable to crack, as wooden boxes are ; the only access for the inter-
change of air in the interior was through the filtering texture. I
thus had a means of testing the comparative value as strainers of
the various materials. Within the bottles were placed glass slides
on which any dust that was carried in might settle. The experi-
ments were begun on May 5, 1891, and the slides were taken out
