DUST AND FRESH AIR. 241
on January 6, 1892, and most carefully photographed by Mr.
Lafayette, and made into lantern slides.
The bottles were placed near a window in a room in the build-
ing of the Leeds Philosophical Society, i. e., quite in the center of
Leeds. The materials tested were : canvas ; bunting ; ordinary
flannel ; domette flannel, rough side in ; domette flannel, rough
side out ; cotton- wool, one inch thick.
The results of the experiments show that as a consequence of
eight months' exposure, including a week of the worst fog I ever
knew in Leeds, three of the filtering tissues admitted a very ap-
preciable amount of dust, viz., coarse canvas the most, bunting
coming second, ordinary flannel admitting less than either. The
other three bottles were screened, one with thick domette rough
side in, one with domette rough side out, and one with cotton-
wool about an inch in thickness. The last three show hardly a
trace of dust. Curiously, the cotton-wool shows a trace more
than the domette flannel. The explanation of this I suspect to be
that the cotton-wool was not tied firmly enough round the neck
of the bottle, which had no rim, and that some air passed between
the bottle and the wool, instead of through the wool.
Another experiment which I tried was to fit up a cupboard
with panels of double domette flannel. After the fog, to my sur-
prise, the inner screen had become more or less black, showing
that black particles had passed into the cupboard, but with this
remarkable difference : whereas the outer flannel was almost uni-
formly black from top to bottom, the inner flannel was divided
into four squares of different shades of blackness, corresponding
to four spaces between shelves. Of these four, the lowermost
was almost as black as the outside, and the uppermost was almost
clean. I just mention this as a fact which needs an explanation,
but without suggesting one.
There is one error which I think has been committed in the
screens made for me, and it was pointed out by my friend Mr.
White, the architect, of Wimpole Street. The filtering material
is likely to act more effectively if left loose and not stretched
tight, as when tense the interstices are stretched and made larger,
and when out of sight it might be very loose, almost baggy, with
advantage.
Hoping to get some hints as to the comparative value of the
various textures under trial, I placed specimens of each under the
microscope. It is obvious that both canvas and bunting are of
too open a texture, having numerous small holes unguarded by
delicate fibers. Judging by the microscope, one would conclude
that of woven textures, probably flannel, and still more, domette
flannel, are the best, and this judgment seems to be borne out by
the experiments with the bottles.
VOL. XLI. 19
