2 4 z THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
This is a question which experience alone can decide. Doubt-
less the larger the area of screened opening, the more effective
the filtration. For a book-case with glazed front, probably the
whole of the back might be made of flannel loosely fixed over the
necessary skeleton framework. For a cupboard or closet, every
panel should be replaced by a screen. If the closet have a win-
dow, all crevices and joints in the window should be pasted up to
exclude the soot, otherwise the wind from, the outside, or the fires
of the house from the inside, will force the air soot through. On
the other hand, it is probably true that, given very perfect fitting
and workmanship, aided by the interposition of velvet, as here-
after described, where the edges of the doors come in contact
with their frame, a much smaller area of filter, perhaps even a
simple tube, filled with cotton-wool, may prove to be efficient.
These, however, are points on which further experience is needed,
and which may, ere long, be settled by experiment.
Where shall we place our screen ? This is a question which
admits of a variety of answers, and gives scope for endless inge-
nuity. In anything which is being newly made, such as the cup-
boards and closets of a new house, or in new furniture, we are
masters of the situation. In many of them we may substitute at
the back our filtering texture for wooden boards, and perhaps
even save expense thereby. In closets we may replace the panels
of the door by filtering texture, guarding the closets, if necessary,
against thieves by wire netting or iron bars fixed on the inner
side. As a rule, chests of drawers may have the filter over the
whole surface at the back, care being taken that the back of each
drawer falls half an inch short of the top of the drawer, to allow
free entrance of air from the screen. In one set of drawers, so
placed that I could not get at the back, the difficulty was got over
in this way : In the front of each drawer a series of twenty holes,
of an inch diameter, was made for admission of air. The filter,
on a frame, was fixed on the inner surface of the front of the
drawer, so that the material should stand half an inch away from
the holes. A somewhat similar plan was adopted in a bureau.
About twenty large holes, two inches in diameter, were cut in the
wood-work at the back, some of the holes being opposite pigeon-
holes. Then the whole was covered with bunting, on a frame so
arranged that the bunting was fully half or two thirds of an inch
away from the wood. Another method has been adopted at the
Yorkshire College for some of the cases. The filter was applied at
the roof, somewhat after the fashion of a weaving-shed roof, the
vertical face being filled in by the screen. Again, Mr. Branson has
provided a roof filter for a case of scientific instruments, by placing
the screen in the roof of the case, and protecting it by a false roof
two inches above it, to prevent its being choked by falling dust.
