DUST AND FRESH AIR, 243
What shall we do with crevices and cracks ? At first, I hoped
that narrow chinks might be ignored, on the principle that easy
passages of air through an ample screen would virtually stop off
currents through narrow spaces. In this I have been disappointed,
as, in some cases, a chink, though apparently narrow, has proved
too accommodating to the passage of air, and a more ready chan-
nel than the interstices of flannel. My rule now would be to close
or guard with filtering material every place where the door comes
into contact with its frame.
The plan I have adopted with the doors of several cupboards
and closets is this to put strips of cotton velvet wherever the
door comes into contact with its framework. On the side where
the hinges are, the velvet is glued and sprigged to the edge of the
door ; on the other side and the top the velvet is fixed to the re-
bate against which the door presses. If the door belong to a
closet, and the bottom is not in close contact with the floor, a small
piece of flannel or cloth may be fixed along the inner side of the
bottom of the door, so as to form a curtain which closes the gap,
and filters any air that passes through.
Such, then, are the principles which may guide us to a victory
over dust, and such are some of the details whereby we may work
out a method by which the victory is to be won. Do not suppose
that I claim to have completely conquered the enemy ; but a be-
ginning has been made, a beginning definite enough and assured
enough to encourage others, and especially architects, to study
the question and to make trials. If they will but work with de-
termination to conquer, they may confer upon the community a
most welcome amelioration of some of the smaller miseries we
have to submit to.
And now let me venture to tell you what I should do were I
to construct an office in the center of a town. I should begin with
the fireplace. Let it be constructed on the principles I have been
teaching for the last ten years, and which were brought to a focus
in my lecture at the Royal Institution in 1866 principles which
are at last influencing the construction of fire-grates throughout
the kingdom. Shortly stated, they are :
1. The back and sides of the fireplace to be fire-brick, built
solid.
2. The depth of grate from front to back never to be less than
nine inches.
3. The back to lean over the fire, not to lean away from it.
4. The front bars to be vertical and thin, not horizontal and
thick.
5. The ash-place under the grid to be made into a closed hot
chamber by a movable shield, named an " economizer."
The effects of this construction are :
