DUST AND FRESH AIR. 245
window should be in two or three divisions, according to the
height, not in one large casement from top to bottom. Thus have
we provided for my first requirement, the cleaning of the window.
The hinged window must be so constructed that when closed the
framework of the window locks into a double rebated fast frame,
after the manner of a jeweler's show-case. Then, if well made, it
would fit tight and keep out wind and dust. This provides for
my second requirement.
Lastly, the panes should be doubled that is, a second pane
must be placed inside the ordinary pane at a distance of about
five eighths of an inch. The outer pane is fixed by putty in the
usual way. The fixing of the inner pane is peculiar and all-im-
portant. The inside of the frame is cut to receive the glass ex-
actly in the same manner as the outer side for the outer pane, but
the inside pane must not be fixed by putty, but is held in place,
" sprigged " firmly against its rim, " the rebate," by small nails,
two in each side, very carefully put in. Why do I insist upon
this mode of fixing the inner pane ? For two reasons : one, to
make it easy to remove the inner pane if ever it should be neces-
sary to clean the inside of the two panes ; the other reason is, to
enable me to render cleaning of the inside unnecessary. How is
this achieved ? By facing the flange, against which the pane is
pressed, with cotton velvet. The air that must perforce pass in
and out of the space between the panes must pass the velvet, and
be filtered. Two windows of my bedroom thus treated five years
ago have never needed to be cleaned ; and a pane, which was re-
moved at the erjd of four years for inspection, was absolutely
clean. Another advantage of the double panes is this : When my
other windows with single panes are steamed all over, and even
glazed by the frost, the outer panes of the double window show
hardly a trace of unfrozen steam ; the inner panes are never
steamed. Again, a thermometer placed between the panes has
never been below 30 all this severe weather, even though a ther-
mometer outside the window has been several times below 20.
Lastly, I would treat the cupboards and drawers after the
manner already described. The result would be, not absolute
freedom from dirt, nor absolute protection from London fog, but
such a departure from what is commonly experienced as to make
the experiment well worth all the trouble it costs. Journal of
the Society of Arts.
Of the three hundred and twenty-three asteroids known on February 1st,
seventy were discovered by American astronomers forty-eight by Peters and
twenty-two by Watson. Peters stands second on the list of successful discoverers.
Palissa, who is first on the list, is credited with the discovery of eighty asteroids.
