246 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
THE COLORS OF WATER
By CAEL VOGT.
" f^\ RANDPA," asked my two grandchildren, as if with one
vZT voice, " shall we pass over the blue lake when we go to
Geneva ? "
Our residence at Salvan, a charming village of the canton
Wallis, about a thousand metres above the level of the sea, was
nearing its end. The return journey was the subject of lively
conversation, and we were almost entirely occupied with the
fancies of the children, who asked no end of questions. "We
shall go across the blue lake," I said. "First we shall go
down to the station. Grandma and I will go in carriages, you
others will walk. Then we shall take the railway train and go
down to the lake. The steamboat will be there, and as soon as
we are aboard "
"Grandpa," interposed the others, "why is the lake so
blue?"
I was somewhat confused by these questions. If a fool can
ask more questions than ten men can answer, a child can perplex
more than a hundred grandpas. An evasive reply, like " It is
blue because it is not yellow like the Oder at home," was not
available with my children. It is an old observation that the
simpler a phenomenon of Nature appears at first sight, the more
complicated it is in fact ; but it is always well to recollect that
there is no simple phenomenon in Nature, that all that ever hap-
pens or is perceived by our senses is only a result of very differ-
ent or even opposing forces and causes, which we must not only
learn by observation, but must also separate from one another by
experiment, if we would come to a conclusion that has hands and
feet. Every one can see that the Lake of Geneva is blue, and
most persons regard the subject as quite simple and clear, with-
out probing further into the causes of the blue color. But
if a child in his naive candor asks for the reason of this color
which has struck him because the waters of his home are not
like it, there floats before the mind of the expert an unantici-
pated multitude of problems in optics involving the most difficult
laws and broad knowledge, and over which mathematicians and
physicists and students of every kind, artists and poets, have
racked their brains, without having ever reached a definite solu-
tion. How, then, shall he convey ideas to a child which shall
give an answer to the question adapted to his powers of compre-
hension ?
I was thinking of preparing a small water-color drawing, when
