250 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the softer tones. But below the dam the water is in lively motion
with endless little racing wavelets, and here the green color comes
out so vividly that the reflection almost wholly vanishes. Yet
another fact is revealed by the movement. Only with a perfectly
smooth mirror surface are the outlines of the reflected objects
fully clear and sharp. The reflection is then so perfect that one
often hardly knows whether he sees the objects themselves or
only their mirrored images on the water ; and the lines between
water and shore are quite effaced. The slightest movement causes
the outline of the mirror picture to appear notched ; clearer lines
from the horizon creep into the darker colors of the picture, but
notches from these, too, spring out over the lines which the out-
line should have. This phenomenon is so common that we notch
the borders of water reflections in colored pictures, as well as in
those drawn only in black. I have no doubt that a relationship
lies at the bottom of this phenomenon like the fact observed by
Colladon, and now often remarked, that water in motion carries
the light along with it. A stream of water, flowing through a
dark tube out of an illuminated receiver, carries the light along,
whether it be white or colored, and shines ; why should not mov-
ing waves exhibit the same effect ?
But enough of these painters' impressions, which, as we have
said, are neglected by the physicist, but are still of the highest
significance for the beholder as well as for the artist, and, as may
result from our representation, are dependent on various factors,
among which, besides mirroring, the real color of the water is to
be considered.
Let us go a little closer into this matter.
Pure or colorless water containing salts in solution is beauti-
fully blue and perfectly transparent, at least to a certain depth.
It is, hence, clear that with the color of all objects visible at this
depth, and constantly reflecting the rays of light, is associated under
the water a blue tone, more intensive as the depth at which the
object lies is greater. The gravels on the shore of a lake or the
sea become, when seen through the blue water, as if they were
observed through a pane of blue glass ; and since all shore figures,
with trifling exceptions, are of a yellowish color, they will shine
of a more or less green color, and the water on the shore will like-
wise appear green.
I here lay aside all physical deductions concerning the nature
of color. We know that it is not, as was once thought, a property
of bodies, but that a transparent body like water, for example,
shows a distinct color, because it lets certain colored rays through,
but not others, and that a solid body reflects the rays which we
perceive, but to a certain extent absorbs the others. The discussion
of the nature of color is not of very great importance for our essay.
