4
TEE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
thedevel >pmen1 1 f scientific thought, I am aiming only to show, as
( . ;m hown,and as simple justice requires to be shown,
t } 1;i . atogether an exaggeration to speak of him as the father
of the modem doctrine of .volution. What Darwin did was to
amasa an enormous number of facts from almost every department
f :l l science, and by the devoted labor, patient examina-
tion, and long-searching thought of many studious years, to
blish, once and for all, not the reality of evolution, nor even
the laws and conditions of evolution, but the operation of one of
the main factors of evolution a factor which, though it had till
his time entirely eluded the scientific mind, was yet required to
render comprehensible a vast array of phenomena otherwise with-
out interpretation. How near Mr. Spencer's own investigations
had l.i] him to a realization of the process of natural selection, or,
as he afterward called it, the survival of the fittest in the struggle
for existence, we have already been able to remark, and he himself
took occasion to point out, when in the course of his later work
ame 1<> deal more systematically with the whole problem of
animal fertility and its practical implications.* But the factors
mainly relied upon by him, in common with all pre-Darwinian de-
ipmentalists, were the direct action of the environment and the
inheritance, with increase, of functionally-produced modifications ;
and as these processes, whatever might be their individual impor-
tance (and this is probably somewhat underrated by scientists of
nt day), were obviously incapable of throwing light upon
a large part perhaps the larger part of the facts which pressed
f'-r explanation, the theory of evolution could not for the time
being hope for inductive establishment. Darwin's book put the
whole question upon a new foundation, by exhibiting a process
which did account for the hitherto unmanageable facts; and un-
doubtedly it was thus to a large extent effectual in bringing the
general theory intoopen court as an entertainable hypothesis. But
while all this is freely conceded while the greatness of Darwin's
work in itself, and its importance as a contribution to scientific
LOUght, are acknowledged without hesitation, it has still to be
red that that work was special and limited in character,
and that with the general doctrine of evolution at large it had
bself nothing whatever to do. The laws of evolution as a nniver-
Of Biology, vol. ii, p. 500, note. The whole of this very interesting
fled carefully, not only because it makes clear the scientific relations
" Ud Darwin, but also for the foreshadowing which it contains of a reaction
IttBive recognition of natural selection which soon became typical of bio-
ndoita nt large. In hi., little work, recently published, on The Factors of Organic
"t'"n, H oet has opened the whole question up afresh, by showing that, to ob-
ful! fk w of the methods of evolution, other processes besides natural selection have
to be taken into account.
