THE COLORS OF WATER.
251
Blue water also takes on another tint when objects lying on the
ground are seen through it, and this mixed color tone depends on
the color of the ground. We can easily verify this by the simple
experiments described above with blue colored water in a cylinder
glass. White bodies, pieces of porcelain for instance, appear light-
blue, yellow-green, red- violet, and, the deeper they sink, the more
is this shading from blue washed out, till it is destroyed. The
red shades vanish first of all.
The depth to which no trace of bottom-colors reaches us is cer-
tainly not little, and may, under favorable conditions, be esti-
mated at several hundred metres. But the question is a large
one, and we will consider a little more carefully to what extent
the more or less favorable conditions I have mentioned have been
determined.
I have already said that pure water does not exist in Nature.
It always must contain dissolved or floating substances which
will change its colors. Peat waters contain brown and blackish
organic matters in solution. They may be perfectly clear and
transparent, but the colors which the humus acids and similar
substances lend them will always produce a certain effect upon
them, which will be re-enforced by the dark-brown or black colors
of the bottom of the peat lakes. It has also been observed that
filtered water from a blue lake on evaporation leaves a white or
light gray, and that from green lakes a yellow sediment ; and that
thus blue lakes contain white matters and green lakes yellow ones
in solution, whose colors produce with those of the water mixed
tints. The difference in the colors of the Lake of Geneva and
of the Bodensee is explained on this principle, but the results of
the experiments on which the conclusion rests have been dis-
puted, and there is much room for doubt on the subject. What-
ever may be thought of this, it is certain that no water in Nature
is perfectly clear and transparent, but is more or less turbid by
the presence of other substances floating in it. That this turbidity
is of greater or less importance, that we can distinguish at greater
or less depths objects swimming in the water, like fishes, or lying
on the bottom, are taught by daily experience as well as by ex-
periments which have been made by sinking solid bodies in sun-
light and on cloudy days and at different seasons, or by letting
down sources of light, such as burning lamps and incandescent
electric lights, and ascertaining the depth at which a perceptible
glimpse of them can be obtained. It is to be regretted that these
as well as other experiments upon the penetrating power of light
have been made only in waters not quite clear, as in a few Swiss
lakes and the Mediterranean Sea. Whoever has traveled on the
coasts of Norway must have been astonished at the transparency
of the water in many of the fiords ; it is also affirmed that in some
