25 2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of the North American lakes the eye can perceive objects on the
bottom at the depth of several hundred metres. Visibility ex-
tends to no such depths in either the Lake of Geneva or the Med-
iterranean Sea. The water of the Lake of Geneva is more trans-
parent in winter than in summer, but in this lake, as well as in
the sea-waters that have been thus far examined, the extreme
limits of visibility are at forty-five, and at most fifty metres'
depth. Observations in diving apparatus have shown that one
is there as in a blue cloud, and can only see some seven or eight
metres in a horizontal direction, in exceptional cases twenty
metres, and at most twenty-five metres. But the seeing man can
dive with the apparatus only to a depth of thirty metres, and, al-
though he can not see clearly, he is surrounded by diffuse light.
The light from above must therefore penetrate more deeply.
A more closely approximate measurement has been made by such
means as sinking sensitized photographic plates into the water,
and exposing them to the light at fixed depths, or by sinking sub-
stances which are chemically acted upon, changed, or destroyed
by light, so that the measure of the alteration may at the same
time furnish the measure of the strength of the acting light.
Photographic experiments have shown that a depth of four hun-
dred metres in the Mediterranean Sea is the average limit to which
a blackening of the plate can be verified.
Thus light penetrates to ten times as great a depth as our eye,
and this is an important point a whole zone, three hundred
metres in thickness, receives light and thus also sends up rays
which our eyes can not immediately distinguish, but in all proba-
bility perceives through the mixture of the color tones which they
produce. It is known that there are other differences than those
of blindness to certain colors in the eyes of men, and that our or-
gans may be trained to an extraordinary degree of delicacy in the
observation of the finer tints. I once visited the Gobelins tapes-
try factory in Paris in company with some painters ; the work-
men could distinguish with ease and indubitably tints which
looked identical to our unskilled eyes. There must, to return to
our subject, radiate up from that depth to the surface, light, of a
bluish color, which makes far less impression on our eyes than
the colors called warm, yellow and red, which especially the lat-
ter are absorbed by the water.
It was formerly believed that total darkness reigned in the
greater depths of a thousand metres and more, and that the col-
lected colors of deep water were seen on a black ground. But, in
the light of the recent deep-sea investigations, this idea must
be given up, along with the other one that once prevailed, that
there is no animal life in great depths. Most animals living in
dark caves have atrophied or no eyes; there are also living
