THE COLORS OF WATER. 253
beings found on the surface of the earth, which hide themselves
in dark places, under the ground, etc., and are blind. Similar
conditions prevail in the great deeps. There are blind crustaceans
there, which probably live in the mud and under stones, while
others, moving animals, fishes, have large, well-formed eyes. It
must be that they see, or in other words that there is light there.
Whether this light is produced in the depth by means of the
phosphorescent organs which many of these animals, even fishes,
possess, or whether it penetrates from above, as might perhaps be
concluded from the fact that some of the deep-sea animals whose
organization compels them to creep on the ground have yellow
and red colors on their backs, is of no importance so far as our in-
quiry is concerned. "We can only reach the inevitable conclusion
that we see the colors of water not on a dark or black ground but
on one that is illuminated, if but faintly. This is of moment be-
cause, in the light of it, particles floating in water are illuminated
not from above only, but from below too.
We can satisfy ourselves of the effects of the coarser floating
matter of sand and mud, as well as of the fact that the color of
masses of water depends to a large extent upon the color of such
matter. The Arve, which flows in front of my windows, is gray-
ish yellow in summer, and opaque, assuming a deeper color after
rain-storms ; in winter, on the contrary, it is green, semi-trans-
parent, and greener and clearer the less water it carries; facts
easily explainable upon principles which one of my pupils nearly
established by observations continued through a whole year. In
summer the Arve carries, with the surplus glacier-water, grayish-
yellow fragments of the mountain rocks in great multitudes;
after heavy rains, masses of yellow mud are added to these, hav-
ing been washed away from the banks of the stream. In winter
the amount of sediment derived from the glaciers is small, and
the blue color of the water is transformed into the green mixed
color. Every glacial stream has its individual color, derived from
the disintegrated rocks ; and it is not without reason that the two
rivers which join at Zweilutschine, in the Bernese Oberland, are
known as the Black and the White Lutschine. The one brings
disintegrated white limestone, the other the emery of pulverized
dark slates.
How extraordinarily strong the mixed colors produced by sedi-
mentary matter may appear was shown me by an observation
which I made at Nice at the end of December, 1889. The weather
had been fine for a few days, and the sea, which I overlooked
from my window to Cape Antibes, about fifteen kilometres away,
had been unusually blue. Now came stormy weather, with spo-
radic showers in the mountains of the Var. The river, whose
mouth is about six kilometres from my house, poured considerable
