THE COLORS OF WATER. 255
to southern seas are unable to say enough of the splendid colors
conjured up by the coral reefs.
But even this is not all. All lakes and seas swarm with swim-
ming or " pelagic " plants and animals. Green and yellow, one-
celled, microscopic algse are exceedingly common to a consider-
able depth; and green and yellow algse sometimes come to the
front in such masses that " the Red Sea " becomes no arbitrary
designation, but the correct expression of an observed fact. I
have seen the bay of Villafranca colored partly red by millions
of swimming Anchinia rubra about as large as peas ; I have seen
mile-long strips, several metres broad, immediately along the
shore on the Riviera, colored a deep royal blue by compressed
masses of swimming salleemans (Veletta spirans).
We can not absolve the transparent swimming water-organ-
isms, from the larger medusa down to the infinitesimal microbes,
from having a certain amount of influence on the color of water.
We should not be able to see their crystal-clear bodies if they
did not refract the rays of light in a different direction from the
surrounding water. By this means they send out a multitude
of refracted rays, which singly are of little importance, but in
the aggregate must produce an effect through their accumulation
when millions of these living beings are crowded into a cubic
millimetre. To what purpose should we have in some parts of
the retina of our eye a million of sensitive elements or rods to
the square millimetre, if we could not seize single impressions
and unite them into a view of the whole ?
Finally, we will not forget the air that is mixed with the
water. If we shake a viscous fluid in the air, it becomes whitish,
and at last white, like milk. Yet the fluid and the air are both
transparent. But the air-bubbles scattered through the water
refract the light in another way. The wave looks whitish, quite
white on its edges, from the inclosed air, and as the motion grows
stronger the white becomes more prominent, with a greenish tone
when the water is clear and the sky clouded, radiant yellow in
sunshine, and clay-yellow when the water is not clear. All these
tones mix with the colors of the deep, and with the mirror-colors
of the surface. Thus the question of the causes of the colors of
water rises to be one of the most complex problems of science as
well as of art, the full solution of which has not yet been reached,
in spite of the various efforts of men of science and of pictorial
artists, because in order to meet the apprehension of the common
eye they have to continue into a picture the endlessly changing
colors and shapeless figures which the sea affords. But when I
stand before a wave painted by Mazure in Paris (he is there usu-
ally called Mazure le Vague, the Wave-Mazure), and see how that
artist, without help of shore, walls, buildings, or ships, which sup-
