256 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
port the eye by their forms, shows me a wave from the sea with
its reflected and refracted colors harmoniously mingled with the
bottom tints issuing from the deep and with the proper color of
the water itself, my arms, as they say, fall from my body. And
it is then hard for me to realize that the colors of water in gen-
eral are composed of a multitude of factors, among which the
most important are the normal blue of pure water, the mirror-
colors of the surface, the refracted colors of the moving parts, the
proper colors of bodies swimming in the water, and the colors of
the bottom or of only very softly illuminated parts shining up
through the mass.
In this, as in everything, the principle is true that there are
no simple phenomena in Nature, but that all are only the result
of a number of single factors, the aggregate effect of which we
observe and perceive with a very imperfect instrument our eye.
Translated for The Popular Science Monthly from Die Oarten-
laube.
--
THE ANIMAL VIEW OF MAN.
ONE of the most curious and unconsciously paradoxical claims
ever advanced for man in his relation to animals, is that by
which M. Georges Leroy, philosopher, encyclopedist, and lieu-
tenant des chasses of the Park of Versailles, the vindicator of
Buffon and Montesquieu against the criticisms of Voltaire, ex-
plains in his Lettres sur les Animaux the intellectual debt which
the carnivorous animals owe to human persecution. He pictures
with wonderful cleverness the development of their powers of
forethought, memory, and reasoning which the interference of
man, the enemy and " rival," forces upon them, and the conse-
quent intellectual advance which distinguishes the loup jeune et
ignorant from the loup adulte et instruit. The philosophic lieu-
tenant des chasses had before long ample opportunities for com-
paring the " affinities " which he had discovered between civilized
man and " instructed " wolves, in the experiences of the French
Revolution ; but without following his fortunes in those troublous
times for game-preservers, we may perhaps return to the question
of the natural relation of animals to man, which, as pictured by
Rousseau to prove his a priori notions of a state of nature, so justly
incurred the criticism of the practical observer and practiced
writer, M. Georges Leroy.
That man is, generally speaking, from the animal's point of
view, an object of fear, hostility, or rapine, is to-day most unfortu-
nately true. But whether this is their natural relation, and not
one induced, and capable perhaps of change, is by no means cer-
