THE ANIMAL VIEW OF MAN. 259
is perhaps not so far removed from that of the non-carnivorous
creatures as might be supposed. Man is certainly not the natural
food of any animal except of sharks and alligators, if he is so
rash as to go out of his native element into theirs and if the item
" man " were subtracted from the bill of fare of all the carnivora,
they would never want a meal. The notion of the natural atti-
tude of a lion to a young lady
" When as that tender virgin he did spye,
Upon her he did run full greedily,
To have at once devoured her tender corse,"
is still popular, but hardly correct. More probably the lion would
get out of the way politely if we may judge by the pacific be-
havior of those in our last-explored lion-haunt, Mashonaland. M.
Georges Leroy's contention for the natural affinity, or semi-sym-
pathy, which should exist between man and the intelligent hunt-
ing animals is no doubt partly reasonable. Leigh Hunt was
unpleasantly struck by the incongruity of the notion of being
eaten by a wild beast " the hideous impracticable fellow-creature,
looking one in the face, struggling with us, mingling his breath
with ours, tearing away scalp or shoulder-blade." But the " fel-
low-creature " is not nearly so impracticable as he is supposed to
be. More human beings are probably killed by tigers than by
any other wild beast, except by starving wolves. Yet this is what
Sir Samuel Baker has to say on the subject : " There is a great
difference in the habits of tigers. Some exist upon the game in
the jungles. Others prey especially upon the flocks belonging to
the villagers. A few are designated ' man-eaters/ These are
sometimes naturally ferocious, and having attacked a human be-
ing, may have devoured the body, and thus acquired a taste for
human flesh ; or they may have been wounded on more than one
occasion, and have learned to regard man as a natural enemy. But
more frequently the * man-eater ' is a very old tiger, or more prob-
ably tigress, that, having hunted in the neighborhood of villages
and carried off some unfortunate woman, has discovered that it is
far easier to kill a native than to hunt jungle game." As a rule,
the tiger is only anxious to avoid men ; and it is noticed that in
high grass tigers are more dangerous than in forests, because in
the former they can not be seen, neither can they see, until the
stranger is close upon them. An ancient instance of the opposite
behavior is that recorded of the new colonists of Samaria, whom
the lions attacked, and " slew some of them." A curious inver-
sion of this experience occurred when the islands in the Brah-
maputra, which were swarming with tigers, were first cultivated.
The natives, mainly by the aid of traps set with a bow and arrow,
killed off the tigers so fast that the skins were sold by auction at
