2 6o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
from eight annas to one rupee apiece. In this case, the tigers
were the first aggressors by carrying off cattle. But it seems evi-
dent that there exists no a priori reason, founded in natural an-
tipathy, why man and animals, if we could reconstruct a " state
of nature " in which we could put civilized, not savage man, should
not dwell together in profound peace, or at least in such peace as
obtains between accidental neighbors. The only ground for quar-
rel that seems inevitable is the everlasting one between the shep-
herd and the wolf ; and that, after all, is a question not of preju-
dice, but of property. TJie Spectator.
**
SKETCH OF WILLIAM HUGGINS.
DOCTOR HUGGINS is one of the leaders in the modern meth-
ods of astronomical research, and his name is associated
with a considerable proportion of the discoveries that have been
made respecting the constitution of the sun, stars, and nebulae,
and with the results in general of the application of physical in-
vestigations and of spectroscopic observation in particular to the
heavenly bodies.
William Huggins was born in London, February 7, 1824.
He received his early education in the City of London School, and
continued his studies in mathematics, the classics, and modern
languages under private tutors. He devoted much time to ex-
periments in natural philosophy, and by the aid of the appa-
ratus which he collected he gained practical knowledge of the
elements of the chief branches of physical science, including
chemistry, electricity, and magnetism. He also studied, using the
microscope, animal and vegetable physiology, and became in
1852 a member of the Microscopic Society. He developed a par-
ticular interest in astronomy, and, " under great difficulties," says
one of the earlier biographies in Men of the Time, while still re-
siding in the metropolis with his parents, " observed the planets
and some of the double stars between the chimneys of London."
The erection of an observatory in 1855, at his residence at Upper
Tulse Hill, which he supplied with good instruments, gave him
better opportunities for observation ; and in 1858 he had an Alvan
Clark telescope of eight inches aperture, mounted equatorially.
He occupied himself here for some time with observation of double
stars, and with careful drawings of the planets Mars, Jupiter, and
Saturn. In the light of the knowledge gained in his physical
studies he was not satisfied to follow in the beaten track of ob-
servation, but sought to broaden the field of study, and inquire as
far as possible into the physical qualities of the sun and stars. A
