SKETCH OF WILLIAM HUGGINS. 261
means of conducting investigations of this kind, which his prede-
cessors had not possessed, was offered in the method of spectrum
analysis discovered by Kirchhoff ; and he was first able to under-
take the application of this method in the beginning of 1862. In
preparation for the research he mapped the spectra of twenty-six
of the chemical elements, publishing the results of his labors in
the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society. In con-
junction with Dr. William Allen Miller, he compared the spectra
of some fifty stars with those of several terrestrial elements, and
found that the stars are hot bodies, similarly constituted with our
sun, and containing many of the substances found on the earth.
In 1864 he and Prof. Miller reported to the Royal Society the
results of their observations of the spectra of the planets Venus,
Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn ; but they had found the light from
Uranus too faint to be satisfactorily examined with the spectro-
scope.
The study of Uranus was resumed with an improved tele-
scope in 1871 by Mr. Huggins, and he found its spectrum to be
continuous so far as the feebleness of its light permitted it to be
traced, or from C to near G. A photograph of the spectrum of
Sirius was obtained by Mr. Huggins and Prof. Miller in 1863,
when observations were suspended. They were resumed by Mr.
Huggins in 1876, with apparatus so arranged that the spectrum
of the sun could be taken on the same plate, and this method
was applied to other bright stars. After recording in his com-
munication to the Royal Society his expectation, with apparatus
then under construction, of obtaining finer lines which might be
present in the stellar light than those that had been seen, and of
extending the photographic method to stars that were less bright,
Prof. Huggins referred in general terms to " the many important
questions in connection with which photographic observations
of stars may be of value." Another paper recording the progress
of these investigations to the end of 1879 named thirteen bright
stars, Venus, Mars, and Jupiter, and different small areas of the
moon, to which the method had been applied. Six of the spectra
belonged to stars of the white class, while Arcturus seemed to
present a spectrum " on the other side of that of the sun in the
order of changes from the white-star group." The photographs
of the planets showed no sensible planetary modification of the
violet and ultra-violet parts of the spectrum. The results of the
photographs of lunar areas taken under different conditions of
illumination were negative as to any absorptive action of a lunar
atmosphere. The author was then preparing to attempt to obtain
by photography any lines which might exist in the violet and
ultra-violet spectra of the gaseous nebulae. He further pointed
out " the suitability of the photographic method of stellar spec-
