262 TEE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTELY.
troscopy, first inaugurated by his researches, to some other inves-
tigations, such as differences which may present themselves in the
photographic region in the case of the variable stars, the differ-
ence of relative motion of two stars in the line of sight, the sun's
rotation from photographic spectra of opposite limbs, and the
spectra of the different parts of a sun-spot." The British Associa-
tion address of 1891 includes a fine summary of the results to date
of observations of this character as they bear upon the evolu-
tional order in which in this paper he arranged the stars from
their photographic spectra. Substantially the same order had
been proposed by Vogel in his classification of the stars in 1874.
Dr. Huggins presented a paper on his examination of the
great nebula in Orion in 1868, and referred in it to earlier observa-
tions. The discussion was continued in 1872, and in 1882, when
the author threw out the suggestion of a hope that the further
knowledge of the spectra of the nebulae afforded us by photog-
raphy might lead, by the help of terrestrial experiments, to more
definite knowledge as to the state of things existing in those
bodies. In communications to the French Academy of Sciences
and to the Royal Society in 1889 he considered it probable that
nebulae yielding a spectrum of luminous rays, with a very faint
continuous spectrum, which is probably formed in part by lumi-
nous rays in close proximity, are at or near the beginning of the
cycle of their celestial evolution. " They consist probably of gas
at a high temperature and very tenuous, where chemical dissocia-
tion exists, and the constituents of the mass, doubtless, are ar-
ranged in the order of vapor density. As to the conditions which
may have been anterior to this state of things the spectroscope is
silent. We are free, so far as the spectroscope can inform us, to
adopt the hypothesis which other considerations make most prob-
able. On Dr. Croll's form of the impact theory of stellar evo-
lution, which begins by assuming the existence of stellar masses
in motion, and considers all subsequent evolutional stages to be
due to the energy of this motion converted into heat by the col-
lision of two such bodies, these nebulae would represent the second
stage in which these existing solid bodies had been converted into
a gas of very high temperature. They would take the same place,
if we assume, with Sir William Thomson, the coming together
of two or more cool, solid masses by the velocity due to their
mutual gravitation alone. I pointed out in 1864 that the gaseous
nature of these bodies would afford an explanation of the appear-
ance of flat disks without condensation which many of them pre-
sent. ... In other gaseous nebulae strong condensations are seen,
and a stronger 'continuous' spectrum. The stage of evolution
which the nebula in Andromeda represents is no longer a matter
of hypothesis. The splendid photograph recently taken by Mr.
