SPENCER AND THE SYNTHETIC PHILOSOPHY. 15
sal process a matter which the aims and objects of Darwin's work
did not lead him to touch were worked out by Mr. Spencer quite
irrespective of the special process of natural selection ; and when
Darwin's book appeared, that process fell into its place in Spencer's
general system, quite naturally, as a supplementary and not in
any way as a disturbing element. Thus it appears that if any one
man is to be looked upon as the immediate progenitor of a doc-
trine which, in common phraseology, may be said to have been to
some extent in the air, that man is not he who first elucidated one
factor of its process in one domain of phenomena the biological;
but rather he who first seized iipon it as a universal law, under-
lying all the phenomena of creation ; in a word, it is not Charles
Darwin, but Herbert Spencer.
One word only, in conclusion, about the train of causes which
immediately led up to the projection of the vast work with which
Mr. Spencer's name is more particularly associated the System
of Synthetic Philosophy.
It was in 1858, while he was engaged on writing an essay on the
Nebular Hypothesis, that there dawned upon him the possibility
of dealing in a more systematic and connected manner than he
had hitherto found possible, with those foundation principles of
evolution to which he had been led by the miscellaneous studies
of the past eight or nine years. The germ of thought thus im-
planted forthwith began to develop with amazing rapidity, and
before long assumed the proportions of an elaborate scheme, in
which all orders of concrete phenomena were to fall into their
places as illustrations of the fundamental processes of evolution.
Thus the conception of evolution presented itself to him as the
basis of a system of thought under which was to be generalized
the complete history of the knowable universe, and by virtue of
which all branches of scientific knowledge were to be unified by
affiliation upon the primal laws underlying them all. Though a
rough sketch of the main outlines of the system, as they occurred
to him at the time, was mapped out almost immediately, it was not
till the following year, 1859 a year otherwise memorable for the
publication of Darwin's book that a detailed plan of the various
connected works in which these conceptions were to be developed
was finally drawn up ; and not till 1860 that it was given to the
small handful of readers interested in such subjects in the form
of a prospectus. This prospectus included a brief summary of a
proposed series of ten volumes, embracing thirty-three divisions
or topics ; and any one who cares to take the trouble of comparing
it, as it stood when it first saw the light, thirty years ago, with the
contents of the different volumes and portions of volumes which
have been published up to the present time, will, I think, be as-
tounded to observe the singular correspondence between them a
