SKETCH OF WILLIAM HUGOINS. 263
Roberts of this nebula shows a planetary system at a somewhat
advanced stage of evolution ; already several planets have been
thrown off, and the central gaseous mass has condensed to a mod-
erate size as compared with the dimensions it must have possessed
before any planets had been formed." In 1891, after more defi-
nitely describing the appearance of Mr. Roberts's photograph, he
said that "to liken this object more directly to any particular
stage in the formation of the solar system would be f to compare
great things with small,' and might be indeed to introduce a false
analogy ; but, on the other hand, we should err through an excess
of caution if we did not accept the remarkable features brought
to light by this photograph as a presumptive indication of a prog-
ress of events in cosmical history following broadly upon the lines
of Laplace's theory."
Dr. Huggins's spectrum observations on comets, in connection
with those of other observers, satisfied him of the existence of
different types, and that the same comet might present on one
occasion one spectrum and on another the other spectrum ; that
they shine partly by reflected solar light and partly by their own
light, the spectrum of which indicates the presence in the comet
of carbon, possibly in combination with hydrogen. In the case
of the Wells comet of 1882, he remarked that as Prof. A. Herschel
and Dr. Von Konkoly had showed long before that the spectra of
the periodic meteors are different for different swarms, it was not
surprising that we now had a comet the matter of the nucleus of
which under the sun's heat showed an essential chemical differ-
ence from the long series of hydrocarbon comets which had ap-
peared since 1864. The spectrum of Coggia's comet (1874) indi-
cated an approach to the earth of forty-six miles per second,
while the real velocity of approach was only twenty-four miles
per second. It was uncertain whether the whole or part of the
difference in the velocity was due to the motion of the matter
within the comet. It seemed probable, therefore, that the nucleus
was solid, heated by the sun, and throwing out matter which
formed the coma and tail ; and part of this was in a gaseous form,
giving the spectra of bright lines. The other portion existed
probably in small incandescent particles ; the polariscope show-
ing that certainly not more than one fifth of the whole light was
reflected solar light. In a paper on Photographing the Solar
Corona without an Eclipse, Prof. Huggins spoke, in 1882, of prob-
lems of the highest interest in the physics of our sun connected
with the varying forms of the coronal light which seemed to
admit of solution only on the condition of its being possible to
study the corona continuously, and to confront its changes with
other visible phenomena presented by the sun. The spectro-
scopic method of viewing the prominences failed ; experiments in
