264 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
looking at the corona through, screens of colored glass or other
absorptive media had not been satisfactory. The author had
therefore undertaken to use photography, and had satisfied him-
self that under certain conditions of exposure and development,
a photographic plate could be made to record minute differences
of illumination existing in different parts of a bright object,
which was so subtle as to be at the very limit of the power of
recognition of a trained eye, and even, perhaps, of those that sur-
passed that limit. Describing his apparatus and method, he
showed that it was possible, by isolating through properly chosen
absorbing media, the light of the sun in the violet part of the
spectrum, to obtain photographs of the sun surrounded by an
appearance distinctly coronal in its nature. He afterward found
that, by using plates sensitive to violet light only, it was possible
to do away with absorbing media and remove the difficulties that
occurred in sifting the light. In 1886 Dr. Huggins accounted
for his failure to obtain in England, since the summer of 1883,
photographs showing satisfactory indications of the corona, by
the existence in the atmosphere since the autumn of 1883 of finely
divided matter which caused an abnormally large amount of
glare. Mr. Ray Woods had met the same trouble in Switzerland
in the summer of 1884.
In his British Association address, 1891, Prof. Huggins re-
peated a conclusion which he had expressed in 1885, that the
corona is essentially a phenomenon similar in the cause of its
formation to the tails of comets consisting for the most part
of matter going from the sun under the action of a force, pos-
sibly electrical, which varies as the surface, and can therefore
in the case of highly attenuated matter easily master the force
of gravity even near the sun as according with the lines along
which thought had been directed by the results of subsequent
eclipses.
In the early part of 1868 Prof. Huggins presented to the Royal
Society some observations on a small change of refrangibility
which he had remarked in a line in the spectrum of Sirius as com-
pared with a line of hydrogen, from which it appeared that the
star was moving from the earth with a velocity of about twenty-
five miles a second, if the probable advance of the sun in space
were taken into account. The thought of discovering motion in
this way was not wholly new, though Prof. Huggins was the first
to apply it in practice. The Rev. John Mitchell, of the Royal
Society, presented an ingenious paper, in 1783, On the Means of
discovering the Distance, Magnitude, etc., of the Fixed Stars, in
Consequence of the Diminution of the Velocity of their Light, in
which he suggested that by the aid of a prism " we might be able
to discover diminutions in the velocity of light as perhaps a hun-
