SKETCH OF WILLIAM HUGGINS. 265
dredth, a two-hundredth, a five-hundredth, or even a thousandth
part of the whole." Doppler had also, in 1841, suggested that on
the same principle on which a sound should become sharper or
flatter if there were an approach or a recession between the ear
and the source of the sound would apply equally to light ; and
Fizeau, about eight years later, had pointed out the importance
of considering the individual wave-lengths of which white light
is composed. Prof. Huggins was not able to continue his obser-
vations of this feature till 1872, when, having devised a trust-
worthy apparatus, and enjoying favorable weather, he applied his
method to fourteen stars which were found to have a motion of
approach and twelve which appeared to be receding. He re-
marked upon these results that the velocities of recession or ap-
proach assigned to the several stars by him represented the whole
of the motion in the line of sight existing between them and the
sun. As we know that the sun is moving in space, a part of
these observed velocities must be due to the solar motion. He
had not attempted to make this correction, because, although the
direction of the sun's motion seemed to be satisfactorily ascer-
tained, the velocity with which it was advancing rested on sup-
positions more or less arbitrary. It would be observed that,
speaking generally, the stars which the spectroscope showed to
be moving from the earth were situated in a part of the heavens
opposite to Hercules, toward which the sun was advancing ; while
the stars in the neighborhood of that region showed a motion of
approach. There were some exceptions to this general statement ;
and there were some other considerations which appeared to show
that the sun's motion in space is not the only, or even in all cases
the chief, cause of the observed proper motions of the stars.
There could be little doubt that in the observed stellar move-
ments we have to do with two other independent motions, namely,
a movement common to certain groups of stars, and a motion
peculiar to each star.
Pertaining to other subjects than spectroscopic astronomy
on which Prof. Huggins has written, we notice a communication
to the Royal Society On the Function of the Sound-post, and
on the Proportional Thickness of the Strings of the Violin. A
curious letter from him in Nature, in 1873, relates the* case of a
family of dogs the members of which had inherited an antip-
athy to butchers' shops and butchers. Some of them could not
be induced to pass by a butcher's shop; others showed great
uneasiness in the presence of a butcher, although they could not
see him; and one of them attacked a gentleman visiting his
master, whose business was that of a butcher. In 1872 Dr.
Huggins edited and annotated an edition of Schellen's Spectrum
Analysis in its Application to Terrestrial Substances and the
