2 66 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Physical Constitution of the Heavenly Bodies, translated by
Jane and Caroline Lassell.
Dr. Huggins was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1865,
and has received two of its medals; he was awarded, with Dr.
Miller, the gold medal of the Royal Astronomical Society in 1867,
for their conjoint researches, and he was given a second medal of
the same society in 1885. He has received doctor's degrees from
the Universities of Cambridge, Oxford, Edinburgh, and Trinity
College, Dublin ; and he holds the honors and memberships of
other British societies, and of numerous societies in foreign lands.
As Rede lecturer at the University of Edinburgh, in 1869, he gave
an account of his researches in astronomy by means of the
spectroscope ; and as President of the British Association in 1891
he delivered an inaugural address, the more definite purpose of
which, as defined by the author, was " not to attempt a survey of
the progress of spectroscopic astronomy from its birth at Heidel-
berg in 1859, but to point out what we do know at present, as dis-
tinguished from what we do not know, of a few only of its more
important problems." The success of this effort, the Observatory
says, was recognized equally by the general public and by those
more familiar with astronomy. " Those who were already famil-
iar with Dr. Huggins and his work have learned afresh almost to
their surprise how closely he has been identified with the ' very
remarkable discoveries in our knowledge of the heavens which
have taken place during this period of thirty years/ Not that the
president materially assists in pointing this moral; rather is it
pointed by the facts in spite of him. He is almost too eager to
assign credit to others when he might justly have mentioned his
own work."
The manufacture of flints is still carried on at the hamlet of Porcharioux,
department of Loir-et-Cher, France, where the stone is abundant and of fine
quality. The stones are quarried and roughly broken by the men, and are taken
by the women into the house to be finished. A single worker can dress five or
six thousand stones in a week. The use to which the flints are applied is not
known to M. Belot, who has described the manufacture ; but the business seems
to be profitable. The work is attended with danger of lung disorders caused by
the dust, a liability which the workers accept philosophically. The business is in
the hands of a single family.
A recent investigation by Mr. Thomas Whitelegge, of Sydney, may cast some
light as to the causes which influence marine food supplies. He found that a
sudden discoloration of the water in Port Jackson Harbor was caused by the pres-
ence of a minute organism which he identified as a species of the genus Qleno-
dinium; and, so far as he was able to judge, fully half of the shore fauna was
destroyed by the invaders. The bivalves were almost exterminated wherever the
organism was abundant during the whole of the visitation.
