LITERARY NOTICES.
269
scend our utmost efforts of intuition or im-
agination." Yet, she continues, " we can not
surely fail to recognize that partial mani-
festations of that nature are taking place
within and around us at every moment of
our lives." Science has revealed how the
First Cause proceeds in the creation of a
particular kind of plant or animal ; it has
shown, as no other testimony has been able
to show, that " his ways are not as our
ways," and that he is " without variableness
or shadow of turning," and it has made men
feel that every right or wrong act is sure to
have its proper recompense. The presence
of pain and strife in the world has long been
a mystery. The great scientific doctrine of
natural selection first gave a clew to their
usefulness.
In both the animal and the vegetable
kingdoms the author points out that species
and individuals that satisfy the conditions of
their surroundings flourish, while those that
behave differently perish. From this she
draws the lesson that in order to attain the
highest life of which he is capable, man
must adapt his conduct to the will of the
Author of all things, as expressed in the
laws of the universe. Although one's con-
duct is largely influenced by heredity, this is
no excuse for resigning one's self to a down-
ward course. From the very beginning of
animal life we see a power of choice devel-
oping together with consciousness, and out
of this power springs responsibility. The
success and the enjoyment achieved by dis-
regarding moral laws are only a short-lived
success, and an imperfect enjoyment.
The question of immortality Mrs. Fisher
deems a profound and difficult one. Regard-
ing it as intimately connected with all higher
morality, she feels obliged to state her con-
viction upon it, which is that "our moral
nature and the conclusions of science, even
apart from religious belief, all point to a
continuation of individual existence beyond
the few short years we pass in this world."
The reasons that she gives in support of this
opinion are not, however, as clearly teachings
of science as are those which she finds as a
basis of moral conduct. The chief argument
is that persons who suffer inherited disad-
vantages in this life ought to have compen-
sation. Thus it will be seen that the book
accepts the main principles of religious eth-
ics, and supplies reasons for obeying moral
laws in addition to those which the most
enlightened religions contain. Its influence
on the adult or the young reader can not fail
to be elevating, and it should prove to be a
valuable textbook for the teaching of pure
ethics.
Principles and Practice op Plumbing. By
S. Stevens Hellyer. London: George
Bell & Sons, 1892. Pp. 294. Price,
$1.25.
This is one of the Technological Hand-
books issued by the London publishers, George
Bell & Sons, and edited by Sir H. Trueman
Wood, Secretary of the Society of Arts. It
appears to cover the subject quite completely
though briefly, and contains much informa-
tion that the householder would find it ad-
vantageous to know, though it is addressed
primarily to the plumber. The contents of
the volume range from a consideration of the
metallurgy of lead and tin to the proper fix-
ing in place of the various apparatus which
it is the business of the plumber to know
about.
The Elements of Politics. By Henry
Sidgwick. London and New York:
Macmillan & Co., 1891. Pp. 632. Price,
$4.
Prof. Sidgwick has undertaken in this
volume a general survey of the field of poli-
tics, with the object of determining what
work a government may properly undertake
to do, and what form of structure is best
suited to the purpose. Holding to the in-
dividualistic view of social organization as
contrasted with the socialistic, and seeking
his sanctions in the main in the principle of
individualism, he yet departs widely at times
from the laisser-faire school of political
thinkers. He rejects the strictly individu-
alistic test of what things a government may
properly attempt to do as being inadequate,
and adopts instead the " general welfare," as
the test of what things are permissible and
what are not. From this point of view he
is able to find adequate sanction for 6uch
extensions of government activity as public
education, the care and relief of the indi-
gent, public hospitals, public parks, sanitary
supervision, etc., and the carrying on of cer-
tain businesses that are semi-public in char-
acter, such as the transmission of mails and
