270
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
telegrams, and the supply of water and light-
ing in towns.
The scope of the author's inquiry in this
branch of his subject may perhaps be best
indicated by the following extract :
" The legislation of modern civilized com-
munities, then, is, in the main, framed on
an individualistic basis; and an important
school of political thinkers are of opinion
that the coercive interference of government
should be strictly limited to the application
of this principle. I propose, accordingly, in
subsequent chapters, to trace in outline the
chief characteristics of the system of law
that would result from the consistent appli-
cation of the individualistic principle to the
actual conditions of human life in society.
I shall then examine certain difficulties and
doubts that arise when we attempt to work
out such a consistent and exclusive individu-
alistic system. I shall analyze the cases in
which, in my judgment, it tends to be inade-
quate to produce the attainable maximum of
social happiness ; and I shall consider to what
extent, and under what carefully defined
limitations, it is expedient to allow the intro-
duction of paternal and socialistic legisla-
tion, with a view to remedy these inadequa-
cies."
In the branch of this subject relating to
the structure of a government, Prof. Sidg-
wick is occupied with a discussion of what
he esteems the most desirable relation be-
tween the three prime departments of a gov-
ernmental structure the executive, legisla-
tive, and judicial. His discussion is well
worth study, and abounds in suggestions of
improvements in details as well as in prin-
ciples of the more prominent features of
modern governments.
The Horse. By William Henry Flower,
Sc. D., Pres. Z. S., etc. Modern Science
Series, No. II. New York : D. Appleton
& Co. Pp. xiv + 204. Price, $1.
Prof. Ball's instructive book on The
Cause of an Ice Age, which opened the new
popular scientific series, edited by Sir John
Lubbock, is followed by the present volume,
in which the structure of the most interesting
of the domestic animals is described. The
author begins by defining the horse's place
in nature, as indicated by its ancestors,
whose fossil remains have been found in
considerable abundance, and by its relatives.
In the second chapter the horse and its
nearest existing relatives are described.
These are the Perissodactyle ungulates com-
prising the three families, tapirs, rhinoce-
roses, and horses. Of these the tapirs retain
more of the primitive characteristics of the
common ancestors of the three families than
either of the others. Of the tapirs there is
but one genus. The rhinoceroses are grouped
in three sections or genera the rhinoceros
with one horn, the ceratorhinus and the
atelodus, each with two. The horses (fam-
ily Equidce) comprise the horse proper, the
asses, and the zebras. Although wild horses
have been abundant in both America and
Europe, the nearest approach to a wild horse
existing anywhere at present is the tarpan
of the steppes in southeastern Russia. The
latter half of the volume is devoted to the
structure of the horse, chiefly as bearing
upon its mode of life, its evolution, and its
relation to other animal forms. The bones
of the head and neck and the dentition are
fully described, and the chief characteristics
of the lips, nostrils, and neck are pointed
out. In describing the cervical ligament,
which is attached like a stay-rope to the
neck and to the fore part of the backbone,
the author takes occasion to condemn the
useless cruelty of the bearing-rein. The
fourth and last chapter is devoted to the
limbs, and contains an interesting compari-
son between the arrangement of the bones
in the limbs of the horse and in those
of man. Twenty-six figures illustrate the
text.
Principles of Economics. By Alfred Mar-
shall. Vol. I. Second edition. London
and New York: Macmillan & Co., 1891.
Pp. 770. Price, $3.
This well-known treatise of Prof. Mar-
shall has undergone but slight changes in the
present edition, the more important of which
are pointed out by the author in his preface.
The work is a general presentation of the
science on the general lines laid down by the
English economists, but there is to be traced
in it the influence of more recent economic
thought in modifying the treatment of many
problems and altering the weight given to
conditions and considerations not strictly
economic. As Prof. Marshall points out, the
