LITERARY NOTICES.
271
older economists were disposed to view the
science too largely from the point of view of
the needs and actions of the " economic man "
an ideal construction actuated only by eco-
nomic motives, instead of those of the actual
man, in the determination of whose economic
action many motives enter besides those that
are strictly economic. Paramount among
these are the ethical forces, family affections,
and other altruistic feelings, which in any
given set of conditions are sufficiently uni-
form to produce conduct that may be pre-
dicted. The introduction of considerations
of this kind as economic factors, while leav-
ing the older conclusions substantially as
they were, tends to give to them much less
sharpness of outline, and presents economic
laws more as statements of general tenden-
cies than as a set of fixed and invariable
conditions.
The book is well printed and bound and
of convenient size, and is provided with
marginal notes indicating the subject-matter.
An appendix concerned with the application
of mathematics to economic problems, and
an index complete the volume.
Manual of Chemical Technology. By Ru-
dolf von Wagner. Translated and ed-
ited by William Crookes, F. R. S. From
the thirteenth enlarged German edition
as remodeled by Dr. Ferdinand Fischer.
New York : D. Appleton & Co. Pp. 24
+ 968. Price, $7.50.
So great have been the changes in the
chemical treatment of materials in the vari-
ous industries since the author's last edition
of this work appeared that the present edi-
tion is practically a new book. The elev-
enth edition was completed by Wagner
shortly before his death in 1880. The
twelfth edition, which was issued in 1886,
was edited by Dr. Fischer, who cut out the
matter that had become obsolete, and in-
serted references to recent improvements in
the processes treated, but made no exten-
sive changes. In the present edition the
work has been wholly remodeled; the al-
phabetical arrangement of the subject-matter
has been replaced by a classified grouping ;
new subjects have been introduced, the latest
developments in old subjects have been in-
serted, and about half the six hundred il-
lustrations are new.
Since fuel is indispensable in every de-
partment of technology, it is first considered,
over one hundred pages being given to this
subject and lighting. Both the preparation
and use of heating and lighting materials
are considered. The greater part of this
section is new matter. In Section II, Met-
allurgy, a new subdivision on potassium and
sodium is inserted. Section III is devoted
to Chemical Manufacturing Industry, includ-
ing the production of sulphur, sulphuric acid,
soda, explosives, ammonia, salts of the met-
als, etc. New topics in this section are
water, manures, and thermo-chemistry. Sec-
tion IV, on the Organic Chemical Manufact-
ures, has been written entirely anew. This
chapter includes alcohols and ethers, organic
acids, benzol colors and other organic color-
ing matters, etc. The fifth section is de-
voted to glass, earthenware, cement, and
mortar ; the sixth deals with Articles of Food
and Consumption ; and the seventh with the
Chemical Technology of Fibers, while the
eighth is a miscellaneous group, comprising
the products of hides, bones, and fats, the
essential oils, resins, and the preservation of
wood. Thermometric, hydrometric, and other
tables are appended to the volume. The
translation has been carefully edited by Prof.
Crookes, with the omission of some passages
of merely local application and the insertion
of notes and bibliographical references, mak-
ing the version much more valuable to Eng-
lish readers than a simple translation would
have been.
The Working and Management of an Eng-
lish Railway. By George Findlay,
General Manager of the London and North-
western Railway. New York : Macmillan
& Co., 1891. Pp. 354. Price, $1.50.
In this small volume of three hundred
odd pages Mr. Findlay has detailed the work-
ing and management of one of the great
English railways the London and Northwest-
ern. His description includes the financial
and business as well as the mechanical oper-
ations of the road. What strikes the reader
of these pages the most forcibly is the thor-
oughness with which all the details of oper-
ation have been worked out, and the care
exercised over these details to assure the
perfect operation of the road at all times.
To this end the road is placed under the most
detailed supervision, as well as being pro-
vided with the various modern appliances
