272
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
which experience has shown are essential to
safety. It is, of course, operated under the
block system, without which the operation
of any great railroad with its multifarious
traffic can not be safe. To listen to the ex-
cuses often made by railroad officials for not
adopting this system, one would get the idea
that it is in some way complex and intricate
and not easy of application to railway oper-
ation under all circumstances. It is, how-
ever, simplicity itself. It does not consist in
any necessary forms of appliance, but is sim-
ply a method of operating. Mr. Findlay de-
scribes some simple forms of indicators used
on the London and Northwestern, but any
form of indicator may be used. The block
system consists simply in dividing a road
into a number of sections and allowing but
one train at a time in either direction in any
given section. To apply it to a road re-
quires only the erection of proper signals
and suitable means for operating them, and
knowing their condition by the operators sta-
tioned along the line at the entrance of every
block division. It is a matter of no small
wonder that the officials of any considerable
road should resist the introduction of so sim-
ple a method of insuring safety, and that
any community should tolerate a railway
service not operated in such a manner. The
book is very readably written, and can be
read with interest by the general public who
have to make use of the railways, and with
profit by not a few of our railway mana-
gers.
Diseases of the Urinary Apparatus. By
J. W. S. Gouley, M. D. New York : D.
Appleton & Co. Pp. xiii + 342. Price,
$1.50.
Criticism of the substance of this trea-
tise must be left to that very small minority
of the medical profession who are familiar
with the latest contributions, made in Europe
and in this country, to the author's special
branch of their science. It is enough to say
on this subject that Dr. Gouley has here
brought into one small volume everything
which the well-educated practitioner, who is
not yet a specialist, needs, to set him on a
level with the foremost specialist in urinary
surgery and medication except experience.
The physician of a scientific habit of inquiry
will find it a most stimulating book ; full, in-
deed, of the facts of observation and prac-
tice, but with each fact set forth, not as an
isolated fragment of knowledge, but as an
essential part of an organic system of truth.
At the same time the spirit of inquiry per-
vades the whole. The student of the subject
is taken into partnership with the teacher in
the great work of advancing the boundaries
of knowledge. The dogmatism which claims
finality and universality for its own formulas
is excluded ; and every acquisition is made a
stepping-stone in the way to new discovery.
One hardly knows, in ending the perusal of
these pages, whether the writer is most to
be congratulated as the representative of the
generation of reformers, who have recon-
structed this important branch of medical
science and placed it on a lasting basis, or
as the harbinger of their successors, who
will surely, by following out the same meth-
ods to far greater results, add immeasurably
to its power to serve mankind.
It is rather our province to speak of the
literary form of the work, which certainly
deserves special notice. Technical treatises,
in every line of professional learning, are so
often marked by everything that is forbid-
ding in style that it is a rare privilege to
meet with one which can be treated as litera-
ture. Of course, no such work is designed
for popular reading; and this one, in par-
ticular, is addressed only to students of spe-
cial education and high intelligence. But its
special merit is that it is perfectly adapted
to its end. There is no waste of words, no
tedious repetition, no looseness of statement)
no parade of impertinent learning, no obtru-
sion of personality. Concise in style, precise
in definition, clear in reasoning, orderly and
progressive in arrangement, and with an ac-
curacy and care in terminology almost with-
out precedent, it leads on from the elements
of the subject to the very border lines of
contemporary knowledge in a steady march,
which offers a model in plan to all who
would teach subjects of difficulty. We trust
that it will receive from the profession a
welcome which will be an object-lesson to
many medical writers ; for it would be easy
to name many whose books, while containing
information of great value, would be doubled
in usefulness, though halved in size, if re-
written after the fashion of this admirable
tnulium in parvo.
