LITERARY NOTICES.
2 73
Travels among the Great Andes of the
Equator. By Edward Whymper. With
a Supplementary Appendix, bound sepa-
rately. New York : Charles Scribner's
Sons. Pp. xxvi + 456, and xxvi+147.
Price, $6.
Whether regarded as a book of travel
or as a record of scientific exploration, Mr.
Whymper's production has eminent claims
to attention. The chief object of his expe-
dition was to investigate the physiological
effects of the diminished air pressure at high
altitudes. That some disturbance of the
bodily functions is caused by ascending to
great elevations had been established by the
testimony of "multitudes of persons of di-
verse conditions by cultured men of science
down to illiterate peasants. . . . Nausea and
vomiting ; headaches of a most severe char-
acter ; feverishness, haemorrhages, lassitude,
depression, and weakness ; and an indescrib-
able feeling of illness have been repeatedly
mentioned as occurring at great elevations,
and have only been cured by descending into
lower zones. To these maladies the term
mountain sickness is now commonly ap-
plied." AVhile such effects have been felt
by persons who have slowly climbed mount-
ains to heights of fourteen thousand to fif-
teen thousand feet, balloonists have often
risen within an hour to much greater heights
without such inconvenience. This fact
gives reason to believe that symptoms pro-
duced by fatigue have been attributed often
to rarefaction of the air. Accordingly, in his
Andean explorations, Mr. Whymper took
especial care to eliminate the effects of fa-
tigue from his observations.
The scene of his operations was that
part of the chain of the Andes crossing the
Republic of Ecuador, and among the mount-
ains climbed were Cotopaxi, on the summit
of which a night was spent, and Chimborazo
twice, the summit being reached only in the
second ascent. Many less noted peaks also
were scaled. Besides making the observa-
tions which were his chief care, Mr. Whymper
determined the altitudes and the relative posi-
tions of the chief mountains of Ecuador, made
comparisons of boiling-points and aneroid
readings with the readings of the mercurial
barometer, and made botanical, lithological,
zoological (chiefly entomological), and archae-
ological collections. As stated in the intro-
duction, he concerned himself "neither with
VOL. XLI. 21
commerce nor politics, nor with the natives
and their curious ways." Yet the incidents
of the expedition, which are plentiful and are
recounted with much vividness and humor,
tell not a little about the " curious ways " of
Ecuadorian bipeds and quadrupeds, likewise
of hexapods and centipedes. The baggage-
mules were inexhaustible mines of original
sin, and the insects in the lower regions
were everywhere. One full - page plate
crowded with figures of flying and creeping
things is described by the author as " selec-
tions from my bed-fellows at Guayaquil." The
volume is copiously illustrated with carefully
drawn and engraved pictures, many of them
from the author's photographs. The mete-
orological observations are appended to the
main volume. In the supplementary vol-
ume Mr. Whymper's zoological collections
are described, with illustrations. They in-
clude a goodly number of species which were
new to science.
The Chinese Scientific and Industrial
Magazine, John Fryer, LL. D., editor, is now
in its sixth volume. Its purpose is to con-
vey to intelligent Chinese a knowledge of
the principles and progress of Western sci-
ence and art. It contains, quarterly, one
hundred pages of matter, printed in the best
Chinese style, liberally illustrated, relating
to subjects of practical as well as theoretical
interest. In the number before us such sub-
jects are treated as photography, the art
of living long, sugar-making, therapeutics,
pressing, drawing, shearing, and stamping
machinery, electricity, materia medica, ice-
making machinery, the manufacture of lu-
cifer matches, dual consciousness, electric
railroads, Edison's kinetograph, and mathe-
matical problems. Presbyterian Mission
Press, Shanghai ; Ralph Waggoner, 10
Spruce Street, New York. Price, $1 a year.
Dr. John Aulde, acting upon the belief
that with the better knowledge of the physi-
ological action of drugs large doses are not
needed to produce desired clinical effects,
has prepared The Pocket Pharmacy a book
intended both for practical use and as a plea
for small doses, to be administered in ac-
cordance with physiological deductions. We
are learning, he holds, instead of the gross
manifestations of disease, to regard more
closely the derangement of cell function on
