THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
which they depend. Having acquired this
knowledge by studying the pathological
changes occurring in disease, we endeavor to
discover remedies which, by their known
physiological actions, would be calculated to
arrest or counteract those changes. This
leads to the study of the effect of medica-
tion on the diseased cell, and logically to the
conclusion that small doses are to be pre-
ferred. The present work is the outgrowth
of personal experience in practice, and it is
adapted to use with the pocket case. It con-
tains a list of remedies, with the diseases to
which they are suited, and a therapeutic in-
dex of diseases with reference to the remedies
prescribed for them. (D. Appleton & Co.,
publishers.)
A hand-book on Chemical Calculations
(New York: Longmans, Green & Co., 60
cents) has been prepared by Mr. R. Lloyd
Whiteley, to supply a need for a work giving,
besides a fair selection of problems, a con-
cise and yet explicit account of the methods
of solving them. It is intended to form a
part of the course of teaching or study suita-
ble to the chemical student who wishes to
prepare himself for whatever duties in his
line he may be called upon to perform, and
is also an aid to examinations. A short sum-
mary of chemical facts or processes is given
before explaining methods ; and the ex-
planations concern methods of calculating
the results of specific gravity determinations,
of analyses of all kinds, and of atomic and
molecular weight determinations, and are
brought up to date. The author is a labora-
tory teacher and a lecturer on certain special
branches of chemistry, and brings the re-
sults of his experience and of his intercourse
with students to aid in his work. Prof. F.
Clowes furnishes the preface.
A translation of Dr. Walther HempeVs
Methods of Gas Analysis, made by Prof. L.
M. Dennis, of Cornell University, is published
by Macmillan & Co. It has been the pur-
pose of the author, omitting the complete
description of known methods, which would
make the book too bulky for a laboratory
guide, to describe his own researches and
the construction of apparatus, and all the
operations which are involved in the analysis
of gases with his apparatus. The apparatus
devised by Pettersson has been described
because a wholly new principle in the meas-
urement of gases is there brought into use
In the translation, which has been made
with the personal co-operation of Prof. Hem-
pel, the chapter upon the determination of
the heating power of fuel has been largely
rewritten, with the introduction of new cuts
of the latest forms of apparatus, the chapter
upon the analysis of illuminating gas has
been changed, and a new method for the de-
termination of the hydrocarbon vapors has
been inserted. Price, $1.90.
In the treatise of R. Lovett and C. Davi-
son on The Elements of Plane Trigonometry,
the subject is divided into three parts, deal-
ing, respectively, with arithmetical, real al-
gebraical, and complex quantity. Such an
arrangement appears to the authors to be a
natural one, and has the advantage of intro-
ducing the new names and formulae that be-
long to the subject before the student en-
counters the difficulty of the application cf
signs to denote the sense and direction of
lines. The work differs mainly from those
most generally read in the extent to which
the treatment adopted by Prof. De Morgan,
the influence of whose writings appears
throughout it, has been followed. Abundant
examples for exercise have been collected
from university and other examination papers.
Published by Macmillan & Co. Price, $1.60-
A book on the Essentials of Physics has
been added to the series of Saunders's Ques-
tion Compends (W. B. Saunders, Philadel-
phia), by Dr. Frederick J. Brockncy. It has
been prepared especially for students of
medicine, and is intended to be a compromise
between such books as Ganot's, which is
found too large to be used as a text-book,
and some elementary books on the subject
which do not contain all that is necessary for
the student to know. The questions are
classified as On Matter and its Properties
Solids, Liquids, and Gases ; On Heat ; On
Light ; On Sound ; and On Magnetism and
Electricity. Price, $1.
Mr. David Denning's hand-book on The
Art and Craft of Cabinet-making (Macmil-
lan, $1.50) will be welcomed by amateurs
and young craftsmen, and even experienced
workmen may derive pleasure and profit from
it. It relates to the construction of cabinet
furniture, the use of tools, the formation of
joints, etc., explaining the ordinary reliable
methods of the workshop, but not exploiting
