l6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
correspondence which .hows how fully and accurately Spencer
himself must have had the whole vast plan marked out in his
lnil . D down to the veriest details, before he sat down to
oomrnit himself to the pinning of a single line.
, having followed Mr. Spencer to the verge of the great
undertaking to the prosecution of which he has devoted the ener-
his after-life, we draw our paper to a close; our present
purpose ii"t emhracing any direct consideration of that undertak-
in itself. The hope which we have ventured to entertain is,
thai even such a rapid review as we have thus taken of the earlier
period of Mr. Spencer's intellectual activity may prove to be not
altogether without its uses to the earnest student of that wonder-
ful Bi riea < >f works which, by the common consent of all those most
entitled to judge, have won for their author a foremost place
long the greatest thinkers of all time.
SCIENCE AND FINE ART.*
Bt emil du bois-keymond.
II.
[Concluded.]
ON still another side the development of photography has
sured instructive data for art. In the year 1836 the broth-
ers William and Edward Weber, in their famous work on the
Bit thanism of the Human Organs of Locomotion, represented a
man walking in the positions which it was theoretically supposed
he must go through during the time of making a step. The strange
feature was remarked that while the pictures corresponded at the
inning and the end of the step, when the man for a short time
had both feet on the ground, with the representations which the
ters had always given of a walking man, in the middle of the
when the moving leg was swinging by the stationary leg, the
mosi eccentric and ludicrous spectacle was presented. The man
appeared, like a drunken street musician, to be stumbling over his
own feet Never had anybody seen a walking man in such a situa-
tion. The brothers Weber proposed on the last page of their work
the correctness of their schematic drawings by the aid of
topic slides of Stampfer and Plateau, as in the figures
's d8Bdaleum,t which has curiously come back to us
America as a novelty under the name of the zoetrope or
iln.itz Commemoration-day in the Academy of Sciences at Berlin, July
Magazine, etc., January, 1834, Ser. Ill, vol. iv, p. 36. Poggendorff's
Annalcn, etc., 1834, vol. xxxii, p. 650.
