LITERARY NOTICES.
275
novelties in style or processes. It marks the
distinction between cabinet-making and join-
ery, and between cabinet-making and decora-
tion ; gives a review of the development of
furniture, in which the tricks and deceits of
a class of dealers in pretended antiques are
exposed ; and then furnishes practical infor-
mation, with more than two hundred illus-
trations, concerning the various matters per-
taining to cabinet-making furniture woods,
glue, nails, tools, wooden appliances made
by the user, grinding and sharpening tools,
joints, structural details, construction of
parts, drawing, veneering, etc., and the con-
struction of various articles.
Mr. J. Traill Taylor's manual on the Op-
tics of Photography and Photographic Lenses
(New York : Macmillan & Co., $1) is prac-
tical rather than theoretical, and is intended
for the users of photographic lenses. It in-
cludes the substance of articles furnished to
the photographic journals and photographic
clubs of Great Britain. It furnishes brief
accounts of the nature and properties of
light, the principles on which the use of
lenses is based, their defects and the means
of remedying them, the different classes of
lenses ; the methods of preparing, mounting,
fitting, and using them ; and such other in-
formation as the photographer needs respect-
ing them. The author distinguishes the op-
tics of photography from that of the tele-
scope or microscope by showing that the
former takes cognizance of rays transmitted
obliquely as well as axially, and brings both
the chemical and visual rays to a focus on
the same plane.
A book, small enough to be carried in
the pocket and convenient for reference at
any time, entitled American Citizenship and
the Right of Suffrage in the United States, has
been compiled by Taliesen Evans, and is pub-
lished by him at Oakland, Cal. It comprises
abstracts of national and State laws affecting
citizenship and suffrage in the United States,
and of such questions relating thereto as
have from time to time been passed upon
by the courts. The effort has been made to
treat the subject in such a way as to make
the presentation acceptable and instructive
to the American student, and interesting and
useful to persons of foreign birth who de-
sire to become citizens and voters. It in-
cludes general reviews of the conditions of
American citizenship and of the right of
suffrage ; literal quotations of the constitu-
tional provisions of each of the States con-
cerning the qualifications of voters ; a chap-
ter on the qualifications for holding office ;
and the Constitution of the United States.
The Rev. Emory Miller, D. D., LL. D.,
apparently endeavors, in a book on the Evo-
lution of Love, to approach the deepest ques-
tions of divinity. Superstition, opinion, and
discrimination, he says, are three epochal
words, of which the first has had its day and
the second its noon, while the sun of dis-
crimination is dawning. Casting away super-
stition, refusing to be bound by opinions, the
author tries, he says, honestly and by the
method of discrimination, to seek the truth.
In this spirit he discusses the Implication of
Being as perceived, as conceived, and as
conditioned, and finds perfection of Being in
perfect love. He next discusses Creation,
with the conclusion that it is an indulgence
of love's eternal, altruistic spirit; finds the
origin of evil in selfishness, and its solution
in conditions within which it is held that
provide for either its merciful remedy or its
self-extinction. The last chapters relate to
The Atoning Fact, The Revelation of Aton-
ing Fact, and Eschatology, or the doctrine of
" last things." Chicago : A. C. McClurg &
Co. Price, $1.50.
The Bureau of Education has issued a
Circular of Information on Sanitary Condi-
tions for School-houses, the result of an ex-
tended study of this subject by Dr. Albert
P. Marble, of Worcester, Mass. This mono-
graph is concerned with practical devices for
ventilation and heating, drainage and light-
ing. Appended to the body of the circular
are papers on Ventilation of School-houses
heated by Stoves, Hygienic Construction of
the Bridgeport High-school Building, Wor-
cester School Buildings, Plans and Specifica-
tions of School-houses prepared for the Wis-
consin State Bureau of Education, and De-
signs for School-houses accepted by the De-
partment of Public Instruction of the State
of New York. The whole document is copi-
piously illustrated; the main portion has
twenty-three figures in the text and seventy-
one plates, showing heating apparatus, the
arrangement of ventilating ducts, the course
of heated air through rooms, sanitary closets,
etc. The appendixes are accompanied by
