POPULAR MISCELLANY.
March is preferred for its keeping properties.
The mill in use at the present day to crush
the olives differs but little from those which
have been used for centuries. A mill has
lately been invented which, as it crushes the
pulp, extracts the stone and throws it out,
thus allowing the pulp, the true virgin oil, to
be obtained from the press without any ad-
mixture of that obtained from the stone or
kernel. To prepare virgin oil, olives are
taken, free from blemish, when only three
quarters ripe, slightly crushed, with care that
the seed be not touched by the millstone,
then placed in a heap so arranged that the
oil shall run out of itself and be collected.
Oil thus prepared is greenish, has an exqui-
site perfume, and can be kept for many years.
A second quality of oil is extracted by the aid
of water ; and after all the usual means of
extracting the oil from the pulp have been
employed, ten per cent of oil can still be ob-
tained by using bisulphide of carbon. After
the oil is extracted, the skins and refuse are
employed in heating boilers ; the muddy sub-
stance found at the bottom of the most infe-
rior quality of oil is used as manure ; and the
broken stones, or grignons, make an excel-
lent fuel.
The Pace of Mind. The appearance of
a new quickly calculating man, Jacques Inau-
di, a Piedmontese, in Paris, has suggested
the inquiry, What is the nature of the power
that gives men of this kind their remarkable
faculty ? The Spectator suggests that such
cases are abnormal instances of the differ-
ence in pace which we all know exists be-
tween the working of different and even of
equal minds. " Everybody who has studied
his acquaintance at all," it says, " knows
that this difference is very great ; that one
man can comprehend an interrogation in half
the time taken by another ; that no two chil-
dren are alike in quickness of thought, as
distinguished from accuracy or depth of
thought ; and that clever women constantly
reach results, which can only be reached by
their thinking more rapidly than men." The
difference is especially marked in mental
arithmetic; and the difference, though it
can be affected by practice or neglect, is ul-
timately independent of both. Inaudi was
asked to mention the day of the week on
which a given date would fall some years
hence, and answered accurately, Monday. It
is not to be supposed that he guessed, for he
had done the like before, and there was no
ground for assuming collusion ; then " his
mind must, say, in three seconds, have trav-
ersed a calculation which it would take the
few men who could do it in their minds at
all, many minutes. Such pace is almost un-
thinkable, even if we remember that, the date
on which this day falls in this year being once
ascertained, the rest of the problem is only a
swift effort of memory, the days advancing
in a regular sequence, accelerated by leap-
years ; but still, superior pace is a theory
which does meet all the conditions." The
existence of differences in the pace of mind
being conceded, the question next arises
whether speed can be cultivated. If it can,
we have a way pointed out by which intelli-
gent life may be rendered longer and fuller.
Dr. Martineau is said to believe, what many
other persons fancy, that the English middle
class has in the last two generations gained
so greatly that the gain is perceptible in
mental quickness. The Brahmans of India
are celebrated for their superiority in this
faculty. Teachers admit that the children
of the educated poor are easier to teach than
children of the uneducated poor ; that " they
have not only more ' receptive minds,' which
may mean only better memories, but that
their minds move positively quicker." On
the other hand, the English educated never
seem as quick as the Irish uneducated.
The Destiny of Sea-coast Land. Among
the results of his examination of the provis-
ions of the shore towns of Massachusetts for
public places of resort, and the industries and
resources of the people, Mr. J. B. Harrison
says, in Garden and Forest, that he found
"everywhere recent changes in the owner-
ship of land and a movement of people of
means from the cities and the interior of the
country to the shore regions of the State. I
found leagues and leagues together of the
shore line all private holdings, without a
rood of space in these long reaches to which
the public has a right to go. ... I found a
great population inland hedged away from
the beach, and all the conditions pointing to
a time, not remote, when no man can walk
by the ocean in Massachusetts without pay-
ment of a fee, as we formerly had to pay
