280
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
for glimpses of Niagara. I could see that
the movement for open spaces for public re-
sort has vital relations to civilization, and
has been instituted in response to a pressing
need." In view of the changes in industrial
conditions that are likely to take place under
these circumstances, Mr. Harrison finds one
resource which has received comparatively
little attention of late the soil, which in
most of the shore towns appears to be much
better than the popular estimate of it. " It
has greater capabilities than are yet recog-
nized. This is especially true of the Cape
Cod country. The soil there is better than
that of southern New Jersey ; and I have
seen many Massachusetts men in Dakota,
Montana, and Idaho, trying, in great priva-
tion, to make a living in regions more forlorn
and hopeless than any part of the shore
country of the Old Bay State. ... I think
these towns might yet support a great popu-
lation by a highly developed agriculture and
horticulture, and that owners of the land
might wisely keep it and cultivate it."
Snow Effects in the Pamirs. The region
of the Pamirs, or the roof of the world, in
central Asia, where the empires of Russia,
India, and China corner upon one another,
consists of a succession of long, broad, open
valleys, running approximately parallel to
each other in a general direction from north-
east to southwest, and separated by low (for
that region) ranges of mountains. The cli-
mate is very severe. The lowest point of the
Pamirs is 10,300 feet above sea-level, and
their usual average is from 13,000 to 14,000
feet. Hence the cold must be very intense.
Captain Younghusband, while he had no ex-
perience of the winter weather, found tem-
peratures at the end of October and begin-
ning of November of 18 Fahr. below zero.
Some interesting snow phenomena were wit-
nessed by this explorer. He has looked at a
mountain-peak, and then, a few moments
later, seen it gradually disappear ; and only
by closer observation could he make out that
it had been overshadowed by an impercepti-
ble snow-storm. " The snow, indeed, in these
mountains was often very fine, and almost
like dust ; and a very beautiful effect is, that
it nearly always falls in perfect little hex-
agonal flakes, like little stars of lacework,
each one quite distinct, and remaining intact
until it reaches the ground ; then, as it has
fallen, the snow of course remains white on
the surface, but, digging into it, appears of
a beautiful delicate pale-blue color. Anoth-
er effect of the snow is seen at the mount-
ain-tops, when the peaks seem to be fading
away, and vanishing off like clouds of whit-
ened smoke. It is produced by the high
wind blowing away the fine dust-like snow at
the summits. Again, another almost similar
phenomenon on the mountain-tops is that of
long, level clouds, like streamers, flowing
away from the peaks. The moisture-laden
air from the plains of India has been con-
densed on the icy mountain summits, and
the wind has blown the mist away in a long,
thin streamer." Another effect of snow-parti-
cles glittering in the air in clear sunlight is
also common among us on very cold winter
days.
The " Down-below People." The Have-
su-Pai, otherwise known as the Koxoninos,
or Cochnichnos, are a dying race of Indians,
their numbers being estimated at less than
two hundred souls, who were visited a few
years ago by Mr. Benjamin Wittick. Dr. R.
W. Shufeldt, seeking for information about
them, has found that very little is known
concerning them, but was able to obtain
two photographs taken by Mr. Wittick, il-
lustrating their general appearance and the
style of their huts. They exist in one of the
grandest canons in Arizona, living along the
banks of the stream that passes through it.
Their name, which is given them by the
Yumas, means the " down-below people," or
a tribe or race that live down in the canon.
They call themselves the " Ah-Supai." The
canon in which they dwell is that of Cata-
ract Creek, is forty-five hundred feet deep,
and the stream tumbles by a series of cas-
cades into the Grand Canon of the Colorado,
fifteen hundred feet deeper. The Indians
raise, according to Captain John G. Bourke,
fine peaches and good corn and melons, and
weave fine and beautiful baskets. They are
great hunters, and live by trading off buck-
skins and sometimes mountain-lion pelts to
the Moquis, Navajos, and Apaches. Mr.
Frank H. Cushing describes their home as
in a green, moist plain of sandy soil, nearly
two miles long by half a mile at its greatest
width, of which he could catch only occa-
