P OP ULAR MIS CELL ANY.
281
sional glimpses through the rank growth of
willows with which the trail was lined.
" These glimpses, however, revealed numer-
ous cultivated fields of corn, beans, sunflow-
ers, melons, peaches, apricots, and certain
plants used in dyeing and basket-making,
and usually carefully protected by hedges of
wattled willows or fences of Cottonwood
poles. Everywhere these fields were crossed
and recrossed by a network of irrigating
canals and trails. Here and there were little
cabins, or shelters, flat-roofed, dirt-covered,
and closed in on three sides by wattled flags,
canes, and slender branches, while the front
was protected by a hedge like those of the
fields, only taller, placed a few feet before
the house, and between which and the house
burned smoky fires. The houses were always
nestled down among the thick willows bor-
dering the river, or perched on some con-
venient shelf, under the shadows of the
western precipices." Little buildings of
stone laid in mud plaster, somewhat like the
cliff dwellings, were also seen in the hori-
zontal cracks of the western cliffs, often
high up. These Indians have medicine-men,
use the sweat-house, possess many dogs, have
considerable families, and are on good terms
with the whites.
The Purposes and Arrangement of Mu-
seums. The museums of the future in this
country, says G. Brown Goode, " should be
adapted to the needs of the mechanic, the
factory operator, the day laborer, the sales-
man, and the clerk, as much as to those of
the professional man and the man of leisure.
It is proper that the laboratories be utilized
to the fullest extent for the credit of the
institution to which they belong. No mu-
seum can grow and be respected which does
not each year give additional proofs of its
claims to be considered a center of learning.
On the other hand, the public have a right
to ask that much shall be done directly in
their interest. They will gladly allow the
museum officer to use part of his time in
study and experiment. They will take pride
in the possession by the museum of tens of
thousands of specimens, interesting only to
the specialist, hidden away perpetually from
public view, but necessary for purposes of
scientific research. These are foundations of
the intellectual superstructure which gives
the institution its standing. Still, no pains
must be spared in the presentation of the
material in the exhibition halls. The speci-
mens must be prepared in the most careful
and artistic manner, and arranged attract-
ively in well-designed cases and behind the
clearest of glass. Each object must bear a
label, giving its name and history so fully
that all the probable questions of the visitor
are answered in advance. Books of refer-
ence must be kept in convenient places.
Colors of walls, cases, and labels must be
restful and quiet, and comfortable seats
should be everywhere accessible, for the task
of the museum visitor is a weary one at
best. In short, the public museum is, first
of all, for the benefit of the public. When
the officers are few in number, each one
must of necessity devote a considerable por-
tion of his time to the public halls. When
the staff becomes larger, it is possible by
specialization of work to arrange that cer-
tain men may devote their time uninterrupt-
edly to laboratory work, while others are
engaged in the increase of the collections
and their installation."
The Technical School at St. Etienn?,
France, At the technical school in St. Eti-
emie, France, according to the United States
consul in that city, three hundred students
are taught weaving, dyeing, sculpture, iron-
founding, cabinet-making, and other arts, free
of charge. The apprenticeship course lasts
four years, and after completing it a certifi-
cate of aptitude is given, under which the
pupil may obtain a situation in the line of
industrial labor he has chosen. In the first
year the students pass through all the work-
shops, to be initiated into the proper handling
of the different tools. After that, the boys
are classed according to their tastes, desires,
and aptitudes. They work at manual labor
three hours daily during thesecond year, four
hours in the third, and five hours in the first
and seven in the last six months of the fourth
and last year. Great attention is paid to the
teaching of the theory of the different trades,
the fitters being taught to trace and cut out
cog-wheels, and the carpenters to design and
execute a certain number of works, such as
stairs of different kinds, shutters, balconies,
etc., on a reduced scale. The weavers are
also given special lessons in book-keeping,
