282
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
legislation, commercial geography, and one
of the modern languages. Careful attention
is paid to design.
Embroidering by Machinery. The re-
cent invention, at Arbon, of a new steam
machine for making embroideries threatens,
says Consul Byers, of St. Gall, to revolutionize
some of the most important manufacturing
interests of the Swiss Republic. Eastern
Switzerland, with St. Gall as a center, has
been for a hundred years the headquarters
of the embroidery industry of the world.
Embroidery by hand alone had been prac-
ticed when the present hand-machine was
brought into use in 1827. Under the former
system the technical skill and readiness of
hand of the Appenzell women were marvel-
ous, and the embroidery made by them be-
came famous all over the world. At the
present day possibly not five per cent of the
embroideries are made exclusively by hand.
The Schiffli steam machine, invented about
fifteen years ago, produces a low class of
goods of inferior quality. For the more re-
cently invented Arbon machine its owners
claim that it will at least triple the product
of the hand-machine, that it can produce
goods cheaper, and can turn them out of bet-
ter quality than the old method, and do it
without so much wear and tear to the mus-
cles of men and women.
The Pnnir. The puma (Fells concohr of
Linnaeus), known also as the panther, painter,
cougar, American lion, and by several other
names, is, according to Mrs. Frederick W.
True, the only large, unspotted native Amer-
ican cat. It varies much in color, and is
from five to seven feet long. The area over
which it ranges extends from New Eng-
land and British Columbia to the straits of
Magellan. On the Atlantic coast the species
has apparently not been found in New Hamp-
shire, Rhode Island, New Jersey, or Dela-
ware. No mention appears of its having
been found in Michigan or Indiana. It was
extirpated in Ohio before 1838, and probably
more recently in Indiana and Illinois. With
these exceptions, and Nevada, there are re-
corded instances, more or less numerous, of
the occurrence of the puma, since the begin-
ning of the century, in every State and Terri-
tory of the Union. Regarded as a species,
the puma possesses in a remarkable degree
the power of adapting itself to varied sur-
roundings. It endures severe cold during
the winter in the Adirondack Mountains and
other parts of our northern frontier, and
hunts its prey in the snow. It is equally at
home in the hot swamps and canebrakes and
along the river-courses in our Southern States.
In South America it inhabits the treeless,
grass-covered pampas, as well as the forests.
In the Rocky Mountains it ascends to the
great altitudes at which the mountain sheep
are found ; and it is also met with high up
on other ranges. It selects for its abode
such spots as afford some shelter, but is
found in the thickets and copses rather than
in the great forests. It seeks its prey chiefly
at dawn and twilight and under cover of
night, but sometimes also hunts by day. Deer
are its principal quarry, but it also preys upon
the smaller mammals and on wild turkeys.
Of the larger domestic animals, such as the
horse and cow, it attacks only the young, but
it will carry away a full-grown sheep from
the fold, and in South America often preys
upon the llama. It does not ordinarily at-
tack men, but is disposed to flee from them
when surprised ; but such attacks have been
known. Like the cat, it scratches the bark
of trees, purrs when satisfied, and has been
heard to mew.
Influence of the Indian Trade. As to the
effect of the Indian trading post, Mr. Fred-
erick J. Turner says, in a paper on The Char-
acter and Influence of the Indian Trade in
Wisconsin, of the Johns Hopkins Historical
and Political Science Series, that, giving him
iron and guns and a market for furs, it tend-
ed to prolong the hunter stage ; leaving the
unarmed Indian at the mercy of those who
had bought firearms, it caused a relocation
of tribes and a demand for the trader by
remote and unvisited Indians, made the sav-
age dependent on the white man's supplies,
and gave the Indians means of resistance to
agricultural settlement. On the side of the
white man, the Indian trade gave both French
and English a footing in America, invited
exploration, and fostered the advancement
of settlements as long as they were in exten-
sion of trade. In Wisconsin the sites of the
principal cities are the sites of the old trad-
ing posts, and those earliest fur-trading set-
