POPULAR MISCELLANY.
283
tlements furnished supplies to the farming,
mining, and lumbering pioneers. Reports
brought back by the individual trader guided
the steps of the agricultural pioneer. The
trader was the farmer's path-finder into some
of the richest regions of the continent. In
Wisconsin, at least, the traders' posts, located
at the carrying-places around falls and rapids,
pointed out the water-powers of the State.
The trails became the early roads. " An old
Indian trader relates that the path between
Green Bay and Milwaukee was originally an
Indian trail and very crooked, but the whites
would straighten it by cutting across lots
each winter with their jumpers, wearing bare
streaks through the thin covering, to be fol-
lowed in the summer by foot and horseback
travel along the shortened path. The pro-
cess was typical of a greater one. Along the
lines that Nature had drawn, the Indians
traded and warred ; along their trails and in
their birch canoes the trader passed, bringing
a new and transforming life. These slender
lines of Eastern influence stretched through-
out all our vast and intricate water-system,
even to the Gulf of Mexico, the Pacific, and
the Arctic Seas, and these lines were in turn
followed by agricultural and by manufactur-
ing civilization."
French Silk-weaving Center?. Accord-
ing to the United States consular clerk at
Lyons, the geographical position of silk-
weaving in France has undergone consider-
able changes since the introduction of the
industry. Cities in which silk-weaving was
formerly of great importance, have turned
their attention toward other industries, while
new centers have sprung up and attained
more or less prosperity. Tours was the first
great silk-weaving center of France, but its
industry in this line has been declining for
the last sixty years. Nimes was likewise one
of the early centers, and reached great pros-
perity in the eighteenth century ; but it has
now less than one sixth as many looms as it
had then. About twenty-five thousand looms
are employed in Paris and the adjoining dis-
tricts in weaving silk and silk-mixed goods,
galloons, fringes, cords, and other varieties
of passementerie and trimmings. Nets, tulles,
and laces constitute the specialties of Ca-
lais. Whenever the demand for silk nets
is low, the manufacturers substitute cotton or
wool on their looms. During the latter half
of the present century Roubaix has become
the center of an extensive industry, manu-
facturing silk and wool and silk and cotton-
mixed goods. These articles, though often
wanting in originality, find ready sale on ac-
count of their low price. At Saint-Chamond,
silk-weaving has been established in a mod-
est way ever since the thirteenth century ; and
by confining their attention to braids and
similar articles, the manufacturers have ad-
vanced their specialties to a degree of ex-
cellence that has established for them a
world-wide reputation. At Saint-Etienne the
weaving of ribbons is carried on, with great
variations in the value of the yearly manu-
facture. Lyons is considered the most im-
portant silk center of France, and of Eu-
rope as well. Its total production averages
about $80,000,000 a year. The quantity of
goods produced is now greater than ever be-
fore, and constitutes two thirds of the pro-
duction of France, and one quarter of the
total production of the world.
Swiss Watch-making. The Swiss watch
industry is chiefly situated in the west of
Switzerland, where the French language is
spoken, and particularly in Geneva, Vaud, the
canton of Neutchatel, and the Bernese Jura.
An ingenious labor organization has sprung
up there, which combines at once the advan-
tages of principal and minor industry. Com-
posed of small workshops, grouped in a given
region, it is under the control of a manufact-
urer who gives orders to the workman, and
supplies him with the necessary materials,
and, when the watch is finished, effects a sale.
Under this system the master has not the gen-
eral expenses of a factory, and the diminu-
tion in production and holidays affect him
but little. In his turn, the operative working
at home has a particular part of the watch to
construct. He is both journeyman and fore-
man, who combines his dwelling with his
shop. Paid by the piece, he works at his
leisure from early in the morning till late at
night. Such a system, which allows the wife
to assist in the labors of the husband, and
the children to be initiated by an easy ap-
prenticeship into the manufacture of a spe-
cial part of the watch, must suit the mount-
aineers. They preserve their intelligence,
realize often large profits, and by the intel-
