284
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
ligent practice of industrial art improve
their social status. Little by little the heads
of business houses have drawn into their
locality a large number of families from the
rural districts, and in the mountains, at one
thousand metres altitude, and on the plains
where only the abundant pasturage affords a
means of livelihood for the native, towns
have risen rapidly for instance, Chaux de
Fonds, Locle, and Saint-Imier. Thus, the sys-
tem of collective industry, with work at the
domestic hearth, has formed several genera-
tions of watch-makers. But, for thirty years,
competition, and particularly American com-
petition, has necessitated the erection of
works with mechanical appliances.
The Sources of Gntta Percha. Of the
various kinds of gutta-percha, only those pro-
duced by trees of the old genus Iso?iandra,
now sunk in Dichopsis, are available for use
as insulators of cables. Their natural habi-
tat is exclusively in the Malayan region. The
destruction of this zone of forests proceeds
rapidly. The natives cut every available tree,
and repeat the process as fast as the plants
spring up again. The scanty plantations
started in the East Indies are, moreover, not
formed of the best species, but of those
which yield an inferior product. The best
species has, in fact, become excessively rare,
but is still in existence. Its adult represent-
atives were yet propagating themselves in
1887 at the Chasserian estate in the ravines
of the ancient forest of Boukett Tinah, in the
center of Singapore. When M. Serullas, of
Paris, found the spot in 1887, gutta-collect-
ing had ceased for thirty years.
The Kanjntis. The Kanjutis, of Hunza,
the robber tribe of the Pamir table-land, in-
habit the deeply cut valley which runs from
the apex of central Asia, where the Hindu-
Kush and Himalaya systems meet, and the
water-shed between eastern and western Asia
joins that between northern and southern
Asia. Captain Tounghusband found them
to be small, well-built, hardy, determined,
though not fierce-looking men, wearing long
black curls, which gave them a very wild
appearance. Perhaps the most remarkable
feature about them is their capacity for en-
durance. " They issue from their strong-
holds on their raiding expeditions, and cover
often two hundred miles of mountainous and
uninhabited country, entirely on foot, and
carry their own supplies for the whole dis-
tance on their backs ; and I have known
cases of men carrying news of my move-
ments to their chief in an incredibly short
time. Dressed in long cloaks of thick, home-
made woolen material, they sleep out in the
open in the most intense cold, and yet live
upon almost nothing. They are also very
avaricious, although they know and care little
for money ; but they covet goods greedily."
A Stronghold of Birds. The Bird Rocks,
or Three Islands of Birds, near Newfound-
land, were so resorted to by gannets in Au-
dubon's time that their tops seemed covered
with snow. The birds were then much used
for bait, and Audubon's captain told him
that his boat's crew had once killed six hun-
dred and forty of them in an hour, with no
better weapons than sticks. Up to 1860
they covered the tops of the rocks and many
of the ledges on the sides. The erection of
a lighthouse on the Great Rock, in 1870, was
followed by a rapid decrease in numbers.
In 1881 Mr. Brewster found the birds on
the Great Rock confined to the ledges along
the sides, while the Little Rock was still
densely populated. In 1887 not a gannet
was raised on the Little Rock, although a
few were breeding on the pillar of rock
adjacent to it. The murres, razor-bills, and
puffins, Mr. Frederick A. Lucas believes, have
probably suffered somewhat less than their
more conspicuous comrades, although even
among them the decrease must have been
very great. Still, their smaller size, and con-
sequent ability to breed in crevices of the
rocks and on ledges too narrow to accommo-
date a bulky gannet, has been of great serv-
ice to them ; while the razor-bill also seems
to be learning by experience the desirability
of putting an egg out of sight whenever
practicable. The puffins find safety in their
burrowing habits, and breed extensively in
the decomposed sandstone at the northeast-
ern portion of the Great Rock, as well as un-
der the overhanging inaccessible ledges of the
northern side of the Little Rock. The little
rocky pillar already mentioned is well occu-
pied by birds of various species, and, owing
to the difficulty of scaling the rock, the little
colony is fairly secure. But, from its size,
