POPULAR MISCELLANY.
285
the precipitous nature of the sides, and the
fact that only one landing lies contiguous to
the breeding birds, the Great Bird Rock must
ever remain the stronghold of this interesting
colony of sea-fowl. There is no regular di-
vision of the birds into large colonies accord-
ing to species, but the separation is rather by
size, gannets occupying the highest and broad-
est ledges, and murres and razor-bills taking
what is left.
A Buddha, and its Moaning. A bronze
Buddha in the United States National Mu-
seum, as described by Charles De Kay, is
thirty-eight inches and three quarters, or in-
cluding the halo, seventy inches high, has a
bronze halo, and differs from the famous
seated Buddha at Kamakusa in size and in
the position of the forefingers. These do
not touch each other along the two upper
joints, but lie one within the other. A slight
trait of this kind is of the greatest impor-
tance to a Buddhist. It marks the difference
between figures of the greatest of all Bud-
dhas at the moments of his ecstasy or absorp-
tion into the Nirvana, or it distinguishes the
Buddha from foreign or local saints who
have presumably reached Buddhahood by
meritorious pondering. The figure has the fa-
mous knob on the forehead, about which
many legends revolve ; also the short round
curls over the head, supposed to be the snails
which guarded Buddha from sunstroke, and
it carries the mark on the top of the head.
It has the large ears, with their lobes pierced
and distended, but no ear-rings. The figure
represents Buddha, after having taught his
doctrine, merging himself into Nirvana. To
an adept, the position of the thumbs and fore-
fingers expresses a world of hidden mean-
ings. The figure is luckily provided with
a copious inscription which is couched in
phrases anything but easy of translation. Its
name is " the Buddha of the Five Wisdoms,"
and its motto, " All the world can share the
blessings of Buddhism."
Biological Physiology. The Director of
the Marine Biological Laboratory (Wood's
Holl, Mass.) for 1891 calls attention to the
needs of physiology as one of the most im-
portant branches of biological science which,
for want of room, has thus far been neg-
lected. It is not animal or human physiol-
ogy, as commonly understood, that the di-
rector has more especially in mind, but what
he calls biological physiology, or the prov-
ince of the biological economy of organisms.
" It is in this almost new province that we
meet the great problems of geographical and
geological distribution, and those of the in-
terrelations of species in both the animal
and vegetable kingdoms. It is here that we
study life-histories, habits, food ; the influ-
ences of the physical environment, and the
reciprocal relations, which are ever varying
according to the issues of the universal strug-
gle for existence. It is in this direction that
experimental physiology finds one of the
most inviting fields in the whole range of
biology." As instances of what varied and
interesting problems here await the experi-
menter, are mentioned the experiments of
Pfliiger and others to determine the influence
of gravitation on the development of the
egg; Boveri's experiments to determine
where the formative power resides, and
whether it is shared equally by both sexes ;
Fol's studies on fertilization ; Auerbach's
determination of the sexual distinction be-
tween the paternal and the maternal ele-
ments of the nucleus ; Weismann's studies
on the laws and causes of variation; the
effects of chemical agencies on germ-cells
as tested by Oscar and Richard Hertwig;
the experiments of Beudant, Plateau, and
Schmankewitsch in transferring animals from
fresh to salt water, and vice versa ; Semper's
observations on the effect of the volume of
water on the size of the creatures living in
it; and others.
A Meteorological Poet. A curious paper
has been published by Naval Surgeon Gre-
maud, of Brest, France, on the tempest de-
scribed in the first book of Virgil's iEneid.
He answers some of the criticisms that have
been made of it, and shows that the critics
were not meteorologists. Having carefully
compared the latest accounts of cyclones
with Virgil's description, he has found the
descriptions of the dangerous semicircle, the
tractable semicircle, the plunging winds, and
the columns of water rising like a wall and
falling upon the ships to demolish them, cor-
rect ; and establishes a complete analogy be-
tween them and the determinations of sci-
ence. Hence, Virgil was not only a poet,
