2 86
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
but a good meteorologist as well one of the
scientific men of his time. M. Vice-Admiral
Vignes, President of the Geographical So-
ciety of Paris, on reading the paper, re-
marked that he was surprised to find in Vir-
eil the exact laws of cyclones, which sailors
did not learn till a comparatively modern time.
British Fisheries. The North Sea fish-
eries of Great Britain were reported at the
meeting of the British Association to be de-
clining. It was proposed to draw up a his-
tory of the North Sea trawling grounds, com-
paring their present condition with their
condition some twenty or thirty years ago,
when comparatively few boats were at work ;
to continue, verify, and extend observations
as to the average size at which prime fish
became sexually mature ; and to collect sta-
tistics as to the size of all fish captured in
the vicinity of the Dogger Bank and to the
eastward, so that the number of immature
fish annually captured may be estimated ;
also, to make experiments with beam trawl
nets of various meshes with a view to deter-
mine the relation, if any, between the size
of mesh and the size of fish taken.
The Kingfisher. The habits of the king-
fisher (Halcyon vagans) are the subject of a
paper by Mr. J. W. Hall, of the Auckland
(N. Z.) Institute. His observations, while not
decisive, favor the opinion that kingfishers
capture live birds. They are also sometimes
captured by hawks ; but the hawk does not
always come off best. One day the author
saw a hawk sailing round the bend of a hill
followed by a kingfisher. Then at once
arose a great outcry, and the hawk came
again in sight, bearing the kingfisher in its
talons. But, nothing daunted, the kingfisher
with its pickaxe of a bill pegged away at
the breast and abdomen of its captor to
such good effect that the hawk was glad to
liberate its prey, whereupon the kingfisher
flew away, apparently but little the worse for
the encounter, and carrying with it the full
sympathy of the onlookers.
NOTES.
The Japanese observe very exact propor-
tions between leaves and flowers in the ar-
rangement of irises. With three leaves they
use one flower, with seven leaves two flowers,
with eleven leaves five flowers, with thirteen
leaves only three flowers, and with fifteen
leaves only two flowers again. When we
examine pictures that show the results of
the application of these rides, says Garden
and Forest, we are convinced that they have
been dictated by a very true feeling for ar-
tistic effects of the most delicate sort.
According to the analyses of Dr. C. F.
Millspaugh, of the West Virginia Experi-
ment Station, weeds vary largely in the per-
centages of nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and
potash which they contain. One of the
evening primroses has only one per cent of
nitrogen, while the poke-weed has three per
cent of that substance, and a dry ton of the
weed will contain twenty-two dollars' worth
of it. By composting weeds with plaster, a
valuable manure may be obtained.
According to the story of George Hunt,
keeper of the lighthouse at Tillamook Rock,
on the Pacific coast, in the storm of Decem-
ber 7, 1891, the waves swept clear over the
house, washing away the boats, and tearing
loose and carrying off the landing platform
and tramway which were bolted to the rock.
On the 29th the waves were still higher, and
streams of water poured into the lantern
through the ventilators in the balloon top of
the dome, one hundred and fifty-seven feet
above the sea-level.
Dr. Alanus, a tianslation of whose letter
relating his experiences is published in the
Medical and Surgical Reporter, says that
after having lived for a long time as a vege-
tarian without feeling any better or worse than
he had felt w ith a mixed diet, he discovered
one day that his arteries were showing signs
of atheromatous degeneration. Consulting a
work by Dr. E. Morin, of Paris, he found
that affection pointed out as one of the re-
sults of living on an exclusively vegetable
diet. He now no longer considers puieiy
vegetable food as the normal diet of man,
but only as a curative method of great serv-
ice in various morbid states.
According to an article in the Overland
Monthly, many women in California gain a
livelihood by raising flower bulbs and seeds
for market, and many others send to San
Francisco every day hampers of wild flowers
and ferns which have been picked from the
neighboring canons. Mrs. Theodosia Shep-
herd, of Ventura, stands foremost among
these successful floriculturists, although only
eight years have passed since, without means
and broken down in health, she grew her
first seeds for market in the old mission town
of San Buena Ventura. She now fills orders
from prominent Eastern florists, with occa-
sional calls from Europe, Australia, and the
Sandwich Islands.
An attempt has been made by Herr
Pf eiffer to prove and measure, by the change
in electric conductivity, the solvent action cf
