SCIENCE AND FINE ART. 19
their greatest strain: we see their muscles swell and contract,
while at last the missile still appears in the picture after it has
been thrown ; for it can not move faster than the hand at the mo-
ment it leaves it. Equally useful are the instantaneous photo-
graphs of domestic and wild animals of all kinds which Herr
Anschutz has taken destined to be to the animal painter.
Instantaneous photography has been applied with surprising
results, as every one knows, even to the surf in storms. But the
sea painter must not forget, in the use of such pictures, that our
eye can not see the waves as the quickly perceiving plate does,
and that one may therefore easily give us a picture of them as
incorrect in some respects as that of the stationary clock or of the
man stumbling over his feet.
Finally, the former method of representing lightning as a fiery
zigzag is, as Mr. Shelf ord Bidwell has very recently shown by
the evidence of two hundred instantaneous photographs, quite as
false as were the old pictures of racing horses. Mr. Eric Stuart
Bruce has, indeed, tried to save the zigzag lightning of the artists
by seeing in it the reflection on the cumulus clouds ; but we can
not understand how an acute-angled zigzag can be produced in
that way.*
Prof, von Brticke has in a special essay worked out the rule
for the representation of motion in art,f which, like the laws of
the combination of colors, has been unconsciously followed by the
masters. From photography in natural colors, of which artists
and laymen continue to dream and hope much, there is unhappily
not only for the immediate future, but, on theoretical grounds
which experience will hardly contradict, for all the future, little or
nothing to be expected. There is a question whether photography
will not have an unfavorable influence in the arts of reproduc-
tion, copper-engraving, lithography, and wood-engraving, whose
place it is taking to a widening extent. So faithful is it that it
even in a certain sense depreciates the original pictures of the old
masters by making them common property.
Is it possible that it should not seem wholly superfluous to
speak here of the advantage which the study of anatomy affords
to the artist ? Has not the Borghese gladiator suggested the
conjecture of anatomical mysteries among the Grecian artists as
the only means by which they could achieve so perfect a repre-
sentation of the uncovered male body ? Did not Michael Angelo
acquire by long years of anatomical study the knowledge that
justified the unparalleled boldness of his attitudes and foreshort-
enings of the body, which have remained to this day the object
* Nature, etc., No. 1076, vol. xlii, June 12, 1890, p. 151 ; No. 1078, June 26, p. 197.
f Deutsche Rundschau, 1881, Bd. xxvi, p. 9 et seq.
