290
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
his work in political science and economics. At Union College,
Prof. Hoffman has found it necessary to give lectures on anthro-
pology, as preliminary to the best work in psychology. At the
University of Mississippi we believe it has been introduced as
fundamental to historical study. In one way or another the sub-
ject has been crowding itself into the curricula, until now, in
addition to the institutions already mentioned, Brown, Harvard,
Clark, Vermont, and the University of Pennsylvania offer facili-
ties for such study. At the new University of Chicago anthropol-
ogy is to be recognized, and
several courses, covering a
wide field, will probably be
offered. The work at two
or three of the universities
deserves special notice. At
Yale, Prof. W. G. Sumner
gives two courses of instruc-
tion in alternate years one
for undergraduates, the oth-
er for graduate students.
The elementary course is
based upon Tylor's Anthro-
pology and Joly's Man be-
fore Metals, both of which
are carefully read by the
students, and form the basis
of class - work. Lectures,
discussions, and prepara-
tion of original papers up-
on selected topics make a
suggestive and excellent
course. Supplementary reading of important French and German
writers is arranged for such students as desire to do the best
work. In the second course similar methods are pursued, and
the required reading consists of Topinard's Anthropology and
Letourneau's Sociology. These two courses are deservedly popu-
lar with the students. The instruction work in anthropology at
Harvard is an outgrowth of the Peabody Museum of American
Ethnology. Of the museum itself we shall speak later. The
work of Harvard University is divided into twelve departments,
of which the most recently established is the Department of
American Archaeology and Ethnology. This department is equal
in rank to any in the university, being on the same footing as the
Department of Ancient Languages, or the Department of Mathe-
matics. Graduate work leading to a Ph. D. degree is offered.
We quote the following announcement from the latest catalogue :
Prof. W. G. Sumner.
