ANTHROPOLOGICAL WORK IN AMERICA.
291
" A course of special training in archaeology and ethnology,
requiring three years for its completion, will be given by Prof.
Putnam. It will be carried on by work in the laboratory and
museum, lectures, field-work, and exploration, and in the third
year by some special research. The ability to use French and
Spanish will be necessary. For this course a knowledge of ele-
mentary chemistry, geology, botany, zoology, drawing, and sur-
veying is required, and courses in ancient history, ancient arts,
and classical archaeology are recommended as useful." Students
are now pursuing such study at Harvard under Prof. Putnam's
direction. Since the establishment of this department a fellowship
at Harvard University has been founded by Mrs. Mary C. Thaw,
of Pittsburgh. Founded largely from personal admiration of Miss
Alice C. Fletcher, and appreciation of her work, the fellowship is
to be held by this lady during her life. In the event of Miss
Fletcher's death, "the in-
come from the fund of thir-
ty thousand dollars is to be
paid as a salary to such per-
son as shall be appointed by
the trustees of the museum
to carry on the same line of
work and research relating
to the Indian race of Amer-
ica, or other ethnological
and archaeological investi-
gations." At the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania a spe-
cial chair of American Ar-
chaeology and Linguistics
is held by Dr. D. G. Brin-
ton, than whom no man in
America is better qualified
to offer courses in Indian
languages. The broadest
anthropological work at
present offered in an Ameri-
can institution is that conducted by Dr. Franz Boas at Clark Uni-
versity, Worcester, Mass. Dr. Boas received his training in an-
thropological study in Germany. Although partial to work in the
direction of comparative mythology and linguistics, he is thor-
oughly trained in the methods of ethnography and physical an-
thropology. A great traveler and an excellent field-student, he
has done admirable work among the Eskimos and the tribes
of the northwest coast of America. For several years he has
directed an exploration among these people, supported by a fund
Prof. F. W. Putnam.
