292
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
supplied by the British Association for the Advancement of Sci-
ence, and his animal reports, published by that body, have been
veritable storehouses of new and valuable information. Dr. Boas
has lately prepared an important work upon the Mythology of
North America, which will
soon appear from the fjress.
Dr. Boas is in charge of the
Physical Anthropology Sec-
tion of the Department of
Ethnology and Archaeology
of the World's Columbian
Exposition of Chicago. In
connection with this work
he plans to gather such
a mass of anthropometric
data concerning the red man
as has never before been
brought together. Within
the next few months he
hopes to have fully twenty
thousand Indians of differ-
ent tribes carefully meas-
ured. Important facts may
be discovered from a care-
ful study of the material
thus secured. Dr. Boas at
present lectures to a class of students upon statistics in anthro-
pology and other sciences ; how to secure, tabulate, and use them.
Special graduate students are put at work in his laboratory, which
is fairly equipped, upon some line of original research and study,
the results of which may be published as contributions to sci-
ence.
Museums in ethnography and anthropology are not yet nu-
merous in America. Collections of considerable size and worthy
of special notice exist at Cambridge, Salem, New York, Phila-
delphia, Washington, and Davenport. Of very great importance
is the Peabody Museum of American Ethnology at Cambridge,
connected with Harvard University, and under direction of Prof.
Frederick W. Putnam. At first a zoologist, especially interested
in fishes. Prof. Putnam has long since laid aside everything
except archaeology. The present work and importance of the
museum are mainly due to him. Nine large rooms are filled with
valuable collections, a great part of which have been gathered
under his personal supervision. No man has done so much to
bring about the careful and systematic method of excavation of
mounds now followed as he. To refer to all the objects of
Albert S. Gatschet.
