ANTHROPOLOGICAL WORK IN AMERICA.
293
special interest in this museum would take us far beyond our
limits. Among the collections are magnificent series from the
mounds of Ohio and the stone graves of Tennessee; complete al-
tars of baked clay from Ohio " altar mounds " ; Kentucky cavern
finds ; interesting series from the caverns of southern California,
comprising perishable objects seldom preserved, such as a feather
head-dress, basketry, wooden objects, and a wonderful lot of bone
whistles found in a single basket ; Flint's interesting gatherings
from Nicaragua ; collections from the old cities of Yucatan ; the
Agassiz collection from ancient Peruvian graves ; the rich yield
from the Madisonville cemetery : Wyman's collection from the
fresh-water shell-heaps of the St. John's River, Fla. ; and the
famous Abbott collection from New Jersey, the basis of Dr. Ab-
bott's paper, The Stone Age in New Jersey. Two other series
deserve especial mention the one of specimens from Honduras,
some of the pottery in which is exceedingly interesting as show-
ing a field for exploration scarcely known to our archaeologists.
Prof. Putnam has made arrangements with the Government of
Honduras whereby the museum has the exclusive right of ar-
chaeological exploration in that country for a term of ten years.
Mr. Saville, the museum as-
sistant, is now in that field.
Very important is the great
collection of American " pa-
lseoliths." Here are Dr. Ab-
bott's argillite implements
from the Trenton gravels,
and the skulls from the
same locality ; Miss Bab-
bitt's quartzite flakes and
rude implements from the
Minnesota drift deposits ;
and the Ohio, Indiana, and
Delaware specimens from
post-glacial or glacial de-
posits. Nowhere else is there
any such an exhibit of these
rude, early types, which
have caused so much bitter
discussion. We have spoken
only of American collec-
tions, but there are also in
this museum series illustrative of European archaeology, fine
specimens from the South Seas, and a Semitic museum, which
deserve more than a passing reference. The museum has pub-
lished annual reports for twenty-four years ; some of them have
Dr. D. G. Brinton.
