294
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
contained papers of much value. At present octavo monographs
by such writers as Mrs. Zelia Nuttall and Mr. A. S. Gatschet are
also published by the museum. One important and original ac-
complishment of the museum remains to be mentioned. In Adams
County, ( >hio, on a high bluff at some distance from the nearest
railroad town, is the Great Serpent Mound, in some respects the
most remarkable monument of antiquity in America. It was
in danger of destruction,
when Prof. Putnam made
an appeal for funds for its
purchase and preservation.
Ladies of Boston responded
to the appeal, the money
needed was raised, and paid
over to the museum, which
made the purchase. The
place has been pleasantly
laid out as Serpent Mound
Park, and the old monu-
ment itself has been careful-
ly surveyed, restored, and
put into a condition to with-
stand the destroying action
of time and the elements.
Prof. Putnam is Director of
the Department of Ethnol-
ogy of the Columbian Ex-
position, and in connection
with its work has kept par-
ties in the field excavating mounds and gathering material. His
plan of display is a vast one, and a most instructive and interest-
ing object lesson in American anthropology (ethnography, physi-
cal anthropology, archaeology) is sure to be prepared.
New York is not so much a center of anthropological work as
it should be. At the American Museum of Natural History there
is much good material. Here one may see what is left in Amer-
ica of the Squier and Davis collection from the Ohio mounds,
containing many specimens figured in the Ancient Monuments of
the Mississippi Valley ; the Squier collection from Peru, compris-
ing a wonderfully fine lot of greenstone carvings ; the collection
of Colonel C. C. Jones, made chiefly in Georgia, numbering five
thousand specimens, and the basis of his book, The Antiqui-
ties of the Southern Indians ; a remarkable collection in Euro-
pean archaeology, including series from the river gravels and
caves of France, from the lake dwellings of Switzerland, and from
the famous localities of Denmark ; the Emmons collection from
Dr. C. C. Abbott.
