ANTHROPOLOGICAL WORK IN AMERICA.
297
our only lady Egyptologist. She may justly be compared in that
held to Miss Edwards, of England. Her lectures on Egyptian
subjects have made a sensation.
To the work of Dr. C. C. Abbott we briefly referred in connec-
tion with the Peabody Museum at Cambridge. Dr. Abbott lived
for many years at Trenton, gathering a great collection of archae-
ological specimens from the State of New Jersey. The series, now
at Cambridge, numbered
many thousands of speci-
mens, and was the basis for
The Stone Age in New Jer-
sey and for the later book
Primitive Industry. In 1875
Dr. Abbott found the first
argillite palaeolithic imple-
ments in the Trenton gravel.
This gravel is said by geolo-
gists to date back to the
close of the Glacial Period,
and any evidence of hu-
man workmanship in un-
disturbed gravels of that
kind carries the existence
of man in the Eastern Unit-
ed States back to a consid-
erable antiquity. A lively
warfare has been waged
against these "finds." It
has been questioned wheth-
er the objects were of human workmanship, and whether they were
really of the same age as the gravels. But similar implements have
been found in similar deposits in other States within the glaciated
area, and each new discovery tends to establish those which pre-
ceded it. Since his connection with the University Museum, Dr.
Abbott has continued field-work in the Delaware Valley, and has
lately made many interesting discoveries, such as workshops
where argillite implements (non-palaeolithic, but ancient) were
made and quarries where the Indians gathered their materials for
arrow-heads and spear-heads. Dr. Abbott aims to exhaust the
archaeology of the Delaware Valley before he ends his work.
Such thorough study of limited areas is what we most need in
American archaeology. After such work has been done for each
section of the United States, then, and then only, can our students
reach sure conclusions.
The loan exhibition of religious objects above mentioned is
mainly due to the energy and efforts of Mr. Stewart Culin, who
Gaerick Mallery.
