298
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
finds his most interesting work in the neglected fields of popular
superstitions and games, and who is an earnest student of com-
parative religion. The exhibition was formally opened on March
Kith, when crowds of visitors were present. The collection is the
first of its kind publicly shown in America. It is on the general
plan of the Muse'e Guimet in Paris, and, although not to be com-
pared with that in size, it presents some valuable features that are
lacking there. Some eight hundred objects illustrated Brahman-
ism, Buddhism, Taoism, Mohammedanism, the fetich-worship of
South Africa, the Shamanism of North America, the idolatry of
Polynesia, and the old religions of Egypt. There has been much
hard work given to this display, and great credit is due those who
have been interested in its preparation.
While we speak of work done by noble individual effort and
sacrifice^ and without the assistance of Government or of wealthy
organizations, we must describe what is done at Salem and at
Davenport. No museum in America has exerted a greater influ-
ence than that in Salem,
Massachusetts. A large pro-
portion of the most active
scientific men in our coun-
try, directly or indirectly,
owe much of their first im-
pulse and enthusiasm to
some department of its
work. In 1799 the Salem
East India Marine Society
was organized, with a mem-
bership confined to persons
who had actually navigated
the seas beyond the Cape of
Good Hope or Cape Horn
as masters or supercargoes
of vessels belonging to Sa-
lem. Those were the palmy
days of commercial suprem-
acy and the seas were dotted
with vessels from the old
town. The third of the ob-
jects stated as reasons for organizing the society was " to form a
museum of natural and artificial curiosities, particularly such as
are to be found beyond the Cape of Good Hope or Cape Horn."
The museum began November, 1799, with a gift of objects from
Sumatra by Captain Jonathan Carnes. In course of time much
choice material in ethnography was brought here particularly
from the South Sea Islands, China, India, Africa, and South
Frank Hamilton Cushing.
