20
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of the admiration of naturalists like Prof. Henke and Prof, von
Bruoke?* Are there not institutions maintained by the state
wherever art is systematically cultivated for the purpose of giv-
ili opportunity to train the eye on the cadaver to a clearer
perception of what can be seen in the living body beneath the
akin ? H a vo not three of the later members of this Academy been
ned in succession to give such instruction here in Ber-
lin ? Finally, have we not excellent manuals of anatomy pre-
i especially for artists ?
But the most distinguished art- writer of our day, who assumes
a tone of authority that no Lessing exercised, and who enjoys at
home the honor and fame of a Lessing, Mr. Ruskin, in his lectures
at the Art School in Oxford, on the Relation of Science to Art,
expressly forbids his pupils busying themselves with anatomy.
Likewise, in his preface, he laments the deleterious influence
anatomy had on Mantegna and Diirer, in contrast with Botticelli
and Holbein, who kept themselves free from it. "The habit of
contemplating the anatomical structure of the human form," he
later on, "is not only a hindrance but a degradation, and
has been essentially destructive to every school of art in which it
has been practiced " ; and he adds to this that under its influence
the painter, as in the case of Diirer, sees and portrays only the
skull in the face. "The artist should take every sort of view of
animals except one the butcher's view. He is never to think of
them as bones and meat." \
It would be a waste of time and trouble to refute such er-
rors, and demonstrate what an indispensable help the artist
finds in anatomy, without which he would be groping as in
a fog. It is very nice for him to depend upon his eyes, but
still better to have learned, for example, in what the female
skeleton is different from the male; why the knee-pan follows
the direction of the foot when the leg is stretched out, but does
not when it is bent ; why the profile of the upper arm with the
hand supine is different from the profile in pronation ; why the
furrows and wrinkles of the face run as they do in relation to the
muscles beneath them. Camper's facial angle, although it has
di-throned for more important objects by Herr Virchow's
' , furnishes a great deal of information. How, without
acquaintance with the skull, a forehead can be modeled, or the
rure of a forehead like that of the Jupiter of Otricoli or of the
can be understood, is hardly comprehensible. It is true
that anatomical forms may be abused by fantastic exaltation, as
been often remarked with r espect to Michael Angelo's suc-
Deutsche Bundachau, 1875, vol. v, p. 216; 1890, vol. Lrii, p. 26; vol. lxlv, p. 413.
% Tl \cst. Ten Lectures on the Relation of Natural Science to Art, 188-7, pp.
107, i > ri
