ANTHROPOLOGICAL WORK IN AMERICA.
i 99
America. Meantime, the Essex Institute was gathering collec-
tions in other lines and from the neighboring district. In 1867
the collections of the two organizations were combined in the old
East India Marine Society Hall, becoming the property of the
new organization the Peabody Academy of Science. The acad-
emy has gone on quietly but
constantly, with little blow-
ing of trumpets, and good
work has been done. Late-
ly an additional exhibition
hall has been built, and in
it are displayed the ethno-
graphical collections. No
one in America who is en-
gaged in studying the eth-
nography of the South Sea
Islands can afford to neglect
this series. Prof. Edward
S. Morse, whose chief con-
tributions to ethnography
are his paper on Methods
of Arrow Release and his
book on Japanese Homes, is
the director of the academy,
and Mr. John Robinson is
m
charge of the museum.
Prof. 0. T. Mason.
Some day the story of the
Davenport (Iowa) Academy of Science will be an interesting chap-
ter in the history of science in the United States. It has never
had a large donation in money, and much of its work has been
done by poor men. It has had a constant struggle to survive. It
is certainly fit to live, for there, with no trained anthropologist or
professional ethnographer to direct or develop a definite plan of
work, has grown up an excellent collection in archaeology. Prob-
ably nowhere except in Salisbury, England, is there so large a
series of " curved-base pipes " of stone from the mounds ; nowhere
else is there so interesting a series of copper axes wrapped in
cloth ; nowhere, except at Washington, so fine a series of pottery
from the Arkansas mounds, nor many much better collections of
mound crania. Nor has the academy been silent. Notwithstand-
ing its money poverty it has published valuable Transactions, by
the exchange of which it has gathered a creditable library.
Washington has become a great scientific center, and of the
whole circle of sciences none is more cultivated there than an-
thropology. Under Major Powell a remarkable organizer and
an indefatigable worker has been organized the Bureau of Eth-
