3 oo
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
nology, with its band of workers each in some special line.
Work is actively conducted both in the field and office, and the
results are published as papers in the annual reports, as bul-
letins, or as monographs. Major Powell himself is our best au-
thority on the Utes. For years he has been mainly interested in
linguistics, and his Introduction to the Study of Indian Lan-
guages has led to the gathering of many vocabularies. The mass
of linguistic material in the possession of the bureau is almost
incredible. In his last annual report Major Powell presents a
paper upon the Linguistic Families North of Mexico. This paper
is accompanied by a map
showing the conclusions he
reaches. The best-known
linguist in the employ of
the Bureau of Ethnology
is Mr. Albert S. Gatschet,
whose studies are most thor-
ough and critical. Mr. Gat-
schet is by birth a Swiss,
and has devoted his time
since 1875 to the study of an-
thropology and the Ameri-
can races and languages. Of
his more important works,
the earliest is the Migration
Legend of the Creeks, in
two octavo volumes ; the
original Creek text, transla-
tion, vocabulary, and criti-
cal notes upon the language
and ethnology of this im-
portant tribe compose the
work. Very recently the Government has published his great
work upon The Klamath Indians of Southwestern Oregon, in two
quarto parts. Mr. H. W. Henshaw, the general assistant in the
bureau, has also collected much linguistic material, especially
in California. One of the most complete studies, the results of
which the bureau is printing, is that of Rev. J. Owen Dorsey
among the Omahas. Mr. Dorsey has already published exten-
sively upon the language and the sociology of this people, but
he has still much material. Mr. James Mooney has made a special
study during three field seasons of the Cherokees of the North
Carolina Mountains, and his report upon their ceremonials has
just appeared. One of the brightest workers of the bureau is
Mrs. Stevenson, whose husband was one of the most indefatigable
collectors in the Pueblo regions. Mrs. Stevenson's Religious Life
Thomas Wil.son.
