ANTHROPOLOGICAL WORK IN AMERICA.
301
of the Zuiii Child is a very good bit of work. Two of the bureau
force have been particularly interested in pictography Colonel
Garrick Mallery and Dr. W. J. Hoffman. The former was fortu-
nately sent to the seat of the Dakota war in 1870. He there
found a rude and interesting native picture record, which he pub-
lished in 1877 under the title A Calendar of the Dakota Nation.
At its founding, during that same year, he was invited to a posi-
tion in the Bureau of Ethnology. He has continued his study of
picture-writing and has investigated gesture language, and by pub-
lication and encouraging research has added much to the knowl-
edge of both subjects. Through his Israelite and Indian (Vice-
Presidential Address before the American Association) and other
articles published in these pages, Colonel Mallery is already
known to the readers of this journal. With Colonel Mallery, Dr.
Hoffman has been much in-
terested in picture-writing,
but he has also written up-
on a wide range of subjects
in ethnology, archaeology,
and folk lore. His most im-
portant contribution is The
Grand Medicine Society of
the Ojibwas. W. H. Holmes
is an artist, and his papers
upon art in pottery and text-
ile fabrics are among the
most delightful in Ameri-
can archaeology. Mr. Frank
Cushing, as a village boy
in western New York, was
a hunter of Indian relics on
the old village sites of the
Iroquois ; invited to the
Smithsonian Institution, he
was sent to New Mexico to
study Pueblo life. The story
of his life at Zuiii, his adoption, his initiation into mysteries, his
conduct of an " aboriginal pilgrimage " to the Ocean of Sunrise,
has been told and retold in magazine articles. At the establish-
ment of the Hemenway Southwestern Archaeological Exploration,
in January, 1887, Mr. Cushing was placed in charge of its work
and conducted it for two years, first in the Salado and Gila Val-
leys in Arizona, and later at Zufii and its neighborhood. Two
years of such work brought on a serious illness, from which Mr.
Cushing is only now recovering. Some results of his w T ork were
published in the report of the meeting of the International Con-
Dr. J. Walter Fewkes.
