302
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
gress of Americanists for 1888. From these years of experience
Mr. dishing has gained a stock of information, little of which has
yet been published. At present he is again officially connected
with the Bureau of Ethnology. We have only suggested the
work of this bureau, and
have not even mentioned
some workers who have
done good work.
The collections made by
Government workers go to
three museums the mate-
rial in physical anthropol-
ogy to the Army Medical
Museum, that in ethnogra-
phy to the United States
National Museum, and that
in prehistoric archaeology
to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. The Army Medical
Museum is a great collec-
tion, beautifully arranged.
There is much material here
to interest the anthropolo-
gist many fine anatomical
specimens ; a wonderful se-
ries to illustrate the effects
of gunshot wounds and their healing; a goodly number of mon-
strosities ; most important of all are the skeletons and crania of
North American tribes more than two thousand of the latter.
Prof. Otis T. Mason is in charge of the ethnological treasures
at the United States National Museum. He is a most systematic
worker, and his card catalogue of references to literature of eth-
nography is well worthy of study. His annual summaries of an-
thropological progress are exceedingly valuable. More than any
other American ethnographer he has carefully studied casing,
display, and labeling. Where, as in the Eskimo series, the mate-
rial from any given region or tribe is large in amount and varied
in character, the arrangement is geographical. In general, how-
ever, the idea in the arrangement is to show culture history.
This idea, so admirably carried out in Oxford, is scarcely found
elsewhere in American museums. Some of the series are excel-
lent ; the development of the knife, the history of musical instru-
ments, the history of fire-producing instruments are good. Some
cases tell the story of a whole technique ; thus the case of Guada-
lajara (Mexico) pottery shows by specimens and by small figures
of potters at work every step in the manufacture. A point that
Adolf F. Bandelier.
