ANTHROPOLOGICAL WORK IN AMERICA.
33
Prof. Mason particularly wishes to emphasize is the way in which
primitive man works. Thus he is not content with securing the
various fire-making machines, but he must have Mr. Hough dem-
onstrate their use by actually making fire with them. So he has
encouraged Mr. Maguire to illustrate how stone tools were made
by making them. One is astounded by the vast collections in
this museum there is a bewildering wealth of material. All
that is received is divided into three series the smallest is dis-
played in cases ; the second, much larger and wonderfully rich,
is placed in drawers for students to use ; the third is stored away
for purposes of exchange. The museum publishes its own Trans-
actions, in which many valuable monographs appear.
The Curator of Prehistoric Anthropology of the Smithsonian
Institution is the Hon. Thomas Wilson, who at one time repre-
sented our Government in Europe. While there he had unusual
opportunities for field-work in the famous localities, for study of
museums, and for acquaintance with the workers. He has charge
of a vast mass of material. Here are surface-found specimens
from every State in the Union ; the beautiful objects from the
mounds which supplied the
illustrations for Holmes's
Art in Shell ; the famous
copper plates from the Eto-
wah mounds ; the Perkins
collection of copper imple-
ments from Wisconsin ; the
Latimer collection of stone
implements from Porto Rico ;
good series from Mexico, Yu-
catan, and Central America.
Here, too, are the results of
Dr. Cyrus Thomas's mound
explorations and Warren K.
Moorehead's deposit. A large
space is devoted to Mr. Min-
deleff's wonderfully natural
and interesting miniature re-
productions of the pueblos
of New Mexico. There is, in
fact, such a wealth of mate-
rial that one is confused by
its very abundance. Mr. Wilson has done a very wise and in-
structive thing in arranging "synoptical cases." These are table-
cases, placed in two groups, one on each side of the entrance-door.
In one is given, by a few carefully selected, carefully labeled, and
illustratedly explained specimens, a synopsis of the prehistoric
Mrs. Zelia Nuttall.
