34
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
archeology of Europe, tlie arrangement following De Mortillet's
classification. In the second group of cases a similar synoptical
arrangement illustrates American archaeology. As to the general
collection, it is arranged strictly on a geographical basis, speci-
mens from one State being together. Under this grouping a
sub-classification according to form or type is carried out. One
important work undertaken by Mr. Wilson deserves mention.
From specimens in the museum a series of about one hundred has
been selected, from which
copies in plaster have been
carefully made. One hun-
dred such sets of casts have
been prepared, and printed
labels accompany them.
These sets of casts are to be
distributed to various insti-
tutions of learning in the
United States, and consid-
erable public interest in ar-
chaeology should be the re-
sult.
To complete our sketch
we must refer to some indi-
vidual explorations or work,
and to anthropological pe-
riodicals. The Hemenway
Archaeological Exploration
has been mentioned. This
important work is support-
ed by Mrs. Hemenway, of
Boston. At present Dr. J. Walter Fewkes is the director of the
work, which is centered upon the living tribes in the Moki pueblos.
Dr. Fewkes is admirably qualified for the task, as he has had a
thorough training in scientific methods of study. His field-work
is excellent, and his own taste leads him to investigate the exceed-
ingly interesting but difficult subject of the significance of the
religious-dance ceremonials. Dr. Fewkes is perhaps the first
scientist who has used the phonograph in taking down the re-
ligious music of a barbarous tribe. He has gathered consider-
able Zuni music in this way, which Mr. Benjamin Ives Gilman
has studied carefully. The results of this study as well as those
of Dr. Fewkes's own work are published in the Journal of Amer-
ican Ethnology and Archaeology, the official organ of the explora-
tion. Work in the Southwest presents many attractions, and a
recently organized expedition under, Mr. Warren K. Moorehead,.
is now in the field. This expedition is, we believe, the child of a
Miss Alice
Fletcher.
