WAYS OF THE OWL. 327
knows a piece of cloth which I have used to thro ead
when I have wished to handle him. and the Bight of it
cause him to make strong efforts to escape from hi - -. All
three of the barred owls hide their snrplns food, and remember
where they keep it. Snowdon, on the contrary, sornetin. nds
tons which he is not ready to devour, letting hi
sink down bo as to cover them. Puffy not only nnd the
commands " Get on " and " Get off," hut he knows his; own
and generally an I call him V giving
clap "with his beak. He has frequently aledhi -. to
me by this answer when I have lost Mm in the bushes, tall g
or at twilight. That he especially, and all my other owls to a
degree, know me and distinguish me readily from strangers, :-. I
think, undoubtedly a fact. Thus far I hav rn unable *
that any of the owls have a clear notion of t: as indi-
cated by the coming or _ a >f daylight. The a rk-
ings of owls are extremely economical In summer the bird
enormous appetites, and become frantic with hunger if not fed.
:y forty or fifty hours. In winter, on the contrary, the ma-
ture birds fast for a week or more without complaint. During
the winter of 1889-'90 I could not ~ain that Fluffy ate any-
thing for more than a month that is, from Christmas-time until
first week in February. Throughout this period he seemed
well, though inclined to keep quiet and t ~ y in the darkest
corner of the cellar. When fed regular". amply, all the
species of owls with which I have had any ience cast from
their mouths egg-shaped "' pell " -." composed of the bone and hair,
fish-scales, and feathers which remain in th-^: si machfi after the
digestion of the more nutritious parts of recent meals. This
tion is accomplished easily and quickly, with very little visible
muscular action. It usually, or at least often, takes pi at the
moment when the owl has anoth rty meal in view. TL
furnaces burn nearly all that goes into them. Considering the
amount of fuel put in, the extremely small amount of a - b
wonderful.
In disposition my owls vary widely. The barred as
owls go remarkably - -tempered and gentle. I never have
d one offer violence to another, even when two were struggling
over a morsel which both v.- mined to hav - don is
sullen, stupid, cowardly, and treacherous. The _ t-horned has
a temper, but he generally k - it ncealed under an air of dig-
nified reserve. My 9d -ch-owls, when not shamming sleep or
death, were irritable, quarrelsome, and ferocious. Between
three-barred owls the: idual diff- ss in disposition,
which are readily learned but not easily described. They srand
out distinctly in my mind as three characters, just as three chil-
