ALMOND CULTURE IN CALIFORNIA. 329
American market. What there is of it, however, is rapidly filling
up with the trees. Not more than half of those already set out
are now in bearing. So it may not be many years before the
California almond-grower will be able to depress a market which
he can never hope to wholly supply, even with the burden of a
high protective tax of five cents a pound heaped upon his foreign
competitor.*
For the past year I have myself been an almond grower, in a
small way, my total product being almost exactly one car-load.
The purpose of this paper is to describe the processes by which
the favorite nut of Americans is produced and made ready for
their holiday tables.
To begin at the beginning, the almond is strictly a budded or
grafted tree. A seedling apple, peach, cherry, or plum is sure to
be good for something and marketable at a fair price, though
it may be far below the grafted stock in quality and product-
iveness. The seedling almond may, like other seedlings, be an
improvement, but it is very apt to be utterly worthless and
unsalable, and may ue deadly poison. It is as if its evolution
were so recent that its type is not well set, and its tendency to
atavism, or " breeding back " to older types, quite strong. This
inclination to " sport " shows itself even in budded and grafted
trees. All except the oldest trees on this ranch were planted
and budded on the ranch, under the careful supervision of the
owner. In selecting the buds and scions he not only paid strict
attention to varieties, but took care to cut from none but the
most prolific bearers of the best nuts among the tested trees of
each variety. In spite of all his care, we have some interest-
ing sports. There are trees that never bear at all ; others bear
worthless nuts. One yields a nearly perfect peach-pit inclosed
in a nearly perfect almond drupe. And the four named varie-
ties, though amply distinct when fairly represented, now and
then shade into one another so gradually that the most experi-
* The table on page 314, Internal Commerce of the United States, 1890, estimates the
" shipment " of almonds as follows :
Tear. Pounds.
1885 1,050,000
1886 600,000
1887 500,000
1888 450,000
1889 600,000
Whence or whither the " shipments " were made is not stated. The connection indicates
that they were from the eight leading fruit and nut shipping points in California. The
figures look like guesses, and no clew is given to the amounts shipped from the other points
to San Francisco, to be reshipped and thus counted twice in the table, which does not in-
clude some important almond-shipping points ; and would not include my 15,000 pounds
sent from a point not named in it direct to Chicago.
