33Q THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
enced pickers have difficulty in deciding which box to empty
their baskets into.
Of the many varieties of almonds four only are cultivated on
this ranch, and their most important difference is in the weight
and hardness of shell. None of them is a hard-shell, but the
standard is a rather hard soft-shell ; the Languedoc is the regular
soft-shell, so quoted in the market reports ; the paper-shell is the
nut regularly quoted as "paper-shell" ; and the California paper-
shell is a new and very distinct variety which originated within a
mile of here, and has made this ranch famous among the nursery-
men of the State. The trees grown from its buds and scions prob-
ably number at this writing half a million. At any rate, enough
has been cut from it to produce a far greater number. It was a
purely accidental seedling, not a premeditated hybrid. But its
good size, plump kernel, extraordinarily thin, light shells, sweet
flavor, and agreeable appearance have won its way in the mar-
kets; and sold alongside of other nuts, hard-shell, soft-shell, or
paper-shell, in San Francisco, New York, or Chicago, it brings
the highest price of all by two or three cents a pound. It is the
truest of all to type, and most distinct in the form of the tree.
Mr. Morrison at first set out a twenty-five-acre orchard entirely of
this variety. But, being disturbed by reports that it had proved
a shy bearer, he sawed off three fourths of the trees and grafted in
the better-known varieties. The new almond certainly has not
borne so well as the others since I have been familiar with it,
and I am afraid the difference in productiveness offsets the dif-
ference in price. Otherwise the California paper-shell would
be a valuable contribution, strictly American, to the improve-
ment of the almond; and Mr. Webster Treat, who has tried it
on a larger scale than anybody else, claims in his paper, read
before the State Board of Horticulture, that it is the hardiest
and most prolific as well as the most salable almond grown. He
confidently predicts that it will drive the foreign almond out of
the market.
The almond is an unpruned apple tree in size and shape, and
in smoothness and color of bark; a peach tree in foliage and
green fruit. The leaf is so exactly like that of the peach, to which
it is most nearly related, that the casual visitor can not distin-
guish them. The same is true of the fruit in a very green state.
The drupe is a peach in taste and smell, both green and dry. The
almond is quite commonly grafted on peach stock, though some
prefer the almond stock on account of its alleged greater hardi-
ness and longevity. An almond orchard in bloom is a thing of
beauty. The first one I ever saw was the one immortalized in the
story of Ramona, and it happened on Washington's birthday.
The date shows what an early bloomer it is. First of all the fruit
