SCIENCE AND FINE ART. 21
cessors ; but there can be no better counteractive to this Michael-
angelesque mannerism than an earnest study of the real. And a
little comparative anatomy protects against such faults as that
which overtook a very famous master, who made a joint too many
in the hind leg of a horse ; or, as we see on the Fontaine Cuvier
near the Jardin des Plantes, to the diversion of the naturalist, a
crocodile bending its stiff neck so far back that the snout almost
touches the side of the animal.
We are, however, the less astonished at Mr. Ruskin's judgment
when we learn that he also lays the same ban upon the study of
the nude as upon that of anatomy. It should extend, he says, no
further than health, custom, and propriety permit the exposure of
the body, for which the use of anatomy would certainly be limited.
It is well that propriety, custom, and health permitted more free-
dom on this point among the Hellenes than exists in England.
Fortunately, the English department of the Jubilee Exhibition
four years ago gave us opportunity to satisfy ourselves that Mr.
Ruskin's dangerous paradoxes had not been carried out, and
allowed us to forget them in the sight of Mr. Alma Tadema's and
Mr. Herkomer's magnificent contributions. Mr. Walter Crane's
charming series of pictures, which adorn our book tables, have
also risen up against Mr. Ruskin's absurd doctrine.
In the same lectures Mr. Ruskin assailed the theory of selec-
tion and descent with great vigor, and attacked the censure, based
upon it, of artists' pictures representing vertebrates with more
than four extremities. He said : " Can any law be conceived
more arbitrary or more apparently causeless ? What strongly
planted three-legged animals there might have been ! What
systematically radiant five-legged ones ! What volatile six-
winged ones ! What circumspect seven-headed ones ! Had Dar-
winism been true, we should long ago have split our heads in two
with foolish thinking, or thrust out, from above our covetous
hearts, a hundred desirous arms and clutching hands, and changed
ourselves into Briarean cephalopods." *
It is clear from these words that this false prophet had no
notion of what we in morphology call a type. Can it be necessary
to tell Sir Richard Owen's and Prof. Huxley's countryman that
every vertebrate has as the foundation of its body a vertebral
column, expanding in front into the skull, and contracting behind
into the tail ; encircled in front and behind by two bone girdles,
the pectoral and the pelvic arches, from which depend the fore
and the hinder extremities, regularly jointed ? That paleontology
has never discovered a vertebrate form divergent from this type
is certainly a striking argument in favor of the theory of descent
* The Eagle's Nest, p. 204.
