ALMOND CULTURE IN CALIFORNIA. 331
blossoms of spring comes the showy almond, a dense mass of
white with a " hint of a tint " of pink in it.*
The cultivation of the almond is easier than of any other tree,
unless it be the prune. The orchard is plowed and harrowed once
or twice a year, and then the weeds are kept down in any way the
farmer chooses. The amount of work required to do this depends
on the weather, and is just the same for the almond as for any
other tree. But the almond tree, like the prune, is never pruned
in this region. Like the prune, the fruit is never thinned on the
tree, as the peach and apricot must always be, to produce a crop of
good fruit. The heavy pruning and thinning required every
year on our peach and apricot trees is a great expense, the thin-
ning alone often costing fifty cents a tree, for an average of the
whole orchard. Aside from stirring the soil and killing the
weeds, a dozen apricot trees take more care and labor than a dozen
acres of almonds. This is the consideration that makes almond-
growing popular. Equally important is the fact that thus far the
almond has no parasites, such as scales, moths, etc., while almost
every year adds a new recruit to the insect enemies of other
fruits. Our peach-growers are put to the expense of buying cost-
ly machines for spraying their trees, and insecticides with which
to spray them. Insecticides cost money, and spraying costs time
and labor. If the wash is strong enough to kill the scale, it is apt
to kill the new wood of the tree a very serious matter in the case
of the peach, whose fruit is all on its last year's growth of wood.
Still, the spraying must be done every year, and may even be en-
forced by law in California. All this trouble and expense are
saved to the almond-grower, whose only insect enemy is the red
spider, a semi-occasional visitor easily got rid of, and not formid-
able if left unhindered in his work.
First to bloom in the spring, the almond is last to mature in
the fall. The whole spring and summer long it hangs there, a
green peach for all the world, and after the first few weeks never
increasing in size or changing in appearance. The seam is deeper
than in most peaches, but not deeper than in the ripe apricot.
Late in August this seam will be seen to have opened in a few of
the earliest. The grower's anxiety now reaches its climax. Will
his almonds open and remain open until harvested, or will the
drupe remain closed, or only partially open and then close tight
again ? The whole profit of the crop may depend on this ques-
tion. It may cost half they are worth to pick and husk them.
* The writer in the Encyclopaedia Britannica combats the ancient tradition that almond
blossoms are white. He says they are pink. As I have seen them it is more proper to call
them white than pink, though the whitest contain a suggestion of pink, and some varieties
show it so plainly as to be distinguishable at considerable distances.
