ALMOND CULTURE LN CALLFORNLA. 337
carry in the pocket, would save money by paying a little more
for paper-shells, to say nothing of convenience in cracking es-
pecially as a pocket nut. Those who buy them for children in-
clined to use their teeth as nut-crackers would save something
worth more than money. The child who disobeys and clandes-
tinely cracked his almonds that way would not be damaging his
teeth as much as if chewing a hard crust of bread or a dry toast.
On the other hand, many persons, after their attention has been
called to the subject, like, or think they like, the flavor of the
harder-shelled Standards and Languedocs better than of the
paper-shells ; and de gustibus non est disputandum. The writer
hereof has no preference. He never did eat almonds, nor any
other imported nuts except Brazil-nuts, when he could get the
native nuts of the Mississippi Valley.
If this is due to early associations, the almond would by the
same token be the favorite nut of the younger generation of Cali-
fornia almond-growers. They had no eatable wild nuts, their na-
tive walnut tree, transplanted to their homes for its beauty, bear-
ing a worthless nut. The almond, of all their crops, was best
adapted to cultivate and felicitate home life. They harvested it
themselves, knocking the nuts off the tree in the daytime, husk-
ing what they could, and carrying the rest into the house to be
husked by all the nimble fingers of the large, old-fashioned fam-
ilies at night. Prices were high then, and every pound husked
meant twenty, twenty-five, or even thirty cents. With such
prices, never-failing crops, and little or no cash expense, it is no
wonder that almond-growing became popular, nor that the solid-
est farmers attribute their present comfortable circumstances to
almonds. Well may they turn from these degenerate dime-a-
pound seasons of more than occasional failure, when the inevi-
table Chinaman, whom the Exclusion Act has exalted into a grasp-
ing monopolist of labor, takes half the proceeds of the harvest,
and takes it before the producer gets the first penny of it into his
own fingers, back to those cheery days of old.
Cured ready for market, the nuts are stored or shipped just
like barley, the same coarse gunny-sack being used. Its ca-
pacity is that of the cotton sacks used by Eastern farmers, by them
branded and kept on the farm. The California sack is also often
branded, but goes all the way to the final market and never comes
back. All grain is shipped from Pacific ports in that manner.
And, though the single sack costs but seven to ten cents, the
whole expense is a great burden estimated for the State at
$2,000,000 a year on the California producer. He can not escape
it, for there are no elevators. Where grain has to be handled
from five to ten times before reaching its consumer, the sack be-
comes a still more expensive crudity, shaving down the producer's
VOL. XLI. 25
