338 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
profits. To the grain-grower the average loss by it is officially
estimated at ten per cent of his gross proceeds. The sacks alone
cost me six per cent this year on the gross proceeds of a thou-
sand bushels of the best brewing barley, sold at a price twenty-
five per cent higher than that realized by the average grower of
the common grades. How much I paid the warehouseman at
home, the one in San Francisco, the one in Liverpool, and the
brewer, each of whom handled it twice, for the extra work of the
sack system over the elevator system, I do not know. They may
have done it gratis, but I do not think so. At any rate, long after
the system is universally recognized to be a monstrous and un-
necessary burden, we shall be held to it by the same cause which
binds England to its crude passenger-coach and America to its
deadly hand-coupling and brake on its freight trains the neces-
sity of changing all at once and on so large a scale when the
change is made.
But the burden on the almond-grower is trifling one per cent
for sacks in my case the product being so much more valuable
in proportion to bulk. The sack is altogether an advantage. It
saves the delicate shell, and furnishes a place for the brand of the
orchardist who is proud of his product and wishes to work up a
reputation for it, and also for another brand giving the name of
the variety contained in each sack.
An important practical question confronting every prospective
orchardist is, How soon will my trees come into bearing and pay
their own expenses and interest on my investment ? In these
days of harnessed steam and chained lightning, young America
plants for himself and not for his children. Some old men who
have tried it a little have come to the conclusion that too much
planting for posterity is a mistaken kindness for which poster-
ity, lying in the shade, kicking up its heels and letting its facul-
ties rust for want of planting to do, returns no thanks. The al-
mond is an early bearer. At four years from the seed the orchard
of which I am the lessee yielded, at about average prices, about
eighty dollars per acre gross say sixty dollars net. This year at
six years old, prices considerably below the average, the gross pro-
ceeds will be about one hundred and twenty-five dollars per acre.
I do not think any other orchard yielded so much per tree, of the
same size; but, on the other hand, these trees are so wide apart
(twenty-eight feet) that there are only about half the usual num-
ber of trees on an acre. While the trees are small, this tells
against the yield per acre, and so in this respect this orchard is
probably only a fair example. It was not an exceptionally early
bearer. In a general way it may be said that an almond orchard
yields as quick returns as an average herd of beef steers, but not
as quick as a herd of heifers. And in the mean time the planter
