LEA THER-MAKING.
339
does not lose the use of his land. He plants other crops between
the rows and does not lose a single year. But of course no ordi-
nary annual crop can yield a profitable return on the price he will
have to pay for land known to be adapted to almonds.
The almond, most precious by weight of all orchard products,
involves the least labor, care, anxiety, expense, and skill of all,
except perhaps the prune. In recent years it has never yielded
the fabulous returns occasionally realized by the growers of al-
most every other fruit and nut. It never yields, as the orange
has, a competence for life in a single year from ten acres. Its
reasonable expectations are about one hundred dollars net per
acre.
The old Latin form of the word almond (Amygdala) furnishes
the name whereby botanists designate the genus to which belong
its two species (A. communis, the sweet, and A. amara, the bitter
almond), and the peach (A. persica).
LEATHER-MAKING.
By GEOEGE A. KICH.
XV. DEVELOPMENT OF AMERICAN INDUSTRIES SINCE COLUMBUS.
ZADOCK PRATT, the great leather manufacturer, once gave
as his toast at a notable trade dinner, " There is nothing like
leather." The determined, enterprising spirit indicated by that
sentiment may be said to be the distinguishing mark of the mod-
ern tanner, and it is possible that therein lies the explanation
why one in tracing the course of that industry must look so
largely to recent years for progress and development. But the
course of this development furnishes an interesting commentary
upon the application, or more accurately, perhaps, the lack of
application, of the principles of science to this one of the indus-
trial arts. Now, the art of tanning is one in which a knowledge
of science, especially of chemical science, could be made to do
most effective service. The operation is essentially a chemical
one. Yet, as a matter of fact, since the first demonstration of the
union of gelatin and tannin, chemistry has done almost nothing
to facilitate the operation. It is not to that that the industry
owes its remarkable progress ; rather, it is to the invention of
improved apparatus for hastening old processes. Just estimate,
of course, must be made of the fact that the scientific knowledge
of the principles involved in tanning did much to make these
inventions possible. At the same time, however, as Mr. C. T.
Davis has remarked in his admirable treatise upon leather : " Take
