LEA THER-MAKING.
34 1
Fig. 2. Divisions of a Hide.
ABCDis termed the " butt,"
and the halves of the butt
marked by the dividing line
E F are known as " bends."
H H are the " cheeks," while
the upper portion of the butt
figures as the " shoulders."
in its inception can properly bear no wider designation than the
" dressing of skins."
Leather, in the broad application of the term, is a combination
of gelatin and mineral salts, oil or tannic acid. The hide or skin
of an animal consists of two layers the
outer (epidermis), a hard cellular plate
into which neither nerves nor blood-ves-
sels penetrate ; and the inner, or true skin
(dermis), a dense membrane composed of
fibers interlacing in a curiously complex
manner. These connecting fibers consist
almost wholly of gelatigenous tissues.
They will dissolve in boiling water, thus
forming gelatin, will enter into solution
with concentrated acids and alkalies,
and will combine with oil and tannin.
As such this tissue forms the basis of all
leather, and the labor of the tanner be-
comes one of bringing it into chemical
or mechanical combination with these
other components.
The original process of curing skins
was probably the simple one of cleaning
and drying them. Removal of the hair by maceration in water
seems to have been common among the very early tribes, and
one writer has suggested that the idea was obtained from the
natural process of depilation. They must certainly have been
familiar with it in the case of drowned animals, where macera-
tion can be plainly observed. Following this, smoke, sour milk,
oil, and the brains of the animals themselves were found effica
cious. Many of these primitive methods are employed at the
present time, thus bringing into novel conjunction the days of
the roving Massagetse and those of the thrifty American. An
acquaintance of the writer, a Massachusetts tanner, traveling re-
cently through the province of Winnipeg, chanced upon a small
Indian village. The place was in no way interesting except in
the employment of the squaws. They were all busily engaged in
removing the hair and muscles from the skins, largely those of
deer and moose, which the bucks had taken in the chase. This
they did by means of sharpened bones which they plied in a vig-
orous manner, rubbing away both flesh and hair. The skins, it
seemed, had been taken from the animals some time before, and
together with the brains partially dried in the sun. After the
squaws had completed this scraping process, the skins were
steeped in a lather-like mixture made from water and dried
brains, and were then reduced to a soft texture by frequent knead
