342
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
ing and similar manipulation. Ten days later this same manu-
facturer was in Peabody, Mass., in one of the most complete of
modern tanneries, and, though the space of time intervening was
only a little more than a week, yet in it he had traversed the
whole gamut of the art.
In order of development after these crude methods came the
discovery that certain astringent barks and vegetable substances
possessed the property of condensing and arresting the septic
tendency of animal membranes. This discovery must have been
made very early, however, as the knowledge of it appears among
many of the ancient nations. But, whatever the time, from it
dates the beginning of the tan-
nery. The Egyptians were
probably among the first to
become proficient in this pro-
cess of preparing what had
come to be such an important
article of personal economy.
Among the tapestries and
sculptures that remain to us
from them are several which
picture the operations of cur-
rying, working, and stretching
leather. One in viewing them
might almost imagine himself
in a small country tannery.
Figures are seen using the fa-
miliar awl, polishing - stone,
and the semicircular currier's
knife, while the processes de-
picted are very suggestive of
the present day. But the Egyp-
tians are by no means to be
given all the credit for this
Fig. 3. Tanner's Beam and Knives. The hide ^, ,^^ rp-i TT ^^U^l,r
was thrown over this beam after the hair had progress. They Undoubtedly
been loosened, and with the working-knives obtained many of their most
(a and C ) and the iieshing-knife (6) was scraped va l ua ljl e suggestions f rom the
tree of both hair and refuse. Machinery has c ' c ' .
very largely superseded these now. Arabs. Those roving Bedou-
ins were by no means botanists
in the modern sense of the word, but they had a thorough knowl-
edge of all the peculiarities of such plants and shrubs as marked
the desert, one of the most common of which was the acacia.
That this knowledge was a practical one is proved by the fact
that they were acquainted with the tanning properties of the pods
of this plant. They were experts, too, in the methods of depila-
tion, so that the Egyptians, by making a short excursion, had at
