LEA THER-MAKING. 3 5 1
challenged upon it, hastening the decay of the vats and boxes,
and giving an air of desolation to the tannery. But despite all
this crudeness, as Bolles has said, and investigation tends to con-
firm, in this way throughout New England and the Middle States,
leather, probably equal to that of any European country except
England, was made even before the separation, to an extent
more nearly approaching a sufficiency than any other article.
As already noted, the tanner owes more to the mechanic and
machinist than to the chemist. In 1793 Deyeux, a French chem-
ist, discovered that tannin was a peculiar body, and two years
later Seguin proved that it was the active principle demanded in
the operation of tanning. This led to something of a study of the
properties of tannin and its distribution. In 1801 Banks, an
English chemist, found that it was contained in terra japonica
or catechu, and since then the list from which it can be extracted,
and profitably, too, has been greatly enlarged. The use of liquor
containing this active principle of hemlock or oak bark, the
" ooze," as it is called, was suggested in England in 1759, but it
was first rendered practically successful by Fay in 1790, and
Seguin, of France, in 1795. The English had rendered their
leather flexible by giving it a thorough beating with hammers
by hand. Switzerland, as early as 1800, used water-power ham-
mers, and subsequently replaced them with stamps. Berendorf,
of Paris, in 1842, invented a pressing stamp, afterward supple-
mented by Harvey and Devergue with a roller which accom-
plished the same thing by passing it back and forth over the
leather.
These advances in Europe were not duplicated in the industry
in this country. They had their counterparts here, however, and
in the end the progress of the Americans, which is measured in
this case by the shortening of the operations and the cheapening
of the product, kept pace with their craftsmen across the water.
Accidents are said to play an important part in the development
of any industry. Analyses of these incidents, however, usually
show that the accident lay simply in the fact that there happened
to be an observing man, of suggestive mind and quick applica-
tion, about when the occurrence took place. Barrels full of apples
probably had fallen before the historic one caught the eye of a
Newton. The steam of the tea-kettle might be making music to-
day without any further results had not fertile-minded Watts, or
his double, heard it and seen it. In the same way these forward
steps in the making of leather came from a combination of ordi-
nary incidents and practical men who saw in them suggestions
for better things. One of the pioneers in bringing about these
changes in this country was Colonel William Edwards. He built
a tannery at Northampton, Mass., about 1790, selecting the
