SCIENCE AND FINE ART. 23
spinal marrows, hearts, intestinal canals, lungs, kidneys, and
sense-organs, are and remain an intolerable sight to the mor-
phologically cultivated eye, and prove that, although the sculp-
tors of Pergamon were superior in technical ability to their pre-
decessors of the age of Pericles, they were inferior to them in re-
finement of artistic feeling. They were perhaps pardonable, so
far as tradition bound them, for making giants with snakes' legs.
The hippocamps and the Tritons with horses' legs and double
fish-tails which disfigure the railings of our Schlossbrucke, come
from another time, when the antique still ruled unrestrained and
morphological standards were less common property than they
are now. But it is a matter of deep moment to us, if a famous
painter of the present suffers such monstrosities, issuing from
the trunk, as sleek, sheeny salmon hardly concealing the line
between the human skin and the scales, to dance realistically
on the cliffs or splash around in the sea. The multitude ad-
mires such blue sea-marvels as works of genius ; what a genius,
then, must Hollen-Breughel have been !
Singularly enough, the primitive men in the caves of Pe'ri-
gord, contemporaries of the mammoth and the musk ox in
France, and the Bushmen, whose paintings Herr Fritsch discov-
ered,* only painted the animals known to them as truly as they
could, while the comparatively highly civilized Aztecs outran all
that is Oriental in abominable inventions. It almost seems as if
bad taste belonged to a certain middle stage of culture. It fol-
lows from what we have said that anatomical instruction in art
schools should not be confined to osteology, myology, and the
theory of human motion, but should take pains to inculcate in
the pupils not a very hard thing the fundamental principles of
vertebrate morphology.
It should be the task of botanists to expose the breaches of
the laws of the metamorphoses of plants which meet them so
frequently in the acanthus arabesques, palmettos, rosettes, and
scroll ornaments that are borrowed from the antique. But for
obvious reasons these offenses do not afflict the student of plants
so painfully as malformations of men and animals, repulsive to a
sound taste, affect the comparative anatomist. Moreover, a more
wholesome turn has lately come over floral ornament. When in
the Renaissance the Gothic was displaced by the antique, art was
impoverished of ornamental motives. The richness of invention,
the naive observation of Nature, of which the rows of capitals
in many cloisters bear witness, yielded gradually to a conventional
schematism at the base of which was nothing real. But as Rauch
at Carrara, instead of the eagle of a statue of Jupiter, made
* Drei Jahre in Siidafrica. Reiseskitzzen, etc. Breslau, 1868, pp. 99, 100.
