LEA THER-MAKING. 3 5 9
It would be impossible to even enumerate the many inventions
that have been made to save hand labor and hasten the various
processes of finishing. Among the most serviceable is the scour-
ing machine. When the leather is taken from the vats it is usu-
ally covered with dust and sediment and stained with resinous
matter. Formerly these defects were removed by hand with
brush, stone, and slicker; now, however, it is done by "scrub-
bers " and scouring machines. There is a variety of these, but in
general they consist of a level table or platform which is freely
movable in all directions. Mounted above it is a reciprocating
frame, in which are fixed brushes and pieces of slate and thin
stone. By the movement of this, with a small jet of water, the
whole surface of the leather is scoured and brushed. Another
invention this to replace the work of the currier in paring and
evening and bringing out the grain of the leather is the whitener.
Essentially this machine is like a lawn-mower. It performs its
work through the cutting action of a small cylinder with sharp,
oblique edges. The cylinder itself moves to and fro over the
leather while the knives revolve at the rate of two thousand times
per minute. In the machine invented by Mr. Charles Korn, one
of the most skillful leather-finishers in the country, these knives
are fastened to an endless leather belt, and are set diagonally, so
that when the cut is made on the beam as it passes down in front
of the operator it is a sliding one. The knives are cleared on the
edge by an automatic finger and sharpened by an automatic hand.
In the Union leather whitener the belt contains thirty-two
knives, while the cylinder revolves 2,780 times per minute, and
the pendulum swings to and from the operator at a speed of
ninety a minute. These machines can do the work of from four
to eight men, and do it as well. Still another finishing machine
is the stuffing-wheel, by which the tallow and oil are worked into
the leather. This was patented in this country in 1855 by L. W.
Fiske, of Louisville, Ky., though it had been previously used in
France and Germany. The crude idea of a stuffing-wheel is a
revolving hogshead into which the leather and grease are put
and a current of steam or heated air passed through. The success
of this wheel did much to revolutionize the character of the upper
leather of this country. By it the oil and tallow were worked
into the center of the fiber, thus making the leather soft and
yielding instead of stiff and hard as of old. These devices near-
ly all had their origin about the time of the civil war, when
workmen were scarce in the North, and when manufacturers
had to turn their attention to some means of supplying the de-
ficiency.
In point of importance, next to the invention of the splitting
machine, stands the discovery of a method for utilizing spent wet
