362 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
mechanical combination of gelatin and tannin or mineral salts
or oil it is evident that tanned leather is not the only kind of
leather. Indeed, there may be said to be three kinds, depending
on the constituent elements. There are (1) tanned leather, in
which the gelatin is combined with tannin or tannic acid ; (2)
tawed leather, in which the gelatin is combined with mineral
salts ; and (3) shamoyed leather, in which the gelatin is com-
bined with oils and fatty substances. Sir Humphry Davy has
distinguished between the first of these and the second and third
by the statement that tanned leather is a chemical combination,
its characteristic being that water will not separate its constituent
elements or dissolve their connection, whereas in the case of the
others it will return them to their original components. All
three kinds of leather are made largely in this country. Tawed
and shamoyed leather are used extensively for gloves, clothing,
and domestic purposes. Some of the finer qualities have a wide
use for fancy finish and ornamentation ; but red tanned leather is
the oldest in this country, and overtops the others by far in ex-
tent and importance, and the processes described have been those
pertaining to its manufacture. And there is a wide variety in
that. The heavier grades of leather, such as are used for trunks
and the soles of boots and shoes, are made from the butts or the
back of the hides of the buffalo, ox, and cow. The lighter grades,
such as kip or upper leather, are made from the hides of young
cattle older than calves and from the hides of a small breed of
cattle common to India, Russia, and Africa ; while all the spongy
leather and morocco, or its imitation, is prepared from sheep and
goat skins. These distinctions, however, are only general, but
they indicate the lines along which the various branches of the
industry divide. American tanners, too, have not been slow about
introducing new varieties of leather. Japanned leather, used
largely for fancy work and for certain styles of shoes, was first
made in this country in 1818 by Seth Boyden, of Newark, 1ST. J.
In the manufacture of this the leather is first coated with a com-
pound of linseed oil, umber, and lampblack, applied three or four
times, and then is treated to a varnish made of Prussian blue and
linseed oil. The leather, which had previously been stretched
over frames, is afterward run into ovens heated up to 175 Fahr.
Newark, too, was the original home of the enameled leather in-
dustry, David Crockett having introduced that finish. This is
made much like the japanned leather, except that it is less smooth
and less highly polished, the aim being to bring the grain into
relief. This is used almost wholly in the coverings of carriages,
and it is a branch in which America has always held the lead.
Alligator skins were first tanned in Louisiana about 1855, and a
considerable business has since grown up in some of the States.
