368 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
are a little contrary to those generally received ; but I think I
shall succeed in convincing those who will go carefully into the
matter with me that many preconceived conceptions on the sub-
ject of diet will not bear investigation. Perhaps the particular
condition of the system that I am called upon to treat obesity-
gives me a greater insight into the exact effect of diet than falls
to the lot of the ordinary physician or specialist. To begin with,
I will assail a time-honored belief viz., that meat is a heating
food that is, in the sense of giving warmth, and raising the heat
of the body ; and that farinaceous foods are the reverse. People
believe that the less meat they eat in the summer the better,
" because it tends to heat the system." Now, it is a curious thing
that in dieting people for the reduction of fat by dietetic means
only and this I have to do at all seasons of the year I am
in the habit of cutting off farinaceous foods, sugar, and fat,
and giving large quantities of meat, green vegetables, stewed
fruit, and other non-fattening substances, in quantity regulated
according to the height, weight, and physical or mental work of
the individual, male or female, as the case may be; with the
result that in the colder months of the year people tell me that
they do not feel too warm, clothe as they will. To so great an
extent does this sometimes occur, that I am obliged to supple-
ment the non-fattening diet by giving a little heat-forming food,
such as cream, or a slightly increased amount of bread, or a small
quantity of fat. The result is at once apparent. The body
warmth becomes more comfortable. Now, what does this show ?
It shows that the foods that supply heat are more particularly
farinaceous foods, sugar, and fat ; * and this is admitted by all
dieticians now. If this is so and it undoubtedly is it naturally
stands to reason that when the external temperature performs
this duty, the individual can not require so much food that will,
by its chemical decomposition in the body, maintain a high tem-
perature, and, if taken, as is usually the case, in excess, become
an incumbrance by being stored as fat. It must be distinctly
understood that the argument which I have used, where the
heat-forming food is cut off by me, is where the surplus fat in
the body is in excess that is, in corpulency and when it is
desirable to get rid by dietetic means of the accumulated fat in
the system. In this case the fat is the storehouse from which
the system draws to sustain its warmth, as long as the stored fat
is in excess.
A fat animal will live without food months longer than a thin
one. A pig buried by the fall of a cliff at Dover was dug out
alive one hundred and sixty days after. When it was buried by
* The Eskimo eats twelve pounds of fat a day.
