2 4 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
his studies for the birds of Lis monument upon a golden eagle
which was captured there, so art began about the middle of the
century to free itself from this dead conventionalism, and, corn-
bin in-" truth to Nature with beauty, applied itself again to the
rv.it ion and appropriation of the world of living plants
ind us. Japanese art long ago struck out the right way in
this region, and has been an inspiring motive for us. The minor
rations of the house, and the decorations of women's cloth-
ing, ha v.- been most happily enriched by it.
Perhaps the naturalist will be accused of a lack of logical
sequence if he, in another direction, renounces regard for the laws
of Nature in art. The thousand soaring and flying figures in the
art works of ancient and modern times undoubtedly defy the
universal and fundamental law of gravitation quite as much as
the most offensive creation of a perverted fancy defies the funda-
mental laws, vital only in a few adepts, of comparative anatomy.
Still, they do not displease us. We should rather see them with-
out wings than with paratypical wings which could not be of use
when of the usual size and without an immense muscular devel-
opment. "We are thus not shocked at the Sistine Madonna stand-
ing on the clouds and the figures beside her kneeling on the same
impossible ground. The face of Ezekiel in the Pitti Palace is less
acceptable. On the other hand, to mention later examples, in
the procession of the gods hastening to the help of the Trojans,
by Flaxman, Cornelius's Apocalyptic horseman, and Ary Schef-
fer's divine Francesca di Rimini, which Gustave Dore* hopelessly
tried to rival, our pleasure is not disturbed by the unphysical
character of the positions. We likewise do not object to Flax-
man's Sleep and Death bearing the body of Sarpedon through
the air.
Herr Exner, in his admirable address on the Physiology of
Flying and Soaring in Plastic Art,* tries to answer the question
why these impossible representations of conditions never seen
in man or beast, appear so natural and unexceptionable. I can
not agree in the solution with which he seems prepossessed. He
thinks that we experience something similar in ourselves in swim-
ming, and that in diving we see persons swimming over us, as
we w< raid in flying. If we reflect within how short a time swim-
ming has been made more general among civilized men, and
recently it has become an exercise of women, who are no less
with the soaring figures, doubt arises concerning Herr
mert explanation. It would be even hazardous to appeal in a
Darwinian fashion to an atavistic impression coming down from
the fish ago of man. And are not the sensations and the views
* Vienna, 1882.
