PROPER DIET FOR HOT WEATHER. 369
the fall it weighed about one hundred and sixty pounds ; when
dug out it weighed only forty.
Now, with regard to the proper diet for hot weather. In the
first place, we must take into consideration the occupation of the
individual. A man doing sedentary work or intellectual work
would not require the same diet as a person doing laborious mus-
cular work ; but this article, in nine cases out of ten, would appeal
to the ordinary individual earning his living by the sweat of his
brow, or, if I may so say, by the sweat of his brain. If a man
earns his living by the sweat of his brain he must, if he wishes to
live long, maintain his health by the sweat of his brow, that is, he
must, in some form or other, take muscular exercise. He may do
it by brisk walking, tennis, bicycling, shooting, hunting, or the
thousand and one pursuits that the average Englishman indulges
in ; so that, as I said before, the diet that I should lay down as
suitable for summer will, under these conditions, almost univer-
sally apply.
Nature apparently knows what is good for us, and Nature
furnishes for the different seasons suitable substances in the way
of food. But, of course, Nature assumes that man, being a rea-
sonable being, should study and apply them as he ought to do ;
but Nature in this case credits man with attributes that in this
matter he seldom possesses, or, at all events, does not care to use
if he does possess them. Men do not study Nature as much as
they should, at least the majority do not. If they did, they would
see that in the warm weather fruit should form a considerable
portion of the daily food. The most suitable articles for hot
weather, experience tells me, are fish, such kinds of meat as fowls
and game, green vegetables, salads, and fruit. Farinaceous food,
that is, starches, should be taken in the very smallest quantity
only. Sufficient sugar would be found in the different fruits that
the season of the year produces, and, therefore, should not be
supplemented.
In a former article on The Proper Diet for Cold "Weather, I
illustrated what I meant by giving one or two samples of a day's
dietary for an ordinary individual, and I will here do the same.
Of course, in an article of this kind it would be perfectly impos-
sible to distinctly draw a dietary suitable to each individual.
This can only be done by taking into consideration the mode of
life, the idiosyncrasies, the intellectual work, the peculiarities of
constitution of a particular person ; but in the case of the ordi-
nary healthy person, of course, these distinctions are not neces-
sary. If a man is too fat, he would require certain modifications ;
if he is gouty or biliously inclined, slight change would be neces-
sary ; but, as I said before, to go into this would be unnecessary and
out of place, and every intelligent person must alter and adapt the
