370 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
dietary to his means and to his special requirements. Pope says,
" The proper study of mankind is man," and, undoubtedly, if long-
life and comfort are to be attained, many would do well to lay his
aphorism to heart. In the case of a man of ordinary size doing
ordinary physical or mental work, this would represent an ordi-
nary day's food for hot weather, as far as quantity and constitu-
ents are concerned :
Beeakfast, 8.30 to 9 a.m. Two cups of tea or coffee, sweetened with saccha-
rine, one or two teaspoonfuls of cream in each; 1 oz. of dry toast, thinly but-
tered; 4 ozs. of grilled or boiled fish, such as plaice, sole, whiting, haddock, cod,
or trout, or 4 ozs. of cold chicken, cold tongue, or of grilled steak or chop.
Lunch, 1.30 p. m. Two or three ounces of cold mutton, beef, or lamb ; 3 or 4
ozs. of green vegetables, plainly boiled, plenty of green salad, made with vinegar,
but without oil ; 4 or 5 ozs. of stewed fruit ; water, or 2 or 3 glasses of pure dry
Moselles or other Rhine wines.
Afteenoon Tea, 4.30, if desieed. Two cups of tea as at breakfast; nothing
to eat.
Dinnee, 7 to 8. Julienne, or clear vegetable soup; 3 or 4 ozs. of fish; 3 or 4
ozs. of any red meat, or of chicken, rabbit, game, or venison ; 6 ozs. of any green
vegetable, with gravy from the meat only ; 4 ozs. of stewed fruit or of raw fruit ;
a little stale or pulled bread, and a small piece of cheese.
This diet may be varied as to hour; but three meals only
should be taken daily, and only sufficient at each meal to satisfy
appetite. Fruit may be taken at other times, and any quantity of
fluid, so long as it does not contain sugar ; any number of pleas-
ant alcoholic and other beverages suitable for the hot weather,
and particularly suitable for those who should not take quantities
of sugar, will be found in a book I wrote two or three years ago.*
Fruit is only beneficial in moderate quantity. If taken in ex-
cess, and out of proportion to other food, it is apt to derange the
bowels and cause diarrhoea ; more particularly is this the case if
it is eaten underripe or overripe in the former case, from its
undue acidity ; and in the latter, from its strong tendency to fer-
ment and decompose in the digestive tract. Fruit diminishes the
acidity of the secretion of the kidneys, and by virtue of this is
advantageous in gout.
It goes without saying that more fluid is necessary in hot
weather than in cold. Indeed, so long as it is a harmless fluid, I
question whether too much can be taken. Fluid in this way is to
the kidneys what fresh air is to the lungs, and the waste of meat
not used in the system is carried off by its aid.
A meat diet is healthy and life-prolonging if supplemented
with plenty of fluid to carry off its waste. That fluid should be
taken in large quantities in the summer is a wise provision of
Nature, as the skin carries off a large amount of waste from the
* Foods for the Fat : the Scientific Cure of Corpulency.
