PROPER DIET FOR HOT WEATHER. 371
system, and therefore its activity should "be stimulated in every
way, and it is most desirable by frequent baths to keep the pores
open. The perspiration drying on the skin leaves a deposit of its
salts and other waste constituents, and these should be washed off
as a matter of health. A very useful appliance for this purpose is
the " massage rubber/' patented by Mr. Crutchloe. This consists
of a serrated India-rubber surface, and when used it cleans the
skin of all scurf as a Turkish bath does, rapidly brings the blood to
the surface, and has the conditioning effect that grooming has on
a horse. The India rubber seems to act on the skin much as it
does in erasing lead-pencil marks from paper, and acts in a way
that no towel or brush can equal. All the old loose scurf of the
skin is cleared off, and a soft and smooth surface results. After
the brisk use of this dry rubber, a tepid bath is a great adjunct to
health in hot weather, to say nothing of its cooling and refreshing
results. I see a well-known man in the Hospital Gazette says the
massage rubber acts like a charm in rheumatism.
It would be no use advising those who take stimulants for the
sake of their stimulating qualities, that spirits and beers, and cer-
tain wines, are too heating in the summer ; and that, however
suitable port, sherry, spirits, and beer may be in the colder months
of the year, the most suitable beverages containing alcohol, for
this reason, are those known as the light, dry Moselle wines.
Even claret and Burgundy contain a large quantity of tannin,
and taken in excess are therefore apt to disagree and derange the
stomach. Where a nice dry Moselle is drunk in fairly moderate
quantity no harm can accrue. Of course, the quantity that would
apply to one person does not apply to another, and a free drinker
would certainly not be satisfied with less than two bottles.
The man who lives to eat, drinks after his soup a glass of pale
sherry ; after his fish, Rhine wine ; with his joint, Burgundy and
champagne ; with the entrees, Bordeaux or Burgundy ; with the
ice, champagne or liqueur, and with his dessert probably some old
crusted port. But the man who eats to live would be satisfied
with one pint of dry and delicate white wine, such as I have pre-
viously indicated, to cover the whole of this menu.
It is a well-known physiological fact that the system can not
assimilate more alcohol than is contained in a pint of dry Moselle
or claret, or in a half -pint of sherry or three pints and a half of
table beer, supposing it to be in that form ; or, if taken in the
form of whisky, about a wineglassful of pure whisky per day.
I do not mean to say that an excess of any of these quantities
would be absolutely injurious to health, and many might and do
exceed them considerably for very many years with impunity ;
but still, in ordinary individuals, this is the quantity that can be
taken with no harm whatever. In some houses people seem to
