PROPER DIET FOR HOT WEATHER. 373
undoubtedly arise from errors in dieting, that is, in the quantities
of food taken, in its not being adapted to the constitutional re-
quirements and environment of the individual, in its not being
properly estimated in its constituents, or applicability to the sea-
son of the year ; and if, as I said at the commencement of this
article, people would take as much trouble in adapting the food
to suit their needs as they do in so many other things of minor
importance, they would enjoy life more, and see more of it. It is
astonishing what a complete change in diet will do. Change in
diet acts like change in air, and is a potent factor in the treat-
ment of those conditions that indicate exhaustion of the nerv-
ous system, and, as a corollary, general collapse. Man is some-
thing like a steam-engine, and he requires fuel according to the
work he has to do. The driver of an express train does not have
his engine fed as the driver of a slow train does, and so it is with
the human engine. The fuel in this case should be to a certain
extent adjusted as to whether it is to be utilized for intellectual
or muscular work ; and if this is done, a large amount of intel-
lectual or physical work may be accomplished without strain.
But if these facts are ignored, the complex mechanism on which
the happiness and well-being of perhaps even a nation may de-
pend, will collapse like a house of cards.
When the diet is properly regulated for the different seasons
of the year in regard to its constituents, there is seldom any
necessity to take what some people are so fond of doing, that is,
purgative medicines in the spring and in autumn. A little alka-
line aperient, such as the " Franz Josef " mineral water, may be
taken at any season with benefit by people who live well and who
are of sedentary habits, but beyond this it is a mistake to take
irritating and powerful purgatives during the early spring and
summer, as they are sure to set up diarrhoea that may go on for
some time, especially if unreasonable quantities of fruit be in-
dulged in. Fruit in itself is laxative in its effects, and though
beneficial, as before borne out, if not taken in excess, will with
some people, when more is taken than should be, set up persistent
and troublesome irritation throughout the digestive tract. This
was one of the evils attending the "grape cure," so much in vogue
a few years ago.
In every well-appointed household, dinner is unquestionably
the most important meal of the day, and a fashion in regard to
this has lately crept into use, which is neither physiologically
correct nor conducive to its enjoyment. I refer to the custom
now prevalent of commencing dinner with some anchovy toast,
caviare, or sardines on bread and butter, or some other savory of
a like nature. The proper commencement of dinner should be
the old-fashioned dish of good soup, and for this reason : that it
