374 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
is necessary that the first food taken at dinner should be quickly
absorbed, so as to stimulate the nervous system and give tone
to the stomach. In this way the appetite is stimulated and the
sense of taste made more keen. Nothing acts so beneficially for
this purpose as a small quantity of good soup. The more im-
portant adjuncts are, of course, pleasant surroundings and cheer-
ful companionship.
Contrast the exhilarating effect, say, of a dinner at the
" Grand," at Brighton, under the superintendence of its accom-
plished and obliging manager with the open sea, and ever-vary-
ing kaleidoscope of life to gaze at with the same dinner in a
dull country hotel. Addison says, " Health and cheerfulness
mutually beget each other." They undoubtedly do.
To maintain life at its highest standard and for the longest
period should be the aim of every individual, and this can only
be done by adapting our food to the requirements of the system
and the time of the year. If the body is properly nourished,
disease will not attack it; and if it does, will get no foothold. It
is like an impregnable fortress it may be assaulted, but it can
not be taken.
But to get the economy into this state of perfection, it must
be remembered that no more food should be taken than will be
consumed in the operations of life, and no more stimulant than
the amount previously indicated, so that no surplus of either
shall remain in the body in the shape of excess of fat, or as
waste, in the form of gout poison or acidity.
" Gluttony," says an old writer, " kills more than the sword."
On the other hand, there is no reason why food should not be
made as palatable as possible in fact, the more palatable it is
the better. It is not excess in variety of food that is injurious,
but excess in quantity. The Gentleman's Magazine.
In Lis account, in the Australasian Association, of the natives of New Guinea,
Mr. J. P. Thomson spoke of their numerous tribal divisions and of the various
languages and dialects spoken by them. Even in localities separated by only a
few miles, the dialects spoken differ the one from the other in some cases consid-
erably. The Motu, which is the language spoken and taught by the missionaries
at Port Moresby, is understood over a considerable area, but outside of that neigh-
borhood changes and variations occur, so that at the bead of the Great Papuan
Gulf and in the Fly basin, the Motu language is a foreign tongue. In other parts
of the island, also, the philological variations are numerous and conflicting ; and
in the western division neighboring tribes are unable to hold intercourse with each
other, even if friendly, by reason of the incompatibility of language. No doubt
this may in some measure be accounted for by local environment ; constant civil
intertribal war is the means of isolating communities, so that no friendly inter-
course is held ; an incongruity of language may have been unknowingly estab-
lished by reason of this and other causes.
