KINDERGARTEN'S AND MANUAL TRAINING. 377
of a terrific crisis. Its light shot across the Atlantic to safe and
peaceful America, and a new style of teaching was inaugurated
largely through the influence of Horace Mann ; but this again
was improved upon, and brought more into harmony with the
fundamental laws of mind by Froebel in Germany one of his
most earnest American propagandists being the venerable Miss
Elizabeth P. Peabody and now it seems as if his ideas are on the
verge of universal realization.
In 1831-'32 England was in a state of ferment ; incendiaries
kept the country lighted up by a line of blazing hay-ricks from
county to county, cattle were poisoned or mutilated, and every
day brought news of some fine machine broken up by the factory
people, as a devouring monster that had come to eat the bread
out of their mouths, and the real oppressions and fancied injuries
of the factory population had become so unbearable that Parlia-
ment could no longer remain apathetic and supine.
In 1833 a commission was appointed to examine into the con-
dition of the labor of young persons and children employed in
factories. The commissioners found generally that the children
were worked during the same stages as adults eleven, twelve, or
more hours daily and this long-time labor had practically ex-
cluded the children from the means of education, so that a
population had been growing up deteriorated morally as well as
physically by excess of labor. Sir Edwin Chadwick was charged
with the work of drawing up a bill that should remedy the evils
of their condition. The commission declared that six hours of
daily labor was all that young children could endure without
permanent bodily harm, and insisted that manufacturers enforc-
ing work during those long hours should do it with double sets
of children, six hours to each set. The provision which Mr.
Chadwick proposed as an efficient protection to these little fac-
tory slaves against exclusion from education was, " that it should
be a condition of the employment of children by the manufact-
urer that every child so employed should produce a certificate
from a competent teacher in a fitting school, certifying that the
child had been under instruction three hours every working-day
during theweek preceding; three hours being half the time then
generally occupied in the working-schools. Hence the name
" half-school-timers," which soon shortened into "half-timers."
These three hours' schooling much of it in inferior or nominal
schools was primarily intended as a security from overwork,
for it was reasoned " Three hours in the school-room keeps them
out of the workshop three hours," and the immediate effect, as
testified by competent medical men, was a better growth ; and,
quite unexpectedly, employers admitted, a better quality of work.
But, over and above these results, there came out of these inves-
VOL. XLI. 28
