378 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tigations and measures some surprising revelations and practical
results, which eventually affected the whole of the prevalent prac-
tice of infantile and juvenile training and education. The graded
school and the trained teacher were partially the incidental out-
come of a work primarily undertaken to rescue mentally and physi-
cally the young factory slaves. There were a few enlightened
and humane employers, permeated with the progressive spirit
of the time, who established schools in connection with their
works, and there were some good schools kept by trained teachers
in the large manufacturing towns, as at Manchester and Oldham,
where the half-timers could be sent. Mr. Chadwick made a careful
study of the best conditions for mental work among twelve thou-
ands pupils, during a period of twelve years, and has left on record
some very surprising but accurately thought-out conclusions. He
thinks that alert voluntary attention is the only profitable atten-
tion, and he is sure that " three hours is as much time as can be
occupied profitably with any subject-matters of instruction, with
very young children," but it was found that the half-timers got a
superior habit of mental activity, so that employers came to
prefer short-timers to long-timers, and the military drill that had
been introduced in the schools resulted in such superior bodily
aptitudes that the stunted pauper boys of town got the prefer-
ence over strong, robust rustics from the coast ; but the most sur-
prising result remains to be stated, for it soon began to appear
that in mental attainments the half-time factory boy was in advance
of the pupils of the board schools of the same age, the factory
boy attaining the fourth standard by his tenth year, while the
" long-time " board scholar reached it in his twelfth or thirteenth
year.
In 1882, after half a century of observation and experiment,
Mr. Chadwick summed up some of the defects of the current
systems in words too apt to be improved upon. He says : " Un-
fortunately, the primary principle of education, the capacity of
the recipient, the mind, is not understood or regarded. . . . The
receptivity of the minds of the great mass of children, for direct
simultaneous class-teaching the only effective teaching is less
than three hours, and where these limits are undistinguished
and disregarded, the consequences are displayed in wearisome ef-
forts, as it were, to get quarts into mental capacities of pints and
gallons into quarts, with prolonged sedentary detentions for this
foolish purpose, and with grievous bodily as well as mental injury."
Meantime, educators have now settled these points :
1. The inadequacy of the old-fashioned college education
to enable the average man to take and hold a place among the
world's needed workers those six hundred applicants in Chicago
prove this.
