KINDERGARTENS AND MANUAL TRAINING. 379
2. They have entirely changed their views as to the relation
of the bodily powers to mental training ; and
3. They have changed their views as to the right time in
which to lay the foundations of moral character.
While these advances were being made in the science of ped-
agogy the human body as a means of development for the mind
and soul began to be discovered ; and, instead of its being re-
garded as a mere shell or scaffolding wholly outside and apart
from the unseen nature, it was found out that the " sound body "
in which the wisest of the ancients lodged their " sound mind,"
had much to do with the growth and perfection of the spiritual
nature.
In April of 1891 some of the leading educators of this country
held in Boston a conference on manual training ; and we make no
apology for copious extracts from the phonographic report of
their addresses, as they contain the latest utterances of the per-
sons best qualified to speak on the theme we are considering.
Said President Eliot, of Harvard : " The wisdom of my parents
caused me to be taught carpentry and wood-turning before I was
fifteen years old while I was yet a member of the Boston Latin
School. It has been of great use to me all my life, and a great
pleasure. Then, later, after graduating at college, I became a
chemist by profession. I studied that difficult science for years,
and then I taught it for years. In every science a great deal of
manual skill is necessary for the student and the teacher. The
progress of the world in natural science during the last century
has been greatly due to the trained senses eyes, ears, noses, and
fingers of the experts in those sciences.
" Then for the last twenty years I have seen that one of the
great improvements which have been wrought in education in all
civilized countries has been the individualization of instruction
so as to meet the precise needs and develop the capacities and
powers of each individual, at each stage of his development.
" I am old enough to remember when the brain was supposed
to be the seat of the mind, just as the lungs were held to be the
furnace that warms the body. I remember being taught that the
animal heat was kept up in the lungs, but we all know better
now ; we know now that whenever an atom is consumed, in what-
ever part of the body, there heat is generated, and therefore that
the animal heat pervades the whole organism. It is just so with
regard to the human mind : it pervades the body. It is not in the
head, but it is all over the body, and when you train the hand or
the eye or the ear, you train the mind : manual training is mental
training. Never admit that manual training is anything distin-
guished from or in opposition to mental training. In the skill of
the artist's hand, in the methodical, accurate movement of the
