380 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
mechanic's arm, in the acute observation through the physician's
eye or ear, there is always mind. We are, in manual training,
simply training another kind of faculty not memory, but dis-
criminating observation and correct perception. The old-fash-
ioned education was chiefly devoted to the training of mem-
ory ; most of the work in the grammar school to-day is memory-
training. I am thankful for every effort to train our youth to
correct observation, just discrimination, and accurate measure-
ment.
" There is another value in manual training in that it trains
the mind through success, through achievement, through doing
something tangible and visible and doing it well. When a boy
has planed a parallelopiped of iron so well that no light shows
under the edge of his try-square when he applies it to the faces of
the block, he has done something which demands patience and
care and attention, something which he can prove to be well done
something which he be proud of. There is mind in such work,
and there is also sound morality in it."
Sir Edwin Chadwick says : " It is proved practically that the
physical training in the school stage, giving the use of hands,
arms, eyes, and legs, is giving aptitudes for all industrial occupa-
tions " ; and, also, in commenting on the military drill as introduced
largely through his influence in the public schools in England :
" The physical exercise in the military drill is a visible moral
exercise in all that is implied in the term discipline viz., duty,
obedience to command, order, self-restraint, punctuality, and pa-
tience. There is good and bad elementary moral education, as
shown by the outcome, and especially by the outcome of the half-
time system of education ; but the half -sedentary or intellectual
and dogmatic education, and the half-physical, has now been
proved to be far more successful than any other system yet known
or practiced."
The eminent manual instructors all over the country echo this
experience, as above set forth, by two of the foremost authorities
among English-speaking people.
During the last twenty years, and especially during the last
ten, the great army of Christian men and women, who have been
striving to uplift humanity, have been revising and modifying
their views as to the best time in which to begin setting young
feet in those right paths that shall lead them to usefulness and
happiness ; .and the general consensus of opinion is that between
the years of three and six is the most precious seed-time for the
implanting of moral principles that then is the time for " bend-
ing the twig " effectively. One of the men in New York of the
largest experience among the children of the neglected and crimi-
nal classes says, " We find that all we can do for their moral im-
