KINDERGARTENS AND MANUAL TRAINING. 381
provement must be accomplished before they are twelve years
old, and we find that the earlier we begin the better."
An instrument seems to be provided in the kindergarten, in
which a thoroughly thought-out science of instruction adapted to
the child-mind is put in practice with children as soon as they
show a longing for the companionship of other children ; it is an
institution which bridges over the chasm between the nursery
and the school.
Philanthropists, looking at human material as a whole, per-
ceive that true economy of force concerns itself with forming,
thus preventing the need of reforming. It can be demonstrated
from the money standpoint alone, leaving out of view the inevi-
table misery involved in the latter process.
In New York city there are now 142,519 children under five
years of age whose homes are in the tenement-houses. The latest
report of the New York Kindergarten Association states the cost
of conducting a kindergarten of fifty pupils at fourteen hundred
dollars per annum twenty-eight dollars per capita. At the El-
mira Reformatory it costs one hundred and eighty-eight dollars
per annum to support one of these children whose manual and
moral training has been neglected after the commission of some
crime has placed an indelible stain on his name. Mr. Brockway
states that very few of these young burdens on society have " any
acquaintance with any craft requiring skilled labor, and their
parents are just as deficient " ; so that the earnest men and women
who are now striving to lift the metropolis of the nation toward
the level already attained by Boston, San Francisco, St. Louis,
and a host of other cities by the establishment of free kinder-
gartens, are taking possession of the largest and most hopeful
missionary field still lying unoccupied under the broad arch of
heaven. Mr. Gilder truly says, " Plant a free kindergarten in any
quarter of this overcrowded metropolis, and you have begun, then
and there, the work of making better lives, better homes, better
citizens, and a better city."
Pestalozzi saw that the moral forces of the human soul feel-
ing and will require to be dealt with in a manner analogous to
the cultivation of the intellectual faculties, that a training school
is needed for the moral side of cultivation one in which the
power of moral action may be acquired. He said, " There must be
a definite system of rules by which always without exception a
firm will may be produced " ; and the Baroness von Bulow adds,
"The development of children into men and women must be
brought under the laws of a well-considered system, which shall
never fail to accomplish its end, viz., the cultivation in them of a
firm and invariably right will."
In discussing the necessity for the kindergarten, physiology and
