382 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
psychology unite in crying out against the waste of the years
from three to six. Says Prof. Bain, in his Education as a Sci-
ence : " The brain grows with great rapidity up to seven years of
age. It then attains an average weight of forty ounces in the
male ; from that time it grows, but at a diminishing rate, till
twenty, when it has nearly attained its greatest size." It would
seem pretty clear that there is some connection between intellect-
ual power and brain-growth. Whatever it can take hold of, it
can fix and ingrain with an intensity proportionate to its rate of
growth, and we begin too late if we allow time to pass by when
good and useful impressions could be made with perfect safety
to physical and mental health, and nearly all thoughtful teachers
and psychologists agree that for certain classes of impressions
the first six or seven years of life are worth all the rest put to-
gether : it is at this period that curiosity to see and to know is at
its intensest."
In the town of Christchurch, England, we hear of children
under six put to making the delicate chains that connect the
mainsprings of watches to the works, because when older their
fingers are too large and clumsy ; and of still smaller ones in
London who are made to rub in the nitrate of silver used in dye-
ing sealskins, because their tiny slender fingers can pass effect-
ively in and out among the hairs ; but there can be no delight in
this work to the poor child-slave, such as is felt in the kinder-
garten, where, seated at a table in company with others of his own
age, the child plaits strips of straw or leather or colored paper, or
models from clay a nest of birds and its eggs, or forms a minia-
ture house and garden and fence, from pretty materials after a pat-
tern of his own designing, in which his mind has passed through
the natural stages of perception, observation, comparison, judg-
ment, conclusion, and production. Then a pretty song, descriptive
of some incident or process, in which all join, is followed by mild
gymnastic exercises adapted to the childish frame, and thus, as
the Baroness von Billow says: "In playful work or workful
play the child finds a relief for, and a satisfaction of, his active
impulses, and receives an elementary groundwork for all later
work, whether artistic or professional." Many of the articles made
are intended as special gifts for some birthday or for Christmas,
or they are sold to procure the means of dressing a Christmas
tree for some poor or sick child, for it is one of the fundamental
principles of the system to teach the child consideration for others,
and also to give him a true respect for useful work " work which
is at the same time a fulfillment of duty is the only true basis of
moral culture." But it is necessary that such work should satisfy
the child's instinct of love, and the object of it must be to give
pleasure to others, and a system of education such as is demanded
