384 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
quality of its yield." Five thousand persons are killed by steam
power and machinery in England and Wales annually. Sir Will-
iam Fairbairn says : " These deaths are mostly occasioned by the
ignorance or clumsiness of the hands to whom machines were
intrusted; occurring singly as they do, and making monoto-
nously similar newspaper paragraphs, we become brutalized and
fail to take in the enormity of the destruction." America could
show no better record ; it is as if ten times the number of persons
who make up both Houses of Congress should be brought together
and visibly blown to pieces, scalded, and crushed, by bodily clum-
siness and defective training. In England, for lack of the kinder-
garten or infant school, fifteen hundred children are scalded or
burned to death each year, and probably more in America.
What is manual training ? It is the subjugation of the hand
and arm (an appendage of the head) to the direction of the brain,
so that they shall touch some definite point, or exert some defi-
nite measured force, in obedience to the will, at the exact instant
desired.
When should it begin ; and what are likely to be its effects on
the common weal ?
The human hand is, of all instruments, the most wonderful.
Sixty years ago Sir Charles Bell, the great anatomist, who discov-
ered that the nerve filaments of sensation are distinct from those
of motion, wrote a volume on The Hand, its Mechanism and
Endowments, as evincing Design. In the intervening years so
much has been learned of the relation of the nervous elements to
the muscular fibers which they animate and control, and so much
of the effects of the interaction of the brain and hand in those
processes which we call " reflex," that another and most interest-
ing volume might now be written on the hand in these aspects.
It has been definitely ascertained that there are certain limited
areas of the brain which control and direct the motions of certain
limbs and no other ; and as in the production of certain definite
motions e. g., those used in sewing or piano-playing this definite
related area of the brain is called into exercise, why may not its
repeatedly being aroused to action promote its growth and per-
fection as surely as exercise of the blacksmith's muscle causes its
growth and the perfection of its finely compacted fibers ?
But, speculations aside, experience proves that the education
of the hand can be begun at three years in the kindergarten, so that
the child, whose supple and growing fingers have been taught to
move in definite directions for definite ends, has at six a long start
in manual dexterity ahead of the child whose maturing joints
have been neglected. Our great-grandmothers taught their daugh-
ters to make " fine shirts for papa," neatly and thoroughly, at
what seems to us an incredibly early age ; and now that the hand
