KINDERGARTENS AND MANUAL TRAINING. 387
detection in ill-doing when he gets out ; and this child of the beg-
gar or thief, with no skill in hand or arm for work, sees no way
but to do as he has done before. In the half-time industrial school
he is placed under new conditions, by which good thoughts are
impressed from day to day to the exclusion of bad ones : he
becomes grounded in the primary moral principles of attention,
patience, self-restraint, prompt and exact obedience ; hope springs
up in his poor crushed soul, as he gets interested in his work and
does it with a will. There is enough accumulated experience in
England and America to warrant the statement that the most
profitable investment that can be made in " futures " is in those
of the living children of the country by making the kindergarten
and manual training part of the public-school system throughout
the broad land. It would undoubtedly add much to the cost of
education, but it would be more than offset by lessening the cost
of reformatories and the support of criminals. More, it would
afford useful and congenial employment for thousands of women
for it is really impossible to imagine a man's becoming a success-
ful kindergartner ; the teacher in that school needs to be endowed
with the divine instinct of motherhood, and succeeds because she
follows it, just as a good trained nurse succeeds through her in-
herent I-must-care-for-somebody characteristic. A doctor of wide
experience predicts that the movement for the training of mascu-
line nurses will be a comparative failure, siniply from lack of this
foundation element in the pupils. There are now good training
schools for kindergartners, where all that can be imparted by
teaching, to supplement natural ability can be learned ; and we
venture to declare that the most promising missionary field in
the world is to be found on the outer fringe of our large cities,
where in a narrow tenement the mother has her creche on her lap
and her " kindergarten " and her " primary " and " secondary "
pupils at her side, all under the age to be admitted in the public
school. What more natural, when the smallest goes to sleep, than
to send the others into the street, where they must perforce learn
its evil lessons ? In the city of New York there are many thou-
sands of these children. Suppose that one thousand young women,
well instructed in the art of teaching according to Froebel's sys-
tem, should each gather about her a score of these undisciplined
waifs, teach them till they were six, and then pass them on to a
school where manual training is mixed with " book-learning " in
the measures experience has demonstrated is wisest, to be taught
till twelve it would result in the greatest salvation from evil,
and in the greatest addition to the working capacity of the gen-
eration, that could be made.
In 1870, at the solicitation of Miss E. P. Peabody, the Boston
School Board established a kindergarten and conducted it for sev-
