TWO RARE MONKEYS. 389
TWO RARE MONKEYS.
By Dr. L. HECK,
DIRECTOR OF THE ZOOLOGICAL GARDEN IN BERLIN.
THE slender and the short-thumbed monkeys belong, in the
truest sense of the word, to an old simian family. The fact
is demonstrated as to the Indian slender monkeys, for indubita-
ble representatives of this genus (the Semnopithecus) lived in
the Tertiary period.
The form of the skull gives the slender and short-thumbed
monkeys a peculiar appearance. It is roundish, the snout ad-
vancing but little in front of the forehead, and the bony crests
and edges, which often give the skull of the male an appearance
like that of a beast of prey, are hardly distinguishable. In a cor-
responding way the jaw is relatively only slightly projecting, and
less obvious in the slender than in the short-thumbed monkeys.
The entire skeleton in both groups is distinguished by the slen-
derness and lightness of its form, from which the slender monk-
eys get their name. The name of the African short-thumbed
monkeys relates to a peculiarity of their bony structure, in that
the thumbs of their fore limbs are not visible externally except as
stumps ; and, while in the slender monkeys, too, the thumb is
behind the other fingers in development, the complete arrest of it
in the others has been held sufficient to mark a distinction be-
tween the two families. On the other hand, I find a peculiarity
of the skeleton of the slender monkeys mentioned in only a few
descriptions, and in those casually, which appears to me as doubly
striking in the monkeys as climbing animals, and is not elsewhere
repeated in them, at least in those of the Old World. It is that
the slender monkeys have much longer and thicker hind legs than
fore legs ; the development of the hind limbs evidently surpasses
that of the fore limbs ; and this occasions characteristic deviations
in the attitudes and movements of the animals, as I have observed
daily with my pets. The slender monkeys run half erect with
their hind legs bent up, and make great leaps from this position
direct. Thus, notwithstanding their great agility, they have some-
thing hasty and angular in their motions, and maintain so pecul-
iar a gait that any one who has studied them continuously in
living specimens can distinguish at a glance whether a picture of
them is made from life, or whether it has been constructed by
adding a few special outward marks of the slender monkey to the
figure of a common monkey. In their inner structure the slender
monkeys and the short-thumbed monkeys have a highly important
peculiarity, unique in its way, in the shape of a composite, divided
stomach, suggestive of the ruminants, or rather of the kangaroo,
TOL. XLI. 29
