TWO RARE MONKEYS. 391
their daily supper. In outer general appearance, which is chiefly
dependent on the character of the hair coating, the slender and
short - thumbed monkeys exhibit some important peculiarities
which distinguish both groups, while the Indian slender monkeys
generally have a short fur and their hair makes a conspicuous
growth only in spots in the shape of head-tufts, manes, whiskers,
and gorgets. The African short-tailed monkeys are distinguished
by a long, luxuriant hair covering over the whole body, the effect
of which is enhanced by handsome and conspicuous markings.
The more delicate differences of hairiness, coloring, and marking
serve, in both groups, to fix the distinctions of a considerable list
of species. We shall confine ourselves chiefly to the species rep-
resented in the pictures.
First, we have the two comrades so pleasantly sitting together
on the limb in Fig. 1. They are White-bearded Slender monkeys
(Semnopithecus leucoprymnus, Desm.) of Ceylon, the single spe-
cies which has been brought to Europe with considerable fre-
quency, and which is therefore easily found in the zoological gar-
dens. This harmless, quiet, gentle animal is easily distinguished
by its external appearance, which is felicitously in harmony with
its name. It has a white cheek-beard, with the tips of the hairs
turned forward. The lower part of the back and the tail are gray-
ish white. The rest of the body is brownish black, while the hair
on the head is longer and more distinct. Sailors can always buy
these monkeys cheaply in the port of Colombo, and they are
probably common on the island.
In Fig. 2 are moving some representatives of a famous species
of monkey, the Hulman or sacred monkey of India {Semnopitlie-
cus eniellus, Cuv.). This monkey is accredited with having per-
formed great acts of heroism in primitive times. It is in the
Indian mythology a kind of Perseus and Prometheus in one, inas-
much as it delivered a goddess from captivity to a giant, and
used its opportunity to give to India, not tire, but the mango. It
extinguished the funeral fire on which it was to have expiated its
rash adventure, and therefore appears now with singed face and
black hands. The rest of its body is colored a whitish gray ; on
its forehead, cheeks, and chin it wears long, stiff, bristling hairs,
out of which, as from a frame, peers the round black face with a
lively and peculiarly droll expression. The pious Hindu, who
will kill hardly any animal, of course does as little harm as pos-
sible to his ardently revered monkey-saint, but gives it freely of
the fruits of his gardens and fields. He even in a literal sense
lets it take the already prepared meal from his own mouth.
Through the credulous simplicity of men, which has permitted
them in quiet acquiescence from time immemorial to do their
pleasure, the hulmans have become so bold and impudent that
