398 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
clius on April 28, 1848. When first noticed it was about the fifth
magnitude. It afterward rose to nearly the fourth magnitude,
but gradually faded away. Hind was certain that up to April
3d or 5th no object of even the ninth magnitude was visible in
the position of the new star. This curious object is still visible,
but has become very faint in recent years. In 186G it was of the
twelfth magnitude, and in 1875 not above the thirteenth magni-
tude.
On May 28, 1860, a new star was discovered by the late Mr.
Pogson in the globular cluster known as 80 Messier in Scorpio.
When first seen it was about the seventh magnitude, and nearly
blotted out the nebula by its superior light. On June 10th the
star had nearly vanished, and the cluster again shone out with its
usaal brilliancy, and with a condensed center. Pogson observed
the cluster on May 9th, and noticed nothing remarkable ; and,
according to Schonfeld, it presented its usual appearance on May
15th in the heliometer of the Konigsberg Observatory.
The star of 1866, known as the " Blaze Star," suddenly appeared
in Corona Borealis in May of that year. Although it was subse-
quently found that the object had been previously observed and
registered as a small star by the famous German astronomer, Arge-
lander, it presented at the time of its discovery all the charac-
teristics of a true nova. It seems to have blazed out very suddenly,
for at about 9.30 P. M. on the evening of the 12th of May in that
year Prof. Schmidt, observing the constellation Corona Borealis
at Athens, saw nothing peculiar. Indeed, he afterward expressed
his conviction that at that hour a star of even the fifth magnitude
could not possibly have existed near the position without immedi-
ately attracting his attention. Within three hours afterward
about midnight it was discovered by the late Mr. Birmingham,
at Tuam, Ireland, shining as a star of the second magnitude, and
rivaling in brilliancy Alphecca, " the gem of the coronet." Its
light, however, rapidly faded. On May 14th it was of the third
magnitude ; on May 19th, only of the sixth. On May 24th it had
become invisible to the naked eye, and by June 9th had faded
to the ninth magnitude. When near its greatest brightness its
light was examined by Dr. Huggins with the spectroscope, which
showed the bright lines of hydrogen gas in addition to the ordi-
nary stellar spectrum. During the ten years following this ex-
traordinary outburst of light, Schmidt observed fluctuations in its
brightness, which appeared to take place with a certain regular-
ity. It would therefore seem that this object should be considered
as an irregular variable rather than a "temporary star." Its
rejection from the list of " new stars " would remove the only ex-
ception to the rule that all these wonderful objects have appeared
in or near the Milky Way. Even the new star which was ob-
