"NEW" AND VARIABLE STARS. 399
served in August, 1885, in the great nebula in Andromeda forms
no exception, for in Dr. Boeddicker's beautiful drawing of the
galaxy, which has just been published, a faint extension of nebu-
lous light is shown stretching from Cassiopeia's Chair to the
nebula referred to.
A better example of a true temporary star is that which ap-
peared in November, 1876, near Rho Cygni. It was first seen by
Schmidt at Athens, soon after sunset, on the evening of Novem-
ber 24th, when it was about the third magnitude, and slightly
brighter than Eta Pegasi. The appearance of this object was
also probably sudden, for between November 1st and 20th
Schmidt observed the vicinity, and was certain that no star of
even the fifth magnitude could have escaped detection. Between
November 20th and 24th the sky was, unfortunately, cloudy, so
that the exact time of its appearance is unknown. This star was
quite new, as it does not appear in any star-chart or catalogue.
Like most of these curious objects, its light faded very rapidly.
In the forty-eight hours following the night of November 27th
it diminished to the extent of one and a half magnitude, and on
November 30th it was reduced to the fifth magnitude. It after-
ward decreased with tolerable regularity, and in September, 1877,
it was below the tenth magnitude. In subsequent years it be-
came very faint. Ward found the star only sixteenth magnitude
in October, 1881, and it was estimated of the fifteenth magnitude,
at Mr. Wigglesworth's Observatory, in September, 1885. It was
examined with the spectroscope a few days after its discovery,
and its spectrum showed bright lines similar to the star in Co-
rona Borealis. Subsequent observations seem to show that this
extraordinary object changed into a small planetary nebula !
The star which appeared in August, 1885, in the great nebula
in Andromeda (31 Messier) has been already referred to. It seems
to have been independently noticed by several observers toward
the end of August. It was, however, certainly seen by Mr. T. W.
Ward, of Belfast, on August 19th, at 11 p. m., when he estimated
it at nine and a half magnitude. On September 3d the star was
observed at "seven and a half magnitude, at Dunecht, by Lord
Crawford and Dr. Copeland, and its spectrum was found to be
"fairly continuous." The star gradually faded away, and on
February 7, 1886, was estimated only sixteenth magnitude with
the twenty-six-inch refractor of the Naval Observatory at Wash-
ington. Dr. Auwers has pointed out the similarity between this
outburst and the star of 1860 in the cluster 80 Messier, and thinks
it very probable that both phenomena were due to physical
changes in the nebulae in which they occurred.
The most recent example of a new star is one discovered by
Mr. T. D. Anderson, of Edinburgh, in the last week of January
