4 oo THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in the present year, and still visible with an opera-glass. It lies
about two degrees south of the star Chi Auriga?, in the Milky-
Way, and when first noticed was about magnitude four and a
half. The star seems to have been visible for some time pre-
viously, as it has been found that its spectrum was photographed
at Harvard Observatory, U. S. A., on December 1st, 10th, and
20th, before it was recognized as a new star. The actual time of
its appearance therefore remains unknown, but that it is a new
star there can be no doubt, as it does not appear in any star-
chart or catalogue. The star is a very interesting object, and,
according to observations by the present writer, is subject to
sudden changes of brightness. It seems to be fading slowly, and
on March 1st was still somewhat brighter than the sixth magni-
tude.* Its spectrum is a very remarkable one, showing, it is
thought, both bright and dark lines. The line C and other lines
in the red are visible, the D line of sodium and the series of hy-
drogen lines being also present. Most of the lines are said to be
double, each consisting of a bright and dark component. These
double lines suggest the presence of two bodies, or systems of
bodies, one approaching the eye and the other receding from it,
with a relative velocity of between five hundred and six hundred
miles per second. There is a suspicion that the bright lines char-
acteristic of nebular spectra are also visible. These remarkable
results suggest that the light of this star, and probably that of
all " temporary " stars, is due either to the rush of a solid body
through a gaseous nebula, or the clashing together of two mete-
oric swarms moving in opposite directions. The phenomenon
might also be explained by two bodies forming a binary star
passing through their perihelion, the great increase of light being
due to a " violent grazing collision " at the point of nearest ap-
proach. Whether this new star is a veritable nova, or " tempo-
rary star," or merely represents the maximum of a hitherto unrec-
ognized variable star of long period, like the so-called " Nova
Orionis," discovered by the present writer in December, 1885,
must be left to time to decide. In either case, it is a most inter-
esting object, and its future career will be followed by astrono-
mers with great interest.
Coming now to Class 2, we find regular variable stars with
periods ranging from about 100 to 700 days, and with fluctuations
in their light from about one magnitude to over eight magni-
tudes. Among the most remarkable of these are Mira Ceti, or
the " wonderful star " ; Chi Cygni, already referred to ; R Hy-
* Further observations on March 10th and 11th showed that the star had then faded to
below the seventh magnitude; and on March 16th I could no longer see it through an
opera-glass.
