"NEW" AND VARIABLE STARS. 401
drge, R. Leonis, etc. Mira Ceti varies from about the second
magnitude to a little below tbe ninth, with a mean period of
about 331 days from maximum to maximum. Owing to its un-
usual brilliancy at maximum, and the great range of its light-
fluctuations, this is perhaps the most interesting and remarkable
of all the variable stars. The period of Chi Cygni is about 406
days, and its variation from about the fourth to nearly the thir-
teenth magnitude. R. Hydrse varies from the fourth to the
eleventh mgnitude, with a period of about 437 days ; and R. Le-
onis from about the fifth to the tenth magnitude, with a period of
about 313 days. Most of the long-period variables are reddish
in color, and show a banded spectrum, which seems to be a char-
acteristic feature of this type of variable. Various theories have
been proposed to account for the variation of light in long-period
variables, but none of them are very satisfactory. The periodical
outbreak of sun-spots on a large scale has been suggested, and
also the clashing together of meteoric swarms revolving in an
elongated orbit ; but it must be confessed that the subject is still,
to a great extent, a matter of mystery.
Class 3 includes the irregular variables that is, stars which
are undoubtedly variable, but have no regular periods. Some-
times these stars remain for long periods without any perceptible
change, while at other times their fluctuations of light are very
noticeable. Of these, perhaps the most remarkable are Mu Ce-
phei (Sir William Herschel's "Garnet Star"), Alpha Herculis,
Alpha Orionis (Betelgeuse), and Beta Pegasi. The variation is
usually small, not exceeding one magnitude. Like the regular
variables, these have also banded spectra.
In Class 4 are some very interesting objects variable stars of
short period. The greater number of these have periods of under
eight days. The variation of light is generally small, but regu-
lar. In but few cases does it much exceed one magnitude, and in
several it is less. In some, as in Beta Lyrse, Zeta Geminorum,
and Eta Aquilse, all the light-changes may be observed with the
naked eye, while in others an opera-glass is necessary to follow
the fluctuations.
In Class 5 are placed stars of the Algol type. These are the
rarest of the regular variables, only ten having been hitherto de-
tected. In these stars the light remains constant, or nearly so,
for the greater portion of the period. A sudden diminution of
brightness then commences, and all the light-changes are com-
pleted in the course of a few hours, after which the star returns
to its normal brightness. The brightest of these remarkable stars
are Algol (Beta Persei), Lambda Tauri, and Delta Librse. The
others are much fainter, only two being visible to the naked eye
when at their normal brightness. A star of this class recently
VOL. XXI. 31
