THE WASTE AND GAIN OF THE DRY LAND. 403
THE WASTE AND GAIN OF THE DRY LAND.
THE following letter, respecting a former article in the Month-
ly, has been addressed to the Editor :
Editor Popular Science Monthly :
Does M. A. de L'Apparent's interesting address * on The Fu-
ture of the Dry Land exhaust all the factors of the inquiry ? Is it
certain, for example, that some at least of the greatest mountain-
chains have not in the main risen in elevation faster than the
eroding agencies have depressed them ? Are not some of them,
and those now among the boldest, admitted to have been uplifted
in comparatively recent times, geologically speaking more recent-
ly, for example, than the advent of some of the rivers which inter-
sect them ? Erosion must have commenced from the very begin-
ning of the upheaval and have continued to the present time ; yet
they grew in stature in spite of it, for no one now supposes that
the upheaval was a sudden one. Indeed, the persistence of the
river's " right of way " proves both the constant action of " the
elements " and the extremely gradual character of the upheaval.
If our planet, as some think, continues to slowly contract from a
once nebulous condition, its advancing age might be expected to
be marked by wrinkles, just as we know it to be.
Again, is there not good ground for the conjecture that our
globe, however slowly, is approaching a state of desiccation such
as is manifested partially in our neighbor Mars and still more
notably in the moon ? f Is there not some lingering continuance
of the once active absorption ? Is there not, for example, reason
to believe that the proportion of sea area has in the main steadily
diminished and that upheaval of the land masses has steadily in-
creased since Silurian times ?
To the lay reader this masterful and interesting paper of the
French savant seems a courteous invitation to one of his compeers
to take up the thread of his discourse at the point at which he
elects to leave it. George Henry Knight.
Temple Court, New York.
Other letters on this subject have been received, all of which
indicate that the matter has attracted more interest than was an-
ticipated. Our correspondents may find on closer examination of
M. de L'Apparent's paper that he avowedly presents it as covering
only one side of the question, and that, while he does not discuss
* Popular Science Monthly, June, 1891.
f Do not northern Africa and western Asia contain vast regions that have passed
from exuberant fertility to hopeless aridity even during the historical period ? G. H. K.
