POPULAR MISCELLANY.
427
tea are used. But the drinking of this tea
has been nearly if not quite abandoned. A
study of its history has been made by Dr. E.
M. Hale, who has examined all the references
to it he could find, and has started an in-
quiry into the reason why it has been aban-
doned, and the expediency of reviving its
use. Its leaf, according to the analysis by
Prof. Venable, of the University of North
Carolina, contains caffeine. It is not so
pleasant in odor and taste as the Chinese tea ;
but it seems to have some salutary proper-
ties which the latter does not possess, and
may perhaps be more cheaply obtained. Dr.
Hale estimates the extent of the land over
which it grows as about forty thousand square
miles, and suggests that careful experiments
in cultivation and manipulation might result
in furnishing our markets with a product
that would be found in many cases an ac-
ceptable and useful substitute for the more
expensive imported teas.
Many-toed Horses. The derivation of
the recent horse's foot with one digit from
ancestors with polydactyl feet has been care-
fully traced by Prof. 0. C. Marsh in his pub-
lished papers on that subject. Several in-
stances have come to the author's knowledge
of existing horses presenting more than one
toe. Julius Caesar's horse had this peculiari-
ty. Its feet are described by Suetonius as
having been almost human, with the hoofs
cleft like toes. " It was born in Caesar's own
stables, and, as the soothsayers declared that
it showed that its owner would be lord of the
world, he reared it with great care, and was
the first to mount it. It would allow no oth-
er rider." The main functional toe of each
foot of the horse is the third digit, corre-
sponding to the middle finger of the human
hand. In addition to these, two "splint-
bones," one on each side of the main cannon-
bone, are present beneath the skin the
remnants of two other toes possessed by an-
cestors of the horse. One or more of these
splint-bones may become enlarged below and
support phalanges, forming another digit be-
side the main one, or, more commonly, de-
veloping into a small external toe, with hoof.
The occurrence of such extra digits in the
recent horse is much more frequent than is
generally supposed. Prof. Marsh has exam-
ined several living animals presenting this
peculiarity, and has received photographs,
drawings, and detailed descriptions of others.
The extra digit may appear on one foot, when
it is smaller than the main digit, and is usu-
ally on the inner side on the fore foot. It
may often be entirely under the skin, with
the only external evidence of it a promi-
nence, in which its form may be made out.
A corresponding extra toe may be present on
the other fore foot ; a second extra digit may
exist with the others, but outside the main
digit ; with the extra inner toes of the fore
feet, another of equal or smaller size may be
present on one or both of the hind feet, al-
most always on the inside ; in rare cases, both
fore and hind feet may each have two extra
digits fairly developed, and all of nearly equal
size ; or sometimes, besides the extra toes al-
ready described, which appear to be the sec-
ond and fourth, the first digit, or pollex, may
be represented by its metacarpal, supported
by a distinct trapezium, all beneath the skin.
A large majority of the polydactyl horses
known to Prof. Marsh in this country have
been raised in the Southwest, or from ances-
try bred there, so that their connection with
the mustangs or semi-wild stock of that re-
gion becomes more than probable. The fact
that the tendency to reversion is much
stronger where animals run wild must be
taken into consideration in discussing the
question of the origin of these animals.
Temperature of Lake Waters. The in-
vestigations of Mr. A. T. Drummond on the
temperatures of some Northern lakes and riv-
ers have shown him that the Georgian Bay
is, in its main expanse, a large body of cold
water whose temperature, at its greater
depths, is not much influenced by the heat
of summer, while the central and southern
basins of Lake Huron, although also receiv-
ing surplus waters from Lake Superior, stand
in the line of inflow of the warmer waters
from Lake Michigan and of their ultimate
exit by way of the river St. Clair to the lower
lakes, and are consequently somewhat warmer
basins. Among the details of observations
recorded in his papers, we find that tests at
the rapids of the Richelieu River at Chambly
seem to show that the motion of the water
during the mile of continuous rapid raises the
temperature of the water perceptibly. Rapid
currents have, however, the effect of equal-
