428
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
izing the temperature of the water. Under
conditions appearing to be the same, and at
points relatively near to each other, the water
on the surface of the lakes and rivers is not
uniform in temperature, but seems to flow in
areas of different temperatures. It is impos-
sible to lay down any general rule regarding
the changes of temperature varying with the
increase in depth. Apart from variations re-
sulting at the different seasons, surface read-
ings are affected by sunlight and cloud, gusts
of wind, channel currents, the inflow of afflu-
ent streams, and the physical features of the
surrounding land. Readings beneath the sur-
face are affected by the depth of the water,
by ordinary currents resulting from changes
of level, by evaporation at the surface creat-
ing an upward flow of the water underneath,
by the contour of the bottom, and by high
winds which drive the surface waters before
them, creating return currents underneath to
take their place. The general rise of the
temperature of Lake Ontario waters as the
summer advances is at first slow, compared
with the general rise of the temperature of
the air, but, as midsummer is reached, the
rise is more rapid both at the surface and at
the bottom. The absorption and retention
power of the sun's heat is most noticeable in
the small streams and quiet pools. In the
case of rivers, the air in direct contact with
the warm surface of the water has its tem-
perature in early August raised to from 1 to
5 above that of the air directly above, but
in more exposed positions ; and this increase
in temperature, which is greatest at the point
of contact, is, at one foot above the surface
of the water, already to a considerable extent
lost.
The Valne of Human Testimony. The
argument of a book by Mr. Thomas Fitzar-
thur on the Value of Human Testimony is,
according to the summary of The Spectator,
that the value depends in a great measui'e on
the importance attached by the witness to
the facts to which he testifies. If the fact
is insignificant, if his interest in it is languid,
and it has no real bearing on his life, it is not
to be supposed that he will take the trouble
to attend to the matter with the care and the
anxiety to be sure of what he sees or hears
which is necessary to make his testimony of
real weight for other people. But if it is a
fact on which a great change in his own ca-
reer depends, if it alters his whole life, his
whole character, if it involves him in much
labor and suffering, if it kindles in him an
altogether new ideal of purpose, then we may
be sure that his testimony is both honest and
careful, and that, if it is supported by a great
deal of other testimony of the same nature, it
is in the highest degree trustworthy. Fur-
ther, the author insists that its transmission
through a long line of tradition does not in-
validate its authority. We should not attach
much value to details so transmitted. If we
were dependent on testimony transmitted
from generation to generation as to the num-
bers and character of the forces engaged in
the battle of Hastings, we should not attach
much weight to it. But such a long line of
transmission would not diminish the value of
the testimony as to the reality of that battle,
and its result in the defeat of the Saxon and
the victory of the Norman army. We should
be well aware that that testimony must have
been transmitted through a great many un-
willing as well as a great many willing and
triumphant witnesses. We should be well
aware that all those witnesses must have had
before their eyes the amplest evidence of the
actual event, and of the revolution it brought
about in the history of England. And we
should never think of supposing anything so
absurd as that at some specific date there was
a deliberate conspiracy formed by hundreds
of thousands of living Englishmen to alter
the whole drift of the testimony they had re-
ceived from their fathers, and invent a bat-
tle which never took place, or reverse its
issue, and that that conspiracy should have
succeeded in persuading the unborn genera-
tions to believe a gigantic lie. There could
be neither machinery nor motive for such a
successful conspiracy, and consequently the
common sense of mankind at once rejects a
hypothesis so audacious and absurd, with con-
tempt.
Miss North's Animal Friends. Miss Ma-
rianne North relates, in her Recollections, that
while sketching an old Hindu temple at
Blaune Watu, Java, she felt hungry and be-
gan eating a biscuit as she went on with her
work. Shortly she was disturbed by a pull
at her dress, and found a large monkey sit-
ting beside her and looking reproachfully at
