POPULAR MISCELLANY.
429
her, " with the expression of ' How can you
be so greedy ? why don't you give me a bit ? '
Of course he did get it, and then departed
and hid himself in the leaves overhead." At
a place in California, where she stayed after all
the other visitors had deserted it, " a stag,"
she says, " with great branching horns was
my only companion ; he had a bell round his
neck, and used generally to live in front of
the house, but liked human company ; and
when I appeared with my painting things he
would get up and conduct me gravely to my
point, and see me well settled at my work,
then scamper off, coming back every now and
then to sniff at my colors."
The Succession of American Floras. No
strongly defined line can be drawn, says
Prof. Warren Upham, in a paper on the
flora of the basin of the Red River of the
North, "between different portions of the
flora and fauna of the country from the At-
lantic to the Rocky Mountains and from the
Gulf of Mexico to the Arctic Sea. But
great contrasts exist between the Eastern
region, with its plentiful rainfall, and the
dry Western plains, as also between the al-
most tropical Southern margin of the United
States and the tundras beneath the Arctic
Circle. In traveling from the once wholly
forest-covered country of the Eastern States,
across the prairies, to the far Western
plains bearing cacti and sage-brush, there is
observed a gradual change in the flora, until
a very large proportion of the Eastern
species is left behind, and their places are
taken by others capable of enduring more
arid conditions. Likewise, in going from
St. Augustine or New Orleans to Chicago, St.
Paul, Winnipeg, and Hudson Bay and Strait,
the palmettoes, the evergreen live-oak, bald
cypress, Southern pines, and the festooned
Tillandsia, or Spanish moss, are left in pass-
ing from the Southern to the Northern
States ; and instead we find in the region of
the Laurentian lakes the bur or mossy-cup
oak, the canoe and yellow birches, the tama-
rack, or American larch, the black spruce,
balsam fir, and the white, red, and Banksian
pines ; while farther north the white spruce,
beginning as a small tree in northern New
England and on Lake Superior, attains a
majestic growth on the lower Mackenzie in a
more northern latitude than a large part of
the moss-covered barren grounds which
reach thence eastward to the northern part
of Hudson Bay and Labrador. Thus, al-
though no grand topographic barrier, like a
high mountain range, impassable to species
of the lowlands, divides this great region,
yet the transition from a humid to an arid
climate in passing westward, and the ex-
change of tropical warmth for polar cold in
the journey from South to North, are accom-
panied by gradual changes of the flora, by
which in the aggregate its aspect is almost
completely transformed."
Timber-testing. The Forestry Division
of the Department of Agriculture is engaged
in making tests of timber, for the purposes
of obtaining a better knowledge of the quali-
ties of our commonest commercial timbers ;
of devising means of relating qualities to
physical structure and appearance; and to
establish, if possible, the influence which
divers conditions of growth exercise upon
the quality all conditions affecting the
usefulness of the specimens in service. The
records, which are preserved in duplicate,
include the definition of the locality where
the piece was cut, with its geological and
climatological features ; an exact descrip-
tion of the site and exposure, the soil, and
the surrounding growth and undergrowth ;
the origin of the tree, its age and dimensions ;
the positions in the tree of the various test-
pieces submitted ; and other points. It is
expected to submit to the regular series of
tests between one and two thousand test-
pieces of each species. It is hoped that
when the work is done means will be
afforded the engineer and architect to speci-
fy for timber of given quality, and also, by
a rapid macroscopic and microscopic exami-
nation, to pass on each stick as to its coming
up to the specification ; and, further, of
acquainting ourselves with the conditions of
growth that produce given quality.
The Preservation of Historical and In-
teresting Scenery. At the instance of the
Appalachian Mountain Club, a law has been
enacted in Massachusetts incorporating a
Board of Trustees of Public Reservations,
with authority to acquire, hold, arrange,
maintain, and open to the public, under suit-
able regulations, beautiful and historical
