430
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
place3 and tracts of land within the Com-
monwealth. The property thus acquired,
which can not, with its appurtenances, ex-
ceed two million dollars in aggregate value,
is exempt from taxation, unless it is held
longer than two years without being opened
to the public. While the corporation enjoys
these privileges, it is forbidden to own any
capital stock or to make any division of
property or income among its members, or
any dividends. Mr. George F. Hoar has
been chosen President of the Board. The
trustees received last year several recommen-
dations or offers of property as coming within
the category of the purposes for which they
are acting, and have considered the expe-
diency of purchasing them ; and Mr. J. B.
Harrison, their agent, has made an inspec-
tion of the sea-coast towns of the State, with
a view to the provision of public access to
the beach and the establishment of sea-
shore parks. The establishment of the
board will enable the admirers of the
scenery or history of any spot in the State
to make that spot a reservation and to pro-
vide for its perpetual care, and will enable
the proprietors of pleasure resorts and the
people of communities which make money
from the attractiveness of fine scenery to
insure the perpetuation of such attractions
and of their profits. Similar provisions
should be made in all the States.
Characteristics of Star Spectra. The
general conclusion derived from the study of
the spectra of the stars, says Prof. E. Picker-
ing, in his account of the Henry Draper Me-
morial, is the marked similarity in constitu-
tion of different stars. A large part of them
the stars of the " first type " have a spec-
trum which at first sight seems to be continu-
ous, except that it is traversed by broad dark
bands, due to hydrogen. Closer inspection
shows that the K-line is also present as a fine
dark line. If the dispersion is large and the
definition good, many more dark lines are
visible. These lines may be divided into two
classes: First, those which predominate in
many stars in the milky way, especially in
the constellation of Orion ; and, second, those
present in the solar spectrum. Nearly all the
brighter stars may be arranged in a sequence,
beginning with those in Orion, in which the
auxiliary lines are nearly as intense as those
due to hydrogen. Other stars may be found
in which these lines successively become
fainter and fainter, till they have nearly dis-
appeared. The more marked solar lines then
appear, become stronger and stronger, and
the hydrogen lines fainter, till they gradually
merge into a spectrum apparently identical
with that of the sun. Continuing the se-
quence, the spectra pass gradually into those
of the third type. Certain bands become
more marked, and the spectra of the third
type may be divided into four classes, in the
fourth of which the hydrogen lines are bright
instead of dark. This spectrum appears to
be characteristic of the variable stars of long
period when near their maximum. It has led
to the detection of several new variable
stars, and has been confirmed in many of the
known variables. Slight peculiarities are
noticed in the spectra of many stars, but
these deviations are not sufficient to affect
the general law. Stars of the fourth type,
whose spectra appear to be identical with
the spectrum of carbon, are not included in
this classification. Other stars, whose spec-
tra consist mainly of bright lines, like those
of the planetary nebula?, may be included
with them in a fifth class.
The Reason of the Slave Trade. A Mos-
lem view of the slave trade is presented in
the Saturday Review not to excuse the traf-
fic, but to show why it is carried on. The
slaves are mostly children, " black, uncomely,
and unpromising." They are not sought
for the harem, in the conventional sense
of that word. "The truth is, that certain
conditions of domestic life among civilized
Moslems exact a supply of slaves without re-
gard to beauty or even to physical strength.
The interruption of that supply has caused
as much dismay and confusion as a law to for-
bid the employment of unmarried girls for
household service might effect in England.
It would be found at once that there were
not matrons or widows enough to do the
work, that few of them would undertake it,
and fewer still were competent. Such a law
would be evaded at every peril. No class of
women in a Moslem community has the tra-
dition of domestic service, as it may be
called. Very commonly a free girl was
taken into the household of some matron
as a child, and there brought up ; but she
