NOTES.
43i
never dreamed of changing. One of the con-
ditions was, and is, that her patroness shall
provide a husband for her. Often enough,
also, the child of such a protegee succeeds to
her place when old enough, and thus very
pleasing relations are established between
families of different status. . . . The practice
of adopting girl-children to train as servants
becomes more and more common as slaves
become scarcer. ... A class of domestic
servants is being formed which, in due time,
will replace the slaves. But transformations
of the sort are very, very slow in the East.
Meanwhile the process is very disagreeable,
even shocking, to Moslem housewives, and it
is not at all surprising that they should pay
heavily and run some risk to obtain a negro
who is all their own."
Lake Beaches. In his discussion of the
beaches and their correlative moraines of
Lake Erie, in the American Journal of Sci-
ence, Mr. Frank Leverett shows that the be-
lief of geologists now is that the phenomena
do not demand a submergence of the land
during the closing stages of the Glacial epoch ;
that, instead of a depression, there was a
greater altitude than in the earlier part of
the period ; and that the result of investiga-
tion has been to reduce the noteworthy lakes
connected with the closing stages of glacia-
tion in Ohio to the one bounded by the beach
lines that were recognized by the Ohio Geo-
logical Survey. The examination of the phe-
nomena in detail leads to the conclusion that
Lake Erie, in its earlier stages, was but a
small body of water, its size being conditioned
by the position of the retreating ice-sheet and
by the height of the western rim of the basin
it occupied.
NOTES.
The arrangements for the meeting of
the American Association, to be held in
Rochester, N. Y., in August, are nearly com-
pleted. The meeting will be opened on
Tuesday evening, the 17th, with an address
by Secretary F. W. Putnam. President Jo-
seph Le Conte will deliver an address on
Wednesday evening, the 18th ; a reception
will be given the Association by the ladies
of the city at the Powers Art Gallery on
Thursday, the 19th ; and a public lecture
will be given on Friday evening. The busi-
ness meetings will be held in the university.
The Saturday excursions will include visits
to Niagara Falls, Portage, Mount Morris,
Canandaigua Lake, and Watkins Glen, and
the long excursion will be to the Adirondack
region.
The second annual session of the School
of Applied Ethics will be held at Plymouth,
Mass., July Gth to August 17th. The pro-
gramme of instruction includes six courses
of five lectures each in the History of Relig-
ions ; seven courses in Economics ; and a
series of fifteen lectures by Prof. William
Wallace, of Oxford, on Variations of the
Moral Standard, illustrated by the History of
Ethical Theories ; with four other courses in
Ethics. Applications may be made to the
secretary, S. Burns Weston, 118 South 12th
Street, Philadelphia,
In Uruguay, according to Admiral Ken-
nedy, of H. M. S. Ruby, barbed wire has
played a part in suppressing revolutions, as
it is not easy to march troops over a country
intersected by it.
A Postschide is to be established at Leip-
sic for the special training of post-office as-
sistants, and eventually also of postmasters.
The course of instruction will embrace, be-
sides the usual branches, the subjects be-
longing to the postal service.
According to Dr. R. W. Shufeldt's ob-
servations of the Navajo belt-weavers, curves
are never found in the figure-patterns on the
belts or blankets, but horizontal stripes,
diagonals, and the lozenge are interwoven
with a variety that appears to be almost end-
less in the matter of design. The leading
colors used are red, brilliant orange-yellow, a
blue, and by combination a green, and black,
white and gray.
The results of the observations of Mr. H.
C. Russell, of Sydney, on the Grouping of
Stars in the Southern Part of the Milky Way
were described by him at the Australasian
Association as tending to diminish the value
of the rifts in the discussion of stellar distri-
bution.
The detailed meteorological observations,
made under the direction of H. B. de Saus-
sure simultaneously on the Col du Geant, at
Geneva, and at Chamounix, in July, 1788,
have been published in the memoirs of the
Physical Society of Geneva. Only the means
of a part of the observations were pub-
lished by De Saussure in his Voyages dans
les Alpes.
The nest and egg of a bird-of-paradise
have been found by two Australian gentle-
men on an island off the coast of Queens-
land, and have been described by Mr. A. J.
Campbell in the Victoria Field Naturalists'
Club. The hen was watched till she flew
into the crown of a pandanus tree, where her
head could be seen as she sat on her nest.
