43 2
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The nest was about ten feet from the
ground, and was somewhat loosely con-
structed of broad, dead leaves and green
branchlets of climbing plants and fibrous
material. Inside were two large concave
dead leaves underneath pieces of dry ten-
drils, which formed a springy lining for the
egg or young to rest upon. The nest con-
tained a single egg; was nineteen centi-
metres broad and nine deep; and the egg
cavity was nine centimetres by four.
A proposition to establish a marine bio-
logical station in Jamaica as a memorial of
Columbus is approved by Prof. Huxley and
Prof. Ray Lankester, who regard the situa-
tion as a most excellent one for the study of
intertropical life.
A small axe of nephrite found at Ohlau,
in Silesia, has been identified as to the specific
gravity, microscopic structure, and chemical
composition of the stone, as the same with a
mineral occurring near Jordansrnuhl, in Sile-
sia. This is the only prehistoric object found
in Europe of which the source has been sat-
isfactorily determined.
Among the items of progress in chemistry
in Australia, Mr. W. M. Hamlet mentions the
discovery of the alkaloids brucine and strych-
nine in the fruits of Strychnos pilosperma, by
Prof. Rennie and Mr. Goyder ; and the work
done by Mr. J. H. Maiden in the examination
of Australian kinos, gums, and barks. Chief
among this chemist's researches was his work
on wattle bark, which he found contains from
fifteen to forty-six per cent of tannic acid.
As the wattle "tree is easy of cultivation, it
thus promises to be valuable. Mr. Kirkland
has discovered gallium and indium in some
specimens of blende. Some work has been
done toward determining the actual state of
combination in which elements occur in dif-
ferent ores.
The first part of an account of the origin
and development of the Royal Gardens at
Kew has been published by Mr. Thiselton
Dyer, in the Kew Bulletin. The present in-
stallment of the story relates the earlier period
of the history, when the gardens were a
purely private possession of the crown, and
closes with the time when, in 1841, they be-
came a national institution, with Sir William
Hooker as director. For this early period
there are hardly any authentic records, and
the author has had " to fall back on local
traditions, on local histories, the statements
of which are often confusing and inaccurate,
and on such scattered notices as could be
gathered from contemporary literature."
The history of the last half-century of the
gardens will be given in another number of
the Bulletin.
In a lawsuit recently decided in London,
a householder had two poplar trees near a
railway, which the railway company wished
removed. He was willing to shorten the
branches, but not to cut the trees down. The
company sent in its men, who felled the trees,
and then offered to settle with the owner,
first by giving him two hundred and fifty,
and later by offering him five hundred dol-
lars. He carried the case to the court, which
gave him fifteen hundred dollars for the trees
and additional damages of a thousand dollars
for the injury caused by their removal.
Violets of highly intensified colors have
appeared on the streets of Paris, where
curiously colored lilacs and narcissuses are
likewise offered for sale. According to M.
Gaston Tissandier, in La Nature, the flowers
sold in Paris are artificially colored by plac-
ing the stems in water containing an aniline
dye of the tint desired.
Mr. Smee, of the Gresham Insurance
Company, is credited with having declared
that the company has paid out during the
past two years, on account of deaths caused
directly by influenza, two and a half times as
much as it paid in forty-three years for
deaths by cholera.
An exhibition of weeds at the World's
Columbian Exhibition is projected by Prof.
Byron D. Halsted, who suggests that each
person assisting secure at least three speci-
mens each of the worst weeds in his State or
section. Regard should be had, in collecting
them to the seeds, which are especially de-
sired ; seedlings in various states of develop-
ment ; the root system ; the flower and flower
cluster ; and the seed-vessel. To avoid un-
necessary duplication, persons designing to
collect for this enterprise are invited to com-
municate with Prof. Halsted at the State
Experiment Station, New Brunswick, N. J.,
when their work will be arranged for them.
A curious custom is described by Dr. J. C.
Evans as having prevailed at Oakham, Rut-
landshire, England, by which a horseshoe, or
payment in lieu thereof, was exacted from
every peer passing through the town. The
author exhibited to the Society of Antiquaries
an iron horseshoe of super-equine dimensions,
which had been deposited in the hall at Oak-
ham in 1693, by Richard Cumberland, Bishop
of Peterborough.
OBITUARY NOTE.
Hermann Franz Moritz Kopp, a famous
German chemist, died at Heidelberg, Febru-
ary 20th, in the seventy-fifth year of his age.
He joined Liebig in 1813 at Giessen, where
he labored for nearly twenty-five years ; be-
came a privat-docent in the university in
1841, an extraordinary prof essor in 1843, and
an ordinary professor in 1853 ; and was called
to Heidelberg in 1864, where he remained
till his death. His specialty was physical
chemistry.
