436 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
A further analogy may be seen between the treatment of the
lunatic in past times and the treatment of the criminal in recent
years. It will be admitted without question that the former
treatment of the insane could only result in driving the victim
to utter madness. In an interesting work, entitled Old Bailey
Experience (1833), the writer, who shows himself far in advance
of his time, in reflecting on the treatment of criminals in Eng-
land, says, "So convinced am I that the manner in which the
laws are administered, under the discretion of the judges at the
Old Bailey, has been one of the chief causes of the increase of
crime, that it is a perpetual source of concern to me, that the
subject has not been taken up by some one more able than myself
to awaken the attention of the public." And he proves his posi-
tion by an overwhelming mass of evidence.
Of late years there has sprung into existence a school of crimi-
nal anthropology, with societies, journals, and a rapidly increasing
literature. A most admirable summary of the work thus far
accomplished has recently been given by Dr. Robert Fletcher, in
his address as retiring President of the Anthropological Society
of Washington. In his opening paragraphs Dr. Fletcher graphi-
cally portrays the scourge of the criminal and his rapid increase.
" In the cities, towns, and villages of the civilized world, every
year, thousands of unoffending men and women are slaughtered ;
millions of money, the product of honest toil and careful saving,
are carried away by the conqueror, and incendiary fires light his
pathway of destruction. "Who is this devastator, this modern
' scourge of God,' whose deeds are not recorded in history ? The
criminal ! Statistics unusually trustworthy show that if the car-
nage yearly produced by him could be brought together at one
time and place it would excel the horrors of many a well-contested
field of battle. In nine great countries of the world, including
our own favored land, in one year, 10,380 cases of homicide were
recorded ; and in the six years, extending from 1884 to 1889, in the
United States alone, 14,770 murders came under cognizance of
the law.
" And what has society done to protect itself against this ag-
gressor ? True, there are criminal codes, courts of law, and that
surprising survival of the unfittest, trial by jury. Vast edifices
have been built as prisons and reformatories, and philanthropic
persons have formed societies for the instruction of the criminal
and to care for him when his prison gates are opened. But, in
spite of it all, the criminal becomes more numerous. He breeds
criminals ; the taint is in the blood, and there is no royal touch
which can expel it."
Certain results of the modern school of anthropology, as pre-
sented by Dr. Fletcher, may be briefly summed up by stating
