NATURAL SELECTION AND CRIME. 437
broadly that in studying the criminal classes from the standpoint
of anatomy, physiology, external appearance, even to the minuter
shades of difference in the form of the skull and facial proportions,
the criminal is a marked man. His abnormities are characteristic,
and are to be diagnosticated in only one way. That these propo-
sitions are being rapidly established there can be no doubt. As
an emphatic evidence of their truth, the criminal is able to trans-
mit his criminal propensities even beyond the number of genera-
tions allotted to inheritance by Scripture.
William Douglas Morrison, in his Crime and its Causes, while
denying these propositions, admits that degeneracy and disease
are transmitted, and in these conditions seeks for the origin of
crime.
A very significant relation is shown between crime and in-
sanity in figures given by Malcolm Morris, as quoted by Dr. Emily
"White, in her address on Hygiene as a Basis of Morals.* She says :
" The intimate relationship between nervous diseases and crime
is conspicuous. In England, the ratio of insane to sane criminals
is thirty-four times as great as of the insane to the whole popula-
tion, and criminal lunatics are in excess in the high proportion of
seventeen to one." The persistence of criminal and vagabond
taints is even more pronounced than that of lunacy ; the latter
condition often yields to benign treatment, and there is reason to
believe that in time it may be eradicated, though confinement and
consequent prevention of offspring will be the main cause of its
disappearance. Whether criminal propensities can be obliterated
is a grave question. Certainly the irrational and unscientific meth-
ods in the treatment of criminals to-day are as much responsible
for the increase of crime as were the superstitious and unscien-
tific ways of dealing with contagious diseases in earlier times
responsible for their wide dissemination.
The repeated association of certain abnormities of the body
with the criminal character suggesting simian features has led to
the idea that congenital criminals are instances of reversion.
Eminent students in this branch of study call attention to the
resemblances of many minor details of structure to features in
the higher apes. Dr. Fletcher admits that, while this view may
be correct, it is purely hypothetical. The presence of certain
abnormal muscles in man have been justly looked upon as evi-
dence of reversion, and certainly the atavistic view clears up many
points of structural difference seen in the criminal class which
would otherwise be obscure. It is possible, however, that if the
antecedents of all criminals were known, retention of ancestral
traits and not reversion would be the more probable explanation
* Popular Science Monthly, May, 1887.
