NATURAL SELECTION AND CRIME. 439
It should be understood that in speaking of criminals the
modern classification of criminals is recognized, and only the
instinctive or congenital criminals are here considered. In this
presentation, however, we must include the vast army of tramps
who move with the snow-line back and forth across the country ;
a horde continually increasing because, as with the criminal, the
vagabond strain is continually being bred. This startling truth
of inheritance must be emphasized again and again, till the pub-
lic mind slow to understand shall finally realize the fact and
take the same stern measures for suppression that it would in
the case of polluted water-supply and contagious disease. When
these matters were fully understood health boards came into ex-
istence, and with such arbitrary powers are they now endowed
that a family can be imprisoned in its own house ; the house may
be destroyed; the dead, if necessary, denied the ordinary funeral
observances. The public fully acquiesce in these heroic measures,
for the death-rate figures, year after year, become too significant
to be neglected.
Vagabonds, like criminals, spring largely from a degenerating
stock. The persistence of the vagabond strain, the hopelessness
of reform among those blasted with the taint, is strikingly por-
trayed by the lamented Rev. Oscar C. McCulloch, in an address
read before the National Conference of Charities and Corrections
(1888), entitled The Tribe of Ishmael, a Study in Social Degrada-
tion. Traces of this tribe have been found as far back as 1790,
but from 1840 the record is quite made out for some twigs of this
baleful stock. Mr. McCulloch says: "The individuals already
traced are over five thousand, interwoven by descent and mar-
riage. They underrun society like devil-grass. Pick up one, and
the whole five thousand would be drawn up. Over seven thousand
pages of history are now on file in the Charity Organization
Society " (Indianapolis), and he asks : " Do any of these get out of
the festering mass ? Of this whole number, I know of but one
who has escaped, and is to-day an honorable man. I have tried
again and again to lift them, but they sink back. They are a
decaying stock; they can not longer live self-dependent. The
children reappear with the old basket. The girl begins the life
of prostitution, and is soon seen with her own illegitimate child."
The tramp horde is a nidus from which apparently a vast
number of criminals spring. The appalling character of the
fruits of this nidus may be faintly realized by reference to Dr.
Seaman's paper on the Social Waste of a Great City (Science,
vol. viii, p. 283). Referring to New York, he says: "It seizes
upon and subsidizes the fairest string of islands that grace a
metropolis the world over. Where there might have been, under
a shrewder, better providence, parks, groves, museums, art-gal-
