440 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
leries, zoological gardens, -wholesome games, exhilarants for hon-
est industry and useful thrift, stretching at little intervals from
Governor's to Hart's Island, full eighteen miles, the Nemesis of
penalty and retribution has planted her growing colonies of so-
cial waste, of broken, degraded, repulsive, dangerous human de-
tritus: and this baleful colonization has pushed its way along
those beautiful eastern waters, keeping step with the advancing
city, until its entire line of eastern frontage, far up into West-
chester County, is sentineled by these menacing excrescences of a
moribund civilization." Dr. Seaman truly says: "This waste
shows a deadly apathy, a dying out of purpose, a fatal estrange-
ment from home, family, and society, for which there has, as yet,
been found neither remedy nor cure. This tramp class grows
and grows dangerous and desperate too, and is chargeable with
an increasing number of outrages, assaults, and crimes against
both property and person. The island, the almshouses, and work-
houses do not reach or touch their cases, for they gather physical
endurance and resources from fresh campaignings across country,
until rounded up again by winter weather in the great cities."
Indeed, the daily accounts of innocent women murdered, rail-
road trains invaded, pitched battles between hordes of these vaga-
bonds and law-abiding citizens, attest to the insidious and rapid
spread of this class, and not until some town is burned, and plun-
der and rape follow the burning, will the people realize what they
have for so many years deliberately encouraged by free lunches
at their kitchen doors. Indiscriminate charity has been encour-
aged by religious teaching. Powerful as the Church has been and
still is in support of this practice, it is astonishing how rapidly
the evils of this pernicious custom are being recognized by
charity boards. Mr. McCulloch says the "so-called charitable
people who give to begging children and women with baskets,
have a vast sin to answer for. It is from them that this pauper ele-
ment gets its consent to exist. Charity falsely so'called covers a
multitude of sins, and sends the pauper out with the benediction,
' Be fruitful and multiply.' Such charity has made this element,
has brought children to the birth, and insured them a life of mis-
ery, cold, hunger, and sickness." And he asserts that so-called
charity joins public relief in raising prostitutes and educating
criminals. Though these are strong words, they but repeat the
testimony of others who have made the subject an attentive
study. In an article on London Charities, by Elizabeth Bisland
(Cosmopolitan, July, 1891), is quoted the words of an eminent
London citizen, who says that London is the scandal of the age
by reason of its pauperized and demoralized condition, and yet
825,000,000 is given each year in alms to the unfortunate. " It is
a gigantic laboratory of corruption and crime, and while it as-
