NATURAL SELECTION AND CRIME. 441
pires to Christianize the heathen, it exercises a far more direct
and effectual influence in heathenizing Christians, and in drag-
ging the rest of England down to its own low level/' And he
goes on to declare that " the enormous facts of London charity
are to a lamentable extent responsible for this state of things/'
Whether the law-abiding man is abnormal, according to Al-
brecht, and the criminal is normal slaying and robbing without
compassion, as do the animals below him does not now concern
us, for it has come to pass in the progress of the races that the
moral man has formulated laws for the good of society, and insists
upon obedience to their establishment. Intelligence and not brute
force has become the main factor in man's selection. This has
been foreshadowed in past geological times where it has been
shown that in the progressive development of the various groups
of mammals the brain increased in size out of all proportion to
the size of the body. An ignorant man in civilized countries,
and even in savage and barbarous countries, occupies the lowest
position.
Among the dominant races ignorance, poverty, and crime are
often associated. The association of poverty and crime has no
immediate relation, as shown by Morrison, though poverty pre-
supposes a low intellect, and this implies an inability to acquire
an education, which in a hundred ways in civilized life leads to
degeneracy and crime. It can probably be shown that nations
that are in the worst plight politically and financially are those
where general education is or has been at the lowest ebb, where
superstition takes the place of knowledge. In Italy, for example,
where an attempt to disinfect cholera districts results in the mur-
der of the officers engaged in this beneficent work where priestly
processions and holy water take the place of quarantine and car-
bolic acid in fighting cholera natural selection runs riot and mer-
cifully removes priest and peasant alike. One word in that fa-
mous encyclical, in which half its anathemas were hurled against
human reason and the sciences,* might have changed all this, but
the Church's attitude on these questions is one of the great factors
in the selective category.
In this operation of the law of natural selection we have plainly
indicated to us the principle with which to fight crime and pau-
perism. Let us pause for a moment and observe a few of the
many ways in which this selective action is working in regard to
man, and the suggestions to be derived from it. That the princi-
ple of natural selection works in Nature, no intelligent man doubts
to-day. The discussion between Prof. Weismann and his adher-
* See Draper's Conflict between Religion and Science, for convenient reference to these
anathemas, p. 350.
