442 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ents and the Neo-Lamarckians, as to whether acquired traits are
transmitted, only tends to bring out more vividly the simplicity
of the law of selective action. Man, as regards himself, has ap-
parently thwarted this law. The humane impulses of man often
interfere with selective action; sentimental women and sympa-
thetic magistrates assist in the freeing of criminals who usually
find themselves " serving " time by an immediate repetition of their
offenses, often in aggravated forms (vide Sawtell), having, how-
ever, while free, united, out of wedlock, with the lowest of their
kind, to perpetuate and possibly accentuate their criminal taint.
The indiscriminate giving of alms and promiscuous feeding of
tramps thwarts, in a measure, the work of selective action. Were
it not for these interferences the diminution in number of the
vicious, incompetent, and lazy would be as marked from year to
year as is the decreasing death-rate in cities where sanitary meas-
ures are rigorously enforced. What, then, are the unfavorable
conditions against which the uneducated vicious class have to
contend ? In nearly all the essays written on crime and its causes,
authors finally unite in agreeing that the slums of a city are the
main roots of the evil, or, more correctly, the culture element
which fosters this mass of social corruption. Mr. B. O. Flower,
in the Arena, says, " The slums of our cities are the reservoirs of
physical and moral death, an enormous expense to the state, a
constant menace to society, a reality whose shadow is at once
colossal and portentous/'
As a class, these people live under the worst sanitary con-
ditions, in districts of the city having the highest death-rate. Miss
Besant, in a lecture, says : " In London the population is between
three and four millions, and of it one person in every five dies in
jail, prison, or workhouse. Fifty-five years is the average of
citizens of the comfortable class, while twenty-nine is that of the
manual laborers. ... Of one hundred babies born, fifty lie in the
cemetery before they are five years old, while of the upper classes
but eighteen of every hundred die." (In one city in Europe, where
a long series of observations has been made, it is found that the
death-rate is higher on the shady side of the street.)* The hot
blasts of summer and the chills of winter mark their quota ; their
ignorance of all medical science leads them to employ a quack, or
languish and die without medical aid. If inclined to work, their
unrestrained appetite for alcohol shuts them out from all positions
of trust, and drives them to the roughest of manual labor often
fraught with danger. Their carousals and fights, innutritious
and unwholesome foods, violations of all sanitary laws, and many
* Some of the following paragraphs have already been published by the writer in the
Boston Herald, under the signature of C. B. D.
