NATURAL SELECTION AND CRIME. 44 5
under which they were brought into the world. For this pur-
pose industrial schools, in all lines of work, should be estab-
lished. The crying need in all trades to-day is for boys who will
industrially continue their apprentice term. During this time
the boy must be induced to live at home, caring to live there
from the attractiveness of the surroundings. Music, lectures,
thanksgiving dinners, flowers, etc. the outflow of compassionate
impulses, which make certain penal institutions so alluring to
many criminals will find a better destiny in making pleasanter
the lives of deserving tenement dwellers. Cooking schools, train-
ing schools for nurses and servants, should be instituted for the
girls. With such co-operating appliances, our charity committees,
instead of the often despairing tramps through noisome regions,
to be deceived by the wary, or horrified at the treachery and lies
of others, will have a keen stimulus to seek out the deserving
poor ; to find those that are willing to work, knowing that, when
once rescued and placed on firm ground, they are to remain there
in many cases self-supporting. The response to appeals for aid
will be more prompt and bountiful when it is known that worthy
ones only are to be helped. The cost of such a project will be
great. If private munificence will not do it, cities may.
In Boston, museums of art and of natural history, though
free to the public, are, nevertheless, sustained by private help.
In New York the State and city are repeatedly called upon
for contributions to similar institutions. What municipality
of any intelligence has hestitated to spend millions for pure
water-supply and sewer system, after it has been clearly demon-
strated that local cesspools menace the health of the commu-
nity by vitiating the local water-supply ? It is possible that,
when a community fully realizes the moral pollution that comes
from the slums, an agitation may result that shall lead a city
to construct tenement-houses as it now does its school-houses.*
The question is sure to arise, What shall be done with the
incompetent, though not necessarily vicious or intemperate ?
They must not be allowed to starve, surely not ; but it is to be
observed that, when such incompetents tumble overboard, they
make strenuous efforts to save themselves, and if caught in a
burning building they appear active, even boisterous, in their
attempts to escape. The simplest manual labor is within their
power, and for this they should be paid ; their chances for qual-
ity of food, quantity of tobacco, etc., should depend upon their
efforts to help themselves. If they will not work, and insist upon
being vagabonds, they come under cognizance of the law, and
* The pauper, the imbecile, the lunatic, and in some cities those afflicted in other ways,
are provided for in appropriate public institutions.
