45 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
table proves to liiin that the earth is flat, and its dimensions prove
that the earth is twice as long as broad ; its four corners sym-
bolize the four seasons ; the twelve loaves of bread, the twelve
months ; the hollow about the table proves that the ocean sur-
rounds the earth. To account for the movement of the sun, Cos-
mas suggests that at the north of the earth is a great mountain,
and that at night the sun is carried behind this ; but some of the
commentators ventured to express a doubt here; they thought
that the sun was pushed into a great pit at night and pulled out
in the morning.
Nothing can be more touching in its simplicity than Cosmas's
summing up of his great argument. He declares, " We say there-
fore with Isaiah that the form of the heaven that embraces the
universe is that of a vault, with Job that it is joined to the earth,
and with Moses that the length of the earth is greater than its
breadth." The treatise closes with rapturous assertions that not
only Moses and the prophets, but also angels and apostles, agree
to the truth of his doctrine, and that at the last day God will con-
demn all who do not accept it.
Although this theory was universally considered as drawn
from Scripture, it was really, as we have seen, the result of an
evolution of theological thought begun long before the texts on
which it nominally rested were written. It was not at all strange
that Cosmas, Egyptian as he was, should have received this old
Nile-born doctrine, as we see it indicated to-day in the structure
of Egyptian temples, and that he should have developed it by the
aid of the Jewish Scriptures. But the theological world knew
nothing of its more remote pagan evolution ; it was received as
virtually inspired, and was soon regarded as a fortress of script-
ural truth. Some of the foremost men in the Church devoted
themselves to buttressing it with new texts and throwing about
it new outworks of theological reasoning ; the great body of the
faithful considered it a direct gift from the Almighty.*
* For a notice of the views of Cosmas in connection with those of Lactantius, Augus-
tine, St. John Chrysostom, and others, see Schoell, Histoire de la Litterature Grecque, vol.
vii, p. 3*7. The main scriptural passages referred to are as follows : (1) Isaiah xl, 22 ; (2)
Genesis i, 6 ; (3) Genesis vii, 11 ; (4) Exodus xxiv, 10 ; (5) Job xxvi, 11, and xxxvii, 18 ; (6)
Psalm cxlviii, 4, and civ, 9 ; (7) Ezekiel i, 22-26. For Cosmas's theory see Montfaucon,
Collectio Nova Patrum, Paris, 1706, vol. ii, p. 188 ; also pp. 298, 299. The text is illus-
trated with engravings showing walls and solid vault (firmament), with the whole apparatus
of " fountains of the great deep," " windows of heaven," angels, and the mountain behind
which the sun is drawn. For reduction of one of them see Peschel, Geschichte der Erd-
kunde, p. 98 ; also article " Maps," in Knight's Dictionary of Mechanics, New York, 1875.
For a good discussion of Cosmas's ideas, see Santarem, Hist, de la Cosmographie, vol. ii, pp.
8 el seq., and for a very thorough discussion of its details, Kretschmer, as above. For
still another theory, very droll, and thought out on similar principles, see Mungo Park,
cited in De Morgan, Paradoxes, 309. For Cosmas's joyful summing up, see Montfaucon)
