NEW CHAPTERS IN THE WARFARE OF SCIENCE. 451
From this old conception of the universe as a sort of house,
with heaven as its upper story and the earth as its ground floor,
flowed important theological ideas into heathen, Jewish, and
Christian mythologies. Common to them all are legends regard-
ing attempts of mortals to invade the upper apartment from the
lower. Of such are the Greek legends of the Aloidae who sought
to reach heaven by piling up mountains, and were cast down ;
the Chaldean and Hebrew legends of the wicked who at Babylon
sought to build " a tower whose top may reach heaven," which
Jehovah went down from heaven to see, and which he brought to
naught by the "confusion of tongues"; the Hindoo legend of
the tree which sought to grow into heaven and which Brahma
blasted ; and the Mexican legend of the giants who sought to reach
heaven by building the Pyramid of Cholula, and who were over-
thrown by fire from above.
Myths having this geographical idea as their germ developed
in luxuriance through thousands of years. Ascensions to heaven
and descents from it, " translations," " assumptions," " annuncia-
tions," mortals " caught up " into it and returning, angels flying
between it and the earth, thunderbolts hurled down from it,
mighty winds issuing from its corners, voices speaking from the
upper floor to men on the lower, temporary openings of the floor
of heaven to reveal the blessedness of the good, " signs and won-
ders" hung out from it to warn the wicked, interventions of
every kind, from the heathen gods coming down on every sort of
errand, and Jehovah coming down to walk in Eden in the cool of
the day, to St. Mark swooping down into the market-place of
Venice to break the shackles of a slave all these are but features
in a vast evolution of myths arising largely from this geographi-
cal germ.
iSTor did this evolution end here. Naturally, in this view of
things, if heaven was a loft, hell was a cellar ; and if there were
ascensions into one, there were descents into the other. Hell be-
ing so near, interferences by its occupants with the dwellers of
the earth just above were constant and form a vast chapter in
medieval literature. Dante made this conception of the location
of hell still more vivid, and we find some forms of it serious
barriers to geographical investigation. Many a bold navigator,
who was quite ready to brave pirates and tempests, trembled at
the thought of tumbling with his ship into one of the openings
into hell which a wide-spread belief placed in the Atlantic at some
unknown distance from Europe. This terror of the sailors was
one of the main obstacles in the great voyage of Columbus. In an
Collectio Nova Patrum, vol. ii, p. 255. For the Egyptian Trinitarian views, see Sharpe,
History of Egypt, vol. i, pp. 94, 102.
