THE DIAMOND INDUSTRY AT KIMBERLEY. 455
THE DIAMOND INDUSTRY AT KIMBERLEY.*
By LORD RANDOLPH CHURCHILL.
^VTOTHING in the external appearance of Kimberley suggests
-L^ either its fame or its wealth. A straggling, hap-hazard con-
nection of small, low dwellings, constructed almost entirely of
corrugated iron or of wood, laid out with hardly any attempt at
regularity, and without the slightest trace of municipal magnifi-
cence, is the home of the diamond industry. It seems that when
the diamonds were first discovered, some twenty years ago, many
thousands of persons settled down suddenly on the spot like a
cluster of swarming bees, and established themselves anyhow as
best they could in the most rough and primitive fashion, never
dreaming but that the yield of diamonds would be of limited ex-
tent and of short duration, that their fortunes would be rapidly
acquired, and that they would pass as rapidly away from the
place, having exhausted all its wealth-producing resources. The
reverse has proved to be the case. The diamondiferous resources
of Kimberley are now known to be practically inexhaustible, but
the amalgamation of the mines has restricted employment and
checked immigration, and the town still preserves, and probably
will always preserve, its transitory and rough-and-ready appear-
ance. There are, however, a number of excellent shops, and there
are few articles of necessity, of convenience, or of luxury which
can not here be purchased. A most comfortable and hospitable
club, an admirably laid-out and well-arranged race-course testify
to the thoroughly English character of the settlement. At Kim-
berley the diamond is everything, and the source and method of
its production claim more than a passing mention. My first visit
was to the offices of the De Beers Company, which company repre-
sents the amalgamated interests of the De Beers, Kimberley, Bult-
fontein, Du Toits Pan, and other smaller mines. The amalgama-
tion was the work of Mr. Cecil Rhodes, and it was this great work,
accomplished in the teeth of unheard-of difficulties and almost
insurmountable opposition, representing the conciliation and uni-
fication of almost innumerable rival jarring and conflicting in-
terests, which revealed to South Africa that it possessed a public
man of the first order. The scale of the company's operations is
stupendous. On a capital of nearly 8,000,000 of debenture and
share stock it has paid, since its formation in 1888 up to March,
1890, interest at the rate of h\ per cent, and an annual dividend of
20 per cent. In the same period it has given out some 2,500,000
* From Men, Mines, and Animals of South Africa. By Lord Randolph Churchill. New
York: D. Appleton & Co., 1892.
