THE DIAMOND INDUSTRY AT KIMBERLEY. 459
moisture soon have a wonderful effect upon it. Large pieces
which were as hard as ordinary sandstone when taken from the
mine, soon commence to crumble. At this stage of the work, the
winning of the diamonds assumes more the nature of farming
than of mining ; the ground is continually harrowed to assist pul-
verization by exposing the larger pieces to the action of the sun
and rain. The blue ground from Kimberley mine becomes quite
well pulverized in three months, while that from De Beers re-
quires double that time. The longer the ground remains exposed,
the better it is for washing." * The process of exposure being
completed, the blue ground is then carried to very large, elabo-
rate, and costly washing machines, in which, by means of the
action of running water, the diamonds are separated from the
ordinary earth. It may be mentioned that in this process one
hundred loads of blue ground are concentrated into one load of
diamondiferous stuff. Another machine, the "pulsator," then
separates this latter stuff, which appears to be a mass of blue and
dark pebbles of all shapes, into four different sizes, which then
pass on to the assorters. " The assorting is done on tables, first
while wet by white men, and then dry by natives." f The assorters
work with a kind of trowel, and their accuracy in detecting and
separating the diamond from the eight different kinds of mineral
formations which reach them is almost unerring. " The diamond
occurs in all shades of color from deep yellow to a blue white,
from deep brown to light brown, and in a great variety of colors,
green, blue, pink, brown, yellow, orange, pure white, and opaque." J
The most valuable are the pure white and the deep orange. " The
stones vary in size from that of a pin's head upward ; the largest
diamond yet found weighed 428^ carats. It was cut and exhibited
at the Paris Exhibition, and after cutting weighed 228i carats.
" After assorting, the diamonds are sent daily to the general office
under an armed escort and delivered to the valuators in charge of
the diamond department. The first operation is to clean the dia-
monds of any extraneous matter by boiling them in a mixture of
nitric and sulphuric acids. When cleaned they are carefully
assorted again in respect of size, color, and purity." * The room
in the De Beers office where they are then displayed offers a most
striking sight. It is lighted by large windows, underneath which
runs a broad counter covered with white sheets of paper, on
which are laid out innumerable glistening heaps of precious
stones of indescribable variety. In this room are concentrated
some 60,000 carats, the daily production of the Consolidated Mine
being about 5,500 carats. " When the diamonds have been valued
they are sold in parcels to local buyers, who represent the leading
* Report, 1890, General Manager, De Beers. f Ibid. \ Ibid. * Ibid.
