462 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
dealers for conveying the stolen diamonds out of Kimberley.
They are considerably assisted by the fact that the boundaries of
the Transvaal and of the Free State approach within a few miles
of Kimberley, and once across the border they are comparatively
safe. Recently, so I was informed, a notorious diamond thief was
seen leaving Kimberley on horseback for the Transvaal. Con-
vinced of his iniquitous designs, he was seized by the police on
the border and thoroughly searched. Nothing was found on him,
and he was perforce allowed to proceed. No sooner was he well
across the border, than he, under the eyes of the detective, de-
liberately shot and cut open his horse, extracting from its intes-
tines a large parcel of diamonds, which, previous to the journey,
had been administered to the unfortunate animal in the form of
a ball.
The De Beers directors manage their immense concern with
great liberality. A model village, called Kenilworth, within the
precincts of the mines, affords most comfortable and healthy ac-
commodation for several of the European employes. Gardens are
attached to cottages, and the planting of eucalyptus, cypress, pine,
and oak, as well as a variety of fruit trees, has been carried to a
considerable extent. A very excellent club-house has also been
built, which includes, besides the mess-room and kitchen, a read-
ing-room, where many of the monthly papers and magazines are
kept, together with six hundred volumes from the Kimberley
Public Library. There is also a billiard-room, with two good
tables given by two of the directors. A large recreation-ground
is in the course of construction. Within the compound where
the native laborers are confined is a store where they can procure
cheaply all the necessaries of life. Wood and water are supplied
free of charge, and a large swimming-bath is also provided, but I
did not learn if the natives made much use of it. All sick natives
are taken care of in a hospital connected with the compound,
where medical attendance, nurses, and food are supplied gratui-
tously by the company. I should not omit to mention that the
entire mine, above and under ground, is lighted by electricity.
There are ten circuits of electric lamps for De Beers and Kimber-
ley mines. They consist of fifty-two arc lamps of 1,000 candle-
power each, and G91 glow lamps of sixteen and sixty -four candle-
power each, or a total illuminating power of G3,G96 candles. There
are, moreover, thirty telephones connecting the different centers
of work together, and over eighty electric bells are used for sig-
naling in shafts and on haulages. Such is this marvelous mine,
the like of which I doubt whether the world can show. When
one considers the enormous capital invested, the elaborate and
costly plant, the number of human beings employed, and the
object of this unparalleled concentration of effort, curious reflec-
