466 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
take the place of the old one and dethrone him. We know that
the old churchmen saw something divine in the origin and nature
of the state ; but then there were in those days relations between
the Church and the state that exist no longer. The kings and
emperors of the middle ages never dreamed habitually of deify-
ing themselves, or of attributing to themselves in their own per-
sonalities a divine mission. Even in its highest pretensions and
most impudent usurpations the state of the old regime was never
ashamed to bow before God, it acknowledged that it held its
power from him, and considered itself under obligations to make
his laws respected. The Church never saw an adversary or a
rival in it ; if it rebelled occasionally against the supremacy of
the ecclesiastical power, the Church could always hope to bring
it back to docility and obedience.
But we mistrust the modern state, both as Christians and as
citizens. This modern state, monarchical or republican; the
bureaucratic state, with a hundred arms reaching everywhere ;
the elective state, headless or many-headed, changing, incoherent,
capricious, constantly inclined to usurp the functions of the fam-
ily, of private societies, of individuals we are afraid to extend
its competence beyond bounds. We know it too well to give our-
selves up to it. We know by experience how heavy and clumsy
its hand is ; how violent, rough, arbitrary, and tyrannical are its
processes, and how presumptuous and costly are its methods. The
Church itself knows something of its character and proceedings.
St. Thomas of Aquinas said the state was the servant of God for
good. But is it God whose minister the contemporary state is ?
Even when it does not sin by doctrinal presumption, or by anti-
religious intolerance, or by usurpation of authority over the
family, the state seems to us morally incapable of assuming the
high mission which some of the sons of the Church seem to claim
for it. It is inspired neither with Christian law nor with the law
of God, nor with the ideal justice which such persons prescribe as
its guides. Its law and rule are not justice, but electoral inter-
ests. Instead of being, as it is invited to be, an impartially serene
authority, lifted above all classes and providing equitably for all,
the state which we know and whose workings we witness is essen-
tially partial. The child of government by party, it is, we might
say, partial by derivation. Instead of the traditional balances of
justice, it has two weights and two measures in everything. It
has none of the qualities of an earthly Providence : not foresight,
or intelligence, or equity, or wisdom. It is always ready to en-
croach upon a domain which is not its own, and in every direc-
tion ; it is careless of the rights of others, and recognizes hardly
any but those which it has established ; it assumes to be the only
law-maker, and imagines that it creates right. It believes that
