STATE INTERVENTION IN SOCIAL ECONOMY. 467
everything is permitted it, and vaunts itself on subjecting every-
thing. It wants to be all, and its will is changing, violent, and
weak by turns, like the passionate majorities and the ignorant
crowds whence it emanates ; and so slight is our confidence in the
state that its mobility reassures us more than it scares us.
Yes, we distrust the state, whatever its name or shape ; we dis-
trust its prudence, its lights, its doctrines, and its aims ; its pro-
cesses, its methods, its propensity to regulate, its obstructiveness,
and its self-conceit ; its morality, its conscience, and its probity.
It worries us to see in it the organ of right and the instrument of
justice. We can not arm the state with new rights or fortify its
power on one side without re-enforcing it on all sides. The do-
main of public authority can not be extended over all interests
and private contracts without enslaving the individual and sub-
jecting the family to it. No artifice of political science can find
means to make the state the master of economical life, the om-
nipotent arbiter of the mill and the shop, without our societies
that live by work being taken wholly into its hand. There is
only one way to establish forever the despotism of the state in
the world, but there is one, and it is this.
Even if the modern state should become more equitable and
more enlightened ; if it should become really something else than
an irresponsible collectivity exercising power by changing and pas-
sionate proxies ; if it should put away its sectarian spirit and its
tyrannical processes we should still doubt its competence and its
capacity to regulate the mill and the shop. The state is a weighty
engine, with slow-running machinery uselessly complicated, which
exacts a considerable expenditure of fuel and manual labor for
the least work. No other instrument makes a feebler return and
wastes so much force. Consequently, the more we extend the
action of the state the more we risk impoverishing the country.
Instead of hastening the development of national wealth, the state
is calculated to hinder it by restraining the free factors of capital
and labor. It is always a reproach which its intervention can
not escape, and a very grave one in social and economical matters,
that the meddling of public authority unnerves private initiative.
This of itself would be a cause of uneasiness, for private initiative
has always been the main-spring of progress ; to break it or para-
lyze it by enveloping it with laws and regulations which would
arrest or restrict its play would be to fetter the progress of indus-
try and of wealth, and to delay the improvement of the condition
of the masses. Further than this, in social questions themselves
questions belonging to the workmen the intervention of the
state, with its vexatious processes and its annoying habits, would
generally simply end in depressing instead of stimulating private
forces and living energies, humanitarian philanthropy and Chris-
