468 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tian charity. We have already proof of this in public benevo-
lence, which seems, at great expense, to have sterilized the field
which private benevolence had fertilized. Beware, lest, instead of
inspiring patrons and capitalists, industrial societies and indus-
trial managers, to fulfill their social duty in a larger sense, the
arbitrary intervention of the state does not dissuade or discourage
them from it ! Symptoms of such discouragement are already be-
ginning to appear in France. We, in fact, slander ourselves when
we represent that private initiative has been sterile in this sphere.
Not so ; on the contrary, it is one of the domains in which our
end of the century has deserved the most from France and man-
kind. I want no better evidence of this than the group of social
economy, or, as it was justly styled, " of social peace," in our Uni-
versal Exposition of 1889, where were represented in fifteen sec-
tions: remuneration for labor and participation in benefits; co-
operative associations for production; professional syndicates;
apprenticeship and patronage societies ; mutual aid societies ;
superannuation and pension funds ; accident and life assurance ;
co-operative consumers' associations; co-operative credit associa-
tions ; workmen's houses ; workmen's circles and people's societies ;
social hygiene and temperance societies ; societies for the protec-
tion of children ; and national institutions. These fifteen sections
of social economy prove by actual specimens that men of means
are not insensible to the ills of the working classes, and that our
society has not waited for the urging of the state before it occu-
pied itself with questions of interest to working-men. The greater
part of the works, foundations, associations, and social enterprises
to which awards were made in 1889 were relatively recent, some
of them entirely new. They have been tending for several years
past to make a rapid advance. Heaven prevent the intervention
of the state which is threatened, inflicting a fatal blow on all these
creations of private initiative ! The state has a heavy hand, not
to call it a paw. It often unwittingly crushes what it touches.
There is something depressing and stifling in administrative regu-
lation; may it not for a long time yet put the brakes upon a
movement from which so much is promised ! Selected and trans-
lated for The Popular Science Monthly from the Revue des Deux
Mondes.
The emigration of the English agricultural population into the towns is at-
tributed by Mr. T. E. Kebbel, among other causes, to the dullness of village
life. The old feasts, the fairs, and the games have for the most part disap-
peared. Thus, while there is vastly more cricket played in England than fifty
years ago, it is not played by the same class. In the old day-long matches
on the village greens, the elevens were mostly made up of laborers. They are
so no longer.
