47o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the navel be anointed therewith." And in conclusion Pliny quotes
Marcus Varro, who " saith that gold wil cause warts to fal off."
(Holland's translation, London, 1634.) Varro was a friend of
Cicero, which carries back this belief in the efficacy of gold to
the first century before Christ.
The Arabian physicians, who for hundreds of years possessed
almost exclusive knowledge of chemistry, often record the virtues
of gold as a remedial agent in disease. Geber, who lived in the
eighth century, wrote : " Gold is a medicine rejoycing and con-
serving the Body in Youth." (Russell's translation, London, 1678,
p. 76.) Avicenna is said to have also written in its praise ; also
Arnald de Villanova (1235-1312).
The preparation of gold in a potable, innocuous form occupied
the attention of the alchemists during several centuries ; they
commonly called it aurum potabile, and ascribed to it not only re-
medial virtues but the power of prolonging life. The quotation
from Geber shows that he shared this opinion.
To this elixir of life they gave many fanciful names : Elias
Ashmole, in his Theatrum Chemicum Britannicum, says Saint
Dunstan calls it the " food of angels," and others the " heavenly
viaticum." Ashmole himself adds : " It is undoubtedly the true
Alchochodon or giver of years, for by it man's body is preserved
from corruption, being thereby enabled to live a long time with-
out food ; nay, 'tis made a question whether any man can die that
uses it." (Written in 1652.)
The alchemists argued that this golden elixir is not to be made
of vulgar gold, but only from philosophical gold prepared by
hermetic art. Recipes for manufacturing this panacea abound in
alchemical works, they are mostly very tedious, requiring endless
repetitions and much faith on the part of the operator. One of
the simplest methods of preparing aurum potabile is given by
Samuel Bolton in his curious little 16mo, " Medicina magicatamen
physica," published at London in 1650: "Put foliated gold into a
vessel well sealed with Hermes' seal ; put it into our fire till it be
calcined to ashes ; then sublime it into flores, having his caput
mortuum, or black terra damnata in the bottom. Then let that
which is sublimed be with the same degree of fire united to the
same caput mortuum that it may be revived by it, as that all may
be reduced into an Oyle which is called Oleum Solis. The dose
hereof is two or three grains."
This description leaves much to the imagination, and in this
respect differs little from others that we might quote. For the
benefit of non-chemists we may add that few of the recipes yield
a product containing gold, the metal often remaining in the part
thrown away.
Roger Bacon, the Franciscan friar of the thirteenth century, to
