HISTORICAL NOTES ON THE GOLD-CURE. 47 i
whom so many wonderful discoveries and inventions have been
ascribed, had deep faith in the virtues of potable gold. Bacon, in
a communication to Pope Nicolas IV, informs his Holiness of an
old man who found some yellow liquor in a golden flask, when
plowing one day in Sicily. Supposing it to be dew, he drank it
off, and was immediately transformed into a hale, robust, and
highly accomplished youth. Having abandoned his day-laboring
he was admitted to the service of the King of Sicily, and served
the court eighty years.
The belief in a life-prolonging elixir, sometimes claimed of the
tincture of gold and sometimes of secret preparations, prevailed
for centuries. Even so great a philosopher as Descartes believed
he had attained the art of living a few hundred years ; this belief
was shared by some of his friends, and when he died before reach-
ing sixty years they were convinced that he had been poisoned.
The alchemist Raymond Lully a contemporary of Friar
Bacon, also experienced the restorative effect of this fountain of
youth, if we can credit the statement in the curious verses of Sir
George Ripley, composed in 1471 :
"An Oyle is drawne owte in colour of Gold,
Or lyke thereto oat of our fire Red Lead,
"Whych Raymond sayd when he was old,
Much more than Gold wold stand hym in stede.
For when he was for age nygh dede,
He made thereof Aurum Potabile
Whych hym revyvyd as men myght see."
(Compound of Alchymie.)
Oswald Croll, a German physician of the sixteenth century,
wrote in 1609 in praise of gold as a medicine. I quote the Eng-
lish translation of his Basilica chymica, published at London in
1670:
" It is the principle part of a Physician that would Cure the
Sick, first to comfort the Heart, and afterwards assault the Disease.
Those to whom the harmonious Analogy of Superiours and Inf eri-
ours hath been known, and who from Suffrages of Astrologers have
learned that to the two greatest Lights of Heaven, the two prin-
ciple parts of Man, viz : the Heart and Brain, in things of Nature
latently rests in Gold. . . . For Nature hath endowed Gold with
no contemptible virtues, which who so knows how to draw out,
and by ingenious Artifice is able rightly to use, he will find Gold,
which seemed dead and barren, so lively and pregnant that it
germinates and of itself progenerates new Gold. . . . Whence the
true Philosophers have exquisitely prepared a wonderful and
greatly to be desired Medicine with which the impurities of
imperfect metals are removed and all vices of affects in uncurable
Diseases of Humane Bodies perfectly exterminated."
