472 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Croll then says he has tried almost one hundred different
preparations of aurum potabile, and condemns most of them to
recommend his own, fulminating gold, called by him " Calx of
Sol." His process embraces nauseous ingredients, and the prod-
uct is, as usual, free from gold.
Paracelsus, the physician who did so much to improve materia
medica by introducing chemical medicines, does not neglect gold.
Thurneisser, his disciple (both as respects his teachings and his
charlatanism), made his royal dupes pay enormous sums for the
"tincture of gold" which entered into his extraordinary pre-
scriptions. To the use of royal touch pieces (gold coins) in the
reigns of Charles II, James II, and Queen Anne, mere allusion
should be made. Christopher Glaser (1G63) gives among other
preparations a " diaphoretic powder of gold " and prescribes it for
continuous or intermittent fevers, the dose being four to twelve
grains in wine, or in a spoonful of bouillon. (Traite* de la chymie,
Paris, 1663.)
Antoine Lecoq (or Gallus), a physician of Paris (1540), seems
to have been the first to recommend gold for syphilis. He and
his follower Fallopius (of Modena, 1565) described tedious pro-
cesses for making preparations of gold. These processes were
carefully repeated, about the beginning of this century, by Che-
vallier, a French pharmacist, who declares the products contain no
gold at all.
Lamotte's "gold-drops," celebrated throughout Europe for
over half a century (1725 to 1780), consisted of a solution of ferric
chloride in alcohol ; this possessed a yellow color, and was uni-
versally regarded as a tincture of gold, until the secret was
bought and made public by the Russian Government. (Kopp's
Geschichte.)
Frederic Hoffman, a famous German physician (1733), recom-
mends gold for rheumatic fever.
Johann Rudolph Glauber, the German physician whose name
is indelibly attached to " Glauber's salts," thought to improve the
latter by adding gold. " In all diseases and infirmities, of what
name soever, the Spirit or Oil of Salt in which gold is rightly dis-
solved (or the Aurum Potabile with it), giveth present help, and
in all dejections of the vital spirit ... it giveth such relief that
life and vigor may be somewhat farther protracted if two, three
or four drops be administered as occasion shall serve in good
Aqua vita? or Cordiall Water. In like manner if three drops be
administered once a week in generous wine or aqua vitse, or other
fit vehicle, it renovateth a man, makes him youthful, changeth
gray hairs, produceth new nails and skin, preserveth from various
and divers symptoms of diseases, and preserveth the body in such
a state even to the prefixed hour of the Divine appointment."
