FAMILIES AND DWELLINGS.
475
commonly understood that is, consisting of the husband, wife,
children, and immediate dependents like relatives and servants
but it comprehends all persons living alone where they maintain
their own establishments, and all larger aggregations of people
subject to one common supervision, such as the inmates of hotels,
hospitals, prisons, asylums, etc. So in nearly all Federal and
State censuses in this country and all censuses abroad the family
has comprehended hotels, boarding-houses, lodging-houses, penal
and reformatory institutions, and every aggregation of indi-
viduals living under one roof, or has related in some way, either
arbitrarily or otherwise, to one head. The inmates of a great
hotel, or a great college, or a prison constitute, for census pur-
poses, a family. It would seem at first thought that this artificial
extension of the composition of the family would have a dis-
turbing influence upon the average size of the family, but a
careful analysis of results indicates that such influence is very
slight. In the census of Massachusetts for 1885, the census family
in its average size consisted of 4*58 persons. The Massachusetts
State census offered facilities for ascertaining just the effect of
considering institutions and other bodies as families upon the
normal family. Eliminating all families coming under the arti-
ficial designation, it was found that the average size of the actual
normal family of Massachusetts in 1885 was 4'45. The influence,
therefore, arising from the inclusion of the artificial or arbitrary
family, so far as that State taken as a whole was concerned, was
but *13 per cent that is, the difference between 4'58, the average
for all families of all sizes, and 4'45, the average of the normal
family alone. Practically, it makes but little difference, then,
so far as great bodies of people are concerned as, for instance,
the population of a State whether the families are considered
on the basis of the actual normal family or on the ordinary
census basis, which includes all aggregations living under one
roof or having certain relations to one head. It would not do,
however, to consider this as a rule in small aggregations of
people. As an illustration, Danvers, in the State of Massachu-
setts, contains a large asylum for the insane. The number of
families in 1885, including the asylum, was 1,474, representing a
population of 7,061. The average size of families on this census
basis for the town of Danvers in the year named was 4"79 ; but,
eliminating the asylum as a family, the average size of the
families was 4' 17, too large a variation for accurate calculations.
Again, in the town of Concord, in the State named, containing
the reformatory prison, the average size of the family, including
the reformatory, was 5.15 ; excluding it, it was 4"62. Taking a
college town, Wellesley, the average size of the normal family
was 5*10 ; but, including Wellesley College, it was 6'15, or an
