FAMILIES AND DWELLINGS. 477
an average size of family of 4*70, and in 1890 of 4*67. The State
census for 1885 gives the average size of family as 4"58. In each
case the size of family as shown by the Federal census is slightly
larger than that shown by the State census. It would be quite
impossible to quarrel with the Federal census so far as this single
comparison is concerned.
In the eleventh census a question entirely novel in Federal cen-
suses was asked on the population schedule. This question was as
follows : " Mother of how many children, and number of these chil-
dren living ? " This inquiry was made concerning all women who
are or have been married, including those widowed or divorced.
The results of this inquiry will be of the very greatest impor-
tance. It was asked in the State census of Massachusetts for 1885.
The question relates to the fecundity of women, and if the tabula-
tions are proper will give this for different nationalities. The ques-
tion involves the comparative growth of the native and foreign-
born population, and is a subject of very vital importance. In the
Massachusetts census for 1875 a beginning was made in the direc-
tion of securing information on this point, but to a limited extent
only. In that census an inquiry was made relating simply to the
number of children born to each mother ; but in 1885, in the State
referred to, the inquiry was extended to the form just quoted.
The statistics presented in the State census for 1885 confirmed the
information secured in 1875 as to the relative fecundity of women,
and also supplied data in the nature of vital statistics bearing di-
rectly upon the question often raised as to whether it is better to
have small families, well reared, as opposed to large families of
children not always brought up under the best and most healthful
conditions. The figures gathered in the State of Massachusetts
showed that foreign-born mothers were more prolific than native-
born mothers, while at the second inquiry it was shown that the
number of children of foreign-born mothers decreased relative to
the time they had lived in this country ; and the general results,
considered on broad grounds, indicated that the mothers having
purely native parentage have relatively a slightly greater pro-
portion of their children living than the mothers having purely
foreign parentage.
The effect of dense population upon the decreasing size of the
family is suggested by these crude results ; but, after the Federal
and State censuses shall have repeated the inquiry quoted, we
may be able to determine with reasonable accuracy the exact
facts relative to the decrease of families. The first results under
the Federal census will be chiefly valuable because from them
comparisons in future censuses can be made, and from them also
can be shown whether more children are brought to mature age
when members of small families than when members of large
