VERACITY. 48 s
and says that Darius thought a Greek who kept his word a nota-
ble exception.
Evidence of the relation between chronic hostilities and utter
disregard of truth, is furnished throughout the history of Europe.
In the Merovingian period " the era of blood " oaths taken by
rulers, even with their hands on the altar, were forthwith broken ;
and Salvian writes " If a Frank forswear himself, where's the
wonder, when he thinks perjury but a form of speech, not of
crime ? " After perpetual wars during the two hundred years of
the Carolingian period, with Arabs, Saracens, Aquitanians, Sax-
ons, Lombards, Slavs, Avars, Normans, came the early feudal pe-
riod, of which H. Martin says :
" The tenth [century] may pass for the era of fraud and deceit. At no other
epoch of our history does the moral sense appear to have been so completely
effaced from the human soul as in that first period of feudalism."
And then, as an accompaniment and consequence of the inter-
nal conflicts which ended in the establishment of the French
monarchy, there was a still-continued treachery : the aristocracy
in their relations with one another " were without truth, loyalty,
or disinterestedness. . . . Neither life nor character was safe in
their hands/' Though Mr. Lecky ascribes the mediaeval " indif-
ference to truth " to other causes than chronic militancy, yet he
furnishes a sentence which indirectly yields support to the induc-
tion here made, and is the more to be valued because it is not
intended to yield such support. He remarks that ' ' where the
industrial spirit has not penetrated, truthfulness rarely occupies
in the popular mind the same prominent position in the catalogue
of virtues " as it does among those " educated in the habits of in-
dustrial life."
' Nor do we fail to see at the present time, in the contrasts be-
tween the Eastern and Western nations of Europe, a like relation
of phenomena.
Reflection shows, however, that this relation is not a direct
one. There is no immediate connection between bloodthirstiness
and the telling of lies. Nor because a man is kind-hearted does
it follow that he is truthful. If, as above implied, a life of amity
is conducive to veracity, while a life of enmity fosters un veracity,
the dependencies must be indirect. After glancing at some fur-
ther facts, we shall understand better in what ways these traits of
life and character are usually associated.
In respect of veracity, as in respect of other virtues, I have
again to instance various aboriginal peoples who have been thrust
by invading races into undesirable habitats ; and have there been
left either in absolute tranquillity or free from chronic hostilities
