34
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
rows of elephants, are sculptured in alto rilievo, forming cary-
atides of strange and mysterious figure, well calculated to strike
the imagination of the ancient Hindu population. The interior
of the central pagoda is adorned with sixteen magnificent col-
umns, which, as well as the side walls, were once covered with
paintings ; and, with the central sanctuary of the idol, is com-
posed with a correct understanding of architectural proportions.
The two exit doors open upon a platform on which are five pago-
das of lesser importance but of architectural merit and artistic
ornamentation corresponding to those of the main building.
Around these isolated temples excavations have been made into
the sides of the mountain, in which are found a cloister adorned
with bas-reliefs representing the principal gods of the Hindu
pantheon ; other halls, likewise sculptured ; and various other
features implying great labor
and refined artistic taste and
skill.
At Bamian, in Afghanistan,
are five colossal statues (prob-
ably Buddhas) seated in niches
which have been dug out in the
cliff, while the rock is pierced
with caves which are supposed
to have been excavated by Bud-
dhist monks during the first
five centuries of the Christian
era. Many of the caves are in-
habited. Some of them are
shown to have been bricked up
in front, and both niches and
caves are adorned with paint-
ings and ornamental devices.
Captain F. de Laessoe has de-
scribed a number of caves which
were excavated for habitation
in the sandstones of the right
bank of the Murghab River,
near Penjdeh, in Afghanistan.
One of them (Fig. 6) consists of a central passage a hundred and
fifty feet long and nine feet broad and high, having on each side
staircases and doors leading to rooms of different sizes. Each room
has attached to it a small chamber, with a well in which possibly
water brought up from the river was stored ; and is also provided
with small niches in the walls on which the lamps were placed and
where marks of soot can still be seen. The entrances from the
main passage to the rooms were shut with folding doors on wooden
Fig. 6. Yaki Deshik Caves of Afghan-
istan.
