VERACITY. 487
the credit of the Ostiaks and Samoieds it must be said, that they
are eminently distinguished for integrity and truthfulness."
But now we have to note facts which make us pause. There
are instances of truthfulness among peoples who are but partially
peaceful, and among others who are anything but peaceful.
Though characterized as " mild, quiet, and timid," the Hottentots
have not infrequent wars about territories ; and yet, in agreement
with Barrow, Kolben says
The "Word of a Hottentot " is sacred : and there is hardly any Thing upon
Earth they look upon as a fouler Crime than Breach of Engagement."
Morgan, writing of the Iroquois, states that " the love of truth
was another marked trait of the Indian character." And yet,
though the Iroquois league was formed avowedly for the preser-
vation of peace, and achieved this end in respect of its component
nations, these nations carried on hostilities with their neighbors.
The Patagonian tribes have frequent fights with one another, as
well as with the aggressive Spaniards ; and yet Snow says " A
lie with them is held in detestation." The Khonds, too, who be-
lieve that truthfulness is one of the most sacred duties imposed by
the gods, have " sanguinary conflicts " between tribes respecting
their lands. And of the Kolis, inhabiting the highlands of the
Dekhan, we read that though " manly, simple and truthful," they
are " great plunderers " and guilty of " unrelenting cruelty."
What is there in common between these truthful and pacific
tribes and these truthful tribes which are more or less warlike ?
The common trait is that they are not subject to coercive rule.
That this is so with tribes which are peaceful, I have shown
elsewhere (Principles of Sociology, ii, 573-4) ; and here we
come upon the significant fact that it is so, too, with truthful
tribes which are not peaceful. The Hottentots are governed by
an assembly deciding by a majority, and the head men have but
little authority. The Iroquois were under the control of a council
of fifty elected sachems, who could be deposed by their tribes ;
and military expeditions, led by chiefs chosen for merit, were left
to private enterprise and voluntary service. Among the Patago-
nians there was but feeble government : followers deserting their
chiefs if dissatisfied. Writing of the Khonds' " system of society "
Macpherson says " The spirit of equality pervades its whole con-
stitution, society is governed by the moral influence of its natural
heads alone, to the entire exclusion of the principle of coercive
authority."
In the remarks of sundry travelers, we find evidence that it is
the presence or absence of despotic rule which leads to prevalent
falsehood or prevalent truth.
