488 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Reference to the Reports on the Discovery of Peru of Xeres
and Pizarro (pp. 68-9, 85-6, 114-120), makes it manifest that
the general untruthfulness described was due to the intimidation
the Indians were subject to. So, too, respecting the Mexicans,
the Franciscan testimony was " They are liars, but to those who
treat them well they speak the truth readily." A clear conception
of the relation between mendacity and fear was given to Living-
stone by his experiences. Speaking of the falsehood of the East
Africans he says
" Bnt great as this failing is among the free, it is much more annoying among the
slaves. One can scarcely induce a slave to translate anything truly : he is so
intent on thinking of what will please."
And he further remarks that " untruthfulness is a sort of refuge
for the weak and oppressed."
A glance over civilized communities at once furnishes verifi-
cation. Of European peoples, those subject to the most absolute
rule, running down from their autocrat through all grades, are
the Russians ; and their extreme untruthfulness is notorious.
Among the Egyptians, long subject to a despotism administered
by despotic officials, a man prides himself on successful lying, and
will even ascribe a defect of his work to failure in deceiving some
one. Then we have the case of the Hindus, who, in their early
days irresponsibly governed, afterwards subject for a long period
to the brutal rule of the Mahometans, and since that time to the
scarcely-less brutal rule of the Christians, are so utterly untruth-
ful that oaths in Courts of Justice are of no avail, and lying is
confessed to without shame. Histories tell like tales of a men-
dacity which, beginning with the ruled, infects the rulers. "Writ-
ing of the later feudal period in France, Michelet says : " It is
curious to trace from year to year the lies and tergiversations of
the royal false coiner"; but nowadays political deceptions in
France, though still practiced, are nothing like so gross. Nor has
it been otherwise among ourselves. If with the " universal and
loathsome treachery of which every statesman of every party
was continually guilty," during Elizabeth's reign, while monarchi-
cal power was still but little qualified, we contrast the veracity of
statesmen in recent days, we see a kindred instance of the rela-
tions between the untruthfulness which accompanies tyranny
and the truthfulness which arises along with increase of liberty.
Hence such connections as we trace between mendacity and a
life of external enmity, and between veracity and a life of inter-
nal amity, are not due to any direct relations between violence
and lying and between peacefulness and truth-telling ; but are
due to the coercive social structure which chronic external enmity
develops, and to the non-coercive social structure developed by a
