492
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Fig. 3. Normal Position of the Foot.
was asked to bring the two toes as near together as possible, he
could not make them touch ; there was still a space between them,
as in Fig. 2. All gradations may be observed between this maxi-
mum of separation and a foot on which no separation can be per-
ceived in ordinary attitudes.
Among thirty-seven persons examined in Pondicherry, I only
found eight in whom there was a separation. It is therefore not
constant in the Indian race. The
distance between the ends of the
toes may vary in the same person
by ten or even by twenty millime-
tres, accordingly as they are drawn
together or apart by the muscles of
the foot alone, and without using
the hand. They may usually be
made to touch when brought to-
gether. But it will be observed
that they only touch at the ends.
At the root the separation per-
sists. The distance between the
toes, there, may be diminished, but does not vanish, when they
are brought together, and it may be increased when they are
spread out.
Figs. 3, 4, and 5 illustrate these facts. They are accurate, being
the traces, taken with a pencil, of the toes in different positions ;
and it should be kept in mind that the separation and the draw-
ing together are due solely to the ac-
tion of the muscles of the foot.
This anatomical disposition may
occur in other Indians as well as in
Tamils. I have found it among the
Bengalis, in three of whom I have
drawn it, but it is not frequent among
them. With none, however, in all my
investigations, have I found it as
strongly accentuated as with the Tri-
chinopolitan whom I have used as a
type. It appears to be rare among
; r ll Iig. 4. The same, with the Toes
the Singhalese, but their feet have brought together.
the prehensile property.
An interesting point in the feature is the possibility, by means
of it, of using a peculiar patten, which consists of a flat piece of
wood cut in the form of the foot, with a peg between the first and
second toes, by which the shoe is held on. It is used only in the low
castes. Four pairs of these pattens may be seen in the collec-
tion of shoes in the Cluny Museum. In two of them the peg is
