THE PREHENSILE FOOT OF EAST INDIANS. 49 5
upon it an argument against the application of the transformist
theory to man. Some Darwinians believe that if man used his
foot constantly and generally as a prehensile organ, an opposition
of the great toe would .be gradually evolved in the adaptation of
the organ to that function. The preceding study, however, proves
that this is not the fact. Among a people who have for centuries
commonly used their feet as a prehensile organ no movement of
opposition has been produced ; while in some persons an adapta-
tion to the new function has been observed, namely, a separation
of the great toe and wide and strong lateral movements, but only
lateral a pincers-foot, not a hand-foot. It will be seen, on re-
flection, that the condition could not be otherwise.
In walking, the weight of the body is borne on the heads of the
five metatarsi, but mostly on the head of the first one. If that
was not united solidly to the second metatarsus, and could turn
around it as is done in the hand, it would give way every time the
foot touched the ground, and the foot would want a sufficient in-
ternal point of support; walking would still be possible, but it
would be hard and laborious occasional, and not a habitual nor-
mal act. It is thus with the monkey, which is supported solely
on the outer edge of the foot. Even the anthropoid walks rarely
and awkwardly ; its foot, adapted to living in the woods, has the
opposition movement convenient for climbing easily; it has a
foot-hand. The man who, continuing to walk, likewise wants a
prehensile foot, can not enjoy this movement, which is incom-
patible with walking. He satisfies himself with lateral move-
ments between the great toe and the second toe, or a pincers-foot.
All this is simply a consequence of the general biological law of
the adaptation of the organ to the function. Translated for The
Popular Science Monthly from the Revue Scieniifique.
A ouBious, secretive proceeding of swans is described in Nature by Jessie
Godwin-Austen. The cygnets having been just hatched out, the male bird picked
up an empty half egg-shell lying beside the water and carefully carried it to the
edge of the water some twenty feet from the nest, filled it with mud, and pushed
it into the river, where it sank to the bottom ; and then repeated the performance
with the other half egg-shell. On returning to the nest the last time, he placed a
few sticks across the small track he had made. As no other pieces were seen
about the nest, while five cygnets were hatched, it is inferred that the bird had
done the same with all the egg-shells.
A paper by Mr. Edward Dobson, in the Australasian Association, on Human
Habitations in Prehistoric Times, was devoted to showing that, while rectangular
forms prevailed in the early buildings of the East and in North America, the cir-
cular form had prevailed throughout Africa (with the exception of the Nile
Valley) and through Switzerland and northern Europe, in Lapland and Green-
land ; and raised an inquiry as to the causes of these facts.
