496 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
MANUFACTURE OF BOOTS AND SHOES.
By GEOEGE A. EICH.
XVI. DEVELOPMENT OF AMERICAN INDUSTRIES SINCE COLUMBUS.
WITH all the uses to which leather is put, that of making
boots and shoes is the most important, and calls for the
greater part of the product of the tanneries of the country. It is
not only the most important in point of magnitude, but it is one
which has opened an unusual field for American ingenuity and
invention. When the late Charles Stewart Parnell was in this
country some years ago, he expressed a desire to see what could
be done in an American shoe-factory. Accordingly, what is known
to the trade as a Polish lace boot was selected by the Lynn manu-
facturer, whose building Mr. Parnell was inspecting, as the pat-
tern to illustrate the processes of the art and the speed of the
work. Mr. Parnell hastened from one part of the factory to an-
other as the boot in its evolution flew hither and thither, and
within twenty minutes after he had seen the pattern placed upon
the leather the finished article was handed to him. That, of
course, was an exhibition not practicable in ordinary, every-day
work. But, compared with the time it would have required to
make the boot by hand, it points to the saving that has been
effected through the introduction of machinery and emphasizes
the mechanical and economical development of the industry. As
in the case of tanning, these advances are of comparatively recent
origin, dating largely from the civil war and the scarcity of labor
consequent upon it. But, though brief the time, the advance from
the shoemaker of forty years ago with his hammer and lapstone,
to the factory of the present day with its multiplicity of machines
and its hundreds of operatives, has been a wonderful one. Indeed,
within that period is crowded more in the way of progress and
development than is to be found in all the centuries which inter-
vene between the time of the Egyptian cobbler and that of our
grandfathers.
There is no article of dress in which more striking changes
have been made in the various ages than in the covering for the
feet. Until the law was invoked, boots and shoes seemed to be the
special field in which the whims of fashion manifested themselves.
Coverings for the feet must have been among the earliest articles
of dress. It is almost impossible to conceive of a time when ever-
recurring injuries from contact with the earth's surface did not
suggest some such protection. The primitive form of foot-cover-
ing was the sandal, which was simply a flat sole under the foot
and secured to it by a thong. These were made of a great variety
