CAVE DWELLINGS OF MEN. 35
hinges, of which the socket-holes of the hinges and holes for the
admission of the arm behind the door to draw back the bolt are
the only traces now to be seen. This structure had an upper
story, but much less extensive than the lower story. Many other
caves, similarly constructed but containing fewer rooms, are found
all along the valley. At one of them the cliff is so well preserved
as to show how access was gained. It was by means of holes cut
in the rock for steps, which could be easily climbed by the aid of
a rope hanging down from above.
Vestiges of cave dwellings are very abundant in America, but
they have not been made the subject of special study to so great
an extent as those of Europe. They are prehistoric, ancient, or
relatively modern, and represent various stages of civilization in
those who inhabited them. Some are found as far north as Alaska,
where, according to Dr. Peet, who has published in the American
Antiquarian excellent illustrated summaries of the results of the
explorations of the cliff and cave dwellings, " they are associated
with shell-heaps ; others in the Mississippi Valley, where they are
closely connected with the mounds; others in the midst of the
canons of Colorado and Arizona, where they are associated with
structures like the Pueblos ; others in the central regions on the
coasts of Lake Managua, in Nicaragua ; and still others in the
valley of the Amazon in South America." According to Mr.
William H. DalL the cave-dwellers of Alaska were neolithic. The
caves in Tennessee are described by Prof. F. W. Putnam as con-
taining tokens of a neolithic character ; but it is uncertain whether
they preceded the mounds or were contemporaneous with them.
Dr. Earl Flint has described caves in Nicaragua which strike him
as being very ancient ; and certain caves in Brazil are supposed
to be palaeolithic.
The most interesting of the American cave dwellings, and
those which have received the most attention, are those which
are associated and almost confounded with the cliff dwellings of
the canons of Arizona and Colorado. So nearly related are the
cliff and cave dwellings of this region, in fact, that it seems to
have been to a considerable extent a question of the shaping of
the rock whether the habitation should be one or the other. Re-
garding the two as a whole, they were very numerous, and indi-
cate the former existence of a large population. Major Powell is
quoted as having expressed surprise at seeing in the region noth-
ing for whole days but cliffs everywhere riddled with human
habitations, which resembled the cells of a honeycomb more
than anything else. Yet it is probable that only a small fraction
of these singular dwellings have been seen, while the number of
those that have been even only superficially explored is much less.
An excellent, finely illustrated description of some of these
