MANUFACTURE OF BOOTS AND SHOES. 501
still sent to the houses of the farmers to be finished, and some of
the shops turned out work enough to entitle them to the more am-
bitious name which is attached to such establishments at the pres-
ent day. Other towns about Lynn followed its lead ; and Marble-
head, Danvers, and Haverhill soon became actively engaged in
the industry. Women's shoes were then as they have ever con-
tinued the staple article of manufact-
ure at Lynn. These were made largely
of stuff, the finer qualities with white
and russet rands, stitched firmly with
white waxed thread, pointed at the toes,
and adorned with wooden heels covered
with leather. ^ ^ FlG 5 ._ Section of a Man > s Boot ,
That England felt this growing in- , The upper ; b, in-sole ; c, out-
dustry of the colonies is shown by the 8ol< v d i 7 elt ' f the stitching
J . . , 01 the sole to the welt; f, the
fact that a commission was appointed stitching of the upper to the
to inquire into the reason why no more welt -
boots and shoes were exported to Amer-
ica. It was with astonishment that the gentlemen composing the
commission reported to their colleagues that the colonists were
supplying their own foot-wear, and apparently, too, with satis-
faction to those concerned. Then came England's desperate ef-
forts to force the trade of the colonies into British channels and
the consequent resistance of the latter to such coercion. Under
the influence of the import duties, the shoe industry flourished
especially, and at the time of the Revolution the manufacturers
were unable to meet the demands which were made upon them
for boots for the Continental army. But following that came a
serious check. The American markets were flooded with English
goods, and trade was paralyzed. A demand was then made on the
part of the shoe manufacturers for some kind of protection, with
the result that, in the first Congress, in 1789, a tariff was arranged
so as to check importations. Hon. John B. Alley, of Lynn, at a
leather-trade dinner in New York in 1859, gave somewhat of a
romantic version to that portion of the tariff affecting boots and
shoes a version which possibly is not to be accepted in detail as
history, but which is, nevertheless, of interest. He said that this
early duty on imported boots and shoes was due largely to the
efforts of Ebenezer Breed, a young Lynn shoemaker, who had
located in Philadelphia on account of the dull times in his own
town, and of his friend Stephen Collins, a native of the same
place. By their influence with members of Congress and with
Dolly Payne, the young Quakeress, to whom Mr. Madison, then a
rising man in public legislation, was at that time paying atten-
tion, they got this boon for their home industry. Be that as it
may, with the cessation of imports the Massachusetts shoe-shops
