;o2
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
began to expand rapidly, and goods were shipped not only to Bos-
ton, New York, and Philadelphia, but even to Liverpool. Lynn,
in 1788, exported 100,000 pairs of shoes; while, seven years later,
the volume of transactions had increased to 300,000 pairs, and
there were at that time 200 master workmen and 600 journeymen
and apprentices engaged in the making of them.
But, with all this development of trade, boots and shoes con-
tinued to be made by hand. Spasmodic attempts were made to
abbreviate the processes, but nothing satisfactory resulted from
them for many years. Mr. David Knox, writing in a shoe journal
of his experiences as a manufacturer, says : " In 1855, the year in
which I commenced business, about the only machinery used in
shoe manufacturing were the sewing machines to stitch uppers
and the machines to strip leather and cut it into soles. Even
these were not in general use. Some manufacturers had intro-
duced revolving cutters in Lynn the Richards and Foster ma-
chines, and in Marblehead the Thompson. With the Foster and
Thompson machines soles could be cut reasonably quick, but such
was the risk of the operator's fingers being chopped off by the
erratic movements of the knives that
the old Thompson or Ingalls beam was
preferred. By very hard work on these
machines about fifteen pairs of soles
could be cut per minute, while on the
modern machines, operated by steam-
power, as many as ninety pairs are cut
in the same time, and with vastly more
accuracy."
The chief tools of the shoemaker
then consisted of his hammer, his awl,
his lapstone, his knives, and his har-
ness for " setting-up " his boots or
shoes. The essentials of a shoe are the
upper, the sole, the counter or heel stiff-
ening, and the heel. These parts are
again subdivided into the " vamp " for
covering the front of the foot, the large
and the small quarters for encircling
the ankles, the button-piece, etc. The
work of the shoemaker is to prepare and close these various parts
of the upper and the linings together, to bring them into the de-
sired shape, to fasten them to the sole which has been previously
cut, to attach the heel, and then to give the various parts the de-
sired finish and style. These processes indicate the lines along
which machinery had to be applied. All the operations have
been subdivided to the minutest detail, and in the performance
Fig. 6.
-McKay Stitching
Machine.
