MICHAEL SERVETUS. 525
third is the animal spirit, whose seat is in the brain and nerves."
Now, he goes on to suppose that the blood, having received in its
passage through the lungs the breath of life, is sent by the left
ventricle into the arteries. The purest part ascends to the base
of the brain, where it is more refined and changed from the vital
to the animal spirit, and acts upon the mass of the brain, which
is incapable of reasoning without its stimulus. From this, and
much more which is unintelligible, it appears plain that Servetus
had read the schoolmen, and was imbued with their methods of
reasoning.
To get published a book filled, as the Christianismi Restitutio
was, with theological opinions repugnant alike to Catholics and
Reformers, was no easy task. And in effecting his purpose Ser-
vetus exercised great caution and ingenuity. At Vienne, where
he had lived for twelve years, was a publisher named Arnoullet,
whom, with the printer Geroult, Servetus took into his con-
fidence. He engaged not only to pay the whole expenses, but
also to add a gratuity of a hundred crowns. It was arranged
that the printing should not be carried on at the ordinary place
of business, but that a small house at some distance should be
used for the purpose. The printing was commenced on St.
Michael's day, and in three or four months one thousand copies
of the book were ready.
No name appeared on the title-page, but at the end of the
book immediately over the date the initials " M. S. V." were
placed, and at page 199, at the commencement of the dialogue
between Michael and Petrus, the latter is made to say : " Here
he is ; Servetus is here, of whom I was speaking/' The reference
made in the preface to former works on the same subject, and the
introduction of Michael and Peter as interlocutors, just as had
been done in the Dialogue on the Trinity twenty years before,
rendered it easy to establish that Michael Servetus and Michael
Villeneuve were one and the same man.
The whole stock of books, when ready, was made up into bales
of one hundred each, and sent away, the greater part to Lyons, to
the care of a type-founder named Pierre Merrin, who believed
that the packets contained nothing but blank paper. It was
probably intended to forward them, as soon as opportunity
offered, to Genoa and Venice.
Meanwhile, unknown to Servetus, a copy of the work, and a
letter giving particulars of the printing of it, were dispatched to
Calvin at Geneva, probably by some one at Lyons, who had
friends at Vienne, and who was in the confidence of both Ser-
vetus and Calvin. Armed with this evidence against the Span-
iard, Calvin caused a letter to be written to Vienne by a young
man named William Trie, denouncing Servetus, and inclosing
