526 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the first few sheets of the Christianismi Restitutio. By a subse-
quent mail he sent by the same man about twenty letters, which
he had received from time to time from Servetus. On this the
latter was arrested, and conveyed to prison on the pretense of
being required to see some sick prisoner. He was immediately
examined closely as to his early history and the meaning of some
of his writings. Taken by surprise, as he was, he appears to have
prevaricated, and tried to hide his identity with the author of De
Trinitatis Erroribus, by pretending that in his letters with Cal-
vin he had personated Servetus merely for the purpose of discus-
sion. Facts looked very black against him, but he probably had
very powerful friends, and it may have been with the connivance
of some of them that two days afterward he made his escape from
prison. The whole plot was soon ferreted out by Matthew Ory,
the Inquisitor; the books were seized, and Servetus was con-
demned " in a pecuniary mulct of a thousand livres, to be paid
to the King of Dauphiny " ; and the sentence went on, " as soon
as he shall be taken he shall be drawn in a dung-cart, with his
books, on the market-day and hour, from the gate of the Royal
Palace, through the streets and accustomed places, to the common
hall of the present city, and from thence to the place called Char-
neve, and there he shall be burnt alive, with a slow fire, until
his body shall be reduced to ashes. In the mean time the present
sentence shall be executed in effigy, with which the said books
shall be burnt/'
This sentence was duly carried out on June 17, 1553, the effigy
and five bales of books being burned to ashes.
Of such action as Calvin's in thus betraying what had been
communicated to him in the confidence of a letter, into the hands
of a professed enemy of both, Erasmus expresses himself as fol-
lows : " You are not ignorant how abhorrent, I do not say from
virtue, but entirely from all humanity, it is to betray the secrets
of friendship; forasmuch as we detest even those who, after a
breach of friendship, shall divulge what was said in confidence
before ; nor can those of a generous disposition suffer themselves
to betray that which they know, from the confidence of ancient
friendship, will expose one to the resentment of his greatest
enemies."
Having escaped from Vienne, Servetus probably remained in
hiding first at Lyons. But the discovery of the whole matter, and
his subsequent condemnation, made it imperative that he should
get out of France. Many Spaniards were settled at Naples, and
thither he now seems to have determined to push his way. For
some reason or other, probably because he expected more leniency
from Reformers than from Catholics, he preferred to go through
Switzerland rather than Piedmont. He reached Geneva, and
