MICHAEL SERVETUS. 527
lodged at the Rose Inn, intending to go by boat to Lausanne on
his way to Zurich. Calvin, however, learned that he was in the
town, and he immediately informed the first syndic, and caused
him to be apprehended; and here he was kept while proceed-
ings were being taken against him, from August 14th to Octo-
ber 27th.
The people of Geneva, in the year 1553, were, and had been for
several years, divided into two hostile parties, struggling desper-
ately with each other for the supremacy. The austerity and
tyranny of Calvin had aroused against him many opponents, and
it seemed now as if these were on the point of attaining the ends
for which they had been so long striving. Calvin's earliest
attempts at ruling the Genevese had soon met with failure. He
had first settled in Geneva in 1536, but so unpopular had he
become in two years that he and his colleague, Farel, were for-
mally banished from the city. Passing from Basle to Strasburg, he
had taken up his residence in the latter city as Professor of The-
ology. But after two years, in response to a deputation which
came and besought his return to Geneva, he consented to go* back,
and in September, 1541, he took up his old position under greater
advantages than before. He then laid before the Council the
draft of his ordinances respecting church discipline, and these
were at once accepted. A consistory was formed, composed for
the most part of clergymen, with the addition of a few laymen,
" to watch over the support of the pure doctrine and of morals."
The tribunal called everybody, without exception, to account for
his slightest words or actions, and referred cases, where ecclesi-
astical censure was not sufficient, to the Council. Thus Calvin
had made himself director of the conduct as well as of the opinion
of the Genevese. His spirit governed exclusively in the Council
as in the Consistory, and no one could hope to succeed who set
himself in opposition to Calvin.
Twelve years of such bondage, however, had not been borne
by the Genevese without indication of discontent and dissatisfac-
tion. The Council declared that clergymen could no 16nger be
admitted to its meetings, although they had not been previously
excluded; men who were under the consistorial ban for some
infringement of discipline were chosen as councilors, and even
open hostility was shown to Calvin, who wrote : " The accumu-
lated rancor of their hearts breaks out from time to time ; so that
when I show myself in the street, the curs are hounded on me."
To the great misfortune of Servetus it was at such a time as
this that he arrived in Geneva. His case became the subject of
dispute over which the two factions fought one of their bitterest
struggles ; and although Calvin had declared some years before
that if the Spaniard ever came to that city he should not escape
