MICHAEL SERVETUS. 529
on that account, since by that I shall be a disciple made like to
his master."
Some days afterward Calvin came into court attended by all
the ministers of Geneva, and undertook to prove that the teach-
ing of the early fathers of the Church was opposed to that of
Servetus. After Calvin and the prisoner had had a long dispute
as to the meaning of the word persona, the court adjourned, but
before doing so the judges gave permission for Servetus to be
provided, at his own cost, with such books as he needed, which
could be obtained in Geneva or Lyons. Some paper and ink, with
which the prisoner was now for the first time furnished, enabled
him to send in a petition on the following day. In this he pointed
out that the prosecution, as a criminal, of a man on account of
the views he held on doctrine was contrary to the Scriptures and
to the ancient Church ; and he begged that, as he was a foreigner,
wholly unacquainted with the customs of the country, and of how
he should proceed, he might be allowed an advocate. But to this
very reasonable request, although subsequently repeated more
than once, the judges did not accede.
The Syndics and Council of Geneva now addressed a letter to
the authorities of Vienne, asking that the documents connected
with the trial of Michael Villeneuve might be sent to them ; and,
three days after, they received a letter saying that these docu-
ments could not be forwarded, but that, if the prisoner were
delivered over to them, the sentence already passed on him would
be carried into effect. Servetus was hereupon asked if he pre-
ferred remaining in the hands of the Council or to be sent back to
Vienne. Knowing full well that a cruel death most certainly
awaited him in France, and hoping that no such punishment was
in store for him here, he fell on his knees and besought the Coun-
cil to do what they would with him, but in no case to send him
back to Vienne.
The trial was accordingly continued.
Meanwhile, Servetus lay in one of the foul cells set apart for
criminals of the lowest class, and we find him writing in a peti-
tion, dated September 15th : " Calvin is resolved that I should rot
in a prison to please him. I am eaten up with lice. My hose are
worn to pieces and I have no change, nor another doublet, and
only one shirt, and that in tatters."
Another petition, dated a week later, ends with the words:
" Wherefore, my lords, I desire that my false accuser should be
punished pcena talionis, and confined to prison as I am, till he
or I be condemned to death or to some other punishment. I am
willing to die if he is not convicted both of this and other things
which I shall lay to his charge. I beg of you, my lords, to do me
justice. Justice, my lords, justice ! "
VOL. XLI. 39
