530 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Finally, on October 10th, comes his last appeal : " It is now three
weeks since I desired to have a hearing, but could not obtain it.
I beseech you, for the love of Jesus Christ, not to deny me what
you would not deny a Turk, when I beg you to do me justice. I
have several things to tell you that are very important and neces-
sary. As to what you may have ordered to be done for me in the
way of cleanliness, I have to inform you that nothing has been
done, and that I am in a more miserable condition than ever. In
addition to which, I suffer terribly from the cold and from colic,
and my rupture, which causes me miseries of other kinds that I
should feel shame in writing about more particularly. It is very
cruel that I am neither allowed to speak nor to have my pressing
wants supplied. For the love of God, my lords, either in pity or
in duty, give some orders in my behalf."
During this time a letter was sent by the Council of Geneva to
the different Swiss churches, asking for an expression of opinion
on the case of Servetus. The answers came back in due course,
and the Spaniard was declared to be an intolerable monster of
impiety, and to have revived the wicked errors "with which
Satan did formerly disturb the Church." The Church of Zurich
was more vehement than the rest in exhorting the magistrates to
deal severely with him.
On the morning of October 27th, Servetus was summoned " to
learn the pleasure of my lords the Councilors and Justices of
Geneva," and before the porch of the Hotel de Yille he heard his
condemnation : " To be burned alive, along with thy books, printed
as well as written with thy hand, until thy body be reduced to
ashes. So shall thy days end, and thou be made an example tc
others who would do as thou hast done."
The sentence was immediately carried into execution. In a
few hours Calvin's most subtle disputant had forever ceased to
trouble him, and the world was the poorer by one loving, faithful
spirit. The Gentleinan's Magazine.
The two main things required in anthropological study, said the Rev. Lorimer
Fison, sectional president in the Australasian Association, are a patient continu-
ance in collecting facts and the faculty of seeing in them what is seen by the
natives themselves. But the natural tendency to form a theory as soon as a fact
is seized, and looking at facts from the mental point of view of civilized man, may
lead investigators into fatal mistakes. The best way to gain information is to live
with the natives, learn their language, and get their confidence, or get information
from the men living among them. References to aborigines, their manners and
customs, in books might be collected and classified by many readers (as has been
done in Spencer's Descriptive Sociology), and thus facilitate investigation. The
speaker dwelt on the magnificent and all but untrodden field afforded by British
New Guinea and its outlying groups of islands.
