THE ROYAL SOCIETY. 531
THE ROYAL SOCIETY; OR, SCIENTIFIC VISIONARIES
OF THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY.
Br MAEY DAVIES STEELE.
DURING the English Commonwealth period two little com-
panies of natural philosophers were in the habit of meeting
for study and experiments one in London, and the other at the
lodgings of Dr. Wilkins, warden of Wadhani College, Oxford.
At a later day these small clubs of virtuosi, as the scientists of
that age were called, were united, and the society held all its
sessions in London, at a tavern or private house ; and when finally
it attained such dimensions that a large room was necessary,
it established itself in the parlor of Gresham College. It was
originally called the Philosophic Assembly ; but when, soon after
the restoration of Charles II, Evelyn, in his dedicatory epistle,
prefixed to Naude's Treatise on Libraries, spoke of the Philosoph-
ic Assembly as the Royal Society, the name was immediately
adopted by the members, with a vote of thanks to him for sug-
gesting it. Charles was gratified, and declared himself their
founder, giving them, as Evelyn records, August 21, 1662, " the
armes of England, to be borne in a canton in our armes ; and sent
us a mace of silver gilt of the same fashion and bigness as those
carried before his Majesty, to be borne before our president on
meeting days/' Evelyn, besides writing several books, at the
request of the society, procured for it from the Howard family
the noble Arundelian Library, adding, on one of his birthdays, his
table of the lungs, liver, veins, and arteries ; the first chart of the
kind that was ever made. A rare print, designed by Evelyn,
probably as a frontispiece to Spratt's History of the Royal So-
ciety, and beautifully engraved by Hollar, represents Lord Bacon
as the founder of the society ; for, as Disraeli says, he " planned
the ideal institution in his philosophical romance of the New
Atlantis." The picture contains fine portraits of Charles II,
patron of the society; Lord Brouncker, its first president, and
Lord Bacon, its founder, inscribed Artium instaurator. The
library, statutes, journals, and mace of the Royal Society, and
numerous philosophical instruments are represented in the en-
graving.
One peculiarity of the association was that men of all nations,
religions, and professions were admitted to membership ; for, as
their historian, Bishop Spratt, said, they did not wish " to lay the
foundations of an English, Scotch, Irish, Popish, or Protestant
philosophy, but a philosophy of mankind." When the Society
for Promoting Christian Knowledge desired to hold its meetings
in the Royal Society's rooms, Sir Isaac Newton made the follow-
