THE ROYAL SOCIETY. 535
a rate we should have thought impossible to him, at " the ignorant
and comical buffoons who, with an insolence suitable to their un-
derstanding, are still [as he repeats] crying out, ' What have the
society done ? ' " And he prophesies that the society " will sur-
vive the triumphs of the proudest conquerors; since when all
their pomp and noise is ended, they [the F. R. S.] are those little
things in black, whom now in scorn they term philosophers and
fops, to whom they must be obliged for making their names out-
last the pyramids, whose founders are as unknown as the heads
of the Nile."
Unfortunately, though Evelyn's claim for the society was sub-
stantially correct, the virtuosi laid themselves open to ridicule by
their many trifling, useless, and ludicrous questions, researches,
and experiments, and much of their labor was wasted, and its
results are now forgotten. The great Mr. Boyle is represented as
mortified by the absurd investigations of trivial subjects in which
some of his colleagues engaged, and as on one occasion tendering
to a friend, with blushing and confusion at the simplicity of the
society, their paper "giving instructions for inquiries." That
" pleasant rascal," the witty Charles II, whom Evelyn could
hardly have numbered among the scorners whom he described as
" magnificent fops, whose talents reach but to the adjusting of
their perukes," set the example of making fun of the Fellows on
the very day that he constituted them a society. He dined with
them on this occasion, as he did afterward; when he was not
present they feasted on venison sent them by his Majesty. Toward
the close of this first meeting, after expressing his satisfaction at
being the only King of England who had founded a scientific
society, he added, with that " peculiar gravity of countenance "
which he assumed when preparing to mystify or hoax his com-
panions with some witty but apparently grave and sincere remark
or question, that he had no doubt the learned men before him
could solve a problem that had long puzzled him. This was the
question : Suppose two pails of water of the same weight were
placed in two different but equally balanced scales, and that two
live bream were put in either of the pails, why would not the
pail to which the fish were added weigh more than the one to
which no addition had been made ? The Fellows were eager to
satisfy the king's curiosity ; but everybody gave a different an-
swer. " One at length offered so ridiculous a solution that another
of the members could not refrain from a loud laugh ; when the
king, turning to him, insisted that he should give his sentiments
as well as the rest. This he did without hesitation, and told his
Majesty, in plain terms, that he denied the fact ! On which the
king in high mirth exclaimed : ' Odds fish, brother, you are in the
right.' The jest was not ill designed. The story was often use-
