THE ROYAL SOCIETY. 537
Pepys, no doubt, while the king teased and jeered at Sir
William Petty, was indignantly recalling the society's many fine
experiments with colors, fire, loadstones, microscopes, the air-
pump, thermometer, liquors, musical sounds, vibrations of the
air, blood injected into a dog to prove Harvey's theory of circu-
lation, and "one that did turn a piece of roasted mutton into
pure blood, which was very rare " ; and another, when the blood
of a sheep was transfused into a man.
He would have liked to remind his Majesty of the plans for
planting the royal forests with oaks and other trees; abating
London smoke, and making artificial fuel, which had emanated
from the society ; of how they had promoted new physiological,
surgical, medical, botanical, chemical, physical, astronomical,
agricultural, horticultural, and sanitary methods and discover-
ies ; patronized art. literature, architecture, and mechanical in-
ventions, and were doing all in their power to tc disperse," as
Macaulay said of them, " the phantoms which had haunted the
world for ages, and destroy the belief in witchcraft, astrology,
and alchemy."
Yet, alas ! Charles might have retorted that many of their
leaders were either seeking the philosopher's stone and the elixir
of life, endeavoring to fly in the air, to collect the feathers of the
wing of a phoenix, or catch " the disjointed syllables of an old
doting astrologer." The contents of their museums were often
no more valuable than the toys in the baby-house, and amusing
rather than useful or really curious. Yet with these playthings
they expected to work wonders in science.
The distinguished Sir Samuel Morland, who was reputed to
have invented the steam-engine, the speaking-trumpet, drum cap-
stans for weighing heavy anchors, arithmetical wheels, quench-
fires, a new kind of harp, valuable bridges, a machine for throw-
ing water to a great height, and other useful things, prided
himself on his coach, which contained a kitchen with a fireplace,
pots, frying-pans, and a machine for roasting meat by clock-
work.
Evelyn visited Sir Samuel when the inventor was very old
and blind, and was shown his " invention of writing, which was
very ingenious ; also his wooden Kalender, which instructed him
all by feeling, and other pretty and useful inventions of mills,
pumps, etc. He has newly buried 200 worth of music-books
six feet under ground, being, as he said, love-songs, and vanity.
He plays himself psalms and religious hymns on the theorbo."
Sir Samuel believed in spells and witchcraft, and hesitated to
prosecute a lawsuit because he was firmly convinced that the
defendant had used, or was capable of using, charms to gain
the victory over him. One of the fantastic wonders of the
