538 ' THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
age was the home of Winstanley, who built the first Eddystone
lighthouse. If you kicked aside an old shoe, flung purposely in
your way, " up started a ghost before you. If you sat down in a
certain chair, a couple of gigantic arms would immediately clasp
you in." The house was a perfect knickknackatory, as the peo-
ple of that day would have said. The instant you seated yourself
in an arbor built in the garden near a canal you " were sent out
afloat into the middle of the canal, whence you could not escape
till this man of art and science wound you up to the arbor."
Evelyn gives an interesting account of the singular inventions
of " that most obliging and universally curious " Bishop Wilkins,
whose lodgings at Oxford he visited when the bishop was warden
of Wadham College. Dr. Wilkins had contrived a talking statue,
which was hollow, and connected with a tube through which a
man a long distance off spoke the words which seemed to be
uttered by the figure. With the assistance of that " prodigious
young scholar, Mr. Christopher Wren," he had filled a gallery
above his lodgings with a variety of shadows, dials, perspectives,
and many other artificial, mathematical, and magical curiosities ;
a way-wiser, a thermometer, a monstrous magnet, conic and other
sections, a balance on a demi-circle, marble curiously colored by
Wren, and other scientific toys and instruments.
A favorite experiment in the seventeenth century was produc-
ing the apparition of a rose or other flower, and was called the
process of the Palingenesis. " Having burnt a flower, by calci-
nation, disengaged the salts from its ashes, deposited them in a
glass vial, a chemical mixture acted on it, till, in the fermenta-
tion, they assumed a bluish and a spectral hue. The dust, thus
excited by heat, shoots upwards into its primitive forms ; by sym-
pathy the parts unite, and while each is returning to its destined
place, we see distinctly the stalks, the leaves, and the flower
arise ; it is the pale spectre of a flower coming slowly forth from
its ashes. . . . This vegetable phoenix lies thus concealed in its
cold ashes till the presence of heat produces this resurrection."
When the ashes again cool it returns to death. " A corpse may
give out its shadowy re-animation when not too deeply buried in
the earth. Bodies corrupted in their graves have risen, particu-
larly the murdered ; for murderers are apt to bury their victims
in a slight and hasty manner." Another scientific theory, as well
as popular superstition, proved beyond peradventure by experi-
ment!
Some members of the society were " impatient for romantic
discoveries ; miracles were required, some were hinted at, while
, others were promised." Of these wonders, Glanville, a man of
acute and original intellect, who, though a firm believer in and
defender of witchcraft, was yet somewhat skeptical in scientific
