THE ROYAL SOCIETY. 539
matters, wrote in his work on the progress of knowledge since
the days of Aristotle : " Should these heroes [the F. R. S.] go on
as they have happily "begun," he said, " they will fill the world
with wonders ; and posterity will find many things that are now
rumors verified into practical realities. It may be, some ages
hence, a voyage to the southern unknown tracts, yea, possibly, the
moon, will not be more strange than one to America. To them
that come after us, it may be as ordinary to "buy a pair of wings
to fly into remotest regions, as now a pair of boots to ride a jour-
ney ; and to confer at the distance of the Indies, by sympathetic
conveyances, may be as usual to future times, as to us in a liter-
ary correspondence. The restoration of grey hairs to juvenilty,
and renewing the exhausted marrow, may at length be effected
without a miracle ; and the turning the now comparative desert
world into a paradise, may not improbably be expected from late
agriculture. Those that judge from the narrowness of former
principles and successes will smile at these paradoxical expecta-
tions. Antiquity could not have believed the almost incredible
force of our cannons, and would have as coldly entertained the
wonders of the telescope." Disraeli smiles at these dreams at
the dawn of philosophy. "What would he have thought had
Glanville prophesied of steamships, railroads, telegraphs, sewing-
machines, telephones, and other inventions of the nineteenth
century, which were unknown in Disraeli's lifetime ?
Gold-making was a favorite pursuit in the seventeenth cent-
ury with our scientists. Sir Kenelm Digby's devotion to alche-
my, which he regarded as science, led him to lavish money on
impostors, and seek knowledge from very unlikely sources. He
once went in disguise to consult the philosopher Descartes, and,
hoping to obtain from him the secret of making durum potdbile,
complained that life was too short for the accomplishment of the
designs of a scientist. Descartes, though he did not give Digby
the recipe for the golden elixir, replied that he had considered
that matter ; " to render a man immortal was what he could not
promise, but that he was very sure it was possible to lengthen out
his life to the period of the patriarchs." Sir Kenelm's well-
known weapon, salve, or powder of sympathy, was recommended
by him as a valuable remedy, though it was, of course, the most
ridiculous quackery. " The wound was never to be brought into
contact with the powder, which was merely powdered vitriol.
A bandage was to be taken from the wound, immersed in the
powder, and kept there till the wound healed." He was a firm
believer in astrology, and attributed his happy marriage to the
beautiful and talented Yenetia Stanley, after a somewhat pro-
tracted courtship, to astrological influences. Digby gave Evelyn,
at Paris, in 1651, some water which he " intended for a disolvent
