540 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of calx of gold/' and which, though it smelled like aqua fortis,
and tasted like vitriol, he insisted was " only raine water of the
autumnal equinox exceedingly rectified, very volatile " ; an asser-
tion which led Evelyn to the conclusion that " Sir Kenelm was an
arrant mountebank." Some time afterward, mentioning Digby's
account of Lady Selenger's antipathy for roses, which he said she
had to that degree that " laying but a rose upon her cheek when
she was asleepe, it raised a blister," Evelyn remarks, " But Sir
Kenelm was a teller of strange things."
Yet Digby had in Evelyn a not incredulous listener. In the
winter of 1G52 there lived in Paris, in extraordinary splendor and
seeming wealth the source of which was not apparent an im-
postor, who nearly succeeded in selling Evelyn and his scientific
friends a pretended secret for multiplying gold; but they dis-
covered before the bargain was completed that the man was an
egregious cheat. Not long afterward Evelyn visited Mark An-
tonio, a celebrated artist in enameling, from whom he heard
strange tales concerning a Genoese jeweler, who, according to
Antonio, "had the greate Arcanum, and had made projection
before him severall times. He mett him at Cyprus travelling
into Egypt, on return from whence he died at sea, and the secret
with him, that else he had promised to leave it to him " a legacy
which the enameler believed would have enabled him to manu-
facture gold. Mark Antonio also told a marvelous story about a
dwarfish person whom he saw come into a goldsmith's shop in
Amsterdam, and ask the master to melt him a pound of lead,
which, being done, the visitor threw into the crucible of molten
metal a pinch of powder that he carried in the hollow pommel of
his sword, and, after a few moments, pouring out a gold ingot
from the crucible, he carried it off, saying, as he left the shop,
" Sir, you will be paid for your lead in the crucible," where, sure
enough, the goldsmith found four ounces of good gold ; but he
could never hear of the little transmuter of metals again, though
he sought him throughout the city. " This," says Evelyn, who
had seen so many wonderful new inventions during his travels in
France and Italy, that he was in a continually expectant frame
of mind, and almost ready to believe that projection powder was
a scientific discovery "this Antonio asserted with great obtesta-
tion, nor know I what to think of it, there are so many impostors
and people who love to tell strange stories as this artist did, who
had been a greate rover and spoke ten different languages." In
May, 1653, Evelyn mentions in his diary the death from apoplexy
of his "servant Hoare," meaning his private secretary, who
" wrote those exquite severall hands," his illness being, it was
supposed, caused by " tampering with mercury about an experi-
ment in gold." The same year he records the receipt from Mon-
