SKETCH OF JOHN COUCH ADAMS. 545
SKETCH OF JOHN COUCH ADAMS.
ONE of the most striking illustrations of the value and range
of man's reasoning faculty is afforded by the substantially
simultaneous calculation, on a purely mathematical basis, of the
elements of the then unseen and unknown planet Neptune, and
the prediction of the place in the sky where it would be found
on a given day, by the Englishman Adams and the Frenchman
Leverrier. While Leverrier succeeded in first attracting public
attention to his work, Adams anticipated him in beginning the
calculation and in bringing it to a satisfactory result.
Prof. J. W. S. Glaisher treats Adams's first paper, by means of
which the new planet might have been discovered, as furnishing
the final and inexorable proof of Newton's law of gravitation;
and the day when it was taken to Greenwich October '21, 1845
as therefore marking a distinct epoch in the history of gravita-
tional astronomy.
John Couch Adams was born at Lancast, seven miles west of
Launceston, Cornwall, England, June 5, 1819, and died at the
observatory in Cambridge, January 21, 1892. His father was a
tenant farmer ; his mother had a small landed estate of her own,
and had inherited her uncle's library, in which were a few books
on astronomy. He was interested in these books, and made rapid
progress at the village school, and was learning algebra before he
was twelve years old, at which age he went to a private school at
Devonport, where he had Mr. Grylls, a cousin of his mother's, as
his teacher. While he studied, as usual, the classics and mathe-
matics, astronomy was his favorite branch, and he was mak-
ing notes and drawing maps of the constellations when fourteen
years old ; he read eagerly all the astronomical books he could
find, and soon became interested, by the perusal of Vince's Flux-
ions, in the higher mathematics. In 1837 it was contemplated to
send him to the University of Cambridge ; in October, 1839, he
entered St. John's College of that university. During his under-
graduate career, according to Prof. J. W. L. Glaisher, he was inva-
riably the first man of his year in the college examinations. In
1843 he was graduated as senior wrangler, being also first Smith's
prize-man. The occurrence of a small constellation of mathemat-
ical senior wranglers at Cambridge about this time is noted in
one of the biographies of Adams, viz. : Stokes in 1841, Cayley in
1842, and Adams in 1843 all three of whom have since been pro-
fessors, and famous. Adams was elected a Fellow of his college
on the year of his graduation, and continued in that relation till
1852, when, he not having taken holy orders, his fellowship ex-
TOL. XLI. 40
