SKETCH OF JOHN COUCH ADAMS. 547
that part of the zone in the immediate neighborhood of the place
indicated by theory. Unfortunately, the observations were not
immediately compared with each other, or Prof. Challis would
have discovered, what he afterward found to be the case, that he
had actually seen the planet on August 4th and August 12th, the
third and fourth nights of observation. ... On September 3, 1846,
Adams communicated to the astronomer royal a new solution of
the problem, supposing the mean distance of the planet as origi-
nally assumed, to be diminished by about the thirtieth part. The
result of this change was to produce a better agreement between
the theory and the later observations, and to give a smaller and
therefore a more probable value of the eccentricity."
Leverrier's first paper relative to the subject was presented to
the French Academy on November 10, 1845, and concerned the
perturbations of Uranus produced by Jupiter and Saturn ; but in
it he also pointed to irregularities which could not be accounted
for by the existing theory. In his second paper, June 1, 1846, he
expressed the conclusion that the unexplained irregularities were
due to an undiscovered planet exterior to Uranus. He calculated
the longitude, but did not give the elements of the orbit of the
disturbing planet. The place assigned by him to the supposed
body differed by only one degree from that given by Adams in
the paper which he had left at the Greenwich Observatory seven
months earlier.
"Adams's researches," says Prof. Glaisher, " therefore preceded
Leverrier's by a considerable interval ; and in spite of the delay in
carrying out the search, it had been carried on at Cambridge
for nearly two months before the planet was found at Berlin.
Adams's investigation may be regarded as having been completed
on October 21, 1845, when he left his paper at the Royal Observa-
tory. This was three weeks before Leverrier's memoir, showing
that the irregularities could not be attributed to any of the known
planets, was presented to the French Academy, and more than
seven months before the presentation of Leverrier's second mem-
oir. It is to be noticed that in this second memoir Leverrier did
not give the elements of the orbit or the mass of the planet, which
were contained in Adams's paper of October 21st."
A bitter controversy ensued over the question of priority in
discovery, in which Mr. Adams took no part. He felt and ex-
pressed a warm appreciation for Leverrier ; met him with great
pleasure at Oxford in 1847 ; and was visited by him in the same
year at Cambridge. A story was told of him for the first time by
Dr. Donald MacAlister at the commemorative meeting at St.
John's College, February 20, 1892, to the effect that several years
ago, when a memorial volume was prepared to be presented to M.
Pasteur as a testimonial of the appreciation of English men of
