54 8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
science for his labors, Prof. Adams subscribed bis name, writing
beneath it the motto, " Hommage au compatriote de Leverrier."
The small number and volume of Prof. Adams's publications,
after his calculations for the planet Neptune, have been remarked
upon. He was, however, an industrious worker, calculating in
every quarter of the mathematical field and in mathematical as-
tronomy, and is said to have left a large mass of manuscript
work, much of which is expected to prove valuable. The Adams
prize, of about four hundred dollars a year, to be awarded every
two years to the author of the best essay on some subject of pure
mathematics, astronomy, or other branch of natural philosophy,
was instituted by members of St. John's College soon after the
discovery of Neptune, as a testimonial to the honor conferred on
the college and the university by the investigation. In 1848 Mr.
Adams began the determination of the constants in Gauss's theory
of terrestrial magnetism. He resumed the work and was occupied
with it in the later years of his life, but had not completed it at
the time of his death. In 1852, having been elected in the previous
year President of the Royal Astronomical Society for two years,
he communicated to the society new tables of the moon's parallax,
to be substituted for those of Burckhart. These tables were
printed in the appendix to the Nautical Almanac for 1856.
His memoir explaining the secular variation of the moon's
mean motion was communicated to the Royal Society in 1853.
The problem baffled solution. The French Academy had at dif-
ferent times given prizes for explanations to Euler and Lagrange,
but neither of these mathematicians had been able to discover
any secular term ; and Euler, considering it established that such
a term could not be produced by the principles of gravitation, had
recourse to the supposition of a resisting medium. Laplace an-
nounced in 1787, as the true cause of the phenomenon, the gradual
diminution in the mean action of the sun produced by the secular
variation of the eccentricity of the earth's orbit. Theories were
also proposed by Damoiseau and Plana, agreeing in principle
with Laplace's, but differing slightly in the numerical values as-
signed to the acceleration. Adams found that Laplace's explana-
tion of the phenomena was essentially incomplete, and suggested
corrections to all the theories. Some controversy ensued, at the
end of which Prof. Adams was sustained. A calculation of the
same problem, made by Prof. Airy in 1880, was also corrected by
Prof. Adams.
Mr. Adams was appointed, in the fall of 1858, Professor of
Mathematics in the University of St. Andrews, where he con-
tinued his lectures till the end of the session, in May, 1859 ; and
late in 1858 he was made Lowndean Professor of Astronomy and
Geometry at Cambridge. He held the last position till his death.
