550 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
assistant, Mr. Graham. The zone assigned to the observatory
was that between 25 and 30 of north declination. As related to
this work, Prof. Adams gave, in an appendix to one of the vol-
umes of the Cambridge Observations, the formulae and instruc-
tions which he had drawn up many years before for the forma-
tion of a proposed new fundamental catalogue, together with the
mean places of the eighty-four fundamental stars from 1830 to
1870.
Prof. Adams was President of the Royal Astronomical Society
in 1851-1853, and in 1874-1876, and had the honor of delivering the
addresses in presenting the gold medal to Dr. Peters, Dr. Hind,
D'Arrest, and Leverrier. In 1870, as vice-president, he delivered
the address on the presentation of the medal to Delaunay. He
himself received the medal in 1866 for his contributions to the
development of the lunar theory. He received the Copley medal
of the Royal Society in 1848. In 1881 he declined an offer of the
position of astronomer royal. In 1884 he was one of the British
delegates to the International Prime Meridian Conference, which
met in Washington. He received honorary degrees from Oxford,
Dublin, Edinburgh, the University of Bologna, and his own uni-
versity ; and he was a correspondent of numerous foreign learned
societies.
Among his peculiar tastes in work Prof. Glaisher mentions
the enjoyment he took in making calculations that called for long
lines of figures, as illustrated in his calculation of Euler's constant
to 263, and of some logarithms to 273, places of decimals. Few of
his papers were produced spontaneously. In the majority of cases
he was induced to give an account of some investigation of his
own by the publication of a paper by some one else in which the
same subject was treated. He was able to map out beforehand in
his head the whole course of an investigation ; and he rarely be-
gan to write till he had carefully thought out his subject, when he
wrote straight on without interruption.
While astronomy and mathematics were his professed studies,
he was interested in other branches of knowledge, was a man of
most extensive general reading, was much attracted to special
pursuits, and made a valuable collection of early printed books.
His moral and intellectual qualities were well balanced.
Prof. Adams was attacked by a severe illness in October, 1889,
but recovered and continued his mathematical work for several
months. He was again attacked in June, 1890, by an illness from
which he never fully recovered.
