EDITOR'S TABLE.
55*
EDITOR'S TABLE.
PROGRESSIVE THEOLOGY.
TTTE note with great pleasure the
VV issue by Messrs. Houghton, Mif-
flin & Co., of Boston, under the title of
The New World, of a theological peri-
odical which seems to us to be designed
on truly progressive lines to be, that is
to say, rather an organ for the discov-
ery of truth on all matters connected
with theological belief than for the prop-
agation or defense of the views of any
particular theological school. The maga-
zine is under the editorial management
of Messrs. 0. C. Everett, 0. H. Toy,
Orello Cone, and N. P. Gilman, names
which of themselves vouch for the broad
and liberal spirit in which the new en-
terprise is conceived, and for the scholar-
ship which will be placed at its service.
These gentlemen, in an editorial note,
state that they " have no distrust of the
scientific temper which, in many spheres
of investigation, has accomplished such
great results, or of the critical spirit
which has led the way to a better un-
derstanding of every literature to which
it has been applied." The number be-
fore us contains articles by Lyman Ab-
bott, C. C. Everett, J. G. Schurman, W.
R. Alger, C. H. Toy, J. Estlin Carpenter,
Thomas R. Slicer, Edward H. Hall, and
Charles B. Upton, as well as book-re-
views by various hands. In all we note
a liberal spirit worthy of this new de-
parture in theological literature. Here
and there, perhaps, there is a little lack
of scientific exactness, as where Dr. Ly-
man Abbott professes to discover the
" evolution of Christianity " in the fact
that, while Jesus succeeded in feeding
" five thousand men, besides women and
children, seated in serried ranks on the
ground," in our own day, " an organized
benefaction, through the consecrated
channels of commerce, so distributes to
the needs of man that, in a truly Chris-
tian community, a famine is well-nigh
impossible." Other articles, however,
furnish a guarantee that, within the new
review itself, such weak and, we must
say, delusive analogies will not pass un-
challenged. For example, in discussing
The New Orthodoxy, Mr. Edward H.
Hall deals in a very thorough-going
manner with the evasions of what may
be called the pseudo-liberal school
those who welcome criticism so long as
it is not " destructive " : as if the func-
tion of criticism were never to destroy
and who, in a general way, take back
with one hand what they seem to give
with the other. Mr. Hall might be fully
trusted to point out to Dr. Abbott that,
if the feeding of the multitude by Jesus
was a mere matter of commissariat, the
vaster distributions of to-day point to an
evolution in social organization, not to
an evolution of Christianity ; while if the
multitude were fed by a miracle, as the
Christian world has hitherto believed,
what we see to-day has no relation to
it whatever. Mr. Hall contends, and
rightly, that if the aid of criticism is to
be invoked at all, it is vain to attempt
to circumscribe its action. " Whoever,"
he says, " invokes the name of Science,
invokes a great name. He calls to his
aid a master, not a servant. Science
has its own domain and, in that domain,
its own laws and its own rights. It can
not be dictated to ; it dictates. It suf-
fers no one to assign its limits, but goes
wherever there is work for it to do.
Wherever there is question of evidence,
argument, testimony, or proof, there the
scientific method belongs; and, once ad-
mitted, it must be given full play."
These are brave words, and, if The New
World shall present a selection of arti-
cles written in frank acceptance of these
principles, it will deserve well of all
lovers of the truth, even though some of
