552
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
its writers may cling to less defensible
positions. There is a great work for
our new contemporary to do in freeing
the religious sentiment from delusions
which only serve to check its free ex-
pansion and development. Many now
think that, in some mysterious manner,
they ingratiate themselves with higher
powers by disparaging and abusing their
reasoning faculty ; but The New World,
if we do not mistake its mission, is pre-
pared to teach a different lesson name-
ly, that the fullest development and
greatest activity of the reasoning faculty
are absolutely essential to the highest
religious life. When man is a free being
in the largest sense of the word, and has
reconciled himself, once for all, to the
conception of all-pervading law, his re-
ligious nature may then reach out for
its own satisfactions, not only without
dread of aught which it may be in the
power of Science to reveal, but with a
glad confidence that all further discov-
eries can only tend to a deepening of
that spirit of reverence and self -rever-
ence in which religion essentially con-
sists. Science at last is coming into its
own in this world in which its mission
has so often been ignored or misunder-
stood, and in which the labors and sac-
rifices of its votaries have so often been
repaid with persecution and reproach.
The New World is a hopeful sign of the
times, and we bespeak for it a liberal
support from those who believe that, in
religion as in science, there are better
things in store for us than the world has
yet seen.
COMMON SENSE WANTED.
Evket day some new law is passed
somewhere or other to protect people
against the results of their own igno-
rance and folly ; but it is comparatively
seldom that we hear of any proposition
of a serious or comprehensive kind to
do away with the ignorance and folly
which render, or seem to render, so
many laws necessary. Popular educa-
tion is believed by some to be doing this
work about as fast as it can be done ;
but this we hold to be a serious error.
There never was a time, we believe,
when so many people were trading on
the thoughtlessness and credulity of the
masses as at present. The Post-Office
Department spends a considerable per-
centage of the energy which it should
devote to perfecting the mail service of
the country in unsuccessful efforts to pre-
vent the mails from being used to pro-
mote fraudulent schemes. The result,
doubtless, is to more or less embarrass
some swindling businesses ; but as fast as
one is suppressed another takes its place,
and some that seem to have been sup-
pressed have only changed their name
and perhaps their base of operations.
But, in addition to schemes that are un-
mistakably fraudulent, there are hun-
dreds of at least dubious character that
spread their nets in the advertising (some-
times even in the editorial) columns of
the press. No offer is too grossly ex-
travagant to captivate and delude some
persons who might be supposed able to
take care of themselves in an ordinary
business transaction. We have known
a man who could write a fair business
letter send a dollar in response to an ad-
vertisement which stated that, for that
sum, the advertiser would send a com-
plete set of parlor furniture in black
walnut and crimson plush to any ad-
dress, carriage paid. This intelligent
gentleman was very angry because, in
return for his dollar, he got a few toy
articles made of chips and rags and in-
closed in a pasteboard box about six
inches long by three broad, the whole
thing weighing only a few ounces. The
protests which he addressed, as we are
informed, to the postal authorities were
conceived in a fine tone of moral indig-
nation, though the only part which the
post-office had taken in the matter had
been to convey to him a most harmless
consignment of goods. So far as we
could learn, it never occurred to him to
pronounce himself an ass of high degree,
