LITERARY NOTICES.
555
and connect this history with the general his-
tory of the time. The next remarkable epi-
demic was the sweating-sickness, of which
five outbreaks occurred between 1485 and
1551. The record of plague in the Tudor
period is a story of frequent outbreaks, one
of the most serious being the London plague
of 1563. Jail-fevers, influenzas, etc., during
the same period furnish material for another
chapter. The " French pox " has a chapter
by itself, another is devoted to small-pox and
measles, and another to scurvy and other
sicknesses attendant upon early voyages.
The plagues of the seventeenth century down
to 1665 are duly recorded, and then comes
the " Great Plague," to which over twenty
per cent of the population of London suc-
cumbed. The extinction of the plague in
England, in 1666 or 1667, brings this history
to a close. The work gives evidence of much
thoroughness and great ability on the part
of its author, and deserves to rank high in
medical literature.
The Last Words of Thomas Carltle.
New York : D. Appleton & Co. Pp. 383.
Price, $1.75.
This volume contains Wotton Reinfred,
a romance; and An Excursion (futile
enough) to Paris, which were left among
the author's papers at his death ; and a num-
ber of letters written by Carlyle to Varn-
hagen von Ense in the years 1837 to 1857;
together with two notes of Yarnhagen
about Carlyle's first visit to Berlin in 1852;
and letters of Jane Welch Carlyle to Ami-
ly Bolte, 1843 to 1849. The romance, Wot-
ton Reinfred, is Carlyle's only essay in fic-
tion, and therefore possesses a distinctive
interest. It was probably written soon after
the author's marriage, and represents the
earlier period of his literary development.
In it the editor of the volume finds the first
expression of ideas and doctrines afterward
set forth with more formality in Sartor
Resartus. Mr. Froude regards it as of con-
siderable interest, from the sketches which
it contains of particular men and women,
who being now dead, and the incidents for-
gotten, any objection which may have exist-
ed to publication is now removed. Among
these characters, according to Mr. Leslie Ste-
phen, is " a curious portrait of Coleridge,
thinly veiled." The Excursion to Paris is
the unreserved daily record of a journey in
company with the Brownings, when Carlyle
paid a visit to Lord Ashburton. It presents
a singularly vivid picture of the author's
personality, and one which adds something
to our knowledge of Carlyle the man.
Annual Report of the Board of Regents
of the Smithsonian Institution, to July,
1890. Pp. 808. Report of the Na-
tional Museum, for the Year ending
June 30, 1889. Pp.933. Washington:
Government Printing-Office.
The permanent funds of the Smithsonian
Institution, bearing interest at six per cent,
amount to $703,000. The inadequacy and
insecurity of the buildings continue to be
subjects of complaint. The Institution was
able during the year covered by the report
to do rather more for the encouragement of
original research than it had done for sev-
eral years past. The project for securing
an astro-physical observatory and general
laboratory had assumed definite shape.
Solid foundation piers had been built under
the temporary shed, and a number of instru-
ments had been procured, of which the
siderostat is probably the largest and most
powerful instrument of its class ever con-
structed. The work of exploration was
carried on through the Bureau of Ethnology
and the National Museum ; and some rare
and valuable collections were obtained. A
few small grants from the Smithsonian fund,
" commensurate rather with the abilities of
the Institution than with its wishes," were
made to aid in physical science in addition
to the aid largely given to biological and
ethnological science through the Museum,
Bureau of Ethnology, and Zoological Park.
One of the important features of the year's
history of the Institution was the passing of
the National Zoological Park under its control.
A complete description of the park is given.
The general appendix, which constitutes
the larger part of the volume, contains a
miscellaneous selection of papers, some of
them original, embracing a considerable
range of scientific investigation and discus-
sion. The National Museum now contains
not far from three million specimens. The
increase during the year covered by the re-
port is much smaller than in any previous
year since the completion of the Museum
building. The difference is accounted for to
