556
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
a large degree by the fact that the exhibi-
tion rooms and storage halls being filled to
their utmost capacity, it has become neces-
sary to cease to a large degree the custom-
ary efforts to add to the collections. Besides
other features, accounts are given of work
in the scientific departments, the library and
publications, the work of the Museum pre-
parators, accessions, co-operation of bureaus
and officers of the Government, and explora-
tions ; considerable space is given to de-
scribing the participation of the Smithsonian
Institution and the Museum in Centennial
Exhibitions at Cincinnati and Marietta,
Ohio ; and eight papers are published describ-
ing and illustrating collections.
Games, Ancient and Oriental, and now
TO PLAY THEM. By EDWARD FaLKENER.
London and New York : Longmans,
Green & Co. Pp. 366. Price, $6.
The author believes in the usefulness of
games because they afford needful relaxa-
tion to the mind, pleasant diversions to the
invalid and the afflicted, and means of bring-
ing friends together and promoting acquaint-
ance and fellowship. He directed his atten-
tion many years ago to the games of chess,
draughts, and backgammon, and to the for-
mation of magic squares. Elaborate works
have been written on the history of these
games, and instead of exploiting this branch
of the subject over again, he has preferred
to discuss the practical rules and principles
of each game. He expresses the opinion
that students may find that the games which
were established in years gone by contain
merits that are not always found in the new
and fanciful conceits of the day. The first
place is given to the games of the ancient
Egyptians, with the results of Dr. Birch's
researches on the "subject. The games are
Tau, or Robbers, which was afterward played
and called by the same name, Lucius Latrun-
culorum, by the Romans ; Senat, which is
still played by the modern Egyptians as
Seega ; Han, or the game of the Bowl ; the
Sacred Way, the Hiero Gramme of the
Greeks ; and Atep, which is played by Ital-
ians as Mora, Under the head of chess are
given Indian, Chinese, Burmese, Siamese,
Turkish, Tamerlane's, and double chess, and
the game of the Maharajah and Sepoy ; of
draughts, Polish and Turkish draughts, Wei-
KH and Go, or the Chinese and Japanese
game of inclosing; German, Turkish, and
Indian backgammons. A considerable vari-
ety of magic squares are described, and all
the games are illustrated with photographic
reproductions and with diagrams.
The Oak : a Popular Introduction to For-
est Botany. By H. Marshall Ward,
F. R. S., F. L. S. Modern Science Series,
No. III. New York : D. Appleton & Co.
Pp. 175. Price, $1.
For many persons trees have an interest
which is not possessed by the lowlier mem-
bers of the vegetable kingdom. Trees also
are what the modern art of forestry is con-
cerned with, and those who become interest-
ed in this subject on account of its economic
or sanitary bearings are very apt to want to
know something about the way in which trees
grow. To all such persons Prof. Ward's
book will be very welcome. In a brief in-
troduction the author describes the general
habit of the oak, and then, starting with the
acorn, he describes the unfolding of the em-
bryo, the development of the young plant,
and the form and functions of the mature
tree. There is a chapter on the structure
and technological peculiarities of oak timber,
followed by another dealing with the cultiva-
tion of the oak, and the parasites and fungi
which infest it. A number of illustrations
are given, showing the appearance of oak
wood injured by various fungi. Lastly, the
relationships of the oaks receive brief con-
sideration.
The World-energy and its Self-conserva-
tion. By William M. Bryant. Chicago :
S. C. Griggs & Co. 1890. Pp. 304.
This is a metaphysical inquiry into the
fundamental conceptions of the universe.
The author holds that the laws of thought are
necessarily the laws of things, and takes per-
fect consistency in consciousness to be the
ultimate and absolute ground of all certitude.
From this basis he attempts to formulate the
universe, and reaches the conclusion that the
one permanent reality of which the world we
know is a manifestation is spirit. Stated in
his own words, the conclusion to which his
argument leads is :
" The world-energy is God. Its self-
conservation is the eternal process of crea-
tion. ' Evolution ' is the temporal aspect of
