LITERARY NOTICES.
557
this process. The self-unfolding of God cul-
mi""*-3s in man. For man is the son of
God."
Though the author's argument shows wide
reading and much acute thinking, he can not
be said to have a happy mode of expression,
or the power of putting clearly the thought
in mind. The reader soon finds himself lost
in a maze of contradictions and wandering
in a wilderness of words which convey few
or no definite ideas. Very little intellectual
good would seem to come from discussions of
this nature. You begin and end nowhere,
with nothing proved or provable. This is
not to say that it is not desirable and impor-
tant to have clearness and definiteness in our
fundamental notions of things, but this is
hardly to be attained by spinning a logical
web out of our inner consciousness, and try-
ing to find its justification in an assumed
harmony between the laws of thought and
things.
Money, Silver, and Finance. By J. How-
ard Cowperthwait. New York : G. P.
Putnam's Sons. Pp. 242.
The author claims to have tried to answer
the silver question by arguments based both
upon the truths of financial science and upon
the principles which underlie the operation
of business. He hopes that in this volume
the busy man of affairs may find some sci-
entific points which may hitherto have es-
caped his attention ; the student in finance a
portrayal of business ways ; and other read-
ers may find their chain of evidence against
silver fallacies more firmly made up. He
thinks that besides " treating free coinage,"
sound finance demands a repeal of the pres-
ent silver law, and nothing less. " Whether
it be possible or not to frame a banking and
currency act which shall be acceptable where
money is scarce and not too objectionable else-
where, the war against silver theories must
be continued until there shall be effectively
presented to the strong common sense of the
American people the ludicrous spectacle of
thousands of men devoting their time and
labor to taking silver out of the mines, where
it could do no harm, for the purpose of
placing it in the Treasury's vaults, whence its
monstrous bulk menaces the industries and
the general prosperity of the country." In
his succeeding chapters the author discusses
the evolution of money, trades, and finance ;
the movements of prices ; India and her sil-
ver rupee; prices, wages, and labor-saving
machinery ; the debtor class and foreign ex-
change ; foreign exchange under normal and
under abnormal conditions ; the views of
representative advocates of silver; ultimate
redemption ; the old volume-of-money theory ;
the present silver and currency law ; inter-
national conferences, and bimetallism.
An Introduction to Chemical Theory. By
Alexander Scott. New York: Mac-
millan & Co. Pp. 274. Price, $1.25.
This is a text-book designed to supple-
ment laboratory work, and such books as are
mainly confined to the enumeration of facts,
by supplying that knowledge of principles
and laws which is needed to bind chemical
facts together in the mind of the student.
The author assumes that users of this book
will have a fair knowledge of the chemical
properties of substances, and have access to
a teacher. " For this reason," it is stated
in the preface, " references have frequently
been made to matters somewhat outside the
subject under discussion, for the purpose of
stimulating the more inquiring student, with-
out, at the same time, perplexing those less
so. . . . As far as possible, all very debat-
able matter has been omitted, and it is for
this reason, for example, that the account of
the theories of solution has been made very
short."
The Microscope in Theory and Practice.
By Carl Naegeli and S. Schwendener.
New York : Macmillan & Co. Pp. 394.
Price, $2.60.
One of the most thorough and scientific
of treatises on microscopy is here presented
in an English dress. The translation com-
prises the authors' work, Das Mikroskop, ex-
cept Parts VIII, IX, and X, all copies of
which, together with the woodcuts illustrat-
ing them, were lost by a fire soon after the
sheets were printed. The volume opens with
an explanation of the theory of the construc-
tion Of the several parts of the microscope,
embracing calculations of the paths of rays
passing .through the lenses, determinations
of the positions of images, of the optical
power of instruments, and various other prob-
lems. The division of the work on testing
