558
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
embraces testing the optical power, the spheri-
cal and the chromatic aberration, the flatness
of the field of view, and the centering. The
theory of microscopic observation, or the in-
terpreting of microscopical images, is treated
with much thoroughness. Technical micros-
copy receives due attention, and there are
chapters on the simple microscope and the
lantern microscope. The volume closes with
an account of the phenomena of polarization.
Over two hundred figures and diagrams illus-
trate the text.
Laboratory Manual of Chemistry. By
James E. Armstrong and James H. Nor-
ton. American Book Company. Pp. 75.
Price, 50 cents.
This manual consists of directions for
one hundred and sixty-four experiments, ac-
companied by questions designed to call the
attention of pupils to the principles which
the experiments reveal. It is designed to be
used with Eliot and Storer's Manual of Chem-
istry, or any other good text-book of element-
ary chemistry. The course here laid out is
designed to occupy a class three hours a week
for forty weeks. There are as many blank
pages for notes as printed pages in the vol-
ume, and thirty cuts showing the forms and
use of apparatus are given. The experiments
include the tests commonly used in qualita-
tive analysis.
The Plant World. By George Massee.
New York: Macmillan & Co. Pp. 222.
Price, $1.
The adult who wishes to obtain a general
view of the vegetable kingdom will find this
book a very competent guide. Its seven
chapters deal respectively with plant archi-
tecture, chemistry and physics of plant life,
protective arrangements, reproduction, re-
lationship, geographical distribution, and
fossil plants. The workings of evolution in
the vegetable world are made especially
prominent in this volume, and the conception
of a plant as a living organism is strongly
insisted upon. The text is illustrated with
fifty-six cuts.
Fossil Botany. By H. Graf zu Solms-
Laubach. New York : Macmillan & Co.
Pp. 413. Price, $4.50.
In the translator's preface this treatise is
described as " the only critical digest as yet
published of our present knowledge of fossil
plants from the point of view of botanical
morphology." It is based upon university
lectures delivered by Count Solms-Laubach
in Gottingen. The ground covered by this
work comprises the thallophytes, archego-
niatae, and gymnosperms, but excluding the
angiosperms. There are forty-nine illustra-
tions, and the volume has a bibliography of
seventeen pages and an index.
The Jew at Home. Impressions of a Sum-
mer and Autumn spent with Him. New
York : D. Appleton & Co. Pp. 105.
The author, who professes to have gone
to southeastern Europe in the summer of
1891 with no thought of the Jew or his af-
fairs in his head, by some fortune saw him
almost daily for five months under all con-
ditions of life, at Brody and Lemburg, in Aus-
trian Poland ; at Maramaros Sziget, in Hun-
gary ; at Berdicheff and Kiev, in Russia ; and
at other places, and formed a very poor opin-
ion of him and his manner of living. He
describes what he saw, or rather, perhaps, his
impressions of what he saw, in very strong
language, and illustrates his descriptions with
pictures which are, at least, strongly charac-
teristic. The result of the whole is the repre-
sentation of " The Jew at Home " as an odi-
ous and repulsive object, whose habits make
him deserving of the scorn that he receives.
Grant that this is so and we have enough
representatives among us of that class of
Hebrews who are not pleasant associates
the race has in other regions furnished enough
high-minded and enterprising citizens, and
has distinguished itself sufficiently by liberal
and benevolent enterprises, to enable us to
know that it is still capable of better things.
The author acknowledges this in substance,
and in view of the fact and of his acknowl-
edgment, we regret that he could not, while
truthfully, as he claims to have done, de-
scribing the degradation to which centuries of
contumely and maltreatment have reduced
certain classes of Jews, have spoken of them
in less harsh terms and with more hopeful-
ness of their ultimate redemption under more
favoring circumstances. One view he sug-
gests, however, is worth considering, and is
of weight proportioned to the degree of truth-
fulness contained in it: that is, that these
Jews are not real, pure Jews, but a mixed
