LITERARY NOTICES.
559
race who have preserved of the Jews chiefly
their language and the form of their religion.
We agree with him in his " last word," which
is simply this : " Treat the Jew, if he is
brought to you, as an ordinary man ; grant
him no advantages you would not give his
Austrian, Polish, or German fellow-country-
men, no matter what his religion is. Make
him an Englishman or an American, break
up his old customs, his clannishness, his dirt,
and his filth, or he will break you."
Outlines of Theoretical Chemistry. By
Lothar Meyer. Translated by P. P.
Bedson and W. C. Williams. London
and New York : Longmans, Green & Co.
Pp. 232. Price, $2.50.
The present volume differs from the au-
thor's Modern Theories of Chemistry in be-
ing a smaller and less technical treatise.
Being addressed not only to the student but
also to the friend of science who wishes to
keep informed as to the progress of chemical
investigation, the book does not contain any
great number of the numerical results of ob-
servations and measurements, nor any de-
tailed descriptions of experimental methods.
It is, therefore, a general review of the sub-
ject of chemical philosophy in which details
have not been allowed to rise into prominence.
The author, of course, needs no introduction
or commendation to any one who is acquaint-
ed with modern chemistry.
In the Report of the Commissioner of
Education for 1888-89, the commissioner,
Dr. William T. Harris, presents first a gen-
eral statistical exhibit of education in the
United States. From these statistics it ap-
pears that the enrollment is about ninety per
cent of the number of children between six
and sixteen years of age in the whole coun-
try, which is as large as could be expected.
The South is manifesting a great and increas-
ing interest in public schools, and in the past
nineteen years has more than doubled its
expenditure per capita for education. A
prominent feature of this report are the ac-
counts of education in various foreign coun-
tries, prepared by specialists of the bureau,
and the comparisons with education in the
United States for which these accounts fur-
nish material. Dr. Harris calls attention to
the fact that the French and German chil-
dren devote much less time than the Ameri-
can to memorizing the spelling of words.
" Mechanical memorizing," he continues, " is
the much-lamented characteristic of our com-
mon schools. It is evident that such must
remain their characteristic so long as English-
speaking children memorize, like the Chinese,
the arbitrary spelling of more than ten thou-
sand words before they can write the language
with readiness." The training of teachers is
another subject to which much attention is
given, the report embracing papers on The
Inception and Progress of the Normal-school
Curriculum, The Teaching Force of New
England from 1866 to 1888, and Professional
Work in the Normal Schools of the United
States. Chapters on courses of study in city
schools, manual and industrial training, com-
pulsory attendance laws, State text-book laws,
and miscellaneous educational questions are
included in the first volume of the report.
The second volume contains the usual statis-
tics of schools and colleges, and of the edu-
cation of special classes, and an alphabetical
list of the publications of the Bureau of Edu-
cation from 1867 to 1890.
The Report of the Smithsonian Institution
for 1889-90 contains an account of the prog-
ress that has been made in establishing the
National Zoological Park at Washington, to-
gether with the usual information about the
work of the Institution for the year. Ap-
pended to the report are some thirty papers
on a wide variety of scientific subjects, a
number of them being illustrated.
The Journal of Proceedings and Addresses
of the National Educational Association, for
1891, makes a handsome octavo volume of
about nine hundred pages. Besides an ac-
count of the proceedings of the Association
and reports of committees at the Toronto
session, the Journal contains the papers read,
together with abstracts of the discussions
which they called forth. A wide variety of
topics in all departments of educational work
is treated in these papers.
A booklet which has attracted much at-
tention and been read with interest in reli-
gious circles is entitled Not on Calvary : A
Layman's Plea for Mediation in the Tempta-
tion in the Wilderness, and is published by
Charles T. Dillingham, New York. It pre-
sents a new view of the life and office of
Christ while on the earth, which the author
