POPULAR MISCELLANY
561
Parsons, Eugene. Tennyson's Life and Poetry,
and Mistakes concerning Tennyson. Chicago. Pp.
32. 15 cents.
Pickering, Edward C. Investigations of the
New England Meteorological Society for 1890.
Cambridge, Mass. Pp. 15(5, with 5 Plates.
Qnatrefages, A. de. Darwin et ses Precurseurs
Francais (Darwin and his French Precursors).
Paris, France : Felix Akan. Pp. 273.
The Republican Magazine, Vol. I, No. 1.
Monthly. New York : Republican Magazine Co.
Pp. 82. 25 cents. $3 a year.
Romanes, George John. Darwin, and after
Darwin. I. The Darwinian Theory. Chicago :
Open Court Publishing Company. Pp. 460. $2.
Ruschenberger, W. S. W. A Sketch of the
Life of Joseph Leidy. Philadelphia : MacCalla
& Co. Pp. 64.
Salisbury, Rollin D., Madison, Wis. The Drift
of the North German Lowland. Pp. 28.
School of Applied Ethics, Plymouth, Mass.
Programme of the Session of 1892. Pp. 20.
Sedgwick, William T., and Hazen, Allen. Ty-
phoid Fever in Chicago. New York : Engineering
News Publishing Company. Pp. 21. 10 cents.
Semple, C. E. Armand. Elements of Materia
Medica and Therapeutics. New York : Longmans,
Green & Co. Pp. 480. $3.
Smock, John C, State Geologist. Annual Re-
port of Geological Survey of New Jersey for 1891.
Pp. 270, with Maps and Plates.
Societe des Arts. Bulletin de la Classe d'lndus-
trie et du Commerce. Geneva. Switzerland. Pp.
20.
Superior and the Sault Canal, Commerce of.
W. E. Street, Statistician. Pp. 80.
Tammany Hall, The Political Mission of. New
York : A. B. King. Pp. 30. 10 cents.
Thomson, William H., M. D. Materialism and
Modern Physiology of the Nervous System. New
York : G. P. Putnam's Sons. Pp. 112.
Tremain, Mary. Slavery in the District of Co-
lumbia. New York : G. P. Putnam's Sons.
Walker, Sydney F. How to light a Colliery
by Electricity. New York : Macniillan & Co. Pp.
36. 75 cents.
Woodhull, Victoria Claflin, and Zula Mano.
The Garden of Eden and the Proposal. London.
Pp.98.
World's Columbian Exhibition, Chicago. Plan
and Classification of Department M (Ethnology,
Archaeology, History, etc.). Pp. 27.
Yatabi, Rijo Kichi. Iconographia Florae Ja-
ponicas. Descriptions, with Figures, of Plants In-
digenous to Japan. Tokyo. Pp. 170, with Plates.
Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Twentieth
Annual Report. Pp. 21.
POPULAR MISCELLANY.
Anthropology at the World's Fair.
Prof. F. W. Putnam, the distinguished an-
thropologist of Cambridge, Mass.7 has out-
lined a most attractive and important exhibit
of anthropology at the World's Fair. The
department will occupy the northern half of
the gallery of the Main Building and also a
strip of land along the lagoon ; on this land
groups of native American peoples will be
living in their natural habitations and sur-
roundings. There will be a representative
exhibit of the remains of prehistoric man in
vol. xli. 41
America, and large models of the most note-
worthy of their works, such as the Serpent
Mound and Fort Ancient. Central America
will be well represented. Along with this
there will be an exhibition of primitive indus-
tries, customs, and the like. The section of
physical anthropology will illustrate modern
methods of recording bodily characteristics,
and will show charts recording the results of
many thousand measurements. A large body
of workers are now engaged in measuring
native Americans in all parts of the land.
Measurements of children are also being
gathered for the study of the development of
physical characteristics. This is a large and
important undertaking, from which results of
great scientific value are sure to come. With
this department there is also connected the
department of history, so that the exhibit of
primitive man and his works is followed by
that of the men whom Columbus met, and
thus prepares the way for the exhibit of the
historical changes in America during the last
four centuries. The comprehensive scope of
the exhibit is noteworthy, and under the lead-
ership of Prof. Putnam an exhibit creditable
to American science is assured.
Experimental Psychology at the World's
Fair. Those who have been interested in
the growth of the new psychology will be
glad to learn that there will be made at the
World's Fair an exhibit of the methods and
results of this young science. There will be
in operation throughout the six months of
the exposition a psychological laboratory in
which simple tests will be made of the senses,
sense-judgments, rapidity of movements, and
simple mental processes, memory, and so on ;
the data thus accumulated will be statistically
utilized to obtain normal standards. There
will also be exhibited apparatus employed in
psychological research, results obtained, as
illustrated by charts, diagrams, photographs,
etc. ; and as complete a representation of re-
cent psychological activity as the facilities
will admit. The department is in charge of
Prof. Joseph Jastrow, of the University of
Wisconsin, and is a part of the general de-
partment of which Prof. F. W. Putnam is
chief.
A Portrait of William Bartram. When
the sketch of the Bartrams was published in
