562
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the April number of the Monthly, we were not
able to find any authentic portrait of either
of them, or to learn that any existed. The
publication of the sketch called out from Dr.
W. H. Mills, of Syracuse, N. Y., the informa-
tion that an engraved portrait of William
Bartram was in existence, and formed the
frontispiece to the second volume of the Cabi-
net of Natural History and American Rural
Sports, published in Philadelphia in 1832 by
J. & T. Dougherty. Through the kindness
of Dr. Mills we have been able to procure
this volume, and to have a copy made of this
picture. Concerning the authenticity of the
portrait, the statement is made in the Bio-
graphical Sketch of William Bartram, which
is the first article in the volume, that " the
accompanying portrait is a correct likeness
of Mr. Bartram, and the only engraved one
ever given to the American public." It will
be observed that the date of the publication
of this portrait was only nine years after Mr.
Bartram's death.
The Schools of New York State. Ac-
cording to the Report of State Superintendent
Draper, while the number of children of
school age in the State of New York appeared
to be 22,823 less than in 1890, the number
of children in attendance on the public schools
(1,054,044) was greater by 11,884. Besides
these, the private schools reported an attend-
ance of 157,603, and the normal schools,
academies, colleges, etc., 69,392 pupils of
school age in 1891. Comparative tables of
attendance show a steady increase in cities
(270,926 to 513,066) since 1861, while the
attendance in towns has fallen from 601,928
to 540,978. The superintendent calls atten-
tion to the insufficiency of the laws for com-
pulsory attendance, and in view of crude
features in the laws of some other States, he
recommends the formation of a State Educa-
tional Commission, with sufficient powers to
consider the whole subject of the school laws
of the State. In view of the weakness of
some of the school districts, the superintend-
ent favors the consolidation of small and
weak districts when it can be brought about
without serious inconvenience to the children
of school age. It is not to be overlooked, how-
ever, that the school must be at a convenient
distance. In Massachusetts provision is
made for the transportation of children to
distant schools, and profitless schools hare
been abolished, while the children are now
instructed for a longer term under teachers
of more experience and skill. The superin-
tendent recommends the township system of
school organization for consideration. An
increasing interest in Arbor Day is noticed.
The celebrations are usually marked by ap-
propriate literary exercises, with many in-
genious and elaborate programmes. Interest
in this work has been stimulated by the offer,
by Mr. William A. Wadsworth, of prizes for
the best-kept school-grounds. The vote upon
the question of a State flower has resulted in
a majority for the rose over the golden-rod.
The attempt to provide textbooks to be pub-
lished by the State has resulted disastrously
wherever it has been made. The superin-
tendent thinks that the result of such a pol-
icy would be bad, even if it were seemingly
successful. It would discourage authorship,
discontinue competition among makers, and
stop the constant improvement in the matter,
style, and character of the books which has
been marked in the past.
Barrel-making. Few people, says Cham-
bers's Journal, though all are familiar with
the barrel, have probably been at pains to
consider the skill and ingenuity which have
succeeded in bringing to perfection an inven-
tion as scientific as beneficial all the world
over ; and probably fewer still are conversant
with the brain-power and time which have
been expended in attempts to produce machin-
ery for manufacturing them. Barrels were in
use as far back as the time of Pliny, who
says they were invented in the Alpine val-
leys. A cask is a double conoid that is, it
has its greatest diameter or its bulge or belly
in the center. The stave is curved length-
wise to form the bulge and crosswise to form
part of the circumference of the cask ; while
the edges must receive the exact bevel to fit
those on either side along their entire length.
Then the staves have to be " chimed " or
beveled at the ends, and furnished with a
"croze" or groove, into which to fit the
heads ; and hooping completes the manu-
facture of the cask. A new invention, by a
Mr. Oncken, is in full operation at Merxem, in
Germany, for turning out casks from one
piece of wood. In the process the stem of
a tree is cut into lengths corresponding to
