POPULAR MISCELLANY
S6 5
the East included the starting-point of the
epidemic of influenza that prevailed then, it
is presumed that this atmospheric condition
favored its extension toward the West. The
views expressed by M. Masson, of Paris, be-
fore one of the medical societies of that city,
substantially agree with these. The period
of greatest mortality from grip in Paris,
from November, 1889, to February 1, 1890,
was marked by a constantly higher pressure
than the average ; the temperature did not
fall below 5 C. ; the hygrometric condition
was high, and radiation fell off from the
very beginning of the epidemic. In the
principal capitals of Europe, according to M.
Masson's investigations, the grip coincided
in general with a humid, foggy condition of
the atmosphere, and only moderate cold
and an unusual height of barometer. It
was so at Vienna, Berlin, and Brussels.
But in Russia, where the grip is endemic,
the mortality increased when the barometer
fell and the thermometer rose, and the mean
humidity was augmented. At St. Petersburg
it disappeared when the pressure rose and
the cold became more intense. For all other
regions M. Lang's and M. Masson's rules
were verified.
The Parapee Palm. According to a
note in Garden and Forest, the Parapee
palm (Guiliehna speciosa) is cultivated by
the Indian aborigines of the Guianas for its
fruit, which they use largely as food. They
plant it about their settlements, and, where
it is found apparently wild in the forests,
examination will show that such situations
were formerly occupied by the Indians. In
some seasons the fruit is produced without
seed, while in other seasons it contains
seeds, the variation occurring in the fruit of
the same trees from season to season. When
boiled or roasted the fruit has something of
the texture and taste of a dry, mealy potato.
It is palatable and very nutritious. The
fruits, which are individually about the size
of a pigeon's egg, are borne in bunches of
from forty to sixty together. There are two
or three bearing seasons in a year.
Preservation of Minerals and Fossils.
Minerals and fossils are not exposed to the
ravages of insects, like zoological collec-
tions ; but many of them are liable to de-
struction by deliquescence and efflorescence.
Deliquescence is the property possessed by
some bodies of attracting moisture from the
atmosphere and dissolving in it. There is no
means of preventing these accidents, except
inclosing the specimens in hermetically sealed
envelopes. Efflorescence is a property pos-
sessed by other bodies of falling into powder.
There are several ways of protecting speci-
mens against it. Fossils converted into white
pyrites, or the substance of which is impreg-
nated with salts and not susceptible of being
washed, should be fully dried and covered
with a varnish that will not scale, and they
can also be dipped in oil. Impressions in
danger of being rubbed off can be consoli-
dated by impregnating them with a thin so-
lution of gum arabic, a little sugared to pre-
vent its cracking. Mr. Chalande recommends
for the preservation of rocks, fossils, bones,
etc., liable to split or fall into efflorescence,
placing them for from one to twenty-four
hours, as the case may demand, in a bath,
made by mixing equal parts of silicate of
soda or potash and water, and drying after
the bath. This gives the piece a considera-
ble degree of hardness. For the preserva-
tion of pyritous fossils, M. Andre Fonville
recommends preservation in paraffine ; this,
however, is only adapted to small specimens ;
and for fossils of considerable size, like ferns,
sigillaria, etc., he advises the silicate-of-soda
method. To consolidate fossil bones, M. Lam-
bert recommends coating with boiling melted
whalebone. The hot matter penetrates the
pores and becomes very hard. If any of it
remains on the outside of the specimen, it
may be removed with blazing paper. Gela-
tine and strong glue, used by many persons,
are good, but not so good as the whalebone
application.
The " Silver Thaw." The " silver
thaw," as described by R. C. Mossman, of
Ben Nevis Observatory, occurs during an in-
version of ordinary temperature conditions,
when the temperature is considerably lower
at the surface than at higher altitudes, and
the rain congeals as it falls. In the six
years from 1885 to 1890, 198 cases of silver
thaw were observed at Ben Nevis, with a
mean duration of four hours and a half in
each case. They nearly all occurred between
November and March, during times of per-
