5 66
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
fectly developed cyclones and anti-cyclones.
Ninety per cent of the cases occurred when
the thermometer was between 28 and 31-9,
so that the greater number of cases occurred
just before a thaw. The most common type
of cloud which preceded both cyclonic and
anti-cyclonic cases of silver thaw was cirro-
cumulus, frequently accompanied by cirrus
and cirro-stratus ; and the changes showed
that the higher strata of the atmosphere
came first under the influence of the moist
current, which took from three to eight
hours to descend to the height at which
cumulo-stratus forms.
Onr Destructive Locusts. Eight kinds
of destructive locusts are described in Prof.
C. V. Riley's paper on that subject as infest-
ing the United States or parts of its territory.
The first is the Rocky Mountain locust (Ca-
loptenus spretus), which has caused great de-
struction at times in its sudden, temporary
appearances in the Western States and Ter-
ritories. Its permanent breeding - ground,
where it breeds every year and is always to
be found in greater or less numbers, embraces
the larger part of Montana, a narrow strip of
western Dakota, all but the northwestern
quarter of Wyoming, the central and north-
western parts of Colorado, small tracts in
Utah, Oregon, and Idaho, and a large area
in the British possessions north of Montana.
The subpermanent region, where it is liable
to breed for a few years and then disappear,
lies immediately east of this ; and the tem-
porary region, where it appears for single
seasons, includes large territories east and
south of the subpermanent region. The
lesser migratory locust (Caloptenus atlantis)
breeds annually in abimdance from middle
Florida nearly to the Arctic Circle. It has
been marked as injurious in New England
in nineteen seasons since 1*743. The non-
migratory red-legged locust (Caloptenus fe-
mur rubrum) has a common range with the
previous species, but is rarer in the eastern
part of its range, while it becomes abundant
in the Mississippi Valley. It causes only lo-
cal damage, and few cases of destructive ap-
pearance have been recorded. In common
with the differential and two-striped locusts,
it often gives cause for alarm by devastating
grass-lands or growing crops. The Califor-
nia devastating locust (Caloptenus devastator)
is a Pacific species, of which fifteen local de-
structive visitations are recorded. The differ-
ential locust ( Caloptenus differ entialis) ranges
through Dlinois, Missouri, Nebraska, Kansas,
and Iowa, and is found in Indiana, New
Mexico, and California. Though not migra-
tory, it is capable of making considerable
flights, and is sometimes locally destructive.
The two-striped locust ( Caloptenus bivittatus)
has an extensive range, covering most of the
country. It is distinguished by its two lat-
eral stripes reaching from the head to the ex-
tremities of the wing-covers. It often be-
comes locally abundant enough to do much
damage to crops. The pellucid locust ( Cam-
nula peUueidd) occurs in the far West and
in Maine, Massachusetts, Vermont, and Con-
necticut. The Eastern and Western forms
used to be considered two species, but the
difference between them is not appreciable.
The American Acridium (Schistocerca ameri-
cana) is our largest locust, being more than
two inches and a half long. It occurs
throughout the Southern States, through
Mexico into Central America, and as far
north as Dlinois and Indiana. It is seden-
tary within the bounds of the United States,
and becomes only locally destructive. Farther
south, it is said to possess the migratory
habit.
Objects of Forest Management. Forest
management, says Prof. B. F. Fernow, in his
excellent paper on What is Forestry? has
two objects in view, of which the first is to
produce and reproduce a certain useful mate-
rial, and the second to sustain or possibly im-
prove certain advantageous natural condi-
tions. In the first case we treat the forest
as a crop which we harvest from the soil,
taking care to devote the land to repeated
reproduction of crops. In the second case
we add to the first conception of the forest
as a crop another, namely, that of a cover to
the soil, which, under certain conditions and
in certain locations, bears a very important
relation to other conditions of life. The fa-
vorable influence which the forest growth ex-
erts in preventing the washing of the soil
and in retarding the torrential flow of water,
and also in checking the winds and thereby re-
ducing rapid evaporation further, in facili-
tating subterranean drainage and influencing
climatic conditions, on account of which it is
