POPULAR MISCELLANY.
567
desirable to preserve certain parts of the
natural forest growth and extend it else-
where this favorable influence is due to the
dense cover of foliage mainly, and to the me-
chanical obstruction which the trunks and
litter of the forest floor offer. Any kind of
tree growth would answer this purpose, and
all the forest management necessary would
be simply to abstain from interference and
leave the ground to Nature's kindly action.
This was about the idea of the first advo-
cates of forest protection in this country.
But would it be rational and would it be
necessary to withdraw a large territory from
human use in order to secure this beneficial
influence? It would be, indeed, in many
localities, if the advantage of keeping it un-
der forest could not be secured simultaneous-
ly with the employment of the soil for useful
production ; but rational forest management
secures the advantages both of favorable
forest conditions and of the reproduction of
useful material. Not only is the rational cut-
ting of the forest not antagonistic to favor-
able forest conditions, but in skillful hands
the latter can be improved by the judicious
use of the axe. In fact, the demands of for-
est preservation on the mountains, and the
methods of forest management for profit in
such localities, are more or less harmonious ;
thus, the absolute clearing of the forest on
steep hill-sides, which is apt to lead to desic-
cation and washing of the soil, is equally detri-
mental to a profitable forest management,
necessitating, as it does, replanting under
difficulties. Forest preservation, then, does
not, as seems to be imagined by many, ex-
clude proper forest utilization, but, on the
contrary, these may well go hand in hand,
preserving forest conditions while securing
valuable material ; the first requirement only
modifies the manner in which the second is
satisfied.
The Zebra's Stripes. It has been shown
by several authors that the stripes of the ze-
bra are a means of protection to it in the
forests, by producing light effects like those
of the limbs of the bushes by which it is
surrounded. One can readily see, says a cor-
respondent of Nature, how the shadows of
the branches in a tropical forest, falling upon
the zebras, would so intermingle with the
stripes of the animals as to add enormously
to the difficulties of recognition by human
eyes, and also by the eyes of their animal
foes. This correspondent believes that the
stripes have a still deeper meaning and value.
At night, when the animal is lying down
partly on its side and partly on its belly, and
doubles up its legs, the horizontal stripes on
them run in the same general direction with
the vertical ones of the body and seem to be
continuations of them ; or, if it rests on its
side and stretches out its limbs, the vertical,
diagonal, and horizontal stripes would then
be more horizontal than anything else, but
pointing in different directions, and would so
assimilate themselves with the crossed and
varying directions of the shadows as to have
the same practical effect in hiding the sleep-
ing animal from its foes.
An Ancient Japanese Burial Custom.
Prof. Hitchcock, of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, calling attention, in a paper on Ancient
Tombs and Burial Mounds of Japan, to some
small clay figures representing human beings,
said it was an ancient custom in Japan to
bury the retainers of a prince standing up-
right around his grave. The compassion of the
Emperor Suisina (97-30 b. c.) was aroused
by the sufferings of the persons who were
thus treated when his younger brother died,
and he desired to change the custom. When
the empress died, the plan was proposed of
substituting clay figures of men and horses
for the living victims. From the publication
of an edict in the year 646 forbidding the
burial of living persons, and also the burial
of gold, silver brocade, diaper, or any kind
of variegated thing, it is inferred that the
custom of living burial was kept up to some
extent till the seventh century. Specimens
of the figures, called tsuchi ningio, introduced
to take the places of the living sacrifices, are
now very rare, and this fact leads to the sup-
position that the figures were not buried, but
were left exposed on the surface of the
ground.
The Lung-fish. The Ceratodus or lung-
fish of Queensland, according to Prof. Spen-
cer's account of it in the Australasian Asso-
ciation, lives only in the Burnett and Mary
Rivers, in Queensland, and belongs to a small
group which may be regarded as interme-
diate between the fishes and the amphibia.
