568
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The swimming bladder of ordinary fishes has
been modified so that it serves as a lung. In
Africa, JProtopterm, a form closely allied to
Ceratodus, makes for itself a cocoon of mud,
in which, during the hot, dry season, it lives,
and can breathe by means of its lung. The
Ceratodus does not appear to do this, and
probably never leaves the water. It comes
continually to the surface, and passes out
and takes in air, making a faint spouting
noise. The author suggested that the lung
was of the greatest service to the animal, not
during the hot but during the wet season,
when the rivers are flooded and the water is
thick with sand. The Ceratodus appears to
be herbivorous, and feeds largely on the
seeds of gum trees which fall into the water.
Dealing with Contagions. A report by
Dr. A. Jacobi calls attention to some pecul-
iar difficulties in dealing with the contagion of
scarlet fever and diphtheria. No general hos-
pital must admit patients suffering from either
disease. Hotel-keepers are not willing to ad-
mit them ; but if cases get lodgment within
their houses, it is to their interest to conceal
the fact. Their interest, however, does not go
so far as to induce them to destroy or disin-
fect curtains and carpets, and purify the
walls of rooms, and the contagion is perpetu-
ated. Rooms and suites of rooms in large
and expensive hotels are known in which
cases of diphtheria have occurred for several
years in succession, all provoked by the same
germ, lodged in the same curtains and car-
pets. The same danger lurks in private
houses, where the well members are impei'-
iled by the presence of the sick one, and all
the surroundings are liable to be infected;
and in tenement-houses, where close contact
of the well with the sick can hardly be avoid-
ed. Patients should be removed from homes
and hotels and isolated ; but this is impossi-
ble, for the want of provision for the proper
care of such cases. The only institution for
these diseases in New York is the Willard
Parker Hospital, which is in a remote part of
the city, and has beds for only seventy pa-
tients, while twenty-five hundred persons
die annually of the infections. Plans for
new hospitals are proposed by the Medi-
cal Society of the City of New York, and
with them stations or refuges, where the chil-
dren of families in which diphtheria or scar-
let fever is prevailing can be housed until
the patients at home have recovered or been
removed, and their residences, bedding, and
furniture have been thoroughly disinfected.
Treatment of Potato Disease. The treat-
ment of potato disease with sulphate of cop-
per has been found efficacious at Nantes,
France. A dressing of three pounds of sul-
phate of copper to twenty gallons of water,
or of two pounds of sulphate of copper and
four pounds of lime to twenty-five gallons of
water, is used. The best results are obtained
by using whole potatoes, sound, of medium
size, selecting those which show the finest
germs, and cutting very large ones in two.
Before planting they are steeped for twenty-
four hours in a bath composed of six pounds
each of sulphate of ammonia and nitrate of
potash and twenty-five gallons of water ; then
allowed to stand twenty-four hours to give
the sprouts time to swell whereby the growth
is quickened and the return is increased. Dis-
ease in tubers is arrested by dipping them in
a bath of water and as much lime as it will
take, and drying them. The diseased part
seems to solidify after this treatment, and
does not spread, while the good part con-
tinues sound.
Propagation of Fine Flower Seeds.
From an address by Mr. George F. Daniels,
quoted in Garden and Forest from the Jour-
nal of Horticulture, we learn that the in-
creased demand for flowers in England and
America has given a corresponding impetus
to seed-growing abroad, where they have the
advantage of cheap labor and a climate es-
pecially adapted to the work. The secret of
successful cultivation in Germany lies in the
bright, dry autumn, which enables seeds to
stand longer and become more thoroughly
ripened. The soil is also well adapted for
the purpose. Stocks are one of the most ex-
pensive crops, in the item of labor, because
the finer varieties have to be grown in pots,
and they require attention in watering. China
asters are grown by acres, one firm devoting
more than a hundred acres to them. Petu-
nias require much attention, as each bloom
has to be fertilized by hand to insure the
setting of the seed. The pollen from the
double blooms is very difficult to obtain, the
flowers being so dense that they have often
