POPULAR MISCELLANY.
569
to be removed from the plant, then placed in
wet sand and pulled open, so as to allow the
sun and the air to ripen the pollen, which is
carefully removed and placed on the finest
single blooms. Calceolarias are shy seed-
ers, and the most careful hybridization is
necessary to insure a crop. Every bloom is
examined, and the pollen is taken from the
stamens and placed on the pistil. As the
operation must be performed when the pol-
len is quite ripe, the flowers must be looked
through nearly every day to catch each bloom
as it comes to maturity. Seed is very diffi-
cult to obtain from carnations, and then only
in small quantities. The commoner kinds of
annuals are grown in masses. The plan of
improving stocks of seed is as follows : As
soon as the plants are fully in bloom they
are carefully examined, and the best and
truest in color or shape are marked by placing
a stick next to them. "When the seed is ripe
they are carefully gathered by themselves,
and kept for stock the following year. This
is very necessary in case of some annuals,
which show a great tendency to revert to the
wild state ; at the same time it improves the
stocks from year to year.
Ahi mi i) 11 m in Food - vessels. Opinions
still differ with regard to the value of alu-
minum for use in food-containing vessels.
Messrs. Liibbert and Roscher asserted sev-
eral months ago, in a paper on the subject,
that aluminum was too readily acted upon by
food-substances or other substances used in
cooking, for its application in the construc-
tion of kitchen utensils to be safe. Prof.
Lunge afterward instituted experiments on
the subject, from which he concluded that
coffee, tea, and beer had practically no action
on aluminum, and the action of brandy was
very slight; while that of acids and acid
liquids (wine, sour milk, and fruit juices) was
more pronounced, but still too slight to cause
alarm. Taking the worst case, that of acetic
acid, this author found a maximum attack of
five milligrammes per one hundred square
centimetres in six days ; so that a given ves-
sel, kept always full, would be reduced to
half its original weight [in fifty-five years.
This, he holds, is too trifling an action to be
considered. There is no danger of any in-
jurious action upon the human body by alu-
minum compounds, which, moreover, are not
poisonous as compounds of arsenic, mercury,
lead, and copper are poisonous. Before they
can act injuriously, a quantity will have to
be ingested a hundred times larger than he
found to be regularly entering the stomach
in this way. Finally, he adds, aluminum may
be employed without fear for canteens or any
other vessels used to hold food, at least at
ordinary temperatures. Against these con-
clusions is a report on the authority of the
telegraph of a soldier near Nuremberg, Ger-
many, who was taken sick after drinking
cognac from his aluminum flask. On analy-
sis of the brandy it was found to be muddy,
and to contain roundish, black particles, which
proved to be aluminum and iron. But in this
case we had not simple corrosion of alumi-
num by brandy, but galvanic action of the
liquor, aluminum, and iron, with resultant
corrosion. Further investigation of the sub-
ject is needed.
Photography in Colors. M. G. Lippaman
announces that he has perfected a method of
photographing in colors which he mentioned
to the French Academy of Sciences fourteen
months ago, and has exhibited very brilliant
spectra which he obtained without the in-
terposition of the colored screen. The au-
thor claims to have obtained the compound
colors of natural objects as well as the natu-
ral colors of the spectrum. He exhibits a
series of plates representing a window of four
colors yellow, green, blue, and red ; a trophy
of French and other flags ; a plate of oranges
with a red poppy on top ; and a many-colored
parrot. The window and the parrot are of
dazzling brilliancy. They were photographed
with the electric light in ten minutes. M.
Lippaman admits that the plates require in
practice too long an exposure, and that it will
be necessary to make them more sensitive.
Influence of Natural Snrronndings on
Hnman Character. Captain F. E. Younghus-
band makes a remark in one of his accounts
of central Asiatic exploration, on the influ-
ence of the natural surroundings on the char-
acter of the people of a country. " It has
been my fortune," he says, " to travel in
very varied descriptions of country in the
dense, gloomy forests of Manchuria ; over the
bounding grassy steppes of Mongolia ; across
the desolate wastes of the Desert of Gobi ;
