570
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and among the mountain valleys of the Him-
alayas and the Hindu Kush. Each differ-
ent type of country produced its own peculiar
impression upon me, find has enabled me to
appreciate perhaps more keenly than I other-
wise should have done its particular influence
upon the inhabitants. The forest produces
a feeling of indefinable repression ; one seems
so hedged in and hampered about, and longs
to be free of the endless succession of trunks
of trees, and to be able to see clear space in
front. Far preferable, in my opinion, is the
desolation of the desert, which, depressing as
it may be, in some way produces also a feel-
ing of freedom ; and on the open steppes an
irresistible desire to roam and wander seems
to come over one, which I can well under-
stand was the motive power which caused
the Mongol hordes under Genghis Khan to
overrun the rest of Asia, and part even of
Europe. Again, with these Mongols of the
desert and the steppes a stranger is always
hospitably received, and there is little of that
dread of people from the outside so frequent-
ly met with among barbarous nations. The
Kirghiz of the open Pamirs, too, have some
of these characteristics. But directly one
enters the narrow, shut-in valleys, such as are
found on the southern slopes of the Hindu
Kush and the Himalayas, one finds the ideas
of the people shut in too. They have a dread
of strangers; they desire, above all things,
to be left to themselves, and unless forced
by over-population to do so, or led away by
the ambitions of a chief, seldom leave the
particular valley to which they belong."
Ratios of Illegitimacy. A table of sta-
tistics of illegitimacy in Europe, published by
Dr. Albert Leffingwell, shows the Irish to be
the most virtuous of all the peoples, the ratio
of illegitimate births among them being
twenty-six in every thousand. The English
rate is forty-eight, and the Scotch eighty-two
per thousand. Thus we may roughly say
that for every child born out of wedlock in
Ireland two are born in England and three
in Scotland. In Europe at large, Ireland is
closely followed in its place of honor by Rus-
sia, with the low rate of twenty-eight per
thousand, and by Holland with the rate of
thirty-two per thousand. The Italian and
French rates are respectively seventy-four and
eighty-two per thousand, comparable with
the rate in Scotland. Among the countries
that show the highest proportions of illegiti-
macy are Sweden, Saxony, Bavaria, and Aus-
tria, in which the rates range from one hun-
dred to one hundred and forty per thou-
sand. Austria is at the opposite pole from
Ireland, and takes the lowest place in moral-
ity among the European nations, with a rate
of one hundred and forty-six per thou-
sand. The inquiry into the causes of these
varying rates of illegitimacy raises compli-
cated and interesting problems. The causes
generally supposed to be principal factors in
the matter are poverty, ignorance, and the
contamination of great cities. Examining
the influence of these, Dr. Leffingwell finds
it very slight. In Ireland, the lowest rates
are in the poorest counties. Russia, with
one of the lowest rates, is one of the poor-
est countries ; and the author affirms that
" there is nowhere such uniform relation be-
tween the indigence of a people and the preva-
lence of illegitimacy as to justify the hypothe-
sis that this phase of moral delinquency in
any district or country can be accurately de-
scribed as caused by its poverty. As little
can the influence of great cities account for
the prevalence of illegitimacy. Education
and creed appear to have little influence. We
must seek the real factors in race and hered-
ity, legislative restraints upon marriage, so-
cial usage, and other like circumstances."
Value of the Applications of Anthropol-
ogy. In a paper on Anthropology as a Sci-
ence and as a Branch of University Educa-
tion, Dr. D. G. Brinton thus estimates the
value of the applications of this science : " In
government and law, in education and reli-
gion, men have hitherto been dealt with ac-
cording to traditional beliefs or a priori theo-
ries of what they may or ought to be. When
we learn through scientific research what
they really are, we shall then, and then only,
have a solid foundation on which to build the
social, ethical, and political structures of the
future. It is the appreciation of this which
has given the extraordinary impetus to the
study of sociology a branch of anthropology
within the last decade. Anthropology
alone furnishes the key and clew to history.
This also is meeting recognition. No longer
are the best histories mainly chronicles of
kings and wars, but records of the develop-
