POPULAR MISCELLANY.
57i
rnent and the decline of peoples ; and what
constitutes ' a people,' and shapes its destiny,
is the very business of ethnology to explain.
So likewise in hygiene and medicine, in ethics
and religion, in language and arts, in paint-
ing, architecture, sculpture, and music, the
full import and often unconscious intention
of human activity can only be understood,
and directed in the most productive channels,
by such a careful historical and physical
analysis as anthropology aims to present."
Science Teaching in Preparatory Schools.
The report of the Committee of the Amer-
ican Society of Naturalists on Science Teach-
ing in the Schools embraces the answers from
the colleges and preparatory schools in the
North Atlantic States between Maine and the
District of Columbia, to a circular of ques-
tions respecting what they require of scien-
tific instruction. Of sixty-nine colleges from
which answers were received, only eighteen
require science for admission to the course
for the degree of Bachelor of Arts. Eleven
other colleges require science for admission
to the scientific course, while forty colleges
offer no recognition of the place of science
in the pre-collegiate course. Of twenty-one
institutions catalogued as scientific schools,
ten do and eleven do not require some sci-
ence for admission. Of one hundred and
forty-one preparatory schools, ninety-eight
include science in the course preparatory for
the classical course in colleges. These facts
seem to indicate that the academies and high
schools are in advance of the colleges in the
recognition of the claims of science. The re-
port, analyzing the courses of instruction of
the schools, shows that the plea that time can
not be found for scientific study in the four
years of preparatory school instruction is not
well founded. The greatest difficulty in se-
curing the right kind of scientific instruction
in the schools arises from the lack of properly
trained teachers. This difficulty is vanishing,
and the number of teachers is increasing who
possess an acquaintance with science which,
though limited in scope, is in considerable
part sound in method. " Let it be clearly
recognized that the teacher of science de-
manded even in the primary schools is not
one who has committed to memory some ver-
bal propositions about science, but one who
has learned to observe and experiment, to
compare and reason, and the conditions are
already in existence which will not fail to
supply that demand."
Miss North and her Animals. Miss Mari-
anne North, a British naturalist and traveler,
whose death we noticed several months ago,
exhibits in her recently published " Recollec-
tions " a happy appreciation of the individual
eccentricities of animals. A favorite dog of
her father's, which was implicitly trusted,
when left one day in a room with a tempting
pigeon pie, could not resist stealing a pigeon,
but replaced the bird with the blackened
sponge which Mr. North used to wipe his
pens. Miss North made friends with the sa-
cred baboons in the Indian temples, " who
came and sat by her side to criticise her
drawing, or who, after breaking out in the
tricks of their unregenerated monkey nature,
would suddenly fold their arms and relapse
into pious imbecility, as if they had been dis-
ciples of Buddha, and were meditating on the
Nirvana. She commemorates her first im-
pressions of the Queensland kangaroos, when
she saw fifty come hopping down hill in sin-
gle file, ludicrously manoeuvring as if moved
by machinery, and using their big tails for
balancing rods. Shortly afterward she saw
a bear taking a siesta in the fork of a tree,
who merely cocked his great ears and yawned
when her attendants shied stones at him. He
knew he was out of harm's way. He took
his constitutional only at night, and was not
going to alter his habits to please anybody.
She tells a capital story of a cockatoo, brought
up in a zoological garden, and taught to say :
'Walk in, ladies and gentlemen; don't all
come at once one at a time.' The bird es-
caped, and was found with a troop of wild
cockatoos attacking it. It was lying on its
back, fighting beak and claw, and scream-
ing out : ' Come on, ladies and gentlemen,
come on; not all at once, one at a time.'
She heard of a South African baboon, who,
having taken to brigandage, had assailed a
musician returning from a dance, and capt-
ured his accordeon. Examining his prize,
there was a dismal discord, followed by a
hideous howl, and the robber vanished in a
panic, leaving the booty behind. She encum-
bered herself with a family of opossum mice,
and this cost her endless trouble and anxiety."
But these mice proved extremely serviceable
