572
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
in her journey across the North American
continent, for they excited such intense in-
terest with railway guards, hotel-keepers,
etc., that they always insured their mistress
civility or a cordial reception.
Wild Plants as Fnngus-nnrseries. Prof.
B. D. Halsted shows, in a paper on fungi com-
mon to wild and cultivated plants, that in
many cases diseases are transmitted by spores
from one genus or family as well as from one
species to another. A bacterium that affects
the tomato and potato causes a disastrous
form of blight in melons, cucumbers, and
squashes. The apple rust that yellows the
foliage of the orchard in July is identical with
the gynosporangium that produces the galls,
swelling out to large size in rainy weather, on
cedar trees, and the spores are transmitted in
alternation from one tree to the other. It is
thus shown by many examples that the evil
influences of plant funguses may act at long
range. The lesson may be learned from the
experiments that " if so much of the smut,
rust, mildew, mold, rot, and blight of our cul-
tivated plants is propagated by the wild plants
hard by, it may be wise for every crop-grower
to pay attention to what is thriving outside of
his garden wall."
Skill of Prehistoric Lapidaries. The
most superficial examination of any fairly
large collection of stone implements, says
Mr. Joseph D. McGuire, in a paper on the
materials, apparatus, and processes of the
aboriginal lapidary, is calculated to convince
the observer that man in his lowest stage
of development was well acquainted with the
methods of fracture of various stones, and
also that he was a most skillful workman.
The articles found in burial-places, in caves,
and shell-heaps, as well as surface finds, fur-
nish conclusive evidence that man often car-
ried material many hundreds of miles for the
purpose of fashioning, at his leisure, objects
of personal adornment or domestic utility as
well as weapons. The evidence of progress
in the manufacture of tools made by man is
easy to find : " From the splinter of bone or
piece of stone used in the hand to the dia-
mond drill of to-day is an immense advance,
but it can be traced, step by step, without a
break. The author has himself experiment-
ed on the manufacture of stone implements,
using tools similar to those of the North
American Indians, and beginning with the
raw material. The principal work done was
the pecking of stone with the stone hammer,
and the carving, polishing, rubbing, and bor-
ing of stone with the rudest appliances. The
result of the experiments goes far to prove
that the time required for the manufacture
of stone implements by primitive man was
very short." If the time occupied by the
writer was short, it is fair to conclude that a
skillful workman, using the materials which
long experience had taught him were the
best for his purpose, would accomplish the
task in much shorter time. The author, in
his paper, records his experiments in pecking
nephrite, kersantite, catlinite, obsidian, and
basalt, with different hammering material, in
drilling and boring, and in hammering cop-
per, the results of which all went to confirm
the view he has expressed.
Extermination of Species. Some of the
more obvious causes of the extermination of
animals now going on, says Mr. Frederic A.
Lucas, in his paper on that subject in the
United States National Museum, are to be
found in the systematic killing of animals
for their various products, the destruction
caused by domesticated animals introduced
into new countries, and the bringing of wild
land under cultivation. These causes most di-
rectly affect the larger animals, while smaller
creatures are influenced by slighter ones.
The erection of telegraph wires has proved
destructive to birds, while other birds meet
their fate by dashing against the electric
lights. The extinction of the rhytina and the
great auk, the almost complete extirpation
of the bison, and the reduced numbers of the
walrus, are good examples of destruction
wrought directly by the hand of man ; and,
besides, there are the still more numerous
instances of the very perceptible decrease of
animals once abundant. Species used for
food, or otherwise of economic value, suffer
most ; fashion affects some, some are neces-
sarily destroyed for the protection of man
and his domesticated animals, and others are
killed merely for sport. The passenger
pigeons, formerly visiting us by millions, are
now unknown in places where they once
abounded. Halibut, lobsters, and oysters
are getting scarce, and the Atlantic salmon
