NOTES.
S7S
twenty-two years old, from syncope brought
about by cold and over-exertion attendant
upon a bicycle-ride of forty miles, the Lancet
remarks : " It appears that this young man
was a practiced bicycle-rider, and to such
forty miles could hardly be considered an
excessive run in a day ; but, besides distance,
many things have also to be considered by
the judicious rider for instance, the nature
of the roads, the weather, and perhaps, above
all, the pace. We know that the new ma-
chines are capable of attaining a speed never
thought of a few years ago. A high speed
through such cold air as prevailed on Good
Friday must often be very dangerous, as likely
to cause pulmonary congestion, to overcome
which the heart will work at a high degree
of tension, and, like any other muscle, it is
likely to become paralyzed from overwork ;
and herein lies the danger from swift and
hard riding. It would be well if our young
men would remember the advice that an emi-
nent English physiologist gave to a young
man some years ago, ' Observe your strength,
and keep within it.' "
NOTES.
Between four and five acres have been
assigned in the forthcoming World's Colum-
bian Exhibition to the Educational Exhibit.
This is a much larger space than ever was
offered before to this interest at a World's
Fair. In order that the most advantage
may be derived from this large privilege, the
Bureau of Education has published a circular
of suggestions of details as to the arrange-
ment of the exhibit, in order that it may be
made as comprehensive as possible, and as
accessible in all its parts. A statement con-
cerning the National Catholic Educational
Exhibit, which has been determined upon,
is printed on the same sheet with the de-
partment's circular.
It appears, from M. W. Brennaud's studies
of the Surya Siddhanta, a book which con-
tains the astronomy of the Hindus, that they
were acquainted with the precession of the
equinoxes and its effects, and with the
theory of lunar and planetary movements.
They had determined with fair exactness
the diameter of the earth and the distance
of the moon; they could calculate the or-
bits of the planets by the aid of the
moon's daily motion in its orbit ; could cal-
culate and predict eclipses of the moon and
the sun ; and had a respectable knowledge of
most of the fundamental problems of astron-
omy.
Observations made by M. Obrecht, at
the observatory in Santiago, Chili, since
July, 1891, show that the ground in the
northwest quarter rises daily between noon
and nine o'clock in the evening, and then
falls back gradually till seven o'clock in the
morning. Furthermore, there is a continu-
ous rising movement of the southeast quarter,
and from September to November a continu-
ous rising of the eastern quarter. The daily
variations had been observed by M. Moesta
at the time the observatory was built, and by
Gillis.
A few months since the Kew authorities
dispatched, per the steamship Atrato, a bo-
tanical commission to the West Indies with
a number of Wardian cases containing vine
cuttings and Gambier plants. Unfortunate-
ly, cold weather set in, and the efforts to
convey these tender plants, which had so
often ended in failure, threatened once more
to result in disappointment. The difficulty
was that if kept on deck they would be in-
evitably destroyed by the low temperature ;
while, if taken below, the absence of light,
which is so necessary to the existence of the
delicate Gambier plants, was almost certain
to be equally fatal. Under these circum-
stances it occurred to Mr. Morris to avail
himself of the electric light, of which there
was an abundance on board the Atrato.
The experiment proved in every way success-
ful.
The extent of the influence a lake may
exercise upon climate is illustrated by the
statement of M. Forel that the quantity of
heat accumulated in Lake Leman during the
summer is equivalent to that which would be
given out by the burning of fifty-one million
tons of coal. A railroad train carrying this
coal would be eighteen thousand kilometres
long, or nearly the length of the earth's me-
ridian from pole to pole.
A story is told of a brown retriever dog
in London which was sent to carry a letter
in its mouth to drop in the post-box at Pic-
cadilly. It got to the box just as the post-
man, having emptied it, was starting away.
The dog seeing him, ran after him, caught
up with him, put the letter in his hand, and
then went off with the satisfied air of a dog
that had done its duty.
Op the " rare metals," didymium is quoted
at $4,500 a pound; barium, at $3,700;
beryllium or glucinum, at $3,375 ; yttrium,
at $2,250 ; rhodium and niobium or colum-
bium, at $2,000 each ; vanadium, at $1,875 ;
iridium, at $700 ; osmium, at $625 ; palla-
dium, at $500 ; and platinum, at $350. The
price of the last metal, however, fluctuates
between those of silver and gold.
M. Berthelot has traced the derivation
of the word bronze to the city of Brundu-
sium, now Brindisi, where was the seat of
