57 6
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
certain manufactures in which the alloy was
employed. A Latin manuscript of the age
of Charlemagne, found in the library of the
chapter of the Canons of Luynes, gives a re-
ceipt for the " composition of Brindisi"
copper, two parts ; lead, one part ; tin, one
part.
Among the interesting objects exhibited
at a recent soiree of the Royal Society was
a proof-sheet of the Archaeological Survey of
Egypt, by Mr. Percy E. Newberry, showing
all the successive stages of a wrestling-match
between a black and a white man, with more
than a hundred different positions recorded.
The white man seems in many of the pict-
ures to be getting the worst of it.
A foolish report that the Department of
Agriculture contemplated introducing the
mongoose to contend with the rodents of the
Western plains, so troublesome to farmers
with the ultimate result, of course, of taking
their place as a nuisance has been denied
by the department.
A new preparation of the potato has
been introduced by M. Moulin, the inventor
of the potato bread, and is intended chiefly
for feeding to cattle. The cleaned potatoes
are scraped or crushed ; the pulp is pressed
for the extraction of free water; is finely
divided ; and is dried with a moderate heat
sufficient to give it a pleasant taste without
converting the starch into dextrin. The
product is called torrefied pulp. It may also
be used for human food by making a puree
of it, or by making bread of a mixture of it
with flour or meal.
At the last meeting of the American
Philosophical Society in Philadelphia reso-
lutions wei'e adopted for the celebration in a
worthy and becoming manner of the sesqui-
centennial anniversary of the society ; and a
committee of five members was appointed to
make all necessary arrangements for the
same. The society celebrated the centennial
anniversary of its foundation in 1843, with a
series of addresses, meetings, etc., continu-
ing from the 25th to the 30th of May.
The last giraffe in the London Zoological
Gardens has recently died, and the institu-
tion is, for the first time since 1836, without
a living specimen of this animal. It has had
in all thirty specimens, of which seventeen
were born on the place. The giraffe market
is very poorly supplied, and there is but one
specimen now for sale in Europe. The
giraffe is practically extinct in South Africa,
and can not be found within a thousand miles
of Cape Town. There are still giraffes in
East Africa, but there are no means of catch-
ing them.
The aborigines of the Andaman Islands,
a curious and even unique people, are said to
be fast disappearing. All of them on two
of the islands are dead, and only a few are
left on a third. Only a small number of
children are born, and they die in infancy.
The Yahgan, one of the three tribes in-
habiting Tierra del Fuego, according to Dr.
Hyades, live chiefly on fish and mollusks.
They also eat any kind of bird they can
catch, and are fond of the flesh of the whale,
the seal, and the otter. When pressed with
hunger they will eat the fox, but never dogs
or rats. Fishing is left to the women, while
the men hunt. The people have splendid
powers of digestion, and assimilate their food
so rapidly that they sometimes become fat
in the course of a single day. Their huts
are made of branches or of the trunks of
trees, the interstices being imperfectly filled
up with moss or bark, with fragments of
canoes, or with seal-skins. In the center is
a fire, around which the inmates sleep at
night, and at other times, when they have
nothing else to do, sit talking and laughing.
The Yahgan lose early the attributes of
youth, but often retain their vigor to a great
age. They are very courageous, and enjoy
games that test their physical strength.
With the exception of certain Eskimo
throw-sticks, Mr. Otis T. Mason remarks in
Science that all the weapons of the North-
western American Indians examined by him
are ambidextrous ; and he questions whether
outside of the Eskimo area any American
aborigines had apparatus that would not fit
either hand.
Among the particular schemes connected
with the celebration of the Columbian quadri-
centennial is that for a great food exhibition
to be held in New York in October, 1892,
under the auspices of the Food Manufact-
urers' Association. It will include displays
of manufactured foods and of products di-
rect from the dairy, orchard, and sea, and
a special department of dairy products, with
daily afternoon and evening concerts.
OBITUARY NOTES.
The death is reported of August Wilhelm
Hoffmann, the eminent German chemist,
Professor in the University of Berlin, and
author of many discoveries that have contrib-
uted to the advancement of the science. A
sketch and portrait of him were published in
The Popular Science Monthly for April, 1884.
Henbi Duvetkier, a famous explorer and
formerly President of the French Geographi-
cal Society, died about the beginning of May.
He was born in 1840, and began, when
twenty years old, a series of journeys in Al-
geria which made him famous. They in-
cluded a reconnaissance to El Golea, where
no European had ever set foot; southern
Constantine and the Tunisian Soudan; the
country of the Tuaregs ; and the Chots of
southern Tunis.
