578 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tine seemed inclined to yield a little in regard to the sphericity of
the earth, but he fought the idea that men exist on the other side
of it, saying that " Scripture speaks of no such descendants of
Adam." He insists that men could not be allowed by the Al-
mighty to live there, since if they did they could not see Christ
at his second coming descending through the air. But his most
cogent appeal, one which we find echoed from theologian to theo-
logian during a thousand years afterward, is to the nineteenth
Psalm, and to its confirmation in the Epistle to the Romans ; to
the words, " Their line is gone out through all the earth, and their
words to the end of the world." He dwells with great force on
the fact that St. Paul based one of his most powerful arguments
upon this declaration regarding the preachers of the gospel, de-
claring even more explicitly that " verily their sound went into
all the earth, their words unto the ends of the world." Hence-
forth we find it constantly declared that, as those preachers did
not go to the antipodes, no antipodes can exist ; and therefore
that the supporters of this geographical doctrine "give the lie
direct to King David and to St. Paul, and therefore to the Holy
Ghost." Augustine taught the whole world for over a thousand
years that as there was no preaching of the gospel on the opposite
side of the earth, there could be no human beings there.
The great authority of Augustine and the cogency of his
scriptural argument held the Church, as a rule, firmly against the
doctrine of the antipodes ; yet that the doctrine continued to have
life is shown by the fact that in the sixth century Procopius of
Gaza attacks it with a tremendous argument. He declares that
if there be men on the other side of the earth, Christ must have
come to save them ; and, therefore, that there must have been
there, as necessary preliminaries to his coming, a duplicate Eden,
Adam, Serpent, and Deluge.
Cosmas Indicopleustes also attacked the doctrine with especial
bitterness, citing a passage from St. Luke to prove that antipodes
are theologically impossible.
At the end of the sixth century comes a man from whom much
might be expected St. Isidore of Seville. He had pondered
over ancient thought in science, and, as we have seen, had dared
proclaim his belief in the sphericity of the earth ; but with that
he stopped. As to the antipodes, the authority of the Psalmist,
St. Paul, and St. Augustine silences him; he shuns the whole
question as unlawful, subjects reason to faith, and declares that
men can not and ought not to exist on opposite sides of the earth.*
* For the opinions of Basil, Ambrose, and others, see Leeky, History of Rationalism in
Europe, New York, 1812, vol. i, p. 279, note. Also Letronne, in Revue des Deux Mondes,
March, 1834. For Lactautius, see citations already given. For St. Augustine's opinion, see
the Civ. Dei, xvi, 9, where this great father of the Church shows that the existence of the
