NEW CHAPTERS IN THE WARFARE OF SCIENCE. 583
4. The Size of the Earth. But at an early period another
subject in geography had stirred the minds of thinking men
the earth's size. Various ancient investigators had by different
methods reached measurements more or less near the truth ; these
methods were continued into the middle ages, supplemented by
new thought, and among the more striking results were those
obtained by Roger Bacon and Gerbert, afterward Pope Sylvester
II. They handed down to after-time the torch of knowledge, but,
as their reward among their contemporaries, they fell under the
charge of sorcery.
Far more consonant with the theological spirit of the middle
ages was a solution of the problem from Scripture, and this
solution deserves to be given as an example of a very curious
theological error, chancing to result in great good. The second
book of Esdras, which among Protestants is placed in the Apoc-
rypha, was held by many of the foremost men of the ancient
Church as fully inspired : though Jerome looked with suspicion
on this book, it was regarded as prophetic by Clement of Alexan-
dria, Tertullian, and Ambrose, and the Church acquiesced in that
view. In the Eastern Church it held an especially high place, and
in the Western Church, before the Reformation, was generally
considered by the most eminent authorities to be part of the
sacred canon. In the sixth chapter of this book there is a sum-
mary of the works of creation, and in this occur the following
verses :
"Upon the third day thou didst command that the waters
should be gathered in the seventh part of the earth; six parts
hast thou dried up and kept them to the intent that of these
some, being planted of God and tilled, might serve thee."
" Upon the fifth day thou saidst unto the seventh part where
the waters were gathered, that it should bring forth living creat-
ures, fowls and fishes, and so it came to pass."
These statements were reiterated in other verses, and were
naturally considered c ^f controlling authority.
Among the scholars % o pondered on this as on all other
things likely to increase knov> ledge was Cardinal Pierre d' Ailly.
As we have seen, this great man, while he denied the existence of
ander VI, see E. G. Bourne in Yale Review, May, 1892. For the Margarita Philosophiea,
see the editions of 1503, 1509, 1517, lib. vii, cap. 48. For the effect of Magellan's voy-
ages, and the reluctance to yield to proof, see Henri Martin, Histoire de France, vol. xiv,
p. 395 ; St. Martin's Histoire de la Geographie, p. 369 ; Peschel, Geschichte des Zeitalters
der Entdeckungen, concluding chapters ; and for an admirable summary, Draper, Hist. Int.
Devel. of Europe, pp. 451^153 ; also an interesting passage in Sir Thomas Browne's Vulgar
and Common Errors, Book I, chap. vi. For general statement as to supplementary proof by
measurement of degrees and by pendulum, see Somerville, Phys. Geog., chap, i, par. 6, note ;
also Humboldt, Cosmos, vol. ii, p. 736, and v, pp. 16, 32 ; also Montucla, iv, 138.
