584 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the antipodes as St. Augustine had done, believed firmly in the
sphericity of the earth, and, interpreting these statements of the
book of Esdras in connection with this belief, he held that, as only
one seventh of the earth's surface was covered by water, the ocean
between the west coast of Europe and the east coast of Asia could
not be very wide. Knowing, as he thought, the extent of the land
upon the globe, he felt that in view of this divinely authorized
statement the globe must be much smaller, and the land of
" Zipango," reached by Marco Polo, on the extreme east coast of
Asia, much nearer than had been generally believed.
On this point he laid stress in his great work, the Ymago
Mundi, and an edition of it having been published in the days
when Columbus was thinking most closely upon the problem of a
westward voyage, it naturally exercised much influence upon his
reasonings. Among the treasures of the library at Seville, there
is nothing more interesting than a copy of this work annotated
by Columbus himself ; from this very copy it was that Columbus
obtained confirmation of his belief that the passage across the
ocean to Marco Polo's land of Zipango in Asia was short. But
for this error, based upon a text supposed to be inspired, it is un-
likely that Columbus would have had the courage to undertake
his voyage. It is a curious fact that this single theological error
thus promoted a series of voyages which completely destroyed not
only this but every other conception of geography based upon the
sacred writings.*
5. The Character of the Earth's Surface. It would be
hardly just to dismiss the struggle for geographical truth with-
out referring to one passage more in the history of the Protestant
Church, for it shows clearly the difficulties in the way of the
simplest statement of geographical truth which conflicted with
the words of the sacred books.
In the year 1553 Michael Servetus was on trial for his life at
Geneva on the charge of Arianism. Servetus had rendered many
services to scientific truth, and one of these was an edition of
Ptolemy's Geography, in which Judea was spoken of, not as " a
land flowing with milk and honey," but, in strict accordance
with the truth, as, in the main, meager, barren, and inhospitable.
In his trial this simple statement of geographical truth was used
* For this error, so fruitful in discovery, see D'Ailly, Ymago Mundi (my own copy is of
1490); the passage referred to is folio 12 verso. For the passage from Esdras, see chap, vi,
verses 42, 47, 50, and 52 ; see also Zockler, Geschichte der Beziehungen zwischen Theolo-
gie und Naturwissenschaft, vol. i, p. 461. For one of the best recent statements, see Ruge,
Gesch. des Zeitalters der Entdeckungen, Berlin, 1882, pp. 221 et seq. For the letter of
Columbus acknowledging his indebtedness to this mistake in Esdras, see Navarrete, Viajes
y Descubrimientos, Madrid, 1825, tome i, pp. 242-264 ; also Humboldt, Hist, de la Geo-
graphic du Nouveau Continent, vol. i, pp. 68, 69.
