5 9 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
shape a pebble that it might better meet the needs of a club-head
or hatchet called for little skill, and the labor of making an axe
has recently been shown to be but slight ; but the idea of sym-
metry was developed and cultivated until a weapon was finally
produced that can not be improved upon. The same is true of
chipping from flint points for arrow-shafts. A mere splinter of
stone, if sharp and narrow, would be as effective as any shape
that could be devised ; but such chance splinters do not appear to
have been used, except directly after the invention of the bow and
arrow; and, so far as is now discoverable, a series of artistically
designed patterns have been in use for hundreds of years. Fig.
1 represents four arrow-points such as are common everywhere in
the valley of the Delaware. The flint-worker who made these had
something more than mere utilitarianism in his constitution. A
love of the beautiful, of symmetry, of neatness, call it what you
will, was well developed. Not one of these would kill a bird or
beast one whit quicker than the simple triangular arrow-point ;
and yet these more elaborate forms are more abundant than those
of simpler outline.
I am tempted to suggest that possibly the late (comparative-
ly speaking) use of jasper, here in the valley of the Delaware,
may have been generally adopted largely because of the bright
colors of that material. Of various tints, and often so veined
that even a small object might be partycolored, it is little wonder
that the use of jasper became so wide-spread, and argillite in a
measure neglected ; and yet the latter served every purpose, and
from the days of Palaeolithic man to the coming of the Dutch and
Swedes was never discarded. But argillite is dull gray when old,
and never bright or glossy, however newly chipped ; while the
jasper was red or yellow, green, blue, or variegated, and never lost
its brilliancy. Little wonder it was in such demand, and the
labor of mining undergone. Its color, doubtless, had much to do
with its adoption.
Symmetry, as developed in fashioning the axe and celt, which
were pecked and not chipped, as were arrow-points, soon led to the
same methods being applied to stone for the production of more
elaborately designed objects, and the so-called "ceremonial"
forms were made. Fig. 2 represents a nearly faultless exam-
ple of these common " relics," the purpose of which can only
be conjectured. The Indian who shaped this specimen was no
" 'prentice-hand." He may not have been an artist in the common
acceptation of that term ; but he needed, to say the least, very
little instruction to make him one. Objects of this character are
of such remarkable abundance, although seldom of such beauty
of finish as is this, that the relic-hunter in his tramps over the
fields is continually wondering what they were intended for. I
