THE DELAWARE INDIAN AS AN ARTIST.
593
such simplicity of illustration. This interesting- specimen was
recently found on an island in the Susquehanna Valley, and cer-
tainly is a most striking example of effective portraiture by
means of a few lines and dots.
Having shown how a stone surface was altered to produce
either a purely ornamental or a pictorial effect, let me offer now
some striking examples of how the artistic efforts of the Indian
showed themselves in carving in other substances than stone.
This was, of course, a much more difficult matter. Stone is, if not
too hard, easily shaped by hammer-
ing, its surface yielding to constant
hammering with another stone. To
shape a bit of wood is another mat-
ter, but that the Indian was abun-
dantly capable of this, I offer Fig. 7
as evidence. Here we have an in-
stance of the artist's skill in more
than one direction. As we look at
the illustration, we see the human
face grotescpjely represented, and at
the same time the portrait is equally
good, or almost so, of a barn owl
(Strix praiincola). To accomplish
this the artist must have had a clear
conception of many of the rules of
his profession.
Fig. 8 brings us, perhaps, to the
highest point reached by the Dela-
ware Indians in artistic effort. Here
we have a portrait of an Indian, it
may be, and at any rate a correct
representation of the Indian counte-
nance. This and the preceding, hav-
ing metal and porcelain about them,
were certainly made after European
contact, unless we can suppose that
the eyes originally were bits of cop-
per, and these becoming detached, were replaced, in one case,
with bits of sheet silver, and in the other with small white beads.
This is not altogether improbable, and that the objects themselves
really antedate the Columbian discovery. They are certainly
very old.
Perhaps more striking than either of the wooden carvings is
that represented in Fig. 9, which is an example of carved antler,
where we have a combination of representations, all realistic, and
absolutely perfect in their way. The human face is a marvel of
Fig. 9. Carved Antler.
Delaware Indian.
