594 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
aboriginal skill. The series of lines and dots are regular, and the
faintly outlined snake's tongue is true to nature ; as is also the
end of the object, which represents with marked fidelity the rattle
of the rattlesnake. The Indian who could make this carving had
a wide range of capabilities in the line of artistic representation.
And now a word, in conclusion, with reference to pictorial repre-
sentation, where many objects, and these in action, are concerned.
We know how, in recent times, the Western Indian depicted with
spirit a fight with other Indians or a buffalo-hunt. If, then, in
prehistoric time and at the time of the continent being first
peopled with Europeans, our Delaware Indian was capable of
such artistic efforts as have been briefly commented upon in the
preceding pages, might he not likewise have essayed in this direc-
tion also, and recorded events by the grouping of men and ani-
mals on slabs of stone ? The pictured rocks on the Susquehanna
show a disposition to accomplish this on a large scale ; but I refer
more particularly to ornament gorgets. It is scarcely safe, and
certainly not logical, to decry such specimens, however startling
the subject treated or artistically accomplished. Perhaps through
some such pictured stone we may yet learn that the Indian was
present when the last mastodon and giant elk in the valley of the
Delaware bit the dust.
THE DECLINE OF BIBLIOLATRY.*
By Pkof. T. II. HUXLEY.
MY memory, unfortunately, carries me back to the fourth dec-
ade of the nineteenth century, when the evangelical flood
had a little abated and the tops of certain mountains were
soon to appear, chiefly in the neighborhood of Oxford ; but
when, nevertheless, bibliolatry was rampant ; when church and
chapel alike proclaimed, as the oracles of God, the crude assump-
tions of the worst informed and, in natural sequence, the most
presumptuously bigoted, of all theological schools.
In accordance with promises made on my behalf, but certainly
without my authorization, I was very early taken to hear " ser-
mons in the vulgar tongue." And vulgar enough often was the
tongue in which some preacher, ignorant alike of literature, of
history, of science, and even of theology, outside that patron-
ized by his own narrow school, poured forth, from the safe
intrenchment of the pulpit, invectives against those who devi-
ated from his notion of orthodoxy. From dark allusions to
* From the Prologue to Essays upon some Controverted Questions, by T. H. Huxley,
F. R. S. New York : D. Appleton & Co., 1892.
