THE DECLINE OF BIBLIOLATRY. 595
" skeptics " and " infidels," I became aware of the existence of
people who trusted in carnal reason ; who audaciously doubted
that the world was made in six natural days, or that the deluge
was universal ; perhaps even went so far as to question the
literal accuracy of the story of Eve's temptation, or of Balaam's
ass ; and, from the horror of the tones in which they were men-
tioned, I should have been justified in drawing the conclusion
that these rash men belonged to the criminal classes. At the
same time, those who were more directly responsible for provid-
ing me with the knowledge essential to the right guidance of life
(and who sincerely desired to do so), imagined that they were dis-
charging that most sacred duty by impressing upon my childish
mind the necessity, on pain of reprobation in this world and
damnation in the next, of accepting, in the strict and literal
sense, every statement contained in the Protestant Bible. I was
told to believe, and I did believe, that doubt about any of them
was a sin, not less reprehensible than a moral delict. I suppose
that, out of a thousand of my contemporaries, nine hundred at
least had their minds systematically warped and poisoned, in the
name of the God of truth, by like discipline. I am sure that, even
a score of years later, those who ventured to question the exact
historical accuracy of any part of the Old Testament and a fortiori
of the Gospels, had to expect a pitiless shower of verbal missiles,
to say nothing of the other disagreeable consequences which visit
those who, in any way, run counter to that chaos of prejudices
called public opinion.
My recollections of this time have recently been revived by
the perusal of a remarkable document,* signed by as many as
thirty-eight out of the twenty odd thousand clergymen of the
Established Church. It does not appear that the signataries
are officially accredited spokesmen of the ecclesiastical corpora-
tion to which they belong ; but I feel bound to take their word
for it, that they are " stewards of the Lord, who have received
the Holy Ghost," and therefore to accept this memorial as evi-
dence that, though the Evangelicism of my early days may be
deposed from its place of power, though so many of the colleagues
of the thirty-eight even repudiate the title of Protestants, yet the
green bay tree of bibliolatry flourishes as it did sixty years ago.
And, as in those good old times, whoso refuses to offer incense to
the idol is held to be guilty of " a dishonor to God," imperiling his
salvation.
It is to the credit of the perspicacity of the memorialists that
they discern the real nature of the Controverted Question of the
age. They are awake to the unquestionable fact that, if Scripture
* Declaration on the Truth of Holy Scripture. The Times, December 18, 1891.
