596 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
has been discovered " not to be worthy of unquestioning belief/'
faith " in the supernatural itself " is, so far, undermined. And I
may congratulate myself upon such weighty confirmation of an
opinion in which I have had the fortune to anticipate them. But
whether it is more to the credit of the courage, than to the intel-
ligence, of the thirty-eight that they should go on to proclaim
that the canonical Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments
" declare incontrovertibly the actual historical truth in all rec-
ords, both of past events and of the delivery of predictions to
be thereafter fulfilled," must be left to the coming generation
to decide.
The interest which attaches to this singular document will, I
think, be based by most thinking men, not upon what it is, but
upon that of which it is a sign. It is an open secret that the
memorial is put forth as a counterblast to a manifestation of
opinion of a contrary character, on the part of certain members
of the same ecclesiastical body, who therefore have, as I sup-
pose, an equal right to declare themselves "stewards of the
Lord and recipients of the Holy Ghost." In fact, the stream
of tendency toward naturalism, the course of which I have
briefly traced, has, of late years, flowed so strongly, that even
the Churches have begun, I dare not say to drift, but, at any rate,
to swing at their moorings. Within the pale of the Anglican
establishment, I venture to doubt, whether, at this moment,
there are as many thorough-going defenders of "plenary in-
spiration" as there were timid questioners of that doctrine
half a century ago. Commentaries, sanctioned by the highest
authority, give up the " actual historical truth " of the cosmogoni-
cal and diluvial narratives. University professors of deservedly
high repute accept the critical decision that the Hexateuch is a
compilation, in which the share of Moses, either as author or as
editor, is not quite so clearly demonstrable as it might be ; highly
placed divines tell us that the pre-Abrahamic Scripture narra-
tives may be ignored ; that the book of Daniel may be regarded
as a patriotic romance of the second century B. c. ; that the words
of the writer of the fourth Gospel are not always to be distin-
guished from those which he puts into the mouth of Jesus.
Conservative but conscientious revisers decide that whole pas-
sages, some of dogmatic and some of ethical importance, are inter-
polations. An uneasy sense of the weakness of the dogma of
Biblical infallibility seems to be at the bottom of a prevailing
tendency once more to substitute the authority of the " Church "
for that of the Bible. In my old age it has happened to me
to be taken to task for regarding Christianity as a " religion of a
book" as gravely as, in my youth, I should have been repre-
hended for doubting that proposition. It is a no less interesting
