THE DECLINE OF BIBLIOLATRY. 597
symptom that the state Church seems more and more anxious
to repudiate all complicity with the principles of the Protestant
Reformation and to call itself " Anglo-Catholic." Inspiration,
deprived of its old intelligible sense, is watered down into a mys-
tification. The Scriptures are, indeed, inspired ; but they con-
tain a wholly undefined and indefinable " human element " ; and
this unfortunate intruder is converted into a sort of biblical
whipping boy. Whatsoever scientific investigations, historical
or physical, prove to be erroneous, the " human element " bears
the blame ; while the divine inspiration of such statements, as
by their nature are out of reach of proof or disproof, is still as-
serted with all the vigor inspired by conscious safety from attack.
Though the proposal to treat the Bible " like any other book,"
which caused so much scandal forty years ago, may not yet be
generally accepted, and though Bishop Colenso's criticisms may
still lie, formally, under ecclesiastical ban, yet the Church has
not wholly turned a deaf ear to the voice of the scientific tempt-
er ; and many a coy divine, while " crying I will ne'er consent,"
has consented to the proposals of that scientific criticism which
the memorialists renounce and denounce.
A humble layman, to whom it would seem the height of pre-
sumption to assume even the unconsidered dignity of a " steward
of science," may well find this conflict of apparently equal ecclesi-
astical authorities perplexing suggestive, indeed, of the wisdom
of postponing attention to either until the question of precedence
between them is settled. And this course will probably appear
the more advisable, the more closely the fundamental position of
the memorialists is examined.
No opinion of the fact or form of divine revelation, founded
on literary criticism (and I suppose I may add historical or phys-
ical criticism) of the Scriptures themselves, can be admitted to
interfere with the traditionary testimony of the Church, when
that has been once ascertained and verified by appeal to an-
tiquity." *
Grant that it is " the traditionary testimony of the Church "
which guarantees the canonicity of each and all of the books of
the Old and New Testaments. Grant also that canonicity means
infallibility ; yet, according to the thirty-eight, this " traditionary
testimony " has to be " ascertained and verified by appeal to
antiquity." But " ascertainment and verification " are purely
intellectual processes, which must be conducted according to the
strict rules of scientific investigation, or be self-convicted of
worthlessness. Moreover, before we can set about the appeal to
" antiquity," the exact sense of that usefully vague term must be
* Declaration, Article X.
