INFECTIOUS DISEASES. 623
Considerable differences as to susceptibility may also exist
among adults of the same species. In man these differences in
individual susceptibility to infectious diseases are frequently
manifested. Of a number of persons exposed to infection in the
same way, some may escape entirely, while others have attacks
differing in severity and duration. In our experiments upon the
lower animals we constantly meet with similar results, some
individuals proving to be exceptionally resistant. Exceptional
susceptibility or immunity may be to some extent a family char-
acteristic, or one of race. Thus, the negro race is decidedly less
subject to yellow fever than the white race, and this disease is
more fatal among the fair-skinned races of the north of Europe
than among the Latin races living in tropical or subtropical
regions. On the other hand, small-pox appears to be exception-
ally fatal among negroes and dark-skinned races generally. A
very remarkable instance of race immunity is that of Algerian
sheep against anthrax, a disease which is very fatal to other
sheep.
The essential difference between a susceptible and immune
animal depends upon the fact that in one the pathogenic germ,
when introduced by accident or experimental inoculation, multi-
plies and invades the tissues or the blood, where, by reason of its
nutritive requirements and toxic products, it produces changes in
the tissues and fluids of the body inconsistent with the vital re-
quirements of the infected animal ; while in the immune animal
multiplication does not occur or is restricted to a local invasion
of limited extent, and in which after a time the resources of
Nature suffice to destroy the parasitic invader.
Now, the question is, Upon what does this essential difference
depend ? Evidently upon conditions favorable or unfavorable to
the development of the pathogenic germ ; or upon its destruction
by some active agent present in the tissues or fluids of the body
of the immune animal ; or upon a neutralization of its toxic prod-
ucts by some substance present in the body of the animal which
survives infection. The composition of the body fluids, and es-
pecially their reaction, is probably a determining factor in some
instances. Thus, Behring has ascribed the failure of the anthrax
bacillus to develop in the white rat, which possesses a remarkable
immunity against anthrax, to the highly alkaline reaction of the
blood and tissue juices of this animal. Behring claims to have
obtained experimental proof of the truth of this explanation by
feeding white rats on an exclusive vegetable diet, or by adding
acid phosphate of lime to their food, by which means this ex-
cessive alkalinity of the blood is diminished. Hats so treated are
said to lose their natural immunity, and to die as a result of
inoculation with virulent cultures of the anthrax bacillus.
