624 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The recent experiments of Nuttall, Behring, Buchner, and
others have established the fact that recently drawn blood of
various animals possesses decided germicidal power, and Buchner
has shown that this property belongs to the fluid part of the
blood and not to its cellular elements. This power to kill bacteria
is destroyed by heat, and is lost when the blood has been kept for
a considerable time, but it is not neutralized by freezing. Further,
this power to destroy bacteria differs greatly for different species,
being very decided in the case of certain pathogenic bacteria, less
so for others, and absent in the case of certain common sapro-
phytes.
In the infectious diseases of man involving the system gen-
erally, a single attack commonly confers immunity from sub-
sequent attacks. This is true of the eruptive fevers, of typhoid
fever, of yellow fever, of mumps, of whooping-cough, and, to
some extent at least, of syphilis. But it seems not to be the case
in epidemic influenza (la grippe), in croupous pneumonia, or in
Asiatic cholera, in which diseases second attacks not infrequently
occur. In localized infectious diseases, such as diphtheria, ery-
sipelas, and gonorrhoea, one attack is not protective. Croupous
pneumonia and Asiatic cholera should perhaps be grouped with
diphtheria and erysipelas as local infections with constitutional
symptoms resulting from the absorption of toxic products.
That immunity may result from a comparatively mild attack
as well as from a severe one is a matter of common observation in
the case of small-pox, scarlet fever, yellow fever, etc., and since
the discovery of Jenner we have in vaccination a simple method
of producing immunity in the first-mentioned disease. The ac-
quired immunity resulting from vaccination is not, however, as
complete or as permanent as that which results from an attack of
the disease.
These general facts relating to acquired immunity from in-
fectious diseases constituted the principal portion of our knowl-
edge with reference to this important matter up to the time that
Pasteur (1880) demonstrated that in the disease of fowls known as
chicken cholera, which he had proved to be due to a specific
micro-organism, a mild attack followed by immunity may be
induced by inoculation with an " attenuated virus " i. e., by
inoculation with a culture of the pathogenic micro-organism the
virulence of which had been so modified that it gave rise to a
comparatively mild attack of the disease in question. Pasteur's
original method of obtaining an attenuated virus consisted in
exposing his cultures for a considerable time to the action of
atmospheric oxygen. It has since been ascertained that the same
result is obtained with greater certainty by exposing cultures for
a given time to a temperature slightly below that which would
