INFECTIOUS DISEASES. 625
destroy the vitality of the pathogenic micro-organism, and also
by exposure to the action of certain chemical agents.
Pasteur at once comprehended the importance of his discovery,
and inferred that what was true of one infectious germ disease
was likely to be true of others. Subsequent researches by this
savant and by other bacteriologists have justified this anticipa-
tion, and the demonstration has already been made for a consider-
able number of similar diseases anthrax, symptomatic anthrax,
rouget, etc.
In Pasteur's inoculations against anthrax, " attenuated " cult-
ures are employed which contain the living pathogenic germ as
well as the toxic products developed during its growth. Usually
two inoculations are made with cultures of different degrees of
attenuation that is to say, with cultures in which the toxic
products are formed in less amount than in virus of full power.
The most attenuated virus is first injected, and after some time
the second vaccine, which if injected first might have caused a
considerable mortality. The animal is thus protected from the
pathogenic action of the most virulent cultures.
Now, it has been shown by recent experiments that a similar
immunity may result from the injection into a susceptible animal
of the toxic products contained in a virulent culture, independ-
ently of the living bacteria to which they owe their origin. The
first satisfactory experimental evidence of this important fact was
obtained by Salmon and Smith in 1886, who succeeded in making
pigeons immune from the pathogenic effects of cultures of the
bacillus of hog cholera by inoculating them with sterilized
cultures of this bacillus. In 1888 Roux reported similar results
obtained by injecting into susceptible animals sterilized cultures
of the anthrax bacillus. Behring and Kitasato have quite re-
cently reported their success in establishing immunity against
virulent cultures of the bacillus of tetanus and the diphtheria
bacillus by inoculating susceptible animals with filtered, germ-
free cultures of these pathogenic bacteria.
In Pasteur's inoculations against hydrophobia, made subse-
quently to infection by the bite of a rabid animal, an attenuated
virus is introduced subcutaneously in considerable quantity by
daily injections, and immunity is established during the interval,
the so-called period of incubation, which usually occurs between
the date of infection and the development of the disease. That
the immunity in this case also depends upon the introduction
of a chemical substance present in the desiccated spinal cord of
rabbits which have succumbed to rabies, which is used in these
inoculations, is extremely probable. But, as the germ of rabies
has not been isolated or cultivated artificially, this has not yet
been demonstrated.
