626 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
With these facts in view, let us proceed to consider briefly the
various theories which have been offered in explanation of ac-
quired immunity :
Exhaustion Theory. For a time Pasteur supported the view
that during an attack of an infectious disease the pathogenic
micro-organism, in its multiplication in the body of a susceptible
animal, exhausts the suyjply of some substance necessary for its
development, that this substance is not subsequently reproduced,
and that consequently the same pathogenic germ can not again
multiply in the body of the protected animal.
In discussing this theory, in a paper published in the Ameri-
can Journal of the Medical Sciences (April, 1881), the writer
says:
Let us see where this hypothesis leads us. In the first place, we must have a
material of small-pox, and a material of measles, and a material of scarlet fever,
etc. Then we must admit that each of these different materials has been formed
in the system and stored up for these emergencies attacks of the diseases in
question for we can scarcely conceive that they were all packed away in the
germ-cell of the mother and the sperm-cell of the father of each susceptible
individual. If, then, these peculiar materials have been formed and stored up
during the development of the individual, how are we to account for the fact
that no new production takes place after an attack of any one of the diseases in
question ?
Again, how shall we account for the fact that the amount of material which
would nourish the small-pox germ, to the extent of producing a case of confluent
small-pox, may be exhausted by the action of the attenuated virus (germ) intro-
duced by vaccination ? Pasteur's comparison of a fowl protected by inocula-
tion with the microbe of fowl cholera, with a culture fluid in which the growth
of a particular organism has exhausted the pabulum necessary for the devel-
opment of additional organisms of the same kind, does not seem to me to be a
just one, as in the latter case we have a limited supply of nutriment, while in
the former we have new supplies constantly provided of the material food
from which the whole body, including the hypothetical substance essential
to the development of the disease-germ, was built up prior to the attack. Be-
sides this, we have a constant provision for the elimination of effete and useless
products.
This hypothesis, then, requires the formation in the human body, and the re-
tention up to a certain time, of a variety of materials which, so far as we can
see, serve no purpose except to nourish the germs of various specific diseases,
and which, having served this purpose, are not again formed in the same system,
subjected to similar external conditions, and supplied with the same kind of nu-
triment.
It is unnecessary to discuss this hypothesis any further, inas-
much as it is no longer sustained by Pasteur or his pupils, and is
evidently untenable.
The Pretention Theory, proposed by Chauveau (1880), is sub-
ject to similar objections. According to this view, certain prod-
ucts formed during the development of a pathogenic micro-or-
