INFECTIOUS DISEASES. 627
ganism in the body of a susceptible animal accumulate during the
attack and are subsequently retained, and being prejudicial to the
growth of the particular micro-organism which produced them, a
second infection can not occur. Support for this theory has been
found by its advocates in the fact that various processes of fer-
mentation are arrested after a time by the formation of sub-
stances which restrain the development of the micro-organisms to
which they are due. But in the case of a living animal the con-
ditions are very different, and it is hard to conceive that adventi-
tious products of this kind could be retained for years, when in
the normal processes of nutrition and excretion the tissues and
fluids of the body are constantly undergoing change. Certainly
the substances which arrest ordinary processes of fermentation
by their accumulation in the fermenting liquid, such as alcohol,
lactic acid, phenol, etc., would not be so retained. But we can
not speak so positively with reference to the toxic albuminous
substances which recent researches have demonstrated to be pres-
ent in cultures of some of the best-known pathogenic bacteria.
It is difficult, however, to believe that an individual who has
passed through attacks of half a dozen different infectious dis-
eases, carries about with him a store of as many different chemi-
cal substances produced during these attacks, and sufficient in
quantity to prevent the development of the several germs of
these diseases. Nor does the experimental evidence relating to
the action of germicidal and germ-restraining agents justify the
view that a substance capable of preventing the development
of one micro-organism should be without effect upon others of
the same class ; but if we accept the retention hypothesis, we
must admit that the inhibiting substance produced by each par-
ticular pathogenic germ is effective only in restraining the devel-
opment of the microbe which produced it in the first instance.
Moreover, if we suppose that the toxic substances which give
pathogenic power to a particular micro-organism are retained in
the body of an immune animal, we must admit that the animal
has acquired a tolerance to the pathogenic action of these toxic
substances, for their presence no longer gives rise to any morbid
phenomena. And this being the case, we are not restricted to
the explanation that immunity depends upon a restraining in-
fluence exercised upon the microbe when subsequently intro-
duced.
Another explanation offers itself, viz., that immunity depends
upon an acquired tolerance to the toxic products of pathogenic bac-
teria. This is a view which the writer has advocated in various
published papers since 1881. In a paper contributed to the
American Journal of the Medical Sciences in April, 1881, it is pre-
sented in the following language : " The view that I am endeavor-
