INFECTIOUS DISEASES. 629
more recent experiments of Wagner (1890). According to Canalis
and Morpurgo, pigeons which are enfeebled by inanition easily
contract anthrax as a result of inoculation. Arloing states that
sheep which have been freely bled contract anthrax more easily
than others ; and Serafini found that when dogs were freely bled,
the bacillus of Friedlander, injected into the trachea or the
pleural cavity, entered and apparently multiplied to some extent
in the blood, whereas without such previous bleeding they were
not to be found in the circulating fluid. Again, the simultaneous
injection of certain chemical substances may overcome the vital
resisting power of the tissues or fluids of the body in such a way
that infection and death may occur as a result of inoculations into
animals which have a natural or acquired immunity against the
pathogenic micro-organisms introduced. Thus Arloing, Corne-
vin, and Thomas have shown that rabbits succumb to symptomatic
anthrax when lactic acid is injected at the same time with the
bacillus into the muscles. Nocard and Roux have obtained the
same result by injecting various other substances, and their ex-
periments show that the result is due to the injurious effects of
the substance injected upon the tissues, and not to an increased
virulence on the part of the pathogenic bacillus. The experi-
ments of Leo are of a similar nature. By injecting phloridzin
into rats he caused them to lose their natural immunity against
anthrax. Certain anaesthetic agents have also been shown to pro-
duce a similar result. Platania communicated anthrax to immune
animals dogs, frogs, pigeons by bringing them under the influ-
ence of curare, chloral, or alcohol ; and Wagner obtained a simi-
lar result in his experiments on pigeons to which he had admin-
istered chloral.
In view of the results of recent experimental researches which
show that, in certain cases at least, acquired immunity depends
upon the formation of an antitoxine in the body of the immune
animal, we are convinced that the theory of immunity under dis-
cussion, first proposed by the writer in 1881, can not be accepted
as a sufficient explanation of the facts in general. At the same
time we are inclined to attribute considerable importance to ac-
quired tolerance to the toxic products of pathogenic bacteria as
one of the factors by which recovery from an infectious disease is
made possible, and subsequent immunity established. Of course,
when we ascribe immunity to the " vital resistance " of the cellular
elements of the body, we have not explained the modus operandi
of this vital resistance or " reactive change/' but have simply
affirmed that the phenomenon in question depends upon some
acquired property residing in the living cellular elements of the
body. We have suggested that that which has been acquired is a
tolerance to the action of the toxic products produced by pathoge-
