630 -THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
nic bacteria. But, as already stated, in the light of recent experi-
ments, this theory now appears to us to be untenable as a general
explanation of acquired immunity.
The Theoky of Phagocytosis. The fact that in certain in-
fectious diseases due to bacteria the parasitic invaders, at the point
of inoculation or in the general blood-current, are picked up by
the leucocytes, and in properly stained preparations may be seen
in their interior, has been known for some years. Now, the theory
of phagocytosis assumes that the bacilli are picked up by the
leucocytes and destroyed in their interior, and that immunity de-
pends largely upon the power of these " phagocytes " to capture
and destroy living pathogenic bacilli.
The writer suggested this as a hypothesis as long ago as 1881,
in a paper read August 18, 1881, before the American Association
for the Advancement of Science, in the following language : " It
has occurred to me that possibly the white corpuscles may have
the office of picking up and digesting bacterial organisms which
by any means find their way into the blood. The propensity ex-
hibited by the leucocytes for picking up inorganic granules is
well known, and that they may be able not only to pick up but to
assimilate, and so dispose of, the bacteria which come in their
way, does not seem to me very improbable, in view of the fact
that amoebae, which resemble them so closely, feed upon bacteria
and similar organisms."
At a later date (1884) Metschnikoff offered experimental evi-
dence in favor of this view, and the explanation suggested in the
above quotation is commonly spoken of as the Metschnikoff theory.
The observations which first led Metschnikoff to adopt this view
were made upon a species of daphnia which is subject to fatal in-
fection by a torula resembling the yeast fungus. Entering with
the food, this fungus penetrates the walls of the intestine and
invades the tissues. In certain cases the infection does not prove
fatal, owing, as Metschnikoff asserts, to the fact that the fungus
cells are seized upon by the leucocytes, which appear to accumu-
late around the invading parasite (chemiotaxis) for this special
purpose. If they are successful in overpowering and destroying
the parasite, the animal recovers ; if not, it succumbs to the gen-
eral infection which results. In a similar manner, Metschnikoff
supposes, pathogenic bacteria are destroyed when introduced into
the body of an immune animal. The colorless blood-corpuscles,
which he designates phagocytes, accumulate at the point of inva-
sion and pick up the living bacteria, as they are known to pick
up inorganic particles injected into the circulation. So far there
can be no doubt that Metschnikoff is right. The presence of bac-
teria in the leucocytes in considerable numbers, both at the point
of inoculation and in the general circulation, has been repeatedly
