INFECTIOUS DISEASES. 633
sato, Tizzoni and Cattani, G. and F. Klemperer, and others, in-
cluding my own.
Ogata and Jasuhara, in a series of experiments made in the
Hygienic Institute at Tokio (1890), discovered the important fact
that the blood of an animal immune against anthrax contains
some substance which neutralizes the toxic products of the
anthrax bacillus. When cultures were made in the blood of dogs,
frogs, or of white rats, which animals have a natural immunity
against anthrax, they were found not to kill mice inoculated with
them. Further experiments showed that mice inoculated with
virulent anthrax cultures did not succumb to anthrax septicaemia
if they received at the same time a subcutaneous injection of a
small quantity of the blood of an immune animal. So small a
dose as one drop of frog's blood, or one half drop of dog's blood,
proved to be sufficient to protect a mouse from the fatal effect
of an anthrax inoculation. And the protective inoculation was
effective when made as long as seventy-two hours before, or five
hours after, infection with an anthrax culture. Further, it was
found that mice which had survived anthrax infection as a result
of this treatment were immune at a later date (after several
weeks) when inoculated with a virulent culture of the anthrax
bacillus. Bearing and Kitasato have obtained similar results in
their experiments upon tetanus and diphtheria, and have shown
that the blood of an immune animal, added to virulent cultures
before inoculation into susceptible animals, neutralizes the patho-
genic power of these cultures. Tizzoni and Cattani ascribe the
protection of animals which have acquired an immunity against
tetanus to the presence of an albuminous substance which they
call the tetanus antitoxine. This they have isolated from the
blood of immune animals ; and have shown by experiment that it
neutralizes the potent toxalbumin of tetanus in test-tube cultures
as well as in the bodies of infected animals. G. and F. Klemperer
have recently (1891) published an important memoir in which
they give an account of their researches relating to the question
of immunity, etc., in animals subject to the form of septicaemia
produced by the Micrococcus pneumonic?, crouposce. They were
able to produce immunity in susceptible animals by introducing
into their bodies filtered cultures of this micrococcus, and proved
by experiment that this immunity had a duration of at least
six months. They arrive at the conclusion that the immunity
induced by injecting filtered cultures is not directly clue to the
toxic substances present in these cultures, but that they cause the
production in the tissues of an antitoxine which has the power of
neutralizing their pathogenic action. Emmerich, in a commu-
nication made at the recent (1891) International Congress for
Hygiene and Demography, in London, reports results which cor-
VOL. XLI. 46
