634 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
respond with those of G. and F. Klemperer so far as the produc-
tion of immunity is concerned, and also gives an account of ex-
periments made by Donissen in which the injection of twenty to
twenty-five cubic centimetres of blood or expressed tissue juices,
filtered through porcelain, from an immune rabbit into an unpro-
tected rabbit, subsequently to infection with a bouillon culture of
" Diplococcus pneumonia?" prevented the development of fatal
septicaemia. Even when the injection was made twelve to fifteen
hours after infection, by inhalation, the animal recovered. Em-
merich and Mastraum had previously reported similar results in
experiments made upon mice with the Bacillus erysipelatos suis
(rothlauf bacillus). White mice are very susceptible to the
pathogenic action of this bacillus. But mice which, subsequently
to infection, received by injection the expressed and filtered tissue
juices of an immune rabbit, recovered, while the control animals
succumbed. According to Emmerich, the result in these experi-
ments was due to a destruction of the pathogenic bacilli in the
bodies of the injected animals ; and the statement is made that at
the end of eight hours after the injection of the expressed tissue
juices all bacilli in the body of the infected animal were dead.
The same liquid did not, however, kill the bacilli when added to
cultures external to the body of an animal. The inference, there-
fore, seems justified that the result depends, not upon a substance
present in the expressed juices of an immune animal, but upon a
substance formed in the body of the animal into which these
juices are injected. We have, however, an example of induced
immunity in which the result appears to depend directly upon
the destruction of the pathogenic micro-organism in the body of
the immune animal. In guinea-pigs, which have an acquired im-
munity against Vibrio Metschnikovi, the blood-serum has been
proved to possess decided germicidal power for this " vibrio,"
whereas it multiplies readily in the blood-serum of non-immune
guinea-pigs. (Behring and Nissen.)
The antitoxines thus far referred to are from animals which
have an acquired immunity against virulent cultures of well-
known pathogenic bacteria. But we have also experimental evi-
dence showing the presence of antitoxines in animals immune
against rabies and against vaccinia, two infectious diseases in
which the specific infectious agent has not been demonstrated.
Prof. Tizzoni, and his associate, Dr. Schwarz, have recently
(1892) published the results of their experiments relating to the
presence of an antitoxine in the blood of rabbits which have an
acquired immunity against rabies. And I have shown by experi-
ments made during the past two months that the blood of vac-
cinated and consequently immune calves contains an antitoxine
which neutralizes the specific virulence of vaccine virus, both
