6 3 6
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
FURTHER STUDY OF INVOLUNTARY MOVEMENTS.*
By JOSEPH JASTROW, Ph. I).,
PROFESSOR OF EXPERIMENTAL AND COMPARATIVE PSYCHOLOGY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF
WISCONSIN.
IN a former article (Popular Science Monthly, April, 1892) vari-
ous illustrations were given of the involuntary movements of
the hand toward the object or locality to which the subject was
giving his attention : whether he were counting the strokes of a
metronome or the oscillations of a pendulum, reading colors or
words, thinking of a building, locality, or
hidden object, a very fair though variable
index of the direction of his thoughts
could be derived from the involuntary
movements of the hand. The record was
obtained by means of an apparatus called
the automatograph, the essential parts of
which were a pair of glass plates, suitably
mounted, and between them three well-
turned brass balls ; the hand rests upon
the upper plate, which, upon the slightest
impulse, rolls upon the balls, and the move-
ment thus imparted to the plate is recorded.
The recording device may be used sepa-
rately, and is shown in full size in Fig. 1.
There is a cork C, pierced by a glass tube
T, within which a pointed glass rod R
moves freely up and down ; a rubber band
B is useful in raising the pencil from the
record as well as in preventing the rod
from falling through the tube. The record
is made upon a piece of glazed paper
stretched over the glass of a ground-glass
drawing-frame, such as children use for
tracing outlines ; the paper is blackened
with lamp-soot, and the record may be
made permanent by bathing it in shellac
and alcohol. This recording device, with-
out anything else, will record involuntary movements : the cork
is held in the extended hand with the rod over the record-plate,
which is placed upon a table ; or, again, the record-plate may
be held in the hand and the recording device held firmly over
Fig. 1. Device for record-
ing Movements. The glass
rod, E, moves freely up and
down in the glass tube, T,
held in the cork, C. The
rubber band, B, prevents
the rod from falling through
the tube.
* The results of this paper were obtained with the co-operation of Thomas P. ( 'niter and
Edward P. Sherry, of the class of 1892, University of Wisconsin.
