FURTHER STUDY OF INVOLUNTARY MOVEMENTS. 639
for the arm to move forward, and the result is then a smaller and
less direct movement forward than when the object of attention
is to the front. An instance of this, obtained under other but
comparable circumstances, appears in Fig. 3, while Figs. 5 and 6
illustrate the more usual result. We conclude, then, that the
position of the body is an important factor, but does not detract
from the accepted psychological interpretation of these move-
ments. While observing the subject we may note movements of
the body as a whole, and of the arm or hand ; the movement of
the body is an irregular swaying with the feet as the point of at-
tachment, and this we recorded by fixing the recording plate upon
the subject's head, and suspending the pencil above it. It was
found that the head like the hand moved toward the object of at-
Fig. 7. 1 Thinking of a Building.
Standing J. I, left hand ; II, right
hand ; both holding record near the
body ; time, 35 seconds ; records re-
versed.
Fig. 8. J Thinking of a Building. Facing
J. I, left hand held extended far out ; II,
right hand held close to body ; each hand
holds record ; time, 35 seconds ; records re-
versed.
tention ; and, further, that it moved as readily toward the object
when the latter was to the front, to the rear, or to either side. To
determine how far this swaying is the same in head and hand, we
record both at the same time. Fig. 2 illustrates the correspond-
ence of the two movements. From a number of such tests we
conclude that the swaying of the body contributes an important
factor to the automatograph records, and that the movements of
the head are apt to be more extensive than those of the hand.
To eliminate this swaying of the body, we may experiment with
the subject seated ; we then obtain a distinctive record II (of Fig.
3), in which the oscillations have almost disappeared, and in which
the tendency to move along a circle is marked. A still better
method of eliminating this swaying is to hold the recording plate
