640 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in one hand and the pencil in the other ; in this way the pencil
and the plate sway alike, and no record of it is made. The very
fine movements thus obtained are shown in Fig. 4; this figure
also shows the slight difference between a record taken by this
method Avhile the subject is sitting and while standing, which
further proves that the swaying of the body has been eliminated.
Traces of periodic oscillations are noted in Fig. \ ; these are due
to respiration movements, and in II, of Fig. 5, they are unusually
distinct and regular, about twenty to the minute. The forearm
of the hand holding the record -plate rests
against the body while the recording
hand is held free from it, and thus
the abdominal movements are
recorded. The movements
toward the object of
attention appear
Fig. 9. ^-* Counting
Metronome. Eecord vertical.
Facing <-. Time, 20 seconds.
Pencil held in extended right hand.
throughout. Fig. 5 figures a move-
ment toward the rear as well as toward
the front ; while Fig. 6 presents a most
beautifully regular movement in all four direc-
tions. As the metronome, the strokes of which
the subject is counting, is carried from one
corner of the room to the next, the hand involuntarily follows
it and records an almost perfect square.
It is further interesting to record the movements of the two
hands during the same experiment ; a correspondence of move-
ment would be attributed to a common swaying of the body, but
this would not exclude symmetrical movements of the hands as
well. Fig. 7 illustrates the close similarity of the movements :
while Fig. 8 shows the importance of the position of the arms in
such an experiment. The hand that is held away from the body
moves more extensively ; the form of the movement remains simi-
lar. All the above records (and Figs. 9, 10, and 14) were obtained
upon the same subject ; they are therefore comparable with one
another, and illustrate the analysis of the resulting movements
into their several factors.
Involuntary movements are not limited to the horizontal
plane ; we may record vertical movements by holding the record-
