THE WAGE-CONTRACT AND PERSOiYAL LIBERTY. 645
does not hesitate to prescribe their terms and conditions and to pre-
vent forfeitures by contract; and the constitutionality of such
State statutes interfering with the freedom of contract has been
upheld by the Supreme Court of the United States and by the
highest State courts of Ohio and Wisconsin.* Besides these,
there is a numerous class of contracts which the State declares
shall not be made at all, or if made shall be void in law, because
contrary to public policy, such as contracts in restraint of trade,
gambling contracts, and contracts between husband and wife.
Does Mr. Atkinson consider these State acts infringements of per-
sonal liberty or unjustifiable interferences with the freedom of
contract ? If so, he constitutes one of a small minority.
Turning now to the wage-contract, the question arises, " Is the
State justified in fixing a minimum wage and a maximum time
for work ? " It is perhaps needless to say that the term " State "
is here used to mean the people or the public acting through an
agency or tribunal created by the people and in furtherance of
their will. It does not mean something extrinsic and superior to
the people's will, such as the monarchy of France was at the time
when Louis XIV exclaimed, " I am the state ! " In this country,
if the State ever undertakes to regulate these matters, it will be
done in pursuance of the will of the majority, and not of any one
man or a minority. The businesses in which labor wishes the
assistance of the State in the direction of restricting the freedom
of contract are conducted almost exclusively by corporations under
charters granted by the State. The three principal ones are rail-
roading, manufacturing, and mining, and only an insignificant
fraction of any one of these businesses is conducted by private in-
dividuals or partnerships. Although it may be of theoretic value,
it is therefore of very little practical value to inquire into the right
of the State to regulate the wage-contract between individuals.
Now, the individual employer or partnership stands upon firmer
ground in this respect than does the corporate employer. The
State is justified in interfering with the latter more than with the
former, for the reason that the corporation has received certain
privileges and immunities from the State which the other em-
ployer has not received. In the first place, the corporation derives
its being or existence from the State, and also its right to transact
business. In the next place, the corporate form enables the capi-
tal of many individuals to be combined and used for one common
purpose. But the most important immunity is that of limited
liability, whereby the members of the corporation escape the uni-
* Equitable Life Insurance Company vs. Clements, 14o U. S., li-ti ; Insurance Company
vs. Leslie, -17 Ohio St., 409; Queen Insurance Company vs. Leslie, 24 N. E. Rep. (Ohio),
107'2; Reilly v. Franklin Insurance Company, 4:^ Wis., 449.
