646 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
versal liability of individuals or partners, and only risk the por-
tion of their wealth which they invest in the corporation. This
feature of limited liability, probably more than any other, ac-
counts for the growth and number of corporations. Private indi-
viduals or copartnerships do not enjoy this privilege or immu-
nity, but remain liable to loss to the full extent of their posses-
sions. It is clear, therefore, that the moral right of the State or
society as a whole to regulate wage-contracts with a corporation
is greater than with individuals or firms, provided the neces-
sity exists and the wage-earners desire it. It is not intended
to confine the discussion to the case of corporate employers, but
merely to point out some differences between the two classes of
employers.
Mr. Spencer's opinion that the State has no moral right to
interfere with the freedom of contract between employer and
employed, or to regulate wages in any way, is based upon the
analogy supposed to exist between human labor and commodities.
Because, in his opinion, the State has no right to regulate the
price of bread, or the rate of interest, or the price of other com-
modities, therefore it has not the moral right to regulate the price
of human labor, with the exception of labor for life, or slavery.
Is this analogy correct ? Is human labor a commodity ? No ;
human labor is the creator of commodities, and commodities are
things created by human labor. The creator is always superior
to the thing created. The shoemaker is superior to the shoe ; the
watchmaker to the watch ; and God to man. The slaveholder
also believed that human labor when clothed in black was a com-
modity, and that negroes could be bought and sold as chattels ;
and it took four years of civil war to establish the contrary.
Labor is much more than a commodity ; it is the bone and sinew
of the State, the very essence of its existence. It is the sole means
of support of millions of human beings men, women, and chil-
dren. Those who have only their labor to sell are more entitled
to the protection of the State than those who have commodities
to sell.
Mr. Spencer's admission that the State has the right to forbid
the sale of one's self into slavery, or the sale of one's services for
life, as well as to hinder freedom of contract when it endangers
national existence, also proves his analogy to be unsound. For,
if the State may regulate or forbid the sale of one's services for
life, it may also regulate the sale of one's services for ten years, or
five years, or one year, or a shorter term ; and, if the State may
hinder the freedom of contract when national existence is thereby
endangered, why may it not hinder the freedom of contract when
the existence of a large body of its citizens is thereby endan-
gered ? Their existence is endangered when they can not, by
