THE WAGE-CONTRACT AND PERSONAL LIBERTY. 647
means of their utmost exertions, earn sufficient wages to purchase
the necessaries of life.
That the great mass of wage-earners favor State regulation of
some sort will probably be conceded. Scarcely a month passes
that Congress and the State Legislatures are not asked by labor
interests to restrict the freedom of contract in one way or another.
They believe that their wages may be increased by legislation,
just as the price of commodities is increased by tariff laws. If
legislation can lower the rate of wages below the contract rate, it
is difficult to see why it can not also raise the rate of wages above
the contract rate. For centuries the employing class of England
legislated in its own interest and kept the rate of wages below
the contract rate. This they did, first, by various Statutes of
Laborers, passed by Parliament, giving the employing class
power to fix wages, and punishing laborers who asked or received
higher wages ; secondly, by laws abolishing trade guilds and con-
fiscating their property ; thirdly, by acts of Parliament and de-
cisions of the courts holding that peaceful combinations among
workmen to raise wages were conspiracies and punishable by fine
or imprisonment ; and, fourthly, by acts of Parliament debasing
the currency, by which the purchasing power of the laborer's
shilling or penny was greatly lessened. Prof. Rogers, in his great
work entitled Six Centuries of Work and Wages, shows how by
these various legislative means the English laborer's condition
was reduced from that of comparative comfort in the fourteenth
century to that of semi-starvation in the eighteenth. This sys-
tem was inaugurated in 1350, shortly after the Great Plague,
which destroyed one third of the entire population of England.
At that time the employing class, which, of course, controlled
legislation, seems to have had some excuse for passing the Statute
of Laborers. The supply of labor being thus suddenly reduced
one third, the demand was intense, and the laborers could get
exorbitant prices for their work. The contract rate depending
upon supply and demand was abnormally and unreasonably
high,* and therefore the employing class brought all the machin-
ery of the State to bear upon the situation, and finally succeeded
in reducing the rate below the contract rate. This policy was
pursued by England into the dawn of the nineteenth century,
when, the conditions having changed and there being an over-
supply of labor and the contract rate correspondingly low, the
Statutes of Laborers were magnanimously repealed.
During all this time of State regulation of wages in favor of
the employing class we look in vain for any philosopher to arise
* The preamble to the statute recites that wages had risen to double or treble the rate
that prevailed immediately before the plague.
