46 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
taking ; but merely to present to the public a curious example
of an evolution of folk lore which has come to my notice, and
trace its passage for a few generations.
This story came to me from a gentleman who was born about
the beginning of this century in Essequibo, British Guiana, South
America. His father was an English planter, and owned estates
and slaves. Brought up, as was the narrator, among these slaves,
he heard from them many of the traditions of their race, which
his excellent memory preserved in their original entirety. Per-
haps the most pleasing of these which his kindly spirit promp-
ted him to relate for the amusement of children, and the only
one of which I have any clear recollection, was
The Story of the Hunter. Once upon a time a hunter
lived in a little hut on the edge of a great wood in Africa. He
lived by himself, for his father and mother had died many years
before, leaving him nothing but the hut in which he dwelt, and
three magic arrows, which he was only to use in time of great
danger. This hunter had two very large and fierce dogs one
called Ya-me-o-ro, and the other Con-ga-mo-ro-to which fol-
lowed him everywhere he went. In this wood was a great herd
of white cows, which the hunter killed when he had need of
meat, and whose skins he dried and made into clothes. These
cows hated the hunter, and would have torn him in pieces many
times, had it not been for his faithful dogs, that always hunted
with him, and which the cows feared to attack. So the hunter
lived peacefully, and for many a day all went well with him.
One evening about sunset the hunter, while seated in his hut,
heard cries and groans coming from the woods ; and, taking his
dogs, went out to find the cause of them. He had not gone far
when he came upon a fair, strange woman, lying upon the
ground, apparently in great distress. She was tall and slender,
and more beautiful than any one that he had ever seen. When
she saw him she begged for food and shelter, saying that she was
dying of hunger and thirst, and had fallen fainting where he had
found her. The hunter carried her back to his hut, and nursed
her as tenderly as he could until she became well and strong
again. "When she was herself again, she thanked him for his
goodness, and said that on the next day she must set out on the
journey which she was making when she fell sick. Then for the
first time the hunter felt what it was to be lonely ; for as he had
always lived by himself he had never before missed the company
of other people. So he entreated her not to leave him, and the
fair stranger, seeing his loneliness and remembering his kindness,
stayed with him and became his wife.
Not many days after this the hunter started in the morning to
hunt, and called his dogs to go with him ; but the fair stranger
