THE WAGE-CONTRACT AND PERSONAL LIBERTY. 649
all stand upon an equality with respect to the cost of labor. This
will increase the cost of production ; but, as the increase applies
alike to all my rivals as well as to myself, I can make myself
whole by raising the price of the finished product, as they will do
the same."
The doctrine of the freedom of contract will never place the
honest and generous employer upon an equal footing with the
dishonest and avaricious employer in the cost of labor. Under it
the latter will always obtain an advantage over the former. This
doctrine, therefore, puts a premium upon the possession of these
undesirable qualities. Moreover, under the law of competition in
commodities, the honest and generous employer is forced to con-
form substantially to the rate of wages set by the dishonest and
avaricious. This tendency is inherent in the wage system, and
must increase, unless some remedy be found ; for evil and grasp-
ing men can not be kept out of the ranks of employers, and only
a few of them are required to depress wages below their fair
value. This operates not only to the detriment of their employe's,
but also to the detriment of all other employe's. Is it right that a
few evil characters should commit this injustice upon labor, and
control the vast majority of both classes ? Should the State, or
society in its organized form, permit them to do this wrong ? It
is submitted that it should not, and that some State agency should
be devised to prevent or to remedy it.
About a year ago the writer published a pamphlet entitled
State Regulation of Wages, in which he outlined a plan to remedy
this difficulty. Its essential feature was the establishment of State
Boards of Labor or Arbitration for the settlement of disputes
between employers and employed, with power to fix the minimum
wage and the maximum hours of work, upon the request of a cer-
tain proportion or number of either side. In determining the
minimum wage, the board should not be controlled by the rate of
wages now prevailing under the " iron law of wages " of supply
and demand, but by what may be called the golden rule of wages,
by which labor is entitled to receive a fair and just proportion of
the wealth which it creates, irrespective of supply and demand.
The minimum annual wage should be that required to support
the average workman and his family in frugal comfort. The
adoption of this plan would place all employers upon an equality
in the cost of labor and relieve the generous employer from the
competition of the avaricious one upon this large item in the cost
of production. It is true that its adoption by a single State would
not protect the employers of that State from the competition of
their rivals in other States or foreign countries ; but if the plan
were found to work well in one State it would be speedily followed
in other States ; and, as to foreign competition, the tariff laws, if
TOL. XLI. 47
