650 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
not already sufficiently high to cover the difference in the cost of
labor, could easily be made so.
If the people of a State see fit to establish such a Board of
Labor or Arbitration for the settlement of labor disputes, it is no
more an infringement of their personal liberty than is the estab-
lishment of courts of law for the settlement of legal disputes.
In both cases the restraint is self-imposed, and may be thrown off
at will by disestablishment. The object of both tribunals is the
same, namely, that of settling disputes by the judgment of a body
of disinterested and fair-minded persons, instead of leaving the
stronger to overcome the weaker by force, or of allowing the cun-
ning to victimize the innocent or simple. The experience of cent-
uries has proved the practical utility of courts so composed in
settling legal disputes, and every civilized nation has adopted the
principle in one form or another. But with respect to labor dis-
putes we are still in a state of barbarism, in which force, fraud,
and cunning are always triumphant, and the matter is settled
without regard to the merits of the case. Would any one advo-
cate a return to the personal liberty of early days, when barons
held their sway and settled disputes by the sword ? Yet strikes
and lockouts are industrial warfare, and are as barbarous methods
of settling labor disputes as the baron's sword was of settling
legal disputes.
At present the public does not realize that it has a vital inter-
est in settling labor disputes peaceably, and in providing some
competent tribunal for that purpose. The public is good-natured
and easy-going, but it will not require many more large strikes
and lockouts to arouse its ire. Take the case of a strike or lock-
out on a railroad or street-car company. These are gwcm-public
corporations, created by the State for the convenience of the
public. They are subject to the control of the public; but if
a strike or lockout arises, the public may be inconvenienced
for days, weeks, or months, simply because there is no tribunal
with power to settle the dispute. As the public has the power
to remedy this evil, it has only itself to blame for its continued
existence.
Nor is the public's interest in settling labor disputes confined
to railroading, but also extends to manufacturing, mining, and
other businesses. The public is injuriously affected by any
act which seriously interferes with the production or distribu-
tion of wealth. Strikes and lockouts undoubtedly not only in-
terfere with the production and distribution of wealth, but
they also endanger the public peace and security of life and
property.
The strong argument of employers is that their business is a
matter of private concern, and that therefore they have the right
