MICA AND THE MICA MINES. 653
gible tiling to "be a Phegopteris dryopteris, and in most cases goes
away perfectly satisfied. Occasionally, however, it does occur to
him that he is just as wise as he was before, and not one whit
more so. These are not imaginary cases. It was from being
several times in the position of the non-botanical member that led
me to reflect that the function of a definition is to define. Now,
who is to blame for this extreme haziness of intercourse, Linnseus
or his friend ? Perhaps both of them.
In the face of these experiences, it is difficult to answer the
seemingly simple question, " What is mica ? " To say that it is a
unisilicate in which the predominant protoxide is potash and the
predominant sesquioxide is alumina, is to say something that is
fairly unintelligible to those who are not chemists, and something
which even to those who are chemists gives only a bit of classifi-
cation and partial composition, but in reality explains little about
the mineral itself. Any answer that we can give is only satis-
factory until we learn to push the question a step further. Gau-
tama well expresses the difficuly when he says in the Light of
Asia:
" Shall any gazer see with mortal eyes,
Or any searcher know by mortal mind,
Veil after veil will lift hut there must be
Veil upon veil behind."
But this is a difficulty which besets us on all sides when we
question any of the thousand and odd minerals described in Dana,
or for that matter when we put questions to Nature in any direc-
tion.
In the case of minerals we know enough to perceive that there
is much yet unexplained which lies well within the domain of the
knowable. But it is as difficult for the mineralogist as for the
botanist to give even fair descriptions of the objects of his study,
for he so soon runs against his brick wall when he comes to talk
about either the physical or chemical properties of minerals. The
processes of crystallization are as profound a mystery as the life
process itself. "We are much in the position of the zoologists of
the last century, who named and labeled their specimens without
knowing the significance of their relationship.
The name mica is not that of a single mineral, but is a family
cognomen, which includes a number of varieties. With the out-
ward attributes of the family we are all more or less familiar, for
under the common name of isinglass it forms a small part of
the stock in trade of every householder. The family is one of
some importance in the mineralogical hierarchy. All are shining
members, and are alike in splitting into extremely thin leaves or
plates ; in being more or less transparent ; in being highly elastic ;
and in having certain ingredients in common. There are seven
