MICA AND THE MICA MINES. 655
of two elements, the gas oxygen and the hard, light, non-metal
silicon. It is a substance that is almost omnipresent in the rocks
of the world. In organisms, on the other hand, it is the carbon
which is the chief element, and about which the hydrogen and
oxygen and nitrogen group themselves. Silicon seems, then, to
play much the same role in the mineral world that carbon does in
the organic. In many respects the two elements themselves are
similar. But the point of interest lies in their compounds. Fine,
crystallized carbon, the diamond, is not readily altered. Nor are
its simpler compounds with the elementary gases, such as carbon
dioxide, marsh-gas, and cyanogen. But when the compounds be-
come more complex, when carbon unites with all three of these
elements, and the molecule contains many so-called atoms, it is
correspondingly unstable. The highest development of this com-
plicated organic structure is found in the human brain, and in
the rapid changes which go on in these tissues we have, if not
the cause of thought, at least its accompaniment. The quality
and quantity of thought apparently depend upon the differentia-
tion of these carbon compounds, and the consequent ease and
rapidity with which they can decompose and recompose.
Now, we have in the mineral world at least a partial parallel
to this general behavior, and one that is well illustrated in the
members of the mica family. Silicon itself is never found alone,
and the proximate reason for this is readily understood. It is a
fundamental law of chemistry that, when two reactions are possi-
ble, that one will take place which will liberate the greater amount
of heat. Apply this to silicon. When it unites with oxygen,
the heat of combination is very great, greater than that produced
by the combination of oxygen with carbon, and consequently this
reaction would take place in preference to many others, even in
preference to the oxidation of carbon. The point is admirably
illustrated by the chemical reactions taking place in the Bessemer-
steel process. The pig iron which is run into the converter con-
sists in the main of metallic iron combined with carbon and sili-
con. When the blast of air bubbles through the molten metal,
it is the silicon which first oxidizes. The flame escaping from the
mouth of the converter is small and intensely hot. The spectro-
scope shows a predominance of the silicon lines. Then the carbon
flame appears, less hot and more voluminous the second choice
of the oxygen. Finally, the iron itself begins to burn and the
blast is discontinued. Bearing these facts in mind, we would
never expect to find free silicon, and we are never disappointed.
When the element combines with oxygen, in silica or quartz, we
have a simple and extremely stable compound, as with the cor-
responding carbon compound. At a high heat and in the presence
of metallic bases, the silica will readily enter into new combina-
