656 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tions, as in the processes of glass-making, but in the simple pres-
ence of air and water at ordinary temperatures, it remains un-
affected through long ages. "When the silica is united with a
metal, such as aluminum, in kaolin and the ordinary clays, the
compounds are still very stable, but they are less so than the sim-
ple oxide. When, further, there are several metals included in
the compound, as in the mica minerals and their allies, the silicate
decreases in stability as it increases in complexity, and we have,
as with carbon, a readily decomposable compound.
The world has chosen rock as the symbol of. stability, but it
has not chosen very wisely, for the majority of rocks are any-
thing but stable.
In the case of the mica family the readiness with which the
minerals take up water and part with the more soluble of their
components is shown in the many gradations by which they pass
through the hydrous micas to the clays and soapstones. It is very
noticeable in the mica regions themselves. A mica mine is, in-
deed, an instructive object-lesson in soil formations. One can
almost see the decay of the crystalline rocks going on before
one's eyes.
Were the micas only important as a rock constituent, they
would doubtless receive very careful study by reason of the
many interesting problems which their occurrence and alteration
bring up, but in addition to this, their characteristic physical
qualities, their transparency, elasticity, laminar structure, luster,
comparative infusibility, and electrical non-conducting power,
give them a number of applications in the arts, and make them
the object of industrial mining. The mica of the market is in
nearly all cases the common white mica or muscovite. From its
chemical composition it is sometimes known as potash mica, to
distinguish it from lithia and other micas, but these names are
more common in the laboratory than in trade. Although mica is
so widely distributed in Nature, it is only in a few localities and
under well-defined conditions that it occurs in large enough plates
to be profitably mined. Granite and gneiss both consist of a
mixture of the three minerals, mica, quartz, and feldspar (an-
other silicate of potash and alumina), but as ordinarily found,
the mica is too thoroughly mixed with the other ingredients,
and is in too small masses, to be available. It is only when fis-
sures in the rock have been filled with very coarsely crystallized
granite that the mica can be mined with profit.
Such fissure veins occur in a number of localties, notably in
Siberia and Norway on the other side of the water ; and in our
own country, in New Hampshire, in North Carolina, in Wyo-
ming, in New Mexico, in the Black Hills of Dakota, and probably
in paying quantities in Alaska. Of late years the importation of
