MICA AND THE MICA MINES. 657
mica from the East Indies has been quite heavy and has closed
many of the American mines. The recent tariff of thirty-five per
cent is leading to their partial reopening.
All these mines are more or less alike so far as their natural
features are concerned. The chief differences are artificial, and
consist in the methods of mining and handling the mica. The
mines of western North Carolina have been largely exploited and
may well serve as a type.
As one travels across the State to the westward, one passes
over three distinct belts of country : the lowlands, covered by re-
cent alluvial deposits ; the middle or Piedmont section, a low pla-
teau underlaid by older sandstones and shales ; and, last of all, the
western or mountain section, in which the Appalachian system
reaches its finest development, and in Mount Mitchell its culmi-
nating point. The trend of the rocks, in this mountain section is
pretty evenly northeast and southwest ; they dip at angles which
are generally forty-five degrees or over. There are a few mica
mines to the east of the Blue Ridge, but the most of them and
the best lie to the west. Once beyond this barrier, and evidences
of mica abound on all sides. One sees the sunlight reflected from
plates of mica on distant hill-sides, and the glitter of tiny scales
in the bed of every brook. These look so much like gold that
one is tempted to turn Argonaut, and try to bring again the
golden fleece. For Colchis, it is easy to read Carolina. The
talcose schists and slates of the eastern escarpment are here suc-
ceeded by the oldest crystalline rocks of the continent, belonging
presumably to the Huronian or Laurentian period. There are
giant upthrows of granite and gneiss, and these are full of fis-
sures carrying the coarsely crystallized matrix in which the pay
mica is found.
It must not be thought, however, that all these veins are alike
profitable, or even that the same vein can be relied upon for any
great distance, for that would be far from the experience of the
practical mica-miner. It is indeed impossible, even after this
lapse of time, when some of the mines have been worked inter-
mittently for more than a quarter of a century, to reach any gen-
eral conclusions as to what conditions are most favorable for a
profitable mine. Old miners say that this or that indication is a
sure sign of a good mine, but the shrewdest of them confess that
mica-mining is pretty much like gambling. A certain amount is
staked in the shape of labor and supplies, and one gets in return
either hundreds of dollars' worth of mica, or perhaps only barren
quartz and feldspar.
Many of the veins occur in a fine-grained black gneiss, which
passes with the mountain miners under the name of "slate."
The vein generally dips with the bedding of the gneiss, but occa-
VOL. XLI. 48
