658 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
sionally it changes abruptly and cuts across the strata. In some
of the mines the vein does not come to grass, as the miners say,
but only begins some distance below the surface. The veins vary
in thickness from less than an inch to ten or a dozen feet, occa-
sionally to as much as thirty or forty feet, but these instances are
rare. In places the vein pinches out completely and is practically
lost, or is cut off perhaps by a large mass of displaced country
rock, known as a " horse."
The contrast between the vein stuff and its containing walls is
very striking and often very beautiful. The "slate" is almost
black, and is generally clean and glistening, while the vein itself
is almost snow-white. This is due to the feldspar with which the
fissure is filled. It breaks with a clean, smooth cleavage, and
shows on such surfaces a brilliant, pearly luster. The dump-
heaps around the mine-mouth are largely made up of this daz-
zling white feldspar. One is constantly tempted to fill every
available pocket with the mineral, to the exclusion of other speci-
mens really more interesting. Interspersed with the feldspar are
masses of grayish-white quartz and occasional blocks of the cov-
eted mica.
It would be of the highest value to know how these three min-
erals got into the vein and arranged themselves in their present
form, but, as no direct observation is possible, we can only reason
back from such facts as we are now able to observe. The fissures
themselves are doubtless simple cracks formed by those shiftings
and readjustments which are constantly going on in the surface
rocks of the earth. The vein material has evidently been in-
truded from below and has come in a liquid or pasty condition,
but just how it has come, and whether as a uniform mass which
afterward separated into the different minerals, or as a mixture in
which each mineral still preserved its own identity, we are quite
unable to say. The most reasonable supposition is that the mate-
rial came into the vein in a condition of aqueo-igneous fusion
that is to say, rendered liquid at a comparatively low tempera-
ture by the presence of water and great pressure and that it was
fairly homogeneous. The question as to which mineral separated
first would seem almost hopeless. Yet there is quite strong cir-
cumstantial evidence to show that the mica was the first to form,
for the mica is much more uniformly crystallized than either of
the other two minerals, and frequently leaves the impress of its
lamina on the crystals of quartz. After the mica, the feldspar
probably separated ; and, last of all, the silica that was left over
after the formation of these two minerals, collected into crystals
of quartz. This is what we would expect theoretically. The
mica is only about half silica, the feldspar a little over two thirds,
and the quartz manifestly nearly all silica. The minerals con-
