MICA AND THE MICA MINES, 659
taining the greater amount of metallic bases would naturally
separate first.
The location of the mines has been largely accidental. So far
as I have been able to learn, the first one opened was the Sink-
hole mine in Mitchell County. The spot was marked by the ex-
istence of trenches, many hundred feet long in the aggregate, and
in places fully twenty feet deep. Large trees growing on the
debris indicated that the workings were very ancient. It was
supposed that they had been for silver ; and when the trenches
were reopened at the close of the war, the search was for that
metal and not for mica. Silver seems to dominate in the Caro-
linian dream of mineral wealth, when it is, of all such dreams,
the one least likely to be realized. The search for silver being
unsuccessful, the mines were again abandoned. The mica that
had been thrown out was left on the dump, and soon advertised
the real character of the mine. A stock-driver, passing that
way, carried a block of it with him to Knoxville, where it
attracted the attention of men acquainted with its value. They
investigated the matter, emigrated at once to Mitchell County,
and began systematic mining for mica. As the mineral was
then selling for from eight to eleven dollars a pound, the rewards
were considerable, and much enterprise was shown in the devel-
opment of the industry. The first-comers had the easy and
profitable task of simply preparing and shipping the mica that
had been already mined, and they enjoyed the further advan-
tage of an undisturbed market. So profitable an enterprise,
however, soon attracted others. Many of the hands employed
in the mines were also land-owners and naturally concluded,
as soon as they had learned something of the business, that
it would pay better to work for themselves. They began ex-
ploring their own plantations, and as these often contained
several hundred or even several thousand acres, the ground for
prospecting was extensive. It is a region in which the majority
of the people are land-poor. The single-tax project would not be
apt to meet with favor there.
Then, as now, the mountaineers were largely guided in their
search by the ancient workings. These were probably made by
the aborigines, and were also for the purpose of obtaining mica.
The old workers could only penetrate as far as the rock was de-
composed, and were obliged to stop as soon as solid ground was
reached. The imprint of their stone implements may still be seen
in the decomposed stuff at the sides of the opening. What these
people used the mica for is still problematical. Large plates of it
have been found in the mounds of Eastern Tennessee, and would
indicate that it had domestic application, or was used for personal
decoration.
