MICA AND THE MICA MINES. 663
times used in windows, as they were in the seventeenth cent-
ury in Philadelphia, when glass was a luxury in the colonies.
The sheets are also used in the peep-holes of smelting furnaces, in
lanterns, in shades, and in the port-holes on board naval vessels,
where the vibrations would soon demolish less elastic glass. Mica
is an excellent non-conductor, and of recent years has been cut to
some extent into narrow strips for use in the construction of
dynamos.
The scrap mica was formerly thrown away, with the excep-
tion of a small quantity used as a lubricating material, but it has
recently found a market in several new directions. Old waste
heaps are being bought up, for a few dollars a ton, and their con-
tents cleaned by being passed through a rough mill. This is sim-
ply a rotating cylinder of coarse wire screen with its axis slightly
inclined to the horizontal. The scrap is fed into the upper end
of the cylinder, and slowly discharges itself from the lower end.
As it makes its way from end to end, the sand and trash are sup-
posed to fall through the meshes of the screen. The cleaned scrap
is then shipped to Richmond, where it is ground into a coarse
powder and distributed to the various industries requiring it.
Large quantities are used in the manufacture of wall-paper. The
mica produces a sparkling surface which is thought to be decor-
ative, but at best the effect is somewhat bizarre. Considerable
amounts are used to produce the snow effects on Christmas cards,
and in stage scenery and other tinsel ; while smaller packages,
under the name of diamond dust, are sold as powder for the hair.
Much of the ground mica is sent to France, and this, oddly
enough, when the East Indian sheet mica is pressing our own
pretty heavily in the home market.
The Latin world used the mica dust to strew over the Circus
Maximus, while mediaeval Europe knew the golden and silver
scales as cat-gold and cat-silver.
But to go back again for a moment from the glass-house to the
mines themselves, there is much of interest in the rare and beau-
tiful minerals associated with the mica. Some of the mines are
quite noted for these by-products and are as attractive to a lover of
color as to the mineralogist. The mica itself is often the carrier
of curious forms. Frequently a mineral makes its way between
the laminae of the mica, and is thus forced to grow horizontally
instead of normally in three directions. This gives us curious
dendritic or tree-like forms which come out finely on holding the
mica up to the light. The oxide of manganese is most prone to
get caught in this way, and gives delicate tracery of dark brown
or black. Sometimes it is a garnet which is thus entrapped, and
then we have a brilliant little hexagonal plate of ruby glass, very
beautiful and very gem-like. By carefully taking off the outer
