66 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
sheet, we can get the garnet-plate set in mica, and it makes a
specimen well worth preserving. Less frequently one finds a
thin layer of quartz imprisoned between the mica, or a thin layer
of the transparent glassy feldspar known as sanidin. Sometimes
the mica itself is microscopically striated, and plays queer tricks
with the light, giving iridescent films that might easily be mis-
taken for soap-bubbles.
But the feldspar is the most promising matrix for the mineral
hunter. At the Cloudland mine it is well penetrated with the
greenish, yellowish, and bluish hexagonal prisms of the beryl.
The precious form of this mineral, the emerald, is seldom or never
found in the mica mines. There is, however, an intermediate
variety known as the aqua marine, which occurs in the mines
around Spruce Pine, and is somewhat esteemed as a gem. As the
name indicates, it is of a light sea-green color. It is perfectly
transparent, and when well cut makes a quiet but really beauti-
ful gem-stone. Clear crystals of aqua marine are exceedingly
rare. It comes commonly as a part of the opaque crystal of
beryl.
Intimately associated with the beryl are plentiful sprinklings
of blood-red garnets, and the two colorings against the pure
white background of the feldspar make a very effective combina-
tion. Garnets are generously distributed in nearly all the mica
mines, and add much to the beauty of these mineral masses. One
day at the Cloudland mine, a large mass of feldspar was blown
down, and there in the center of the white and standing face of
the vein was a blood-red spot at least six or seven inches in
diameter. A giant garnet had been cut squarely in two by the
blast, and the blood-red spot was a cross-section of what re-
mained.
In other mines, such as the Tolly Bend in Yancey County, the
white feldspar is occasionally covered with patches of dainty
pink. It is the mineral rhodonite, a silicate of manganese, and is
as delicate as a peach-blow vase.
There are also other accessory minerals which are less strik-
ing in appearance, but of greater scientific interest on account of
their rarity. Such are euraninite, gummite, columbite, and samar-
skite, containing the rare metals uranium, columbium, yttrium,
tungsten, tantalum, and their allies, which are curiosities even to
the chemist. At Spruce Pine, one gets excellent specimens of
uraninite, the oxide of uranium. It is a heavy black mineral
with a frequent orange-yellow coating of another uranium com-
pound, gummite. The miners take considerable interest in find-
ing the mineral, as it is worth something like a couple of dollars
a pound, and it takes a very small quantity to make a pound.
The oxides of the metal are used to produce black and yellow col-
