MICA AND THE MICA MINES. 665
ors on glass and porcelain. The peculiarly fine black of Havi-
land china is due, I believe, to uranous oxide.
The Ural Mountains are the collecting-grounds for the cabi-
nets of Europe. In no other district can one find so many varie-
ties of minerals within the same area. The mountains of western
North Carolina are in many respects similar. They probably
yield a greater number of rare minerals than any other region in
America, and are therefore a favorite tramping-ground for col-
lectors. At the smallest cross-roads post-office one hears of the
visit of some well-known mineralogist. Nearly every mountaineer
has a few specimens in his treasury, and generally he knows the
names of the more characteristic varieties, particularly if they
have a marketable value. It is not safe, however, to rely very
implicitly upon his classification, for his knowledge is of the most
superficial sort.
As commonly taught in our schools and colleges, and as com-
monly apprehended by students outside, a knowledge of mineral-
ogy consists of a more or less definite familiarity with several
hundred minerals, and an ability to recognize the more common
varieties on sight, or by means of some readily applied physical
test. It is largely a knowledge of separate and unrelated facts, a
catalogue, one might almost say, and not yet a body of well-or-
ganized truth. We have gathered part of the material of a fine
science, and eminent men are now at work building this material
into a coherent whole. The curious facts of paragenesis, or the
characteristic associations of minerals, and the many problems
presented by substitution and alteration, are being carefully in-
vestigated. The mysteries of crystallization are commanding
attention. The progress along these lines is very encouraging.
But a great amount of work still remains to be done. One who
comes to the study of minerals at this particular juncture will
find it pleasurable, even as a study of separate facts, but he will
feel, I think, that a greater pleasure remains for him when these
results have been still further co-ordinated. We are still waiting
for our Darwin.
Statistics concerning the influence of the style of living on stature, collected by
M. G. Cartier from among the conscripts at IJvreux, France, go to confirm the
conclusions that other authors have drawn on the subject. Persons who are sup-
posed from their occupations to have been brought up under good hygienic condi-
tions and comfortable circumstances students, farmers, etc. are generally of
larger than average stature ; while persons ill-fed, poorly clothed, or who have
grown xip in an unfavorable medium workers in metallurgy, weavers, etc.
are smaller. Consequently, if u the race fixes an ideal mean round which indi-
viduals oscillate," the latter are especially influenced by the conditions of the
medium, alimentation, exercise, and comfort.
