666 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
INCALCULABLE ACCIDENTS.
By WILLIAM A. EDDY.
WHEN we consider the quantity of metal and the jars and
strains to which it is subjected as railroad trains move
at high speed, it becomes difficult to estimate the effects of acci-
dents and to think of a way to evade injury. "When caught be-
tween trains rapidly passing each other it is claimed that if the in-
cautious pedestrian remain standing the result will be disastrous,
and that safety is assured only by lying down. This peculiarly
perilous situation illustrates a simpler phase of the complications
that may arise when an accident is imminent, in which the dan-
ger may be principally due to the fact that the noise and interpo-
sition of one train conceal the presence of another.
The surprising and unexpected nature of some railroad acci-
dents was exemplified in the experience of the engineer of a pas-
senger train which was moving at the rate of about forty miles an
hour. He felt a jar and heard a terrific clatter beneath his loco-
motive. At the same time he was astonished to find that the seat
on the other side of the engine cab where the fireman usually sat
had been torn away, and the fireman thrown backward and left
insensible. The engineer instantly knew that one of the bars
connecting the driving-wheels of his locomotive had broken. The
partly detached piece of steel beat against the cab with severe
blows caused by the rapid revolutions of the wheels. He jumped
to his feet to escape injury, just as the bar on his side of the loco-
motive broke also and tore away the seat which he had vacated.
The crippled locomotive was then derailed, causing general de-
struction of the running gear and woodwork of the cars.
This derangement in the mechanical structure of a locomotive
occasionally happens, and it is one of the possible accidents that
every locomotive engineer must guard against. It is clear that
familiarity with special machinery sometimes lessens the fatality
due to an accident, because the resulting effects have been looked
for during many years, and the action to meet the conditions de-
cided upon. But the complication is increased by the fact that
each accident may be unprecedented. For example, at another
time the side-bar broke away from the driving-wheels altogether,
and, striking against a jutting point of rock, bounded beneath
the train, which was under full head-way. This long, powerful
piece of steel then flew along the track under the train and pierced
a hole through the floor of the rear car. Meantime the brasses
and some of the more delicate machinery on the forward part of
the locomotive were torn away and, falling on the track or rails,
threw off the last four wheels of the rear car, which was dragged
