INCALCULABLE ACCIDENTS. 667
in a slanting position, plowing up the gravel, for about a thou-
sand feet along the edge of a high embankment. The occupants
of that car never forgot the awful sensation, like that of a violent
earthquake with its resulting uncertainty of footing. A striking
characteristic of this accident was that the engine and forward
car were not thrown from the track. Another accident of this
kind, equally unexpected, took place under somewhat similar con-
ditions, when one of the driving-wheels burst with terrific explo-
sive force, a solid piece of the iron crashing through the wood-
work of a passenger car, after having shattered the glass of a
door. This ponderous missile shot along the aisle between the car
seats, unpleasantly near the heads of the passengers.
The sign on many car doors notifying passengers not to ride
on the car platforms calls attention to a danger which is more
real than may be at first supposed. Some people who easily
lose their balance may be thrown off a train, owing to the
sudden jar of the cars at the beginning of a sharp curve, and the
same effect may be brought about by the stopping and starting
caused by coupling cars. In one such instance a man was
thrown from the rear platform as the train made a jerking
movement forward. There is also the possibility of a fall due
to dizziness or momentary faintness. But probably the most
remarkable case recently recorded occurred during a very high
wind when a passenger was blown from the platform of a car
which was running across the wide, windy expanse between
Jersey City and Newark, New Jersey.
There is marked danger in trying to board a moving train, as
shown by repeated accidents ; yet so irresistible is the temptation
to do this that it would be difficult to find a man who has not
taken the risk. The car steps, as related to the position of an
ordinary station platform at the level of the rails, are too high to
be easily gained, and the rails over which the wheels of the car are
to pass are nearer the edge of the car steps than is generally sup-
posed. If, owing to miscalculation, haste, or a stumble, the pas-
senger's foot is placed under instead of upon the step, the result
may be fatal, because the movement of the body when swinging
from the perpendicular railing at the corner of the car is then
toward a position beneath the car platform. It is probably safer to
jump from a rapidly moving train than to board the same train.
The extent of the peril in leaping from a moving car obviously
depends upon the amount of skill shown in alighting upon ground
that slants away from the track. Of course, the many serious
accidents caused in this general way suggest the radical impor-
tance of waiting for a train to stop.
The rules pertaining to the safety of passengers using the
great transportation lines seem at times needless. But the move-
