668 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
merits of people who are distracted by trouble, who are absent-
minded, excited, mentally disordered, almost crazed by an amaz-
ing success as well as by an equally amazing failure, may be
characterized by incalculably erratic action, even if the action be
decidedly exceptional. Such people may have little more than
the power of ordinary locomotion. In many instances, owing to
the unprecedented nature of the occurrence, the individual at his
best can not cope with the conditions. Some accidents may take
place only once in a lifetime, and the person threatened is neces-
sarily unable to instantly decide upon the wisest course.
Accidents may be dealt with coolly by the professional man,
or the coroner who attends like cases. The growing complications
of modern life are such that the highest form of natural shrewd-
ness is almost inoperative under these rare circumstances when
compared with experienced intelligence.
The modern railroad train, with its tremendous momentum,
calls for a greater number of mechanical engineers of superior
ability whose ingenious constructive power shall further lessen
not only the danger but the amount of destruction caused by rail-
road accidents. Prevision of the effects of an accident may in-
volve the elaborate calculations necessary to the solution of an
intricate mathematical problem. In fact, the contingent or pos-
sible results in a given instance suggest the importance of long
and careful training. Undoubtedly, with the lapse of time, and
with wider experience, the imperfections in railroad construction
and material will steadily decrease.
The accidents from contact with electric-light wires that carry
a deadly current are well known, but the complex nature of these
accidents demands special attention. Sometimes the attempt to
close an iron door or an iron window shutter is at once followed
by a severe electric shock, if not by serious injury. The men who
repair ordinary telegraph wires have learned to be cautious be-
cause of the possible presence of a deadly current. An operative
who was accustomed to the work of readjusting dangerous wires
was killed because, unknown to him, an apparently disused, rusty
wire was charged with intense electric force, as evinced by the
fact that a metal cornice, wet with rain, carried the current from
the wire through his body. A somewhat similar accident oc-
curred to a skilled electrician who was connecting one wire with
another on a switchboard. He lost his balance while on a step-
ladder, and, as he put out his hand to save himself, he by chance
touched another wire, and this completed a circuit that killed him
instantly. Still another phase of this kind of accidental death
from electricity was seen in New York city when an Italian, who
was cleaning a window, completed a circuit from his hand through
his body, the current penetrating the sole of his shoe which rested
