INCALCULABLE ACCIDENTS. 669
upon a metal surface. A like accident, singularly fatal, happened
to one of two clerks wlio had lifted a metal show-case to carry it
into a store. The metal top of the case touched the metal exten-
sion of an arc electric lamp that had been left hanging too near
the pavement. One of these clerks, moving hurriedly under the
strain of the burden, chanced to step upon an iron cellar grating
which caused the electric current to kill him instantly. The other
clerk, who was lifting his part of the weight, stood upon the ordi-
nary pavement and so was not injured. The metallic frame of the
show-case had transmitted the current.
Some very serious injuries have been caused by an attempt to
brush away an electric-light wire that dangled against the head
of the passer-by. The muscles of any one who is unfortunate
enough to grasp such a wire contract with uncontrollable persist-
ence, and the electric current burns with an effect resembling that
of white-hot iron.
The innumerable electric appliances, which are already begin-
ning to compete with those run by steam, must increase the num-
ber of accidents. Rapidly growing power is at present accom-
panied by rapidly growing risk a condition to be expected dur-
ing early stages of advancement. But relative safety will doubt-
less be attained through the skill of an army of specialists who
will be divided and subdivided into a greater number of groups as
the new combinations multiply. Herbert Spencer's doctrine of
the increase of heterogeneity during certain stages of evolution is
thus reaffirmed in this age of mechanism. Yet there is every
reason to expect that the development of intelligence will steadily
eliminate the dangers arising from haste in construction. The
loss and inconvenience which may be experienced while waiting
for absolute safety should not be overlooked. In fact, prolonged
delay is neither practicable nor desirable.
In his introductory lecture on the Anthropological History of Europe, Dr.
Beddoe inclines to the modern view which regards Europe as the original home
of the Aryans. He also discusses in a novel manner some of the causes which
may be supposed to produce changes of physical type. Incidentally he records
his opinion that a process of selection, which may be called natural, works against
the perpetuation of certain types in our cities. He also remarks that more evi-
dence exists than is generally known of the deteriorative effect of malaria on
physical type.
The Antarctic Fund of the Australian Association for the Advancement of
Science has grown to 14,044, leaving only 1,000, or $5,000, to raise it to the 15,-
000 that are sought to complete it. It is thought that this remaining amount will
be furnished by the colonial governments. As at present arranged, the expedi-
tion is expected to arrive in September, 1893, at its last coaling port and starting-
point in the southern hemisphere.
