6 7 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
TOBACCO AND THE TOBACCO HABIT.
By M. JULES EOCHAED,
OF THE FRENCH ACADEMY OF MEDICINE.
THE use of tobacco prevails throughout the whole world.
Smokers alone are numbered by hundreds of millions. A
million and a quarter acres of the earth are devoted to the culti-
vation of the plant, and the taxes on it alone in France amount
to three hundred million francs (or sixty million dollars). A cus-
tom so general, a habit that has been maintained so long in the
face of constant attacks upon it, should be considered seriously.
It should be studied from every side, and the various elements
of the question should be subjected to a complete analysis by the
means of investigation now at our disposal, for it is a scientific
problem of the first order. "While it is of moral and philosophical
interest, and its social con sequences are within the province of
economists, it is for science, physiology, and hygiene to furnish
experimental data as the basis for their deductions.
A proper study of the subject should be made with an inde-
pendence of prepossession which it is not easy to find. Persons
who have never smoked will talk of tobacco as the blind talk of
colors ; smokers have a fondness for their habit, while those who
have been obliged to give it up are prejudiced on the other side.
I am one of the reformed smokers. After having abused tobacco
for about fifty years, I was compelled to abjure it. I fought my
ground inch by inch, and yielded only to an absolute necessity.
Knowing what the reformation cost me, I have not tried to make
proselytes ; but I intend to say what I believe is true upon a ques-
tion which I have studied well, and on which I am not lacking in
personal experience.
The tobacco plant belongs to the order Solanacece., and consti-
tutes a genus (Nicotiana) named after Jean Nicot. It is culti-
vated through the whole world, and succeeds equally in the tem-
perate zone and the intertropical regions. Two species are culti-
vated : common or large tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) and small
tobacco (Nicotiana rustica). The first species is the most widely
diffused. It is a large and fine-looking annual plant, growing to
a height of about six feet. It bears large alternate leaves of a
glaucous-green color, and is tipped with a cluster of elegant flow-
ers having a pale-rose corolla and a persistent five-parted calyx.
Small tobacco does not exceed twenty inches or two feet in height.
Its leaves are thick, soft, dark-green, and viscously hairy. The
terminal inflorescence comprises clusters of flowers composed of
cymes. The pale-yellow corolla, a little greenish, is supported by
a campanulate calyx, covered with glandular hairs and terminat-
