TOBACCO AND THE TOBACCO HABIT. 673
having their heads rubbed with a tobacco ointment. Cases are
recorded of smugglers who died after having covered the bare
skin of their whole body with tobacco leaves which they were
trying to introduce fraudulently. Ferdinand Martin has related
the case of a lady afflicted with lumbago who applied flannels
dipped in a decoction of smoking tobacco to the ailing part. Her
pains were promptly subdued, but she soon felt all the phenomena
of intoxication by nicotine, and did not recover from it for three
days. Poisoning by tobacco generally occurs by accident or mis-
take. It is rarely tried criminally, probably because the toxic prop-
erties of the drug are not reliable enough. Assassins prefer the
alkaloid itself, the effects of which are much more prompt and more
terrible than those of the plant. By whatever method it is admin-
istered in experiments, the animal is slain. Two drops are enough
to kill a large dog ; eight drops will kill a horse in four minutes.
Under its effects he rages, prances, writhes, falls down, and dies
in convulsions. " This alkaloid," says Claude Bernard,* " is one
of the most virulent poisons known, and a few drops of it on the
cornea of an animal will kill it instantly. Nicotine, apparently
sympathetic in its effects, in its action is very much like prussic
acid." The action of this principle is so subtle that it can not be
analyzed unless the drug is administered in minute doses and
very dilute solutions. There is then observed the phenomenon
which goes far to explain the facility with which one is habitu-
ated to the use of tobacco of the rapid development of tolerance
of gradually increasing doses. This has been demonstrated by
Traube, who, with the twenty-fourth of a drop of nicotine subcu-
taneously injected, obtained very marked effects on the first day.
The next day, on the same animal, it took a whole drop to reach
the same result, and at the end of four days five drops were neces-
sary. A similar tolerance is observed in man for hypodermic in-
jections of morphine ; but one does not get accustomed to digita-
line or strychnine.
When nicotine is administered in doses weak enough to per-
mit an analysis of its effects, almost the same phenomena are wit-
nessed as with the whole plant. In the cases of poisoning already
mentioned, there came on at the beginning extreme anguish and
agitation, with sensations of burning heat in the pit of the stom-
ach. Respiration was accelerated and the pulse was slackened ;
then came vomiting and purging, vertigo, and faintness. The
face grew pale, the skin was covered with a cold sweat, the head
was confused, and the patient fell into a deep stupor, with cries,
general trembling, and convulsions. This agitation gives place
* Lecons sur les effets des substances toxiques et medicamenteuses. Paris, lSo?, p.
397.
VOL. XLI. 49
