5 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
house and ask for some water, when the following conversation
occurs :
" Reckly he holler out, ' Mammy, mammy ! what you reckon ?
Dey'er lapping de water ! ' De 'oman she holler back, ' I reckon
dat's de way de quality folks does, honey.' "
Then the ladies ask for some bread and eat it, so as to cause
the little boy to cry :
" Mammy, mammy ! what you reckon ? Dey'er got great long
tushes." De 'oman she holler back, " I reckon all de quality folks
has got 'em, honey."
Then they wash their hands, and again the boy cries :
" Mammy, mammy ! what you reckon ? Dey got little bit er
hairy hans and arms." De 'oman she holler back, " I reckon all
de quality folks has got 'em, honey."
The ladies now request that the little boy show them the way
to the cross-roads, which he refuses to do until admonished by
his mother.
" Now," says Uncle Remus, " dish yer little boy had two mighty
bad dogs. One un urn waz name Minny minny Morack, en de
oter one was name Follerlinsko, en de waz so bad dey hatter
be tied in de yard day an' night, 'cep w'en dey wuzen't a-
huntin'."
Before setting out, however, the boy places a pan of water in
the kitchen, and sticks a willow twig near by in the ground, tell-
ing his mother that when the water turns to blood and the willow
shakes, she is to loose the dogs and send them to hunt for him.
He then proceeds to conduct the ladies to the cross-roads ; but
after he has gone some way perceives, on looking behind him,
that the supposed ladies are walking on all fours. This strikes
him as somewhat suspicious, and he hastens to climb up a big
pine tree near at hand for safety. The ladies try and persuade him
to come down, threatening to tell his mother of his disobedience ;
but in vain ; the little boy prefers to remain where he is. " Den,"
says Uncle Remus, "de quality ladies got mighty mad. Dey
walked 'roun' dat tree en fairly snorted. Dey pulled off der bon-
nets, en der veils, en der dresses, en, lo en behole ! de little boy
seed dey wuz two great big pant'ers. . . . Dey tried to climb de
tree, but dey had done trim der claws so dey could git on gloves,
en dey couldn't clam no mo'.
" Den one un em sot down in de road en made a kuse mark in
de sand, en der great long tails turned to axes, dan de gun to
cut de tree down. . . .
" But wiles the little boy wuz settin' up dar skeered mighty
nigh ter def, hit come inter his min' dat he had some eggs in his
pocket w'at he done brung with 'im fer ter eat w'enever he git
hongry. He tuck out one er de eggs en broke it en say, ' Place
