TOBACCO AND THE TOBACCO HABIT. 675
venience ; and there are some who are able to smoke just before
sitting down at the table. Smoking generally dulls the appetite
and gives relief against the pains of hunger. But after eating the
desire to smoke becomes irresistible. This is the psychological
moment ; and the pleasure we feel then is more intense than at
any other time in the day. The pipe or the cigar is a condition of
good digestion for some smokers, but in others it produces gas-
tric troubles. Nervous people, those who lead a too sedentary life,
and office men, especially if they have the habit of smoking before
meals, gradually lose their appetite, and acquire instead of it a
painful anxiety and nausea. Others suffer from pyrosis. There
are smokers who can not light a cigar at some hours in the day
without having the feeling of hot iron that marks that affection.
Nearly all excessive smokers are dyspeptics ; and the fact is
explained by the excess of salivation and the diminution of the
gastric juice and of the functional energy of the stomach. Next
after the digestive troubles, the most common affections touch the
respiratory organs and the heart. Granular pharyngitis is very
common among persons who smoke to excess. The irritation of
the pharynx is often communicated to the larynx, and there results
a peculiar dry cough. Others feel a temporary oppression in the
evening after having smoked during the day. A special form of
asthma has been mentioned as caused by the abuse of tobacco ;
but cases of it must be very rare, for I have never observed it,
though I have passed my life among smokers. Affections of the
heart are more frequent. Some doctors assert that one fourth of
the smokers are afflicted with palpitations and irregularities of
the pulse. I do not know where such observations have been
made, but I have never seen any cases of the kind. I, as well as
other doctors, have met cases of angina pectoris, chiefly among
persons who passed their lives in an atmosphere saturated with
tobacco, and among those who have swallowed the smoke of their
cigars, and have not been surprised at them, because the smoke
then enters into the lesser ramifications of the bronchial vessels,
where it impresses directly the finest nervous threads of the lungs
and the heart, and its action induces the spasms of suffocation that
constitute that terrible disease. These symptoms are at first fleet-
ing, and rarely mortal ; but, if the patient does not abandon his
habit, they occur more frequently, and become more grave till
death ensues in one of them. Disasters from breathing an atmos-
phere saturated with tobacco-smoke seem more liable to occur with
children than with grown persons. Staying in smoking-rooms,
where the smoke is sometimes so thick that one can hardly see
from one end of the room to the other, is dangerous to persons sub-
ject to palpitations, even though they do not smoke. Dr. Vallin
has cited three facts conclusive as to this point, one of which re-
