676 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
lates to the case of a young officer who had given up tobacco three
months before, and was attacked with a suffocation like angina
2)ectoris after having passed several nights in his room where his
friends came to smoke for some hours every evening. Dr. Ge'lineau
tells of an epidemic . of angina pectoris among some sailors who
were crowded in the between-decks of a merchant vessel during a
storm that made it necessary to close all the hatches, and who
smoked to pass away the time. Those who did not join in the
smoking suffered equally with the others, for they breathed the
same toxic atmosphere.
Pipe-smokers are in danger of epithelioma, or cancer of the lips
and of the tongue. The former occurs chiefly among persons who
smoke a very short-stemmed clay pipe. Smokers' cancer appears
usually at the point where the hot pipe-stem bears upon the lower
lip, and on the side of the tongue at the point where the smoke
touches at each aspiration. In some cases it begins with buccal
psoriasis, a kind of thickening of the epithelium of the tongue,
which becomes white, glossy, and horny. These two forms of a
horrible malady are incontestably the most serious danger smok-
ers incur ; and the fear of it is the motive that has impelled the
majority of conversions from the habit. The frequency of them
should not, however, be exaggerated.
Tobacco has been accused of contributing to the depopulation
of the country by enfeebling the reproductive powers of men
and inducing miscarriages in women. The former part of the
charge is founded on the very real fact that the smoking of to-
bacco, while its influence prevails, appeases all ardor ; but its ac-
tion is essentially temporary, and does not detract from the gen-
eral powers of smokers. Their families are as numerous as those
of other persons, and the peoples who smoke most are precisely
those who have the most children. The Germans smoke twice as
much as the French, and have five times as many children. The
possibility of tobacco promoting abortions is more open to discus-
sion, but it can not exert any noticeable influence on the move-
ment of population, for it concerns only a very limited class of
women those who work in tobacco-factories. These establish-
ments have borne a bad reputation in the past, and the effect of
life in them upon the operatives has been painted in very dark
colors. All manufactories were until recently in a deplorable
hygienic condition. Now the rooms are spacious and well venti-
lated, and all precautions are taken to preserve the health of the
operatives.
But, whatever may be done, the vapors of nicotine can not be
got rid of in the shops where large quantities of tobacco are dried
and fermented, or where it is stored in bales and casks. When
the leaves are cleaned and mixed, in rasping and grinding, dust as
