TOBACCO AND THE TOBACCO HABIT. 6y 7
active as the vapors is diffused around. Operatives who work in
this atmosphere are in the situation of smokers, and become ha-
bituated to it after having suffered the same disorders in the
beginning. Those who work in smaller and insufficiently venti-
lated rooms are often more seriously affected ; but, as a rule, these
workmen enjoy good health. Opinions as to the particular effect
of this employment on women differ ; but the prevalent result of
the discussion appears to be that tobacco does not provoke abor-
tion, and has no mischievous influence' on the health of women
operatives. Abortion is not more frequent among them than
among other working- women ; and the weakness and mortality
of their children are easily explained by the fact of their being
left at home while their mothers are at the shop.
Among the maladies to which hardened smokers are exposed
is nicotinic amblyopia, which Sichel noticed first, and which has
been well studied by modern ophthalmologists. It is a peculiar
weakening of the sight, and is distinguished from other affections
of the kind by the readiness with which it passes away when the
patient gives up tobacco, and the promptitude with which it ap-
pears again when he resumes the practice. It is very rare. So
is a paralysis which has been observed in Germany. Delirium
tremens, convulsions, epilepsy, hallucinations, dementia, preco-
cious senility, and melancholia have been mentioned as among
the evils brought on by tobacco. No doubt smokers have them,
and many other diseases. Tobacco will not save them from any
of the ills with which mankind is afflicted.
Of all the accusations that have been made against tobacco,
that of blunting the intellect is the most cruel to smokers. But
the evidence in favor of it is not formidable. That most fre-
quently encountered is obtained from statistics that show that in
institutions for public instruction smokers stand lower in their
classes than other pupils. Decaisne has shown this for the French
lycees ; MM. Bartillon, G. Dore*, and Elie Joubert, for the pupils
of the Polytechnic School ; and Dr. Coustan, for the Normal and
Naval Schools and the School of Bridges and Roads. The demon-
stration is hardly satisfactory. It seems reasonable to assume
that the smoking pupils do not succeed so well as the others be-
cause they are idle and find in tobacco an auxiliary to their indo-
lence and a relief from its consequent ennui. Probably, if the
investigation had been pushed further, it would have been found
that the same pupils are those whose general conduct leaves most
to be desired, and who are most frequently punished. Discussion
of this charge brings up an international comparison that is not
favorable to its validity. There is a people north of the Rhine,
whom I have already mentioned, and with whom the use of to-
bacco has almost become an institution. They consume a half
