ODORS AND THE SENSE OF SMELL. 683
acetic and benzoic acids, which, can unite with bases and form
salts ; and the ethers, the results of the association of alcohols,
acids, or other alcohols, among which are the oils of the onion and
of mustard. Among quaternary compounds we have the alkaloids
formed by the union of the alcohols with ammonia or other alka-
lies, amides formed by the union of ammonia and acids with the
separation of the elements of water; and the metallic radical
compounds which are obtained by the reaction of metals on some
of the ethers.
Perfumes are, in general, binary or ternary compounds char-
acterized by the fact that the proportion of equivalents of hydro-
gen to those of carbon diminishes at the same rate as those of an-
other class of products very rich in hydrogen which are called the
fatty series, while this class of products, less rich in hydrogen, is
called the aromatic series. Is there any relation between odor and
chemical composition ? An English physiologist, Mr. John Berry
Hay craft, in his studies of the savors and odors, and savors of the
principal compounds of each natural family of bodies, particular-
ly of compounds of the family oxygen, sulphur, chromium, sele-
nium, molybdenum, tellurium, didymium, tungsten, and uranium,
has observed modifications in odor corresponding with increase in
atomic weights. For example, sulphureted hydrogen, hydrogen
selenide, and hydrogen telluride smell like rotten eggs. The com-
pounds of elements of this family with methyl and ethyl have an
alliaceous odor. So with the family chlorine, bromine, and io-
dine ; the acids which these bodies form with hydrogen and their
compounds with methyl, ethyl, and ethylene have similar odors,
so that some among them seem to share them with their neigh-
bors ; bromof orm, for example, having a similar odor with chloro-
form and iodoform. Passing to the organic series, Mr. Haycraft
observes in the monatomic alcohols a modification of odor corre-
sponding with variations in atomic weight. Methyl alcohol, for
instance, has a weak odor of alcohol ; ethyl alcohol has the typical
alcoholic odor ; propylic alcohol has both an alcoholic odor and
a special smell; isobutylic, amylic, and octylic alcohols pro-
gressively lose the alcoholic odor and acquire as against it a spe-
cial scent. The same facts are remarked in the fatty acids and
hydrocarbons.
Similar odors may be furnished by bodies without likeness in
chemical composition. Arsenic in oxidizing disengages vapors
that have the odor of garlic. Nitrobenzene, benzoic aldehyde,
and prussic acid smell much alike. It has been asserted that
emeralds pounded and ground several hours a day for three weeks
had emitted a well-defined odor of violets. The fact has been
verified ; but it has yet to be determined whether it is due to the
manipulation or to organic substances that have been released by
