ODORS AND THE SENSE OF SMELL. 687
saucer covered with a thin layer of water, the water immediately
retires, sometimes for several centimetres, before the odorous
substance. The laws of the diffusion of liquids may be summa-
rized by saying that the rapidity depends on the nature of the
substance, increases in proportion to the degree of concentration
of the solution, and augments as the temperature rises. Graham's
dialyzer is based on the very feeble diffusibility of certain sub-
stances, like the gums, and the great diffusibility of certain
crystalline substances, like salt. It is simply a vessel, the bottom
of which is formed of a leaf of parchment paper, that lets the dif-
fusible substances pass into the water around it and holds the
others.
The diffusion of gases and vapors, which is more important in
questions of smell, is subject to laws which have been only ap-
proximately determined. A glass tube about a metre long is
used, divided perpendicularly to its length by a thin metallic par-
tition, which can be made to slide between two perforated glasses.
A gas is introduced into each of the separated halves of the tube ;
the supply-cocks are closed, the partition is lifted out, and the two
halves of the tube are put in communication ; a half-hour later
the partition is shut, and the gaseous mixture contained in each
of the compartments is analyzed. Mr. Loschmidt has in this way
found the mathematical rule for the measure of the diffusion of
different gases, one within the other.
The volatility of a liquid is expressed by the weight of that
liquid which evaporates per second and per square millimetre at
a given temperature. All that is known of it is that this weight
is proportioned to the excess of the maximum tension of the va-
por at that temperature over the tension which it has in the air ;
and this weight varies inversely as the atmospheric pressure ac-
cording to a law special for each liquid. Evaporation may, there-
fore, give us valuable information concerning the purity of the
odor, and spare us, in many cases, the delicate problem of deter-
mining the maximum tension which is so important a character-
istic of substances. A special apparatus has been devised for the
rapid measurement of volatility.
Tables have been prepared showing the relative volatility of
different perfumes, of the substances used for adulterating them,
and of the adulterations, by means of which a convenient method
is afforded for the detection of frauds.
The influence of different physical forces on the disengagement
of odor has been studied ; and possible relations between the
colors of flowers and the intensity of their perfumes have been
inquired into. It has been found that white flowers represent the
largest number of odoriferous species, and after them come red,
yellow, green, and blue. The order corresponds with that of the
