688 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
emission of calorific force. Flowers which by their color emit
the most heat, also emit the most perfume.
The results of the study of the influence of the color of sub-
stances on their power of absorbing odors differ a little from
these : white, yellow, red, green, and blue absorb odors in a de-
creasing order, or rather emit them in an increasing one. These
colors represent decreasing luminous powers.
Ozone develops the energy of essential oils, and perfumes in
turn determine by their oxidation in the air the production of
ozone. This is a matter of hygienic significance, for the pres-
ence of ozone being favorable to health, we have a means at hand
of increasing the supply of it by surrounding ourselves with fra-
grant substances and flowers.
Heat favors the volatilization of perfumes, and to such an ex-
tent that beds of flowers are sometimes inodorous in the bright
sunlight which are fragrant in the shade. Some essences need a
high temperature for the production of their full effect ; while
others, to have their delicacy fully appreciated, require the cool-
ness of the evening. This principle may account for appir-fnt
differences of tastes among the people of different countries. The
odors of many substances are not of equal strength in different
climates. Prof. Tyndall believes that there are considerable dif-
ferences in the absorbing power of different odorous vapors for
radiant heat. He perfumed small paper cylinders by dipping them
by one end in an aromatic oil, and then placed them in a glass
tube, which communicated, through a stop-cock, with a tube in
which a vacuum is produced. The air, according as it has been
perfumed with one substance or another, discloses to the galva-
nometer an absorbing power, which, air at the usual pressure being
taken as one, varies from thirty for patchouli, to three hundred
and seventy-two for anise-seed. These results are, unfortunately,
not exact, for no account is taken in them of the tensions of the
odorous vapors, which certainly vary, though they are probably
of very small absolute value.
Messrs. Nichols and Bailey have compared the smelling powers
of men and women. Having made measured solutions of a num-
ber of essential oils, a series of flasks was prepared so that the
solution in each succeeding one should be only half as strong as
that in the preceding one. The flasks were " shuffled/' and the sub-
jects of the experiment were called upon to rearrange them in the
order of concentration of the solutions. The smelling power of
women appeared to be on the whole less delicate than that of the
men. The extreme delicacy of the scent of the dog is well known.
Mr. Romanes has shown that, by fastening a sheet of paper to the
shoes, the odor may be masked, and the dog prevented from
following the track of his master ; but that a contact with the
