ODORS AND THE SENSE OF SMELL. 689
ground of a few square millimetres is enough to enable the dog
to follow the scent. In birds, the sense of smell appears to be
little developed ; in mollusks and insects the smelling apparatus
has been located in the antenna?. Below the group of worms, no
olfactory reactions have been, so far as I know, definitely estab-
lished.
The mechanism of the olfactory apparatus is, as a whole,
simpler than that of sight and hearing ; but the sensation is sub-
ordinated to many individual anatomical peculiarities. As much
can be said of touch and taste, which require contact of the
excitant, while sight and hearing merely register the vibrations
transmitted by a medium. It is easy to conceive how the con-
dition of the membranes, the form of the nasal passages, etc.,
may affect the sensation.
A distinction is made in medicine between respiratory anos-
mias which depend on the formation of the organs and the
condition of the connective tissues, and essential anosmias which
result from atrophy of the nerves. Anosmias are frequent ; some
are congenital, many are senile and temporary, and connected
with traumatisms, hemianesthesia, aphasia, and hemiplegia. We
can not expect to find as concordant reactions for the smell as for
the sense of color or the sense of form. It is nevertheless a matter
of interest to investigate, on as good subjects as we can get, the
influence of different odors on sensibility ; or, in other words, to
determine the weight of odorous vapor which it is necessary to
breathe and accumulate in the nasal f ossse to make a perfume per-
ceptible. That is the purpose of olfactometers. The olfactometer
gives, besides this, the intensity of a perfume. The larger the
perceptible minimum of a perfume, the less intense the perfume
is, and it is this intensity which determines the price of a per-
fume, the delicacy of its odor being the same.
The olfactory sense is followed by effects of different kinds
of intensity from those of sight and hearing, and may be accom-
panied by a kind of poisoning. The old medical books are full of
stories of it. There are those of a girl killed by the exhalations
of violets; of a woman seized with a violent headache from
sleeping on a bed of roses ; and of a girl who lost her voice by
smelling of a bouquet. Ancient medicine attributed curative
properties to perfumes, particularly to those of the rose, musk,
and benzoin. The intensity of the effects of perfumes makes a
rapid succession of sensations almost impossible ; for consecutive
odors cause a rapid anesthesia of the sense ; on the other hand,
if the times separating two successive sensations are too long, it
becomes impossible to combine them, and the anticipated effect
is disturbed by strange feelings. In short, smell is rather the
complement of other excitations than an artistic excitation like
VOL. XLI. 50
