690 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
a melody or a picture. Its function is, nevertheless, very impor-
tant. By virtue of its volatility it is a valuable prophylactic ;
by the great intensity of its effects it can bring about salutary
modifications of physiological functions, particularly of the am-
plitude of respiration ; and it possesses in the highest degree the
luxurious character of every artistic enjoyment. Flavor has an
essential part in nutrition ; so has touch. Hearing and sight are
indispensable to relations with other persons; but smell, neces-
sary to the animal for finding its prey and avoiding danger, has
become, under normal conditions, an almost useless sense to man,
since the refinements of civilization tend to prevent the produc-
tion of miasms and the pestilential odors from which he has to
protect himself. It is therefore becoming more and more a sense
of luxury for civilized man ; and that, perhaps, is the reason why
poets, from the author of the Song of Songs down, have associ-
ated all kinds of beauty and joy with perfumes. Translated for
The Popular Science Monthly from the Revue Scientifique.
++
CHANGES IN CHEMICAL AND GEOGRAPHICAL
WORDS.
By FREDERIK A. FERNALD.
' ' "I TOW do you pronounce quinine ? " is a question that is
J L often asked, and, unless the person appealed to is unusu-
ally dogmatic, the answer is never decisive. Webster's Interna-
tional Dictionary gives three forms as being in good use name-
ly, hwl'nin, kwi'nin, and hwl'nen ; the Century Dictionary gives
two of these and a fourth form, Icwln'en, hinen', and kwi'nin ;
while a fifth variant is found in Stormonth, which has only
kwln'ln and kwinln! . Physicians and chemists, from having to
use this word oftener than the general public, have been more
annoyed by the conflicting pronunciations. Other words that
have troubled the chemists are the names of the halogens, some
pronouncing them chlo'rln, bro'min, I'ddln, and flu'orln, while
others said chlo'ren, etc. A more serious difficulty is the liability
to mistake certain substances for others, from the close likeness
of whole classes of names, both when spoken and when written.
This occurs with the chlorides and the chlorltes, also with the
sulphides and the sulphites. In order to do away with these
difficulties, a proposition for a revision of the spelling and pro-
nunciation of chemical terms was made in the Chemical Section
of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, at
the annual meeting in 1887. Accordingly, a committee to make
