CHEMICAL AND GEOGRAPHICAL WORDS. 693
In 1885 the Council of the Royal Geographical Society of
England began a movement in behalf of systematic spelling in
geographical names, which has yielded most gratifying results.
The society adopted a system having the same basis that is em-
ployed for all scientific modes of spelling, namely, vowels pro-
nounced as in Italian (or German), and consonants as in English.
This system has been adopted by the British Admiralty Office, by
the War, Foreign, and Colonial Offices, and by the last has been
recommended to the colonies.
In September, 1890, the United States Board on Geographic
Names was created by order of the President of the United States,
for the purpose of securing uniformity of geographical nomencla-
ture in Government publications.
The board consists of ten officials in the departments at Wash-
ington, with Prof. Thomas C. Mendenhall, Superintendent of the
United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, as chairman. For
spelling names from Oriental or unwritten languages, this board
has adopted a system practically identical with that used by the
British Government offices. Since France, Germany, and Spain
have adopted methods substantially the same as this, the great
map-making nations of the world are now in close agreement as
to geographical spelling. The alphabet is used as follows by the
board in representing the sounds of Oriental and unwritten lan-
guages : a as in father (Java, Somali), e as in men (Tel el Kebir),
i as in ravine (Fiji), o as in mote, and u as 00 in boot. All vowels
are shortened in sound when the following consonant is doubled.
( Yarra, Jidda). Doubling a vowel is necessary only where there
is a distinct repetition of its sound. English i in ice is represented
by ai (Shanghai), au represents oiv in hoiv (Fuchau), ao is slightly
different from au (Nanao), and ei is scarcely to be distinguished
from ey in th.ey (Beirut).
Among the consonants, o, d, I, m, n, p, r, s, t, v, iv, x, and z are
the same as in English; c is always soft (Celebes), ch as in church
(Chingchin), / as in English, and its sound is never represented
by ph (Haifong), g is always hard, h is always pronounced when
inserted, j as in English, and its sound is never represented by dj
(Jinchuen), h as in English, and always takes the place of hard c
(Korea), kh stands for the Oriental guttural (Khan),o7i is another
guttural as in the Turkish (Dagh, Ghazi), ng as in finger, also as
in singer, q is not used, qu being replaced by lew (Kwangtung), y
is always a consonant and is to be replaced by i wherever it has
been used as a vowel (Mikindani). Accents should not generally
be used, but where there is a very decided emphatic syllable or
stress which affects the sound of the word it should be marked by
an acute accent (Galapagos, Sardwak).
With regard to names in the United States the policy of the
