694 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
board is to make no changes unless a decided improvement can
be secured thereby. Its first principle is that the spelling and
pronunciation which are sanctioned by local usage should be
adopted in general. Even where the present name is a changed
or corrupted one, if it has become firmly established the board
keeps its hands off. But where a choice is offered between two
or more names for the same locality, all sanctioned by local
usage, the opportunity to secure the most appropriate and eupho-
nious one is improved. The possessive form of names is discarded
wherever practicable, sometimes by dropping both the (') and the
s, for instance changing Qedney's to Oedney Channel, in New
York Harbor, and in cases where so much change has not seemed
advisable, simply omitting the ('). By the latter procedure, which
is practically changing to the plural form, Minot's Ledge, in
Boston Harbor, becomes Minots Ledge. The final h is dropped
from names ending in -burgh, and the ending -borough is shortened
to boro. The spelling center is always used rather than centre.
The board discourages the use of diacritic marks over letters, and
hyphens between parts of names ; where a name consists of more
than one word it prefers to combine the parts into one. The use
of the words City, Town, and Court House (abbreviated C. H.) as
parts of place-names is deemed undesirable.
The first report of the board has been issued recently and con-
tains a list of decisions made during the year which it covers.
More than two thousand questions have been submitted to the
board, and decisions have been given upon nearly all of them.
Early in the year it was called upon to decide concerning several
hundred names in Alaska, where the utmost confusion exists con-
cerning geographic nomenclature. To the difficulty of translit-
erating Russian and Indian words into English letters is added the
confusion caused by the fact that expedition after expedition, ex-
ploring this region, has assigned new names to the geographic
features of the country, ignoring those already given. This state
of affairs has induced the board to undertake a complete revision
of Alaskan names, the result of which will be a geographical dic-
tionary of the Territory. One of the three bulletins issued during
the year contained a list of between five and six hundred decisions
rendered at the instance of the Lighthouse Board, and fully a
thousand questions were answered for the Census Office. The
names of all the counties in the United States have been passed
upon, and the approved list appears in the report.
Among the United States names that have been revised are :
Bering (Sea and Strait), in place of Behring, the h being a German
addition to the original Danish name: Fort Monroe, this, not
Fortress Monroe, being the name given to the works at Old Point
Comfort by the Secretary of War in 1828 ; Pedee, for the river
