CHEMICAL AND GEOGRAPHICAL WORDS. 695
formerly called Great Pedee ; Pittsburg (Pa.), without final h, this
being really the official form of the city's name ; Mohave instead
of the Spanish form Mojave, and Blackivells Island in place of
Black well's. Wood's Holl, the meaningless corruption of Wood's
Hole effected by finical summer visitors, is not meddled with
except to drop the apostrophe.
Among foreign names Colon has been adopted, to the exclusion
of AspinwaU, Bermuda instead of The Bermudas, and Salvador
(Central America) for San Salvador. The spelling Fiji is pre-
ferred to the now antiquated Feejee ; Baluchistan has been adopted
for Beloochistan; and a few other accepted spellings are Kaffraria,
Chile, Haiti, Kamerun (Cameroon), Kashmir, Kongo, Puerto Rico,
Sind (Sindh), and Tokyo.
The accepted forms are used by the Coast and Geodetic Survey,
on its charts of the coasts of the United States ; the Hydrographic
Office of the Navy Department, on the charts of foreign coasts
that it publishes; the Geological Survey, which is making a
mother-map of the United States ; the General Land Office, which
compiles from its plats maps of most of the States and Territo-
ries ; and the Post-Office Department, which decides the names of
all post-offices. They are used more or less also by nearly every
other bureau of the General Government in fact, wherever geo-
graphical names occur in all printing done at the Government
printing-office.
The new forms are also coming into use rapidly among pub-
lishers of books and newspapers and the general public. The
American Book Company, which furnishes the greater portion of
the school-books used in this country, has adopted the decisions
of the board for all its text-books on geography. Publishers of
atlases and other geographical works generally are using them,
so that in a few years it will be easy to tell that a map is old
from the fact that the old forms of names are engraved on it.
Many newspapers also, that have received copies of the first re-
port of the board, have stated that they should follow it.
The good work of the chemists and geographers in the interest
of simplicity and uniformity gives hope that similar changes
may be made in other classes of words. Medical terms might
come next. Few persons would be sorry to see the ce and ce re-
placed by e and the silent consonants omitted in " hcemorrTiage,"
" gynaecology," " cesophagus," " diarWicea," "phthisis," "pneu-
monia," "r7ieumatism," "ptyalism," "psora," etc. There is a
growing tendency toward such simplifications on all sides, and
the direct efforts that are being made in this direction are only
furthering the progress of a natural evolution. It has been said
that we ought to wait for these changes until the natural process
makes them ; but if men want to put city streets and blocks where
