696 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
there is a hill, they do not wait for geological agencies to level the
hill. They go at it with steam-shovels, drills, and dynamite. An-
other objection that is made to all simplifications of spelling is
that they remove the marks of derivation in words. In many
cases this is untrue ; in the others it is of no consequence. The
Italian sees the Greek <wtos and ypa<f>uv just as plainly in his foto-
grafia as the Anglo-Saxon does in his photograph. As for the
marks of derivation from Old French, the Teutonic languages,
Arabic, etc., the majority of persons do not see them at all, and
those who do and can interpret them are above the need of such
aids. It is with words very much as with men. The influence of
heredity makes it instructive to know the character of a man's
parents and grandparents, but men do not go to business every
day carrying charts on which their family trees are delineated.
So with words ; in every-day use only their present values concern
us, and their histories should be left to the dictionaries as family
trees are left to genealogical records.
A general simplification of English spelling promises to be one
of the events of the near future. Articles in favor of it are ap-
pearing with increasing frequency in our leading magazines, the
latest being by Brander Matthews, in Harpers' Magazine for
July. The philologists as a body desire the change, and there
is not one linguistic scholar of any prominence who opposes it.
When publishing firms nowadays select editors to make or revise
our leading dictionaries, they get spelling reformers, for all the
men competent to do such work are of this class. The late Presi-
dent Porter, who edited the International Webster, has expressed
himself in favor of simplification ; Prof. W. D. Whitney, editor-
in-chief, and several of the other editors of the Century Diction-
ary, are active workers for this reform ; Prof. F. A. March, who is
in charge of the departments of spelling and pronunciation in the
forthcoming Standard Dictionary, is President of the Spelling
Reform Association, and many of the collaborators on this work
believe in logical spelling. In England, Dr. James A. H. Mur-
ray, editor-in-chief of the Philological Society's Dictionary, the
greatest lexicographic work on the English language ever under-
taken, is an unhesitating advocate of orthographic reform, as is
Prof. Walter W. Skeat, author of the Etymological Dictionary.
If English spelling were to be made phonetic next year, or in 1900,
a few persons might cry, " Give us back our silent letters," as the
mob cried, " Give us back our eleven days," when the calendar
was changed from old style to new ; but only a few months would
pass before all would be asking, " Why was this not done genera-
tions ago ? "
