C ORRESP ONBENCE.
697
CORRESPONDENCE.
PROPER DIET FOR HOT WEATHER.
Editor Popular Science Monthly.
rriHE article under the above title in your
_l_ July number appears to be based on
chemical theories of nutrition that find no
place in the modern science of physiology.
The classification of food constituents into
proteids or albuminoids, fats, and carbohy-
drates is a convenient one for certain pur-
poses, but it is now known that these groups
of nutrients have not the specific functions
that were formerly attributed to them.
The assumption of Dr. Davies (page 366)
that " the foods that are converted into heat
that is, keep up the heat of the body are
starches, sugar, and fat, and those that more
particularly nourish the nervous and muscu-
lar system are the albumen and salts," is a
survival of an obsolete theory of respiration ;
and tables giving the proximate composition
of different articles of food are of little value
in formulating diets for special purposes.
The law of the conservation of energy is
now recognized as a significant factor in all
physiological processes, and it furnishes the
only consistent explanation of the phenom-
ena of animal heat. The energy used in
the constructive processes is stored up as po-
tential energy, as an essential condition or
constituent of all organic substances, and on
their disintegration in the processes of de-
structive metabolism it is liberated in the
form of heat as in the digestion of foods,
and in the wear and tear of the tissues that
are constantly taking place in all vital activi
ties.
Animal heat is no"t produced by a com-
bustion of certain food constituents that
serve as fuel, but it is the result of the libera-
tion of the stored euergy of foods and tissues,
iu the disintegrating processes they undergo
in the system. Dr. M. Foster, who is recog-
nized as one of the best authorities in physi-
ology, estimates the potential energy of food
constituents as follows :
1 gramme proteids = 4,500 calories,
1 " fat =9,000 "
1 " carbohydrates = 4,000 "
From this it appears that the " starches and
sugars," which are included in the group of
carbohydrates, contain less potential energy
than the proteids, and the heat obtained
from them is accordingly less. The infer-
ence that starch and sugar should be avoided
in hot weather, and largely replaced by lean
meat, which consists in the main of proteids
or albuminoids, is, therefore, not warranted
by the evidence in regard to their constitu-
tion.
Without noticing the numerous fallacies
in the article in question, attention is called
to the widely different conclusions reached
by Dr. Foster, in the last edition of his Physi-
ology, in discussing the adaptations of diets
to climatic conditions, and to the require-
ments of the system in brain-work and severe
muscular labor.
He says : " With regard to climate the
chief considerations attach to temperature.
When the body is exposed to a low tempera-
ture, the general metabolism of the body is
increased, owing to a regulative action of the
nervous system. We might infer from this
that more food is necessary in cold climates ;
and, since the increase in the metabolism ap-
pears to manifest itself chiefly in a greater
discharge of carbonic acid, and therefore to
be especially a carbon metabolism, we might
infer that the carbon elements of food should
be especially increased. When the body is
exposed to high temperatures the same reflex
mechanism tends to lower the metabolism ;
but the effects in this direction are much less
clear than those of cold, and soon reach their
limits ; the bodily temperature is maintained
constant under the influence of surrounding
warmth not so much by diminished production
as by increased loss. We may infer from this
that in warm climates not less, but if any-
thing, rather more food than in temperate
climates is necessary in order to supply the
perspiration needed for the greater evapora-
tion and discharge of heat by the skin. . . .
Indeed, the evidence that the increase of
metabolism provoked by cold bears exclu-
sively on carbon constituents, is so uncertain
that it may be doubted whether any change
in the normal diet, beyond some increase in
the whole, should be made to meet a cold
climate. Similar reasons would lead one to
infer that man in the warmer climate would
maintain on the whole the same normal diet,
the only change perhaps being to increase it
slightly, possibly throwing the increase chiefly
on the carbohydrates with the special vievj of
furthering perspiration. . . .
" In choosing a diet for muscular labor we
must have in view not the muscle itself but the
whole organism. And although it is possi-
ble that future research may suggest minor
changes in the various components of a nor-
mal diet, such as would lessen the strain dur-
ing labor on this or that part of the body, on
the muscles as well as on other organs, our
present knowledge would rather lead us to
conclude that what is good for the organism
in comparative rest is good also for the organ-
ism in arduous work ; that the diet, normal
for the former condition, would need for the
latter a limited total increase, but no striking
change in its composition. . . . The princi-
ples of such a conclusion with regard to mus-
