698
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
eular work may be applied with still greater
confidence to nervous or mental work. The
actual expenditure of energy in nervous work
is relatively small, but the indirect influence
on the economy is very great. The closeness
and intricacies of the ties which bind all
parts of the body together are very clearly
shown by the well-known tendency of so-
called brain-work to derange the digestive
and metabolic activities of the body ; and if
there be any diet especially suited for intellect-
ual labor, it is one directed not in any way
toward the brain, but entirely toward lighten-
ing the labors of and smoothing the way for
such parts of the body as the stomach and tlie
liver.''''
It is evident from these statements that
our present knowledge of the physiology of
nutrition does not warrant any prescriptions
of special food constituents for the assumed
varying requirements of the system under
different climatic conditions or for different
kinds of work.
Individual peculiarities and inherited hab-
its of the system are prominent factors in the
processes of nutrition, and experience is a
safer guide in regulating one's diet than any
theories based on the chemical composition
of foods. Yours truly,
Manly Miles.
Lansing, Mich.
THE PROTECTION OF BRAKEMEN.
Editor Popular Science MontMy :
Sir : By the omission of a line in print-
ing the note I made to my suggestion as to
the protection of brakemen against mutilation
by accidents in coupling freight-cars (which
escaped me in the proof), my suggestion it-
self loses whatever force it might have, I
think, by being too exemplary. My sugges-
tion was (page 222 of The Popular Science
Monthly for June, 1892) that a statute might
be provided requiring the draw-heads of all
freight-cars manufactured or admitted into
the United States to be of a uniform height
and to be within projecting frame corners
from the rail surface, everybody can see that
not only humanity but perfect justice both to
the railway company and to the employe
would be subserved.
The note I added should read as follows :
I think such a law as this would be a better
one than one directing the use of an auto-
matic coupler, for it would not throw any
brakemen out of their jobs. As to the loss
of life spoken of by the President, the larger
number of instances will, I think, be found
to have occurred at night, when brakemen,
not knowing of course the height of the draw-
heads of the cars approaching them, and often
while using every precaution, might be caught
and crushed by a different build of car with
flush corners, or higher or lower timbered
corners. Such a law, prescribing uniformity
in this detail, and mulcting the company own-
ing the car or cars causing the death or mu-
tilation, by reason of its willful omission to
observe the provisions of that law, with ade-
quate damages, would be, I think, a salutary
and an exemplary one.
Since the matter is one which certainly
calls for attention, I should be glad if you
would insert this letter in your next issue.
Yours, etc.,
Appleton Morgan.
New York, June 1, 1892.
EDITOR'S TABLE.
POLITICAL PROGRESS.
' \ \THEN we look back over the his-
t V tory of this country since the
close of the civil war we find, on the
whole, ample cause for satisfaction and
encouragement. Those who look for per-
fection in the working of political insti-
tutions are doomed to disappointment.
Happy is the nation that, as the years
and decades slip by, can count some solid
gains for the cause of good government
and national morality, even though many
parts of the political machine may work
faultily, and many evil tendencies mani-
fest themselves from time to time. Aft-
er the war, we entered upon a period
of almost shameless political corruption,
not only in national but in State and
municipal affairs as well. To say that
we have completely thrown off the dis-
ease of corruption would be, we fear, to
say too much ; but that a very consid-
erable purification has been effected,
especially in connection with the na-
tional Government, no one can doubt.
Too many individuals throughout the
community are indeed indifferent to this
evil, and many are ready to make all
kinds of apologies for it, as something
that can not be dispensed with in con-
