5 2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the tribe whose legend this was, I am unable to say ; but it is
certain that at some time or other they must have seen white
cows, otherwise they would not have told about them. The pan-
ther, on the other hand, is a native of Africa ; and, indeed, there
are no panthers in our Southern States, unless the name is erro-
neously applied to the American puma. It is, therefore, quite
likely that in the original legend, as it was currently known in
Africa, both the cows and the panthers might have figured, since
both were known to the people.
A little further examination of the two stories will, however,
illustrate strikingly the changes due to locality.
In the first place, take the ladies into which the animals trans-
formed themselves. In Mr. Harris's version they are spoken of
as " quality folks," but there were no quality people in a civilized
sense in Africa, and in their stead we find a " fair stranger,"
whom one could well imagine would seem a mysterious being to
a lonely African hunter. So, too, we find that the three magic
arrows of the first story have changed to three eggs in the second,
and a palm to a pine tree, which latter change involves for Mr.
Harris an explanation of why the panthers couldn't climb the
tree, which was not needed in the first version. Such are some of
the local changes which the legend has undergone during the
past century. Others could doubtless be found, but I prefer to
pass from these to changes of greater significance. Before doing
so, however, let me say a word in regard to the names of the dogs.
Ya-me-o-ro and Con-ga-mo-ro-to have an Eastern tone that fits
exactly with the African legend ; but where, within the confines
of Georgia, did Mr. Harris unearth such remarkable combinations
of letters as " Minny minny Morack " and " Follerlinsko " ? Uncle
Remus, I am sure, could never have pronounced them, and one is
inclined to believe that they were conjured up by the author's
fertile brain to take the place of the euphonious forgotten titles.
Though change of locality has much to do with the alterations
occurring in folk lore, it is by no means the only factor which
brings about such results. Contact with a foreign predominant
race, and with its customs and legends, has an equally great effect.
In the first quotation which I made from Mr. Harris's version
one of these alterations just noted is to be found. The ladies
are discussed, by the little boy and his mother, in regard to their
manner of drinking, their hands, and their teeth. Now, this inquiry
and thirst after information on the part of the little boy is thor-
oughly English in spirit. The native African would never have
asked such questions, because he was by nature lazy and indiffer-
ent. It also suggests very strongly the story of Red Riding
Hood, which has almost become a classic in the English tongue.
Red Riding Hood, the reader will remember, visits a wolf, dis-
