EDITOR'S TABLE.
699
nection with popular institutions ; but
in some way or other the nation, as a
whole, has set its face against it, and
the suspicion of being systematically cor-
rupt that is to say, of practicing, or
being prepared to practice, corruption
in the administration of the national
Government would be fatal to either
political party.
Twenty years ago the " spoils sys-
tem " was in full force. Every office
under the Government was virtually used
for purposes of bribery. It was bestowed
in the first place as a reward for fidel-
ity to party, and the salary attached to
it was afterward assessed for contribu-
tions to the party funds. The sense of
decency of the people has risen up in
revolt against this abomination, and,
though the principles of civil-service
reform have not yet been carried far
enough, the great body of the national
civil service has been placed on an in-
dependent and honorable footing. No
party manager can now fry the meager
" fat " out of the smaller office-holders
for political purposes ; the only persons
to whom that process can at present be
applied are the higher functionaries and
the protected manufacturers. The re-
sult of this partial yet extensive reform
of the civil service has been a consider-
able increase in the efficiency of the
public departments. The public inter-
est is now kept in view where formerly
there was little thought of anything
save how to make an office temporarily
held of as much advantage as possible
to the holder. The effect on the self-
respect of the service is already marked,
and we can not doubt that it will be-
come more so as years go on.
But there is further progress yet to
be made. The perfection of any ma-
chine is to consist of the fewest parts
in other words, to be as simple as pos-
sible in construction and to accomplish
its work with the least possible loss of
energy. In judging of our political and
administrative institutions we can not
keep this analogy too closely in view.
But here arises a prior question : "What
is the work which our political machine
should be set to accomplish ? Is it, for
example, to regulate the whole indus-
trial and commercial life of the people?
If so, adieu all hope of simplicity of
construction ! Adieu, we may add, all
hope of any efficient performance of so
huge, so unlimited a task. As has often
been pointed out more than once in
these columns the system of taking
certain industries under the protection
and patronage of the state is, in itself,
a species of corruption, and has its nat-
ural result in special acts of gross cor-
ruption. "What will a wealthy manu-
facturer, whose profits depend in large
measure upon a tariff enacted for his
special benefit, not do for the party that
made and maintains the tariff? The
thing is too obvious to need insisting on.
The more help a party receives from
the controllers of tariff-fed industries
the more independent it is of the people ;
and it is for the people to see to it that
they are not strangled in cords of their
own making. The governing power in
a state ought to be under no obligations
of any kind to individuals, corporations,
or interests within the state ; it should
stand aloof from all these, in order that
it may do justice to all without fear or
favor, without prejudice or partiality.
Until this condition prevails it is abso-
lutely impossible that we should have
honest government in the full sense of
the word. It is evident then what the
next step in the purification of our na-
tional life must be : it is the freeing of
the governing power from all depend-
ence on, and all entangling alliances
with, private interests. "We believe
that, were this done, a higher standard
of public duty and a nobler tone of pub-
lic life would at once be established ;
and we should begin to see more clearly
how, in other respects, our administra-
tive methods might be improved. The
ideal of a free state is the largest pos-
sible measure at once of liberty and
security for the individual citizen, and
