;oo
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the widest possible scope for spontane-
ous social activities. We are well aware
that, even in this enlightened commu-
nity, not every citizen takes this view
of tlio matter ; that the old idea of gov-
ernment as a kind of earthly Providence
to whom prayers may be addressed on
all possible subjects, and whose powers
of interference with the natural course
of things are, and should be, unlimited,
more or less prevails. We trust, how-
ever, that this antiquated notion is on
the wane, and that within the next few
years our people will take a decided
step in advance in freeing themselves
from the thrall of unnecessary state in-
terference with individual action. We
shall never know what, as a people, we
are capable of till we take our industrial
and commercial activities into our own
hands, and instruct our legislators that
we shall not in future consider it one of
their tasks to make this country wealthy
and prosperous.
MORAL ENDEAVOR.
Theke has recently sprung into ex-
istence a society of vast extent, the pro-
fessed purpose of which is to promote
the doing of good deeds by its mem-
bers. We refer to the Society of Chris-
tian Endeavor, a monster convention
of which was held in this city two
month ago. So far as its main object
goes, it is impossible to find any fault,
even were one so disposed, with the
Society of Christian Endeavor. One is
only tempted to ask a little mournfully
why it should be thought necessary to
join a society in order to feel prompt-
ed to good deeds. We all belong to a
society far vaster than that of Christian
Endeavor we are all members of the
great human society. Through our
membership therein we reap a constant
succession of benefits of the most im-
portant character ; and the question we
should put to ourselves, if we have not
already put it, is whether our personal
attitude toward that great society is
what it ought to be. It can not be
what it ought to be unless we vividly
realize the benefits our membership en-
tails. To the human society we are in-
debted for peace and security, the pro-
tection of life and property, scope for
the development of family and personal
affections, access to the means of intel-
lectual and moral growth, opportunities
for aesthetic enjoyment in a word, all
that enters into the great name civiliza-
tion. Without this society into which
we are all born members we should re-
cede into a barbarism more primitive
than that of our flint-fashioning ances-
tors, for even they lived in societies.
Language would leave us, and, with
language, all higher rationality.
This great human society, like other
organizations, works under conditions,
and, vast as are the benefits it now con-
fers upon us, they are not what they
would be if each member consciously
endeavored to advance the ends for
which the society exists. It is worth
while to pause a moment and think
what life would be if every member of
the human society were a working
member in the best sense ; if, by a faith-
ful performance of duty and a kindly
bearing toward our fellow-men, we were
all trying to briDg our society to per-
fection. Does any one say that the
human society is too big for one to feel
any affection or loyalty toward it? If
so, it is not wisely said. The Society of
Christian Endeavor is getting to be
very big indeed running into the mill-
ions but is the interest in it lessening
on that account? We do not hear that
it is. In point of fact the human so-
ciety is not too big for many to feel a
deep interest in it already; and we are
persuaded that, if only its claims were
properly presented, multitudes could be
brought to profess their allegiance to it.
Every day of life thousands, nay mill-
ions, of deeds are done consciously or
unconsciously in the name of human-
ity that is to say, with no other
feeling or motive than a desire to do
