54 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
There is one more very curious point in regard to the treat-
ment of the hunter by the woman, which has an ethical signifi-
cance which seems more than national. The woman, after entrap-
ping the hunter by her charms and depriving him of his strength
in the shape of the dogs, surrenders him to his enemies.
Between the Aryan and negro races there is a very great differ-
ence 1 the difference between a race that has a written language
and one that has not. It would seem that their religions might
have little or nothing in common ; yet in this legend of the woman
and the hunter have we not a counterpart of the legend of Sam-
son and Delilah, in the Bible, where the woman, having deprived
him of his strength, gives him over to his enemies ?
Thus we see that among all races it has been customarv to in-
corporate cardinal virtues and cardinal vices in legendary form,
and it is only too likely that Delilahs existed on the coast of
Africa as well as elsewhere ; and, alas ! as men daily learn, are
still among us.
Such are some of the changes in an example of folk lore which
a century has wrought : but they are not greater than the changes
which the people whose folk lore it is have undergone, and which,
a- I think I have shown, in no uncertain manner.
The legend, we might almost say. is the gauge of a people,
for it clearly shows the risings and fallings in its social and men-
tal condition. It is interesting to note how the one noted has re-
mained intact in its general outlines, in spite of the disintegration
of the tribe with whom it probably originated. Folk lore is one
of the few immortal possessions of a nation. Its greatness may
fade, and its name be forgotten among men, but while the world
exists its national legends will still remain. Thus, out of the
ignorance of a people, may be built their only monument of last-
in? fame.
- -
ANTHROPOLOGICAL WORK IX EUROPE.
By Peof. FEEDEE1CK STAEB.
A\
^ITH<!>UT visiting either Stockholm, Vienna, or Rome, the
author has recently seen many of the museums of ethnog-
raphy in western Europe. It has seemed to him that a sketch of
the workers and a description of the work in anthropology there
might be of interest to readers of the Monthlv. Hence this
article, which makes no claim to exhaustiveness, but which does
aim to suggest something of the intense interest now shown in
that science in Holland, Germany. Switzerland, Italy, France, and
England. Under the comprehensive word anthropology we com-
prise physical anthropology, ethnography, prehistoric archaeology,
and culture historv.
