ANTHROPOLOGICAL WORK IX EUROPE.
55
Museums of ethnography are far more common in Europe
than with us. There are, perhaps, no large cities without such an
institution, and many small towns have fine collections. In the
little kingdom of Holland alone there are fully a half-dozen
ethnographic museums of importance, the chief one being at
Leyden. This city is the main educational town of Holland, and
its university, always fa-
mous for its corps of teach-
ers, still holds its rank as a
finely manned institution of
learning. Besides the uni-
versity, the town boasts of
one of the best museums of
antiquities in the world, par-
ticularly rich in Egyptian
and Javanese objects, and
the ethnographic museum,
which in some respects is
unsurpassed. Like many of
the great collections in Eu-
rope, the latter is unfortu-
nate in its housing. The
part usually shown to visit-
ors comprises the wonder-
fully rich collections from
the South seas and the East
Indies. These are in ex-
ceedingly crowded and ill-
lighted cpiarters, and a satisfactory display is impossible in the
present building. The African collections are in a second build-
ing as little suited to display as the first, and the rich series from
Asia are stored in yet a third building. It is much to be de-
sired that this collection might be brought together under one
roof in a building of suitable character and well lighted and
suitably cased. We have already referred to the wonderful series
of objects from the South seas and the Indies. Many of them,
brought home by the early navigators, are old. and represent the
native arts before they were affected by white influence. Espe-
cially fine are the carved work, weapons, armor, and articles of
dress and adornment. Xew Guinea is finely represented by ob-
jects from different parts, well illustrating the local variation in
arts. The specimens from Sumatra. Engano, Xias, Borneo, and
Java illustrate the whole life of the natives. The collection of
k rises, or dirks, is probably the largest in the world, and many
of the specimens are masterpieces of metal-work, and the hilts
and sheaths are crusted with precious stones. Dr. Serrurier, the
Dr. J. D. E. Schitzltz.
