56
THE POPULAR SCIEXCE MONTHLY.
director of the museum, classifies etlmograpliic objects iuto twelve
groups such as relate to (1) Food, Drink, etc. ; ('-?) Clothiug ; (3)
House-furnishing ; (4) Fishing and Hunting ; (5) Agriculture ;
(6) Domestication of Animals ; (?) Trading ; (8) Manufactures ;
(9) Weapons and War: (10) Government and Society; (11) Toys,
Music, Theatre, etc. ; (12) Religion, Science, and the like. This
scheme of classification runs through the whole arrangement of
the museum. Dr. Serrurier is fortunate in having associated with
him as conservator Dr. J. D. E. Schmeltz.
There are in the university faculty several men who, without
being professional anthropologists, have more or less directly done
work of importance to anthropological science. Such are the fa-
mous Sanskrit scholar, Prof. Kern ; the Sinologue, Prof. Schlegel,
and Dr. Thiele, of the theological school. The latter has contributed
much to the present scientific study of religions. Prof. Schlegel's
Chinese Dictionary is far more than a " word-book," and is a
treasury of ethnological
material to which all stu-
dents must refer. With
M. Henri Cordier, of Par-
is, Prof. Schlegel is edit-
or of an interesting bi-
monthly journal devoted
to Asiatic subjects Toung
Pao. The university has a
chair of Ethnology, which
was for several years ably
filled by Prof. George
Wilken, whose death a few
months since was a seri-
ous loss to the institution.
Prof. J. J. M. de Groot
has been appointed to the
position.
Prof. Kern and Prof.
Schlegel, with other
workers in ethnography
in various countries, form
an editorial committee of the Internationales Archiv fur Eth-
nographic, a journal appearing at Leyden under the very capable
direction of Dr. J. D. E. Schmeltz. Dr. Schmeltz is a rare worker.
Born in Hamburg, his first important work in the field of eth-
nography was done upon the famous Godeffroy collection, from,
the South seas. The result of his work was the well-known illus-
trated catalogue of that collection, which is the first work that
the student of the South-sea cultures must know. Dr. Schmeltz
Dr. Rudolf Virchow.
