ANTHROPOLOGICAL WORK IN EUROPE.
59
the bases of the upper middle incisors as horizontal, while the
Germans make it pass from the middle point of the upper curve
of the auditory meatus to the middle part of the lower curve of the
optic orbit. Virchow claims that the German line is preferable,
as it can easily be taken on the living person, as well as upon the
skull. He adds, usually with a little quiet satisfaction : ' The
French horizontal line throws the head up, while ours throws it
more naturally and downward ; they are more proud, we are mod-
est." For years Dr. Virchow has edited the Zeitschrift fiir Eth-
nologie, the official journal of the Berlin Anthropological Society,
of which he has always been a leading member. Dr. Virchow's
seventieth birthday was celebrated with much of German hearti-
ness last fall, but years tell little on him, and he does a prodigious
amount of work with all the enthusiasm of a young man.
Of the many other workers in physical anthropology in Ger-
many we can mention but
one Dr. Johannes Ranke,
of the University of Munich.
He is perhaps the only full
and regular Professor of
Physical Anthropology in
Germany. Since 1866 Prof.
Ranke has been editor of
the Archiv fiir Anthropo-
logic, and since 1877 of the
Urgeschichte Bayerns. His
work, Der Mensch, in two
large volumes, is the best
elementary work on descrip-
tive anthropology. His lab-
oratory is well equipped in
part with instruments of his
own devising. One of the
most important operations
in anthropology is finding
the internal capacity of the
cranium. There are a host
of methods. The difficulty is that no two methods give the same
result, and no single method in the hands of two unskilled ob-
servers gives exact agreement. The thing desired, then, is to
work out a method of " cubage " that shall give invariable results.
Dr. Ranke has attempted this. His students are given a bronze
skull of known capacity. This is filled with millet seed rammed
in tightly with a wooden plug. The filling is afterward turned
out and measured. Every step in the operation is subject to
fixed rules. When a student gains such skill that he succeeds
Prof. Friedrich Ratzel.
