6o
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
always in getting the capacity of this standard skull exactly,
he is considered competent to measure the capacity of real crania.
In drawing skulls most German workers use an instrument called
a diopter, which produces a drawing of the natural size. Dr.
Ranke has ingeniously attached a pantograph to the diopter in
such a way that a correct
reduced drawing may be
produced at one opera-
tion. His craniophore
an instrument for sup-
porting a skull in a hori-
zontal position for pur-
poses of study is the
simplest and best made,
but is, of course, suited
only to the German hori-
zontal.
In German Switzerland,
at Basel, is Dr. Kollman,
best considered here, as he
is of the German school.
Prof. Kollman is a born
teacher, and every speci-
men in his Anatomical Mu-
seum of the university is
considered as instruction
material, and is so mounted
or prepared as to make its teaching value the greatest. The sub-
ject of prehistoric races has taken much of his attention, and a
large case in the museum is devoted to a series of casts or origi-
nals of such skulls. Particularly interesting is the large series of
prehistoric Swiss skulls representing the types described in His
and Rutimeyer's classic work. Dr. Kollman has introduced some
exceedingly long and difficult words into the nomenclature of phys-
ical anthropology leptoprosopic, chaempeprosopic, etc. They are
descriptive of cranial forms, and are intended as classificatory ; it
is doubtful, however, whether they really express natural types
or simply artificial and arbitrary groupings.
As to ethnography, Germany is permeated with it, Magnifi-
cent collections are numerous, and workers are everywhere. Leip-
sic is a center of work. Here is the collection at which Dr.
Klemm worked so diligently, now in charge of Dr. Obst. Only a
small part of the treasures of this collection are on display. These
are crowded, poorly arranged, and badly lighted ; and a vast
quantity of precious things are stored away, where they must be
deteriorating in value as the months pass. In the university
%
-v
^H^^. TraJsi 1 ti :* : Mm^# ^^^^^^
Prof. Ad. Bastian.
