ANTHROPOLOGICAL WORK IN EUROPE.
61
is Prof. Friedrich. Ratzel, best known to ns for his Volkerkiinde
an introduction to ethnography. Dr. Ratzel is now revising
this work, and he has lately issued a yet more valuable treatise
Anthropogeographie. Ethnography is most interesting to him
in its geography, and he at present lays especial stress upon the
local distribution of customs and arts. Prof. Ratzel is a favorite
teacher, and has sent out many young men imbued with his meth-
ods. Among these, one of the most promising is Dr. Heinrich
Schurtz, privat-docent at the university, whose recent Philosophie
der Tracht is an application of Ratzel's methods to the study of
dress.
Drs. Meyer, Lueders, and Buchner are doing fine work with
the museums at Dresden, Hamburg, and Munich, and deserve
more than a brief reference. But the ethnographic work of Ger-
many and of the world cul-
minates in Berlin. Adolph
Bastian is the director of the
museum, the leader of the
corps of able workers who
carry it on. He is a man
whom years do not make
old ; one who has unquench-
able fire and enthusiasm. He
is decidedly the right man
in the right place. The Gov-
ernment has been liberal to
him, but he continually
needs new funds for more
and greater enterprises. No
one recognizes more clearly
than he the importance of
doing ethnographical work
now ; to-morrow will be too
late. Old tribes are dying
out ; new customs are being
introduced ; native cultures
are being swept away, or rapidly modified by contact with the
civilization of the white man. Illustrations of such cultures
must be saved now or never. " It is a burning house, and the
main purpose is to gather material for the future to use. And
contents are lost while we wait." So his prodigious accumula-
tions are here for example, Dr. Grunwedel, who has direction
of the India collections, has upward of twenty-four thousand
objects in his charge. Prof. Bastian is a great traveler and a
busy writer. Scarcely a year passes without an important work
from his pen.
Dr. Eduard Seler.
