62 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The American department of this vast collection is exceedingly
valuable. There is but little from the Indians of the United
States ; from ancient Mexico and Peru, from the modern South
American tribes, and from the Northwest coast the representation
is magnificent. The culture of Eskimos, of Tlingits, Haidas, and
Bilgulas are fully shown. Some very choice Mexican antiquities
collected by Humboldt are here. Here, too, are three of the ex-
ceedingly rare and interesting mosaics from Mexico made by
overlaying forms of wood with bits of turquoise, obsidian, and
shell. Perhaps a score such are known in European museums :
seven are at London, three at Berlin, two at Copenhagen, and five
at Rome. They are among the most curious and interesting Az-
tec objects. There are fine series of pottery from Mexico and
Yucatan. The collection of Peruvian pottery is wonderfully com-
plete, and is no doubt the finest on public display in the world.
Reiss and StubePs great collections, upon which their famous
work, The Necropolis of Ancon, is based, are here, and include
the finest general series of Peruvian antiquities on exhibition
especially rich in wrapped mummies, fine cloths, and household
goods. As for modern ethnography, there are series of objects
from almost every tribe from the Caribbean Sea to Cape Horn.
All this wealth of materials is under the care of Dr. Edward Seler,
whose special work upon Mexican subjects has made him known
to Americanists.
The men at Berlin are all hard workers. Dr. F. von Luschan,
curator of the African department, exemplifies this. Himself a
specialist in biblical archaeology, and frequently in the field over-
seeing excavation, he allows no opjwrtunity to pass unimproved
for gathering anthropological material of every kind. In addi-
tion to his regular work he has, while in the field, taken photo-
graphs and anthropological measurements of more than three
thousand persons, some of them among barbarous and little-known
tribes a work which alone would not represent an idle life.
We can refer to but two more of the German workers Dr.
Richard Andree and Dr. E. Grosse. Richard Andree, of Heidel-
berg, has the heartiest admiration for our American ethnogra-
phers and their work, and it is certain that they reciprocate. His
writings are always clear and direct. His latest work perhaps is
his Ethnographische Parallelen a good example of his style and
ability. As editor of the geographic journal Globus, Dr. Andree
is known the world around. At the old University of Freiburg,
in the most picturesque part of the Rhine mountain country, is
in progress one of the most hopeful works in anthropology in
Europe. Dr. E. Grosse is there developing a museum and a de-
partment of anthropology. No effort is made to collect a great
mass of material, but carefully selected specimens are arranged
