ANTHROPOLOGICAL WORK IN EUROPE.
63
so as to show man's progress from the oldest age of stone to the
present time, and so as to present pictures of life in various exist-
ing tribes of savage or barbarous men. Nothing is here done in
physical anthropology, but lectures are given in ethnography and
culture history, and these are exceedingly popular. Dr. Grossed
work is unobtrusive, but it is sure to be far-reaching.
Much of the value of collections is lost by bad arrangement.
Nowhere is there such pains taken in display as at Copenhagen.
The results are beautiful,
although nowhere have
greater disadvantages had
to be overcome. The Eth-
nographical Museum is the
oldest in existence, having
been founded in 1847 In-
spector Steinhauer, now
seventy-five years of age,
has had the arrangement
in charge. Dr. Kristian
Bahnson, a specialist in
American ethnography, is
his assistant. To Inspec-
tor Steinhauer was given
an old palace, with many
small rooms, not at all
adapted to the housing of
a great museum. He has
done wonders ; not an inch
of space is lost, and great
ingenuity is displayed in
making available what must at first have looked like useless wall-
room and passage-ways. The collections are arranged first by
countries or tribes, and the material from any one region is rigidly
classified into groups : (1) Religion; (2) Men ; (3) War; (I) House;
(5) Industry and Art ; (6) Amusement. Within the cases them-
selves the objects are arranged with the greatest care so as to pro-
duce the most pleasing effect possible. In the same building is the
Museum of Northern Antiquities, under charge of Dr. Sophus
Mtiller. Denmark is classic ground for the prehistoric archa?olo-
gist. Scarcely a foot of its surface but what has yielded relics.
Its peat-bogs, kitchen-middens, and tumuli are famous. Here are
found the finest flint-chipping in the world, the most interesting
of bronze implements, the finest gold ornaments of the bronze
age, and vast quantities of specimens illustrating the early age
of iron. No student can afford to neglect this collection. The
Museum of Northern Antiquities is exceedingly popular with the
Dr. Richard Andree.
