64
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
Danish people, who are very loyal in sending to it specimens they
may find. The Government itself is very wide awake to the im-
portance of such, work as is here done, and has acted vigorously
in the matter of preserving tumuli and other monuments of the
past.
Anthropology is by no means neglected in Switzerland. With
men like Vogt and Kollman in physical anthropology, with mu-
seums of ethnography at Basel, Bern, and Zurich, it is still true
that the department of prehistoric archaeology leads the rest there.
This is quite natural, for every lake has its old village sites and
every town of consequence has its collection of " lake-dwelling "
antiquities. There are more than two score such, of some impor-
tance, in Switzerland. Certainly those at Bern and Zurich may
be taken as good examples. The former, under Dr. van Fellen-
berg, represents very fully all three of the great " ages " of the
archaeologist. The oldest lake-dwelling villages of Europe date
back to the age of stone (the neolithic period) ; many were of the
bronze age ; some were of the early part of the age of iron. Some
of the sites were occupied
continuously from the older
to the later time, while
others represent only a sin-
gle period. At Zurich are
the collections upon which
Dr. Keller's work was based,
and very much valuable
and interesting material
from recent explorations
undertaken quite near the
city. Dr. Heierli, who
teaches prehistoric archae-
ology in the University of
Zurich, has still a largely
unworked field in Lake
Zurich. It is a mistake to
think of the lake-dwelling
sites as " worked out."
Italy is very active in
anthropological work. At
Turin Prof. Guido Cora
conducts a geographical journal which contains much ethno-
graphic matter; in the same city Prof. Lombroso experiments,
writes books, and edits a journal, to which is due much of the
present interest in criminal anthropology. In Florence are
Mantegazza, Giglioli, and Regalia. At Perugia, Belluchi works
away at the stone age of Italy. In Rome is one of the great eth-
Prof. Paolo Mantegazza.
