ANTHROPOLOGICAL WORK IN EUROPE. 65
nographic museums of the world, with Pigorini as director and
Coligni as assistant. Two of these workers occupy unique posi-
tions. Prof. Paolo Mantegazza is President of the Anthropological
Society of Italy, editor of an anthropological journal, Director of
the National Museum of Ethnography and Anthropology, and pro-
fessor in the university. We mention these titles because they
suggest his work. Physical anthropology, man himself, is his
specialty. Mantegazza has traveled much and has written works
of value as a result such are his monograph upon the Lapps and
his work on India. But the books to which his fame is most due
are of a more general character. Such are his Physiology of
Pleasure, Physiology of Pain, and Physiognomy and Expression.
The latter has been published in America in English, and will give
a good idea of his style. His trilogy on love Physiology of Love,
Hygiene of Love, and Ethnography of Love has created a sen-
sation. The German translation of these has sold by tens of thou-
sands ; a similar success has attended the French edition ; and in
Italy they are seen everywhere. Mantegazza's mind is intensely
analytic. This is shown both in his writings and in his museum.
Nowhere else, so far as we know, is analysis applied to anthropo-
logical material. He divides it into groups illustrating: (1) Com-
parative anthropology, (2) biological anthropology, (3) artificial
deformations, (4) pathological anthropology, (5) psychological
anthropology, (6) ethnical anthropology. It must be confessed
that having divided his material in this way he makes no attempt
to arrange it afterward in the cases. In this museum, Prof. Man-
tegazza has upward of four thousand skulls, two thousand of which
are Italian. One of Mantegazza's latest ideas is a psychological
museum, in which, by objects, the workings of the mind are to be
illustrated. This museum has been begun, but it will be long be-
fore the plan can be fully developed. By profession Henry H.
Giglioli is a zoologist. In charge of the department of vertebrate
zoology at the University of Florence, his work in that line speaks
for itself. Interested in ethnography by a voyage he made around
the world, he has gathered a collection of stone implements un-
surpassed perhaps by any other private collection. The idea of
the series is not to illustrate the stone age of any one place or peo-
ple, but by carefully selected specimens from every part of the
world to show all types of stone implements. Prof. Giglioli has
also much interest in the persistence of the use of stone tools into
later culture stages.
Paris epitomizes France, and certainly the character of French
work in anthropology is fairly shown if that of the capital is de-
scribed. Anthropology is more cultivated in Paris than anywhere
else in the world, and every department is there developed. The
ethnographic collections are at the Louvre, the Trocadero, and
VOL. XLI. 6
