66
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
the Muse'e Guimet. It is a pity that the material from Africa and
the South seas now at the Louvre is not sent to the Trocadero
and incorporated in the collections there under charge of Dr.
Hamy. The Trocadero is a beautiful building, and the collec-
tions it contains are of great importance, but it is not adapted to
their suitable display. Dr. Hamy has made the best of his cir-
cumstances, and his cases
and wall trophies (usually
an abomination in a mu-
seum, but here a necessity)
are true works of art. The
hall devoted to African
specimens is wonderfully
fine, and the collections
from South America, Mexi-
co, and Yucatan are quite
as good as any in Europe.
One feature of this mu-
seum is that it contains a
fair representation of the
ethnography of Europe
a thing exceedingly rare.
The Muse'e Guimet embod-
ies a brilliant idea, the il-
lustration of the world's
religions. It grew out of
an expedition sent to Asia
to study the religions of
Japan and India. The collections belong to the state and oc-
cupy a building constructed for the purpose and beautifully
arranged. The display halls are erected about a triangular
court, and the two in front are connected by a rotunda. This
contains a valuable library composed entirely of works devoted
to religions. So far only Buddhism is represented with any
degree of fullness. The arrangement is geographical. The re-
ligions of India, southeastern Asia, and China occupy the first
floor of one gallery, while in the upper floor are objects illustrat-
ing the worships of ancient Greece and Rome. In a second wing
are the Japanese series on the first floor and religious objects
from ancient Egypt on the second. The third hall is as yet
largely unoccupied. The chief criticism that one might make
of this museum is, that the specimens are all choice pieces ; there
is little to show the common idols or the mode in which worship
is conducted. On the walls in the galleries and the rotunda
are many paintings by Felix Regamy representing sacred places,
temples, and religious ceremonies.
Prof. Henry H. Giglioli.
