74 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ries an impressive lesson as to the unity prevailing amid all the
diversity of Nature, besides affording the hope that we may at
some time discover the origin of life, since it has already opened
the way to an explanation of the origin of the existing forms
of life ; while the grand outcome of geological study is that it
brings vividly before the mind the immensity of time, enabling
us to realize that time is only less than eternity. It also teaches
us that our earth has had a history, that our own race has had
a high antiquity ; and thus the contemplation of past geological
ages, reckoned by millions of years, the fact that our earth is
coeval with the sun in age all these considerations tend to im-
measurably expand our mental horizon, and thus to react in a
way to broaden the mind.
Geology is also the complement of biology. As soon as one
has mastered the rudiments of botany and zoology, and of the
distribution of life-forms in space, the range of his thoughts
should be extended to take in the orderly succession of life in
past ages, and the evolution of modern specialized plants and
animals from the earlier, generalized types. No liberally edu-
cated person can, then, afford to ignore the study, and it seems to
us that it should be taken up for the following, among many
other considerations :
1. Our first reason is that geology throws light on the origin
of our earth and of the solar system in general ; the facts and
speculations which culminated in the modern nebular hypothesis
give some idea of the steps by which our planet assumed its
present form and became adapted for the maintenance of life.
2. After the earth cooled down and assumed its present shape
and size ; in some way unknown to us, monads and bacteria, to-
gether with infusoria, one-celled plants and animals, began to
exist, and geology hints that the period when all this became
possible may have been the early Laurentian, or at least at the
dawn of what, for a better name, we call archsean time.
3. We now feel quite sure that the diversity of life of the
Cambrian period must have been in some way the result of
great changes in the physical geography of that time, and cor-
related with the inequalities of the sea-bottom, with regions of
shallows and of abysses, with landlocked areas, islands, and in-
cipient continents, rising from submarine plateaus bearing mount-
ain-chains. Geology describes the birth of continents, the rise
of mountain-chains, and discusses the results of the action of
heat in transforming the physical features of our globe, and
thus, in part at least, explains the origin of volcanoes, the causes
of earthquakes, and the processes of mountain-carving, through
the agency of brooks and rivers.
4. Over immense tracts of mountainous regions, rocks, origi-
