THE LIMITATIONS OF THE HEALING ART. 77
of human types, leading up to races of which our existing sav-
ages are the descendants. Physically, man of the present time is a
most composite being, the result of crossings which began to take
place long before the dawn of history. And, finally, it has been
left for the geologists and archaeologists, of whom Lyell, Lartet,
Mortillet, and others, are types, to point out the overlapping of
prehistoric upon historic times, and thus to bring to light the
lost ages, filling up the abyss in our knowledge formerly existing
between the dawn of human history and the close of geological
history.
Such is the light which geology has already thrown upon the
origin of man, and of the world in which he lives. Who can
deny the utility and importance of a study which bears such
fruits? How can a person be regarded as liberally educated
who has not been brought in contact with these facts? And
yet there are still hundreds and thousands of our college grad-
uates who have neither had careful training in the principles, nor
have been brought into contact with the grand results of modern
geology ; whose minds have not felt the inspiration and mental
tension resulting from contact with these wonderful discoveries
and conclusions. Is there not every reason why geology should
be taught, provided the facts and principles be imparted in a way
to stimulate, quicken, and expand the mind?
Brown University.
THE LIMITATIONS OF THE HEALING ART.
Br Prof. Dr. HERRMANN NOTHNAGEL, of Vienna.*
rpHE fact is very evident that the practical art of healing has
-L made great advances during the past century, especially
during the last half of it. The progress of dermatology, the
brilliant career of ophthalmology, the new creation of laryngology,
the wonderful development of operative surgery and gynaecology,
and, in the line of internal curatives, the introduction of a series
of effective remedial substances and physical methods of healing,
and, further, the greater importance attached to physiological,
dietetical, and hygienic factors of the most diversified sorts have
all taken place during this period, and in part in the very pres-
ence of our contemporaries. And when we add to Lister's anti-
septic process Pasteur's discovery of the antidote for rabies, and
Koch's communication of a cure for consumption, which was
received a year ago with such unbounded enthusiasm, the ques-
tion may well force itself upon us, Where are the limits of the
* From an address before the Association of German Naturalists and Physicians at
Halle.
