80 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
gradually, or set in with greater or less intensity. A quantity
of arsenic which ordinarily would kill at once, is borne by the
habitual arsenic-eater. Of two similarly constituted persons,
cholera will take one away at once, while another will escape
with a light attack. A disease is also incurable when its causes
work on without interruption. Malaria induces an incurably
chronic condition if the infected person does not leave the
impregnated marsh-land of his residence. A bronchial catarrh
continues stationary, and at last draws the lungs into sympathy
with it, if the person attacked by it remains constantly exposed
to a dusty atmosphere. "With like suddenness and energy of
the causes of disease, with like continuance of the local pro-
cesses, the individual's power of resistance, the vigor of his consti-
tution are important factors in determining the outcome. A
vigorous thirty-year-old man will overcome an inflammation of
the lungs which would be fatal to an old man, to a drinker, or to
a man weakened by luxury or a life of dissipation or suffering.
Finally, crimen non est artis, sed cegroti the fault is not of the
art, but of the patient is the phrase that may be applied to those
cases in which the most correct measures taken under favorable
circumstances fail to accomplish their purpose, because the patient
himself does not or can not co-operate with them. No treatment
can relieve the smoker from his throat-catarrh, so long as he per-
sists in his habit. This aspect of the case is especially pertinent
to the nervous disorders which are one of the growing scourges
of our age ; incapacity and vacillation, the force of outer influ-
ences, or the pressure of business too often intervene to interrupt
a cure which was otherwise fairly possible.
Gloomy as are the prospects which we have before us here,
we still recognize that all diseases which do not fall under one of
these mentioned categories are curable, or that their curability is
only a question of time. Strange as it may sound in the present
state of medicine, we believe that the possibility of in time curing
malignant tumors is not yet closed.
Real healing, the restoration to their normal state of functions
and tissues that have been changed by disease, is brought about
in its essentials only through the life-processes in the organism.
Therefore the answer to the question to what degree the healing
art is or may be in a condition to influence these processes will be
decisive as to whether it shall enlarge the boundaries of its
knowledge. And if it results that this can not be, or can be
only within a small compass, then will arise the further question
whether the object shall be hopelessly given up, or whether still
other possibilities are open for medicine to strive after its high
aim. It will never be possible to re-form lost cells or to cause
separated ones to grow together again; never immediately to
