138
J/)'</rns — yjie ^ii/icn'c<i)i J(/(/>n//-s.
crown of upper t-arnassial measuring 31 by 16; crown of mid-
dle upper premolar, 20 by 13; lengtli of u])per canine from
gums (tooth worn), 37; length of incisor toothrow, 33.5. The
audital bulla^ are greatly flattened, the space between bulla and
paroccipital tilled, but that between it and mastoid not com-
pletely so. Brazilian skulls are somewhat smaller than those
from Parana, Paraguay, and Bolivia, and have smaller teeth,
less flattened audital bulla^; and in some there is a sulcus be-
tween the bulla and the mastoid process.
The juguars of South America may be distinguished from
those of Central America and Mexico as follows:
South American Jaguars.
Mexican and Centrai American Jaguars.
Postpalatal fossa, in adult male, l\)slpalatal I'ossa less than 23
more than 23 mm. wide. mm. wide.
Audital bulla llattened, willi Audital bulla intialed, with deep
space between it and paroccipital fossje between it and the mastoid
and mastoid processes filled up. and paroccipital processes.
Ijength of second and third pre- Length of second and third pre-
molars, taken together, more than molars, taken together, less than
4.1 mm. 4."> mm.
Maximum diameters of male Ma.ximum diameters of male
skull, 300 by 200 mm. skull, 280 by 180 mm.
The remaining forms, from north of South America, of which
I have examined six skins and thirteen skulls, may be identified
by means of the i'o I lowing key:
Skin with a rosette pattern, in black, extending from
neck to hips and from vertebral line to belly. Outer
surface of ear, all black. Skull of male less tlian 21.)
mm. in basal h'ngth. Inhabits Central America,
from Honduras to Panama / Fdi.s centrKUfi
Skin with distinct rosettes only on middle dorsal area;
elsewhere they are disorganized into isolated black
spots. Outer sva-face of ear witli a tawny central spot.
Skull of male more than 215 mm. in basal length.
Distributed throughout the lowlands of Mexico and
the atljacenl border of the Tnited States,
