Jlearns — T/ic Atncrlcon Jajjxars. 139
Coloration pallid, ground color ochraceovis bufT,
black spots small. Inhabits the Arid Tropical
areas of Mexico, north to the United States Felifi hernandesii.
Coloration intense, ground color tawny ochraceous,
black markings much larger. Inhabits Humid
Tropical areas of Mexico, (north to Texas ?)
Felis henuindcsii (joldmani.
Felis centralis sp. nov.
CKXTH.^I. AMEIlIt AX .IA(!UAK.
Type. — Skull No. 14,177, adult male, from Talamanca, Costa Rica,
collected by Professor William M. Gabb. (The skin, No. 12,177, U. S.
National Museum, seems to have been destroyed.)
Chardctei-s. — Smallest of the Jaguars. [.cnglli of adult male, 1800
mm. Basal length of male skull, 200 to 212. Dentition weak, upper
premolar series measuring, on alveoli, 49 to 53.5. Coloration intense:
upper surface of body with a median chain of black spots, bordered
by five rows of black-bordered rosettes, on a ground of clay color: outer
surface of ear, black, excepting a few tawny hairs: chest and belly
heavily blotched with black.
C'(?^(/r.— Skin No. 61,192, V. S. National Museum collection, from
Costa Rica, received from the Costa Rican Commission, World's Colum-
bian Exposition, has the upperparts with a median chain of black spots,
bordered on each side by about five longitudinal rows of black rosettes
occupying the back and sides, on a ground of clay color. Tlie median
dorsal area consists of a chain of confused double spots tending to coal-
esce anteriorly and appearing as distinct, oval, paired blotches poste-
riorly. The lateral rows of rosettes, which vary from 50 to 100 milli-
meters in diameter, increase in size from the vertebral line to the belly,
enclosing light areas of correspondingly increasing size, clay color
slightly tinged with tawny, and containing from one to five small,
rounded, black spots. The upper side of neck, and crown, have the
ground color slightly suffused with tawny, the former having a modifi-
cation of the rosette pattern of tiie black spotting of the back, the lat-
ter being rather uniformly covered with rounded black spots, from five
to fifteen millimeters in diameter, smallest anteriorly, extending from
opposite the anterior border of the eyes to opposite the posterior border
of the ears. Muzzle, clay color, finely and evenly sprinkled with black
hairs, leaving a plain, pale buffy crescent bordering the median upper
margin of the nasal pad. A large black spot borders the upper, and
another the lower lip. Ears, solid black on outer surface, excepting a
a few tawny hairs in middle; inner surface clay color, edged with tawny
on anterior margin. Bristles of upper lips and above eyes, mixed black
and white. Eyelashes and a few long hairs on sides of base of nose,
black. Outer surface of limbs, clay color, coarsely blotched with black,
the spots decreasing in size and becoming more rounded from the body
