Jleants — The American Jar/ifavs. 141
series, measured on alveoli, 4!t, .Ki.5; crown of upper oarnassial tooth,
25.3 by K5.7. 2(J..") by 13.9; crown of miiUUe upper i)remolar, 17.5 by 9, 18
bv 9.
Felis hernandesii (Gray).
MAZATI.AN .lAGlAH.
Lcopai-chis Jiirnandesii Gray. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1857, p. 278.
Mamm. pi. LVIII (colored). Type from Mazatlan, State of Sinaloa,
Mexico.
Fdin onra Alston. Biolofjia C'enlrKli-Americana, Mammalia, 1879-'82,
p. 58. (Part.)
Characttrx. — Size larger than FdU cextralix, smaller than F. omui.
Coloration pale, with black markings greatlj- reduced in size, on a ground
color of ochraceous buff, the black-bordered rosettes being confined to
the upper portion of the middle dorsal region and elsewhere broken up
into isolated spots.
Color. — Ground color ochraceous butt'. The pattern of the black
markings is ((uite difTerent from Felis onni and F. re/if nili.'<. as pointed
out by Doctor J. E. (iray (P. Z. S., 1857, p. 278) and shown in his ex-
cellent colored figure, taken from the living animal. He states that
"instead of the spots being all placed in rings or roses, as they are
usually called, the spots on the front part of the body are single and
scattered, and those on the hinder part of the body are alone placed in
rings or roses." Later (P. Z. S., April 11. 18()7, p.;402). Gray continues:
"The specimen which I described under the name of LcopardiiK licnuin-
dexti * * * has come into the British Museum collection; and I can-
not find any ditlerence in the skull to distinguish it from the other
specimens of the Jaguar: so I suppose it must be considered one of the
varieties of that species, marked by the distance at which the small
spots are placed from each other, only now and then forming anything
like a distinct ring or row of spots." The skin described below, lent me
by Doctor A. K. Fisher, is essentially a topotype, collected at Gacalotlan
(near Mazatlan), in the State of Sinaloa, Mexico, by Mr. Edward W.
Xelson. In this specimen, the chain of black markings along the ver-
tebral line is disorganized anteriorly, and consists of paired round or
elliptical spots, more or less fused and irregular on the posterior half of
body, and traceable to the middle of the tail as a dorsal series of nar-
rowly-elongate, black spots: it appears as a narrow, interrupted line on
the crown and neck. The rosettes are restricted to the region behind
the shoulders, and, even there, are mostly broken up into scattered spots:
and they do not tend to completely encircle light areas, which latter
seldom conlain black spots. The rosettes become vague after the first
two or three rows, disappearing in a succession of scattered spots upon
the sides so that it is impossible to count the number of rows, as is
easily done in F('li'< onca and F. cciitniUn, though the number of rows
suggested by the scattered spots is obviously greater than in those
