Mearns — A Xni' Ocelot from Texas. 147
per one and the lateral crown stripe forms a larye clrab-iiTay trianii'lc.
between the eye and ear. in which thei'e are but few small black spots.
Muzzle, above plain drab-^ray, lined on sides with spots of black edged with
drab, and jtlain lirayish white posteriorly. Whiskers mostly white, some
becomiui;' brownish black at base. Ear with concavity well coated with
whitish-butf hairs: convexity black anteriorly, "irayish white posteriorly,
the latter encroaching- on the middle of the black area, forming;' a
rounded sjiot, which, in one indisidual. is narrowly encii-cled b\' black
posteriorly, cutting- it off from the whitish posterior third of the ear.
Outer surface of limbs transversely spotted with black, the spots de-
creasing in size from within outward, becoming obsolete on the toes.
Underparts while, very slightly tinged with ochraceous, the pelage drab-
gray at base: chin and throat, middle of neck, and belly between
.thighs, unspotted. Under side of neck with two transverse bands of
black slightly mixed with fulvous, interrupted at median line. Hinder
part of upck finely spotted with black: chest and belly coarsely spotted,
the black .spots rounded on chest and transversely elongated on abdo-
men. Inner surface of limbs, whitish. trans\ei'sely s])otted with black.
Under side of feet, hair brown, sometimes mixed with hoary. Tail,
whitish gray, speckled with black below: upjier surface irregularly
barred with light and dark bands, the former grayish white, the latter
drab-gray, edged with black, and somewhat grizzled: light rings averag-
ing about ten.
The description of color is based on .skins from Fort Clark and
Brownsville, Texas. Six from the latter locality were kindly loaned me
by Doctor C. Hart ]\Ierriam. Chief of the Biological Survey, U. S. De-
partment of Agriculture. These specimens are quite similar except
that one immature female (No. 32.()S1) is remarkable for intensity of the
black markings. All were killed in February and March. The summer
pelage api)ears to be more tawny than that of winter: but the available
summer skins are uni-eliable. ha\"ing been immersed in a tiuid that has
probably changed the color. For the same reason, no satisfactory com-
l)arison of coloration can now be made with Fiiis paradalis.
S/i'u/l ami tectli. — Compared with Felix paradalis Linn;eus the skull
of F. liiiiifix is smaller, relatively short and broad, the postpalatal fossa
averaging considerably wider and more quadrate, the audital bulhe
much broader and more inflated, and the postorbital proce.sses more
flattened and less depressed. The skull of the type, an old male of
maximum size, measures as follows: basilar length (Hensel), 114 mm.:
zygomatic breadth, !)3; width of audital bulla, 17: length of upper lat-
eral toothrow. measured on alveoli. 40; upper premolar series, 28; upper
incisor series. I."): crown of upper carnassial tooth, I.1.8 by 7.8; crown of
middle upper ])rem()lar, 10 by 5: lower lateral toothrow, 45. A younger,
nearly adult male (No. 708:), U. S. National Museum), from Mirador,
Mexico, is considered to represent Felis pardulix Linnteus, and presents the
following dimensions: basilar length, 122; zygomatic breadth, 91; width
of audital bulla, 16; length of upper lateral toothrow, 43.5; upper pre-
molar series, 30: upper incisor series, 17: crown of upper carnassial
