150 JIcco'us — Ttcu S^eic Catf^ of lhe Kijra Gw>ip.
the length of the neck. The iigure also represents tlie pupil as
vei'tical; other authors describe the i)upil of 7'^. eijra as round."
(Baird.) On account of the larger size of this animal, and the
absence oi the white or whitish markings on the head, described
by Azara,* Fischer, Rengger, and other authors in their ac-
counts of Fells €i/ra, the animal described by Baird under that
name must be considered a distinct species, esj)ecially now that
another specif 8 of the eyra {Felis /oftsattf) has been found in-
habiting Central America. I ])r()pose the name Fclis ajyache
for the eyra cat of Tamaulipas, described by Berlandier and
Baird in the works cited. The type will be skull No. 1373,
United States National Museum: a youngish-adult female, col-
lected by Dr. Berlandier, at Matamoras in the State of Tamau-
lipas, Mexico.
Felis fossata sp. nov.
YUCATAN EYRA CAT.
Ti/2^^- — Xo. TOrjfi. United States Xalioiuil Museum: skull of adult from
Merida, Yucatan, collected by D. Schott.
Crdiiial fJn(r((ct( ri<. — Skull narrow, ils greatest diameters !>1 by (>0
mm.: convex posteriorly, flattened supraorbitally, witli marked declina-
tion forwards from middle of nasals: interfrontal region with a deep
fossa, V-shaped on section, 8 mm. in length, between the anterior ex-
tremity of the interfrontal suture and the nasal bones, which latter are
similarly infolded, continuing the fossa forward to the extremit}- of the
nasals as a groove which gradually decreases in depth towards their ex-
tremity: orbit relatively small: nasal bones narrow, elongated at sides,
pointed posteriorly where they are bent downward to form the anterior
portion of the frontal fossa: anterior narial opening high and narrow:
infraorbital foramen single, and round: interorbital region narrow; jugal
broad; posterior narial fossa wide, with a scarcely-perceptible postpala-
lal notch: audital bulhe elongate, high, pointed anteriorly, scarcely con-
*Azara gives the following: "Length, thirty-one inches: tail, eleven
inches and a half, more bushy than that of the cat; and the other meas-
urements proportioned to those of the preceding species [yagiiarundi^] .
The whole coat is of a red colour, except the lower jaw, the mustachios,
and a small spot on each side of the the nose, which are white. Its fiu-
does not yield in softness to that of the preceding species {Felis yagiiar-
undi~\, and would be highly esteemed by furriers." (London edition of
Azara's Natural History of the Quadrupeds of Paraguay and the River
La Plata, 18:5i, pp. 22.5-G.)
