154 MeaniH — Jfainhnid J^onns of Jtlasteni Deermouse.
at the base of the hair, and the general color above is broccoli-
brown in summer, and cinnamon or yellowish wood-brown fine-
ly sprinkled with black in winter.
Peromyscus leucopus leucopus (Rafinesque).
KENTTTKY nRERMOUSR.
In summer coated with short liairs: color broccoli-brown above, finely
sprinkled with black, sparsely on the sides and thickly in a broad
median dorsal area: ears scantily coated, hair brown, with scarcely percep-
tible hoary edi^es: eyelids bordered with black: feet scantily coated, the
skin appearing between the hairs: tail plainly showing annuli above and
below, and so scantily coated that it does not appear distinctly bicolored
or slightly penciled at tip: uiiderparts gray partly concealed by wiiite
tips to the hairs.
In iciiitff more heavily coated: color yellowish wood-brown above,
white below, with the gray underfur appearing between the white tips
of the hairs: tail very slightly penciled, not very sharply bicolored. and
with annuli seldom wholly concealed: feet and ears not well coated.
Measure iiu'iiti^. — Total length. ISO mm.: caudal vertebrae, SO: hind
foot, 21: ear above crown. 12. ;i.
Peromyscus leucopus noveboracensis (Fischer).
NRW YORK DEERMOUSE.
In summer the whole animal is more heavily coated than in true leu-
copus, the skin of the feet being concealed by the hair; tail bicolor, with
annuli usually concealed, and the tip well penciled: ears also a little
more heavily coated: upperparts wood-brown instead of broccoli-brown.
In winter the coat is very full and long: tail moderately penciled,
sharply bicolor, heavily coated, with the annuli entirely concealed:
ears and feet well coated, the former with hoary edges and almost bushy
at base, and the latter pure white: upperparts yellowish w^ood-brown:
ears and upperparts generally more decidedly lined with black; pelage
of underparts very dense, and white almost to the base.
Me<(surevients.~\j('\\^^{\-\, 1S5 mm.; tail vertpbr;i', 85; hind foot, 21; ear
above crown, 13.;").
Peromyscus leucopus minnesotae subsp. nov.
MINNESOTA DEERMOTTSK.
Type.—lso. 82,717, United States National Museum Collection. Adult
female, collected at Fort Snelling, Hennepin County, Minnesota, Novem-
ber 30, 1890, by Edgar A. Mearns. Original No. 1181.
