178 (ireneral Wotes.
Mexican Cliff Swallow, Petrochelidon melanogaster (Swainson), in abund-
ance in the states of Chihuahua and Sonora, Mexico. It also crossed
into Arizona, along the San Bernardino and Santa Crviz rivers, breeding
on both sides of the international boundary line. Five or six specimens
including adults of both sexes and young recently from the nest, were
collected in Arizona, and are now in the United States National Muse-
um. — Edgar A. Mearns.
A new Cypripedium.
Cypripediiim veganvm, n. sp. — Allied to C. pvhescens and C. paniflor-
um. Differs from both, but especially from parviflorum, by the oblong
stigma, rounded and almost truncate at the end. Agrees with puhescens
in the large flowers, but the lip is very bright yellow as \n parvifldrum.
Leaves and stems glabrous, with only a few scattered gland-hairs.
Flowers very slightly fragrant.
Upper sepals as long as the lip; lower much shorter; petals narrow,
longer than the lip, usually twisted. Lip much inflated, laterally com-
pressed, pubescent at base within, speckled with dvill red within, faintly
speckled on outside above towards the apex; sterile stamen triangular,
spotted like the lip. Leaves lanceolate. Stems a foot to a foot-and-a-
half high.
Measurements in millimeters: — Upper sepals, length 35-45; lower,
length 32-40; breadth, (two united) 15-19; petals, length 45-57; greatest
breadth, 7: lip, length, 33-41; breadth, 14-19; sterile stamen, length, 14,
breadth, 6.
Leaves with about 6 prominent and weaker veins; average of the
larger leaves, length, 135, breadth, 40.
Ilab. — Sapello Canyon, Las Vegas Range, N. M., about 8000 ft. (Cana-
dian Zone); in full flower in June. Many specimens examined. The
type will be placed in U. S. National Museum. — T. T). A. Coch-cn II and
P. and M. B((rl(r.
A new name for Mus obscurus Miller.
The name Mtis obsvurus which I recently applied to a small rat from
Tioman Island, off the east coast of the Malay Peninsula (Proc. Wash-
ington Acad. Sci., II, p. 213, August 20, 1900) is preoccupied by Mus
ohsrurii.t Waterhouse (Proc. Zool. Soc. London, Y, p. 19, 1S37). It may
therefore be replaced by Mufi pulluH. — Gn'rit S. Miller, J?-.
