184 allien — N^mnes of South American Mmnmals.
so that the author for tlie name is, in many eases, not Wied, as
usually given, but Schinz, Kuhl, or Temminek. In some cases,
however, the names used by these authors differ from those
adopted later by Wied; for example, Desmodus rufus Wied is
antedated by RJnnolojyJvus ecmidatus Schinz, so that the name
Desmodus rufus Wied should give place to Desmodus ecavdatits
(Schinz). Felis ?/i«W?' Schinz, 1821, antedates Felis macro ura
Wied, 1826. Canis azaro' Wied, 1826, is also antedated by
Canis brasiliensis Schinz, 1821, although the name (Jams
brasiliensis is attributed by Schinz to "Neuwied". Schinz also
employes the name Felis hrasdievsis (ex Wied) for the Black
Jaguar, previously named Felis rii(/ra by Erxleben which Wied
finally did not see fit to designate by a technical name. But
Felis hrasiliensis Schinz renders untenable Felis hrasilienxis F.
Cuvier, 1828, applied to another animal.
It may be further noted in this connection that in all pi'oba-
bility Vespertilio villosissi/nus E. (leoffroy, 1807, based on the
Chauve-souris septieme of Azara, will have to be adopted for
the Bat named Ves2yertilio honariensis Lesson & Garnot, 1820,
and now commonly known as Lasiur'us Ixniariensis, but which
should stand as Dasiurus villosissimifs. That Azara's Chauve-
souris septieme is not referable to the Dasiurus cinereus group,
as stated by Mr. Thomas (Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., (7) Vol.
VIII, Nov., 1901, p. 435), is evident from its small size, which
barely equals that of an average example of X. borealis.
As is well known, Dr. J. E. Gray gives many new names to
mammals in Volume V (1827) of Grittith's 'Animal Kingdom',
most of which are duly cited in synonomy, but some appear to
have escaped notice. Gray divided the genus 1^amj)i/rus into
three genera, which he named Yampyrus, Istiophorus, and
'Tonatia. T^?m/)y?•^^s is restricted to Y. spiectrum;, IsPiophnnis
is preoccupied by Lacepede for a genus of fishes, and has been
replaced by Gray's latter name Trachops; Tonatio has for its
type and only species Y. bidens Spix, and is thus the exact
equivalent of Mr. Thomas's subgenus Yampi/ressa (1900).
These divisions of Yainptjrus established by Gray in 1827 ap-
pear to have been overlooked by later systematic writers.*
*Since writing the above my attention has been called to the fact that
Dr. T. S. Palmer, in 1898, called attention to Gray's treatment of Vam-
pyrus (rf. Proc. Biol. See. Wash. XII, 1898, p. 111).
