^Stcjnet/cr — JS^ew J3atrachians (Did MeptUes. 191
tween heel and base of third and fourth toes: normally three pairs of
nuflials.
Ildbitdt. — Islands of Yayeyama yroup, Riu Kiu Archipelago.
2'ype. — Science College Museum, Tokyo, No. 22.
Named for Dr. K. Kishinouye. Imperial Fisheries Bureau. Tokyo.
SICRI'HXTICS.
Calamaria pfefferi new species.
Diiigiioxix. — Four supralabials, hrst slightly shorter than second: first
pair of infralabials forming a suture behind mental; no azygos shield
between anterior chin-shields; frontal longer than broad, about four
times as broad as supraocular; one preocular; tail pointed: subcauxlals
15-26 pairs: no light or dark colored collar: no spot on upper side of tail:
ventral surface light-colored with two irregular rows of very distinct
dark brown spots: tail underneath with a median brown longitudinal
band.
Scale fonnnhi. — 18 scale rows: l.iS-lOO ventrals: x|-f| subcaudals.
Habitat. — Miyako Shima, Yayeyama group, Riu Kiu Archipelago.
l^ype. — Science College Museum, Tokyo, No. 14.
Named in honor of Dr. G. Pfeffer, curator in the Natural History
Museum, Hamburg.
Disteira orientalis new species.
BiagnosiK. — Maxillary teeth all grooved; two pairs of chin-shields in
contact; 28 to 25 scales round the neck, 32 to 35 round the body: frontal
shield more than twice as long as broad, longer than its distance from
rostral and equalling the parietals; a single anterior temporal; rostral
slightly broader than deep; ventrals 32f) to 341: one or two postoculars:
scales stronglv keeled: ventrals, except the most anterior ones, bituber-
culate. Yellow with black rings wider on the back and belly, and con-
tinent on the anterior third of the latter into a black ventral band; head
black with irregular yellow marks on anterior half and behind eyes.
Habitat. — Riu Kiu Seas.
Tirpe. — Science C'ollege Museum, Tokyo. No. 2!). Collected in Okina-
wa Shima.
Rfin((rhx. — I have examined two additional specimens in the Hamburg-
Museum (Nos. 2574, a-b) collected by Mr. Lenz on Iriomote Shima, Ya-
yeyama group, on March 13, 1897. Also a specimen in the Leyden Mu-
seum (No. 1483) collected by von Siebold in "Japan".
