2 Coville — Hihes ColoviHh'iisc, (in Undescribed Cnrrdnf.
Twin Lakes, f and these specimens are now known to represent
two distinct species. Dr. Rothrock cited also, as synonymous,
a third plant, Watson's liihes sauginneum variegatum,\ a cita-
tion which led Dr. . Watson later to reject Dr. Rothrock's
species. § The name liihes tooljii has consequently disappeared
from most botanical works. In this confusion it becomes neces-
sary to restrict the use of the name and I therefore designate as
the type of Mibes v^olfii the flowering specimen in the National
Herbarium collected by John Wolf in June, 1873, at Mosquito
Pass, a few miles east of Leadville, Colorado, at an elevation
between 10,000 and 11,000 feet. I have found Mibes v-olfii in
herbaria under the n^wM^a pr ostr at t mi, viscossissimtim, and /uid-
soni'amfm, with none of which species is it very closely related.
Its nearest relative is Watson's liibes sangidneiim. viarieg<ittmi,
a plant centering about the northern Sierra Nevada of Califor-
nia and distinct from true sanguineiim. There is a question as
to the proper name of this plant, which at the present time can
not be satisfactorily determined. It may, therefore, continue
to be called liibes sangimieum variegatuni until its correct
name as a species can be definitely ascertained. Both variega-
Umi and vHdJii are plants with unarmed stems, almost smooth,
maple-like leaf-blades, racemose inflorescence, the bracts ovate
or obovate and with tbin hyaline margins, ovaries and fruit
bearing glanduliferous hairs, flowers greenish or reddish, and
calyx-tube not more than 3 mm. long and shorter than the lobes.
IVoJji/i differs from vnriegatiim, however, in its usually green-
ish-white calyx about 5 mm. long, its tube about 1 mm. long
and the lobes about 3 or 4 times the length of the tube; petals
broadly rhombic-obovate, about a third the length of the calyx
lobes; and anthers, when fully expanded, a little l)roader than
long, I have seen no mature fruit of the species. Jiibes s(ni-
giiineum varieg<ihim has a usually red calyx about 6 mm. long,
the tube about 2 mm. long, and the lobes about 1^ to 2 times
f The localities are attached to the proper specimens through a com-
parison of tlie data furnished by Rothrock's orioinal description, by tlie
label on the specimens, and by the references to Wolf's itinerary given
in the Report of the Secretary of War for 1873, volume 2, part 2, pages
483 and 484.
itWats. Bot. KingSurv. 100. 1871.
gWats. Bibl. Ind. 337. 1878
