black instead ol" red fruit. Pvostriition has leaf-bearing flower
l)U(ls, leaves with sharply acute to acuminate, serrate-dentate
lobes, flowers with calyx lobes smooth, about 2 mm. in length,
and ol)ovate-oblong in outline, petals Avith rhombic blade on a
rather broad stalk, the whole much longer than broad, and fruit
red. From hi.i'iformn our new species may be distinguished by
the lack of bloom on the fruit, by its usually blunter leaf-lobes
and teeth, the scattered glanduliferous hairs on the calyx lobes,
and the petals nearly twice as broad as high. Ln.i'iflorum has
its fruit black with a bloom, leaf lobes usually acute, no gland-
ular hairs on the calyx lobes, and petals commonly a little
longer and a little narrower than those of colorddense., therefore
only slightly broader than long.
The s])ecimens of cnjoridlcnsf consulted are as follows: .
Colorado:
"Rocky Mountains," (rtori/r Vnxei/, ] 808.
Mosquito pass, near Leadville, alt. lU.UOO to 11,000 feet,
Jnlni Wolf, 1873.
Marshall Pass, alt. about 10,000 feet, C. L. She((i\ 181)6
(Xo. Ho(>).
"•Southwestern Colorado," [T^a Plata Mountains ?] Slide
Rock Canyon, alt. 10,500 feet, B<ihei\ EarJc, and
Tracy, 1898 (No. 289).
San Miguel County, near Telluride, on the headwaters of
San Miguel River, alt. 10,000 feet, Fr<nik Tweedy,
1894 (No. 190).
These three species, /irosf/u/fio/i, hi.i'ifjorxni, and colorddense,
are very closely related and form a group which might be called,
after the ])ractice of the zoologists, a superspecies, or after the
practice of some European botanists, a species collective. They
differ in minor but well-deflned characters, apparently do not
intergrade, and each has a characteristic range distinct from
that of the other two. Prostrdtvm centers in eastern Canada,
extending across the Great Lake g,nd St. Lawrence region into
the LTnited States, continuing southward in the Appalachian
district to North Carolina and westward in British America to
Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Athabasca, and Mackenzie, and sjieci-
