8 Holm — Additions to tJie Flora of WasJiington.
The discovery of species new to a local flora is always a
great encouragement to the explorer, but it is nevertheless just
as important to discover a well known but rare species in new
localities; the rediscovery of an apparently lost or extinct
species seems to us to be still more interesting and important,
and we may cite among such instances the flnding of Aralia
quinquefolii(, Oicuta hulhifera., Phylhinthxs and ( ^i/f<topteris bul-
h if era.
It is surprising to see how many rare species may be found
in old, well known localities, when these are visited regularly
every month. Frequent excursions to Great Falls, Marshall
Hall, Surattsville, etc., have brought forth a number of rare
plants, hitherto overlooked, and even the old and well explored
region around the Reform School seems to furnish an almost
incessant increase of new or rare plants. On the other hand
some of the older and most interesting localities are rapidly un-
dergoing destruction, as for instance the famous Terra Cotta
swamp, which at present is almost entirely changed to a miser-
able "corn field," and many of the species which were reported
from that region are no longer to be found there. So much the
more does it seem necessary to keep permanent track of the
representatives of our local flora before the immediate vicinity
becomes altogether transformed to building-lots and gardens.
In the present list some very interesting contributions have
been kindly furnished by Dr. E. L. Greene, Messrs. Thos. II.
Kearney, Jr., Wm. R. Maxon, G. W. Oliver, and Wm. Pal-
mer, whose names a])pear in connection with their respective
discoveries; where no collector is named, the species has been
found by the writer himself, and the plants are all deposited in
his private herbarium. The species marked with an asterisk
are new to the local flora.
I. Clematis Virginiana L.
Four Mile Run; marshes near Kenilworth.
12. Ranunculus ambigens Wats.
Muddy creek-bottom near Marshall Hall. E. L. Greene.
13. Ranunculus pusillus Poir.
In a pool among the rocks near Sandy Landing.
15. Ranunculus abort! vus L., var. micranthus Nutt.
Not uncoijimon in the woo(^s between Sa,ndy Landing and Great Fallsi
