24 Gerieivil yofes.
On the name Vespertilio blossevillii.
In a recent note on the systematic name of the Cuban Red Bat, Dr. J.
A. Allen falls into a very natural error in assumino- that the "abstract"
in Ferussac's Bulletin, entitled "Mammiferes nouveaux ou peu connus
d^crits et figures dans I'Atlas zoologique du Voyage autour du monde de la
corvette la Coquille, " etc., was published after the appearance of the
Zoology of the 'Coquille'. As a matter of fact, the Zoology of the voyage
of the 'Coquille' appeared inlivraisons, beginning with October, 1826; and
tome I, pt. I, while dated "1826", was really published between 1826 and
1828, the preface actually bearing the date January, 1828. No descrip-
tive matter appeared before 1827, but plates were issued with the sepa-
rate parts, and the names on them will stand, except in those cases
where an earlier description occurs in Ferussac's Bulletin. In the case
of Veapertilio blossevillii, the name dates from Ferussac's Bulletin, VIII
(not XIII, as misprinted in the note above mentioned), May, 1826, p. 1)5,
while the earliest reference to Vespertilio boitdrienxis is plate II, fig. 1,
Zool. "Coquille," which appeared in livr. 3 of that work, published in
April, 1827. It will be plain, from the above, that Lasiurus blossevillii.
and not L. bonnriensis is the correct name of the Uruguayan species. —
C/ias. W. Rir/unoiid.
The name of the Aard-Vark.
In advocating the name Oryeteropus afra (Pall.) for the Aard-Vark
(Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XIII, p. 166) Mr. Rehn has omitted to notice (1)
that afra is the feminine of a declinable adjective, and that the mas-
culine, in agreement with Oryeteropus, should be afer, and (2) that the
combination Oryeteropus afer has already been occasionally used in Zool-
ogy, e. g. P. Roy. Soc. XLVII, p. 246 (1800), and P. Z. S., 1897, p. !)3!).
In neglect of the first point, 0. afra has also been used by Flower and
Lydekker (Mamm. p. 211, md\).^Oldfield Thouias.
The name of the Ogotona.
Mr. Rehn has changed into v, Pallas' first « in Lepvx d/nixrirus. As
the name comes from the country of the Dauurien (as Pallas calls them)
the letter is clearly not a v printed as a w, as is often the case in old
works. In addition, the generic name having a feminine termination,
the adjectival specific name should also be feminine. The proper name
should therefore be, not Mr. Rehn's '■'Oehotona d<(ciirieux" but Oehoto-
iKi daiifiriea. — Oldfield TJioouix.
