(Tfuerti] Notes. 25
The name of the Viscacha.
In sugoosting the name Viscaccieu (Brandis, 1786, ex Molina) for "the
Viscacha" Mr. Rehn has confused two perfectly different animals.
-Molina's "Viscaccia" is the Chilian Lagidium, while ttte Viscacha of
modern writers is the Argentine Lagostonnis (usmg for the moment the
best known names for each). Furthermore, there is no need to drag in
the translator Brandis, as in the 1782 edition of his Saggio, (p. 307) Mol-
ina himself properly describes and names "La Viscaccia, Lepus Vis-
cacia'" by which term he clearly means the Lagidium of Chili.
Liigidium riacaria Mol. \s pro/xtblg the proper name for the latter ani-
mal, but the question is so intricate, partly owing to the confused use of
the two names Viscacha and Chinchilla for members of the three genera
Lagostomvfi, Lngidium and Chinchilla, and partly in the doubt as to
what animal the name Cidlomys Goff. will be applied to by eliminators
and others, that I do not like to risk making confusion worse confovmded
by definitely asserting its validity.
The pertinence of the generic name "Viscacia" to the Argentine Vis-
cacha has been shown by Mr. Palmer (Science, N. S., VI, p. 21, 1897),
though owing to the doubt* as to the date of its publication in Schinz's
Xaturgeschichte, the following reference may be taken as the first:
Viseaccid, Schinz, Cuvier's Thierreich IV. p. 429 (182.5). The difference
in the spelling should be noted.
Curiously enovigh as a foretaste of the eternal Chili-Argentine confu-
sion, Schinz heads the reference "Viscaccia Molina," but his enumera-
tion of the digits, 4-3, and his measurements (taken from Azara) of V.
americana''' are clearly diagnostic of the Argentine animal. — Oldfield
Th<nii((s.
A correction of Vernonia gigantea pubescens.
Through a misapprehension of the case the subspecies pubescens was
referred (Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash. 13: 179, October, 1900) to Ver no niagigantea
of the Atlantic seaboard, which dees not occur in the Alleghenies or west-
ward. The species so common throughout the latter range is V. maxima
Small (Bull. Torr. Bot. Club, 27: 280, May, 1900). Hence the name of
the sub-species collected near Baileysville, West Virginia, is Vernonia
maxivia pubescens. — E. L. Morris, Dept. Biol., Washington High Schools.
*Probably not published before 1825 or 1820 (Palmer).
