Merridm — Two New Bighorns and a New Antelope. 31
ness and depth of the lower jaw. No skins have been ex-
amined. The new form may be known as follows:
Ovis canadensis auduboni subsp. nov.
Type from 'Upper Missouri'. No. ^Wtt S' yg--ad. U. S. National
Museum, lielieved to have been collected in the Badlands of South
Dakota in 18.5.5 by Dr. F. V. Hayden, on the Warren Expedition.*
Characters. — Size large; skull and horns broad and massive; molar
teeth much larger than in any known American sheep, the upper tooth-
row in adult males measuring 96 mm. or more, and the 3 upper molars
63-65 mm. Underjaw (in type specimen) massive, heavy posteriorly,
deeply bellied (depth under last molar 52 mm.); angle broadly rounded.
In canadensis the jaw is light throughout and the angle, while small, is
marked. Horns narrower and as a rule longer than in canadensis.
The animal is named in honor of Audubon, who in 1843 obtained from
the Badlands specimens which he supposed the same as the Rocky
Mountain species. f
In the desert region of northwestern Chihuahua, not far from
Lake Santa Maria where the new Ovis tnexicanus was obtained,
Mr. Nelson and Mr. Goldman secured a series of eleven Prong-
horn Antelopes. Comparison of these specimens with speci-
mens from the northern Plains develops differences which seem
to necessitate the separation of the southern from the northern
animal. It may be known as follows:
Antilocapra americana mexicana subsp. nov.
7'i/pe from Sierra en Media, Chihuahua, Mexico. No. 98,742 (^ yg.
ad. U. S. National Museum, Biological Survey Coll. Collected October
4, 1899, by E. W. Nelson and E. A. Goldman. Orig. No. 13,989.
Characters. — Similar to A. americana but paler (in fresh fall pelage
drab brown with a tinge of ecru, becoming cinnamon when the tips of
the hairs wear off); mane absent or reduced to a narrow line of dark
*The U. S. National Museum register contains entries of several
Mountain Sheep collected by Dr. F. V. Hayden on Lieut. G. K. Warren's
Expedition to the Upper Missouri in 1855. In Lieut. Warren's report on
his 'Explorations in the Dacota Counti*y in the year 1855' (published in
18.56), Dr. Hayden states that the bighorn was abundant in the region
known as the badlands, and the narrative shows that the particular bad-
lands meant are those between the Cheyenne and White Rivers in South
Dakota.
tQuadrupeds of North America, Vol. II, pp. 163-172. 1851.
