34 sillier — A iVeyr Sqidrrel from liorueo.
ference is particularly noticeable posteriorly. The greatest breadth of
braincase in each of two Bornean specimens is 19 mm., while in three
topotypes of S. tenxiU it is only 17. G mm. The interorbital breadth on
the contrary is nearly the same in the two species, while there appears
to be no difference whatever in the breadth of rostrum. Viewed from
the side the peculiarities in the skull of the Bornean animal are even
more apparent. The depth of braincase from middle of parietal to
lower edge of audital bulla is fully 2 mm. greater than in Scvurus tenuis
while the depth of rostrum is barely equal to that of the mainland
animal. In Scmrus 2)arvus the ratio of least rostral depth to the cranial
depth just defined is about 41; in S. tcnvis it is about 49. The ventral
aspect of the skull shows no peculiarities.
Teeth as in Sciunis tenuis.
Measurements. — External measurements of type (a well made .skin):
total length, 285: head and body, 165; tail vertebrte, 125; pencil, 45;
hind foot, 37.6 (35); ear from meatus, 13.8; ear from crown, 10.
Cranial measurements of type: greatest length, 39; basal length, 31.6;
palatal length, 16.6; length of nasals, 11.4; greatest breadth of nasals,
5.4; interorbital breadth, 13.4; zygomatic breadth, 23.6; greatest breadth
of braincase, 19.4; cranial depth from middle of interparietal to lower
rim of audital bulla, 17; least depth of rostrum, 7; mandible. 21.6;
maxillary toothrow (alveoli), 7; mandibular toothrow (alveoli), 7.2.
S'perimens examined. — Two, the type and one from Spitang.
Remarks. — A series of Bornean specimens may show that Sciurus par-
vus differs from S. tenuis externally as well as in cranial characters.
The Spitang skin is distinctly the more gray of the two, but as it was
taken in July and the type specimen in October the difference is proba-
bly seasonal. In color it is approached by a specimen of 8. tenuis taken
at Singapore in May. Except in external appearance the Bornean
animal in no waj' closely resembles the small Sciurus procerus of Bun-
guran Island, North Natunas.
*Published here by permission of the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution.
I
