36 3IiUer — A Nnr Dar from ('<>st<i llha.
(Jolor. — Dorsal surface a uniform, fine, but distinct grizzle of drab,
black and buff, the individual hairs colored as follows: from base to
slightly beyond middle drab, then after a rather abrupt transition, black
to tip, the black area interrupted by a sliarply defined band of light bviff
about 2 mm. in widlh. The buff is the predominating element of the
grizzle except on crown, forehead, nape and middle of anterior portion
of back, where black is in excess, without, however, forming any defined
dark markings. Sides like back but the buff area on each hair is in-
creased at the expense of the black. The resulting color is somewhat
paler and coarser grizzle. Underparts mostly wood-brown, lighter on
the neck, darker on the belly. Region between hind legs, and an ill-de-
fined median line running forward to chest, dull white. The white re-
appears faintly on inner side of both front and hind legs, but is irregular
and ill-defined, and scarcely extends downward to hock. Elsewhere the
legs are wood-brown, faintly darker on outer side. Tail entirely white
beneath, cinnamon above, dusky at tip. Ears grayish externally, whit-
ish internally. Cheeks light wood-brown. Muzzle dusky. A faintly
defined pallid area on throat between jaws. Hoofs black, edged with
horn color.
A second specimen is in very bleached, abraded coat. General color
light buff, but speckling of back and sides still evident notwithstanding
the imperfect condition of the hairs. Front legs much paler than in
the type, but color of hind legs not sensibly altered.
Skull. — Skull distinctly larger than that of Odoroiln/x tnwi but not
otherwise tangibly different. In size and form it closely agrees with
that of the externally quite dissimilar Odocoilenit t.homasi Merriam from
Chiapas. The basal length in the type of the latter is 230 mm., in a
second spv'^cimen 220. In 0. costaricensis the basal length ranges from
235 to 250, and in 0. truei from 200 to 220.*
Teeth. — The maxillary teeth are broader than in Odneoileux truei,
though the toothrow is not increased in length. The increase in width
is especially noticeable in the middle permanent premolar. Mandibu-
lar molars practically identical with those of the smaller animal, but
premolars, particularly the first, much larger.
Antlers. — The antlers though similar in general form to those of the
other members of the group are more robust and more coarsely rugose
than in any of the allied species. A rudimentary prong is occasionally
developed on inner face near middle. Heyond this region the surface of
the anther is smooth.
Measurements. — External measurements of type (from well made skin):
total length, 1400; tail vertebme, 120; hind foot, 875: greatest diameter
of hoof, 50; ear from crown, 110.
Cranial measurements of type: greatest length, 250 (2(54) ;f basal
*The skull of Odocoileus neUnni Merriam, also from Chiapas, is proba-
bly of about the same size as that of <). ti-iiei. In the type (an immature
male) the basal length of skull is 197.
fMeasurementsin parenthesis are those of I he largest Costa Rican skull.
