42 Miller — Five New Shrercs from Europe.
smaller than in fh'ocidura russula, but otherwise they show no peculiari-
ties.
Measurements. — External measurements of type: total length. 100:
head and body. 68: tail, 32; hind foot, 13 (12). Measurements of an
adult female from the type locality: total length. 110; head and body,
75; tail, 3o; hind foot, 13 (12).
Cranial measurements of type: greatest length (exclusive of incisors),
17.6 (19);* greatest postorbital breadth, 8.8 (9.6); greatest antorbital
breadth, 6.2 (6.8 : mandible, 9 (10); entire maxillary toothrow, 8.-1 (9):
entire mandibular toothrow, 8 (8.6).
Specimens examined. — Two, both from the type locality.
Remarks. — Croeidura sieula differs from C. rnssvla in the characters
that would be expected from the known peculiarities of other members
of the Sicilian favma.
Croeidura caudata sp. nov.
Type.— \o\mix adult female (in alcohol) No. 103,302 United States
National Museum. Collected at Palermo Sicily, June 21, 1900, by Dane
Coolidge. Original number, 1365.
Characters. — Somewhat larger than Croeidura sieula (total length about
115, hind foot about 15) and ditl'ering from this as well as from other
European species in the size and great length of the tail, which when
laid forward over back reaches to middle of ear.
T^^n'^.^The tail forms about 42 per cent of the total length and at mid-
dle is 3 mm. in diameter. Near base it is distinctly four-sided, but be-
yond middle becomes sub-cylindric. The tip is flattened laterally for
about 13 mm. evidently as the result of an accident. Scales arranged
in indistinct rings, of which there are about 7 to the millimeter at mid-
dle. The rings are partlj- obscured by fine short hairs; and the longer
bristles with which the tail is sprinkled are more abundant than in.
Croeidura russula and C. .ncula.
Colo?-. — Color after six months immersion in alcohol essentially as in
Croeidura sieula but fur both above and below with a dull slaty cast, and
transition from drab of back to gray of underparts less abrupt.
Skull and teeth. — The skull is so injured that the details of its form
cannot be seen, but apparently the rostrum is relatively shorter and the
interorbital region broader than in either Croeidura russula or ('. xievla.
Teeth as in the related species except that the first upper unicuspid is
larger and the second and third are so crowded that the third is tightly
wedged into the concavity on the inner side of the large premolar. It
is thus partly hidden by the small anterior cusp of the larue tooth,
while in the related species it is so far removed from the latter that a
distinct break in the toothrow is usually seen when skull is viewed from
the outer side. How far these characters may be constant cannot be
*Measurements in parenthesis are those of an adult male Croridtira
russnla from Waremme. Belgium.
