Miller — F"nHi Nev Shrevs from Kiiroj^e. 43
determined from a sinjile specimen; but I find no close approach to them
among a considerable number of specimens of CrocAdura russula from
continental Europe.
Measurements. — External measurements of type: total len.oth, 115;
head and body, 63; tail, 52; hind foot, 15 (14).
Specimen examined. — One, the type.
Remarks. — Although represented by a single individual only this
species appears to be remarkably well characterized.
Sorex araneus alticola subsp. nov.
Type.—AilwM female (skin and skull) No. 85,930 United States Nation-
al Museum. Collected near Meiringen, Switzerland (altitude 2100 m.),
October 17, 1808, by J. Alden Loring. Original number 5781.
Charncters. — Larger than true Sorex araneus and with relatively longer
tail. Teeth more heavily pigmented than in the typical form.
Color. — Summer pelage (type specimen): fur short harsh and dull.
Entire dorsal surface rather pale sepia. Sides broccoli-brown faintly
tinged with drab. Underparts light gray strongly washed with Isabella
color. Though there is no sharp line of demarkation between the color
of back and sides, and only slightly more between that of latter and
underparts, the transition is suthciently abrupt to render the animal as
a whole distinctly tricolored. Tail sharply bicolor, seal-browa above
and at tip, broccoli-brown below. Feet glistening broccoli-brown.
Winter pelage: fur long soft and lustrous. Elements of color essentially
the same as in summer, but sepia of dorsal surface darkened xmtil it
approaches black, and gray of under parts scarcely tinged with Isabella
.color. Sides as in summer. The tricolored pattern is thus more
noticeable than in the other pelage, particularly in the .sharp contrast
between back and sides.
Skvll and teeth. — Though the skull and teeth agree with those of typi-
cal Sorex aranevs in size and form, the teeth are readily distinguishable
by their more extensive and darker pigmentation. The differences are
most readily seen upon comparison of the small cusps on the lingual
side of the upper molars and large premolar, tliat is, the protocone of
the posterior molar and the hypocone of each of the other teeth. Sev-
enty-five topotypes of Sorex araneus araneus and twenty-two specimens
of S. aranevs alticola from the neighborhood of the type locality give
the following results:
*S'. araneus. S. alticola.
Large premolar with pigment on hypocone 0^ 'ia.A'fc
First molar with pigment on hypocone 22.0^ 90.9^
Second molar with pigment on hypocone 21.2^ 90.9^
Third molar with pigment on hypocone 45.3^ 100^
None of the small cusps pigmented 54.6^ 0^
All of the small cusps pigmented 0^ 45.4^
