48 Steele — Addifion.-^ to tJic Flom of Wdshliujloii.
CUIUS I liavc of late left wliolly to tlic skill and kindness of Mr.
E. D. Men-ill, who is working with Professor Serihner in that,
trying field. Professor C. F. Wheeler has been referee for
about all of the Carices that presented difficulties, and I am also
the beneficiary of Mr. Geo. B. Sudworth, Mr. Frederick V.
Coville, Mr. J. N. Rose, Mr. Charles L. Pollard, and others.
The arrangement of the list follows the sequence of Engler
and Prantl, but the numbers prefixed are those of Professor
Ward's Guide to the Flora of Washington and Vicinity (Bull.
U. S. Nat. Mus. No. 22, 1881) and the subsequently published
additions. In order to preserve the original numeration, and
at the same time ])lace the additions in their proper connections,
the use of appended letters has been resorted to.
The prefixed asterisk denotes a species not liitherto recorded
in i)rint as Ijelonging to our fiora. In the case of a number of
these species my collection has ])i-ol)ab]y been anticipated by
that of other collectors whose results have not been jiublished,
but it is not practicable wholly to avoid this injustice. On the
other hand, some first collected by me have in the same manner
been entered in an earlier list.
*i2i7^/. Pteris aquilina pseudocaudata Cluic. {P. fKpiiUttd (-(nuhila
of American authors, not of Linnaeus).
Kenilworth. aljundant near the railroad, Spptomber 20, 1900. Also
near Hyaltsville.
i233«. Dryopteris spinulosa (Retz) Kunl/.e.
In a ditch near Captain Jones' place beyond Chevy Cliase Lake.
1234. Dryopteris spinulosa intermedia (IMuhl.) Und.
Not seen near the cily. Found at Suitland, near Kensiniiton, and near
Creat Falls on the Viruinia side.
1237*/. Onoclea struthiopteris (L.) Hotlm.
A few sterile fronds. Plummer"s Island, May 31, ISUI.
1240. Lygodium palmatum (ISernh.) 8w.
In a drained swamp, eastern pari of Suitland, Sept. S, ]S()!».
*i2i3a. Equisetum robustum A. I>r.
On both sides of IJeaver Dam Branch, near the road. Rarely found in
I'ruil.
*i253r'. Isoetes saccharata Engelm.
In tide mud among coarse o-ravel along the Ijay at the mouth of Foin-
Mile Run, August 0, 1898. The range as given in Brilton and Brown's
Flora is "Wicomico and Nanticoke rivers, eastern Maryland". The
following varieties, though not of my own collecting, may be appro-
priately published in Ibis place.
