52 Steele — Additions to the Flora of Washinyton.
1110. Muhlenbergia tenuiflora (Wilkl.) B. S. P.
Arlington near Four Mile Run, August 27, 1899; Hyattsville, Septem-
ber 26, 1900, the latter specimens over 4^ feet long.
*iiii((. Muhlenbergia palustris Scribn.
The peculiarities of this grass were noticed in my collection of 1896,
but it was distributed as M. diffusa for lack of a better determination.
The next year attention was again called to the differential characters,
which resulted in its description as a new^ species. Outwardly it is dis-
tinguished by its habit, which is even more slender than that of M. dif-
fusa, and by its pinlc purple instead of dark purple hue. INIore closely
examined, the development of the lower glume will be noticed as the
distinctive feature. The type locality is Brightwood Park swamp, which
forms the head of Piney Branch. It still exists here, but is suffering
much from the spirit of improvement. The only other station known
is the wet meadow south of Beaver Dam Branch, west of the Anacostia
road.
woia. Sporobolus vaginaeflorus (Torr.) Wood.
This species is now understood by the agrostologists of the Department
of Agriculture as including *S. neglectus Nash. A tuft with culms 2-i
feet long was found on the Rockville road.
*li03a. Agrostis intermedia Scribn.
Arlington, August 11, 1896; Chautauqua, August 17, 1896; also on the
river near Cabin John, and on the wooded tlats at Hyattsville.
iii4«. Calamagrostis Canadensis (Michx.) Beauv.
Bladensburg, in swamp west of the railroad, found overripe in 1898,
and in good condition June 17, 1899. Also seen in a swamp north of
Beaver Dam Branch, west of Anacostia road.
1169a. Arrhenatherum elatius (L.) Beauv.
Now abundant near Kalorama, beyond Eckington, etc. I would call
attention to the fact that our plant has not only the long awn on the
lower flowering scale, but also an awn in a slit at the summit of the
upper flowering scale. The cleft sometimes descends one-third the
length of the scale, but is generally more shallow. The awn, which is
upwardly barbellate, generally o\erlops the scale, but is sometimes
about equal to it or even shorter.
*ii23a. Spartina cynosuroides (L.) Willd.
One small patch at Jackson City, east of the railroad. Seen in larger
quantity on the ri\er flats at Harper's Ferry.
■*ii23a. Leptocliloa fascicularis (Lam.) A. Gray.
Sewer, lower part of Duke street, Alexandria, September 4, 1899.
1 140. Eragrostis Eragrostis (L.) Karst.
Parking southwest of Treasury Building, September 28, 1899; also in
1900.
*ii43a. Eragrostis pilosa(L.) Beauv.
Jackson City, August \\, 1896; also near Eastern Branch and Upper
Paint Branch.
