oC) Sf (■<;!<' — Ad(h'ti(>/is to tjie Flora of VTashington.
*io6if/. Carex costellata Britton.
Ravine, District line. May 15, IS!)!): Cleveland Park region and Massa-
chusetts avenue extended.
1062. Carex triceps Mithx.
Besides the type, which is common, I have a form with the awns of
the scales much longer than the perigynia. probably G. liirsiita cuspidata
Dewey: the difference is very considerable. Eastern Branch region,
.lune, 1896; District line. May 28, 18!)7.
"io6'2i(. Carex Caroliniana Schwein.
Feeder Dam. May 28, 1897; Conduit road near Cropley, May 30, 18!»9.
1039. Carex gracillima Schwein.
(TJencarlyn, in overripe condition, .Tune (i. 1898: Rock Creek above
Military road. May 9. 1899: also on Cabin John Rnii.
1058(7. Carex amphibola Steud.
More common in my experience than ('. (/r/xca Walil.
1056. Carex pallescens L.
AVoods beyond St. Elizabeth's: scarce.
1067. Carex laxiflora Lam.
In my judgment the forms still covered by this name include from
two to hve good species. It is quite impossible to regard hlanda and
patuUfolia as varieties of the same species. The soft deep green or
yellowish-green foliage of the former is wholly distinct from the firm
glaucous or grayish-green blades of the latter, the basal portion of which
sur\'ives the winter as in C. plutyphylla, a habit shown in a far less
degree by blanda. C. patuUfolia further differs in its more numerous and
densely tufted culms, its linear spikes, and its habitat, keeping as it does
to the upland while hlanda descends to moist flats. If this separation
were made, the varietj- dicuricata would go with patulifdia, pro\-ided it
is not itself distinct. It differs from the latter in its larger and more
stipitate fruit, its narrower leaves, the smaller number of culms, and
the spreading habit, the culms standing at angles of about 45 degrees,
while those of patutifolia are erect. The range of dicarirata requires
further observation. It is fond of wooded hillsides, the sides of ravines,
etc. I have collected or observed it near Eastern Branch, east of
Soldiers' Home, in Rock Creek Park, in the Cleveland Park region,
and beyond Glen Sligo. I have the typical la.r/piira, so determined by
Professor Wheeler, (although the fertile spikes are dense and not at all
like the figure in liritton and Brown) from near Chevy Chase and from
the District line toward Cabin John.
1064. Carex Careyana Torr.
Scarce, but found on High Island and in the woods at Seven Locks.
1078. Carex Pennsylvanica Lam.
Specimens from the south slope of the ridge at Four Mile Run were
said by Professor Wheeler to be the first true Petuixylvanica he had seen
from Wasliiiicrton.
