82 Steele — Additions to the Flora of Washington.
predominantly green. Further than this, the Chrysocoma iomcnfosa of
Walter and the Vernonia tornentosa of Elliott are narrow-leaved plants,
Elliott lays stress on this character, and Walter's expression is so distinct
that nothing short of clear herbarium evidence could justify us in re-
ferring to his species a plant with the leaves above described. Besides
this, the National Herbarium contains two specimens that are almost
certainly the tomentosa of Elliott, and barring herbarium evidence un-
known to me, probably that of Walter also. They are characterized by
their linear-lanceolate, scantily and finely serrate leaves, which are
whitish or grayish tomentose beneath, and by the rough and tomentose
inflorescence, almost exactly the characters given by Elliott. Mr. T. H.
Kearney, Jr., who collected one of these specimens in southern Virginia,
states that it is the most hydrophile of the [eastern] Yernonias, actually
growing in shallow water. P^lliotfs plant correspondingly grew in
ditches. The awns of Mr. Kearney's specimen are broken off, but in the
other specimen of the two above referred to, collected by C. F. Hyams
in South Carolina, the awns are present and well developed, although I
am not prepared to say that they are longer than in normal Novebora-
rensis. I am accordingly inclined to regard Elliott's species as valid,
and Mr. Kearney also fa^'ors that \iew.
There is in the National Herbarium a specimen collected by Professor
Alexander Winchell in Alabama, which has the pappus and the leaf-form
of V. glaucu, though the leaves are rather smaller; but the latter are
densely puberulent and the aw^ns are long for glaum. This might be the
variety tomentosa of Ihitton were it not for the long awns; it belongs,
however, not to Noveboraeends, bvit to glauca.
390c. Eupatorium maculatum L.
Kenilworth, September 27, 1898. My specimens fail to show the fiat-
topped corymb.
*395'^|'- Eupatorium serotinum Michx.
The only station known to me for this species is a point on the Eastern
Branch flats a mile above Benning's road.
39i«. Eupatorium altissimum L.
Specimens from liethesda Park and elsewhere agree in form of leaf
with the figure in Britton and Brown's Flora; but collections from along
the river at Ulen Echo, Chautauqua, and tfreat Falls show a remarkable
broadening of the leaf without increase of lenglii. The width some-
times reaches \\ inches. Compare Kuhnia ei/jiata/'iuides.
*400o. Eupatorium cannabinum L.
A single specimen on the edge of the tide-bed at Hunting Creek on the
Alexandria side, a few rods from the wagon road, September 4. 1899.
Only a part of the plant was taken and it may be found again.
403. Kuhnia eupatorioides L.
Specimens were collected September 18, 1899, on the side of the ravine
at Difficult Run with the larger leaves ovate-lanceolate, contrasting
widelv with the linear-lanceolate form which is common here. This
