Steele — A<J<h'f)(»).^ to the T''lor<i of WixJniujto)!. 85
foi'm. Tliis halMt seems surprisiiiu' in the same species with forms tliat
are rigidly erect, but I have f'aih^d to tiiid other differences.
*463r/. Polymnia Canadensis radiata A. Gray.
Specimens with manifest l)ut imt conspicuous rays were collected at
(Jlen Echo. Julyl<5. 1S1I7.
'48or^ Helianthus microcephalus Torr. A: (iray.
Thicket (in tlie slope south of Four Mile Run near Cowdon's, Auy'ust
S, 18!)!).
485. Helianthus decapetalus L.
iiesides the form with thin and am[)h' leaves this has a form witii the
lea\es smaller and firmer: the latter was collected near Cowdon's station.
482. Helianthus strumosus L.
(ilen Echo railroad, Connecticut Avenue Bridge, bluffs near Tjittle
Falls, M street e.vtended near Eastern Branch. Some of the specimens
have considerable pubescence on the under side of the leaves, but it is
doul)tful whether they are the true variety nnimtplitfU^ix.
482. Helianthus hirsutus Kaf.
There is a well-defined sunflower common in our region for which Brit-
ton and Brown's Flora, so far as I can see. makes no provision, but which
might very well come under 11. hirxiitiis as defined in the Synoi)tical
Flora. Acconling to the latter the stem is "commonly smooth below,
rough and hisiiidulous above", according to the former the stem is
"densely hirside". In our plant, which is of branching habit, the stem
is smooth and sometimes glaucous below, or with mere vestiges of rough-
ness, the branching- part rough and at the e.xtremities somewhat hirside.
The leaves are broadest near the base and long-tapering, scabrous with
prickles above and seabrovis-pubescent with sparse white horn-shaped
.hairs beneath. I have little doubt that the description in the Synoptical
Flora was intended to cover a plant essentially the same as ours. That
of the Illustrated Flora is more true to Rafinestiue, but it leaves our
plant without a name.
490. Coreopsis tinctoria Xutt.
An occasional escape. South Washington and the Potomac Hats
dumping groiu)d.
494cf. Bidens connata Muhl.
Borders of a [)ond between Arlington and the ri\er, August 24, 18!)():
Beiniings, September 7, 18!J9.
■■■■4946. Bidens comosa (A. Gray) Wiegand.
Pond below Arlington, September 14, 189i5: ,)ackson City. September 4,
18!)(): Bladensburg pike, September Ki, 189!).
493. Bidens discoidea (Torr. it (iray.) Britton. [Coveopsis of Ward's
Catalogue).
Bennings, in boggy ground on the flats, September 7, 1890.
493a. Bidens sp.
A single specimen agreeing with some of the material under B. aru-
tosa in the National Herbarium was found on the brink of the water at
