92 Allen — Ctrtain Generic and /Sjjeci/ic ^\ajies.
It appears to me, however, that Z^roleptes is not the proper
name to take the place of Tamandua Gray, 1825, where it
stands as a nomen nudum, becoming only properly habilitated,
as shown by Dr. Palmer, by Lesson in 1842. In this case Zl-o-
hpten has nndoubted priority over Taniandna, but it appears
that F. Cnvier in 1829,* used the same name, slightly varied in
orthography, for the same group one year earlier than the pulv
lication of Uroleptei^. Cuvier recognized three genera of his
family ''Les Myrmecophages,"' namely: (1) "Les Tamanoirs,
MlirmiropJiaiid Linn./" (2) "Les Tamanduas, TamandufiK,^^ and
(3) "Les Didactyles, Dlddcfijhs.'" JMi/rtn<copJiaga included
only the (^reat Anteater, the genus ))eing propei'ly attributed to
Linnanis. DidacfijleK is the same as Ci/dopes Gray, 1821, leav-
ing the second genus, TanKntdinis, for the other members of
family, namely the Tamanduas of naturalists. The name
TaniiindiKifi is used in as strictly a technical sense as either of
the other names adopted by Cuvier for the other members of
liie family Myrmecoi)hagidae, and 1 see no reason why the
name TannnidiiuK is not tenal)le from Cuvier, 1829, for the
grouj> of Anteaters included in J^rah i>t<^ by Wagler one year
later.
Respecting the name Dldelphis, I am gratitied to hnd that
Mr. Thomas supports my contention! for its tenability. A
word, however, respecting the earlier speciiic names applied to
various members of this group. As is well known Linnjeus's
J). nKvrs'upialis was a composite group based on references to
(1) the Virginia Opossum, (2) the Guiana Opossum, and (3) the
large Mexican Opossum, the latter being the Tlacuatzin of Her-
nandez. It appeal's to me that the most satisfactory way of
dealing with this composite group is to follow the usual method,
whether the group be specific or generic, namely, the principle
of elimination. The naine ni(irxi(piali)< must, of course, be re-
tained for some member of the composite group. As the first
member to receive a special name was the Guiana Opossum,
named Dklelplth Ixarkinopyliaein, l)y Zimmermann in 1783, this
name should be applied in a specific sense to the large Opos-
sums of northeastern South America. The next member of the
original marsiipixdis group to receive a name was the Virginia
*Dict. des Sci. Nat., LIX, p. 501, 1839.
fBull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., XIII, pp. 185-188, Oct., 1900.
