Procyon pygmaeus sp. nov.
Type from Cozumel Islaml, Vufataii. No. 108, .ill, -f yg-ad.. U. S. Xa-
tional Museum, Biological Survey Collection. April 14, 1901, E. W.
Nelson and E. A. (Joldman. Original No. 14.(i9S.
^7^'//v/'V(/vv. -Similar in general to P. /u'l'/ia/Klrni. i)ul only about lialf
the size of that animal: chin and throat separated by a strong bsmd of
l)la('k; tail yellowish with si\ or seven aiinulations.
Cii/or. — T'pperparts grizzled grayish wiih a yellowish tinge along the
middle of the back, and rat her uniiormlN mixed with black hairs: top
of head grizzled gray; face marked by usual transverse black bar en-
closing the eyes and sending up a short dusky streak to the forehead:
the black facial band separated from gray of top of fiead by a whitisli
band divided in the median line by dusky: aid<les dusky: chin, \\\)s and
sides of nose whitish: throat crossed l)y l)n>ad band of dusky: under-
parts grizzled grayish with a yellowish sutl'usion: i'ore feet grayish
throughout: hind feet grayish with a brownish sutfusion especially on
outer side: tail yellowish marked with si.v or seven dark brown or black-
ish rings which are faint below and much less black abovi' than in the
other species.
Cravlal chnrurters. — Skull similar in general to that of In'rnaitdczi but
very much smaller: nasals short, expanded and rounded posteriorly:
teeth less than half the size of those of Iwruintih-zi: last upper molar
relatively, as well as actually, much narrower: first upper molar rela-
tively smaller so that the middle upper molar is conspicuously larger
than the others: premolars above and below more spaced and very much
smaller.
Remavkx. — This pygmy raccoon is by far the most interesting discov-
ery made by Nelson and (ioldman on Cozumel Island, ^yhile in many
respects it is a miniature of its relative of the adjacent mainland, it
possesses characters which would distinguish it at a glaiic(\ e\en if of
the same size. Among these characters may be mentioned the l)road
black throat band, the golden yellow tail, tlie short posteriorly expanded
and rounded nasals, and the pecidiarities of the teeth.
M((t>i\n-(tnfnt)i. — Type specimen (rj^ yg-ad): total length (J(i7: tail ver-
tebrte 2:!0: hind foot 90. A 9 yg-^ul: total length (H).'): tail vertebrte
2.50: hind foot 97.
Skull. — Type specimen (-f' yg-ad): basal length -SS; occipitonasal
length 88; palatal length (not including spine) .58: zygomatic breadth .59;
length of molar series on alveoli IT.
Didelphis yucatanensis cozumel^e subsp. nov.
Type from Cozumel Island. Yucatan. No. 108,498, rf ad., U. S. Na-
tional Museum, Biological Survey Collection. April 16, 1901, E. W.
Nelson and E, A. Goldman. Original No, 14,700.
