lOC Merriam — y^trn- Urocket froui \%tcutan.
113 mm. loii^f), deeply plicated or furrowed longitudinally; neck haired
like rest of body (not scantily as in M. aartorii).
Color. — Animal drab brown above and below, becoming gra\ ish on
neck: hairs of back annulated subapically with i)ale fulvous: chin, un-
derlip. front of upperlip, inguinal region, and inner sides of thighs and
foreleg white or whitish: anal region and upper side of tail dull fulvous:
underside of tail while: ears drab brown with white spot or edging at
anterior base of ()])ening: muzzle and sides of face drab brown: anlerioi'
base of ear. eyelids, anil upperlip washed with fulvous; forehead
marked with patches of rusty red: foreleg and fore and hind feet dull
fulvous.
(JranidJ rlninictivs. — Skull similar in general to that of Karfarii but a
tritie larger: rostrum broader, especially anteriorly: nasals decideilly
longer: frn/tfidx nri/ iioich hrimder behind orbits: lachrymal larger, the
lachrymal depression larger and more evenl> rounded (basin shaped),
outer edge of s(]iu\mosal root of zygoma with a strong aiul abrupt up-
ward curve or bend near base: posterior projection of palate broader:
foramina ovale more broadly open and looking more directly downward
[in Hartorii they are narrowed and look more obliquely forward and out-
ward]: basioccipital with a strongly developed constriction or notch on
each side immediately in front of condyles: mastoids larger, descending
on outer sides of paroccipital processes: molari form teeth larger: crown
of 2<1 lower premolar much longer: crown of iUl lower premolar thicker
and larger in every waj': true molars nearly the same size as in auriin-ii
although the last is slightly larger.
Measiiniiiintx. — Type specimen ((j^ ad.): total length ll".^"): tail verte-
br.e 140: hind foot 27;}: height at shoulder .i72.
!<l,-i(U. — Type specimen {(f ad.): basal length \iS\\: occipitonasal length
l.")?: least breadth of frontals between horn cores and orbits (iS: breadth
across posterior rims of orbits 7:5.."): breadth of horn cores just below
burr 77: zygomatic breadth 82: least interorbital breadlh 14: length of
nasals .")!): joint length of basioccipital and basisphenoid 4.").."): length of
ujiper molar series on alveoli ."iO: length of antler 113. Adult 9 fi'om
Apazote, Campeche: basal length KiO: occipionasal length 101; length
of nasals .■)7.."): breadth of frontals at jxislerior corner, of orbits .)7: least
interorbital breadth 3!): palatal length Id!); length of ui)i)er mol;vr series
on alveoli 52.5.
