^Fei'i'liiin — lujiir Xen' PcccitrU'x from JL'.rico. 121
back. ;iii(l coxer the entire nimp, where, when old, they develop swollen
whitish nodes or joints .uiviiii:' the rump a ver_y curious appearance. ■••"
Crduiiil rlKivdctcrs. — Skull larjie, heavy, and massive: upper surface of
rostrum and nasals broadly Hattened or only sliuhtly convex: nasals
acute anteriorly, reaching;- almost as far forward as premaxillse; zygo-
matic ridue rising abruptly to lop of skull and disappearinii- anteriorly
over 2d premolar; anterior openiniz' of antorbital foramen situated over
posterior root of 1st molar: xidin of rnxfn/m hrniaU}/ fditiui'd (swollen in-
stead of exca\ated over premolars, and not divided into upper and lower
parts by continuation of zygomatic ridge): jxilate eery broad and flat, ex-
panded instead of narrowed between canines and molars, and lacking
the sharp ridge which in the niH/u/ufns uroup runs from 1st premolar to
inner side of canine: angle of underjaw rouiuled below anteriorly.
Dental r/taracfcr-s. — Teeth large and heavy, relatively broad anteriorly:
2d lower molar with posterior cusp nearly as large and high as anterior
(thus (littering widely from its condition '\\\ niifinhitu.-^. in which the
tooth is not only very much smaller, but the anterior cusp is high and
slender, the posterior nearly obsolete): incisors and canines only slightly
larger than in aiif/ulttfus: molariform teeth much larger (relative in-
crease in size greatest in 1st and 2d lower ijremolars.
Tayassu albirostris ringens subsp. nov.
Ti/jn' from Apazote, near Yohallun, Campeche. Xo. 1U8.2(!». 9 ad.,
U. S. National Museum, Biological Survey Collection. January 1, 1901.
E. W. Nelson and E. A. Goldman. Original No. 14,38:5.
Charactcrti. — Size large (length nearly 4 feet): ears small: color nearly
black: muzzle white: rump aiul median part of back clothed with ex-
ceedingly long and flexible flattened bristles, frayed at the ends, those
on posterior part of back (when old) with terminal third or half marked
by distinct joints or nodes (those on rump averaging three or four on
each bristle). Similar in general characters to ((Ibirostrix, from which it
differs in the much greater extension of the whitish face markings, the
white covering the muzzle completely from snout to midway between
nose and eyes, aiul extending backward along sides of undei-ja\\' to be-
low ears, and in the presence of an ill d(>fiiieil white band above hoofs of
hind feet.
dolor. — Upperparts black, on close inspection sparingly grizzled with
fulvous, especially on sides of neck and shoulders; top of head from
occiput to midway between eyes and nose black; muzzle chin and lips
*Under the microscope the nodes are found to mark points where the
horny longit udinal hbers of the outer coat have begun to break and
spread. Transverse sections at these points, made by my assistant Dr.
S. 1). .Tudd, show that complete disintegration of the interior radiating
pith or core has taken place, and indicate that the nodes are coijiHned to
the dead terminal parts of the l)rislles.
