122 ^l( rrhnn — Four X(ur Peccaries from Mt-i'lco.
pale yellowisli while, the whilisli col(»r of cliiii exteiuliuii' l^iu'k broadly
on each side of underjaw 1o below ears, forming- a very conspicuous
broad V-shaped marking: underparls sparsely liaired, black, grizzled
with fulvous: legs and feet blackish, mixed with soiled white near
hoofs; the Avhitish in hind feet forming an indistinct band above hoofs.
Craniul charatters. — The skull of the type specimen, a fine adult fe-
male, compared with a skull of the .same size from San Lorenzo, Rio
(irande, Brazil, received through the courtesy of Professor Hermann
von Ihering, presents the following differences: parietal shield narrower,
elevated and strongly bulging upward over posterior part of braincase;
nasals more acute anteriorly, the free end appearing longer; premaxillK?
slightly longer; zygomata and posterior expansion of squamosals decid-
ly broader; posterior part of palate quite different, the projection be-
hind molars abruptly narrowed at post molar notch (behind on inner
side of molar alveolus) and continuing backward with smooth ^larallel
sides of essentially equal breadtli throughout, while in (dblwdris it is
much broader anteriorly and slopes irregularly backward: bull;e smaller
and ending below in an elongated papilla pointing toward hamular pro-
cess; basi-occipital considerably nai'rower l)etw(MMi bulke posteriorly.
Measvremenh. — Type specimen ( 9 ad.): lotal leiiglh in dry skin 1180:
hind foot in flesh 22!). iSkull: basal length 242: basilar length of Hensel
231: occi])ilonasal length 27(1: zygomatic breadth 112; greatest breadth
acro.ss squamosals posteriorly IdO: palatal length 184: breadth of pos-
terior extension of palate midway between molars and hamulars 1(3:
breadth of basioccipital between bulUe posteriorly 20: length of upper
. molariform series 78.
Subgenus Tayassu Fischer.
(Here restricted to the fiij<(ci(-iiii<ptl(iti(K group).
Tayassu angulatus humeralis sul)si). nov.
Tijpe from Armeria, Colima. No. 1.5,24:!, 9 ad., U. S. National Mu-
seum, Biological Survey Collection. February 2(i, 1892. E. W. Nelson
and E. A. Goldman. Original No. 104.5.
CViarac/ecs'.— Similar to f//i.9('/a/».s' but sides grayer: head yellower: dor-
sal black band more strongly marked, almost as shari)ly as in sonoriensis
from Arizona: shoulder stripes yellowish ochraceous, broad and conspic-
uous, as strongly marked as in ]iucatanensis but yellowish fulvous instead
of white. Skull of male similar to that of male angulatus; skull of fe-
male decidedly larger with longer tooth row. In skulls young enough
to show the suttires the nasal bones are strongly convex posteriorly,
long and slender, and only slighlly broader between maxilhs than be-
tween premaxilhe (differing markedly from their condition in angulatus,
in which they are very much broader between the maxilla?); and the
ascetiding or nasal arm of premaxilla is decidedly longer than in angu-
latus.
