Rnnnrks — Compared with snnorieniiis of Arizona the sides are less gray,
the dorsal band less sharply defined, the shoulder stripes yellower and
much more strongly marked. The sexual disparity in size is greater
than in wnorioisls, the female being considerably larger than the male.
.Veaxaremenls.— Type { 9 ad.): total length 000; tail 60: hind foot 215.
Skull: basal length 203: occipitonasal length 224; zygomatic breadth
108; greatest breadth across .squamosals posteriorly 99; palatal length
lol; length of upjier molariform series 07.
Tayassu angulatus yucatanensis subsp. nov.
Type from Tiuikas, ^'ucatan. No. 108,282. <? yg-ad.. V. S. National
Museum, l^iologicai Sur\ey Collection. February 12, 1901. K. W. Nel-
son and K. A. (ioldman. Original No. l-l,.");>4.
Clutrncters. — Se.xes nearly alike, the female not notit'eably larger than
the male. Size and general characters much as in anguUitus but sides
decidi'dly wliiler: shoulder stri[)('s broader, much nK)re C()nsi)icuous,
and somewhat sublriangular. broadesi where they abut- against the me-
dian dorsal black band which is well develoi)ed; (shoulder stri])es broad-
est and most striking in joung:) pelage coarser and scantier, the indi-
\idual bristles decidedly larger and fewer in number: no black on nose
or underlip. Skull similar to that of aiic/idatus biU luisals acute and
rather short anteriorly, exposing more than usual of the floor of the an-
terior nares (upper surface of premaxilhe); posterolateral upward ex-
tension of squamosal (above and in front of auditory meatus) decidedly
shorter than in artgulatiis, molariform teeth smaller and narrower — par-
ticularly the lower molars: in skulls young enough to show the sutures
the nasals are short and very narrow between premaxilhe and expanded
in the middle — very different from either angalatus ov hnmeralis; they
are more like those of nanvK, l)ut more contracted anteriorly.
AVhw/}-Av>\— Specimens from Tiuikas and Chichen Itza in the arid penin-
sula of Yucatan are typical of this form, but specimens from the
hum.id east coast strip are by no means typical and appear to represent
a tropical form -which here reaches its northern limit. Thus an adult
male from l.aVega (No. 108,.")14*) is larger an<l has coarser pelage than
those from the arid interior, and differs considerably in color, the light
rings on the bristles being yellowish fuhous instead of wliile, and the
underlip blackish.
Measurement. — Type {$ yg-ad.): toti*l length 880: tail :!0: hind fool
183. Average of 2 males from type locality: total length 887; tail l:>();
hind foot 182.5. Average of:! females from type locality: total lengl h 89G;
tail 'My; hind foot 184.
*The measurements of this specimen are: total length 945; tail o4;
hind foot 203.
