113
This estimate does not include the value of Prior Park mansion.
It would be curious to estimate the income now brought in from
the above mentioned estates.
Of the earlier title to the different estates, it is not convenient
here to treat, although the history of the Bathampton estate,
which formed a Eoyal manor in the reign of John, and was made
the subject of numerous grants from that reign to the reign of
James II., is replete with interest. In modern times the estate
belonged to a Mr. Charles Holder, by whom it was much charged
and encumbered, and a private Act of Parliament was passed in
the year 1743, authorising its sale to Ralph Allen for £16,000.
This estate was devised by Ralph Allen to his brother Phillip, in
whose family it still remains.
The Claverton estate was in ancient times the property of the
Bassett family, who in the Civil Wars stood out so staunchly for
King Charles, and whose name was fairly worshipped by the
citizens of Bath. The Bassetts have been accused of extravagance,,
and, whether from this cause, or from the more noble one that
their means were impoverished by their loyalty, their fortunes
decayed. The Claverton estate passed out of the family in 1701,
and, after an intermediate purchase by Mr. William Skrine (a
collateral relative of the present owner), became the property of
Allen in 1758. Many years afterwards, in the year 1825, a
claim was made to the Claverton estate, which although in itself
fruitless and even puerile, well illustrates how quickly a family-
may sink in the social scale.
Sir William Bassett, the last Baronet, seems to have represented
Bath from 1685 to 1690. He had no children, and after his death
his widow sold to Mr. Skrine. It was said, however, that Sir
William had a brother James, and that as the estate was a
male fief under a grant of one of the Henries, there was no
power to deal with it. In the investigation which followed, this
theory was wholly upset, as it was demonstrated that the estates
had only been entailed in the ordinary way, and that powers of
