115
which arises in order of time, is the origin of the pentagonal
form of the city. It has been generally supposed, and perhaps
taught, that Roman camps and cities were always rectangular.
This is only partially true as there are many exceptional cases,
caused generally by some peculiarity in the chosen site. The fine
•city known to us as Silchesfcer is octagonal and is so because its
walls were built on the lines of a British encampment. Pevensey
is an irregular oval, the plan following the form of the ground.
Adhering to the first theory, in a paper printed in the
■"Proceedings of the Somerset Archseological Society," Vol. 31,
1884, it is argued that the outline of Bath was originally rect-
angular having the full dimensions of a large Roman camp. The
boundaries it is asserted were, on the east the river ; on the west
the now Avon Street and the side of Queen's Square ; on the
north a line a few yards to the north of George Street ; and on
the south a line parallel with this last drawn at right angles to
Stall Street at its junction with the Lower Borough- walls ; the
whole containing about eighty six acres. A plan is given which
.greatly aids towards understanding the argument. In this plan
the North Gate has a central position in the northern line, some-
where near the top of Milsom Street but suggests no road
-attached to or passing through it. The pentagonal form it was
argued was the outcome of circumstances, such as when peace
reigned after the subjugation of the Britons, there being no
necessity for a full sized camp, the plan was reduced practically
to one fourth the original size by cutting oif the northern part
and building a wall at the ofFcut on the line now known as the
Upper Borough-wall. But the part remaining must have still
been rectangular and no way pentagonal. Also with this sugges-
tion the North Gate must have been shifted from its assumed
central position in the first wall, a necessity overlooked or left
unaccounted for by the writer. Continuing his argument the
same author, in the next year's Proceedings, Vol. 32, attempted
to show that Bath was a military station occupied by the XX
H
