116
Legion, but the evidences here were not more satisfactory than in*
the previous suggestions and could not be accepted. There is no
evidence of any change of plan or that Bath was ever either a
camp or a military station. A small guard it may be assumed
would be there, and soldiers as well as strangers came there as-
invalids and died there, leaving in the form of altar or grave'
stone or otherwise, some token or record for us to discover.
When thus considering the origin of the outline of the city,
the mind's eye must be cleared entirely of all present surroundings,
of every building and street now familiar, and the spot pictured
as a void neglected marsh, over or through which flowed the
water from many cold springs as well as the water from the hot
ones, forming a bog filled with reeds or rushes extending down to
the river side. The Romans as new comers having first protected
and enclosed the hot springs would proceed to lay out and wall
in their new possession. Like an earlier people, they " walled in
the town for their habitation and had the suburbs for their cattle
and for their goods and for all their beasts." Taking the lower
part of the site, many places along it must have been found too
marshy and too wet to bear a heavy wall, thus the outline was
determined here by the suitableness or firmness of the ground.
Guidott* mentions that when digging some foundations in the
south west and north west of the city, the workmen came to a
soft yielding mud through which on being probed no bottom
could be discovered. This was under some yards of gravel
supposed to have been laid down by the Eomans to make a firm
surface. The northern line of wall, where the ground was dry
and firm, is straight enough after the expected and usual manner.
Mr. Scarth in his book "Aquse Solis," p. 108, treating of the
Eoman roads near Bath makes a statement which is certainly
startling. He says, " after uniting at Batheaston with the road
from Silchester, the Fosse road passed along Walcot and is then
* " Discourse &c., 1676," p. 100.
