119
below the surface is seen a white crescent shaped mark ; this was
*' a gutter of freestone of no use at present being underground,
the foot seemed all composed of rubbish, coal, mortar, &c. to the
gutter." On the extreme left, was " a solid brick wall that went
athwart the hole " and following this was " a row of bricks twenty
in number made in the nature of stoves all of one piece, hollow,
a half inch thick within, sixteen inches high, five inches wide and
six inches deep." Between each of them was put a strong and
reddish cement of mortar and brick dust and a single tile ; in the
inside was found sticking " a black stuff very like soot ; the stove
" bricks were placed pretty regular one behind the other so that
" you can thrust in a stick of three or four feet long towards each
*' side going towards the King's bath, was it not for the earth that
"has got into them perhaps a great deal farther ; they came about
" a foot further the other side and that was their end or closing ;
" they had all pieces of tile clapped before each hollow. NB.
"They stand on a clayish ground." Drawings are given of one
of the hollow bricks taken out for the purpose ; also of one of the
tiles from the top, and one of the single tiles placed between.
Again in 1790 when digging for the Pump Eoom, with many
remains of columns and friezes, an altar dedicated to Minerva
was found at the western end, these were supposed to belong to
the Temple of Minerva, especially when remembering the well
known record of Caius Julius Solinus otherwise known as
Polyhistor, who writing about A.D. 250 mentions the Temple of
Minerva at Bath. But it was soon detected that such a building
must have encroached on Stall Street, a difficulty got over by the
conjecture that it was erected after the street was made. Such a
conjecture cannot be received as having the slightest foundation
or approach to probability.
About twelve feet below the level a pavement of free stone was
discovered having a channel at the extremity to carry off water
and with steps fronting the east.* This pavement it was seen
* "Cruttwell's Guide," p. 17. " Archseologia," v. 10, p. 327.
" Brown's Guide," p. 38.
