120
extended under Stall Street, but not enough of it was laid open to
determine the form or size of the building to which it belonged.
On it the foundations of the Pump Room were laid. Again in
1867 on the destruction of the far famed White Hart to make
way for the present Grand Hotel, a bed of paved concrete was
found which had been apparently surrounded by a court and
smaller buildings. A fragment of cornice was precisely similar to
another piece found in 1790 on the opposite side of the street
under the Pump Eoom. The base of a wall uncovered was
formed of very large stones some measuring more than five feet
in length, probably part of an outer court. Drawings were made,
it is said, of these things with the intention or hope of determin-
ing the plan of the building and for publication, but so far they
have simply disappeared. It was at once concluded that these
remains, as with all others previously found, belonged either to a
Temple or the Forum, their front here facing the east, as those
found opposite on the site of the Pump Room were the remains of
a Temple which faced the west, Stall Street passing between them,
as it does between the modern buildings there to day. The
simple fact is that Stall Street not being a Roman street does not
pass between, but is made or laid on, and really passes over the
plan of an important building which covered the ground here in
Roman times. It can readily be judged that this was the hall,
the ante rooms, and the hypocaust, part of the frontage of the
fine system of baths now partially exposed.
But if Stall Street be not a Roman street and so not the original
main central thoroughfare of the city as it is always assumed to
have been, where was that street.
Northward of Bath the Fosse road coming by Batheaston
reached Walcot. About the point where now stands Walcot
Church a road now known as the Via Julia branched from it,
passed up the hill about the site of Guinea Lane and by the head
of Russell Street to "Weston and then on across the Severn. The
Fosse continuing its own line went on by our Walcot Street into
