121
Bath through the North Gate which stood at the end of the
present Northgate Street. Bath had the usual four gates at the
•compass points, so that opposite this point would be placed the
South Gate. Besides these four there was in the medieval wall
a,lso a postern. This postern, known as the Ham Gate, led from
the Priory to the Ham meadow. It stood a little eastward of
our South Gate.
The supposition or accepted idea, other than the suggestion
already quoted, has hitherto been that the Fosse after entering
l)y the North Gate and traversiug High Street, turned to the right
along our Cheap Street and then to the left down our Stall Street
and so out on the site of our South Gate. Such a road as the Fosse,
a royal highway, ever going straight onward after the known
Koman plan, could hardly have twisted about in such an unusual
manner. This latter idea has been produced by the obliteration
and obstruction caused by the Priory church and grounds, just as
the former was the result of the usual conviction that the ever
present cross roads found in Roman plans must have crossed in
the centre of the city. This was by no means always the case.
At Ilchester, on the same Fosse road, it was not so ; at Silchester
it was not so, as also at Gloucester and other places. By clearing
the ground of all buildings, by giving up these fancies and con-
tinuing the Fosse from the North Gate through the City south-
ward in the usual straight line, it is brought not to the medieval
«outh Gate, but to near about the Ham Gate, which may be
claimed to have been on part of the site of the larger Roman
gate. The position now becomes clearer. When the Priory was
enclosed, the Fosse road was cut and stopped by its northern
boundary, and Stall Street being formed in its place the South Gate
was moved westward to meet the new street ; the site of the
Roman gate becoming thus private property was utilised as a way to
the Ham meadow. The line of the Fosse then, entered by the North
-Gate; passed along our High Street, through near the transept
of the present church ; on by the site of the Ham Gate and across
