122
the Ham meadow to, presumably, a bridge in line with it eastward
of the present bridge, and so over the river to Holloway. The
direction of Holloway from the hill side, as may be seen to-day,
is towards such a bridge. To meet the abutment of the later
bridges the direction of the road has been changed somewhat at
the extreme bottom of the hill. The position can be clearly seen
in the outline sketch map here given and in Stukeley's map
printed in 1724. Thus the crossing of the highway always
looked for in a Eoman town, would have been at the junction of
our High Street and Cheap Street.
One more suggestion must be made, viz., that the line of our
Cheap Street, was continued in a straight line to an East Gate which
stood near the house now known as Nassau House. Hereabouts
long years afterwards, just on the boundary of the Priory grounds,
were the Spring Garden stairs, and a ferry across the river.
Such an outlet is all the Eomans could have had on this side.
The present East Gate would thus be medieval, and like the
South Gate, its position was changed when the ground was
enclosed ; when the site of the ford was wanted by the Priory ;
when the Monk's mill and the weirs made with it were built.
Next an attempt may be made to glance at the interior
arrangement or plan of the city, and here it must be remembered
that the Fosse road must have been survej^ed or made before the
city was built ; the city is built on the road, not the road through
the city ; the direction and position of the road influenced the plan
and direction of the streets, which would be all parallel with it.
However irregular the outline or walls may have been, the streets
within were always symmetrical, running parallel with the high
road as to one direction, and parallel with the main street which
always crossed it, in the other. All the streets thus formed a
rectangle at every junction. There was no deviation from this
rule. First then must be taken the south eastern quarter of
which most is known, where existed the fine system of baths, now
in part visible. Hitherto nothing has been made of the plans of
