123
these baths so often published. By the plans given in various-
books on the subject, such as by Dr. Spry, copied and reissued in
Scarth's *• Aquae Solis," the front of the baths is supposed to bo
buried in the space between the end of the large rectangular
bath and Stall Street ; but the recent discovery that this space is
occupied by a round bath makes the idea impossible. By
abolishing Stall Street and so giving space in front, the whole plan
can be completed. The Roman street which ran in front of the
baths when so completed, is with but a slight exception discern-
able now. It is known as Parsonage Lane as far as Westgate Street
which it crossed, passed through what is now the back yard of
the Grand Hotel but which was once the stable j^ard of the
White Hart Hotel, and then through exactly No. 11 Bath Street,
across that street and on by St. Catherine's Hospital. The
continuation on this, the south, side is under the colonnade of
Bath Street and by substituting a colonnade for No. 11 on the north
side, the whole street or way would be again open fi'om north to-
south. By measuring depths and examining generally this,
position is clearly discerned. The side or foot pavement on the
south side of Westgate Street at the entrance to the stable yard,
shows or marks a former continuation of the now Parsonage
Lane. It corresponds exactly with the side pavement of
Parsonage Lane and must be there from some cause, as no such
work would be put at the entrance to a stable yard but would
rather be removed as an obstruction. Thus by simply clearing
away No. 11 Bath Street there is formed a street duly parallel with
the Fosse, giving the line of the western front or end of the baths
and giving room for the outer court yard, for colonnade and steps,
for entrance hall and side chambers, and all that is wanted^
Moreover the flue tiles of the hypocaust which heated the
buildings are still lying in situ under Stall Street. It may then be
predicted that nothing will be found ih connection with the
present exposed plans westward of this line, or eastward of the-
Fosse road as herein laid down.
