124
At the eastern or opposite end, having the Fosse road for its
: Doundary, is another bath on a smaller scale. This is known to
be complete having hypocaust and all usual rooms fairly perfect.
It was supplied from its own hot spring, which in later times was
suppressed to avoid or prevent competition. Whether this was a
public bath, say for women, or whether it was a private bath
attached to some large house seems difficult to determine. The
sexes often bathed together then, as near the same spot they did
long years afterwards, so that the large bath may have been
sufficient for general use. If the Governor's house could be
placed hereabouts, nicely southward, in the sunshine, and on the
high road, then it may rather be suggested that this bath was a
private one attached to his house. The rooms seem too small for
public use. Taking finally a view of the whole system we may
imagine the ground open on the south having promenades and
gardens and accomodation for various games.
In the north east quarter, in the angle now formed by the
corners of High Street and Cheap Street,may have stood the Forum
and the Basilica, always an important official centre, the Market
Place and Guildhall of our daj'', and not far in fact from the
present offices. It is found so placed at Silchester, the only
example known. In this block too may be placed the principal
shops and artificers, for it was along the high road by the North
Gate, still known as the High Street, that all traffic passed.
From the finds in the north west corner a different plan may be
judged. In 1738 a tesselated pavement was found when the
Mineral Water Hospital was being built, also another in 1859,
and an inscription on marble in 1861, thus marking the site of a
house of some consequence, which probably occupied the frontage
between our Union Passage and Parsonage Lane. In 1860 a
tesselated pavement with other remains were found on the site of
the Blue Coat School, showing another good house westward of
the last and westward of our Parsonage Lane. Tesselated pave-
ments it may be concluded would be found only in the principal
