125
or official houses. Of the remaining quarter the south west, little
<:an be said. It is still almost virgin ground. Some remains have
been found there around the present baths, as also an altar in 1774
near the Hot bath and another in 1776. Another altar was found
in 1809 near the Cross bath, and in 1825 a stone was unearthed
>under the United Hospital. Hereabouts may be placed the
general Infirmary, an institution usual in Eoman cities, but beyond
this as a suggestion there is little to guide. Around these springs,
•centres our own history of the Bath waters as public waters, and
here now, still all around them, are placed the oldest, as well as
the most modern Infirmaries. This quarter has been so much
changed and altered that any Eoman plan can hardly be traced.
In 1789 an Act of Parliament enabled the Corporation to build
five new streets, all of these being near the Cross bath and the
General Hospital. One went from Barton Street, near the General
Hospital, to Stall Street ; the second was Bath Street ; the third
went from north of the Cross bath to Westgate Street ; the fourth
from the west side of Stall Street near Bell Tree Lane to the
-Borough Walls ; the fifth from south of the Cross bath to the
Borough Walls. Also the houses in Cheap Street were rebuilt
and some houses at the corner of the bridge removed.*
There is one other point which must come to the thoughts
"when endeavouring to realise the old position, but regarding
which no suggestion has been made, viz., how were strangers and
invalids housed or lodged. The small rooms, often so great a
puzzle in the plans of Eoman houses were used for bedrooms,
•mere alcoves closed with a curtain when in use. The larger
•houses had rooms especially for strangers, wings adjoining the
private apartments and having separate entrances. Seneca —
'Ep. 89 — rallying the Eomans on their restlessness, says, somewhat
•opportunely for the present occasion — There is no lake, river, or
*iountain where your villas do not erect their lofty tops. Where-
* "Brown's Guide," 1802.
