131
another^ until close to the site of the bridge under Woolavington
Lane, when two beds, respectively 4ft. and 5ft. thick, of hard
blue shale appear, separated by a bed of stone 14ins. thick.
Underlying these strata are four or five beds of hard whitish
limestone (White Lias), with beds of shale and stiff blue clay
about 5ft. thick, and at the base Black Shales. These beds belong
to the Rhjetic formation, and they here form the nucleus of an
anticlinal. Beyond the anticlinal the Lower Lias strata present a
gentle synclinal structure, and the beds rise to the north at an
angle of about 5 degrees. Farther on the Ehsetic Beds again
appear, and at the site of the farm bridge the Black Shales show
a thickness of 12ft. Interstratified in these last are beds of
fibrous carbonate of lime or " beef," one or two feet in thickness,
and under these were some layers with nodules and crystals of
iron-pyrites. In the lowest bed shown at the site of tlie farm-
bridge some teeth and scales of fishes were found. Immediately
above this there came a bed of bluish limestone, having nodules,
hollow in the centre, and lined with crystals of carbonate of lime.
In the Black Shales were also found besides the fish scales, many
shells common to the Rhfetic Beds, such as Gardium Ehae'iciim,
Peden Valoniensis, and Avicula contorta. Further on by the
Cossington Dingle this succession of beds somewhat abruptly ends,
the latter part of the cutting being through clays and recent
rubble.
Beyond the Dingle the line enters another cutting, and, after
passing through the Rhsetic shales and clays, the Lower Lias is
again found overlying the White Lias with its top layer, the
" Dew Bed." The strata here show signs of great disturbance,
the limestones being very much dislocated, and in places the
«hales and beds of clays are tilted up and cut off within a chain's
length. The chief fossil found in the basement beds of the
Lower Lias was Pleuromya Crowcombeia in large numbers. A little
further east the beds become regular, though frequently faulted.
First we find shale and rubble cverlying limestone shale in light
J
