132
laminated beds, all belonging to the Lower Lias. Below these-
are the Ehsetic Beds, some four beds of pale limestone above a
thick layer of grey clay, banded limestone, and lastly at the base
of the cutting the dark blue or black shales of the Lower
Ehsetic Beds. These descend beneath the level of the railway,
within a little distance of the bridge under the road ; but further
on they are faulted in such a manner that the basement beds of
the Lower Lias, consisting of thick beds of argillaceous limestone
and shales, are again upraised here and there, so as to display the
White Lias at the base.
East of the bridge, where the beds are thus faulted, the shaly
beds of the Lower Lias yielded the tail bones of a Plesiosatirus in
admirable preservation and in complete order. The particular
spot adjoined a fault that probably lowered the remaining bones
of the skeleton out of reach of the railway excavation. The
Saurian, to judge by his bones, must have been from 15ft, to
20ft. in length. Fossils in this cutting were rare, but iron-pyrites
again appear, this time in cubes in the solid limestone, and also
in veins and on the surface of the beds.
Passing eastward, and bearing in mind that the cutting is now
along the slope, parallel to the range of the hills, we find the blue
clays, limestones and shales of the Lower Lias exhibited. Several
faults and disturbances occur, and in one place a band of limestone
occupies a vertical position. Approaching the bridge over the
lane where the railway again curves northward, the thick shale
beds of the Lower Lias were again met. The strata abounded to
a very remarkable extent in Ammonites planorhis. So plentiful
were they that in one instance a large slab of shale taken from
the cutting was covered so thickly as to make it almost impossible
to put the point of a pencil upon it without touching an
impression, and in some places they were lying many deep. The
impressions themselves were scarcely indented in the shale, the
original shell having been pressed perfectly flat. When first
taken from the ground they had an iridescent appearance, after-
