135
Before bringing the paper to a close, it may be as well to make
a few brief remarks upon the general relation of the levels.
Eeferring to the map, the summit line of the Polden Hills where
the railway passes through them, may be taken almost due east
from Dunball Railway Station, turning slightly south-east to meet
the main road to Glastonbury, where our railway crosses it, and
thence following the road for some miles. Cossington Park, as
■will be seen from the sections, lies almost level upon the summit,
the permanent way of the Bridgwater Railway falling away on
either side, the top of the hill here being broad, with a slight
hollow in the middle. The Glastonbury Road runs along the
summit of a very sharp ridge, the slope on the south side being
in some cases almost precipitous.
With regard to the actual levels of the railway, we will begin
with Edington Moor, which, being only 3ft. or 4ft. at the most
above the level of the sea, we may take as our zero. The lime-
stone, or what we infer to be such, below the banks of the
Edington Canal, is about 34ft. down; passing southward it is
next met with 10ft. below the surface, Avhere it is rising in an
angle of about 15 degrees to form the hillock between the Inner
and Outer Moors. In this hill the strata terminate abruptly,
giving a steep slope to the southern side, while beneath the peat
it is again found at the site of an existing bridge (1 mile 62 chains)
and 6ft. below moor level. Two chains further on it is touched
again, 26ffc. below moor level, and again on the extremity of the
moor, where it is rising to form the Polden Hills. The Edington
end of the long cutting commences 38ft. above the moor, the
gradient of the railway rising as the line proceeds. The Rhsetic
Beds are found in the bottom of the cutting 84ft. above the level
of the Peat Moor; the summit of the land on this side of
Cossington Valley is 113ft. above the same level. Passing across
the Dingle, the Rhsetic Beds are found again in the base of the
cutting, 95ft. above the level of the peat, the actual top of the
Black Shale Beds being about 10ft. above the base of the cutting.
