i3r
the news reached Bath of the decease, at Tangier, on Easter Eve,
of our respected Vice-president, the Rev. Preb. Scarth, the last but
one of the original members of our club in 1855 remaining.
■Ordered to pass the winter in a warmer climate, he sought the
northern shores of Africa, and whilst enjoying the benefit of change
of scene, not unmindful of his favourite studies, was gradually
mastering the antiquities of Tangier. Cheerful letters were
Teceived by his friends at home descriptive of the manners and
•customs of the natives, and of how little they had changed since
the time of the Roman occupation. A sudden chill, however,
seems to have carried him off in the midst of his loved pursuits,
and we, as a club, have to mourn the loss of a man whose cheery
presence, kindly manner, and enthusiasm in all Archaeological
investigations it will be found difficult to equal. In all the Avork
of our Club he took an active share, as the various numbers of the
" Proceedings," to which he contributed so large a portion of its
papers, testify. His interest in its excursions seemed never to
flag, and your Secretary daily misses the assistance of his mature
counsel and advice in all matters connected with the Antiquarian
branch of the Club's work. During the past year two other old
members followed him — the Rev. C. De Courcy Meade and Col.
Cockell — the former seemingly in the midst of good health and
years, the latter more advanced in life. Though neither of these
contributed any papers to our " Proceedings," yet they both did
much, by their attendance, when able, at the afternoon meetings
and the weekly walks and excursions, to forward the objects of
the Club in their own particular way. They, too, have made a gap
in our ranks to be remembered for some time.
Seven new Members have been elected during the past year,
and it is a subject of congratulation that the Rev. Canon
EUacombe, who for so many years has been connected with us
and contributed papers, botanical and otherwise, to our published
"Proceedings," has been induced to accept the post of vice-president.
The botanical side of the Club's work will thus receive additional
