161
Abbey of Glo'ster held the Manor, temp., Edward III. A
moiety of the lands in Boxwell — " Leighterton and Wast " — was
afterwards granted to Sir Walter Ealeigh, and on his attainder
for high treason fell again to the crown and was granted to Peter
Vaulore, a merchant, who was Lord of the Manor, 1G08. The
■other moiety came to the Huntleys, temp., Queen Elizabeth. The
advowson of the Rectory belonged to the Priory of Walsingham, in
Norfolk, founded by " Sir Geffray Faverches Knyth " for the Black
■Canons. The little Church, consisting of a nave, chancel and South
aisle, divided from the nave by three bays, is the mother church of
the parish, and had regular services down to the latter years of the
former Rector, Richard Webster Huntley, who then removed to
the Rectory house of Leighterton. Many of the adjoining cottages
having been pulled down, there was less reason for holding
services. The Church necessarily falling into decay from damp
■and neglect, presented a pitiable aspect when seen two or three
years ago, the rain coming through the roof, and thewallsoften being
encrusted with green damp. Through Mr. Skrine's cousin, Mr.
Osmond Huntley, and himself, and the assistance of the Rector, this
state of things has been remedied and the little church been
placed in good repair, the only thing wanting now being seats,
reading desk and lectern, which it is hoped will be provided ere
long by the assistance of the Diocesan Church Building Society.
The font, situated in the North aisle attracted attention ; it is
octagonal in shape and rests upon eight rudely rounded short
shafts and raised upon a square base. It was apparently an Early
English font, since altered. The pointed arch leading into the
chancel is of that date, as is the rather unique bell cot, which Avas
successfully photographed by Mr. Powell (one of the members),
and through the kindness of Mr. Skrine has been reproduced in
Platinotype for this number. High up on the South wall were
indications of a sun dial, the usual hole for the gnomon and two
radiating lines cut in the masonry.
Ozleworth Church was the next point of interest, and the
