162
members wound round in front of the court and down the-
romantic combe under the guidance of Mr. Skrine who accom-
panied them a portion of the way. Following the little stream
from Boxwood as it found its rippling way through the wooded
A'alley, they crossed by a little bridge at the bottom, turned to the
right, and, after a pleasant walk of about IJ mile, found them-
selves in front of the comfortable looking mansion belonging to
the Rolt family. The keys of the adjoining church having been
obtained, the Secretary read some notes prepared by Mr. Skrine,
from which it appeared that the Church, given to the Priory of
Leonard Stanley by Koger Lord Berkeley, is an ancient building
of singular construction, having an hexagonal tower rising up
between the Nave and Chancel from Transition arches. A sharp
pointed arch beneath the Tower exhibits highly relieved zig-zag
ornament. The font is of peculiar construction somewhat
resembling that at Boxwell, but whether a copy of an ancient
font originally existing there or entirely new was not evident.
The South porch, probably Transition, has its columns
ornamented with foliage of an unusual type, but the whole
structure has been so rebuilt or modernized that it is difficult to
trace what is original and what is the freak of the so-called
restorer. The Tower, however, seems to have been untouched,
and is of Transition period and very interesting. Passing through
the neatly kept churchyard into the garden the members were
shown the latter by the gardener, and then taking a short cut
through the grounds, descended through the wood, remarkable
for its fine beech trees, recrossed the stream, and found their way
back to the farm. After partaking of some refreshments which
they had fortunately provided for themselves, and thanking Mr.
Skrine for the trouble he had taken in arranging the day's
programme and for the notes he had prepared, the party left for
Bath at 5 p.m. At the Cross Hands a short halt was made for
tea, which was very acceptable after their cold ride, and Bath
■was reached about 7.45 p.m.
