163
Burrington Combe and Cheddar Cliffs, June 17th, 1890. — This
-excursion was especially geological. The authorities of the
G.W.R. kindly placed a saloon carriage at the disposal of the
members for Winscombe, on the Cheddar Valley line, where
conveyances met them, in which, after some rather tight packing,
they managed to stow themselves for a drive to Burrington
Combe. It is a constant source of wonderment to the members
how it is that conveyances that are warranted to seat sixteen, for
instance, will only hold fourteen. The only conclusion they can
■come to is that the present generation have grown much larger in
bulk since these conveyances were built, and for the future they
always intend largely to discount the warranty — this by the way.
After passing through the villages of Sandford and Churchill and
thoroughly enjoying the rural beauty of the scene, the richness of
the foliage, and the pretty cottages buried in roses, with their
quaintly clipped yew and box trees, turning round the western
spur of the hills they passed Mendip Lodge and following a lane
on the right hand after Langford Green, halted at the West end
of Burrington Church. Crossing a field which led to the church-
yard they delayed for a short space to admire the beautiful turret
staircase on the South side, and then entered the church. The
Eev. W. B. De Moleyns, who was unfortunately from home, had
kindly sent the register into the church, from which the Secretary
was enabled to read an account of the restoration so admirably
carried out in every detail. Notwithstanding the Vicar's absence
refi-eshments had been most thoughtfully and kindly provided by
his direction, after partaking of which the party walked into the
Combe and began the chief work of the day. Attention was
drawn to the various caves, Aveline's Hole, Goat Church Cavern,
&c., which had been thoroughly explored by Professor Boyd
Dawkins and Mr. Ayshford Sanford ; search was made by some
for the corals and fossils locally called " butterflys," which abound
in the weather-worn ialus of the Mountain Limestone ; the " twin
brooks " were followed up for the Transition beds, (the passage
L
