164
beds of the Limestone into the older Old Red formation), and finally
the carriages were overtaken on the top. The change from the
picturesque Combe to the bare table-land was most striking.
Unfortunately the rain now fell and obscured the distant view
across the Channel, and necessitated the giving up the contem-
plated visit to the Eoman Amphitheatre and the Charter House
Lead Mines. The members were content to see the refuse heaps
of the old Romans and their abundant surface workings in the
distance, and hurried on to the Cheddar Pass, down which they
drove to the ClifiF Hotel. It was generally admitted by those
who had seen the rocks more than once before, that they lost
nothing in grandeur by repeated visits, but on the other hand,
rather gained in height and sublimity, and for inland rock scenery
stand unsurpassed in England. After lunch the Secretary read a
short paper on the formation of ravines and such like passes; and
stated that there were three only possible theories, one of those
which was held by Professor Boyd Dawkins and others he himself
adopted, i.e., that the Cheddar Pass was nothing more or less than
a gigantic unroofed cavern, for which reasons were given. This,
it need hardly be said, was received with the usual incredulity,
expressed or silently felt. Gough's Cavern was then visited, and
the return to Bath at 9.5 p.m. effected without any contretemj^s,
after a very pleasant day amidst the scenic beauties and instruc-
tive geological features of our but too little known Mendip Hills.
Fairford and Cirencester, March 25th, 1890. — A wish having
been expressed by some members of the Club to revisit the
farfamed stained glass windows at Fairford and witness the
process of reparation now going on in a most careful and con-
servative manner at the hands of Messrs. Lavars and Westlake,
an excursion somewhat earlier in the season than usual was
arranged and very successfully carried out. A break met the
party on the arrival of the 9.50 a.m. train at Cirencester, and
after about an hour's uninteresting drive, reached Fairford in
good time. A walk round the outside of the Church and a
