165
cursory inspection of the masonry, for mason's marks, was first
made — not without results — on the face of the West wall, in
addition to the usual signs, one of those circles to which attention
has lately been drawn was found ; in this instance a simple circle
with a central hole evidently not intended for a sun-dial. Before,
however, the circuit of the Church had been completed, the Vicar,
the Rev. F. H. Carbonell, appeared, and at once took the Members
inside, first pointing out the dangerous process of decay which
had been going on in the timbers of the roof (now being repaired),
evidence of which was plainly visible in the rotten state of one
of the main beams lying outside, the wonder being how it could
have held together so long. Commencing with the window
immediately to the West of the screen, on the North side, the
Vicar first of all gave a short account of the history of the glass,
and the usual story of how John Tame, the wealthy London
merchant, in the beginning of the 16th century built the present
Church for the purpose of containing the glass which he had
captured at sea — a story which he and other archaeologists dis-
credited — giving as he proceeded in his description, many reasons,
structural and otherwise, in support of the view that the glass
was made for the Church and not the Church for the glass. But
as to the designer and artificer of these 28 matchless windows
authorities were not agreed ; if Albert Durer had nothing to do
with them (as was now the prevalent idea) who was the English-
man to whom they could be assigned 1 Without entering into
the details of the interesting story which the Vicar, unfolded
window by window, as he proceeded round the Church, finishing
up with the great window at the West end (details which may be
seen in •' Proc. Glost. Arch. Soe." Vol. II., also in " Proc.
B.N.H. and A.F.C." Vol. II.) — it will be suflScient to mention that
they contain a painted story of the Gospel narrative of the birth,
sufferings, death and resurrection of Christ, succeeded by figures
of the Apostles, Prophets, Saints and persecutors of the Early
Church, and the final judgment; unequalled in design and
