166
execution by any Mediaeval glass certainly in England if not
elsewhere. The masterly grasp which Mr. Carbonell had of his
subject, the reverend enthusiasm shown, and the patience of his
reply to many interrupting questions, as, wand in hand, for
nearly two hours he pointed out the minutest detail in the
story, rendered the visit peculiarly instructive. It required
someone who had spent hours and days in the study of these
unique windows to point out the beautiful little accesories in the
different lights. Here an open window in the background, open-
ing out a view into a sunny garden, there the furniture and
utensils of some sacred household. Then, again, cloistered aisle
and tesselated pavement receding into the dim distance in
admirable perspective, the crowns of Virgin and Saint, Angels
and jeAvelled belts, all painted with the greatest accuracy— perfect
pictures in petio. All these would have escaped the notice of an
ordinary eye unless instructed by the master eye of one who had
dwelt long and lovingly on the objects. Owing, moreover, to
this intimate acquaintance with every detail, many places of
stained glass which had been inserted upside down, or misplaced
entirely, at the time when these windows, after the Cromwellian
disturbances, had been brought out of their hiding place and
replaced, have been restored to their rightful position ; a piece of
coloured glass, missing from some Saint's robe, recovered; the
cross from the top of another Saint's staff fitted on again ; a white
glare of glass offending the eye, replaced by some bit of colour
which had wandered off elsewhere. And thus the reparation and
re-leading of these priceless windows has been carried on under
the guidance and care of a man in whom antiquaries must have
the fullest confidence. One other point is worthy of remark. A
temporary floor has been erected over the nave for the much
needed repairs of the roof, and thus an opportunity offered which
may never occur again of inspecting the Clerestory "Windows,
their re-leading and colours, closely. This was taken advantage
of, and the members ascended by a tortuous staircase on to the
