169
tomb, with a recumbent female figure, erected by Sir Thos.
Longe, Knight, to the memory of his aunt daughter of Thos.
Berkeley, by Elizabeth daughter of Thos. Seymer. The
Marshall's lock or fetterlock round the North face of the tomb ia
the cognizance of the Long family. At the East of this chapel are
two canopies, with a piscina in the South wall and a hagioscope
into the chancel. At the foot and on the North face of the per-
pendicular pier supporting the arch of the transept is a short
pedestal with a Norman or Transition capital apparently adapted
as a stoup for holy water. Passing out through the south door,
and by the late doorway into the Long Chapel, over which wag
cut in stone the letters, "R. An. Dni, 1566 L." (the fetterlock and
stag's head on either side), and through the neatly kept church-
yard, the members followed a lane to the North-east for a short
distance, and crossed a field to the fine manor house, now in the
hands of architects, builders, and " restorers ! " Admittance was
most unfortunately denied us, but the tenant, Mr. Wright,
most courteously showed us round the outside, and brought out
" Walker's History and Antiquities of the Manor House of S.
Wraxall " — a rare book, and one which he evidently appreciates
and prizes. From his conversation it was gathered that during
the recent pullings down evidence was found which indicated a
date to some portion of this house earlier than that of the
15th century ; 1480 being the usual date assigned to this beautiful
specimen of domestic architecture. Obliged to be content
with walking round the outside thereof, surveying its fine
mullioned windows, and above all, its elegant octagonal chimneys
^why should not chimneys be made an ornament to modern
houses instead of a hideous disfigurement ? there are many such
models as these for builders to copy), the members thanked Mr,
Wright for his courtesy, returned to the break, and, through
«hady lanes and devious ways, found themselves in front of Holt
manor house instead of Great Chalfield. The mistake being
rectified, the object of their search was at length found, and
