170
Mrs. Bailey, the wife of the tenant, received them and conducted
them over the house, a perfect specimen of a manor house of the
14th century ; forming, with the buildings used for stabling, two
sides of a quadrangle, the Church and the moat in front forming the
third and fourth sides. The manor house seems to have succeeded
to some fortified post previously existing, indeed, some suppose
that it was once an outpost of the Eomans, guarding their com-
munications with the main road between Bath and Verlucio.
The principal front faces North, and can hardly be excelled in the
beauty of its outline, in the richness of the Oriel windows,
especially the semicircular one which lighted the guest chamber
at the East end, the elegant chimney shafts, and quaint figures on
the gables of the banqueting hall, no»v turned into domestic
apartments, temp., Henry VI. Passing round to the South of
the guest chamber, the inner side of the Oriel was well seen,
with its two elegant pendants, almost perfect, and stone groining.
Beneath, in recesses, arc preserved three of the masks through
which the Lords of the Manor reconnoitered their guests
in the hall from their upstair rooms without being seen. It
now only remained to visit the Church, through the West door
with its peculiar pannelled corbel. The interior is divided into
nave, chancel, side chapel on South, with a modern addition to
the East end of the latter. The walls of the body of the Church
are considered to be portions of the original chapel, 1308 ; the
West window, porch and bell turret more modern, temp. Henry
VII. In the roof of the Chantry Chapel, the Tropenell arms,
viz., " Gules, a fesse engrailed and powdered with ermine,
between three griffin's heads, erased argent," indicates that this
was an after addition by the builder of the manor house adjoining.
A tablet over the small door in the South wall of the building
East of the Chantry, with the inscription "R. N., A.D. 1775,'^
shows that this was added by Eobert Neale, (vide Pugin's
examples of Gothic Architecture). On the South wall of this chapel
is a monument to the memory of Richard Warner, the historian^,
with the following inscription :
