172
and the range of the Wiltshire Downs forming the background
to the view. The break was met on the top of the hill, and the
members returned to Bath about 6 p.m. The day was lovely,
and the corn, barley and oat fields waved gloriously in the breeze,
betokening a rich and plentiful harvest.
The weather during the past year having been so remarkable,
the following meteorological observations, made by Mr. Ernest
Baker at the Institution and kindly presented by him for the use
of the Club, is printed below.
During January atmospheric pressure was very unsteady, with a
deep depression culminating on the 23rd, which was accompanied by
heavy rains. The weather was unsettled and rainy throughout the
month and extremley mild, the mean temperature being five degrees
above the average. At the end of the month pressure rose and was
high and fairly uniform throughout February. The monthly mean
was the highest for the year, and on the 3rd the maximum 30"726in.
was reached. At the same time the temperature fell, the wind, which
had been chiefly westerly, veered round to the east, and the weather
was generally cold and dry. At the end of the first week in March
pressure fell, and continued very low and unsteady till nearly the end
of the month. There were some days of severe frost early in the
month, but the temperature quickly rose, and the mean for the month
was 4'4 deg. above the average. There was a little snow and rain,
but on the whole the weather was warm and pleasant. In April,
pressure was still lower than in March, and was very irregular. The
weather was comparatively colder, but the rainfall was not large.
Frosts occurred at intervals this month, and even on the 2nd of May
hoar frost was observed in the early morning. During the first half
of May atmospheric pressure was low, and the weather was stormy
and rainy. In the latter half pressure was higher, and the weather
generally improved. From the 20th to the end of the month the
weather was warm and brilliant. The temperature registered on the
24th inst., 76 6 deg., was the maximum for the whole year. In June,
although the pressure was high and constant, the weather was stormy
and wet. From the 10th to the 12th there was a slight depression,
accompanied with heavy rain, and the same sort of weather prevailed
