The Kestrel is the commonest and most harmless of the
Hawks, although persecuted equally with the rapacious Sparrow
Hawk ; it feeds largely on ground vermin and coleopterous in-
sects, thus benefiting the farmer, and although it feeds sometimes
on small birds it very rarely attacks game.
Terry speaks of it as a summer visitant, but this only applies
to the northern counties, for it is stated in Yarrell's fourth edition
of British birds, on the authority of Professor Newton, that the
southern counties receive an accession in the winter owing to
migration from the north.
The Sparrow Hawk is much more destructive to poultry and
•game than the Kestrel, an instance of its extraordinary power
in this direction being recorded by Mr. Knox, where fifteen
young pheasants, four young partridges and five chickens, besides
a bullfinch, two meadow pipits and two larks were found all in a
fresh state stored up for the half-fledged young. There is a
great difierence in size and colour between the male and female,
so much so, that they are sometimes mistaken for distinct species.
Of the other raptorial birds mentioned by Terry, only one has
been heard of by Mr. Blomefield as occurring near Bath, viz.,
the Kite ; a specimen of which was exhibited at an afternoon
meeting of the Field Club, but unfortunately was not obtained
for the local museum. The Eev. A. C. Smith considers the Kite
almost extinct in England, although formerly very common ;
one was killed at Longleat in 1864.
Of the Owls, there are only four species in the museum, viz.,
the Barn Owl and the Tawny Owl, both common, and the Long-
eared Owl and Short-eared Owl, both rare ; the specimens of the
Long-eared Owl came from Eadstock and Mells, the Short-eared
Owl from Warleigh, all in the years 1872-73.
Terry mentions the Scops-eared Owl and the Little Owl in his
catalogue, but both specimens were shot in the year 1834.
The Owls were described so well by Mr. Williams in our Pro-
ceedings for 1885 that there is no need to refer further to them.
