173
through July. On the I7th of July a very heavy fall of rain occurred,
the amount registered here being l'570in. In June the mean
temperature was above the average ; in the next month it fell below.
At the beginning of August there was a decided improvement in the
weather, pressure rose, and the first week was warm and dry. On
the 9th there was a heavy rainfall, and as pressure declined, towards
the end of the month the weather became colder and more rainy.
On the 30th hoar frost was seen on the grass. The autumn was the
best part of 1890. Both September and October were unusually warm
and fine. Atmospheric pressure was high and very steady throughout
September, and was nearly as high, though not so steady, during
October. There was very little rain, and the mean temperature was
well over the average. At the end of October frost was experienced,
And the fine weather began to give way. November opened with
mild, rainy and foggy weather, the atmospheric pressure being very
low. From the 12th there was a steady rise of pressure, and the
temperature was also very high. On the 22nd pressure rapidly fell.
There was snow on the 27th, and on the 28th began the remarkable
frost which lasted with little intermission until the 20th of January,
1891. The minimum in November was 2l"4 deg. Pressure was high
and steady in the first half of December. From the 15th to the 2(»th
there was a deep depression, after which pressure rose and remained
high till the end of the month. There was a good deal of snow, and
on the 20th the fall amounted to I'lOSin. of water. The frost was
most intense in the middle of the month, the lowest point 13"0
degrees being reached in the morning of the 23rd. The mean
temperature was 31 6 deg , being 6'6 deg. below the average and 14'1
deg. below the mean for January in the same year.
Taken on the whole, 1890 was remarkable for the deficiency of its
rainfall, for the abnormally mild temperature of January, and the
still more unusual severity of December, for the rainy and unpleasant
summer, and for the warm and dry weather of September and
October. The rainfall of each month, except January, May, June and
July, was below the average ; that of February, September and
October was extremely low. The degree of frost in December has
never been equalled since observations have been taken here. The
mean temperature for the whole year was 0*4 degrees above the
Average.
