180
this country in 1200. His authenticated works in the edition
now on the table were published in 1847, more than 600 years
after his death.
After the close of the Saxon and Norman periods there was *
succession of eminent Bath authors in the 16th and 17th centuries.
The most remarkable and one of the earliest was Dr. Turner,
Dean of Wells ; Sir John Harington, Samuel Daniel, the ever
memorable John Hales born in Bath and educated at the
Orammar School, also Alexander Hume, a Bath schoolmaster,
author of the " Orthographie and Congruitie of the Britan tongue
a Treatise noe shorter than necessarie for the Schools."
Notwithstanding this early association of Bath with literature,
the date of the earliest book printed in Bath in the British
Museum is 1733, and in the 1st vol. of the Proceedings of the
Library Association this date is quoted as the first work printed
in this city. I have, however, in my collection of Bath books a
volume printed in 1730, and this I take to be the first printed
here. It was written by Eobert Spurrell and entitled " The
Elements of Chronology, or the Calender explained ; dedicated to
the Right Worshipful the Mayor of Bath and to the Worshipful
John Billing and Thomas Attwood, Justices and the rest of the
Corporation of the City of Bath."
Is it not passing strange that this little modern 12mo. volume
looking like a thing of yesterday is the earliest specimen we have
although the art of printing was introduced in this country three
centuries before ! How is it to be accounted for ? The inquiry
is worth following. Notwithstanding printing was invented and
practised on the Continent before it was known in England no
resistance was offered to its introduction although the work was
carried on by foreigners, on the contrary, every encouragement
was given to the strangers to exercise their calling in England
not only by influential laymen but by the ecclesiastical authorities,
in their different foundations. On referring to a list of those
places in England where printing-houses, as they were then called,
i
