181
were first established, it will be seen that in most cases they were
situated in the vicinity of some monastery. In Oxford we find
one of these printing-houses in 1468, at S. Abans in 1480,
Cambridge in 1521, Abingdon 1528, Ipswich 1548, Carlisle 1549.
As early, however, as 1533 the jealousy of Englishmen was
aroused by the number of foreigners engaged in the art, and
most stringent measures were taken both to confine the printing-
houses in England to fewer masters, and to discourage the sale of
printed books from beyond sea. In that year, 1533, an Act was
passed cancelling all former privileges, and constant efforts were
made to discourage the exercise of the art of printing in all
provincial towns. During the next 50 years printing-houses that
had been worked in York, Ipswich, Canterbury and Norwich
were no longer employed, and in 1583 the legislature passed
another act forbidding the use of printing-houses in all towns
except in London and the two Universities of Oxford and Cam-
bridge. During the Civil War, printing-presses were carried
about to divers places, and those versed in the literature
of the Marprelate times are Avell acquainted with the scurrilous
and bitter controversies of the Puritans and Episcopalians,
contained in pamphlets and books under the most quaint and
grotesque titles, some of which were issued from the contending
armies in the Civil War. A catalogue of the titles only would
make an amusing volume ; some years ago I commenced one but
had not time to complete the collection.
In 1649, Parliament, then in possession of York, passed an
ordinance allowing, as a great favour, one printing press in that
city and one at Finsbury, in addition to those of London and the
two Universities. Restrictions were carried still farther, and
in 1662 an act was passed which stipulated that, "no person
within the city of London or the liberties thereof, or elsewhere,
shall erect or cause to be erected any Printing-house, unless
notice shall first be given to the Master or Wardens of the Com-
pany of Stationers " . . . " And from the time to come no
