182
man shall be admitted to be a Master Printer until they who are
now Master Printers shall by death or otherwise be reduced to
the number of twenty and from thenceforth the number of twenty
shall be continued and no more, besides the King's Printer and
the Printers for the Universities."
It was not until 1693 that the privileges of these monopolists
were abolished, and the art of printing became free. At the close
of the 16th century presses were established in Exeter, Plymouth
and Shrewsbury, and even so late as 1724 it was recorded thaA
there were only twenty-eight Printing-houses in England.
These facts show the existence of an arbitrary monopoly, and f
think fully accounts for the rarity of early i^rinted books in Bath
and other ancient towns where they might naturally be looked
for. For nearly two centuries Bath has been more or less a
fashionable resort — a centre of attraction for the idle and wealthy,
and has, therefore, been regarded a city of luxury, rather than a
seat of learning. On the other hand, some circumstances point
to a different conclusion. It may be shown, that although there
was much frivolity and trifling, as exhibited and caricatured in
the novels of Mrs. Bayfield, Miss Austen ; in the poems of
Christopher Anstey, and in the heroico-odico-tragico-comico poem
written by the Eev. E. Warner, who, under the nom de plume of
Peter Paul Pallett, satirically proclaimed the three Bath Deities to
be " Humbug, Follee and Vanitee," yet, nevertheless, there was a
leaven of culture and scholarship even in those days. For with
the constant influx of the wealthy and the aristocratic there has
also been a large number of the well-to-do middle class from all
parts of England, from India and the Colonies who, with a view
to rest from their professional and commercial engagements, have
settled in Bath and spent their remaining years in ease and retire-
ment ; freed from toil and anxiety they have found resources in
literature and science. In addition to these, many scientists and
litterateurs have also been attracted to this city and continued
their researches and pursuits^ and written works of great value.
