186
that period.* This may be true to some extent ; but the first
appearance of birds in England must liave been earlier, as their
remains occur in the London clay of the Isle of Sheppey, where
they are mixed up with vegetables and fruits, f
It is unnecessary, however, to say much on this part of our
subject. Such of our native birds as were not in this country at
the time of its final disunion with the continent, probably
entered soon afterwards — or what is not unlikely — flitted back-
wards and forwards at will, especially the migrating species.
Now suppose a certain number of such birds were to arrive in
this country from the Continent for the first time and at about
the same time ; say nightingales, which species I select, for
illustration of what I have to say, as being one whose range over
England has perhaps been better determined than that of any
other of our summer migrants. They would arrive in the first
instance on the shores of the eastern and south-eastern counties,
where they would settle down immediately — if they found all that
was necessary for their support and comfort. What would they
require and look for ? Climate — of a temperature agreeable to
their feelings ; food — such as they had been used to ; shelter — and
especially such shelter as would be suitable for nidification. If
the place in question supplied all these wants there they would
remain; though the seasons might not be all alike, and they
might be compelled to shift their grouad in winter from cold or
want of proper food, and go further S. returning to their former
haunts in spring.
Suppose now additional birds of the same species were to
arrive in course of time on the same parts of our coast. It is
evident that an unlimited number of birds of the same species
could not be maintained at the same place. Those that came
last might be as it were crowded out, and be compelled to push
* See Elements of Geology pp. 158 — 160 ; also Antiquity of Man,
chap. xiv. t Elements, p. 290.
