187
on further into the country till they found a proper resting place.
After such a circumstance often repeated, it is evident that the
nightingales might be spead further and further over England,
becoming more scattered and thinned in numbers, until at length
there were scarcely any to be found; their habits and the
required food imposing a limit beyond which they would very
rarely venture. To a certain extent what I have said may be
illustrated in a very homely way. Some of us may have
occasionally seen a shepherd standing at the gate of a rich
pasture, with his flock pressing behind anxious to get in. On his
opening the gate the foremost sheep rush in, and immediately
lower their heads to feed upon the fresh grass, so welcome after
travelling — perhaps some little distance — along the dusty road.
Others follow, but have to push their way through the first lot to
get at the grass that lies beyond, and so on until they have all got
in and had a bite, the sheep by this time being pretty equally
scattered over the field. Here the parallel between them and
the nightingales would end, from the limitation imposed upon the
sheep by fencing and for other obvious causes.
To return to the nightingales, let us now take note of the
counties in which they are more or less frequent. They abound
in the E. and S.E. counties, which we might call their head-
quarters. In Kent and Cambridgeshire — the two counties in that
part of England I am best acquainted with — the copses, hedges
and plantations, in the early summer, resound with their song
night and day ; mixed up during the day with that of numerous
other song birds — some natives, others migrants — the former,
though much more widely distributed over England than the
nightingales, still abounding in their greatest numbers where they
first alighted on our shores. No such concert was ever heard in
Bath, nor anything approaching to it. It quite realizes the lines
of Cowper : —
" Ten thousand warblers cheer the day
And one the live long night,"
