188
But to proceed with our subject. Passing on from the eastern
and south-eastern counties^ nightingales are found in many of the
midland counties, but the numbers become less and less as we
approach the west and the north. They occur sparingly in
Herefordshire, Monmouthshire, Salop, Staffordshire, Derbyshire
and Yorkshire, but not further north than the neighbourhood of
Doncaster, this being the limit northwards according to Selby.*
The western limit of the nightingale is on'the borders of Somerset
and Devon, or " the Valley of the Exe," as stated by Newton.
It is local and rare in the north of Somerset ; in the neighbour-
hood of Bath, according to my own experience of forty years, it is
decidedly rare, and of very uncertain occurrence. I used formerly,
when 'resident in Batliwick, to hear it occasionally most years
about Bathwick Cemetery and in hedges on Bathwick Hill ; but
eince my removal to Belmont my experiences as to this bird have
been very scanty indeed. I never heard it in the Park except
once in the den among the firs ; oftener among the shrubs and
little plantations in connection with the houses on the other side
of Park Lane ; and once above the High Common, bordering on
Sion Hill.
The nightingale has never been seen in Ireland, nor I believe
in N. Wales. It is said to have been heard in Westmoreland and
Cumberland, and even in Scotland, but these statements want
confirmation. It is remarked by Professor Newton that " nearly
all birds have a definite range which they rarely overstep." The
nightingale is no exception, and its distribution is limited. Selby
thinks there must be some "undiscovered circumstance in the
economy of this and other species that must be the cause of their
partial distribution." He says " it cannot be climate in the case
of the nightingale as it is found in countries further north than
* I may state that my chief authorities, as regards the Nightingale
Districts, have been Selby and Newton iu their respective works on
British Birds.
