189
England ; such as Sweden and the northern parts of Germany."
My own opinion is that the limited dispersion of the nightingale
has nothing to do with climate or food, but is simply in connection
with distance from that part of the country where they first
landed from the continent. There will always be some birds of a
more venturesome spirit than others, who feel an impulse to push
on beyond the range of country they are ordinarily confined to.
Just as among ourselves there are some bold travellers who like
to explore regions that have never before been visited by man ;
or — what is perhaps a more exact parallel — like stray birds of
various species which, in several instances, have occurred only
once or twice in this country from accidental causes. Any of our
native birds might in like manner overstep the boundary of their
nsual haunts, though compelled to return sooner or later from
want of proper food or shelter, or in order to secure their safety.
What has been said hitherto relates to the nightingale alone,
one of our most regular and most interesting summer migrants.
But there are some irregular and very remarkable movements
occasionally observed in the cases of other of our song birds,
which ordinarily remain with us the whole year, that quite
deserves mention. Thus the thrush and the blackbird, as a rule,
do not quit our shores an the approach of winter. But they are
species widely dispersed over Europe, and those found in countries
north of England are compelled to migrate in autumn, often
appearing for a short time in large flocks on our s-hores, where
they get mixed up with our own birds, many of which join and
accompany the foreigners in their journey southward.
A more remarkable case is recorded by Selby respecting the
gold-crested Regulus. This bird, though " the most diminutive
of all our British birds, is yet of so hardy a constitution, as to
brave the usual rigours of our winter. It is equally dispersed
through England and Scotland, extending even to the Orkney
Islands, where it is also indigenous." The particular circumstance
alluded to above is thus spoken of. " On the 24th and 25th of
