190
October, 1S22, after a very severe gale, with thick fog, thousands
of these birds were seen to arrive upon the sea-shore and sand-
banks of the Northumbrian coast ; many of them so fatigued by
the length of their flight, or perhaps by the unfavourable shift of
wind, as to be unable to rise again from the ground, and great
numbers were in consequence caught or destroyed. This flight
must have been immense in quantity, as its extent was traced
through the whole length of the coasts of Northumberland and
Durham. There appears little doubt of this having been a migra-
tion from the more northern provinces of Europe, from the
circumstance of its arrival being simultaneous with that of large
flights of woodcock, fieldfare and redwing."*
And I cannot forbear mentioning yet another most remarkable
movement of a species of bird — till lately, not only a stranger in
this country, but strange to the whole continent of Europe. I
refer to the sandgrouse, of which an account was given by
Professor Newton to the Biological Section of the British
Association at the Bath Meeting in ISSS.f This bird is a native
of the large sandy deserts in Central Asia, where it was discovered
by Pallas, the great German naturalist and traveller, towards the
close of the last century. It had rarely been seen in Europe
previous to 1863, when there was a great irruption of this bird
spreading in various directions, and another equally great in 1888.
It has occurred at times in various parts of England, Scotland and
Ireland, and in one instance at least has stopped to breed. In a
letter from Professor Newton dated September, 1889, he men-
tions having obtained " a young bird, not above two or three days
old, caught in Scotland, and proving that the invaders had bred
with us."
Much has been said, of course, as to the probable eauses of
these large irruptions of sand grouse, over so wide a territory
* British Ornithology, Part 1, p. 193.
t British Association Report^ 1888, p. 703.
