192
W. in the case of this grass is remarkable. Babington, ■when he
first published his " Flora of Bath," in 1833, impressed by the
fact of its abundance in Cambridgeshire, seems to have taken for
granted that it was equally abundant about Bath. He says of
it-^" Not uncommon on waste ground." He discovered his mis-
take, however, before issuing his supplement in 1839, in which
he speaks of it as " rare," giving only a single habitat — " By the
river-side at Twerton bridge." And it is a fact that neither the
late Mr. Broome nor I, he having explored the bdtany of the Bath
neighbourhood for many more years than myself, ever found a
single specimen. The above given habitat, therefore, is the only
one, so far as I am aware, at present known for it. It is plenti-
ful in the churchyard and neighbourhood of Bitton Church, where
it was found by our vice-president, an excellent botanist, who will
doubtless have something more to say about it, and from which
locality I obtained specimens. But Bitton is in Gloucestershire
and not Somerset, and hardly perhaps ought to be considered as
within the Bath district. At the same time it is an interesting fact
in connexion with the subject of the ranges of British plants, and
I may have occasion to return to it.
I would next call your attention to the case of the Annual
Dog's Mercury (Mercurialis annua). Of course all our plants, no
less than our animals, came originally from the continent, with
the exception of a few, such as the Mimulus and CEnoihera, which
have been imported from America. Assuming this, the case of
the Mercurialis annua is curious, as being just the reverse of that
of the Hordeum murale. The latter, as mentioned above, is
ubiquitous in the eastern counties, but very rare about Bath. The
former, the Dog's Mercury, is said by Smith in his "English Flora"
to be not common, whereas here in Bath it is a troublesome weed
in o-ardens, and to be found on all waste grounds. In fact, in the
case of this plant east and west are quite disregarded. More
rni'^ht be said upon the subject of these two plants, as also upon
other plants, remarkable in respect of their locality, but I should
