195
specimen of the Erysimum orientale in my herbarium gathered on
the sea-cliff at Sheringham, near Cromer, so far back as 1829, and
a few other localites are given for it (chiefly in the eastern
counties) in Smith's English Flora, though not mentioned in
Trimmer's Flora of Norfolk. Here then we have nearly the
whole breadth of England lying between the eastern and
western stations for this plant;* which taken in connection
with the strife and struggle our plants have had to sustain
over long periods of time, from one or more of the causes
spoken of above, we cannot wonder at any anomalies that
occur in respect of the situations in which we now find
them, or say how long they may have been hid from view, yet
with the living principle still in them, ready for development at
any time, the surrounding conditions being favourable.
While in the case of some species, as in that last noticed, the
localities in which they occur are widely apart, other plants have
been driven up into corners, and become so extremely rare as to
be on the verge of extinction altogether. I have heard that the
beautiful Lady's Slipper, Cypripedinm Calceolus, is now confined to
a single wood in Yorkshire, in which it is strictly preserved, as
quite right it should be, by the owner of the property. I myself
am fortunate in possessing fine specimens of two other plants
which are extremely rare, if indeed they still exist. One of these
is Orchis hircina, which was given to me more than half-a-century
ago by a botanist in the neighbourhood of Dartford in Kent,
where I was visiting, and who told me he had gathered it in a
wood near his house, where he did not think it was any longer to
be found. The other plant alluded to above is the Senecio
paludosus, a fen plant almost extirpated by drainage. It was not
drainage, however, which destroyed the locality in which I
obtained my specimens. The circumstances were as follows. A
* Since I first wrote the above I find Cardiff mentioned as a locality
in which it has occurred.
N
