197
the top of the wall was scraped and cleaned by the mason's
trowel. He said he knew of no other locality for the plant in
Norwich.
I would now speak to you of a very interesting little plant, not
very uncommon in meadows and chalky downs, which moves of
itself and changes its place without the intervention of man. It
is the Herminium wsnorchis, the specific name having reference to
the peculiar structure of the root. In our other British species
of the restricted genus Orchis, if dug up in the flowering season,
you will find the root to consist of two tubers, one of which
supplies the flower of the current year, the other being reserved
for the year after. If you dig up the Herminium monorchis when
in flower, you find but one tuber ; there are other roots, however,
of a fibrous character, one of which gradually elongates in a
horizontal direction, till after a few weeks or so the tip thickens,
swelling at last into another tuber from which springs the plant
of the next season, of course removed an inch or more from the
site of the first plant. In this way, then, the plant in course of
time may traverse a whole field ; and ultimately disappear, along
with any other specimens in the same field. And this may have
been the case to a certain extent in a field from which Broome
and I obtained our specimens ; for, a few years afterwards, on my
inquiring about them, he told me he could hardly find any.
This part of my subject would be left imperfect if I made no
mention of the plants introduced into this country, unintention-
ally, by man or from other accidental causes, to take the place, as
it were, of those which have been lost to our Flora. I need not
say much as regards the Bath Flora, having spoken of it before at
some length in a previous lecture referred to above. I may add,
however, to that statement that there are three plants in my
herbarium, gathered in this neighbourhood, foreigners, and not
mentioned in any British Flora. One is a composite plant, which
Broome, who first pointed it out to me in 1871, growing by the
river's edge at Batheaston, said it was the Cacalia hastata, but I
