198
am not quite sure that it bears that name at present. Tt seemed
to be quite naturalised, but whether it is still to be found there I
am not aware.* The second foreigner is Levisticum officinale, found
by the canal side near Bath in 1872. This plant is found
occasionally in old gardens and may have been an escape. The
third is Rwpistrum rugosum, of which several specimens were found
in cornfields at Batheaston in 1869 ; no doubt introduced with
seed corn, as in many other cases. Some years back a " Floral
Immigration at Mitcham in Surrey " was recorded, in which more
than forty species of new plants had sprung up in the neighbour-
hood " through the agency of the foreign grain trade." Again —
quite recently — I was told by the late Director of the Royal Kew
Gardens, that he had brought away with him from Kew a number
of plants for a new garden at his present residence in Berkshire,
and he now wished that he had left some of them behind, from
their having become perfect weeds springing up everywhere and
giving much trouble.
There is one more foreigner to which I must draw your atten-
tion, more remarkable than any I have yet noticed — the Epipogon
Gmelini. It is a leafless species of orchis, called by Hooker in his
" Student's Flora" a saprophyte, from its growing on dead leaves
and other decayed matter. It is well figured in Curtis's Botanical
Magazine,t from specimens " found at the foot of a very steep
woody bank, close to a brook, the soil being very wet and stiff, at
Tedstone Delamere in Herefordshire." This plant had never
before been met with in this country, nor has it ever been met with
since. It has a wide range in the northern parts of Europe and
Asia, but is accounted even on the Continent as very rare.
What can have brought it to this country, and how conveyed so
far away from the east coast as Hereford, without finding a
resting-place at any intermediate station, is a problem not very
easy to solve. I would suggest however that, being a " saprophyte
* Mr. Inman informs the Editor that it is still found there (H.H.W.)
t Vol. 80, tab. 4821.
