199
orchis," as called by Hooker, and found "amongst decayed leaves,"
it had been quite accidentally introduced along perhaps with
vegetable manure of some kin4 attached to, or purposely brought
in with other foreign plants. It may be mentioned in connection
with such a circumstance that in the appendix to the " Student's
Flora " a few other plants are mentioned which have not been
met with in the British Islands more than once.
Leaving now all further consideration of particular plants, I
conclude my Lecture with a few general remarks. We have seen
how, from various causes, our British Flora is yearly undergoing
changes; how some species are slowly dying out, while new ones imper-
ceptibly creep in to take their places. Now a register of such
changes should be kept as far as circumstances allow ; and it is a
subject which of all others, it belongs especially to the Natural
History Field Clubs to investigate. So far back in time as 1834,
I brought this subject under the notice of the Berwickshire
Naturalist's Field Club — the parent of all the many Field Clubs
that have since been started — at one of their Anniversary dinners,
to which I had the honour — in company with my friend the late
Mr. Yarrell — of being invited. The same subject has been more
prominently brought to the front of late years by the British
Association, and discussion, as well as correspondence relating
thereto, has taken place at their annual meetings. Are there no
botanists in Bath who will give their attention to the matter, and
lend a helping hand in the interests of science ? Is there no one
member of our own Club present in this room, who, at the
request of the British Association — I may add at the request also
of their president — never likely to address them again — will note
and register the blanks and additions observable in our local
Flora from time to time — a pleasant object one would think,
during the spring and summer months, for a weekly walk or
excursion. — Verlum sapienii sat est.
