202
Shakespeare makes Timon say, " I have a tree which grows here
in my close," (Timon of Athens, v. 2.) It was also near the
house, sometimes in it, and then it was reduced in size, and
becomes a closet. As applied to buildings the name still survives
in Cathedral close and Vicar's close, and I believe is now confined
to Cathedral buildings ; as field names we have long close, broad
close, and cling close, which if it means anything probably means
that it was the field that lay nearest to or joined the house.
Leaze is entirely an old country word. I once thought it
might be the plural of lea, a meadow, but in some parts, Oxford-
shire for instance, the plural leazon appears, and it is certainly
the same as the old A. S. lese, or leswe, a pasture. We have
several leazes in Bitton, as east leaze, crooked leaze, middle leaze,
cow leaze, bean leaze, little leaze, long leaze, beech leaze, pigeon-
house leaze, wheat leaze ; these all explain themselves, and
Nanny's leaze. Hart's leaze and Bright's leaze are clearly named
from former owners ; but I cannot explain lark's leaze or pill leaze.
Tyning as a field name is a very curious survival of a very old
word, now only known as a field name. It comes from the A.S.
iunen, to hedge in, and in the old authors it is not restricted
to field work. In the Ancren Riwle (13th century) a Nun is
advised to " tunen " her eyes against wicked sights, but in the
Promptorium (15th centurj') the word seems strictly confined to
hedges. " Tynyd or hedgydde — Septus ; " " Tynin or make a
tyninge — Sepio ; " " Tynynge, drye hedge — Sepes." Originally
therefore meaning the hedge itself, it came to mean a hedged-in
enclosure, and that meaning only it has retained. We have in
Bitton long tyning, lower tjning, upper tyning, Eobin's tyning,
Bath Road tyning* and wall tyning, and this last is of interest as
a case in which the word was not restricted to a hedge proper,
but went back to its older meaning of enclosure, however
* This is a very curious instance of corruption. In an earlier survey
it is Bath Way Tyning, but in older deeds it is Blathwayt Tyning.
