207
other plant that would be so named), Bean leaze, the Ashes,
Rusley Paddock and Rushmoor, French Grass ground, Short grass.
Lime combe, spelt also Lincombe, and so perhaps the same as the
Bath Lindcombe and interpreting it, and Holly Guest. I can
find no meaning for guest in this name but I suppose it is the
same as "gast" or "gist" in Sidgast and Haygast, the
names of other fields, and which may take their name from the
sedge ; or the one may be a sideland piece, and the Holly in the
other field may be a corruption of hollow.
The position of fields is shown by such names as Lauthorn
Bottom, Sidelands, The Lakes, a piece in the meadows formerly
always covered with water in the winter, but now drained, The
Island, a piece formed from two channels of the Boyd, of which one
is now stopped, and the field is no longer an Island, Holm mead,
once literally an island meadow in winter but now drained, the
Hams, the well-known name for meadows near a river, and the
Cleeves, a steep field or cliff. The nature of the field is shown in
such names as the Sands, Dry Ground, Dry Hill, Dry Tyning or
Burnt-baked Ground and Stickmore Grove; and the shapes of fields
in such names as the Leg (curiously like the map of Italy with
the foot turned to the right instead of the left) Pond Leg, three.
cornered patch, Hatchet piece, the Harp (another field was called
" Le Harpe in Bitton feld " in 5, Henry VIII. ), Carpenter's square,
and Spectacle acre. This last was a curious piece of land with
two circles and a narrow connection which probably owed its
shape originally to the course of water, and which I well recollect
in Holmead before the meadows were enclosed.
A very large number of fields are named after proper names,
but of that I shall say very little, for no names are so subject to
change. It was long ago marked as a sign of unwise men that
" they think their houses shall continue for ever and they call
the lands after their own names," for such names soon pass away,
and almost naturally so and without effort. Even if a new owner
does not wilfully blot out such remembrances of the former
