208
owner as are preserved by his name, his neighbours would soon
do so for him ; if the field belongs to Mr. Jones, they will not long
call it by its old name of Smith's field ; they soon call it Jones'.
I now come to names which I must take singly, because they
will not fall in under any of the divisions I have named, and I
will take first those which I can explain, or at least guess at their
meaning.
I suppose former industries are commemorated in Potter's
Wood, and the Matmans, who may have made his mats out of the
rushes. Chapter's Mead may have been part of the old Prebendal
property, but is more probably a surname. Tump Tyning may
mark some large mound or clump of trees, as Barrow Hill takes
its name from the Barrow that stands in its centre. Normead is
the North Meadow, and Lynch and Grass Lynch must mark fields
that formed the boundary to something or other. Claypit Acre
has no claypits and apparently never had, and is of ten acres, and
this is a matter of some interest. Acre is simply the old English
form of the Latin ager and the Greek *ay/5os,* and was originally
of any extent, and it was not till the reign of Edward L that its
size was fixed at four roods of forty poles each. It was even a
measure of length, and this loose way of speaking of it has
survived in our field names, many of which are called simply acre,
as long acre, middle acre, etc. The best survival is in that good
name for a churchyard, " God's Acre," which may be less than a
quarter of an acre or may be nearly two acres as at Bitton. With
this we may join furlong as a field name (we have or had a Long
furlong at Bitton), the furlong being now a fixed measure of
length, but originally a furrows length, i.«., the amount that could
be ploughed within a given time.t
* The old plant-name Staves-acre is the Anglicised form of
Staphisagria, which again is the Latin form of ""raipif '«7/>i»
+ The old term a " yard of land " looks as if it might be connected
with acre and furlong ; but in this case the " yard " has no connection
with the measure ; it ia the word used in vineyard, orchard, etc., the
garth and garden, i.e., an enclosure.
