209
We have one field called Coffin Tyning, and " Deadman's Fields"
and other similar names are not uncommon in other parts of the
country. I Ijelieve &uch names always point to some old (probably
forgotten) struggle which ended in death. Slaughter and
Slaughterford would have the same meaning. There are even
Death's Fields, but these are almost certainly derived from
the old family name of De Aith, now corrupted into Death. At
Sarsden, in Oxfordshire,* there are fields called Qualmstones ;
they are marked by a large stone to which a legend is attached of
a sheep-stealer being strangled by the stone catching in the rope
on which the sheep was slung and so strangling him. I have
little doubt that the legend was a late invention when the old
meaning was forgotten. Qualm is the old English word for death
or pestilence, and there are throughout England many such large
stones, to which in times of pestilence provisions were brought to
the infected districts, and the money placed on the stone, and so
all contact Avas avoided. The case of Eyam, in Derbyshire, is
well-known, and there is one at Stoke Bishop, near Bristol, still
called Pitch and Pay, and I have no doubt the Sarsden Qualm-
stones are the same.
To return to Bitton — Baglands and Little Baglands, Heards,
Soper's Pool, and Chedwin House are probably proper names and
may be passed by. The Lons is a good old word, apparently a
local form of Launde, of which Lawn is the modern variant. We
now always connect lawns with a well-kept garden, but the Lons,
or Laund, were very different. They were always open grassy
spaces in a forest, what we should now call grassy glades. And
so I suppose that any field called the Lons (we have three or four
in Bitton) would mark the neighbourhood of old woods or forests ;
just as Lansdown, formerly Launtesdon, was the western
boundary of the old Royal Forest of Furches ; and with its wide
* For ibis information and for the account of the fields at Wickwar
I have to thank J. Harell, Esq., of Falfield.
