211
Gloucestershire, unless we count such names as meadow and
vineyard.* But as enclosures became more frequent, names were
a necessity. We have the Court Rolls of the manors of the parish
dating from A.D. 1368, till the reign of Elizabeth and later, and in
them a few names occur, such as Newclose, Holemed, Monkecroft,
Longebene, Shortebene, Mondeysland, DenhuUe, Pat Parrok,.
Wodecroft, Bondelench, Lemys, Myccalmede, Mores, Redfield,.
Durneville, Le Moses, Le Mooiet, Bull Hawes, Henze Mede,^
Barney Hey, Lanes Haye, Hurdman's Croft, Great and Little
Holke, Long Furlong, Beche Lawe, Syddgast, Hancliff, Haygast,
Connigar, Gascon. A few of these still remain, and a few may be
traced corrupted to their present shape, but this is a very small
quantity compared with the present abundance of names.
This process of naming of course still goes on, and so does the
corruption. As owners change, and fields are divided or thrown
together, the old names lose their meaning and are abolished.
And some of the changes and corruptions are past explanation.
Near the Village of Bitton is a large hilly field now always called
Major's Hill after a former owner, Major Ryners, but the curious
thing is that the name was not given till at least forty years after
the Major's death ; before that it was simply the Hill. Then
between Bitton and the Station is a farm, which in a wonderful
* On this point I have been able to cousult the Rev. C. T. Taylor,
of St. Thomas', Bristol, who is well acquainted with old English
charters. He confirms what I say about Domesday, but he gives me
a few instances of possible field names before the Conquest from the
" Land Charters" (Earle). They are, however, very doubtful. But on a
grant from Cynewalf, King of the West Saxons, to his Earl Bica, of
land of Bedwin, a.d. 778, there is an undoubted field name, " Agellum
qui dicitur tatanesdisc" = Tate's Enclosure. Sweet's "Oldest English
Texts," p. 427 — In an exchange of land between St. Mary, of Salisbury,
and St. Augustine's, of Bristol, St. Mary gave " quatuor acraa "...
videlicet unam quoe dicitur " Esse acre," et . . . dimidiam acram in
" Rug Furlong."— Register of St. Osmund— Rolls Series I., 264.
O
