217
returning to Salisbury on the 11th. The return to Salisbury
was a disappointment, as this departure seemed to promise the
discovery of an unknown route through Somerset passing
probably by or near Cadbury Camp where there is a spring called
Queen Anne's well, a name difficult to account for except for
such a reason. On the 13th the King left for Bewlye, a favourite
spot, where he stayed a week and then returned to Windsor, by
Broadlands, Titchborne, Farnham, and Bagshot. The Queen
went her own way in an opposite direction, first to Fountain
(Fonthill), where she dined, and then to Longleat, having been
preceded by a Gentleman Usher and his subordinates, who had
" by the space of ten days " prepared for her at a cost of
_;^8 16s. 8d.* This was a favourite resting place, and royalty
seemed always welcome. In March a Gentleman Usher^ with his
grooms, charged for riding from London to Sir Thomas Thynne's
house at Longleat to attend and make ready for the christening
of his son. No royal visit is chronicled for this date, so that this
was probably done by proxy. The Queen's daily movements are
ot recorded in a consecutive form, nor are they regularly dated
on the parchment rolls, consequently one fixed day or date must
guide for others^ Presumably she left Salisbury the same day as
the King, the 13th August, and so arrived on that day at
Longleat. Next day, Saturday the 14th, she went on to Wells.
The route to be followed on these Progresses was necessarily
planned and known before starting ; thus her intention of visiting
Wells was known there on the 19th July when the Mayor and
Masters in meeting assembled determined on what should be
done at her reception.f
The minutes in the Corporation book read — " Forasmuche as
by a I're sent from the Lord Buishoppe it appeareth that the
Queene's Maj'tie doth intend to come to Welles, and therefore it
* Pipe Office, No. 544, fol. 9, fol. 10 dors,
t Wells Corporation Eecords, Convocation Books, fol. 37
