222
interest, so here again, just where so much wanted, there is no
record of the route taken to Bath ; no mention as is usually
the case of a dining house prepared, no hint or word of any-
kind to guide or suggest in any way. The ushers preceded
as usual and made ready Dr. Stewarde's house and Mr. Hadnette's
house at the Bath, being occupied twenty days in August and
September for which they charged £17 13s. 4d. For making
ready the baths ten several times, ten days in August and Sep-
tember, £8 16s. 8d. For making ready her Majesty's bathing
chamber and the church five several times, with alterations in
her lodgings, ten days in September, £8 16s. 8d.
Dr. Thomas Mayerne the King's physician, in a letter written
in French, dated "Aux baings" 31 August, in giving the King an
account of the Queen says she had that day bathed and on
leaving the bath was in the best of spirits. Work thus well
commenced, wrote the Dr., is half finished, and that which
advances it most, that which touches the health, is the firm
belief the Queen has in the process. Tout va bien jusques k
cette heure. The King too seems to have been out of sorts being
worried with a painful colic, much troubled with " a flux and
griping of the belly " so the Doctor enclosed a list of the medicines
which he thought good. Of these he recommended the most
bitter, combined with a regulated diet, " without which failure
will result."* The list of medicines is not now with the letter.
The Queen's stay at Bath was short. Leaving in September she
passed by Laycock, Broadhinton, Littlecot and Newbury, and so
to Windsor. A reference to the account for " apothecaries stuflF
and other parcels provided for the Queen's use " about and at this
time will show how she was treated. The accounts are returned
quarterly; thus taking first, for the sake of comparison, the
ordinary quarter without special illness, ending 25 Dec, 1612, the
cost was £60 6s. 6d. In February, 1613, letters record that she
* S. P. Dom., vol. 77, No. 55.
