226
was there again in 1692. In 1702 she succeeded to the Crown
and her first excursion as Queen was to her old quarters at Bath.
This visit is not unknown, although not recorded in local histories,
but to make this narrative complete, it must be just touched upon.
Now at last, like Bristol in earlier days, the visit and reception
are recorded in pamphlet form . —
The famous Progress, or Her Majesty's Royal Journey to the Bath
and happy return. With the most remarkable particulars of her royal
entertainment at Oxford and glorious, triumphant reception at Bath
and all other places going and coming thence ; her liberal bounty to
the poor and touching many of the Evil ; as also how 200 virgins
clothed in white met the Queen with bows and arrows by their sides ,
with the numbers of shepherds that met her Majesty in her return
with their croks and tarboxes, singing and playing on pipes of reeds,
&c. ; as also a great number of spinners with their country wheels
dancing and singing by her Majesty's coach and how the Queen was
graciously pleased to reward them with her charitable bounty. To
which is added several ingenious poems and verses spoken to her
Majesty at Oxford, &c., by persons of great quality with her Majesty's
gracious speech to the University.
All this title for eight small pages of letterpress. Generally
then, coming from Oxford on the 27th to Cirencester, where she
slept, and next day by Badminton, where she dined, the Queen
arrived at Bath about eight o'clock in the evening of Friday 28th
August. On Lansdown she was met by Samuel Eodbert, Esq.,
the sheriff of Somerset, with a splendid train, and so descended to
Hide Park within half a mile of the city. Hide or Hyde Park
Avas " the first place appropriated for taking the air and exercise
" in coaches or on horseback," and was " a small ring in imitation
" of the ring in Hyde Park near London." It was " six hundred
yards in circumference, almost upon a level, upon a gravelly soil,
highly situated, defended from the winds," and was " part of the
Town Common."* Here she was met by a great number of
citizens clad as Grenadiers, and by two hundred virgins divided
* "Wood's Hist, of Bath, pp. 439, 440.
