251
the Cotteswold, Bristol and Cardiff Field Clubs. Notably at the
opening Meeting of the Blackmore Museum at Salisbury, on 5th
September, 1867, he gave a short account of the presence of
the Bubalus (since named by Prof. Boyd Dawkins, Ovibus)
Moschatus in the drift of Wiltshire. This animal allied to the
sheep rather than the ox, and now driven into the inhospitable
regions of the Arctic circle, had been found only in five localities in
England. The first near Maidenhead, the second between Limpley
Stoke and Freshford, the third nearer Bath, the fourth at Bromley
in Kent, and the fifth, and most perfect specimen at Crayford.
The Mammalian drift in which these were found covers the Bath
basin to the depth of 10ft., and extends as far as Bradford. In
this drift, near Freshford, he found the head of the only female
known, having previously discovered that of the bull near the
same place, both are deposited in the gallery of the Bath
Museum together with a very fine tusk of Elephas primigenius
from the same spot and close by one of the heads. Eemains of
Ehinoceros, Cervus and Bos were also found by him in these
gravels, and he draws attention to the curious and well-known
fact of the bones of animals usually denizens of the Tropics
associated with those characteristic of the Artie regions.
Charles Moore was a frequent attendant at the Meetings of the
British Association for the Advancement of Science, and read
several papers before Section C. My earliest acquaintance with
him was in the year 1863, shortly after my arrival in Bath, when
we went together to the Newcastle Meeting as two of the local
Secretaries for the Meeting to take place the following year in Bath.;
and in the Report of the Transactions of Section C, presided over
by Warington W. Smyth, F.R.S., is a short abstract of Moore's
paper " On the equivalents of the Cleveland Ironstones in the W.
of England." He had traced these Ironstone bands from Lyme
Regis to Yeovil and Bath. They formed a marked contrast in
mineral wealth to those in the North, for where the ore was
suflBciently rich to work it was not thick enough, and vice versa.
