252
This was followed by another " On the organic contents of the
Lead veins of Allenheads and other Lead veins of Yorkshire."
These organisms he considered had been washed into the fissures
by the action of later seas, as he had before stated to have been
the case in the mineral veins of the Carboniferous Limestones of
the W. of England. He draws especial attention to the presence
in the clayey infilling of the "New Rake" vein, of a great
quantity of "Conodonts" — small tooth and comb like bodies
hitherto found only in the Upper Silurian bone beds, and
described by Dr. Pander as fish-teeth, but since defined by Dr.
Harley as of crustacean origin. In the following year, in the
midst of his arduous labours as one of the local Secretaries at
Bath, he found time to lay before Section C, then under the
Presidency of Prof. Phillips, the specimens of Saurians, Fish and
Cuttle-fish he had discovered in the Upper Lias at Ilminster ; and
the mammalian and fish-teeth (70,000 in number) obtained from
the greenish clay which filled the fissures at Holwell, and the
remains of the extinct animals from the drift that surrounded
Bath. The President said that the Section had heard one of the
most interesting and instructive addresses that could be possibly
given to the British Association. They had expected a most
interesting communication from Mr. Moore, but not to the full
the great treat he had given them, illustrated as it was with
specimens of his own discovery of the greatest possible value and
interest. Sir Charles Lyell, who was also present, spoke of
Moore's discoveries in the Mammalian drift of the Bath basin as
rendering essential service to science, alluding especially to his
finding the male and female musk sheep in that neighbourhood.
The excursion to Frome and the Vallis under his guidance was
a memorable one, and the distinguished savans who were present
expressed their great satisfaction at the interesting geological
information he had given to them. The acknowledged success of
the Bath Meeting, considered to be one of the most brilliant that
had ever been held, was mainly due to Charles Moore's unwearied
labours and his great power of organisation.
