253
At the Norwich Meeting in 1868, he relates new discoveries
connected with Quaternary deposits. In a fissure of an Oolitic
quarry at Falkland, to the S. of Wellow, about 40 feet from the
surface, he had found a " drift " with a number of teeth and bones
belonging to small rodents. Since then he had obtained many
genera of the same mammals, associated with fresh-water shells
and bog-iron ore, filling up a large portion of the fissures along
the escarpments of the Oolites of Somerset and Gloucestershire.
Whilst quarrying for stone at Falkland twenty-two hut circles had
been destroyed, and he suggested (though without distinct
evidence to prove his theory) that the material filling up these
hut circles and that of the Oolitic fissures was of the same age.
An abstract only of this paper was given, as customary, in the
B. A. Reports, and it is much to be wished that he had published
a more detailed account of his discoveries for subsequent reference.
At the Exeter Meeting in 1869, he exhibited before Section C. a
Teleosaurus temporalis, about 4 feet in length, from the nodular
limestones of the Upper Lias, iind gave a short account of the
beds in which it occurred associated with other organic remains.
A long report also appears at the same time " on Mineral veins
in Carboniferous Limestone and their Organic contents." On
this occasion he seems to have been aided by a grant from the
Association for the expenses incurred in the prosecution of his
researches. The first part deals with the phenomena attending
mineral veins and the various opinions as to their origin.
Discussing the Plutonic and Neptunian theories, he inclines to
the latter, dismissing the deposit of the ores by either sublimation
or segregation. In support of the Wernerian view of the marine
origin of these deposits he considers three conditions necessary ;
1st. — The presence of the minerals themselves in the waters of
the ocean ; 2nd. — Open fissures communicating with the latter ;
and 3rd. — Favourable electrical conditions, with time for precipi-
tation. From the organic contents derived from these veins he
considered the latter to be of various ages, and gives a long list of
