254
organisms lie had found in the Charterhouse lead mine, 270 feet
deep, and in other vein stuffs sent him for examination from
various jjarts of England, alluding particularly to the curious
organisms before mentioned, i.e., the Conodonts. Appended to
the report are some notes by H. B. Brady, F.L.S., on the Fora-
minifera of Mineral veins and the adjacent strata, sent him by
Charles Moore for examination, a large proportion representing
forms not previously described.
At the Brighton Meeting in 1872, we were associated together
as Co-delegates to represent our Field Club, at the Conference held
under the Presidency of Dr. Carpenter respecting the organizar
tion of Local Scientific Societies ; and Moore gave an account of
some naked Echinodermata (Holothuria) from the Jurassic beds.
One species of these, allied to Chirodota, has its skin furnished
with minute wheels, and though of course the soft bodies of these
animals have disappeared in a fo.ssil state, yet he had discovered
the wheel-like plates of at least four species of Holothuria in the
Lias and Oolite ; one from the Inferior Oolite, one from the Upper
and two from the Middle Lias. These plates were about i of an
inch in diameter and presented considerable variety in form.
One of the prettiest forms from the Inferior Oolite he named after
the President of the Association, Dr. W. B. Carpenter, Chirodota
Carpenteri. He concluded with the expression of a hope that
this interesting class of animals would receive a more systematic
study than had hitherto been given them.
At the Bristol Meeting in 1875, he discussed the age of the
Durdham Down Conglomerates yielding Thecodontosaurus and
Palc-Bosaurus, and considered by Messrs. Riley and Stutchbury,
about 40 years' before, as of Permian age, but since then referred
to the Magnesian Limestone. He gives his reasons for believing
them to be still more recent. In his opinion precisely similar
physical mineralogical and paJseontological conditions prevailed
on the table land of Durdham Down as in the Mendip area.
Numerous veins traversed the Carboniferous Limestone ; from
