255
one of these near the Zoological Gardens he had taken from
between the walls of the limestone, 30 feet from the surface,
Ammonites, Echini, Foraminifera, and other organisms of Lower
Lias age. From another near the Suspension Bridge he had
taken fish remains of RhfBtic age, including Saurichthys apicalis
and Acrodus minimus. In the veins on the Mendips he had
found numerous examples of Saurichthys and Acrodus and the
same reptilia. From this he concluded that the deposits were
equivalent in time, and that the Durdham Down Conglomerates
must be referred to the Rhsetic age rather than to that of the
Magnesian Limestone.
In November, 1880, he recurs again to this subject in a paper
before the Geological Soc, (Q. J. G. S., vol. xxxvii., p. 67, 1881) and
reviews the decision he had before arrived at, that the Thecodon-
tosaurus and Pal^osaurus were of Rhsetic age. He gives further
particulars of the Secondary deposits near Frome, and describes
the occurence of Post Pliocene, as well as Rhsetic and Liassic
deposits, at the Microlesles quarry at Holwell. Similar infillings
occurred in the Bristol area, at Durdham and Clifton Downs, in
the Avon gorge, at Ashton, Westbury-on-Trim, Nettlebury
quarry, near Wickwar at Yate, Clevedon, and on the Thornbury
railway ; these contained fossil remains of different geological ages.
The reptilia from the Conglomerate on Durdham Down had been
referred to the base of the Keuper. Lately he had found teeth
of the Thecodnntosaurus, indentical with those of the Bristol area,
from the middle of the Upper Keuper at Rushton, near Taunton ;
recognizing certain differences between these teeth and those of
the same genus from the Rhsetics at Holwell, he was led to
abandon the notion that the former were of Rhsetic age, and now
referred them to the Upper Keuper, thus placing them a little
lower down in the geological horizon. In the discussion which
followed, the President (Robt. Etheridge, Sr., F.R.S.,) congratu-
lated the writer on the industry and skill shown in the collection
of the materials on which the paper was based.
