256
A letter appears in the Geological Magazine (vol. ii., N.S.,
p. 627) December 1875, arising out of an occurrence at the Bristol
Meeting of that year, and witnessed by myself, in which he has a
shot at his old antagonist, Dr. Wright. Mr. Longe, of Cheltenham,
had given to Charles Moore a perfect example of the interesting
little Crinoid Plicatocrinus, which he had found in the Lias near
Bridport, in Dorset. Dr. Wright, to whom he had first shown the
specimen, seems to have referred it to the family Cirripedia ; this
Moore told Mr. Longe at the time was incorrect as it was one of
the Crinoidea, and that he had already found several of that
genera and species from the same geological horizon as those
found on the Continent. In the meantime, shortly after the
Bristol Meeting, a letter appeared in the Geological Magazine for
October from Dr. Wright, describing it as Cotylederma, and as
the first English specimen of this genus from our Lias beds. To
this Moore replies in November, that on his return home from the
Bristol Meeting he found that it belonged to Plicatocrinus and
not to Cotylederma as he first supposed ; he complains that the
Doctor had forgotten the fact of his having been shown some
examples of that genus in the Bath Museum, and stated that he
had taken a beautiful specimen of the genus Solanocrinus, recently
found in the Oolitic strata, and the first recorded British genus
to the Meeting, but had withheld a notice of it in order to have
drawings prepared of Mr. Longe's Plicatocrinus.
This little passage of arms between two rival geologists was
another intsance of the way in which Moore's discoveries were
anticipated, owing to the delay in making them known through
the medium of some periodical.
In 1879 he again recurs to one of his favourite subjects, the
Aptychi. This was at the Sheffield Meeting of the B. A. Speak-
ing of the great variety of opinion that had existed as to the
zoological position of this curious triangular-organism, he said
that his doubt that it was the operculuvi of an Ammonite (with
which cephalopod it was always found) expressed in a former paper
