257
had since then been much strengthened by some new facts. So far
as he knew the earliest British Ammonite (A. planorbis) from the
Lower Lias was the only species in that formation that had an
Aptychus associated with it. The form of this was one-lobed,
with coarse concentric Hues of growth, and in this species an inner
layer was always black, as if stained by some pigment. From the
Saurian and Fish bed of the Upper Lias he had obtained micro-
scopic Ammonites in which the Aptychus was seen far back in
the outer chamber. A special form seems to be united to each
species of Ammonite. On examining the moulds of A. serpen-
tinus he found the surfaces covered with hundreds of thousands
of minute " eggs," some apparently hatched. In some cases the
siphuncular tube passes over the Aptychus, though not found in
actual connection ; the question then arose to him : " What has
the Aptychus and the tube to do with the eggs 'i " Microscoi^c
sections of various species revealed the fact that these were
invariably cellular, and from these he extracted lines of cell tubes
differing but little from the egg packets lying amidst the scattered
eggs on the A. serpentinus. These facts seemed scarcely consis-
tent with the operculum theory, and he ventured to suggest for
the present at least that possibly the Aptychus with the siphun-
cular tube is an Ovarian sac.
At the Swansea Meeting in 1880, Charles Moore ventured to
deal with that most difficult of the many geological questions, the
presence of life in the Laurentian rocks of Canada. In his paper
read before Section C. under the Presidency of Dr. Sorby, the
great microscopist, he refers to the pleasure he had experienced
during the Bath Meeting (1864) in assisting Sir William Logan
the Director of the Canadian Geological Survey, to unpack the
large polished block of Laurentian limestone, since deposited in
the Jermyn Street Museum. After hearing the paper then given
by Sir William on the presence of Eozoon Canadense (asserted
to be the earliest form of life yet found in those 50,000 feet of
rocks between the Cambrians and the base of the Laurentian
