261
Before bringing these notes to a close it is only right to
mention, that Charles Moore frequently acted as guide and
instructor to the members of the Bath Field Club in their weekly
walks and longer excursions.
Our Preisident in his address to the Club in reference to the
death of his friend, C. E. Broome, F.L.S., writes that it was
mostly during their quiet walks alone that they carried on their
botanical researches. The Club's regular excursions, though very
pleasant in themselves, afforded little opportunity for any steady
work in Natural History. " I remember (he adds) once, our late
mucli esteemed member, Charles Moore, on its being remarked
that he seldom walked with the Club, gave as a reason, that
there was " no liberty of action." A large party wending its
way to some pre-arranged place or object, can hardly be expected
to make any long stand, whilst one of their number searches for
fossils, or another looks for plants, stationary work of this kind
is best done at other times."
It was was for this reason partly, that we do not find his name
more frequently in our Proceedings. Whenever, however, he was
able to snatch a day from his more important work, he would
accede to my request and either give the Club an account of his
discoveries, or conduct the Members to some of his well-known
sections, but more frequently he would ask me to join him alone
in some geological walk,
I well remember an expedition of the Club to Southerndown,
in 1865, when he accompanied us, and pointed out the "Sutton
Stone " sections so well displayed along the coast between Sutton
exposed there. I well remember my anxiety at the time, when with
difficulty I prevented him from climbing over the rails and going down
the steep bauk to examine the section. He was then very infirm, and
it was only a very short time before his decease. The " flirtation "
alluded to referred to the late Mr. Weston of Ensleigh, who had just
built his observatory on Lansdown aud devoted his attention entirely
to Astronomy.
