263
disturbance and great faulting of the Sandstone on the N. side. In
1869, he visited his old haunts in the Vallis, and took the Club to
a cave which he had partly excavated in Murder-Combe valley, but
where a large sheet of water at the bottom had stopped farther
researches. He had not found anything of inaportance here ;
but, as he subsequently told me, the exploration of this cave and
his being immured there for some time, owing to the falling in
of a portion of the material, laid the seeds of that disease to
which he finally succumbed.
In the same year, he joined the Members in a'walk to a quarry
in the Cornbrash, about three miles from Phillip's Norton, where
he had discovered some "hut circles" some 8ft. deep and 9ft. wide,
with rude steps leading to them ; apparently of a superior type,
round and with upper and lower chambers cut out of the rock ;
at the bottom he had found traces of human occupation. From
the fissures in this quarry he had obtained Mammalian bones,
and teeth and bones of Arvicola.
This seems to have been the last walk which he had with the
Club. He was present and took part in several of their evening
and afternoon Meetings. In 1865 he described " the range and
structure of Brachiopoda with reference to local species," their
first appearance, rise, numerical development through the various
formations ; illustrating this with various specimens of Crania,
Lingula, Rhynconella, and Terebratula from his own collection,
ranging from the Lower Silurians to the most beautiful and
delicate shells found in our present seas. In 1867 he gave a
description of the geology of the Mendip Hills and their former
continuation into S. Wales ; their upheaval and the doubling
back of the coal seams to the N. upon themselves ; his discoveries
in the fissures of the Carboniferous limestone, and asked permission
to name a new species of gasteropod, which he had found in the
SouT.herndown and Brocastle beds, "Fusus Jenynsii," after the
President of the Club. In 1868 we find him taking part in an
evening Qonversazione, and describing the abundance of earth
