264
worms and slugs that crawled forth at night, even in his small
garden, where 25,000 had to his knowledge been destroyed there
in one year. He also alluded to a fall of small fish over the N.
Parade, between 1837 and 1843. A drawing in sepia from the
ink bag of the Upper Lias cuttle fish, done by a lady passing
through Bath, was exhibited. The booklets with which the
tentacles of the latter were armed had been found inside the
ribs of the Saurians, so that most probably these cuttle fish
formed a portion of their food.
One of his most useful papers contributed to the proceedings of
our Field Club will be found in Vol. ii, p. 37 (1869). It contains
an account of the Mammalia and other remains from the " drift
deposits " in the Bath basin during the Post-pliocene, the Pre-
historic and the Historic periods. The contents of a Eoman
cofiin found near Sydney Buildings, about 12 feet beneath the
surface, served him as a theme for some remarks on his favourite
subject. The pounded crystalline Carbonate of Lime with which
the cofiin was filled gave him a text. Where did this come from 1
It must have been purposely brought from some mineral district.
Where then more likely than from his dear old Mendip Hills, the
scene of the Roman lead workings. There was a crack in the
cofiin lid ; through this had filtered in (evidently when near the
surface and before the accumulation of the 1 2 feet of superincum-
bent soil, and therfore near the time of the burial) a perfect
geological collection of small Brachiopoda, corals, and other fossils
from the Inferior Oolite, also many recent land shells ; lists of
which and the contents of the coffin are now seen in the gallery
of the Museum. Subsequently to the Eoman occupation he
considered that the city had been deserted for a long time and
converted into a swamp. Evidence of this he adduced in the
alluvial marl with vegetable matter (in some cases almost converted
into peat) lying on the Roman foundations at the excavations on
the site of the White Hart Hotel. The uprush of the hot waters
too through their upper beds brings him enough material for a
