265
•
long list of recent and fossil organisms. The fragments of coal in
this list is hesitatingly referred to as possibly indicating the
passage of the waters through the Coal Measures. Several sections
are given of the Mammal drift, which he considered came down
the Frome Valley, as it contained rocks evidently from the Mendip
area. A list of the bones of the extinct Mammalia is given, and
he concludes with speculation as to the age of the extinct animals
and some of the beds in which they were found, some 240,000 or
80,000 years ago according to CroU — that far distant time when
he describes " our hills as surrounded, if not covered to their
highest point, by glaciers," the evidence of whose presence, though
not seen on our soft rocks, yet in his opinion might be traced in
the troughs and grooves of the stiff clays of the upper beds of the
Lower Lias on which the drift invariably rested. He notes the
curious fact that hitherto neither by himself or any other geologist
has any of the Palaeolithic implements indicative of man's presence
been found in the gravels of the Bath basin.
On 17th December, 1873, there was a well attended evening
meeting to hear him give his reminiscences of the Natural History
and Geology of Mentone. He had gone there the preceding
winter of 1872 in search of health, after his recovery from a
serious attack of illness. The great variety of the botany ; the
interesting zoology ; the abundance of insect and reptilian life, and
the absence of small birds (probably the cause of the latter) ; the
startling noises of the tree frogs, and the extraordinary instinct
(" if not something higher ") of the trap-door spiders were dwelt
on. And he concluded with an account of the skeleton of
Mentone, which he was fortunate enough to see, before its removal
by the discoverer, Dr. Riviere, to Paris. He described the five
caverns facing S. in the limestone range of hills, just outside the
French frontier. A platform ran at about 100ft. above the
Mediterranean, and these caverns are about 40 or 50ft. higher up
in the side of the Jurassic hills. In one of these called Baouss6
Kouss6, the skelton was found, about 8 or 10ft. beneath the surface,
