266
•
the same depth of soil being below it. The floor was one mass
of sand and charcoal, but had never been sealed up by stalagmite.
Broken bones and thousands of flint flakes had been collected
from it.
Moore, though thinking that it was of considerable antiquity,
questioned the statement of Dr. Eiviere who carried it back to
the period of the e.xtinct mammalia. A piece of specular iron
ore found in the jaw of the skeleton, probably either placed in
the mouth or worn as a charm, was exhibited. In how profitable a
way a man with a keen eye for nature's wonders, though an
invalid, can sjiend his time !
His last paper to the Club was read on February 4th, 1880,
and gave an account of the Hedgemead landslip. He first describes
the formation of the Bath valley by denudation, and alludes to
the fact that it was not known until 1864 that a great line of
dislocation passed under Bath, as pointed out to him by Sir
Charles Lyell. This fault has either depressed the S. side, or
elevated the N. to the extent of 200ft. Coming to the cause of the
landslip, he attributed it to the natural slipping of the taltis, aided
hy water, accelerated recently by the weight sujierimposed by the
number of houses that have been built on the creeping surface.
Watching the sinking of a well in the Upper Hedgemead road,
not far below the West end of Camden Crescent, he found
detritus for the first 20ft. ; this rested on Upper Lias clay densely
laminated with irregular layers of blue stone, with intermediate
beds of clay at the base, 45ft. ; the Marlstone or top bed of the
Middle Lias being struck at the depth of 65ft. from the surface.
From these Upper Lias clays he found three genera of fish,
Hybodus, Lepidotus and Leptolepis, impressions of an Eryon, and
gives a list of numerous Mollusca.
We now come to his last appearance at our Meetings, changed
from the evening to the afternoon, when a paper was given on
Bitumen, its history and origin. Moore joined in the discussion
which ensued after the paper, and stated that Bitumen bad only
