268
the slides glycerined over-night, seemed quite dissimilar. How
these fibre-looking substances came there I was unable to discover,
but there they were. Not being a microscopist myself we con-
sulted together as to the advisableness of asking some three men
distinguished in that science to witness the experiments and discover
the source of error if any existed. Dr. Carpenter, Prof Bonney
and Etheridge were the three that Moore said he would ask to
assist him. I was particularly struck with the zeal of the man,
who, labouring under a most distressing cough at the time, and
being asked whether he did not feel the cold (I was chilled to the
backbone during the time of the investigation in the Lonsdale
room at the Institution), replied, " No, I don't, but suppose my
enthusiasm has kept me warm." These were the last words I
ever heard him utter ; in a fortnight after this he was gone.
Bath knew him no more — a simple green mound in the pretty
little Unitarian burial ground at Lyncombe marks his resting
place by the side of one of his sisters, and it is to be hoped that
some appropriate record will be erected there to mark the last home
of one of Bath's most scientific and hard-working students of nature
ere all traces be lost. But his memory remains, and his name,
linked with Walcott, William Smith and Lonsdale, will be handed
down to posterity as that of a man whose good work in the
scientific investigation of the wonders of nature any city may be
proud of. Si queris monumentum circumspice — The Moore Museum,
purchased after his decease by his fellow citizens for a
thousand pounds, and secured to the city of his adoption by
those who appeciatcd his work and honoured his memory, is a
memorial of his scientific labours. Let us hope that the hands of
the unsympathetic temporisers for the hour may not banish his
unique and precious collection, so widely known and preserved
with so much loving care, to the dark and dusty depths of the
Institution cellars, where they have already stowed away in
drawers the historical collection of his distinguished predecessor
and former Curator of the Institution, William Lonsdale.
