u
plant, so common at the present day in gardens and houses^
Originally from N. America, it has become quite naturalised on
the banks of some of our rivers, though not to my kuowledge
found in Somerset. It smells so strong of musk, that, when
planted in window boxes, its odour sometimes pervades a great
part of the house.
Now do you know what the real musk, the musk of commerce,
is 1 It is a peculiar substance secreted in a bag attached to the
under part of the body of the male Musk Deer, an animal allied
both to Deer and Camels, found in Tibet and other parts of Asia.
How strange that a plant in North America should have exactly
the same smell as a certain part of an animal inhabiting the
direct opposite side of the globe. But so it is. Let us pass now
to some other cases scarcely less remarkable, especially that of
the " Hound's Tongue " ( Cynoglossum officinale), a plant not very
uncommon on waste land in the Bath neighbourhood. Were I
to put this plant under your nose, your eyes being shut, and then
suddenly taking it away, to dangle a dead mouse before your
nostrils instead, you would not know the plant had been removed,
so extremely like the smell of mice is the smell of that plant.
A third case I would call your attention to is that of the
Allium tribe— onions and garlic — and as my experiences in this
instance, as indeed in the last mentioned also, have been gained
in our own neighbourhood, I consider there is quite suificient
sanction for bringing the whole subject, with which they are
connected, and of which I am about to treat, under the notice
of the Bath Natural History Field Club.
It was during my residence at Swanswick that, on the occasion
of my walking one day up the lane leading from Larkhall to the
Gloucester Road, I perceived a strong smell of garlic. I looked
about, and then noticing several plants of the Broad-leaved
Garlic f Allium ursimim) on the grassy banks each side of the
road, the matter was explained, and I thought no more about it.
Some time after, however, when walking by the side of another
