294
uses to which they were put by the Brethren who inhabited them
some 350 years ago. Let me attempt to give you shortly the
history of this foundation. As far as I know, there is no Cartulary
or Chronicle of the Priory extant. What is known is found in
what remains of the " Book of Lacock " (a sister foundation), and
in a Chronicle in the Library of Lincoln College, Oxford, quoted
by Leland in his Collectanea ii. 34L
This Priory owes its foundation to a noble lady, Ela, only
daughter of William de Eureux, Earl of Salisbury, a descendant
of Edward de Sarisbui, on whom William the Conqueror bestowed
the Manors of Hinton and Norton, in addition to large posses-
sions in the County of Wilts.* At her father's death Ela was
secretly conveyed to Normandy and romantically rescued by an
English knight, William Talbot, who, in the guise of a troubadour,
gained admittance to the castle where she was detained and
finally carried her back to England and presented her to King
Eichard I., who gave her in marriage to William Longespe, the
natural son of Henry II. and Fair Rosamond, whom he created
Earl of Salisbury. Longespe, in addition to his military achieve-
ments, was inclined to works of piety and religion, and in the
year 1220 laid the fourth stone of the present Cathedral of
Salisbury, his wife, Ela, laying the fifth stone of the edifice.
Longespe died a few years later (in the year 1227) it is said from
the effects of poison at the table of the Justiciary Hubert de
Burgh, and was the first person buried in the new Cathedral,
where his tomb is still to be seen. His Avidow, Ela,
determined to remain such, and was permitted to exercise
in her own person the office of Sheriff of Wilts and Castellan
of old Sarum. At the end of six years from the death
of her husband she resolved on carrying out an intention she had
* This William de Eureux was evidently high in favour with
Eichard I., for he carried the Rod at his first Coronation, and at the
second Coronation, after Richard's return from captivity, he was one of
four Earls who bore the Royal Canopy.
