299
made up his mind " to rob Peter to pay Paul." This and a
subsequent transaction of a like nature paved the way to the
complete impoverishment of the Living, and the spiritual interests
of the community at large were sacrificed to the supposed
necessities of a handful of monks. Nearly two centuries later, and
not many years before the final Dissolution, there came an order
from Wells, issued by Dr. John Pennande, Vicar General of the
Diocese (the Bishop* being then in foreign parts), for the Union of
the Churches of Hinton and Norton. It is, of course, the old
story over again. The monks had again complained of various
burdens and difficulties, the increasing demands of hospitality,
repairs and additions to their buildings, expenses incurred in con-
structing "subterranean aqueducts, long and deeply dug and
furnished with leaden pipes " (canale plumbeum). There was
also a constant quarrel between the Priory and the Eector of
Norton in respect of tithes of a certain Grange in the Parish of
Norton, belonging to the Priory, which was an injury to the
Priory and a scandal to religion. Further, the Church of Hinton
was impoverished (a not unnatural result of previous transactions)
and in view of these circumstances and of its contiguity to the
Church of Norton, he, John Pennande, at the request of the Prior
and Convent, deprives Hinton of the style of a parish church and
unites it for ever to Norton. With a view to carrying out this
arrangement John Cumberbatch, Vicar of Hinton, resigns, in
consideration of £4: sterling pension from the Priory, and
Laurence Philippe, Eector of Norton, also resigns with a pension
of £8. The Parish Church of Norton is "appropriated" to the
Priory as Eector,t the parson, now reduced to the position of
" Vicar," receiving a reduced proportion of the tithes in Hinton
and Norton, but excluding all tithes from the two Granges in
Hinton and Norton, in compensation for which tithes he is to be
* John Clark,
t As the Church of Hinton had been nearly 200 years before.
