302
been materially decreased and the signs of impending doom were
unmistakeable. The execution of the three Carthusian Priors,
Houghton of London, Webster of Axholme, and Laurence of
Beauvale, had no doubt struck terror into the Carthusians. So
called " surrenders " were the order of the day ; and as to the
spirit in which these surrenders were made, striking evidence is
forthcoming in a letter written by Edmund Horde, last Prior of
Hinton, to his brother Alan, of the Middle Temple (Cott Man).
" In the Lord Jesus shall be your salvation. And when ye
marvel that I and my brethren do not freely give and surrender
up our house at the motion of the King's Majesty, truly, brother,
I marvel greatly that ye think so. And considering that there is no
cause given by us why the house shall be put down, but that
the services of God, religious conversation of the brethren,
hospitality, alms-deeds, with all our other duties, be as well
observed in this poor house as in any religious house in this realm,
which we have trusted that the King's grace will consider. But
because that ye write of the King's high displeasure, I will
endeavour myself, as much as I may, to persuade my brethren to
conformity in this matter, so that the King's highness shall not
have any cause to be displeased with us, trusting that my poor
brethren, which know not where to have their living, shall be
charitably looked upon. Thus our Lord Jesu preserve you in
grace." E. Horde.
Such was the spirit of the surrender of the Prior and Brethren of
Hinton. And soon the surrender came.
Cromwell had long had his eye on this House, and Walter
Lord Hungerford, a near neighbour at Farleigh, had asked him
for the " spoil " of it. Accordingly the King's Commissioners,
Tregonwell and Petre, arrived at Hinton, after dissolving the
Abbey of Keynsham, on the 25th January, 1539. Persuasion
was tried, at first without success, only three monks being
" conformable," one Monk Nicholas Balland expressly denying
the King's supremacy and affirming that the Bishop of Rome was
