304
in Somerset Visitations as " of Hinton."* Edmund Colthurst
appears to have sold the Priory to Sir Walter Hungerford, son of
the Walter Lord Hungerford who was executed in 1578. In
1599 the Priory was leased to Mrs. Shaa, sister of Sir Edward
Hungerford who died in 1613, and whose tomb is in the
smaller chapel of Farleigh Castle. In 1615 the Manors of Hinton
and Norton were granted to Prince Henry, son of James I., and
in 1616 to Prince Charles, afterwards Charles I. Some twenty
years later they passed to Lord Craven, and an interesting survey
of the two manors by Richard Parsons, which throws much light
on the disposition of the land in the two parishes, is in the hands
of Mr. Henry Withers, of Norton.f In 1660 another Sir E.
Hungerford obtained the manors, and aboui 1684 the Hungerford
property, including Hinton, was sold to Mr. Henry Baynton, of
Spey Park. Early in the 18 th Century the Baynton estates were
sold, the site of the Priory and the adjoining lands being pur-
chased by Walter Robinson, ancestor of the present proprietor of
Hinton Abbey, the Grange and a considerable portion of the land
in the parish being acquired by Mr. John Harding, ancestor of
Mrs. Day, by whose will it passed into my family. My own
house occupies the site of the " Grange " of the Priory, the name
being still preserved in the " Grange Farm," which immediately
adjoins it. Such is a short account of the history of the Priory
and its dissolution.
I will conclude by attempting a short description of the existing
remains of the Conventual Buildings. The Church has dis-
appeared, so have the monks' dwellings and the Prior's Lodge and
Cloisters. The position of these can only be conjectured by reference
to other Charterhouses. What remains probably represents the
* These Colthursts would appear to have beeu land jobbers of the
period. Bath Abbey came into their possession, so did the Manor of
Claverton, which was sold by them to the HuDgerfords.
t The Grange of Hinton was then leased to the Countess of Eutland,
•widow of Sir E. Hungerford.
