305
Chapterhouse, the Refectory, and the buttery or Kitchen.*
The Chapterhouse block is of three stories and constitutes the
principal feature. The length of this building is about 33 feet by
18 feet in breadth. The lower story, which probably served as
a Chapterhouse, is vaulted with stone and is lighted by a triple
Lancet E. window, and two single Lancets N. and S., near the E,
end. There are Sedelia on the S. side, injured, but good.t A
sjDiral stone staircase leads to an upper chamber, also vaulted in
stone and lighted by three single Lancets, one to the W. and two
to the S. It is likely that this upper chamber was used as a
Library ; and with reference to the Library, a curious Indenture
of the year 1343 is in existence, specifying certain books as
having been lent by the Prior and Convent of Hinton to another
religious House, and containing an engagement under seal that
the books shall be safely restored. Such an Indenture would
sometimes be valuable in private life. The books are mostly
religious works, but there is one treatise on gardening. The
third story is a Columbarium. Evidently the Monks of Hinton
were great pigeon-keepers. J Adjoining this block are the
remains of the springing of an Arch, indicating the position of the
Church on the K side, the foundations of which may be traced
in a dry summer, suggesting a possible length of about 70 feet.
To the S. W. of the Chapterhouse block is a building which I
believe represents the Refectory, stone groined, and measuring
30 feet by 22 feet, the piers sunk some feet in the ground, owing
* I call the principal block the " Chapterhouse." It has been usually
called the Chapel, but, as there is every reason to believe that the
Cliurch stood close by, it could hardly have been a Chapel.
t The two Westernmost Bays are plainer than the Eastern Bays aud
differently vaulted. The whole is a good specimeu of Early Euglish
A rehitecture.
X On the N. of the block is a small erection apparently of more
recent date, consisting of a vaulted corridor below and a small chamber
above.
