306
to the rising of the soil. Overhead is a loft running the whole
length of the building, with the remains of several windows now
stopped up, which I conceive may have been a Guests' Dormitory.
Beyond the Refectory is a chamber some 22 feet by 12 feet, also
stone groined, with a large fireplace at the W. end, and a serving
hutch. This was probably the Kitchen or Buttery. Both rooms
are of good Early English architecture, but badly mutilated. The
presence of Corbels suggests a covered passage running from the
Chapterhouse to the Refectory, and also a Cloister or Ambulatory
on the S. side of the Refectory. The buildings probably did not
extend further W. than the Buttery ; but it is likely from the
analogy of other Charterhouses, that there were two Courts, on
the S. and on the N. of the Chapterhouse, containing the three-
roomed Cottages of the Brethren. There is no trace of a
Cemetery.* The succession of Ponds to the W. of the buildings
may represent the Fish-ponds of the Prior}^. It is possible that
the old wall on the side of the road leading to Freshford may
have some connection with the enclosing wall of the Demesne.
Such is a brief and very imperfect account of the Carthusian
Priory of Hinton, neither in extent or wealth or in the interest of
its annals among the important Monastic Houses of England, but
the second in foundation among Charterhouses, and one of the
two Somersetshire Houses of the Order which contained only nine
Houses in all England. As we have seen, the hand of the
destroyer was soon laid upon some of the principal buildings, as
soon almost as the ink was dry in which the deed of surrender
was written, and greedy men were quarrelling over the very stones.
Those stones built the Manor House, and no doubt built many
other things. The dissolved Priory became a quarry, as so many
other old Abbeys and Castles have become. In how many walls
and cottages may they not be hiding themselves ! The wonder
in this case is why more was not removed. Excavation has not,
* But it is probably situated on the N.E. of the Chapterhouse.
