309
richer in England than it was some centuries ago, — e.g., the elm,
the walnut, and the horse chestnut, how abundant they were.
As to the Eordeum murinum, he could not help thinking that it
must have been plentiful in his boyish days, having a vivid
recollection of the schoolboy tricks that used to be played him of
putting the ears up his sleeves. Plants were confined to certain
places very often, and did not range far beyond the spot where
they were introduced. The Atlantic plants were only found on
the west coasts, for instance, and also in the south of Ireland
certain plants were found that had their origin in Portugal. The
FiOsa hibernica is only found in one place in Ireland ; every other
plant there was either European or American. As a curious
instance of the appearance and disappearance of foreign plants,
shortly after the Swinford Flax Mill, near Bitton, was built, the
road was blue with the beautiful little flax flower, which dis-
appeared together with the trade in that commodity. And he well
remembered visits which he used to pay to a rough uncultivated
field in the neighbourhood with his friends Buckle and Broome,
often finding at least fourteen different species of orchids ; bub
the plough being turned in all these had in a short time vanished,
and he was glad to say the corn crop, too, shortly after failed
likewise. The London rocket, too, was a curious example of the
movement of plants. It was well known that it first came in
after the fire of London, never having been seen before. Owing
to the extension of the railways it suddenly appeared near
Newcastle-on-Tyne, having been introduced there in a ballast
heap. As to the great destruction of plants on Shapwick Moor,
he found a very rare plant there in 1870, the Andromeda ; indeed,
several plants were thought to have been extirpated, but really
had not been. The Epipaciis rubra still exists at Painswick, and
was found by Sir Joseph Hooker during a visit there this
year. Mr. Blomefield had spoken of that curious and rare plant,
the Herininium monorchis, and its tuber-bearing peculiarity. He
would mention the Crinum Capcnse as similar in its method of
