311
caused some considerable trouble to compile. He put a few-
queries to the reader of the paper, and asked the meaning of
Cold Harbour. He was followed by the Kev. W. T. Blathwayt,
who said that at Dryham there was a field called Bellasus, and
he should like to know if Canon EUacombe could explain the
meaning. The Rev. P. E. George mentioned that at Combe Hay
a field, which rose from the valley on the Wellow side, was called
Yostes. Dr. Mantell, as instancing the way in which names were
corrupted, mentioned that in Gloucestershire there was a field
originally called the Loans, but it had now become the Lawns .
Col. "Wright spoke of a place in Somersetshire known as Tyning
Trap, which he understood meant the steep ascent leading to the
Tyning. The Rev. W. H. West remarked on the pretty field
names used in Wales, and also mentioned that at Sherborne there
was a place called Cold Harbour. Canon EUacombe, in reply,
said the name of Cold Harbour appeared in all parts of England,
and its meaning had been the subject of much discussion. Mr.
Nichols, however, came to the conclusion that the name carried
its o\vn meaning, and arose from the camps or halting places of
the Roman soldiers in this country. He considered that Tyning
always meant an enclosure. He had little doubt that Yostes
implied the steep ground rising from the water. A vote of thanks,
carried by acclamation, brought the proceedings to a close.
The third afternoon meeting was held at the Royal Literary and
Scientific Institution on Wednesday, January 13th, 1892, Canon
EUacombe in the chair. Mr. E. Green read a paper recording the
visits to Bath of two Queens ; viz., Anne, wife of King James II,
and Anne, Queen Regnant (vide p. 213). On the conclusion of the
paper the Chairman said the Club was much indebted to Mr.
Green for his always interesting papers, which gave so much
information as to the domestic life of past ages, and helped to
make up the history of our country. The question of Queen
Anne visiting Dyrham was one of much doubt, but there was a
tradition that a grand bed at Dyrham was the one which the
