312
Queen occupied during her stay there. He questioned why if the
Queen came into Bath from the direction of Togliill she came to
Lansdown instead of througli Swainswick, but Mr. Green
explained that the latter was a modern road. With reference to
the numerous pieces of plate presented from time to time to
various sovereigns, Mr. EUacombe said that as a rule they were
always kept, and there was, he believed, enormous quantities
preserved at Windsor and Buckingham palaces. It would, he
said, be interesting if those articles which had been presented by
the citizens of Bath could be discovered and exhibited. He
remarked on the difference in olden time of the ushers preceding
the royal visitors and spending money at private houses in
preparing for their reception, whereas in the present the expense
of the visit was borne by the hosts themselves. He asked for
explanation as to the purveyors. Lieut.-Gen. Burn inquired as to
the situation of the Abbey house, and Mr. Henderson for some
further particulars respecting the Hyde Park in Bath. The
Secretary asked for information as to the point where the
Queen crossed the Wansdyke. He said that the charges made by
the ushers appeared small even when compared with the different
relative value of money in the present day. Mr. Green, in reply-
ing, explained that the purveyors who were a great hardship to
the country from the time of Elizabeth down to Charles II,
simply helped themselves from the people of any sujiplies which
were needed without payment. Abbey house, he said, was
situated where Kingston buildings now stands, and Hyde Park
was probably a portion of the High Common or land which at
one time formed part of it, as it appeared to have been passed by
the road winding down from Lansdown, and leading to the West
gate. He could not explain the origin or meaning of the name,
neither had he any particulars as to the point where the road
crossed the Wansdyke near Devizes, except that it was in the
neighbourhood of Bishops Cannings.
On the fourth meeting held on February 17th, 1892, in the
