313
Conversation Room of the Institution, the Secretary read his
" Notes on Charles Moore's life and work ; with a list of his fossil
types in the Bath Museum." The chair was taken by the Eev,
Prebendary Shaw and there was a good attendance. Mr, Win-
wood, having sketched the early career of Mr. Moore, bore
testimony, from his long association with him in his favourite
pursuit, to the patient industry and indomitable perseverance
with which his lamented friend pursued his labours {vide p. 232).
At the conclusion of the paper the Chairman said they had to
thank Mr. Winwood for his admirable biographical sketch of a
former member of the Club. He trusted that the result of Mr.
Moore's labours which they had in the Museum might never be
relegated to the cellars in the way that some other articles had
been by those who could not appreciate them. Mr. McMurtrie
said he had listened with very great pleasure to the memoir just
read by Mr. Winwood, and he begged to move that the paper be
printed in extenso in the Proceedings of the Club. The writer,
in his anxiety not to occupy too much of their time, had passed
over a good deal of what he had written ; but he (Mr. McMurtrie)
hoped it would be printed in full, so that they might place on
record the work of one of the most eminent geologists that the
West of England had ever produced ; and he was sure they would
all read the paper when it appeared in their Proceedings with
even greater pleasure than they had listened to it that day. It
was rather a wonder that no memoir on the subject had ever been
written before, and he was glad it had fallen into such good hands
as those of Mr. Winwood, on whom the mantle of Elijah seemed
to have fallen ; for it was not too much to say that but for his
efforts, directly and indirectly, since Mr. Moore's death, geology
would almost have ceased to exist in the Field Club. Mr.
McMurtrie said he had not known Mr. Moore quite so long or so
intimately as Mr. Winwood, but his acquaintance with him dated
from about the year 18G4, when they were preparing for the
meetinEc of the British Association at Bath in the autumn of that
