314
year, and the acquaintance then commenced had continued with-
out interruption down to the time of Mr. Moore's death. He
looked back with pardonable pride on the friendship of such a
man, and he could not but express his profound admiration of the
work he had accomplished, in the face of much bodily infirmity,
during the many years he had been connected with that Club.
Tlie paper of all others which had naturally most interested him
was that on The Abnormal Secondary Deposits, and he could bear
unqualified testimony to the painstaking way in which Mr. Moore
had carried out this and all his work. In geologising over the
same ground in after years, he (Mr. McMurtrie) had often come
across features which struck him as new, but when he referred to
Moore's papers he generally found that they had all been placed
on record. The instance mentioned by Mr. Winwood, in which
the early discoveries of Mr. Moore respecting the Kh?etic forma-
tion and other matters had been steadily opposed by the geological
survey until they had borue down all opposition, was much to
their discredit ; but they could now look back on this with satisfac-
tion, for the truth had ultimately prevailed. Another point with
which he had always been impressed was the infinite patience,
perseverance and skill with which Moore had worked out his speci-
mens, laying bare their most minute features in a Avonderful way.
Mr. McMurtrie hoped that the paper would not only be printed,
but that, as they were well off for funds, one or two character-
istic specimens illustrative of Moore's greatest discoveries would
accompany the memoir. Col. Chandler seconded the proposition,
and it was carried with acclamation. Mr. Winwood, in reply,
said he hoped the members of the Club, or anyone acquainted
with Mr. Moore, would communicate any further information
regarding his life and work, so that the paper might be made as
complete and correct as possible.
The attendances have been up to the average, but only on one
occasion sufficiently large to render the Lecture Hall necessary, so
that the Conversation Room has been found to afford sufficient.
