316
new chancel and greater part of the tower were built about that
time. The font is an interesting one, and evidently either early-
Norman or Saxon, thus showing the antiquity of the church.
The staircase leading to the rood loft is plainly visible, as well as
the exit from it. This superstructure was evidently placed across
the old chancel arch. This chancel, however, is not only disused,
but completely dismantled, and entirely blocked up by a lofty
and unsightly huge pew claimed as the property of the lord of
the manor. In 1847 the central arcade was moved a few feet
northward, so as to give a more imposing effect to the S. aisle
and new chancel. After inspecting the church, Mr. Perfect
■conducted the party round the several stone circles and remains,
pointing out the different features of each, and explaining the
views held by archteologists and others respecting their use, and
the supposed object of the tribes in erecting these most curious
structures. The party then proceeded to inspect the interesting
old bridge over the Chew, where the brake met them, and after
repeated thanks to the Eev. H. T. Perfect for his valuable services,
they proceeded on their homeward journey, reaching Bath about
five p.m. ; having spent a pleasant day with occasional glimpses of
sunshine, scarcely any rain and with food for reflection, both
ecclesiastical and archseological. The secretary was prevented by
illness from being present and giving some notes upon the
lithological nature of the stones and the care taken of them by
Mr. Coates, the lord of the manor.
Ludloio, June \Uh, 1891. — This was a two day's excursion of
which the following notes have been supplied by Mr. W. Daubeny.
A party of eleven left the G.W.E. Station at 8.27 a.m., and after
a considerable detention in consequence of the breakdown of a
luggage train, they reached Ludlow at about 1.30 — nearly one
hour after the appointed time of arrival. They proceeded to the
old and picturesque hostelry known as the " Feathers ; "
and after refreshing the inner man with a substantial cold
luncheon, and bespeaking a brake for a drive about 3.30, the
