319
sisted of a Lord President, and as many Councillors as the Prince
pleased, a Secretary, an Attorney, a Solicitor, and four Justices of
the Counties of Wales. The Marches extended from Bristol to
Chester, and the Lords Marchers had the power of life and death
in their respective Courts, and in every frontier Manor a gallows
was erected. The great tower and apartments on the W. and
N.W. side, with the circular part of the Chapel, are considered to
be the work of the founder, the remainder of the buildings were
additions made probably in the 15th and 16th Centuries.
The small circular Chapel is a very interesting specimen of
Norman work. Unfortunately it is unroofed, and the chancel is
demolished, but the walls of the nave are intact, and the western
entrance doorway as well as the lofty arch between the nave and
chancel show some fine Norman mouldings. We must not omit
to mention a charming public walk round the Castle, which was
laid out and planted with beeches at the expense of Lady Powis
in 1722. Mr. Forty, the Curator of the Museum, was the cicerone
over the Castle and he explained to the members the various por-
tions of it as well as its historical associations, and after a walk
round the walls they went with him to the Museum, which, though
small, is well arranged and contained a particularly good collection
of fossils from the Ludlow strata. Mr. Forty was most kind and
attentive and anxious to .show everything and impart any informa-
tion in his power respecting the history and interesting features of
the town and neighbourhood, and all felt much indebted to him
for the success of the expedition. On returning to our hotel we
•were not sorry to refresh the inner man, prior to leaving by the
3.5 train, returning via Monmouth and Chepstow. The weather
■was perfect, the scenery beautiful, and all seemed much gratified
with their excursion to Ludlow.
Alfred's Tower. — The last excursion of the season took place on
Tuesday, Oct. 20th, 1891, Alfred's Tower and Stourhead bemg the
programme. Arriving at Bruton at noon a well-horsed break con-
veyed the members to the lodge gates, whence the key of the
