320
tower was obtained. The somewhat unintelligent guardian of the
key remained at the base of the brick triangular-shape erection
beneath the protection of the statue of Alfred the Great, whilst
the members ascended the 221 steps leading to the top by the
most southern of the three towers forming the angles of the
triangle. The view from this great height was very grand (the
Greensand hill of Kingsettle, on which the first proprietor, Mr.
Henry Hoare, built the tower, being 800 ft. above sea level alone)
embracing a very wide extent of country. An iron railing now
nmch eaten away by exposure to many a storm, surrounds a stone
platform, and looks as if a good push would send it down 150 ft.
to the ground beneath. The clearness of the atmosphere charac-
teristic of the present stormy weather enabled the eye to range
far away to the distant hills of Wiltshire and Dorsetshire, the
Mendip hills looking like an undulation, and Glastonbury Tor
like a mere pawn on the chess board. By the aid of some useful
maps, which one of the members, a promising young aeronaut,
had with him, Bradley Knoll, White Sheet Castle, Mere and
other church towers were distinguished, and the rich woodland of
Stourton lay mapped out beneath. After a rapid descent and
some ineffectual attempts to gain information from the guardian
of the tower, the members descended the sloping combe to the
pleasure grounds, passing the " Pump of St. Peter," an hexagonal
erection formerly in Bristol but now covering the six sources of
the Stour. Traces of the late gales were just visible in a beech tree
dov/n here, and a branch or two there, but generally this special
locality seemed highly favoured, and the noble trees, oak, beech,
cedars, hemlock, spruce and pines, which rise up in all their forest
grandeur around the artificial sheet of water, seemed uninjured.
The following motto over a summer house, " Procul Procul, este
Piofani " warned off the sacrilegious foot of the trespasser and
caused a hasty exit on to the village green. The Church being
accessible, the tombs of the Stourtons (the figui-es as usual muti-
lated) were visited and some Latin inscriptions copied. The
