20
" the smallest organised particle visible under the microscope
•' contains about a million organic molecules." This I believe to
be a mathematical calculation which I could not, and need not,
enter into here. The question I wish to consider is — Whence
come these germs 'i Darwin has slated his belief to be, that all
the various forms of life we meet with in the world at the
present day have been evolved, during the lapse of ages, from a
few primitive germs ; but he says nothing about the germs still
existing as germs everywhere about us. That some of these
develop into slightly higher forms is almost certain ; for we may
sometimes trace the changes they undergo by watching them from
day to day under a powerful microscope. But what of the
simplest and lowest forms, mere siDecks of protoplasm, Avhich as
far as we can see have not as yet undergone any development
whatever. One of two things must be the case. Eithor they
have remained in statu quo from the first creation day — strange
and hardly imaginable — or they must have been brought into
existence since. Which, think you, is the most likely 1 My own
impression is that the same condition of things, or the same
surroundings — environment, as sometimes called — that favour
from time to time the passing of these germs from a lower to
a higher form may have favoured their start into life in the first
instance.* I only put this forth as a conjecture. Of course it
cannot be proved; and many may think there is little or no
ground for the supposition. But remember, gentlemen, we are
* Siuce the above was written, I find a paragraph in Wallace's
"Darwinism" bearing on this very subject. It is beaded "The
" continued existence of Low Forms of life." His view of the question
is that, "probably, these low forms occupy places iu nature which
" cannot be filled by higher forms, and that they have few or no
"competitors ; they therefore continue to exist." — Darwinism, p. 114.
This is plausible, and may explain the difficulty in part. But it
leaves the question as to the origin of the germs quite untouched. I
see no occasion, therefore, to alter anything I have said above
