322
proceeded to give the members a brief resum6 of a paper he had
prepared, and recently read before the Bath Literary Club, on the
Carthusian Priory of Hinton. Printed in full (vide p. 293).
Windsor. — The second took place on August 4th, 1891. Owing
to the uncertainty attending her Majesty's movements, it was a
long time before the much wished for excursion to Windsor Castle
coiild be carried out. When, however, at last an announcement
from the Lord Chamberlain informed the public that the Castle
could be viewed on and after Bank Holiday till further notice a
bye-excursion Avas at once arranged for the Tuesday following.
Ten members only after all (with five visitors) answered the Secre-
tary's summons to start by the 8.7 a.m., G.W.R. train, for Windsor.
The expected delay on these occasions of course occurred, and
Windsor was not reached till noon or after. Whilst the Secretary
went to the Castle Hotel, to make the necessary arrangements for
lunch, the members proceeded up the Castle Hill, by the Queen's
statue, and entering the lower ward by Henry VIH's gateway,
leaving St. George's Chapel on the left, procui'ed the necess-
ary tickets of admission from the Lord Chamberlain's stores,
seemingly a pigeon hole presided over by a civil functionary.
Armed with this permit, they presented themselves at the small
portal leading into St. John's Tower, and were asked to wait their
turn in a stone groined room somewhat like a guard chamber.
After an interval allowed them for reflecting on the loss of their
individuality in the crowd of " trippers," amongst which it was
evident they had soon to mingle, a seedy looking official, some-
what like a waiter, at last co)iducted them up an ancient staircase
to the Vandyck room, the first entered of the " State Apartments."
The great crowd admitted at one time (there must have been
nearly a hundred), the bad light, and the indistinct uneducated
utterance of the showman, rendered it very difficult to see these
fine pictures of the great portrait painter to advantage. One
could but glance at them, halt for a space before the celebrated
picture of Charles I, over the fireplace, taken in three positions,
