324
the banners of the Knights of the Garter, whose coat of arms
ennoble the roof, and whose names from Edward III to the most
recently created Knight are painted on the panels of the S.
window. Finally passing through the Guard chamber, full of
interesting relics of former wars, amongst them a chair made from
an elm tree which grew on the field of Waterloo, and called
Varhre de Wellington. The indistinctness of the guide here reached
its climax, and the members Avere not sorry to escape from the
crowd and crush and regain the outer air. The Eound Tower,
originally built by William of Wykeham, on the artificial mound
raised by the Norman kings, was next visited, some 200 steps led
to the summit, from which a magnificent view of the surrounding
country was obtained — the winding Thames, Eton's Chapel and
playing fields, and the long walk in the foreground. Crossing
the court yard and descending a few steps on to the N.
Terrace, extending 1,870 feet from the Brunswick Tower,
on the E., to the Winchester Tower on the W., the " Hoc
fecit Wykeham " on the latter raised the question as to which
noun was the nominative case to the verb — a query suggested
by the architect's reply to his royal master, King Edward III.
The rain which now began to fall obscured the fine view of Home
Park and Castle slopes, and the members, retracing their steps
through the lower ward, were glad to take shelter in St. George's
Chapel. The whole of the building with the exception of the N.
aisle seems to be thrown open to the public, who can wander about
and admire this celebrated specimen of architecture without the
annoyance of the uneducated and indistinct utterance of a seedy
showman. The choir, of course, was the chief point of interest, as
the members stood over the vault containing the remains of Henry
VIII and one of his Queens, Jane Seymour, Charles I and other
Eoyal personages. The view of the Perpendicular stone tracery of
the roof, the colours of the memorial window, and the richly carved
woodwork was very striking. On right and left are the stalls of
the Knights of the Garter ; their banners, recently taken down
