325
and dusted for the visit of the Emperor of Germany and the
Eoyal wedding, contrasted strongly in the brightness of their
appearance with the dusty-looking surcoat, helmet and sword
hanging beneath them. The brass plates on which are inscribed
the names and titles of the knights gleamed out from the back of
the dusky stalls ; two, one on each side, remained still to be
occupied with the insignia of the last-made knights. On the N.
side is the Closet for the Royal household high up on the wall of
the choir ; and beneath, in the N. aisle, is the black marble slab
covering the tomb of " King Edward IV" and his Queen, Elizabeth
Widville." The Braye Chapel, forming the S. transept, contains
the white marble tomb of the Prince Imperial erected by the
Queen ; at the W. end of the N. aisle is the elaboi'ate monumental
sculptured story of the Princess Charlotte's death ; and on a
pillar adjoining the brass tablet to the memory of Prince Alamayn,
son of the King of Abyssinia. Standing at the W. doorway a
good view was obtained of the Horseshoe Cloisters, built by
Edward IV in the form of a fetter-lock, the Curfew Tower in the
background, and the fine flight of steps leading up to the W.
entrance of the Chapel. There remained now to be seen the gem
of all. Leaving by the N. door, and passing the houses of the
Minor Canons and through the Cloisters, the passage at the E.
end of the Chapel was entered. Leaving the dripping umbrellas
here and passing through a temporary spring door, the far famed
Albert Memorial Chapel, built over the Eoyal tomb house, burst
upon the view in all its rich magnificence. The costliest productions
of the sculptor's and decorator's arts are here lavished to keep ever
green the memory of the dearest and the best. Immediately on
entering comes the white marble effigy of the Duke of Albany,
the work of Boehm ; to the E. of this the cenotaph of Albert the
Good, by Baron Trequite, in the Avhitest of Carara marblfe ; round
the walls are the same master's exquisite panel representations of
Biblical stories, the figures and accessories incised in marble and
filled in with various coloured cements (Tarsia-work) most chaste
