326
in design. The roof glittering with Salviati's mosaics ; the richly
coloured glass in the windows, and the floor in different coloured
marbles all surpass description. The last restorations have been
nobly carried out by Sir Gilbert Scott, and the Chapel is probably
surpassed by few ecclesiastical memorials in any part of the world.
After lunch at the Castle Hotel, the members left in a break
for a drive down the Long Walk and to Virginia Water. Entering
from Park Street, near the iron gates leading to the Castle, they
turned to the right and drove down the finest avenue of elm trees
in the world. Straight as an arrow, but undulating in accordance
with the gently swelling nature of the surface, it continues for
nearly three miles to an eminence called Snow Hill, on which the
equestrian statue of George III, by Westmacott, is erected. The
elm trees, originally planted by Charles II, 1680, are showing
signs of age, and the gaps are being gradually filled up by new
plantations of lime and other kinds. The rain, which threatened
to spoil the drive, now began to show signs of abatement, and
turning to the left near Cumberland Lodge and Virginia Water
they passed midway on the right hand the equestrian statue of the
late Prince Consort, erected by the Queen, on Smith's lawn, from
a portion of the fund of the Women's Jubilee Offering. On the
left, just before descending the hill leading through the wood, are
the remains of one of the old forest trees carefully propped up
and cared for by her Majesty's command. Leaving the break at
the Blacknest gate, the members walked along the S. bank of
Virginia Water, the largest sheet of artificial water in England,
150 acres in extent and over two miles in length ; saw the Fishing
Temple on the opposite side, looked in at the ruins, consisting of
Corinthian pillars of Eoman origin taken from Tripoli in 1825,
and re-erected by Wyatville to represent the ruins of an old
temple in a picturesque corner of the woodland, backed by
some fine Scotch firs. The pillars are monoliths of red granite
and a marble altar records that it was dedicated by Publius
Aurelius to Jupiter Helios. Onwards to the cascade, artificially
