347
A3 founder of the club io 1855, I remember its early as well as its late
proceedings, and T think it was in 1867 that Mr. Winwood took the
secretaryship, ou the resignation of Dr. Steele, who had been the first
to hold that office. I had known Mr. Winwood ever since he first came
to settle in Bath — a few years previous. He appeared to me to take
an interest in science even then ; and with Charles Moore (also a
member of the club), as an example always before him, he soon took to
geology, at which he has worked ever since most energetically and
successfully, as ail the club know. But he has never neglected his
duties as secretary, and it is for the long continued services he has
rendered to the club in this capacity, that its members desire to off'er
him the projected testimonial in return for all he has done, and to
show their gratitude for the same. . . . With best wishes for the
success of the club in the hands of the new secretary,
Yours very truly,
L. Blomefield.
The Chairman said he did not think it possible for anyone but
Mr. Blomefield to give expression to a full appreciation of Mr.
Winwood's character as a scientific man, and it was a source of
deep regret to him that he was unable to be present on that
occasion. With regard to the duties connected with the office of
secretary, however, he could personally testify that Mr. Winwood
had performed them with the most earnest and business-like
attention, and the members of the club were to be con-
gratulated on having held him for so many years. In dis-
charging his various secretarial duties, he had not only shown
ability and persevering energy, but also great tact. In his
opinion the example which Mr. Winwood had given them
of perseverance and attention to the club, as well as strict
devotion to its objects, had been a great means of continuing it
successfully for so many years. It had been said that no club
could exist longer than ten years in Bath, and, therefore, the fact
that the Field Club had lasted 39 years, or nearly four times that
period, was somewhat remarkable. Still, he trusted there was
every probability that it would continue for a much longer period.
