349
The Rev. H. H. Winwood, in rising to acknowledge the gift,
said the flattering words which had been spoken by the Chairman
were almost too much for him. He could assure them he did nob
deserve all that had been said ; at the same time he had done the
best he could to keep up the social and scientific interest of the
Club. He expressed deep regret that the health of the President
prevented him from attending, and also at the absence of their
Vice-President, for, he remarked, without their assistance he
should have been unable to carry out the duties attending the
office. With regard to the presentation, he confessed it was not
altogether unexpected to him, although undeserved. At the last
Quarterly Meeting he was aware of the kind intention of the
Members to present him with a testimonial, and expressed his
unwillingness to accept it. The only one he would require to
receive was the thanks of the Club for his past services, and the
attendance of the Members at the Excursions and the papers.
Notwithstanding his expression of unwillingness to accept a
testimonial, however, he felt that as he had laid down his office,
his power had departed, and the usual despotism which he had
exercised over them had departed with it. Therefore, on finding
they would not listen to his request, he felt compelled to bow to
their superior views, and it now remained for him to express his
deep thankfulness to them for what they had done. The gift
was one of the best they could possibly have selected for him, and
had he made the selection himself he should have chosen the very
instrument which they had provided. It was, therefore, a present
which he was most gratified to accept. With regard to the date
of his Secretaryship, he was appointed to the oflfice in 1863, fol-
lowing Dr. Steele. The Club was founded in 1855, and he joined
it in 1861. Speaking of his successor in the office, he remarked
that the Rev. W. W. Martin seemed to have entered upon his
duties with commendable zeal, and he felt quite certain that he
would be capable of maintaining the scientific worth and character
of the Club.
