350
• At the subsequent Quarterly Meeting on April 5tli, the Rev.
H. H. Winwood was unanimously elected a Vice-President of the
Field Club, and in returning thanks for the honour conferred
upon him he hoped that he would still be able to take part in the
future management and Excursions of the Club for many years,
although his other occupations had not left him time and leisure
sufficient to carry on the laborious duties of Hon. Secretary.
Excursions.
As to the Excursions during this year, the four proposed at
the Annual Meeting, viz., to Forde Abbey, Symonds Yat and
Goodrich Castle, Sudeley Castle, and Longleat have taken place,
and the three last were largely attended. Two bye-excursions to
Glastonbury and Edington also were made, but notes of each
follow in their order : —
F(yrde Abbey. — The first excursion of the year in connection
with the Bath Field Club took place on Tuesday, May 3rd, when
14 members started from Bath, and were joined by a 15th at
Yeovil. Time is not money, seemingly in Somerset, and so the
G.W.R. train, leaving Bath at 10.18, managed to cover the
distance to Yeovil (43i miles) in 2J hours. This made the
party late for an appointment that had been made to view the
interior of the parish church of St. John the Baptist, and as a
consequence its members rested satisfied Avith an examination of
the exterior. The church, which stands in a wide open space,
and is constructed of Ham Hill stone, is known by the title of
the "Lantern of the West." It is a handsome edifice, built in
1376, but an older crypt of Early English architecture, dating from
1226, remains under the chancel, groined and supported by a
central pillar, now used as a vestry. The late Professor E. A.
Freeman describes the church as "one grand and harmonious whole,
as truly the work of real artistic genius as Cologne, or Winchester,
or St. Ouen." After lunching at the Three Choughs Hotel, the
party left for Chard Road Station, from which a walk of one and
a quarter miles brought them to Forde Abbey, which by kind
