353
Starting again with renewed vigor, the ten members visited
the lions of the town, and all reliques in the church and town
of the local hero, John Kirle, " The man of Ross." The sucker
of his tree in the church of St. Mary still shows vitality, and the
Market House built in the time of Charles I. of soft old red sand-
stone, and now much weathered, still exhibits his rebus signifying,
"I bear Charles on my heart." At 10.40 the train again carried
the excursionists to Kerne Bridge, five good pedestrians prefer-
ring to cover the six miles on foot, but all met again at the great
object of attraction, Goodrich Castle, about two-thirds of a mile
from the station. The architecture of the Castle from the days
of " Godricus dux," who gave his name to the place in the time
of Cnut, to the reign of Henry VII., is of a most interesting
character. The question whether the windows of the keep are
Saxon or Norman will always remain a subject of debate, but no
two opinions will exist about the picturesque beauty of the arches
of the Ladies' Tower and the Chapel. The Castle in the time of
the Commonwealth was held by the Countess of Kent, a Grey.
The Greys, Earls of Kent, had inherited it from the Talbots,
Earls of Shrewsbury, by the marriage of an heiress in 1616.
After a long siege Sir Henry Lingen, who had garrisoned it for
the King, surrendered it, in 1646, to Col. Birch. Next year the
Countess of Kent received compensation for her Castle, which was
ordered to be slighted by the Protector.
The church of Goodrich was afterwards visited by the members
of the club, but the eucharistic chalice, presented to the parish by
the grandfather of Dean Swift, who was rector during the
Commonwealth, and ejected for his Eoyalist proclivities, could
not be seen owing to the present rector's absence. Much indigna-
tion was, however, aroused among the antiquarians of the party
by the discovery that an enormous boulder of about 12 tons
weight in the churchyard, consisting of the conglomerate of the
old red sandstone, to all outward appearance an " ice-borne
erratic " had been converted into a sepulchral monument to some
