354
Herberts. But subsequently at •' The Hostelrie," which is the
title of the village inn, a castellated building erected by Sir S. R.
Meyrick in the same style as Goodrich Court, the secret was let
out, that an heir, faithfully fulfilling a death-bed promise to his
kind testator, not to erect any hewn monument over his body,
engaged two traction engines to drag this rock from Symonds
Yat, and after great expense and diminishing its bulk succeeded
in getting this mass of conglomerate into the churchyard, at the
top of the hill, to serve as a tombstone. Mr. MofFatt, the present
owner of Goodrich Court, has erected a magnificent village club,
reading and dancing rooms, and handed over the building for ever
to a committee of 12 labouring men, on the terms that no political
or religious differences be a bar to admission, and that news-
papers of all sides be supplied in the reading room. The saloon
carriage again received the excursion party at 2.55 p.m., and as
the thunderstorms seemed threatening, and thus far all had
escaped a severe wetting, prudence advised no stoppage at
Tintern Abbey, unsatiated though the party's thirst was still for
architectural and antiquarian investigation, and Bath was
reached at 6.45 p.m. in an interval luckily between two
thunderstorms.
Sudehy Castle. — On Tuesday, June 28th, the third excursion of
the year took place, and a large muster of 32 members of the
Field Club started by the Midland Eailway, at 10 a.m. for
Cheltenham, whence a couple of breaks conveyed them eight
miles to Winchcomb. On arriving at Sudeley Castle, half a mile
from the town, the lady of the Castle, Mrs. Dent, and a consider-
able number of her guests, received the party in the grand
quadrangle, the Eev. Canon EUacombe, a vice-president of the
Field Club, being among the visitors staying at the Castle, and
introducing the new arrivals. At the invitation of the hospitable
hostess the whole party forthwith ascended to an extensive upper
chamber, and partook of a sumptuous luncheon. Around the
walls of this long room were arranged several antiquities, such as
