355
man-traps, the fossil tibia of an elephant from Egypt, iron swords
and pikes, &c.
Having done full justice to the hostess' excellent repast, the
Eev. Canon Ellacombe gave the company a brief resum6 of the
history of Siideley Castle, and stated that of the building
originally constructed in the reign of King Stephen only a very
small remnant existed in the base of one of the towers. Con-
siderable parts of the second structure by Sir Ralph le Boteler,
Baron of Sudeley, Lord Treasurer and High Admiral to Henry
VI., still remain. Originally it consisted of two spacious quad-
rangles, lying N. and S., with embattled towers on the W. side,
and a banqueting hall and octagon tower on the E., on which
side externally were also a chapel and pleasaunce. In 1469, on
the success of the Yorkists, Lord Sudeley being a Lancastrian
■was compelled to surrender his castle to the King, Edward lY.,
who granted it to his brother the Duke of Gloucester, later on in
1483 King Richard III. On the succession of the Tudors Henry
VII. granted the Castle to his uncle Jasper, Duke of Bedford,
but it again fell to the Crown, and in 1 547 Edward YI. presented
it to Sir Thomas Seymour, who had wed, as fourth husband, the
widowed Queen, Catherine Parr, and created him Lord Seymour,
of Sudeley. The Queen died after giving birth to a daughter
two years after marriage, and is buried in the chapel, whei'e the
late owner of the Castle, Mr. J. C. Dent, has caused to be erected
an extremely beautiful monument in alabaster and marble. This
Lord Seymour afterwards was attainted and lost his head, and
his Castle was granted to William Parr, Marquis of Northampton,
who soon forfeited it, and Queen Mary presented it to one of her
strenuous supporters, Sir John Bridges, Kt., of Coberley, whom
in 1554 she made Lord Chandos of Sudeley, Queen Elizabeth
paid several visits to the third Lord Chandos of this Castle, and
King Charles I. was the guest of George, the sixth lord, in 1643.
The following year Sir William Waller took it after several
assaults, and in 1649 it was dismantled and became a quarry for
