356
the whole neighbourhood. In 1837, on the purchase of the
property by Messrs. J. and W. Dent, the Castle again rose from
its ruins, and is now one of the most palatial residences of the
kingdom.
The historical lecture of Canon Ellacombe being ended the
whole party was divided into sections of six or seven under
separate guides, and conducted through innumerable chambers,
all stocked with an infinity of articles of historical interest, more
particularly with some connection to the history of the castle.
With marvellous lucidity the young ladies and gentlemen, who
acted as conductors, explained the reliques of Queen Catherine
Parr, the furniture used by the several sovereigns who had visited
the castle, the marks and arms, seals and tokens of the several
noble owners of the place, and the black-jacks, spurs, pikes of
Cromwell and his Roundheads, who had levelled it. Numerous
reliques of the monasteries of Winchcomb and Hayles, and coins,
tesseroe, &c., of tlie Roman period, two extraordinary pictures by
Hogarth, styled "The Bridge of Life" and "The March of
Intemperance," carved oak bedsteads, antique silver plate, coloured
glass and a collection of articles too numerous to mention or
remember after a perambulation of less than two hours, render
this Castle a veritable museum. The privilege granted by Mrs.
Dent to the Bath Field Club to examine all these treasures will
ever remain an agreeable reminiscence, and such a day spent
among archfeological treasures, when accompanied also by the
personal kindness and hospitality of the hostess not only expands
the knowledge of history and architecture, but creates feelings of
thankfulness that our lot is placed in a country where owners of
historical castles and valuable collections of antiquities open them
freely to their neighbours less blessed than themselves. Having
partaken of a farewell cup of tea witli the kindly hostess and bid
her many thanks, the members of the Field Club returned to
Cheltenham, but not without experiencing a heavy shower on the
road, and thence were safe back in Bath before half-past 8 p.m.,
