358
hope future discoveries of skulls, weapons and personal ornaments
will reward the labours of the Messrs. BuUeid.
The site of the excavations is situated about Ih mile to the
north of Glastonbury, in the very centre of a peat bog, and close
to a rhine. In a field slightly raised above the surrounding
country are seen some 50 or more round mounds which originally
excited the curiosity of Mr. Arthur Bulleid, and led to the sub-
sequent discovery of the village. Only a few have been opened,
but the discoveries made in these few have well rewarded the
labour and expense. The huts of this- people were extremely
peculiar. On the very surface of a quaking peat-bog a thick layer
of brushwood was laid, kept in circular form by long alder poles
driven into the peat.
These alder poles still look fresh and sound, although very soft
when handled, and are sharply cut to a point by some stone axe,
a specimen of which has not yet been found. Over the brush-
wood there was laid a foundation of larger timber, tied by piles
driven through the substratum into the peat. On this was laid a
mound of clay a foot thick, rising to the centre on which was
some baked clay to support the hearthstone. The hut roof was
of wattled osiers, covered with clay, many pieces of which lie
about the excavations, retaining the shape of the wood and even
the builders' fingers. As was natural with such a precarious
foundation, the whole hut gradually sank into the peat, and to
restore the original level these inhabitants repeated the former
foundations, and in one excavated mound no less than three
hearthstones are seen superimposed on each other. The clay for
these floors can onl}'' have been brought from the distant lias beds
of Polsham, Meare, or Glastonbury. Quantities of split bones lie
about the excavations ; beans, peas and decayed timber, some of
the latter exhibiting a most brilliant blue mildew on the surface.
The excavations are to be continued as subscriptions from the
various learned Antiquarian societies of the country enable the
works to be carried on. The situation being in a water-soaked
