22
Persons may not be disposed to accept, or science able at
present thoroughly to confirm these statements. But life must
have been infused into the gelatinous specks I have spoken of
above at some time or other, and in some way or other ; and
science in its latest utterance on the subject has pronounced
the answer to the question — What is lifel "to be approachable."
I allude here to Burdon Sanderson's " Address " to the Biological
Section of the British Association at the late Newcastle-on-T3'ne
meeting. It should be stated, however, that this was said ia
sole reference to the Physiological aspect of the question, and
without consideration of any possible higher causes of life. But
I do not see why (in the present instance) we should not bring
the latter into consideration also, if the inquiry be made with,
reverence and in humility. And it is not a little remarkable
that, almost at the close of his Article " on the Physical Basis of
Life," Professor Huxley — perhaps the last man from whom we
might have expected any leaning whatever towards spiritualism-
has put on record that " in itself it is of little moment whether
" we express the phenomena of matter in terms of spirit ; or the
•' phenomena of spirit in terms of matter." I accept this alterna-
tive, and — believing all things to have had their beginning from
that Great First Cause revealed to us as " a spirit " — I conceive
that everything must have received therefrom more or less of a
spiritual impress, left to be acted upon from time to time by
outward causes, and so made capable or not of further development
according to circumstances. The " matter or spirit " of Huxley
might remaia a material atom for ever ; or be quickened into life
if favoured by its surroundings. In the first case, it might along
with other atoms become in the lapse of ages aggregated into
large rock-like masses such as we see at the present day ; in the
latter the organisation would be so rudimentary in the first
instance, whatever it might become afterwards, as to show no
distinction between animal and vegetable.
And now, bearing in mind what has been said, let us — in.
