359
peat-bog the only season available for exploration is the dry
summer and autumn.
The Messrs. BuUeid having given the Field Club and numerous
other visitors all the information in their power, for which they
received the hearty thanks of the assembled company, a general
return was made to Glastonbury, where Mr. Arthur BuUeid
honoured the Field Club with his company at lunch in the old
Pilgrim's Hostelrie, built 1475 by Abbot Selwood, now "the
George Hotel," of which the facade was greatly admired, as well
as that of the Tribunal, built by Abbot Beere as a court-house,
1495. A few of the members of the Field Club, to Avhom the
remains of the Abbey were well known set off for a walk to St.
Michael's Tower on the Tor, where the last Lord Abbot Whitinge,
Nov. 15th, 1539, for no particular crime except concealing the
Abbey treasures from Henry VIH.'s rapacious myrmidons, was
hung, drawn and quartered, Bath being dishonoured by the gift
of one of his quarters, as a warning not to follow that excellent
man's example in opposing the king's prerogative. The greater
number entered the ruins of the Abbey, viewed the exquisite
architecture of the transitional chapel of St. Mary, erroneously
styled St. Joseph's chapel, by an ineradicable belief of the public
in the truth of an old legend that St. Joseph of Arimathea built
the first wattled chapel on this site, and was buried therein in a
bifurcated shirt. The monks naturally fostered this craze, as it
brought great wealth to the monastery, as did also the supposed
possession of the body of St. Dunstan, whose bones certainly were
at Canterbury, but the supposititious body wrought innumerable
miracles, and true or false was a regular goldmine to the Abbey.
Having thoroughly examined the ruins, and proceeded to the
Abbot's kitchen, a start was made for the station, where the
saloon carriage placed by the Somerset and Dorset Railway
Company at the service of the Field Club, was attached to the
4 p.m. train, and brought the members back to Bath at 6.15
after a most interesting excursion.
