360
Frome and Longleat.— On. Friday, October 7th, the excursion to
Longleat, originally fixed for September 13th, but deferred owing
to the serious illness of the noble owner, the Marquis of Bath, took
place, and 33 members of the Field Club started from the Great
Western Station at 10.18 a.m. Arriving at Frome, the noble
church of St. John Baptist first received a visit, and the newly-
erected rood screen, with life size figures of the crucified Lord
and His Blessed Mother and the F-vangelist St. John was much
criticised, its colouring being gorgeous and little in harmony with
the sombre hues of the building. The chapel of St. Nicholas is
now converted into a baptistry, and on the floor around the font
are inlaid Scriptural representations of the seven deadly sins, and
the opposite Christian graces. The Lady Chapel, forming a sort
of north transept to the nave, has beautiful painted windows
relating the life of B.V.M., and has now an altar of its own, as
has also the south aisle of the chancel. The reredos in Carrara
marble and alabaster, the pulpit with figures of the eight great
preachers of Christendom, and numerous statues of saints inside
■and outside the church, as well as the stations of the Cross, to
the left of the ascent to the north porch were sculptured by
Forsyth with great boldness and effect. A mural tablet to the
two young daughters of the Earl of Cork in the Lady Chapel is by
Westmacott. The fabric itself in its restoration shows very little
of its original Norman character, except the arch entering the
church from the south porch and two engraved stones built into
the north-east corner of the south aisle. The nave is of eight
bays, the four easternmost being of earlier date than the western,
the columns of which latter are constructed upon the peculiar
foundation of blocks as high as the pews. Outside the eastern
end of the church is the unique iron tomb of the saintly Bishop
Ken, a nonjuror, who died in 1711.
Leaving this fine church, many of the party threaded the
narrow and tortuous lanes of the town to the factory of Messrs.
Eawlings, on the South Parade, and were courteously received by
