363
bronchitis, lost a most instructive architectural lesson, and a sub-
sequent luncheon at the Lopes Arms Hotel at Westbury, well
repaying the discomfort of the drive.
The church now stands in excellent repair, under the care, as
vicar, of the Rev. George E. Long, his predecessor having departed
this life prematurely in 1891, from a chill caught while person-
ally attending to the restoration of his church. A handsome
cross, mounted on three steps in the churchyard, has been erected
to his memory, and as a thankoffering for the restoration of the
building, effected through his liberality and the aid of his friends.
The building itself is of the most interesting character — cruciform
with a central tower, with the Pavely cross flory in the tracery of
the belfry windows, and a south porch groined with a parvise
above. The style of architecture is Decorated, gradually passing,
as the building was being built, westward into Perpendicular,
which is conspicuous in the great west window. The nave now,
as restored, is a church of itself with altar, pulpit, and handsome
brass eagle, given in memory of Dr. Littlewood, it is of six bays
and 75 feet in length, with aisles. A small chantry chapel is in
one bay, being the tomb of the Pavely-Cheney family, bearing the
quartered arms of that family, but bereft of its inlaid brasses.
The roof has oak for its main arches, and groining, but the inter-
stices are filled with plaister ceiling, picked out rather incon-
gruously with a sort of light chocolate Gothic tracery.
The transepts and central tower contain many matters of
interest, especially the ancient coloured glass in the east window
of the north transept, the coloured monument of an anonymous
monk, in the south, supposed to be John Bayntun from the many
repetitions of his rebus on the tomb, a baytree growing in a tun ;
his feet rest on a tun which contains the same rebus with the
letter J. thereon. The old oak of the rood screen has been
restored to its original place, and the eastern half restored by
excellent imitation in modern oak, but strange to say there seem
to be no stairs to mount to the summit. This rood screen stands
