364
under the eastern arch of the central tower, and within there is a
second church, with altar and old oak reredos. Between the
windows, under canopies, remain two headless statues, and on each
side of the eastern end of this chancel there is a magnificent
monument. On the south an alabaster tomb of beautiful work-
manship, dating from 1630 under a canopy, with two life-sized
figures of Sir Edward Lewys, gentleman of the Privy Chamber to
Charles I. and of his wife Lady Anne, daughter of the Earl of
Dorset, with kneeling figures of their five children below. On
the north a monument by Sir F. Chantrey to Sir Simon Taylor,
Bart., who died aged 32 and is represented in marble with his
wife and daughter bending over his lifeless body in deepest
grief
The Field Club tore itself away reluctantly from this fair
edifice, and after viewing the ancient yew tree in the churchyard,
21 feet in girth and supposed to be about 2,000 years old, returned
to the warmer and well stocked upper chamber in the old Lopes
Arms Hotel at Westbury, whence, after restoring their creature
needs, they sallied forth to view the restored church of All Saints,
once said to have been a Norman structure, but now so perpen-
dicularised as to leave no trace of its former self. It is, however,
a fine large cruciform church, with narrow aisles, transepts, central
tower and chapels to the eastward of both transepts, and a groined
porch to the south. There are many modern painted windows, of
various degrees of excellency, some being, perhaps, the worst
examples of glass in England, and two in the nave, to the memory
of a former vicar, Duke, and the widow of another, named Butt,
being exquisite. In the south transept there is a fine monument
to Sir J. Ley, Earl of Marlborough, Lord President in Charles I.
Council, 1629. The inscription is illegible, and parts of the
effigy and its surroundings seem to have been painted green in
former days. On an ancient lectern in front of this monument is
a chained volume of Erasmus' commentaries on the Gospels in
black letters. Unlike most churches, this one is kept comfortably
