374
passed, some 10 versts in length, and the wild beauty of these and
the surrounding banks was frequently enchanting. The inhabi-
tants of the banks are partly Kussians and partly Euriats, the.
latter offering sacrifices of deer skins on long poles, and to the
Gods, hoping thereby to have their flocks and herds doubled.
Fish in the upper part of the Angara were rare. They fish with
a rope sunk by weights to the bottom, along which are short fish-
ing lines and thick iron hooks ; on these moving in the water the
sturgeon or sterlet strikes and the hook fastens in the skin. This
tackle is called " samolor " or self-fishers. Besides this there is
net fishing.
In i^ days they arrived at Bratskoj Ostrog, about 20 versts
from which are the largest Iron works in East Siberia, belonging
to Herr Butin, at present under administration. They visited the
works, and he gives along description of the great obstacle of the
development of Siberia's natural resources, and the existence of
any industry being the difficulty of obtaining capable workmen,
and the disastrous history of these works notwithstanding the
excellent iron ore, coal almost on the surface, and immense virgin
forests all within a shore distance, the absence of competition and
the splendid gross profits, but all in vain without intelligent labour.
Some versts below they came to the first rapids called " Poch-
melnyj," which they passed next day with some difficulty. The
crew became frightened and struck, but at last they got a sufficient
number of men for the work. Then they passed the " Piannyj "
rapids. The weather became worse, and they had more trouble
with the crew. They were obliged at last to hire people from the
nearest villages.
The next rapid was " Podun," the worst hindrance to naviga-
tion on the Angara, before passing which they took a jjiiot and
more people on board. They fortunatelj^ passed, however, with-
out striking the ground. Just at the rapids the river narrows
down to about a kilometre, falling 5 metres in a 1,000, with a
velocity of 4-7 metres in the second.
