376
Stanley (from whom the Athole I'amily derived their title) was
through Sir John de Stanley, to whom on the attainder of Henry
Percy, Earl of Xorthiiraberland, the Island was granted by
Henry IV. The first patent was for life, but was afterwards
cancelled and replaced by another making the grant in perpetuity.
English chivalry which had been conspicuous in the reign of
Edward III. had degenerated in that of the unvvarlike Eichard II.,
and Sir John Stanley, who had travelled much, was almost the
only English chevalier of his time. On his return to England he
was followed by a French combatant, Avho defied the whole English
nation. Sir John accepted the challenge and killed him, and thus
won the favour of the heiress of Lathom and Knowsley, whose
knight he had declared himself, and whom he subsequently
married. Sir John Stanley and his successors held Man and the
Isles pertaining thereto by homage and on payment to the King
of a cast of Falcons at his Coronation. It may be mentioned that
Percy's tenure was on condition that he or his deputy should bear
at the coronation " Ilium gladium nudum quo cincti eramus
quando in partibus de Holderness apislicuimus vocatura ' Lancastre
Sworde.' " and it was to be borne "ad sinistrum humerum, sive
sinistros humeros Regis." The patronage of the Bishopric of Man,
founded by St. Patrick, A.D. 447, and the most ancient in the
British Isles, was vested in the King of Man. The See of Sodor
(Sudoer or Southern Islands) was instituted by Pope Gregory IV.
400 years later. Sir John Stanley, son of the first Sir John, King
and Lord of Man, by advice of the Deemsters, convened the people
at a Tynwald, where, standing on the Tynwald Mount, a barrow
formed of earth taken from each of the twenty-four parishes in the
Island, attended by officials and the Taxiaxi (House of Keys),
he promulgated the laws which from the birth of time had been
locked up in the breasts of their magistrates (called breast-
law). This ceremony is continued to the present day, a remarkable
survival from the most ancient times. " It is indeed remarkable"
— to quote Professor Worsaae, of Copenhagen — " that the last
