377
remains of the old Scandinavian Thing which, for the protection
of public liberty was held in the open air, in the presence of the
assembled people, and conducted by the people's chiefs and repre-
sentatives, are to be met with, not in the North itself, but in a
little island far towards the West, and in the midst of the British
Kingdom."
Thomas, Lord Stanley, fourth King of Man, whose second Avife
was mother of Henry VII., was created Earl of Derby (1485) on
Bosworth field. History records that he placed the crown of
Richard on the head of the victorious Richmond. His son, Thomas,
dropped the title of King, preferring " to be a great Lord to a
petty King." James, seventh Earl, " the Great Earl of Derby,"
husband of Charlotte de la Treraouille, whose gallant defence of
Iiathom House is referred to in Peveril of the Peak, was taken
prisoner after the battle of Worcester, and beheaded at Bolton-le-
Moors in 1651. Notwithstanding the heroism of the Countess the
Island was surrendered by treachery to the Parliamentary forces,
and granted to Fairfax, who held it till the Restoration, when it
was restored to Earl Charles.
Towards the end of the 17th century the Islanders, having no
secure tenure of their lands, agriculture was neglected and they
gave themselves up to fishing and contraband trade. This resulted
in several years of scarcity and famine. In 1703 Bishop Wilson
induced the then Earl (James) to grant " The Act of Settlement"
(the Manx Magna Charta), by which leases were granted in
perpetuity on payment of fines, &c. James, tenth and last Earl
of the House of Stanley, died without issue in 1735. With him
terminated the direct male line of the House of Derby, which had
reigned over the Island upwards of 300 years. The Kingdom then
passed through the female line to the Duke of Athole.
Attempts had been made, notably in 1726, by the English
Government to purchase the Royalties of the Island, but without
success. The contraband trade had risen to such a pitch as
materially to aff'ect the revenue of Great Britain. At length, in
