OF THE
BATH NATURAL HISTORY AND
ANTIQUARIAN FIELD CLUB.
1893.
1.— The Club shall be called "THE BATH NATURAL HISTORY AND
ANTIQUARIAN FIELD CLUB," and shall consist (for the present)
of not more than One Hundred Members.
2.— The object of the Chib shall be to make Excursions around Bath, with the
view of investigating the Natural History, Geology, and Antiquities of
the neighbourhood.
3. The Founder of the Club, the Ret. Leonard Blomefield, shall be con-
sidered the permanent President; and one or two Vice-Presidents, a
Chairman, becretary. Librarian and Treasurer, shall be chosen each year
from among the Members at the Anniversary Meeting on the 18th
February.
4. — The Committee shall consist of the past and present officers, and three other
Members of the C;lub (the latter to be elected annually), whose business
it shall be to consider and determine all matters connected with finance,
and printing the Proceedings of the Club, or papers read at any of its
meetings ; or any business requiring consideration.
5, — Quarterly Meetings for the election of M embers, and for other business,
shall take place on the First Ixiesday in April, July, October, and
January.
6. There shall be Four Excursions during the year, to be fixed at the Aniiver-
sary Meeting, subject /oa//era<io«sat any previous Quarterly Meeting,
if agreed to by all the Members present — six to form a ([uorum. A. list
of such Excursions, with the respective places of meeting shall be sus-
pended in the Vestibule of the Bath Literary and Scientific Institution.
Such Members as feel disposed shall also meet every 'J uesday, at the
Institution, at 10.30 a.m.
7. — The hour of meeting shall not be changed, except for the convenience of
taking particidar trains, when it is arranged to go by rail to any place ;
in which case the altered time shall be posted at the Institution not later
than Twelve o'Clock on the Tuesday previous.
8. — In arranging the Excursions, due regard shall be paid to Natural History,
Geology, and Antiquities, so as to secure an equal share of attention to
each siibject ; with this view, when the same Excursion does not include
them all, they shall, as far as practicable, be taken in turn.
9 — Special Meetings shall be appointed for the Beading of Papers or Exhibition
of Specimens, notice being given to the Secretary at, or previous to, any
one of the Quarterly Meetings, by Members having such communications
to make to the Club.
