385
lO.^Genllemen wishini,' to join the Club may be proposed and seconded by any
two Members and will be elected by ballot at any of the meetings of the
Club (three black balls to exclude), notice of their nomination being given
in writing to the Secretary not less than foiirteen days before any such
Meeting. The Committee shall have the privilege of electing Four New
Members during the year, provided there are vacancies.
11. — Any Member of the Club may invite a gentleman not resident in Bath to
accompany him on the proposed E.\cursions, but when an offer of hospi-
tality has been accepted by the Club, then only one visitor staying with a
Member will be allowed to accompany him.
12. — The Secretary shall take Notes of the Excursions and read a Summary of
the Year's Proceedings at the Anniversary Meeting ; he shall also see that
notices of all Excursions and Meetings are suspended at the Institution
and posted to every M ember at least seven days previously ; such notices
shall include the names of any candidates to be balloted for, together
with those of tlieir proposers and seconders.
13. — The Treasurer's audited accounts shall be examined and passed at the
Anniversary Meeting.
14.— A Subscription of Ten Shillings shall be paid yearly by each Member, with
an Entrance Fee of Five Shillings, to defray any expenses the Club may
incur otherwise than by journeys and refreshments. 'I his Subscription
to be considered due on the Anniversary. Newly elected Members to pay
the Subscription for the current year and the Entrance Fee at the time
of their election.
15. — Members whose Subscriptions are in arrear for three months after Feb.
18th shall be considered as having withdrawn from the Club, if, after
application, the same be not paid up.
16. — There shall be a Supernumerary List for Members whose absence from
Bath does not exceed three years. Such Members, on their return, and
on payment of their Subscription for the then current year, may be
admitted to the Club at once, or as soon as a vacancy occurs.
17. — Members may borrow Books from the Club's Library, entering their names
and title of the volume in a book kept by the Librarian for the purpose,
but shall not retain them longer than one fortnight. Members of the
Koyal Institution can also read them on the premises, but not take them
away. Members may also purchase back numbers of the Club's Proceed-
ings at half-price.
WALTER W. MARTIN,
Eon. Sec,
