26
necessarily so, because nothing was known about tbem. Yet
notwithstanding, bridges and bridge building were matters of
public importance, and of general taxation from which no one
could be excused. Ducange mentions a Guild of Bridge builders
tuown as Fratres Pontis, the habit worn being white with a cross
■of cloth on the breast. Licenses for pontage, i.e. a duty paid on
all articles carried across a bridge, can be occasionally found for
other cities, our neighbour Bristol for instance, but there is not
one for Bath, this arising from the fact that the bridge did not
communicate directly with, or form actually a part of, the city.
Being now in the position of other writers, having but little to
say, a few words of criticism on what has already been said may
first perhaps help towards correctness for the future.
First then, quoting the History of Bath printed in 1798 which
goes under the name of Collinson, although for a great part of it
we must be indebted to Edmund Rack, on p. 35 it is said of the
-suburbs of the ancient city, — " without the South Gate a street
" called Horse Street leads to St. Lawrence Gate and Bridge over
the Avon." There is no mention here of a chapel, but, relegated
to a foot note there is added, alluding to the name of the bridge, —
" so denominated from a small chapel built upon one of the piers
" and dedicated to St. Lawrence. The chapel was a kind of
*' Oratory having a small recess for an altar at which a priest
" celebrated mass and received the donations of passers by."
Under the parishes of Lyncombe and AVidcombe there is further
added, — " the bridge was formerly narrow and incommodious, but
" in the year 1754 was almost entirely taken down and rebuilt."
No references are given as is so often the case in this work, and
it may be seen that the statements generally are only such as any
one may hastily imagine even if knowing nothing of local
circumstances. The story is wrong then as to the saying of
mass in the Oratory and a priest attending to receive donations.
Such a place was and could be, little more than a niche, unpro-
tected and unenclosed. The recess noted, if it ever existed.
