29
whicli would be a.D. 1340, "the bridge across the Avon was
-erected to avoid wading a ford a little above it, hitherto the
common passage ;" adding further that this especial inconvenience
had been more marked since the grant to the Priory ot Lyncombe
fair in A.D. 1304. Besides the absurdity of wading through water
to get to a fair, no authorities or references are given for these
statements. Further he adds, the Prior obtained permission to
build a chapel on the bridge dedicated to St. Lawrence, to catch
oblations from passers by. Here again his imagination has aided
the elaboration. At the larger places or chapels proper oblations
were made, but there is no reason to suppose that such was the
case in so small a place or in such a situation as this Oratory.
Ko permission would be necessary before building such a housing
as there would be no episcopal consecration. Had any such thing
occurred at the date given by Warner, it would have been, but is
not, recorded in Bishop Drokensford's Eegister. So small and
public a place could hardly have been enclosed, although a door
to ensure some privacy may have existed. A door is shown in
the drawing, but it must be remembered that by the then date
the place, like that at Bradford, had long passed from its original
use. These two examples of this class of bridge Oratory are the
only ones known to have existed and as that at Bradford is now
unique it should in case of any changes be most carefully preserved
and allowed to remain. Having thus no other examples to
compare, facts must necessarily be few. By a lucky chance there
is just a record, a reference to what must have been something
very similar, but of the building or place itself nothing is known.
In the Keturn of the Church Goods of Derbyshire the Stanton
next Swerston people had, " a chappell edified and buylded uppon
Trent in ye mydest of the greate streme anexed to Swerston
bregge, the whiclie had certayne stufiFe belonging to it ; ij desks
to knele in, a tabell of wode and certayne barres of yron and
glasse in the wyndos." The word table here would probably be
applied to a triptych or a painting or to sometWng written in a
