30
table, and not to a table for use in our usual sense of the word.
It can easily be imagined that such a furniture would suit exactly
in our present case.
One reason perhaps why so little is known of this bridge is, that
whilst the citizens of Bath had the duty of keeping it in repair, it
was not quite within the city bounds. The suburb of South Gate
Street was included for taxing purposes, but it was not until the
extension of the bounds by the Charter of Elizabeth in 1590, that
the Bridge Avas absorbed. This Charter starts the boundary,
from the " south end " of the bridge where the "two images of
a lion and a bear engraven in stone are erected," and then passing
through the river westward presently turns eastward to Walcot
church and then back through the river again to the " south
end " of the bridge. In the drawings the lion and the bear are
seen on two columns, officially there as being the supporters of
the Bath arms. The idea of Warner that the Bridge was first
built in 1340 cannot be accepted, as certainly there was a bridge
before that date. Thus in the time of Edward i., A.D. 1273, as
recorded in the Hundred Eolls, a jury, when reporting on the
neglect of the city walls, found that " Eobert Cherin had a
tenement within the city and a meadow without, for which h»
kept the gate on the bridge in time of war." The gate here
mentioned is the same as shown in the draAvings. This gate is
also mentioned in Cox's Magna Britannia of 1727, where it is said,
— a street leads to South Gate and then along the suburbs to the
" Bridge laid over the Avon in the middle of which is an old
gateway." This however was not exact as the drawings show the
gate not in the middle but on the next arch southward of it.
Having no documentary evidence to determine absolutely the
date or time of building of this bridge, an examination of the
drawings must be made to help as much as possible. Taking
first the East view, that is the view from the east side or looking
westj it Avill be seen that two of the piers are round, perhaps
because the rush of the river was not fierce thereabouts, and oa
