31
one, or as part of oue, of these stands the Oratory. The other-
two piers are angular forming cutwaters in the usual way, the
outer or southern being carried up forms the side of the gateway,
whilst the other towards the middle of the river has its base
levelled as a standing or refuge for any one unfortunate enough
to require it. There seems however to be something wrong, as it
is apparent that the Oratory here is in the centre of the rise or
arc of a bridge of four arches, the land on the north forming one
end, the gateway on the south the other. The southern or fifth
arch too is shown somewhat flatter than the others. Hereby one
difiSculty is removed as it may be judged that in the place of this
fifth arch in the olden time was the drawbridge ; without such a
protection the gate would have been of bub little use. On the
shore can be seen one of the two stone carvings, either the lion
or the bear ; the other is hidden by a tree.
Taking next the West View, or view of the Western side,
another difficulty occurs. Here the piers having no water
resistance, are all flat, but it must be noticed that the rise of the
bridge is much less and the centre is now on the middle arch, th&
extra or fifth arch outside the gate being as good and as round as-
the others. Perhaps the break in the other view caused by the
Oratory may have deceived the eye. Both the lion and the bear
are seen distinctly in situ. The large doors in the gateway are
also well shown. On both sides, the parapet looks to be quite a
distinct addition hardly incorporated with the substructure. The
front of the Oratory shows some indented or sunken carvings of
armorials, unfortunately not clear enough for definition, but
beyond this no special architectural detail is visible. At the time
the drawings were made, the minute study of architecture to
which we are accustomed had not arisen, so that the draughtsman
here, even if he could have done so, may not have cared to
record so small a matter as an heraldic bearing. After thi»
examination and generally, the judgment is that this bridge as
seen, excepting the gateway, is a late fifteenth or even an early
