32
sixteenth century structure, rather after than before the year
1500. The gate of the early or 13th century bridge was allowed
to remain. This is Norman in character and besides bearing
every appearance of antiquity, is not a gate that would have
been built late in the 15th or early in the IGth century. The
writer in Cox of 1727 seems to recognise a difiference, as he
speaks of it as an '•' old gateway," thus implying that it was
visibly older than the bridge. When the bridge seen in the
drawings was built, the drawbridge being abolished its place
was taken by another arch ; the bridge then as an unguarded
approach became rather a source of weakness. Thus it happened
in the Civil War when in July 1645 Fairfax sent two companies
of dragoons to Bath, no opposition was ofiFered at the river
Bridge or until the bridge at the South Gate was gained.
In the time of Monmouth's Rebellion the bridge was ordered
to be destroyed, but the quick march of events prevented this as
it became unnecessary.
A thirteenth century bridge would be flat or level on the
roadway, the arches rather narrow or close together would be
somewhat pointed and turned on a distinctive rather rough
moulding. Perhaps the view of Bristol old briJge, the houses
being removed, as given in Seyer's History of Bristol, Vol ii. p.
14, will help to give an idea of what the Bath early bridge was
like. In the drawings we have fine and well turned round arches
and a rise to the centre, all and each distinctive of a late date.
Although no earlier mention than 1273 can be given there
must with fair certainty have been a bridge in times before that.
Such bridge however would have been more or less of wood.
Ingulph in his Chronicle under date A..D. 1085, relating the
confirmation by William of the Laws of Eadward, makes an
especial mention of the Fosse as one of four Eoyal roads. When
remembering the known great Eoman city Bath was, and
that the Koyal Fosse road passed not only through it but
actually over the river near about where the bridge was and is,
