35
I begin with Somerset. The earliest notice of a Vineyard
m the County, and almost the earliest notice of one in England
(except the general notice of Vines in England by Beda in the
8th Century), is in " the contirniation of a grant of a Vineyard
by King Edwyth to Glastonbury Abbey in the 10th (.cntury.
This Vineyard was situated in Pattensberg in Mere, Co.
Somerset." (Gard. Chron. Nov. 17th, 1888. j
In the " Domesday Survey " the following Vineyards are
mentioned in Somerset : — Among the possessions of the
Church of Glastonbury there are at Glastonbury " iij arpents of
Vineyard. In the manor adjoining an island called Mere, where
are sixty aci'es of land ; and two arpents of Vineyards." . . .
" Another island belongs thereto, which is called Padenebene ;
There are six acres of land and iij arpents of Vineyard." These
two places— Meare and Pamborough — are close to Glastonbury,
and are within the Hundred of Glaston twelve hides — and there
can be little doubt they are the Vineyards that were given by
King Edwyth. " In the Inquisition of the Manors of Glastonbury
Abbey, by Abbot Henry de Soliaco in 1189, there are several
tenants of the Manor of Glaston mentioned, who as part of their
work had to cultivate the Vinej^ards — ' fodit in Vinea ' — and one
tenant, who had the principal charge of them, was * Elwinus Custos
Vinee.' " The Vineyards are not referred to at the time of the
dissolution of the Abbey, buc about that time we find reference
to lands called Wineyats, and the site of the Vineyards on the
Southern Slope of Weary All Hill or Werrell Hill is still called
Vineyard?. (MSS.inf: Vicar of Glastonhmj.)
There are still remains of the old Vineyard at Meare. There
is a ruined wall which formerly served as the back wall to the
vines, and some of the stone projections are there to which the
vines were fastened. The field itself is still called the Vineyards
(MS. : Vicar of Meare.)
At Dunster there is a small plot of ground, less than an acre
in extent, on the south side of the hill called the Vineyards, in a
