36
very sunny and sheltered situation. The ground is in terraces,
but whether they were made for the vines or for the later native
industry of clothmaking is uncertain.
We have at Bath the street called the Vineyards — but I have
not been able to find any record of the Vineyards that were once
there beyond the name. In such a position I should have
thought they must have been noticed by some of the many
writers on Bath ; but the writers on Bath — Warner, Wright,
Earle, &c., are quite silent about them. Vineyards are
beneath the dignity of historians. The only old record that I
can find of them is in the " Municipal Records of Bath," lately
published, where (ji. 41) there is a note on the boundaries of
Bath in a charter of Queen Elizabeth. Part of the boundary is
' ' the liighway leading from Weston towards Walcot, so continuing
by the said way into a close of pasture called the Alneyards."
This looks as if even then the Vineyards were discontinued and
the land put into pasture.
But if the culture of the vine was discontinued there, it was
not entirely given up near Bath, In Savage and Meyler's " Map
of Five Miles Round Bath," published in 1805, there is a
Vineyard marked at Claverton^ with the vines distinctly shown.
The site can be easily made out, and it is a garden attached to
the Vineyards Farm, It is enclosed on three sides by an old
wall, and it contains an old building which Mr. Skrine considers to
have been the Avine-press, The property was i>urchased in 1701
by Mr. Richard Holder, and part of the pui chase money was £28
for " four hogsheads of wine of the Vineyards of Claverton."
Before leaving Somersetshire we may note the record of a Vine-
yard at Wilcot, in the adjoining County of Wiltshire, because it
has a special note of commendation in "Domesday": — " Ibi
Ecclesia nova, et domus optima et vinea bona." I am informed by
the present Vicar of Wilcot that he has cultivated vines there for
more than thirty years, and during all that time he has never
succeeded in jiicking a single ripe grape.
