37
I now come to the Gloucestershire Vineyards. The first
mention of the Vine in Gloucestershire is in " Domesday," and
in the " Gloucestershire Survey " " it is only once mentioned —
'ii — arpenzVinee' are registered at Stonehouse on land which
had belonged to Tovi, a large landowner, before the Conquest,
and which was held in 1086 by William de 0\v It
is surprising that mention is made of only one Vinej\ird . .
but it is interesting to note that it was situated near to the
Eoman settlements of Frocester and "Woodchester, and there
could be few warmer spots in the county than the south-western
slope of the hill above Stonehouse. The arpent was certainly
less than half an acre in extent, so that William de Ow's
Vineyard covered less than an acre. About a mile and a half
north of Stonehouse is a farm which bears the name of Vinegar
Hill Farm ; it is now, and probably always has been, in the Parish
of Standish, but the name is interesting as a testimony to the
cultivation of the vine in the immediate neighbourhood of the
spot where the * Domesday ' Commissioners found it."*
The next notice of the Vine in Gloucestershire is in the well-
known description of Gloucestershire by Wm. of Malmesbury,
who was born at the end of the 11th Century, and published his
book, " De Gestis Pontijicuvi Anglorum," about the year 1 1 25. In
it he says, " The Vale of Gloucester yields plenty of corn and fruit.
. . . . Here you may behold Highways and Publick Eoads
full of Fruit Trees, not planted but growing naturally. The earth
bears fruit of its own accord, much exceeding others both in taste
and beauty, many sorts of which continue fresh the year round,
and serve the owner till he is supply'd by a new increase. "So
county in England has so many or so good Vineyards as this ;
either for fertility or for sweetness of the grape. The wine has
in it no unpleasant tartness or eagerness,t and is little inferior to
* " Taylor's Domesday Survey of Gloucestershire," p. 70.
+ Eagerness lit : trans ; of acritudo — eager=acris, the word survives
in Vinegar, i.e., vin — eager — vinum acre.
