38
the French ia sweetness." (Camden, p. 267. J This is Wm. of
Malmesbury's testimony to the excellence of the Cxloucestershire
Vineyards as translated by Camden, and in connection with our
present subject it is interesting to note that Wm. of IMalmesbury,
though he lived most of his life in Gloucestershire, was a native
of Somersetshire. Camden's Commentary on the passage is this —
" From hence we are not to Avonder that so many places in this
County from their Vines are called Vineyards, because they
formerly afforded plenty of "Wine, and that they yield none now, is
rather to be imputed to the sloth of the inhabitants than to tlie in-
disposition of the Climate. For now these Vineyards have nothing
left in this County but the places nam'd from them ; viz., one
near Tewkesbury, at present called by the Vineyard, and another
on a rising hill by Overbridge, near Glocester, where was a large
house, moted round, belonging to the Bishop of Glocester, built
about the year 1351 by the Abbot of Glocester," ]). 269. So far
Camden — but we shall see presently that his idea of the complete
destruction of Vineyards in Gloucestershire was not (luite correct.
Next to William of Malmesbury we come to Alexander
Neckham. He was Abbot of Cirencester from 1213 to 1217,
and was a learned man and a good scholar. He was also a close
observer and wrote a book, "De Naturis Rerum," which may be
considered the best book on Natural History at that date.
Unfortunately for our purpose, his object was not so much to
record facts in Natural History (though he does so largely), but
to moralize upon them, and it is often very difhcult to know
whether the facts he quotes are the results of his own observation
or gathered from books. His 167th chapter is de Vinea, and if
we may suppose that he is speaking of the vine as seen by
himself in England (perhaps in Gloucestershire) it is a strong
testimony to the vigour of the English vine, for he tells us that
the vine branches supported by stajces and intertwined together
make good arbours (thalamos aspectu decoros vites prcebent), and
further that they are good to grow against a house, because
