41
from winds, but not so near as to prevent the sunshine — so that
the result is that the Vineyard got the maximum of possible sun
with the minimum of wind. The hill is a mountain limestone,
and the soil seems to be shallow and stony. The terraces begin
from the lowest level within a stone's throw of a small brook that
runs through the Valley. There are seven distinct terraces —
divided from each other by walls a yard high, the distance from
wall to wall being from 12 to 14 feet — the terraces vary in length
according to the slope of the hill, the longest being 320 yards.
The walls are built of the mountain limestone of the hill. The
spaces between the walls have not been levelled, but follow the
natural slope of the hill. The site of the Vineyard is now chiefly
covered with yew trees, and it was the opinion of Sir Joseph
Hooker, who examined it a few j'ears ago, that these yew trees-
were of comparatively recent growth, none of them probably
more than GO or 70 years old. With the exception of one tree
growing near the brook I should quite agree with this, and the
fair presumjition is that that to a great extent gives the date of the
destruction of the Vineyard. But on tlris point Lord Ducie has
kindly sent me the following particulars. AVriting in September,
1887, he says, " Mj^ late agent, now living, a very old man, has
often told me that 50 years ago he remembered seeing a few Avild
Vines among the bushes in tlie Vineyard — and in January, 1882,
calling upon AVilliam May, an old Cromhall Labourer, who had
spoken to me of his recollections of the Vineyard — in answer to-
my questions, and on my reminding him of his having told me how
he had stolen grapes in the Vineyard as a child — they were even
then, out of cultivation and growing wild — he said : —
** I do mind the Vines ; they growed between the path and
the brook — black ones. It were nigh about vower score year
ago. I be^now in the 88. My father telled me as how one year
there were dree 'ogsheads of wine made there.' W. May's-
memory was as sound as ever, and his faculties clear."
I have dwelt at some length on the Tortworth Vineyard,
