42
"because I suppose it to be tlie best existing specimen of an old
English Vineyard, and so is most interesting as the last record of
an agricultural industry that once gave occupation to a large body
of labourers in the Southern Counties, but which has now
completely passed away, and can never return, at least, in its old
form. In another form grape growing in England has had a
great revival, chiefly in Sussex, where grapes are again grown by
the acre, but they are under glass, and not on the ojien hillsides
of the Cotteswold.
A few other memories of the Vine in Gloucestershire remain
in Yiney and Yiney Hill in the Forest of Dean, in Yiney Farm
near Mangotsfield, and perha^^s in Wimieycroft in Matson, and in
the surnames of Yiner and Wineyart (now Winj'att), once more
•common in Gloucestershire than they are now.
There are one or two points in connection Avith our Yineyards
which should be noted. One is the " lychetts " as the terraces
-are called which are so common on our hillsides, and which by
many are supposed to be sites of ancient Yineyards. By others
they are supjiosed to be natural formations, while Professor
Seebomm sees in them the remains of common lands farmed by
Yillage Communities. For this last suggestion I think the proofs
are quite insufficient, and I feel sure they are not natural
formations. They are found on all sorts of soils — they are
abundant on the oolites of the Cotteswold, and on the chalk hills of
AViltshire, and last summer I saw them in several places on the
limestones of the Jura. There can be really little or no doubt
that they are the work of man. They are the necessary result of
-any attempt to bring a steep hillside under the spade or plough,
and they have their prototypes in the tracks made by sheej)"and
cattle on steep hillsides. On the Cotteswolds nearly all are now
•covered with grass, but in Wiltshire you may see them still in
process of formation, especially on the hills near Calne, and you
may there see how the terraces have a tendency to get wider on
their flat surfaces evejy year, while the sloping steps become
