46
view, might be, and have hitherto been, taken for either the-
Upper or Lower sliales that occur in association witli these strata^
or with the true shales of tlie Coal Measures, which one might
expect to see anywhere in this much disturbed country. A closer
inspection, however, proved that they were neither the one nor
the other, but black shales belonging to a formation much higher
up in the Geological series. Whilst looking over the dSris or
talus covering the foot of the quarry a portion of a whorl of
a thick ribbed, keeled Ammonite was picked up. Well !
Amateur Geologists though we were, we knew sufficient of the
A B C of the science to conclude that Ammonites did not live
in the Coal Measure days, at least so far as discoveries have
hitherto revealed the fauna of that period. This led to further
search, and whilst examining some of the shaly clay in, situ it
fell to my lot to find traces of a shell well-known to myself and
others as at once characteristic. For between the thin laminae
impressions of the well-known avicula contorta occurred in sufficient
quantity to indicate that these were the so-called " paper shales "^
of the Rh£etic Measures.
The following is the description of the quarry : —
According to Mr. McMurtrie, this mass of Limestone in which
the quarry was worked, 800yds. W. of that at Vobster, and
1,900yds. N. of the Mendip hills, is 450yds. in extreme length,
and from 50 to 120yds. wide.
The base shows an exposure of Carboniferous Limestone
running N.E. and S.W. for some 60ft. Formerly worked for
the lime kiln or for road metal, the face has receded some little
distance from the lane entrance, and probably further workings
have been found useless owing to the thickness of the " heading '*
of black, unprofitable, clayey shale that, falling from above, now
forms a thick tahis, covering up the more solid beds below. The
Limestone apparently dips to the S.W. Its lasset edges, where
it crops up to the surface, have been planed off almost as level as
a billiard table, reminding one of that celebrated section in the
