50
Belgium and the North of France. In a pajjer on the South
Western District of England, contributed to the Geological
Society by Dr. Buckland and Mr. Conybeare, as long ago as the
year 1826, they noticed its resemblance^ both in geological
structure and picturesque features, to the country between
Namur and Liege ; and, in an important pajoer by Mr. Godwin
Austin in the " Proceedings of the Geological Society" for 1855, he
expressed a decided opinion that the Coal Measures of a large
portion of England, France, and Belgium were once continuous,
the present coal fields being merely the fragments of one original
deposit. Sir Eoderick Murchison held a contrary view, and read
a paper on the subject before the British Association, at
Nottingham, in 1866, but the opinion advocated by Mr. Godwin
Austin and others seems destined to prevail.
During the inquiry of the Royal Coal Commission, in the year
1871, the question was considered of so much importance that
Committee D, which was presided over by Sir Roderick
Murchison, devoted much attention to the subject, and Professors
Ramsay, Etheridge and Hull were called to give evidence, the
result of which was embodied in an able report by Professor
Prestwich, which will well repay a careful perusal; and, although
speculative Borings, since put down in various parts of the South
of England, have failed to prove the existence of Coal Measures
eastward of Frome, many are still confident of ultimate success.
Being much interested in the question, the writer, in the
summer of 1886, accompanied the South Wales Institute of
Engineers through some of the most interesting parts of Belgium,
when he was much impressed with the similarity of conditions to
those with which he was familiar nearer home ; and more
recently he has obtained much additional information on the
subject from Dr. Hovelacque, of Paris, who attended the British
Association meeting at Bath in 1888, and spent much of his time
in visiting the Radstock Coalfield. Dr. Hovelacque's special
object was to compare the specimens obtainable at Radstock with
