74
of the Xeddern, to the S. of the old Avails, A few more feet
of water, and might it not be possible for boats to come up close
to them, as tradition asserts once was the case in Koman times 1
Leaving the main road at Crick — the etymology of which
word Mr. Jones considered to be Carreg,* and not in any way
connected with Crik or Creek — a vicinal way was followed to
the south, leading to Portskewet. The cropping up of Mountain
Limestone on the left, with its wooded spurs and retreating
■coombes, forms a portion of the picturesque estate of Ballan,
recently purchased by Mr. Walker, the distinguished contractor
of the Severn Tunnel woiks, whose house was passed on the
right hand Having landed Mr. Jones at the rectory, not before
very hearty thanks were returned to him for his courtesy and
kindly guidance during tlie morning, the members, having
nothing to deiain them in the village of Portskewet as they had
visited it last year, found themselves landed rather earlier than
was expected at the Black Rock hotel. The two hours before
lunch were most profitably spent by an inspection of the G.W.R.
pumping works, under the guidance of Mr. Hosken. Some of
those who were not present during the visit of the Club last year
went down the pumping shaft, and saw the water of the great
spring rushing by beneath their feet, looked in upon the magni-
ficent pumps, doing their work so noiselessly and efficiently, the
many boilers, and the revolving fan. How few realise, whilst
speeding through the tunnel so easily and comfortably, how
much is going on above ground to insure their safety ! whilst
others, under the guidance of Mr. Beetlestone (Mr. Walker's
deputy), were conducted to a quarry adjoining, where recently,
whilst excavating sand, a very curious geological feature had been
disclosed. After clearing away the top heading of gravel and
sand, some 10ft. thick— apparently from the nature of its
* Crick is a corruption of Crig derived from Carrey, a stone. Grig,
cairn (Scotch), cam (Welshj = heap of stones.
