75
contents and the position of the pebbles, indicative of ghicial
origin — the surface of the j^ellow sandstone beneath was found
perfectly honeycombed with pot holes of every shape; from
perfect circles to oblong, oval and pear-shaped depressions, some
three or four feet deep. Some of these Avere worn out in the line
of a weakness or joint. Were they formed by ice, water, or by
chemical decomposition ? Had any pebbles been found at their
base, the solution of the problem might be guessed, but in every
case nothing but sand derived from their sides filled them up to
the brim. Unfortunately, the amateur photographer, who was
prepared to take them, was unable to do so owing to the
weather. The same curious cylindrical holes are seen on
the foreshore; and wherever the present water of the
Severn has washed off the superincumbent soil the
yellow sandstone is seen riddled with them. jNIounting
from the foreshore to the interior rampart of Sudbrook Camp,
some thirty feet high, the outline was followed to the little
chapel, built in the ditch at the S.E. end. Composed of
three ramparts, the inner one being the highest, it j^lainly takes
the shape of a stretched bow, as some have described it, and was
never square. Though the waters have encroached very much,
and eaten into the two ends of the bow, the means taken by Mr.
Walker to prevent further enroachments have been successful ;
the great mass of rubbish which he has "tipped" forms an
effectual barrier both to protect the camp and the chapel,
together with the graveyard which, within the last few years,
was being gradually washed away. Now a railing surrounds it,
and there is a considerable distance of made ground between it
and the Severn. Returning to the hotel, the members were not
sorry to finish their day with a good lunch, and afterwards left
Portskewet for Bath by the 4.56 train, none the worse for the
unpropitious weather.
Winchester Cathedral and St. Civss. — The second excursion of
the season was on Tuesday, May 7th, the places selected to visit
