76
on this occasion being Winchester Cathedral and College, and the
Hospital of St. Cross. Sixteen members of the Club left Bath by
the 8.51 train in a saloon carriage, placed at their disposal by the
courtesy of the G.W.R. authorities, and thus travelled through to
their destination without the inconvenience of changing. On
reaching Winchester, the secretary not allowing any halt for
refreshment, the party proceeded direct to the Cathedral, passing
the old City Cross, and through the old-fashioned corridor to the
W. entrance, wliere the Rector of St. Michael's (the liev. H. E.
Moberly) met tliem and acted as their guide to all the interesting
features of the building. Passing round the northern side, he
gave a short account of its architectural features, pointing out
the works of the various bishops, including that of Walkelin,
Henry de Blois, and William of Wykeham. The party then
entered through the S. transept door, opposite the elaborate
tomb of Bishop Wilberforce. Nave, choir, transepts, lady chapel,
chantry chapels and tombs were successively visited, and last, but
not least, the crypt, the most ancient part of the structure, dating
certainly from the 11th century, if not earlier. The present
Dean^ a distinguished archaeologist, has lately had the whole of
the floor of the crypt cleared of an accumulation of earth to a
depth of four feet, thus exposing the bases of the Norman piers,
before hidden, and bringing to light many important features.
After two hours thus spent, admitting, however, only of a very
cursory glance at the many unique architectural details in this,
one of the most important cathedi-als, the members proceeded to
the College. The boys being away on their holidays, there were
no masters present, and so the secretary, an old Wykehamist,
conducted the party over the buildings, and explained tlie various
points of interest, not forgetting the way in which the boys were
" flogged " in his day. The chapel was first visited, afterwards
the cloisters, on the walls of which are tablets to the memory of
boys who have died in the school, or who have distinguished
themselves after leaving. In the old schoolroom, now used as a
