77
music room, is preserved a table, on which the late Sir Herbert
Stewart burnt his name with a red-hot poker, when a member of
the College, for which he duly received punishment. The
dormitories, the dining hall, the second chapel, and the playing
meads were all visited in turn, and the curious painting of the
" Trusty Servant," in the small room adjoining the kitchen, was
inspected. A strange sight met the eyes of the visitors on
entering the quadrangle, namely, a party of old women seated on
short-legged stools, picking out from between the paving of flints
the vegetation which had grown there. On leaving the College,
the party proceeded through the meads to the Hospital of St.
Cross. Here they were received by the Eev. W. G. Andrews,
the master, and, having partaken of the dole of beer and bread
at the Porter's Lodge, were taken by him over the Hospital and
Church, the latter probably one of the best specimens of
Transition work to be seen in this country. The hospital now
consists of thirteen brothers and four noble brothers, the latter
being a revival of Cardinal Beaufort's foundation of " noble
poverty " for the relief of men who have occupied superior
positions in life. The hall was last inspected, and attention
drawn to the black jacks, wooden salt dishes and candlesticks,
now preserved in a glass case, and also to the triptych at the E.
end, vhich is ascribed to Diirer. Having lingered as long as
possible amidst the picturesque surroundings of the ancient
Hospital, the party returned to Winchester for a little necessary
refreshment before starting on the homeward journey to Bath,
which was reached at 9.8, after a rather tiring four hours' ride,
owing to the numerous stoppages. The day's excursion was
much enjoyed.
Badminton. — Owing to the absence of the Vice-President from
England, the Ford Abbey excursion fixed for June 4th was
postponed, and a visit to Badminton substituted. The day was
lovely, and the country looked beautiful, but the drive there and
tack, in a break calculated to hold 30, but to seat only 24 uncom-
