78
fortably, was not so pleasant as it otherwise might liave been.
The two and a half hours' drive having been accomplished, the
Portcullis Inn received the party, glad to leave their cramped
position, and to recover the use of their limbs amid the shades of
Badminton. The hour and a half before lunch was spent in a
visit to the Duke's far-famed kennels and stables. The hounds,,
24| couple bitches and 18 couple dogs, looked splendid, as the
huntsman showed them off in the yard. Keen eyes and well
clean shaped fore limbs seemed quite ready for the next season.
How the foxes must enjoy being followed by such shapely and
well-bred aristocratic dogs ! And then the little fox terriers, who
trotted out in their midst, looked also proud of their associates,
and showed, by scarred nose and other evident signs, that they
had taken their share of last season's sport. The stables came
next, and here many a "weight carrier" was seen bearing the
marks of past work — fired legs, poulticed feet, scarred flank,
spoke volumes of many a " going straight " for stone wall, and
post, and rail, and long gallops over heavy ploughs. It was quite
a hospital tor the lame and wounded. A walk through the
kitchen garden alotie remained to be done before lunch.
Nothing particular was noticeable here. The vineries seemed
fruitful, as far as a glimpse through the glass indicated,
admission not being granted to the interior of the houses — a
wise regulation, doubtless. After lunch, excellent in every
respect save one — the absence of "spring violets" in the
salad (it seems that there had been a failure in this useful and
much relished edible), the members by previous arrangement
met at the house at 3 p.m., when they had been given to under-
stand it was convenient for the housekeeper to show them over
the rooms unoccupied by the familj-. For some reason or other
inexplicable to them, admission was not to be had to any plac&
beyond the passage adorned with antlers of deer, &c., and the
" still " room. Having waited here in vain for nearly 20 minutes,
they left as wise as they came, so far as the interior of the house:
