79
was concerned. Intentional discourtesy could hardly have been
meant. A wander, however, through the magnificent park lo the
foot of the Three Mile avenue, with Worcester lodge in the
distance, glimpses of deer browsing beneath the finely grown
trees, glints of the distant May trees in full bloom, and the
soothing pipe allayed their ruffled feelings. Finally, a visit was-
made to the church, where repose the ashes of noble Dukes and
Duchesses, Lords and Ladies, beneath marbled urns and sculptured
figures, allegorical and otherwise. A plain marble memorial on
the S. wall, erected to the memory of Lord Raglan, of Crimean
fame, interested much the military members of tlie club.
Badminton was left at 4.45, and the unpleasantness of the morning
ride repeated, with the addition of the breaking of the shoe
chain on descending Swainswick hill.
The excursion fixed to Ludlow Castle for the 9th and 10th of
July did not take place for some unexplained cause, but two
by-excursions are worthy of record, one to Cadbury Castle on
27th of August, and the other to Beckhampton on 22nd of
October.
Cadhurij Castle, Tnesday, 27th August. — St. Swithin having most
completely verified his character as the watery saint, and the
forty days i-ain ceased at last, the morning of Tuesday, 27th,
broke fair and fine upon the small muster of the Club at the
10.26 a.m. train for Sparkford. Airiving there about 12.30 a
start was made for N. Cadbury. The pinnacles of the fine tower
half hidden by the trees was the only portion of the church
visible until mounting some steps leading to a field out of a lane
with high banks, the beautiful proportions of the fabric suddenly
burst upon us, the handsome 16th century manor house closing in
the view on the S. The Eector, the Rev. W. Castlehow, met the
party at the N. porch, and showed them over the church, pointing
out the various objects of interest. Dedicated to S. Michael the
Archangel, and rebuilt by Lady Botreaux in the year 1417 or
1427, the structure is remarkabls for the admirable state of
