80
preservation of the stone work throughout, a mixture of Oolite
from Littleton, and Lias. The action of the weather, generally
so destructive to the Lias, which constitutes the greater portion
of the stone work, does not seem to have had the usual effect
here. The N. and S. porches have a parvise chamber over them,
approached by a stone staircase on the E. side, the stone capping
of which forms a picturesque feature in the general outline. The
nave, N. and S. aisles, and the western tower, are lofty and well
proportioned, the N.E. buttress of the tower is seen in the inside
of the N. aisle indicating that the latter has been built subse-
quently. At the E. end of the chancel are two lofty canopied
niches, 10ft. high, and 2|ft. wide, with pedestals for statues, which
must have been unusually high, the pannelled bench ends, with
the date 1538, are some of them very grotesque, representing
trades (that of a miller, f)r instance), the emblems of the
Passion occur on some, and a figure of a Saint, probably St.
Michael. In the inner vestry on the wall the letters of the
alphabet are painted up, possibly for the use of the school
or clioir in mediaeval times. Beneath the tower are the tombs
of Lord and Lady Bottreaux and others, and a brass
plate in commemoration of " Ladye Magdalen Hastings, wife
to Francis Hastings, Knight, who departed this vaine and
transtiory life the l-ith June, 1596," after a lengthy and
poetical description of her virtues, are the latin words, " Vivit
post fuuera virtus." On the outside of the tower, and forming
the labels of the W. door, are the heads of a knight and his lady
on the S. and N. side respectively, these may be the heads of
the foundress who is on the dexter side, and her husband. One
of the members present, who formerly lived in the neighbour-
hood, related an authentic story of a cat having been thrown
off the tower 72 feet high, and, to tJie surprise of all, seen to
run away afterwards quite unhurt. Before leaving the church
an examination was made of the outside stone work for the
purpose of noting the masons' and other marks, besides a variety
i
