83
the prehistoric people retired when the lowlands beneath were
harried by tribal quarrels, and a very commanding site it was,
well nigh inaccessible from all sides, as the almost precipitous
slopes even now up which they had toiled to the top bore witness.
That it was formerly used by these prehistoric people a fine
polished stone axe recently found by Mr. Bennett was amongst
others a sufficient proof. Coming down to more recent and
historic times, of course the Eomans who always wisely took
advantage of the strong positions of those who had preceded them
were here, and picking up the thread of Mr. Bennett's paper he
alluded to the latter's discoveries in several hut dwellings exca-
vated by him on the hill, whence he had obtained a bronze
bracelet, some broken querns, Roman coins (the latter chiefly on
the E. side), one fragment of Samian ware, a tile or brick which
might be Roman, and various pots, &c. The importance, how-
ever, of this stronghold he considered to have culminated some
290 years after the Romans left Britain, when (following the local
tradition) King Arthur held his court here, for he agreed with
Leland and other early writers in considering this to be the
Camelot of ancient Bardic song. Many arguments were put forth
to strengthen tliis theory ; firstly, the traditions which hung around
the spot, fJi., the idea that King Arthur rode round the hill on
silver-shod steeds during the full moon — indeed, one of the silver
horse shoes had been found in the track ! — one of the two wells
was '' King Arthur's Well" on the E. face — an early British
road leaving Cad bury by its W. gate, going straight for Glaston-
bury, a bridle path in his (Mr. B's) recollection, the trace of which
is now nearly lost, was called by the natives "King Arthur's
lane." Secondly, the name of Camelot, surviving in the Camels
(W. Camel and Queen's Camel) and the fact that Camulus was
the Celtic Mars, or God of War. These, and such like arguments,
were cleverly used to strengthen the idea tha,t they were now
standing on no less a place than the Arthurian Camelot, the seen©-
of King- Arthur's last stand aarainst the West Saxons.
