84
The anxiety of the members having been relieved by the
reappearance of tlieir lost brother, after an inspection of the
pecnliar band of cherty Inferior Oolite on the brow of the hill,
a rapid descent was made through the main S.W. entrance, the
road finally gained, and the Sparkford Inn afforded a welcome
retreat after the long walk and the various accidents of the day.
Time did not admit of a visit to the section at Queen's Camel,
and only one of those present remembered how, in 1868, the late
Charles Moore conducted the Club to his typical section of
Keuper, Rhsetic and Lower Lias, so admirably exposed in those
days bed by bed, but now much grown over and obliterated.
Eheu ! fugaces labuntur anni !
Beckington and the " Devil's Bed and Bolster." — After a Aveek of
wind and rain, in the midst, too, of a depressed barometer (the
mercury standing at 29in.), the weather of Tuesday, October 23rd,
luckily proved favourable for the second bye-excursion of the
Club. Twenty out of the twenty-four members who had sent in
their names to the Secretary mustered at the G.W.E. station for
Fronie, at 10.28 a.m. As the train wound leisurely through the
Warleigh Valley, ample opportunity was afforded for the eye to
rest on the lovely woodlands, clothed in rich browns and golden
yellows and all the intermediate tints from light to dark green.
Various questions were asked en route as to the chief object of the
day's excursion — the " Devil's Bed and Bolster " — the general
idea being that some extraordinary geological formation, iu some
way connected with the Plutonic regions, was to be seen. This
pleasing uncertainty helped to keep up the spirits of the party as
they turned out from the train at Frome, and wended their way
by Wallbiidge, Stiles Hill, Fromefield, and along the main road
to Beckington, where the first halt occurred. The Rev. J. B.
Medley, Rector of LuUington, who had kindly undertaken the
description of the Church, met them here, and at once proceeded
to read some notes prepared for the meeting of the Wilts
Archaeological Society in August of the present year. Com-
