85
mencing with a quotation from the " Church Rambler," Vol. II ,
p. 132, he said, " Beckington is now an ordinary agricultural
village — what has it been t A strong castle almost as old as the
Conquest ; the birthplace of one of the most celebrated bishops of
the Diocese ; a resting place of Charles II. in his flight from
Cromwell's ' crowning mercy,' the Battle of Worcester ; and a
notable centre of the W. of England cloth manufacture." There
was, therefore, no necessity to manufacture subjects of interest
ex nioi-e one Samuel Popys. The first family of note here after
the Conquest was that of the Erleighs or de Erlega. John
de Erleigh was the first of that family known to have settled
here in 1161. A John de Erleigh died in 1338, seized of the
Manor of Beckington. Through this family, by a series of
marriages, it passed into the possession of the St. Maurs or
Seymours and the Bampfyldes, until, in the early part of the
16th century, the manor was purchased by John Ashe. Esq., from
whom it passed to the IMethuens and to the present lord of the
manor, Rev. Henry Sheppard. According to the Register dating
from 1559, it appears that the Cross was taken down in 1775,
and that Cliarles II. and Catherine, his wife, rode through
Beckington on the 10th of September, 1663, also that George III.
with his Queen Charlotte, passed on their way to Longleat, on
the 15th of September, 1785. There are several fine monuments
and brasses in the Church. In the N. wall of the chancel are
two canopied altar tombs. The most Eastern of the two is
assigned to John de Erleigh and Margaret, his wife, 1380 — 1400.
The single female figure in the other, is supposed to be another
member of that family, date 1 4tli century. In the floor of the
chancel a brass, representing John Seymour and Elizabeth, his
wife, is in good jireservation, and bears the following inscription :—
Hie jacet Johiies Scyut Maui' Armig,
et Elizabeth uxor ejus
qui quidem Johues obit
V Die Octob. a.dm
_i:385.
Cujus aue ppicietur D. Amen.
