8S
fine gable-ended house passed before coming to the Church still
bears the name of the Castle, and was probably built by the
Erleighs, certainly inhabited by them. After lunching at the
Woolpack, a name indicative of the staple trade once existing
here, Mr. Medley gave a short anecdote of that " quaint but
uncomfortable" man, Samuel Pepys, who seems to have passed
through in 1668. The Secretary then, in the name of the Club,
thanked him for his kindness in acting as guide and instructor,
alluded to his readiness to impart information whenever called on
to do so, and asked him to lead them at once to the chief object
of the excursion, which they were all so anxious to see. Passing
down the village, a turn to the right brought them to " Goose,"
i.e., as some interpret, "water" street. Opposite the fine old
Elizabethan Manor House, with its porch and walls resplendent
in autumn tints, called Seymour's Court, a halt was called, whilst
leave was obtained from the tenant, Mr. Crees, to cross his fields
to a clump of fir trees seen about a quarter of a mile distant on
the left. On a rising ground, somewhat oval in shape and now
covered with fir trees, stood the object of the day's walk.
Standing on an elevated hump of grass, evidently covering some-
thing beneath, and in full view of the Wiltshire Downs and the
White Horse to the E., Mr. Medley gave the following account : —
Some time since, in August, Canon Jackson sent him a drawing
made in 1838, representing a "stone circle" somewhei'e in the
neighbourhood of Beckington, and asked him to ascertain
whether such a thing really existed, as he failed to find it laid
down in the ordnance maps. After making enquiries he (the
speaker) learnt from Mr. Millett, tenant of Prior's Court, that
there were some old stones near Seymour's Court, called the
" Devil's Bed and Bolster," and was taken to the present spot by
his informant. He was also informed by another inhabitant of
the place that at one time it was twice as Urge as it is now,
adding the tradition that when people had tried to take the stones
away, bad weather had always prevented them. Further
