89
explanation of what they saw he must leave to others. The
Secretary said that to Mr. Medley was due a very important
discovery, or re-discovery, of what he ventured to state had
evidently been a long tumulus or barrow, now fallen in and much
disturbed; the shape of the rough ground forming the "bed"
indicated its object, and the name given by the natives pointed to-
some such use as a burial place. The large stones that remained
were all Sarsens, and never grew on the spot, but had probably
been brought from the Wiltshire Downs seen in tlie horizon.
The upright stone at one end may have formed one of the circle-
surrounding the tumulus of which the others had been destroyed.
The length of the mound or ridge running S.S.E. and K.N.W.
measured 50ft., and the breadth at right angles 62ft., so that
there was a space of some 1,033 sq. yds., somewhat elevated above
the general level of the field, covered with stones more or less
exposed. From a rough calculation, the number of Sarsens lying
about was 22 or 23. Five of these were upright, three or four at-
the E. end, and one large flat one at the W., measuring 3ft. Tin.
in height ; breadth, 6ft. ; thickness, 2ft. 3iin. The members after
this set their faces homewards, some walking to Bath, others
returning by the way they came, whilst others struck across the
fields to Eoad Church, and followed the dreary main road to-
Trowbridge, in time for the 4.55 train to Bath.
Coming to the walks of the Club — on the morning of Feb. 26th,
the members met at the Moore Museum, to hear the Rev. E. A.
Cayley further explain his theory as to the original design of the
Bath Abbey, propounded in his paper on " Church Doorways,""
read before the Club in December, 1888 ; and the following arft-
brief notes of his remarks : —
" The points to be noticed are especially the turrets at the E.
end, which, by displacing the Norman arches over the windows^
of the aisles from their proper position, show that they are co-
temporary erections. These turrets are in a customary position
if they flank the chord of the apse, but not if at the angl6^
