90
iDetwcen nave and transepts, e.g., Gloucester, Peterborough, Dur-
ham. The base of the piers at the E. end of the exterior are of
two dates, the inner and earlier being the respond carrying the
arcade of the apse ; the outer and later being that of the arcade of
the Transitional extension eastwards. There is a palpable bend
southwards of the church E. of the transept, and in the earlier
building this was more marked. This shows that the present
choir corresponds with tlie old one. The transepts I believe
to have taken the place of towers in the Norman
church, as at Exeter Cathedral ; and there could have
been no central tower in its present position, or the
foundations would not have settled when rebuilt. The
old piers beneath the floor of the nave show the aisles to
have been very narrow, and the nave probably about two feet
wider. The old wall with its plinth visible under the S. doorway
on the exterior, shows that the pre-existent lines were followed in
the present structure. Tiie cloister was connected with the
church by two short passages. The vestry stands on the lines
of the E. one, and measured about 110 feet in the square. The
S. and the vestry doors communicated with the church. On the
W. side stood the Palace of the Bishop (afterwards the Priory
House) ; to the S. the Eefectory, with cellars beneath. On the
E. would be the Chapter House, and in the S.E. corner the
Frater House and the Dormitory above ; the latter probably
extending over the vestibule to the Chapter House, and possibly
communicating direct by a staircase with the church, for
convenience for the night offices. There was probably a smaller
cloister with the Infirmary church (for the sick and aged monks)
near the Friends' Meeting House ; but all trace of it has gone,
the church having been probably destroyed and replaced by
S. James' Church in the late 15th century."
Mr. Cayley then conducted the members to the Abbey itself,
and entered more into detail, pointing out the various portions
of the buildinc; which induced him to hold these views. Standins:
