93
Tjeen taken as read, the President invited the delegates to make
any statement connected with the work of the Committees
appointed last year, or any suggestions as to the harmonious
working of the several societies. Amongst the various matters
discussed the following seemed the most important :— (1) The
advantage of making an archaeological index and survey of the
whole of England, and showing on the map not only the
prehistoric, but the British and Roman remains therein. The
Society of Antiquaries ask the assistance of the local societies to
aid them in carrying out this object. (2) Advisability of making
observations on the surface temperature of lakes, rivers and
estuaries, or any exposed water. (3) The gradual disapjiearance
of native plants, and the necessity of local societies taking the
matter up and chronicling, so far as they could, the disappearance
of such plants. (4) The appointment of a Committee to
investigate the invertebrate fauna, and cryptogamic flora of the
fresh water of the British Isles, and to induce microscopists to
undertake systematic investigation of the physical and geological
features of the various rivers and lakes they studied. (5) By no
means the least important subject discussed was the progress
made in photographing various geological features of the country.
A Committee was formed for this purpose, with Professor Bonney
■as President, which, it is hoped, will soon issue some recommend-
ations on different points, such as the means of readily showing
the scale of height or length of the section ; the most convenient
size of photograph (8^in. by 6|in. has been suggested), and some
systematic way of collecting and recording them, so that geologists
might know what had been taken. Your delegate had the
pleasure of exhibiting at one of the soirees some photographs,
taken by one of the members of the Club, of the memorial tablet
recently erected by the Club to the memoiy of William Smith at
Tucking Mill, near Midford ; also some sections of the Midford
sands in which he worked.
The finances of the Club are in a satisfactory state, as the
