100
rained gold boxes. Of liis character, of his eloquence, of the
times in which he lived, it would be out of place for me to speak,
but one sentence which he addressed to the Duke of Devonshire,
is so characteristic of the man, that I cannot refrain from quoting
it : " My lord, I am sure that I can save this country, and that
nobody else can."
The nation had indeed suffered not only defeat but insult ; and
the national spirit was then, (for the last time in our annals)
beginning to sink. We may well imagine then, how this brilliant
orator, this fervid patriot, was courted and sought after. How
Allen became acquainted with him we do not know, but he was
frequently in London in connection with Post Office business, and
must have had numerous opportunities of mixing in political
circles.
So much it has been necesssary to say, as to the two men with
which this note is concerned.
The manner in which the House of Commons was constituted
at this time, and for half a century afterwards, is too well known
to need comment. In some places the right of election was
vested in the citizens, in others in the small inner circle of citizens
known as Freemen or Free Citizens, and in others again in the
Town Council. In Bath the matter was more than once contested ;
but it was established that custom vested the power of election
in the Town Council. The persons who were sent to Parliament
therefore to represent the City, derived their mission from a body
as far removed from the position of a representative, one as can
well be imagined. The Freemen were but a fraction of the
population of the City, and only Freemen could enter the Town
Council. The Council was not even elected by the Freemen,
but exercised the right of filling vacancies in its own
number. But there was, practically speaking, an inner Council,
consisting of the Mayor, the Justices, the Chamberlain and the
Bailiffs, who formed a Committee sitting with closed doors. As
a rule the members were nominated by this Committee. I
