I
101
can make the position more intelligible, perhaps, if I just
mention two accounts, which have come down to us, of particular
elections.
Warner, on the authority of Harrington's " Nugae Antiquae,"
gives us some amusing letters and memoranda relating to the
election of John Harington. The date assigned (1646) is certainly-
inaccurate, but the documents appear to be authentic and to have
been misread only as to date. The Mayor writes to Mr.
Harington and " hopes he will accept the trouble " of representing
the city in Parliament. The young gentleman (he was the son
of the better known man of the same name) comes to Bath at
Christmas time, and dines with the Mayor and citizens, and then
enters in his diary, " Went to the George Inn at night, met the
Bailiffs, and desired to be dismissed from serving — drank strong
beer and metheglin — expended about three shillings — went home
late, but could not get excused, as they entertained a good opinion
of my father." Then the Mayor promised to give him a horse,
and on the 31st December the newly elected dined again with the
citizens, spent a good deal of money in wine and victuals, and
tobacco and again "went home late at night."
This is an example of a peaceable election. If any one doubts
that the citizens were well able to work up a "very pretty
quarrel " over the exercise of the franchise, he has but to refer to
the election of William Prynne and Popham in 1661, when
Aldermen were kidnapped and Common Councillors run away
"with, and when the two parties vied with each other, as to which
could make the most noise with big drum and trumpet.
But between these elections and the one in 1761, with which I
am now concerned, much had happened. Bath had ceased to be
a mere Hydropathic Establishment, and was rapidly advancing
towards its present position of a health resort. The city was
becoming very celebrated, and the cluster of men eminent as
statesmen writers and divines, who gathered around Allen at
Prior Park, extended its repute and importance.
