103
P.S.
Some of our friends are absent, and when they return we shall have
their sentiments, which will resolve us how far we can serve Mr. Pitt.
But you require such a speedy answer, that I cannct possibley say more
than what I have as above
Bath June 23 1757
Delivered in at the Office 40 minutes after twelve in the momg.
The next is from Mr. Potter. It is undated and runs as
follows : —
Dear Sir,
Your second express being this moment come in, I think it
necessary to answer it in the same manner, to prevent tbe anxiety you
may be under from a longer delay. With difficulty I have prevailed
on Mr. Pitt to accept the invitation sent by the Corporation, and
without the Assistance of Ld. Temple, whom I carried to give weight
to my advice perhaps I shd. have failed in it. But an answer in form
cannot be sent till tomorrow night— because tho' I verily believe that
every publick promotion will be fixed tom,orrow, yet at present it is
not certain that Mr. Henley will vacate his seat till after the Parlmt.
is prorogued, in wh. case it wd. be highly incouvenient for Mr. Pitt
to be out of Parmt. at the beginniug of next Session. But this
promotion being settled, and the Kg. being apprized of it, it is intended
that Ml. Pitt shd. take some office expressly to vacate his seat, wch.
will be the highest complimt. that he can pay the Corporation. But I
find it is absolutely impracticable for him to think of getting down to
the Election on acct. of the arrear of business in the Secretarys office,
not a stroke having been done in it since he quitted in April. But I
shall certainly attend his Election at Bath, and the moment it is ouer
proceed to my own at Oakhampton. Mr. Pitt is highly thankf uU for
your invitation to P. Park wch. he hopes to accept before the Winter.
Sr. Eobt. Heiily has promised to resign the Eecordership when we
chuse he shd., and to keep it till then. He thinks it will be best to
chuse a new Recorder while the Corporation is harmonious. He
mentioned Mr. Pratt as a fit person, but, if you approve it, I have many
