104
reasons wch. induce me to take it myself having had an Education at
the Bar, and being I trust qualified for it.
\r. faithfuU and afFe,
Tho. Potter.
Sunday night near nine o'clock.
I propose returning from Oakhampton to drink the waters, and have
taken the liberty to send to my wife to meet me at Prior Park, and to
stay 'till you go to Weymouth.
The next letter is also from Mr. Potter. It is dated the 28tli
June, 1757, and runs thus : —
Dear Sir,
This is to go in an express Mr. Pitt sends to Bath, in order to
inform you and likewise the Mayor, from whom in the name of Mr.
Langton and his friends he has received a very polite Letter of
Invitation, that matters are at last arranged in such a manner as will
vacate Mr. Pitt's seat for Oakhampton and enable him to be chosen at
Bath. He tells the Mayor that he is determined, if he can obtain his
Majesties leave, and the publick business will permitt, to come down
to Bath at the Election ; but as we know the publick business will not
permitt, it is agreed that I should attend and represent him. We are
all to kiss hands to-morrow, but no new Writs will issue till Tuesday
July 5th, when the Parliamt. meets for that purpose, and in order to
be prorogued.
As I must first attend Mr. Pitts Election at Bath and then go to my
own at Oakhampton, it is necessary for me to precipitate the first and
to procrastinate the last. The writ issuing the 5th of July, may be at
Bath the 7th, and if Mr. Clutterbuck will get the Undersheriff to attend
that day, he may make out immediately his precept to the Mayor, who
may proclaim the Election the evening of the 7th, for Monday the
11th. And I can manage so as to defer that at Oakhampton to the
16th, wch. will give me time to vist. the Electors of Bath, and return
Mr. Pitts thanks befoi-e I set out for Oakhampton. But tho' the
Writ for the new Election may not be at Bath till the 7th, it is rot
necessary that I shd. stay from Prior Park so long. When I shall
flee it, I cannot now fix with certainty, but I know that till I do see it
