110
"but somewhat acrimonious correspondence took place between
Allen and Pitt. The latter absolutely refused to present the
address, and concludes one of his letters with " Give me leave
my dear good sir to desire to convey thro' you to Mr. Mayor and
the gentlemen of the Corporation these, my free sentiments, and
with the justest sense of their past goodness towards me, plainly
to confess, that I perceive I am but ill qualified to form preten-
tions to the future favour of gentlemen, who are come to think
so differently from me on matters of the highest importance to
the national welfare." This was one of the last acts of Ralpk
Allen, who felt acutely his breach with Pitt.
The following letter from Sir John Sebright to Allen, dated
the 10th March^ 1764, is not without interest : —
Dear Sir,
By what I learn from Mrs. Warbnrton, yon have been so kiud
to make frequent enquiries into the state of my health. I shall
therefore take this opportunity of thanking you from my Heart for the-
very friendly concern you have express'd for my welfare, well knowing
the sincerity with which you made those enquiries I am assured it
will be pleasing to you to hear, my Disorder has entirely left me, and
nothing bad remains, but the weakness and tenderness that must be
the consequence of five weeks close confinement with the Gout. I am.
told I am to receive great Benefits from my pass'd suff"erings ; however
that may turn out, we must be contented and happy at least that my
Pains have left me for the present. I set out yesterday where I left
off 5 weeks ago ; and the first time I left my own house, was then to
go down to the House of Commons to hear Mr. Grenvil open the
Budget. He spoke for two hours and a half ; and liis manner of
laying open the State of the Revenues of this Country, and of his
administration of them last year, was able, candid, frank and manly,
and in my opinion did him great Honour. No opposition was made-
in the Committee to any part of what he laid befoi-e it ; on the Report
perhaps, there may be some, but in my opinion the Minority will be
extremely cautious of dividing the House again ; they had rather those:
