THE POSSIBLE SIGNIFICANCE OF CHANGING
ATOMIC VOLUME.
By Theodore William Richards.
Presented May 8, 1901. Received April 16, 1901.
Compressibility is a universal property of matter. It is so essential
an attribute of the experimental universe that it is ascribed even to the
imponderable and imaginary ether as vrell as to " material." The three
states of matter are compressible in very varying degrees, dilute gases
being compressible to a great extent, highly compressed gases and liquids
to a far less extent, and solids to an extent usually even less than liquids.
The first case has been studied in great detail, the last two scarcely at all.
Compressibility is simply an evidence of work done upon a system by
a given pressure. If the application of considerable pressure in a system
causes only a slight change of volume, it is evident that there must be
other powerful influences at work. Clearly a clue as to the variation in
these influences can be found in the quantitative study of the phenomena.
In all reversible cases which may be studied directly, an increase in
pressure is accompanied by an increase of resistance to pressure and a
diminution of volume. This depends upon the fundamental idea of
equilibrium, and is a special case of the general principle sometimes
named after Le Chatelier. Working backwards from this idea, one may
infer with regard to any given substance at a given temperature, that it
is under the influence of great pressure if its volume-change is unusually
small under addition of a given pressure.
There are two conceivable causes of great compression in a substance.
The pressure may be applied from the outside, or it may be due to the
mutual internal attraction or affinity of the smallest particles of the
substance for one another. That is, the substance may be compressed
either by an outside pressure, or by the intensity of its own cohesion.
The first may be typified by highly compressed gases, the second by
liquids, whose small compressibility may be taken as evidence of great
compression.
