MORENO. — ON RULED LOCI IN W-FOLD SPACE. 143
These equations, however, in general have only the point P' counted
a multiple number of times in common. In general, then, in a space
of more than three ways a surface is so twisted that there are no lines
that meet the surface three times at a given point. This proof is easily
extended to a surface in a space of more than four ways.
d. The spreads thai arise by considering the junctions of the
consecutive tangent flats.
Consider now any surface in n-fold space. Draw the 2-fold infinite
system of tangent planes. Pass a four-flat through every two consec-
utive planes and there is a 3-fold infinite system of four-flats, form-
ing in general a seven-spread. Each four-flat is met by the infinity
of consecutive four-flats in the same plane. We may pass six-flats
through every two consecutive four-flats. There is a 4-fold infinite
system of six-flats constituting a ten-spread. This system of ruled loci
in no wise resembles the system of developables we derived from a
curve. Starting with a surface we cannot derive a system of develop-
ables in the same manner as when we start with a curve. The same
is true if we start with any jo-spread where 2 "^ p. Only in case the
p-spread lies in a (p -f l)-flat do consecutive tangent p-flats intersect
generally in {p — l)-flatsj the only exception is in the case the/;-spread
is a curve.
II. Loci derived from an (w — 2)-flat whose Equation
INVOLVES A Single Arbitrary Parameter.
7. Description of the loci.
Let us consider next the system of loci represented by an (n — 2)-
flat whose equations involve a single arbitrary parameter. The parame-
ter may enter rationally or irrationally. If it enters rationally we
n
suppose it to enter to as high a degree as - in each equation. Let the
equations of the flat be
^ = 0, ^ = 0.
In these equations we suppose further that the linear function of the
coordinates that appear as coefficients of the various powers of the param-
eter cannot be expressed in terms of fewer than « -f 1 linear functions
of the coordinates. Eliminate the parameter from these equations and
