162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Apparatus.
In searching for these lines I have employed the rotating metallic arc,*
which enables one to use chemically pure electrodes having little or no
chemical reaction with the gas employed. In this arc, then, one may
expect the gas to give off its characteristic radiations with greater in-
tensity than in one where the gas may enter into chemical compounds
before a temperature is reached at which it becomes luminous. This arc
enables one also to select such metals as do not have strong lines in the
neighborhood of the lines sought for, while in the spectrum of the carbon
arc there are few sjjaces not already occupied by lines of carbon or of an
impurity.
In the rotating arc, one electrode, either a disc or a rod of metal,
rotates upon an axis, making about 700 rotations per minute, while the
other electrode has a slow movement of translation toward the axis of
rotation. The rotation not only prevents the excessive heating and
welding together of the electrodes, but it throws the hot gases to one
side, so that the arc has the appearance of a small fan. The part of the
flame thus separated from the poles is very free from continuous
spectrum.
In the apparatus used in these experiments the arc is enclosed in a
brass box, or " hood," having a volume of about 1^ litres and being com-
paratively gas-tight. The light from the arc issues through a long brass
tube closed with a lens at the outer end ; the lens thus forms part of the
wall of the hood, but is so far removed from the arc that it receives com-
paratively little of the deposit sometimes formed inside the hood, and
hence remains clean.
A stream of gas enters the hood at one stoi^-cock and leaves it at
another ; a third cock is provided for attachment to a manometer. Al-
though the hood is not absolutely gas-tight, the purity of the gas inside
was preserved, in these experiments, partly by the small excess of pres-
sure inside the hood above that outside, and partly by the fresh supply of
pure gas constantly running through the hood. The hydrogen used was
generated electrolytically, and varied in quantity from 10 to 15 litres
per hour.
The spectra have been examined both visually and photographically
by means of a small plane grating spectroscope and by means of a large
concave grating spectroscope.
* Crew and Tatnall, Phil. Mag., 38, 379 (1894).
