BASQUIN. THE ARC SPECTRUM OP HYDROGEN. 163
Obskrvations of Hydrogen Lines.
The arc spectra of the followiug metals in hydrogen have been ex-
amined : Alumiuiura, copper, magnesium, coin-silver, sodium, tin, and
zinc. Witli the exception of sodium the arc of each metal shows to the
eye very clearly the 11^ and H^ lines of hydrogen, and in most of them
the Hy line comes out with the small instrument very clearly, and in-
distinctly with the large one. The Hs line shows only rarely, and then
to the eye rather indistinctly. The Ha line is quite sharp and well de-
fined, unless the electric current through the arc is unusually great ; it
has much the same appearance as the zinc line at 6363. The other three
are always broad, hazy, and ill-defined.
On the photographs taken with the large spectroscope H^ and H^
usually show very plainly, always excepting the spectrum of metallic
sodium, while Hg shows in spectra of tin, silver, and copper. On
photographs taken with the small spectroscope these lines show more
sharply, on account of the very much smaller dispersion, and the photo-
graphs of tin show the next hydrogen line, H^ quite clearly. Not hav-
ing found the hydrogen lines in the metallic sodium arc (using copper as
stationary electrode), I tried it in dry hydrogen also, thinking that in
some way the water vapor might have affected the appearance of the
hydrogen lines, but I have been unable to detect any of the hydrogen
lines in that arc in any way.
None of these lines excepting H^ is sharply defined. A wide space
in the middle of each line has fairly uniform intensity, shading off gradu-
ally and uniformly to each side. The following table gives a rough
estimate of widths, in Angstrom units, of these lines as they appear on
the photographic plates, the middle of the shading being taken as the
edge of the line.
Line.
H„
H^
Hv
Ha
He faint, same general width.
It will be noticed that these lines, with the exception of Ha, are exces-
sively wide, and I think it is for this reason alone that I have been
unable to photograph the still weaker hydrogen lines of Balmer's series.
Maximum width.
Minimum widtti.
Mean width.
6
4
5
65
13
31
44
14
26
32
12
20
