164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
They may appear upon the plates, but are so wide and so faint that they
canuot be detected upon the general shading of the plates.
That these lines are not merely spark lines introduced into these arc
spectra by the supposed spark at the breaking of the current through the
rotating arc is shown, first, by the fact that they were first observed in
the carbon arc, and, second, by the fact that I have seen H^ and H^ quite
clearly in the magnesium metallic arc, when the poles were not rotating.
The lines produced in the stationary arc have much the same character
as in the rotating arc, but there is a large amount of continuous spectrum,
appearing as a background, in the case of the stationary arc, so that it
would be difficult to photograph the hydrogen lines in this way.
These lines in the arc seem to be due to hydrogen, and not to water
vapor coming from the hydrogen generators.* This is shown by the fol-
lowing two experiments : (1) I passed the stream of hydrogen through
concentrated sulphuric acid and phosphorus pentoxide ; and even after the
stream of dry gas had been running through the hood for three hours, I
found the Ha line as bright as it was in the damp hydrogen coming
directly from the generators. (2) In place of the current of dry hydro-
gen, I passed through the hood a stream of air bubbling through warm
water, so that this air was charged with moisture to about the same
degree as the moist hydrogen coming directly from the generators. In
this case I was not able to detect the faintest trace of the H^ line.
Magnesium poles were used in both the above experiments.
Other Methods.
I have examined some of these metals in commercial ammonia gas,
such as is used in refrigeration. In this gas the hydrogen lines come out
with nearly the same intensity as in hydrogen when copper or aluminium
electrodes are used; no hydrogen lines are seen in the sodium arc in
ammonia, although the arc works well, and when tin electrodes are used
in ammonia a black dust collects in the atmosphere about the arc to such
an extent as to shut off practically all the light within thirty seconds after
starting the arc. From the standpoint of convenience and safety, the
ammonia gas is much to be preferred to hydrogen.
The copper arc in coal gas shows the Ha line very clearly, but the
other hydrogen lines are not distinguishable on account of the multitude
of comparatively strong carbon lines which the coal gas furnishes in this
part of the spectrum.
* Trowbridge, Phil. Mag., 50, 338 (1900).
