BASQUIN. — THE ARC SPECTRUM OF HYDROGEN. 165
Following the suggestion of Liveing and Dewar, above referred to, I
have tried the rotating metallic arc in air, playing a very small jet of
water upon the rotating electrode. In this manner the silver arc vv^orks
rather more poorly than usual, and resembles a rapid series of small
explosions. The hydrogen lines come out clearly, but are rather weaker
and more diffuse than in the hydrogen atmosphere.
The copper arc works well in an atmosphere of steam, much better
than in hydrogen. The hydrogen lines are nearly, if not quite, as strong
in steam as in hydrogen. The electrodes of the arc are slightly oxidized
and have very beautiful colors. In making this experiment a slight
alteration was necessary in the hood of the arc. The window through
which the light issues is usually as far away from the arc as possible, but
it was moved for this experiment so as to be as close to the arc as pos-
sible. It was placed at the inner end of a brass tube projecting into the
hood, in order that the heat of the surrounding steam and hot air, as well
as that of the arc itself, might prevent condensation of steam upon the
surface of the window.
CHEMICAL ACTION IN THE ARC IN HYDROGEN.
Historical.
Crew and Basquin * have sought to eliminate the radiations due to
chemical causes in the electric arc by using chemically pure metallic
electrodes and enclosing the arc in an atmosphere of hydrogen or nitro-
gen. They interrupted the current through the arc about 110 times per
second and examined the light of the arc while the current was null.
They found in the rotating metallic arc in air " a luminous cloud " ^qv-
sisting for several thousandths of a second after the current through the
arc had ceased, but they found no such luminous effect in an atmosphere
of hydrogen or nitrogen. This seems to show that the cloud is due to
chemical action going on in the gases after the electric current has
stopped, and that in hydrogen the chemical action is too feeble to be
noticed in this way.
Liveing and Dewarf found a magnesium "line" at 5210, making its
appearance in the arc spectrum only upon the introduction of hydrogen
or coal gas into the arc. Professor Crew % gives a number of lines ap-
pearing in the iron arc in hydrogen and not appearing in the arc in air.
* Proc. Amer. Acad., 33, 18 (1898).
t Proc. Roy. Society, 30, 96 (1880).
X Phil. Mag., 50, 497 (1900).
