6 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
"While in the first part of this paper no atomic hypothesis is assumed,
the words atomic volume, atomic weight, and atomic heat will be used in
a purely matei-ial sense, as the actual constants pertaining to quantities
chemically consistent.
The results recorded in this table are typical of the variety of degrees
of contraction which take jjlace when substances combine with oxygen.
It is evident that in some cases the product occupies considerably more
space than the metal from which it was formed, and that in others
(typified by magnesium and sodium above) the oxide occupies consid-
erably less space than the metal. This last remarkable circumstance
at once emphasizes the absurdity of estimating the atomic volume of an
element in a compound by discovering the volume-change which takes
place when that element is replaced by another. Oxygen cannot be
said to occupy a minus quantity of space, — the only possible outcome
of the false assumption in this particular case. The false method gives
fairly consistent results among carbon compounds only because of the
great similarity of their composition. This consideration leads to the
first law underlying the change of volume in chemical or physical
change, namely. The atomic volume is not a constant, but is dependent
upon the environment. This law was first suggested by Horstmann,*
but he looked upon it rather as the absence of a law than as the
presence of one.
If the affinity of oxygen for the metal were the only variable entering
into the figures given above, it is obvious that the total contraction,
the difference between the volumes of factors and product, would be at
once a comparative measure of the attractive forces which produce the
compression. This reasoning of course rests upon the plausible ground
that a state of being which resists pressure, such as liquid oxygen or
solid metal, may be compressed only by the application of pressure.
In this case pressure may be supposed to be applied by the mutual
affinity. But unfortunately the case is not so simple.
It is clear that in each case recorded above at least three affinities are
concerned : first, the affinity of the metal for itself; second, the
affinity of oxygen for itself ; and third, affinity of the metal for
oxygen. The second of these is constant throughout the series, hence
for the present comparison it may be considered as a known quantity.
Therefore each change of volume may concern at least two unknown
quantities. Hence if it were possible to measure either of the two
* Horstmann, Ostwald's Lehrbuch, I. 389 (1891).
