186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY,
The most easily observed responses of animals are naturally those
which find their expression in locomotion. The number of stimuli which
may influence locomotion are, of course, numerous, but of these a certain
limited number play much the lai'ger part. If we had an accurate
knowledge of the relative weight of these diflferent forces, we might pre-
dict with certainty the path any animal would follow under certain given
conditions. An experimental study of the different stimuli ought at least
to enable us to find out which ones do operate, and perhaps to establish
certain general laws regarding them and the biological tendencies which
impel the animal to respond.
The present paper is a study of the locomotor responses of the slug
Limax maximus to three kinds of stimuli, — those of touch, gravity, and
light. In connection with these studies new problems have constantly
arisen, some of which have been cursorily considered, many others
merely alluded to, so that the work is far from being complete.
The term " geotaxis " has been used to designate the influence of gravity
on locomotion. Interesting and careful studies have been made on the
geotaxis of numerous Protista by Schwarz ('84), Aderhold ('88),
Massart ('91), and Jensen ('93). These investigations clearly show a
geotactic response in the nnicellular organisms studied. The kind of
response varies according to other conditions, such as those of light, heat,
density of medium, chemical influences, etc., and may also differ in indi-
viduals of the same genus under apparently like conditions. Massart
('91, pp. 161-162) found that, when a number of Spirilla were put into
a vertical tube, one group collected in the upper part and another at the
lower part. He also found (p. 164) that Chromulina woroniniana was
negatively geotactic — that is, moved upward, or in a direction opposite to
that of the pull of gravity — at 15° to 20° C, but positively geotactic at
5° to 7° C. Jensen's work also showed the important influence of other
agents in modifying geotaxis. Loeb ('88, pp. 7-8) found that cock-
roaches preferred the steepest side of a box whose four sides were inclined
at different angles ; that is, they are negatively geotactic. He also dis-
covered that a number of other Metazoa were geotactic.
In a certain way, the present paper is a continuation of a recent study
made by Dr. C. B. Davenport and Miss Helen Perkins on geotaxis in
the slug. Davenport and Perkins ('97, p. 105) discovered that the
intensity of the animal's geotactic response was directly proportional to
the sine of the angle of deviation from the vertical, and hence *' varied
directly as the active component of gravity." In the third section of
their paper, the question, " What determines whether the head end of
