FRANDSEN. — REACTIONS OP LIMAX MAXIMUS. 187
the slug shall be directed up or down ? " was raised and considered. The
results showed that certain individuals appeared to have a fairly marked
positive geotaxis, for, when placed on an inclined glass plate, such
animals swung the head-pole of the axis toward the earth ; but others
showed as strongly marked a tendency to move away from the earth, and
a few seemed indifferent as to whether they went up or down. Their
experiments showed further that there was, apparently, no inherent
tendency in individual animals to move either to the right or to the left,
so that the difference in geotactic response could not be explained as due
to differences of an inherent tendency of this kind. The effect of a slight
initial impulse given to the head of the animal indicated that the thigmo-
tactic, or contact, stimulus imparted to the animal in handling might, to
some extent, modify its response to the stimulus of gravity. But
Davenport and Perkins did not reach any definite, satisfactory answer to
the main question.
It was to test their observations by a larger number of experiments,
and, if confirmed, to explain them by further experimentation, that the
present investigation was undertaken. In the first place, I wished to
find out whether certain individuals, if put on an inclined glass plate,
always responded to the pull of gravity by directing the head end up and
moving away from the earth, and whether certain other individuals
always did the contrary. If this proved to be true, then it was my main
problem to seek the reason for it. Is the force which makes some slugs
go up, others down, and still others indifferent to the attraction of gravity,
a purely accidental one, — is it a physical force, or is it what we may call
a psychical peculiarity, which varies in different individuals and in the same
individual at different times ? As a preliminary to the main problem,
I first made a series of experiments on the animal's thigraotaxis, — its
response to contact- and pressure-stimuli. By virtue of its thigmotaxis, an
animal moves either toward or away from the agent which comes in
contact with it, just as its geotaxis is expressed in a movement toward or
away from the earth, in response to the attraction of gravity.
I. Thigmotaxis.
Material and Methods. — The animal used in all the following experi-
ments was Limax maximus, which is fairly abundant in the greenhouses
about Cambridse. Material was obtained from several different green-
houses and kept in a large closed tin box, the bottom of which was
covered with moss kept moist, so as to afford an environment as much like
the customary one as possible. Fresh cabbage leaves constituted the
