FRANDSEN. — REACTIONS OF LIMAX MAXIMUS. 191
questions will appear as these questions are considered. As the same
number of experiments were not made on each animal studied, I have,
for the sake of comparison, estimated in each case the geotaxis in per
cents. This percentage is obtained by dividing the number of positive
or negative responses by the total number of reisponses. The nearer the
geotaxis percentage approaches 100 the more precise has been the kind
of response. No fixed time was allowed to elapse between successive
tests, but in'each test the observation was made at an interval of from 30
to 60 seconds after covering the box.
Operations and Results. — The first question investigated was whether
particular animals exhibited a decisive positive or negative geotaxis. A
number of tests were, therefore, made on each of several selected indi-
viduals. The results obtained were like those of Davenport and Perkins
('97, p. 108) ; that is, certain animals showed a very marked positive geo-
taxis ; others, an equally decided negative tendency ; and a few, perhaps
one animal out of 12 or 15 where 10 or more tests were made, were
apparently geotactically indifferent. The occasional irregularities in the
responses of individual animals were easily seen to be due to influences
other than pure gravity, such as jarrings of the plate, influence of contact
in putting the animal on the plate, and to the influence of light admitted
in lifting the cover of the box. Frequently, upon the raising of the
cloth to make an observation, the animal would retract its tentacles, as
if dazzled by the sudden inflow of light, and at the next observation
it would be seen to have altered its response.
Naturally, this question next arose, Is the response the same on
different days? In Table IV. (p. 195) are given the results with a num-
ber of animals experimented on to test this point. These are numbers
2, 7, 8, 22-25, 27. Number 2 was positively geotactic on two days
and negative on another day. A similar variation is seen in the case
of slugs 7 and 22. In the case of all the rest, however, there is a very
marked constancy. The ninth (last) column in the table indicates the
condition of the animals at the time of experimentation. We see from
this that on the days of difi^erent response, the animals were in somewhat
unlike conditions, which may account for the irregularity of response.
The significance of this will be dealt with later. The important matter
here is, that the animals, when in the same condition and under the
same circumstances, have a fairly constant geotaxis from day to day.
One of the most marked cases is that of number 24. This animal was
experimented on at different times for a period of three weeks. During
this period, it was always active and in good condition, and, as the
