FRANDSEN. — REACTIONS OP LIMAX MAXIMUS. 193
be explained only by some marked difference between the individual
animals. The first thought is that differences in response are due to a
difference in size, and the facts seem to give some support to that ex-
planation. Most of the positively geotactic individuals were found
among the small and medium-sized animals, and nearly all the negative
animals were of large size. ^Moreover, the few indifferent individuals
were of medium size. This, however, was not an invariable rule.
Small animals were sometimes negatively geotactic and, occasionally, a
larjre slug would migrate earthward.
A second, clearly important, factor is the condition of the animal's
mucus. As shown by the preceding experiments, animals, positively
geotactic when normal, became negatively geotactic when lacking in
an abundance of sticky slime ; e. g. animal 2, Table III., and animals 2
and 7, Table IV. On the other hand, in one instance (22 b), a nega-
tive animal, when extremely sticky, went downwards. Abundant, sticky
mucus is evidently connected with a downward migration, and dryness
seems to force the animal to take an upward direction. But these facts
are not enough to explain all responses. For sometimes two animals
of nearly the same size and in equally good condition gave different
geotactic responses. We must look for other differences. It will,
however, be necessary first to refer briefly to the form and external
appearance of the slug.
~-ta.v.
Figure 1.
Outline of Limax maxiinus. mtl. a., anterior edge of mantle ; mtl. p., posterior
edge of mantle; a. to mtl. p., anterior region of body ; 7iitl. p. to p., posterior region ;
oc, eye ; ta. d., dorsal tentacle ; ta. v., ventral tentacle ; of. puL, pulmonary orifice.
The slug, if we except the respiratory opening on the right side of
the body, is externally bilaterally symmetrical. It has no external
shell. There are two pairs of tentacles, — a dorsal pair bearing the
eyes and a smaller ventral pair. The mantle extends from the neck,
ventrally, to near the edge of the foot. Posteriorly, it forms a prominent
fold, as indicated in the figure, which may be used to separate the body
into an anterior and a posterior region. Observations of the animal
VOL. XXXVII. — 13
