194 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
reveal that it has very different degrees of control over these two
regions of the body. In locomotion, the head end of the body, back
as far as the respiratory opening, is freely swung about from side to
side and determities the axis of orientation of the animal. Over the
posterior region, the animal seems ordinarily to have very imperfect
control. The relation between the two regions is crudely that of a
span of horses to a chain of wagons which they are pulling. When the
horses change direction, the wagons come only slowly around into posi-
tion one after the other, and there is likely to be some slipping in the
process, especially if it takes place on a down grade. In watching the
slug, I saw that the adhesion of the anterior region appeared consider-
ably greater than that of the posterior. When the animal gets dry, it
does so first at the posterior region. The tip of the tail is the part first
to lose its clinging power, and it may curl up dorsally as a result of the
drying process. If an animal which is thus beginning to deteriorate in
its supply of mucus be put on a glass plate and the plate raised into a
vertical position, the slug will move along and desperately cling to the
plate with the anterior part of its body. The posterior region will
gradually swing downward as a result of the pull of gravity, and, in
consequence, the animal's head will eventually be directed upward.
From this, we are justified in concluding that the same principle will
operate, although to a considerably less degree, in the animal's normal
condition. A hasty examination showed that there was a good deal of
variation in the proportions of the two regions in different individuals.
As a crude and easy way of estimating these proportions, I measured
the length in millimeters of the anterior region from the tip of the head
to the jjosterior fold of the mantle, and similarly the length of the pos-
terior region from that fold to the tip of the tail.*
The results from 27 animals thus measured are given in Table IV.
The individuals (Table IV.) are arranged in a series, beginning with
those in which the two regions are most nearly of the same length
and ending with those in which the disproportion is greatest. In animal
No. 1, the length of the anterior region is 83.3 per cent (column 8) of
the posterior ; that is, the ratio is almost one to one. In No. 25, the
anterior region is only 45 per cent as long as the posterior, or less than
half its length.
The fifth column in the table gives the geotaxis of individuals in per
* The measurements were made when the animal was extended and moving
aoross the plate. The amount of elongation varies a good deal, but the regions
retain pretty closely their relative proportions.
