RICHARDS. — SIGNIFICANCE OP CHANGING ATOMIC VOLUME. 7
vai'iable affinities, au approximate idea could be obtained concerning
the other from these data concei'ning atomic and molecular volume.
A slight uncertainty is caused also by the possible varying intensity
of the '• crystal-making tendency " which determines the structure of
solids. The small differences caused by this uncertainty may be seen
from the following typical calculation. If solid rather than liquid
mercury had been chosen above, the atomic volume of the mercury
would have become = 14.2 instead of 14.7, and the excess of
14.1
volume of the oxide would have been 5.2 instead of 4.7. These
differences are unimportant compared with the larger values under
consideration ; the precise state of the solids or liquids makes less
difference than one would have supposed.
Is there any direct method of determining either the mutual affinity of
the two elements or the affinity of the metal for itself?
Countless attempts to measure the former have so continually resulted
in failure that many chemists are inclined to deny the existence of
chemical affinity. The electrometric method suggested by Ostwald *
clearly measures one of the ways in which chemical affinity may accom-
plish work, but it is limited in application and only represents a small
fraction of the possibilities. The thermal relations are complicated by
well-known thermodynamic irregularities, and would be fully significant
only at the imaginary absolute zero.
The direct determination of the affinity of a substance for itself is an
easier matter, for many of the properties of a single substance, such as
volume, compressibility, tenacity, must be associated with this affinity.
Let us seek to study these relationships more closely.
If one could only be sure that all substances, when relieved of their
self-affinity, would occupy the same volume, the atomic volume itself
would be the simplest and most direct means of comparing this property
in different substances. The smaller the actual atomic volume, the
greater must be the self-affinity. Such an assumption would at first
sight seem to be justified, for those elements which have the largest
atomic volumes have the least inclination to remain in the elementary
states. Deserting the elementary state means introducing other affini-
ties, however ; hence the assumption would be unsafe.
It has been already pointed out that compressibility, if measured over
a wide range of pressures, might afford a clue to the extent of compres-
* Ostwald, Tlie Chemometer, Z. phys. Chem. 15, 399 (1894).
