196 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
cents. The table includes those animals which were fairly active in
response but does not give individuals obviously unable to respond
because of a lack of slime secretion. The positively geotactic animals,
with two exceptions, are all found in the upper half of the table and
almost all the negative animals in the lower half. Supposing other
conditions the same, we can say that those animals in which the ratio
of anterior to posterior regions is as 2 : 3, or greater, will be positively
geotactic. Those between the ratios of 2 : 3 and 3 : 5 will be more
uncertain in their geotaxis, which will depend largely on the combina-
tion of other conditions. Finally, those in which the ratio is less than
3 : 5 will almost invariably be negatively geotactic. The nearer one
gets to the extremes, the greater the accuracy of prediction. This pre-
diction, it is understood, applies only to animals tested on the glass plate.
An examination of the ninth column shows that the few cases of nega-
tive geotaxis occurring in the positive half of the table are probably due
to a deficiency in the second most important factor affecting the geotaxis ;
namely, the condition of the slime secretion of the animal. This
secretion may be deficient either (1) in quantity, as in the case of slug
2 b ; or (2) in quality, as was the case with slug 10. Of the two cases
of positive geotaxis occurring in the negative half of the table, the first,
that of slug 18, is easily explained as due to an extraordinary tenacity
of the mucus. Moreover in this, and more markedly in the case of
slug 22 b, the slugs were very large and rather slow in their movements.
Slug 22 b, instead of moving ahead actively, like most slugs when in
good condition, often swung its head toward the earth without any fore-
ward movement, and hence did not give the pull of gravity the most
favorable opportunity to work on the posterior region of its body. This
connects itself with a general observation on all the animals. When
active, they are usually very precise and uniform in their responses.
If stupid, slow, and averse to movement, — a condition in which the
best of them sometimes get, — they will either obstinately refuse to
move, or else, keeping the posterior region firmly fixed, will swing the
head end toward the earth. Sometimes such a slug will slowly move
in a circle, first down then up, and finally curl itself up, like a dog by
the fireplace, and apparently go to sleep. This peculiarity may be
connected with the food conditions of the animals, as will be shown in
a set of experiments to be given later on.
The two most important factors in determining the geotaxis of indi-
vidual slugs are, therefore : first, the proportion of the anterior (mantle-
covered) and posterior (uncovered) regions of the body ; secondly, the
