FRANDSEN. — REACTIONS OF LIMAX MAXIMUS. 197
character of the slime secretion of the animal. If accurate measure-
ments were made of the two regions of the body, we might obtain ex-
actly the relative weights of these two factors. By means of a spring
balance, the effectiveness of the mucus in counteracting gravity could be
ascertained with a fair degree of accuracy. A large number of such
observations in connection with geotactic tests might, finally, enable us
to state precisely what combination of the two factors — weight of
regions and strength of mucus — would be necessary to make an
animal positively or negatively geotactic. I have made no such calcu-
lations, and it would perhaps not be worth the trouble. The suggestion
is instructive, however, as indicating the possibilities of predicting, with
a certain degree of exactness, a phenomenon which seems at first sight
to be entirely haphazard. Perhaps perfect mathematical exactness
would, however, never be possible in this case, for, as I shall show a
little later, other factors of importance probably enter in to modify
the results. However, these too are not out of the reach of precise
definition.
Certain slugs are negatively geotactic because gravity pulls the pos-
terior region of the body down faster than it does the anterior region.
Since in all slugs the posterior region somewhat exceeds in length the
anterior, we should expect all animals to respond in the same way, pro-
vided gravity acted in only a mechanical way. But about the same
number of slugs go down as go up. Therefore, there must be some
other factor, such as an inherent tendency, impelling these positive
slugs to seek the earth. But if so, is it not probable that all slugs
have this inherent tendency to move towards the earth, the tendency
being obscured in the negative slug by the superior force of the me-
chanical difficulties to be overcome ? The fact that positive slugs,
when deficient in means of resisting the pull of gravity, — that is, when
dry, — assume a negative geotaxis, shows that the inherent tendency is
sometimes obscured. If this hypothesis is true, then we ought to be
able, by diminishing the force of gravity, or better, by increasing the
animal's powers of resisting the disproportionate pull on the posterior
region, to make the negative animals become positive. Similarly, if
this mechanical difficulty of adhesion is the cause of negative geotaxis,
we ought, by increasing it, to be able to compel positive animals to be-
come negative. The first end may be attained by substituting for the
glass plate a wooden one, which will presumably offer the animal a
better chance of adhesion. The second end may be reached by substi-
tuting for the glass plate one which has been coated with vaseline or
