FRANDSEN. — REACTIONS OF LIMAX MAXIMUS. 201
uals. The geotaxis of each animal was tested on three different sur-
faces, — the glass plate, a circular wooden plate, and a glass plate coated
with vaseline. Care was taken to have other conditions as nearly as possi-
ble the same. Circular plates were employed so that the animal could be
rotated into a horizontal position without beiug touched by the hand. In
several cases a series was made on an animal using the glass surface ;
the animal was then transferred to a wooden plate and the same number
of trials made ; the same individual was then put back on the glass plate
and as many more tests were made ; finally, it was returned to the wooden
plate and an equal number of observations made. The same thing was
tried alternating between glass and vaselined surfaces.
The second column shows what per cent of the length of the posterior
region of the animal's body its anterior region is, as previously defined.
A comparison of the columns " % Geotaxis " under the different con-
ditions at 'once shows, in nearly every case, a marked difference in the
geotactic response with the three kinds of surfaces. The same number
of trials was not always made on a given animal under the different con-
ditions, so that the comparisons are not always on exactly the same basis.
The results, however, prove pretty conclusively that all animals have an
inherent tendency to move- toward the earth. On the glass plate, the
animals moving upward and downward are about equal in number, the
rea-^ons for which we have already given. On the wooden plate, which
affords the best of the three surfaces for adhesion, all the animals have
become positive. A vaselined surface offers still greater difficulties to
positively geotactic responses ; it compels the positively geotactic animals
to become negative (Nos. 2,5, 8, 10). Some animals are utterly unable
to adjust themselves to this extraordinary condition, especially if not en-
dowed with the power of secreting excellent mucus. These animals either
vainly cling with the anterior end of the body to the plate, while the poste-
rior region slips downward, thus directing the animal up, or they roll off the
plate altogether as soon as it is placed in an inclined position. For this
reason some of the animals negatively geotactic on the glass plate gave
no geotactic response when they were placed on the vaselined surface.
These facts, then, conclusively answer in the affirmative our second ques-
tion. All slugs have a tendency to move toward the earth.
Now the question naturally comes up, Can we not assist this tendency
in those animals which are negatively geotactic on a glass surface by
bringing some other stimulus — light, for example — to bear upon them ?
This slug is negatively phototactic to strong light, as the third part of
this investigation will show. By exposing the animals to sti'ong light, can
