206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
III. Phototaxis.
The influence of light on the direction of locomotion has heen very
generally noticed among organisms, even the mostly widely separated.
The swarm spores of many algae, desmids, and other lowly organized
plants, are as truly responsive to light stimuli as are crustaceans or verte-
brates. According to the character and direction of the stimulating
light rays, two kinds of light responses have been distinguished. Photo-
taxis is the response with reference to the direction of the rays of light.
The organism moves in the path of the ray, either positively (toward)
or negatively (away from it). The response to different intensities of light
from which the directive force of the rays has been eliminated is known
as photopathy. A photopathic animal is one that selects, out of a series
of uniformly increasing intensities of light, a limited field of a certain
intensity.
Some animals, like butterflies and fresh-water Entomostraca, are
strikingly positively phototactic to diffuse daylight ; others, such as the
earthworm and the leech, are as pronouncedly negative. The kind of re-
sponse (positive or negative) may be different in closely allied forms and
in different stages of development of the same species. For example,
butterflies are attracted by strong sunlight, while moths are repelled
by it. The adult house fly is positively phototactic to daylight ; its
larva, negatively (Loeb, '90, pp. 69-77, 81-83).
The phototactic sense has been shown in some forms to change with
different intensities of light. Thus, Famintzin ('67) found that swarm
spores positively phototactic to a certain intensity of light became
negative to a light of greater intensity. The same phenomenon has
been found true of various flagellates, desmids, diatoms, oscillariae, etc.
Wilson ('91, p. 414) found that Hydra fusca was attracted by diffuse
daylight and repelled by strong sunlight. Finally, the moth's liking-
for candlelight and aversion to daylight is well known. The fact
that many organisms are photopathic — that is, have a preference
for light of a certain intensity — makes it probable, in connection with
these observed variations in phototactic responses, that, for most organ-
isms, there is an optimum intensity to which they will respond posi-
tively. This optimum will vary widely in different species, probably
according to the habits and the usual environment of the species. In-
habitants of sunny pools or the open air will have an optimum of rela-
tively high intensity ; those which dwell in the ground or in shady places
