8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMEKICAN ACADEMY.
sion already existing in any given substance. But the comparison of
different substances involves the dangerous assumption that all substances
would be alike compressible if freed from self-affinity, — an assumption
which seems more probable than the last, but which nevertheless must
be rejected. A much safer measure of the stress under which a single
substance rests is the work which heat is able to do upon it. The
changing of a simple substance from t° to t° + dt° Centigrade must
involve the addition to it of an amount of internal work which is
represented by the rise of temperature multiplied by the heat capacity
of the substance, or C dt. In a simple elementary substance, when this
work does not involve the alteration of crystalline form or any other
apparent change except increase in size, it seems reasonable to consider
no other variables, at least as a working hypothesis. If this is the case,
we may write G dt — P dv, in which P is the internal stress against
which the heat-energy is doing work, G the molecular lieat capacity, t
temperature, and v volume. The stress against which this work is
being done is due only to the internal stress and to atmospheric pressure
(which latter may be neglected by comparison with the very large value
G dt
of the former), hence the stress — P =— — This can apply precisely
only to infinitesimal changes, because in all probability P will vary with
the volume. While it cannot be claimed that the expression just given
certainly expresses a single pressure pitted against temperature-work, the
expression certainly represents a resultant tendency which opposes
expansion by heat, and therefore, by infereuoe, opposes all other forms of
expansion.* It is the inward tendency, the opposite to the driving
tendency t or fugacity.t
While then this stress, represented by the quotient of energy divided
by change of volume, can hardly represent anything very definite, it
must nevertheless be supposed in a general way to increase when the
self-affinity increases. Hence, while giving no certain knowledge, its
study may give an indication of affinity.
A typical comparison may be made of the two elements zinc and
mercury. They are simple, similar, and yet widely different as to their
power of holding oxygen. In each case the atomic contraction on union
with oxygen is about the same. If we take as the atomic volume of
* All the slight data which we possess upon compressibility seem to run
parallel with the coefficients of expansion.
1- Richards, These Proceedings, 35, 471.
J Lewis.
