208 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
of response vary correlatively with the intensity ? (3) Within what
limits of intensity is the animal responsive ? (4) Does the kind of
response vary at different intensities ? (5) Is there a difference in the
sensitiveness to light of the two sides of the animal's body ? (6) In what
part, or parts, of the animal's body does the sensitiveness reside? (7)
How does the animal move when in the dark and deprived of all stimu-
lating influences ? These various problems came up gradually as the
work progressed and were considered in turn. Other interesting studies
have suggested themselves in the course of the investigation, but there
has not been time to go much beyond a consideration of the questions
above proposed. The experiments performed were all phototactic ; that
is, they were studies of the response of the slug to the direct rays of
light.
MetJwds. — The methods used were simple. For light, the standard
candle and the ordinary small Christmas candle, of a one fourth candle
power, were employed. The candle was placed in a box 50 cm. (20
inches) high and having a bottom 12.5 cm. (5 inches) wide and 20 cm.
(8 inches) long. It could be raised or lowered to any desired position by
means of an adjustable stage inside the box. A circular opening in the
middle of one of the broad sides of the box 2 cm. (f inches) in diameter
permitted the light to pass out. This opening was covered by a piece of
oiled paper, so as to give a well-defined uniform source of light. During
the experiment the box was closed by a lid. The intensity of the light
was varied by altering the distance between the box and the animal.
Additional thicknesses of paraffined paper were also employed when it
was desired to greatly diminish the intensity of the light. The animal
was put on a circular glass plate which rested horizontally on a support,
and the box was raised so that the centre of the light opening was in the
same horizontal plane as the body of the animal. The movement of the
slug from its original position was measured in degrees in the following
manner. A circle of the same size as the glass plate was described on a
sheet of thin paper and divided by radii into 72 sectoi's of 5° each. This
sheet was pasted to the under side of a second circular glass plate (of the
same size as the first), on which also a heavy base line was drawn, corre-
sponding with a diameter of the circle. This second plate was so placed that
the centre of the source of light was on a line perpendicular to the base
line at its middle point. The slug was put on the first glass plate, which
could be rotated so as to bring the animal into any desired position with
reference to the base line. The experiments were carried on in a dark
room provided at one end with a hinged window which could be easily
