212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
lating light rays. Here, then, arises another problem, similar to the
one treated of in the first part of this paper, viz., What determines
whether a particular slug shall be positively or negatively phototactic ?
In the first series of experiments — in fact throughout this whole set —
the animals used were about equally divided between large, small, and
medium-sized individuals. The two positive animals in series 1 were both
of large size. They were very active. The only peculiarity wherein
they seemed to differ from other individuals was in the unusually
sticky character of the slime. Whether there is any correlation between
this fact and the liking for strong light, I am not prepared to say. It
is possible — and certain observations seem to indicate that it is highly
probable — that the food conditions of the animals have some influence
on their responses to light, as they were shown to have on their responses
to gravity. The psychic state of the animal is also to some extent, I
think, a factor. Freshly caught slugs when put on a glass jilate some-
times acted as if in great fear. They displayed unusual activity and
were very erratic in their movements. If forcibly checked or held,
they made strenuous efPorts to escape. The great activity of the posi-
tive individuals indicates a possible state of fear. One animal in par-
ticular seemed highly abnormal. Several times it moved directly toward
the circular field of light and even placed its tentacles against the oiled
paper which covered the opening. This was the only individual in the
whole course of the experiments which exhibited a response like that of
moths. No definite set of experiments was planned or carried out in
regard to this matter.
As we run down column 5, we see that the average arithmetical
response varies quite strikingly at the different intensities. The first
seven series show a gradual decrease in the average response as the
strength of the light is diminished. Although not so regular, there is
also a gradual decrease in the degree of negative response on the part
of these seven groups of animals, as shown by the average algebraic sums
of their responses (column 6).
Owing to the constant dying off and deterioration of the stock, it was
found impossible to use the same set of animals in all the different series
of experiments. Moreover, this was not desirable, for the reason that
an animal which is constantly experimented on gradually loses its sensi-
tiveness, and thus its responses become untrustworthy. Not knowing
the factors which determine the kind of phototaxis, it was of course
impossible to make a uniform selection in this respect. We see, how-
ever, that the number of negative animals (column 8) is less at the
