FRANDSEN. — REACTIONS OF UMAX MAXIMUS. 215
diminishes in strength. Then there is a gradual increase in positive
reaction, which reaches its height in a response of +22.°3 at a .000,022
C. P., and then falls toward the zero line as we approach darkness.
There is some irregularity in the negative region, but on the whole the
rise is gradual. In the region of positive response, there is a consider-
able lack of regularity, especially marked by the interpolation of one
series (12) of very low response between the two series of greatest
response. These series intermediate between Nos. 11 and 16 represent
later experiments than the two series bearing those numbers. Having
obtained such a marked positive response at two widely separated in-
tensities of light, it was thought desirable to get other intermediate
series. Hence, the order of the series as arranged in the table, on the
basis of gradually diminishing light intensities, does not, as already stated,
represent tlie order in which the series were obtained in my experiments.
While the slugs, thus far, had, on the whole, been in good active condi-
tion, they were not so in these intermediate series. Although a fresh
supply was obtained, all the animals seemed much more stupid and
irresponsive than usual. Some of them refused to move, when put on
a plate, and many of those that did, responded in a very half-hearted
way. The cause of this unusual lack of activity, I could not discover.
It may be that a slight change in the food of the animals, which I made
at this time, was partly responsible. At any rate, instead of obtaining
responses intermediate in amount between those of series 11 and 16 as
might have been expected, the results were as have been given. Series
12 was the last one taken. In this, the animals wei'e noticeably more
stupid and irresponsive than in any of the preceding experiments. It is
very evident from these results, I think, that the precision of response
will vary to some slight extent from day to day. The negative responses —
those to strong intensities of light — will not be as variable at different
times as the positive responses — those to weaker stimuli — as the curve
shows. The varying thermal conditions of the room, already mentioned,
may have been in part a cause of this irregularity. Furthermore, an
animal that has had plenty of food is likely to be stupid and slow in
movement and is more apt than a hungry one to seek darkness and
concealment. On the other hand, a hungry, active slug will probably ex-
hibit positive phototaxis in a most marked and sometimes abnormal degree,
as was the case occasionally with the positive animals at the strongest
li^-ht intensities. Besides this individual variation, there is, I think, a
general variation for all slugs from time to time, for reasons imperfectly
knowUj which will find its expression in curves of different heights.
