216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Thus the less responsive animals of the intermediate but later series
mentioned fall into a less prominent curve, as is indicated by the shorter
dotted line in the diagram. The curve of positive response approaches,
but never actually reaches, the zero line. Even in darkness there is a
slight positive migration. This series (No. 18a) represents the average
of two series of experiments, one of 54 and the other of 66 deter-
minations, each taken at different times during the investigation. This
slight positive response — speaking of it as positive with reference to the
position of the source of light in the preceding series (17) — may be inde-
pendent of conditions of light and due to several causes. As mentioned
before, the thermal conditions of the room were not uniform, conse-
quently the positive response may have been a response to heat. The
movement was away from the window and hence might be ex-
plained as a negative response to the repeated inflowing of daylight,
when the window was thrown open to make observations. In the last
few experiments an opaque screen was put up between the animal and
the window. In these cases the average of the responses was slightly
negative, so there is some reason to suppose that it was in part the posi-
tion of the window in the previous experiment that determined the slight
positive migration. The actual phototactic responses to the candle light
in the positive half of Table X. would then be the observed responses
minus this small positive movement in the dark. The actual negative
responses to the strong intensities would be the observed responses plus
this increment. In series 18b the box was placed at a distance of
30 cm. (C. P. 0.676) with the light burning, but the opening was cov-
ered with a piece of black paper to shut out the influence of the light
while leaving that of heat. The small average response of —3.0 may
possibly be regarded as a thermotactic one, and, if so, will have to be
deducted from the negatively phototactic response to this intensity of
light. For intensities less than the 0.676 C. P., the response to the heat
would be correspondingly less.
We can now answer the second and fourth questions (pp. 207-208) by
saying, — that the precision of the phototactic response does, on the
whole, vary correlatively with the intensity of the light, and that the kind
of phototaxis (positive or negative) is not the same for different intensi-
ties of light. The slug gives a negative phototactic response to strong
light, a positive one to weak intensities, and is neutral to an intensity
somewhere between the extremes.
A few individuals were tested successively at different light intensities
in order to find out with what precision an individual's phototaxis might
vary with a change of intensity.
