RICHARDS. — SIGNIFICANCE OF CHANGING ATOMIC VOLUME. 11
Thus the contraction of the oxygen is really less in the case of
mercuric oxide, although it appears to be the same.
Without going further, one can explain by means of these considera-
tions the behavior of zincic and mercuric oxides when subjected to high
temperatures. The sixteen grams of oxygen in mercuric oxide occupies
a larger space than an equal weight in the case of zinc, hence one
infers that it is less compressed by its affinity, hence the affinity must be
less. This smaller affinity siiould be more easily overcome by rising
temperature, a prediction which agrees with facts, TJius there appears
to he in this case a connection between the compression of substances
and their tendency to combine one with another.
The case under consideration is typical. In the case of sodium and
magnesium, the affinity of the metal for oxygen is so enormous as to
overcome easily the large affinity of the metal for itself, and besides this
to compress both metal and oxygen together into a space smaller than
that previously occupied by the metal. This fact corresponds with the
great difficulty of decomposing sodic and magnesic oxides. Metallic
magnesium probably has as energy-quotient a stress more than four times
as great as sodium (see table on p. 10) ; hence the total contraction on
combination with oxygen is less than in the case of sodium. Compari-
son with the cases of mercury and zinc will show that this small con-
traction does not necessarily conflict with the fact that magnesium
decomposes sodic oxide at high temperatures. Again, the contraction
involved in the formation of argentic oxide is very slight. In this case
the large volume of oxygen is not concealed by the contraction of the
metallic element, as it was in the case of mercury, for silver is not par-
ticularly compressible. Hence one can infer that the affinity of silver for
oxygen is smaller than that of magnesium for oxygen, — an inference
which agrees with fact. Moreover, since the relation is nearly additive,
that is, neither silver nor oxygen change much in volume on com-
bination, their combination is easily shifted, that is to say, silver oxide
is easily decomposed by heat.
Of course many tables comparing the molecular volumes of solids and
liquids might be drawn up, since a very great number of specific gravi-
ties have been determined. A table containing chlorides of the metals
already considered may be of interest.
Here the variations in contraction are less than they were before.
Chlorine evidently possesses more equally distributed affinities than
oxygen does, and apparently somewhat weaker ones. The two most
interesting features of this table, which may be seen without the elimi-
