222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
the right, for, if this were so, we should expect an average positive
response of the right side as much greater than that of the left side, as the
average negative response of the left is greater than that of the right side,
for both these would mean a greater movement to the right. These
facts curiously suggest that the right and left sides are attuned to slightly
different intensities of light. Is this possibly due to ancestral habits of
life in which environment, acting unequally on the two sides, produced
this difference ?
The results obtained for the right and left sides from the experiments
in darkness (series 18a) are rather puzzling. If the responses are due
to some uncontrolled directive stimuli of the kind already suggested, it
would seem that the two sides had given opposite responses. As these
experiments represent two series taken at different periods, it is the
more surprising that they should both show this peculiarity. Again, in
the responses to weak candle heat (series 186) the left seems to have
been positively, and the right side negatively affected. So far as is known,
there was no unequal operation of stimuli on the two sides.
Related to this matter is the question, — Is there any tendency on the
part of all slugs to move either to the right or to the left? Individuals
were noticed which seemed to have a marked tendency to continue
moving toward the right, and there were others which seemed to be as
strongly biassed toward the left. Not many seemed entirely indifferent.
The total movement of all the slugs in the region of negative response
(series 1-8, Table XV.) toward the right side was 8786° (col. 9), and to
the left 6471° (col 10). In the positive region (series 8-18, Table XV.),
the total migration toward the right side was 8540° (col. 9), and to-
ward the left 8568° (col. 10). Thus, there seems to have been con-
siderably less migration toward the left in the range of negative
responses, but only a slightly greater movement toward the left in
the region of positive response. In all the 17 series, there was a mi-
gration towards the right of 17,326°, and towards the left of 15,039°,
That is, there appears on the whole to have been a slightly greater
average movement for all slugs toward the right than there has been
toward the left. What do we find to be the case with the animals experi-
mented on in the dark? Out of the 120 determinations made on 20
animals in the dark (series 18«), the amount of right-hand movement
was 2270° and the left-hand movement only 460°. That is, there was
nearly five times more migration toward the right than there was toward
the left. In series I8b, however, there seems to have been a marked pre-
ponderance of movement toward the left. From the foregoing exjieri-
