FRANDSEN. — REACTIONS OF LIMAX MAXIMUS. 223
ment?, it seems pretty clear that there is a difference in the sensitiveness
of the right and left sides. There is also some indication of a slightly
greater average tendency to move to the right. But a further study of
the undirected movements of slugs in the dark is needed.
Studies have been made by several observers on the undirected move-
ments of a number of different animals, chiefly ants and other insects.
In all animals experimented on, there appears to be a tendency to travel
in loops or constantly widening spirals. Man, when he loses his way,
travels in a circle. Some interesting observations have been made by
George and Elizabeth Peckham ('98, pp. 211-219) on the sense of
direction in the solitary wasps. When the wasp starts out from its nest,
it flies quite around it and gradually circles farther and farther away in a
constantly enlarging spiral, sometimes recrossing its path a number of
times. The authors' observations show that this action is to enable the
wasp to familiarize itself with its surroundings, so that it can find its way
home when it so desires. The similar phenomenon observed in other
insects, such as ants, is, no doubt, for the same purpose. Davenport
('97, pp. 278-279) in his experiments on Amoebae found that, when
their movement was undirected by any external stimulus, they tended to
travel in curious spiral loops. Pouchet ('72, pp. 227-228) made obser-
vations on the movement of larvae of Musca (Lucilia) caesar in the dark.
There is a striking contrast between the paths given by him of the un-
directed movements and those made in response to the stimulus of light.
The tendency to travel in a gradually widening spiral has also been
observed by the writer in young frog and toad larvae — before the develop-
ment of mouth and eyes — when they are dislodged from the support to
which they are clinging.
Most of the following experiments on the slug were made in a room
about 12 feet square. The floor was sometimes covered with cardboard
or paper, but in other experiments was left bare. Heavy curtains were
hung in front of the windows and light shut out as completely as possible.
The experiments were conducted at night, and the temperature of the
room was nearly, if not quite, constant. A slug was put on the floor in
the centre of the room and left to itself for two or three hours, sometimes
longer. By means of the mucous secretion, which hardened into white,
shiny flakes, the exact path of the animal could, in most cases, be easily
followed. This path was roughly reproduced by pencil on paper. A num-
ber of these paths are given in Figures 3-22, much reduced from the
actual space covered. The series here given includes all the animals
experimented on, with the exception of three individuals which did not
