FRANDSEN. — REACTIONS OF LIMAX MAXIMUS, 225
give auy characteristic paths. Two of the three moved only a short dis-
tance in wavy lines without recrossing their paths, and were in poor condi-
tion, for they did not go far, and shortly died. One extremely active little
individual moved ahead in a straight line quite across the floor, a distance
of eight or ten feet. With these few exceptions, it will be seen that
there is a very marked tendency to travel in loops. In general, the
loops varied in size from a couple of inches in diameter to two feet and
sometimes more. The animal generally makes a circle soon after starting
out, and then may travel for some distance before again recrossing its
tracks. The individuals which did the most looping also showed a
tendency, by gradually swinging away from the starting point, to make
larger and larger circles. ISTos. 7, 8, 11, 13, 14, 16, 17, 19, and 22 all
showed this tendency. The smaller individuals usually make the
smaller loops, but this is not always the case. Although the paths made
by different animals have a very different appearance, they all show the
same general looping tendency. It will at once be noticed that all curves
are not in the same direction. Some are right-handed loops, others are
left-handed, and two cases, Nos. 10 and 12, contain loops of both right and
left hand character, or at least indicate a tendency to the formation of
such loops. As a rule, however, the individual shows a marked con-
stancy in the character of the loops made. Disregarding the two cases
in which there were both right and left hand loops, we have ten individuals
with a tendency to circle to the right and eight individuals with just as
marked a tendency to circle to the left. This does not indicate a very
great preponderance of individuals travelling to the right. If the total
space travelled over by all individuals be considered, I think it might
show, on the average, a more marked swerving to the right than does a
counting of right and left circling individuals, but I have not measured
the distances carefully enough to speak confidently on this point. The
evidence thus far accumulated in regard to an asymmetrical response of
the right and left sides to artificial stimuli points to a greater sensitive-
ness of the left side, which is perhaps correlated with a slight average
tendency to move toward the right side more than to the left.
Summary of Part III.
These studies on the light responses of Limax maximus seem to estab-
lish the following points : —
(1) The animals are markedly phototactic.
(2) There are individual differences in phototaxis, as there are in
geotaxis.
VOL. XXXVII. — 15
