232 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY,
Fucus turbinatus = Turbinaria trialata.
" natans = Sargassum bacciferum, at least in part.
" acinarius.
" vesiculosus.
" triqueter.
Ulva pavonia = Padina sp.
" Lactuca.
After this date, except for an occasional reference in some general
work, we find nothing until Murray's West India list.* In this are in-
cluded references to Sloane and Browne, and several species are added
from specimens in the British Museum, collected by Chitty ; in a few
cases, however, these are species so little to be expected in tropical
regions, that it seems as if there must have been some displacement
of labels. The total number of Jamaica species mentioned in Murray's
list is surprisingly small, if we consider the size of the island, and that
it has been so long a comparatively thickly settled English colony. It
would be hardly fair to compare it with the Maze & Schramm Guade-
loupe list, t for it is not improbable that half the species in the latter,
certainly more than half the new species, will ultimately be relegated
to synonymy or to the catalogue of indeterminables. As an iust:ince
of this, see the genus Gracilaria; 57 species are given by Maze
and Schramm under Gracilaria and Plocaria ; 15 of these are species
whose previously known distribution would lead one to expect them in
Guadeloupe ; of 5, the previous record would make their occurrence here
unlikely ; the remaining 37 are new species, with scanty description or
none at all. Any one at all familiar with Gracilaria will recognize what
this means.
But as compared with Puerto Rico, for which Hauck's list t gives 92
species against 31 Jamaica species in Murray's list, the disproportion is
so great that it might seem as if there must be some special conditions at
Jamaica to impoverish the marine flora.
Within the past few years the writer has had the opportunity of ex-
amining three collections of algae from this island, that show quite con-
clusively that this is not the case, and that there is every reason to
* Catalogue of the Marine Algae of the West Indian Region, by George Murray.
Journal of Botany, Vol. XXVII. p. 224. 1889.
I Algues de la Guadeloupe. 2d Edition. Maze' & Schramm, Basse Terre,
1870-77.
t Meeresalgen von Puerto-Rico, von F. Hauck. Engler's Botanische Jahrbiicher,
Vol. IX. p. 30, 1888.
