COLLINS. — THE ALGAE OP JAMAICA. 235
indicates the affinities of the floras. The tables are useful merely as
showing general tendencies, not exact relations. Exactness would be
possible only when the districts compared had been explored and studied
to the same extent, with the same care and under the same conditions,
a thing practically impossible.
Table No. I. shows the distribution, in the districts named, of each
species found in Jamaica ; Table No. II. summarizes by classes the total
number of species for each of the seven regions, — it represents less the
probable richness of each region, than the extent to which it has been
explored. A tolerable test of thoroughness of exploration is often found
in the proportion which the Schizophyceae bear to the whole number.
Being insignificant, usually microscopic plants, they are quite overlooked
by the non-scientific collector. Where the knowledge of a region de-
pends on collections made by a non-scientific collector, or by a collector
who, however competent in other departments, is not specially an algolo-
gist, the red algae constitute a larger, the blue-green a smaller proportion
of the whole.
The Puerto Rico collection, and in great part the Canary collection,
were made by non-algologists ; the Morocco was made by a skilled al-
gologist, but before much was known of the lower algae, or microscopes
perfected so that they could be suitably studied. The Biscay collection
was the work of one man, a trained algologist, studying the plants on the
spot ; while the lists for New England and Great Britain cover the most
thoroughly studied parts of the world, and the work of generations of
botanists. The proportion of Schizophyceae, as shown by Table No. III.,
follows these conditions fairly well. In the New England list it is ex-
ceptionally large, as that list included a number of species, normally
fresh water, which were found growing with marine forms, but which
usually would not be included in a marine flora. The totals in all parts
of the Great Britain list are increased by the fact that in that list the
naming of forms is carried out more fully than in any of the others ; the
percentage, however, is but little affected by this.
It is noticeable that in the first five floras, which might be grouped as
warm water floras, the red algae constitute over half the whole list, while
in the two northern they are less than half, New England, the most
arctic in character though not in latitude, having only 37 per cent.
Puerto Rico and Jamaica, the most southern, have the highest percentage
of green algae, 27 and 28, respectively, they being in the region of the
Siphonaceous plants. The Canaries have less of this element, but
more than the region farther north. The low percentage of green algae
