236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
in the Biscay region is noticeable, but not easy to account for. The
high percentage of brown algae in New England and Great Britain is
due to their northern latitude, these plants becoming increasingly preva-
lent as we go from the equator to the poles ; in actual arctic waters they
constitute the most conspicuous element of the flora.
Table No. IV. shows the number of species common to the flora of
Jamaica and the other floras respectively ; No. V. shows the per cent of
each class of the Jamaica flora which is found in each of the other floras ;
No. VI. the per cent of each of the others found in Jamaica. A thor-
oughly explored country shows a larger per cent in No. V., a smaller per
cent in No. VI. than a region less known, but certain general deductions
can be made. The Puerto Rican flora is closely allied to the Jamaican,
69 percent being common to the latter; further exploration would proba-
bly increase rather than reduce this. The Canaries come next, and it is
noticeable that the percentage in Table No. V. is nearly the same in green,
brown, and red algae. In Table VI., which is perhaps the one best show-
ing the relationships, the common elements in the European floras grow
regularly less as the distance increases, only 8 per cent of the flora of
Great Britain being found in Jamaica.
The Schizophyceae seem to vary least in different regions, the other
classes coming, Chlorophyceae, Rhodophyceae, Pliaeophyceae, the com-
mon per cent of the latter being surprisingly small outside of Puerto Rico
and the Canaries.
It is worth noting that Jamaica and the Canaries have 66 species in
common, being 30 per cent of the former and 24 per cent of the latter ;
while New England and Great Britain, at about the same distance, have
258 in common, being 60 per cent for the former, 35 for the latter.
This merely illustrates the general rule that beginning almost identical,
in the Arctic Ocean, the floras of the two shores of the Atlantic diverge
increasingly as we go south. There are, however, a few species common
to Jamaica and the Canaries which have not apparently been found on
the mainland of either continent ; these probably represent an actual
communication between the two.
Of the 34 fresh water algae, all but 2 are found in Europe, quite in
conformity with the rule that the fresh water algae of the two continents,
though separated by salt water, in which they cannot exist, are much
more alike than the marine algae, inhabiting the two shores of the
Atlantic.
