COLLINS. THE ALGAE OP JAMAICA. 237
The island of Jamaica is situated in the Caribbean Sea, between lat.
17.40 and 18.30 N. and between long. 76.10 and 78.28 W. from Green-
wich. The land vegetation is distinctly tropical in character, though the
high land of the interior, and the steady sea breezes of the eastern coast,
make the climate more comfortable than might be expected from the
latitude. The marine flora is also of a tropical character, as is shown
by the number of species of the Dictyotales, and of green algae of the
Caulerpaceae, Codiaceae, Valoniaceae, and Dasycladaceae, as also by the
absence of any representative of the I/aminariaceae. Coral abounds all
along the shore, and the coral reefs are often richly overgrown with
algae.
The following notes by Mrs. Pease give an idea of the character of the
shore and the conditions for collecting algae ; occasionally throughout the
list that follows similar notes by Mrs. Pease on special localities or forms
will be inserted, enclosed, like this, in quotation marks.
" The island of Jamaica is scalloped with beautiful little bays or har-
bors, and a description of one will apply to nearly all of them. The semi-
circular shores of these bays, about which the little villages cluster, are
usually low for only a very short distance back from the water ; then they
rise abruptly into steep hills or mountains. From one to several small
rivers empty into each of these bays; the shores are often of 'tufa,'
a porous rock, very trying to a pedestrian, but sometimes relieved by
little stretches of sandy beach. . . .
" At Port Antonio, which was visited at each of our trips, the harbor
is varied by having a small island lying at its entrance, and by a bold
point of land running out to break the shore into two little scallops
instead of one, one of the bays being barred by a coral reef, the other
having a very narrow channel for the entrance of vessels. This reef was
the best collecting ground at this place; the water was shallow for quite
a distance, and on jagged rocky bottom, the water about waist deep,
we found a very luxuriant growth. Caulerpa clavifera grew like little
clusters of green grapes, in big soggy masses ; there were great clumps
of the encrusted algae, Halimedas, Amphiroas, Galaxauras, Cymopolias,
etc. ; these continued up towards the shore, and with them upon the
rocks were those green, warty, potato-ball-like Dictyosphaerias, Padina,
Colpomenia sinuosa, and Anadyomene stellata. Still nearer the shore,
the water flattened out to nothing, and the bottom was sand, like pow-
dered shell. Corallina still grew here, but the others dropped out, and
Caulerpa ericifolia and C. plumaris covered the bottom, as club mosses
grow in the woods. We searched here in vain for a lonsr time for Peni-
