238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
cillus, and only at our last visit I noticed, in water barely deep enough
to cover them, peculiar little mounds in the sand ; brushing off the tops
of these revealed the Penicillus capitatus, as abundant as seedling ever-
greens in a neglected Maine pasture lot. Not far from here, on a stone
wall at the edge of a gentleman's garden, the ribbon Ulva, U. fasciata,
streamed out into the water, quite filling it for a distance of about a
meter. It grew here, on a very limited area, on each of our visits, but
we found it nowhere else on the island. . . .
" Morant Bay is larger, and has a comparatively long stretch of sandy
beach, but the surf comes in so heavily that seaweeding is very difficult.
Annotto Bay is somewhat unusual, the land for some distance from the
sea being low and swampy, with sluggish rivers entering the sea by
several mouths, but the sandy pebbly shores retained the usual beautiful
curve. Montego Bay has a group of small atolls overgrown with man-
grove trees, surrounded with shallow water. Kingston has a fine large
harbor, enclosed by a long, narrow, sandy arm. On the outside of this,
deep water species were often washed ashore. . . .
" The conditions under which one must collect algae in the tropics are
somewhat different from those for collecting in the North, where we
have the rise and fall of the tide at intervals of a few hours, alternately
laying bare and covering the algae on the rocks. At Jamaica many
weeds grow on rocks so situated as to be alternately bared and covered
by the wash of the waves at intervals of a few minutes. Many of the
Polysiphouias, Gelidiums, Gracilarias, etc., are generally found under
these conditions. Padina and the Galaxauras occur at these stations,
but the finest growth of Padina that we saw was at Montego Bay, from a
road passing over a bluff, directly on the edge of the sea, down into which
one could look and see Padina growing like a field of gray morning-
glory blossoms set upon stones in the shallow, rather quiet water. Near
by were patches of Zonaria variegata, like red-brown morning glories.
" Much of our collecting was done from boats, rowed by two or three
strong, experienced boatmen. We would be rowed out to the shallow
places overgrown with grass, the water even there being to our waists,
then jump from the boat into the water, and fish about for seaweeds.
We always wore bathing suits and boys' thick hip rubber boots. On the
reefs or by the ledges the waves were often strong enough to take us off
our feet. Then we would cling closely together, one holding on to the
other, while the latter plunged for the seaweeds. Even then we would
sometimes be washed away from our footing. The boatmen would be
busy keeping the boat from the rocks, and stood ready to assist us back
