COLLINS. — THE ALGAE OF JAMAICA. 251
Dictyerpa Jamaicensis n. g. & sp. Frond filiform, 1-3 mm. diam.
up to 2 dm. long ; consisting of two layers of cells, an inner layer of large,
colorless, cylindrical cells, about three diameters long, symmetrically
arranged : an external monostromatic laver of brown rectangular cells
from one to three diameters long, in distinct longitudinal series. Branch-
ing di- or trichotoaious, with occasional irregularly placed lateral branches,
mostly at wide angles, each branch ending in a large, depressed-hemi-
spherical cell, by whose division the growth of the branch proceeds.
Tufts of very fine, rust-colored or colorless confervoid rhizoidal filaments
at irregular intervals on the frond. Fructification ? Washed ashore,
Manchioneal, July, 1900. P. B.-A., No. 780.
Though evidently belonging to the Dictyotaceae, this plant differs
from any genus of the family yet described, in having the frond terete
throughout. Many Dictyotaceae have prostrate rooting filaments from
which the erect fronds arise, but in all species found in Jamaica this pros-
trate growth is quite insignificant in comparison with the plant in ques-
tion. It was found washed ashore in two places, in considerable quantity,
and in no case shows any indication of fructification, or of producing
erect flattened fronds. It may seem hazardous to give it a generic name,
but as it is a plant of quite distinct habit, and cannot be now identified
with any named form, it seems to require at least a provisional name.
As washed up on the beach, it appeared like rolled and twisted strings.
The dried plant is quite black in color, and under a hand lens shows
closely set constrictions, probably due to the large interior cells being of
uniform length, and terminating at the same level, as in the frond of
Polysiphonia. These constrictions are lost when the frond is remoistened.
Goniotrichum Humphreyi Collins. On woodwork of wreck, St.
Ann's Bay, March 2i, 1893, No. 316, H. P. B.-A, No. 421.
" Frond filamentous, solid, gelatinous, occasionally forking or dividing
into several branches, the terminal portion consisting of a single sei'ies of
cells ; the older part containing numerous cells, irregularly placed near
the surface of the filament; lateral branches abundant, simple, issuing
nearly at a right angle, composed of a single series of cells." Tliis de-
scription is copied from the label of P. B.-A., No. 421.
G. elegans (Chauv.) Le Jolis. Among other algae, on Laurencia
obtusa, near Kingston, Duerden.
Chantransia Saviana (Menegh.) Ardiss. Among other algae, on
Laurencia obtusa, near Kingston, Duerden.
Liagora Cheyneana Harv. Washed ashore. Port Maria, March 17,
1893, No. 281 ; Port Antonio, March, 1893. No. 186, H.
