COLLINS, — THE ALGAE OP JAMAICA. 255
Some of the plants from each locality have tetraspores, which appear
not to have been previously reported. They are arranged much as in C.
erecta, except that they are at the ends of short lateral branches, instead
of terminal on the larger branches ; the modified portions of the branches
being ovate or subspherical rather than lanceolate. One of the Kingston
specimens has cystocarps, which are spherical and external on the
branches, as in other species of the genus.
Cordylecladia Peasiae n. sp. Fronds slender, filiform, arising from
a more or less distinct crustaceous base, dichotomously divided, with oc-
casional scattered or secund ramuli, usually quite short. Tetraspores
cruciate, in the somewhat swollen and darkened tips of the branches and
ramuli, immersed in the cortical layer. Cystocarps globular, sessile
along the main branches. Color purplish brown, changing into whitish
or greenish ; substance rigid.
Somewhat resembles C. erecta, which is, however, a smaller plant,
much less branched, and having the receptacles for tetraspores larger and
of different shape. C. conferta and C. Andersoniana have the tetra-
spores in densely tufted special lateral branches. C. irregularis is stouter,
with hollow stems and with oval or subspherical lateral branches for the
tetraspores. In C. furcellata the tetraspores are borne in branches resem-
bling the vesicles of Chrysymenia uvaria. C. heteroclada has a flat
frond, and C. Huntii is unrecognizable from the description of Harvey.
Manchioneal, July, 1900, P. & B. P. B.-A., No. 791.
Chrysymenia halymenioides Harv. Washed ashore, Morant Bay,
July, isk, P. & B.
Champia parvula (Ag.) Harv. Moutego Bay, Port Maria, 1900,
P. & B.
Caloglossa Leprieurii (Mont.) J. Ag. Among Bostrychia, just above
water level. Port Antonio, July, 1900, P. & B.
Asparagopsis Delilei (Ag.) Lamour. In tree-like tufts, Navy Island,
March 10, 1893, H.
Laurencia cervicornis Harv. Annotto Bay, Aug., 1894 ; washed
ashore, Kingston, July, 1900, P. & B.
L. implicata J. Ag. Morant Bay, July, 1900, P. & B.
L. obtusa (Huds.) Lamour. In tufts on rocks. Kingston Harbor,
Apr. 8, 1893, No. 376 ; no locality. No. 224, H. Port Antonio, July,
1891 ; on rocks, Montego Bay, June, 1900, P. & B. Near Kingston,
Duerden. Chitty,
L. papillosa (Forsk.) Grev, In tufts on rocks, Kingston Harbor, Apr.
8, 1893, H. Port Antonio, Kingston, Montego Bay, Manchioneal, Port
