14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
cobalt, uickel, zinc, and magnesium sulphates,* but undoubtedly others
exist. In a large majority of cases when an electrolyte is dissolved in
water, the sura of the volumes of salt and of the solvent taken together
considerably exceeds the volume of the solution. This contraction is
usually ascribed wholly to the dissolved substance in dilute solutions,!
but it seems to me that the behavior of the salts named above proves the
falsity of this method of calculation. The water as well as the salt must
contract when a salt is dissolved. So many complications are concerned
in the act of the solution of an electrolyte that it is difficult to unravel
the tangled clues ; but the wide deviations exhibited by different sub-
stances seem to indicate that there are present overlapping contractions
and expansions, the resultant of which is a smaller quantity than some
of the individual influences. Such contractions and expansions are just
what one would expect to find in a readjustment of affinities.
In considering the simpler case of solid non-electrolytes, one usually
finds here also a contraction upon solution, although less marked than in
the extreme cases named above. For this reason, one is inclined to
ascribe the act of solution of all kinds primarily to the affinity of the
solvent for the dissolved substance. The solution tension of a metal or
salt becomes simply a balance or ratio of attractions, — the separating
tendency of heat upon the dissolving phase is much assisted by the
attraction from outside. This is of course no new idea. The possible
method of treating mathematically these balanced influences is suggested
in a recent paper on the "driving tendency " of reaction. $
That electi'olytic separation also should be assisted by the outside
attraction for the solvent is almost a foregone conclusion. This may be
inferred from the contraction shown by most electrolytes on dissolving.
Hence may arise the various contact-potentials exhibited by the same
substance in different solvents ; for different solvents must possess differ-
ent affinities. Hence also one would expect to find a much greater
potential needed for the dissociation of gases than for that of dissolved
substances.
The mechanism of electrolytic dissociation in gases is now usually
* Thomsen, Thermochemische Untersuchungen, I. 45 (1882). MacGregor,
Trans. Eoy. Soc. Canada, 1890, p. 19; 1891, p. 15; Trans. Nova Scotia Inst. Nat.
Sc, 7, 368 (1890).
t Van't Hoff, Vorlesung. phys. theoret. Cliem., III. p. 41 (1900). Drude and
Nernst (Z. pliys. Cliera., 15, 79 (1896)) ascribe this contraction to "Electro-
striction."
t Ricliards, Jour. Phys. Chem., 4, 385 (1900). See specially p. 391.
