286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
use in 2 only the set of points determined in 1. We are not warranted,
either, in assuming that, when a reduction of singularity arises from the
appearance of a term of lower degree in a different variable from that
with reference to which the first development is derived, the resulting
development will hold throughout the same region as the first develop-
ment. As an example consider the surface
Regarded as a development for t, its coefficients converge for all finite
values of <t and ^; but when we develop for ^,
1 (T
and the resulting series converges only when
kl < 1-
7. From geometrical considerations we should not expect the quad-
ratic transformation used to resolve the singularity in all cases. In
ordinary space the transformation
^ = tC, rj — at,,
will transform in a one-to-one manner, without change of the ^ coordinate,
all points except those in the ^ = plane. Now in the surface from (m),
T^ - O--^ + TO-C = 0,
all points in the ^-axis are singular, and whatever the reduction that
may be secured for the origin, there will be within the neighborhood of
the' orisin points whose singularity is not reduced. The same consider-
ations would be seen to apply if we had any space curve as a singular
line.
Levi, in the article previously mentioned, does not attempt a proof
of the entire proposition, but directs his work toward establishing by
geometrical considerations the reduction of the singularity, making ex-
ception, however, of certain cases,* which are closely related to the one
considered in 7.
Having thus considered the failure of Kobb to establish the proposi-
tion even for the general case of an algebraic surface, we shall, in the
im Grossen, the limit to the number of points taken being determined by finding
the extent of the domain of each ; while the developments about the later points
give relations im Kleinen, as far as the first point is concerned.
* Cf. Levi, 1. c. p. 227. Cf . also a second paper by Levi, Atti R. Ace. Sci. Torino,
Vol. XXXIII., 5 Dec, 1897.
