RICHARDS. — SICxNIFICANCE OP CHANGING ATOMIC VOLUME. 15
explained by the aid of the ingenious hypothesis of "electrons," as
amplified by J. J. Thomson and his students in the brilliant experimental
researches published in the recent volumes of the Philosophical Magazine.
This daring hypothesis must not be accepted without reservation, how-
ever. Some physical objections to it have been suggested by Ernest
Merritt in his interesting address to the American Association for the
Advancement of Science ; * and other objections arise when one tries
with its aid to unravel the tangle of influences involved in purely
chemical action. The rejected alternative of imagining the atom as
indivisible, but as capable of receiving widely varying electric charges
under widely different conditions, has some advantages which the opposite
hypothesis does not possess. The subject is much too large for discus-
sion here, however. One phase of it, which bears directly upon the sub-
ject of the present paper, may receive brief notice.
The results of Thomson, Towusend, Zeleny f and others seem to indi-
cate that the bearer of the negative electricity not only carries the high
charge referred to above, but that it is very small, while the bearer of the
positive electricity is very large. May it not be the atom itself which thus
expands and contracts ? This agrees with the verdict of the results of
atomic compression given above. Change of atomic volume seems to be
associated with electric stress. This assignment of electric expansibility
to the atomic sphere of influence might explain other phenomena con-
cerning the behavior of electrified gases, for example, the increase of
pressure which is observed when a gas is highly charged. $ Again, the
great conductivity of a gas with adequate potential and quantity of
electrical discharge § seems to indicate that then the situation must
resemble that in a metal, where the spheres of stress fill the whole
volume occupied by the substance. The temperature must be so high
under these circumstances that the gas is probably in a condition of
thermal dissociation. Hence one is inclined to refer the great conduc-
tivity to the electrical susceptibility of evenly compressed or undistorted
atoms. The fact that pure metals conduct electricity better than alloys or
compounds seems to support this conclusion. The permeability of solids
to cathode rays might be explained by supposing that the smallest particles
of both solid and gas are much contracted by the negative charge.
* Proe. Am. As. Adv. Soc, 1900, p. 49.
t Phil. Mag. [5] 46, 120, (1898). See also Am. Chem. Journ., 25, 340 (1901),
for a resume of this work.
X De la Rue and Miiller, Phil. Trans., 1880, 86.
§ Trowbridge and Richards, Phil. Mag. [5] 43, 349 (1897).
