16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
It is with some diffidence that this paper attempts to reconcile the facts
with any hypothesis, for hypotheses sometimes lead to dangerous delu-
sions. If, however, one never forgets the essential difference between
fact and hypothetical inference, a theory may afford useful suggestions
for further research. The facts under discussion in the present paper
seem to me to be adequately connected by none of the current concep-
tions concerning atoms, hence it has seemed not wholly pointless to
postulate a theory which might serve better. The essential elements of
this theory must be evident from the trend of the hypothetical discussion
above ; they are not wholly new. Since changes of atomic volume seem
to be so closely associated with the most intimate properties of substance,
it seems necessary to assign more importance to the atomic " sphere of
influence " or the " free space " around the atomic centres than is cus-
tomary. Indeed, the properties of material seem to be as much concerned
with the " atomic shell " as with the " atomic centre." The two hypothet-
ical conceptions are so closely related as to be inseparable.
Such a point of view leads to the conception of an atom as a compres-
sible field of force possessing two attractive attributes, chemical affinity
and gravitation, both of which may be concerned in chemical action.
Mass may be supposed to be causally connected with gravitation. The
fact that in many cases affinity diminishes with increasing atomic weight,*
taken together with the Laws of Faraday and of Dulong and Petit,
suo-o-ests that the two attractive forces in the atom may bear some
sort of reciprocal or additive relationship to one another, — that the
product or sum of the two may afford a constant basis for the vibrations
of heat and electricity. This relation is often hidden by electrical attrac-
tion, which plays so important a role in chemical action that it is some-
times hard to distinguish the intensity of chemical affinity proper. In
such an atom one can imagine that either thermal or electrical vibration
misht cause distention. The phenomena of electricity suggest that
electricity plays around the atomic surface, while heat seems to be
concerned with a more fundamental or central agitation. Light-vibra-
tion, which seems also to be intimately concerned with atomic structure,
would be assumed to be a surface effect like electrical vibration.
Such an atom would be compressible under the influence of its own
affinities as well as under the influence of external pressure. Permanent
* Van't rioff, Vorl. th. phys. Chem., III. 87 (1900). Compare also the relation
of the energy-quotients of similar metals referred to on p. 10 of the present
paper.
