RICHARDS. — SIGNIFICANCE OP CHANGING ATOMIC VOLUME. 17
atomic distortion would accompauy chemical union, and the heat of the
reaction would be the outcome of the resulting decrease of internal
energy. Atomic volume and atomic compressibility might limit the
possibility of distortion ; hence would arise a possible explanation for
quantivalence, stereochemistry, and crystal form. Many other proper-
ties of material, too numerous to mention, seem to be explicable in a
similar way.
It would be unreasonable to expect the hypothesis thus briefly de-
scribed to correspond to all known facts. No hypothesis has ever been
proposed which is wholly satisfactory ; our knowledge is incommensurate
with the possibilities involved. If, however, a given theory is found to
explain some relationships better than other hypotheses, it may be of
service in suggesting new expei'imental research. Such a service is of
course the best one which a hypothesis can perform.
The idea discussed above has been already applied in plausible fashion
to a wide range of chemical and physical phenomena. If future experi-
mentation to be carried on here seems to warrant it, these applications
may form the subject of another communication.
The object of the present paper may be summed up in a few words, as
follows : It is pointed out that changing atomic volume may be used as
an approximate measure of the pressure which causes it, and therefore
of the affinity which causes the pressure. Some of the difficulties in
the way of exact interpretation are pointed out, and hints are given
as to possible modes of overcoming the difficulties.
The chief outcome of the paper is the following postulate : The atomic
volume is not constant, hut a function of pressure and temperature, and
probably of electric stress.
In this connection it is pointed out that chemical affinity is possibly a
reciprocal function of mass.
To explain these and many other facts, a modification of the atomic
hypothesis is tentatively proposed which contends that we have no right
to disregard the compressible environments around the centres of gravity
and affinity.
Cambridge, Mass.
