334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
here employed, since it expresses with sufficient exactness the actual
conditions.
It will be noted further that in characterizing the Acrasieae as a
whole, emphasis has been laid on the fact, usually overlooked in accounts
of these organisms, that the vegetative stage ends before the pseudo-
plasmodium condition begins. The latter, therefore, is a phenomenon con-
nected not with vegetation but with fructification, and is by no means
homologous with the plasmodium of true Myxomycetes; nor is it com-
parable to the vegetative net-plasmodiura of the Labyrinthulete.
I have followed Zopf, moreover, in characterizing as a " net-plasmo-
dium " the peculiar form of association occurring in the Labyrinthuleas,
altliough it appears to be doubtful whether, in all cases at least, the con-
dition thus distinguished represents a true fusion, or whether the relation
is merely one of contact.
SOROPHORE^ Zopf.
Amoebae of the usual irregular myxamceba form or more or less reg-
ular and spindle-shaped, never possessing a swarm spore stage, forming
either a pseudoplasmodium or a net-plasmodium ; resting bodies borne
in sessile or stalked sori, which are either naked or imbedded in a
gelatinous matrix.
ACRASIE^ Van Tieghem.
Saprophytic, usually coprophilous, organisms, having two definitely
recurring stages, — a vegetative period, in which independent myxamcebse
crawl about by means of amoeboid movements and undergo multiplication
by division ; and a fructifying period, in which the myxamoebse typically
aggregate into colonies called pseudoplasmodia and form either spores
or pseudospores, held together by a mucus substance, and borne in
stalked or sessile naked masses, or sori.
SAPPINIACP]^.
Myxamoebae comparatively large, with lobose pseudopodia. The
resting stage oonsisting either of a single encysted individual or of
many individuals encysted in masses at the ends of projections of the
substratum.
This group is included here only provisionally, since the amoebce
normally become encysted singly, thus forming microcysts, and do not
show the characteristic phenomenon of aggregation, or colony formation.
The aggregations which, it is true, often occur at the distal ends of
