OLIVE. — PRELIMINARY ENUMERATION OF THE SOROPHORE^. 335
small projections above the surfece of the substratum, are not due to
any chemotactic stimulus such as must be assumed to cause the formation
of true pseudoplasmodia, but, although they may perhaps suggest the
possible beginnings of sucli conditions, are probably accidental, resulting
rather from a tendency of the amoebae to seek drier situations at the
period of fructification.
SAPPINIA Dangeard (1896).
Characters of the order.
Sappinia pedata Dangeard.
Le Botaniste, 5 Ser. p. 1-20. 5 Figs in text. 1896.
Amojbfe forming resting conditions of three kinds : " amibes pedicel-
lees,'" in which they are transformed into a pear-shaped body without
definite wall raised above the substratum by a stalk of about equal
length ; " kystes pedicelles,'' in which they are similarly modified but
which form a definite wall about the oval body; and " spores," in which
groups of individuals become encysted at the ends of projections from
the substratum.
On dung of horse, cow, dog. France ; Russia; Massachusetts ; Indiana.
At least two species of this genus appear to be common on various
kinds of dung in this country, but owing to the fact that Dangeard gives
no measurements I have been uncertain which of them should be referred
to S. pedata. In both forms resting bodies comparable to the aggregated
'■'■ spores" occur, as well as '■^ amihes pedicelUes" although I have not as
yet observed the definitely walled ^^ kystes" which Dangeard appears to
distinguish from them.
The larger and more frequent of the American species, which I have
assumed to belong to S. pedata, has the following measurements : stalk
of the " at7iibes pedicellees" 30 ij-125 /.t, head SOfi-GOjx long; rounded
individuals (" spores ") of the aggregations 20fi-50/j. in diameter.
GUTTULINACE^ Zopf.
Myxamoebae either limax-shaped, without pseudopodia, or of the
ordinary form with rounded or lobose short pseudopodia. The sori,
irregular in shape or spherical, sessile or stalked, consisting of either
spores or pseudospores.
GUTTULINOPSIS nov. gen.
Myxamoebae having lobose pseudopodia. Sori sessile or stalked, com-
posed of pseudospores, those of the stalk usually slightly elongated.
