336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Guttulinopsis vulgaris nov. sp.
Sori usually stalked, sometimes sessile, about ISO^u-SOO/x in height
X 150/x-400/i broad. Fructifications varying in color from whitish to
dirty yellowish according to the character of the substratum and the dry-
ness of the sorus. Pseudospores usually irregularly spherical, about 4//-
8^ in diameter.
On dung of horse, cow, pig, mouse, etc. Cambridge, Mass ; Alabama ;
Indiana ; Maine ; Porto Rico.
This form, which has conspicuous fructifications so large that they
may be readily seen with the naked eye, has been met with very fre-
quently on fresh cultures of various kinds of dung. Although Guttid'ma
aurea Van Tieghem may prove to be identical with the above species,
the fact that, according to the original description, it possesses resting
bodies which are characterized as " spores," having a golden yellow color,
renders it improbable that the two forms are the same.
Guttulinopsis stipitata nov. sp.
Sori yellowish white, long stalked, the stalk composed of individuals
similar to those of the head. Sorus about 1 mm. -1.2 mm. high; the
stalk about SOO/n long, the head 250// in diameter. Pseudospores spher-
ical, S/u-b/j, in diameter.
On dung of dog. New Haven, Conn.
This species, the largest representative of the genus, has been met
with but once, and is founded on a mounted specimen and dried material
collected at New Haven some years ago by Dr. Thaxter.
Guttulinopsis clavata nov. sp.
Sori yellowish white when young, comparatively long-stalked, the stalk
composed of a column of slightly elongated individuals surrounded by
mucus. The stalk-cells held within the peripheral mucus adhere together
after the deliquescence of the pseudospores of the head, forming at the
apex a rounded or conical columella of elongated adherent cells. Sorus
about 400,«-800jU iu height, the stalk about 170jU-2oO/a long, the head
lOOjtt-400/i in diameter. Pseudospores of the head somewhat broadly
oval, 3/A-4/X X 6^ - 7/x, or spherical, then 4jU-5/x in diameter ; those of
the stalk about SjU-o^u X 7/t-lO/x.
On dung of dog. Cambridge, Mass. ; Indiana.
This distinct species is frequently met with in fresh cultures of the
dung on which it has its habitat. The base of the stalk is often imbedded
