OLIVE. — PRELIMINARY ENUMERATION OP THE SOROPHOREiE. 337
in an abundant mucus, which is especially noticeable when it swells after
being placed in water.
GUTTULINA Cienkowsky (1873).
Myxamoeboe Umax-shaped, without pseudopodia. Sori irregular in
shape or spherical, sessile or stalked, composed of spores which have a
definite protective cell-wall. The cells of the stalked forms somewhat
differentiated in shape.
Guttulina rosea Cienkowsky.
Trans. 4th Session of Russ. Nat. at Kazan, 1873.
" Sori short-stalked and rose-colored; head 700/a long, supported upon
a stalk of about equal length. Spores of the head spherical ; those of
the stalk closely laid and wedge-shaped."
On dead wood. Russia.
Known only from the original description above quoted.
Guttulina protea Fayed.
{Copromyxa protea Zopf.)
Bot. Zeit, 11, p. 167-177. 1 Plate. 1883.
Sori l-3mm. high, sessile or short-stalked, of somewhat irregular form,
yellowish white, with crystalline lustre. Spores 9/x.Xl4ju; hyaline,
colorless or slightly yellowish, more or less oblong or oval, bean-shaped,
or almost triangular in outline.
On dung of horse and cow. Germany.
Tliis form, which is known only from Fayod's original description, is
retained under its original name, notwithstanding the fact that it has
been separated by Zopf under the name Copromyxa on the ground that
the " myxamoebse undergo no differentiation into stalk and head cells,
whereas in Cienkowsky's form, there is a slight differentiation." The
fact that certain species of Guttulinojjsis show both stalked and sessile
forms in the same culture diminishes the importance of the stalk as a
character of generic value and justifies the resumption of the original
name given by Fayod.
Guttulina aurea Van Tieghem.
Bull, de la Soc. Bot. de France, XXVII. p. 317. 1880.
" Guttulina aurea has its fruit pedicelled and resembles closely G.
rosea, but differs in color. The spores spherical, Afx-Qfi, golden-yellow.
Upon dung of horse." France.
