348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
The method employed was to treat calomel with solutions of chlorides
of various concentrations for varying times, and to determine the extent
of the reaction by determining the amount of mercury dissolved.
Preparation of Materials.
Mercury already very pure was thoroughly freed from the possible
presence of substances with greater solution-tension by treatment with
sulphuric acid and potassic dichromate, and subsequent spraying through
ten per cent nitric acid. Calomel was resublimed at as low a temperature
as possible, and thoroughly washed with water and with the solution to
be used in each particular case. One of us had previously shown that
the source of the calomel is immaterial.* Sodic chloride was precipitated
by pure hydrochloric acid from a saturated solution of the so-called
" chemically pure " salt. It was then twice recrystallized from water,
and thoroughly dried to drive off any possible traces of acid. Pure
calcic nitrate was made by many reerystallizations ; this was converted
into carbonate, and the carbonate converted again into chloride. Several
recr3Stallizations freed this chloride from every trace of the nitrate or of
ionized hydrogen. Baric chloride was crystallized first from a solution
strongly acid with hydrochloric acid, and subsequently from aqueous
solutions by precipitation with pure alcohol. It also was wholly neutral
to methyl orange. Cadmic chloride was made by dissolving the pure
metal in pure acid and recrystallizing twice. The salt was dried
thoroughly in order to make certain of the absence of ionized hydrogen,
which is less easily detected in this case. Hydrochloric acid itself was
purified by redistillation, the purest acid of commerce serving as the
starting-point.
Apparatus and Method of Analysis.
It was necessary to digest the mixtures for long periods of time
at a constant temperature. For this purpose they were placed in large
test-tubes of sixty cubic centimeters capacity arranged to rotate tran-
sit-fashion in an Ostwald thermostat after the manner suggested by
Schroder. t In the case of the weaker solutions several of these tubefuls
were used for each analysis, but with the stronger solutions fifty cubic
centimeters sufficed. The tubes were corked with rubber stoppers
* Ricliards, loo. cit.
t Richards and Faber, Am. Cli. J., 21, 168 (1800). The thermometer used to
register the temperature was of course suitably veritied.
