22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Eumonoicomyces Papuanus nov. sp.
Nearly or quite hyaline. Basal cell of the receptacle small, usually
triangular ; the subbasal cell terminating in a short appendage, distin-
guished by a dark basal septum, and sometimes once branched. The
fertile branch not diiferentiated from the receptacle, consisting of three,
rarely two cells similar to the subbasal cell, obliquely superposed; the
lowest bearing normally a short, hyaline or faintly brownish, erect, sterile
appendage, similar to that of the subbasal cell ; the middle cell bearing a
single antheridium, and the upper an antheridium and a stalked perithe-
cium. The autheridia rather stout, broader distally ; the stalk-cell small
and short; the antheridial cells very numerous — thirteen to fifteen
usually visible in optical section — the terminal appendages of the usual
type, short or seldom longer than the antheridium. Perithecium rather
long and sometimes slender ; the venter inflated ; the distal portion
tapering gradually and symmetrically to the blunt, nearly truncate apex ;
the rather short tip hardly distinguished above a slight elevation ; the
stalk-cell variable in length, rather slender, seldom more than half as
long as the perithecium ; the basal cells rather large and broad, not dis-
tinguished from the venter. Spores about 35 x 3 |U. Perithecia 80-
120 X 32-40 /i, the stalk-cell 35-75 x 15^. Antheridia including
stalk-cell and without appendages 35 X 18 fi. Total length to tip of
perithecium 150-290 |U.
On all parts of a small pale species of Oxytelus. Ralum, New Pome-
rania. Berlin Museum, No. 1011.
Eumonoicomyces Californicus nov. sp.
Resembling E. Papuanus in general habit. Basal cell of the recep-
tacle short, stout, geniculate, with a dark brown suffusion extending from
the foot half-way up its convex margin ; the subbasal cell bearing distally
a long appendage consisting of a short hyaline basal cell, separated by a
dark septum from a second cell above it, which is dark brown and bears
two long, slender, one-celled, erect branches, brown below, becoming
hyaline distally. The fertile branch not distinguished from the receptacle
and consisting of three, sometimes more, very obliquely superposed cells
similar to the subbasal cell : the lowest bearing a sterile appendage like
that which terminates the receptacle; the middle cell usually bearing an
antheridium, and the upper an antheridium and a perithecium. Anther-
idium short-stalked, with a more or less well-defined median constriction,
resulting from an inflation of the cells which bear the terminal append-
