RICHARDS AND MERIGOLD. — ATOMIC WEIGHT OF URANIUM. 381
found in the agreement of analyses of substance formed under various
conditions of bromine supply.
After the bromine had been run for about one and a half hours, the
sublimate was cooled for three hours in a current of nitrogen. "When
the tubes were thoroughly cold, nitrogen was finally passed into the
jacket through L, iu order to sweep out any traces of bromine that
might still remain. The inner tube, containing the sublimate, was then
carefully drawn out until the inner end reached a position over the
mouth of the weighing bottle, indicated in the diagram by the dotted
line. This can be done without seriously disturbing the asbestos pack-
ing, a rapid current of' perfectly dry nitrogen being admitted meanwlule
through L. By means of the glass rod, R, the sublimate was pushed
out of the tube and dropped into the weighing bottle, I. The tube
L, carrying the stopper, was then pushed down and the stopper in-
serted. The stopper was held by the platinum wires so lightly that
after pushing it into place the tube L could be withdrawn, leaving the
stopper inserted in the bottle.
Thus uranous bromide was sublimed, collected, and bottled up in an
atmosphere of dry nitrogen ready for weighing, without once coming
in contact with the air of the laboratory. That the apparatus is effective
for the purpose intended, and capable of producing material of constant
composition, was shown by the first rough analyses of uranous bromide,
which yielded 57.41, 57.41, and 57.42 per cent bromine respectively.
These analyses were made with material that had not been purified, but
served to show the constancy of composition of the sublimate ; for not only
was the length of time occupied in the sublimation varied, but in one case
the sublimate was cooled in bromine instead of in nitrogen. Of course if
an appreciable amount of an oxygen compound were formed, by diffusion
of air or moisture, there would almost certainly be discrepancies in the
results, since it is hardly conceivable that under the varying conditions
exactly the same quantities of oxy-salt should be formed each time.
Because the specific gravity of uranous bromide was unknown, the fol-
lowing determinations were made : 2.0328 grams of the salt displaced on
one occasion 0.3332 gram of kerosene at 21°, and at another trial 0.3322
gram. The kerosene had been redistilled, and only the high boiling
portion was used. The density of the kerosene at 21°, referred to
water at 4°, was 0.7919. Hence the specific gravity of the uranous
bromide was (1) 4.830 and (2) 4.846, giving as the mean 4.838.
This value was used in reducing the observed weights of bromide to
the vacuum standard.
