THAXTER. NEW LABOULBENIACEAE. 23
ages. The latter very long, brown, extending beyond the tip of the
perithecium. Perithecium short and stout, the venter inflated, the much
shorter neck-like distal portion abruptly distinguished, the apex blunt,
the stalk-cell usually rather short and stout. Perithecia 75 X 25 fi, the
stalk-cell 20 X IS ft. Sterile appendages, longest 150 |U. Appendages of
antheridium 100 |U. Total length to tip of perithecium 150^.
On Oxytelus sp. Berkeley, California.
MONOICOMYCES Thaxter.
The characters which may be considered to separate this genus from
Eumonoicomyces are as follows : — The stalk of the antheridium consists
of two cells placed side by side ; the body of the antheridium consists of
two tiers of wall-cells, from each of which an inner antheridial cell is
separated ; the subbasal cell of the receptacle bears normally more than
one heterogeneous fertile branch.
Monoicomyces Echidnoglossae nov. sp.
Subbasal cell of the receptacle somewhat smaller than the basal cell,
bearing a terminal appendage the basal cell of which is as long, or nearly
as long as the receptacle and often distally enlarged ; the axis above it
consisting of a curved series of several cells, externally opaque, black,
hyaline along the inner margin, each cell giving rise from its inner side
to a hyaline simple branchlet, much as in the appendage of Lahoulhenia
cristata. Fertile branches usually two, sometimes one or three, arising
from the subbasal cell of the receptacle, and consisting of a single short
basal cell which bears directly a perithecium (in some cases more than
one) and an antheridium. Antheridium relatively large, the stalk-cells
somewhat longer and narrower than the basal cells ; the cells of each of
the middle tiers distally more or less prominent, the rounded, almost
papillate elevations thus formed from the upper tier more prominent than
those from the lower tier : the distal cells proliferous externally and dis-
tally, thus forming an outer crown of shorter appendages of very unequal
length, which surround the usual inner series. Perithecium becoming
greatly and asymmetrically inflated below, and tapering rather abruptly
to the slightly distinguished, rather short, bluntly pointed tip ; the stalk-
cell variably developed. Perithecia 100-125 X 45-55 (x, the stalk-
cells 40-80 X 15 //. Antheridia 75-100 (i, the sterile appendages
50-7 o /x. Total length to tip of perithecium 220-250 /i.
On the inferior surface of the thorax of Echidnoglossa Americana Fau-
vel. Vera Pass, Colorado. Leconte Collection.
