RICHARDS AND MERIGOLD. — ATOMIC WEIGHT OF URANIUM. 383
phuric acid was added, and the mixture was slowly i"un into the solution
of uraiious bromide. The green color of the uranous salt soon changes to
the yellow color characteristic of uranyl com[)ounds. On adding the
first few cubic centimeters of the dilute hydrogen dioxide solution, a
greenish white precipitate came down. Addition of more of the acid
dioxide solution redissolved it, and the resulting solution was perfectly
clear. This peculiar hydrolytic action is due to the acid, and not to tlie
hydric dioxide, lor the same reaction occurs if dilute sulphuric acid alone
is added to the solution. *
The explanation of this interesting phenomenon, which is just the
opposite of what might have been expected, is, undoubtedly, that the
bromide is already hydrolyzed to a great extent by merely dissolving in
water. The hydrate is probably in solution in the colloidal state. Evi-
dence of this is found in the fact that if the clear aqueous solution of
uranous bromide is allowed to stand exposed to the air, a hydrate gradu-
ally separates, giving to the solution a cloudy, murky appearance. After
two or three days this precipitate disappears, giving place to a clear
yellow solution of oxybromide and hydrobromic acid. The addition of
sulphuric acid coagulates the colloid before it can all be converted into
uranyl salt.
In order to be sure that no bromine or hydrobromic acid is lost by
this method of oxidation, the following experiment was made. 0.5 gram
of bromide was dissolved in 250 c.c. of water, 50 c.c. of dilute sulphuric
acid (1 :10) was added, and the hydrogen dioxide solution was run in.
This was done in a closed flask, similar in construction to a gas washing
bottle. A current of air was drawn through the bottle and then through
starch solution containing potassium iodide to see if bromine is liberated.
Not the slightest trace of blue color appeared in the starch solution, even
after adding a large excess of hydrogen peroxide and allowing it to stand
over night. A test for hydrobromic acid was sought in a similar way,
by drawing the air through a solution of silver nitrate, again with nega-
tive results, as was to have been expected. These experiments show
conclusively that uranous bromide can be oxidized completely by hydro-
gen dioxide, without loss of bromine.
Silver nitrate, in moderately concentrated solutions, is not acted upon
by a three per cent solution of hydrogen peroxide. Consequently a con-
siderable excess of the latter reagent could do no harm. Nevertheless
care was taken never to add more than the calculated amount of hydro-
gen dioxide. Moreover, the solution of hydrogen dioxide used contained
only one per cent of this reagent, and this was diluted ten times before
