RICHARDS AND MERIGOLD. — ATOMIC WEIGHT OF URANIUM. 385
Purification of Materials.
As the source of uranium, commercial " chemically pure " uranium
acetate was used.* This was first converted to the chloride on account of
the greater solubility of this compound, — by precipitation as ammonium
uranate and redissolving iu dilute hydrochloric acid. To the hot and
slightly acid solution, pure sulphuretted hydrogen was added to satura-
tion. The free acid was then neutralized with amnionic hydroxide, a
slight excess of the alkali was added, and more sulphuretted hydrogen
was run in. In this way some uranyl sulphide was precipitated, in order
to sweep down with it any colloidal sulphides of the higher groups which
miglit otherwise escape removal. The excess of sulphuretted hydrogen
was boiled off, and after standing over night the supernatant liquid was
decanted through a washed filter.
The next step depended upon the fact that uranium remains in a
solution of the double carbonate of ammonium and uranium, iu the
presence of an excess of ammonium sulphide, while all the other members
of the aluminum and iron groups are thrown down by this reagent.
Consequently ammonic hydrate and ammonium carbonate in slight excess
were added to the filtrate, forming the double carbonate. If the solu-
tions are concentrated, the double carbonate is precipitated when more
than a slight excess of ammonic carbonate is used. This happened in
some cases, when it was necessary to redissolve the precipitate in dilute
hydrochloric acid and again add ammonic carbonate in more dilute
solution. About fifty grams of carbonate per litre was found to give the
best results. Ammonic hydroxide was then added to the hot solution,
and sulphuretted hydrogen iu excess. After standing over night the
solution was filtered. In several of the more concentrated solutions, a
considerable quantity of the salt crystallized out. These crystals were
worked up separately, as they were probably purer than the solution.
On boiling the solution to decompose the excess of ammonium sulphide,
some of the ammonic carbonate was decomposed, causing the precipita-
tion of some uranium sulphide. This precijjitate was discarded, as it
might have contained iron, or other analogous metals which had previ-
ously escaped precipitation. Dilute hydrochloric acid in slight excess
was added, and the carbon dioxide was expelled by boiling. The free
acid was then almost neutralized with pure ammonic hydroxide, and
* This method of uranium purification, with some modifications and additions,
is similar to that employed by Zimmermann. Annalen der Chemie u. Pharmacie,
232, 299.
VOL. xxxvii. — 25
