386 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
pure ammonic su]phhydrate added in excess. The color of the result-
ing precipitate of uranium sulphide varies greatly with the temperature,
lu warm solution it was at first reddish brown, while that precii)itated in
the cold varied from bright red to brownish yellow. On washing, all
turn black, the sulphide being decomposed into uranous oxide and sul-
phur. After thorough washing the resulting mixture of oxide and
sulphur was ignited in a porcelain dish, the green urano-uranic oxide
being the product.
The oxide was then dissolved in a platinum dish in redistilled nitric
acid, evaporated, and recrystallized from nitric acid solution. Uranyl
nitrate does not crystallize well from aqueous solution, but it was found
that if a little nitric acid is added, it crystallizes readily in fairly large
monoclinic prisms. This recrystallization was repeated ten times from
acid solution, and finally twice from aqueous solution. Finally the pure
nitrate was converted to the oxide by ignition in platinum. A second
sample, used in the preliminary series, was prepared by repeated
fractionation of the mother liquors of the first sample.
Since this work was carried out. Sir William Crookes * has published
the account of several methods by which he was able to prepare specimens
of uranyl nitrate which were not radio-active. The radio-activity of
uranium has hitherto been supposed to be characteristic of this element.
Crookes has shown, however, that this is not the case, but that the
active element can be separated by treatment with ether, by fractional
crystallization, or by treatment with excess of ammonium carbonate.
Unfortunately none of the pure oxide prepared for this investigation
remained, hence it is impossible to test directly its radio-activity. Since
two of Crookes's methods were used in purifying our material, viz. the
ammonium carbonate treatment and fractional crystallization, it is highly
improbable that our oxide was radio-active. In repeating Crookes's
work with nitrate made from some of the same material used in pre-
paring our best nitrate, it was found that a sample of the ^/i/i!A crystalliza-
tion gave no trace of action on twenty-four hours exposure to a quick
photographic plate. The material used in this experiment had not been
submitted to the ammonium carbonate treatment. "When it is con-
sidered that the material used for our atomic weight determinations was
first put through the carbonate process, — in itself sufficient to remove the
radio-active element, — and then was recrystallized twelve times as
nitrate, it would seem that our pure oxide must have been free from
all radio-active material.
* Proceed. Lond. Royal Soc, 66, 409 (1900).
