394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
during the analysis ; for every step of this procedure was verified by
confirmatory evidence. If a flaw existed, it must have been in the
purity of the original substance. Since the observed atomic weight is
lower than the former results, it is important to examine into only
those possible irregularities which could have had the effect of lowering
the apparent value.
The probable impurities tending to lower the atomic weight are, first,
sodic bromide ; second, hydrobromic acid ; third, free bromine ; fourth,
uranic pentabromide ; and fifth, an unknown metal with a lesser equiva-
lent. The first impurity was found to be present, its amount was deter-
mined, and a suitable correction was applied. The second could not have
been formed during the sublimation of the uranous bromide, because com-
pounds of hydrogen were scrupulously excluded. If formed by the action
of water after the sublimation, the atomic weight would have appeared
too high — for moist uranous bromide emits hydrobromic acid instead of
absorbing it. The third impurity, free bromine, could hardly have been
imprisoned or absorbed by the sharply crystalline salt to any appreciable
extent, since the concentration of the bromine vapor in the issuing gases
was but small.
The evidence in regard to the absence of pentabromide is fiiirly conclu-
sive, although somewhat indirect. All attempts by many investigators
to form this compound have failed, in spite of the recognized existence of
the corresponding chlorine compound. It seemed possible, however,
that while this compound is not formed at high temperatures, lower
temperatures might permit the addition of the extra bromine. Accord-
ingly the jireparations used in Analyses 7, 8, 10, and 11, were cooled
in a current of dilute bromine vapor, instead of in pure nitrogen. The
presence of a comparatively small amount of pentabromide would make
a very decided difference in the quantity of bromine found. Hence the
essential agreement of the average result of these analyses, 238.50, with
the average result of all the others, 238.52, is good evidence of the
absence of uranium pentabromide.
"With regard to the fifth possible impurity nothing can be said except
to point out the many operations involved in the purifications. These
seem to point toward probable purity ; but it is nevertheless to be re-
gretted that lack of time prevented the analysis of many different fractions
of material, prepared in varying ways.
The presence of oxybromide would of course cause low bromine anal-
yses, and too high an apparent atomic weight. Therefore this possible
cause of error need not be considered, even if the oxybromide had ever
