24 PEOCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Monoicomyces furcillatus nov. sp.
Receptacle consisting of two small cells which are hardly distinguish-
able owing to a general blackish brown suffusion ; producing on either
side a stout blackened prolongation, the two forming a nearly symmetri-
cal fork-like structure, the prongs of which are slightly curved inward,
and slightly divergent. From near the base of these outgrowths and
between them arise, apparently from single basal cells on both sides,
single stalked perithecia and antheridia. The antheridia rather long
and slender, their detailed structure not determinable in the types. The
perithecia long and slender, straight, symmetrical, pale yellowish, slightly
inflated toward the base, tapering gradually to the blunt apex. Spores
about 40 X 3 ^. Perithecia 135 X 27 fi. Outgrowths from the recep-
tacle 110 X 12 fi.
Near the tip of the abdomen of Aleochara repetita Sharp. Panama.
Sharp Collection, No. 1095. Of the three individuals obtained one only
is in fair condition, and none have antheridia in which the details of
structure can be made out. Owing to the suffusion and great reduction
of the receptacle it is further impossible to determine the exact origin of
the remarkable fork-like outgrowths, or the other structures which arise
from it. The form is a most peculiar one and recognizable without diffi-
culty ; yet, until further data are obtained concerning it, its generic
position cannot be certainly determined, although it seems at least more
closely allied to Monoicomyces, in which it is provisionally placed, than
to any other known type.
Monoicomyces Aleocharae nov. sp.
Pale amber, shiading to amber brown. Receptacle, together with the
foot and the basal cell of the terminal appendage, forming a heart-shaped
body, blackened below, bearing terminally a median, rigid, slender, almost
wholly opaque, black branch, abruptly distinguished from its broad basal
cell : the subbasal cell of the receptacle small, triangular when viewed
side wise, giving rise to two fertile branches, the short small basal cells
of which give rise at once each to two secondary branches and an anther-
idium ; the branchlets proliferous and forming an axis of usually three
cells, the lower bearing an antheridium, and each of the two upper an
antheridium and a perithecium ; there being thus sixteen antheridia and
eight perithecia, in fully and symmetrically developed specimens, which
form a dense, spreading, fan-like tuft, the antheridia being in general
posterior in position, overlapping one another between the black sterile
