RICHARDS AND MERIGOLD. ATOMIC WEIGHT OP URANIUM. 395
been made in the absence of water. In the light of all these consid-
erations, there would seem to be no good reason to question the purity
of our bromide.
On comparing the result of this investigation, 238.53, with that of
Zimmermann's, 239.59 (the only previous work worthy of serious consid-
eration), the difference of over a unit seems at first to be one of great
magnitude. The percentage difference (0.45%) is however smaller than
many a difference which often has been passed by unheeded in small atomic
weights, such as those of magnesium or aluminum. This point illustrates
the difficulty of obtaining results with high atomic weights which can
satisfy the cursory reader.
Nevertheless, such a difference is far too great to pass unchallenged.
It seems highly probable that the greater part of it is due to the
previously discussed sources of inaccuracy in Zimmermann's method, —
especially to the difficulty of wholly re-oxidizing the lower oxide.
The failure to oxidize half a per cent of the uranous oxide, involving an
error in the weight of only 0.017 per cent of the total weight of the
substance, would account for the discrepancy.
Heuce it seems not unlikely that the atomic weight of uranium is
really as low as 238.53. Nevertheless, the question cannot be looked
upon as conclusively settled. Certainty can be obtained only by the
application of a new method, radically different from the two just com-
pared. Our experience of nearly four years of varied work seems to
indicate that the search for such method will not be an easy one. The
many degrees of quantivalence of uranium and the unsuitable properties
of its compounds combine to render the problem one of unusual difficulty.
When face to face with a problem of this kind one cannot but admire
Stas's wisdom in selecting chiefly univalent elements with powerful
affinities in order to prove the constancy of the atomic weights.
The result of our analyses of uranous bromide may be summed up iu
the following words: If oxygen is taken as 16.000, and bromine as
79.955, the atomic weight of uranium appears to be not far from
238.53.
Cambridge, Mass., U. S. A. 1897-1901.
