400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
the compressibility of a compound contains too many possible variables
to form at once the certain basis of exact reasoning ; and among elements
only mercury, lead, copper, and iron in the uncertain form of steel, seem
to have been even crudely stvidied.* The problem is moreover compli-
cated by the fact that the coefficient of compressibility diminishes as the
pressure increases.
The work which is needed in order to compress a given substance to a
given extent can only be computed accurately when the varying com-
pressibility through the whole range is known ; and since the pressures
involved in the present question are clearly many thousands of atmos-
pheres, the precise solution of the problem seems to be a distant matter,
although by no means impossible.
By a process of approximation some light may be obtained, however.
If one selects a single series of compounds, such as the chlorides, it is
obvious that a large part of the compressibility throughout the series
should correspond to the compressibility of the chlorine. In those cases
where the compressibility of the metal is smallest, the change of volume
would be due almost solely to the compression of the non-metal.
In view of these considerations, the first approximation should be
obtained by comparing the actual contractions taking place during the
formation of amounts of substance containing the same weight of chlorine
with the heat evolved in each case. The starting point in each case is
liquid chlorine, having a molecular volume of about 50 (or an atomic
volume of about 25) at 20°. The heat of formation of the chloride is
usually given in tables of data as starting from chlorine gas, under
atmospheric pressure ; hence the latent heat of evaporation and expan-
sion of tbe chlorine should be subtracted fi"om the usual values in order
to institute a precise comparison. f However, these quantities cannot be
large in proportion to the heat of combination with the metal, and they
* Landolt and Bornstein, Pliys. Cliem. Tab., pp. 268, 278 (1894). Unless
otherwise stated, all data used in this paper were taken from this admirable book
of tables.
t The latent heat might be approximately calculated from the data of Knietsch
(Landolt and Bornstein, p. 80 (1894)) as follows : —
_ RT^dP 8.32 X (293.5)2 X 0-19 „„ ,^„ . , on r;
^ ^ PdT ^ 6 (52 X 1 ^ ' -■ ' ^^
kilojoules, between 20° and 21° C, for the evaporation of one gram-molecule. The
wide deviations from the gas-law exhibited by chlorine render the calculation
very uncertain. It is enough, however, to show that the value is relatively small.
The heat absorbed on expansion must also be in doubt on account of the same
deviations.
