406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
If one accepts these guesses, and imagines that the compressibilities
decrease with decreasing volume according to the usual approximate law,
one arrives at the conclusion that an amount of work equivalent to the
heat of combination of sodium and chlorine would correspond to a
change of volume in the system not far from the observed change
of volume. Tlie outcome is complicated by the fact that even in ele-
ments, but especially in compounds, there may be superposed several
grades of compressibility. This can be explained hypothetically as fol-
lows : When the molecule is composed of two atoms, the highly com-
pressed portion of each atom at the point of chemical union should have
a much smaller coefficient of compressibility than the slightly compressed
remainder of the molecule. If the molecule is polymerized, there will
probably be yet other grades of compressibility in the various parts. The
only object of a calculation so uncertain as this is to show that the heats
of formation are of the same order of magnitude as the work involved in
the compression.
In spite of the inevitable difficulties in the way of interpretation —
difficulties which seem to be irdierent in the problem — the presumption
is strong that the chief source of the lieat of clievtical combination is the
work performed in compressing the material. Since the heat of reaction
is known to represent only approximately the free energy of the reaction,
while the compression may really represent the affinities at work, one
would hardly expect the relation to be exact. The generalization is a
question of fact ; it does not necessarily involve any atomic hypothesis,
and can be regarded as uncertain only on account of the uncertainty
of the data at present accessible. It is my intention to carry out
the experimentation necessary to place the law on a more stable
basis.
In the same way any other manifestation of attraction or affinity, such
as cohesion or adhesion, should have a compressing effi,'ct and therefore
evolve heat. The superficial and limited nature of these phenomena
would ordinarily prevent any appreciable rise in temperature. In some
cases, however, as in the adsorption of liquids and gases by porous ma-
terial exposing a large surface, such a heating effect has been actually
observed. Thus the essential difference between water of crystallization
and adsorbed water is that the former penetrates the mass, while the
latter is merely superficial.
It is obvious, moreover, that the same considerations apply to solidifi-
cation and change of allotropic form. For example, liquid phosphorus,
yellow phosphorus, and red phosphorus have at 44° the atomic volumes
