THAXTER. — NEW LABOULBENIACEAE. 25
appendage and the perithecia. Antheridium distally broadened and
truncate, elongate ; the stalk-cells about equal and about one half the
length of the body of the antheridium or somewhat longer than this ; the
basal cells unequal ; the cells of the two middle tiers, and their antheridia,
clearly distinguishable ; the terminal cells forming four unequal, rounded
prominences, the upper inner angle of each cell separated by an almost
vertical septum to form the four "• guard cells," that terminate in papillate
prominences just below which they proliferate to form the characteristic,
erect, sterile appendages, all four of which do not always develop ; the
sterile appendages relatively short, two to three-septate, tapering to a
blunt point, distinctly inflated above the slightly constricted base. Peri-
thecium relatively large, straight or slightly curved, somewhat inflated
below, tapering gradually to the rather short, moderately well distin-
guished tip; the apex bluntly rounded, the basal cells relatively small;
the stalk-cell variably developed, its distal end usually somewhat broader
than the basal cells collectively, sometimes more than half as long as the
body of the perithecium. Spores about 50-55 X 4-5 fi. Perithecia
130-185 X 35-55^, the stalk-cell 35-100 X 18-25^. Antheridia 70-
75 X 22 fj, its appendages 45-50 fi. Receptacle about 35 X 28 ^u.
Greatest general length and width of largest individual 350 X 300^.
On Aleochara rujipes Boh. Derema, Usambara, East Africa. Berlin
Museum, Nos. 844 and 845.
EUHAPLOMYCES nov. gen.
Receptacle consisting of two cells, the upper bearing a free stalked
antheridium and a stalked perithecium. Antheridium conical, consisting
of a single stalk-cell followed by a basal cell from which is separated
a group of smaller cells some of which (two or four ?) extend upward
and inward to form antheridial cells : above these follow three external
marginal cells, the lowest of which lies beside the antheridial cells; the
uppermost succeeded by a conical chamber terminating in a pore, and
extending downward along the inner sides of the marginal cells to form
a cavity into which the antheridial cells empty. Perithecium resembling
that of Haplomyces and having two ascogeuic cells.
Euhaplomyces Ancyrophori nov. sp.
Receptacle small, the basal cell somewhat longer, nearly hyaline,
tapering to the relatively small foot; the subbasal cell becoming pale
amber brown. Antheridium, including its short stalk-cell, about as long
