RICHARDS. — SOURCE OF CHEMICAL HEAT. 409
urged ; one, the continuity of the liquid and gaseous state, and the other,
the porosity of solids.
In answer to the first, attention may be called to the fact that the con-
tinuity of the liquid and gaseous condition exists actually only at the
critical pressure ; below that point they are, as a matter of fact, discon-
tinuous and very different. Perhaps the critical pressure is simply the
point where the gas molecules at the critical temperature are pressed
into actual contact. The compressibilities of very compressed gases are,
in fact, of the same order of magnitude as those of liquids.
Porosity is usually only manifest under very great pressure, which
might be enough to compress the atoms into smaller space, and thus
open orifices which previously did not exist.
From these considerations it seems to me that the new kinetic concep-
tion of the solid and liquid state has no disadvantages which the old
conception does not possess, while it has many advantages which the old
theory has not.
But it is not the intention of the present paper to enter into the detail
of so large a question. I hope that in the next few years I may be
permitted to study and report upon the possible consequences of the
significance of changing atomic volume.
In the preceding paper and the present one, the following phenomena
have been suggested as capable of a new and plausible interpretation if
atoms are considered as capable of altering their volume through a wide
range ; namely, the heat of chemical reaction, adsorption, adhesion,
and cohesion ; ordinary solution ; electrolytic solution ; electrolytic dis-
sociation ; the passage of electricity through solids, liquids and gases ;
the nature of cathode rays (and probably also X rays and radium) ; the
laws of Faraday and Dulong and Petit ; false and true equilibrium ;
heat capacity and thermal expansion ; quantivalence ; stereo-chemistry
and crystal form ; and the critical phenomena.
Following papers will be devoted to a development, quantitative
where possible, of these applications, as well as of many others. Unless
further study reveals discrepancies, which have hitherto been concealed,
I expect to be able to show : —
1. That the conception is not inconsistent with the two laws of energy.
2. That it conflicts with none of the quantitative conclusions of the
atomic hypothesis, nor with the kinetic theory of gases, if heat be assumed
to be due to mechanical energy operating upon atomic inertia.
3. That it is able to interpret the actual deviations of gases from the
gas law better than any other theory, retaining the essential import of
