410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
the equation of van der Waals, and modifying this equation only as
regai'ds the changeability of a and b.
4. That it is consistent with the varying specific heats of substances
in the solid, liquid, and gaseous states.
5. That with the help of this theory such physical properties as ten-
acity, ductility, malleability, and coefficient of expansion assume for the
first time a conceivable consisteney.
6. That upon it may be based a definition of the essential influences
of chemical change and equilibrium.
7. That the variable compressibility of atoms furnishes a plausible
explanation for many of the phenomena of quantivalence, including even
the feeble affinities holding water of crystallization and other so-called
molecular combinations.
8. That it explains all the tridimensional relations of material, such as
stereochemistry and crystal form, at least as well as any other theory.
9. That with the proviso that electrical energy is a rhythmic mani-
festation of energy, — tending to repel itself and therefore to keep upon
the surface of material which is susceptible to it, and hence to expand
a free atom, — many of the electrical and magnetic phenomena of matter
become more conceivable.
10. That the effect of light in hastening the attainment of chemical
equilibrium, and the possibility of storing and emitting light energy
possessed by material, may be interpreted in a similar way.
11. That the careful considei'ation of all these and other facts leads
to a somewhat new conception of the relation between gravitation and
chemical affinity, as well as between matter and luminiferous ether.
This conception involves simply an antithesis of contracting and expand-
ing tendencies, and is thus founded entirely upon an energetic basis.
12. That the idea is capable of throwing light upon the periodic sys-
tem, and the genesis and permanence of the elements.
13. That it may be applied even to such astrophysical problems as
the cause of the sun's heat.
This is a large program ; some of it is already in manuscript, and more
must await further exact experiment. The program is given here only to
call attention to the wide possibilities of the consistent introduction of the
conception of atomic compressibility into chemistry and molecular physics.
The present paper is only one step in the direction indicated. It is
nevertheless an important step, for it adds approximate quantitative
evidence to the previously given qualitative evidence concerning the
significance of changing atomic volume.
