RICHARDS. — SOURCE OF CHEMICAL HEAT. 411
in. Summary.
The contents of the paper may be divided into two parts : In the first
part is set forth an approximate generahzation which rests upon facts
alone. This part of the paper can be overthrown only by the proof that
the facts upon which it rests are erroneous. In the second part of the
paper a plausible hypothetical interpretation of the facts is given. This
part of the paper stands ready to share the fate of all hypotheses, —
namely, to retire into oblivion if it is not capable of aiding the discovery
of truth.
In brief, the chief points touched upon may be summed up as follows : —
I. (rt) It has been shown that the contraction exhibited during
chemical combination is in many cases approximately proportional to the
heat evolved.
(b) Upon correcting the results for known differences of compressibility,
the approximation becomes closer.
(c) An approximate calculation of the work which would probably be
involved by the compression of a gram-atom each of sodium and chlorine
into the space occupied by a gram-molecule of salt showed this work to
be of the same order of maijnitude as the actual heat of formation.
(d) From these facts and calculations the inference is drawn that the
heat of chemical reaction is chiefly due to the energy required for the
compression which takes place in the reaction.
(e) Possible corrections are pointed out.
(f) An explanation is given upon the same basis of the mechanism of
the heat of adsorption, adhesion, and change of allotropic form.
II. (a) While the evidence is not exact, it affords a strong presump-
tion in favor of the hypothesis of compressible atoms. The possibly far-
reaching effect of this simple and plausible hypothesis upon chemical
theory is pointed out.
(b) There is given a list of the especially prominent aspects of the
question which will form the subjects of immediate experimental and
theoretical study in this Laboratory.
Cambridge, Mass., U. S. A.
