CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE CHEMICAL LABORATORY OF
HARVAUU COLLEGE.
ON THE ACCURACY OF THE IMPROVED VOLTAMETER.
Bv Theodore William Richards and George William Heimrod.
Presented February 12, 1902. Received January 29, 1902.
Introduction.
In a recent preliminary paper * it was shown that the disturbing in-
fluences in the common silver " voltameter " (or better, coulometei- f) are
due to the concentrated liquid which falls from the anode. In order to
avoid the inaccuracy thus caused, it was suggested that the anode be
surrounded by a fine-grained porous cup, which is capable of preventing
this heavy liquid from reaching the kathode.
The weight of silver deposited by a given current in such a voltameter
was found to correspond very closely to the amount of copper deposited
at the same time in a copper voltameter shielded as much as possible
from all discoverable sources of error ; hence it seemed probable that the
new voltameter gives the true value of the electrochemical equivalent of
silver.
In a matter so important as this, however, it seemed advisable to ob-
tain much more information concerning the constancy and trustworthiness
of the new instrument, as well as to discover if possible the mechanism
of the phenomena which rendered the older form untrustworthy. The
investigation described below was undertaken with these objects.
I. The Constancy of the Porous Cup Voltameter.
The first problem was to determine if two instruments in series would
always give identical results; in other words, to find if the new voltam-
eter is always consistent with itself.
* Richards, Collins, and Heimrod, These Proceedings, 35, 12.3 (1899).
t The word " voUameter " was devised before electrical dimensions were
understood. It is moreover too much like the universally used and suitable word
" voltmeter." Now that the former instrument is placed upon a firm basis of
accuracy, it may appropriately receive also an accurate name ; and it is hoped that
the new word "coulometer" may replace wholly the anachronism.
