RICHARDS AND HEIMROD. — THE IMPROVED VOLTAMETER. 419
irregularity of Lord Rayleigh's voltameter is probably a heavy complex
ion ; hence it is not surprising that both the migration-rate and the
ditfusion-rate of the impurity is small. On the other hand, when the
porous cup is too coarse-grained or too large, or when the anode solution
is allowed to rise too high and thus filter through, the effect of the diffu-
sion betrins to be manifest. The same error begins to show itself when
the viscosity of the solution is diminislied by increasing temperature, as
we showed in the preceding paper.
If now the formation of ionized silver at the anode is attended by such
disturbing side reactions, it is reasonable to assume that a remedy may
be found in the use of an anode of some other metal. For this purpose
zinc seemed to offer peculiar advantages ; it possesses only one degree of
quantivalence, and has so great a solution-tension as to avoid the possi-
bility of contaminating the deposit of silver at the kathode.
A zinc rod (so-called " C. P.") served as the anode in the following
two experiments, and it was surrounded by a ten per cent solution of
zincic nitrate prepared from the same material by solution in nitric acid
(standing for a week over zinc), filtration, and crystallization. The
kathode solution consisted of a ten per cent solution of argentic nitrate,
as usual.
TABLE II.
The Effect of a Zinc Anode.
No. of
Experiment.
Wt. of Silver
in Ordinary
Porous Cup
Voltameter.
wt. of Silver
in Voltameter
with
Zinc Anode.
Difference.
Percentage
Difference.
11
12
grams.
2.69702
2.36195
grams.
2.69688
2.36209
milligram.
-0.14
+0.15
per cent.
-0.005
+0.006
Average error .... 0.01
0.001
A peculiar reaction was observed during this electrolysis. The zinc
rod was covered with a copious white flaky precipitate, and a marked
test for nitrite was observed in the supernatant solution.* Thus the
ionization of the zinc is attended with the formation of basic salt and
* See also Senderens, Comp. Rend., 104, 504 ; also Ber. d. d. ch. Ges., 20, 197 R
(1887).
