420 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
zinc nitrite. The NO3' ion must have been decomposed into NO.,' and
oxygen. This same reaction takes place when silver serves as an anode
in its nitrate solution, although to a much smaller extent.
In spite of the irregularities just described, the deposition on the
kathode proceeded in a perfectly regular manner, and the figures show
that as much silver was deposited in one cell as in the other.
Still another means of testing the porous cup voltameter was found in
its comparison with a device which eliminates the porous cup wholly,
but which nevertheless keeps the anode solution quite away from the
cathode. This device consists in placing the anode at the bottom of a
tall beaker filled with a concentrated solution of argentic nitrate (200
grams of the salt in a litre of solution), and arranging the kathode in
the upper part of the vessel.* The anode solution becomes heavier
and remains around the anode, while the kathode solution becomes
lighter and rises to the surface. In order to prevent this dilution
around the kathode from diminishing too much the concentration of the
contiguous liquid, it is well to sink the kathode at least two centimeters
below the surface. A circular disk of platinum wire gauze,t six centi-
meters in diameter, was used as the kathode, since many holes in gauze
permitted the ready escape upward of the impoverished electrolyte.
The gauze was bent around a stout circular platinum wire, and the disk
was stiffened by four radial wires, and was hung rigidly from the centre.
The vertical distance between this kathode and the anode was about
seven centimeters. The anode consisted of a plate of pure silver, and its
platinum connecting wire was protected from the solution by an enclos-
ing glass tube.
The chief trouble encountered in manipulating the voltameter thus
constructed is the danger of losing fine crystals of silver from the flexi-
ble gauze. In the two experiments described below every precaution
was taken to avoid this source of error, and it is believed that no appre-
ciable weight was lost. Another disadvantage of the gauze is the fact
that metals deposited upon it are very apt to include minute quantities of
electrolyte because of the interstices arising from its woven structure.
Even silver deposited in a crucible contains some included mother
liquor, and that deposited on the gauze contains much more. In the
two experiments given below, the first deposit on the gauze lost 0.42
milligram on gentle ignition in a large porcelain crucible, and the
* Merrill, Pliys. Rev., X, 169 (1000).
t Paweck, Zeitsch. fiir Berg. u. Hiittenwesen, 46, 570 (1898) ; Winkler, Ber. d.
d. ch. Ges., 32, 2192 (1899).
