26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
as the receptacle, becoming pale amber brown, tapering to a pointed
apex. Perithecium becoming pale amber brown, relatively large, thick
walled, considerably and abruptly inflated above the basal cells, somewhat
asymmetrical, tapering rather evenly to the blunt apex ; the stalk-cell
long, thick walled, slightly curved, nearly hyaline, distally somewhat
broader, not distinguished from the basal cells. Spores about 40-45
X3.5ja. Perithecia 180-200 X 72-82 /^ ; the stalk-cell 110-120 X
28-30 /A. Antheridium including the stalk-cell 55-65 /j.. Total length
to tip of perithecium 360 /a.
On the superior surface of the abdomen of Ancyrophorus aureus.
Dumfriesshire, Scotland. Sharp Collection, No. 1091.
Eucantharomyces Xanthophaeae nov. sp.
Perithecium (not fully mature) straw colored, somewhat asymmetrical,
almost symmetrically and but slightly inflated from base to apex; the
tip short, well distinguished ; the lip-cells rounded, and slightly inflated,
forming a knob-like termination, one of them protruding in the form of
a slight tongue-like projection beyond the others : the stalk-cell about
as long as the receptacle, from which it projects at an angle, being more-
over turned at the same time a little to one side. The cells of the recep-
tacle subequal, lying side by side, the basal one extending to the base of
the stalk-cell of the perithecium, with which it is in contact. Appendage
relatively large, the stalk-cell subtriangular, somewhat larger than the
basal cell which is wholly overlapped externally by the well defined and
distally somewhat inflated marginal cell; the antheridial cells in four
tiers of seven, six, five and four cells respectively ; the discharge-tube
long and curved outward. Spores about 36 X 4 /a. Perithecia 165 X
50 II, the stalk-cell 46 X 20 yu,. The appendage to tip of discharge tube
120 /x, the antheridium proper 55 X 30 /x. Total length to tip of peri-
thecium 290 |U.
On the right inferior margin of the prothorax of Xanthophaea vittata
Dej., Australia. Berlin Museum, Noo 973.
Dichomyces bifidus nov. sp.
Basal cell slightly enlarged, pellucid, tinged with brown, about as long
as broad : the lower tier, and more or less of the middle tier, opaque ;
the marginal cells of the latter forming a bluntly rounded, sometimes
almost obsolete projection on either side, hardly extending above the
