RICHARDS AND HEIMROD. — THE IMPROVED VOLTAMETER. 425
But Kahle * found that in weaker solutions acid is produced instead
of being removed, and we have verified his results. Clearly this must be
due to yet another irregularity. Wlien the solution is dilute and neutral,
oxygen and hydroxyl ions are both present in appreciable amount, ac-
cording to modern electrochemical interpretation. Their greater ease of
deionizatian would compensate for their relatively small concentration,
and traces of negative electricity might be cai-ried out of the solution
through their agency with the formation again of argentic oxide, or even
oxveren gas. The reaction would, however, leave an excess of ionized
hydrogen (acid) in solution, a state of affairs not paralleled in the case of
the nitrite. This would explain the phenomena in question.
But would not the argentic oxide at once dissolve in the simultaneously
formed acid, and thus form argentic nitrate again? Or, in other words,
does argentic oxide form with silver an oxide-complex of any degree of
stability? Hellwigtin a recent paper has shown that the weak silver
ion in the presence of the strong NOs" ion tends to strengthen itself by
taking up a molecule of some other undissociated substance, as AgCl,
Agl, AgBr, or AgCN. He has proved also that the solution actually
contains ions like Agol"*", since on electrolysis the iodine accumulates at
the kathode, and disappears from the anode.
lu order to find if argentic oxide could in a similar way associate itself
with the silver ion, we boiled very pure argentic oxide with a concen-
trated solution of argentic nitrate, and filtered the solution hot. Upon
"being diluted with cold water this solution yielded a white precipitate,
which tui-ned gray upon standing. The precipitate was soluble in dilute
nitric acid, hence it could not have been an argentic halide ; besides,
every precaution had been taken to exclude the halogens. The com-
pound precipitated on dilution must, therefore, be silver hydroxide or a
basic salt; and a basic complex must have existed in solution.
It is by no means inconceivable that this complex, although finally de-
composed by acid, should not yield at once to its action. In the meantime
the acid, diffusing at a far more rapid rate than the heavy complex, would
have partly left the immediate neighborhood of the anode, and hence the
heavy solution around the latter would fall with its basic load to the
bottom of the kathode vessel. There the complex ion (possibly AgjO^)
would be capable of transferring electricity as well as any other ion, and
upon deionization would deposit over three times the weight of material
* Kalile, Wicd. Ann., 67, 1 (1899).
t Zeilsclir. aiiorg. Cheui., 25, 157 (1900).
