RICHARDS AND HEIMROD. THE IMPROVED VOLTAMETER. 431
of the usual disturbauce. But in view of the fact that even a deficit of
0.14 per cent can be obtained, not much importance can be attached to
these results, since it is impossible to say how much is due to the oxidiz*
ing action, how much to the disturbing influence capable of causing an
actual deficiency.
These indirect methods of determining the presence of a complex yield-
ing metallic silver being somewhat unsatisfactory, recourse was had to a
more direct method. It seemed highly probable tliat the anode solution
ought to be able to deposit silver without the help of the galvanic current.
In order to show this, a porous cup voltameter was set up in the usual
manner, except that the anode was closely wrapped in filter paper to
retain the fine crystal powder which always separates from it. A current
of 0.25 ampere was sent through the voltameter, and every ten minutes
a portion of the clear anode solution was taken from the bottom of the
porous cup by means of a small pipette, and quickly transferred to a
small weighed platinum crucible.
The crucible had been previously coated with silver in order to estab-
lish equilibrium more quickly in case a compound existed in the solution
which tended to deposit silver.
After one hour's standing, the liquid was removed and the crucible was
washed and dried, as a deposit from electrolysis would have been. The
increase in weight of the crucible must represent the deposit from the
anode solution.
TABLE X.
Gain in Weight of Silver in Contact with Anode Solution.
No. Increase in Weight.
Milligram
33 0.35
Si 0.08
35 0.25
36 0.63
Mean . . 0.33
The weight of the same crucible did not change perceptibly when
allowed to remain in contact with a solution of silver nitrate of like con-
centration, through which no current had previously been passed. The
above increase in weight shows beyond a doubt, therefore, that the anode
solution is capable of depositing on a silver surface either silver or
some compound of this metal which must have been formed at the anode.
