482 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
The most striking evidence that a compound exists around the anode
which is capable of depositing pure silver is the existence of the " anode
dust." This consists of a fine powder, more or less closely adhering to
the anode. P]xamination with the microscope indicates that this powder
consists of minute crystals, which have every appearance of being metallic
silver. Rodger and Watson * analyzed the air-dried powder, and found
as a matter of fact that the metal is essentially pure. The contrary con-
clusions of Myers f and others may have been based upon results obtained
with small anodes, where argentic peroxide may have been formed.
In our experience the weight of this dust is approximately propor-
tional to the area of the silver anode, with a given current. It seems
highly probable, then, that the silver at first tends to separate from the
anode as a polymerized ion, perhaps Agg^, according to the common
principle tliat an unstable compound often forms the bridge between two
stable conditions, t The' greater portion of this complex ion would be
expected to break up at once into the normal argentic ion and metallic
silver (Ags"^ = Ag"*" + 2Ag), the latter forming the " anode dust." The
last traces of the complex might, however, jiersist for some time, and
give rise to all the phenomena seeming to be due to the existence of
supersaturated silver in the solution.
The argument has been so protracted that it is perhaps worth ^hile
to recapitulate the way in which this interpretation would explain the
irregularities not to be attributed to the nitrite and oxycomplexes.
This complex ion of polymerized silver undoubtedly unloads silver at a
lower potential (i. e. more easily) than the simple silver ion. Hence the
larger the kathode surface exposed, the greater part will the complexes
take in the carrying of the current, and the larger will be the deposit of
silver. This consequence of the theory agrees with the experience of
all experimenters. Moreover, since the complexes are unstable, and
continually tending to decompose, there must be always in solution a
trace of molecular unionized silver, which, being supersaturated, will
deposit on contact with solid silver. If the platinum bowl has been
previously lined with silver, this extra deposition will begin almost
immediately ; while if it has not been thus lined, an appreciable silver
surface will have to be formed before the relieving of the supersaturation
will begin to take place. This reasoning explains the invariable excess
of the deposit upon a silver kathode over and above the amount deposited
* Phil. Trans., 186 A, 632 (1895). t Wied. Ann., 55, 295 (1895).
t Ostwald, Z. phys. Chera., 22, 307 (1897).
