THAXTER. — NEW LABOULBENIACEAE. 27
venter of the short, stout, short-necked antheridia : the upper tier
relatively large, more or less crescent-shaped according to the degree of
lateral development, edged externally with blackish brown, more broadly
below, the brown area punctate ; the cells about thirty-one in the larger
individuals, the marginal ones forming a rather slender series, which
may curve abruptly upward nearly to the middle of the perithecia, or
assume a more divergent habit ; the perithecigerous area horizontal, pro-
ducing normally four perithecia, three appendages arising between the
two middle ones and one between each of the others, the external cells
bearing appendages as usual which vary in length. Perithecia rather
long and slender, hyaline or faintly yellowish brown, conspicuously
tinged with purplish brown below the perfectly hyaline tip, the anterior
lip-cells forming a pointed projection, the posterior ones forming each a
relatively large ear-like appendage which tapers to a pointed apex, and
is slightly curved, the two diverging from one another at an angle of
about 50°. Spores about 38 X 2.5 fi. Perithecium without appendages
126 X 25/i; the appendages 14/i,. Receptacle 220-350 X 120-lG5|u..
Total length to tip of perithecium 300-330 ix. Appendages 20-80 /x.
On the abdomen of (?) Philonthus sp. Ralum, New Pomerania.
Berlin Museum, No. 1013.
Dichomyces Belonuchi nov. sp.
Receptacle relatively large and long : the distal tier relatively small,
consisting of from eleven to thirteen short cells, slightly suffused, the
median cells little longer than the rest, the series forming slight, rounded,
sometimes almost obsolete lateral projections on either side of the peri-
thecia : the basal cell small, partly transparent : the lower and middle
tiers not distinguished, uniformly opaque ; a portion of the middle cell,
and sometimes the tips of other cells in the middle tier, more or less
translucent, the marginal cells ending in a slight rounded prominence
below the base of the antheridiura. Perithecia normally two, evenly
suffused with pale reddish brown, rather long and slender, tapering
throughout, the conformation of the lip-cells much as in D. furciferus.
Spores about 30x3/x. Perithecia 75-80 X 18-20 /x. Receptacle
108-126 X 54-58 ju. Total length to tips of perithecia 185-200 ^a.
On the abdomen of Belonuchus fuseipes Fauvel. New Guinea.
Sharp collection, No. 1090.
