RICHARDS AND HEIMROD. — THE IMPROVED VOLTAMETER. 433
on one of platinum by the same current when only filter paper is used
to protect the kathode. The results of Kahle and others seem to indi-
cate that the presence of acid, which prevents the formation of the simple
oxycomplex, is fiivorable to the formation of the ion Agg + . This is
not surprising, since the oxycomplex is probably formed at the expense
of some of the silver which would otherwise remain in the polymerized
condition. The fact that the kathode deposit in the common voltameter
consists of comparatively few I.arge crystals, while the porous cup voltam-
eter yields a host of evenly distributed small crystals, is also explained
by this interpretation. Solutions having a tendency to supersaturation
always tend to deposit large crystals, for obvious reasons. When
the absence of acid increases the number of available hydroxy! ions,
the formation of the silver-complex is less considerable ; but the oxide-
complexes then begin to affect the result. In concentrated solutions of
the nitrate, this ion also enters into the irregularities. Thus the various
irregularities are not necessarily coexistent ; circumstances determine
which one shall play the most important part.
There seems, then, to be concordant evidence of conflicting tendencies
at work, some oxidizing and some reducing ; some tending to cause the
dissolving of too much silver at the anode, and some to cause the dissolv-
ing of too little. It seemed worth while to test the complicated conclu-
sion by determining accurately the loss of weight of silver at the anode,
in order to obtain a last ray of light upon the question. The disintegration
of the anode renders the determination of the loss somewhat difficult ;
but by carefully collecting all the silver powder left in the porous cup
(when no filter paper is used) on a Gooch crucible, and adding this
weight to the weight of the coherent part of the anode, fairly good
results may be obtained. The following table records a series of such
determinations. In each case the current strength amounted to about
0.25 ampere. The experiments are arranged below in the order of cur-
rent density.
In some cases the anode loses more than the ideal amount, in other
cases less. Such results can only be explained by the assumption of
several causes of inaccuracy, and the four which we have discussed seem
capable of explaining all the changes, l^ut it is not worth while to
trace out every possible variation ; enough has been said to emphasize
the great complexity of the side reactions which interpenetrate a
process apparently so simple, and at the same time to permit those
readers who are especially interested to work out the combinations for
themselves.
VOL. xxxvii. — 28
