436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
alloy, — although several times this could not be prevented. For heat-
ing the deposits oti platinum gauze (see Table IX), a small oven was
constructed from a large porcelain crucible, covered by a platinum fun-
nel. The platinum disc vi^as supported by a wire reaching through the
tube of the funnel. In this case, the silver in the platinum crucibles
with which that on the gauze was to be compared, was heated in the
oven also, in order to expose both to the same temperature. Since the
figures of this comparison are given in Table IX, it is necessary only to
tabulate here the loss observed in crucibles when heated directly. Of
course allowance has been made for the very slight hygroscopic loss
(0.10 milligram) which a platinum crucible without silver deposit would
have undergone. The silver films were usually those remaining from
some of the preceding determinations.
This perceutage loss is slightly higher than that given by Lord Ray-
leigh, and still larger than that determined indirectly by Richards and
Collins. It is evident that the amount of included mother liquor varies
according to the rate and mode of deposition, and it is quite possible that
different average amounts were really included in the several investiga-
tions. The inclusion is probably chiefly in recesses in the platinum
kathode. The differences in included liquid given in the above table are
of the same order as the differences in the uncorrected weights of silver
given at first ; * hence we may ascribe at least a part 6f the differences
in the early table to inclusion of mother liquor.
All this evidence unites in indicating that even under the best condi-
tions the silver does not exceed a purity of 99.99 per cent ; and in apply-
ing a correction, one should obviously use the value found in the particular
investigation under review.
IV. The Atomic Weight of Copper.
Having thus clear light upon the various errors of the silver voltam-
eter, it became a matter of great interest to recur to the original ques-
tion which started the whole investigation, namely, the quantitative
accuracy of Faraday's law.
Accordingly, a voltameter like that used by Richards and Collins f —
a modified form of Lord Rayleigh's instrument — was compared with
a standard porous cup voltameter, neither precipitate being ignited. The
* See page 418.
t Tliese Proceedings, 35, 133 (1899).
