442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
A few more points may be touched upon here, which follow directly
from the new value of the equivalent. A great number of physical
instruments have been standardized on the basis of a somewhat higher
electrochemical equivalent of silver, 0.001118. "Will they be affected
by the lowering of this number ? Evidently not, since if the value cor-
responding to a given mode of deposition is applied throughout, when-
ever this method is used, no constant error can result. Thus our low
value cannot be employed when the anode is unprotected, and the de-
posit not heated to redness.
Therefore, as was shown in our last paper, the discovery of a constant
error in the silver voltameter cannot help the discrepancy which exists
between the electrical and mechanical methods of determining Joule's
equivalent.
It is to be hoped that in the future, however, all experimenters will
use some method, such as ours, in which the anode complications are ex-
cluded. Obviously even the present condition of electrical science de-
mands a more precise electrochemical definition of the ampere than that
now prescribed.
The present research seems to define the practical unit of current
strength no less accurately than the practical unit of electro-motive force
has been defined. Thus in a laboratory provided with pure chemicals,
each of these units may be established without outside help, and with
their assistance a standard ohm may be produced without comparison
with any other standard ohm.
VI. Summary.
The results of the prolonged investigation may be summed up as
follows : —
1. The electrochemical equivalent of silver as determined by the
Lord Rayleigh voltameter is too high by at least 0.05 per cent.
2. The true rate of deionization of silver can be determined by the
use of a porous cup which prevents the solution at the anode from reach-
ing the kathode. Results of great consistency and accuracy are then
obtainable.
3. The porous cup does not introduce any new source of error, for
without it the same low results may be obtained when the anode is placed
below the kathode.
4. At higher temperature the complications grow larger.
0. The main disturbing factor is a complex silver ion formed at the
anode and carried over to the kathode, where it decomposes, thereby
