28 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Dichomyces Australiensis nov. sp.
Receptacle usually rather long and narrow, the basal cell relatively
large, hyaline or slightly suffused; the margins of the lower tier usually
continuous with those of the middle one, the marginal cells deep blackish
brown or quite opaque, the middle cell hyaline or ti-anslucent throughout,
its lower third often punctate : the middle tier consisting of about nine
cells, slightly suffused with pale reddish brown externally, more or less
edged with deep blackish brown ; the terminal cells forming a free
rounded projection on either side, extending as high as about the middle
of the rather large antheridia, the tips of which may reach to the bases
of the perithecia : the upper tier nearly hyaline, consisting normally of
from eleven to thirteen subequal cells, the terminal ones extending but
slightly higher than the bases of the perithecia, which are normally two
in number, rather deeply suffused with purplish brown throughout ; the
apex hyaline, the posterior lip-cells producing each a relatively large
bluntly pointed appendage, the two diverging nearly at right angles to
the axis of the perithecium, becoming slightly recurved, the distance from
tip to tip about twice the diameter of the perithecium. Appendages
nearly as long as the perithecia. Perithecium 60-70 X 16-20yLi, its
appendages 18 fx. Receptacle 90-100 X 42-48 /x. Total length to tip
of perithecium 160-170 /x.
On the superior surface of the abdomen of Quedius riificollis Grav.
Sharp Collection, No. 1102.
Dichomyces Mexicanus nov. sp.
General habit much like that of D. princejjs, generally rather long and
slender. Basal cell hyaline, the lower tier relatively long and narrow,
broadly edged externally with black ; the median cell hyaline, or only the
marginal cells slightly suffused with smoky brown : the middle tier dis-
tinguished from the lower by a slight prominence, hyaline, seven to nine
celled ; the marginal cells protruding but slightly on either side ; the
antheridia brownish, short, stout, blunt pointed : the upper tier relatively
very long, sometimes twice as long as the middle tier, consisting of from
nine to eleven cells ; the marginal cells protruding but slightly on either
side, very much as in the middle tier. Perithecia normally two, about
as long as the distal tier and concolorous with it, or somewhat darker,
rather stout, tapering but slightly; the tip rather abruptly distinguished,
broadly truncate with a slight median projection ; the posterior lip-cells
giving rise each to a long horizontal appendage, which becomes recurved,
