FERNALD. — CARICES OF SECTION HYPARRHENAE. 449
plate was drawn was collected by Tuckerman at the base of the White
Mountains ; and since it is necessary to distinguish the plant by a new
specific name (minor having been used too often as a varietal name to
be eligible) and since there is already a Carex Tuckermani, it is a
pleasure to commemorate the explorations and generous services of the
Crawford family, familiar to a lung generation of visitors to the White
Mountains. This plant with which their name now becomes associated
is common in northern New England and about the Great Lakes, thence
extendius far northward.
The other plant with narrow thick perigynia is more puzzling. In
the dark brown color of its broad scales it is unlike the other forms
which have been referred to Carex scoparia. In fact, by different
students it has been referred with doubt to C. tribuloides, C. lepornia,
and C. foenea as well. Yet in its perigynium it resembles only Boott's
C. scoparia, var. minor. This tall dark-spiked plant, which is common
in the region of Orono, Maine, has been collected by Professor Lamson-
Scribner and by the writer, but it seems to be unknown from other
regions. This fact immediately suggests that it may be an introduced
form, but a careful search through Old World material and descriptions
fails to show anything to which it can be referred. It is, therefore,
here treated as a local species, taking the name of the town from which
all our material has been collected.
One other form of the scoparia group should be specially mentioned
since, by an unfortunate misinterpretation, it has already caused needless
confusion. This is Carex scoparia, var. moniliformis, Tuckerman. A
specimen in the Gray Herbarium from Tuckerman himself, is without
question a slender-spiked form of C. scoparia. The variety was so
treated by Francis Boott, in whose table 368 it is well represented.
Yet in his Preliminary Synopsis of the genus Professor Bailey treated it
without question as identical with his own C. tribuloides, var. reducta ;
and Professor Britton, following his lead, has since made the new com-
bination, C. tribuloides, var. moniliformis (Tuckerman) Britton, for a
plant very different from that to which the varietal name was originally
applied.
Carex tribuloides, Wahl.,has been clearly treated by Professor Bailey.^
C. Bebbii, Olney, however, which by him is reduced to a variety of that
species, seems to be as well marked as other members of the subgenus,
and it is here given equal rank witli them. In its shorter, broader, and
1 Mem. Torr. CI., I. 54.
VOL. xxxvii. — 29
