450 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
thicker perigynia it is more nearly related to C. straminea and its
allies. So, likewise, C. cristata^ Sclivveiii., is reinstated as a species,
since its tolerably constant habit and its shorter, firmer perigynia place
it as near C. straminea as to C. tribuloides.
The diverse plants which have been treated by various authors, now
as distinct species, now as forms of Carex straminea, fall into groups
which are, in the main, fairly free from complexity. The attempt to
separate these forms by color-characters has naturally led to much con-
fusion, for plants which in bright sunlight have a strongly marked
ferrugineous tendency, in shade are often quite green. The shape, size,
nerving, and texture of the perigynia, however, show that almost with-
out exception the species proposed by Willdenow, Schkuhr, Torrey,
Schweinitz, Dewey, and other early students of the group were based on
permanent characters. To treat all these well marked and constant
forms as varieties of one species is adding confusion rather than clearness
to our interpretation of the genus, especially when several of them are
as closely related to other well recognized species.
The ideutity of Willdenow's Carex straminea was settled by Professor
Bailey^ in 1889, and a recent examination of Willdenow's material by
Dr. J. M. Greenman has verified Professor Bailey's conclusions. C.
albolutescens, Schweinitz, is now well understood, as are likewise C.
mirabilis^ Dewey, C. tenera, Dewey, C. BicknelUi, Britton (C. straminea,
var. CVat<;ei, Boott), and (7. a/afa, Torrey. But C. festucacea, Schkuhr,
C. straminea, var. brevior, Dewey, and C. foenea, var. j8, Boott, seem
to have been less clearly understood.
Schkuhr's Carex festucacea, according to the original description, was
a plant with about eight spikelets subapproximate or in a loosely
cylindric spike, and the species is so represented in Schkuhr's figure. It
is likewise well represented by Dr. Boott, who apparently had a clear
conception of the species, in his table 386. Schkuhr's C. straminea,
which we now know to be different from Willdenow's plant of that name,
was an extreme form of C. festucacea with fewer spikelets, and until
recently it passed as the type of the species ; i. e., C. straminea (tyjnca)
of Boott and others. This plant, however, was called by Dewey G.
straminea, var. brevior, and under that name it has lieeu treated by
Professor Bailey. He includes with it, though, the C. festucacea of
Schkuhr, a plant which, though closely related, is of rather marked
appearance and of more limited range. More recently Dr. Britton, in
1 Mem. Torr. CI., I. 21.
