FERNALD. CARICES OF SECTION HYPARRHENAE. 453
From the former species it differs constantly in its more slender habit
and flexuous elongated spikes of clavate-based spikelets, as well as iu
smaller achenes. It is a plant of broad range from Labrador to British
Columbia, creeping south to the coast of New England and the mountains
of New England and New York. Since its varietal name, sparsijlora,
is preoccupied in the genus, another specific name is here proi^osed in
reference to the characteristic color of the mature inflorescence.
The other large group of the Ihjpnrrhenae which has been treated
by recent authors as the subsection Elongatae contains plants of two
markedly different tendencies. One group is characterized by strongly
divergent thin-edged perigynia which are spongy at base. The other
group has ascending plump or plano-convex perigynia which are rarely
thin-edged and are without conspicuously spongy bases. Mr. Theodor
Holm, who has recently studied some of the members of the first group,
includes with them Carex gynocrates and C. exilis, which by most other
authors have been placed in the Dioicae. The texture and aspect of
the perigynia seem to justify the treatment proposed by Mr. Holm and
formerly for G. exilis by Francis Boott;^ and for the group thus con-
stituted Mr, Holm suggests the name Astrostachyae.^ The other group,
with ascending blunt-edged perigynia, may well retain the subsectional
name Elongatae, since the characteristic species, C. elongata, C. hrunne-
scens (C Gebhardii), C. canescens (C. curta), etc., were originally
included in it by Kunth.
Mr. Holm, in the paper cited, takes exception ^ to Professor Bailey's
recent treatment* of Carex echinata, C. sterilis, and C scirpoides, on
the ground that that author had been more controlled by the original
specimens of Willdenow and of Schkuhr than by the original diagnoses.
That Willdenow's original descriptions do not accord well with Pro-
fessor Bailey's conclusions there can be no doubt; and when we are
told by Professor Bailey that C. sterilis and C. scirpoides are identical,
and when he says "the figures of both C. sterilis (fig. 146) and C. scir-
poides (fig. 180) in Schkuhr's ' Riedgraser ' are unequivocal,"^ we find
it indeed difficult to understand his observations. An examination of
Schkuhr's figures shows his G. sterilis (fig. 146) to be a coarse plant
with sharp-pointed ovate scales and broad-ovate cordate perigynia with
distinct beak shorter than the body. Schkuhr's G. scirpoides (fig. 180),
on the other hand, is represented with broad-oblong or elliptical blunt
1 Boott, 111., I. 17. 2 Holm, Theo., Am. Jour. Sci., Ser. 4, XL 205-223.
3 Holm, 1. c, 212. * Bailey, Bull. Torr. CI., XX. 422.
5 Bailey, 1. c, 424.
