454 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
scales and deltoid-ovate obscurely short-beaked perigynia. These fio-ures
of Schkuhr's agree very well with his descriptious. Furthermore, they
agree equally well with Willdenow's diagnoses, for these latter were
essentially the same as Schkuhr's. Professor Bailey further states that
G. sterilis and 0. scirpoides are identical with the common American
plant which he had formerly treated as G. echinata, var. microstachys,
a plant with lanceolate or narrowly ovate slender-beaked perigynia ;
and for this aggregate he takes up the name G. sterilis. After thus
bunching three very different species as G. sterilis, he separates from
" our so-called Garex echinata " two plants, G. atlantica and G. interior,
with " ample specific characters."
Through the kindness of Dr. J. M. Greenman the writer has been
able to examine camera-drawings of Willdenow's original material ;
while from Professor Carl Mez he has received fragments from the
original material of Schkuhr. The drawings of the Willdenow mate-
rial of both Garex sterilis and G. scirpoides, and the Schkuhr specimens
of G. scirpoides agree with the original diagnoses. Dr. Greenman has,
further, compared critically specimens sent him of the different Ameri-
can forms with Willdenow's plants and with authentic specimens of
C. stellulata, Gooden. (C. echinata, Murray). The identification thus
made of these forms, leads to a conclusion very different from that
published by Professor Bailey. These results may best be stated by
discussing separately the three clearly cut species which have been so
unfortunately confused.
Garex echinata, Murray (C. stellulata, Gooden.). This sj^ecies was
long considered a boreal plant of broad range, and it was so treated
by Torrey, Tuckerman, Dewey, Carey, and other early students of
American Carices. Francis Boott distinctly implied that the European
species occurs in British America, saying: "I have not seen specimens
which I can satisfactorily refer to the European C. stellulata, south of
the British provinces of North America." ^ Yet Professor Bailey has
interpreted this to mean that " Francis Boott questioned if the Ameri-
can plant is the same as the European G. stellulata (or G. echinata) ; "
and in "eliminating the European species from our flora," he says:
" Definite specific characters of separation are obscure, and yet I am
convinced that they exist. The American plant is habitually taller
than the European, the scales are sharper and usually longer, the
perigynia are more strongly nerved and more attenuated or conical,
1 Boott, III, I. 56.
