FERNALD. — CARICES OF SECTION HYPARRHENAE. 455
and above all, it is far more variable. . . . There are probably no
species common to both countries, except those which are hyperboreal
and occur through the Arctic regions of both hemisphei'es, being found
in Greenland." ^
Then Professor Bailey defines his conception of the " habitually
taller " American plant with " sharper " scales, etc., etc., including in it
forms varying from the low slender Carex steUulata, var. augustata,
Carey, with '' narrowly-lanceolate perigynia tapering into a long . . .
beak,"- to the tall (often nearly 1 m. high) coarse C. sterilis, Willd.,
with broad-ovate perig}Dia, and the slender C. scirpoides, Schkuhr, with
thick scarcely beaked often nerveless deltoid-ovate perigynia and elliptic
blunt scales. The two latter constituents of this aggregate apparently
do not occur outside North America and if they are included with the
other American representative of C. echinata as one species, it is of
course easily said that the American plant is taller or shorter, coarser or
more slender than the European ; and certainly a species so constituted
is " far more variable."
When, however, we eliminate from the complex Carex sterilis of Pro-
fessor Bailey's treatment the true C. sterilis and C. scirpoides, there is left
a plant characterized by slender culms and leaves, the perigynia barely
half as broad as long, and tapering to a slender conspicuous beak which
is often nearly as long as the body. This is the C. echinata or C. steUu-
lata of American authors and it includes as formal variations the very
slender var. angustata^ Carey (C. echinata, var. microstachys, Boeckeler),
and the tall C. sterilis., var. excelsior, Bailey, while a very coarse varia-
tion with rather better defined characteristics is C. echinata, var. cepha-
lantha, Bailey.
This American species with the narrow perigynia has been compared
many times by the writer with European C. echinata in a vain attempt
to find some point of distinction. Specimens collected by Godet at
Lignieres on the River Cher in central France are inseparable from
Mortens' material from Sitka, and, again, Japanese specimens collected
by Chas. Wright and by Maries are identical in their slender perigynia
with Newfoundland plants. In order, however, to test still further the
specific value of the American plant a portion of Allen's Labrador mate-
rial was forwarded to Dr. Greenman at Berlin, and he was asked to
compare it, along with other American forms, with Willdenow's types
1 Bailey, Bull. Torr. CI., XX. 423.
- Carey in Gray, Man. 544.
