THAXTER. — NEW LABOULBENIACEAE. 31
cess being separated from a second, that resembles a lower mandible,
by a hyaline area which includes, and extends back from, the pore ; the
lower lip-cells translucent, but suffused with brown in such a way as to
suggest a tongue-like process projecting slightly between the " mandi-
bles." Spores very numerous, completely filling the cavity of the
perithecium, greatly attenuated, 85 x 2.5 /a. Perithecium 200 X 30 /a.
Receptacle to tip of distal cell 140 /a. Total length to tip of perithe-
cium 290-300 /a.
On the posterior legs of Laccophilus sp. Lake Eustis, Florida.
Chitonomyces BuUardi nov. sp.
Straw colored becoming tinged with pale amber brown. Basal cell of
the receptacle monstrously developed, about as long, sometimes twice as
long, as the remainder of the plant, its axis coincident with that of a distal,
variably developed, blunt, tooth-like, free posterior projection, near the
base of which the subbasal cell and the remainder of the plant project
backward at an angle of about 45°, or less, to the axis of the basal cell,
the separating septum being vertical or nearly so ; the subbasal cell small
and flattened : the lower marginal cell of the distal portion of the recep-
tacle subtriangular, short and broad ; the lower appendiculate cell above
it relatively large ; the subterminal cell larger than the lower marginal
cell, curved inward so that the terminal appendiculate cell projects from
it obliquely inward against the perithecium. Perithecium four fifths
or more free, relatively large and stout, distinctly inflated below, taper-
ing to the tip, which is characteristically modified through the presence
of a large claw-like subterminal dark amber brown external projection,
the distal half of which is somewhat abruptly recurved, like the upper
mandible of a parrot, over the small hyaline incurved 4-papillate apex,
which is immediately subtended on the inner side by a small, erect,
dark amber brown, tooth-like process, the blunt tip of which alone is
free. Appendages slender and extending to or beyond the tip of the
perithecium. Spores about 20 X 2.5 yu,. Perithecium average 70-75 X
30-32 fi not including the hook-like appendage, which is 25 p. to its upper
margin. Receptacle : basal cell to tip of prolongation 90-220 X 15-
22 fi., the portion above to tip of distal cell 48 fx.
On the right inferior anterior margin of the prothorax of Cnemidotus
12-punctatus Say. Glacialis Pond, Cambridge. The most singiilar
species of the genus, discovered by Mr. Charles Bullard, to whom I take
pleasure in dedicating the species.
