32 " PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Chitonomyces Hydropori nov. sp.
Receptacle nearly hyaline, the subbasal cell flattened, many times
smaller than the basal cell, slightly inflated and distinguished from the
cells above and below by slight constrictions ; the two cells above sub-
equal, the posterior somewhat broader, and separated from the lower
marginal cell of the distal portion by an oblique curved septum, which
overlaps its upper fourth ; the subtermiual marginal cell often nearly as
long as the lower, the narrow upper half or more of which it overlaps.
The lower appendiculate cell rather small, the upper terminal one of the
typical form, relatively rather long, distinguished by a slight constriction,
the appendage extending beyond the tip of the perithecium. Perithecium
relatively large, its upper half or more free, distally broader, the outer
margin nearly straight with a slight subterminal rounded elevation below
the abruptly rounded projecting outer brownish lip-cells ; the apex other-
wise flat, broad, bent outward so as to be slightly oblique, the inner
margin below it bulging and curved throughout. Spores 55 X 4/i.
Perithecium 98-108 X 25 [jl. Receptacle to base of perithecium 80 /x, to
tip of terminal cell 150 fx. Total length to tip of perithecium 185 /x.
On the mid-elytron of Hydroporus modesties Aube. Cape Neddock,
Maine. Mr. Bullard.
Chitonomyces Orectogyri nov. sp.
Dull purplish, the cells thick walled and marked by faint transverse
striations. The basal cell of the receptacle very small and hardly dis-
tinguishable, owing to an abrupt curvature just above the foot ; the sub-
basal cell relatively large, distally narrowed, nearly the whole upper half
of its posterior margin covered by a relatively large triangular cell, from
which it is separated by a nearly vertical septum ; this triangular cell is
in contact distally with the ascigerous cavity and the base of the lowest
marginal cell; the latter is very long, extending upward, its narrow
extremity ending without enlargement opposite the blackened base of the
iimer appendage, lying between the latter and the tip of the perithecium ;
the lower appendiculate cell well defined, about two thirds as long as the
subterminal cell, which projects slightly above and bears the free terminal
appendiculate cell, which is hyaline, about equal to the lower in length,
its inner margin nearly straight, its outer margin curved abruptly inward
to the base of the obliquely distinguished, blackened, narrow, erect ter-
minal portion, from which the appendage has been broken in the types.
Perithecium relatively large, of nearly equal diameter throughout ; the
