496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
to Bear Lake, Mackenzie & British Columbia, south to Maine,
Vermont, central and western Neay York, and Utah. The Scandi-
navian material examined has been referred to the true C aquatilis by
Andersson, Fries, Laestadius, and Wickstrom, and it agrees well with
Lange's representation of the plant in Flora Danica, Supplement, t. 33.
This is the plant of broadest range in America. Many extreme varia-
tions have been described by European authors. The identity of these
is too often obscure, but some of the forms recognized by Mr. Arthur
Bennett in Great Britain (Jour. Bot. xxxv. 248) are found to occur
also in America. As extreme variations these plants may well be dis-
tinguished, though many transitional specimens occur which render
their ready separation difficult. The best marked forms are the
following:
Var. elatior, Bab. Man. Brit. Bot. 341 ; Bennett, 1. c. 249. — Ro-
bust, 0.9 to 1.5 ra. high: leaves 5 to 8 mm. broad: pistillate spikelets
stout and heavy, 3.5 to 8 cm. long, 5 to 8 mm. thick : scales dark, blunt
or acuminate, about equalling or slightly exceeding the perigyuia. —
Maine, Fort Fairfield and Orono (J/. L. Fernald^ nos. 136, in part,
395) : New York, Pen Yan & Junius {Sartwell) ; Dexter ((?. Vasey) ;
Jefferson Co. (Craive) ; Niagara Falls (W. Boott): Ohio (SuUivant):
Michigan, Peche Isle, Detroit River ( C F. Wheeler) : Manitoba,
English River (^Sir John Richardson)} I have been unable to see
authentic specimens of Babington's plant, but from his description and
the note of Mr. Bennett, it seems probable that our large form should
be referred there. The material from Orono (where the once abundant
plant has been exterminated by the '' improvement " of the meadow)
has been described as a hybrid, C. aquatilis X stricta^ Bailey, Bot. Gaz.
xvii. 153; but there was little besides the local occurrence of the plant
to suggest hybrid origin. The same very large form is shown in Crawe's
New York material, as well as in Richardson's English River plant, and
it is closely matched by Boott's plate 542, drawn from New York
specimens.
1 Richardson's plant probably came from the river rising in Lake Sal and
flowing into Lake Winnipeg from the southeast. The name Engliah River lias
been applied to a district between the Saskatchewan and Athabasca Lake, and it
was long used for the upper portion of Churchill River (emptying into Hudson
Bay). This larger nortiiern river, however, was consistenth' spoken of by Rich-
ardson in his Arctic Searching Expedition (1852), p. 62, &c., as Missinippi or
Churchill River, while to the more southern river flowing from Lake Sal he ap-
plied the name English River (p. 362).
