500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Wheeler's specimens from Grand Ledge, Michigan; Macoun's 1876
material from Quesnelle, British Columbia, with specimens of C. piluli-
fera from Berne, Switzerland (Sermge) ; Stockholm, Sweden (Andersson) ;
Finland (Simming) ; the Grosser Pfalzberg, Austria (^Haldcsy,\io. 1064),
and St. Petersburg, Russia ( Turcznninow) ; shows conclusively that the
remoteness of the spikelets is not to be relied upon in separating our
smaller American material from the European plant. In the accom-
panying tabulation ot" measurements from European specimens and the
smaller form of the American plant it will be seen that in the length of
the inflorescence and the number, length and remoteness of S2:)ikelets
essentially identical conditions are found, although the European mate-
rial shows a tendency to a reduction in the length of the rachis between
spikelets, thus passing to the short-headed var. pallida, while the Ameri-
can plant varying toward the elongated variety longihracteata shows a
natural lengthening of the rachis.
Dr. Boott laid stress upon the more abundantly flowered spikelets of
C. pilulifera, but an examination of the European material shows that
this character is maintained only in the extreme specimens with unusu-
ally full spikelets. In the others many spikelets are found bearing less
than ten flowers while not a few have only four or five. The presence
or absence, in the American or the European plant, of staminate flowers
at the tips of the pistillate spikelets is likewise a character upon which
little reliance can be placed. Both Goodenough ^ and Dr. Boott ■^ noted
this tendency in European specimens and in a sheet of Austrian material
it is very conspicuous. In America likewise this tendency to androgy-
nous spikelets occurs, but it seems to be quite as unusual as in Europe.
The pale or castaneous scales of Carex communis were emphasized by
Dr. Boott as opposed to the purple scales of C. pilulifera. Students of
American Carices, however, are all familiar with specimens of C. com-
munis from sunny or open situations in which the scales are quite as
purple (or rather maroon) as in C. pennsylvanica ; and many specimens
of European C. jnlulifera show quite as little color in the scales as do
the commoner plants of America.
The basal nerves supposed to distinguish the perigynium of C. com-
munis from that of C. pilulifera are also quite as ol'teu wanting as
present ; and although Dr. Boott laid stress upon this character in his
comparative note, he described the perigynia of C. communis (his C.
varia) as "enerviis vel basi plus minus nervatis pallidis." The length,
1 Trans. Linn. Soc, II. 191. 2 m.^ n. 95,
