502 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
bending, and orifice of the beak show likewise considerable variation in
Old World specimens, all of which can be matched by our plant, while
the curving of the base of the style is a tendency not infrequent in
American as well as E^uropean specimens. On the other hand, the
straight style supposed to characterize the American plant is clearly
represented by Lange in his plate of C. pilulifera, var. longihracteata.
The deeper purple coloring of the lower sheaths of the American
plant, a character much emphasized by authors, is not a satisfactory
distinction. The color in the American plant is usually conspicuous
and is pronounced by Mr. F. Schuyler Mathews a dilute maroon with
no true purple tendency, but rather fading in the older sheaths to
chestnut. Mr. Mathews, who has likewise examined the sheaths of
European specimens, finds the same red present in them. This color
of the sheaths generally fades with age, yet in specimens collected by
John Ball on Snowdon, by Andersson at Stockholm in 18G0, by Lauren
at Strombacka in 1855, and by Tuckerraan at Upsala in 1841 or 1842,
show quite as conspicuous a red as the average American plant.
The bright green color of the leaves of C. pilulifera has likewise beea
maintained as a character separating that plant from the Ameiican C
communis. From dried specimens alone it is impossible to make this dis-
tinction apparent, although the fresh plant may sometimes show a brighter
color than is often seen in C. communis. Yet in the American plant the
leaves vary from a weak to a deep green, and in Bailey's var. Wheeleri,
which is certainly inseparable from European specimens of G. pilulifera.,
the leaves were originally described as " bright green."
The length of the staminate spikelet and the breadth of the leaves,
two characters upon which stress is sometimes laid, were not emphasized
by Dr. Boott. An examination of the accompanying table of measure-
ments of the inflorescence will show that the length of the staminate
spikelets is thoroughly inconstant and not concomitant with other char-
acters. In fact, both short and long staminate spikelets are often found
on the same individual, as shown by Halacsy's no. 1064 of the Austro-
Hungarian Exsiccatae (staminate spikelets from 7 to 18 mm. long), by
Fernald's no. 151 from Maine (spikelets G to 13 mm. long), and a
Faxon plant fi'om Franconia, New Hampshire (spikelets from 8 to 14
mm. long). The variations in the breadth of the leaf, likewise, are
very great on both continents. The young leaves at the fruiting season
are naturally much narrower than the old and weather-beaten ones,
which, unfortunately, are too often torn away in the preparation of
attractive specimens. Measurement of the breadth of these older leaves
