THAXTER. — NEW LABOULBENIACEAE. 66
tip broad with a bluntly rounded apex ; a short erect contrasting brown
prominence formed by the left posterior lip-cell, toward the base of which
the inner (anterior) lip-cells are curved in a characteristic fashion, so as
partly to overlap it. Spores about 75 X 5 /a. Perithecium 125 X 36 /x.
Receptacle 250-270 /x,. Total length to tip of perithecium 255 fi.
On the superior surface of the tip of the abdomen of Orectogyrus
specularis Aube. Africa. Berlin Museum, No. 806.
DIOICOMYCES nov. gen.
Male individual consisting of four superposed cells, the upper of
which is a simple antheridium bearing a subterminal discharge tube.
Female individual. Receptacle ending distally in a peculiarly modi-
fied sterile cell, corresponding to the upper spore-segment : the subbasal
cell producing a single perithecium laterally, and separated from the
sterile terminal cell by a second small cell. Perithecium free, stalked ;
the ascogenic cell single, the spores more or less obliquely once-septate,
and of two kinds corresponding to the sexes.
Dloicomyces Floridanns, formerly referred provisionally to Amor-
phomyces, must be transferred to this genus ; since, although the male
is unknown, the female has the typical characters which distinguish the
genus very clearly from its near ally. D. obliqueseptatus on Myrmedonia
(?) sp. must also be removed from Atnorphomyces, on account of its
obliquely septate spores, and should with little doubt be included in the
present genus ; although it is evident, from comparison with abundant
material of the species described below, that the specimens, both females,
from which the original description was made, are more imperfect than
was at first supposed, and should not have been used as types. The
peculiar sterile cell is present in neither of these ; but, since they corres-
pond in all other respects to the generic type, may be assumed to have
been broken off. No free spores are available in either, although an ex-
amination of the spore mass within the ascus seems to show that they
present the same variation in size which characterizes the species described
below.
Dioicomyces Anthici nov. sp.
Male individual. Form slender, of nearly the same diameter through-
out, the basal cell half the total length of the individual to the tip of the
discharge tube ; the third cell nearly square, the subbasal about as large
as the terminal antheridial cell, which ends in a distal blunt projection ;
the discharge-tube arising laterally below the tip, projecting upward from
VOL. XXXVII. — 3
