34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
a broadened base, slightly divergent from the main axis, slender, about
as long, or a little longer than, the body of the antheridial cell. Length
to tip of antheridial cell, including foot, 50 jx : to tip of discharge-tube
60 fjL. Width 8 fjL.
female individual. Often more or less strongly curved, the terminal
sterile cell bluntly pointed, slightly curved, brownish ; the basal cell
becoming narrower below, the upper septum convex ; tinged with brown
posteriorly as is the rest of the receptacle : the subbasal cell very small,
subtriangular ; separated from the terminal sterile cell by a somewhat
smaller triangular cell. Stalk-cell of the perithecium hyaline, long, often
about the same diameter throughout; the thick wall becoming gradually
thicker distally : the perithecium slightly inflated, faintly brownish ; the
short, stout, broad, blunt tip slightly distinguished, and nearly symmetri-
cal ; the lip-cells forming an unbroken outline, without protrusions.
Spores (male) 40 X 4/a, (female) 60 X 6 /x. Perithecium 100-110 X
35-45 /x, the stalk-cell 75-115 X 18 /x,. Receptacle including foot 35 X
12 /i, the sterile terminal cell 18-25 X 7-9 /a. Total length to tip of
perithecium 185-220 yu,.
On Anthicus fioralis Linn. Fresh Pond, Cambridge. On A. Califor-
nicus Laf. California (Leconte Collection).
Dioicomyces onchophorus nov. sp.
Male individual similar to that of D. Anthici, slightly smaller.
female individual. Usually strongly curved, especially at the base
of the stalk-cell ; similar to D. Anthici ; the receptacle, sterile cell, and
the stalk of the perithecium, relatively smaller. Perithecium dirty
brown, one of the lip-cells protruding in the form of a well defined,
lateral, finger-like, erect, straight, or slightly curved, blunt-tipped, con-
colorous process ; an irregular anterior elevation or angular prominence
is also more or less well defined above the middle of the perithecium.
Spores (male) 35 X 4 ^a, (female) 45 X 5 yu,. Perithecia to tip of pro-
jection 125-140 X 40-45 /A, the stalk-cell 90 /x. Total length to tip of
perithecium 210-230 /a.
Usually on the basal half or at the base of the left elytron of Anthicus
fioralis Linn. Fresh Pond, Cambridge.
Dioicomyces spinigerus nov. sp.
Male individual similar to that of D. Anthici, much smaller, the ex-
tremity less prominent, or almost horizontal, the discharge tube some-
