THAXTER. NEW LABOULBENIACEAE. 35
what more slender, and more often erect. Total length including foot
40 X 6.5 fx ; to tip of discharge-tube 47 /x.
Female individual. Receptacle relatively small, tinged with dirty
yellowish, edged with brown to the tip of the small terminal sterile cell.
Perithecium dirty yellowish and relatively large, considerably and more
or less symmetrically inflated, above and including its basal cells, to the
base of the tip, which is bent abruptly outward at right angles to the axis
of the perithecium; the apex broad, blunt, the lip-cells hardly projecting:
a unicellular brown, straight or slightly curved, spine-like process, which
tapers to a blunt point, projects upward at an angle of about 45° from
the middle of the outer (anterior) margin of the perithecium ; and a
slisht elevation is also more or less distinct between its base and that of
the tip ; the stalk-cell relatively short, becoming rapidly narrower toward
its base. Spores (male) 26 X 4^, (female) 40 X 6/x,. Perithecia
including basal cells 125 X 50 /x, the spinous process 55 /a, the stalk-cell
36-40 ju. Receptacle to tip of sterile cell about 45 ^u,. Total length to
tip of perithecium about 185 /a.
On Anthicus jioralis Linn., with the last two species, more commonly
on the inferior surface of the abdomen. Fresh Pond, Cambridge.
Teratomyces Zealandica nov. sp.
Receptacle with a distinct distal obliquity, opaque with the exception
of a hyaline area just above the foot, the margins straight, the distal por-
tion relatively narrow, the base relatively broad, the suffusion involving
the bases of the appendiculate cells which are relatively numerous and
narrow and more or less suffused with brownish yellow. Appendages
sometimes scanty, but slightly divergent, concolorous throughout, nearly
hyaline or pale yellowish ; the basal cells of the larger branches rela-
tively slender, the external branchlets and numerous beak-like cells hardly
more deeply colored. Perithecia relatively large, long, rather slender,
slightly inflated throughout, the blunt tip more or less abruptly distin-
guished ; the stalk-cell very short or almost obsolete, hidden by the
appendages; the basal cells relatively small and not distinguished from
the body of the perithecium. Spores about 50 X 2.5-3 ju. Perithecia
150-180 X 20-28 /A, basal and stalk-cells together about 35 /i. Longest
appendage 180 /x. Receptacle 75-125 X 15-18 (base) 22-30 ^u, (distally).
On Quedius insolitus Sharp. Dunedin, New Zealand. Sharp Collec-
tion, No. 1099.
