WOLFF AND PALACHE. — APATITE FROM MINOT, MB. 519
muscovite ; more frequently it forms an irregular layer on the lepidolite-
muscovite crystals, showing, however, no parallelism with them ; and it
is rarely included in, and in small amount deposited upon, the apatite
crystals. In no case does the cookeite appear to have been formed at
the expense of any of the minerals previously formed in the cavity,
which are pei-fectly fresh and free from alteration.
The apatite is implanted upon the quartz crystals and upon the lepido-
lite-muscovite crystals or the cookeite which covers them. As stated
above the apatite is embedded at times in the white quartz layer in
which it leaves sharp moulds when broken out, it having maintained its
crystal form despite the interference of the quartz.
Finally a third generation of quartz in minute crystals is found as-
sociated with the cookeite, and rarely implanted upon the apatite
crystals.
To briefly recapitulate the facts relating to the paragenesis of this
deposit we may say that we find :
First, the crystallization of the smoky quartz, lepidolite, orthoclase,
and albite, the normal constituents of the granite, to form the walls of
the cavity.
Second, the crystallization of muscovite, coating smoky quartz crystals
in part and the lepidolite crystals wholly.
Third,, the crystallization of cookeite, coating muscovite, wholly or in
part.
Fourth, the simultaneous crystallization of apatite and white quartz,
the latter confined to enlargement of smoky quartz crystals.
Fifth, a second period of cookeite formation, accompanied by a final
deposition of quartz.
Crystallography.*
The apatite crystals are in genei'al of pronounced prismatic habit,
the average size beinsr about 1 cm. in height and 0.5 cm. in diameter.
Crystals larger than this are, however, common, the largest measuring
nearly 3 cm. in height and diameter. Crystals smaller than the average,
which are also numerous, tend to assume a more or less rounded habit
by nearly equal development of prismatic and terminal planes.
The crystals are generally so implanted upon a terminal face that
one end has developed freely, and the fact that over three hundred
loose crystals with complete single termination and prism zone were
* By 0. Palache.
