WOLFF AND PALACHE. APATITE FROM MINOT, ME. 521
prism of the first order aud the base, the edges modified by narrow
plaues of the forms a, s, r, x, aud y. Crystals of this type are not
uucommon and often show double terminations. They merge, however,
by slii''ht gradations into the second type, more characteristic for the
locality, shown in figures 2 and 3. Here the pyramidal planes become
more prominent and tiie most notable feature is the simultaneous occur-
rence of the right and left third order i:)yramids, giving the appearance
of the normal dihexagonal pyramid.
The different forms may be characterized as follows :
c (0001) always present, generally large, brilliant, and plane giving
perfect reflections.
7» (lOTO) always present, generally dominant, brilliant, and generally-
plane but sometimes faintly striated vertically.
a (1120) generally present but narrow and commonly dull from deep
striation, the striae vertical and bounded by faces of adjoining plaues
of ?«. Occasionally the striations stop abruptly in the centre or near
the boundaries of a face as shown in figure 3, or they may be wholly
lacking, in wliich case the face is brilliant and gives good reflections.
h (2130) rarely developed and then narrow as shown in figure 4.
Surface plane, not involved in striations on a.
r (10T2), X (lOTl), and y (2021) all nearly always present with all
their faces, in varying proportions aud often large, faces always brilliant
and free from striations, giving perfect reflections.
w (7073) observed but once as a line face in the zone between i/
aud tn.
z (3031) generally present only as a deeply striated face, sometimes
very large as in figure 4, giving no reflection but determined by its
zonal relation to /x and /xi. The striae bounded by faces parallel to
adjoining planes of ??i and y. Narrow faces of z giving faint reflections
sometimes present on the edges of the striae nearest to m.
s (ll2l) always present with brilliant faces, often large.
/A (2131) and /xi (3T21) are both present on many crystals, but vary
widely in size, quality, and regularity of development. Generally the
faces of both are dull and the forms are then indistinguishable. On
some crystals their faces are brilliant and reflecting but grooved or
pitted, and a constant difference in the cliaracter of these markings was
found by which, when they were not too far developed, the two forms
could be distinguished. On /a the markings ordinarily take the form of
sharp grooves parallel to the intersection of m and /* as shown in figures
2 and 3. The grooves seem to be in a way continuations of the striae
