522 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
on the faces of z, for they never extend beyond the intersection of /^ with
that face, and are absent if z is not developed. The grooves are bounded
by faces parallel to adjacent planes of s and of m. Very often they
stop short in the middle of the face as shown in figure 3.
On fx-i the markings are in the form of irregular pits or curving
grooves, sometimes showing approximate parallelism to the intersection of
m and jx^ but with an irregularity giving them a character wholly dif-
ferent from the lines on fx. No constant difference could be observed
in the brilliancy of the reflecting portions of faces of the two forms, nor
in their relative size. Both are irregular in their occurrence on individ-
ual crystals, lacking nearly always some of their faces. As shown in
the figures, both may present on the same crystal faces of very unequal
size which in some cases are so large as to dominate the termination of
the crystal.
The occurrence of third order pyramids in apparently holohedral
combination has been observed on apatite from various localities, notably
Knappenwand, Tyrol,* Ala, Piedmont,! and Elba.| But in none of the
crystals described does there appear to have been any observable dif-
ference between the faces of the right and left forms by which they
could be distinguished.
Reference has been made in the preceding pages to striations which
appear quite constantly on certain faces of the apatite. They are a
striking feature of the crystals and the attempt has been made to repro-
duce them in the drawings. Their most pronounced development was
on the largest crystal of the collection, which is reproduced in figure 4 ;
the striations on the faces of z and of a were almost equally strong and
gave the crystal a curiously tetragonal aspect when inspected casually.
On both of these forms the striations are doubtless growth forms, the
result of oscillatory combination, on a of adjacent faces of m, and on z
of planes of m and y. The mai'kings on the faces of /x and ji^ seem to
have a different character, however. The irregularity of their develop-
ment, appearing on some faces as mere grooves or pits, on others
invading the whole face and reducing it to a dull surface, indicates that
they are rather the result of etching by some agent which has attacked
the crystals after they were formed.
* C. Klein, Neues Jahrb. Miner., 1871, 485 ; 1872, 121.
t G. Struever, Att. Ace. Torino, 3, 125, 18G7; 6, 363, 1871; Rendic. R. Ace.
Lincei, Roma, 1899, 8 (1), 427-434.
.t E. Artini, Rendic. R. Ace. Lincei, Roma, 1895, 4 (2), 259.
