524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
by Jannasch and Locke, * namely solution in nitric acid with addition of
mercuric oxide, precipitation with ammonia and determination of phos-
phoric acid, most of the lime and the other bases in the precipitate,
while the rest of the lime and the alkalies were determined in the first
filtrate. Water was determined directly by fusion with plumbic oxide
mixed with potassium di-chromate.
Pluorine was determined by the method of Fresenius, that is by
heating the finely powdered mineral, mixed with previously ignited
quartz, in a flask with strong sulphuric acid and absorbing the SiF4
in weighed tubes with the prescribed precautions. From the total
weight obtained there was subtracted a correction for the general gain
in weight of the absorption tubes due to the action of the air current
on the rubber connections; etc., which had been previously determined
by experiment. The process was continued for five hours or to a con-
stant weight. Chlorine was absent.
The mineral was soluble without residue in nitric acid. At about
320° C, the purple color disappears and the mineral becomes colorless
or faintly yellow ; this change is accompanied by some decrepitation,
by phosphorence, and the production of a vapor (in part water ?) which
is deposited in drops on the walls of the tube ; there is also a petroleum-
like odor. The loss of weight accompanying this change was deter-
mined by gently heating three grammes of the mineral in a bulb tube
in a current of dry air, weighing, and heating again cautiously in the
current of air to complete decolorization, and determining the loss of
weight.
Optical PROPERTiES-t
For the determination of the indices of refraction one of the best clear
crystals was used, having a deep purple color and a brilliant basal plane.
The determination was made with the Abbe crystal refractometer by the
differential method t and for this purpose a glass prism was selected
having the index n^^ = 1.6326, for which the boundary of total reflec-
tion was carefully determined and the telescope clamped. The apatite
crystal was then placed with its base on the glass hemisphere of the
apparatus and the angular difference in the boundaries for w and e
determined by the millimeter screw reading to six seconds. The boun-
* Zeit. anorg. Chemie, 7, p. 154; also Jannasch, Praktischer Leitfaden d.
Gewiclits Analyse, p. 259.
t By J. E. Wolff.
t C. Viola, Zeit. Krystall., 30, p. 438, and 32, p. 311.
