36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Teratomyces petiolatus nov. sp.
Receptacle nearly symmetrical, almost wholly black, slender below,
expanding rather abruptly distally ; the appendiculate cells relatively
large and long, translucent, brownish yellow, subtended by a slight en-
largement. Appendages numerous, spreading, the larger ones consisting
of a very large colorless or brownish basal cell, which bears a series of
branchlets externally and several branches terminally ; the branchlets
usually short, and two-celled, the distal cell usually long, beak-like and
clear purplish brown, the lower cell hyaline or light brown and in the
lower branchlets usually bearing long-necked antheridia: the terminal
branches with several short branchlets of a similar character. The
smaller shorter appendages about the bases of the larger ones, mostly
dark purplish brown, with many beak-like cells. Perithecia usually
several, large, symmetrical, purplish brown ; the tip short, rather narrow
and abruptly distinguished ; the basal cells relatively very large, forming
a portion of the stalk sometimes half as long as the perithecium proper ;
the stalk-cell stout and elongate. Perithecia 185-225 X 45-50 /a, the
basal cell 100-150 X 10 fx., the stalk-cells 180-300 yu,. Receptacle about
150 [M. Appendage, longest 175, longest basal cells 110 /a.
On Qaedkis sp. Greymouth, New Zealand. Sharp Collection,
No. 1103.
Teratoniyces insignis nov. sp.
Receptacle usually quite opaque, long, slender ; the outline unbroken
and nearly straight, tapering evenly to the slightly geniculate base, which
is nearly hyaline just above the foot: the margin of the suffused area
distally strongly oblique, especially before maturity ; the appendiculate
cells small, becoming brownish. The appendages numerous, spreading,
the larger ones hyaline or nearly so, consisting of a large elongate basal
cell, which bears two or three small remote antheridial branches exter-
nally ; and terminally, as a rule, two large branches placed side by side
(one of which may be wanting) sometimes associated with one or two sub-
terminal smaller branchlets, the basal cells of which are dark contrasting
brown : the terminal branches hyaline with branchlets like those of the
basal cell ; the branchlets, however, more numerous, contrasting, brown,
simple or branched, many having characteristic beak-like terminations,
while others are blunt tipped, with oblique septa. The smaller peripheral
appendages more or less crowded around the bases of the larger ones,
with conspicuous and numerous beak-like terminations. The antheridia
with long curved necks. Perithecia usually several, brown, long and
