THAXTER, — NEW LABOULBENIACEAE. 37
slender, straight, very slightly inflated near the base, with a slight sub-
median enlargement ; tapering throughout to the short, truncate, well
distinguished tip : the basal cells rather small, concolorous ; the group
narrower than the stalk-cell and separated from it by a horizontal sep-
tum : the stalk-cell very large, usually elongate, often inflated and thick
walled. Spores about 50 X 4 /a. Perithecia including basal cells 240-
275 X 40 ft, the stalk-cell 150-325 X 25-35 /x. Appendages, longest
225 /x. Receptacle 100-185 X 14 (base) X 55 (distal end). Total
length to tip of perithecium largest, 800 jx.
On abdomen of Qiiedius nov. sp. New Zealand. Sharp Collection,
No. 1159.
ACOMPSOMYCES nov. gen.
Receptacle two-celled, bearing an antheridial branch terminally and
a single perithecium laterally. Antheridium consisting of several super-
posed cells from which single simple antheridia are borne directly. The
perithecium borne on a stalk, the lumen of which becomes continuous
with that of the ascigerous cavity.
Acompsomyces Corticariae nov. sp. •
Receptacle narrow below, distally enlarged, hyaline ; the subbasal cell
small. Basal cell of the appendage brown, distally narrowed to the base
of the appendage proper, which is brown, and consists of three sym-
metrical cells, the upper smaller, becoming a terminal antheridium, the
lower bearing several antheridia somewhat irregularly. Perithecium
brown, rather abruptly distinguished from the short hyaline stalk ; the
tip very broad and darker ; the lip-cells forming four hyaline-tipped,
nearly symmetrical papillae, which terminate four corresponding ridges.
Spores about 30 X 2 a. Perithecia 90 X 26 /a, the stalk 15 /a. Recep-
tacle 25 fx. Antheridial appendage, above stalk-cell, and including
terminal antheridium, 40 ^.
On elytron of Gorticaria sp. Berkeley, California.
STICHOMYCES nov. gen.
Receptacle consisting of two cells, the upper bearing one or more
stalked perithecia laterally, and an antheridial appendage terminally.
The appendage consisting of several superposed cells, the lowest sterile, or
having one or two opposite lateral perithecia; those above it bearing
opposite lateral branchlets distally, the series ending in a terminal sterile
