540 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Methyldichloracetate 0.3202
Ethyldichloracetate 0.33S4
Propyldichloracetate 0.3506
In general, the data on specific heats of organic compounds are meagre
and not concordant. F'or the same substance the results of different
observers seldom agree in the third decimal place ; thej often do not
agree in the second, and even in the jSrst place (see tables of Landolt
and Bornstein). These variations are probably due to the fact that spe-
cific heat is materially affected by impurities in the substance, and the
temperatiires at which it is taken. Then, furthermore, the details of the
determinations demand very careful attention to insure concordant results.
In the determinations of the hydrocarbons to be described in this paper,
it was found that impurities depressed the specific heats very considerably.
Although the paraffine series of hydrocarbons offers the best field for
study of an homologous series, very little has been done in the direction
of ascertaining the specific heats of these bodies. In a study of distillates
separated from Pennsylvania petroleum, by Bartoli and Stracciati,* the
specific heats of the following hydrocarbons were determined :
Hexane
• Ci;Hi4
.5042
16°-37°
Heptane
• C.Hia
.4869
16°-37°
Octane .
^8 His
.5111
r2°-19°
Decane
L/10 tloo
.5057
14°-18°
Tetradecane
. CuH.o
.4995
Hexadecane .
L16H34
.4963
15°-22°
The inference derived from these results was that the specific heats of
these hydrocarbons were remarkably constant.
No data could be found relating to the specific heats of the methylene
hydrocarbons CnHsu, nor those of tlie series still poorer in hydrogen. With
the greatly extended uses of crude petroleum and refined distillates for
fuel, in gasoline and oil engines, accurate information concerning specific
heat and heat of vaporization is gi'eatly desired.
Having in hand a great variety of hydrocarbons of the various series,
which have been prepared in as pure form as possible, and numerous
inquiries having been received for more complete information concerning
these physical properties, it seemed advisable to make some determin-
ations of these constants.
The hydrocarbons of the series CnHj^+s? were obtained from Pennsyl-
vania petroleum, those of the other series from California petroleum.
* Gazz. Chim., 1885, 417-445.
