38 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
branch. Antheridia simple, flask-shaped, free, borne in small groups on
short branchlets.
Stichomyces Conosomae nov. sp.
Dull amber brovvu. Receptacle and appendage undifferentiated, the
basal cell of the former small, triangular in outliue ; the subbasal cell
about as broad as long, and similar to the cells of the appendage, bearing
distally and laterally a single perithecium, sometimes two, which are then
paii'ed on opposite sides of the cell, like the antheridial branchlets. Ap-
pendage consisting of five superposed subequal cells slightly longer than
broad, the basal one sterile, or rarely (abnormally) producing one or two
perithecia as in the subbasal cell below it : the three cells above slightly
larger, the upper angles separated by oblique septa to form small cells
on either side, which bear short one or few celled antheridial branchlets ;
the terminal cell somewhat smaller, bearing a simple terminal several-
celled branch in addition to the lateral branchlets, all of which appear to
be sterile. Antheridia with broad necks grouped in twos or threes.
Perithecium darker brown, more or less symmetrically inflated ; the tip
hardly modified ; the basal cells collectively broader and nearly as long
as the stalk-cell. Spores 35 X 2.5 /x. Perithecia 85 X 25 ^, the stalk-
cell 36 X 14: fjL. Total length to tip of the appendage proper 150 ^u, the
terminal branch 150 /a, the antheridial branchlets about 20 /x. Total
length to tip of perithecium 185-200 //..
On Qonosoma pubescens Payk. Belmont and Waverly, Mass. First
observed by Mr. Bullard.
Rhachomyces Oedichiri nov. sp.
Receptacle strongly curved, rather short, the lower cells especially
more or less suffused with clear brown, the basal cell slender, the cells of
the main axis above it successively larger, about ten to twelve in all.
Appendage hardly ever reaching to the tip of the perithecium ; the shorter
margin alone subulate and straight, the rest appressed, denser toward the
base of the perithecium, where they form a tuft which does not wholly
surround it, curved slightly outward, somewhat attenuated; tips abruptly
recurved or subhelicoid. Perithecium somewhat inflated, hyaline, with
the exception of several longitudinal dark brown marks at the tip, the
base concealed by the appendages. Spores 36 X 4 ^u. Perithecia 90-
110 X 30-35^. Total length to tip of perithecium 220-250 /x. Long-
est appendages about 90 ^.
On Oedichiriis nov. sp. Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Sharp Collection,
No. 1154.
