THAXTER. — NEW LABOULBENIACEAE. 41
tip of peritbecium 500-600 fx.. Appendage without branches, including
stalk-cell, 75 ^.
On the tip of the abdomen of Quedius Jiavicaudus Sharp. Volcan
de Chiriqui, Panama. Sharp Collection, No. 1157.
Sphaleromyces Indicus nov. sp.
Peritbecium relatively very long and large, yellowish, very slightly
inflated toward the base, tapering very gradually to the broad, blunt tip
which is subtended by a truncate, conical lateral projection ; the stalk-
cell relatively short. Receptacle relatively small, the two cells nearly
equal, the upper bearing the stalk-cell of the peritbecium terminally and
the basal cell of the appendage laterally ; the latter overlapping it to its
base. Appendage consisting of four superposed cells, the basal (stalk-
cell) small, triangular ; the two cells above it larger and longer, bearing
short antheridial branches from the upper inner angles ; the terminal
cell smaller, subcouical, bearing a small terminal branchlet. Spores
about 44 X 4 /A. Peritbecium 290-340 X 45 ^u, the stalk-cell 72 /a.
Receptacle 55//. The appendage 125//.
On the upper surface of the tip of the abdomen of Pinophiliis (near
"P. rufipennis"). Malabar, India. Sharp Collection, No. 1151.
Corethromyces Latonae nov. sp.
Peritbecium reddish brown with a purplish tinge, often straight, or
externally concave, slightly inflated ; the lip-cells forming a small short,
slightly bent, nearly cylindrical, truncate, or papillate terminal projection,
which is rather abruptly distinguished ; the secondary stalk-cell, and the
basal cell above it, bulging outward more or less prominently, and
separated by a rather conspicuous irregular indentation : the stalk-cell
small and squarish. The basal cell of the receptacle asymmetrical ; its
anterior margin straight and perpendicular, the posterior slightly curved
and oblique ; its distal margin oblique with a posterior protrusion ; its
slender base translucent, but otherwise opaque, the opacity involving a
portion of the small flattened subtriangular subbasal cell. The appendage
consisting of a series of about five successively smaller hyaline cells, the
lowest greatly flattened ; the series above, the distal cells of which soon
disappear, often turned outward so as to become almost horizontal in
position, giving rise from their inner sides to numerous hyaline branches,
which may be more or less copiously branched. Spores about 35 X 2 /x.
Peritbecium 90-105 x 20-25 //, the stalk and basal cells together 20-
