666 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
possible only within recent years since the freezing and boiling point
methods for the determination of molecular weights have been known.
Then it is not possible to determine the vapor densities of these hydro-
carbons, because, as I have recently ascertained, even in vacuo small
quantities of the hydrocarbons such as are used in vapor density deter-
minations, undergo serious decomposition ; and this occurs even in oils
that have been distilled many times over in bulk in vacuo. In the ear-
lier work, it was evidently assumed that a few distillations under atmos-
pheric pressure were sufficient to collect the individual hydrocarbons
within the limits of their boiling points, sufficient at least to afford
reliable data as to their composition. A glance at the small differences
in percentage composition is sufficient to show that it is not possible by
analysis alone of products even well purified to distinguish between
homologous members of a series, although such analysis may define the
series.
But the chief difficulty is to obtain each hydrocarbon uncontamiuated
by any admixture of its homologues or by products of decomposition.
This is well illustrated by the experience of Markownikoff in separating
the hydrocarbons in the Russian oil, who found it impossible to collect
distillates closer than limits of five degrees on account of decomposi-
tion. That the same is true perhaps in a less degree in distillates from
Pennsylvania oil is evident whenever distillation is made of the higher
portions under atmospheric pressure. The rank odor is evidence of
cracking. Yet the constituents with higher boiling points are under the
influence of vapor tension as much as the constituents with lower boil-
ing points, and consequently require as prolonged distillation for com-
plete or approximately complete separation. In my experience it is
only possible to obtain even an approximate separation by exclusion of
air and depression of boiling points.
In this manner the higher hydrocarbons may be distilled any number
of times with no appreciable decomposition. The only limit is the
patience of the operator. But the stability of these hydrocarbons is
evidently dependent on the influence of mass. Since as mentioned
above, while distillation of any considerable quantity of tlie oil may be
carried on indefinitely, a limited quantity cannot be volatilized even in
vacuo without decomposition. Many attempts to determine the vapor
density of the hydrocarbons in Pennsylvania and California petroleum
by volatilization in vacuo according to the method of Lunge and Neu-
berg have failed on account of cracking, even so far as the separation
of sooty carbon from the members with high boiling points.
