42 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
25 fi. Receptacle 110 X 50 (distal end) X 10/x (base). Total length
to tip of perithecium 225-250 /x.
On the legs and abdomen of Latona Spinolae Guer. Bogota, Colum-
bia. Berlin Museum, No. 834.
Corethromyces Stilici nov. sp.
Perithecium amber colored, with a faint brownish or reddish tin we,
somewhat irregular in outline through a spiral twist in the wall-cells,
which are distinguished from one another by slight furrows ; slightly
inflated toward the base, tapering to the broad blunt apex ; the tip not
at all distinguished ; the basal and stalk-cells well developed, hyaline, the
latter bent abruptly upward from its insertion. Basal cell of the re-
ceptacle small, hyaline on the anterior side just above the foot, but
otherwise blackish brown or opaque, bulging posteriorly above the foot ;
distally and posteriorly proliferous to form a straight, black, blunt finger-
like outgrowth, which lies external to the appendage ; the subbasal cell
nearly hyaline, subtriangular, separated from the basal cell by a very
oblique septum. Appendage hyaline, consisting of a nearly free and
nearly isodiametric stalk-cell, above which are three or four cells which
produce a close tuft of hyaline branches on the inner side. Spores about
30 X 3 /A. Perithecia 80-85 X 22 /x, its stalk-cell 30 x 18 ^. Recep-
tacle 25 fx, the outgrowth 55 X 7 fx. Appendage, including branches,
50 fji. Total length to tip of perithecium 150 /i.
On the abdomen of Stilicus sp., Interlaken, Switzerland. On Stilicus
rufipes Germ., Berlin Museum, No. 836. Europe.
Ceratomyces spinigerus nov. sp.
Bright amber brown. Perithecium paler anteriorly, about twenty-
eight wall-cells in each row ; narrower at the base, the lower half
bulging anteriorly, tapering distally where it is rather strongly curved
away from the antheridial appendage : the tip hyaline, prominent, obtuse,
about half as long as the curved tooth- or spine-like one-celled deep
amber brown appendage, which arises below and beside it. Basal cell
of the receptacle large, long, mostly curved, broader distally, opaque ;
the portion above it relatively small and narrow, concolorous with the
perithecium. The appendage erect, slightly divergent, stiff, long, slender,
rather remotely septate, but the basal cell often broader than long, about
seven-celled, tapei'ing distally. Spores 90 X 4 ^, in one small specimen
165 X 4.5 yu.. Perithecia 425-500 X 70-95^, the appendage 45-50 |U.
