682 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
The boiling point of tridecane has been variously stated at 219°, 216°
and 212°-2I5°. But neither of these temperatures can be accepted as
the boiling point of tridecane since its molecular weight is found to be
that of the hydrocarbon boiling at 225°-226°.
The hydrocarbon tetradecane boils at 236°-238°, the same boiling
point as was assigned to the tridecane separated by Pelouze and
Cahours, but the specific gravity of tetradecane, 0.7812 at 20° is es-
sentially lower than that found by Pelouze and Cahours, 0.809.
Pentadecane, boiling point 156°-157°, is nearly the same in boiling
point as the hydrocarbon separated by Pelouze and Cahours, boiling
point 260°, although its specific gravity, 0.7896 at 20°, is much lower
than they found, — 0.825 at 19°.
The boiling point of hexadecane is not very different from that given
by Pelouze and Cahoux's, but its specific gravity is considerably lower.
It does not differ in boiling point materially from hexadecane which
Krafft obtained by heating palmitic acid, nor from that of hexadecane,
boiling point 278°, obtained by Zincke from normal octyl iodide.* Since,
however, the oils obtained by freezing out the solid hydrocarbons have
specific gravities considerably higher than those of the original distillates,
and apparently belong to another series, as shown by analysis and refrac-
tion indices, it is possible that the solid hydrocarbons held in solution in
the oils have their boiling points depressed in the fractional distillation
by which they were separated from the main body of the crude oil. Still,
the molecular weights of the solid hydrocarbons correspond to definite
formulas; for instance, from the distillate 300°-301°, atmospheric pres-
sure, octodecane was separated, in a practically pure form.
The less volatile portions of Pennsylvania petroleum consist of several
series of hydrocarbons. The series CnHj,, is liquid even at low tem-
peratures, of higher specific gravity, and another is composed of solid
hydrocarbons, of the series CnH2„+2-
In a former paper f it was shown that the high values assigned by
Pelouze and Cahours as the specific gravity of the distillates separated
by them from petroleum, indicated that their hydrocarbons were sep-
arated from Canadian petroleum. The same inference is supported by
the high specific gravity of the hydrocarbons separated by Pelouze and
Cahours boiling above 216°, as compared with the specific gravity of
the hydrocarbons separated from Pennsylvania petroleum described in
this paper.
* Ann. Chem. u. Pharm. 152, 15.
t These Proceedings, XXXII. 171.
