THAXTER. — NHW LABOULBENIACEAE. 43
Receptacle 175-220 fx, the basal cell 150-170 /a. Antheridial appendage
200-325 fj..
On the inferior anterior margin of the thorax near the base of the right
elytron of Tropisternus apicipalpis Cast. Jalapa, Mexico. Sharp Col-
lection, No. 1178.
Ceratomyces procerus nov. sp.
Rather pale amber brown. Perithecium very elongate, of nearly
equal diameter throughout, the wall-cells in each row more than sixty
in number ; the conformation at the tip similar to that in G. confusus ;
the perithecial appendage erect, short and stout, consisting of about ten
cells, distally curved outward, tapering from its broad base to the bluntly
pointed tip. Appendages (broken) and receptacle much as in G. con-
fusus. Perithecium 800-850 X 65 yn, its appendage 125 /a. Total length
to tip of perithecium more than one millimeter.
On the inferior surface of the abdomen (near the middle) of Tro-
pisternus sp. San Fidelio, Brazil. Museum of Comparative Zoology,
Cambridge, No. 1338.
Ceratomyces curvatus nov. sp.
Amber brown. Perithecium relatively large, inflated toward the base ;
the distal half up to the perithecial appendage of about equal diameter
throughout ; about forty cells, more or less, in each row of wall-cells ;
the configuration at the tip very similar to that in G. confusus^ the tip
itself more prominent, the apex more pointed ; the perithecial appen-
dage about nine-celled, the distal half pale, curved or recurved, broader
below, shorter and stouter. Receptacle much as in G. confusus, the basal
cell black, the further suffusion somewhat less extensive. Appendage
consisting of about six or seven cells, tapering distally, rather short.
Spores about 70 X 4 ^. Perithecia 500-615 X 75 ju (below) X 60 ju
(distally), the appendage 150 |U. Total length to tip of perithecium
600-700 ^, to tip of antheridial appendage about 250 ^.
On Tropisternus Caracinus N. on inferior surface of abdomen near
the tip. Caracas ? Berlin Museum, No. 1057.
Ceratomyces Mexicanus nov. sp.
Dark amber brown. Perithecium with a slight submedian inflation ;
distally broad, the outer margin turning abruptly inward distally to the
inconspicuous retracted tip, which lies close at the base of the perithecial
appendage, and is externally subtended by irregular inconspicuous papil-
