594 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
tained but not yet published indicate that the same series of hydrocar-
bons constitute the less volatile portions of Canadian petroleum, and
probably also of Ohio petroleum. Results already published show that
the less volatile distillates from California and Texas petroleum are
composed of the same series and other series still poorer in hydrogen.
The unexpected appearance of the series C„H2„_2 in Pennsylvania
petroleum suggests a closer relationship between this petroleum and the
heavier oils from other fields, such as those in Texas and California,
than was suspected. To gain further information concerning the heav-
ier portions of Pennsylvania oil, we allowed three kilos of the sample
from which the hydrocarbons described in this paper were prepared, to
evaporate spontaneously in the air in a strong draught, but with no appli-
cation of heat. At the end of thirty days there remained one kilo that
gave as its specific gravity 0.8620, practically the same as that of C28H54,
0.8694. A combustion gave percentages of carbon and hydrogen re-
quired for the series CnH2n_2- A distillation showed that 65 per cent of
the residual oil was composed of hydrocarbons above C15H30. The com-
position of these hydrocarbons will be ascertained in connection with the
study of natural and commercial paraffine, which is now in progress.
This interesting relation, and others between the numerous petroleums
from different oil fields that have been examined in this laboratory will
be presented more at length in a later paper.
As a general summary of the results described in this paper, hydrocar-
bons have been identified as shown in table on opposite page.
It appears that the liquid hydrocarbon C2SH54 in fraction 310°-312°
has the same number of carbon atoms as the solid hydrocarbon octocosane
in the same fraction. In this respect the hydrocarbons in this fraction
differ from those in the two preceding fractions, in each of which the
liquid hydrocarbon is one carbon higher than the solid constituent. De-
terminations of the molecular weights of hydrocarbons with high carbon
content can only be made by the boiling-point method ; and even with
the greatest care in manipulation, this method is somewhat uncertain for
high molecular weights of solid hydrocarbons, for the reason that the
rise in boiling points diminishes with the increase in molecular weight.
With oils there is less difficulty. For instance, the molecular weight,
376.2, of the liquid hydrocarbon C27H52, given on page 592, is one of
five closely concordant determinations by different persons. As an illus-
tration of the care necessary in details, heating with a lamp supplied with
gas from the laboratory mains is so irregular on account of variation in
gas pressure that the gas must be supplied from a tank under water
