44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
late protrusions : the basal cell of the appendage slightly divergent,
several times as long as broad ; the external margin straight, the inner
strongly concave with a median blackish suffusion; the rest of the appen-
dage slightly curved, about eight or nine-celled, tapering slightly and
diverging strongly above the basal cell. The antheridial appendage and
the receptacle much as in C. mirahilis. Spores 85 X 5 ju. Perithecia
400-475 X 110-125 ft, the appendage about 290 n, its basal cell 70 X 26
and 36 |U. Total length to tip of perithecium 550-640 ^.
On the left inferior margin of the abdomen of Tropisternus nitidiis
Sharp, Sharp Collection, No. 1177, and of T. chalybeus Cast., British
Museum, No. 772, Oaxaca, jNIexico.
Ceratomyces Braziliensis nov. sp.
Dark amber brown. Perithecium somewhat inflated just above the
constricted base, the upper two-thirds broad and of about the same
diameter throughout; about forty-five wall-cells in each row, the tip
small, short, rather narrow, abruptly hunched externally, the hyaline
lips turned abruptly toward the base of the perithecial appendage, which
consists of a basal cell hardly differentiated from the wall-cell below it,
though somewhat longer, the portion above it erect, slender, stiffs slightly
curved outward, tapering but little, the subbasal cell bearing a charac-
teristic basal enlargement which projects toward the lip-cells and lies
just above them. The appendage and receptacle much as in C. mira-
bilis. Perithecium 650 X 95 ^u (basal) X 87 // (distal). Ajipendage
185 |U, or more. Total length to tip of perithecium 800 ^u.
On inferior thorax of 7^-opisternus miens Cast. var. Rio de Janeiro.
Sharp Collection, No. 1181.
KAINOMYCES nov. gen.
Receptacle much as in Zodiomyces, broad and flattened ; consisting of
a single basal cell and typical foot, above which the successive cells
become variably divided by longitudinal septa into transverse cell-rows
or tiers : the distal portion more or less definitely distinguished and con-
sisting of superposed cells, the lowest of which alone become longitu-
dinally divided, all producing laterally antheridial (?) branches : several
of the tiers immediately below this appendiculate portion growing out
laterally at right angles to the main axis of the receptacle on one or
both sides to form "perithecial branches" consisting of superposed cells
and terminated by solitary perithecia. The perithecium of peculiar
