602 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
March 13, 1901 : Three hundred dollars to Professor Arthur A.
Noyes, of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, in aid of his research
upon the effect of high temperature on the electrical conductivity of
aqueous salt solutions.
It was furthermore voted by the Committee at its meeting of April
12, 1901, to recommend to the Academy the appropriation of the sum of
five hundred dollars from the income of the Rumford Fund to Professor
Theodore W. Richards of Harvard University, in aid of his research
upon the Thomson-Joule Free Expansion Experiment, which recom-
mendation was favorably acted upon by the Academj'.
The Rumford Committee has given much consideration to t!ie question
introduced by Professor E. C. Pickering, of the feasibility of co-operation
among tlie various committees in this country having in charge the
administration of funds devoted to researcli. It was voted by the Com-
mittee that the Chairman be authorized to represent the Committee in
such consideration of the subject as might be brought about. Several
entirely informal conferences have taken place among representatives of
such committees, and it is hoped that some general understanding may
be reached which will be helpful to those engaged in research.
The following recommendations have been voted by the Committee,
and are now presented to the Academy for its consideration.
Oct. 10, 1900, it was voted that the Committee recommend to the
Academy the appropriation of one hundred dollars from the income of
the Rumford Fund to aid in the cataloguing of the books in the Academy
Library.
March 13, 1901, it was voted to recommend to the Academy that a
replica in bronze of each Rumford Medal hereafter awarded by the
Academy be struck off and preserved in the Hall of the Academy.
April 12, 1901, it was voted that the Committee recommend to the
Academy the appropriation of one hundred and fifty dollars from the
income of the Rumford Fund for the purchase and binding of the usual
periodicals for the current fiscal year.
At the same meeting it was voted that the Committee recommend to
the Academy the appropriation of the sum of one hundred and fifty
dollars from the income of the Rumford Fund for the purchase and
binding of books on light and heat, said works to be purchased upon the
recommendation of the Rumford Committee.
At the same meetinsf it was furthermore voted that the Chairman
of the Committee recommend to the Academy the appropriation from
the income of the Rumford Fund of one thousand dollars for the
immediate needs of the Committee in the furtherance of research.
