RECOKDS OF MEETINGS. 603
A wish has frequently been expressed for a complete list of persons to
whom the Rumford Premium has been awarded, and to meet this desire
such a list is appended to the present report.
Papers embodying the results of researches conducted wholly or
in part by the aid of grants from the Rumford Fund as follows
have been printed during the past year in the Proceedings of the
Academy.
" On the Thermal Diffusivities of Different Kinds of Marble," by
B. O. Peirce and R. W. Willson.
" On the Thermal and Electrical Conductivity of Soft Iron," by
Edwin H. Hall.
" False Spectra from the Rowland Concave Grating," by Theodore
Lyman.
" A Study of Growing Crystals by Instantaneous Photomicrography,"
by Theodore W. Richards and Ebenezer H. Archibald.
In accordance with a vote of the Committee passed Nov. 10, 1897, all
persons receiving grants from the Rumford Fund are expected to
present an annual report of the progress of their work. In response
to the usual request such reports have been received from the following
persons, regarding their several researches as stated below : —
Mr. Arthur L. Clark, on the molecular properties of vapors in the
neighborhood of the critical point.
Professor Henry Crew with Mr. 0. H. Basquier, on electric arc
spectra.
Professor Edwin B. Frost, on the spectroscopic determination of the
radial velocities of stars.
Professor Edwin H. Hall, on the thermal properties of iron.
Professor George E. Hale, on the application of the radiometer to
the study of the infra-red spectrum.
Professor Frank A. Laws, on the thermal conductivity of metals.
Professor Edward L. Nichols, on the visible radiation from carbon,
accompanied by a paper for presentation to the Academy embodying the
result of his researches.
Mr. C. E. Mendenhall, on the hollow bolometer.
Professor Edward C. Pickering, on the determination of the light of
very faint stars.
Professor Theodore W. Richards, on (a) the photographic study of
growing crystals ; (b) the transition temperatures of salts as fixed points
in thermometry ; (c) the experimental study of the Joule-Thomson
Effect.
