608 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
On the recommendation of the Committee of Finance, it was
Voted, To appropriate from the income of the General Fund
two thousand, dollars ($2000) for general expenses.
Voted, That the assessment for the ensuing year be five dollars.
On the recommendation of the committee to whom certain
alterations of the Statutes were referred at the meeting of
December 12, 1900, it was
Voted, To amend the Statutes as follows : —
Ch. I., Sec. 1, first sentence. "The Academy consists of Resident
Fellows, Associate Fellows, and Foreign Honorary Members."
Ch. L, Sec. 2. " The number of Resident Fellows shall not exceed
two hundred. Only residents in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
shall be eligible to election as Resident Fellows, but resident fellowship
may be retained after removal from the Commonwealth. Each Resident
Fellow shall pay an admission fee of ten dollars and such annual assess-
ment, not exceeding ten dollars, as shall be voted by the Academy at each
annual meeting. Resident Fellows only may vote at the meetings of the
Academy."
Ch. I., Sec. 3. " The number of Associate Fellows shall not exceed
one hundred, of whom there shall not be more than forty in either of the
three classes of the Academy. Associate Fellows shall be chosen from
persons residing outside of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. They
shall not be liable to the payment of any fees or annual dues, but on re-
moving within the Commonwealth they may be transferred by the Coun-
cil to resident fellowship as vacancies there occur."
Ch. L, Sec. 4. Omit " And " at the beginning of last sentence.
Ch. II., Sec. 2, first sentence. " At the Annual Meeting of 1901, nine
Councillors shall be elected by ballot, one from each class of the Academy
to serve for one year, one from each class for two years, and one from
each class for three years ; and at annual meetings thereafter three Coun-
cillors shall be elected in the same manner, one from each class, to serve
for three years ; but the same Fellow shall not be eligible for two succes-
sive terms."
Ch. II., Sec. 2, second sentence. Change " These " to " The." At
end of this sentence add : " Five members shall constitute a quorum."
Ch. v.. Sec. 5. " The Committee of Publication, of three Fellows,
one from each Class, to whom all communications submitted to the
Academy for publication shall be referred, and to whom the printing of
the Memoirs and the Proceedings shall be intrusted."
