THAXTER. — NEW LABOULBENIACEAE. 45
form, with six wall-cells in each row in addition to the lip-cells ; the
base of the trichogyne persistent in the form of a peculiarly modified
unicellular appendage.
It has proved impossible from an examination of the available material
of this extraordinary form, to determine the character of the antheridia ;
yet there can hardly be any doubt as to its true position among the
" Exogenae " near Zodiomyces, Euzodiomyces, and Ceratomyces, its dis-
tal appeudieulate portion being evidently homologous with the "appen-
dage " of the last-mentioned genus.
Kainomyces Isomali nov. sp.
Receptacle variably developed below the distal appendiculate portion,
sometimes very broad, often much narrower : the cells above the basal
cell becoming broader and flattened, and soon divided longitudinally by
one or more septa, nearly hyaline and broadly edged wholly or in part
below, especially on the posterior side, with cuntrahting brownish black,
which may involve the whole of the cell, except the transverse septa;
the blackened area usually characteristically indented above, and some-
times involving all but the uppermost tiers. Perithecial branches vari-
ably developed, the free portion curving upward, and consisting of from
about twelve to thirty-five superposed hyaline cells, which are more or
less flattened, usually separated by slight constrictions, the distal one
similar to the others and followed directfy by the basal cells of the
perithecium. Perithecium becoming tinged with pale amber brown,
usually short, stout and subohloiig, often not distinguished from its
basal cells ; the distal end abruptly rounded, the pore subtended by a
tooth-like outgrowth, half as long as and paler than the trichogvnic
appendage, which bears a slight resemblance to a duck's bill, is dark
clear brown, somewhat narrower distally and pale tipped, broader toward
the base, where it is abruptly constricted and hyaline. Spores about
30 X 3.5 ft. Peritheeia 72-80 X 40-50 /a exclusive of trichogvnic ap-
pendage, which measures 28-32 X 11 //. Perithecial branch 100-253 ju.
Receptacle 150-220 x 40 60 |U. Antheridial branches about 5(> ^.
Total length to tip of perithecium 250-460 fj.
On Isomnhis Conradti Fauvel. Derema, Usambara, East Africa.
Berlin Museum, Nos. 847-848.
