AUGUSTDS LOWELL. 641
In 1864 the health of his wife necessitated his taking her and his
family abroad. They sailed for England in May, and for the next two
years and a half lived in Europe; the summers spent in travelling, the
winters in Paris. To one so temperamentally prone to a busy life at
home, this existence was no sinecure. With a wife at the point of death
as it was thought and four young children, Mr. Lowell had his hands
full. For a long time Mrs. Lowell did not gain at all. Indeed it was
only during the second summer, under the treatment of a couutry doctor
fortuitously encountered in the Austrian Tyrol, that she began to mend.
It is instructive, if tardy, to perceive now, in view of the widespread
professional ignorance on the subject, that what Mrs. Lowell was suffer-
ing from was nervous exhaustion, — a disease, this, which it may be
noted incidentally, Faraday, Darwin, Huxley, and Parkmau all suffered
from without knowing it.
Three little episodes may serve to mark these years of a search after
health. The first summer the wanderers happened to be at Bonchurch
in the Isle of Wight when the action between the '' Kearsarge " and the
" Alabama" took place just across the channel off the coast of France. In
the second they were among the first to go to that nook in the Austrian
Salzkammergut, the village of Ischl, since become well known and popu-
lar. In the third and last they were lodged at Schwalbach near Wies-
baden, when that little watering place suddenly became one of the seats
of war, and thereupon was occupied alternately by the two opposing
forces, the invading Prussians and the native Hessians. Usually evacu-
ation considerately took place before occupation set in ; but once by acci-
dent the two interfered and a battle occurred between the rear guard of
the one army and the advance scouts of the other under the very windows
of the hotel. The Hessians, who had been quartered in the town, had
heard of the proposed Prussian advance and had at once started to
evacuate the place. But they were a little too Teutonically slow. The
invaders, although Prussians and landwehr at that, were, quite to their
own surprise, too quick for them ; a belated squad of Hessians had got
only halfway up the hill on its way out when the Prussian cavalry was
heard cantering into the town. There was no time to go on unseen
when fortunately a friendly wood pile by the side of the road offered its
shelter. Instantly the squad deployed behind it and waited. Five min-
utes later three cavalrymen cantered past the hotel, their pistols pointed
at the windows as they went by, and started unsuspiciously up the hill.
The spectators in the secret stood waiting the surprise. Just as the
dragoons got abreast of the wood pile the squad deployed out and fired.
VOL. XXXVII. — 41
