642 AUGUSTUS LOWELL.
One dragoon fell on the spot, a second turned like a flash and leaped his
horse over an embankment twenty feet to a road below, while the third
wheeled in his tracks and came galloping wildly down the street again.
All which served to relieve the watering place dulness.
By the autumn of 1866 Mrs. Lowell was so far recovered that Mr.
Lowell was able to return with her to the United States. It was many
years before he left it again.
He now took an oflice next his father's, and became gradually con-
nected, on the one hand, with the manufacturing interests which hia
father controlled, and on the other with the many trusts his father
managed. During Mr. John Amory Lowell's subsequent absences in
Europe the care of these things devolved upon his son, and with the
former's increasing years the care became more and more permanent.
In 1875 he was chosen treasurer of the Boott Cotton Mills. This office
he held for eleven years. About the same time he was elected to suc-
ceed his father on the board of the Massachusetts Hospital Life Insur-
ance Company,- — -familiarly known as the Life Office, State Street's oldest,
staidest, and most famous institution, whose real business has but a bowing
acquaintance with its name, — and later was put upon its executive com-
mittee. Of the corporation of the Provident Institution for Savings,
— another financial landmark, not so deceptively named to the uninitiated,
— he was likewise made a member, and eventually became its president,
succeeding the Mr. Lee of epistolary fame. At this date too he began
his long career upon the board of the Boston Gas Light Company, then
so ably managed by Mr. Greenough, a career which ended more than
twenty years later in the negotiations he conducted as its president when
it became necessary to sell the property, which he did for two and a
quarter times all it had ever cost. In addition to holding the offices above
mentioned he was treasurer of the Merrimack Manufacturing Company,
June 20-October 29, 1877 ; president of the Massachusetts Cotton
Mills ; of the Massachusetts Mills in Georgia ; of the Pacific Mills ; of
the Merrimac Manufacturing Company, 1887-8, 1892 to death; of the
Boott Cotton Mills ; of the Lowell Bleachery : of the Lowell Machine
Shop ; of the Glendon Iron Company ; and a director of the Everett
Mills ; of the Middlesex Company ; of the Lawrence Mills ; of the
Lowell Manufacturing Company ; of the Suffi^lk National Bank ; of the
Cranberry Iron Company ; of the Plymouth Cordage Company ; besides
being a trustee of the Union Trust Company of New York. This long
list means even more than it usually would ; for Mr. Lowell was a director
who did direct. In every concern into which he entered he very soon took
