AUGUSTUS LOWELL. 643
a leading part. Never seeking a place, his ability was such that he found
liimself forced into position after position of responsibility. Indomitable,
he was always selected to do what others agreed ought to be done but
were averse to doing. For Mr. Lowell knew no such thing as shirking
in the discharge of duty. He disliked the disagreeable as much as any
one, but he was not weak. Of the financial jjosition he held in the
down-town community it is enough commentary that seven bonds of
treasurers of great corporations were found in his tins at his death,
deposited with him as president.
Such were the business concerns with which he was connected. But
side by side with them he gave much time and thought to matters of
more public interest. For many years he was a trustee of the Boston
Eye and Ear Infirmary. Not simply one in name, for to him and to
Mr. Brown its management was for a long time chiefly due.
Ex-officio he was a trustee of the Boston Art Museum for twenty
years, and a trustee of the Lowell Textile School for the four years pre-
ceding his death. Of purely public functions he once performed one, that
of member of the Boston School Committee in 1857-58, and from the
echoes of this which have reached the writer it would seem that politics
played as objectionable a part in what should have been above them then
as now.
Before going abroad he had had a summer place at Beverly, but attrib-
utinof the loss of a child there to unhealthiness of the shore he sold it.
On coming home he cast about for a country-place where he could live
the year round, as being alike beneficial for his wife and his children.
He found it in Brookline. His children were still young, and he took to
repeating the experience of his own boyhood, driving them and himself
into town every day to school and to business respectively. Out of it,
beyoud business hours, his life was now quite bucolic. The place he had
bought possessed already a fine garden and two greenhouses. In them
he centred his affections, greenhouse and garden dividing the year
between them. Two hot-houses of grapes helped to shield the latter,
which lay in a hollow open to the south. Natural embankments enclosed
it on the east and west, and a raised roadway, shut off from view, made
artificial protection on the north. Clipped evergreens stood for sentinels
along a terraced path, ending in an arbor which fringed one side of it, and
a corresponding row faced them upon the slope opposite. In this shel-
tered spot he spent much of his time. Pruning his shrubs, tying up his
plants, and attending generally to the welfare of his flowers, he was
almost as much of an inhabitant of the place as they. It was a world in
