644: AUGUSTUS LOWELL,
which he found infinite satisfaction. His roses were his chief delight.
And fine they were — no finer than the feeling with which he showed
them off. But nothing vegetal was alien to him. He would point out
with almost as much zest, punctuated by a wink, a foi*eign thorn-tree,
which flanked the avenue, a platted mass of thorns a foot long, the
despair of squirrels and cats.
His botany was of the old-fashioned kind. He did not pursue it as a
science, but cultivated it as an art. His plants were rather pets than
subjects for vivisection. Philosophically he was not concerned with their
genealogy or relationship and disbelieved Darwinism to the day of his
death. But in his intercourse with them he knew the life and the merits
or demerits of each, and took pleasure in their thriving with something
like affectionate interest. He behaved like a distant relative, the while
stoutly denying that he was one. Indeed the relation did not seem so
very distant, for he was never tired of attending to them, and took a
paternal pride in their introduction to others. He would conduct you to
view some bush at the moment in flower, and point out in what lay its
peculiar praiseworthiness with the care of long acquaintance. Pretty
much every tree upon his place — and it included some rare ones — was
personally known to him. And if you strolled round with him he would
talk fine print about each with you. He was constantly importing new
plants and then watching them succeed. Though he made no parade of
knowledge or of success, he not infrequently had plants which knew no
rival in the neighborhood. A contrast this side of his life made with
that of his morning down-town, where he played so prominent a part in
the active affairs of men.
The long list of business offices held by him might lead one to infer
that his time in the city must have been fully occupied by them alone.
But he was much too busy a man for such to be the. case. With all his
industrial and financial concerns he found time for an equal employment
in educational affairs. His ability was of the executive kind, which was
as vital to the one as to the other. It thus came about that side by side
with his business, and almost hand in hand with it, so practical was he
in his workings, went another employment — usually only on speaking
terms with the first, and then those of a beggar — the conduct of educa-
tional concerns. Busy as Mr. Lowell was with purely business affairs,
he was equally engaged in matters of mind. Partly the accident of
birth, partly the possession of ability, placed him in positions of authority
in two important educational institutions : the Lowell Institute in the
first place, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the second.
