646 AUGUSTUS LOWELL.
most for the institution and its trustee is that well-nigh without exception
each came originally at his instigation. Almost all the famous foreigners
in science, literature, or art who have been in this country have owed
their personal introduction to it to the trustee of the Lowell Institute.
Since from over seas these lecturers came, simply as a bond between
countries the Institute has played uo unimportant part.
Mr. Lowell's tie to science was thus rather indirect than direct, but it
was none the less intimate if in a different way. By virtue of his office
he was brought personally in contact with the scientists of his day, and in
a most pleasant and withal domestic manner. For besides meeting them
at the lectures, of which he always attended the opening one and oftener
than not the whole course, he was in the habit of entertaining the lec-
turers during their stay in Boston at his house at dinner, sometimes more
than once. Many is the memorable evening he passed in consequence
with men who have made the worhi what it is. Such personal knowledge
of a man is as invaluable as it is invigorating. Even in an estimate of
the mind a side light of no mean value is shed on it by intercourse with
the personality. The man proves a footnote to his own writings. This
advantage of glosses on the text Mr. Lowell possessed ; and in various
aspects in as muph as he was thrown with these men in diverse relations.
Intercourse of the sort he enjoyed more or less for nearly half a century.
For, as I have said, before he became trustee he had been acting for his
father, and even before that had met the lecturers at his father's house.
During the second half of the nineteenth century he had thus been
familiar, not only with the century's best thought, but with most of its
best thinkers. And he passed away just as the century itself was
drawing to a close.
Coincident with holding this responsible post in educational matters of
a general character Mr. Lowell filled a second position of a more direct
kind and not less important. For quite as long a term as he managed
the Lowell Institute was he associated with the government of the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Entering the corporation of
that institution in the early seventies, he very soon took a leading part
in its policy. From that time the conduct of its affairs had been inti-
mately connected with him, much more so than the public is cognizant
of. For Mr. Lowell never put himself forward, having an innate aver-
sion to unnecessary publicity. Even on the few occasions when it was
indispensable for him to appear, he only did so, as those in his confidence
are aware, after great reluctance.
Mr. Lowell was identified with this phenomenally successful institution
