AUGUSTUS LOWELL. 647
almost from its start. The Massachusetts Institute of Technology was
founded in 1861, chiefly through the instrumentality of Prof. William B.
Rogers. To the same eminent mind it owed its early success. Measure
of the man's executive ability in the first place, its success was in the
long run the sign of his forethought in founding it. A school of technol-
ogy was exactly what the American genius had demanded for many years
in vain. It seems strange that no one should have heeded this unmis-
takable cry of nature before; but men are prone to being thus strangely
deaf, till an interpreter arises. For a century the American has been
noted for his innate inventiveness and general ingenuity, and has been
e(]ually noted for the untrained character of his craft. In some things
this did well enough, but in the higher branches it left a good deal to be
desired. To supplement natural aptitude with proper training was thus
the one thing needful. To think of it was so simple a matter as to
require a master mind for the thought. It was a piece of educational
acumen of the highest order. And it has borne its inevitable result.
But though it was destined to great and permanent success it would be
contrary to common sense to suppose that the move was fully appre-
ciated, from the very start. On tlie contrary, had it not been for its
founder the institution would probably have gone under.
After Mr. Rogers' death much came to devolve upon Mr. Lowell ; and
since then, that is for the last quarter of a century, the policy of the
Institute has been intimately associated with him. Elected a member of
the corporation in 1873, he was chosen a member of the executive com-
mittee in 1883, and was kept upon it to the day of his death. During
his term of service were chosen four presidents, and I need only mention
the name of General F. A. Walker, who was the longest incumbent, to
suggest how wisely made these choices were. But the work of the
committee did not end with the selection of the executive ; as its name
implies, it was itself a part of that executive and its function was con-
tinual. As the senior member of the committee Mr. Lowell's force was
felt in every portion of the policy pursued. Not a measure was passed
which had not been influenced by his opinion. His judicious advice was
fully appreciated by General Walker. Indeed the two men were natural
complements to each other, General Walker with his brilliant, engaging
personality, and Mr. Lowell with his uncommon judgment and invincible
determination.
The position taken by the Institute under this leadership is well known.
The institution has quadrupled in size, and what is far more important,
has more than quadrupled in prestige. It is recognized to-day not only
