6-i8 AUGUSTUS LOWELL.
as the first, but as easily the first, school of technical arts in this country.
To it now flock students from the farthest portions of these United
States: from Oregon and Texas, from Illinois and Ohio, as well as
from New York and Massachusetts. And as graduates they go back
again to help develop the country. If any such institution may
fairly be called national the Massachusetts Institute of Technoloo-y is
the one.
Nor is this all. Not confined to the limits of this continent, its fame
has successfully invaded lands across the sea. It is not long since Sir
Eobert Ball informed the writer that it was in advance of anything of
the kind in Great Britain ; a belief which he had years before acted on
by sending his son to it, who is now practising in England. The belief
would seem to be spreading; for in June, 1901, examinations for admis-
sion to it were held in London. Its rank would seem even to be recosf-
nized at home, which means that it probably is of some importance, as
the American believes firmly in the ignota pro magnijico. The post-
graduate course, pursued by the ranking men of the U. S. Naval
Academy at foreign institutes heretofore, is in future to be taken at the
Institute. It has been the custom of the Academy since 1883 to send
the first few scholars of the highest grade, the construction department,
abroad to finish their education. At first it was Greenwich they went
to, till the British Government ludicrously enough became sensitive to
the cadets outstripping their own students and forbade them. Then the
Navy sent men to the University of Glasgow, and lastly to the Ecole
Polytechnique in Paris, where the recent ones have all graduated. In
future it will be in Boston. Evidently the United States Government is
convinced of the primacy of the Institute.
What Mr. Lowell's share in this success was may best be gathered
from an episode which occurred about a twelvemonth before his death.
Feeling himself worn by a painful trouble which he had had for years,
he was minded in a moment of acute access of it to give up active work.
Accordingly he sent in his resignation to his colleagues of the corpora-
tion. They refused to accept it, and the committee did their best to
persuade him to reconsider his determination ; but in vain. Whereupon
a memorial was drawn up, signed by every member of the corporation
accessible at the time, protesting against his resignation, and begging him
not to withdraw his services from the institution. Such unanimous spon-
taneity of appreciation in a body of forty odd members is not common.
That he was profoundly touched by this mark of confidence and esteem
needs no saying.
