AUGUSTUS LOWELL. 651
gate of popularity, but by the portal of inevitableness. He was chosen
because he was necessary. And he stayed for the same reason.
Now will is pure force, uncomplexioned, the mere dynamic outcome of
the idea. Its effectiveness to any particular end depends, therefore, upon
the character of the idea whose explosive force it is. With Mr. Lowell
the idea owed its carrying power to two characteristics : judiciousness in
itself arud judiciousness in its presentation. In the first place he was apt
to be right, that is, to be wise. His judgment of thiugs within his own
field was excellent. It was essentially sound. His was that uncommon
sense-possession, the possession of common sense. Instinctively his mind
worked correctly. It was the exact opposite of the mind of the crank,
which may often hit off" a brilliant conception, but which is too unsafe to
be trusted. With him no one idea ever usurped the right of way to the
exclusion of others. Each had its due effect ; which fundamental balance
makes the only safe foundation for superstructure.
In the next place he was as shrewd as he was sound. He had a keen-
ness for the essential point which almost assured success in advance. In-
sisting upon what was vital, he waved less important issues to the other
side. In this consists the consummation of the art of commerce with
one's kind. An instance of the combined breadth and shrewdness of his
business insight occurs to my mind. "When I lease a building," be once
said to me, " I ask a good price of the tenant and then do all the little
repairs lie wants. The price makes its impression but once; the perqui-
sites repeatedly, and the latter impressions stand nearer to the falling due
of the lease."
Backing up his judgment was his excellence of exposition. His ideas
were the more telling for being well told. His words were few and to
the point. In a twinkling he would dissect a situation, and with equal
terseness suggest its remedy. With ability for audience this had imme-
diate effect ; with mediocrity it was rather his tact that told. His logic
was too accurate for popular approval, which prefers the coloring of
emotion to the lines of thought. For very few men care for truth as
thev care for their feelings. And Mr. Lowell's forte was not the silver
tongue of eloquence, but the more golden gift of statement. He could
put a point so that it pierced perception instantly.
Lastly, there was about his advocacy of his measures an impersonality
as potently as it was subtly persuasive. It was not that the ideas them-
selves were what one would call impersonal, but that the idea appeared
by itself with so little of that aura of the personal, which in human affairs
the man unconsciously throws around it, as to appear to stand alone. For
