AUGUSTUS LOWELL. 653
Mr. Lowell possessed to the utmost — the quality of honesty. In these
days, when successful financial operations so often depend upon will and
7n?'srepresentation, it is no small thing to say of a successful man of affairs
that he was conspicuously honest. When to steal enough is to steal with
credit, it is cheering to see business triumph attendant on unimpeachable
integrity. And this was typically true of him. Honest he was by
essence. Verity was of the very fibre of his being.
Nor is it only of the grosser form of that attribute which has usurped
the generic name of honesty of which I would speak, but of that finer
sense of fair dealing which we include under the appellation of a just
man. His uprightness was perfectly well known. No adversary ever
questioned that. A tribute to the fact once came in an amusing manner
to Mr. Lowell's ears in one of the latter years of his life. He was pass-
ing through a railway station in Boston one afternoon when he chanced
to overhear two men unknown to him discussing his character. It was
his own name that caught his attention. " Augustus Lowell," said one,
" is a hard man, but he is absolutely honest." "Yes," said the other,
''he is emphatically that." It is not often that one overhears a bit of
one's own obituary during one's life, nor is made privy to concurrent
testimony on the subject from both sides of a discussion. As to the
hardness imputed to him, it had no foundation in fact, though it was often
attributed to him by people who knew him onlj- from the outside. A
cast of countenance which looked stern when in repose, and which was
purely a matter of feature, was chiefly responsible for the reputation.
He was quite aware of the look himself, as well as of that to which it
was due. As a matter of fact he was very tender-hearted, singularly so
for a man of his determination. Few suspected him of the kindnesses he
was constantly doing, so unostentatiously were they performed, and
almost no one credited him with the affection he felt.
The complexion of his character — for will is an uncomplexioned
force — may be described in one word: exactness. Accuracy of state-
ment and honesty of purpose are both but facets of a crystallization of
thought. A man who sees clearly must be honest by instinct if he be
not dishonest by intent. There is with him no limbo of self-deception.
Much of the untruth current in the world is due to an initial haziness
of conception subsequently seized upon and distorted to its own ends by
passion, without disquiet to the perpetrator, because unrecognized as
distortion by him. Mr. Lowell was essentially exact. His nature
therefore imposed honesty. He saw much too correctly either to jumble
or to juggle with his thoughts.
