654 TRUMAN HENRY SAFPORD.
Important as the qualities he possessed are to the making of a man,
they are no less so to the making of a community. And in any consti-
tutional country no small part of the value of a man lies in his value
as a citizen. Indirect as well as direct his influence may be, and with
universal suffrage the former is apt to be the case with the best men.
To be determined, discerning, and honest does not, unfortunately, in our
system of supposed political equality, lead to purely civic distinction.
For the choice of a popular suffrage cannot rise above its source. But
if the qualities do not lead to civic distinction for their possessor they do
something as enduring, — they tend to raise to his level the community
of which he forms a part. For without the first attribute, nothing is
possible; without the second, fi'olishness ; without the third, knavery.
The apathy of most of us, the crankiness of a few, and the financial
trickery of others, ai-e the several results of the absence of these qualities.
Too strong a personality to be generally popular, recognition of such
a character is slow. For we are all prone to praise what we like. Only
when distance does away with personal perspective do men, like hills,
reveal their height.
Posterity gives the final judgment. For posterity judges of a man's
worth unhaloed by the engaging lack of it, and sets the seal of its appre-
ciation upon those who have contributed to the world's advance and
incidentally to posterity's own existence. To make for this advance is
the best any man can do, and to this end to be determined, discerning,
and honest is one of the surest means. If a man possess these attributes
he will not have lived in vain.
Percival Lowell.
TRUMAN HENRY SAFFORD.
Truman Henry Safford was born January 6, 1836, at Royalton,
Vermont. The course of his life was determined by a phenomenal ca-
pacity for the mental solution of arithmetical problems, which began to
display itself when he was only six years old. This faculty, which might
under easily conceivable circumstances have been wasted in mere display
for the amusement of the curious, fortunately attracted the attention of
judicious and eminent men, and thus secured for him the advantages of
a thoroueh education. He irraduated at Harvard College in the class
of 1854, which he joined at the beginning of its Junior year. As a boy
he had computed an almanac, and given other evidences of interest in
astronomy, and capacity for it ; and immediately after his graduation he
