TRUMAN HENRY SAFFORD. 655
obtained employment at Harvard College Observatory, wliere he con-
tinued for nearly twelve years. He married Elizabeth M. Bradbury, of
Cambridge, in March, 1860, " on six hundred dollars a year," as he
once told the writer of this notice; for astronomy has never been a prom-
ising road to riches for young Americans insufficiently endowed with the
practical turn of mind generally regarded as characteristic of their coun-
trymen. He was elected Fellow of the Academy, Nov. 13, 1861.
Saft'ord's position at Cambridge, if not pecuniarily advantageous,
offered him in some other respects greater advantages than, perhaps, he
could secure in later life ; for lie had here comparatively few hindrances
to the undisturbed development of his scientific abilities. Accordingly,
the results of his work soon began to make him widely and favorably
known in astronomical circles. One of the most generally interesting of
these investigations related to the orbital movement of Sirius. Many
years before, the observed want of uniformity in the proper motion of
this star had led astronomers to the belief that it formed one of a system
of bodies revolving about a common centre of gravity ; its companion, or
companions, as the case might be, being too faint to be visible, at least
with the existing instrumental means. Still more recently, the character
of the supposed revolution of Sirius had been discussed by means of its
right ascensions, as observed at different times. Safford now undertook
a similar discussion of its observed declinations, and after combining the
result of this work with that previously found, on the supposition that
only one disturbing body occasioned the observed effects, was able to
indicate its direction from Sirius at the time, in excellent agreement witli
the actual place of the companion discovered almost simultaneously by
the younger Alvan Clark.
A catalogue of the declinations of five hundred and thirty-two stars,
intended for use in the government survey of the lake region, was pre-
pared by SafFord during his connection with Harvard College Observa-
tory, and probably marks the beginning of the geodetic work which
occupied a large part of his time in later years.
In 1863 he received the formal title of Assistant Observer; and two
years later, upon the death of Professor G. P. Bond, he was placed in
charge of the Observatory. At this time, he completed and prepared for
publication Professor Bond's researches on the nebula of Orion, which
appeared as Volume V. of the Observatory Annals. Volume IV. of the
same series is also the work of Safford. The first part, dealing with the
preparation of a list of fundamental stars for transit observations, was
published iu 1863. By means of these fundamental stars, the right as-
