656 TRUMAN HENRY SAFFORD.
censions of five hundred and five stars were determined by observations
in the years 1862 to 1865 ; the second part of the volume, containing the
result of tliis work, appeared in 1878.
In 1866 Safford was appointed director of the Dearborn Observatory
at Chicago, which had recently been provided with the large refracting
telescope, by means of which, while still in its maker's hands, the com-
panion of Sirius had been discovered. This position, with which was
connected a professorship of astronomy in the University, seemed to offer
the fairest prospect of permanent and congenial employment to its occu-
pant ; but the disastrous fire which destroyed so large a part of Chicago
in 1871 deprived the Observatory of the financial support upon which its
activity depended. Professor Safford, accordingly, now found it neces-
sary to maintain his family by geodetic work connected with the govern-
ment surveys. He had undertaken the observation of one of the zones
of stars distributed among various observatories under the general system
arranged by the Astronomische Gesellschaft ; but this, and other pieces
of work begun at Chicago, were now necessarily laid aside.
In 1876, however, Professor Safford was restored to his favorite pur-
suits by appointment to the chair of astronomy at Williams College. In
this position, teaching required much of his time, and of course largely
impeded his attention to scientific investigation ; he also acted as libra-
rian of the College, and was at times engaged in other business con-
nected with its administration. It is not probable that he felt the work
of instruction to be a burden ; on the contrary, he took great interest
in the subject of pedagogy, which he studied theoretically as well as
practically. Notwithstanding all hindrances to the pursuit of strictly
astronomical research, he accomplished much in that direction during
the years spent at Williamstown, devoting himself largely, as before, to
the subject of accuracy in the determinations of the positions of fixed
stars. One of the principal results of this work was the publication
(in the Proceedings of this Academy, Volume XIX.) of a catalogue of
the mean right ascensions of one hundred and thirty-three stars near the
north pole ; but many other articles in scientific periodicals, particularly
the Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society, attest Professor
Safford's perseverance and success in scientific work during his later
years.
He died June 13, 1901, at Newark, New Jersey, where he was resid-
ing at the time with one of his sons. A stroke of paralysis, three years
previously, had put an end to his activity in science. His widow, with
four sons and a daughter, survives him.
Arthur Searle.
