G58 HORACE ELISHA SCUDDER.
them the Atlantic Monthly Magazine from 1890 to 1898, preparing for it
also that invaluable index, so important to bibliographers ; he also edited
the "American Commonwealth" series, and two detached volumes,
"American Poems" (1879) and "American Prose" (1880). He pub-
lished also the " Bodley Books " (8 vols. Boston, 1875 to 1887) ; " The
Dwellers in Five Sisters' Court" (1876); "Boston Town" (1881);
"Life of Noah Webster" (1882) ; "A History of the United States "
for schools (1884); "Men and Letters" (1887); "Life of George
Washington" (1889); " Literature in School" (1889); "Childhood in
Literature and Art" (1894), besides various books of which he was the
editor or compiler only. He was also for nearly six years (1877-82) a
member of the Cambridge School Committee ; for five years (1884-89) of
the State Board of Education ; for nine years (1889-98) of the Harvard
University visiting committee in English literature ; and was at the time
of his death a trustee of Williams College, Wellesley College, and St.
John's Theological School, these making altogether a quarter of a cen-
tury of almost uninterrupted and wholly unpaid public service in the
cause of education. Since May 28, 1889, he was a member of this
Academy, until January 11, 1902, when he died. This is the simple
record of a most useful and admirable life, filled more and more, as it went
on, with gratuitous public services and disinterested acts for others.
As a literary workman, his nicety of method and regularity of life
went beyond those of any man I have known. Working chiefly at
home, he assigned in advance a certain number of liours daily as due
to the firm for which he labored ; and he then kept carefully the record
of these hours, and if he took out a half hour for his own private work,
made it up. He had special work assigned by himself for a certain
time before breakfast, an interval which he daily gave largely to the
Greek Testament and at some periods to Homer, Thucydides, Herodotus,
and Xenophon ; working always with the original at hand and writing out
translations or commentaries, always in the same exquisite handwriting
and at first contained in small thin note-books, afterwards bound in
substantial volumes, with morocco binding and proper lettering. All his
writings were thus handsomely treated, and the shelves devoted to his
own works, pamphlet or otherwise, were to the eye a very conservatoiy
and flower garden of literature ; or like a chamberful of children to whom
even a frugal parent may allow himself the luxury of pretty clothes. All
his literary arrangements were neat and perfect, and represented that
other extreme from that celebrated collection of De Quincey in Dove
Cottage at Grasmere, where that author had five thousand books, by
