JOSEPH HENRY THAYER. 061
the effect of imnuiliate surroundings. His father, so far as I can ascer-
tain, was one of those Cougregationalists of the milder type who, while
strict in their opinions, are led by a sunny temperament to be genial with
their households and to allow them innocent amusements. The mother
was a Cougregationalist, firm but not severe in her opinions ; but always
controlled by that indomitable New England conscience of the older time
which made her sacrifice herself to every call of charity and even to
refuse, as tradition says, to have window curtains in her house, inasmuch
as many around her could not even buy blankets. Add to this the fact
that Boston was then a great missionary centre, that several prominent
leaders in this cause were of the Scudder family and the house was a sort
of headquarters for them, and that Horace Scudder's own elder brother,
whose memoirs he wrote, went as a missionary to India, dying at his post. '
Speaking of his father's family in this memoir, he says of it, '' In the
conduct of the household, there was recognition of some more profound
meaning in life than could find expression in mere enjoyment of living;
while the presence of a real religious sentiment banished that counterfeit
solemnity which would hang over innocent pleasure like a cloud " (Scud-
der's Life of David Coit Scudder, p. 4). By one bred in such an atmos-
phere of self-sacrifice, that quality may well be imbibed ; it may even
become a second nature, so that the instinctive demand for self-assertion
may become secondary until a man ends in simply finding contentment
in doing perfectly the appointed work of every day. If we hold as we
should that it is character, not mere talent, which ennobles life, we may
well feel that there is something not merely pardonable, but ennobling in
such a habit of mind. Viewed in this light, his simple devotion to
modest duty may well be to many of us rather a model than a thing to
be criticised.
Thomas Went worth Higginson.
JOSEPH HENRY THAYER.
Joseph Henry Thayer was born in Boston, November 7, 1828.
He graduated from Harvard in 1850, spent one year (1854-55) in the
Harvard Divinity School, graduated from tiie Andover Theological
Seminary in 1857, and was minister of the Crombie Street Church in
Salem from 1859 to 1864 ; a part of this time, from September, 1862 to
May, 1863, he served as Chaplain of the Fortieth Infantry Regiment
of Massachusetts Volunteers. His career as teacher began in 1864,
