662 JOSEPH HENRY THAYER.
when he became Professor in the Andover Theological Seminary. Re-
signing his chair in 1882, he came to Cambridge, was Lecturer in the
Harvard Divinity School for the year 1883-84, and in 1884, on the
death of Ezra Abbot, succeeded him as Bussey Professor of New Testa-
ment Criticism and Interpretation; this position he held up to 1901.
He was a member of the Harvard Corporation from 1877 to 1884. He
was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences
March 9, 1887, and, though not an active member, was always deeply
interested in the work and fortunes of the Academy. Other societies to
which he belonged are the Archaeological Institute of America, tlie
American Oriental Society, and the Society of Biblical Literature. He
received the degree of A.M. from Harvard, the degree of S.T.D. from
Yale, Harvard, and Princeton, and the degree of Litt.D. from Dublin.
Dr. Thayer chose as his field of study the grammar and lexicography
of the New Testament, and his distinguished services in this department
have been universally recognized in Europe and America. He brought
to his task wide learning, patience in investigation, minute accuracy in
details, and critical acumen. His " Greek-English Lexicon of the New
Testament " will long remain a manual for students and a monument of
erudition and industry. The statement on the title-page, that it is a
"revised and enlarged translation" of a German lexicon (Grimm's Wilke),
hardly conveys a correct impression of its character. In fact the increase
of the breadth and precision of definitions, the verification of references,
the addition of further references, and the construction of the New Testa-
ment text from the best manuscript authorities, entailed an amount of
labor almost equivalent to the production of an independent lexicon.
This breadth of research and exactitude of statement characterized all
his scientific work — his articles in the Bible Dictionaries of Smith and
Hastings, his translation of the New Testament Greek grammars of
Winer and Buttmann, and his work on the Revised Version of the New
Testament. To this last he gave many years of labor, as a member
of the American Committee collaborating with the English Committee,
and as principal editor of the American Version (the English Version
with the changes introduced by the American Committee), which by
agreement with the English Committee was published last year. His
reading in his chosen field was wide and critical. He found time
amid pressing professional and editorial duties to keep up with the
enormous mass of New Testament literature tliat every year produced
in Europe and America, and to form well-defined opinions as to its
value.
