JOSEPH HENRY THAYER. 663
He was not only singularly precise in details, he had a marked capacity
for organization. He conceived large plans, and worked them out with
patience and success. As early as 1864 he announced his purpose to
translate Grimm — he completed the translation in Cambridge in 1885.
It is mainly to him that we owe the establishment of the American
School of Oriental Research in Jerusalem. Year after year he set forth
the desirableness and the feasibility of such a school, and by unwearied
exertions secured the indorsement of the Society of Biblical Literature
and of the American Oriental Society, and the cooperation and financial
support of a number of colleges, and of the Archaeological Institute of
America. The school went into operation in the year 1900, and seems
certain to give an impulse to Oriental study in this country, and to
increase our knowledge of Oriental (especially Semitic) life, ancient
and modern.
Dr. Thayer was an enthusiastic teacher, ever ready to give sympathy
and time to his students. He was exacting in his demands, had small
patience with negligence, and refused to lower his standards on any per-
sonal grounds, such as lack of previous preparation, or sickness; but he
knew how to encourage and assist backward students, and to stimulate
all by his own sense of the requirements of scholarship. He held firmly
to the traditional New England standard of a minister's outfit, insisting
on the necessity of Hebrew and Greek for the preacher. This point was
the subject of debate in the Harvard Divinity Faculty for years, and the
final decision made it possible for a student to take the degree of Bach-
elor of Divinity without a knowledge of Hebrew or Greek, the Faculty
reserving the right, however, to pass on every individual case. In point
of fact, it is true, in the past thirty years at least, only one man without
Greek had received the degree, and he was a Japanese, from whom crit-
ical study of the Chinese classics was accepted in lieu of Greek. But
Dr. Thayer, seeing that the Hebrew requirement was practically given
up, believed there was danger that the Greek requirement would go
the same way. Against this disposition to dispense with the original
languages of the Bible he set his face steadfastly ; he lost no opportunity
to protest against what he regarded as a lamentable lowering of the
standard of ministerial learning. When the question was finally decided,
he, of course, accepted in good faith the action of the Faculty. Accept
it cordially he could not : he was not an easy-going man, willing to fall
in gracefully with the opinions of the majority ; on the contrary, he took
things very seriously, and, in matters that interested him, expressed him-
self pointedly. To the last be never spoke of the attitude of the Faculty
