JOHN PISKE. 6G5
JOHN FISKE.
On the 4th of July, 1901, John Fiske, philosopher, lecturer, and
historian, died at Gloucester. On the morning of the fifth, hundreds of
obituary notices of this distinguished man were read in the daily news-
papers from Maine to Texas, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and even
across the water in the capital of Great Britain, by a public familiar,
through his ministrations on the platform, with his giant form and ruddy
countenance. These preliminary notices were followed at a later date
by biographical and critical articles treating of his career, more finished
in style and more analytical in character, in reviews and magazines ;
in weekly, monthly, and quarterly publications. Many of these were
characterized by a familiarity with the details of Mr. Fiske's early life,
unusual under such circumstances, but easily to be accounted for, since
his biography liad been partially written during his lifetime by two
competent authors.
The first of these sketches, and in some respects the more complete
of the two, was published by Edwin D. Mead, in the '• Christian Register,"
in a series of papers occasioned by an address by Mr. Fiske before the
Concord School of Philosophy in 1886. The second was by the late
Horace E. Scudder, and appeared in a sort of introduction to one of the
editions of " The War of Independence." The striking similarity of
these biographies extends even to the language used, and indicates a
common origin. It is certain that Mr. Fiske himself furnished the
material for Mr. Mead's sketch, and there can be but little doubt that
he did the same by Mr. Scudder. This will fully explain the points of
coincidence, and will also give to both the authoritative character, which
neither in words claims, of being practically autobiographical.
From these sketches we learn that on the 30th of March, 1842,
there was born in Hartford, Connecticut, to Edmund Brewster Green
and Mary Fiske Green, a son named by them Edmund Fiske Green,
the greater part of whose child life was spent in Middletown, Connecticut.
This ILdmund Fiske Green was our John Fiske, his name having been
changed during boyhood to that borne by his maternal grandfather.
At an early age the wonderful precocity of the child foreshadowed the
marvellous attainments of his later years. His education was carried
on first in the lower schools at Middletown and later at Stamford.
Then he returned to INIiddletown and was placed in a private school,
after wliich he went to Cambridge. Meantime he seems to have browsed
o
