JOHN FISKE. 667
Jupiter and Saturn, owing to their great size and slow refrigeration, are
in a much earlier stage of development than Venus, Mars, and the
Earth.
His taste for philology led him to attack the modern languages at
the age of fifteen. He began with German ; took up Spanish, in which
he kept a diary ; conquered French; and then attacked Italian. At the
end of six months he had read the whole of Giuccardini, with parts of
Ariosto and Petrarch. He then turned his attention to Portujruese.
We have followed him as a boy down to the time when he is about
to leave home to go to Cambridge, What had college to offer him in
the way of instruction ? It is true that in much of the work he had
performed he had been without a master, and of course there was much
that he might still learn, but clearly the regular curriculum would
practically be merely review work for him. Nevertheless, he looked
forward with yearning to the time he should spend at Harvard, knowing
that he could discover avenues in which the extraordinary mental activity
which had impelled him along this wonderful path of study could find
exercise.
We are told that until he was sixteen " he averaged twelve hours study
daily for twelve months in the year." With the qualifications which will
naturally suggest themselves this statement would seem probable, yet
this boy who could cope with problems which present difficulties to the
ordinary collegiate student, and whose learning at fifteen years of age far
exceeded in many directions the standard which we should set for a
cultivated man of maturity, found time for other occupations than delving
in books. He taught himself to play upon the piano; participated iu
out-of-door sports, and took pleasure in walking, riding, and boating upon
the Connecticut. He was much interested in church and oratorio music,
was a member of the church choir, and his fondness for choral music,
then developed, is said to have abided by him throughout life. AVe do
not find evidence that works of fiction had much attraction for him as a
boy. Later in life, we know that he was fond of novels, and that the
characters portrayed by the masters of fiction were as real to him as the
heroes with whom he met in history. His reading at this time must
have been controlled by his surroundings, and what the libraries at his
command furnished we can conjecture from the list of his acquirements.
He gives us a hint of what there was at hand for him to read, in addition
to what might be termed '"useful books," in the following: "I remem-
ber," lie says in one of his essays, " that when I was about ten years old,
a favorite book witli me was one entitled ' Criminal Trials of all Coun-
