668 JOHN FISKE.
tries by a Member of the Philadelphia Bar.' I read it and read it, until
forbidden to read such a grewsome work, and then I read it all the
more."
He also tells us that he had access to a few scientific books owned by
a strange character in Middletown, a sort of hermit ; a dabbler in biol-
ogy and geology, who led a solitary life ; immersed, apparently, in
studies and speculations concerning things far above his stage of culti-
vation. In the curious den — the library, workshop, and probably liv-
ing room also — of this friendly recluse, among stuffed birds, mounted
animals, strange creatures preserved in alcohol, specimens of fossil foot-
prints from the Connecticut sandstone, and a few books on the subjects
in which the owner was interested, the learned boy was admitted as a
privileged guest, and here he talked with his strange companion con-
cerning the surrounding objects, and from his host young Fiske bor-
rowed such of the books as he cared to read.
The future author of " Outlines of a Cosmic Philosophy" and "Through
Nature to God," was at this time a teacher in the Sunday-school and
was active at prayer-meetings. What it cost him to reach the frame of
mind which could put forth these works is substantially set forth in
his Cosmic Philosophy. "A person," he says, "is educated in an
environment of Presbyterian theology, accepting without question all
the doctrines of Calvinism. By and by his environment enlarges.
Facts in science or in history, methods of induction, canons of criticism
present themselves to his mind as things irreconcilable with his old
creed. Hence painful doubts, entailing efforts to escape by modifying
the creed to suit new mental exigencies. Hence eager study and fur-
ther enlargement of the environment, causing fresh disturbance of
equilibrium and renewed doubt, resulting in further adaptation. And
so the process continues, until, if the person in question be sufficiently
earnest and sufficiently fortunate, the environment enlarges so far as to
comprehend the most advanced science of the day, and the process
of adaptation goes on until an approximate equilibrium is attained
between the order of conception and the order of phenomena, and
scepticism, having discharged its function, exists no longer, save in
so far as it may be said to survive in the ingrained habit of weigh-
ing evidence and testing one's hypotheses." Elsewhere, and this time
speaking in the first person singular, he refers to his early religious
opinions as being based upon the fear of the " burning hell with which
my childish imagination had been unwisely terrified."
He entered the sophomore class at Harvard in 1860 at the age of
