672 JOHN FISKE.
and so must in some measure fail to understand in what degree he had
his vast resources of imagination under control. Any judge whose human
sympathies are narrower than his must find it a baffling task to look for
tlie unity of interest, of opinion, and of ideal which in his mind bound
together the many undertakings that marked his career, and the various
stages of development through which his thought passed." The critic
who had Fiske's range of reading is probably not to be found among
us, but if we accept the proposition that he had historical work in view
during all the time of this preliminary study in so many fields, still we
can safely state that the precise form in which he proposed to put forth
his labor was not determined until after he met John Richard Green in
London, and talked with him about the " Short History of the English
People" which Green was then planning. ** I heard him," says Fiske,
" telling about his scheme, and 1 thought it would be a very nice thing
to do something of the same sort for American history."
This meeting with Green could not have taken place until 1879. It
is plain, therefore, that if he relied upon his own capacity to support his
family when he left the Harvard Library, it must have been through
literary labor. He had been invited in 1878, while still connected with
the Library, to deliver six lectures in the Old South Meeting House
Course. This service was performed in 1879, and in June of the same
year he was invited by Huxley to lecture before the University College
in London. The acceptance of this invitation was fraught with great
results. His lectures before the Harvard students were characterized
by President Eliot: the first set, as '"interesting and inspiring;" the
later lectures, as " graphic and stimulating." The Old South lectures
demonstrated his power with the public. The London lectures, before
a radically different audience, corroborated this conclusion, and his visit
brought him in friendly contact with the great body of distinguished men
in England who were then busy investigating Darwin's " Theory of
Development" and Spencer's " Doctrine of Evolution." Here, too, he
met Green and had his mind turned definitely towards specific work in
the field of American history. Circumstances thus determined that it
was to be through lectures and writing American history that he was
to earn his living, a determination which necessarily involved serious
limitations as to the time which he could devote to research and which
materially influenced the quality of his work.
His success as a lecturer in London led to his being called there again
in 1880, when he delivered his three lectures on "American Political
Ideas" at the Royal Institute. These he repeated at the Philosophical
