JOHN FISKE. G73
Institute of Edinburgh and again in London. He was, indeed, invited
to deliver them at the Sorbonne, but the invitation came too late.
His historical publications appeared in the following chronological
order. The first was "American Political Ideas," in 1865; he was one
of the editors of "Appleton's Cyclopaedia of American Biography, 1887-
1889" (his selection being in part due, undoubtedly, to his reputation as
an historical student) ; '• The Critical Period of American History," in
1888; "Washington and His Country," a book for the young, in 1889 ;
*' The War of Independence," a book of the same character, in 1889 ;
''Beginnings of New England," in 1889; "Civil Government in tlie
United States," a school book, in 1890; ''American Revolution," in
two volumes, in 1891 ; " Discovery of America," also in two volumes,
in 1892; "History of the United States," for schools, 1894; "Old Vir-
ginia and Her Neighbors," in two volumes, in 1897 ; " Dutch and
Quaker Colonies in America," in two volumes, in 1899.
Throwing out school books and volumes for the young, we have in
the above series ten volumes, written as monographs, and published
entirely without regard to their chronological succession, yet each intended
as a contribution towards a complete history. Concerning this method
of treatment he himself said : " I found myself dwelling upon special
points, and insensibly without any volition on my part, it [the history]
has been rather taking the shape of separate monographs. But I hope
to go on that way until I cover the ground with these separate books."
It is not unlikely that Parkman's example may have influenced him in
this respect. His enthusiastic admiration for that great and popular
writer of history shines forth from every page of the charming essay
which he wrote on Parkman's life and works. The condensed form of
" Beginnings of New England," containing as it does only the essentials
for the development of the theme, suggests the process of digestion and
careful elimination which characterizes Parkman's works. Besides the
ten historical volumes mentioned, Fiske also published in 1900 a mono-
graph on the " Mississippi Valley in the Civil War," and it is stated
that a " History of the United States" will be issued in three volumes
posthumously.
Mr. Fiske's works naturally divide themselves into two classes, and
these divisions are practically chronological, thus representing the sub-
jects to which his mind turned at different periods of his life. The brief
period between the two, when he first took up lecturing and for a few
years published only essays and magazine articles, indicates, in all
probability, merely a time of study and preparation for future work.
VOL. XXXVII. — 43
