674 JOHN FISKE.
Mr. Scudder says that the impulse toward American history was given
by the pi-eparation for the first course of Old South lectures, which were
concerned especially with the Colonial period. When Fiske settled
down deliberately to his life-work, he found that he could make the
lectures subservient to his publications. He describes his method of
doing this as follows : " I look it up or investigate it and then write an
essay or lecture on the subject. That serves as a preliminary statement
either of a large subject or of special points. It is a help to me to try
to state the case. I never publish anything after this first statement,
but generally keep it with me for, it may be, some years, and possibly
return to it several times." While the general proposition is undoubtedly
true that the preparation of historical work in tentative form, and the
frequent recurrence to it under the stimulus of new studies and varying
conditions of mind are of great assistance to the historian, still it must
have been true that the great draft upon Mr. Fiske's time and strength
occasioned by his lecture tours seriously affected the character of his
work. " Fiske's lectures were a drag upon him,*' says Professor Hart,
"because they were so good. Even big men have a limited stock of
vitality, and he put into his lectures a power which ought to have gone
into investigation. For years together, he appeared as a lecturer, more
than a hundred times annually, besides numerous lectures abroad. So
far as this work was a needed support for a man with a rising family, it
was simply a misfortune; so far as it took the place of equally well
paid literary work it was a mistake."
If we turn to the prefaces of his several publications we can there see
how much of his time was occupied with these lectures, and we can also
learn from the same source how familiar his form must have become to
the lecture-going people of the entire country. Yet while his time was
thus occupied, the old topics with which his name was associated earlier
in life asserted their control over him, and found vent in essays or
addresses upon occasions. In 1900 he published a volume entitled "A
Century of Science ; " following this came " Through Nature to God."
The last address which he delivered, " Life Everlasting," was issued by
his publishers after his death. This was made possible because Fiske
rarely changed a word after he had once put his thoughts on paper.
His great fondness for music was not only evident to those who knew
him well, but crops out in his books. He enjoyed the skilful perform-
ance of a symphony by an orchestra, and was also capable of interpreting
it. To him there was not only harmony aud rhythm and melody and
the perfection of mechanical execution in the rendering of the music,
