I
JOHN FISKE. 675
but there was some underlying sentiment expressed by the composer
which was conveyed to his mind. " When I look upon Parkman's
noble life," he says, " I think of Mendelssohn's Chorus, ' He that shall
endure to the end,' with its chaste and severely beautiful melody, and
the calm, invincible faith which it expresses." Were it not that one
cannot conceive how he found time to do it, it would occasion no sur-
prise to learn that he composed a mass as well as several songs.
Mr. Fiske was a large man, and at the time of his death he was very
corpulent. He enjoyed good health, borrowed no troubles, and was
the type of a vigorous, happy human being, full of affection for his
family and of good-will towards his fellow-men. He was absolutely
independent and unconventional in his habits, both mentally and phys-
ically. The humorous description which he gave of his mode of life
thoroughly illustrates this. "I always sit in a draught when I find
one," he said, " wear the thinnest clothes 1 can find, winter and sum-
mer ; catch cold once in three or four years, but not severely ; and
prefer to work in a cold room 55 to 60 degrees. Work the larger
part of each twenty-four hours, and by day or night indifferently.
Scarcely ever change a word once written ; eat when hungry ; rarely
taste coffee or wine or smoke a cigar, but drink two or three quarts of
beer a day and smoke a pipe all the time when at work ; never experi-
enced the feelins: of disinclination for work and therefore never had
to force work." The indifference which he expresses to night or day
he brings forth in his essay on Chauncey Wright. " At two o'clock
in the morning," he says, " he [Wright] would perhaps take his hat
and saunter homeward with me by way of finishing the subject ; but
on reaching my gate a new suggestion would turn us back, — and so
we would alternately escort each other home, perhaps a dozen times,
until tired Nature asserted her rights, and the newly opened vistas of
discussion were regretfully left unexplored." This quotation from
Fiske's own works brings him before us as a willing disputant. It
must, however, be taken with a grain of salt. If he discussed questions
orally with persons from whom he differed in opinion, he selected his
opponent. He could not under ordinary circumstances be dragged into
an oral discussion.
As a lecturer, his manner of delivery was described as " simple, direct,
sincere, and in a way appealing. He talked to his audience in a man-
ner to make them feel that he was talking with them. He had a
certain eloquence, which was engaging rather than stirring."
His reviewers concur iu saying that his Cosmic Philosophy was
