676 JOHN FISKE.
more than a mere exposition of Spencer's doctrine. Fiske not only
made clear that which was confused, but he added new propositions.
Among these was his chapter on the prolongation of human infancy,
a doctrine of great significance and a contribution of importance to the
general argument. Its value was recognized by his fellow evolutionists,
and he himself repeatedly referred to it in his works, claiming with
evident pride it was his and his alone. Most of his biographers find
in his later works devoted to religious topics a softened tone which they
attribute to a change of views. He himself maintained that he was
consistent. Perhaps he was affected and made less aggressive by the
change of opinion then going on. There can be no doubt that the public
of to-day can read the vigorous attacks of the young evolutionist upon tra-
ditional faiths and ingrained prejudices with less feeling than was provoked
by them when they were first delivered. On the other hand Fiske may
have been unconsciously borne upon the wave of scholarship whose
" philosophical, idealistic trend," according to Professor Munsterberg, is
" only swelling to-day, but whose highest point may be ten or twenty years
hence." At any rate such a sentence as tins — "I believe in the immor-
tality of the soul, not in the sense in which I accept the demonstrable
proofs of science, but as a supreme act of faith in the reasonableness
of God's work " — could not have found place in the pages of Cosmic
Philosophy. Fiske may not have changed his doctrines, but he cer-
tainly modified his manner of expressing them. He combined, accord-
ing to Professor Royce, " the child's love of the unseen and mysterious
with the modern sceptical student's scorn for superstition." These
characteristics pervade both his early and late works.
Fiske quotes from Humboldt, " Nous avons considere le style corame
expression de caractere, comme reflet de I'interieur de I'homme."
There can be no doubt that F'iske's publications reveal the personality
of the author to the reader. We can easily see, through the lines, the
image of the good-natured, straightforward, genial man, whose intel-
lectual honesty leads him to say what he thinks, and whose sense of
liunior impels him to enliven with a jest even those pages which are
devoted to the most abstruse subjects. The weary student of philos-
ophy experiences relaxation from the strain upon his attention consequent
upon his effort to follow the argument, when he is told that '• the
waves of motor energy which the human organism absorbs in wliifFs of
tobacco smoke are but a series of pulsations of transformed sunlight."
The reader, perplexed by the abstruse speculations quoted from some
learned philosopher, finds relief in the assertion that the troublesome
