JOHN FISKE. 677
paragraph is regarded by Mr. Fiske as " sheer nonsense," or that the
whole of a certain system of philosophy is " made up of tawdry rhet-
oric, quite innocent of observation or induction." It is a satisfaction
to learu that an objectionable Spaniard is a " green-eyed, pitiless, per-
fidious, old wretch." It is refreshing to have such positive opinions
occasionally expressed concerning books, as the following : " For per-
verse ingenuity in creating difficulties where none exist, this book is a
curiosity in the literature of psychology. From long staring at mare's
nests the author had acquired a chronic twist in his vision." The most
ardent protectionist could not fail to be amused at the vigorous attacks
on his favorite doctrine with which the several volumes on American
History are interspersed. Lovers of " Alice in Wonderland " will recog-
nize upon the pages of Fiske's books their old acquaintance, the Jabberwok,
and readers of the "Arabian Nights Entertainment" will find that several
familiar genii do service by way of illustration or to make some point.
Characters from Cervantes, Scott, Lowell, Dickens, and Charles Reade
intrude themselves upon the reader, generally with the claim that they al-
ready know him and therefore the form of an introduction may be dispensed
with. One thing is noticeable, and that is the absence of quotations from
our favorite poets. " Hudibras " and " The Biglow Papers " attract him ;
the quaint attempts at verse of some of our early American writers
evidently amuse him ; but poetry as such does not appeal to him. On
the other hand humor always does, and we find him gravely quoting
Diedrich Knickerbocker, with the warning of course that he is dealing
with fiction, but nevertheless accepting Irving's burlesque descriptions
as representative of his conception of the persons therein characterized.
The mention of large oysters in Virginia recalls to Fiske an anecdote
of Thackeray, with which his reader is assumed to be familiar. " We
remember Thackeray," he says, " when we encouuter oysters so large
that Basil Ringrose has to cut them into quarters." The detection of an
error on the part of a famous writer leads to the following foot-note :
"Aliquando dormitat bonus Homerus." No reader of the Discovery of
America but will understand this. By such means, Fiske lures the
reader on, and entices him over passages in his books which might
otherwise prove dull. His simple, direct, and lucid style ; his obvious
purpose to deal honestly with facts ; his pronounced opinions upon
points not free from doubt in the minds of many students ; his dis-
crimination in sifting out the events which are significant ; his sagac-
ity in measuring the proportion of their relative importance ; even his
open advocacy of those whose career appealed to him no matter what
