JAMES BRADLEY THAYER. 681
Although he published no treatise upon Constitutional Law, he
achieved, by his essays, by his collection of Cases, and by his teaching,
a reputation in that subject hardly second to his rank in Evidence. To
the few who knew of it. President McKinley's wish to make Professor
Thayer a member of the present Philippines Commission seemed a
natural and most fitting recognition of his eminence as a constitutional
lawyer, and if he had deemed it wise to accept the position offered to
him, no one can doubt that the appointment would have commanded
universal approval.
It is greatly to be deplored that he was not permitted to give to
the world the additional contributions to legal literature, which the
vigor of his powers and his known purposes led us to expect from
him. That he did not realize these purposes earlier was due to his very
virtues. His wide range of interests, his constant service in helping
other writers in their work, and above all his passion for perfection in
his own work, explain why the message he might have given remains
incomplete. The pathetic interest of high hopes unfulfilled attaches to a
memorandum found among his papers, and written last September.
« Sept. 15
For next year.
Have a single plan to put through. Without that the small everyday
matters eat up all the time. They easily may, for they can be done either
well enough or perfectly.
That plan must be the 2nd volume of Evidence.
For the year following, a small Vol. on Const. Law.
For the time following that, the works, writings and life of Marshall —
and then an Endy
The relations of the law professors are probably closer than those of
any other department of the University. No one who has not known,
as his colleagues have known, the charm of his daily presence and
conversation, and the delightful quality of his vacation letters, can
appreciate the deep and abiding sense of the irreparable loss they have
suffered in the death of Professor Thayer,
In our great grief we find our chief comfort in the thought of his
simple and beautiful life, greatly blessed in his home and family, rich
in choice friendships, crowned with the distinction that comes only to
the possessor of great natural gifts nobly used, full of happiness to
himself, and giving in abundant measure happiness and inspiration
to others.
James Barr Ames.
