694 STATUTES OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
meeting. Resident Fellows only may vote at the meetings of the
Academy.
3. The number of Associate Fellows shall not exceed one hundred,
of whom there shall not be more than forty in either of the three classes
of the Academy. Associate Fellows shall be chosen from persons resid-
ing outside of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. They shall not be
liable to the payment of any fees or annual dues, but on removing within
the Commonwealth they may be transferred by the Council to resident
fellowship as vacancies there occur.
4. The number of Foreign Honorary Members shall not exceed
seventy -five ; and they shall be chosen from among persons most eminent
in foreign countries for their discoveries and attainments in either of the
three departments of knowledge above enumerated. There shall not be
more than thirty Foreign Members in either of these departments.
CHAPTER II.
Of Officers.
1. There shall be a President, three Vice-Presidents, one for each
Class, a Corresponding Secretary, a Recording Secretary, a Treasurer,
and a Librarian, which officers shall be annually elected, by ballot, at
the Annual Meeting, on the second Wednesday in May.
2. At the Annual Meeting of 1901, nine Councillors shall be elected
by ballot, one from each Class of the Academy to serve for one year,
one from each Class for two years, and one from each Class for three
years ; and at annual meetings thereafter three Councillors shall be
elected in the same manner, one from each Class, to serve for three
years ; but the same Fellow shall not be eligible for two successive terms.
The nine Councillors, with the President, the three Vice-Presidents,
the two Secretaries, the Treasurer, and the Librarian, shall constitute the
Council. Five members shall constitute a quorum. It shall be the
duty of this Council to exercise a discreet supervision over all nomina-
tions and elections. With the consent of the Fellow interested, they
shall have power to make transfers between the several Sections of the
same Class, reporting their action to the Academy.
3. If any office shall become vacant during the year, the vacancy
shall be filled by a new election, and at the next stated meeting, or at a
meeting called for this purpose.
