OF ARTS AND SCIENCES. 695
CHAPTER III.
Or Nominations of Officers.
1. At the stated meeting in March, the President shall appoint from
the next retirinsj Councillors a Nomiuatinor Committee of three Fellows,
one for each class.
2. It shall be the duty of this Nominating Committee to prepare a
list of candidates for the offices of President, Vice-Presidents, Corre-
sponding Secretary, Recording Secretary, Treasurer, Librarian, Coun-
cillors, and the Standing Committees which are chosen by ballot ; and
to cause this list to be sent by mail to all the Resident Fellows of the
Academy not later than four weeks before the Annual Meeting.
3. Independent nominations for any office, signed by at least five
Resident Fellows and received by the Recording Secretary not less than
ten days before the Annual Meeting, shall be inserted in the call for the
Annual Meeting, which shall then be issued not later than one week
before that meeting.
4. The Recording Secretary shall prepare for use, in voting at the
Annual Meeting, a ballot containing the names of all persons nominated
for office under the conditions given above.
5. When an office is to be filled at any other time than at the Annual
Meeting, the President shall appoint a Nominating Committee in accord-
ance with the provisions of Section 1 , which shall announce its nomina-
tion in the manner prescribed in Section 2 at least two weeks before
the time of election. Independent nominations, signed by at least five
Resident Fellows and received by the Recording Secretary not later
than one week before the meeting for election, shall be inserted in the
call for that meetiuir.
CHAPTER IV. '
Of the President.
1. It shall be the duty of the President, and, in his absence, of the
senior Vice-President present, or next officer in order as above enumer-
ated, to preside at the meetings of the Academy ; to summon extraor-
dinary meetings, upon any urgent occasion ; and to execute or see to
the execution of the Statutes of the Academy. Length of continuous
membership in the Academy shall determine the seniority of the Vice-
Presidents.
