696 STATUTES OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
2. The President, or, in his absence, the next officer as above enumer-
ated, is empowered to draw upon the Treasurer for such sums of money
as the Academy shall direct. Bills presented on account of the Library,
or the Publications of the Academy, must be previously approved by the
respective committees on these departments.
3. The President, or, in his absence, the next officer as above enumer-
ated, shall nominate members to serve on the different committees of the
Academy which are not chosen by ballot.
4. Any deed or writing to which the common seal is to be affixed
shall be signed and sealed by the President, when thereto authorized
by the Academy.
CHAPTER V.
Of Standing Committees.
1. At the Annual Meeting there shall be chosen the following Stand-
ing Committees, to serve for the year ensuing, viz. : —
2. The Committee of Finance, to consist of the President, Treasurer,
and one Fellow chosen by ballot, who shall have full control and man-
agement of the funds and trusts of the Academy, with the power of
investing or changing the investment of the same at their discretion. The
general appropriations for the expenditures of the Academy shall be
moved by this Committee at the Atmual Meeting, and all special appro-
priations from the general and publication funds shall be referred to or
proposed by this Committee.
3. The Rumford Committee, of seven Fellows, to be chosen by ballot,
who shall consider and report on all applications and claims for the
Rumford Premium, also on all appropriations from the income of the
Rumford Fund, and generally see to the due and proper execution of
this trust.
4. The C. M. Warren Committee, of seven Fellows, to be chosen by
ballot, who shall consider and report on all applications foi- appropria-
tions from the income of tlie C. M. Warren Fund, and generally see to
the due and proper execution of this trust.
5. The Committee of Publication, of three Fellows, one from each
Class, to whom all communications submitted to the Academy for publi-
cation shall be referred, and to whom the printing of the Memoirs and
the Proceedings shall be intrusted.
6. The Committee on the Library, of the Librarian ex officio and
three other Fellows, one from each class, who shall examine the Library,
and make an annual report on its condition and management.
