OF ARTS AND SCIENCES. 697
7. An Auditing Committee of two Fellows, for auditing the accounts
of the Treasurer.
CHAPTER VI.
Of the Secretaries.
1. The Corresponding Secretary shall conduct the correspondence of
the Academy, recording or making an entry of all letters written in its
name, and preserving on file all letters which are received ; and at each
meeting he shall present the letters which have been addressed to the
Academy since the last meeting. Under the direction of the Council
for Nomination, he shall keep a list of the Resident Fellows, Associate
Fellows, and Foreign Honorary Members, arranged in their Classes and
in Sections in respect to the special sciences in which they are severally
proficient ; and he shall act as secretary to the Council.
2. The Recording Secretary shall have charge of the Charter and
Statute-book, journals, and all literary papers belonging to the Academy.
He shall record the proceedings of the Academy at its meetings ; and
after each meeting is duly opened, he shall read the record of the pre-
ceding meeting. He shall notify the meetings of the Academy, apprise
officers and committees of their election or appointment, and inform the
Treasurer of appropriations of money voted by the Academy. He shall
post up in the Hall a list of the persons nominated for election into the
Academy ; and when any individual is chosen, he shall insert in the
record the names of the Fellows by whom he was nominated.
3. The two Secretaries, with the Chairman of the Committee of
Publication, shall have authority to publish such of the records of the
meetings of the Academy as may seem to them calculated to promote
its interests.
CHAPTER VH.
Of the Treasurer.
1. The Treasurer shall give such security for the trust reposed in
him as the Academy shall require.
2. He shall receive officially all moneys due or payable, and all
bequests or donations made to the Academy, and shall pay such sums
as the Academy may direct. He shall keep an account of all receipts
and expenditures ; shall submit his accounts to the Auditing Committee ;
and shall report the same at the expiration of his term of office.
