698 STATUTES OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
3. The Treasurer shall keep separate accounts of the income and
appropriation of the Rumford Fund and of other special funds, and
report the same annually.
4. All moneys which there shall not be present occasion to expend
shall be invested by the Treasurer, under the direction of the Finance
Committee.
CHAPTER VIII.
Of the Librarian and Library.
1. It shall be the duty of the Librarian to take charge of the books,
to keep a correct catalogue of them, to provide for the delivery of books
from the Library, and to appoint such agents for these purposes as he
may think necessary. He shall make an annual report on the condition
of the Library.
2. The Librarian, in conjunction with the Committee on the Library,
shall have authority to expend such sums as may be appropriated, either
from the General, Rumford or other special Funds of the Academy, for
the purchase of books, and for defraying other necessary expenses con-
nected with the Library.
3. To all books in the Library procured from the income of the
Rumford Fund, or other special funds, the Librarian shall cause a stamp
or label to be affixed, expressing the fact that they were so procured.
4. Every person who takes a book from the Library shall give a
receipt for the same to the Librarian or his assistant.
5. Every book shall be returned in good order, regard being had to
the necessary wear of the book with good usage. If any book shall
be lost or injured, the person to whom it stands charged shall replace
it by a new volume or set, if it belongs to a set, or pay the current
price of the volume or set to the Librarian ; and thereupon the remain-
der of the set, if the volume belonged to a set, shall be delivered to the
person so paying for the same.
6. All books shall be returned to the Library for examination at
least one week before the Annual Meeting.
7. The Librarian shall have custody of the Publications of the
Academy and shall distribute copies among the Associate Fellows and
Foreign Honorary Members, at their request. With the advice and con-
sent of the President, he may effect exchanges with other associations.
