54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Instead of using this equation we may introduce here a quantity with the
aid of which it is possible to substitute for approximate equations of the
type of (7) other entirely exact equations of the same form. This
quantity is one whose utihty I have shown in a recent paper.* It
may be well to repeat and amplify the definition there given.
II.
FUGACITY.
If any phase containing a given molecular species is brought in contact
with any other phase not containing that species, a certain quantity will
pass from the first phase to the second. Every molecular species may
be considered, therefore, to have a tendency to escape from the phase in
which it is. In order to express this tendency quantitatively for any
particular state, an infinite number of quantities could be used, such, for
example, as the thermodynamic potential of the species, its vapor pres-
sure, its solubility in water, etc. The quantity which we shall choose is
one which seems at first sight more abstruse than any of these, but is in
fact simpler, more general, and easier to manipulate. It will be called
the fugacity,t represented by the symbol ij/ and defined by the following
conditions : —
1. The fugacity of a molecular sjiecies is the same in two phases when
these phases are in equilibrium as regards the distribution of that species.
2. The fugacity of a gas approaches the gas pressure as a limiting
value if the gas is indefinitely rarefied. In other words, the escaping
tendency of a perfect gas is equal to its gas pressure.
That these two conditions are sufficient to define a property of every
substance which is not a mathematical, fictitious quantity, but a real
physical qu.antity, capable of experimental determination in every case,
must now be shown. It is obvious from the above conditions that in any
case where our present methods of measurement are unable to show a
deviation of the vapor of a substance from the gas law then the vapor
pressure is the nearest approximation to the fugacity. In all cases the
vapor pressure is an approximation to the fugacity, the approximation
being nearer the nearer the vapor is to a perfect gas. When the
* Proc. Amer. Acad., XXXVI. 145 (1900) ; Zeit. Phys. Chem., XXXV. 343 (1900).
t In the earlier paper this quantity was called the escaping tendency and repre-
sented by the same symbol. For the sake of brevity I have chosen to substitute
the word " fugacity " for " escaping tendency " without the slightest change in the
meaning of the function.
