LEWIS. — THE LAW OF PHYSICO-CHEMICAL CHANGE. 55
behavior of the vapor deviates perceptibly from that of the perfect gas
the exact value of the fugacity may be found as follows : —
From the four laws stated io the introduction it is easy to derive the
following, which is a rigorous statement of Henry's law, namely : Tlie
coefficient of distribution between a gas and its solution at constant tem-
perature approaches a constant with increasing dilution. This constant
will be designated by p. At infinite dilution,
P _
where p is the gas pressure and 11 the osmotic pressure in solution.
Now p, at infinite dilution, is equal to the fugacity of the substance in
the gaseous phase, and also in the solution, since the two phases are in
equilibrium. Therefore,
^i; = pU. (8)
That is, the fugacity of the solute in an ideal solution is equal to its
osmotic pressure multiplied by p. If now it is desired to find the
fugacity of any molecular species X in any given phase, that phase may
be brought in contact with a chosen solvent and the osmotic pressure
III of the saturated solution determined. Then by diluting this solution
in contact with vapor of X the limit pi of the distribution ratio may be
found and so the product pi IIi. So for another solvent we may find the
product p2 112 ; for a third, p^ lis, etc. These will all be equal except in
as far as the saturated solutions deviate from the ideal solution. Prac-
tically, the product will be the same for all solvents in which X is only
slightly soluble and will be the fugacity of X. Theoretically, the exact
value of the fugacity is the limit approached by the product, p 11, as sol-
vents are successively chosen in which X is less and less soluble.
We see, therefore, that fugacity is a real physical quantity capable in
all cases of experimental determination. A complete appreciation of the
meaning of this quantity is essential for the understanding of the follow-
ing pages. In order, however, not to distract attention further from our
main object, a further discussion of fugacity will be postponed to the last
section of this paper, in which another independent method for the
determination of i/^ will be offered, using only such quantities as have
already been determined in many cases.
The great utility of this new quantity will be shown to lie in the fact
that the approximate equations containing the vapor pressure and
developed rigorously except for the assumption that the vapor pressure
obeys the gas law, may be replaced by exact equations of the same form
