LEWIS. — THE LAW OF PHYSICO-CHEMICAL CHANGE. 61
The iufluence of temperature is expressed for two states simultaue-
ously iu equation (16), which conforms to equation (18) except for the
minus sign. This slight difference might be explained away, but a much
weightier difficulty confronts us when we attempt to split equation (16)
into two equations, each expressing the influence of temperature upon
the fugacity for a single phase, in the form,
f 9 R Tin xp \
\ 9T J,
= -S.
This equation is in general not true, notwithstanding the fact that we
may choose arbitrarily the zero of entropy. If for each temperature
this zero could be chosen arbitrarily it could be so chosen that the equa-
tion would be true, but as a matter of fact the entropy is in all cases a
determinate function of the temperature, and the zero chosen for one tem-
perature must be retained for all. We must conclude, therefore, either
that the general equation (19) is false, or that entropy is not the capacity
dimension of heat. To make the latter conclusion would appear too
arbitrary were it not that other considerations lead also to the suspicion
that entropy has been too hastily chosen as the capacity in question. In
fact, the equation, c? Q = Td S, for the heat absorbed in a reversible
process, corresponding to the general equation for change of energy,
d E ^ Id H, is the only argument for the consideration of entropy as
the capacity dimension of heat. This argument would apply equally
well to any other quantity, h, such that d Q ^ ± Td h ; iu other words,
such that dh = ± d S. It is interesting, therefore, to determine whether
there is, in fact, a quantity which fulfils this condition and also the
condition
/'9ET\nil;\
(^7-^1 = *- <^'>
If a simple function can be found which satisfies these two require-
ments it may, I think, be accepted, at least provisionally, as the true
capacity of heat energy.
The entropy of every body is a very complex function of its other
variables, and even the entropy of a perfect gas is represented by the
complicated equation,*
* See Clausius, Warmetheorie, I. p. 214, third edition.
