NICHOLS. — THE VISIBLE RADIATION FROM CARBON. 93
The increase of temperature as the flame approaches the junction is
srradual at first; but at a distance of about O.-i cm. from the median
plane, the curve suddenly becomes steep. It is probable that this
distance measures the thickness of the layer of non-luminous gas which
surrounds the visible flame. Outside of this region, the junction is
heated almost altogether by radiation. As soon as it penetrates the
column of moving gas, however, heat is brought to it principally by
convection. Before the surface of the luminous mantle is reached the
curve shows indications of approaching a maximum.
Upon pushing the flame still nearer to the junction so that the latter
penetrated the luminous region, an accumulation of lampblack began to
form upon the wire, with fall of temperature ; a process so rapid that at
the end of two minutes a button of carbon several millimeters in diameter
is formed. This is finally torn loose from the wire by its own weight;
whereupon the deposition of a new mass begins. I attempted by watch-
in c the breakinor away of the carbon from ihe wire, which occurred at
regular intervals, to determine the temperature of the wire before the
coating of carbon had begun to show itself again. The highest temper-
ature which it was possible to observe in this way was neai'ly one hundred
decfrees below that in the luminous layer, and it was obvious from the
movement of the galvanometer needle that the junction was being rapidly
cooled by the deposition.
Junction II. (diameter 0.01598 cm.) was now substituted for Junction
I., and a similar set of readings were made. This junction, as had been
anticipated, showed higher temperatures. It was found possible, owing
to the small diameter and consequently high temperature of the wire, to
penetrate further into the flame before the deposition of carbon began,
so that measurements with the junction actually within the luminous
layer could be made. The general form of the curve, as will be seen by
inspection of the figure (curve b) is the same as that obtained with Junc-
tion I. After penetrating the luminous mantle to a small fraction of a
millimeter, carbon began to gather upon this junction likewise, with
lowering of temperature, as in the case of Junction I. The attempt to
read temperatures immediately after the dropping of the accumulated
carbon showed that the highest temperature which could thus be ob-
served was again about one hundred degrees below the temperature of
the luminous mantle. It was clear in this case, as before, from the rapid
fall of temperature already going on, that this reading has no significance.
Similar readings with Junction III. (diameter 0.0108 cm.) gave a third
curve of the same type as those plotted from the reading made with I.
