96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
may be found in the outer non-luminous layer of the flame, but that it
is unlikely that the difference amounts to more than twenty degrees.
The point of intersection referred to above lies neaily one hundred
degrees above tlie highest temperature recorded by even the smallest
of the thermo-elements, and it is safe to infer that nearly all previous
attempts at the measurement of flame temperatures must, for lack of
correction of the erroi', due to loss of heat through the wire, be regarded
as much too low. The junction IV. is, so far as I am aware, the smallest
in cross-section that has been used in such work. With larger wires,
tlie correction for loss of heat would be even greater, except in cases
where, as in the observations made by Smithells, and by Waggener, the
precaution was taken to immerse an extended portion of the wires within
the flame.
Temperature of Other Flames.
For the purpose of comparison, I measured in a manner analogous to
that just described, the temperature of the luminous flame of ordinary
illuminating gas and the flame of a candle. The gas flame employed
for this purpose was obtained from a lava tip rated at one cubic foot and
giving a flat flame of the upual form. The image of this flame, when
viewed upon the ground-glass screen of my
camera, was found to be comparatively ill-
defined and unsteady ; but although the outlines
of the luminous sheath were much less clearly
marked than in the case of the acetylene flame,
they were discernible. Owing to the continual
motion of the flame, due to the small velocity
of the gas i-suing from the jet, no attempts
were made to plot curves of temperatures outside
the flame. All readings were made with the
Figure 13. . . , * ., , .
junction as nearly as possible in contact with
the outer surface of the luminous sheath, at a point in the brightest por-
tion of the flame. This position is approximately indicated by the letter
X in Figure 13. The four junctions already described were mounted,
one after another, in such a position that the flame could be moved up
until they came into contact with the sheath at the point indicated. The
temperatures of the junctions when in that position are given in tlie
following table
TABLE III.
Junction I.
1385째
Junction III.
1609째
11.
1484째
IV.
1670째
