98 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
best an indefinite character from which studies of acetylene are free. In
the latter case we have to deal with a definite fuel, and the velocity of
the jets of gas from the burner is sufficient to give a high degree of sta-
bility to the flame.
The candle would seem an even less satisfactory subject of study in
these respects than illuminating gas, but the fact of the melting down
of Wollaston wire, the verification of which I have briefly described in
an earlier paragraph of this paper, seemed to discredit so completely the
low values commonly given that I decided to redetermine its tempera-
ture by the method already described.
The fact that the flame of a candle, mounted upon a fixed stand,
would move steadily downward as the material of which it was com-
posed burned away, made it convenient, without any serious modifications
of my apparatus, to explore the temperature of the luminous sheath
throughout the entire length of the flame. It was only necessary for
this purpose to mount a candle upon the steel bar in the position previ-
ously occupied by the acetylene flame, and when it had reached such a
length that the level of the rim of the cup lay below the level of the
junction, to move the candle toward the latter by means of the microm-
eter screw until the junction began to be submerged in the luminous
sheath of the flame. It was then easy by a series of slight adjustments
of the flame to explore with the junction the entire surface of the lumi-
nous sheath from base to tip, measuring temperatures from time to
time, and determining the position by means of the height of the junc-
tion above the rim of the candle cup. The latter observations were
readily made by means of the image of the candle upon the ground
glass of the camera. Explorations of the candle flame in the manner
described were made with Junctions II. and IV., and the results obtained
showed a degree of consistency much greater than the fluctuating char-
acter of the source under observation had led me to expect. Both sets
of observations showed a maximum of temperature in the same region :
that lying just above the tip of the interior dark zone of the flame.
Readings were made by watching the movements of the candle flame
and securing a balance of the potentiometer at times when the face of
tlie junction was as nearly as possible in contact with, but not deeply
submerged within, the luminous layer. Whenever the wire plunged to
any considerable depth beyond the luminous surface, deposition of soot
occurred with lowering temperature, and it was necessary to withdraw
the junction into the non-luminous regions outside and to wait until the
deposit had been burned off, before proceeding with the readings. In
