NICHOLS.
THE VISIBLE RADIATION FROM CARBON.
101
melting-point was again tested in the manner just described. The result
of this determination was 1687°. The latter reading was, I think, too
high, since subsequent examination under the microscope showed that
the loop of the wire behind the junction had been melted so that the
junction was probably a few degrees too hot. It may safely be concluded
from these determinations that the melting-point of the Wollaston wire
was at least one hundred degree.s lower than that of pure platinum.
Method of Checking the Constancy of the Acetylene Flame.
To secure as complete a check as possible upon the constancy of the
flame, the following method, based upon the assumption that so long as
the radiation from the flame remained constant, its light-giving power
I ,. II
if!!
FlGUKE 16.
would not vary, was employed. A diaphragm {d, Figure 16) similar to
that interposed between the slit and the flame, and having an aperture of
the same size, and mounted on the opposite side of the latter and a thermo-
pile /), was placed at a distance of about lo cm. from this opening. A
second diaphragm, d' , with an intervening air space, served to cut oflT, iu
large part, the radiation from the heated metal. Two thin sheets of
glass forming the sides of an empty cell c, of the kind used in the study
of absorption spectra, etc., were placed between the cone of the thermo-
pile and the second diaphragm ; so that only those rays from the flame
which were transmitted by the glass fell upon the face of the pile.
The thermopile was connected with a sensitive d'Arsonval galvano-
meter g, the circuit being kept permanently closed ; and a double metallic
shutter s, which could be raised or lowered so as to open or close the
opening in the diaphragm next to the flame, was so mounted that it could
be readily operated by an observer at the telescope of the galvanometer.
When a reading of the radiation from the flame was to be made, the
zero point of the galvanometer was noted, and this shutter was raised
during the short interval of time necessary to bring the needle, which
was not strongly damped, to its first turning point. The shutter was
