102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
then immediately closed in order to prevent further heating of the face
of the thermopile. This throw of the galvanometer was taken as an
indication of the intensity of the flame.
It was found that the thermopile would cool sufficiently within two
minutes to admit of the repetition of the reading. These observations
were taken by an assistant simultaneously with each setting of the
spectrophotometer, the intention being to reject any spectrophotometric
readings made at a time when the flame showed marked deviation from
its standard intensity, and to reduce the readings to a uniform flame
intensity under the assumption that for the small range of variation
occurring from reading to reading, the change in the brightness of the
flame would be proportional to the variations of this galvanometer read-
ing from the mean of the whole set. In point of fact it was found that
the flame rarely varied from the mean in the course of a set of observa-
tions by more than one per cent. From day to day, indeed, its intensity
was usually within the limits stated above. Occasionally a larger varia-
tion was detected. None of these variations in the course of the present
investigation reached values so great as to lead me to liesitate to apply
the correction already referred to, and all the observations described in
this paper have been reduced to a constant flame intensity by means of a
correction factor obtained from the readings of the galvanometer.
Control and Measurement of the Temperature of the Carbon Rod.
The carbon rod, having been brought to the desired degree of incan-
descence by means of the current from a storage battery, was held at a
constant temperature by varying the resistance placed in the battery
circuit. The indications of the thermo-element inserted in the rod were
noted by means of the potentiometer. The cells used in the measure-
ment of the temperature of the carbon rod were the same as those em-
ployed in the calibration of the thermo-elements and in the study of the
temperature of the acetylene flame.
The potentiometer having been balanced by looping the circuit con-
taining the thermo-element around a sufficient portion of the resistance
box to balance its current against that of the Clark cells, a condition
which was indicated by the reduction of the galvanometer deflection to
zero, the current was maintained at such a value as to hold the carbon
at a constant temperature during the time necessary to complete meas-
urements of the intensity of eight different portions of the spectrum,
ranging from the extreme red to violet, with the corresponding portions
of the spectrum of the flame. In order to insure the maintenance of this
