NICHOLS. — THE VISIBLE RADIATION FROM CARBON. 103
constant temperature in tbe rod, an assistant made repeated observa-
tions with the potentiometer and readjusted the resistance in the
battery circuit whenever necessary. Excepting at very higli tempera-
tures, where the rod was subject to rapid disintegration, it was rarely
necessary to make any adjustment during the progress of a single set
of observations. Readings of the current flowing through the carbon
and of the full of potential between its ends were made at the beginning
and end of each experiment.
Spectrophotometric Observations.
It was my expectation, in planning this research, that whatever might
prove true as to the character of the radiation from gray carbon, the
distribution of energy in the spectrum from black carbon would change
in such a manner with increasing: incandescence as to become nearly or
quite identical with that of the various luminous gas flames at tempera-
tures corresponding to the temperature of the glowing carbon iu those
flames. I had also hoped, among other things, to be able to bring about
a degree of incandescence approaching that of the acetylene flame itself,
before the usefulness of the thermo-eleraent as a means of measurinjj
the temperature failed because of the melting of the platinum wire, and
in this way to obtain a check upon my previous measurements of that
flame ; and at the same time to be able to determine the temperature of
any given luminous flame in which the incandescent material consists
of carbon particles by ascertaining the temperature of the carbon rod
for which its surface had a spectrum corresponding in distribution of
energy to that of the flame.
It will be seen from inspection of the curves to be discussed in a
subsequent paragraph that this expectation was far from being realized,
and that the distribution of energy in the spectrum of the carbon rod,
instead of approaching that of the acetylene flame as the temperature of
the rod increased, took on an entirely unexpected character. Even at
low temperatures, that is to say up to about 1100°, the change in the
spectrum was not of the comparatively simple character which had been
anticipated, and shortly after passing the temperature of 1100°, unlooked
for complications in the results arose. The energy in the yellow of the
spectrum which from the beginning had been increasing at a relatively
more rapid rate than either in the red or at the blue end, became so
great as to give the distribution curve a form entirely contrary to
expectation.
I was very slow to believe in the integrity of these results, and nearly
