104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
a year was spent in repetitions of the measurements before I could con-
vince myself that the {phenomenon was a genuine one. Measurements
taken upon a great number of different rods and at different times
showed the same result, however, and I was finally forced to the con-
clusion that the radiation from the carbon rods showed a much more
complicated law of distribution than had been anticipated, and that a
sort of selective radiation occurred such as to render the establishing
of any simple relationship between the curve of distribution and tem-
perature out of the question.
The hope of being able to make direct temperature measurements up
to the melting-point of platinum was also disappointed. While the
carbon rods at comparatively low temperatures showed a fair degree of
stability under the action of the current, they appeared to undergo a
decided change of behavior at about 1400°, and before that temperature
a rather rapid disintegration, showing itself by a change of resistance,
manifested itself. This effect appeared to be similar to that which
shortens the life of the filauieuts of incandescent lamps when these are
subjected to a large amount of current. It appears, moreover, that at
these high temperatures the carbon tends to combine with the metals
of the thermo-element, affecting the electromotive force very much as
the vapors in a furnace have been found to do. The therrao-elements
inserted in the rod begin, in consequence of this action, to fail of their
purpose. It was found that after exposure to temperatures much above
1400°, the electromotive force corresponding to even lower temperatures
was considerably below the normal. I was consequently compelled to
abandon the attempt to measure directly temperatures above this point,
although it was possible to bring the rods to a higher degree of incan-
descence for a length of time sufHcient to perform the spectrophotometric
observations. In order to obtain at least an approximate estimate of
these temperatures, I made use of the fall of potential between the
terminals of the rod, and also of the current of the heating circuit ; and
by extending these curves, which, throughout the range of measured
temperatures were found to be nearly straight, to the high temperatures
which I wished to estimate, to obtain some idea, even if not an exact
one, of the latter.
In expressing the results of the photometric measurements already
described, I have made use of two forms of curve. One set of curves,
in accordance with the nomenclature proposed in my original paper on
the visible radiation from platinum, and later adopted by Paschen and
other writers, I may call isotherms. These curves give in terms of the
