112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
The work upon treated carbons was confined chiefly to high tempera-
tures, a sufficient number of readings within tlie range already explored
with the untreated carbons being taken to show that the distribution of
intensities at the lower temperatures did not differ materially from that
in the spectrum of the former. The set of isotherms given in Figure 22
will suffice to indicate the general character of the re^ults. It will be
seen that in this case, as in that of the untreated carbon, the concavity of
the curve between .Q/j and the red end of the spectrum is well marked
at 13G5° ; and that at 1515° there was a well-pronounced maximum at
about .65,M. The greater stability of the treated carbon made it possible
to obtain consistent measurements on a number of rods at temperatures
above 1500° and to establish beyond doubt the t^orm of the curves. It
is obvious that for the study of the spectrum of incandescent carbon at
this and higher temperatures the conditions would be much more
favorable in the case of the incandescent lamp than with rods mounted
in a large vacuum chamber like tliat used iu tlie present investigation.
Lamp filaments in the process of manufacture are brought by thorough
carbonization into a condition to withstand permanently much higher
temperatures than the rods at my disposal were capable of doing.
There is as yet, it is true, no direct means of determining the tempera-
ture of the lamp filament ; but the curve for the relation of electromotive
force to temperature (Fignre 11) is of such a character as to lead us to
expect that comparisons of the spectra of incandescent lamps, in which
electromotive forces were used as a criterion of the deajree of incan-
descence, would at least enable us to confirm the existence of the
remarkable phenomenon brouglit out by the present experiments and to
extend observations of it to still higher temperatures.
Mr. Ernest Blaker has, since the completion of the measurements
described in this paper, compared the visible spectrum of lamps with
treated fihiments, and of lamps the filaments of which before exhaustion
had been coated with lampblack, with the spectrum of the acetylene
flame. His measurements confirm very completely those which I have
described in this paper, and contribute important evidence in favor of the
existence of this anomaly in the law of distribution of intensities in the
spectrum of glowing carbon.
Theoretical Aspects of the Foregoing Data.
The efforts of stuflents of radiation have of late yeai's been directed
particularly to the testing of the various formulae by means of which
the mathematical physicists have attempted to express the intensity of
