114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Beckman at wave length 24 was found to be 24,250. Lummer and
Pringsheim find, moreover, that the logarithmic isochroms, especially
when extended to higher temperatures, are not straight lines, but show a
slight convexity towards the -=, axis.
Exception has also been taken to the Wien-Planck formula on the
ground that it gives for infinite temperatures a finite limit to the value of
the intensity, a result which Rayleigh * in a recent paper has character-
ized as physically improbable.
Rayleigh proposes the form
but Lummer and Pringslieim find that this likewise fails to properly express
their experimental results. Lummer and Jahnke propose, in view of
these discrepancies, to give the equation the general form
c
7=3 CT"- {XT}-'' e-^f"
an expression which coincides with Wien's formula for ju = 5 and with
Rayleigh's for ^u = 4. They find the measurements of Lnmnjer and
Pringsheim satisfied when ^i lies between 4.5 and 5, and v lies between
.0 and 1.0. If we accept the value i.i := b and v = 0.9, tliis equation
always leads to a finite value of intensity for infinite temperature. All
other values of these quantities give infinity as the limit of intensity.
Whether logarithmic isochroms or the value of the quantity c^, computed
from measurements upon carbon rods, would aid in deciding between the
various equations under discussion is a question. The data given in this
paper would not lead us to class the carbon rods studied as black bodies.
The emissive power of various forms of carbon is well-known to be
smaller than that of the ideal black body, and tliere is no reason to
suppose that it is independent of the temperature. The relative lagging
behind of the intensities in the red might perhaps be taken as an indica-
tion of a tendency to approach the infinite maximum demanded by the
Wien-Planck formula ; but the isochrom for .76 shows that the effect, if
it exists, must be looked for at some much higher temperature than that
covered by these measurements. In spite of these doubts as to the
applicability of the measurements on carbon rods to the problem of the
* Philosophical Mag., XLIX. 539 (1900).
