NICHOLS. — THE VISIBLE RADL\TION FROM CARBON. 117
1500°, does however not vary widely from a straight line. Beyond these
temperatures it is a matter of extrapolation, but the same thing is true
of all other attempts to estimate very high temperatures. The curve /,
for the relation of the logarithm of the intensities and the temperatures,
which I have also given in Figure 24 (between 1500° and 3750°), is iu
the case of Lucas's measurements nearly straight ; so that in so far as
this is a criterion, his curve up to this point may be said to conform to
the Wien -Planck equation. It is significant that Lucas's curve shows an
inflection point between 3500° and 4000°, becoming concave to the
axis of temperatures. This is the temperature at which, according to
nearly all the newer determinations, carbon, as in the crater of the arc,
approaches its maximum condition of incandescence. At about 3750°
the electrical energy developed in the rod is doubtless largely expended
in the disintegration or vaporization of the carbon, so that a maximum
degree of incandescence is approached. At the point at which this process
begins current can no longer be taken as a measure of the temperature.
The very slight falling oti in the photometric measurement of intensity
does not appear to me to warrant the conclusion drawn by the author that
a maximum has been passed at the current value to whicli he assigns
the temperature 4750°. The difficulty of obtaining consistent readings
under conditions existing in such work would amply account for so slight
a discrepancy.
Lucas's work appears, in a word, to warrant the following rather
important conclusions. First, that up to about 3750° current and
temperature in the case of carbon rods heated electrically are nearly
proportional. We have in favor of this point two checks, — the straight-
ness of the logarithmic curve and the fact that the inflection of Lucas's
curve corresponds, as has already been pointed out, to the recognized tem-
perature of the crater of the arc. Secondly, that for a wide range of
temperatures photometric intensity, like the intensity of total radiation,
follows the logarithmic law of increase. Third, that after the tempera-
ture of the crater has been attained a considerable additional increase in
incandescence results from the ap[)lication of further current before the
maximum is finally attained. This agrees with the observations of
Moissan,* that many reductions in the electric furnace which do not
occur with moderate currents become possible by increase of the current
strength. If, as seems proper, we ascribe the rapid approach of Lucas's
curve to a finite maximum to the utilization of the energy of the cur-
* Moissan, Coniptes Kendus, CIX. 776 (1894).
