Crustacean Life N 7
above were much diminished in size and would plainly contain no water at all
at the end of the month. Unfortunately I did not ascertain this and what
became of the fairy-shrimps they contained, because we sailed eastward shortly
afterwards (July 24).
The typical tundra ponds or lakes are very much the same all along the
arctic coast of northwest America, so it is not necessary to describe them, at
any definite locality of the coast west of Mackenzie river, except on Herschel
island (see later). In contrast to the beach ponds and lagoons they do
not depend to any extent upon the configuration of the coastline of each
particular place, because they are generally found only at a certain distance
inland. There are, however, often ponds which represent a transition stage
between the beach ponds or lagoons and the true tundra ponds ; and such ponds
are perhaps more likely than the freshwater bodies farther inland to contain
Phyllopods. The photographs taken of the ponds along this coast during the
expedition give a better idea of their appearance than many words of des-
cription. 1
Those of the tundra ponds which contain water all the year round, are
frozen to the bottom, unless they are more than one fathom deep, during
the winter, and are generally covered with a deep layer of snow, except where
the wind has removed this from spots on the ice surface. In the -beginning of
May (observations from Demarcation point, 1914), the power of the sun on
clear, calm and warm days is so great that the ice in the very shallow ponds
begins to melt, and the dark mud bottom to thaw, though the temperature of
the strata (ice, mud bottom, dead leaves, etc.) on May 4 was only from 32
to 32.5 F. (air 29.5 F.), and the ground was still frozen solidly. Large hiber-
nating, dipterous larvae were then found in some of these ponds. The
further melting of the shallow ponds at Demarcation point in 1914 was delayed
until the middle of the month of May, owing to more wintry weather and cold
nights, and none of the deeper ponds or lakes showed any signs of melting.
On May 16 there was only a light snow layer on the tundra, and some of the
shallow ponds were quite free of snow or ice, others only partly so, and often
communicating with the melting water in the surrounding swamps. Their water
had a temperature of 35 F. at 7.30 p.m. (air 29 F.). Then followed several
days of colder weather, forming new ice on the melted ponds and snow
upon the tundra, which, however, soon melte'd away. 2 Besides the dipterous
larvse mentioned above a number of other aquatic insects (other diptera,
collembola, dytiscids, etc.), snails (Aplexa hypnorum)? etc., were now
found in the ponds. My observations for the period from the end of May to
the middle of July, 1914, are in Camden bay (Collinson point and Konganevik).
On May 26 the tundra was almost impassable owing to soft or melted snow,
though the vegetation and invertebrate animal life had not yet progressed much
in development, and the rivers were breaking up. On the last day of the
month the tundra still looked wintry, and the vegetation was far behind.
The deeper ponds were mostly melted, but had ice at their bottoms for long
stretches or were partly covered with ice, the latter reaching to the bottom.
The overflow from the melted snow assembled in temporary pools and streams,
while the higher parts of the tundra still had much snow. There were, however,
large, bare stretches, especially nearest the coast. I consider it very possible,
that the cold and cloudy weather at the end of May and beginning of June, 1914,
delayed the arrival of the spring (summer) that year beyond the normal.
The vegetable and animal life of the freshwater ponds, even if these were
only partly melted, however, progressed well, as proved by the number of
dipterous larvae and imagines, copepods, (Cyclops magnus and C. vicinus)
i See Plate IV in Vol. Ill, Part K ot these reports.
> 2 On May 21 the thermometer stuck into the mud of a shallow pond (water about one inch deep) showed 55 .5 F. at 5 p.m.
(Air about 35 F.), which indicates how warm the water in these ponds can become even so early in the spring.
3 See Vol. VIII., Part A, this series of reports.
