g N Canadian Arctic Expedition, 1913-1918
dytiBCklB, trirlmptemu- larva-, water mitee, -nails (Aplexa hypnorum) , oligochaete
. protoioa, etc., which were secured in the beginning
u f Jin., from tin-in. Prom the middle of June most of the tundra ponds are
Kcepl where thi> i- found in tin- bottom of the deepest ones, and
!in ;l nr h animal life. Thu> a partly drird-up pond surrounded by swamp
,, \\ ,1 tundra at Cnllinsnn point ha<l a water temperature at 10 a.m.
IN i and contained a number of mosquito larva, hemiptera,
r mih-> and diptemu- imagine.
Another pond situated on the tundra at Konganevik also contained some
bright red //////</ BpecieB 1 attached to the wateY plants, when examined at the
end of June: its marginal water had a temperature of 54 F. at 2 a.m. on June
r about 30
When 1 reached Konganevik (June 25) the smaller tundra ponds on the
i! plain were already dried up or nearly so (steaming), while the large inland
lakefl W&n only partly' melted and had ice in their middle and deeper water-
la vn^. There are half a dozen of these large lakes, situated about a mile inland
and Mirrounded by extensive swamps with many ponds through which an out let -
finds it- way to the sea (see p. GN), at their eastern end. Their general direction
ist and wot. paralleling tho coast; and while tundra bluffs face them for
longer Stretches <>n their north and south sides, the low land surrounding and
separating them from the sea at their east and west side indicates that they
represent a former sound found here at a time when the coast had a lesser
elevat inn. I could not then ascertain their depths; but it is possible they contain
salt water in their deeper layers. Their general appearance is well shown by
the photograph that is given (Plate I, fig. 1); it will be seen that a rich vegeta-
tion of Cyperaceae, etc., extended far out into them, thus indicating a broad
belt of shallow, marginal water. In this latter I secured a great number of
invertebrates, including many insects (perlids, trichoptera, diptera, dytiscids, etc.),
water mites, copepods (Cyclops capillatus), "winter eggs" of Daphnia pulex,
snails (Aplexa), oligochaete worms (Lumbriculus) , etc.
In the beginning of July many of the ponds or brooks containing melting
water are dried up completely or only have a small waterhole in the deeper part
of the bed, while the deeper ponds are ice-free, and the melting of the ice
in the large lakes progresses rapidly. The large creeks and rivers contain
far less water than earlier in the summer. The animal life inhabiting the bodies
of freshwater is much the same all the time, but at the beginning of
July is supplemented by the young Cladocera (Daphnia pulex) which hatch
several weeks after the nauplii of the fairy shrimps (Branchinecta paludosa)
emerge from the eggs (see p. 6N). 3
In the beginning of August I had the opportunity of examining a part of
Icy reef, which stretches along the coast between Martin point and Demarcation
point. The reef or sandspit is broader and longer than the spits forming Martin
point and its gravelly places are larger and composed of bigger stone fragments,
and the vegetation is far better developed. As is the case everywhere else
along this coast much driftwood is scattered around, filling up smaller bays or
bights on the south side, where also occur marshes, the latter often continued
out into the shallow sound or lagoon separating the reef from the mainland.
The sandspit also contained several closed-in lagoon ponds or beach ponds,
mostly dried up, and containing so far as I observed not nearly so varied and
rich a life as those at Martin point. No phyllopods were seen.
Herschel island reaches an elevation of 558 feet and represents a tundra
island wholly made up of sand, mud, clay and a few boulders, while the ground-
ice crops out here and there and may help supply some of the smaller creeks with
See Vol. VIII.. Part I, (Hydroids) in this serie* of reports.
Shallow swamp in its upper course and deep tundra holes in its lower course.
The less conspicuous and common nauplii of Lepidurus arcticus probably also hatch in the middle or end of June.
