10 N Canadian Arctic Expedition, 1913-1918
years not until a month later. During the winter the freshwater ice may attain
a thickness of almost ten feet, from which it follows that all the ponds and lakes
shallower than that freeze to the bottom. Owing to their size, currents and the
influence of the winds the large deeper lakes do not freeze over permanently
until a week or two after the ponds. As the large creeks forming the outlets
are all shallow in this vicinity, they also quickly freeze to the bottom. It
should be remembered however, that occasional low temperatures, generally at
nights, both in the spring and the fall cause the surface of ponds and of the more
quiet bights of the lakes to be covered with new ice which may, or may not,
according to succeeding temperatures, melt away the same year.
To illustrate these general remarks about the influence of the weather upon
the freshwater bodies the following field observations may be of interest.
May 22, 1915, was clear and unusually warm (from 24 to 62 F.). The
melting snow formed temporary, stagnant, small pools, both on the sea ice,
where there were accumulations of sand, and upon land. The largest of these
pools was found in a depression on top of a ridge; it had free water six by two
feet wide. The two big lakes inland west of the station had the snow upon their
ice melted away at many places, but no water was to be seen. The
different ponds at the harbour were all covered by snow.
About the same date next year the spring was more advanced. Thus
on May 21 the weather was clear and warm (max. temp. 59 F.). Thermometer
lying in a water accumulation (melted snow, dark bottom) on the tundra showed
54 F., while the air was only 43 F. (noon). Even on the lowland (tundra or
swamp) the snow was disappearing fast; there were many and extensive
melting ponds on top of the lake ice, and the latter was soft and wet. Much
melting water was coming down in the big creek, and also in smaller, temporary
streams.
May 24, 1915, was clear or cloudy, with temperatures from 20 to 45 F.
Where there were, on land or on the sea ice, accumulations on top of the snow,
the snow had melted, forming a hole with the sand in the bottom; the snow
protruding as an icy brim over the north side of the hole, while the south side
was open, and gently sloping outwards. At the bottom of such a hole upon the
land the thermometer showed, when sheltered from the wind, 33-5 F., at noon,
while the air was 27-3 F. Another stretch close by had the snow melted away
to a considerable extent, so that the bare tundra was exposed, showing stagnant
melting water pools in the depressions. This melting water had at noon a
temperature of 48-8 F. (thermometer lying in the bottom), while the bare
ground around it (thermometer lying on the ground) was 50 F.
On the last day of May, 1916, the land was all free of snow, except for
patches upon the slopes. All the ponds at the harbour were also free of
ice (apart from new ice formed at night) and snow, and had their maximum
extension. The big lake in the valley west of the station was still covered
with ice in its southern part, while the north part was open, with the water
streaming to the outlet, along which cakes of ice were carried down to the sea.
On June 16, 1915, one of the ridges at the harbour was largely free of snow
even upon its north side; and about half way to the top a broad terrace
showed melting water in the depressions in the form of temporary smaller
ponds or water-holes with gravel bottom. On the swamp below, south
of the ridge, a few of the true tundra ponds with detritus mud bottoms were
open, arfd there was stagnant water in the other depressions. The swamp itself
was now mostly free of. snow, but the mud flats through which it merges into
the sandy beach, only partly so. The ponds now drained off through several
small temporary streams to the bay. Two days later the snow was melting
rapidly, and the small streams coming down the slopes formed temporary pools
here and there, and merged into lakes or creeks. The thermometer lying
upon the bottom of such a pool showed 56 F., in flowing melting water close
