12 N Canadian Arctic Expedition, 1913-1918
was not observed in the locality in question from September to May inelu-ive.
The growth of Branchinecta paludosa from the nauplius to the mature male or
female is sufficiently rapid (about a month) to allow the species to deposit the
fertilized eggs before the complete drying up of the pond in which it is found,
and long before its freezing up later in the fall.
While the shallow ponds at Bernard harbour are very similar to the others
occurring all along the arctic coast the small, brackish pond on the south M<!<
of the outlet of the large creek just west of the station presents some peculiar
and interesting features. The pond is situated on gravel and sand flats at only
a few feet elevation and surrounded by vegetation composed almost exclusively
of a minute Carex (C. subspathacea) . Whsn the snow is melting rapidly it receives
some additional freshwater from the slopes behind, and the overflow has
excavated a fairly deep and wide channel between the pond and the beach nearby.
During the summer and until the snow falls the outline of the pond is hov
well defined (see Plate II). The pond consists of a deeper (up to one fathom)
hole in the middle, bottomed with a thick layer of black, stinking mud, and very
shallow ( a few inches deep) marginal water, extensive in the early summer, but
rapidly drying up under the influence of the sun later. It contains a rich
animal life, composed of Entomostraca (Branchinecta paludosa, Daphnia pulex
and copepods), aquatic insects, etc., more or less restricted to the masses of
green filamentous algae found in the water. The bottom of the marginal water
area of the pond is covered with light brown detritus mud. 1
It has been mentioned above, that the brackish nature of the water in t his pond
had little influence upon its content of invertebrates; this is further emphasized by
my finding the same Entomostraca, etc. (except Daphnia pulex), in a much smaller,
shallow, brackish pool near the coast a little further west and north in the middle
of July, 1916. The saline nature of the water in this latter pool was
shown by its taste and the presence of certain marine algae (Fam. Ulvaceae),
besides the common green filamentous algae, typical of freshwater. In this ease
the distance from the beach was so insignificant, and the pool so small and
shallow, that its formation is to be attributed to a slight, and fairly recent,
raising of the sea shore.
The three larger lakes situated west and south of our winter quarter- at
Bernard harbour have already been referred to. The two most westerly ones of
these are the biggest, though only their east ends are shown on the detail map.
The most northerly is situated about 35 feet above sea level some distance
inland, and has an outlet to the sea through the large creek already mentioned.
Another creek flows into the south side of the lake, carrying the overflow from
the lakes and ponds situated inland there, and probably also from the west end
of the large lake described just below. The large lake in question may be
considered merely a widening of the creek coming into and out from it, and is
almost entirely surrounded by swampy tundra, thus resting in an extensive
valley, bounded here and there by low ridges. In the beginning of October, 1915,
I took a number of soundings from the 9-10 inches thick fall ice across the
middle of the lake, from the big boulder near Its south shore to a grassy point
opposite, on the north shore. The result is given in the following table
(maximum depth in italics) :
(1) 13| inches water Bottom brown sand
/o\ oni " " " "
\L) 4^2
(3) 24 " "
(4) 21 " " " "
(5) 20 " " " "
(6) 18 " " " "
(7) 19 " "
J See Part A, Vol. IV of these reports.
