Crustacean Life N 5
the middle of October) 1 , and th? sea generally freezes over rather suddenly
about the middle or end of September, though open water lanes may be seen
offshore here and there all winter.
The appearance of the ponds, lakes and lagoons upon the coastal plain
of Arctic Alaska is practically the same everywhere all the way to the Mackenzie
delta-, and the accompanying photographs (Plate I) show them better than
many words. 2 Nearest the beach the low, gravelly or tundra-coast often forms
smaller or larger lagoons more or less connected with the sea. Where the water
from the latter has access to the lagoon at high tide, it contains neither
phyllopoda nor cladocera, though copepoda, fish fry and certain insect forms
are found; but when it is really a beach-pond separated from the sea by drift-
wood, sand, and gravel sometimes with vegetation it contains at least some of
the other Crustacea too. In all cases the water is more or less brackish. The
lagoons and beach ponds examined in June, 1914, at Martin point and in
Camden bay (Konganevik and Collinson point), Alaska, are typical in regard to
this.
At Martin point the investigations were made at the end of July 3 and all
the lagoons and beach ponds seen there although extensive were very shallow
(maximum depth of six inches). One lagoon pond had a water temperature
of 52 F. at 3 p.m. (air 34 F.), on July 28. Its bottom was black, sandy mud,
overlaid by a layer of light brown detritus mud and with .oosely lying masses of
green filamentous algae, etc. The macroscopic life consisted of a great many ry
of the >culpin Oncocottus quadricornis , red Chironomus larvae 4 in their mud-tubes,
and various copepods (Eurytemora sp., and Canthocamptus sp.,) besides collem-
embola and small diptera on the surface. Even the lagoons that were connected
with the sea at high tide had this same animal life. Another lagoon pond had
more the character of a true beach pond. Its water temperature was 51 F. at
10 a.m. (air 32 F.) on July 26, and the bottom consisted of gravel, sand and,
especially on the deeper places, fine light brown detritus mud, such as is usually
formed by the Chironomus tubes and excrements. The insect life consisted of
the usual collembola and small diptera upon the surface, and dytiscid beetles
and larvae besides small dipterous larvae in the water. Far more conspicuous
and interesting, however, were the freshwater crustaceans it contained. Besides
the usual copepods (see above) I noticed and collected a great many Daphnia
pulex of different sizes (see Report of Canadian Arctic Expedition, Vol. VII,
Part H), besides the two characteristic arctic phyllopods, Lepidurus arcticus
and Branchineda paludosa. The former were making their familiar, winding
tracks in the mud bottom, buried at the one end, or " browsing" immediately
above it. In size they were from 8 to 18 mm. lorg (excluding the cercopods),
thus probably representing both this and the preceding j^ear's brood; all were
females. Swimming around in the water were also fairy shrimps (Branchin-
ecta paludosa) of both sexes from If to 2 cm. in length; they were extremely
active, swimming briskly around and trying to bury themselves in the mud, as
I fished for them. The females carried ripe eggs and had much more brilliant
colours than the paler males.
Similar shallow lagoons and beach ponds cut off from the stream-outlets
by sandbars and partly dried up, and with stagnant and brackish water, were
noticed at Konganevik in Camden bay in the end of June, 1914, but I found no
Entomostraca in them, though they contained fish fry 5 and the usual insect life
1 On September 20, 1913, this ice was six inches thick. ( Observations at Collinson point.)
2 See also Plate VI in Brooks: Geography and Geology of Alaska (1906); Plate II. in Schrader and Peters : Recon-
naissance in Northern Alaska, Washington, 1904, (Prof. Pap 3 r, No. 20, U.S.G.S.); Plates III. -V. in Leffingwell: Canning
River Region Northern Alaska, Washington, 1919, (Prof. Paper, No. 109, U.S.G.o.); and the marine chart? published by
the British Admirality and the U.S. Hydrographic Office (also Alaska- Yukon Boundary Survey Map.)
3 In this report "Beginning" of a month means 1st to 10th.
"Middle" " llth to 20th.
End" " 21st to 30th (31).
4 For aquatic insects see Vol. Ill of this series of reports.
5 Oncocottus quadricornis.
