JACKSON AND KOCH. — TRIBROMDINITROBENZOL. 129
gave no test for a nitrite, showing that the nitro groups had not been
attacked.
Other Products of the Reaction. — During the purification of the dini-
troresorcine diethylether a small quantity of the bromdinitroresorcine
diethylether melting at 184" was isolated. Its presence shows that the
heating for ten minutes used by us was not sufficient to convert the whole
of it into the dinitroresorcine diethylether.
From the ligroin mother liquors of the bromdinitroresorcine diethyl-
ether melting at 92°, a few milligrams of a body were obtained, which
melted constant at 112°, contained bromine, and gave no test for nitro-
gen after fusion with sodium.* AVe supposed, therefore, that we had
the tribromresorcine, which melts according to Benedikt at 111°, and
could be formed by the replacement of the two nitro groups by ethoxy
radicals, followed by saponification : but upon comparing our specimen
with some tribromresorcine made for this purpose, it was found that,
although the two substances melted at the same point, (as we found
the melting point 11 2*^-1 13° for the tribi'omresorcine,) they differed
markedly in solubility in alcohol, our substance being much the less solu-
ble, and also in the method of crystallization, although the forms were
not incompatible. That our substance was not tribromresorcine was
proved by the action of sodic hydrate, which did not affect our body,
whereas it dissolved the tribromresorcine instantly, giving a solution
which turned black almost at once. The amount of our substance was
not enough for analysis, so we can make no statement in regard to its
nature. We add a description of its crystalline form, which may lead to
its identification. It forms when crystallized from alcohol white very
sharp needles, which when better developed appear as slender prisms
with square ends or bluntly sharpened by several planes at very obtuse
angles to the sides and terminated by a basal plane. When less well
developed, it forms felted masses of needles or bunches, or long sheaves
of needles. None of the arborescent forms were observed which seemed
to be characteristic of the tribromresorcine. This substance was also
characterized by its solubility in ligroin. It was only formed in very
minute quantities under the conditions of the reaction used by us.
The Products of the Reaction soluble in Water.
The wash waters obtained from the product of the action of sodic
ethylate on tribromdinitrobenzol at 70° were highly colored, but the
* We do not feel that this proves the substance is free from nitrogen.
VOL. XXXIV. —
