130 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
substances obtained by acidifying them with acetic acid were so tarry th^t
we could not isolate any body fit for analysis. The filtrate from this tar,
which was also colored, was evaporated to small bulk, and treated with
baric chloride, when a gelatinous precipitate was obtained, which resem-
bled the barium salt of tribromnitrophenol described later in this paper.
We did not however succeed in getting enough of it to purify for
analysis.
The approximate yields of the principal products of the action of sodic
ethylate on tribromdinitrobenzol at 70° were determined as follows : —
Dinitroresorcine Diethylether 16 per cent.
Bromdinitroresorcine Diethylether melting at 92° . 9 per cent.
Total 25 per cent.
From which it appears that 75 per cent of the theoretical yield had been
converted into the tarry mass, from which we could isolate nothing fit
for analysis.
Action of Sodic Ethylate upon Tribromdinitrobenzol in the Cold.
The proportions used were the same as those used in the experiment
at 70°, that is, 40 grams of the tribromdinitrobenzol dissolved in 80 c.c.
of benzol and mixed with the sodic ethylate from 6.8 grams of sodium
and 180 c.c. of absolute alcohol. The mixture was allowed to stand in
a corked flask from three to five days with frequent shaking, after which
it was poured into an evaporating dish, and allowed to evaporate spon-
taneously. The residue was washed with water, until the washings
were colorless, and the products were then purified as follows.
Residue Insoluble in Water.
This was dried, and extracted three times with boiling ligroin, which
left a crystalline residue, and this after recrystallization from a mixture
of alcohol and benzol showed the constant melting point 184°, and was
therefore the bromdinitroresorcine diethylether discovered by W. H.
Warren and one of us in the previous work on this reaction.
The ligroin extract was allowed to stand over night, when it deposited
crystals, which were filtered out, and strangely enough proved to be
essentially insoluble in ligroin. As they could not have been formed in
the ligroin solution, we can explain the extraction of them by hot ligroin
only by supposing they are soluble in a mixture of ligroin and the
other (soluble) product of the reaction. The crystals after purification
