JACKSON AND KOCH. — TRIBROMDINITROBENZOL. 131
by crystallization from a mixture of alcohol and benzol showed the con-
stant melting point 105^, which suggested that they were the dinitrophlo-
roglucine triethylether discovered by W. R. Lamar and one of us.* To
settle the nature of the substance, it was dried at 100° and analyzed with
the following result : —
0.2297 gram of the substance gave 19.4 c.c. of nitrogen at a tempera-
ture of 23° and a pressure of 750 mm.
Calculated for
CoU(,OC2H5>s{NOj),. Found.
Nitrogen 9.34 9.42
It is therefore the dinitrophloroglucine triethylether.
Tlie ligroin mother liquor, from which the dinitrophloroglucine tri-
ethylether had been deposited, was evaporated to dryness, and spread on
a porous plate to remove oily impurities, after which it was diss^olved in
hot ligroin, and allowed to crystallize, when in addition to the square
prisms of dinitrophloroglucine triethylether long needles with square
ends were observed, which resembled the bromdinitroresorcine diethyl-
ether melting at 92°, obtained by the action of a hot sodic ethylate solu-
tion on tribromdinitrobenzol, as described earlier in this paper. The iso-
lation of this substance from the mixture of crystals proved a matter of
great difficulty. Hot ligroin did not accomplish this, and a number of
other solvents were tried with no better success. Finally, on soaking the
mixture for some time with cold ligroin, it was found that a considerable
amount of ths square prisms remained undissolved; these were filtered
out, and the filtrate on evaporation gave a residue, which was once more
extracted with cold ligroin in the same way. This second extract
yielded crystals, which could be purified by crystallization from hot
ligroin, when their constant melting point 92° and their solubilities and
crystalline form proved that they were the bromdinitroresorcine diethyl-
ether (OaH5),l,3,Br5,(NO,),2,4.
Although the dinitrophloroglucine triethylether was formed freely in
the cold, we obtained none of it when we carried on the reaction at 70°.
This was probably due to the short duration of our* experiments (ten
minutes), as there is little doubt that this substance is produced by the
further action of the sodic ethylate on the bromdinitroresorcine diethyl-
ether at first formed. It follows that the best way of making the die-
thylether melting at 92° is the process described under the action of sodic
ethylate at 70°.
* Am. Chem. Journ., XVIII. 670.
