140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
The tricblorbrombenzol Cl3l,3,5,Br2 melts at 65°, that is, at nearly
the same temperature as the symmetrical trichlorbenzol 63°. 4 (Korner),
and what is strange, higher than the corresponding trichloriodbenzol.
With sodic ethylate it lost bromine, but the reaction was not specially
studied. When treated with fuming nitric acid it gave a trichlorbrom-
dinitrobenzol melting at 175°, which was a decidedly reactive substance.
Aniline replaced the three atoms of chlorine, giving the trianilidobrom-
dinitrobenzol CG(C6rT5NH)3Br(NOo)2, melting at 175° to 176°, discovered
by W. D. Bancroft and one of us.*
Sodic ethylate also acts upon it, probably giving a number of products,
to judge from analogy and the fact that both sodic bromide and sodic
nitrite were detected among them, but we have only succeeded in iden-
tifying one of these with certainty ; this is a bromdinitroresorcine diethyl-
ether melting at 81° to 82°, and probably having the following constitution,
(OC2ll5)2l?3,Br2(N02)24,6, although it may be that one of the ethoxy
groups stands at 5 instead of 3. It must have been formed by the re-
placement of two atoms of chlorine by two ethoxy groups, and the third
by hydrogen. As in most of the replacements of a halogen by hydrogen
it has been found that it stood between two uitro groups, we think there
can be little doubt that the first constitution assigned to this body is the
correct one. Its formation is interesting, as it is the first case we have
found iu which chlorine has been replaced by hydrogen under these
conditions. In all the otlier cases studied the clilorine has remained
unaltered, or has entered into some sim[)le reaction : thus picrylchloride
gave picryl ether,t picrylmalcftiic ester.J or picrylacetacetic ester, §
according to the reagent used ; chloranil gave dichlorquinonedimalonic
ester, || or, so far as the replacement alone was concerned, dichlordi-
ethoxyquinone ; If and trichlordinitrobenzol gave d;chlordinitrophenyl-
malonic ester,** or chlordinitroresorcine diethylether, and diuitrophloro-
glucine triethjdether.ft These last cases are especially striking, since the
corresponding tribromdinitrobenzol showed a replacement of bromine by
hydrogen, when treated with sodium malonic ester or sodic ethylate.
* These Proceedings, XXIV. 293.
t Jackson and Boos, These Proceedings, XXIII. 176.
t Jackson and Soch, Ibid., XXX. 401.
§ Dittrich, Ber. d. chem. Ges., XXIII. 2720.
II Stieglitz, Am. Chem. Journ., XIII. 38.
IT Kelirmann, J. prakt. Chem., [2], XL. .367 ; Jackson and Grindley, These Pro-
ceedings, XXX. 430.
** Jackson and Lamar, Am. Chem. Journ., XVIII. 775.
tt The same, Ibid., p. 668.
