JACKSON AND GAZZOLO. — TRICHLORBENZOL. 141
This bromdinitroresorcine diethylether, melting at 81°-82°,
(OCoH5)2l,3, Br2,(N02)24,6 ?
is isomeric with those melting at 184°,
and at 92°,
(OC,UrJA,3,Bv5,(^0,),2,4,
made by the action of sodic ethylate on the symmetrical tribromdinitro-
benzol.
The trichlorbroradinitrobenzol also reacted with sodium raalonic ester
but we were unable to bring the product into a state fit for analvcis.
When the dry substance was treated with sodic ethylate, it gave a deep
vermilion product, which probably belongs to the class of colored com-
pounds formed by sodic ethylate and certain nitro bodies,* as it was de-
composed by water and some organic solvents. This is the first case, so
far as we can find, in which one of these substances has been observed
derived from a compound of benzol with all its atoms of hydrogen
replaced by other radicals.
TrichloriodhenzoJ ^ Cq H2CI3I.
To prepare this substance 17 grams of sublimed trichloraniline (made
by the excellent method of V. Meyer and Sudborough f) were mixed
with moderately dilute sulphuric acid in the proportion of one molecule
of trichloraniline to each molecule ot sulphuric acid, and after thoroutdi
cooling powdered sodic nitrite was added in small successive quantities,
until the nitrous fumes generated were no longer absorbed. After each
addition of the sodic nitrite the flask was corked and vigorously shaken,
until all the red fumes were absorbed, taking care that the contents were
kept cool throughout the operation. When a sufficient amount of sodic
nitrite had been added, the mixture was filtered, the cooled filtrate freed
as completely as possible from the excess of nitrous fumes by vigorous
shaking, and then treated with a distilled aqueous solution of hydriodic
acid, until there was no further action. The brownish precipitate thus
obtained was washed first with a solution of potassic iodide to remove
free iodine, and finally with water, after which it was purified by subli-
mation, or by crystallization from hot alcohol, until it showed the con-
stant melting point of 55°. It was dried in vacuo, and gave the following
results on analysis : —
* These Proceedings, XXXIII. 173, and Amer. Cliera. Journ., XIX. 199, where
a, complete list of the papers on this subject is given,
t Ber. d. cliem. Ges., XXVII. 3151.
