JACKSON AND GAZZOLO. — TRICHLORBENZOL. 145
The yield of trichlorbrombenzol was 12 grams, instead of the 26.5
grams which should have been obtaiued from 20 grams of trichloraui-
line, that is, over 45 per cent of the theory.
Properties of TrichlorhrombenzoJ. — It crystallizes from alcohol in white
radiating needles, which develop into long slender blunt ended prisms.
It melts at 64°-65°, that is, one degree higher than the symmetrical
triclilorbenzol, which melts according to Korner at 63°. 4; not only is
this coincidence striking, but it is also surprising that it should melt at
a higher temperature than the trichloriodbenzol, which melts at 55°. It
sublimes easily. It is freely soluble in ether, benzol, or acetone; solu-
ble in cold alcohol, more freely in hot ; soluble in glacial acetic acid, or
ligroin ; less soluble in methyl alcohol, and still less in carbonic disul-
phide. The best solvent for it is alcohol. The three strong acids have
no apparent action on it, but fuming nitric acid converts it into trichlor-
bromdinitrobenzol, as described later. When a benzol solution of the
trichlorbrombenzol was treated with sodic ethylate, the atom of bromine
was removed, as was shown by testing the wash waters from the pro-
duct for bromine, when a strong reaction for it was observed.
Trichlorbromdinitrohenzol CeClgBr ( NO2) .^
To prepare this substance the trichlorbrombenzol was mixed with
nitric acid of specific gravity 1.52 and one third the quantity of strong
sulphuric acid, and the mixture heated gently for an hour. At first the
solid dissolved, but later the nitro compound was deposited from the
solution. After the mixture had stood over night, the supernatant acid
was poured into a large quantity of water, which gave an additional
amount of the j)roduct. It was purified by crystallization from a mix-
ture of alcohol and benzol, until it showed the constant melting point
175°, when it was dried in vacuo, and analyzed with the following
result : —
0.1654 gram of the substance gave according to the method of Carius
0.2914 gram of the mixture of argentic chloride and bromide.
Calculated for
CsClaBrcNO,)^.
Found.
53.21
53.10
Bromine and Chlorine
The constitution of this substance is settled by the method, in which
it was made as Cl3l,3,5,Br2,(NOo)24,6. The yield is essentially
quantitative.
Properties of Tri clilorhromdinitrohcnzol. — It forms, when crystallized
VOL. XXXIV. — 10
