146 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
from alcohol and benzol, thick rather blunt rhombic plates, the obtuse
angles of which are frequently bevelled by two planes. They show a
tendeocy to form groups with the members superimposed, and have a
slight yellowish tinge. The substance melts at 175°; and is very sol-
uble in chloroform, acetone, or carbonic disulphide ; slightly soluble in
ethyl or methyl alcohol either cold or hot ; insoluble in cold, soluble in
hot glacial acetic acid ; essentially insoluble in ligroin, oi* in hot or cold
water.' The best solvent for it is a mixture of benzol and alcohol.
Strong hydrochloric or sulphuric acid has no apparent action on it.
Fuming nitric acid dissolves it when hot. It suldimes easily, and in this
way feathery ivory-white crystals are obtained sometimes over a centi-
meter in length.
Action of Aniliue on Trichlorhromdinitrohenzol.
When one gram of trichlorbromdinitrobenzol was warmed gently with
a slight excess of freshly distilled aniline, it went into solution forming
a cherry-red liquid, the color of which became deeper on longer heating.
To obtain the product the liquid was poured into a large quantity of
water, acidified with hydrochloric acid, and the crimson precipitate formed
in this way thoroughly washed, and crystallized from a mixture of alcohol
and benzol, until it reached the constant melting point 175°-176°.
This showed that the substance was the bromdinitrotrianilidobenzol
CGBr(NO.,)o(CGH6NH)3 obtained by W. D. Bancroft and one of us*
from tetrabromdinitrobenzol and aniline. In this case it was formed by
the replacement of the three atoms of chlorine by three anilido groups.
Behavior of Trichlorhromdinitrohenzol ivith Sodic Ethylate in the Cold.
Five grams of trichlorbromdinitrobenzol dissolved in anhydrous ben-
zol were mixed with the sodic ethylate made from twenty-five grams of
absolute alcohol and one gram of sodium, which gave the proportion of
three molecules of the ethylate to each molecule of trichlorbromdinitro-
benzol. The two substances reacted at once, since the liquid took on a
bright scarlet color as soon as they were mixed, and tliere was also a
slight evolution of heat. To complete the reaction the mixture was
allowed to stand three days at ordinary temperatures, during which time
a heavy precipitate was deposited, and the color changed to a yellowish
red. The precipitate was filtered out, washed with alcohol, and then dis-
solved in water. This solution gave a strong test for sodic nitrite with
* These Proceedings, XXIV. 293.
