148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Propel ties of Bromdinitroresorcine Dletliylether, melting at 81°-82°,
CGH(C.,H50)oBr(NOo)2.
It forms when crystallized from alcohol white ueedles or slender prisms
terminated by two planes at an obtuse angle to each other, which turn
brown on exposure to the light. It melts at 8l°-82°, and is very soluble
in benzol, or chloroform ; soluble in methyl alcohol, acetone, glacial acetic
acid, or carbonic disulphide; slightly soluble in cold ethyl alcohol, more
soluble in hot ; slightly soluble in ligroin. Alcohol is the best solvent for
it. It is not acted on ap|)arently by strong hydrochloric acid, either hot
or cold ; strong sulphuric acid does not act in the cold, but when warm
dissolves it with a brownish red color; strong nitric acid does not act in
the cold, but gives a colorless solution with it when hot.
That tliis bromdinitroresorcine diethylether was not the only organic
product of the reaction of sodic ethylate on trichlorbromdinitrobenzol was
shown by the fact that sodic nitrite as well as sodic chloride was formed.
Our attempts to isolate these other bodies, however, were far from suc-
cessful. Some experiments with the aqueous wash waters seemed to
indicate that they contained a phenol melting at 111°, and having pei-
haps the formula Cg(OC2lI)20II(N02)2lir> but the analytical data
obtained were too imperfect to justify a description of the body ; and we
did not succeed in bringing any of the other products into a state fit for
analysis.
The trichlorbromdinitrobenzol seemed to give colored compounds with
sodic ethylate similar to those given by picrylch oride and several other
nitro compounds, since upon adding an alcoholic solution of sodic ethylate
to the dry substance it took on a strong vermilion color, which was in-
stantly destroyed by w'ater, and more slowly by benzol or ligroin. Tiie
fact that the color disappeared on the addition of water indicates that it
is one of the colored compounds under discussion, and not a salt of a
phenol. Another sample of the color was allowed to stand for half an
hour exposed to the air, at the end of which time the red color had given
place to yellow. As the colored compound was less stable than several
others which have been studied, its investigation was not carried further.
The trichlorbromdinitrobenzol is acted on by an alcoholic solution of
sodium malonic ester. Our first experiments gave a crystalline product,
but in too small quantity for analysis. Our later experiments have
yielded only viscous masses, from which we have not succeeded in ob-
taining anything for analysis in spite of a very large expenditure of time
and material.
