GULLIVER. — SHORELINE TOPOGRAPHY. 153
Initial is here used as the technical term to define the form at the
beginning of any geographic cycle or epicycle. Any dynamic process
which produces a change in the relative position of land and sea may
interrupt a cycle at any stage of development, and introduce a new
cycle. Later stages and forms will be called sequential. These terms
are offered to avoid the misconception, on account of their vernacular
meaning, of the terms constructional and destructional, sometimes used
for the identical ideas.
Previous Work on Shorelines. — Since the days of Strabo and Aristotle,
two of the greatest observers among early geographers, much has been
added to the science of geography. Passing over the work * of the car-
tographers, explorers, and speculative writers, mention must be made of
the great mass of facts collected by Ritter and Humboldt and of their
use by Guyot ; but the great outdoor observer, De la Beche, whose work
was the stock in trade of the next generation, first interpreted many of
the coastal forms. He in 1834,t and Dana more fully in 1849,$ recog-
nized land-carved forms under water, or drowned valleys, as proof of
depression of the land. Robert Chambers recognized raised beaches and
associated coastal forms, and showed that the Atlantic coastal plain indi-
cated elevation. § Lyell with his doctrine of uniformity, Ramsay with
the tlieory of marine denudation, the Geikies, LeConte, Darwin, and
many other geologists, have worked out the changes in form of coasts
here grouped under various sequential stages.
Members of the United States Surveys, Bache, Mitchell, Gilbert,
Shaler, Whiting, Davidson, and others, have worked out many of the
details of coastal forms and their changes, and a large number of obser-
vations recorded upon maps and charts have been the basis of much of
the work in this paper.
In 1879, Dr. Halm discussed the rising and sinking of coasts, but he
did not consider the ratios between activities nor take into account the
time since which a given movement took place. Weule, Cold, Keller,
and Sandler have also studied shorelines, but the fullest discussion of
coastal and shore forms has been made by von Richthofen and his pupil.
Dr. Philippson.il
* See Lyell, Prin. Geol., 11th ed., 1872, 22, 57 ; Woodworth, Am. Geol, 1894,
XIV. 210.
t Theoretical Geology, 192-194.
X Geology of the Wilkes Expedition, 1849, 677.
§ Ancient Sea Margins, 221, 253, 270, 276, 299.
II See list of references for these and other papers.
