156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
tion of the last century, it does not follow, from such observations 'per se,
that the land has moved in that same direction for any length of time
previous to the earliest of said observations ; and moreover, if in addition
to such demonstrated recent movement there exists geologic or geographic
evidence to show earlier motion in the same direction, such cumulative
evidence of motion in one direction is no valid argument for continued
motion in the same direction, for any period of time longer than that re-
quired by the nature of the evidence itself The converse of this propo-
sition is also true, viz. that evidence which shows that a country has
been raised or sunken does not prove that the region has been rising or
sinking in recent time, or is to-day rising or sinking.
That the time element has been left out of the majority of previous
considerations of shorelines, in the discussion of their elevation or depres-
sion, will be clearly perceived by any one who vs^ill go over the literature
of the subject.
Areas of Elevation and Depression as Mapped. — A comparison of
three maps of " rising " and "sinking" regions will show how different
points of view have led to opposite conchisions. Dr. G. R. Credner
considers the presence of large deltas a proof of slow rising, therefore in
his map of changes of level * he regards all regions of great deltas as
rising. In contrast with Credner's map, compare. that of upheavals and
depressions by Reclus.f In this map, " drawn after Chas. Darwin," all
regions where the coral growth is prevailingly of the atoll and barrier
reef type are given as sinking, while those regions where the fringing
reefs occur are mapped as regions of upheaval. Thus the hypothesis
of Darwin, t who regarded the form of coral construction as evidence of
" probable subsidence " and " probable elevation," when given such defi-
niteness as upon the map of Reclus, makes a striking contrast to the map
by Dr. Credner; many "rising areas" on the one are "sinking areas'"'
upon the other. Neither of these two criteria can be safely used to show
present or recent movement, nor are they more than hypothetical sug-
gestions of earlier changes of level.
Scandinavia on both of these maps is given as rising, because of its
raised beaches and " water-marks." This peninsula, as will be shown
later, is in the larger geographic sense in a cycle of development follow-
ing depression.
An interesting historico-geographic study could be made by a com-
* Pet. Geog. Mitt., Erg. Nr. 56, 1878, Tom. III.
t La Terre, 1872, I. 702, PI. XXIV.
t The Structure and Distribution of Coral Reefs, 3d ed., 1889, PI. III.
