158 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
parison of the facts used as criteria of rising and sinking in central and
southern Europe. For our present purpose, however, it will suffice to
indicate how loosely criteria have been interpreted. Compare the two
maps referred to above with that of France by Girard.* Each of the
three differs from both of the others. Southwestern France, the Landes
coast, is given by Credner as sinking, by Reclus as rising, and by Girard
as sinking in some places and rising in others.
Algebraic Sum of Movements : Maine. — The position of the land in the
present cycle is determined by the algebraic sum of all past oscillations.
The form is due to development in (n + 1) cycles. Cycles and epicycles
previous to tlie present may be recognized in inverse proportion to the
time since their close, and in direct proportion to the stage of develop-
ment reached in said cycle or epicycle. A region is classed in this paper,
as in a certain stage of development following elevation or depression,
according to the larger facts of form prevailing in the region.
For example, the coast of Maine (Figure 1) is on the whole a depressed
region. It has numerous islands, bays, etc., showing drowned topography
in a youthful stage of development. At Ogtniquit,| however, as well as
in other parts of this area, are seen criteria of elevation, elevated shore-
line, narrow coastal plain, nip, lagoon, and enclosing ofTshore bar. Since
the greatest depression, there has been an episode of elevation. The
development of the sequential features, following the initiation of a new
cycle of depression, has been interrupted by this episode or epicycle of
elevation.
Figure 2. Diagram sliowing Mutual Relations of Cycle, Epicycle, and Vibration.
Cycle, Epicycle, and Vibration, Neio Jersey ; Scandinavia. — It is only
to the larger movements of the land to which the term cycle is applica-
ble. The minor ups and downs of the coast are but portions of a cycle,
each of which may be called an epicycle, which in turn may be made
up of various smaller swings or vibrations. The relations of these
various movements to one another is shown in the accompanying diagram
(Figure 2).
* Soulevements et depressions du sol sur les cotes de France, Bull. Soc. Geog.,
1875, X. 225, etla carte,
t See pp. 185, 188.
