GULLIVER. — SHORELINE TOPOGRAPHY, 159
Professor Salisbury has given us a very pretty example of such epi-
cycles in' his Beacon Hill and Pensauken subdivisions of the Yellow
Gravel of New Jersey, and of what we may term vibrations in the
Jamesburg and later subdivisions.* He has found it possible to deter-
mine from the geographic form and position of the deposits the change
of level of the coast, though the changes are relatively so small that the
evidence of movement cannot be traced far inland. It is possil)le, on the
other hand, to trace the Tertiary peneplain for a considerable distance into
the interior, where for instance it is seen in the floor of the Great Valley ;
while the Cretaceous peneplain is the great surface of reference for
geographic features in the eastern United States. These cycle features
must not be regarded as the result of some sudden massive uplift, but
rather as the summation of minor vibrations and epicycles, during which
the average position of the land was such as to cause the Tertiary and
Cretaceous peneplains.
Scandinavia (Atlas Univ., 29, 30) is a good example to show the
differences between cycle, epicycle, and vibration. Taken as a whole,
the peninsula is a depressed region, some portions being deeper drowned
than others. Two typical areas will illustrate this. The form of the
region around Stockholm (Swe., 67, 68, 75, 76, 77, and adj*ent sheets,
Swe. Geol., 50, 51, 52, 53) indicates that it was maturely dissected in
the previous cycle, and is now submerged to a greater and greater amount
out from the shore, as is shown by the large islands near shore, the
smaller islands off shore, and the minute islets and skerries out in the
Baltic. Baron de Geer makes the axis of greatest uplift in the recent
episodes of elevations in the central portion of Scandinavia.f This tilting,
at whatever time it occurred, is indicated by the increasing relief in certain
directions of "the topography of this area.
The second region is in central Norway (Nor., 45, C, D ; 46, C, D ;
48, B; 49, A, B, C, D; 50, A, B, C, D ; 52, B, D ; 53, A, C, D; 56,
A, B). This area shows adolescent dissection of the upland, the land
being more continuous than in the first region mentioned.
While in a large geographic way the Scandinavian peninsula is a de-
pressed area, there have been epicycles of elevation in which terraces
have been cut. | Recent vibrations are also shown by changes of water
level at the established water-marks (R. Seiger).
* Ann. Rep. State Geol. N. J., 1893, 3&-328.
t See references.
t See papers by Briigger, Chambers, de Geer, Hogbom, Kjerulf, Lyell, Miller,
Mohn, Munthe, Pettersen, Reusch, Sandler, Sexe, and Sieger.
