GULLIVER. SHORELINE TOPOGRAPHY. 183
In small water bodies, lakes and seas nearly without tides, the winds would
cause waves which in turn would originate currents of smaller radius of curvature,
which should produce smaller cuspate forelands. The cuspate points in the Danish
waters are probabl}' such forelands. Tliese are seen on the topographic maps of
Denmark in the following localities : Roskilde fjord (Denni., Hilderod), Suen Mel-
lem Smalandene (Denm., Saxkjobing, Vordingborg), Limfjorden (Denm., Logstiir),
on Langeland and the islands to the west (Denm., Svendborg, Nakskav, Gulstav,
Faaborg), and in other localities along the Danish and German coasts.
The Bonneville cuspate forelands are proportional to the currents which existed
on the old lake and are similar in size and outline to the Danish cusps. Professor
Russell also reports V-bars upon the fossil shores of lake Lahontan.* These
cusps seem to have been built upward as the waters of the lakes rose, but the
water level never remained constant long enough for the lagoons to have become
filled, forming solid forelands, since Mr. Gilbert reports only a partial silting up.t
6. Offshore Bar.
Shelving Shore. — When the sea takes a new position of attack after
elevation, if the shore is shelving, wave-base intersects the smooth bottom
at some distance from the simple new shoreline, and the point of maxi-
mum wave abrasion is out from the coast at some point on the shelving
shore. This condition would obtain in the ideal case assumed in Part I.
From the forms of observed shores which slope gently beneath the water,
the action of the sea appears to be somewhat as follows. The waves at
first beat upon the coast and cut a faint cliff or nip. The point of maxi-
mum wave action is offshore, and there the waves heap up sand from the
bottom and a bar is formed alongshore. The waves abrade rapidly until
the offshore bottom to seaward of the bar approaches wave-base. Dur-
ing this deepening the waves have broken farther and farther offshore,
so that the bar has gradually moved seaward. When now the bottom to
seaward of the bar has been abraded almost to wave-base, a condition of
shore-grade is reached : the sea is able to transport and build into the con-
tinental delta whatever waste is supplied from the bottom and offshore
bar. As soon as material is taken from the bar it will retreat toward
the land.
Stages. — The period of upbuilding and seaward growth of the offshore
bar has been regarded as the youth of the shoreline, and the period of
cutting back as adolescence, since the latter is a graded condition. Dur-
ing youth the seaward growth of the bar leaves long marshy strips, or
'' slashes," between the successive dune ridges formed along the shoreline.
These become overgrown with bushes, peat, etc. The lagoon behind the
* Mon. XI., U. S. G. S., 93.
t Lake Bonneville, 121, PI. XVIII.
