GULLIVER. — SHORELINE TOPOGRAPHY. 185
the State is little filled, indicating an earlier stage. In tlie northern portion of the
State the offshore bar merges into the southern wing of the Long Branch behead-
land (page 213).
Upon the south side of Long island the sea has devoured the land to an appre-
ciable extent during the historical period. Meadows and cultivated lands have
been covered with sand, wagon tracks in peat have been found on the ocean side
of the dunes, wliile peat, cedar stumps, and tangled roots occur to-day between the
sand hills and the sea. These traces of land life seaward of the dunes indicate a
march of the dunes landward,* and a general pushing of the offshore bar inland.
7. Dissected Coastal Plain.
Surface Form. — On page 155 it was shown that the stage of develop-
ment of the surface of a coastal plain may not be the same as that of
the coastline of the same region. This subject comes more properly
under the cycles of development of land forms ; but, since the coastal
plain is one of the main criteria of uplift, the sequential forms will be
briefly sketched.
Mr. W. Lindgren shows a characteristic section of a Quaternary coastal
plain lying on a granite oldland,t but he does not use its stage of dis-
section to show the time since the elevation of the region around San
Diego.
Youthful Dissection : Ogunquit, Maine. — In southern Maine the forms indicate that
there has been a recent episode of uplift revealing a narrow coastal plain, which
fills in the irregularities of the coast made by a previous depression. The streams
have only begun to intrench themselves upon this late deposit.
The Monopoli coastal plain on the " heel " of the Italian boot shows youthful
dissection of a marine plain (Ital., 190, 191). The Pliocene strata t present a
surface gently rising from the sealevel to heights of from 100 to 200 meters at tlie
foot of an abrupt slope of Jurassic and Cretaceous rock. This slope rises from 75
to 250 meters above the plain, and has the form of an elevated former sea cliff now
slightly dissected. A problem for field study is the cause of the minutely ragged
outline of the present shoreline. § There is no ofTshore bar shown with this coastal
plain, which may be accounted for by the fact that the slope of the surface of the
coastal plain is considerable, 100 meters in 5 kilometers, and therefore it is probably
steep enough for the direct attack of the sea. The coastal plain character of the
heel of Italy is well shown on the topographic sheets by the radial arrangement of
roads (Ital., 202, 203, 204, 213, 214, 215, 223). The towns are like the hubs of
wheels, the spokes of which are the highways. The distribution of infaces,
streams, and outcrops suggests that the area has been developed in several cycles,
a study of which in the field would be most attractive.
* A. G. Pendleton, U. S. C. G. S., 18-50, Appen. 8, 80, 81.
t Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., 1888, L., PI. III.
J Carta Geologica d' Italia, 1 : 1,000,000, Roma, 1889.
§ See page 239.
