186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
The Pyrgos coastal plain on the western end of the Peloponnesus shows char-
acteristic intrenching consequent streams.*
The Sykonia coastal plain, south of the gulf of Corinth, is much complica-
ted by faults, t The streams are frequently lost in crossing the gravel of the
youngest step.
Adolescent dissection: Eastern Italij. — Eastern Italy, nortli of the " spur," from
Pesaro to Termoli, is a coastal plain of Pliocene strata \ dissected by consequent
streams now aggrading (Ital., 140, 111, 147, 148, 155). There is indication of cap-
tures, particularly in tlie Pescara, Saline, Vomano, and Sangro rivers, but study
upon the ground is needed for proof. Several streams siiow cutting of the right
bank more than the left, Biferno, Fortore, Sangro, Pescara, and Tavo.
Many portions of the Atlantic and Gulf plains of tlie United States, and of the
North German plain show characteristic adolescent dissection.
Mature Dissection: Eastern Virginia. — The form of the surface of the dissected
Neocene strata east of Riclimond, Virginia, indicates mature dissection. Tlie
slight drowning of the streams indicates that since dissection there has been an
episode of depression.
A portion of the coastal plain of southern Sicily where there is the least defor-
mation shows quite typical mature dissection (Ital. and Sicily, 272).
Adjustment of Drainage. — A characteristic feature of maturity is the
adjustment of streams according to the structure of the region. The
most perfect mature adjustment will result from (1) considerable diver-
sity in the size of the initial consequent streams ; (2) considerable alti-
tude of the land-mass ; (3) considerable diversity of resistance in the
strata that are cut through by the streams; aud (4) a significant amount
of inclination in the strata. § Two successive cycles of uplift will give
more complete adjustment than a single cycle.
8. Fading Elevated Shoreline.
Lake Shorelines. — Although some of the finest known examples of
initial elevated former shorelines occur upon shores abandoned by lake
waters, nevertheless these forms as seen to-day have entered their se-
quential stages and are fading away. This fact has not been forced upon
the reader's attention in the articles upon lake shorelines, and he is left
to infer that an elevated former shoreline remains as it was left by the
retreating water. Of course the shoreline of a lake, whose water has
* Dr. A. Pliiiippson, Der Peloponnes ; topograpliical and geological charts,
sheet I. section IV. ; text, 321-323.
t Loc. cit., sheet II. 118, 153; also see Der Isthmos von Korinth, Z. d. G. f. E.,
1890, XXV. 1-98.
\ Carta Geologica d' Italia, 1 : 1,000,000, Koma, 1889.
§ W. M. Davis, Lond. Geog. Jour., 1895, V. 133, 134.
