GULLIVER, — SHORELINE TOPOGRAPHY. 187
abandoned its former stand on account of the removal of its barrier or
dowu-cuttiiig of its outlet, is in the topographic sense as truly an elevated
former shoreline as if the land had been raised. The relative position
of land and water is changed.
Typical forms of Bonneville. — Many of the illustrations of shore forms
of the Bonneville, Provo, and levels intermediate iu position between
lake Bonneville and Great Salt lake serve as types of elevated former
shorelines, in youthful stages. The deltas, terraces, embankments, clifFs,
V-bars, bay-bars, and the tying of islands to the mainland are all charac-
teristically shown. The stratigraphic and paleontologic proof of the
relative age of the shorelines is brought out by Mr. Gilbert, but the
fading features of the older shorelines are not dwelt upon to show
relative ages.
Lake Agassiz. — The descriptions of the shore forms of the ice-dammed
glacial lake Agassiz are given iu this same manner, as if the forms were
formed once for all and would forever remain as constructed. Gen. G.
K. Warren set aside the hypothesis of an ice-barrier and argued for an
actual change of level, depression to the south accompanied by a rise to
the north. Mr. Upham has traced the various beaches formed by the
different water levels and shown them to have been the result of an ice
mass to the north gradually retreating toward Hudson bay. These ele-
vated former shorelines rise from south to north and from west to east,
in the direction of the former ice-fields, the amount of slope varying from
zero to one and one third foot per mile. Since these old shores must
have been horizontal when formed, their present position shows a tilting
since the time of lake Agassiz.
Marine and Lake Terraces. — Early writers used the beach form to show
elevation,* but they often did not distinguish between the seashore forms
and those which had been produced by water above the sealevel. One
of the most fruitful sources of error has been in regarding the terraces
of ice-dammed lakes as produced by marine action. The classical exam-
ple is that of the Lochaber terraces, the Parallel Roads of Glen Roy.
For an historical discussion of the change of view from tiie detrital
dammed lake to the action of the sea and finally to the present hypoth-
esis of an ice-dammed lake, see " The Great Ice Age," by Professor
Geikie. t The geographic criteria for the differentiation of the similar
forms produced by these two processes are these. At the level of the
* R. Chambers, 1847, and many later writers.
t 3d ed., 1895, 282-285.
