GULLIVER. — SHORELINE TOPOGRAPHY. 189
Superposed Drainage. — No attempt has been made in this study to
work out the sequential stages in the fading of elevated shorelines. This
problem is intimately connected with the dissection of the land, and de-
pends largely upon the factors which control such dissection in any given
locality. The shore deposits being coarser would probably remain longer
than those finer materials laid further out from the old shore. When
however all the shore deposits themselves are eroded away, the amount
of the former coastal plain overlap may frequently be inferred from the
arrangement of the streams. Where there never had been a cover, the
adjustment of the drainage to the structure would be more perfect than
where the streams had taken consequent courses over an uplifted coastal
plain. The coastal plain sediments would overlie uncomformably what-
ever structures happened to occur in the oflTshorc region of the previous
cycle, and thus the streams in cutting through the cover would have
many chances to become superposed upon unexpected dithculties be-
neath.* The line between the region of well adjusted drainage and the
region in which superposition of streams is found represents a former
shoreline, now elevated and in a late sequential stage.
9. Islands.
Consumption hy the Sea. — As a part of the sea's work to reduce all the
land to a submarine platform just above wave-base, the islands formed by
the depression of a region are some of thirst forms to be demolished.
Very small islets are quickly reduced to skerries and to submarine reefs.
Large islands are more continental in character, and their coasts may
become mature long before the islands themselves are consumed. These
larger islands are not as a rule tied to the mainland by bars. But
islands, which range in size from an area of one third of a square mile
up to some two hundred square miles, are very frequently tied to the
mainland by bars in the process of their demolition by the sea.
Upon the coast of Italy where island-tying in its various stages is beau-
tifully shown, such a bar is called a tombolo.f For convenience in
distinguishing island-tying bars from those of other kinds, the writer
proposes to call every bar of this kind a tombolo, giving an English
plural tombolos.
Loop-bar: Shnpka, Figure 12. — An island at some distance from the
mainland may be so large that the sea cannot dispose of all the detritus
* See fuller statement by Professor Davis, Lond. Geog. Jour., 1895, V. 128-138.
t See Figure 16.
