GULLIVER. — SHORELINE TOPOGRAPHY, 195
The rock of Gibraltar (Q.J. G. S., XXXIV., 1878, VL 23; Brit. Ad., U4, 1448)
was an island, and is now tied.
Sermione, Italy, is on an island in Garda lake connected by a bar three kilo-
meters in length, three times the length of the island (Ital., 48).
Cape Milazzo (Ital. and Sicily, 253).
Penisola Magnisi, and that on which Augusta is built (Ital. and Sicily, 274).
Monte P>nfola (Elba).
Tlie peninsula southwest of Vari, on which Zoster cape is situated (Attica, VIII).
Koronl (Attica, XI).
Probable tying of islets to Samsu island (Denm., Samsu).
Faejo island is composed of two parts tied with a tombolo (Denm., Saxkjobing).
Knudshoved point (Denm., Saxkjobing).
Bogo island has Faro tied to its northwest point by a long tombolo (Denm.,
Vordingborg).
Avernak island (Denm., Faaborg).
Drejo island is composed of two tied by a narrow tombolo (Denm., Svendborg).
Two or three islands were apparently tied together to form the hook north of
Aeriiskjubing (Denm., Svendborg).
b. Y-tombolo : Morro del Puerto Santo,
Figure 15. — The type of the Y-tombolo,
where one bar from the island unites
with two from the mainland, is found in
Puerto Santo bay, Venezuela (H. 0.,
374).
Northeast point on St. Paul island,
Alaska (C. S., 8990, old number 88G) is
connected by a Y-tombolo enclosing a
lagoon.
JIaliedia, Tunis, is figured by Reclus
as tied in this manner.* t^ ir it-. i i ^» i i
,^. , ,. ,,.,x,-r^ liGCRE 15. 1 -tombolo: i^Iorro del
Nicolaos (Attica, XVII). n . o it i
^ , , ~_ , , T^ , . , -I . Puerto Santo, V enezuela.
c. Double 1 ombolo. — if the island is com-
paratively near to the mainland, and if it
has considerable extension alongshore, there will generally be formed a tombol<o
from either end, enclosing a lagoon. Aebelo and Nahant are too far from thecoas t
to have a double tombolo, but Marblehead neck and Monte Argcntario (Fig. IG),
are near enough and large enough to have a bar at each end. >
(1) Only one Bar comjikted : Marblehead Neck (C. S., 335). — Only one bar is here
built, and that in recent geographic time, for the shore is not graded outside of the
tombolo, either on tlie right at the southern end of the island, or on the mainland
at the left. The tombolo has probably been built largely from the bottom, since
botli ends form nearly a right angle where they join the island and mainland.
Stony island in lake Ontario, New York, is composed of two islands, probably
drumlins, joined by a bar at the southern end, while a second bar is nearly com-
pleted at the northern end (G. S., Stony Island).
The island east of Port Townsend, Washington, is joined by one bar at the
head of Oak bay (C. S., 6405).
* La Terre.
