198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
has evidently been no complete closing of lagoon and then a later reopening, this
would indicate the direction of growth, particularly when it accords with tlie evi-
dence from the shore curves, as it does in this case. This example then apparently
combines the features of single and double tombolos.
Monastir (Tunis, 57) is built on an island tied by two tombolos. This example
is worthy of special field studj* to bring out the relations of the several uncom-
pleted tombolos, apparently built from the mainland toward the island before the
formation of tlie present tombolos which enclose tlie others.
Jasmund is tied to Riigen island by two beautifully curving tombolos (Germ.,
42,64). At Lietzow there is a third connection with the mainland across a narrow
portion of the enclosed lagoon, but this in part at least is artificial. Transportation
is indicated as slightly stronger from the right, wliile the squareness of the bar
suggests that it was built largely from the bottom.
San Juan Nepomucino island, Lower California, is composed of two parts con-
nected by bars completely enclosing a salt lagoon (H. 0., 1223).
Margarita island, oft the coast of Venezuela, consists of two individuals joined
by two bars enclosing Laguna Grande (H. 0., 374).
Presqu'ile de Giens (Fr., 248).
V. Lngoon-marsh-meadow (Adolescence) : Colchester Point. — After
formation of a lagoon by a Y-tombolo or a double tombolo, the wind
blows in sand from the beaches and streams, and tides deposit silt, so that
in time the lagoon is converted into marsh and the marsh in turn into
meadow, if the island is not first consumed by the continued attack
of the sea.
On the Plattsburg, N. Y., sheet of the Geological Survey, at Colchester point,
Vermont, are two cases of filled lagoons, each having an almost extinguished pond.
The western pond still maintains connection witb the lake, while the eastern pond
has no outlet.
The lagoon between Cumberland head and the mainland is two thirds filled,
Woodruff pond overflowing across the last built bar into lake Champlain (G. S.,
Platt.sburg, N. Y.).
" The Bonnet" on the west side of Narrangansett bay appears to be an island
tied to the mainland (C. S., 353). Wesquage pond is the lagoon between tlie
tombolos.
Sachuest point, east of Newport (C. S., 35::!, 3044), has the lagoon between its
two connecting tombolos almost completely filled.
Monte Circeo south of Home is completely tied (Ital., 170).
Tiree island (Scot., 42) appears to be composed of two islands connected by
" The Reef." Further study is here needed.
Between San Franeisquito and Santa Teresa bays, Lower California, there is a
low dune-covered tract connecting land 300-600 feet high with the mainland. Tlie
only trace of a lagoon is the bed of a pond, half a mile in diameter, which is said
to contain fresh water during four months of the year (H. 0., 638).
Three islands are tied together and to the mainland west of Sacrificios island,
Mexico. Two of the lagoons are completely filled, and the third one is more than
half filled (H. 0., 875).
