GULLIVER. — SHORELINE TOPOGRAPHY.
199
Tlie lagoon between the three or four individuals of Santa Maria island, Chile,
is completely converted into marsh (H. O., 1209).
Alki point, Washington (C. S., 651 ; G. S., Seattle). This point may never have
been separated from the mainland.
The northern portion of Unalashka island from cape Kalekhta to Constantine
bay, Alaska, has been tied by two bars to the main island. The enclosed lagoon
is a long narrow one, extending the whole distance between the bars. The map
indicates considerable filling on the sides of the lagoon (C. S., 821).
Massoncello point, Italy, upon the southern end of which Piombino is situated,
is an example where the enclosed lagoon has been completely aggraded by a river
delta, that of the Cornia Eiver (Ital., 119, 127).
VI. Vanishing Island (Adolescence). — After an island has become
land-tied, it continues to waste away by the action of the sea and subaerial
forces, until a stage is reached when the island is gone and nothing but
the tombolo which connected it to the mainland remains. This stage
must of necessity be a short one, for the unconsolidated tombolo will be
rapidly consumed. This feature would be one of late adolescence.
Theoretically we should expect to find single, Y, cuspate, and double
tombolos remaining after the islands had been
consumed. The three examples which appear
to be surely in this stage are all cuspate.
This form is probably the one which best re-
sists the sea, and each of the others is easily
converted into the cuspate.
Cuspate Tomholo: Block island, Figure 17. — The
type cusp whose position has been determined by a
former island is Sandy point. Block island (C. S.,
356).*
At the southern end of Revere beach (C. S., 337;
G. S., Boston Bay, Mass.) there is a cuspate projec-
tion where a drumlin was formerly tied on and has
now been consumed.
Uvita point on the western coast of Costa Rica
(H. O., 1035) is a cuspate foreland whose position is
apparently determined by rocky islets off the point.
This seems to be a case where the cusp is completely
tying the island when the island itself is practically
destroyed.
Figure 17. Vanishing Isl-
and ; Diagram of a Cus-
pate Tombolo. Similar
Stage found in Sand}'
Point, Block Island,
Rhode Island.
VII. Straight Coos^ (Maturity). — The mature stage of island-tying is
where the islands and their connecting tombolos are completely consumed
* See Livermore's History of Block Island, 1877, 175.
