GULLIVER, — SHORELINE TOPOGRAPHY. 205
action. The waves and currents, though weaker on the inland sea than on the
open ocean, are relatively stronger than the streams, for they are able to close
these bays. The absence of ocean tides, which tend to keep open inlets into bays,
aids this shutting up.
Across the western end of the sea of Azov a bar has been formed (Atlas Univ.,
38 ; Rus., 48, 62) which has nearly rectangular junctions with tiie mainland, indi-
cating that it has been built largely from the bottom of the sea.
Lituya bay, Alaska, has the right spit offsetting the left. Glaciers now descend
to sea level in various arms of this fjord (C. S., 8451).
Thomas bay, Alaska, has bar forming between Vandeput and Wood points
(C. S., 7.33).
On Amaknak island, Alaska, the spit has grown southward from Ulakhta head
more than half way toward Rocky point (C. S., 821).
Coburg peninsula west of Esquimalt roadstead, Vancouver island (H. 0., 1306).
Tomales bay, California (C. S., 631), has a bay-bar extending three quarters of
the way from the left toward the right side of the bay, thus indicating a dominant
current from the left.
Willapa bay, Washington (C. S., 6185), shows incurving spits at the end of the
bar, pointing up the river.
(2) Baji more or /ess ^//ec? (Adolescence), Figure 19. — Silting up of the bay
enclosed by a bar progresses rapidly, as engineering works testify. Streams, tides,
and winds fill this quieter water with waste. The changing conditions of along-
shore transportation will be shown by the advance or retreat of the shoreline
of the bay-bar.
A bar has grown from the right across the mouth of Mobile bay (C. S., 187,
188). Successive positions of this bar are indicated by some eighteen sympatheti-
cally curving dune ridges with intervening stream or marsli. The offset here indi-
cates a dominant current from the right.
Tampa bay, Florida (C. S., 176, 177), shows overlap from right to left, thus
indicating a dominant current from the right.
The overlap of the right bar at the mouth of the harbor of Rio Grande do Sul,
Brazil, indicates a prevailing current from the riglit (H. 0., 1191).
A bar is built from Palmia point to Gorda point across the drowned valley of
San Jose river. Lower California. Its southern point overlaps and offsets the
northern portion, indicating a current from the left (H. 0., 635).
Several bays on Monte Gargano, Italy, show nearly complete filling (Ital., 157)
South of Soby on Arii island Vidsii bay is closed and the lagoon is considerably
filled with marsh. A nip decreasing in height toward the bay -head is clearly
shown on the German map (Germ., 24; Denm., Faaborg). These two surveys
differ decidedly as to tlie amount of filling.
On the eastern side of the southern point of Falster island (Denm., Gjedser)
the sea has a curving shoreline of large radius upon a low sandy coast behind
which lies an enclosed lagoon, to the west of which is an area of higher land.
The offsets and stream deflection indicate a prevailing current from the right
Botonor lake Jias a bordering belt of marsh, and there are other patches of marsh
between this lagoon and the eastern shore. All the above facts sug'jest the growth
of a bar across the mouth of an open bay. In front of the artificial sea wall,
built to protect the coast, the map shows a belt of sand, as if the sea was even
now building out in places.
