GULLIVER. SHORELINE TOPOGRAPHY. 207
then depends more upon the ratio between stream and current, than upon the at-
tempt of the sea to bridge across the bay. The day of tlie bay-bar is over.
B. Bar in Middle of Bay. — The form of the bay or the strength and
position of the currents may cause a bay-bar to grow from the side of
the bay, at some point between the head and mouth of the bay. If the
growth of the bar is due largely to alongshore action, a spit will extend
from the side of the bay ; but if the bottom action is dominant, the bay-
bar will abut nearly at right angles against the coast of the bay.
(1) Bay but to/e^/ec? (Youth-Adolescence). — Yakutat bay, Alaska, has a bar
forming at point Turner, about half way between mouth and head (C. S., 8451).
Ciiignik bay, Alaska, has spit growing from right side of bay only (C. S., 8891).
Kachemak bay, Alaska, has spit grown about half way across from its left side
(C. S., 766).
Salinas bay, Lower California, has a bar enclosing a salt pond into which there
is little or no drainage (H. ()., 850).
Inverness or Moray firth (Scot., 83, 84, 93, 94) has a spit growing from either
side, of which the left one is considerably near the mouth of the bay. The Dor-
noch firth (Scot., 94, 103) has spits in similar positions.* The writer questions
whether the position of these spits indicates a dominant current in these two bays
from tlie left.
Hagios Nikolaos bay (Attica, XVII). Current probably from riglit.
The small bay, Hejisminde, on the eastern end of the boundary line between
Denmark and Schleswig is shut in by a bar whose curve is continuous with that of
the coast to the north, indicating a current from the right. On the left side of the
bay there is nearly a right angle between bar and coastline, indicating that the sea
builds here mainly from the bottom (Germ., 7; Denm., Skamlings Banke).
(2). Bay more or less Jilled (Adolescence). — Marathon bay in Greece (Attica,
XVIII, XIX). The former courses of the Marathon river and the overlap and
stream deflection to the right indicate the prevailing current to be from the left.
On the right side of the bay the bar abuts against the oldland forming nearly a
right angle with Kynosura point. This fact indicates that the bar is built mainly
from the bottom.
Mosvig bay (Denm., Skamlings Banke) shows a smoothly curved bar continuous
to the right and left with the shore curves, indicating filling from either side. The
dominant direction of alongshore current is indicated as from the right by the
stream deflection to the left. Behind the bay-bar the lagoon is almost completely
filled with marsh.
The sea has built Tent moor and Barry links upon the two sides of the firth
of Tay (Scot., 49) and the rectangular junction of the bay filling with the bay sides
indicates that the building has been done from the bottom. Deflection is toward
the central channel, where the relatively strong tidal currents interrupt the for-
mation of a typical bay-bar.
Dornoch firth is a similar example (Scot., 93, 94, 102, 103).
* Geikie, Scenery of Scotland, 1887, 180. 187.
