GULLIVER. — SHORELINE TOPOGRAPHY. 213
11. Winged Beheadland.
A Combination of Bay-bar arid Cliff. — One of the striking features
of adolescent shore development is the winged beheadland. Where the
projecting headland has been cut back and transportation has taken place
in both directions, spits extend to the right and left from the headland.
The winged beheadland is made up of a cliffed headland and two bay-
bars, one extending to tlie right and the other to the left; and this com-
bination of wiug-bars with a headland beheaded is so striking a form,
and one so characteristic of depressed regions developed to adolescence,
that these forms have been grouped separately.
Type: Long Branch, N. J. — From Sandy point to Barnegat inlet is
one of the finest winged beheadlands to show the method of formation.
The records since the Europeans came to America show the cutting back
of the cliffs on the headland, and the shifting of the wings on either side.
From the slope of the land above the cliffs upon the headland, it is seen
that the land probably projected several miles beyond the present cliffs.
The consumption of this land supplied more waste than the sea could
immediately carry offshore, and it was temporarily deposited, forming
Sandy hook and Island beach. The left wing was probably built in large
part from the bottom, and represents the offshore bar of the low New
Jersey shore. The cliffs upon Navesink highlands represent the nip,
cut before the barrier of Sandy hook was formed.
Other Examples. — Cape Cod is an example of a winged beheadland which pro-
jects far into the sea, so tliat the wings do not extend across bays on either side.
The series of changes of the right or Provincetown wing, as indicated by tlie form,
has been worked out by Professor Davis.*
Another typical example is seen on the island of Laaland (Denm., Nakskov,
Maribo, Dannemare).
Scjrslev headland (Denm., LiJgstur) shows the same form.
S3'lt island off the west coast of Schleswig has a right and left wing extending
respectively toward Amrum and Hum islands (Germ., 11, 20, 21, 35, 36). The
Miocene headland (Geol. Eu., 24) is separated from the rest of the oldland by the
drowning, and is therefore somewhat different from the type example.
Insel Poel and Halbinsel Wustrow north of Wismar have both developed wings
(Germ., 85, 116). These wing-bars have been curved strongly back toward tiie
mainland.
Similar wings from islands are seen farther north (Germ., 41, 63).
Usedom island is made up of two main headlands with wings (Germ., 89, 90,
121, 122).
WoUin island (Germ., 91, 121, 122). »
* Proc. Amer. Acad., 1896, p. 303.
