214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Samland with its wings protecting Kurische and Frisclie bays (Germ., 3, 8, lo,
16, 28, 29, 48, 49, 71, 72).
The Pomeranian headland has its right wing enclosing several lagoons, while its
left wing is growing into Danziger bay (Germ., 25, 26, 27, 44, 45, 4b, 47).
West of tlie Crimean peninsula there is a very striking winged beheadland
(Rus., 33). The initial shoreline is very evidently changed by the cutting back of
a projecting headland and the extension of wing-bars, beliind which the less altered
shoreline is seen. Although the map is not of the highest quality, the scale is
small, and the geology of the region is unknown to the writer, he has no hesitation
in classifying this feature on account of its typical winged outline.
North of the left-hand wing of the last example is a somewliat similar area,
whose origin is, however, not so clear. The outline is similar to a winged behead-
laml, but the headland is full of small lakes, and it seems probable that it is a i)art
of the Dnieper delta drowned by a late episode of depression. A submergence is
indicated by the drowned rivers to the northwest (Rus., 33; Stelier, 48).
12. Tidal Cuspate Forelands.
Location and Description. — In regions of drowned valleys, long inlets,
or narrow sounds, where the two opposite shorelines are roughly parallel
to each other, cuspate deposits of sand frequently occur, when shore
development has readied an adolescent stage and transportation along-
shore has begun.
These forelands project from one quarter to three quarters of a mile
into the sea, and vary in breadth between the same limits. In some
cases the cusps are long and narrow, while in others they are short and
broad. Frequently they more or less completely enclose lagoons, but in
some instances tliere is no included water body, or if there was one it has
become filled. The curve of the two outer edges of these sand deposits
is concave toward the water, and is a continuation of the curve at the
base of a shore cliff. These two concave curves intersect in a marked
cusp, which is sometimes typically pointed. thou<;h in other cases the tip
is rounded. The axis of these forelands projects approximately at ri^ht
angles to the shoreline, and also at right angles to tlie general direction
of the tidal currents in the inlets.
T>/pe, Figure 23. — West point, north of Seattle, Washinston, will
be taken as the type, and, after giving its description and discussing the
method of its formation, others differing in details of form will be con-
sidered. Magnolia bluff, two miles northwest of the city of Seattle, has
a gently swinging curve, doubtless quite satisfactory to the current here
prevailing. This curve continued forms the right boundary of the West
point cusp. The curve on the west side of the foreland is in like manner
a continuation of the curve of another cliff (C. S.. 658 ; G. S., Seattle).
