GULLIVER. — SHORELINE TOPOGRAPHY.
217
Gaspee Point
members of the circulatory system, the deposition would take place. In
the majority of places the outflowing tide would reverse the direction of
flow and transportation of shore waste, therefore the combined action of
ebb and flow would shape the tidal foreland so that its central axis would
be at right angles to the general direction of tidal flow.
The cuspate forelands, which are mentioned under the three following
heads, are arranged in three stages of progressive development, — the
V-bar stage, the lagoon-marsh stage, and the filled stage.
V-bar Stage. — A much younger stage than that of West point is seen on the
same sheet at Meadow point. Here the bars surround a relatively large lagoon,
which apparently has hardly begun to fill. The form of this bar is what Mr. Gilbert
has called V-shaped.*
Various examples on the east
coast of Port Discovery (C. S.,
648) show V-shaped bars enclos-
ing lagoons. Tlie majority of
forelands in this bay have their
greater extension alongshore.
Beckett point, however, has its
length normally at right angles
to the shoreline.
At point Monroe, near Port
Madison, Washington (C. S.,
663), a looped bar encloses a
lagoon somewhat similar to those
just mentioned. The shore drift
is here all from the left, and the
curve of the bar is convex sea-
ward. At point Jefferson farther
north on the same sheet there is
another convex bar enclosing a
lagoon where the drift has been
from the left, as shown by the
continuation of the cliff curve in
the bar. These two examples
do not give the typical cuspate
form.
Laqoon-marsh Stage, Figure
26. — Various stages of lagoon
filling are shown on the Port
Townsend sheet (C. S., 6405, old number, 647). Walan point foreland has consid-
erable area of lagoon, and still maintains open connection with Port Townsend.
At point Hudson there remains an unfilled lagoon, but its connection with the sea
is lost. At point Wilson a small lagoon now exists, while at Kala point the lagoon
Figure 26. Lagoon-marsh Stage of Tidal
Cuspate Foreland : Gaspee Point, Narra-
gansett Bay, Rhode Island.
* Lake Bonneville, 57, 58, PI. VII.
