218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
is practically converted into a marsh. On the foreland at Marrowstone point the
sand dunes have almost obliterated tlie marsh.
On this same Port Townsend sheet the rounding of the point of the cusp may
be studied. At point Wilson the concave curves intersect in a slightly rounded
cusp, while at Kala point the cusp is more blunt, and VValan point is decidedly
rounded. The curves at point Hudson have a long radius, so the sides of the
cusp are nearly straight, and since they meet at nearly right angles the foreland
has a broad flattened appearance. The curve on the right side of Marrowstone
point changes from a concave to a convex form, so that it gives that side of this
foreland a snubbed look.
Sand point, projecting into Popof strait, Alaska (C. S.,8891), is a fairly typical
example of a cusp with enclosed lagoon. The point is here somewhat blunted,
more on the southern than the northern side. This foreland as mapped is evidently
a piece of made land, built forward in the process of shore development. ^
A typical example is seen in New Dungeness harbor, Washington (C. S., 046),
where inside of the beautiful hooked spit forming the harbor tlie foreland projects
with a very sharp point.
Gaspee point (Fig. 26) in Narragansett bay (C. S.,3047) may be taken as a typical
example of this lagoon-marsh stage.
A rounded cusp with completely enclosed lagoon occurs near the mouth of
llorup bay (Germ., 24 ; Denm., Faaborg). Upon the same sheet there is a typically
sharp pointed cusp projecting from the north end of Aru island. This projects
at right angles to the general shoreline, but the belt of water is iiere so wide that
the wind-made currents probably have as much controlling influence as the tidal,
possibly more.
Filled Stage, Figure 23. — West point, Washington.*
Dungeness point t on Romney marsh, England, is a cuspate projection into the
English channel (Eng., 4).
In tiie eastern entrance to Magellan strait, South America, is one of the largest
known forelands of tliis class. Westward from cape Virgins and south of a nipped
cliff 100 to 300 feet in height projects from five to six miles a second Dungeness,
named by some British seamen in recognition of a form similar to that of tlie great
Englisli sand cusp (H. 0., 443, profile in View A).
Sandy point, Magellan strait, Soutii America (H. O., 450"), is another example.
On Douglas island opposite Juneau, Alaska, is a tidal cusp at low water, while at
high tide it is covered (C. S., 734). The rise and fall of tide at tins point is 18 feet.
Sextant point, San Quentin bay, Lower California, is apparently a cusp built
out between two rocky headlands (H. O., 1043).
Estauques point, Venezuela, is a long narrow cusp (H. O., 1087).
Alice point, on tlie bottom of the foot of the Italian boot, is a foreland which
sliows no included marsh. Its axis if projected across the gulf of Taranto would
touch the extremity of the heel, as if its existence showed the attempt of the sea
to close the gulf (Ital., 231).
* See page 214.
t Topley, Geol. of the Weald, 1875, 211, 303; F. Drew, Romney Marsh, Mem.
Geol. Sur. Eng. and Wales, 1864 ; F. P. Gulliver, Dungeness Foreland, London
Geog. Jour., 1897, IX. 536-546.
