GULLIVER. SHORELINE TOPOGRAPHY. 219
South of Rettin there is a somewhat irregular cusp (Germ., 84).
A cusp projects into Der Bodden from the southeastern point of Eiigen island
(Germ., 89).
There are several cusps inside of Frische and Kurische bars (Germ., 3 8 15,
16, 2y, 48, 49, 71, 72).
In Vejle fjord (Denm., Fredericia), tiiere are several cuspate projections, often
called " Hage " or hook, whose lorm and position indicate eddies in the tidal in
and out flow.
At the mouth of the Elbe river, west of Cuxhaven, where fortifications now
stand, is a low projecting point, a foreland of this class (Germ., 110).
Two broad, completely filled cuspate forelands occur in the Kieler and Eckern-
forder bays respectively (Germ., 58). Friedriclisort is built upon the former, while
the latter lies six kilometers east of Eckernforder.
Cebii, on an island of the same name among the Philippine islands, is built on
a point apparently of this same nature (Spain, Bol. XIII, 1886, Lam V, 1 : 100,000).
A cusp with irregular outline of " Schaaf Land " (Pasture?) is built in front of
one of the Holland dikes (Holl., 8).
Landskrona (Swe., 4) is built upon a low cuspate point, which appears to be a
foreland of this class. As there are shoals ofE the point it may be that this is
a cusp resulting from the tying on of an island which is now cut away.
Between Ilelsingborg and Raa there is a rounded foreland, an embryonic tidal
cusp (Swe., 4).
A cusp near the head of Skelder bay (Swe., 8) curves around from the usual
position at right angles to the tidal currents and points toward the mouth of the
bay. The presence of oldland may account for this, but the form of the cusp
indicates a change in direction of growth from the normal position at right angles
to the shoreline to one where a spit is growing from the cuspate point toward
the right.
Methods of Growth. — It would seem from inspection of the maps that
it was the more common thing to enclose lagoons, though in some places
the growth has evidently begim at the mainland and progressed out-
wards. In False Dungeness harbor some of these cuspate deposits are
seen which do not appear to have ever enclosed any lagoons (C. S., 646).
Three of the- cusps on the inside of the Coatue Spit, Nantucket, have no
lagoons, but as the other two have, and since they are nearer the end of
the spit and hence probably later formed, it is quite likely that the earlier
formed forelands also began with lagoons (C. S., Ill, 343 ; G. S., Nan-
tucket, Mass.).
Professor Shaler has ascribed these Coatue cusps to tidal whirlpools.
He says : '' From a superficial inspection it appears that the tidal waters
are thrown into a series of whirlpools, which excavate the shores between
these salients and accumulate the sand on the spits," *
* Bull. U. S. G. S., No. 53, 1889, 13.
