220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Among these filled cusps are included doubtless those which have
pa&sed through the V-bar stage as well as those which have grown by
gradual out-building, since from present knowledge it is impossible to
separate the two groups. With better maps and descriptions of the
cusps a later classification will make closer distinctions.
Theory confronted loith Fact. — After this general survey of the varying
forms of cuspate forelands selected from the many examples in the nar-
row water bodies of the world, the following generalization may be
made. However varied the form resulting from the local conditions,
tides, relief of oldland, etc., the axis, or a line drawn from the point of
the cusp through the centre of the foreland, is always at right angles to
the general direction of flow of the tidal currents.
Where there are strong tides, as in Paget sound, Chesapeake bay, and
Narragansett bay, there are numerous and typical cuspate forelands ;
while in Albemarle sound the range of tides is less than one foot, and
here few sandy points of a cuspate form occur.
Thus tlie facts of observation seem to correspond with the principal
requirement of the theory. Studies of the existing currents in regions
where these forelands are found are now needed to further test the tidal
hypothesis. From present knowledge this seems to be the best working
hypothesis.
Two methods of growth are suggested. Jn one the outline of the
foreland is early given by a V-bar, and later this enclosed lagoon is pro-
gressively filled. In the other the foreland grows by successive additions
to the mainland. The first appears to be by far the larger class ; though
the examples of the latter are liable to be confused with the filled stage
of the first class.
Between the narrow channels and the open sea there are all gradations
in size of water bodies, so we should expect to find forelands built by
combination of tidal and wind currents in different proportions. Such
cases have been referred to in Del Faro point, Aro island cusp, and
Alice point.
13. Bat-deltas.
History of a Drowned Valley. — Bay-deltas fill drowned valleys. The
term ria, from the Spanish, may be advantageously used to cover all
types of subaerially carved troughs, including von Richthofen's fjord, ria,
dalmation, and liman types.* After depression, the stream in youth
* Fiihrer, 305-312. Compare use by Pencik, Morphologie der Erdoberfliiche,
II. 562-582.
