224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Bonneville Bay-deltas. — Almost all the streams entered lake Bouue-
ville through momitain gorges, aud the detritus of the Bonneville epoch
was deposited iu these narrow estuaries forming bay-deltas, the water
at the Bonneville level having entered the previously eroded valleys.
When the water fell the detritus was carried away, leaving no deposit
to mark the Bonneville shoreline in these larger streams.*
14. Deltas.
Ratio between Sea and River Activities. — The shore changes caused
by delta growth depend on the ratio between sea and river activity more
than upon any other factor ; and deltas would therefore be typically
developed either after uplift or depression. The area of a delta is a
measure of time since the beginning of a cycle. A large river will soon
build a great delta, a precocious infant ; but the delta will attain its
maximum area at some period in late adolescence or maturity, after which
the delta will diminish in area by the degrading of the river. A smaller
stream has a similar maximum area, though its dimensions at any given
stage are always less.
The life of a river is in a sense to be considered apart from the cycles
of coastal plain development and also as distinct from the other shore
changes, though its life is intimately connected with and a most important
part of both sets of processes. The river's aim is to convey the load
given it by the laud to the sea. Of itself it would build forward a lobe
for each distributary, the shifting of these distributaries on account of the
upbuilding causing in time a broad fan-shaped deposit, so well shown in
the confluent delta of , the Hoang and Yangtze rivers.
The sea, on the other hand, desires a straight shoreline. The delta
intention is opposed to its attack upon the land, and therefore the sea
aims to cut off the front of the lobes and carry the delta waste out to
sea, depositing it beyond wave attack or below wave-base.
The form of a delta front does not indicate sharply the stage of the
cycle in which a given re<rion stands. The relative strength of sea and
river may cause a given form of delta front at many stages in the life
history of a region. The river activity is increasing from birth toward
maturity, so that in the case of any given river there will come a time of
maximum activity, when the river will be best able to push forward and
build a lobate delta into the sea. This time, however, may not be the
time when there is the greatest likelihood of the formation of such a
* Gilbert, Lake Bonneville, 154.
