GULLIVER. — SHORELINE TOPOGRAPHY. 225
lobate delta, for the activity of the sea is also a variable, and it may
happen that the ratio between the two activities is more strongly in
favor of the river at some time before or at some time after its period of
maximum activity. For example, if the time of maximum activity ot
the sea on a given shore occurs at a later stage than the time of the
maximum activity of a certain river, the largest ratio in favor of the
river will probably occur considerably before its maximum ; while if the
sea's maximum occurs at an earlier stage of shore development, and is
decreasing at a more rapid rate than the river's activity, the ratio in
favor of the river will be greater after its maximum is passed.
It may be that the sea action is so strong off any river's mouth that
the river never is able to carry out its intention. Indeed, this seems to
be the case in a large proportion of the rivers of the world. The sea is
relatively stronger than the river in all cases except where the volume
of the river is exceptionally great, as in the Mississippi, or where the
mouth is protected from the stronger sea attack, as is the case of the Po
at the head of the comparatively narrow Adriatic.
Delta Stages. — In the initial stage deltas do not exist. At any time
after the beginning of a cycle, a delta may be built, whose size will
depend far more on the volume and drainage area of the river than upon
the time since uplift.
In the cycle following uplift a delta of a certain frontal outline may
occur at various stages, and the forms appropriate to successive stages
have not been worked out, because of the many complications of tlie
problem, some of whose factors are indeterminate. Deltas doubtless
follow a normal succession of forms under the various conditions. This
has been shown to be true in the case of bay-deltas. A delta foreland
of any considerable size would not be found projecting from an initial
coast, where the valleys of all the larger river systems had been sub-
merged. Until maturity of shore development has been reached, large
delta forelands would consequently not be expected upon depressed
regions.
Credner. — Dr. Credner's monograph on Deltas* is today, nearly
twenty years after its publication, the most complete source of informa-
tion about the deltas of the world. While his descriptive portions are
classics, the theoretical conclusions of the text seem open to question.
Dr. Credner apparently looked at deltas as phenomena requiring some
common cause which would account for their presence or absence. He
* Die Deltas, Pet. Geog. Mitt., Erg. XII., Nr. 56, 1878.
VOL. XXXIT. — 15
