226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
found that deltas were not due necessarily to a large amount of sedi-
ment ; that they are not explained by the greater or less velocity of
current ; that their presence is not determined by a deep or shallow sea
in front of the mouth of the river ; that they are not explained by the
presence or absence of an offshore bar ; that they occur even where tides
"are strong ; that " the presence of a controlling ocean current (Tiber,
Rhone) does not alone suffice to prevent the formation of deltas " ; and,
finally, that deltas are not prevented by the wind. He then goes on
to show that delta growth is aided by slow elevation and hindered or
prevented by gradual depression. He concludes that relative elevation of
the land with respect to the water is the controlling cause of delta growth.
Such slow elevation of the land is surely an aid to delta extension, but
it is only one of the factors which work together in the determination of
delta growth ; and cannot be considered necessary, in the opinion of the
present writer, for the aggradation of a coast line by rivers.
Further Study. — The subject of deltas offers a very attractive field for
investigation. The writer has not been able to make out nearly as much
as he had expected to in regard to the stages of development shown by
deltas. He is convinced that each delta goes through appropriate stages,
but the variables are so many, and vary between such wide limits, that
the laws of development are not clearly seen. Vigorous advancing
deltas are characteristic of maturity, following both uplift and depres-
sion. But the maximum of delta growth may be either before or after
this period, as shown above. Bay-deltas have been separated from the
rest, as they show characteristic stages following depression. When
better understood, other deltas will fall into their appropriate stages.
Classification. — Deltas are here classified, not according to stage in
cycle, but according to ratio of activity between river and sea. The
examples of shore development by delta growth are arranged in the
following series.
1. Lobate deltas : (a) unilobate ; (b) multilobate.
These show the river intention successful.
2. Cuspate-lobate deltas.
The river intention is in these deltas predominant, but the sea action
prevents typical lobes.
3. Cuspate deltas.
The river mouths at the point of intersection of two shore curves,
concave seaward.
4. Rounded deltas.
The shore currents prevent the cuspate extension.
