GULLIVER. — SHORELINE TOPOGRAPHY. 227
' 5. Stunted deltas.
The stream iu this case is able to alter but slightly the shore curve.
6. Blocked streams.
The sea here builds a bar closing the mouth of the river. This ratio
was recognized by Dana,* who used the term blocked.
1. Lobate Deltis. (a) Unilobate type. — In tliis class are those deltas in which a
single lobe is formed by a single stream, showing pure river intention. No very
typical example has been found.
The delta of the Masander (Brit. Ad., 1555 ; Dr. C. Cold, Kiisten veranderungen
im Archipel, Miinchen, 1886, Map III) has now a typical unilobate front, project-
ing from the nearly straight front of the almost tilled ria.
The Ebro is of the general form of the unilobate delta, slightly modified toward
a muitilobate type (Credner, loc. cit., 17 ; Spain, Bol. XVI, 1889, Lam. A).
(b) Muitilobate Tijpe. — The type is the Mississippi. This classic example is
so well known, and has been so frequently given to illustrate successful river
intention, that a description is here unnecessary. a
The Kilia or northern distributary of the Danube (Rus., A; Credner, loc. cit.,
23).
The Volga (Rus., 114 ; Credner, loc. cit., 16 ; Pet. Geog. Mitt., IV., 1858, Tom. V.).
The Atrato (Credner, loc. cit., 5).
The Po (Stieler, 23) shows the river intention dominant, with partial cutting off
of the more exposed lobes.
The Gedis delta in the gulf of Smyrna (Brit. Ad., 1523; Cold, loc. cit., Map II ;
Credner, loc. cit., 11).
Tiie Rhone (Fr., 233, 234, 235, 246, 247) has a form midway between the Mis-
sissippi and the Tagliamento.
2. Cuspate.-lobctte Deltas. — The type is the Tagliamento at the head of the Adri-
atic (Austr., 22, VIII, IX ; 23, VIII, IX). The river intention is plainly seen in
the form of the delta front, but the alongshore currents prevent the formation of
typical lobes. Former positions of the delta front are indicated by the lines of
villages on the higher ground. Three of these lines are seen west of Palmanova
(Austr., 22, VIII). On the earliest shoreline are situated Gonars, Castions, Flam-
bro, Rivolto, Codroipo, and intermediate places ; on a later and less clearly marked
line are Castello, Paradiso, Torsa, Ariis, and Rivignano; while a third stage in the
growth of the delta is indicated by the road connecting St. Giorgio with Latisana.
These lines are more or less perfect divides across whicli but few streams cut, and
these few gather the many small watercourses from the areas which represent the
filled lagoons. The transition from lagoon to marsh, to wet meadow, and finally
to a rich lowland plain capable of high cultivation, is beautifully shown in going
inland from the Adriatic east of the Tagliamento.
The Danube delta (Rus., A) shows many former channels with recent changes.
That the river has been pushing forward is also indicated by the marshy, reed-
covered surface, but thinly populated. t
Frnser river, British Columbia (H. O., 961).
* Manual, 3d ed., 1880, 683.
+ Draghicenu, Jahrb. k. k. gcol Rcichs., 1890, XL. 409.
