GULLIVER. — SHORELINE TOPOGRAPHY. 229
gradual, for no long slashes of swamp are shown. This type is the Tiber (Ital.,
149; Carta Geologica della Campagna Romana, Roma, 1888).
The Angitola delta (Ital., 241) extends a small cuspate point beyond the curve
of the bay-bar, as if the stream crossing the bar was relatively strong enough to
divide the alongshore current. It has been found impossible to pick out from the
other examples of cuspate deltas given below, any which were later stages of this
embryonic type. The maps give little more than the form of the latest stage of
development. Tiie forms should be studied on the ground, in order to see what
was the embryonic condition. This study is analogous with what is done by the
paleontologist when he peels ofE the outer shell of an Ammonite in order to dis-
cover its embryonic form.
In both the Biferno (Ital., 155) and the Ofanto rivers (Ital, 165) the deflections
indicate a current from the right at present, though formerly the deflection was in
the opposite direction, according to the indications from inland form.
In the two following examples of deltas, Volturno (Ital., 171, 172, 184) and Om-
brone (Ita)., 127, 128, 135), the streams are deflected in both directions, thus indi-
cating no dominant current alongshore.
The current is probably from the left in front of Alento delta (Ital., 141) and
from the right at Neto delta (Ital., 238).
Diina river (Hus., 13) has a cuspate foreland projecting into the Gulf of Riga.
The deflection of the Aa river to the left indicates a strong current from the right
at the head of this gulf.
The Aa de Livonie, east of the Diina, also has a cuspate outline (Rus., 13).
Punta Arenas, a Chilean settlement. South America, is built on a foreland made
by combined action of river and sea (H. O., 450a). Deflection is to the left.
A variation from the typical form is seen in the hooked j)oint of A usable delta
in Lake Champlain (C. S., 554 ; G. S., Plattsburg, N. Y.).
In the Voistrap at Aaeby (Denn)., Frederikshavn) the southward deflection of
the mouth indicates a prevailing current from the right.
The Danzig mouth of the Vistula (Germ., 70) shows deflection to the right.
Kolberg is built on the cuspate delta of the Persante (Germ., 98). The evidence
along this coast is for a current from the right.
Many of the discharge sluices emptying into the Zuyder Zee have built cuspate
deltas, and though aided by artificial means, the form is so typically cuspate that
they are included in this category (Holl., 15, 16, 21, 26, 27, 32).
4. Rounded Deltas. — The type of this class of deltas is that of the Arno (Ital.,
104, 111). The delta front is bounded by a curve convex seaward, changing into
the shore curves concave seaward. In contrast with the case of the Tiber the river
is here not strong enough to separate the alongshore current into two eddies. The
current swings around the delta, and gives it a smoothed outline in place of
a cuspate.
Fortore delta, Italy (Ital., 155). This sheet shows a portion of the former
channel, fiume morto, on the left wing of the delta.
The Sinni, Agri, and Basento deltas (Ital., 212, 201). Dominant current from
left.
The Sele delta, Italy (Ital., 197, 198). Dominant current from right.
Sangro and Trigno deltas, Italy (Ital., 148). Currents uncertain.
Vomano, Saline, and Pescara deltas, Italy (Ital., 141). Dominant current from
right.
