230 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Savuto delta, Italy (Ital., 236).
Crati delta, Italy (Ital., 222). Current from left.
Trionto delta, Italy (Ital., 230). Currents in both directions.
The Fiunienica delta, Italy (Ital., 231). Mouth deflected to right.
The Esk delta upon which Musselburgh is built (Scot., 32) shows no dominant
current.
The deflection of over 2,000 meters of the ditch-like stream near Lyngsaa
suggests current from rrght (Denm., Frederiksliavn).
The northward deflection of the mouth of the Liver river with its rounded delta,
indicates a current from the right (Denm., Hirshals).
Maratlion delta, Greece (Attica, XVIII). Current from the left.
Rega (Germ , 92) ; VVipper (Germ., 66) ; and Stolpe (Germ., 44). All three in-
dicate a shghtly dominant current from right.
Rion delt.a, at the eastern end of the Black sea (Rus., 80; Stieler, 49). Streams
are deflected to the right and to the left from the mouth of the river.
The Rio Grande (C. S , 212) has filled a considerable portion of the lagoon, en-
closed fartlier north by Padre island or the great Texan offshore bar, and is now
advancing in front of the bar at Bagdad, having in recent geographic time aban-
doned the distributary running toward Boca Chica inlet.
The Llobregat (Spain, Barcelona).
5. Slitnted Deltas. — In a fifth class of deltas the relative strength of the stream
is so much less than that of the sea that tiie shoreline curves around the front,
making almost no change in its curvature at the mouth of the river.
An example is seen in Figure 30, where the Cavone empties into the Adriatic
(Ital., 212), making a very slight convexity. The dominant current in the gulf of
Taranto is from the left.
The Soltane makes but faint projection into the gulf of Tunis (Tunis, XXI).
Easterly current.
The Simeto delta, Sicily (Ital. and Sicily, 270, 274). The deflection of the
mouth is toward the right. The bottom cutting of the sea is judged to be greater
than its alongshore action, because the beach abuts nearly at right angles against
the lava at Catania and Agnone (Fig. 28).
The Simeri river is cut off without any delta growth (Ital., 242). Deflection is
about equal in both directions.
Acate delta, Sicily (Ital. and Sicily, 272, 275). Dominant current from the right.
The delta of Garigliano river, Italy, makes but a faint projection against the
sea (Ital., 171). Deflection to right.
Lama d'Arco delta (Ital., 201) and Lato and Lenna deltas (Ital., 202) on the
gulf of Taranto, Italy. Dominant current is from the left.
F. Alento, Italy, is not allowed by the sea to build forward its delta (Ital., 209).
Current from left, as deflection is to right.
F. Oliva, Italy (Ital., 2.36).
Several streams on the Catanzaro sheet (Ital., 242). Currents about equally
from right and left.
The ditch-like stream 4,000 meters north of Saeby enters the sea with no deflec-
tion and producing no apparent alteration in the shore curve ; a similar stream six
kilometers south of Saeby causes as little alteration in the shore curve, but it ia
deflected 800 meters to the south, which indicates a current from the right ; a third
