234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
seems therefore justifiable to infer that iu this locality strong tidal runs
have prevented the growth of tombolos.
The form of the tidal runway is of the indefinite type of channels,
called inseqaent by Professor Davis. A broad tidal flat will be cut by
runways forming a dendritic drainage pattern (Germ., 5, 36, 37, 79, 80).
Where there are large rivers, the pattern of dissection will show the con-
trolling influence of the master stream (Germ., 109, 110, 111).
Ratio betiveen Tides and Currents. — The relative strength of tidal on-
and offshore action and alongshore current action is a most important
consideration in the determination of the form of coasts. The form of
the North Carolina coast indicates that back-set eddies * are relatively
stronger than the tides. The prevailing extension of water bodies is
along the shore. These alongshore channels or lagoons are connected
with the ocean by tidal inlets which cross the bars, and whose position
is constantly shifted by alongshore transportation. These inlets repre-
sent the weaker tidal intention working at right angles to the general
shoreline, while the lagoons indicate the stronger alongshore action.
Something of the insequent pattern is seen in the ramifying channels
inside the offshore bar at Bogue and New River inlets, North Carolina
(C. S., 148). Southward along the Carolina coast the alongshore action
would appear from the shore forms to diminish in strength in relation to
the tidal in- and outflow.
Series of Forms. — It is possible to arrange shores in a progressive
series according to the ratio between tidal on- and offshore and along-
shore currents. This series is not one following stages of development,
but one which is determined by the ratio between two variables, whose
average directions of activity are at right angles to each other.
The normal development of shorelines as affected b}^ the sea should
however be kept in mind, and allowance made in each example for the
stage of development indicated.
When the ratio is in favor of the alongshore current, the forms
developed should show extension in the general direction of the shore-
line ; when on the other hand the ratio is in favor of the tides, the most
pronounced shore feature should be development at right angles to the
shoreline.
Western Florida Type. — On the western shores of Florida, although
the tides are weak, the ratio between tide and current action is inferred
to be preponderantly in favor of the tidal, as indicated by the form of
* See page 180, and Bull. G. S. A., 1896, VII. 405.
