GULLIVER. — SHORELINE TOPOGRAPHY. 235
the shore (C. S., 180, 181). These two sheets show almost no iudica-
tion of alongshore work. The shoreline is minutely irregular from the
dissections of the tidal runways. The bottom is very shallow, the three-
fathom line extending on an average eight miles from the shoreline.
The average rise of the tide is here 2.5 feet.
The runways off this coast are not so deep nor so markedly dendritic
as in the succeeding case, but the stream pattern is very irregular.
Schleswig-Holstein Type. — On the west coast of the Schleswig-Holstein
peninsula (Germ., 5, 11, 20, 21, 35, 36, 37, 55, 56, 79, 80, 109, 110,
111) occurs an example of marked tidal scour. The west coast of the
Schleswig-Holstein peninsula from the mouth of the Elbe to the Danish
boundary is low and flat, with many outlying islands of the same char-
acter. The spaces between islands and mainland are occupied by broad
flats, bare at low tide, with steep-sided channels dissecting them. Some
of these channels are continuations of existing valleys on the mainland,
and were possibly cut when the land stood higher. Others however
head upon the flats, and appear to be runways cut by the tide. The
volume of water covering the broad flats at high tide must have con-
siderable scouring power when confined in these narrow channels, and it
has probably cut many new channels and deepened previously existing
inequalities.
Offsets, overlaps, and stream deflections indicate a dominant current
from the right in this region, whose existence is proved by observation.*
Generalizations need to be followed by detailed study and observation
of localities. Wherever possible to include facts of local observation, it
has here been done, but of many localities there are no descriptions. In
the present case it is possible to compare the rate of alongshore current
and the range of tides.
The resultant for the year 1880-81 of the northward flowing current
along the west coast of Jutland was eighteen nautical miles in twenty-four
hours or 0.75 mile per hour.f The rate of flow is probably not so
great along the less exposed coast immediately north of the Elbe river.
The range of the tides off this west coast of the Schleswig-Holstein
peninsula is from 2.75 meters to 3.50 meters (Germ., 20).
The volume of water which flows off these flats must be large on
account of the breadth of the area flooded at high tide. The form
plainly indicates that with the above ratio between alongshore currents
* H. Mohn, The North Ocean, p. 166, PI. XLIII.
t Loc. cit., p. 168.
