GULLIVER. — SHORELINE TOPOGRAPHY. 237
the same manner that a river higher up in its course causes streams to
flow away from the main channel down the slope of the alluvial plain.
The gathering is seen in the case of the Broad, and the filling up in the
Savannah (C. S., 155).
These tidal runways, which open to the sea in a direction away from
the main river, are often no doubt former distributaries of the river, at
present ke[)t open by the tides. The river delta phenomena merge into
the tidal very intimately in this region, and features are due usually
to more than one cause. River, tidal, and current action are here
blended, with the indications that the tides are the dominant factor in
tlie determination of the shore forms.
The average height of tides at cape Romaiu is five feet, while the
highest observed tides in this area rise from eight to nine feet.
An example of a ratio similar to the South Carolina type occurs on
the north coast of Holland (Holl., 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9 ; Atlas Univ., 33).
Southern New Jersey Type. — Northward from Winyah bay the ratio
is in favor of alongshore action. Areas showing some tidal in and out
flow, controlled by alongshore action, are seen on the following sheets
(C. S., 152, 149, 148, 123).
When the lagoons are nearly filled, as in southern New Jersey, the
longitudinal feature of the shore is not so marked. But in this case,
the time element must be considered, a stage later than that in North
Carolina probably exists, and the ratio between tide and current is not
necessarily changed.
North Carolina Type. — The next ratio taken to illustrate this pro-
gressive series is where the youthful shoreline shows continuous offshore
bars, broken only at intervals of several miles by tidal inlets. Examples
are seen on the following sheets (C. S., 122, 138, 145, 14G, 147, 150).
The tides in the region of Ilatteras rise from one to three feet, while
the rate of the currents is various, being much affected by storms.
Texas Type. — A final example in this series may be taken from the
gulf of Mexico, on tlie opposite side from which the first was taken.
On the east side of the gulf the ratio seemed to be in favor of pure
tidal action ; on the west, however, the alongshore action a[)pears to be
practically uninterrupted by the tides, and has determined the form of
the Texas bar, continuous for 102 miles (C. S., 210, 211, 212).
"The tide is almost always less than a foot, and its time is very
variable and uncertain. Storm tides are the only important ones."
(C. S., 211.)
