238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
16. Cliffs.
Nip. — A very characteristic feature of tlie early stages following both
uplift and depression has been shown to be the first cut, or uip, made in
the initial coast, before the formation of an offshore bar succeeding eleva-
tion or foreland succeeding depression, the presence of either of which
protects the coast for the time from further attack.
Examples of Nips. — Back of an offshore bar a nip is usually observed, tliougli
the scale of many maps is too small to show so faint a cliff.
Nips are also seen in many regions which have been depressed. Drakes estero
(Fig. 21).
Brackenridge bluff and Stearns bluff are nips on the initial coast of Grays
harbor, Oregon (C. S., 6-13).
Back of Willapa bar, Washington, the irregular coast was nipped (C. S., 642
and 6185).
There is a nip north of Empire City, Oregon (C. S., 637).
In Chit^nik bay, Alaska, inside of spit (C. S., 8891).
Behind the marsh in Brown cove, Alaska (C. S., 704).
Both east and west of the delta of the Dwamish river, Washington.
Powder point, Du.xbury, Captains hill, and High cliff, Plymouth, Mass., were
nipped before the sea built Duxbury and Long beaches (0. S., SoS).
Back of the bar in San Rafael bay and behind the dunes in the filled valley of
San Francisquito bay, Lower California, nips are seen (II. 0., 638).
Todos Santos bay. Lower California (H. 0., 1046).
Behind tiie marsh on Santa Maria island, Chile (II. O., 1209).
In Frische and Kurische bays (Germ., 3, 8, 29, 30, 49, 72, 73).
Irregular Cliffs (Infancy- Youth). — .Cliffs occur along ungraded shores,
where there is no protection afforded by bars or other forelands. These
are characteristically jagged and irregular in youth, becoming more and
more gently curved as the graded shoreline of adolescence approaches.
The actual height of these cliffs upon ungraded coasts depends almost
entirely upon the character of the country submerged. The 1,000-foot
cliff of North cape, Norway, where the waves dance up and down and
accomplish but little abrasion, is young ; while the low cliflTs upon the
islands east of Stockholm are also youthful.
Caves are characteristic of this stage of development. Fingals cave
is cut by the sea in the sheets of igneous rock in the drowned western
coast of Scotland.*
Cliffs cut in the older Paleozoics of the southern uplands of Scotland, 200 to 300
feet high (Scot., 33, 34, 41).
* Geikie, Scenery of Scotland, 1887, 218, 219.
