CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE CHEMICAL LABORATORY OF
HARVARD COLLEGE.
THE USE OF THE TRANSITION TEMPERATURES OF
COMPLEX SYSTEMS AS FIXED POINTS IN
THERMOMETRY.
By Theodore William Richards and Jesse Briggs Churchill.
Received November 14, 1898. Presented November 23, 1898.
In a brief paper upon the transition temperature of sodic sulphate,* we
have recently shown that this non-variant point is cajmble of being repro-
duced in practice with great certainty, and that it is therefore admirably
suited for use as a standard of reference in thermometry. We pointed
out the fact that many other systems composed of two or more com-
ponents might answer equally well, and declared our intention of fixing
as many points as possible in order to simplify the accurate measurement
of temperature. The subsequent appearance of a hastily written note by
Messrs. Meyerhoffer and Saunders,! claiming for themselves a part of
this scheme, has prompted the present paper, which has as its object a
more detailed statement of the plan.
It is obvious that, while any number of components might be employed
simultaneously for this service, the simpler systems will be on the whole
the most useful. Water is so omnipresent as to be difficult to exclude
from any kind of experiment, hence the investigator is almost forced to
adopt it as one of the components. The choice is then of the other
material or materials, and the first step was obviously to study all com-
mon substances with a view to discover the probable usefulness of the
transition temperatures of their aqueous crystals. If a complete tem-
perature scale could not be built up from such simple data it would
obviously become necessary to investigate quintuple points, of which a
very great number could be devised. This additional complication could
not but be regretted, however; for it involves the necessity of preparing
two salts instead of one in a pure state, it renders less easy the use of
* American Journal of Science, VI. 201 (1898); also Zeitschr. phys. Chem.,
XXVI. 690.
t Zeitschr. phys. Chera., XXVII. 367, October, 1898.
