RICHARDS AND CHURCHILL. — TRANSITION TEMPERATURES, 279
These gentlemen studied in a very hasty fashion the transition tem-
perature of Glauber's salt in the presence of an excess of common salt.
Although theoretically sound, such a system labors under a serious prac-
tical disadvantage ; for the addition of heat to it means the dissolving
of common salt as well as the melting of crystallized sodic sulphate and
the depositing of anhydrous material. The first of these processes is
obviously less speedy than the others, and must surely occupy appreci-
able time even if the solid is finely powdered. Such a " lag " inevitably
affects the temperature ; our own experience with this mixture as well
as with other similar ones su[)ports this inference, and is anything but
reassuring. Indeed, we found that Glauber's salt itself did not give
absolutely accurate results if it was allowed to " freeze " instead of to
" melt," for a similar reason.
We agree with Messrs. Meyerhoffer and Saunders as to the great
desirability of uniting upon some normal temperature for the graduating
of flasks, etc., but we cannot conclude with them that 18° is the best
temperature. In America the steam-heated winters and sun-heated
summers raise the average temperature of our laboratories at least to
20°, and indeed this temperature is more comfortable than 18° unless
one is performing active manual labor. Hence at Harvard we have set-
tled upon 20° as the normal room temperature. Sodic chromate (19.G°)
clearly gives us very nearly the standard of reference which we desire.
In determining the specific gravities of liquids, a temperature above that
of the room is preferable to one beloio, — for the expansion of the liquid
during the drying of the exterior of the pycnometer is otherwise apt to
be troublesome, hence 18° is not suitable for this purpose. The authors
before mentioned suggest the use of a bath of mixed salts as a means of
keeping the temperature constant during determinations of electrolytic
conductivity ; but it should be pointed out that in such work the neigh-
borhood of a very large amount of a good electrolyte is necessarily risky,
except in the best of hands. This is especially the case when the sub-
stance effloresces to form a fine powde"", easily wafted around by currents
of air. In short, while for some work with closed vessels demanding the
greatest accuracy such a bath may be invaluable, the Ostwald thermostat
is the safest and most convenient appliance for preserving a constant
temperature in the laboratory. The baths of " melting " crystals will
find their greatest use in the standardizing of thermometers at fixed
points ; and these thermometers will continue to serve as the most
handy means of attaining and registering any desired temperature. It
is obvious that if a thermometer is standardized under exactly the
