ON THE THERMAL CONDUCTIVITY OF CAST IRON.
By E. H. Hall and C. H. Ayres.
Presented October 12, 1898. Received December 6, 1898.
Two or three years ago an article entitled " On the Thermal Conduc-
tivity of Mild Steel " was published by one of the authors * of the pres-
ent paper. The method described at length in that article made use of
a disk of soft steel, about 0.3 cm. thick and about 10 cm. in diameter,
coated on each face with an electrolytic deposit of copper about 0.05 cm.
thick. Thin copper wires attached electrolytically to these copper coat-
ings led to a sensitive galvanometer, the deflections of which depended
upon the thermo-electromotive force of the couple made by the steel of
the disk and the copper of its coverings, and indicated the difference of
temperature existing between the two faces of the steel itself.
"Water of a known temperature was made to flow across one copper
face of the disk and water eight or ten degrees warmer across the other
copper face. The water delivery of one stream was measured, and its
change of temperature between entering and leaving the vessel con-
taining the disk was determined by means of two copper and German
silver thermo-electric junctions.
The apparatus containing the disk was surrounded by a water jacket
having a temperature near that of the disk, so that the radiation to or
from the exposed convex surface of the disk could be neglected.
This hasty review shows that, if all the measurements indicated were
correctly made, the thermal conductivity could be found by a simple cal-
culation based on the data affoi-ded by the experiments. In fact, the
experiments described in the article under discussion left something to
)e desired ; for they showed that different parts of the same face of the
lisk were not at the same temperature, and the process of calculation
necessary to deduce from the observations the mean difference of tem-
perature of the two faces of the disk was laborious, and perhaps to the
casual reader not entirely convincing. This difficulty and the desira-
bility of certain changes in the apparatus used were recognized in the
article itself.
* E. H. Hall, These Proceedings, Vol. XXXI. p. 271, 1896.
