284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
The authors of the present paper have used the same method, applying
it to measure the thermal conductivity of a certain grade of cast iron ;
but they have employed a thicker disk and thicker layers of copper.
The result of these changes has been to produce such uniformity of tem-
perature over each face of the disk, that calculation of the mean differ-
ence of temperature between the two faces of the disk has become an
exceedingly simple matter.
The Iron Used,
The disk was made from a slab of cast iron the origin and description
of which are well set forth in the following extract from a letter written
by Mr. A. C. Colby, the metallurgical engineer of the Bethlehem Iron
Company : —
"Dear Sir, — In response to the instructions contained in your letter of
the 30th ultimo, I send to-day . . . the casting which has been made at
these works, and for which no charge will be made to you. I selected a high
silicon iron so as to make the casting free from any chill, and it is smooth
as can be obtained in a sand lined mould, and, I think, very close to the
dimensions you desire, namely, 12" X 4" X 1"-
" In the following composition of the iron entering into this casting, the
sulphur and silicon determinations were made on a gate of the casting.
The other determinations are approximate, based on our daily analyses from
the furnace from which this casting was made : —
Carbon
3.40 -
3.00
Manganese
.50 -
■ .55
Phosphorus
.0.33-
■ .058
Copper
.050-
- .055
Sulphur
.106
Silicon
1.40."
Dimensions and Treatment of Disk.
The diameter of the disk made from this casting was 10. OG cm.; its
mean thickness was called 1.787 cm.; the largest of nine measurements
at different places indicating 1.798 cm., and the smallest 1.776 cm.
The copper plating of the disk was effected by giving it first a thin
coating from a cyanide of copper solution, such as is used by nickel-
platers in preparing iron to receive the nickel, and then finishing the
operation by use of a sulphate of copper solution. Much preliminary
experimenting in this process was done on a block of the cast iron be-
fore the disk was taken in hand, in order to make sure that a good
