HALL AND AYRES. — HEAT CONDUCTION IN IRON. 285
and strongly adherent coating would be obtained upon the latter at the
first trial. The final procedure, which worked well, was as follows : —
Two electrolytic baths were prepared, one consisting of a cyanide of
copper solution purchased ready made from a nickel plater, the other
being an ordinary sulphate of copper solution of specific gravity about
1.10, acidulated by about one drop of strong sulphuric acid to ten cubic
centimeters of the solution. Each solution contained two vertical plates
of copper, somewhat broader than the disk to be coated, placed several
centimeters apart.
A hole about O.o cm. in diameter was bored a short distance into the
curved side of the disk, and in this was fixed one end of a steel rod,
which was to serve the double purpose of a handle and a conductor of
the current from the disk. After being rubbed tolerably bright the disk
was boiled in a strong solution of caustic potash for ten minutes, then
rinsed in flowing water, then scoured with powdered pumice and water
by means of a bristle brush, then dipped some seconds in a 20% solution
of hydrocliloric acid, then rinsed again in flowing water, then dipped
again in the acid solution, then rinsed again, then placed between the
two plates of copper in the cyanide of copper solution, which was at a
temperature near 70° C, and kept there half an hour with a current of
about 3.5 amperes flowing through it. At the end of this time the sur-
face of the disk, including its curved side, was well coated with copper.
Accordingly, the disk was taken from the solution, rinsed, covered as to
its curved surface with a rubber band to prevent further deposit of copper
there, then jilaced in the sulphate of copper solution between two copper
plates about 8 cm. apart; and a current of 3 amperes or more was set to
flow through it.
After a number of hours, beads of copper were seen to have formed at
the edges of the two flat faces of the disk, and the disk was removed
from the solution long enough to allow these beads to be broken or filed
off". It was then rinsed, dipped in the hydrochloric acid solution, rinsed
again, then replaced in the sulphate bath and again subjected to the cur-
rent. This course of operations was continued for several days, about
135 hours of current use, until the layer of copper on each face of the
disk was about 0.2 cm. thick. At one stage of the procedure it was
found necessary to resort to the cyanide bath again for a short time, the
filing off of the copper beads at the edges having exposed the iron at
certain parts of the convex surface.
The coatings when completed were somewhat tWcker near the edge
than in the middle. Accordingly, they were turned off in the lathe to a
