286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
nearly uniform thickness, though one of them was left slightly thicker at
the edge. The final thickness of each coating was not far from 0,2 cm.
The convex surface of the disk was turned off sufficiently to leave a
good surface and show clearly the junctions of the copper coatings with
the iron body. The diameter of the disk was thus reduced to 9.94 cm.
Each coating was now channelled at the edge to a depth of about
0.1 cm. and a width of about 0.17 cm,, as iu Figure 1 of Plate I., and
a brass ring, Ji or H', 0.3 cm. thick, was shrunk into the channel iu
each coating. R' is cut through in Figure 1. The object of this detail
will appear presently.
Mounting and Use of the Disk.
Figure 2 shows how the disk was placed and used in the experiments
on conductivity. In tliis figure, the scale of which is -^-, I represents the
disk; c and c' are the copper coatings; and the rings just described can
be seen set into the edges of the coatings. The lower ring is shown cut
through by horizontal passages. There are, in fact, in this ring 24
horizontal slots, each about 1 cm. long and 0.2 cm. wide, the object of
which is to allow the water entering vertically beneath the middle of the
disk to flow out horizontally from beneath the disk, thus carrying away
the air-bubbles which warm water inevitably contains, and which would
accumulate beneath the disk if an immediate downward escape of the
water through small passages were required. Upon passing from be-
neath the disk the water enters a groove cut in a hard rubber ring, h'h',
and covered by a brass flanged ring n n fastened to h'h'. Thence it
passes downward and out of the apparatus by several passages of 4 or
5 millimeters iu diameter, only two of which are shown in the figure.
The slotted brass ring through which the water flows carries the iron
disk, and rests in a groove in the hard rubber ring h'h', a soft rubber
tube at the bottom of this groove making a water-tight packing. The
ring h'h' has at the bottom another groove, which receives the top of the
brass ring r'r', which rests upon a wooden support to which it is firmly
attached by means of a horizontal flange. Soldered within r'r' near its
top is the brass plate p'p', which carries the hard rubber block H' H', in
the centre of which is fixed the tube that carries the water to the bottom
of the disk. This tube is enclosed for a part of its length by another,
which extends downward from p'p' ; but this is an unimportant detail.
Encircling the iron disk is a soft rubber band b h, which was intended
partly as a protection of the iron against rusting, and partly as a dam to
prevent leakage of water upward past n?i. Another similar band, not
