HALL AND AYRES, — HEAT CONDUCTION IN IRON. 287
shown, rested its lov.'er edge upon n n ; but such precaution agaiust leak-
age was perhaps hardly necessary. The downward escape of water from
the groove in h'h' was so free that there was little tendency for it to over-
flow n n.
Starting again at the iron disk and now proceeding upward, we find
hh, H H, and pjo, corresponding in material and in general shape and
position to hJh! ^ H'H', and p'p'., already mentioned. The mere weight
of the apparatus being insufficient to prevent vertical movement and
dislocation under the pressure of the water within, a retaining device was
used, which is described as follows. A flat ring of brass, not shown in
Figure 2, was provided with three internal radial offsets, each of which
bore upon a block of wood resting upon the narrow external flange of
pp. Three brass bolts led from tliis ring to the brass base-plate of the
apparatus, enabling the experimenter to apply to the plate pp any neces-
sary amount of downward pressure.
Certain other parts in the upper portion of the figure require expla-
nation. The parts there shown in dotted outline do not lie in the median
section of the apparatus, and are to be regarded as behind the plane of
the rest of the figure. For example, the vertical tube indicated above
Ji does not rise directly from t/j, but from a horizontal offset extending
from Ji as in Figure 3. Another horizontal offset from J^ receives, as tlie
same figure shows, one end of a plug. Pi, consisting of two semi-cylin-
drical pieces of hard rubber jiressing between them a strip of soft rubber
packing, which packing separates the wires of the copper-German silver
junction j\. J^, Figure 2, is similar to Ji, and contains a similar junc-
tion. More will be said of these junctions later.
Water entering at A flows vertically past the bulb of the thermometer
Ti, which gives a rough indication of its temperature, then horizontally
past the junction in ./j, then by a brass tube into the funnel-shaped
passage FF, then downward through numerous holes near the edge of
pPf and so on, as the arrows show, under ////, upward through the ver-
tical brass tube ^j, which touches the enclosing brass tube U only near the
ends of the latter, past the other copper-German silver junction within
J2, past the bulb of TT,, thence out by means of a rubber tube to the lower
part of the jacket KK, around and upward through this jacket to the
main outlet at 0. The jacket has a supplementary outlet at S ; and the
water from both outlets is collected and weighed below.
Leading upward from the apex of the funnel FF is a small tube,
w, through which a slight waste flow of water is maintained in order to
carry off air-bubbles from FF. Two openings in the top of the water
