288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
jacket give escape for air, and allow the use of thermometers for taking
the temperature of the water in the jacket.
This water flows over as well as around the enclosed apparatus. The
opening in the double top of the jacket, through which extend the tubes
shown above Jx and J 2 in Figure 2, is about 7.5 cm. by 2.5 cm. Below
Ji and J.2, down to the hard rubber ring h h, the tubes and funnel were
thickly wrapped with cotton to lessen radiation between these parts and
the jacket. The space between h h and h'h', as well as that around and
below hHi', was carefully and fully packed with the same material.
Figure 2 shows two fine copper wires leading out from the coating C,
and passing through holes in the hard rubber ring h h, where they are held
in place by means of hard rubber plugs, k^ and X-o, with soft rubber pack-
ing. There are, in fact, see Figure A, p. 290, thirteen such wires, 0.018 cm.
in diameter, attached to C by electrolytic deposit of copper by a process
sufficiently described in the article referred to in the beginning of this
paper. Wire no. 13 is attached at the centre of C ; nos. 3, 6, 9, and 12
are attached symmetrically about 2 cm. from the centre ; nos. 2, 5, 8, and
11, symmetrically about 3.2 cm. from the centre; nos. 1, 4, 7, 10, sym-
metrically about 4.4 cm. from the centre. Similar wires, nos. l'-13', are
similarly attached to the coating C, no. 1' being immediately beneath
no. 1, no. 2' immediately beneath no. 2, etc. These wires pass through the
ring h'h' exactly as nos. 1-13 pass through the ring /^A. To prevent
deposit of copper upon the free parts of the wires during the process of
attachment, and to prevent illegitimate metallic contacts between the
wires and the coatings C and C during the experiments on conduction,
the wires were coated with shellac between the points of attachment to
the coatings and the places of exit through the hard rubber rings. Out-
side the rings each wire was led to a point on a wooden platform, where
it was, by means of a screw and copper washers, held in firm copper con-
nection with a larger copper wire. The twenty-six larger wires thus
brought into connection led to a like number of small mercury wells in
a board j^laced at some distance from the apparatus shown in Figure 2.
Determination of the Difference of Temperature of
THE Two Faces of the Disk.
The mercury wells were so arranged that by means of copper con-
nectors reaching from one well to another any point of junction on the
upper coating of the iron disk could be thrown into circuit with the cor-
responding point on the under coating and with an astatic galvanometer.
