HALL AND AYRES. — HEAT CONDUCTION IN IRON. 291
whole disk, and therefore the mean difference of temperature of the two
faces of the iron. There is doubtless some inaccuracy in this conclusion.
Strictly, somewhat greater weight should be given to the indications from
the outer circle of junctions than to those from junctions nearer the centre ;
for an inspection of Figure A will show that each of the outer junctions
represents a somewhat greater area than one of the inner junctions.
The multiple arc method of operation makes no allowance for this fact,
but the error from this cause was probably very small. It is to be ob-
served, moreover, that an error of 1%, for example, in the absolute
value of the thermal conductivity of a particular piece of iron is of no
great consequence in the present state of investigation, provided the
change of conductivity with change of temperature can be determined
with some degree of accuracy.
Before the experiments upon conductivity were made, a number of the
fine wires leading from the faces of the disk having failed, a complete
new set of wires, from the same piece as the first set, was put in by the
same method and in the same positions as before. The apparatus was
then set up once more, in its former condition as nearly as possible.
The strength of the electric current coming from the disk was meas-
ured bj' means of an astatic galvanometer, the sensitiveness, or figure of
merit, of which was determined frequently by sending through it a known
fraction of a current measured by a good tangent galvanometer. The
resistance of the circuit containing the disk and the galvanometer being
known, the thermo-electromotive force producing |he current from the
disk was found. But before this e. m. f. could be translated into differ-
ence of temperature between faces of the iron, it was necessary to deter-
mine by experiment the e. m. f. arising from some known difference of
temperature between two junctions made of copper and of iron like the
iron of the disk. For this test a piece about 10 cm. long and 0.16 cm.
in diameter was cut from the same slab of cast iron from which the disk
had been taken ; and to each end of this slender bar a copper wire, from
the same piece as the wires attached to the coatings of the disk, was
fixed by electrolytic deposit of copper. The bar was set in a hard rub-
ber holder, about 2.5 cm. projecting at each end, and the whole was
mounted between two brass tubes in such a way (see Fig. 4) that water
flowing through either tube would flow over one end of the bar. Thus
water entering at Ai ran past the bulb of the thermometer 7\ along the
end /i of the iron, and out at Ei. An alternative exit for the water is
indicated by the dotted lines below I^. A coating of shellac was used to
protect the iron and the copper from the chemical action of the water.
