294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Figure 4, and the same method of alternating the hotter and cooler streams
was used here that was used in the test of the copper-iron junctions.
The difference of temperature of the streams in the calibration tests was
usually about 4° or 5° C.
In the conductivity experiments proper, the usual difference of temper-
ature of the copper-German silver junctions, the usual difference of tem-
perature, that is, of the ingoing and outgoing water, was probably rather
more than 0°.5 C.
The Flow of Water.
The method of controlling and heating the streams of water was
essentially the same as that described in the previous paper,* and illus-
trated in Figure 5 of that paper. Powerful gas-burners, of a type
manufactured by the Buffalo Dental Comijany and expressly intended
for heating streams of water, were used. Each stream flowed through the
conduction apparatus from the base of an overflowing standpipe, which
device answered the double purpose of insuring a constant flow, and
allowing air bubbles to escajie from the water before reaching points
where they would do harm. A supplementary air-vent was provided
for the upper stream near its entrance at A, Figure 2.
The stream which flowed above the disk, the only one upon which
careful measurements were made, ran into a covered barrel standing
upon a platform balance. The time of flow was noted, and the amount
of water accumulating in the barrel during that time was determined by
weighing. The rate of delivery of the stream ranged, during the whole
course of the investigation, from about 15 grams per second to about
25 grams per second. The stream flowing beneath the disk was of the
same order of magnitude.
Results and Discussion.
A (ew sets of observations were made at low temperatures without the
use of the jacket. A few others were made at various temperatures with
use of jacket, but without the cotton packing within and below it. These
observations were preliminary, and none of them will be used in dedu-
cing the final results. The detailed results of subsequent observations,
made with jacket and cotton packing in use, are given below in chrono-
logical order. None are omitted, although some are placed in brackets
for reasons to be given later.
* Tliese Proceedings, Vol. XXXI., 1896.
