296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
variation of the specific heat of water with variation of temperature, this
specific heat being called 1 for every temperature used. This inaccuracy
will be referred to again.
These figures show a considerable range of temperature, and from
them it should be possible to derive an approximate value at least of the
temperature coefficient of K. The numbers given in brackets, however,
will not be used for this purpose. The numbers for July 1, 2, and 8
exhibit great differences between Ki and iu, and also between the values
of K. On those days, and those only, the pair of copper-German silver
junctions, used to determine the change of temperature of the upper
stream, were covered with shellac melted on. The coating thus obtained
was too thick, so that the junctions did not take the temperature of the
water with sutficient readiness. There are in the table above given
other values of K obtained at temperatures not very different from
those at which these rejected values were found. The values obtained
for K ai all temperatures above 70째 differ much among themselves; but
it hardly seems best to reject them altogether in the attempt to arrive
at an approximate value of the temperature coefficient of K. The great
variation observed among them was probably due to unsteadiness of
temperature of the water streams when very hot, or to possible impair-
ment by the hot water of the shellac coating on the copper-German
silver junctions.
All the values of K not contained within the bracketed lines will be
used in some fashion in estimating the temperature coefficient ; but they
will be used in two divisions, one for May and June, the other for July
and August. The reason for this division is that on August 5 some of
the lines of wire leading from the copper coatings on the iron disk were
found to be out of condition. The pairs of wires affected were 1, 2, 11,
and 12, the other nine pairs remaining in good condition. When this
partial breakdown began it is impossible to determine ; June 30 was
the last date on which all the pairs of wires were known to be in good
order. It has been shown in the early part of this paper that each pair
of wires gave about the same effect as any other pair ; therefore, as all
were joined in multiple, the failure of a few of them should affect the
total current but little, the resistance of the remaining pairs being but a
small part of the total resistance of the circuit. The failing pairs lay,
one in the outermost circle, two in the next, and one in the next. It
appears, from a comparison of the values of K obtained near 21째 and
near 39째 in May and June with the values obtained near 28째 in July
and August, that the impairment of the wires or some other unknown
