HALL AND AYRES. — HEAT CONDUCTION IN IRON. 301
per square centimeter in water-gram units " equals 0.000252. Assum-
ing this rate of emission or absorption for each of the 50 sq. cm. of the
curved surface of the disk, we should get for the passage of lieat per
second 50 X 0.000252 X 5 = 0.0G3 units. The heat passii.g per second
through the disk from face to face was usually about one hundred times
as much as this. If we as&ume, for the moment, that the passage of heat
through the curved surface of the disk is equal to 1 % of that which Hows
from face to face, we may thereupon reason as follows. When the warmer
stream flows above the disk, the disk takes in heat from the jacket, and
the total amount passing out through the lower face of the disk exceeds
by 1% the amount flowing in at the upper face. The inflow at the
curved surface distorts the isothermals and lines of flow within the disk
in such a way that, with a given difference of temperature between the
faces, the flow from fixce to face, which is equal to the inflow at the upper
face, is less than it would be if the flow within the disk were adiabatic,
that is, if there were no inflow at the curved surface. On the other
hand, the outflow at tlie lower face is greater than the adiabatic flow
from face to face would be. We may conclude that, under the conditions
assumed, the actual inflow at the upper face is about 0.5% less than the
adiabatic flow would be with like temperatures at the faces, and that the
outflow at the lower face is about 0.5% greater than the adiabatic flow
would be. Our method of calculating ^assumes adiabatic flow, while
our observations give us the inflow at the upper surface. Accordingly,
under the conditions here assumed, the value obtained for K would be
about 0.5% too small. A similar error, in the same direction, would be
made with the colder stream flowing above the disk, so that we could
not eliminate it by combining two sets of observations. In fact, however,
the assumption that the rate of transmission at each square centimeter
of the curved surface of the disk, thickly wrapped with cotton, is the same
as that found by McFarlane for a bare blackened surface of copper,
gives a very large overestimate of the possible error from this source.
Turning now to the surfaces between the top of the disk and the parts
Ji, Jo, Figure 2, we find the area of these surfaces to be about 300 sq.
cm. No systematic observations of the temperature of the jacket were
kept during the experiments of which this paper gives an account, but
from previous observations it appears probable that the mean tempera-
ture of the jacket was about 1° C. lower than the temperature of the
parts which we are now considering, when the warmer stream ran
above, and 0°.5 or less higher than the temperature of these parts when
the colder stream ran above. Assuming the difference of temperature
