802 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
to have been 1° C, and assuming, for the moment, the same rate of sur-
face transmission which we have used above, we get, as the amount of
heat passing per second between the parts considered and the jacket,
300 X 0.000252 = 0.0756 units. This is, jjerhaps, rather more than
1% of the heat carried from face to face through the disk, and if it were
a fair estimate of the actual transmission between the jacket and the
surfaces considered, the neglect of this transmission would make K, as
calculated, about 1 % too large. This error would not be eliminated by
combining sets of observations, some with the warmer stream above, and
some with the colder stream above. But in this estimate, as in that
relating to the action at the curved surface of the disk, the rate of
transmission assumed is no doubt much too large, the surfaces enclosed
by the jacket being, for the most part, well wrapped with cotton.
It seems, therefore, unlikely that any considerable error was made
by neglecting the intercliange of heat between the water jacket and the
apparatus within it.
There is little doubt that much more concordant values of K than
those given in this pa])er can be obtained by a somewhat more careful
control of the temperature of the water, and by making each set of
observations longer than the sets, often very brief, which were made in
the investigation which has here been described.
Summary.
The thermal conductivity of the cast iron used is about 0.1490 at
30° C. The temperature coefficient of thermal conductivity, if Winkel-
mann's rule for the change of specific heat of water with temperature is
correct, appears to be about —0.00075 between 20° and 75°, so that
a rise of about 13° C. corresponds to a fall of \% in conductivity.
If the change of specific heat of water between 30° and the higher
temjjeratures up to 75° were neglected, the value found for the temper-
ature coefficient would be about —0.0010.
The electric conductivity of this cast iron is about 112,200 in c. g. s.
units. (See Appendix II.)
The temperature coefficient of its electric conductivity between 17° and
67° is about —0.00118.
The method used appears to be capable of giving better results than
have yet been obtained by it.
