ON THE OPTICAL CHARACTERS OF THE VERTICAL
ZONE OF AMPHIBOLES AND PYROXENES: AND ON
A NEW METHOD OF DETERMINING THE EXTINC-
TION ANGLES OF THESE MINERALS BY MEANS OF
CLEAVAGE PIECES.
By K. A. Daly.
Presented by John E. Wolff, December 14, 1898. Received December 15, 1898.
It is evident that, in an optical examination of monoclinic minerals
with coincident optical and crystallographic planes of symmetry, the
angle of extinction on (010) is a highly important datum, for it is indis-
pensable to a knowledge of the shape and orientation of the ellipsoid of
elasticity. The difficulty of preparing sections in the plane of symmetry
of amphiboles and pyroxenes, and the practical impossibility of doing so
in the case of very small crystals, lead the student of these species to
revert to those good natural sections, cleavage plates, and inquire as to
the relation subsisting between the extinction on sections parallel to (010)
and that on prismatic cleavage flakes. This relation is not simple, and
it was long ago demonstrated that, accepting Fresnel's optical theorem,
the extinction on (110) is dependent in a complex way on the angle of
extinction on (010) and on the optical angle. Michel Levy made it clear
that, for pyroxenes, the extinction on (110) would always be less than
on (OlO), since the latter is the maximum possible value of extinction
read against cleavage cracks on any section in the vertical zone. On
the otlier hand, it was shown for the negative amphiboles that among
the infinite number of possible sections made by a plane revolving in
the vertical zone from (010) to (100), there is one which has the highest
value of extinction in that zone, and that this value decreases as the
revolving plane moves toward (010) or (100).* It is interesting to
determine whether an amphibole with this property of showing a max-
imum of extinction for positions of the rotating plane between (010)
and (100) could have an extinction-angle on (110) greater than that on
* Fouque and Michel Levy, Mineralogie Micrographique, p. 368.
