822 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
tinction was read in this position against the cleavage trace, at an angle
with the latter of just 20° (average of ten readings). Substituting this
value and the value of extinction on (110) in equation (12), I obtained
15° 3' as the corresponding value of p. This very close correspondence
with the determination of p by the use of the oriented sections is not
less than accidental, but the example clearly shows that cleavage pieces
may be made to yield information concerning the value of extinction on
the plane of symmetry as useful for practical purposes as that derived
from a section in that plane.
A second example was found in a hornblende, which was given me for
examination by Professor J. E. Wolff of Harvard University. It occurs
associated with much pyroxene and biotite in the classic coarse theralite
of Theralite Peak in the Crazy Mountains. Optical study of the horn-
blende in the numerous slides which have been made of the rock is
difficult, on account of the scarcity of the mineral in large individuals.
It would be quite impossible to make oriented sections even if the grains
could be freed from the much more abundant pyroxene, with which they
are commonly intergrown. Apart from the absolute small amount of
the hornblende present in the rock and from the fact of intergrowth with
another silicate, this seemed to be a particularly unfavorable case for the
application of our method, in that the absorption is strong, and errors in
6' and 0" should appear rather larger than characterize readings on such
an amphibole as Zillerthal actinolite, for example. The rock was pul-
verized and, after some search, suitable cleavage pieces were discovered
in the powder, and manipulated as in the last example. This time, the
curve of extinctions was examined on four points besides that at the
position (010); namely, at the positions, 42:^°, 47J°, 771°, and 82^°.
Extinctions were read for these at respective values of 29°, 29° 30', 31°,
and 30°. The cleavage position gave 34°. The average value of p now
determined by substituting the readings in the general equation is 28° 5'.
Now, I was fortunate enough to find in one of the thin sections a longi-
tudinal section of the hornblende, evidently in the vertical zone since the
cleavage cracks were rigorously parallel to one another, and very near
the plane (010), inasmuch as there was practically no trace of a hyper-
bola in convergent light. Careful reading of the extinction afforded
an astonishingly close approximation to the value of p just determined,
viz. 28°. It is possible that the true angle is half a degree or more
greater or less than that, but the calculated value is in any case near that
observed in* the rock -slide. It may be noted in passing that this is a
rather remarkable hornblende, from the fact that its extinction angle is
