RICHARDS AND CUSHMAN. — ATOMIC WEIGHT OF NICKEL. 329
dently this silica had prevented the cohering or " sintering " of the metal
during its original reduction from the oxide, and hence caused the pul-
verized state of the impure metal, — a fact which is interesting as
showing the great change in properties produced by a small amount of
impurities.
These two experiments emphasize the well known facts that glass is
wholly unsuitable for accurate work, and that material prepared even in
platinum is extremely difficult to I'ender wholly free from silica, unless
it is vaporized.* While however our purest nickel sometimes contained
traces of silica, the bromide prepared from it by sublimation was un-
doubtedly as free as possible from this impurity. Further light upon
this question will be given in a following paper upon cobalt.
Although a possible contamination with silica was thus little to be
feared, some other constituents of glass or porcelain were much more
dangerous. All the material actually used in our analyses had been
prepared wholly in platinum vessels at every stage excepting at the very
end, when it had been sublimed in a porcelain tube. Obviously this
tube might be attacked by the hot mixture of hydrobromic acid, bromine,
and nickelous bromide vapor ; but since nothing beside sodic bromide
would probably sublime with the nickelous salt, and the "equivalent" of
sodic bromide is almost equal to that of nickelous bromide, the slight
impurity could produce no important effect upon our last year's work.
This was realized at the time ; and the discovery of the presence or
absence of this error was one of the prearranged objects of the present
paper. Since the work recorded below was completed, Professor Wink-
ler, by a kind personal letter as well as by a recent article, wisely called
attention to this flaw ; and it will be seen that his objection had been both
substantiated and answered before he wrote about it.
The easiest method of detecting sodic bromide in nickelous bromide
is obviously to reduce the latter and then to extract the former with
water from the spongy metal. Moist hydrogen easily divorces the halo-
gen from its none too stable metallic union at a temperature of not much
over 300°, at which temperature sodic bromide is essentially non-volatile.
In this way repeated experiments showed that all our nickelous bromide
had contained on the average not far from one tenth of one per cent of
sodic bromide. The particulars concerning the determination of this
serious impurity naturally form an essential point in the method of anal-
ysis of the nickel salt, hence they will be found later under that head.
* Compare Stas's " Untersuchungen " (Aronstein), pp. 269 and 279.
