380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
The presence of an unreduced bromide was first detected by Mr. Baxter
in the course of his work on cobaltous bromide, and some interesting
details involved in its discovery will be recorded in the paper upon that
subject. The amount present varied with the temperature used in the
sublimation, but was otiierwise surprisingly constant. The concurrent
sublimation of the two salts is undoubtedly similar to the distillation of
organic substances with steam, sodic bromide possessing a small constant
vapor-tension at the constant temperature of about 900° used in the
sublimations.
After the completion of a series of reductions of nickelous bromide
containing this impurity of sodic bromide, a final attempt was made to
obtain the salt of nickel in a state of absolute purity. We expected
that platinum would be attacked by the mixture of bromine vapor, hydro-
bromic acid, and nickelous bromide, which exists in the red-hot tube
during the sublimation of the salt, but platinum is the last resort in cases
of this kind. In order to sacrifice as little of the precious metal as pos-
sible in our desperate experiment a large porcelain tube was lined with
platiimm foil,* and inside of this was placed a platinum boat containing
the metal to be converted into bromide. In each of two separate speci-
mens of nickelous bromide made in this apparatus merely a trace of
sodium was found, but unfortunately enough platinum was present to
render the results valueless. They are not included in the tables below.
Only a small strip of the foil was injured, the very hot parts and the cool
parts being alike untouched. After these exj)«riraents we abandoned
the attempt to prepare absolutely pure nickelous bromide, and returned
to the use of the porcelain tube for the sublimations ; for sodium
is an impurity much more easily weighed than platinum, under the
circumstances. The only method of obviating the difliculty would have
been to use a tube of nickel for the sublimation ; but the obtaining and
moulding of a large amount of the metal in a perfectly pure state prom-
ised to be so troublesome that we have not yet attempted this improve-
ment.
The arrangement for supplying and purifying the large volumes of
hydrogen needed in this research was gradually evolved from the simple
form used in the first experiments to an elaborate piece of apparatus
which will be described in detail in the paper upon cobalt.
The preparation of bromine and of the other materials has been de-
* This idea was suggested by Professor H. B. Hill. Compare also Penfield,
Zeitschr. Anorg. Chera., VII. 22.
