RICHARDS AND CUSHMAN. — ATOMIC WEIGHT OF NICKEL. 331
scribed in sufficient detail in other papers,* so that no further words
need be wasted upon these points. It is almost unnecessary to state that
in these simple operations no loophole was left open through which an
error might creep in to destroy the value of the more dithcult under-
taking before us. We are indebted to the Cyrus M. Warren Fund for
Chemical Research in Harvard University for some of our more expen-
sive pieces of apparatus.
Thb Method of Analysis.
At first many attempts were made to determine nickel by electrolysis,
with the hope that nickelous bromide might be analyzed in this simple
and direct fashion. In order to test the metliod, weighed amounts of the
purest spongy metal were dissolved and reprecipitated electrolytically.
The spongy metal had been prepared by boiling the purest platinum-
made amraonio-nitrate with much water, igniting and reducing the pre-
cipitate with pure ammonia, and heating the metal in a vacuum. The
weight of nickel deposited by electrolysis always exceeded that of the
pure nickel taken, hence the electrolytic method was abandoned as un-
suitable for work of the highest accuracy. The excess of weight, which
was noticeable even when the film was heated to 120° before weighing,
and often exceeded two tenths of one per cent when it was dried at 50°
after the method of Winkle i",t was traced to inclusion of mother liquor
between the film and the dish, and to the probable presence of occluded
hydrogen in the nickel. t Since the deposit was beautifully metallic
and coherent in appearance, one might well have expected a better
result. It is possible that these observations may help to explain Wink-
ler's high values for the atomic weight of nickel and cobalt, since he
used the electrolytic method. On the other hand, the spongy metal
which had been used in our experiments was probably purer than that
prepared in any other way, for solid impurities had been rigorously
excluded, and the traces of gas present had been pumped out.
These preliminary experiments showed that the best method of deter-
mining the amount of nickel in the bromide would be to reduce it in a
stream of hydrogen, provided that the reduction could be accomplished
without the loss of any of the bromide by volatilization. Following in
the footsteps of Mr. Baxter's work with cobalt, it was found that moist
* These Proceedings, XXXIII 106 et seq.
t Zeitschr. Anorg. Chem., IV., 22.
X Raoult, Compt. Rend., LXIX. 826 ; Bottger, Dingler's Polytech. Journ.,
CCI. 80 (1871).
