RICHARDS AND BAXTER. — ATOMIC WEIGHT OF COBALT. 355
being heated to constant weight in the usual way. Upon correcting the
weight of the bottle for the difference in weight of nitrogen and air, the
weights obtained by both methods agreed perfectly.
The resulting cobalt was in the form of a gray metallic sponge, which
showed no traces of oxidation upon standing in air. Since previous
work by other experimenters * is not unanimous as to the occlusion of
hydrogen by cobalt under these circumstances, it seemed desirable to us
to obtain more evidence on this point. Accordingly, in several analyses
the boat containing the cobalt was placed in a hard glass tube sealed at
one end. After the air had been exhausted by means of a Sprengel
pump, the tube was heated to about 500°, the highest temperature used
in the reduction. In no case was a measurable quantity of gas evolved,
and the cobalt did not lose in weight ; hence it would appear that cobalt
prepared from the bromide does not possess the property of occluding
important amounts of hydrogen when heated in the gas.
To avoid any possibility of error, two and a half grams of cobalt,
freshly reduced from the bromide aud allowed to cool in hydrogen, were
subjected to quantitative combustion in the manner already described in
the paper upon nickel. Only five tenths of a milligram of water were
formed ; and even the repeated reduction and combustion of the residual
oxide yielded only a milligram. Evidently the amount of hydrogen
occluded was very small. On the other hand, cobalt reduced originally
from the oxide, when treated in the same way, was found to contain
about fifteen times its volume of hydrogen and when allowed to remain
in hydrogen several hours, it was found to have absorbed amounts com-
parable to those found by Neumann and Streintz.f A fuller statement
of the experiments will be reserved for a future paper upon the nature
and causes of these singular irregularities ; for the present, it is sufficient
to have shown that cobalt, like nickel, reduced from the bromide, does
not retain enough hydrogen to vitiate the results recorded below.
It is perhaps worth while to state also that the empty platinum boat
was tested as to its power of absorbing weighable amounts of hydrogen.
After ignition and cooling in the gas, and bottling in dry air as usual, it
was found to have gained 0.02 milligram when compared with its weight
after ignition in air. Evidently the occlusion of hydrogen, if measurable
at all, is balanced by adsorption of air ; hence for our purpose it may be
neglected.
* Neumann and Streintz, Monatshefte fiir Chem., XIT. 642; Berichte d. d. ch.
Gesell., XXV., 187R ; Henipel and Thiele, Zeitschr. Anorg. Chem., XI. 93.
t Loc. cit.
