356 PBOCEEDINGS OF THE AMEEICAN ACADEMY.
A slight sublimation of the cobaltous bromide took place during the
reduction in almost every case. The amount of this sublimed material
was determined by washing out the tube with a few cubic centimeters of
nitric acid, and evaporating this liquid to dryness. After the solution of
the residue in water and the addition of an excess of ammonia, a very
dilute standard solution of potassic permanganate was run in until a pink
color appeared. This method of Winkler's is applicable only when ex-
tremely small amounts of cobalt are present, because the brown color of
the cobaltic salt interferes seriously with the end point in the presence
of large amounts of cobalt. The weight of the cobaltous bromide thus
sublimed never amounted to more than three tenths of a milligram, and
seldom exceeded one tenth of a milligram.
The platinum boat used in the earlier work served to contain the
bromide in these experiments also. Although the metallic cobalt alloyed
itself with the surface of the boat to a slight extent, we were able to
remove completely the alloy by treating the inside of the boat with aqua
regia. After this treatment and scrubbing with round sand, the boat
showed no trace of darkening upon ignition. Evidently, then, the cobalt
had been completely removed. Of course a gradual loss of weight took
place, owing- to solution of small amounts of platinum, but this loss
amounted to only half a gram in the course of the work.
In the first two determinations the hydrogen was generated from hydro-
chloric acid by means of pure zinc. It was purified by passing through
bulbs containing silver nitrate, potash, silver nitrate again, then through
a hard glass tube heated to redness. From this point the gas came in
contact only with glass, being conducted through three towers containing
glass beads moistened with silver nitrate, then by means of T-tubes,
either directly in a moist state, or through a long drying tube containing
stick potash, into the reduction tube. The reduction tube was connected
with the rest of the apparatus by means of a ground glass joint.
A small amount of white sublimate, which appeared beyond the boat
during each of the preliminary ignitions, proved to be ammonic bromide.
The source of the ammonia was not at first apparent, as it was hard to
believe that the cobaltous bromide could retain ammonic bromide at a
temperature between 400° and 500°. Upon examination of the silver
nitrate columns it was found that reduction*had taken place there, metal-
lic silver being precipitated upon the beads.* Of course the reduction of
* The fact that silver nitrate is reduced by molecular hydrogen has already
been noted by other experimenters : Russell, Jour. Chem. See, [2], XII. 3, (1874) ;
Pellet, Compt. Rend., LXXVIII. 1132,
