RICHARDS AND BAXTER. ATOMIC WEIGHT OP COBALT. 359
was treated with an excess of hydrobromic acid in order to remove the
silver, and the retiltered solution was evaporated to dryness. Upon a
careful qualitative analysis tests were obtained for nothing but sodium
and traces of cobalt. The sodium evidently came from the porcelain
tube used in the sublimation, and we were dealing with an impurity
precisely similar in source and nature to that described in the case of
nickelous bromide. As the two investigations progressed side by side,
the discovery was almost simultaneous in the two cases. We have
already said that this outcome was not an unexpected one.
Since it would be impossible to calculate the weight of the soluble
bromides from the weight of the silver bromide without a quantitative
analysis of the two bases present, the effort was made to evaporate the
aqueous extract from the reduced cobalt and to weigh the dried residue
directly. In the work upon nickel this method was necessarily rejected
because the spongy nickel was oxidized and went into solution as nickel-
ous hydrate which could not be removed by filtration. Our spongy
cobalt oxidized much more rapidly than the nickel upon treatment with
water ; but the decantate, upon filtration and evaporation in the air,
deposited most of its cobalt as cobaltic hydroxide. The presence of salts
of the alkalis greatly increases this oxidation, cobalt which has once been
leached being oxidized but little. Heat also increases the oxidation, and
so probably does the galvanic action with the platinum dishes which were
used wherever possible through the whole course of this investigation.
In view of the colloidal solubility of nickelous hydrate in water, it is
probable that cobaltous hydrate possesses the same property. When
cobalt is treated with water in the presence of air, the metal oxidizes and
goes into solution as cobaltous hydrate ; this is then further oxidized by
exposure of the solution to the air and thrown out of solution as cobaltic
hydrate, which can be filtered off. Since the dissolved cobalt is almost
completely removed by this process, it is obviously legitimate to weigh
the residue obtained by evaporating the aqueous extract of the reduced
cobalt, and thus to obtain directly the amount of impurity present in the
metal. This difference of procedure in the two cases is an interesting
example of the way in which subordinate side reactions may influence
two researches otherwise unusually analogous.
In the next four analyses (5 to 8) the cobalt was leached with the purest
hot water in a platinum dish and the solution, after filtration, was evapo-
rated to dryness. The residue was taken up with water, filtered from
the deposited cobaltic hydroxide into a weighed platinum crucible, again
evaporated, heated to 130°, and weighed. That these residues contained
