360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
cobalt was undoubtedly true from the fact that they were colored a pale
blue both after evaporation and after heating. During the heating
Iiowever a slight blackening took place which was due to the oxidation of
traces of unoxidized cobaltous hydrate. In order to make sure that all
unreduced bromides had been renaoved from the cobalt by the process of
leaching, in each analysis the metal was dissolved by cold very weak
nitric acid* and treated with silver nitrate. As not even the faintest
cloudiness was ever again visible in these solutions, it was assumed that
the soluble matter had been completely removed.
In analysis 5 the bromine in the residue was determined and the result
found to be considerably too low to correspond with the weight of the
residue, if calculated as sodium bromide. In order to discover the cause
of this discrepancy an elaborate series of experiments was carried out at
the expense of much time and labor. To describe these experiments in
full would result only in confusing the mind of the reader. It is sufficient
to say that 2:)ure spongy cobalt was treated with varying amounts of pure
sodium bromide in solution, the conditions being regulated so as to be as
nearly as possible like those in the analyses. The following conclusions
drawn from these experiments are of great importance.
In the first place, no bromine is lost by the residues either during
evaporation or in heating to 130°. The cobalt in the residues may
be present in three forms, as cobaltous hydrate which has escaped oxi-
dation, as cobaltic hydrate, and as unreduced cobaltous bromide,t each
in exceedingly small amounts. The doubt as to the quantity of each
present makes it impossible to apply the correction for dissolved cobalt
with any degree of accuracy and in the table of results no attempt has
been made to do so. In the later analyses this cause of uncertainty was
removed. t This correction within a correction is however an infinitesi-
mal of the second order ; neglecting it can produce no serious effect upon
the accuracy of the final result. § In this respect the research upon
cobalt differs from that upon nickel, where the amount of hydroxide in
the residue was relatively great, owing to the fact that it had not been
chiefly eliminated by oxidation during the evaporation.
* In a platinum dish this solution takes place with great ease, and with no danger
of a loss of bromine. The galvanic action is a great assistance.
t Cobaltous bromide could only have found its way into this residue by having
been protected from reduction by enclosure in crystals of sodic bromide. It must
have been exceedingly small in amount, if present at all.
f Compare page 3G3.
§ This extra cobalt may partly explain why the sum of the total analysis slightly
exceeds 100.000 per cent. See page 365.
