RICHARDS AND BAXTER. — ATOMIC WEIGHT OP COBALT. 361
The possibility of the presence of some other acid than hydrobromic
acid in the residues led us to make tests in this direction. Silicic acid
Avas of course the first one to suggest itself. Early in the work one test
liad been made by subliming about two grams of pure cobaltous bromide
from a platinum boat in a current of hydrobromic acid gas. After the
sublimation of the bromide the boat was perfectly bright, and gave not
the slightest evidence of the presence of any silica. One of the residues
was now treated with pure strong hydrochloric acid, heated to 130°,
again treated with hydrochloric acid, and filtered. The amount of silica
found, three one-hundredths of a milligram, is a negligible quantity. Al-
though the purity of the phosphoric anhydride used for drying our gases
had been proven by passing air through a tube filled with the pentoxide
into aqua regia, which upon evaporation gave no precipitate with ammo-
nic molybdate, nevertheless one of the soluble residues from the reduced
cobalt was tested with the same reagent with a negative result.
Upon examining one of the earlier residues for sulphuric acid, how-
ever, a slight precipitate of baric sulphate was formed. The source of
this sulphuric acid was hard to discover, but finally it was found that the
strong sulphuric acid in some of the drying columns had become dis-
colored in places by organic matter. This must have led to a slight
decomposition of the acid and formation of sulphur dioxide, which was
subsequently oxidized to sulphuric acid by the bromine. The amount
of sulphuric acid present in the bromide was very small, 3.88 grams of
cobaltous bromide giving only 0.00036 gram of baric sulphate in one
case. As in the instance of nickel, however, this cause of error was
wholly eliminated in the later experiments, aod no trace of sulphuric
acid could be detected in the material used in the last series.
The conclusions to be drawn from these experiments seem to be : —
First, that our cobaltous bromide was almost if not completely reduced.
Secondly, that the impurities, which consist of alkaline bromides (with,
in some cases, a minute trace of sulphates), can be completely removed
by leaching the cobalt.
Thirdly, that the residue obtained by evaporating the water extract of
the cobalt after reduction represents within an exceedingly small amount
the weight of the impurities.
In the fourth series, during which the truth of this third conclusion was
not realized, and a method similar to that used in the nickel research was
adopted, the weight of the residue had to be calculated. The basis of
calculation was the knowledge obtained from analysis 5, Series V. Un-
fortunately this is the only analysis of material similar to that used in
