RICHARDS AND BAXTER. ATOMIC WEIGHT OP COBALT. 365
resembled those used ia Series II. and III. of last year's work) were
found to contain 0.02327 gram of impurity. If, as we may reasonably
suppose, all the residues obtained from this sample of material resembled
that found in analysis 5, Series V., this residue would have yielded
0.0372 gram of argentic bromide. We may now correct last year's
results by subtracting from the several weights of cobaltous bromide
proportional weights of impurity, and also subtracting from the several
weights of argentic bromide amounts of this substance corresponding to
the impurity. Making this correction, the atomic weight of cobalt would
be loioered 0.008, the averages of Series II. and III. becoming 58.987
and 58.979. Our uncertainty regarding the nature and amount of the
impurity thus involves an uncertainty of about one part in six thousand in
last year's results. In the light of all the circumstances, it is perhaps
safest not to attempt any correction of these values, but to accept them
uncorrected as subject to this possible error. The results are accord-
ingly giveu below in an uncorrected form.
The data just discussed obviously afford a basis for recording the total
percentage composition of the cobaltous bromide analyzed.
COMPLETE ANALYSIS OF COBALTOUS BROMIDE.
Based upon Series II., III., and V.
Per cent.
Cobalt (Series Y.) = 26.923
Total Bromine -
' (II.) 73.050% '
(III.) 73.053%
Aver. 73.051%
Bromine combined , -r. «^,
J . , „ , , y— 72.981
with Cobalt
/ Bromine actually [ ^y^.
r found in impurity C
i Remainder of -s
Total impurity . . — 0.103% =z^ impurity '= .033
( (chiefly Sodium) j
Total r= 100.007
Series VL, perhaps the best of all, is not included in this table because
the material used iu it was not quite identical with that used in the three
other series. Obviously it is possible to calculate two more ratios in-
volving the atomic weight of cobalt, in which the values for the bromine
in the bromide are compared with the cobalt found in it. Into this calcu-
lation the weio^ht of the bromide itself enters simply as a constant, and
an indifferent impurity (such as water) would be eliminated from the
