DALY, — ETCH-FIGURES ON AMPHIBOLES. 3T5
Sir David Brewster observed his " O^Jtical Figures " on a few hornblendes
characterized by natural pits of corrosion.* Since nothing has been
done towards a comparative review of etching phenomena with respect
to the amphiboles, I shall state some of the reasons why the present
reseai'ch was begun.
(1) In the first place, it has been considered a good opportunity to
test once more how far etch-figures are dependent on the method of
attack, and to devise a convenient and uniform method for the group in
question. (2) Will the etching process furnish any information as to
the attackability of amphiboles in hydrofluoric acid 1 (3) Are the etch-
figures variable in shape with the chemical composition of the mineral?
Will they throw any light on the problem of isomorphism among the
amphiboles ? (4) Will the amphibole figures by comparison with those
on the corresponding faces of pyroxene, tend to strengthen the parallel
between the two mineral groups ? (5) Can cleavage pieces and crystals
of amphibole be crystallographically oriented by means of etch-figures ?
(6) Will the latter give us any data on the vexed question of the best
standard orientation of amphiboles as a whole? Is Tschermak's or
Nordenskiold's recommendation better fitted to disclose the many va-
ried relationships of the group ? (7) Are the amphiboles holohedral ?
(8) Are anthophyllite and gedrite really orthorhombic ? (9) Inciden-
tally, in connection with the attempt to solve these problems, I have
compared etch-figures using hydrofluoric acid with those obtained with
the corrosive alkalies.
Now, in order to pave the way for a concise description, and perhaps
readier understanding of the following discussion, a few lines may be
taken to define a certain number of terms which have been introduced
with more or less technical import. Several of these ai-e literal or
slightly modified translations of the valuable German names or phrases
of Becke, Baumhauer, Leydolt, and others.
The etch-figure itself may be a cavity of corrosion, an " etch-pit "
("pit of corrosion," Aetzgriibchen, Aetzvertiefung), or it may be an
etch-hill (Aetzhiigel), a residual boss standing up in relief above the gen-
eral surface of the crystal. Either etch-pit or etch-hill is bounded by
•' figure-faces " f (Aetzflachen), in general manifestly plane, sometimes
* Phil. Mag., 1858, Vol. V., p. 16.
t Molengraaf's nomenclature seems unfortunate in relegating the short, useful
word " Aetzflache " to the comparatively unimportant curved surface which often
truncates a crystal edge when exposed to corrosive agents, and compelling us to
speak of the figure-face of a pit as an " internal etch-face " (innere Aetzflache). —
Zeit. fur Kryst, 1888, Bd. XIV. p. 174.
