376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
apparently curved, faces. Many pits normally exhibit a figure-face
parallel to the plane etched ; it may be designated the " bottom-face."
An " etch-zone " is a zone containing two or more figure-faces (" Aetz-
zone" of Molengraaf, not equivalent with the " Aetzzone " of Becke).
The periphery of the pit where its figure-faces intersect the plane at-
tacked is here called the " outline " of the figure-, and each " edge " that
composes it may thus be a straight or curved line as its figure-face is
plane or curved. A " corner " is the point where the etched plane and
two adjacent figure-faces meet.
As the process of etching continues, a pit usually increases in size,
often (depending partly on the symmetry of the etched plane) changes in
shape of outline, and, in many cases, deepens as the result of replace-
ment of early formed figure-faces by others of different indices, accom-
panied by the necessary " diminishing " of the " bottom-face " if there be
one present (cf. pits on apatite, calcite, galenite, gypsum, zinc-blende,
etc.). These changes in the figures may be continuous, but often have
rather the look of being intermittent, the replacement of one figure-face
by another taking place as a momentary cliange, faces of intermediate
indices not appearing at all. The first stage of development of a pit
may be called its " initial " form. The development ends where the out-
line besfins to be seriously impaired by the solution of the surrounding
part of the etched surface. Just preceding this point in the history, the
pit may be called " mature," and the process intervening between the
initial and mature stages is that of " maturing." Von Ebner's " instan-
taneous " and " retarded " types are connected by transitions, but are
not easily to be compared to " initial " and " mature " figures, since his
types refer simply to the length of time required to develop the pits, and
are not restricted to the use of one solvent.*
Discussion of Etch-Figures in the Microscope.
It is believed that a description of the etch-figures as seen in reflected
light with vertical incidence would be, on the whole, of more value than
an account of the same figures examined under other conditions (trans-
mitted light, Lichtschimmer). Within certain limits, this method is
easily carried out with the aid of the modern appliances to be found on
the large models of most petrographical microscopes, and thus a new
etch-figure can in a few minutes be compared in its main features with
* Sitzungsber. der Akad. d. Wissen., Vienna, 1885, Bd. XCI. p. 776
