DALY. — ETCH-FIGURES ON AMPHIBOLES. 377
those already established for the corresponding face and mineral group, or
with analogous figures belonging to other species. Furthermore, such a
description may be made in cases where any determination of the indices
of the figure-faces is impossible on account of the absence of " Licht-
schimmer," due to various causes, as fibrosity, minuteness of figures, cur-
vature of the surface studied, etc. But it is necessary to recognize that
a complete analysis of a figure is not j^ossible in many cases, even under
the most favorable circumstances. Tliis is true, for example, of the pits
on the prismatic faces of amphibole and in the vertical zone of most
monoclinic minerals. Relatively low powers of the microscope must
always be used, since contrasts of dark and light are speedily lost above
200 diameters, and thus it often cannot be decided whether an apparently
rounded figure-face may not really be one compounded of many small
faces, according to the well known examples of Becke, Baumhauer, and
others. Hence, inasmuch as it is not practicable to determine in the
microscope the elements (faces, angles, symmetry, etc.) with the same
precision and detail with which we can define a crystal, it becomes ad-
visable to choose certain elements of the figure that are sufficient to fix
its general shape. Such elements will be those which can be directly
measured in the microscope and with a maximum of exactness. They
will include straight sides and the angles between them as well as the
special angles between curved sides characteristic of each figure. These
elements, too, had best be such as can be recognized on very small figures
of a given category, since in some varieties it may be feasible to produce
figures only relatively very minute. Lastly, we must have a base-line of
reference for all measurements ; — in amphiboles, there is an excellent
one, the trace of the cleavage, which generally makes it unnecessary to
search out the directions of edges bounding the crystal-face.
For the convenient examination of figures on (110), it is well to use
prisms with sides as smooth as possible, so that the mineral will lie flat,
and the plane to be studied perpendicular to the axis of the microscope.
In the study of terminal planes, or of material with which such perfect
prisms are not obtainable, the crystal or cleavage piece may be readily
brought into the desired position by mounting it on an object-glass with
wax and then adjusting it so that the simultaneous reflection of a ray of
light from the glass and the plane may occur. "With lustrous faces, this
adjustment can thus be carried out with a close degree of accuracy.
The microscope used was a Nachet, provided with an apparatus for
vertical incidence of the light that illuminated the crystal-face. The
light was led through a collimator attached to an Auer lamp. Below
