378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
the collimator, the metal casing of the lamp was pierced so as to allow
of a source of transmitted light for getting extinctions in cleavage plates.
Orientation could thus be eifected by means of extinction (when the
amphibole was known), as well as by using terminal planes.
For reasons explained further on, Tschermak's orientation is adhered
to throughout this paper (/3 = 73° 58').
The photographic illustrations I owe to the skill of M. Monpillard of
Paris. The difficulties in reproducing anything like the sharpness of the
etch-figures on amphiboles, especially on faces other than that of tlie
fresh cleavage flake, are very great and fully explain any lack of defi-
niteness that may be observed in the micro-photographs. The diagram-
matic figures were drawn by means of a camera lucida and bring out
more clearly than the photographs, the points of essential resemblance
and dissimilarity which need emphasis.
Both in the diagrammatic figures and the wash-drawings of Plate I.
the cleavage trace on each etched surface is represented by a straight
line, which the reader will immediately recognize. This line is replaced
in the photogravures by the longer edge of the page. The top of the
crystal will as usual be directed toward the top of the page in the case of
planes in the vertical zone ; the front of the crystal toward the bottom
of the page for terminal planes.
Materials of Study.
The work the results of which are embodied in the following pages was
begun in the laboratory of Professor Rosenbusch at Heidelberg, where
the initial experiments were carried on with crystals of Vesuvius horn-
blende obtained from the collection of the Mineralogical Institute, and
with Zillerthal actinolite, St. Gothard (?) tremolite, and Bohemian horn-
blendes from the private collection of Professor V. Goldschmidt of
Heidelberg. To this material were added 41 specimens from the Im-
perial Museum, Vienna, through the kindness of Professor Berwerth,
some 20 others from the collection at the Jardin des Plantes, Paris, due
to the liberality of Professor Lacroix, six fine crystals of aeuigmatite and
arfvedsonite from Professor Ussing, Copenhagen, classic glaucophane
from Professor Barrois, Lille, and much American material from Pro-
fessor Hobbs, Madison. To these gentlemen I should like to express
my hearty thanks for the privilege of securing so many specimens with
little trouble to myself, — material which in many cases is classic, and of
considerable value from the mere monetary point of view. Without the
use of so many representatives of the group, I should not have felt
