382 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
some precision a scale by means of which crystal faces may be defined
as to molecular cohesions. This has, in fact, been accomplished in
certain cases ; but, in general, etch-figures have only been used quali-
tatively, so to speak, and as yet there has been not enough of continuity
of method from one investigation to another to make possible detailed
comparison of species with species in this matter of facial cohesion.
In the particular case of the group here considered, it has seemed
desirable to make it possible to reproduce the conditions finally selected
for etching, so as to permit of the discussion of new amphiboles with
the aid of data already in hand. May it not be possible that the
contradictory results of certain observations is simply due to difference
in methods ? Thus, Penfield, Meyer, and Bomer found the basal
plane of quartz characterized by etch-hills when hydrofluoric acid was
used,* while with the same solvent Gill obtained pits of corrosion.f
For these and other reasons noticed below, I have tried to establish
a constant method which would give good results with all varieties
of the great amphibole family, and one which can be extended to the
pyroxenes and other silicates. That such a method be wrought out, it
was necessary that some preliminary experiments should be made, for
reasons, some very obvious, others less so, all of which I shall summarize
in this connection.
1. It is generally advisable to choose prominent crystal-faces, usually
those of simple indices aud those parallel to cleavages. That one would
select such faces is to be expected, but I think this point should be espe-
cially in mind if comparisons are to be made as widely as possible. An
advantage in choosing cleavage pieces or the corresponding crystal-face
is evident in those groups where certain members appear only as allotrio-
morphic individuals in rock aggregates. Even in these cases, their etch-
figures may be produced on a good cleavage when figures on other planes
would ouly be possible on artificial faces. Fortunately, too, for the
discussion of rock-forming amphiboles as well as of the group as a whole,
the cleavage pieces give the sharpest and most regularly developed
figures to be obtained on any given crystal. J The prismatic cleavage of
amphiboles has thus a superior claim to attention, and I have accordingly
laid most stress on this important face in the course of the present inves-
tigation. Next to these, pinacoids will naturally give the most useful
* Trans. Connecticut Academy, 1889, p. 157. Neues Jahrb. fiir Min., etc., 1891,
Beil. Bd. VII. p. 534.
t Zeit. fiir Kryst., Bd. XXII. p. 111.
t Cf. Bauiuhauer, Resultate der Aetzmethode, p. 3.
