DALY. ETCH-FIGURES ON AMPHIBOLES. 387
each case, two minutes, yet the actual amount of material carried off in
sohuion from the very minute pits of the anthophylHte is extremely
small when compared with that removed in the process of excavating
the much larger pits on the monoclinic mineral. While working out
optimum exposures, I generally had opportunity to observe the incipient
stages of attack on cleavage-cracks and of the roughening of tlie whole
surface of the crystal. In this way a general impression of the i-elative
attackability of these minerals was gradually made upon me. I give
the seiies for what it is worth, beginning with the varieties most resistant
to hydrofluoric acid, and naming the others in order of less resist-
ance: — 1. The orthorhombic araphiboles. 2. Actinolite. 3. Ti-emolite.
4. Glaucophane. 5. The light-colored aluminous monoclinics. G. The
common green hornblendes. 7. The basaltic hornblendes. 8. The
Richterites. 9. Arfvedsonite. 10. Riebeckite (?). 11. Aenigraatite.
It will be seen that the resistance to solution decreases with increase in
soda and in sesquioxide of iron.
But not only are the differences of attackability due to differences in
chemical composition and crystal system, they are also strongly affected
by physical conditions irrespective of species. The physical influences
may entirely mask the attackability resulting from the chemical reaction
alone. The theories which have been made to explain the irregular dis-
tribution of etch-figures on a given plane by corresponding irregularities
in the grouping of the chemically active part of the solvent in use, can
have no application to many cases that have come under my notice during
the course of tlie present research. They are often rather to be explained
as dependent on a loosening of the original molecular structure of the
mineral by mechanical action without at the same time being accompanied
by chemical decomposition. The presence of submicroscopic cracks or
planes of parting (a superficial capillary zone) will necessarily give the
acid greater surface by which to attack and permit of a readier dislodg-
ment of the molecules from the grip of physical cohesion, A good anal-
ogy is found in the hardness of certain pseudomorphs ; manganite with a
hardness of 6 forms a pseudomorph after polianite (pyrolusite), but has
then an apparent hardness of only 3.
A few typical examples of this differential resistance to solution will
suffice for our present purpose. Two intergrown crystals of V. 42 ap-
parently of etjual freshness, each bearing the plane (Oil), were simulta-
neously immersed for several periods and examined at the end of each
interval for the relative progress of attack. The plane (Oil) of one
crystal was seen to have been affected decidedly sooner than the same
