388 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
plane of the other. In this case, the ready yielding of the former may
have been caused by its being exposed to more active convection currents
than the second crystal, due to position in the acid. But this explanation
cannot apply to V. 46, where the optimum exposures for cleavage flakes
from different ciystals, though from the same hand specimen, varied from
two and one half to five minutes, and the pits were of nearly equal size
(area and depth) on all the pieces. V. 34 afforded some light on the
question in the behavior of two terminated crystals, the (Oil) of the one,
less lustrous than the same plane of the other, was the more rapidly at-
tacked. The suggestion that the phenomenon is a result of alteration
can hardly be avoided. That the alteration may be an almost, if not
quite, exclusively physical one and not associated with a serious change
in the original chemical molecule of the hornblende, seems clear from
the facts observed in an experiment on V. 31. The hand specimen is a
" Krystallstock " composed of well defined individuals, tipped with asbes-
tus and occasionally showing patches of an asbestiform substance on the
sides of the crystals. At two minutes' exposure, one of these gave sharp
but relatively few figures on (110) near the point of attachment at the
end of the crystal. The other three fourths of the surface of the prism
was characterised by the appearance of numerous cleavage cracks which
gradually increased in number in the direction of the free (in the druse
unattached) end, and there was a simultaneous increase in the number of
pits. The development of the latter was independent of the asbestiform
patches, and, from the uniformity of color of the general surface, I have
concluded that there has not been chemical decomposition sufficient to
explain the differing rates of etching. It may be noted that the much
attacked end was directed upward in the acid, and any heating by direct
contact with the platinum at the bottom of the crucible would tend to
dissolve the unaltered extremity of the crystal the more rapidly.
As a general rule, the crystal-face (110) was observed to be less resist-
ant to solution than the parallel cleavage plates of the same individual
crystal, but the converse was often true.* Thus at one and two thirds
minutes, the cleavage showed much stronger attack than the correspond-
ing crystal surface (HO) of a specimen of V. 32, although here again
the original face was facing downward, the cleavage plane upward, in the
acid solution. The mineral was perfectly fresh in appearance, and be-
trayed no alteration to the eye such as seemed best to explain the same
relations characterizing other examples: e.g. V.8,V. 14, V. 17,V. 26,V. 42.
* Cf. Becke's experience with zinc blende, Min. und Petrog. Mitth., 1883, Bd. V.
p. 485.
