390 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Having traced tlie influence of chemical composition and of physical
conditions on the property of attackability, we may now proceed to in-
quire whether the single planes of an amphibole have different powers
of resisting solution in hydrofluoric acid. I shall once more use the infor-
mation gained in the process of etching ; the appearance of figures and
the loss of illumination using vertically incident light will be taken as
the criterion of attack. Actinolite, tremolite, and common hornblende
were thus examined.
A crystal of V. 42 was exposed first, 40 seconds, then one minute.
At 40 seconds (111) was visibly roughened but showed no figures, while
(110) remained practically intact; at the end of the second exposure both
planes were equally provided with pits. From the mere development of
figures, it would appear that (Til) and (110) were of about equal attack-
ability, but the roughening of surface gave much more reliable indications
of the fact. Combining with this, the observations on the other faces,
the series is correctly written iu the order of increasing resistance to the
( (100) 1
acid (Til), (011)-< (010) V. As a matter of fact, the maturing of pits
((.no))
on the various faces often occurred at intervals so far apart as to permit
of a pretty tolerable determination of the facial attackability by means
of their study alone. It is essential, of course, to distinguish etch-pits
from etch-hills, which may (as described by Becke) simultaneously ap-
pear on two different faces of the same crystal. A generalization was
made from the study of twelve crystals of aluminous hornblendes, as
follows: V. 26, V. 32 (2), V. 33, V. 35, V. 40 (2), V. 42 (3), V. 54, and
P. 55. Arranging the planes in order of increasing resistance to the acid,
we have, (Til), (Oil), (130), (100), (010), (110). But what has been
said about the phenomenon as affecting the corrosion on (110) applies
with equal force to the other planes. With V. 54, I obtained the series
(TOl), (010), (110), (Oil), in the same order as above, — an anomalous
order which I could see was correlated with the lustre and general state
of repair of each of the faces belonging to the crystal in question. By
reason of the peculiar geological conditions, and of the position of the
crystal in its druse, a prism face may suffer alteration while an end face
may escape that process and the latter can thus resist an attacking acid
longer, though, as we have seen, the terminal planes are regularly the
ones to yield first.
Klocke, Zeit fiir Kryst., 1877, Bd. II. p. 128. Cf. Retgers, Zeit. fur Phys. Chemie,
1895, Bd. XVI. p. 638.
