DALY. ETCH-FIGURES ON AMPHIBOLES. 391
Similar results were found with crystals of Actinolite (V. IG), (V. 17),
and of tremolitic anaphibole (V. 8). Tlie series are, respectively, (TOl),
(Oil), (100), (110), and (Oil), (010), (110).*
These conclusions illustrate the now well established method of inter-
preting molecular structure by solubility in different crystallographic
directions.! The series of facial attackability correspond to the dimen-
sional variations in the pits on the various faces of an amphibole. They
explain, for example, the very general elongate form of the pits on planes
of the prism zone, an elongation in a vertical sense and coupled with a
greater resisting power in the prism zone itself. I may further note, in
passing, that here the different zones behave, as always, in a way to indi-
cate the holohedral character of all the amphiboles. The " Lusungsober-
fiiiche " (Becke) of amphiboles is monosymmetric and centrosymmetric.
Description op the Etch-Figures.
We may now proceed to the characterization of the etch-figures
themselves. It has been thought most convenient, and as tending towards
an easier survey of the facts, to group them with reference to crystallo-
graphic planes primarily and to consider in order the behavior of each
species on etching each of tliese planes with hydrofluoric acid. TVe may
hope thus to lessen the repetition of detail necessary in some degree ; at
the same time, the essential features of likeness or unlikeness of the dif-
ferent varieties will appear with most clearness. Following this more
or less bald statement of fact, which is abbreviated as far as consistent
with our immediate aims, there will be an attempt to correlate the facts
both in way of summary review and as related to certain others which
shall be especially introduced in the general discussion.
Etch-Figures on (HO), Actinolite Type.
Throughout the whole series of non-aluminous amphiboles (excepting
riebeckite) which I have yet studied (actinolite, tremolite, smaragdite, rich-
terite, astochite, etc.), cleavage pieces give figures that are practically
* One fresh crystal of Zillerthal actinolite etched with an alkali, caustic soda,
displayed greater resistance to attack on (010) tlian on (110). This may be another
illustration of tiie rule enunciated by Bauraliauer, that, in certain cases, the direc-
tions of rapid solution are reversed for acids and alkalies. Thus, he found it to be
true for Linneite when he compared its behavior in the process of etching using
nitric acid with its behavior in Becke's experiment of etching with caustic potash
(Resultate der Aetzmethode, p. 20). The same holds true for magnetite (Ibid., p. 21).
t Cf. Baumhauer, Resultate der Aetzmethode, p. v.
