396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
a hypothecated process of "secondary solution" was incidentally re-
ferred to in connection with the actinolite figures ; its effects can
often be seen where straight-edged outlines of a figure are replaced
by curved edges as the figure is undergoing destruction by prolonged
solution.
Plate I. Fig. 7 furnishes a noteworthy variation on the normal and
simple process of pit development. The figure is compound, and consists
of three pits, formed respectively at the bottom of the next oldest pit.
Each must represent an abrupt stage in the solution of this part of the
surface. The side AD remains sensibly parallel to itself in all three
steps, but the angle BAH grows larger from the first to the third num-
bered downwards; at the same time, the edges of the successive figure-
faces against (110) are seen to curve more in the first than in the second
and in the second than in the third. These facts accord with those
observed in the case of the pits that grew continuously, not intermit-
tently, to maturity from the initial and less advanced stages of previous
exposures to the acid. The stepjied figure seems, then, to show that
the formation of pits may (though not always) take place spasmodically,
so to speak (•' sprungweise," in the German phrasing), the attack the
affair of a moment and preceded and followed by longer periods of
almost perfect quiescence as regards other than "secondary" solution.
Klocke believed, similarly, that the formation of figures on the alums
is an instantaneous thing.* The stepped form is jiresumably not due
to a zonal structure in the hornblende, because such a hypothesis would
imply very considerable variations in the attackability in passing from
the exterior to the inner zones of the crystal, — variations improbable
* Zeit. fiir Kryst., 1877-78, Bd. II. p. 131. The rapidity of the reverse process,
that of healing over an etched surface, was early commented upon by Sir David
Brewster in connection with his studies on the instructive group of crjstalline
substances, the alums, especially' with reference to his now familiar " light-figures."
On immersing an etched crystal of an alum in a concentrated solution of its own
substance, he observed that, "in an instant," the pits of corrosion began to fill.
He says, "The singular fact in tliis experiment is the inconceivable rapidity with
which the particles in the solution fly into their proper places upon the disinte-
grated surface and become a permanent portion of the solid crystal." Phil. Mag.,
1853, Vol. V. p. 27. The intermittent character of the process of etching was
noticed by Rinne (Neues Jahrbuch, 1885, Bd. II. p. 15), who etched milarite with
dilute HF. At first, the base became covered with regular hexagonal pits placed
symmetrically on (0001). On further attack, these are suddenly modified by the
appearance in each case of a second hexagon in the bottom of the first, but now
turned through an angle of 30°.
