DALY. — ETCH-FIGURES ON AMPHTBOLES. 401
doubtless correlated with a special chemical constitution. It is not difficult
to believe that the molecular substance of the crystals may be put into a
condition of strain by varying rates of expansion and contraction in the
ditferent zones due to temperature changes. Again, there is also possible
a massive stress set up in the crystal caused by its contortion in the rock
from which it was derived. In this case, we are dealing with a druse-
mineral ; nevertheless, I have observed that at least two of the individu-
als are greatly twisted so that the plane of the cleavage is replaced by a
curved surface with from 8° to 10° of curvature. Attempts were made
to etch this jjarticular crystal on (110), without marked success, although
the mineral was strongly attacked ; yet the few pits actually obtained
seemed to be of the distorted types. May this massive distortion not be
the result of differential stress in the zones ? *
The Philipstad (cleavage) sub-type of etch-pit is thus analogous to the
other sub-types peculiar to hornblendes, but it is similar to no one of
them. It bears the same relation to the second principal kind of pit
observable on this mineral ; namely, that on the zone occurring on all the
individuals so far examined, just underlying the crystal face (Photographs
4 and 5). Most commonly, they are of the shape illustrated in Photo-
graph 4 ; that is, while the general habit of the figure is very like that
of the Wolfsberg sub-type, tliere is here a more pronounced blunting of
the lower end of the pit by an edge nearly as long as the transverse edge
of the upjier end. The rarer pits with a sharpened lower end are
portrayed in Photograph 5. The photographs show with sufficient
clearness the contrast existing between these pits and those character-
istic of the inner zones exposed on cleavages. There is never any inter-
mixture of the two kinds ; the former is confined to a light colored
exterior zone, which appears to be less strongly charged with iron than
the inner zones, which are always darker in color. Examination proved
that these pits on the outside zone could not be explained as natural
etchings ; they are manifestly the result of an interaction between the
acid and the mineral, aud probably differing from the figures on the
other zones on account of the fact that, while the latter agree in chemical
composition fairly closely among themselves, there is a strong chemical
peculiarity adhering to the outer zone. That the phenomenon is not
confined to the reagent used is evident from the comparative study of
* Sudden twisting of crystals does not seem to affect the form of the etch-
figures. Thus, I etched a cleavage plate of gypsum which had been bent through
an angle of at least 15°. The pits produced had perfectly normal characters, as
those recently described by Viola.
VOL. XXXIV. — 26
