402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Photographs 8 and 9. No. 8 indicates the result of etching (110) (crys-
tal face) with caustic soda. The pits are like those on the inner zones in
possessing a shelly structure, but have a different outline (compare
Photograph 9).
Before leaving this peculiar hornblende, it should be stated that it
stands also in a unique position with respect to the etching properties of
the clinopinacoid. I have called the angle A D H \n Figure 8 posi-
tive ; it varies in value with the different varieties of aluminous amphi-
boles from 1° to 10". But, in the analogous pit produced on (010) of
the Philipstad hornblende, this angle is always negative and averages 2^°
in value. The description of the optical and other characters of the
mineral is deferred to another occasion. (See following article.)
Etch-Hills on Hornblende^ (110).
A digression from the main subject of types of pits of corrosion may
be permitted in the form of a short discussion of another result of attack
with hydrofluoric acid, namely, etch-hills. The usual effect of dissolving
a cleavage piece is, in time, the disappearance of the pits formed at the
beginning, and their replacement by these residual bosses. When they
are numerous, the mineral has a characteristic raammillated look. Besides
the normal bosses left on the removal of the ridges between successive
pits, however, there often appear on aluminous amphiboles, when etched
rapidly (fresh acid and high temperature), a variable number of remark-
able etch-hills which, from their form, can have but little to do with
those just mentioned.
As examples, V. 46 furnishes some very striking specimens. I pro-
duced these peculiar etch-hills at 3 minutes, at '6\ minutes, at 7 minutes,
and also after 12 minutes' suspension in IIF gas evolved from a hot
(fuming) aqueous solution of that gas. In all four cases, the bosses were
on the whole similar in look, and, on account of their perfect development,
I shall describe the etch-hills on the cleavage piece last mentioned, as typ-
ical of all (Photograph 10). They are bizarre in form and arrangement;
in plan, triangles, irregular quadrilaterals of many shapes, trapezoids,
pentagons, etc., sometimes in groups of two, three, or a half-dozen, similar
to one another in outline, and even showing parallelism between cor-
responding sides. They are commonly bounded by straight lines that
have no definite relation to the hornblende crystal, and are thus in strik-
ing contrast to the pits which are oriented in the regular way on the
same cleavage face. Occasionally, small groups of the figures have the
same form and orientation ; thus, three scalene triangles were observed
