DALY. ETCH-FIGURES ON AMPHIBOLES.
405
other amphiboles as it has been proved to be optically. The pit is here
a spindle-shaped well defined figure, generally about six times, rarely only
four times, as long as it is broad. The sjtindle is usually ideally perfect,
and theu the axis can be seen to make an angle with the cleavage cracks
of two degrees east of north on (110), two degrees west of north on
(ITO). Many pits show that they are bounded by two curved figure-
faces of unequal steepness, and hence of unequal illumination in the
microscope. The narrower, darker one lies to the left on (110) ; it is
separated from the other by a narrow light streak that corresponds to the
keel of the unsymmetrical canoe. The relations are enantiomorphous on
(ITO). Occasionally, the spindle is blunted with what appears to be an
imperfectly formed third figure-face that would represent the upper figure-
face of the Hornblende type (Plate I. Fig. 22). The photograph does
not give an idea of the exceeding sharpness of these figures, at least
as compared with most other amphiboles ; there can be no doubt that
the type is a distinct one and stands alone.
The figures show the mineral to be holohedral and centrosymmetric
and a cleavage plate can be easily oriented in the absence of crystallo-
graphic data by observing the position of the adventitious third face, or
the direction of the spindle-axes with respect to the obtuse angle of cleav-
age (110 : 110), and one, say the darker, of the two longitudinal figure-
faces of a pit.
Both the symmetry and orientation of arfvedsonite are, however, better
made out by the use of figures resulting from exposure to molten caustic
soda. A cleavage piece was found after 25
seconds' immersion to be covered with three-
sided pits, as depicted in Figure 4. These
show once again the radical difference in
behavior between arfvedsonite and common
hornblende. (Cf. Plate I. Figs. 34 and So.)
It is, furthermore, an interesting case, in that
the directions of rapid solution are here
transverse to those of rapid solution by the
acid, and, secondly, the formation of etch-
figures is once again seen to be independent
of cleavage. Figure 4.
Non-Aluminous Amphiboles, Etch-Figures on (010).
The actinolite of Zillerthal was found to be typical of the whole
group of amphiboles not containing a sesquioxide as regards the facts
