DALY. — ETCH-FIGURES ON AMPHIBOLES. 409
with the rotation, there is a simultaneous distortion of the ontline so as
to make the angle B A D more and more acute. The latter could not be
measured closely in the cases of dilution of 50 per cent or more on ac-
count of the poor development of the pits. The longer edge preserved
its distinctness much better than did the shorter edge ; hence the angle
A D If was measurable throughout.
The light figures remained quiescent, neither changing in shape nor
orientation, so far as those rather unsatisfactory figures would permit of
measurement. In the same manner, I could discover no variations in
the pits on the prism-face (HO).
Bomer has described other examples of the dependence of the results
of etching with hydrofluoric acid on its state of dilution in water. He
found the form and attitude of the pits on the base of quartz to alter so
much with dilution that, whereas concentrated acid gives figure-faces
belonging to the right trigonal pyramids, with very dilute acid they are
negative rhombohedrons. Intermediate forms characterize decrees of*
concentration between these two extremes.* Baumhauer discussed a
similar anomalous behavior in the pits on apatite, using hydrochloric acid
as the solvent.f There is throughout a close analogy between the pits
on (0001) of apatite and those on (010) of actinolite. In both, we have
dark fijjures and two cateiiories of liiiht figures, and, finally, the same
tendency to rotate with decreasing concentration of the respective acids
in aqueous solution. |
It is well known that sulphuric acid, when added in small quantities,
will in certain cases intensify the solvent power of hydrofluoric acid. I
made one or two trials of a basaltic hornblende to see whether in this way
the figures of corrosion might be improved. They resulted in partial
failure, for, although the pits were a little larger than usual, they lost
considerably in definiteness of outline. It then occurred to me to try
mixtures of the two acids in various strengths on a more resistant sub-
stance, actinolite, primarily to determine what, if any, would be the
influence of the sulphuric acid on the etching. The problem was anal-
ogous to that just discussed for dilution with water, the procedure was
similar, the results just as striking. The table is so like the last as to
need no special explanation. (Figure 7.)
* Neues Jahrbucli fiir Min., etc., 1891, Beil. Bd. VII. p. 535.
t Eesultate der Aetzmetliode, p. 48.
t Becke states that concentration affects the position of the figure-faces in the
etch-zone. Min. u. petrog. Mittheil., 1883, Bd. V. p. 487.
