412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
may reduce the iagures and their individual characters to law, and make
the etch-pits of determinative value.
Owing to lack of material, etch-figures were not obtainable on
the clinopinacoid of barkevikite. crossite, glaucophane, riebeckite, or
arfvedsonite.
Amphibole Etch-Figures on Faces other than (110)
AND (010).
From the preceding sketch of the pits of corrosion on the prism and
clinopinacoid of the aluminous and non-aluminous groups of amphiboles,
respectively, it is evident that the general figure-types are modified by
variations in the chemical nature of the species. But the prime impor-
tant modifications are conditioned by the presence in the riiolecule of
alumina, or at least of a sesquioxide. That is, in the one class, we have
to do with amphiboles whose molecular constitution is similar, excepting
perhaps arfvedsonite ; whether it be lime, iron, magnesia, or soda, — any
or all of them, — that, together with alumina, compose the complex
silicate, the results of etching are always similar.* On the other hand,
so soon as the alumina (sesquioxide) molecule disappears, or is present
in only very small amouqts, there is a radical change in the etch-pits on
both faces. Tliis leads to the expectation that other planes will show
corresponding change. The few specimens which I have been able to
secure confirm that conclusion, and a brief account of the observations
thereupon may prove of interest.
Before proceeding directly to them, however, I shall state the negative
results characterizing the examination of three other faces (130), (Oil),
and (111) ; their indefinite etching phenomena did not allow of compar-
isons by measurement. V. 42 at one minute's exposure exhibited many
pits on (130). They were warped triangles, with the upper acute corner
pitching into the crystal mucli after the manner of the analogous hair-like
projections described by Tschermak on siderite. (See Baumhauer,
Eesultate der Aetzmethode, Microgram 20.) The same crystal of V. 42
* Mr. Walker's use of the term "similar" to denote an enantiomorphous rela-
tionship between etch-figures seems to me to be inadvisable since it is not needed
in that sense, and such a usage deprives us of a convenient designation for figures
that are not identical but differ from one another very slightly as in the case of
the hornblendes. (American Journal of Science, 1898, Vol.1, p. 181.) "Analogous"
might be employed in this connection rather more freely to mean similarity in
some one or more features, and would need supplementary statement to indicate
wherein the analogy consists.
