DALY. — ETCH-FIGURES ON AMPHIBOLES. 415
pared ou account of the roughness of the general crystal-surface. They
are not pentagonal but triangular ; two edges, A and B C (Fig. 10),
meet at an angle of 80° or more, the apes of which points forward on the
crystal. Tlie edges A C and B O are quite straight, and their respective
figure-faces are plane. On the other hand, the figure-face A B B' A' is
curved and is predominant as a curve even when A A' C and BBC are
not well developed. The bottom plane of the pit is a plane parallel to
(TOl) and diminishing in size as the pit matures. AAG and BBC
are steeper (darker) than A BB A', but are of equal obliquity to (TOl),
thus agreeing with the other characteristics of the pit in supplying
perfect monosymmetry for the figure with respect to (010).
The differences in the etclvpits on the positive unit-dome of the acti-
nolitic species as contrasted with the corresponding pits on hornblendes
is striking in face of the fact that we have already seen exemplification
of even greater contrasts between the mineral groups in the behavior of
the unit prism and the clinopinacoid during the same process of etching.
Isomorphism in the Amphiboles.
Chemical crystallographers are of different opinion regarding the value
of etch-figures in determining isomorphism. Arzruni, on the one hand,
denies any necessary relationship between them and the fact of isomor-
phic mixture ; * in this he is supported by Baurahauer, who regards the
pits on dolomite, calcite, and siderite as not indicating lack of isomor-
phism, although their orientation on corresponding faces of all three
species is widely different, f The opposite view has been strongly main-
tained by Retgers in his recent and valuable research on the subject. J
Retgers gives his three critei'ia of isomorphism as follows: — 1. Mix-
tures of the constituent salts of an isomorphic series must take place
in all proportions. 2. There must be a lack of chemical combination
in the mixture : thus diopside (CaMgSiOg) is not a member of the
isomorphic series (CaSiOg and MgSiOg), but an independent body.
Likewise manganese augite (MnSiOg) and the manganolime augite
(MnCaSiOa) are not isomorphic. 3. Etch-figures produced on the
same crystallographic plane of all members of the series will be alike
both in shape and symmetry. To support the last statement, he cites a
* Phys. Chemie der Krystalle, 1893, p. 162 et seq.
t Resultate der Aetzmethode, p. 37.
X Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Isomorphismus. Zeit. fiir phys. Chemie, 1895,
Bd. XVI. p. 36.
