416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
number of such isomorphic groups whose etch-figures are known, and in
every case thei-e is this similarity among the figures. Thus the experi-
ments of Baumhauer on the double sulphates,* the lime and strontium
hyposulphates,! ^he alums, $ the phosphate (arsenate) group,ยง and the
apatite family ; || the studies of Baumhauer and Becke on the carbonates
of iron and magnesium ;1[ those of Wulff on the barium, strontium, and
lead nitrates,** and Becke's on spinel and its relatives ; tt all exhibit a
marked stability in the form of the etch-pits as the different members
of each group are attacked by the same reagent. The earlier objections of
Arzruni are considered to have been met by more recent observations of
Baumhauer (Res. der Aetzmethode, p. 40). Retgers does not contend
that similarity of etch-figures implies isomorphism, as in the two cases of
calcite and soda nitrate on the one hand, and the rutile-zircon-cassiterite
group, on the other; but regards the converse as a fixed law, "das
erhiirtete Gesetz," that genuinely isomorphic substances always show, on
corresponding surfaces, similar etching phenomena. He further states
that "a successful study of isomorphism, without continual controls by
means of the methods of etching, is no longer conceivable." tt At the
same time, he remarks that the etch-figures do vary, and that the limits
of variation in most groups have not yet been determined ; they are,
however, as far as known, always narrow limits.
Now, if this contention be valid, the application of the princijile to
the amphiboles will have important consequences. It will be remem-
bered that tremolite, actinolite, richterite, and astochite, from many
different localities and of various chemical composition, gave uniformly
the same etch-pits on (110), and, where the material was at hand to
determine the point, the same figures on (010), (100), and (101). With
respect to the same planes, the much greater group of common and ba-
saltic hornblendes, also of very variable composition, agreed among them-
selves as well as with barkevikite, glaucophane, crossite, and riebeckite ;
but each of these two sets of etch-figure types was so strikingly different
* Resultate der Aetzmethode, p. 46.
t Zeit. fiir Krystalloszraphie, 1877, Bd. I. p. 54.
t Ber. der k. bayr. Akad. d. Wissenschaften, 1874, and Res. der Aetzmethodcj
p. 45.
ยง Resultate der Aetzmethode, p. 43.
II Ibid., p. 39, and earlier references therein.
1 Ibid., p. 67.
** Zeit. fiir Kryst., 1883, Bd. IV. p. 142.
tt Min. und petr. Mitth., 1885, Bd. VII. p. 200.
U Zeit. fur phys. Chemie, 1896, Bd. XX. p. 528.
