DALY.
ETCH-FIGDRES ON AMPHIBOLES.
417
from the other, that, od etching (110), (010), or (TOl), one could tell
with ease whether he be dealing with an amphibole of the first class,
devoid of a sesquioxide, or with one of the second, probably aluminous,
but possibly one whose iron represented the total content of sesquioxide.
The testimony of the etch-pits, then, would be to establish perfect iso-
morphism in each of the two groups, but to refute the idea that there is
isomorphism between the two groups themselves. Whether or not this
hypothesis be justified by future investigation, the facts of the case seem
to have an important bearing on the theory of Retgers.
Arfvedsonite figures present relationships to the hornblende type, but
that species cannot be asserted from them to be in the same isomorphic
series with pargasite, for example.
It was thought to be of interest to test further the etching properties
of actinolite and hornblende by using caustic alkalies as the solvent in-
stead of hydrofluoric acid. The results were confirmatory of the division
just made in the amphiboles. A crystal of Zillerthal actinolite was im-
mersed in molten caustic soda for 15 seconds. A large number of sharply
outlined pits were produced on both (110) and (010). Plate I. Figs. 32
and 33 and Fig. 11, are diagrammatic
representations of them oriented on their
respective planes. Now a cleavage piece
of AVolfsberg basaltic hornblende (V. 54)
furnished splendid figures on (110) after
35 seconds' exposure in the same reagent,
and these were of the varieties shown in
Plate I. Figs, 34a and 345, and Photograph
16. Another crystal of the Kafveltorp
hornblende (V. 42) gave the pits of Plate
I. Figs. 35fl!, 35b, 35c, and Photo. 17, on
(110) and pits represented by Figure 12
on (010). Still a third aluminous horn-
blende (V. 33) from Arendal afforded
good figures at 30 seconds, this time prac-
tically identical with those of V. 42.
Without further analyzing these types, it
appears to be a legitimate conclusion that
the differing habit of the two may be
regarded as significant, not accidental, but indicative of a fundamental
difference in the two kinds of substance.
If the tremolite molecule represents one of the fundamental ingredi-
VOL. XXXIV. — 27
Figure 12.
Figure 11.
