418 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
ents in the actinolitic group, the formula of richterite (after Groth, Dana,
and Hintze) would have to be recast to show that the latter species is
the result of the mixture of CaMg3(Si03)4 with another metasilicate
molecule. It would be highly interesting to determine the figures on
grunerite (FeSiOg), cummingtonite [(FeMg)Si03], and dannemorite
[(FeMnMg)Si03], for purposes of similar comparison ; many trials with
material of the two former from the classic localities failed to produce
figures that could be discussed.
The similarity of the riebeckite pits to those on hornblende may go to
show that (if it be true non-aluminous riebeckite that was dealt with
during the examination) the strong influence of the alumina molecule
may be replaced by that of its common associate, sesquioxide of iron.*
In any case, the etch-figures in all thirty of the common and basaltic
hornblendes, as well as in the glaucophanes and barkevikite, can hardly be
explained except as the effect of an interaction of hydrofluoric acid and a
common molecule constituted with reference to one or other or both of
the two ses(|uioxides.
In summary, then, if we accept the law that isomorphic mixtures must
have similar etch-figures on corresponding crystallographic planes, we
have two divisions among the amphiboles, each of which is isomorphic in
itself, but not so related to the other group. If this theory be rejected,
we have still the facts remaining of an important difference in the struc-
tural plan of each division.
IIOLOHEDRAL CHARACTER OF THE MONOCLINIC AmPHIBOLES.
Throughout the whole suite of specimens which I have studied, the
evidence is convincing that the family of amphiboles belongs to the holo-
* Haefcke was so impressed with tlie importance of alumina in the amphibole
molecule that lie was led to consider it with the other oxides, to be in combination
with orthosilicic acid and thus helps to form salts constitutionally different from
the non-aluminous amphiboles, the metasilicates (Inaug. Diss. Gilttingen, Berlin,
1890). The masterful influence of alumina is further seen in Wiik's table of ex-
tinction angles showing the dependence of the angle of extinction of amphiboles on
the percentage of AUOg present. (Zeit. fiir Kryst., 1882-83, Bd. VII. p. 79.)
That the sum of the sesquioxides as well as the amounts of each should be con-
sidered in any comparative study of minerals containing them, is illustrated in an
analysis of Doelter's paper on the pyroxenes, in which he traces the influence of
alumina and of the sum (Al.^Og -f- Fe.iOg -f FeO) on the optical constant c : c of
pyroxene (Neues Jahrb. fiir Min., etc., 1885, Bd. I. p. 43). He finds that FeO alone
will not explain the position of c with respect to the vertical axis, nor will AlgOg
alone nor Fe.iOs alone ; bat he concluded that both the iron oxides added to the
