420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
astonishing to observe the very close parallelism which even a cursory
study established between the etching properties of the two mineral
genera. This is one part of the present investigation which the author
regrets to leave in an especially incomplete stage. Thus, it would be
of moment to produce etch-figures on that prism of pyroxene (210),
which is nearly equivalent to (110) of amphibole, and compare them with
those of the last-mentioned face. This has been left undone for lack of
material. But even the facts in hand are wonderfully accordant. To
simplify matters, I shall enumerate some of the main conclusions we have
reached regarding the etch-pits on amphiboles and note the comparisons
with pyroxene in connection with each.
1. Actinolitic amphiboles give one class of etch-pits, aluminous am-
phiboles anotber, — especially evident on (010), (110), and (101). I
have been able to find a similar strong contrast between diopside and
augite in this respect: they were etched on (010) and (110).
2. Not only is such a double cleavage of the groups possible ; there
are positive similarities in the respective pits on the pinacoids (010)
and (100) of the non-aluminous amphibole actinolite and the non-
aluminous pyroxene diopside, and there are positive resemblances char-
acterizing the pits on the same planes of augite and hornblende. The
paper of Pelikan,* referred to in detail further on, along with those
of Wltlfing t and Baumhauer J show clearly that the etching phe-
nomena (outline of figures, number of pits and of figure-faces, orien-
tation of figures, etc.) on (010) of diopside, using hydrofluoric acid,
are hardly distinguishable from those on actinolite. (Compare Photo-
graphs 12 and 13.) Pelikan § has shown, in addition, that the augites
from Vesuvius, Laacher See, Wolfsberg, etc., are characterized by only
one sort of pit on the clinopinacoid and thus are in contrast to diopside,
and, as we now see, are analogous to hornblende. It must be confessed
that no amphibole which I have yet etched has yielded anything like so
perfect figures on the orthopinacoid as those readily procurable on the
same face of Ala diopside (see Photograph 15). While the general re-
semblance to the pits on (100) of actinolite is certainly great, I cannot say
whether or not the pair of figure-faces at the lower end of the diopside
pit is represented in the actinolite pit. (Plate I. Fig. 27, is somewhat
hypothetical as to the " primary " figure-faces.) I have not been able
* Min. u. petr. Mitth., 1896, Bd. XVI. p. 1.
t Die Pyroxen Familie, Heidelberg.
I Poggen. Annalen, Bd. CLIII. p. 75.
§ Op. cit, p, 21.
