DALY. ETCH-FIGURES ON AMPHIBOLES. 421
to secure etchings of this plane for augite nor of (TOl) for any py-
roxene.
3. As was to be expected, the pits on the unit-prism of actinolite and
diopside are unlike in outline. I made the experiment of testing the
cohesional property of the actinolite substance on a plane making with
(010) an angle essentially equal to half the cleavage angle of diopside.
A new prism-face was thus ground on a crystal of Zillerthal actinolite,
then carefully polished and etched in the usual way, with cone, hydro-
fluoric acid after two minutes' exposure. The face was found to be
covered with etch-hills, the effect of strong attack (much quicker on the
artificial face than on any natural face in the prism-zone) ; but, among
them, a few pits which were surprisingly like those on diopside (see
Photograph 18), and on aegerine. Further comparison could be made
by etching an artificial face on diopside lying 62° 15' out of the plane
of symmetry, and also by using the caustic alkalies in this round of
experiment.
4. From the close association of the pyroxenes with our group, it is
important to recognise that recently attempts have been made to remove
the diopsides from the holohedral class into a hemihedral (" domatische,"
Groth) class of the monoclinic system. In 1889, G. H. Williams sug-
gested this hypothesis on purely crystallographic grounds, interpreting
the imperfect development of the planes about the extremities of the
vertical axis of crystals from Orange County, N. Y., and Canaan, Conn.,
as an evidence of hemihedrism.* In this, he was followed by Dana in
the " System " (1892, p. 352). But that the failure of planes about one
end of an axis need not mean true structural lack of symmetry is well
known, and has lately been exemplified by etch-figures on cuprite that
restore it to the holohedral category. Pelikan rightly rejected this argu-
ment, but still, on the basis of etching results, he considers it probable
that the diopsides are nevertheless hemihedral in Williams's sense.f He
was led to this conclusion chiefly by the study of the HF pits on (010).
He figures some of these from a Nordmarken specimen which are un-
symmetrical in that lines drawn from one side to another through the
centre of a pit would not be bisected at that centi-e ; there is, in other
words, a lack of that antimetric (dimetric) character necessarily charac-
teristic of (010) if diopside be holohedral. In particular, the asymmetry
of the face is supposed to betray itself in the fact that one corner of the
rhomboidal figure may be truncated by a fifth figure-face while the oppo-
* Amer. Jour. Science, 1889, Vol. XXXVIII. p. 115. t Op. cit., p. 19.
