422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
site corner is not so truncated. But this phenomenon is a familiar one
in etching, as pointed out bj Becke with reference to siderite and mag-
nesite ; it is simply analogous to the unsymmetrical appearance of a
crystal, due to the non-development of faces, which, by the known sym-
metry of the crystal, should appear on it.* Furthermore, Pelikan states
that, even in the typical Ala diopside, the regular antimetric pits appear
in abundance, and my own observations on another crystal from the
same locality (P. 70, Photograph 13) confirm the statement. There is
no trace on my well etched specimen of pits that are not antimetric.
Secondly, he uses certain figures on the clinopinacoid of Ala diopside
as suggestions of hemihedrism because of the curvature of the edges be-
tween their respective figure-faces (see his drawing, Op. cit., p. 20). I
have not been able to establish the observation by reference to my Ala
specimen, and I am inclined to think the curvature must be a consequence
of the solution of planes no longer "primary." If secondary solution
really exists, (and the numerous experiments of Becke seem to prove it
incontestably,) we should expect it to warp the straight edges between
primary figure-faces with some such curves as those represented in
Pelikan's drawing.
The evidence seems to be perfectly convincing that diopsides as well
as augites, amphiboles as well as pyroxenes, are holohedral, and there-
with we may close this brief comparative sketch of their etch-figures.
Crystallographic Orientation of the Amphiboles.
The extraordinary resemblance between the amphiboles and pyroxenes
in the matter of etch-figures is certainly correlated with likeness in mo-
lecular structure, and is an effectual criticism of that mischievous con-
servatism which has not accepted the arguments of Tschermak, G. H.
Williams, and others, in favor of a change in the classic crystallographic
orientation of amphibole, introduced by Nordenskiold. The new differs
from the old simply by the rotation of the crystal about the vertical axis
* After these lines had been written, the paper by Baumhauer appeared in the
Zeit. fiir Kryst. (1898, Bd. XXX. p. 97), in which the author stated, as the result
of a careful examination of some of Pelikan's original material, that, in his opinion,
diopside is holohedral, and that the anomalous pits described by Pelikan are really
only imperfectly formed representatives of either of the two tj'pes of normal anti-
metric pits, or are the result of the combination or fusion of these two types (Op.
cit., p. 101). On similar grounds, Baumhauer regards Colemanite as monoclinic,
although certain etch-pits apparently indicate an asymmetric character for the
mineral.
