426
PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Figure 13.
which are nearly parallel to the trace of the second cleavage may run
into one another, forming a more or less straight edge in that direction
(Plate I. Fig. 37^). The small differences in the shape and orientation
of the pits on (110) and (ITO) are
such as to form another testimony
to the fact expressed by Forstner
that cossyrite (aenigmatite) closely
approximates a monoclinic habit.*
(See Figure 13.)
It is possible that the moot ques-
tion as to whether kolbingite is a
distinct species, or (after Brogger)
an intergrowth of arfvedsonite
and aenigmatite, might be settled
by etching cleavage pieces of the
mineral.
Zinc-bearing rhodonite (fowlerite, P. 72) is much nearer the mono-
clinic pyroxenes, as shown by etch-figures, than is aenigmatite like the
monoclinic amphiboles. Fowlerite at 45 seconds' exposure gave tri-
angular pits on (110) and (ITO), which are elongated in the sense of
the edge 110 : ITO, and are strongly suggestive of the pyroxene figures
on cleavage plates.
Summary of Conclusions.
Reviewing the ground over which we have come, we may make the
following brief resume of results : —
(1) It seems to be clear that, for the group of the amphiboles, a
special method of etching must be adopted, if a comparative study of
the etch-figures derived from the different species is to be instituted. A
universal solvent must, of course, be used, but its temperature, degree of
concentration, and facility of convection at the time of each attack must
be attended to if a strict control over the effects of corrosion be possible.
It is only by observing this principle, that the measurement of the out-
lines of pits and their elements of form will lead to the most valued con-
clusions ; and we have seen that measurement, i. e. discussion of the
figures by quantitative methods, serves this purpose much more perfectly
than does a mere statement of the kind of pit or etch-hill to be seen on
any given specimen. It has further been shown, with respect to the pits
* Zeit. fur Kryst., Bd. V. p. 350.
