DALY. — ETCH-FIGURES ON AMPHIBOLES. 427
on the cleavages and on the clinopinacoid of amphibole at least, that the
action of hydrofluoric acid is seriously affected by its mixture with j^ure
water and also seriously affected, in the opposite sense, by its mixture
with sulphuric acid; the action of pure hydrofluoric acid gas is inter-
mediate to that of both kinds of mixture. Is it not always necessary to
guard the conditions of attack when etching of crystals by chemical cor-
rosion is to be the means of comparison among the substances represented
thus in the crystalline state ?
The relatively rapid process of studying etch-flgures in vertically in-
cident light can, under the circumstances just outlined, lead to results of
importance, not inferior to that attaching to problems where the rather
laborious method of determining the exact symbols of figure-faces by
means of the goniometer and the Brewster light-figures is necessary.
(2) A scale of optimum exposures for (110) under standard conditions
is recorded and the attempt is made to systematize the amphiboles as
regards their attackability on the same face. The comparative attack-
ability by hydrofluoric acid of the different faces on certain non-aluminous
amphiboles has been determined. It has been found that this property
is affected, in large measure, by the physical state of the specimen
attacked.
(3) In many instances it has been exemplified that a systematic com-
parison of etch-figures on different species will be of most service if the
observer recognizes the principle that there is a decided change in the
etch-pit characteristic of any face, in accordance with the stage it has
reached in the process of maturing from an initial figure to the often very
different figure peculiar to an advanced stage of corrosion. Chiefly for
this reason, it has been found difficult, if not impossible, to tell which of
the many successive figure-faces composing a given pit on amphibole are
the " primary " figure-faces of Becke's definition. It may have been, too,
partly for this reason, that I have found it as yet impossible to co-ordinate
perfectly the figure-faces and the related directions of easy and difficult
solution, so as to construct the " Losungsoberflache " characterizing any
amphibole.
(4) The curious adventitious etch-hills on hornblende, illustrated in
Photograph 12, have led us to suspect that they in no wise represent the
true cohesional property of the face considered, but have suggested the
hypothesis (following Becke) that they may be due to the unequal pro-
tection of the mineral surface by the solid products of the chemical reac-
tion, and that the parts so shielded from attack will project above the
general surface after corrosion has further advanced. It would be
