THE ORTIIOPTERAN GENUS SCIIISTOCERCA.
By Samuel H. Scudder.
Received February 20, 1899. Presented March 8, 1899.
ScHiSTOCERCA belongs to the Acridii, the typical group of AcridiinaB,
in which the fastigium is dellexed and passes insensibly into the frontal
costa, lateral carintE are wanting on the pronotum, the mesosternal lobes
are longer than broad and usually produced and strongly acutangulate
posteriorly on the inner side, the hind tibi;e have smooth margins with
numerous spines regularly disposed on both sides, but with no apical spine
on the outer margin, and the second tarsal joint is only half as long as
the first.
There is but one other genus in the group, Acridium, from which
Schistocerca was separated by Stal in 1873, on account of the apically
broader anal cerci of the male and the apically fissate subgenital plate of
the same sex. In doing this he also separated the Old World species of
Acridii from those of the New "World, for Acridium does not occur in
America and Schistocerca is found only in the New World, except for a
single species, which occurs both in South America and in Africa, but
which has also been found in such circumstances in mid-ocean as to render
it in the highest degree probable that Africa was originally colonized from
America.
Schistocerca is therefore normally an American genus. Like Acridium
it is composed of large species with a wing expanse usually reaching
nearly or quite a decimeter, though it contains more species of a moderate
size than does Acridium, and some much smaller than any Acridium
known to me. Two at least of the larger forms, including the species
common to the two worlds, are known to be both migratory and very
destructive ; but the greater number appear to do less harm than their
large size would lead us to expect. The species of Acridium are mostly
confined to Africa, southern Asia, and Australia, and many species are
apparently still undescribed.
A considerable number of species of Schistocerca have been described
from America, but many have received more than one name, even since
