SCUDDER, — THE GENUS SCHISTOCERCA. 443
e^. Pronotum not or scarcely tectiform ; eyes normal.
/^. Relatively small and slender; prozona as long as metazona ; greatest
dorsal width of metazona not exceeding width at eyes . . 1. (jracilis.
/'-. Relatively stout and large ; prozona shorter than metazona ; great-
est dorsal width of metazona exceeding widtli at eyes.
r/i. Wings flavo-fuliginous 2. aurantia.
g~. Wings hyaline with fuscous veins.
10-. Maculation of tegmina delicate, obscure, in the distal half sub-
strigate 3. curinata.
Ifi. Maculation of tegmina coarse, distinct.
i^. Wings more or less distinctly infumate ; prosternal spine erect,
yi. Fusco-testaceous ; hind femora with hoary outer face ; hind
tibiae purple 4. cnhimbina.
j-. Olivaceo-testaceous ; hind femora and tibia flavo-oliva-
ceous 5. crocoluria.
P. Wings hyaline ; prosternal spine retrorse . . 6. interrita.
e2. Pronotum distinctly tectiform ; eyes more oblong than usual.
7. camerata.
d^. Pronotum with median dorsal stripe and diversified lateral lobes.
f-. Dorsal stripe of pronotum of equal width throughout; lateral lobes
longitudinally banded, the bands not or scarcely oblique.
f^. Prosternal spine slender ; wings more or less infumate ; hind femora
without fasciation.
9I. Males with no distinct dorsal stripe ; maculation of tegmina dis-
tinct; wings distinctly flavo-infumate throughout ... 8. mellea.
(j^. Males with a conspicuous pale dorsal stripe on head and prono-
tum ; maculation of tegmina often obscure ; wings very feebly infu-
mate at most 9. zapoteca.
f^. Prosternal spine stout; wings hyaline or nearly hyaline; hind
femora obscurely fasciate.
g^. Pronotum very coarsely carinate, the position of the lateral carinas
unmarked ; tegmina densely maculate 10. vaga.
g"^. Pronotum finely carinate, the position of the lateral carinae marked
anteriorly with fuscous ; tegmina sparsely maculate. 11. simulatrix.
c^. Dorsal stripe of pronotum narrowing from in front posteriorly.
yi. Lateral lobes of pronotum mottled and longitudinally variegated
with fuscous, the lower anterior margin not distinct from the rest ; costal
area of tegmina with no light streak 12. pi/ramldala.
/'-. Lateral lobes of pronotum with a strongly oblique anterior and in-
ferior light patch, edged with fuscous ; costal area of tegmina marked
with a pallid streak 13. desiliens.
c^. Tegmina immaculate, or if rarely feebly and obscurely maculate, then the
pronotum is marked with a dorsal stripe, narrowing posteriorly ; lateral lobes
of pronotum often marked below with dull yellow, separated very obliquely
from the darker parts above.
d\ Lateral lobes of pronotum with a very obliquely delimited inferior clay
yellow patch, often obscure in the female.
