444 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
e^. Median stripe of pronotum generally narrowing from in front back-
ward ; wings more or less and simply infumate.
/I. Antennse of male about one half as long again^as head and prono-
tum together ; tegmina immaculate, or feebly and obscurely maculate ;
wings feebly infumate 14. Jlavofasciala.
f'^. Antennae of male not more than one third as long again as head
and pronotum together; tegmina immaculate; wings distinctly infu-
mate 15. iiifumata.
e^. Median stripe of pronotum broad and equal throughout ; wings flavo-
infumate 16. cvqualis.
d'. Lateral lobes of pronotum without markings 17. maya.
Jfl. Pronotum distinctly obtusangulate behind, even in the male, the angle gen-
erally rather broadly and obtusely rounded at apex.
ci. Pronotum never tectate, or at most but very feebly ; tegmina more or less
distinctly, generally distinctly, maculate throughout (or, if without maculation,
the head, pronotmn, and closed tegmina have no light colored dorsal stripe);
wings generally hyaline, occasionally lutescent basally or even throughout, the
veins fuscous or ferruginous, rarely luteous ; lateral lobes ofpronotimi often
marked conspicuously with longitudinal fuscous stripes on a lighter ground,
but often unmarked.
d^. Pronotum so broadly and strongly rounded behind as to be rotundate,
rather than obtusangulate ; prostcnial spine somewhat retrorse.
18. aiistralis,
d'K Pronotum distinctly angulate behind, the angle more or less but not
greatly rounded, at least in the male; in the female it is sometimes rather
broadly rounded.
fii. Pronotum never tectate, generally distinctly striped on the lateral lobes.
f-. Hind femora not transversely fasclate.
7^. Prosternal spine erect or suberect, straight or almost straight;
lateral lobes of pronotum not or feebly marked, and tlien irregularly
blotched.
/(I. Dorsal stripe of pronotum obsolete ; maculations of distal half
of tegmina slight and scattered, or if at all regular it is to form
numerous narrow one- or two-celled transverse broken stripes.
19. gulosa,
Ifi. Dorsal stripe of pronotum moderately distinct ; maculations
of distal half of tegmina massed in several rather broad oblique
bands . 20. hogotensis.
(J-. Prosternal spine distinctl}' curved and retrorse ; lateral lobes of
pronotum distinctly banded longitudinally.
h^. Pronotum griseous, slenderly strigate with fuscous ; wings
nearly h^-aline 21. inscripia.
h-. Pronotum with a broad median light dorsal stripe between
fuscous bands; wings flavo-infumate 22. idonea.
f^. Hind femora distinctly trifasciate.
g^. Pronotum with no dorsal stripe; tegmina distinctly maculate
throughout; interspace between eyes distinctly narrower than nar-
rowest part of frontal costa 23. literosa.
