SCUDDER. — THE GENUS SCHISTOCERCA. 445
^2. Pronotum with a median dorsal stripe; tegmina feebly or not
maculate, especially in the distal half; interspace between eyes not
or scarcely narrower than narrowest part of frontal costa.
24. melanocra.
e^. Pronotum feebly tectate, at least in tlie female, not striped or very
obscurely striped on lateral lobes,
yi. Metazona rugulose as well as punctate ; maculations of tegmina
when present quadrate or rounded ; male cerci of subequal breadth,
tapering only in distal half; subgenital plate of moderate length,
apically witli a ratlier shallow V-shaped emargination.
25. riihiginosa,
f". Metazona punctate but scarcely rugulose ; maculations of tegmina
distinctly elongate ; male cerci tapering throughout so as to be at apex
only two thirds as broad as at base ; subgenital plate long and slender,
apically deeply fissate 26. sonorensis.
c^. Pronotum generally more or less tectate ; tegmina immaculate, or at most
marked linearly with fuscous or yellow on lower half (or if, rarely, distinctly
maculate, then the head, pronotum, and closed tegmina are distinctly marked
by a light colored dorsal stripe) ; wings generally lutescent with luteous veins ;
lateral lobes of pronotum very rarely with conspicuous and definite markings,
generally clear or irregularly mottled.
d^. Pronotum with a distinct percurrent median light colored stripe.
fii. Lateral lobes of prozona immaculate, or with feeble light colored
stripe at or above the middle,
yi. Dorsum of metazona plane or nearly plane in both sexes, occasion-
ally faintly tumid anteriorly in the female; hind tibiae purplish, testa-
ceous, or very dull ferruginous.
g^. Hind femora usually not fasciate ; hind tibiae testaceous or red-
dish, sometimes basally purplish above ; subgenital plate of male with
a relatively shallow apical U-shaped fissure, but little deeper than
broad 27. alutacea.
92. Hind femora usually fasciate; hind tibise dark purple; subgenital
plate of male cleft narrowly, almost to the base ... 28. ohscura.
f'-. Dorsum of metazona distinctly tumid in the female and sometimes
in the male ; hind tibiaj coral red or purplish.
g'^. Flavo-testaceous ; fore and middle femora of male very stout;
hind femora generally conspicuously fasciate; hind tibias purplish or
ferruginous 29. Uneata.
g^. Fore and middle femora of male only moderately stout; hind
femora never fasciate ; hind tibiae coral red.
Ix^. Flavo-testaceous, the dorsum of prozona, except for stripe, much
infuscated 30. alhoJ'meata.
h~. Nearly uniform olivaceous, except for the yellow dorsal stripe.
31. t;enusta.
e^. Lateral lobes of prozona with a conspicuous black-edged pallid stripe
below the middle 32. mexicana,
d^. Pronotum with no median light colored stripe, or if a feeble one occurs,
it terminates with the prozona.
