446 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
e^. Wings nowhere roseate.
f^. Prozona neither tectate nor tumid, with an obscure broad median
stripe, not passing the prozona 33. sepa7-ata.
/2. Prozona more or less tectate, and, at least in the female, tumid,
without a median stripe.
f/^. Superior carinas of hind femora obscurely serrate ; inner spines of
hind tibiffi but little longer tlian deptli of tibiae.
h^. Prozona not arched longitudinally ; pronotum of male not more
than half as long again as greatest dorsal width of metazona, its
posterior margin distinctly obtusangulate ; hind tibije red.
34. shoshone.
li'. Prozona feebly arched longitudinallj' ; pronotum of male dis-
tinctly more than half as long again as greatest dorsal width of
metazona, its posterior margin rather feebly obtusangulate; hind
tibiae testaceous (?) 35. oUiquata.
(j^. Superior carina of hind femora distinctly serrate ; inner spines of
hind tibiae nearly twice as long as depth of tibiae . . 3G. jicrturbans.
e-. Wings roseate distally 87. hicittala.
aP'. Antennae of male (those of female always relatively sliorter) not or hardly more
than, often less tlian, one fourth longer than tlie iiead and pronotum together.
l^-. Prozona more or less strangulate (especially in female?), narrower than tlie
head exclusive of the eyes, the metazona somewhat abruptly and not gradually
expanded and bullate.
ci. Prozona transversely rotundato, though feebly and delicately carinate ;
metazona posteriorly rotundato-subrectangulate.
c/i. Anal area of tegmina at broadest one third broader than the interspace
between the eyes ; anal cerci of male apically rounded ; metazona about one
half wider than middle of prozona 38. peregrina.
d-. Anal area of tegmina no broader or scarcely broader than the interspace
between the eyes ; anal cerci of male distinctly emarginate apically, the
lower lobe the longer; metazona about one third wider than middle of
prozona 39. pamnensis.
c^. Prozona distinctly tectate and bluntly carinate ; metazona posteriorly very
obtusangulate and broadly rounded 40. exsul.
b". Prozona not strangulate, no narrower than the head exclusive of the eyes,
the metazona gradually and regularlj- expanding posteriorly to a greater or less
degree, never bullate.
ci. Of large size. Pronotum scarcely or not at all tectate, the median stripe
broad, the posterior margin obtusangulate and rounded ; tegmina distinctly
maculate or obliquely strigate ; male cerci tapering from base to apex.
</i. Tegmina feebly if at all pantherine in markings, the costal area immacu-
late,
fii. Markings of distal half of tegmina composed of longitudinal streaks by
the more or less interrupted infuscation of the longitudinal veins, enforced
by a partial infuscation of the adjoining cross-veins * ... 41. pallens.
* These interruptions, however, often occur at similar intervals on adjoining
veins, and so give rise also to a more or less noticeable transverse arrangement,
but this is less conspicuous than the longitudinal disposition.
