SCUDDER. THE GENUS SCHISTOCERCA. 447
c2. Markings of distal half of tegmina composed of fuscous maculations,
generally feeble, arranged in obliquely transverse series at right angles
to the veins (much as in S. americnna), the transverse cross veins at such
points infuscated equally throughout 42. cancellata.
d-. Tegmina distinctly pantherine in markings, the costal area maculate.
43. americana.
(?. Of small size. Pronotum distinctly and strongly tectate, the median stripe
narrow, the posterior margin rectangulate or even acutangulate, at least in the
male ; tegmina immaculate or very feebly maculate ; male cerci of subequal
breadth 44. damnijica.
1. Schistocerca gracilis sp. nov. ;
One of the smallest and slenderest of the genus, fusco-testaceons, ob-
scurely marked with fuscous. Head fusco-testaceous ; frontal costa sub-
equal, a little expanded basally, strongly sulcate excepting above, coarsely
punctate, the margins flavo-testaceous ; eyes much longer than the gente
below them ; antennjB fulvo-testaceous. Pronotum compressed, subequal,
hardly expanding on the metazona, where the width does not exceed that
at eyes, fusco-testaceous with a ferruginous tinge, the metazona somewhat
infuscated on the disk, the lateral lobes immaculate but a little pallescent
centrally ; pi-ozona not tectate, of the same length as the metazona, ante-
riorly produced and well rounded, rather delicately scabrous, the median
carina slight but distinct and slender, more pronounced on the metazona,
which is delicately scabro-punctate, the posterior angle rectangulate,
hardly rounded, Prosternal spine rather slender, rather short, equal,
blunt, a little retrorse. Tegmina slender, much longer than the body,
fusco-testaceous sprinkled, especially in the distal half, with slight and
not very dark fuscous maculations, rather irregularly scattered throughout ;
wings apparently vitreous.* Fore and middle femora slender ; hind femora
rather small, but little surpassing the abdomen, fusco-ferruginous, with a
somewhat hoary outer face, the upper carinas scarcely serrate ; hind tibiae
ferruginous, the spines black tipped. Anal cerci fully twice as long as basal
breadth, tapering slightly, bent a little inward at the middle, the apex
truncate and feebly emarginate, the angles rounded ; subgenital plate a
little upcurved, scaphiform, but tapering regularly as seen from above and
compressed, apically acuminate and fissate half way to the base, the angles
acute.
* The specimen is in too fragile condition to be spread.
