448 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Length of body, 26 mm.; antennae, 12.5+ mm.; tegmina, 28 mm, ;
hind femora, 16 mm.
1 (J. South America.
2. Schistocerca aurantia sp. nov.
Of moderate size and stoutness, fusco-testaceous somewhat obscured
with fuscous. Head rather large, nearly uniform fusco-testaceous, above
with feeble, more or less divergent, dull fuscous stripes ; frontal costa
subequal, not very broad, j^unctate, deeply sulcate below the ocellus ;
eyes narrow elliptical, very much longer than the infraocular portion of
the genje ; antennoe testaceous, the distal half infuscated. Pronotum well
arched but not tectate, expanding slightly on the metazona so as to be
about as broad as at the eyes, with a feeble median carina, merely indi-
cated on the prozona, the latter produced anteriorly and rounded, a little
shorter than the metazona, scabro-punctate, a little more coarsely than the
metazona, the whole pronotum uniform in color except that the metazona
is more or less ferruginous, posteriorly rectangulate. Prosternal spine
moderate, erect, cylindrical or feebly tapering, blunt. Tegmina consid-
erably longer than the body, moderately slender, testaceous becoming
subvitreous distally, maculate with moderately large quadrate or rounded
fuscous spots, darker proximally than distally and pretty uniformly dis-
tributed in the median area, the costal and anal areas more or less minutely
flecked with fuscous; wings hone3^-infumate, the veins flavous and the
cross-veins fusco-flavous, with a slight sprinkling of fuscous dots apically.
Fore and middle femora not inflated in the male ; hind femora scarcely
surpassing the abdomen, fusco-ferruginous, the outer face whitish, the
carinai with the serrations marked with fuscous ; hind tibia3 fusco-ferru-
ginous verging on puri)lish, the spines luteous, apically black. Male
cerci nearly twice as long as basal breadth, tapering only a little, apically
truncate and broadly emarginate ; subgenital plate narrowly and rather
deeply fissate apically.
Length of body, ^, 31 mm., 9, 46 mm.; antennte, <?, 15.5 mm., 5,
16 mm.; tegmina, S, 33 mm., 9^ 44.5 mm.; hind femora, J, 19 mm.,
9 , 27 mm.
1 (J, 8 9. Mexico, Packard; Yucatan, Schott ; Meriden, Yucatan;
Realejo, Nicaragua, April, McNeil.
The male, from Nicaragua, may not belong here ; the wings are almost
clear hyaline, but the specimen has been long immersed in spirits and is
decolored.
