SCUDDER. — THE GENUS SCHISTOCERCA. 451
frontal costa subequal, sulcate throughout ; eyes scarcely longer than the
infraocular portion of thegenoe; antennae ferruginous. Prouotum well
arched, in no way tectate but with distinct and sharp median carina,
ferruginous with feeble fuscous maculations on the lateral lobes (which
have also below the middle an obscure pallid spot), widening considerably
on the metazona, so as to be considerably broader than at the eyes, the
prozona scarcely produced anteriorly, distinctly shorter than the metazona,
which is faintly obtusaugulate behind, the angle narrowly rounded. Pro-
sternal spine moderate, cylindrical, blunt, retrorse but not arcuate.
Tegmina extending much beyond the abdomen, moderately broad, testa-
ceous or ferrugineo-testaceous, with distinct subpantherine fuscous mark-
ings of rather large size extending from base to tijj; wings vitreous, the
veins luteous. Hind femora ferrugineo-testaceous with hoary outer face,
the serrations of the upper carinte fuscous ; hind tibiae pale ferruginous,
the spines with black tips.
Length of body, 45 mm. ; antennae, IT-j- mm. ; tegmina, 50 mm. ; hind
femora, 28 mm.
2 ?. Peru, H. Edwards (Mus. Comp. ZooL, Scudder).
7. Schistocerca camerata sp. nov.
Compact and bulky, somewhat above the medium size, ferrugineo-
testaceous more or less iufuscated. Head ferrugineo-testaceous, mottled
posteriorly with faint plumbeo-fuscous and with a pair of divergent fus-
cous streaks behind upper edge of eyes ; frontal costa subequal, slightly
narrower at the ocellus, deeply sulcate at and below the ocellus ; eyes
narrower than usual, distinctly longer than the infraocular portion of the
genae ; antennte luteo-testaceous. Pronotum distinctly tectate, with very
coarse and jjrominent median carina, which is free from the very obscure
and faint infuscation of the remainder ; prozona scabro-punctate, produced
and subangulate anteriorly, but little shorter than the not very profusely
punctate metazona ; the latter enlarges but little, but is shouldered pos-
teriorly and just broader than at the eyes, the hind margin faintly obtus-
augulate, the angle rather narrowly rounded. Prosternal spine short,
stout, cylindrical, blunt, erect. Tegmina extending but little beyond the
abdomen, rather broad, ferrugineo-testaceous, rather profusely and some-
what obscurely maculate throughout, except the anal area, with fuscous,
the maculations in the distal half having a tendency to an obliquely trans-
verse direction ; wings impure vitreous, with luteous veins. Hind femora
