452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
dull testaceous, the outer face faintly hoary, the cariuse punctate with
fuscous at the serrations, the genicular arc black ; hind tibiiB dull dark
purplish, the spines luteous with black tips.
Length of body, 49 mm. ; antennas, 14+ mm. ; tegmina, 44 mm. ; liind
femora, 28 mm.
3 9 . Sinaloa, Mex., Koels, Behrens.
8. Schistocerca mellea sp. nor.
Of medium size and moderately stout, fusco-testaccous with a ferrugi-
nous tinge. Head ferrugineo-testaceous, with the margins of the frontal
costa and facial caringe punctate with fuscous, a pair of diverging fuscous
stripes on the vertex and a genal stripe below the eyes ; frontal costa
slightly narrowed just below the ocellus and feebly sulcate, excepting
above ; eyes a little tumid in the male, much longer than the infraocular
portion of the geuse ; antennae ferrugineo-testaceous. Pronotum well
arched transversely, in no way tectate, the median carina faint excepting
on the metazona of the female, where it is slight ; prozona obscurely
ruguloso-punctate, slightly and scarcely angularly produced anteriorly, a
very little shorter than the rather finely punctate metazona, which enlarges
considerably jiosteriorly, so as to be considerably broader than at the eyes,
and is posteriorly rectaugulate, or in the female faintly obtusangulate;
the whole pronotum is ferrugineo-testaceous, the disk, at least in the
female, strigate and blotched with fuscous, leaving clear a broad median
stripe, the lobes irregularly maculate with fuscous, the middle with a
longitudinal fuscous bar, all of which is very obscure in the male. Pro-
sternal spine erect, moderately slender, conico-cylindrical, blunt. Teg-
mina extending considerably beyond the abdomen, not very slender,
ferrugineo-testaceous, profusely and distinctly maculate throughout with
fuscous, in the distal half arranged rather conspicuously in transversely
oblique stripes ; wings honey yellow with a smoky tinge, apically macu-
late in the upper area. Fore and middle femora not enlarged in the male;
hind femora about reaching the tip of the abdomen, ferrugineo-testaceous
with hoary outer face, which is punctate with black, as are also the serra-
tions of the carinas ; hind tibite ferrugineo-testaceous, the spines pallid
with black tips. Male cerci moderately slender, feebly tapering, about
twice as long as basal breadth, apically truncate and feebly and broadly
emarginate ; subgenital plate rather elongate, scaphiform, apically fissate
narrowly half way to the base, the flaps so formed acutangulate, the angles
rounded.
