SCUDDER. — THE GENUS SCHISTOCERCA. 453
Length of body, ^, 30 mm., 9, 47 mm.; antennae, ^, 13.5 mm., 9,
12+ mm.; tegmina, <?, 32 mm., 9, 47 mm.; hind femora, ^, 18 mm.,
9 J 25 mm.
1 (J, 19- Vera Cruz, Mexico, Heyde (Bruner).
9. Schistocerca zapoteca sp. nov.
Of moderate size and stoutness, but in these respects with considerable
disparity between the sexes, fusco-testaceous with a slight ferruginous
tinge. Head rather prominent, testaceous, flecked and more or less ob-
scured with fuscous, with a pair of divergent fuscous stripes bordering
the flavo-testaceous median stripe which marks the vertex ; frontal costa
a little contracted at the ocellus, sulcate at and below the same, flavous at
the margins ; eyes prominent in the male, much longer than the infra-
ocular portion of the genaj; autennie flavo-testaceous, in the male a third
as long again as head and pronotum together. Pronotum somewhat
compressed, well arched, hardly tectate, feebly and very bluntly carinate,
the disk ferrugineo-fuscous, sometimes strigate on the metazona, with a
distinct, rather narrow, median testaceous stripe, broader in the female
than in the male, the lateral lobes broader than deep, testaceous, mottled
or obscured or occasionally vittate with fuscous ; jorozona produced ante-
riorly and rather strongly rounded, a little shorter than the metazona,
which is postei'iorly rectangulate with narrowly rounded angle, and ex-
pands but little even in the female so as hardly to exceed the width at the
eyes. Prosternal spine slender, feebly tapering, blunt, erect. Tegmina
extending far beyond the abdomen, moderately slender, ferrugineo-testa-
ceous, rather profusely but feebly maculate with fuscous, mainly by the
infuscation of cross-veins, occasionally disposed in obliquely transverse
stripes on the distal half ; wings vitreous or very faintly infumate apically,
occasionally faintly maculate apically in the anterior area, the veins luteo-
ferruginous. Fore and middle femora scarcely thickened in the male;
hind femora rather slender, reaching beyond the abdomen, luteo-testaceous,
flecked and punctate with fuscous, often tinged more or less with ferrugi-
nous, especially on the distal half, occasionally flavescent basally ; hind
tibias dark dull purple, the spines luteous with black tips. Male cerci
twice as long as broad, equal, straight, apically truncate and mesially
emarginate, the angles rounded ; subgenital plate tapering, scaphiform,
apically compressed, deeply cleft, the fissure closed.
Length of body, $, 28 mm.. 9, 40 mm.; antenna?, ^, 13 mm., 9,
14.5 mm. ; tegmina, ^, 29 mm., 9, 43 mm. ; hind femora, ^, 18 mm.,
9 , 2G mm.
