SCUDDER, THE GENUS SCHISTOCERCA. 455
head and iironotum together in the male, luteous. Pronotura well arched,
in no way tectate, but with a delicate percurrent median carina, in the
middle of a regularly narrowing but percurrent luteous or ferrugineo-
luteous median stripe, the rest of the disk fuscous, often longitudinally
strigate with testaceous on the metazoua ; lateral lobes ferrugineo-testa-
ceous, much mottled and sometimes longitudinally strigate with fuscous, a
paler spot generally appearing on the upper part of the prozona ; prozona
a little jiroduced anteriorly and rounded, a little shorter than the meta-
zoua, which is posteriorly rectangulate, the angle rounded not very nai"-
rowly. Prosternal spine rather slender, slightly tapering, blunt, straight,
slightly inclined. Tegmina extending considerably beyond the abdomen,
moderately slender, testaceous, in the male nearly immaculate, in the
female distinctly but not very profusely maculate with fuscous throughout
the median area, the maculations of the distal half small and obscurely
arranged in obliquely transverse lines; wings faintly tiuged, especially in
the anal area, with pale citron, apically very faintly fuliginous, nowhere
maculate. Fore and middle femora not enlarged in the male; hind
femora attaining (9) or surpassing (^) the end of the abdomen, dull
testaceous with the outer face dull ivory white, punctate with fuscous
along the carinas ; hind tibi;e dull jjurplish testaceous, the spines luteous
with black tips. Male cerci of subequal breadth, about twice as long as
basal breadth, apically a little obliquely truncate and considerably emar-
ginate mesially, the lobes thus formed rounded, the lower somewhat the
longer ; subgenital plate slender, elongate, scaphiform, apically very deeply
fissate, the acute angles only slightly rounded.
Length of body, ^, 37 mm., 9,53 mm.; antennae, ^, 15.5 mm., 9,
18 mm.; tegmina, ^, 36 mm., 9, 53 mm.; hind femora, J", 20 mm., 9?
31.5 mm.
2 c?, 5 9. Cuernavaca, Mexico, May, Sept., Barrett (Morse).
13. Schistocerca desiliens sp. nov.
Of moderately large size and moderate stoutness with considerable dis-
parity between the sexes, ferrugineo-testaceous, considerably infuscated.
Head not very large, ferrugineo-testaceous, testaceous posteriorly, all the
carinas marked with fuscous, and a pair of diverging fuscous stripes on
the vertex, enclosing a broad median luteo-testaceous band, as in the last
species; frontal costa subequal, deeply sulcate at and below the ocellus;
eyes somewhat prominent, especially in the male, distinctly (j) or
scarcely ( 9 ) longer than the infraocular portion of the genoe ; antennae
