SCUDDER. — THE GENUS SCHISTOCERCA. 457
15. Schistocerca infumata sp. nov.
Of large size and moderate stoutness, dark olivaceo-fuscous. Head
not very large, olivaceo-fuscous, with a subocular genal fuscous streak,
and a pair of divergent fuscous streaks on the vertex, enclosing a median
luteo-testaceous stripe ; frontal costa subequal, deeply sulcate at and below
the ocellus ; eyes a little prominent in the male, distinctly ((^ ) or scarcely
( 9 ) longer than the infraocular portion of the geuoe ; antennae barely a
third longer than the head and prouotum together in the male, luteous
or luteo-testaceous. Pronotum well arched but feebly subtectate, with
distinct percurrent median carina in the middle of a posteriorly attenu-
ating luteo-testaceous median stripe edged with fuscous, the rest of the
pronotum dark olivaceo-fuscous with an obliciue inferior fuscous cloud or
stripe on the lateral lobes, the whole prouotum gradually enlarging pos-
teriorly, so that the metazona is considerably (9) or a little ( J" ) wider
than at the eyes; prozona angularly produced anteriorly, the angle rather
narrowly rounded, but little shorter than the metazona, which is posteri-
orly rectangulate d^) or faintly obtusangulate (9)? the angle not very
narrowly rounded. Prosternal spine slight, cylindrical, blunt, erect.
Tegmina extending far beyond the abdomen, moderately slender, olivaceo-
testaceous, immaculate ; wings distinctly infumate throughout. Fore and
middle femora not enlarged in the male ; hind femora dark testaceous, the
outer face and genicular lobe ivory white, the carinoe punctate with fus-
cous, occasionally the other faces more or less hoary ; hind tibife dull
ferruginous, the spines luteous (or in the female the outer spines luteous,
the inner ferruginous) with black tips. Male cerci very small for this
genus, half as long again as broad, the lower margin straight, the upper
rounded, and tapering so as to be at the truncate apex hardly a third as
broad as at broadest. Subgenital plate straight, long, scaphiform, hardly
compressed, apically deeply and still more widely emarginate to form a
U-shaped fissure with diverging sides, the angles subacuminate. Whole
body and legs pilose.
Length of body, ^ , 33.5 mm., 9, 58 ram. ; antennae, ^, 14 mm., 9,
18 mm. ; tegmina, ^ , 38 mm., 9 , 56 mm. ; hind femora, ^ , 21.5 mm.,
9 32 mm.
7 (J , 3 9 . Montevideo, Uruguay, Meyer-Diir ; Brazil, Janson.
