458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
10. Schistocerca sequalis sp. nov.
Of fair size and moderately slender, fusco-testaceous. Head moderately
large, fusco-testaceous, the vertex fuscous except a broad median ferru-
gineo-luteous band ; frontal costa subequal, sulcate below the ocellus ;
eyes rather prominent, very much longer than the iufraocular portion of
the geuse ; antennae at least a third longer than the head and pronotum
together, ferrugineo-luteous. Prozona well arched, in no way tectate,
but with distinct and delicate percurrent median carina, in the middle of
a rather broad and equal percurrent ferrugineo-luteous stripe, the rest of
the disk fuscous, the lateral lobes fusco-testaceous, with an oblique inferior
fuscous stripe, below which they are testaceous ; prozona roundly produced
anteriorly, about as long as the metazona, which enlarges but slightly and
is narrower than at the eyes and jjosteriorly rectangulate or perhaps faintly
obtusangulate, the angle rounded. Prosternal spine rather long, erect,
cylindrical, bluntly tapering apically. Tegmina extending well beyond
the abdomen, slender, immaculate, ferrugineo-testaceous, the costal and
anal areas testaceous ; wings very faintly infumate with a slight citron
tinge. Fore and middle femora not enlarged ; hind femora rather slen-
der, slightly surpassing the abdomen, ferrugineo-testaceous, the outer face
hoary, feebly punctate with fuscous on the carince; hind tibiae dull pur-
plish or ferruginous, the spines luteous with black tips. Male cerci sub-
equal, about half as long again as broad, inbent at the middle, apically
angularly emarginate above the middle, the lower lobe projecting ; sub-
genital plate short scaphiform, almost haustrate, apically U-shaped, the
emargination deeper than broad, and the angles subacute.
Length of body, 35 mm.; anteunje, 13.25-1- mm.; tegmina, 36 mm.;
hind femora, 19 mm.
2 (J . Demerara, British Guiana.
17. Schistocerca maya sp. nov.
Below the medium size and moderately slender, testaceous, more or less
infuscated. Head moderately large, ferrugineo- or luteo-testaceous, the
vertex with a pair of fuscous stripes bordering a ferrugineo-luteous median
band ; frontal costa subequal, sulcate at and below the ocellus ; eyes
moderately prominent, much longer than tlie infraocular portion of the
genfB ; antennae more than a third longer than the head and pronotum
together, ferruginous. Pronotum well arched, in no way tectate, with a
delicate median carina in a (sometimes obscured) ferrugineo-luteous dorsal
