SCUDDER. — THE GENUS SCHISTOCERCA. 461
Length of body, 49 mm. ; tegmiua, 46.5 mm. ; hiud femora, 26 mm.
2 9 • Bogota, Colombia.
21. Schistocerca inscripta.
CijrtacantJiacris inscripta "Walk., Cat. Derm. Salt. Brit. Mus., III. 550 (1870).
Acridium inscriptum Thorn., Rep. U, S. Geol. Surv. Terr., V. 228 (1873).
Originally described from Jamaica. I have seen a single specimen
from Mandeville, Jamaica, April, Cockerell (Bruner).
22. Schistocerca idonea sp. nov.
Of fully average size and moderately slender, ferrugineo-testaceous,
much infuscated. Head rather large, luteo-testaceous, all the prominences
marked with fuscous, besides a distinct suborbital genal fuscous stripe,
and on the vertex a pair of divergent fuscous stripes on either side of a
broad testaceous median stripe, sometimes tinged with ferruginous ; frontal
costa broadly and rather shallowly sulcate, subequal ; eyes shorter than
the infraocular portion of the genai ; antennte rufous. Pronotum well
arclied, in no way tectate, very faintly strangulate, the median carina
delicate, percurrent, lying in the middle of a very broad and equal ferru-
gineo-testaceous stripe, bordered on either side by a slightly broader
posteriorly widening fuscous or ferrugineo-fuscous stripe, occupying the
rest of the disk ; lateral lobes testaceous with a very broad median slightly
oblique longitudinal fuscous stripe, often itself with a median testaceous
thread ; prozona strongly produced and well rounded in front, slightly
shorter than the metazona, which broadens so as to be slightly broader
than at the eyes, and is posteriorly obtusangulate, the angle generally
very broadly rounded but variable. Tegmina extending far beyond the
abdomen, rather slender, testaceous, the costal area with a long luteous
streak, the anal area wholly luteous or luteo-testaceous, the median area
profusely maculate with fuscous, more or less blended in the proximal
half, scattered and more feeble and generally subquadrate in the distal
half; wings rather faintly flavo-infumate, immaculate. Plind femora
testaceous, the outer face hoary or lutescent below, infuscated along the
middle and generally above, the carinas punctate with fuscous at the ser-
rations ; hind tibiae ferruginous, the spines luteous with black tips.
Length of body, 46 mm. ; antennae, 16.5 mm. ; tegmiua, 41 mm.; hind
femora, 22.5 mm.
3 9. Crapada, Brazil, July, Aug. (Mus. Comp. Zool.).
