SCUDDER. — THE GENQS SCHISTOCERCA. 4G3
Haven, Aug. 23 (Morse), New Haven, Aug. 29 (Morse), Smith, Stam-
ford, Aug. 13-17 (Morse), and Greenwich, Coun., Aug. 27 (Morse);
Long Island, Sept. ; Sparkill, N. Y., Baird ; Maryland, Uhler ; Middle
States, Osten Sackea ; Jefferson, Iowa, Sept. 20, Allen; District of
Columbia (Bruner); Virginia, Oct. (Bruner); Smithville, Nov. 21,
Dingo Bluff, Nov. 15, Parker, Maynard, and Newbern, N. C. ; Georgia,
Morrison ; Florida, AVurdemann ; Biscayne Bay, Palmer, and Key West,
Fla., Morrison, Palmer, Maynard ; Texas, Aug. 19, Belfrage, Lincecum,
and Dallas, Tex., Boll; Inagua, Bahamas; Mexico, Schaum ; Yucatan,
Schott ; and Guatemala, Van Patten.
It has also been reported from Staten Island, Davis ; New Jersey,
Smith ; Kentucky, Garman ; Illinois, McNeill ; Mmnesota, Lugger ;
and Nebraska, Bruner.
26. Schistocerca sonorensis sp. nov.
Of medium size and not very stout, testaceous. Head testaceous with
none but the most obscure markings ; frontal costa subequal, deeply sul-
cate below the ocellus ; eyes very much longer than the intraocular portion
of the genjB ; autennge a third longer than the head and pronotum to-
gether, luteous. Pronotum distinctly subtectate with an excessively blunt
median carina, testaceous, without markings except a slight indication of
a quadrate fuscous patch on the lateral lobes ; prozona slightly produced
and rounded anteriorly, a very little shorter than the metazona, bluntly
rugulose, the metazona punctate but scarcely rugulose, broadening poste-
riorly so as to be a very little wider than at the eyes, posteriorly obtus-
angulate, the angle narrowly rounded. Prosternal spine luoderate,
cylindrical, erect, blunt. Tegmina extending far beyond the abdomen,
slender, testaceous, the median area profusely but obscurely maculate,
the maculations in the distal half mostly elongate ; wings hyaline, with
the very faintest possible apical infumation, immaculate. Fore and
middle femora not enlarged ; hind femora testaceous, the outer face hoary,
the inner with feeble fuscous clouds as the basis of fasciation, the carinas
punctate with fuscous on the proximal half ; hind tibise testaceous, the
spines luteous with black tips. Male cerci feebly incurved, tapering
gently by the slope of the upper margin, nearly twice as long as middle
breadth, apically truncate and minutely emarginate ; subgenital plate
rather long and slender, scaphiforra, apically acuminate on a side view
due to the slope of the inferior margin, hardly compressed, apically deeply
fissate, the fissure closed.
