466 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
testaceous stripe, the lateral lobes flavo-testaceous, more or less suffused
with fuscous, sometimes much iufuscated, rarely blotched with fuscous;
prozona slightly and roundly produced anteriorly, about as long as the
metazona, which is distinctly tumid dorsally in the female, and sometimes
in the male, expanding also so as to be about as wide as ((^) or consid-
erably wider than ( 9 ) the breadth at the eyes, posteriorly obtusangulate,
the angle broadly rounded. Prosternal spine moderate, erect, bluntly
acuminate. Tegmina extending somewhat beyond the abdomen, moder-
ately broad, testaceous or flavo-testaceous, the median area generally
heavily iufuscated next the flavous anal area, but otherwise immaculate
excepting for sometimes, especially in the female, the faintest signs of
quadrate maculatious transversely arranged in the distal half ; wings faint
flavous with luteous veins. Fore and middle femora considerably tumid
in the male; hind femora flavous, flavo-testaceous or testaceous, generally
conspicuously trifasciate with fuscous, the fasciations more or less broken
and occasionally considerably reduced; hind tibite purplish or ferrugi-
nous, the spines luteous with black tips. Male cerci less than half as
long again as broad, bent inward at the middle, tapering very little, api-
cally deeply and obliquely emarginate, the lower lobe the longer, more
extended and more broadly rounded; subgenital plate short, haustrate
rather than scaphiform, the apex deeply cleft in U -shape, the cleft more
than twice as deep as broad, the margins parallel, the angles well
rounded.
Length of body, ^, 47 mm., $, 59 mm.: antennae, ^, 20 mm., 9>
21.5 mm.; tegmina, t;^ , 38.5 mm., $, 5G mm.; hind femora, ^, 23
mm., $ , 33 mm.
2 (?, 10 9. Barber Co., Kans., Cragin (Bruner) ; Texas, Lincecum,
Belfrage; San Antonio, Tex., Newell (Bruner); Gulf coast of Texas,
Aaron; Montelovez, Coahuila, Mex., Sept. 20, Palmer.
SO. Schistocerca albolineata.
Acridlutn alboUneatum Tliom., Rep. U. S. Geol. Surv. West 100 Mer., V. 897, pi. 43,
fig. 1 (1875).
Specimens at hand come from Ames, Iowa (Bruner) ; Camas Pt.,
Idaho (Bruner); Mesilla, June 30, Morse, and Las Cruces, N. Mex.,
Aug. 19 (Bruner); and Grand Canon, Ariz., July 5 (Bruner). It was
originally described as probably from Arizona.
