SCUDDER. — THE GENUS SCHISTOCERCA. 467
31. Schistocerca venusta sp. nov.
Of fully mediura size, moderately slender, olivaceous marked with fla-
vous and more or less int'uscated. Head not very large, flavo-olivaceous,
with a greenish fuscous suborbital genal streak, and a pair of similar
divergent stripes on the vertex, darker in color in front of than behind
the eyes, bordering a broad median flavous stripe; frontal costa subequal,
moderately sulcate below the ocellus; eyes somewhat prominent, espe-
cially in the male, distinctly longer than the itifraocular portion of the
gense ; antenna) more than half as long again as tlie head and pronotuin
in the male, flavo-luteous. Pronotum feebly subtectate, olivaceous,
sometimes punctate with flavous, the lateral lobes sometimes clouded with
dull flavous and always ligliter than the disk, which is more or less though
never strongly infuscated or of a deeper green, leaving however an ordi-
narily broad flavous median stripe; median carina slight, percurrent;
prozona considerably produced and strongly rounded in front, about as
long as the metazoua, which expands only a little so as to be only as
broad as ( ^^ ) or but little broader than ( 9 ) the width at the eyes, the
disk more or less tumid, at least in the female, posteriorly obtusangulate,
the angle generally broadly rounded. Prosternal spine slender, com-
pressed conical, subacuminate, erect. Tegmina extending considerably
beyond the abdomen, moderately slender, olivaceous, immaculate, the
edge of the anal area more or less flavous; wings hyaline with green veins.
Fore and middle femora slightly enlarged in the male; hind femora not
very stout, about reaching the tip of the abdomen, olivaceous, the outer
face more or less hoary and bisally flavescent, the genicular lobe flavous ;
hind tibiae red, the spines luteous with black tips. Male cerci fully half
as long ag-ain as broad, tapering but little, inbent at middle, apically
truncate with rounded angles and mesially emarginate, the lower lobe
projecting the most; subgenital plate very short scaphiform, upturned,
apically emarginate half way to base, forming a V-shaped incision, gener-
ally much deeper than broad, the angles hardly rounded.
Length of body, J*, 45 mm., 9, 56 mm.; antennae, ^, 20 mm., 9)
19 ram.; tegmina, (J, 41 mm., 9,51.5 mm.; hind femora, (J , 23 mm., 9,
30 mm.
22 (^ , 16 9 . Grant's Pass, Oregon, Sept. 8, Morse; Gazelle, Sept.
5, JMorse, Tulare, Aug. 5, Morse, Palm Springs, July 12-13, Morse, and
Indio, Cal., July 9, Morse ; Eeno, Nev., Aug. 16; Wasatch Mts. near
Beaver, July 12-18, Palmer, and Spring Lake Villa, Utah Co., Utah,
Aug. 1-4, Palmer; Ft. Buchanan, south of Tucson, Ariz., Palmer;
