468 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Texas, June 25-26, Morse; San Luis Potosi, Mex., Palmer, and Sierra
de San Miguelito, Mex., Palmer.
The specimens, one female each, from the last two localities, differ from
the others in their greater robustness and the brevity of the tegmina,
which scarcely surpass the abdomen; the hind tibi?e also are not so bril-
liant red.
The specimens collected by Mr. Morse at Indio, Cal., were " common
on fruit and shade trees about ranches; they were shy and very active,
taking alarm easily and flying fast and far." Those taken in the north
at Grant's Pass, Or., and Gazelle, Cal., were found on willows.
32. Schistocerca mexicana sp. nov.
Of rather small size, not stout, testaceous, somewhat infuscated. Head
light testaceous, the carinse heavily infuscated, with a strong suborbital
geual fuscous stripe, and on the vertex a pair of deep fuscous diverging
and arcuate stripes, bordering the median testaceous stripe; frontal costa
subequal, faintly narrowed above and at the ocellus, sulcate below the
latter ; eyes not very prominent, ranch longer than the iufraocular por-
tion of the gense ; antennae fully half as long again as the head and
pronotum together, flavous. Pronotum feebly tectate with faint median
carina in a narrow flavo-testaceous median stripe, the rest of the disk
ferruofineo-testaceous somewhat infuscated, especially next the median
stripe, the lateral lobes ferrugineo-testaceous with a conspicuous oblong-
quadrate submedian luteous patch, edged with fuscous ; prozona produced
anteriorly and angulato-rotundate, about as long as the metazona, which
enlarges a little but is not broader than at the eyes, and behind is obtus-
angulate, the angle narrowly rounded. Prosternal spine small, erect,
conical, bluntly pointed. Tegmina extending a little beyond the abdomen,
not very slender, ferrugineo-testaceous, immaculate, the anal margin dull
flavous; wings very faintly infumate in the apical half, the veins luteous.
Fore and middle femora very slightly enlarged; hind femora flavo-testa-
ceous, the outer face hoary on the lower half, heavily trifasciate with
blackish fuscous, the fasciations completely blended on the inner face and
partly blended on the upper half of the outer face; hind tibi* purplish
fuscous, the spines hardly lighter with black tips. Male cerci heavy, sub-
equal, nearly twice as long as broad, apically truncate and slightly emar-
ginate ; subgenital plate short haustrate, not compressed, apically fissate
about half way to the base, the lobes rounded and overlapping so as to
close the fissure.
