SCUDDER. — THE GENUS SCHISTOCERCA. 471
1 (^ , 2 9 , San Jose del Cabo, Mex., Cal. Acad. Sc. (Bruner) ; Chi-
huahua, Mex. (Morse).
All the specimens have been immersed in alcohol.
36. Schistocerca perturbans sp. nov.
Of rather large size, moderately slender, testaceous. Head not very
large, testaceous, with a pair of obscure, diverging, fuscous stripes on the
vertex ; frontal costa contracted feebly at summit and just below the
ocelhis, gradually broadening below, sulcate at and below the ocellus ;
eyes longer than the infraocular portion of the gense ; antennae luteo-
testaceous. Pronotum rather feebly tectate, testaceous, obscurely infus-
cated on the sides of the disk, especially posteriorly, and also below the
middle of the lateral lobes, where the fuscous cloud is abruptly and
obliquely delimited below ; median carina rather coarse, percurrent ;
prozona anteriorly produced and angulato-rotundate, scarcely shorter than
the metazona, wliich is laterally shouldered and posteriorly only a little
obtusangulate, the angle generally narrowly rounded. Prosternal S2)ine
strong, cylindrical, blunt, erect. Tegraina very much surpassing the
abdomen, rather slender, testaceous, the median area proximally obscured
feebly with fuscous, distally faintly and rather profusely maculate with
fuscous in obliquely transverse stripes ; wings hyaline, feebly infumate
in apical half, basally very feintly lutescent, the veins luteo-ferruginous.
Hind femora testaceous, the outer face hoary, the genicular arc fuscous ;
hind tibite luteo-testaceous, the spines with black tips.
Length of body, 43 mm. ; antennae, 19 mm. ; tegmina, 51 mm. ; hind
femora, 2G.5 mm.
5 9 • Paramaribo, Dutch Guiana, Richardson (Mus. Comp. Zool.) ;
Para and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, Thayer Exp. (Mus. Comp. Zool.).
All the specimens have been long immersed in alcohol.
37. Schistocerca bivittata.
*
Grjillus flavkornis var. 5, € Thunb., Mem. Acad. St. Petersb., V. 226 (1815) t. Stal.
Acridium {Schistocerca) biviltatum Stal, Rec. Orth., I. 66 (1873).
I have not seen this species, the provenance of which is unknown. It
comes pretty certainly from South America.
