CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE GRAY HERBARIUM OF
HARVARD UNIVERSITY, NEW SERIES, No. XV.
By M. L. Fernald.
Presented by B. L. Robinson, March 8, 1899. Received March 15, 1899.
I. — ELEOCHARIS OVATA AND ITS AMERICAN ALLIES.
In attempting to place satisfactorily a number of strikingly different
American plants, which, according to the standard works upon that
group, must all be called Eleocharis ovata, a detailed study of the achenes
has shown that our present conception of the species — especially in
America — is remarkably indefinite. The commonest American plant
passing as Eleocharis ovata is an annnal species with many erect or
ascending comparatively stout culms from 1 to 5 dm. high, capped by
thick globose-ovoid or ovate-oblong obtuse densely flowered brown heads,
3 to 13 mm. long. The closely a^ipressed ascending obovate-oblong or
suborbicular scales are blunt, with scarious margins. The tubercle,
usually as broad as the cuneate-obovate achene, is depressed, somewhat
resembling in outline a high-crowned tam-o'-shanter cap; it is generally
one third as high as the body of the achene. This common American
plant (Figs. 1 to 7), now accepted as E. ovata, was described in 1 809 by
Willdenow as Scirpus obtnsus, and it was subsequently transferred by
Schultes to Eleocharis. For three fourths of a century the plant was
generally treated by Torrey, Gray, and other recognized authorities on
the group, as a distinct American species. In his monograph of the
Cyperacece, however, Burkeler reduced^ our common American Eleo-
charis {Heleocharis) ohtusa to the well known E. ovata. of central
Europe. This disposition of the plant was accepted by Mr. C. B. Clarke
in his study of the European species of Eleocharis,'^ and it has been
adopted by subsequent American students of the group, — Britton, Wat-
son, etc. Habitally the two plants are essentially alike, but a careful
examination of achenes from an abundance of American and European
specimens reveals certain differences which appear quite constant. The
1 BGckeler, Linnaea, (1869-70), XXXVI. 463. 2 Jour. Bot., XXV. 268.
