486 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
achene of the European E. ovata (Figs. 9, 10) is obovate or inverted-
pyriform in outline, and it is about three fourths as high and two thirds as
broad as the obovate or cuneate-obovate achene of the typical American
plant (Figs. 4 to 7) which commonly passes under that name. The
tubercle of true £J. ovata averages four sevenths as broad as the achene,
while that of the American plant equals the achene in breadth. Though,
as already stated, the European . E. ovata and the American plant
recently united with it are not readily distinguished by superficial
characters, the apparently constant differences in their achenes and
tubercles are sufficient to justify us in regarding our own plant as dis-
tinct from that of Europe, and in restoring to it the distinctive name
Eleocharis obtusa, under which it was so long known to American
botanists.
Although the common Americiin plant, which, for the last three de-
cades, has passed as Eleocharis ovata, proves on critical study to differ
from that species in certain well marked and constant characters, the true
jEJ. ovata of Europe is not entirely wanting in our American flora. The
American plant, however, which not only in habit but in the characters
of achene and tubercle closely matches the European specimens and
plates, is as yet known from only four northern stations, in New Bruns-
wick, Maine, Vermont, and Mioliigan. In these specimens, in habit and
achenes undoubtedly E. ovata, the oblong or ovate-oblong scales are
very dark chestnut-brown or purplish, distinctly darker than is usual in
E. obtusa.
In October, 1878, Mr. E. H. Hitchings collected in Dedham, Massa-
chusetts (presumably in Purgatory Swamp), an Eleocharis which has
proved unusually puzzling to those who have subsequently worked upon
the genus. Two sheets of the plant, showing large and small specimens,
are preserved in the Gray Flerbarium, where they have been frequently
shifted from one species cover to another. Originally Dr. Gray wrote
upon one of the sheets, a " remarkable form, I think, of Eleocharis inter-
media." Subsequently both sheets were referred by Dr. Watson to
E. obtusa ; but when studying the plants in the prejmration of his synop-
sis of "The Genus Eleocharis in North America," ^ Dr. N. L. Britton re-
ferred the two Dedham sheets to different species, the smaller specimens
to E. olivacea, the other to E. palustris. Why the two sheets should be
thus separated we cannot make out. They are, to be sure, hardly iden-
tical in size, but in general habit, scales, and achenes they are the same,
1 Jour. N. Y. Microsc. Soc, V. 95-111.
