FERNALD. — ELEOCHARIS OVATA. 491
For this reason, and in view of the slight though apparently constant
habital and structural differences, it seems hardly justifiable to identify
the Sierra Nevada and northern plant with the species of the central
and southern prairie States.
Eleocharis Engehnanni (Figs. 30 to 40), which has been treated, now
as a variety of E. ohtusa (ovata), now as a distinct species, is generally
given specific recognition. Resembling E. ohtusa in habit, it is fairly
characterized by its narrower elongated head, by its more compressed
tubercle, and by its shorter bristles. It requires no detailed discussion
here.
From these recent studies it seems that the American Eleocharis ohtusa
of Schultes is really distinct from the European E. ovata with which it
has been united, but that, although rare with us in its typical form, the
true E. ovata is represented in northeastern America principally by the
little known Prussian (Silesian) var. Heiiseri. And many annual plants,
it seems, which have been associated with these species in our herbaria,
though in some cases as closely related to E. Engelmanni, cannot be
satisfactorily identified with either species. Nor are these plants more
readily placed with the other species, E. intermedia, E. palustris, and E.
olivacea, with which they have sometinies been associated. On this
account they are here proposed, some as distinct specific types, others as
extreme varieties of older species ; and with the hope of diminishing the
confusion which has so long existed among them, the following synopsis
has been prepared of all the annual American forms (excluding the very
distinct E. intermedia) here discussed.
In the preparation of this paper, besides the extensive collection of
Eleocharis in the Gray Herbarium, and those in the Herbaria of the
United States National Museum, the Canadian Geological Survey De-
partment, Brown University, and the New England Botanical Club, the
valuable sheets in many private herbaria have been placed at my dis-
posal. To Messers. F. V. Coville, James M. Macoun, and J. Franklin
Collins I am indebted for the use of material in their charge, and to the
following gentlemen, whose private collections have largely supplemented
the representation of species exhibited in the public Herbaria consulted :
— President Ezra Brainerd, Judge J. R. Churchill, Drs. G. G. Kennedy
and C. W. Swan, Rev. E. C. Smith, and Messrs. Walter Deaue, E. L.
Rand, W. P. Rich, and E. F. Williams.
