FERNALD. — SCIRPUS ERIOPHORUM. 499
habit is that of many Scirpi, and it seenas much better placed there than
in the other genus.
As stated, the plants of Linnaeus and his predecessors and of Michaux,
both of which are probably extremes of a single species, are coarse plants
most common from southern New England southward. The base of the
involucre and the spikelets are ferruginous, and the long tangled bristles
are also reddish brown, and in the fall, when the plants are mature, the
ample inflorescences have the appearance of loose reddish brown masses
of short wool. That this plant was clearly identified by American sys-
tematists early in this century is shown, not only by their descriptions,
but by the English name " Red cotton-grass," ^ sometimes employed
by them.
Not until 1836, however, in Torrey's monograph of the Cyperacece,
was the slender and uniformly smaller greenish-brown or drab "wool-
grass," familiar to all botanists of New England and Canada, noted in
botanical works; although from a manuscript note made by Dr. Gray
while examining the Michaux herbarium, it seems that Michaux col-
lected the smaller northern plant at Lake Mistassini, and that in the
herbarium Lestiboudois had treated it as an undescribed species. Li
his monograph Torrey described the plant without a name as a variety
of Scirpus Eriophorum (^S. Eriophorimi r]'). Apparently the next
reference to the plant is in the first edition of the Manual, where, under
Scirpus Eriophorum, Dr. Gray says, " and northward are slender, less
leafy forms, with much smaller umbels, and greenish-brown scattered
small heads." ^
The slender northern plant, with the involucre black below and with
greenish black scales and dull brown or dark bristles, by all means the
commonest " wool-grass " north of Boston, does not seem to have re-
ceived much further attention. In subsequent discussions of the group
it has been united with the now clearly identified ferruginous coarse
plant of more southern range. The latter plant, the true Scirpus Erio-
phorum, Michaux, and its var. cyperinus {Eriophorum cyperinum, L.) are
usually not mature until late August or September (the average date of
collection, without regard to locality, of the specimens examined is Sep-
tember 1), while the slender northern plant, the *S'. Eriophorum rj, Torrey,
is generally mature in late June or in July (average date July 18), though
its dead-ripe woolly umbels may remain in recognizable condition until
1 Bigel. Fl. Bost. 16. 3 Gray, Man. 528.
2 Torr. Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y. iii. 331.
