CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE GRAY HERBARIUM OF HARVARD
UNIVERSITY, NEW SERIES, No. XVI.
Presented by B. L. Robinson, March 8, 1899. Received March 15, 1899
I. — REVISION OF THE GENERA MONTANOA, PERY-
MENIUM, AND ZALUZANIA.
By B. L. Robinson and J. M. Greenman.
No considerable collection of Mexican or tropical American plants
has been received at the Gray Herbarium in recent years, which has
failed to contain one or more new or otherwise exceptionally interesting
Compositce of the subtribe Verbesinece. The repeatedly experienced
difficulty of properly placing such plants — due on the one hand to the
imperfect characterization of many of the earlier described species, and
on the other to the somewhat vague generic lines — has suggested the
revisions here presented. While by no means exhaustive treatments,
they correlate the hitherto scattered results of considerable recent work
on this group, and furnish, in the light of the fuller material now avail-
able, a new critique upon many of the earlier species. Of the genera
here treated, Montanoa has long been the most difficult, largely by reason
of the brief and obscure descriptions of many species, chiefly those of
Schultz Bipontinus, a writer whose long and intensive study of the Com-
positcB led him to a far more critical discrimination than intelligible
description of species. Probably no one in recent years has given more
attention to the work of Schultz than the late Dr. F. W. Klatt, who
examined many of his types, and, when unable to secure duplicate speci-
mens, recorded his observations by excellent sketches and notes. The
recent acquisition of the Klatt collection of Compositce by the Gray
Herbarium has rendered it possible to interpret many of these doubtful
plants with greater precision than could heretofore be effected on this
side of the Atlantic. Others, however, are still obscure, and must remain
so until their types can be examined in scattered European herbaria.
Even when this can be accomplished, it is a question with how much
practicality or justice such species, many of which are merely nomina
subnuda, can be revived to displace fully and carefully characterized
