508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
species of later date. At all events, it is highly inexpedient to per-
mit the existence of imperfectly described plants to block the advance
of classification in the groups concerned, and, while anxious to give
proper recognition to all the more careful work of Schultz and others,
we have no hesitation in frankly relegating their less intelligible siDCcios,
for the present, to that limbo of dubice which must long be appended to
several of the larger genera of the Verhesinece.
In citing specimens, literature, and synonymy, the writers have aimed
to supplement rather than to repeat what can be readily found in the
Synoptical Flora, Biologia Centrali-Americana, Flora Brasiliensis, or
Index Kewensis. Species of which no specimens have been seen during
these revisions are marked by an asterisk (*). The writers are grateful
to Mr. F. V. Coville and Dr. J. N. Rose for the loan of the genus Mon-
tanoa from the U. S. National Museum, and to Miss Mary A. Day for
the verification of references and other bibliographical assistance.
MONTANOA, Llav. &, Lex. Heads (except in one species) hetero-
gamous with neutral ligulate uniseriate ray-flowers and few to many per-
fect dif^k-flowers (the inner sometimes sterile). Involucre subcylindric to
hemispherical, its bracts mostly narrow, 1-2-seriate, linear- to lance-ob-
long, rarely spatulate. Pales keeled, folded about the achenes, papery to
subcartilaginous, attenuate or abruptly narrowed to an acute and often
spinescent tip, persistent, accrescent, and more or less squarrose in fruit,
always somewhat villous (densely so in the first subgenus), but sometimes
quite glabrate ; receptacle conical. Ligules spreading, usually oblong and
emarginate at the end, without styles ; achenes of the ray-flowers abor-
tive, empty, pappusless. Disk-flowers regular, tubular, 5-toothed ; proper
tube slender, throat campanulate, and nerveless teeth ovate, acute.
Style-branches slightly thickened upwards and appendaged with a short
or slender acumination ; achenes thickish, laterally compressed, rela-
tively short, obovate ; pappus none. — Pithy-stemmed shrubs, sometimes
arborescent, with opposite serrate, dentate, or often lobed leaves, and
white or purplish corymbose heads. — Nov. Veg. Desc. ii. 11 (1825);
Sch. Bip. in Koch, Wochenschr. vii. 406-408 ; Benth. & Hook. f. Gen.
ii. 364; Hemsl. Biol. Cent.-Am. Bot. ii. 164; HofFm. in Engl. & Prantl,
Nat. Pflanzenf. iv. Ab. 5, 232. Eriocarpha, Cass. Diet. Sci. Nat. lix.
236 (1829). Eriocoma, HBK. Nov. Gen. & Spec. iv. 2Q7, t. 396
(1820). Montagncea, DC. Prodr. v. 564 (1836). — An exclusively
neontogenous and very natural group of 32 distinct species, extend-
ing from Northern Mexico to Panama, with outlying species as far
