614 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
slightly auricled at the base, little paler beneath, the margin essentially
entire; petioles 4 to 10 cm. long: heads rather small, 8 ram. in diameter
(excl. of ligules), on flexuous pubescent pedicels in a loose panicle : rays
about 5, white, 7 ram. long. — Temperate regions on the Andes of
Venezuela, Merida, Moritz, no. 1386; Quebrada near Quetame, U. S.
Colombia, Andre, no. 862.
15. M. guateraalensis. Leaves subcoriaceous, wholly glabrate
above, and canescent-tomentulose beneath, subentire, 1 dm. in breadth:
heads larger, 1 cm. broad in anthesis ; rays 1.5 cm. long: otherwise simi-
lar in most of its characters to the preceding species. — M. patens, Coulter
in J. Donnell Smith, 1. c, not Gray. — Guatemala on the Volcano Jumay-
tepeque, Depart. Santa Rosa, altitude 1,800 m., Heyde & Lux, December,
1892, no. 4216 of Mr. J. Donnell Smith's sets.
•w- -M- Leaves scabrous above.
1 6. M. hexagona. A large tree : branchlets thick, strongly quad-
rangular, fulvous-tomentose above, at length glabrate : leaves hexagonal-
ovate, distinctly and rather regularly serrate, about 1.4 dm. long, 1.3 dm.
broad, acute or subacuminate, scabrous-puberulent above and arachnoid-
tomentose beneath even in age, obtuse and unappendaged at the base ;
petioles thick, channelled above, wingless, tomentose, 7 cm. long: heads
numerous and rather large in a very regular opposite-branched leafy-
bracted panicle; pedicels 1.5 cm. long: involucral bracts lance-oblong,
2-seriate, acute, 3 to 4 mm. long : ligules 8 to 10, white, more than 2 cm.
long : fruit unknown. — Temperate regions in the mountains of Chiapas,
Ghiesbreght, no. 535 ; flowering in October. Type in herb. Gray.
•<- t- -^ I- Leaves petioled, ovate or ovate-lanceolate, 4 to 7 cm. broad, crenate
or serrate, or shallowly 1-lobed on either side.
*+ Erect shrubs (at least showing in specimens no sign of climbing or trailing
habit) : leaves of membranous but of firm often harsh texture : peduncles
erect or nearly so.
= Pales gradually narrowed to a long stout at length squarrosely spreading or
recurved stramineous spintescent tip.
17. M. FRUTESCENS, Hemsl. Shrub, 3 m. high, with terete glabrous
or early glabrate often purple branches : leaves ovate-lanceolate, serrate,
caudate-acuminate, narrowed and unappendaged at the base, bright green
and scabrous above, slightly paler and glabrate beneath : heads (not
numerous) on stiffish peduncles; disk globose, in anthesis 1.3 cm. broad:
rays about 8, 1 cm. long, white : pales nearly glabrous, accrescent, at
length 1 to 2 cm. long, contorted and squarrose, thickish, firm and pun-
