36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
from B' without stopping the coustaut flow of steam through A, by means
of the siphou f, which is provided with a valve. The steam, after pass-
ing through the hot chamber, is led to the outer air by a jacketed pipe
h, descending* from the bottom of A.
The connections of the thermal elements are led out of the sides of the
prism shut in by A and Z>, and are held between slabs of wood, which act
as a sort of guard-ring jacket to the prism for about 40 centimeters before
they emerge. The platinoid or German silver leads of these thermal
junctions within the prism are soldered together, and to a copper wire
leading to the (copper) wire of a potentiometer, p. The copper ends of
the couples lead to a mercury switch by which any one of them, or any
pair pitted against each other, may be (|uickly connected with a second
copper wire leading to the potentiometer. On its way from the switch
to the cold junctions in C through the potentiometer wire, the current
encounters only copper. By means of a somewhat elaborate standard
potentiometer, not shown in the diagram, the resistance, A', in the poten-
tiometer circuit can be so adjusted that every millimeter on the poten-
tiometer wire corresponds to an}' desired small ])Oteutial difference, such
as one microvolt or one tenth of a microvolt. Katlier tlian make this
adjustment many times a day to conform to the varying temperature of
the copper wire, however, we lind it better to determine the slight correc-
tions necessary to reduce the readings to absolute measure, by noting at
frequent intervals the indications of a standard thermal couple, the elec-
tromotive force of which is well known. The potentiometer wire, which
is 0.25 mm. in diameter, can be changed in a few seconds for new wire,
if the old should become dented or stretched.
Into the vessel D about 100 kilograms of cracked ice can be put, and
this ice can be kept in constant motion over the smooth bottom by help
of the electric motor, M.
Figure 7 shows a similar but smaller ai)paratus without its elaborate
system of inch thick asbestos jackets. Z? is a closed iron drum contain-
ing a rotary stirrer and rubber scraper turned by a motor. Through D
a large volume of water can be sent at a steady rate. The hot chamber
is the iron box, B, planed on its upper surface and communicating at the
bottom with a retort chamber, C, in whi(;h about 20 kilograms of mercury
can be kept boiling. The outlet at fallows the vapor to escape to the
tube^f, connecting with a large wrought iron chamber where it condenses
* In the diagram, A is erroneously represented as ascendinfj, and as inserted in
the side of A.
