GREENMAN. — MEXICAN PHANEROGAMS. 569
ate at the base, entire, glabrous and smooth upon either surface, or
slightly roughened on the prominent midrib and nerves beneath, rather
strongly reticulately veined, the lower surface somewhat glaucous : in-
florescence racemose ; racemes axillary, including the peduncle 6 cm. or
less in length ; rhachis, pedicels, and the minute bracts closely ferrugine-
ous-stellate : flowers subsecund : calyx cupulate, 5 to 6 mm. high, about
equalling the pedicels, shallowly sinuate, 5-dentate, argenteous-lepidote :
corolla about 1.5 cm. long ; externally and along the margins of the
upper surfaces of the lobes argenteous-pubescent or somewhat scaly :
filaments and ovary above stellate-pubescent: fruit not seen. — Collected
by C. G. Pringle in mountain canons above Cuernavaca, State of Morelos,
altitude 2,000 m., 15 May, 1898, no. 6848.
The species is named in honor of Sr. Dr. Jose Ramirez, Director of
El Institute Medico Nacional, City of Mexico.
Menodora helianthemoides, Humb. & Boupl., var. parviflora.
Stems several, procumbent, more or less branched, 5 to 20 cm. long:
foliage and inflorescence of the species : calyx 6 to 7 mm. long, usually
11-lobed: corolla about 1cm. long, equally 5-lobed ; lobes oblong-
elliptic, 6 to 7 mm. long, 3 to 4 mm. broad : mature capsule about 6 mm.
high, nearly 1 cm. broad. — Collected by C. G. Pringle on bare hills
above Pachuca, State of Hidalgo, altitude 2,600 m., 30 July, 1898,
no. 6918.
A well marked variety, differing from the species chiefly by the smaller
flowers and less hirsute-pubescent branches.
Sabbatia arenicola. Annual, glabrous throughout: stems 5 to 10
cm. high, dichotomously much-branched, more or less 4-angled : leaves
sessile, ovate-oblong to elliptic-oblong, 0.5 to 1.5 cm. long, about one
half as broad, obtuse, entire, thickish. inconspicuously 3-5-nerved : flowers
terminating the branches, pedunculate : peduncles 0.5 to 1.5 cm. in
length : calyx campanulate, pentagonal, later becoming turbinate and
strongly 5-ribbed along the angles ; lobes lance-oblong, 5 to 10 mm.
long, 2 to 4 mm. broad, obtuse, entire : corolla lilac or rose-purple, about
1 cm. or more in diameter, yellowish in the throat, persistent ; lobes
obovate-rotund : stamens adnate to the throat of the corolla ; filaments
one half as long as the corolla-lobes : mature capsule 5 to 6 mm. long ;
seeds strongly reticulated. — Collected by C. G. Pringle on damp sands
of seacoast near Tampico, State of Tamaulipas, 28 April, 1898, no.
6808.
A species most nearly related to S. camjyestris^ Nutt., but readily
distinguished by the less attenuate calyx-lobes and the much smaller
corolla.
