572 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Oestrum flavescens. Shrub, about 1 m. in height : stems covered
with a light grayish bark, the young shoots finely pubescent : leaves
ovate to ovate-elliptic, 3 to 5 cm. long, one half to two thirds as broad,
obtuse, narrowed at the base into a slightly winged petiole (5 to 10 mm.
in length), more or less pubescent on either surface, especially on the
veins beneath : inflorescence subracemose at the ends of the branches ;
peduncles and sometimes the pedicels apparently adnate to the base of
the petioles: calyx about 5 mm. long, 5-lobed; tube glabrous or slightly
puberulent; lobes triangular-ovate, a little irregular, 1 to 1.5 mm. long,
acute, tomentulose at the tips: corolla 2 to 2.5 cm. long, reddish-yellow,
tubular, gradually arapliated above, constricted at the throat, glabrous;
lobes broadly ovate, about 2 mm. long, obtuse, pubescent along the
margins, reflexed : stamens included, glabrous: immature fruit glabrous.
— Collected by C. G. Pringle, in lava fields near Cuernavaca, State of
Morelos, altitude 1500 m., 11 May, 1898, no. G832.
In general appearance this species bears a superficial resemblance to
tlie Guatemalan C Regelii, Planch. Fl. Serres, ix. t. 946; but from the
latter Mr. Pringle's plant is amply different, in the less acuminate
leaves, the shorter and broader calyx-lobes, and finally in the longer
and more slender corollas.
PiTHECOCTENiUM BDCCiNATGRiuM, DC. Prodr. ix. 195. Blf/nonia
huccinaforia, Mairet in DC. 1. c. ; Hemsl. Biol. Cent.-Am. Bot. ii. 490;
Hooker in Bot. IMag. t. 7516. f
In 1878 Parry and Palmer collected in the mountains of San Luis
Potosi both flowering and fruiting specimens of this species, and later in
1880 complete specimens were secured by Prof. Duges in the vicinity of
Guanajuato. The characters of the fruit, hitherto unknown, clearly in-
dicate that the affinity of the plant is with the genus Pithecocteniu?n and
not with Bignonia. The following supplementary description may be
given: capsule oblong-elliptic, 1.4 to 1.6 dm. in length, about 6 cm.
broad, somewhat narrowed at either end and densely echinate over the
entire surface; valves at maturity falling away from the replum : seeds
disposed in 4 to 5 rows. To this species may be referred specimens from
the following stations : San Luis Potosi, Parry & Palmer, no. 695,
Schaffner, no. 746; vicinity of Guanajuato, Duges (coll. of 1880), with-
out number; Puebla, Bilimek, no. 230, and by the same collector at
" Cakobaya," no. 229 ; and in the cultivated state at Orizaba, Botteri, no.
915, and A. Gray (coll. of 1885), without number.
Ruellia malacosperma. Perennial, conspicuously lineolate through-
out: stems 3 to 5 dm. high, erect or ascending from a ligneous base, te-
