GREENMAN. — MEXICAN PHANEROGAMS. 573
rete or obtusely 4-angled, glabrous or sparingly villous : leaves opposite,
oblong-lanceolate, including the narrow less villous petiole 5 to 13 cm.
long, 1 to 3 cm. broad, acuminate, acute or the lower obtuse or even
rounded at the apex, narrowed at the base into a petiole, entire or sub-
repand, densely lineolate on either surface, and with a few scattered
villous hairs on the midrib and margins, especially towards the base :
inflorescence cymose-pauiculate ; peduncles 4 to 6 cm. long ; pedicels
0.5 to 1.5 cm. long; bracts and bracteoles lance-linear, 1 cm. or less in
length: calyx deeply and regularly 5-parted; tube 2 to 4 mm. long;
divisions linear-attenuate, 1 to 2 cm. long, these as well as the pedicels
densely lineolate and stipitate-glandular, not hirsute : corolla purple, 4 to
5.5 cm. long, tubular-funnelform, externally puberulent; tube slender
below, ampliated above ; lobes subrotund, 1.5 cm. or more broad : mature
capsules 2.5 to 3 cm. long, glabrous, about 15-seeded; seeds slightly
oblique, 3 mm. broad, flattened, canescent. — Collected by C. G. Pringle
in lowlands near Tampico, State of Tamaulipas, 30 April, 1898, no.
6806 ; and by Dr. Edward Palmer in the vicinity of Acapulco, October,
1894, to March, 1895, no. 570 (distributed as Ruellia ? ovcdifolla,
Hemsl. ex char. ?) ; also by Botteri at Orizaba, in herb. Gray without
number.
A species having its affinity apparently with R. d'qjter acanthus, Hemsl.,
and R. tuherosa, L., but differing from the former by inflorescence and
longer corolla, also by the character of the calyx, and from the latter by
the foliar characters. The seeds of this plant in the dried state are cov-
ered with an appressed canescent pubescence, which however, when
moistened, is more or less spreading and almost velvety, hence the specific
name.
Randia canescens. Shrub or small tree, 3 to 5 m. high : stems
terete, covered with a grayish bark : spines 5 to 10 mm. in length : leaves
broadly obovate, 1 to 1.5 cm. long, nearly as broad, abruptly narrowed
below into a short petiole or subsessile, rounded or obtuse at the apex,
canescent-pubescent on either surface : flowers solitary, terminating short
axillary branches : calyx-tube about 4 mm. long, appressed-canescent-
pubescent ; lobes linear, acute, about equalling the tube, grayish-pubes-
cent : corolla salverform ; tube nearly 1 cm. long, somewhat folded on
itself near the middle, externally pubescent, internally glabrous : lobes
somewhat thickened, broadly ovate, about 6 mm. long, nearly as broad,
obtuse or rounded at the apex, glabrous above, ciliate : fruit not seen. —
Collected by C. G. Pringle in barrancas near Cuernavaca, State of
Morelos, altitude 1,500 m., 28 May, 1898, no. 6863.
