574 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Randia Nelsonii. Stems sparingly armed, covered with a grayish
or reddish-brown bark, rather numerously dotted with lenticels ; the
young shoots pubescent: leaves thin in texture, obovate or subcuneate,
1.5 to 3 cm. long, two thirds as broad, narrowed at the base into a short
petiole, usually rounded, but occasionally slightly retuse, obtuse, or even
short acumiiiate-apiculate at the apex, soft-pubescent on either surface :
flowers axillary, solitary, sessile : calyx including the slender spreading
lobes not exceeding 5 mm. in length, canescent-pubescent especially on
the tube : corolla including the lobes 2.5 to 3 cm. long ; tube about 1.5 cm.
long, externally puberulent, internally pubescent in the upper half; lobes
oblong-ovate, obtuse, nearly glabrous. — Collected by E. W. Nelson on
the way from Juchitan to Chivela, State of Oaxaca, altitude 46 to 277 m.,
1895, no. 2635.
A species somewhat resembling B. Pringlei, Gray, but readily distin-
guished from it by the texture of the leaves, the infloresence, the longer
corolla, and shorter calyx-lobes.
Eupatorium Conzattii. Glabrous throughout: stems herbaceous,
ancipitally compressed and subhexagonal, striate, reddish-brown : leaves
petiolate, oblong-lanceolate, 5 to 15 cm. long, 2 to 6 cm. broad, acuminate,
acute, obtuse or somewhat rounded at the base and slightly decurrent on
the (7 to 20 mm. long) petioles, crenate-dentate, distinctly 3-nerved from
above the base, conspicuously veined, pellucid-jDunctate : inflorescence
terminating the stems in a compound pyramidal panicle : heads 8 to 9 mm.
long, clustered at the tips of the branchlets in threes or fives, sessile
or short-pedicellate, 5-6-flowered ; involucre cylindrical ; scales imbri-
cated, 5-6-seriate, oblong, obtuse or rounded at the tip, distinctly nerved,
purplish or stramineous, the outer gradually shorter and darker: flowers
about 8 mm. long: achenes 4 mm. long, glabrous; pappus equalling the
corollas. — Collected by Prof. C. Conzatti in humid forests on the Cerro
del Chiquihuite, Colonia Melchor Ocampo, Cordoba, State of Vera Cruz,
altitude 1,300 m., 7 December, 1895, no 17.
This species may be recognized readily by the 3-nerved prominently
veined i^ellucid-punctate leaves associated with the few-flowered cylin-
drical heads. In general aspect E. Conzattii resembles E. vanillosmoi-
des, Sch. Bip., but is easily distinguished from it by the venation of the
leaves. From E. tepicanum, Hemsl., which is said to have ovate-lance-
olate pellucid- punctate leaves, our plant differs in having herbaceous
instead of woody branches.
Eupatorium leptodictyon, Gray, in "Wats. Proc. Am. Acad. xxii.
420. Excellent specimens of this characteristic species were collected by
