GREENMAN. — MEXICAN PHANEROGAMS. 577
base), decurrent into a petiole, acute or short-acuminate, mucronate, cre-
uate-serrate with mucronate teeth, cuneate at the base, thickish, conspic-
uously veined, glabrous upon either surface or with a few scattered hairs
on the midrib beneath ; petioles 8 to 20 mm. long, channelled above, usu-
ally ciliate : inflorescence cymose or cymose-paniculate, few-headed ; pe-
duncles 1 to 3 cm. long : heads about 1 cm. high, radiate ; outer scales of
the involucre about 14, spatulate, 4 mm. long, obtuse, ciliate, the inner
lance-oblong, 6 to 7 mm. long, narrowed near the obtuse puberulent tip :
ray-flowers sterile; achenes o-angular, exaristate; rays oblong-obovate,
2 cm. long, 8 mm. broad, white with yellowish nerves : disk-flowers nu-
merous ; mature achenes linear, 6 to 10 mm. long, longitudinally ribbed,
glabrous or hispidulous on the angles especially towards the apex, 2-4-
aristate. — Collected by C. G. Pringle on sand dunes near Tampico, State
of Tamaulipas, 29 April, 1898, no. 6820.
Bahia xylopoda. Perennial : stems decumbent, branching from the
base : branches ascending, about 1.5 dm. high, more or less hoary -pubes-
cent : leaves opposite or alternate, triternately compound, segments linear
or subterete, obtusish, hirtellous-puberulent : heads radiate, about 1 cm.
high, usually long-pedunculate, erect or nodding : involucral bracts sixb-
biseriate, the outer oblong, somewhat truncate, rounded or obtuse at the
apex, the inner often more narrowed at either end and acutish, veiny
with thinnish margins, grayish-white-pubescent on the outer surface with
stipitate glandular hairs intermixed : ray-flowers fertile ; ligules including
the pubescent tube nearly or quite 1 cm. long ; disk-flowers numerous ;
pappus usually of 8 narrowly oblong-obovate subequal scales, about 2 mm.
long, cuneate at the base : corollas of the disk-flowers 4 mm. long, below
pubescent on the outside : mature achenes 5 to 6 mm. long, hirtellous-
pubescent above, canescent on the angles of the slender base. — Collected
by C. G. Pringle, on bare hills above Pachuca, State of Hidalgo, altitude
2,600 m., 30 July, 1898, no. 6931.
This species is nearly related to B. Pringlei, Greenm., but is distin-
guished readily by the longer achenes, narrower scales of the pappus, and
also, according to Mr. Pringle, by the entire absence of running roots.
Cacalia ampuUacea. Stems 1 to 2 m. high, striate, purplish, pu-
berulent: lower leaves petiolate, oblong-ovate, 2 to 3 dm. long, two
thirds as broad, membranous, pubescent above, white-tomentose beneath,
about 13-lobed, with rounded sinuses, the main lobes 6 cm. or less long,
these again irregularly dentate-lobed ; stem leaves sessile, ovate-oblong,
1 dm. or less long, 1 to 1.5 cm. broad, strongly saccate below and sur-
rounding the stem : inflorescence rather densely corymbose : peduncles
VOL. XXXIV. — 37
