582 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY,
Viti Levu, besides being the largest and most important island of the
group, possesses mucli more geological interest than the rest of the islands,
since it is essentially different in its rock formations. Wichman has
shown that granites, syenites, diorites, and gabbros occur on this island,
as well as crystalline schists and limestones ; and he reaches the conclu-
sion that the island was an old continental mass composed of these older
plutonic rocks which stood above the water during the whole of the
Paleozoic and Mesozoic ages. During the Tertiary the island was sub-
merged, and received its stratified deposits of limestone, sandstone, and
conglomerate, and was also rent by volcanoes. A few specimens from the
interior of the island were given to Mr. Agassiz, one of them being a
small piece of dioritic granite having the typical hypidiomorphic granular
structure, and thus tending to confirm the presence of plutonic rocks on
the island.
The large island of Vanua Levu, which lies northeast of Viti Levu, is
said to be similar to Viti Levu in structure, but very little is known
about it. Kleinschmidt desci'ibes a visit to the hot springs on it, but
apparently made no petrographical collections. The rest of the islands
of the group are volcanic or of coral formation.
The various types of igneous rocks found in the collection might be
conveniently included under the following heads: —
Dioritic granite. Hypersthene andesite.
Augite andesite. Hornblende andesite.
Augite-biotite andesite. Basalt.
Augite-olivine andesite. Olivine basalt.
Andesites and basalts are the characteristic rocks of the region, and
they show the usual variations in structure and mineral components.
Augite andesite seems to be the predominating rock of the islands, and it
varies from types having a small amount of augite with a large amount
of feldspar, with biotite as an accessory, to those in which augite is the
dominant constitueut, showing a gradation into a basalt. Hypersthene
andesite was shown by one specimen, so it can be considered as of rare
occurrence. Hornblende andesite is more common, yet is also very
limited in amount compared to the augite andesite. In fact, the more
basic type of the andesitic family predominates, augite, olivine, and
labradorite forming the most abundant constituents of the specimens.
In the description which follows each island represented in the collec-
tion has its specimen or specimens described in detail.
