EAKLE. ROCKS FROM THE FIJI ISLANDS. 583
VlTI Levu.
Specimeus of eruptives were obtained by gift from three localities on
this island.
Kai Vatu Lola. — Specimens of jasper, quartz, and the granite pre-
viously mentioned are labelled from this place, which is believed to be in
the central part of the island.
The granite megascopically presents a white granular rock, having
plates of dark hornblende well disseminated through it. The structure
is hypidiomorphic graiudar, and the composition is essentially of plagio-
clase feldspar with green hornblende plates and quartz grains. Most of
the feldspar sections exhibit fine polysynthetic twinning combined very
often with Carlsbad twinning. The extinction angles on sections normal
to the brachypinacoid 010 vary from a small angle up to a maximum
extinction of 18°. The index of refraction of the sections showing the
larger extinction angles is slightly below that of the Canada balsam,
indicating albite as the feldspar, while oligoclase is also present, but not
so prominent. A few sections of orthoclase more cloudy in appearance
than the plagioclases occur, and also two or three sections of microcline
showing a beautiful grating structure. The feldspars are in general
quite fresh and free from inclusions with the exception of an occasional
apatite and zircon crystal. A few of the smaller sections possess good
crystal boundaries.
Hornblende is abundant in plates with ends usually frayed out. Much
of it is altered to yellowish green chlorite and granular epidote and the
formation of some calcite. The fresh hoi'ublende shows strong pleo-
chroism.
Quartz is not very abundant in the rock, and cannot be detected in the
hand specimen. A few basal and prismatic anhedrons are seen however
in the thin section as an original filling between the feldspars. Magnetite
occurs which is evidently titaniferous, as it usually has a border of grayish
leucoxene surrounding the grains.
An analysis of this rock would doubtlfess show a large percentage of
soda in its composition because of the large amount of albite present, as
well as of oligoclase, and the small amount of potash feldspar. While
designated here as a dioritic granite, it might perhaps equally well be
considered a quartz diorite. It is the only one of the specimeus in the
collection which is not effusive in its origin. Wichman describes an
amphibole granite very rich in plagioclase from INEuanivatu Mountains*
* Loc. c'lt., p. 8.
