584 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
in the island, which agrees quite closely with this rock, and may possibly
be the same rock.
Mt. Victoria. — A specimen of augite andesite is from this mountain,
which rises in the nortlieru part of the island. The rock shows mega-
scopic prisms of augite, magnetite grains, and a few feldspars in a dense
greenish black base. Under the microscope the groun<lmass appears as
a web of feldspar and augite microlites with many magnetite grains, ce-
mented by a colorless to yellowish glass, the whole having a hyalopilitic
structure.
Plagioclase, augite, and anhedrous of magnetite occur as phenocrysts.
The feldspar phenocrysts predominate. The sections are large twinned
plates and give an average extinction of 28° normal to 010, showing
them to be labradorite. Zonal structure is seen well in some of the
brachypinacoidal sections, and the extinction angles of the zones range
from +7° on the outer shell to —39° in the centre. Colorless and
yellowish glass inclusions are abundant in the feldspar phenocrysts in
zonal arrangement. Augite or diopside occurs in pale green, large basal
and prismatic sections occasionally containing inclusions of glass and
magnetite with a few apatite needles.
The feldspar and augite phenocrysts have been penetrated along the
cleavages and fissures by a yellowish brown oxide of iron which also
lines some of the cavities with brown banded layers. This oxide has
apparently been derived from an iron-rich olivine, whose former presence
is indicated by a few irregular sections of fibrous serpentine mixed with
brown iron oxide and carbonates.
The base of the rock w^eathers to a light brown, leaving the augite
crystals standing out prominently unaltered.
Na dari Vatu. — An olivine-bearing augite andesite is labelled from
this locality, which id said to be in the northern part of the island.
The rock has a dark gray holocrystalline base in which megascopic
crystals of black augite are prominently disseminated. The base is largely
feldspathic, but includes some small augites, although most of the py-
roxenic constituent of the rock is in large phenocrysts.
Plagioclase, augite, and olivine are the chief constituents.
Sections normal to 010 of the feldspars give an average extinction of
22°, indicating an andesine or perhaps the soda-lime end of labradorite,
as the kind of plagioclase phenocrysts. Zonal structure is common, and
inclusions of the older formed minerals augite, olivine, and apatite, besides
much glass, zonally arranged, are seen.
Augite occurs in automorphic sections, containing apatite and olivine
inclusions. It is suboi'dinate to the feldspars in amount.
