EAKLB. — ROCKS FROM THE FIJI ISLANDS. 587
Basalt from Mbengha.
Mbengha is a small islaud lying near tlie southern coast of Viti Levu.
The structure of the biisalt is somewliaL hitersertal, cousisting of stout
laths of feldspar with the interspaces hlled with a mixture of glass and
mascnetite grains and some au<rite niicrolites.
The feldspar phenocrysts show labradoritic extinctions, and are gener-
ally cloudy from numberless brownish glass inclusions and dust particles
zonally arranged. The centres of the sections are mostly ([uite dark with
these inclusions, vvliile the rims are pure and colorless.
Augite occurs abundantly as the largest phenocrysts. It is of the
common pale green color, non-pleochroic, and occurs in very perfect
idiomorphic crystals. Tliey show a well developed cleavage, and often
a zonal and also a beautiful hourglass structure. The orthopinacoidal
twinning is seen on some of the plates. Large well formed crystals of
apatite are present. Yellowish brown stains of iron oxides traverse' the
groundmass and line the cavities with banded layers.
Specimens were collected from a few of the small islands lying directly
west of Viti Levu which appear to belong to the more acidic end of the
andesitic group of rocks.
Andesite from Malolo.
Malolo is a small low island lying near the west coast of Viti Levu.
The rock from this island is compact, holocrystalline, and of a lead
gray color. It has a feebly polarizing feldspathic base in which frayed
out rods of feldspar occur, giving the rock a trachytic appearance. The
small laths of feldspar show less than 5° extinction angles. A few
small patches of chlorite in bright grenu plates occur. The specimen is
from the surface, and appears as if it had been exposed to the action of
the waves, by which its original condition has been changed into a felsitic
appearing rock. Magnetite is present in grains.
Andesite from Vatu Mbulo.
Vatu Mbulo is a mere projecting rock above the water, belonging to
the Malolo group. In appearance the specimen from this island is very
much the same as the preceding. It has the same compact felsitic
a[)pearance, with a lead gray color, and seems also to have been altered
by the constant exposure to the waves. Under the microscope, however,
it shows a few phenocrysts in the base. The groundmass is a mixture of
