EAKLE. ROCKS FROM THE FIJI ISLANDS. 589
HyPERSTHENE AnDESITE from VomO LAI LAI.
Vomo lai I:ii is a rock about two huiulred feet high on the island of
Vomo, which lies near Waia.
The specimen is a gray porous rock liaving visible small pheiiocrysts
of pyroxene and feldspar.
The groundmass has a hyalopilitic structure consisting of a dense mat
of feldspar rods and augite microlites with magnetite grains cemented by
a greenish brown glass. The amount of base is small compared with the
phenocryst constituent of the rock.
The pyroxene microlites appear to be wholly augite, as they are non-
pleochroic and do not extinguish parallel. The phenocrysts are plagio-
clase, hypersthene, and augite.
The plagioclase plienocrysts predominate, and most are short rectangu-
lar sections and square plates, abundantly filled with zonally arranged
brownish glass inclusions which impart a cloudy aspect to the sections.
Undulating extinction due to pressure or strain is noticeable in several
of the larger plates. The extinction angles on sections normal to the
twinning lamellsB reach 33°, showing the presence of a quite basic labra-
dorite. The rods, however, and some of the phenocrysts, show much
smaller extinction angles, under 10°, and are probably oligoclase.
The pyroxene phenocrysts are both hypersthene and augite, which are
at times intimately associated. The hypersthene occurs in prismatic and
basal sections which give the common optical characteristics. The pleo-
chroism is quite marked, although not especially strong ; c = bluish
green, a = reddish brown, and b = brownish yellow. The plane of the
optic axes is 010, and sections parallel to 100 show they are normal to
the acute bisectrix, although the optic angle is a little wider than the field
of the microscope. The augite is bluish green, exactly matching the
color of the hypersthene in the vertical direction. It is non-pleochroic
and shows the large extinction angle. One section encloses an irregular
core of the pleochroic hypersthene.
This is the only instance where the orthorhombic pyroxene was noted
as a constituent of the rocks from this region, yet its presence might be
more generally shown from a study of a larger amount of material.
There is a noticeable absence of olivine in the rocks of these islands,
while on the other hand it is a common constituent of the rocks from
all of the volcanic islands lyiiig at a distance to the east of Viti Levu.
These eastern islands are composed of rocks decidedly more basic in
composition than those from the islands immediately adjacent to the large
island of Viti Levu, as will be seen in the descriptions which follow.
