590 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
OVALAU.
This is a very important island of the <^roup, lying just east and near
Viti Levu, but no specimens other than some mm-h decomposed rock
from the vicinity of Levuka were collected. The specimens appear to be
altered andesites, either hornblende or augite andesites. According to
VVichman the prevailing rock is augite andcsite, although some hornblende
andesite does occur.
Olivine Basalt fkom Wakaya.
Wakaya is about four miles long, lying nine miles east of Levuka.
Its highest peak rises 595 feet above the sea.
The basalt is a dark greenish brown vesicular rock containing amyg-
daloids of calcite.
Microscopically the rock shows a brown vitro})hyric base which has a
slight tendency to perlitic structure developed in the consolidation.
Long, slim feathery forms of feldspar are scattered through the amor-
phous base. There are only one or two lath-shaped sections present, and
these show by their extinctions that they are labradorite. The pheno-
crysts are olivine and augite. Olivine occurs in perfect automorphic
crystals which are often stained yellowish by the oxide of iron which has
resulted from a slight alteration of the olivine. Embayments formed by
the groundmass are seen in some of the crystals.
Augite is less than the olivine in amount. It occurs in pale green
automorphic crystals, and contains inclusions of the older minerals, olivine
and magnetite, besides some glass.
The rock from its mineral composition might be considered a lim-
burgite, yet the large amount of glass base present would doubtless show
the rock to be, chemically, a more acidic type of rock than a limburgite.
Olivine Basalt from Makongai.
Makongai is two miles long by one and a half miles wide, lying
seven and a half northwest of Wakaya. It has two peaks in the centre,
with an average height of 875 feet.
The specimens from this island are too much altered to determine
their petrographic characters, but the rock appears to have been like
that from Wakaya. Well developed olivine and augite crystal? are still
preserved in the decomposed base.
