eaklp::. — hocks from the fi.ji islands. 591
Olivine Basalt fuom Ngau.
The island of Ngau lies twenty-seven miles southeast of Ovalau, and is
eleven miles long by four miles wide.
The rock is porous, of a gray color, and under the microscope shows
a base composed mainly of stout plagioclase laths, whose angular inter-
spaces are filled with a speckled mixture of bluish green augite microlites,
minute feldspathic rods, and magnetite grains, the whole forming an
intersertal structure. No glass is however apparent. The feldspathic
constituent is limited to the plagioclase laths and rods in the groundmass,
and is subordinate to the pyroxene in amount. Albitic twinning com-
bined with the Carlsbad is common, and the extinction angles on sections
normal to the twinning planes are those of labradorite, averaging 28°.
Most of the phenocrysts are large automorphic augites, the olivine being
subordinate in amount and size.
Augite occurs in light green perfect crystals, some of which show a
very weak pleochroism to yellowish tones. Zonal structure and twin-
ning is seen in several of the sections. Inclusions of olivine and magne-
tite are present and some of the sections have been penetrated along the
cleavage by the groundmass. Olivine occurs here and there in the slide
in rounded grains without any original crystal boundaries, and most of it
has altered slightly so as to be coated yellowish brown.
A few auhedrons of magnetite occur, but most of the magnetite is in
small grains,
Augite Axdesite from Nairai.
Nairai Island is four miles long by one and a half to three miles wide,
lying about ten miles east of Ngau.
The rock has a hyalopilitic base, consisting of minute short rods of
feldspar with augite grains and magnetite particles in a glass cement.
The feldspar phenocrysts which were present have all been altered to a
brown carbonate, leaving only the rims of the original mineral. The
brown carbonate is apparently calcite stained with the iron oxides, this
staining solution saturating a good portion of the groundmass and filling
the cavities wiih banded walls of brownish opalitic material.
Augite occurs in automorphic crystals, which occasionally show twin-
ning parallel to tlie orthopinacoid. A few grains of olivine can be
detected stained reddish brown.
Na Kobii. — This is a peak in a small island of the Nairai group, just
off the south coast of the main island.
