594 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
The groundmass under the microscope is seen to be composed of a filz
of violet tinged augite microlites and feldspar laths, presenting a very
homogeneous structure which can be designated as pilotaxitic. The
small augite prisms have rounded ends, and seem fully equal in amount
to the feldspar.
The rock lacks phenocrysts of any size. The only mineral present
which is plainly of an older crystallization is olivine. This is well dis-
seminated ill the rock as small rounded sections whose original crystal
boundaries have been lost by corrosion. These sections are not much
larger than those of the groundmass. They have the common yellowish
to yellowish brown color from the iron staining, and only a few show
colorless centres.
A small flake of biotite, which is nearly colorless normal to and deep
brown parallel to the polarizer, can be detected here and there in the
groundmass.
Augite Andesite Lava from Komo.
Komo is another island of the Eastern group, lying northeast of Kam-
bara. It is very small, one and a half miles long by half a mile wide.
The specimen was collected from the shore blutf, and is a black vesicular
rock.
The groundmass shows a multitude of short rectangular sections with
a less number of augite grains in a brownish amorphous base which is
quite dusty from magnetite grains. There is a consideral)le inqji-egna-
tion of this base by brownish limonitic stains, and the same banded lilliug
of op-il in the cavities is noted.
The phenocrysts are in the main large automorphic crystals of labra-
dorite. Many have been corroded by the magma, and most are filled
with dark glass inclusions. Some of the sections show alternate zones
of clear and cloudy layers.
Auo^ite occurs, but is much inferior to the feldspar in amount. One
automorphic crystal has a pleochroic core, yellowish green to brown,
which resembles hypersthene, but no other indication of hypersthene was
seen in the slide.
Olivine Andesite from Yanu Yanu.
This is a very small island, two hundred feet high, of the Exploring
Isles. ,
The specimen presents a dark gray compact holocrystalline rock. It
lacks any definite porphyritic structure, although a few of its constituents
