INVESTIGATIONS ON PERIODICITY IN THE WEATHER
By H. Helm Clayton.
Presented March 8, 1899. Received April 19, 1899.
Investigations on periodicity in the weather have occupied the at-
tention of many workers, and I can refer only in a brief way to inves-
tigations along other lines than those on which I have been engaged.
A knowledge of the existence of annual and diurnal periods in the
weather is older than history, and the fact that these periods depend on
changes in the position of the sun is universally recognized. A larf^e
part of the labor of meteorologists at the present time is devoted to
determining, for different parts of the world, the amount of change in
weather conditions resulting from these periods.
Many investigators have sought to prove a period in terrestrial mag-
netism and in meteorological phenomena coinciding with the rotation of
the sun on its axis. Among these are Broun (Comtes Rendus, 1873),
Hornstein (Sitzungsberichte Wien-Ak., 1873), Liznar (Sitzungsberichte
Wien-Ak., 1885, '86, '87, and '88), Balfour Stewart (Nature, 1879 and
1884), Nerwander, (Poggendorffs Annalen, Bd. LVIH.), Buys Ballot
(Archives Neerlandaises, Tom. XX.), Muller (Melanges physiijues et
chemiques, Bnll. Ac. St. Pet., 188G), Schmidt (Sitzungsberichte Wien-
Ak., 1888), Veeder (Proc. Rochester Acad. Sci., 1889), Hall (Araer.
Jour, of Sci., Vol. XLV., 1893), and Bigelow (Amer. Meteor. Jour.,
1893). The results of these researches differ from one another, and
none has received general acceptance.
Also there has been much study of the relation between the frequency
of sun spots and corresponding periods in the weather. The results are
conflicting, and the relation is not accepted as proved. The relation if it
exists is undoubtedly complex, but this is what might be expected in
meteorological phenomena. An excess of rainfall in India implies an
increased ascent of air. This demands an increased descent of air in
some other part of the world, as for example in Russia. Hence, an
excess of rainfall in India would be coincident with a deficiency in Russia,
and the two would have opposite phases in regard to the sunspot period,
