600 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
as is found to be the case. Again, if during sunspot maxima there
should be an increase in atmospheric pressure over the Mid-Atlantic,
there would be an excess of soutliwest winds over the British Isles
during this time. Since winds in blowing over mountain chains have
their moisture condensed, and descend on the other side dry, the above
conditions might result during a sunspot maximum in an excess of
moisture on one side of a mountain chain and a deficiency on another.
Hence, in an area as small as Scotland, opposite weather conditions in
different places during the sunspot cycle do not necessarily disprove the
existence of the cycle. The results of various investigators from vari-
ous parts of the world need to be gathered and carefully considered from
numerous standpoints, before the weather cycle can be said to be dis-
proved, or before all the phenomena can obtain rational explanation as a
result of the cycle.
Next to the sun, the heavenly body which has obtained most attention
as a probable cause of weather cycles has been the moon. A popular
belief in the influence of the moon on the weather is older than history,
and exists in full vigor to-day. The earlier meteorologists, attracted by
this general belief, devoted much time to investigating the question of
the relation of weather to the moon's position. Considerable data of vari-
ous kinds were accumulated, to which full references are found in Van
Bebber's Handbuch der Witterungskunde. The results given in most
detail were plotted by Van Bebber, and are here reproduced in Plate I.
from traces made with a pantograph. Curve I. was j)lotted from the mean
atmospheric pressure at Paris for each day of the synodic peiiod of the
moon, as obtained by Eugene Bouvard for the twenty-three years 1810-
32. Curves II. and III. are the means of the atmospheric pressure at
Carlsruhe and Strassl)urg for each day of the synodic period of the moon,
as obtained by O. Eisenlohr for the years 1810-21 and 1806-32, respect-
ively. The three curves are in close agreement, showing a minimum
pressure about midway between the first (juarter and full moon and a
maximum near the last quarter. Curves IV., V., and VI. show the
number of rainy days at Paris, Carlsruhe, and Strassburg for each day
of the synodic period as worked out by Bouvard and Eisenlohr for the
intervals given above. These curves are alike, and show a maximum
frequency of rainy days at the time of the minimum of pressure. Curves
VII. and VIII. show the number of clear days at Vigevano and Krakau
for each day of the synodic period as obtained for the first place by
Schiaparelli for the interval 1827-64 and for the second place by Wierz-
bicki for the interval 1826-40. The curve for Vigevano shows the
