G02 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
maximum frequency of clear days about the time of the last quarter of
the moon, corresponding with the time of maximum pressure at Paris,
Carlsruhe, and Strassburg. The curve for Krakau, however, shows the
opposite condition. For purposes of comparison Van Bebber collected
in tables the results of various investigators. Tlie results showing the
relation of the moon's phases to atmospheric pressure ai'e given in Table
I., except that two stations where the interval of observation did not
exceed five years are omitted. In a large proportion of these results
the minimum of barometric pressure is about the time of the moon's
second octant and a maximum about the time of the last quarter. The
range from maximum to minimum is small, but the stations cover a con-
siderable portion of Europe and there is one as distant as Batavia. The
general agreement of tlie results is surprising in view of tlie fact that
some of the investigators were seeking to disprove the lunar period in
atmospheric phenomena, or at any rate were sceptical of its existence.
It is improbable that the pressure is high over all the earth at the same
time, so tliat fnture investigators will probably find opposite phases of
the period for different parts of the world.
In Plate II. are curves plotted from the mean temperature for each
day of the lunar synodic period. They are drawn by means of a panto-
graph from curves given by J. Park Harrison in the Proceedings of the
Royal Society of May 4, I8G0, except No. IV., which I derived from
thirteen years' observations at the Blue Hill Meteorological Observatory
(1886-98). The curves were plotted from the unsmoothed mean of
each day of the period. No. I. is from the daily mean of temperature
at Greenwich, Eng., from 1856-G4. No. II. is from the minimum tem-
peratures for the same interval at the same [ilace. No. III. is from the
daily means of temperature at Oxford, Eng., from 18o9-Gl. No. IV. is
from the daily means of temperature at Blue Ilill, Mass., from 1860-98.
No. V. is from the daily means of temperature at Oust Silosk, Siberia,
from 1837-43. The maximum and minimum values are given by
numerals printed near the curves. The curves are irregular and the
rano-es not large, but they all agree in showing a generally higher tem-
perature between new moon and full than between full moon and new.
At the European stations the warmest weather seems to be about the
first quarter, and the coldest about the last, thus agreeing approximately,
either directly or inversely, with the times of maximum found by other
investigators for the pressure and for the number of rainy days.
In Plate III. are curves showing the number of thunderstorms on
each day of the moon's synodic period. No. I. is plotted from results
