CLAYTON. — PERIODICITY IN THE WEATHER. 607
rarefaction iiiider the moon in north declination lowers the temperature
0.13 of a degree. (3) That the northerly swell following tlie moon as
she recedes to the south further cools the air 0.18 of a degree. (4) That
this cold continues while the moon is away south, reducing the mean
temperature yet lower by 0.04 of a degree." (Papers on Meteorology,
etc., by Luke Howard, F. R. S., London, 1854, p. 44.) In showing
the greatest number of thunderstorms when the moon is south, Howard's
results agree with the later ones of Dr. Ekholm and Arrhenius and of
Mr. Sweetland and myself. M. P. Garrigou Lagrange of the Obser-
vatoire Physique et Meteorologique, at Limoges, France, investigated
the relation between the moon's change in declination and the change in
the pressure of the atmosphere over the northern hemisphere, using for
this purpose the international observations of 1882-83. His conclusions
as communicated to the Societe Meteorologique de France are: — (1) In
the atmosphere of the northern hemisphere there exists an oscillation
from one side to the other of about the 30th parallel synchronous with the
movement of the moon in declination and of such a nature that when
the moon is north the pressure is lower below the 30th parallel and higher
above it, and inversely when the moon is south. (2) The gradients
show correlative moditications. The barometric slope from latitude 30°
toward the south and toward the north is alternately raised and lowered,
being steepest below 30° when the moon is north and less steep above
30° and inversely when the moon is south. (3) These differences in the
pressure and the gradients increase in proportion as one advances toward
the pole, at least as far as the 70th parallel. (4) These movements are
superposed on the more general movements which they strengthen or
weaken as they are in the same or in a contrary direction.
In 1894, Dr. Nils Ekholm and Svante Arrhenius published an investi-
gation on the relation between the electrical potential of the air and the
position of the moon in declination. (Ueber den Einfluss des Mondes au£
den Electrischen Zustand der Erde, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet. Akad.
Handlingar, Band XIX., Afd. I., No. 8, Stockholm, 1894.) They found
that in the northern hemisphere the difference in potential between the
earth and air was greatest when the moon was in southern declination
while in the southern hemisphere it was greatest when the moon was in
northern declination, the variations being 20 per cent or more above
and below the mean. In Plate IV. the curves marked "Atmospheric
Electricity " show the results for Cape Horn and Cape Thordsen (Spitz-
bergen). The curve marked " S. Hemisphere" is for Cape Horn; the
one marked " N. Hemisphere" is for Cape Thordsen. The explanation
