608 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
suggested for this phenomenon was that the moon is negatively electrified
like the earth, and, acting by induction on the earth's surface, diminishes
the electrical potential on the portion of the earth nearest the moon and
increases the potential on the opposite side of tlie earth. In 1896-97,
from observations made throughout the United States, I investigated the
relation of the frequency of auroras to the moon's position in declination,
and found the greatest number of auroras when the moon was in south
declination. (Paper i-ead before the Boston Sci. Soc, May 11, 1897.
See Boston Evening Herald of May 12, 1897, and Amer. Jour, of Science
of February, 1898.)
In 1898, Dr. Ekholm and Mr. Arrhenius published an exhaustive and
most careful research on the relation of auroral frequency to the position
of the moon in declination, in which the various sources of error which
might influence the results were considered and eliminated. (Ueber den
Einfluss des Mondes auf die Polarlichter uiid Gewitter. von Nils Ekholm
and Svante Arrhenius, Bihang der k. sclnvedischen Akad. d. Wissen-
schaften, 1898.) They made use of all the available observations both
in the northern and southern hemispheres. Their results from all the
observations in each hen)isphere are plotted in the curves marked auroras
in Plate IV. The curves are nearly opposite in phase, and clearly
follow the same course as that of atmospheric electricity shown in the
upper part of the same plate. Ekholm and Arrhenius also determined
the frequency of thunderstorms in Sweden as related to the moon's posi-
tion in declination, and their results are plotted and marked thunder-
storms in Plate IV. The frequency follows the same coui-se as that of
the auroras and of the amount of atmospheric electricity except that there
is a secondary maximum about the time of the moon's gi-eatest northern
declination, a phenomenon which I found also for auroras in the United
States. From the observations in the lj"ited States published in the
Monthly Weather Review, Mr. A. E. Sweetland worked out for me the
frequency of thunderstorms as related to the moon's position in declina-
tion and obtained the results plotted in the broken curve marked United
States. The range is very small but the curve follows a similar course
to the one for Sweden showing a maximum a few days preceding the
greatest northern declination.
My work in meteorology was instigated by the popular belief in the
influence of the moon on the weather. The general prevalence of this
belief led me when a youth to investigate whether the weather conditions
supposed to follow certain positions of the moon really did so. I found
the subject a complex one, and, taking up the study of modern mete-
