610 PROCEEDINGS OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
orology, I adopted the general belief of meteorologists that, as there was
uo rational reason vvliy the moon shonld influence the weather, it prob-
ably did not. I had, however, in my investigation found evidence of
j)eriodic changes in the weather independent of the annual and diurnal
periods. I decided to lay aside any theory as to their cause, and to
determine as definitely as possible the lengths, ranges, and methods of
oscillation of the periodic changes. My investigations led me to the
following conclusions which 1 believe are important : — (1) That every
weather period is leiidered complex by the existence of periods which
bear the relation of harmonics to the primary, that is, their lengths are
twice, one half, one third, one fourth, etc., the length of the primary.
(2) The periods in different parts of the world have different phases, as
for example in the annual period it is cold in the northern hemisphere
when it is warm in the southern, and in the sunspot period it is dry in
Russia when it is wet in India. (3) At any given place on the earth's
surface the harmonics, and in some cases the primaries, reverse in j^hase.
In the case of some of the longer periods this has been traced to a move-
ment of the centre of oscillation from place to place. (4) At any given
place the periods and their harmonics do not vary synchronously. Some-
times the primary period is weak, while one or more of the harmonics
are strong, and the reverse.
One of my earliest investigations, made in 1882-84, was concerning
a period of about two years wliicli I now believe is a periodic cliange
in the weather, arising from the annual period, and having twice its
leno'th. The results were published in the American INIeteorological
Journal for August, 1884, and April, 1885. Some of the diagrams are
here reproduced. The contiimous curve in Plate V. was obtained by
takino- the average of the monthly barometric means for each twelve
consecutive months from 1874 to 1881. The dotted curve was obtained
by taking the mean of each consecutive twenty-five months. The dotted
and broken curves in Plate VI. were obtained in the same way for the
rainfall. In each case the annual period is eliminated, and the unbroken
curves show secondary oscillations in pressure and rainfall with about
two years between each maximum and minimum.
Tliat the same oscillation prevaHed in the temperature is shown by
Table II., page HI 3, giving the departures from the average temperature.
On the eastern coast of the United States the oscillations in pressure
were found to be opposite in phase to those over the interior. A table
was made showing the departures from the average of twenty-five
months at the times of the maxima and minima of the waves. These
