642 JUSTIN WINSOR.
qualities of his boyhood followed him to college and grew stronger
tliere. He led the same half solitary life, devoting most of his time
to reading by himself. He both read and wrote with the furious energy
that always characterized hira ; yet at the time his efforts seemed fruitless,
or at least misdirected. Before coming to college he had, it is true,
written a History of the Town of Duxbury, which was published in his
Freshman year ; but although his ambition lay in literature, he met
with no further success to encourage him. He took, for example, a great
interest in the stage, and wrote dramas that were never acted. In 1850
he planned a life of Garrick, and for the next fifteen years he worked
ujDou it, collecting a vast quantity of materials, but it never saw the light.
He did not abandon, however, his love for historic research, and about
this time he devised a systematic method of taking and arranging notes
of his reading. This he continued to employ until near the end of his
life, and by its aid- he accumulated a reservoir of knowledge that was
invaluable when an active career opened before him.
Although essentially a scholar, Mr. Winsor paid little attention to the
curriculum of the College. At last it became irksome, positively re|)ul-
sive to him, and, instead of graduating with his class in 1853, he left
College, with the approval of President Sparks, at the beginning of his
Senior year, and sailed for Europe. The next two years he spent in
Paris and Heidelberg, reading, of course, assiduously, learning the
languages, and preparing a book of translations and criticisms of Ger-
man poetry. This again was never published as a whole, though many
parts of it afterwards appeared in a fugitive form in several magazines.
In the autumn of 1854 he came home, and the next fourteen years were
passed in study, and in writing frequent literary contributions for "The
Crayon," '• The Round Table," and other periodicals. A great deal of
work was devoted also to his life of Garrick, which was brought nearly
to completion ; but as yet he had not found his true career. He had
been industrious, but far less successful than his talents warranted,
because his immense energy had not been turned in a direction where it
could be effective. It is impossible to say how long it would have been
before he discovered the right path, if an accident, or something very like
an accident, had not revealed it to him.
In 1866 lie was appointed a Trustee of the Boston Public Library, and
the next year he made a report which attracted attention, and showed
that he had grasped in a most extraordinary degree the problem of
managing a great public library. In fact it outlined the changes that he
was himself to carry out within the next few years. It so happened
