JUSTIN WINSOR. 643
that in 1868 the Superintendent died, and Mr. Winsor was asked to take
the place, at first merely as a stop-gap, but soon as the permanent suc-
cessor. His career had at last begun, and was destined to grow greater
and greater till his death.
Mr. Winsor's opinions on libraries were at this time somewhat
heretical. He believed that, to be useful, books ought to be read, and
that the more they were read, the greater their usefulness became. He
therefore strove not only to permit, but to encourage, in fact even
to tempt, the public to use the library freely. With this object he
lowered the age at which young people were allowed to take out books,
and reduced the guaranties required of borrowers. He also gave up the
customary habit of closing the library for a month every year for the pur-
pose of cleaning and of inspecting the books, and he opened new avenues
to the public by establishing branch libraries in various parts of the
city. But this iu itself was not enough for him, nor was it the most
remarkable part of his innovations. To most people, a great library is
nothing but a museum of incomprehensible things, — a labyrinth in which
it is impossible to find one's way. Such people are perplexed and dis-
couraged, feeling that the treasures of a library can be used only by the
few learned persons who understand such* subjects. Now Mr. Win-
sor set to work to make threads by means of which any one could find
his way through the intricate maze of books, and he devised for that pur-
pose a system of bulletins and annotated catalogues. Here his long
habits of diligent reading and study and his prodigious memory helped
him, for they had enabled him to acquire a bibliographic knowledge of
marvellous range.
By methods of this kind, the annual circulation of books was increased
seven-fold during Mr. Wijisor's nine years' tenure of office. All these
things have been developed since his time to such an extent that one
finds it hard to realize how recent they are. The Boston Public
Library does a vast deal more for the public to-day, and gives more
assistance to readers in finding books by mean of bulletins and special
catalogues than ever before, and all this is a development of the policy in
which Mr. Winsor was a pioneer. The result has been to make read-
ing more general throughout the community. It may almost be said
to have made a thorough use of the library possible, for with the vast
growth in the number of books the public would have found their use
increasingly difficult without the system of dictionary catalogues that
has come into existence.
Mr. Winsor had shown that he possessed both the capacity to conceive
