644 JUSTIN WINSOR.
what a great public library should be, and the executive ability to carry
out his ideas. He was soon the foremost figure among the librarians of
the United States, and in 1876 he was elected the first President of the
newly formed American Library Association ; but as yet he was not an
historian. During his stay at the Public Library, his bibliographical
work was connected rather with the institution than with the progress of
American history. In 1877 he was transferred from the Boston Public
Library to that of Harvard University. At the Harvard Library there
still lingered traces of the old pagan superstition that the worst enemy of
books was the general reader, who ought to be kept away from them by
every competent librarian. But times were changing. The laboratory
method of instruction had been winning one field of education after another,
until it was rapidly becoming universal. Now Mr. Winsor, in harmony
with the views that were rapidly gaining ground with the Professors, looked
upon a library as being, for educational purposes, the laboratory of the
literary and historical branches of study ; and he gave his most cordial
co-operation in j)Utting the largest number of books at the disposal of
the students with the greatest possible freedom.
But his work at Harvard was by no means confined to increasing the
usefulness of the librarj-. ^^ithout deserting his old line of activity^ he
opened a new one. lie continued to write and edit bibliographies on
various subjects, the most notable at this period being the '• Headers'
Handbook of the American Revolution," published in 1879. At the
same time he made a new departure by undertaking to write history.
Since he published his History of Duxbury as a lad, he had never lost
his interest in the subject, and had never failed to devote much time to
the study of it; but for more than thirty years he had not attempted to
produce a history, and, when at last he took this work up again, it was
in the new and peculiar form of co-operative authorship. In his earliest
venture of the kind, the " Memorial History of Boston," published in
1880-81, he divided and assigned the various portions of the work
among a number of writers, while he annotated the whole himself. The
first experiment was soon followed by anotlier, the " Narrative and
Critical History of America," which was prepared upon the same plan,
and published in parts from 1885 to 1889. These works have been
criticised on the ground that they lack unity, and that the parts are of
unequal value, — defects inseparable from the co-operative authorship.
In fact, they are not histories so much as storehouses of information fur
historical students, and in this they fulfil the purpose for which they were
designed. Mr. Winsor intended them to be a bibliographical and critical
