SAMUEL ELIOT. 647
their daughter, Mrs. John Holmes Morison, survives. Dr. Eliot died
at Beverly Farms, Massachusetts, on the 14th of" September, 1898.
Among the traits which are passing from New England, and now
rather enrich the memory of times gone by than give promise for the
days to come, none was more marked than the personal distinction of
our older gentry. The term may sound dissonant with the traditions
of a democratic country. Yet whoever has known this region through
the century which is closing must in candor admit that, for better or
worse, we have had here social distinctions perhaps the more rigid be-
cause they were protected only by their own worth. The true worth of
this New England gentry was nowhere more evident than in their deep
sense of public duty. If they felt themselves born to the privilege of a
certain social isolation, they felt, as every truly vital aristocracy must
feel, that this privilege involved profound obligations. The older and
officially recognized aristocracies of Europe find scope for their best
powers in public careers, — military or political. In America, such
careers, beset with far greater uncertainties than elsewhere, have proved
less and less practicable for people of principle whose temper is not
genuinely, unaffectedly democratic. Our first generation of independence,
to be sure, found its highest ideal, military and civil alike, in Washington ;
our later century has found its chief civil hero in Lincoln, and its chief
military hero in Grant, — admirable men, true worthies, but both alike
sprung from the common people. In the generation which is passing,
then, the old gentry of New England were mostly placed where they mus-t
either swerve from their traditions or do their public services elsewhere
than in regular public life.
From this state of affairs has resulted a century of faithful activity
in works which, while of public usefulness, are in many aspects priv^ate.
Almost all of the serious literature of New England, like almost all of
its riper scholarship, has been animated by its gentry. Almost all its
great charities and public institutions have sprung from this class, and
have been fostered by their care. To go no further than two instances
familiar to all who know Boston, it is to our gentry, and almost to them
alone, that we owe the Massachusetts General Plospital and the Boston
Public Library, civic monuments which may serve as types of a hundred
more, destined to survive any revolutions which may come, and so sur-
viving to justify the lives and the privileges of the men to whom posterity
shall owe them.
The older gentry of New England were probably at their best in a
