6-18 SAMUEL ELIOT.
generation which preceded Dr. Eliot's, — the generation preserved for
us in the portraits of Gilbert Stuart. Their traditions, however, their
principles, and to a great degree their manners, have here and there
persisted ; and in no familiar personality were they more typically pres-
ent than in Dr. Eliot's own. His nature had a vitality, his temper a
sunny freshness of feeling, — not inconsistent with occasional and sudden
breezes, — which made him at seventy-five seem in many aspects almost
a young man. And yet you could not see him or speak to him without
the sense that here was one who could not be himself if for a moment
he should strive to disguise that gracious personal distinction which
marked the gentlemen of the elder time as distinct fiom the gentlemen
of to-day and of the days to come. There was no lack of kindness in
all this, no lack even of sympathetic affability, no lack of cordial human
feeling such as heartily shares alike in joys and in sorrows. But there
was a beautiful, impalpable something which forbade any thought or act
of intrusive familiarity. His self-respect was so simple, so true, so
worthy, that it could not fail instantly to command the respect of whoever
had the privilege of meeting it.
For such a nature the most welcome vehicle of expression during Dr.
Eliot's earlier years was probably literature, in its more scholarly aspect.
Mr. Ticknor and Mr. Prescott were only a generation older than he ;
Mr. Motley and Mr. Parkman were his contemporaries. His earliest
impulse, then, seems to have been towards that dignified and vigorous
school of historical writing which is among the most jjrecious possessions
of New England. That kind of literature demands special gifts which
he never quite revealed. His unfinished history shows neither such
vivid jiovver of concrete imagination as is essetitial to a notable historian,
nor yet a vital command of style. In substance and in form aldve it
indicates little creative power. Whether he realized this, and so relin-
quished his pen, or whether the pressing call of other and more im-
mediate duties diverted him from pure literature, it is hard to say. In
either event, the experience might well have been disheartening. A
man who has once felt the yearning to create works of art can seldom
rest happy in any other effort. What is most characteristic of Dr. Eliot
in all this, then, is that no one ever felt in him the least suggestion of
disappointment or of discouragement. Among his many admirable trait?,
none was more salient than his constant, serene courage.
Disappointed or not, he found in the works which finally distracted
him from literature opportunity for wider, more lasting usefulness than
in mere letters he would ever have achieved. Very various these works
