SAMUEL ELIOT, 649
seem ; yet all agree in being at once private in form and public in scope.
Though the superintendence of the Boston Public Schools may technically
be held a public office, and surely is exposed to that ignoble kind of
attack which to-day makes public office most repugnant to sensitive
natures, it was in his hands as free from actual complication with politics
and the like as was Trinity College, or the Athenaeum, or St. Paul's
School. His true career, then, through all the riper years of a manhood
unbroken until the very end, was that of a faithful public servant, whose
service was done in the unofficial retirement of privacy.
Professionally, so far as he can be held to have had a regular profes-
sion, he became a teacher, or perhaps one should rather say he devoted
himself to education. As a Professor at Trinity College and for a while
its President, as master of the Girls' High School in Boston and later
as Superintendent of the Public Schools there, and for years as a Trustee
of St. Paul's School at Concord, New Hampshire, he exerted a wide,
varied, and constantly thoughtful influence on the education of New
England. Precisely to define the nature of this influence and its result
is needless. One thing about it seems certain. Wherever it was felt,
and wherever it has persisted, it tended and it tends toward that sure
righteousness of spirit which must come from ardently and constantly
cherished ideals. In his public school work, to be sure, the condition of
our society forbade him actively to assert the ideal which with him was
doubtless the most profound. In his work at Trinity College, on the
other hand, and in his constant watchfulness over St. Paul's School, he
was able to care for this with all his heart and with all his power. For
these, college and school alike, are not only institutions of learning but
seminaries of religion, — and religion in that form which seemed to him
most true, the gentle and flexible dogmatism of the Protestant Episcopal
Church.
Not professedly religious, any more than was his work in the public
schools, the other great range of his mature activity had in it something
akin to consecration. In our time it has generally joroved wisest to
separate charity from dogma, — -to serve the suffering and the wretched
with no question as to anything but their sufferings and their needs. To
charitable work, and especially such charitable work as should directly
alleviate suffering, he gave himself with all his heart. The Massachu-
setts General Hospital, the Perkins Institution for the Blind, and many
another admirable expression of the broadly humane benevolence which
has marked our passing New England, owe as much to him as to any
name in their history. In the coming time, to be sure, little distinct trace
