JULES MARCOU. 651
There were moments, no doubt, when this asserted itself in a some-
what rigid way. No man ever believed more firmly iu tlie principles
which his faith and his experience had combined to teach him ; and,
as the years passed, these principles had in them enough of the old
school sometimes to formulate themselves in a manner which came very
near to prejudice. Then appeared that firmness of feature from which
every trace of laughter or mirth, of everything but deep, earnest convic-
tion, had all faded. Then, instead of buoyant, cheery words came words
of marked, cool, and sometimes sharp decision. And yet even iu mo-
ments like these, when to those who did not wholly share his opinions
and feelings his motives seemed least liberal, there was always an under-
lying, evident truth and simplicity of heart which brought, even with
a sense of unmerited reproof, a feeling of tenderness for him. Like all
of us, he was human, with foibles and with fallings which be would
have been the last to dissemble or to deny. He had the limits and the
prejudices of his race and of his time; but more surely still he possessed
the virtues of that vanishing old New England whose tiaditions he so
loyally preserved to the end.
"Integer vita3, sceleiisque purus," wrote the Roman poet; and for
centuries the words have been held to typify such a character as so lately
has passed from among ourselves. And there is another saying, a sacred
one which he would have cherished most, with little thought of how
truly we who are left can repeat it of him : " Blessed are the pure in
heart ; for they shall see God."
Barrett Wendell.
JULES MARCOU.
Jules Marcou, the subject of this notice, was born at Salins,
France, April 20, 1824. He was educated at the College of Salins
and the Lyceum of Besangon, and entered the College of St. Louis at
Paris in October, 1842, but retired on account of ill health occasioned
by too great application to mathematical studies in the spring of 1844,
and returned to his native place. Previous to this three papers upon
mathematical subjects had been accepted and published in the " Nouvelles
Annales de Mathematiques," Terquem et G^rono. Paris, 1843-44.
By the advice of his family physician. Dr. Germain, he made long
excursions on foot into the country around his native city, and iu order
to give objective interest to these walks collected and studied plants
