652 JULES MARCOU.
with such energy that the knowledge obtained was of use to him in his
subsequent work. Dr. Germain was in his leisure hours an enthusiastic
collector of fossils, and possessed a considerable series of these which he
had gathered himself. The interest excited in Marcou's mind by talks
with Dr. Germain over his collection, and by tramps in company with
him to deposits of organic remains in the strata of the Jura, gradually
turned his attention from botany to the more exciting and absorbing
pursuit of geology. The astonishingly active and original mind possessed
by young Marcou, however, soon got beyond the stage of development
reached by his teacher, and he speedily repaid his assistance by greatly
increasing the value of his collections through his work in arranging,
describing, and naming the specimens.
In consequence of his rising reputation Marcou was visited by
Thurmann, then one of the most prominent of Swiss geologists, and
also by Louis Agassiz. Both of these men, especially the latter, had
great influence upon his subsequent career. It was largely owing to
their encouragement that he offered for publication, in 1845, his first
geological work, " Recherches Geologiques sur le Jura Salinois," which
was published iu '' Memoires de la Sociote d'Histoire Naturelle de
Neuchutel," of which Louis Agassiz was then editor, and subsequently
appeared in fuller form in the " Memoires de la Societe Geologique de
France," in 1846. The excellence of this work and his high recommen-
dations made him the favored candidate for the chair of Professor of
Mineralogy at the College of the Sorbonne in Paris in 1846. In 1847
he was intrusted with the important work of classifying the collections
of fossil shells and corals in the Jardin des Plantes, and is said to have
completed this task within a year, and so satisfactorily that he was offered
by the great botanist Jussieu, then Director of the Jardin des Plantes,
the position of Travelling Geologist, lately made vacant by the assassina-
tion of the former incumbent in Peru. This hazardous but much sought
for post was exactly suited to his taste, and he accepted it joyfully,
choosing for his field of exploration North America, principally on
account of the presence of his friend Louis Agassiz in the United States.
His first expedition after his arrival in May, 1848, was with Agassiz
upon the Lake Superior expedition in the same year ; but he left the
party at Keeweenaw Point to engage in the study of the copper bearing
rocks of that region. His activity in travelling and collecting was at
this time prodigious, and the mere list of the places visited and explored
would be too long for so limited a notice as can be given here. He
sent back to France large collections from many localities, ranging from
