JULES MARCOU. . 653
Richmond, Virginia, to Cape Breton and Quebec in Canada, and even as
far west as Pittsburg and Cincinnati and Lake Superior.
In 1850 he married Miss Jane Belknap of Boston, and from that
time he was actively seconded and assisted by this lady, whose devotion
lightened the strains of his severest trials, including even that of his last
sickness. Soon after his marriage he went back to France with his wife,
but resigned before doing so the arduous post of Travelling Geologist,
the duties of which had already begun to tell upon his not over strong
constitution. He returned to America the following year, and im-
mediately began the more minute study of the geology of New England,
and also to write his " Geology of North America," the first work that
attempted to assemble what was then known of the geology of this
continent. This was published in 1853, and gave him naturally the
best claim to be appointed geologist of one of the great expeditions
then being organized by the United States for the survey of feasible
routes for the projected railroads which were destined to unite the
Atlantic and Pacific seaboards.
Professor Marcou accompanied the expedition under command of Lieu-
tenant Whipple, which took the most southern route, departing from
Napoleon on the Mississippi at the mouth of the Arkansas River in 1853.
The main geological results of this expedition were the discovery of the
wonderful structure of the great plateaus and the enormous deposits of
secondary rocks in the Southwest, especially in the neighborhood of the
Red River, and, although the age of these has since been settled differ-
ently from what was maintained by Professor Marcou, the importance
of the facts and the credit due him as their first explorer have always
been acknowledged. Unfortunately ill health obliged him to leave the
United States for Europe in 1854, and he was forced to resign his posi-
tion, and give up the hope of publishing his results in the official reports
of the United States Survey.
The notes he had made were edited by W. P. Blake, and appeared
in the Report published by the Senate, entitled "Explorations and Sur-
veys of a Railroad Route from the Mississippi River to the Pacific
Ocean," Vol. III., Washington, 1856.
Marcou was never satisfied with this necessarily meagre presentation
of his views, and subsequently himself published a " Geology of North
America, with two Reports on the Prairies of Arkansas and Texas, the
Rocky Mountains of New Mexico, and the Sierra Nevada of California,
originally made for the United States Goverment," Zurich, 1858, with
three maps and seven plates of fossils.
