654 JULES MARCOU.
He was appoiuted Professor of Paleontology at the Ecole Polytech-
nique at Zurich in 1856, and taught there for four years. The spirit
of investigation and untiring devotion to science, however, was as great
daring this time as in previous years, and he continued publishing at
intervals works of great importance upon the Jura, and began to write
the manuscript of his " Geological Map of the World." The difficulties
of this last work, including as it did extended correspondence with
geologists in all parts of the world, and a vast amount of reading and
compilation, were overcome only by untiring critical study and hard
work ; but the first and to the present time the only " Geological Map of
the World" was constructed and finally published by him in 1862. Tliis
was the acme of his career, and probably no other geologist of his gener-
ation was so well qualified to accomplish such a general statement of what
was then known of the geology of the world, and it must necessarily
become the point of departure for all subsequent maps of this class.
Marcou resigned his professorship at Zuricl), and returned to America
in 1860 before this map .was out of press, and there became involved
in the great controversy with regard to Emmons's Taconic system of
rocks. This, and the trips that he made into parts of New England in
order to establish the credit of Emmons's discoveries pf a primordial
fauna, did not prevent him from making long journeys on his own account.
We find him in the summer of 1863, during the dangerous times of the
Civil War, exploring the country traversed by the Platte River and
lying between the Kansas and Big Sioux. In 1875 he accompanied as
geologist one of the expeditions under Lieut. Geo. M. Wheeler, which
surveyed a portion of Southern California starting from Los Angeles,
and his results were given in a " Report on the Geology of a Portion
of Southern California" that appeared in the Report of Lieut. Wheeler's
"Geographical Surveys West of the 100th Meridian" for 1876, included
in the " Report of the Chief of Engineers," Part IIL, 1876. This seems
to have been his last expedition to far western localities, and the re-
mainder of his life was filled by one or two trips to and from Eiirope,
and the writing of numerous papers mostly upon geology and of a
controversial nature.
The biological side of his profession was regarded by Marcou as sub-
servient to geology. In other words, he as a rule looked upon fossils
mainly from the side of their importance in determining the age of
strata, and yet to him belongs the credit of highly important results of
a purely biological character. He was the first author to lead off" in
the effort to synchronize the different faunas of the Jura in Europe, and
