658 THEODORE LYMAN.
same effective courage and energy which marked his later career, and
did not quit the work until the Legislature had lixed the age limit at four-
teen years, and had done away with the alternate sentence, placing all
the boys in the School's custody during- minority. It was not until
1884, when the Massachusetts Reformatory was established at Concord,
that the age limit at Westboro was fixed at fifteen years, and provision
was made for the transfer to Concord of boys who should prove to
be unfit subjects for the Reform School, which was now by act of Legis-
lature called " The Lyman School for Boys." A few years after its
removal to a neighboring farm in the town of Westboro, Theodore
Lyman came to the School for the dedication of the chapel, and, as
he watched the boys at their work and play, he expressed his satisfac-
tion at the success of the trustees in having at last made it very nearly
the kind of school that his father had wished and hoped that it might
become.
Theodore Lyman was married on November 28, 1856, to Elizabeth
Russell, eldest daughter of George R. Russell, and a few years later went
abroad for two years. It was during this period that his daughter Cora
was born, in 18G2. Returning home in 1863, he at once entered the mili-
tary service of his country, then in the throes of civil war. He secured a
commission as volunteer aid of the Governor of Massachusetts with the
rank of Lieutenant Colonel, and was assigned to special duty at the head-
quarters of General Meade, with whom he had become very well ac-
quainted before the war, and who was then in command of the Army of
the Potomac. In this capacity he served till the end of the Civil War,
taking part in the battles of the Wilderness, Spottsylvania Court House,
and Cold Harbor, in the movements around Petersburg and in the final
surrender at Appomattox Court House, where he was one of the few
officers privileged to ride through the Confederate lines after the sur-
render. During all this period he showed an active and intelligent
interest in his new work by making almost daily sketches showing the
positions of the different corps of the Army of the Potomac. Mr. John
C. Ropes, President of the Militarj'^ Historical Society of Massachusetts,
writes that he " was so much impressed with the value of these cartographic
statements of the movements of the Army of the Potomac, from the
autumn of 1863 down to and including the 9th of April, 1865, when Lee
surrendered," tliat he had them all copied for the use of the Society.
The same high authority in military matters speaks also of having seen
extracts from a diary kept by Theodore L3man during this period,
" which are as humorous and as entertaining as any pictures of the camp
