THEODORE LYMAN. 659
and march can possibly be." It is greatly to be hoped that this diary
may in due time be edited and published, as it cannot fail to be a valu-
able contribution to our knowledge of the civil war. Few actors in this
great drama had better opportunities of watching the succession of im-
portant historical events, or minds better qualified for observing, recording,
and commenting upon them. Nor did his interest in military matters
cease with the war, for, as a member of the Military Historical Society
of Massachusetts he had ample opportunity to discuss with his compan-
ions in arms the great events in which they had all taken part. On
June 11, 1877, he read a " Review of the Reports of Colonel Haven and
General Weld on the conduct of C4eneral McClellan at Alexandria, in
August, 1862, and on the case of Fitz John Porter."
Lyman maintained a close and unbroken friendship with General
Meade until the death of the latter, in 1872. He then wrote an obituary
notice of his old commander, which was published in Volume IX. of the
Proceedings of this Academy.
During the twenty years following the close of the civil war Theo-
dore Lyman's life was one of abounding activity, though before the
end of this period the dread disease which was to make the closing
years of his life a continual martyrdom had already marked liim for
its own.
To his Alma Mater he rendered important services as Overseer from
1868 to 1880, and from 1881 to 1888. Here his influence was always
thrown in favor of liberty in the choice of studies and in attendance upon
religious services. He- was also one of the original Trustees and Treas-
urer of the Zoological Museum, a member and Secretary of the Museum
Faculty, and Assistant in Zoology. The value of his services to the Museum
in these various capacities was gratefully acknowledged by the Director,
Alexander Agassiz, who, in his Annual Report for 1896-97 thus speaks
of Lyman's scientific work: " His zoijlogical work began with short papers
on ornithological subjects ; he subsequently became interested in corals,
and finally devoted himself specially to Ophiurans. The first Illustrated
Catalogue of the INIuseum was from his pen, and this important monograph
on Ophiurans was followed by numerous papers on the same subject,
treating of new species of the group. He wrote the Report on the
Ophiurans of the ' Hassler' Expedition, of the ' Challenger,' and of the
' Blake,' which include by far the larger number of species of Ophiurans
dredged by those deep-sea exploring expeditions."
On the establishment of the Commission of Inland Fisheries in 1866,
Theodore Lyman became its first Chairman, and gave the State devoted
