660 THEODORE LYMAN.
service for seventeen years without compensation. The story of his
disinterested labor in this field is told in the Commissioners' Annual
Reports, many of which are from his own pen,, and are characterized by
a brightness of style which pleasantly relieves the gravity of an official
document.
In 1884, as President of the American Fish Cultural Association, at
the thirteenth annual meeting held in Washington on May 13, he deliv-
ered an address which is printed in the 19th Annual Report of the Com-
missioners of Inland Fisheries of Massachusetts. Here he sketches in
the most charming manner the history of the fish industries of New
England from the time when the inhabitants were wont to " dunge their
grounds with codd." He shows that fifty years after the settlement of
the country a diminution in the number of fish in the New England
rivers had already been noted, and describes the various laws enacted for
their protection, culminating in 1864-65 in modern fish culture under
the auspices of several State governments, and finally in the appointment
in 1871 of the United States Fish Commission under the leadership of
Professor Spencer F. Baird.
The various fishery commissions of the country have, to use Theodore
Lyman's own words, " accumulated a vast amount of accurate information
concerning the numbers and variety of our fishes, their food, manner of
breeding, condition of life, migration, and stages of growth." Piscicul-
ture has become a State and national industry, while many private fish
preserves have been established in various parts of the country. Several
species of Salmonidre are raised regularly for the market, and it is highly
probable that nearly all the shad now taken in our Atlantic streams have
originated in State or national hatching establishments. These results,
though important, merely serve to indicate what great additions to the
wealth of the country may be effected when water culture is " practised
as universally and methodically as is agriculture." When Americans
shall have learned to cultivate the water thus methodically, and shall
desire to honor the men who in their day and generation have labored to
re-establish the fisheries of the country, no name will stand higher on the
list than that of Theodore Lyman.
In politics Theodore Lyman was distinguished for independence and
an earnest advocacy of civil service reform, a cause which, as founder and
Vice President of the Massachusetts Reform Club, he sought in every
way to promote. He was elected to Congress from the Ninth District in
1882, and, though handicapped by increasing infirmities, nobly repre-
sented the State " as long as patriotism was more prized in his district
