THEODORE LYMAN. 661
than partisanship." * His independent course in politics was naturally
distasteful to many political leaders, and, at the time of the " Mugwump "
defection from the Republican party, called down upon him some severe
animadversions from Senator Hoar. On this occasion he, with exquisite
humor and with generous consideration for his antagonist, compared
himself to a fellow who boasted to his neighbors that he had ''just been
cuffed by the King."
In November, 1869, he was elected a Resident Member of the Massa-
chusetts Historical Society, and in December, 1880, he read before the
Society a memoir of his father-in-law, George R. Russell.
He was also a Trustee of the Peabody Educational Fund.
Theodore Lyman did so much work of a high order in so many differ-
ent directions that it is difficult to decide in what calling he was most
fitted to excel. That he possessed a decided aptitude for the duties of a
soldier is the opinion of those best qualified to judge, and it is not at all
improbable that when, in the fulness of time, his diary shall be given to
the public, his place among the military writers of the world will be
definitely assured.
His high character and his firm conviction that "public office is a
public trust" well fitted him for the career of a statesman, and there is
little doubt that he would have distinguished himself in public life had
circumstances favored the adoption of such a career.
His scientific papers are examples of conscientious observation, and are
valuable contributions to the field of knowledge in which he labored.
Perhaps the trait of character which most impressed itself upon all
who came in contact with Theodore Lyman was the cheerfulness and
gayety of his disposition. This gayety was far removed from frivolity, and
was compatible with a stern expression of indignation whenever circum-
stances called it forth. In this spirit were compiled the '' Papers relating
to the Garrison Mob,'' f in which the son indignantly repels the criticisms
of Wendell Phillips upon the conduct of the father on that memorable
occasion.
Another remarkable trait in Theodore Lyman's character was the
alertness of his mind, which, combined with the gayety of his nature, made
his companionship both socially and intellectually so charming. Even
in his serious writings, e. g. in his Reports as Fish Commissioner, his exu-
berant vitality and his cheerful humor found expression, but it was, of
* "H. L.," Transcript, Sept. 15, 1897.
t Cambridge, Welch, Bigelow, & Co., 1870.
