662 THEODORE LYMAN.
course, in his personal intercourse with his companions that this charm
was most distinctly felt. It was this which led to his being for many
years, by common consent, chairman of his Class dinners, as the Class
Secretary E. II. Abbot tells us in a most appropriate and affectionate
notice of him prepared for distribution to the members of the Class of
1855.
The members of the Thursday Evening Club, over which he presided
for many years, will long remember the way in which the meetings were
enlivened by his ready wit, and the happy manner in which he intro-
duced the successive speakers.
Upon this life, so filled with everything that could make life enjoyable,
early fell the shadow of a mortal disease, so gradual in its approach that
few of his friends were aware that the first warning came sixteen years
before his death. During this period he was, in the words of his friend
and classmate, E. H. Abbot, "day by day parting with the power to act,
until at last he was forced to stand still and watch the stream of life flow
by ; a soul imprisoned in a body which was gradually losing all power of
movement, and which at last became absolutely helpless and dependent
for every service upon external aid. To him of all men these years of
prolonged and growing uselessness must have seemed a living death. And
yet they who know most about him know that those years were really the
noblest of his life. His brave spiiit in this growing isolation, which at
last withdrew him from the sight of almost all except his own family,
surmounted all barriers. He never permitted liimself to lose his active
interest in the events of other lives. He cheered on the doers of good all
over the world by messages which came from his chamber with all their
old-time gayety and brightness. When his hand could no longer hold the
pen, he spoke through his tender amanuensis words full of the same high
courage and cheerful humor which had been his charm in earlier life."
In concluding this brief notice of Theodore Lyman, it may perhaps be
permitted to supplement the above tender and truthful description of his
last years with a few words employed by the writer of tliis sketch to
introduce a resolution of the Thursday Evening Club replying to an affec-
tionate message from its former President on the fiftieth anniversary of
its foundation : —
" I remember, Mr. President, when a young man, looking around among
the men of my generation and considering whose lot in life seemed to me,
on the whole, the most enviable. I came to the conclusion that Theodore
Ljinan was, of all my acquaintances, the man for whom the future
seemed to hold out the brightest promise.
