674 STATUTES OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
3. Fellows residing out of the State of Massachusetts shall be
known and distinguished as Associate Fellows. They shall not
be liable to the payment of any fees or annual dues, but on remov-
ing within the State shall be admitted to the privileges,* and be
subject to the obligations, of Resident Fellows. The number of
Associate Fellows shall not exceed o??e hundred, of whom there
shall not be more than forty in either of the three Classes of the
Academy.
4. The number of Foreign Honorary Members shall not
exceed seventy-five ; and they shall be chosen from among per-
sons most eminent in foreign countries for their discoveries and
attainments in either of the three departments of knowledge
above enumerated. And there shall not be more than thirty
Foreign Members in either of these departments.
CHAPTEK II.
Of Officers.
1. There shall be a President, three Vice-Presidents, one for
each Class, a Corresponding Secretary, a Recording Secretary, a
Treasurer, and a Librarian, which officers shall be annually elected,
by ballot, at the Annual Meeting, on the second Wednesday in
May.
2. At the same time, and in the same manner, nine Councillors
shall be elected, tliree from each Class of the Academy, but the
same Fellows shall not be eligible on more than three successive
years. These nine Councillors, with the President, the three
Vice-Presidents, the two Secretaries, the Treasurer, and the
Librarian, shall constitute the Council. It shall be the duty of
this Council to exercise a discreet supervision over all nomina-
tions and elections. With the consent of the Fellow interested,
they shall have power to make transfers between the several
Sections of the same Class, reporting their action to the
Academy.
3. If any office shall become vacant during the year, the
vacancy shall be filled by a new election, and at the next stated
meeting, or at a meeting called for this purpose.
* Associate Fellows may attend, but cannot vote, at meetings of the Academy.
See Chapter I. 2.
