OF ARTS AND SCIENCES. 077
whom the printing of memoirs accepted for publication shall be
intrusted.
6. The Committee on the Library, of three Fellows, who
shall examine the Library, and make an annual report on its
condition and management.
7. An Auditing Committee, of two Fellows, for auditing the
accounts of the Treasurer.
CHAPTER VL
Of the Secretaries.
1. The Corresponding Secretary shall conduct the correspond-
ence of the Academy, recording or making an entry of all letters
written in its name, and preserving on file all letters which are
received ; and at each meeting he shall present the letters which
have been addressed to the Academy since the last meeting.
With the advice and consent of the President, he may eifect
exchanges with other scientific associations, and also distribute
copies of the publications of the Academy among the Associate
Fellows and Foreign Honorary Members, as shall be deemed
expedient ; making a report of his proceedings at the Annual
Meeting. Under the direction of the Council for Nomination,
he shall keep a list of the Fellows, Associate Fellows, and Foreign
Honorary Members, arranged in their Classes and in Sections in
respect to the special sciences in which they are severally profi-
cient ; and he shall act as secretary to the Council.
2. The Recording Secretary shall have charge of the Charter
and Statute-book, journals, and all literary papers belonging to
the Academy. He shall record the proceedings of the Academy
at its meetings ; and after each meeting is duly opened, he shall
read the record of the preceding meeting. He shall notify the
meetings of the Academy, and apprise committees of their ap-
pointment. He shall post up in the Hall a list of the persons
nominated for election into the Academy ; and when any indi-
vidual is chosen, he shall insert in the record the names of the
Fellows by whom he was nominated.
3. The two Secretaries, with the Chairman of the Committee
of Publication, shall have authority to publish such of the pro-
ceedings of the Academy as as may seem to them calculated to
promote the interests of science.
