680 STATUTES OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
CHAPTEE X.
Of the Election of Fellows and Honorary Membees.
1. Elections shall be made by ballot, aud only at stated
meetings.
2. Candidates for election as Resident Fellows mnst be pro-
posed by two or more Resident Fellows, in a recommendation
signed by them, specifying the Section to which the nomination
is made, which recommendation shall be transmitted to the
Corresponding Secretary, and by him referred to the Council for
Nomination. No person recommended shall be reported by the
Council as a candidate for election, unless he shall have received
a written approval, signed at a meeting of the Council by at least
seven of its members. All nominations thus approved shall be
read to the Academy at a stated meeting, aud shall then stand on
the nomination list during the interval between two stated meet-
ings, and until the balloting. No person shall be elected a Resident
Fellow, unless he shall have been resident in this Commonwealth
one year next preceding his election. If any person elected a
Resident Fellow shall neglect for one year to pay his admission
fee, his election shall be void ; and if any Resident Fellow shall
neglect to pay his annual assessments for two years, provided
that his attention shall have been called to this article, he shall be
deemed to have abandoned his Fellowship ; but it shall be in the
power of the Treasurer, with the consent of the Council, to dis-
pense (siib silentio) with the payment both of the admission fee
and of the assessments, whenever in any special instance he shall
think it advisable so to do.
3. The nomination of Associate Fellows shall take place in
the manner prescribed in reference to Resident Fellows ; and
after such nomination shall have been publicly read at a stated
meeting previous to that when the balloting takes place, it shall be
referred to the Council for Nomination ; and a written approval,
authorized and signed at a meeting of said Council by at least
seven of its members, shall be requisite to entitle the candidate
to be balloted for. The Council may m like manner originate
nominations of Associate Fellows, which must be read at a stated
meeting previous to the election, and be exposed on the nomina-
tion list during the interval.
