682 STATUTES OP THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
STANDING VOTES.
1. Communications of which notice had been given to the
Secretary shall take precedence of those not so notified.
2. Resident Fellows who have paid all fees and dues charge-
able to them are entitled to receive one copy of each volume or
article printed by the Academy, on application to the Librarian
personally or by written order, within two years from the date
of publication. And the current issues of the Proceedings shall
be supplied, when ready for publication, free of charge, to all the
Fellows and members of the Academy who desire to receive them.
3. The Committee of Publication shall fix from time to time
the price at which the publications of the Academy may be sold.
But members may be supplied at half this price with volumes
which they are not entitled to receive free, and which are needed
to complete their sets.
4. Two hundred extra copies of each paper accepted for publi-
cation in the Memoirs or Proceedings of the Academy shall be
placed at the disposal of the author, free of charge.
5. Resident Fellows may borrow and have out from the
Library six volumes at any one time, and may retain the same
for three months, and no longer.
6. Upon special application, and for adequate reasons assigned,
the Librarian may permit a larger number of volumes, not exceed-
ing twelve, to be drawn from the Library for a limited period.
7. Works published in numbers, when unbound, shall not be
taken from the Hall of the Academy, excej)t by special leave of
the Librarian.
8. Books, publications, or apparatus shall be procured from the
income of the Rumford Fund only on the certificate of the Rum-
ford Committee that they, in their opinion, will best facilitate
and encourage the making of discoveries and improvements which
may merit the Rumford Premium.
9. The Annual Meeting and the other stated meetings shall be
holden at eight o'clock, P. M.
10. A meeting for receiving and discussing scientific commu-
nications may be held on the second Wednesday of each month
not appointed for stated meetings, excepting July, August, and
September.
