52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Takiug a certain piece of " Pyrenees Marble " as a standard, Dr. Less
found the conductivities of specimens of " Carrara Marble " and " Italian
Marble " to be 0.769 and 0.763 respectively.
In determining the thermal conductivities of the specimens of marble
mentioned below, the prism clamped between the hot and the cold box
of our apparatus was made up of six slabs in series, a plate of standard
glass 0.935 cm. thick between two thin plates of glass, and the shib to be
tested between two thin slabs of marble. A ribbon thermal element
and tinfoil wings were placed on each side of the standard glass, and on
each side of the marble to be experimented on, so that there were four of
these thermal elements in all. When the prism had sensibly reached its
final state, the temperatures of the thermal junctions were determined and
the ratio of the conductivities of the glass and the marble was assumed
to be etjual to the reciprocal of the ratio of the gradients in the two
slabs. By introducing an extra plate or a sheet or two of blotting paper
into the prism, the two gradients could be altered at pleasure but not
their ratio. So far as we could see, it was immaterial in the case of
these substances whether the marble base of the prism or the glass base
was placed uppermost, but we generally placed the marble on top, so that
the mean temperature of each specimen might be about 30° C. In stating
the results of some of these determinations, we shall give the tem])era-
tures of the four thermal junctions in order, then the ratio of the con-
ductivities of the marble to be tested and the standard glass, and finally
the absolute conductivity of the marble on the assumption that that of the
glass is 0.00277. We shall give the absolute conductivity of the marble
to three significant figures, but it is evident that the last of these is not
determined. All the specimens were artificially dried for some time in
the hot air space over the boilers which furnish steam for heating the
Jefi'erson Laboratory, and were then allowed to stand for some weeks
at ordinary room temperatures so that their conditions might be normal.
The artificial heating drove off the excess of moisture acc^uired by the
marble while being cut under water at the mill.
Most of our stone was obtained from Messrs. Bowker and Torrey of
Boston, who kindly collected for us representative specimens of such
materials as are commonly used for decorative and monumental purposes.
We have given to the slabs the names used by stone workers and have
called them all "marbles," though one or two might more properly be
called " limestones." The " Mexican Onyx " is really travertine. Our
thanks are due to Prof. J. E. Wolff for help in identifying our specimens.
