CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE CHEMICAL LABORATORY OF
llAKVAKD COLLEGE.
THE CONTACT-POTENTIAL BET^yEEN METALS AND
FUSED SALTS, AND THE DISSOCIATION OF FUSED
SALTS.
By Clarence McCheyne GoRDOjir.
Received October 10, 1808.
Presented by Theodore W. Richards, October 12, 1898.
The potential difference between fused salts and metals immersed in
them is a quantity of great importance because of its relation to the theory
of the origin of contact-potentials, on account of the light it throws upon
the decree of dissociation of salts in their fused state, and in view of its
bearing upon the electrolytic separation of the metals. Notwith^taud-
insj; these important relations, the subject has received practically no
attention at the hands of scientific investigators. In a few cases cells
containing fused salts as the electrolyte have been measured, but always
with some other end in view than the study of the single potential differ-
ence between metal and salt.*
The practical difficulties in the way of carrying out an exhaustive in-
vestigation of this subject are many. Among the more important of
these are the fact that many salts decompose below or slightly above
their melting point, the disturbing effect of side reactions which at ordi-
nary temperatures would be so slow as to cause little or no inconvenience,
and the impossibility of using glass vessels at temperatures as high as the
melting points of most inorganic salts. Such difficulties as these have
prevented me from extending the investigation rapidly, but the results
* Lash Miller (Zeit. fiir pliys. Chemie, X. 459, 1892) used fused salts in experi-
ments to prove that there was no change in the contact-potential as the metal
chantred from liquid to solid state.
Poincare (Ann. cliim.et phys., [6.], XXI. 289, 1890) measured reversible cells con-
taining melted zinc and tin salts with the heat of reaction as the end in view. He
investigated also some polarization phenomena with silver electrodes.
