60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
from the cells so far measured seem of such value that I give them in this
preliminary jjaper, hoping to extend the investigation to other salts and
metals in the near future.
For dilute water solutions the variation of the potential hetween a
metal and a solution of a salt, whose kation is the metal of the electrode,
is given by the well known Nernst formula,*
^^ - ^^ = V ^°s« ^'
where E^, E^, are the respective potentials for the concentrations C^, C, ;
R, the gas constant ; T, the absolute temperature; and m, the valency of
the metal. In the derivation of this formula the gas law, jo v= 11 T, is
applied to the dissolved salt, and complete dissociation is assumed. In
case the dissociation is not complete, Ci, Co, denote the concentration of
the dissociated part.
For fused salts, in case the solutions are sufficiently dilute, we might
expect the same or an analogous formula to hold. Any experimental
evidence, however, for the applicability of the gas law to fused salt solu-
tions, or as to the amount of dissociation, has been lacking.
Accordingly, the first question to be determined was whether or not,
for any measureable range of concentrations, the potential difference
would vary according to the Nernst formula.
So far all my observations have been upon silver electrodes immersed
in fused mixtures containing varying amounts of silver salts. Most of
the cells measured were simple silver nitrate concentration cells of the
type,
Ag
TiAgNOs
in
a:oAgN03
y,KN03 + y^NaNOs
Aff.
The mixture of potassium and sodium nitrates, rather than either alone,
was used as solvent in order to obtain a lower melting point.
Experimental.
General. — In a few preliminary measurements I tried keeping the
temperature constant with an air bath, but was unable to attain much
constancy, and therefore substituted a vapor bath. The practical ar-
rangement of the cell in its constant temperature vapor bath is shown in
the opposite figure.
* See Nernst, Zeit. fiir phjs. Cliemie, IV. 129, 1889.
