GORDON. — DISSOCIATION OF FUSED SALTS.
61
The jacket Z>, containing the vapor, is a thin-walled glass cylinder
about 5 cm. in diameter, joined below by means of a Wood's metal or
mercury joint, W, to a cast-iron cup, /, on which the heating flame plays.
This vapor bath arrangement is such as is in
common use for V. Meyer vapor density deter-
minations at moderately high temperatures, ex-
cept that in the present case the jacket tube
was shortened. Inside of this vapor jacket is
the large test tube C, extending about 25 cm.
below the top of the outside jacket. So much
of the upper opening of the cylinder D as tiie
tube C does not fill is closed with the asbestos
sheet Bi. This covering is of course not air
tight, but makes it possible for the vapor to
ascend near the top without any rapid escape
into the room. In the tube (7 is the cell to be
measured. It consists of the silver electrodes
JlJi, £!.,, in the tubes Ai, A.^^ which contain the
two differently concentrated solutions of silver
nitrate, and the connecting solution *S^. The
capillary ends of the tubes A^, Ao, were lowered
beneath the surface of the connecting licjuid
only long enough for the measurements to be
taken. In order to prevent air circulation, the
top of the tube C was covered with an asbestos
sheet having holes for the tubes A and the ther-
mometer T.
The heat was sup[ilied by a three-tube Bunsen
burner, fed from a gas supply containing a good
pressure regulator. By reason of this regu-
lator, when the gas was once adjusted, no care
was required to keep the heiglit of the vapor
constant, except as the amount of boiling sub-
stance made slow escape into the room. The
top of the condensing vapor column could be jilainly seen, and was kept
constant about 18 cm. above the lower end of the tube C. With this
arrangement any difference in tempei-atnre between the upper and lower
jvart of the liquid S was unnoticeable.
Temperature. — The cells were measured at two temperatures, that of
boiling diphenylamine, and of boiling chinoline. The former was taken
One Fourth Natural Size.
