616 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
would fulfil the condition as well as the period I had supposed, and I
was led to adopt the length of the lunar periods in my investigations as
a working hypothesis. This seems justified by the fact that other inves-
tigators have found certain constant relations between the positions of
the moon and weather phenomena as described in the foregoing pages.
The average changes in the weather conditions as related to the moon
appear to be very small, and meteorologists . have heretofore assumed
that, if such a relation existed, it was so small as to be negligible. How-
ever, since certain of the weather periods have been found to reverse in
phase, is it not possible that periodic motions in the atmosphere set up in
some way by the motions of the moon may be much larger than shown
by the average for a long time at any given place ?
On Plate IX. are plotted the mean daily departures from the normal
temperatures at Blue Hill from October, 1898, to February, 1899. It is
seen that during October and November there was a rise and fall in tem-
perature about every three and a half days, which is about one eighth of
a lunar period. A dotted curve representing a harmonic exactly one
eighth of tlie synodic period of the moon is plotted for comparison with
the observed temperatures. The curves show that for every maximum
of the dotted curve there was a corresponding maximum of the observed
temperature, though the two were not always synchronous, and near the
end of November the phenomenon of reversal of phase appears. Fur-
thermore, it is seen that the minimum temperatures of October, December,
January, and February occurred very near the times indicated by the
round black circles. These circles indicate the time of new moon, and
show that the intervals between the minima approximate the length of a
synodic period of the moon. Moreover these minima were from 10° to
30° F. below the normal of the time of year, and, if periodic, were the
result of some strongly acting cause. Whatever the cause of these oscil-
lations may be, a knowledge of the laws controlling their action would
be of vast importance for weather forecasting. An urgent present need
is to find the reason for, or the law of, their reversal of phase. Such
researches deserve financial aid and sympathy. The problems to be solved
are fascinating and important, and in the time which can be spared from
other pursuits I am making an earnest effort to find a clue to the cause
or the method of the reversals. One cause appears to be a movement
of the centres of oscillation. In other cases there is evidence of an annual
period. Taking, for example, Luke Howard's tables, which show for
the eighteen years 1815-32 the mean temperatures for the weeks when
the moon was in south and in north declination respectively, I found the
