RICHARDS AND LEWIS. — ZINC AND CADMIUM AMALGAMS. 89
dE_E-h dE _dT
integrating, In {E-K) = lnT-\- 0= hiKT,
where C is the integration constant and C = InK, hence
E = KT -{- h. (4)
Upon comparing this result with equation (3), which can be written
E — T -\ one sees that the outcome of this reasoning is simply
d T ne^
dE
the proof that if Q is constant -7^, (the temperature coefficient of the
electromotive force) is also a constant. Thus the electromotive force of
any cell of this type should be a linear function of the temperature.
Materials and Apparatus.
The materials used in this research were of known purity. The
mercury had been twice distilled in vacuo. The zinc and cadmium were
prepared by electrolysis from chemicall}^ pure salts. The zinc sulphate
had been prepared in this laboratory for atomic weight investigation.
The cadmium sulphate was prepared by dissolving the electrolyzed metal
in pure sulphuric acid, and crystallizing twice in order to free it from the
excess of acid. The amalgams were prepared by mixing weighed
amounts of mercury and the metal used and diluting as desired. The
amalgams wore weighed and kept under solutions of their sulphates to
prevent oxidation.
Both cadmium and zinc, when electrolyzed from ammoniacal solutions
of their sulphates, separate in tree-like forms, varying according to the
conditions of electrolysis from large and distinct crystals to finely divided
spongy masses. The latter form is produced by the stronger currents
and greater dilutions.
The metal thus made, after suitable washing, was sometimes dried
with alcohol and ether and converted into amalgam, or sometimes used
at once in the jDure state in the trial cells. The method of using this
spongy material as an electrode is described later, on page 90.
The vessels in which the measurements were made consisted of large
H tubes, with their lower extremities drawn out and turned upwards.
Platinum wires run in through these fine tubes established the connection
with the galvanometer. It was occasionally convenient to use a double
H tube, in which one electrode could be connected through the same
electrolyte with either of two electrodes.
