RICHARDS AND LEWIS. — ZINC AND CADMIUM AMALGAMS. 91
with a Leclanche cell through such external resistance as to maintain a
total fall of potential of 0.1 volt. This was adjusted before each series
of measurements by comparison with a standardized Helmholtz cell which
remained constant in potential throughout the course of the experiments.
The direct measurement of potential as far as three figures when de-
sirable was made possible by a device, the principle of which is shown
in the accompanying diagram, ^i'^ represents a potential box containing
three sets of resistances: AB, 9 times 100 ohms; CD, 11 times 10
ohms; JSF, 10 times 2 ohms. These resistances are fitted with pegs
for connection as in the ordinary potential box. ABCD forms a simple
circuit between the terminals A and D. EF'xi, a shunt whose terminals
can be connected with movable caps to the pegs in the row CD. If
they are connected to two pegs, G and H, for example, between which
there is 20 ohms resistance, the current between the pegs is evenly
divided by the shunt. Thus arranged the total resistance of (7— Z^ is
100 ohms, that of A—B is 900 ohms, making 1,000 ohms for the whole
box. A definite potential is maintained between A and D. \i for
example this is 0.1 volt, then the fall between two adjacent pegs is in
^5 0.01 volt; in CD 0.001 volt (except between G and H, where
the total fall is 0.001 volt); in EF 0.0001 volt. The cell, P, whose
potential is to be measured, is connected through the galvanometer to
the box by means of the caps /and K. Its potential is compensated, and
there is no current through the galvanometer when it is equal to the
total fall from B to I, from G to H, and from E to K. This value can
be read directly from the box ; thus the arrangement in the figure indi-
cates a potential of 0.0374 volts. Of course even the next decimal place
may be estimated from the deflections of the galvanometer when two
adjacent pegs in EF on each side of the true point are connected in
succession, or might be measured directly by yet another shunt similar to
E F, with a total resistance of four ohms. In this case E F mxxsi be
provided with an extra peg.
The external resistance of 13,000 ohms was calibrated during the
course of the experiments. Owing to an error found in this box, it was
necessary to correct the direct readings of potential of some of the early
cadmium amalgam cells by multiplying with a constant factor. The
corrected readings are given below without comment.
Results.
Four classes of cells were studied: — (1) electrodes of cadmium
amalgam of different concentration ; (2) electrodes of zinc amalf^am of
