110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Calculated for
[C6H2(N02)3C(COOC2Hj)2]2Cu. Pound.
Copper 7.92 7.72
Properties. — The copper salt is a brownish red powder, essentially
insoluble in water, it resembles the barium and zinc salts in being very
hygroscopic, and exploding easily, when heated with strong sulphuric
acid.
Action of Nitric Acid on Trinitrophenylmalonic Ester.
The action of nitric acid upon this substance is similar to its action with
the broratrinitrophenylmalonic ester,* that is, the nitrite or the substituted
tartronic ester is obtained according to the length of the treatment.
Nitrite of Trinitrophenylmalonic Ester,
C6H2(N02)3CONO(COOC2H5)2.
Two grams of the trinitrophenylmalonic ester were heated on the
steam bath with about 15 c.c. of common strong nitric acid. After three
minutes the ester had melted to a clear red oily globide, and the entire
liquid had taken on a reddish color. If the process was continued for
two minutes more, the globule went into solution. The heating should
not be continued beyond this point ; in fact, it can be stopped to advan-
tage even as soon as the globule of the melted substance is formed. If
all the organic matter had gone into solution, reddish crystals separated
in large quantity, as the liquid cooled, which were purified by washing
with water and several crystallizations from alcohol, until they showed
the constant melting point 109°. The globule, if the process was stopped
before it disappeared, was allowed to solidify, and then purified in the
same way. The substance was dried in vacuo, and analyzed with the
following result : —
0.2190 gram of the substance gave 25.8 c.c. of nitrogen, at a tempera-
ture of 20° and a pressure of 760.8 mm.
Calculated for
C6H2(N02)3CN0o(C00C2H5)2. Found.
Nitrogen ' 13.46 13.46
Properties of the Nitrite of Trinitrophenylmalonic Ester.
It crystallizes in long flat white prisms, apparently belonging to the
monoclinic system, usually terminated by two planes at an obtuse angle to
each other, but sometimes only by a single plane. It melts at 109° with
* These Proceedings, XXVI. 72.
