JACKSON AND PHINNEY. — PICRYLMALONIC ESTER. Ill
decomposition, as shown by the appearance of a red color. It is easily
soluble in ethyl, or methyl alcohol, or in chloroform, ether, benzol, glacial
acetic acid, or acetone ; nearly insoluble in carbonic disulphide ; essen-
tially insoluble in water, when cold, very slightly soluble in hot water,
^vinw a pink solution. The three strong acids have no apparent action
with it in the cold; strong sulphuric acid, when hot, decomposes it, as
shown by the dark color produced and the evolution of gas; strong nitric
acid, when hot, converts it into the corresponding tartronic ester. Alka-
lies have no action upon it at first, but gradually decompose it in the cold
with the formation of a red solution ; this action is much hastened by
heat, but we have made no attempt to isolate the uninviting product.
In all these respects the nitrite of trinitrophenylmalonic ester resembles
the nitrite of bromtrinitrophenylmalonic ester,* but we have not succeeded
in converting the former into the corresponding tartronic ester by decom-
position by heat, as was done with the latter. No crystalline substance
could be obtained from the viscous red product of the fusion.
Trmltrophenrjltartronic Ester, C6Ho(N02)3COH(COOC2H5)2.
This substance was obtained by long continued action of hot nitric acid
on triniti'ophenylmalonic ester, or by the action of the same reagent on
the nitrite just described. Two grams of trinitrophenylmalonic ester were
warmed in a porcelain dish on the water bath with about 'ib c.c. of com-
mon strong niti'ic acid, more acid being added from time to time to take
the pliice of what evaporated. To secure the complete formation of the
tartronic ester, the heating should be continued for five hours. If the
acid solution was not too concentrated, it deposited on cooling long nee-
dles of a pink color arranged in rosettes ; stronger solutions gave a more
or less red solid cake of the same compound. It was purified by washing
with water, and two recrystallizations from alcohol by cooling, when it
showed the constant melting point 117°, and after drying in vacuo was
analyzed with the following results : —
I. 0.2129 gram of the substance gave 20.8 c.c. of nitrogen at a tem-
perature of 21° and a pressure of 7G9.7 mm.
II. 0.2051 gram gave 20.3 c.c. of nitrogen at a temperature of 25° and
a pressure of 750.3 mm.
Calculated for Found.
CoH2(N02)3COH(COOC2H5)j. I. II.
Nitrogen 10.85 11.24 10.87
* These Proceedings, XXVI. 74.
