112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
The analysis of this substance gave much trouble, because of the ease
with which it exploded, but the ditiiculties were overcome by mixing it
with a large amount of cupric oxide, and heating very carefullv.
P ruperties of TrinitropJienijltartronic Ester. — It forms white fluffy-
needles in clusters like sheaves or even circles. Under the microscope
the crystals are seen to be slender prisms terminated by a single plane at
an oblique angle. Its melting point is 117°. It is easily soluble in
ethyl, or methyl alcohol, in fact the hot concentrated solution in ethvl-
alcohol is so strong that it solidifies nearly completely on cooling. It is
also easily soluble in ether, benzol, chloroform, or acetone; soluble in
glacial acetic acid; somewhat soluble in carbonic disulphide ; soluble with
difficulty in ligroine ; insoluble in cold water, slightly soluble with decom-
position in hot. forming a reddish solution. The three strong acids have
no apparent effect on it in the cold, but hot strong sulphuric aciJ decom-
poses it, giving a dark color and an evolution of gas. Alkalies give with
it at once dark blood-red solutions probably containing its salts, but these
decompose rapidly, turning dirty brown, and we have not succeeded in
isolating the salts themselves, or any definite compounds from their
decomposition products.
Trin itrophenyJacett/ltartron I'c Ester,
C6H.,(NOo)3C(OCOCH3)(COOCoH5),.
Acetylchloride dissolves trinitrophenyltartronic ester easily, but does
rot react with it either at ordinary' temperatures, or when heated on the
steam bath in open vessels. We accordingly proceeded as follows :
Three grams of trinitrophenyltartronic ester were heated with 15 to 20 c.c.
of acetylchloride in a sealed tube to 110° for five or six hours. Care was
taken that the temperature did not go too high, as at 140° a blackish
decomposition product was also formed, which made the purification of
the product more difficult. On evaporating off the excess of acetylchlo-
ride white crystals separated, which were purified by crystallization from
alcohol until they showed a constant melting point of 125°, when they
were dried in vacuo, and analyzed with the following result: —
0.2201 gram of the substance gave 19.4 c.c. of nitrogen at a tempera-
ture of 24° and a pressure of 761.6 mm.
Calculated for
C6HJ(NOJ)3COC2H3O^CO0CJH5),. Fonnd.
Nitrogen 9.79 9.88
Properties of Trinitrophenylacefyltnrtronic Ester. — It forms white flat
rather broad prisms, or perhaps they should be called tables, terminated
