JACKSON AND PHINNEY. PICRYLMALONIC ESTER. 115
ation, which disappears from the solutions, as the substituted toluol is
purified by recrystallizatiou. The solvents which follow dissolve the tri-
nitrophenylacetic acid without decomposition ; easily soluble in ether,
glacial acetic acid, acetone, or ligroine ; soluble in chloroform, less so in
benzol or carbonic disulphide. The best solvent for it is benzol. The
three strong acids seem to dissolve it without decomposition; it is more
soluble in nitric acid or sulphuric acid than in hydrochloric acid. Alka-
lies dissolve it easily, forming deep blood-red solutions of its salts, but we
have not yet succeeded in bringing any of these salts into a state fit for
analysis.
Attempts to Make Ditrinitrophenylmalonic Ester.
Dittrich,* in his work on the action of picrylchloride on sodium aceta-
cetic ester, obtained without ditficulty a ditrinitrophenylacetacetic ester ;
in fact this substance occurred as a secondary product in his preparations
of trinitrophenylacetacetic ester, when he used the reagents in molecular
proportions. It seems strange, therefore, that we have never observed
the formation of a ditrinitrophenylmalonic ester as a secondary product
in any of our preparations of the mono substituted ester. In the hope
of preparing this substance (ditrinitrophenylmalonic ester) we converted
5 grams of the trinitrophenylmalonic ester into its sodium salt by treat-
ment with the sodic ethylate from 0.31 gram of so<lium, and then treated
it with 3.4 grams of picrylchloride. The mixture was allowed to stand
at ordinary temperatures over night, and, as no apparent chanjie had
taken place, it was divided into two portions, one of which was heated
on the steam bath until it turned brown, and the other allowed to stand
two weeks, when it had also turned brown, and deposited crystals of
sodic chloride. The brown solutions, whether obtained by heating or by
standing, yielded sodic picrate and a brown viscous mass, from which
nothing fit for analysis could be isolated. A repetition of the experiment
under other conditions gave the same result. It seems, therefore, that
picrylchloride brings about a deep seated decomposition, when it acts on
the sodium salt of the trinitrophenylmalonic ester, as the ditrinitrophe-
nylmalonic ester would be without doubt a well crystallized compound.
The products of this reaction recall Dittrich's description of the substances
obtained by him from the action of picrylchloride on sodium malonic
ester (pikrinsaures Natrium neben schmierigen Zersetzungs-producten des
Malonsaureester), and it may be that the presence of an excess of picryl-
* Ber. d. chem. Ges., XXIII. 2720.
