CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE CHEMICAL LABORATORY OF
HARVARD COLLEGE.
ON THE ACTION OF SODIC ETHYLATE ON
TRIBROMDINITROBENZOL.
By C. Loring Jackson and Waldemar Koch.
Presented October 12, 1898. Received October 20, 1898.
The principal object of the work described in this paper was to
determine the constitution of the dinitroresorcine diethylether melt-
ing at 133°, formed by the action of a hot solution of sodic ethylate
on tribromdinitrobenzol (Br3l,3,5(N02)22,4), or on the bromdiuitrore-
sorcine diethylether melting at 184°. This determination was of interest
to us, as it formed part of an investigation of the replacement of bromine
by hydrogen under the influence of sodium malonic ester, sodic ethylate,
and similar reagents, which has now been in progress for several years in
this Laboratory. In all the cases studied here, with a single exception,
the atom of bromine (or iodine) has stood between two other radicals,
each in the ortho position to it, and it was necessary to determine whether
this arrangement also existed in this case, since a consideration of the
possibilities shows that this dinitroresorcine diethylether might have either
the symmetrical structure, if the bromine between the two nitro groups
was replaced by hydrogen, or the adjacent structure, if this replacement
occurred with one of the other atoms of bromine.
The constitution of the diethylether was determined by saponifying it
to the corresponding dinitroresorcine, which proved to be the symmetrical
compound (OH)ol,5(N0.2)22,4, melting at 212°.5, according to Typke.*
The proof that this body has the structure assigned to it has been given
by Nietzki and Schmidt,t who converted it into diimidoresorcine, which
in turn yielded dioxyquinone by treatment with sodic hydrate, and this
dioxyquinone gave with nitric acid nitranilic acid, which is paradinitro-
dioxyquiuone, a result that is in harmony only with the symmetrical
structure for the dinitroresorcine. It follows therefore that the bromine
replaced by hydrogen in tribromdinitrobenzol is the one between the
* Ber. d. chem. Ges., XVL 552. t Ibid., XXL 2374.
