120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
two nitro groups, as we had expected from the results of previous experi-
ments, and that the bromdinitroresorcine diethylether melting at 184°
has the constitution (OCoH5)2l,5,Br3.(NOo)o2,4. It is an interesting
fact in this connection that an isomeric bromdinitroresorcine diethylether
(having the constitution (OCoIT6)2l,3,Bro,(N02)22,4), in which the bro-
mine is not in the ortho position to two nitro groups, gave no replace-
ment of the atom of bromine by hydrogen, but, when treated with sodic
ethylate, gave dinitropliloroglucine triethylether by the replacement of
the bromine by an ethoxy group. Beilstein, in the third edition of his
Handbuch, provisionally places the diethylether C6H2(OC2lT5)2(N02)2
melting at 133°, and the corresponding dimethylether C6H2(OCH3)2(N02)2
melting at 167°, prepared from tribromdinitrobenzol by W. H. Warren
and one of us,* under the adjacent dinitroresorcine. The determination
of the constitution of the diethylether just given necessitates their trans-
fer to the symmetrical dinitroresorcine, as there can be no question that
the methylether has the same structure as the ethyl compound. It also
shows tliat the dimethylether CgH2(OCII3)2(N02)2 melting at G7°, pre-
pared by Honigt by the direct action of nitric acid on a solution of re-
sorcine dimethylether in glacial acetic acid, cannot have the symmetrical
structure which Beilstein assigued to it, as this now belongs to the body
melting at 167°.
In addition to this determination of the constitution of dinitroresorcine
diethylether, we have made a mi»re careful study of the products of the
reaction between sodic ethylate and tribromdinitrobenzol melting at 192°
both at ordinary temperatures and when aided by heat. These reactions
had been already studied by W. H. Warren and one of us, J with the result
that in the cold the bromdinitroresorcine diethylether melting at 184°
was formed, whereas, when hot, the dinitroresorcine diethylether melting
at 133° was the product isolated. As, however, subsequent work§ upon
the tribronitriniti'obenzol showed that in that case the action was far from
simple, it hardly seemed probable that the dinitro compound had given
only one organic product in each of thesfe cases, and this inference was
confirmed by our first new experiment m this field, as we found sodic
nitrite as well as sodic bromide among the products of the reaction, so
that it was evident that some other compounds were present besides those
recognized by Warren and one of us. The result of this later work was
* These Proceedings, XXV. 170, 178.
t Ber. d. chem. Ges., XI. 1041.
J These Proceedings, XXV. 166.
§ Jackson and Warren, Ibid., XXVII. 283.
