122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
As most of these substances were purified by crystallization, too much
weight must not be given to these yields, but we can safely infer from
them that Reaction II. ran to the largest extent, Reaction I. came next,
and Reaction III. took jilace only to a very limited extent.
These results are capable of a satisfactory theoretical explanation, but
before giving this it will be well to consider a parallel case studied by
W. H. Warren and one of us,* in which the conditions are simpler and
rather, better marked. This is the action of sodic ethylate on sym-
metrical tribromtrinitrobenzol CgBr3(N02)3, Br3l,3,5,(N02)32,4,6, which
consisted of two simultaneous reactions, first, the replacement of two nitro
groups by two ethoxy groups, giving C6Br3NOo(OC2H5)2, and second, the
replacement of the three bromine atoms by three ethoxy groups, giving
Cg(OC2H5)3(N02)3. These two reactions ran to nearly an equal extent
(about 45 per cent of each product), if the solvent was alcohol only.f
In attempting to explain these experimental results we must consider
the agencies which tend to loosen the nitro groups on the one hand and
the atoms of bromine on the other from the benzol ring. We have
designated these agencies by letters, and arranged them in the order of
intensity, beginning with the strongest.
A. The loosening effect of the three nitro groups on the three atoms
of bromine. This is a strong agency, as shown by the fixct that
picrylchloride (in which the chlorine is similarly disposed to the tliree
nitro groups) is decomposed easily and completely, even at ordinary
temperatures. J
H. The loosening effect exerted by the three nitro groups on each
other. Lobry de Bruyn ยง has shown that symmetrical trinitrobenzol is
converted into dinitroanisol by sodic methylate, even at ordinary tem-
peratures ; this loosening effect is therefore a powerful one, but not quite
so strong as A, since the action with picrylchloride is complete in a few
minutes, whereas the reaction with trinitrobenzol needs several days, if
carried on in the cold.
C The loosening effect of the three atoms of bromine on the threo
nitro groups. This is a much weaker action than B, since with the
tetrabrombenzol || (Br4l, 2,4,0) the atom of bromine (which stands in the
* These Proceedings, XXVII. 283.
t If the solvent was benzol and alcohol, less of the nitro groups were replaced ;
but this case need not be considered in this discussion.
} These Proceedings, XXXIII. 176.
ยง Rec. Trav. Chim. Pays Bas, IX. 208.
II Jackson and Calvert, These Proceedings, XXXI. 132.
