JACKSON AND KOCH. — TRTBROMDINITROBENZOL.
125
Dinitroresorcine diethylether, melting point 133° .
Bromdinitroresorcine diethylether, melting point 92^
16 per cent.
9 per cent.
Total 25 per cent.
So that in this case 75 per cent of the substance was unaccounted for.
Most of this undoubtedly went into the tarry products.
The most striking phenomenon in the action of sodic ethylate on
tribromdinitrobeuzol at high temperatures is the replacement by hydro-
gen of the atom of bromine in the otho position to both nitro groups.
The fact that this reaction only takes place to a very limited extent in the
cold may perhaps be accounted for by the sparing solubility of the brom-
dinitroresorcine diethylether melting at 184° in the cold alcohol and
benzol, so that most of it is precipitated, and therefore removed from the
action of the ethylate. On the other hand, as this ether is easily soluble
in these liquids, when hot, it would be brought into the sphere of the
reaction under these conditions, and the dinitroresorcine diethylether
would be formed. The bromdinitroresorcine diethylether melting at 92°
is soluble in the cold solvents, and this probably accounts for the fact
that a considerable amount of it was converted into the dinitrophloroglu-
cine triethylether even in the cold.
It is perhaps worth while to call attention to the fact that in the re-
actions described in this paper the action is confined either to the atoms of
bromine or to the nitro groups; that is, if it has started in one set of
radicals in the meta position to each other, it does not extend to the other
set of radicals in the meta position to each other and ortho or para to
the first set. This observation has been made frequently in the course of
the investigation of which this is a part, and the principle has sometimes
given valuable aid in interpreting experimental results. In only a single
case has such an extension of the reaction beyond the limits of the first
set of trimeta positions been observed ; this was in the action of hot sodic
ethylate on tribromtrinitrobenzol,* which gave first tribromnitroresorcine
diethylether, and by further action bromnitroresorcine diethylether
Br Br Br t
NOo
N0.3
C2H5O
OC2H5
C2H5O
OC0H5
Br
Br
Br
Br
H
H
\y
\/
\y
ND2
NO,
NOo
* These Proceedings, XXVII. 315.
t The position of the atom of bromine in this substance has not been estab-
lisiied experimentally.
