126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY.
We are not, however, inclined to be too sure of the general occurrence
of this restriction of reactions to a single trimeta zone, since the excep-
tional action just mentioned, in which the second trimeta zone was in-
vaded, was accompanied by the formation of much tarry matter, and
therefore it is possible that the tarry products so frequent in these reac-
tions may have been formed by similar invasions of the second trimeta
zone. The bearing of these observations on the benzol formula of J. N.
Collie* is obvious.
Preparation of Symmetrical Tribromdinitrobenzol.
The description of the preparation of tribromdinitrobenzol is scattered
through a number of papers from this Laboratory, so that it would be
a matter of some difficulty to find it, and there would be danger that any-
one looking it up might not find the latest and best form of the process ;
we have thouglit it well, therefore, to give here a connected account of
this process.
To make tribromaniline, 60 grams of aniline were treated with dilute
hydrochloric acid, and dissolved in four litres of water. Then a rapid
stream of air saturated with bromine vapor was drawn through the
liquid by means of a Bunsen pump, until it assumed a distinct yellow
color, which did not change for several minutes. The amount of bro-
mine required was about 320 grams. The precipitate of tribromaniline
was filtered out through cheese-cloth, washed until free from acid, and
dried by pressing with a screw press, followed by iieating to about 60°
over a steam radiator.
To convert this tribromaniline into tribrombenzol, 100 grams of it
were dissolved in 600 c.c. of alcohol and 150 c.c. of benzol by the aid of
heat ; 40 c.c. of common strong sulphuric acid were then added to the
hot solution from a pipette, and any precipitate formed was dissolved by
longer heating, or even adding more of the solvents. Forty grams of
finely powdered sodic nitrite were next sifted into the hot solution as
rapidly as the violence of the reaction permitted, and the product heated,
until there was no more effervescence, after which it was allowed to stand
at ordinary temperatures over night, and then filtered and dried.
The tribrombenzol was converted into tribromdinitrobenzol as fol-
lows. The perfectly dry tribrombenzol was mixed with four or five
times its weight of fuming nitric acid of specific gravity 1.51, and gently
heated over a low flame for two hours in a flask closed with a porcelain
* 2 Proc. Chem. Soc, 1896-1897, p. 143.
