JACKSON AND KOCH. — TRIBROMDINITROBENZOL. 127
crucible, taking care that the temperature was kept just below boiling.
It was then allowed to stand over night at ordinary temperatures, when
most of the tribromdinitrobenzol crystallized out, while the rest of it was
obtained by pouring the supernatant acid liquid into a large excess of
water. The dried product was purified by crystallization from about
eight times its weight of a niixture of three parts of alcohol with one
of benzol.
Action of Sadie Ethylate on Tribromdinitrohenzol at 70°.
The tribromdinitrobenzol used in all this work, made in the way de-
scribed in the previous section, melted at 192°, and had the constitution
lir3l,3,o,(N02)22,4. Forty grams of this tribromdinitrobenzol were dis-
solved in 80 c.c. of benzol, and mixed with the solution of sodic ethylate
obtained from 6.8 grams of sodium and 180 c.c. of absolute alcohol,
wliich gave the proportion of three molecules of sodic ethylate to each
molecule of tribromdinitrobenzol. The flask containing the mixture was
then placed in a water bath, which was heated until a thermometer im-
mersed in the mixture rose to 70°, at which temperature the solution was
kept for ten minutes. The liquid turned dark brown during this heating,
a color which had been found to be characteristic of the reaction with
the aid of heat. At the end of the ten minutes the liquid was poured
into a large evaporating dish, and the solvents allowed to evaporate spon-
taneously. The residue thus obtained was washed with water until tha
wash waters became colorless, and the products purified as follows.
Residue Insoluble in Water.
This residue was dried and extracted three times with boiling ligroin.
The portion insoluble in ligroin was purified by repeated crystallization
from a mixture of ligroin and benzol, during which it was frequently
treated with boneblack. The product was the diuitroresorcine diethyl-
ether already obtained in this way by W. H. Warren and one of us;*
it was recognized by its melting point, 133°, and its solubilities and
appearance.
The ligroin solution on standing deposited a flocculent precipitate in
too small quantity for identification, which was filtered out, and the fil-
trate evaporated to dryness ; the crystalline residue was spread on an
ungluzed plate to remove oily impurities, after which it was purified by
crystallization from hot ligroin. After four crystallizations it showed
* These Proceedincrs, XXV. 170.
