30
THE LUMBER TRADE JOURNAL
[New Orleans, La., June 15, 1912.
stand the hot dry roads of the southwest better than
if made of any other wood. They are not recom-
mended for rocky roads, because osage orange fel-
loes are BO unyielding that they will splinter by
jolting over rocks.
Osage orange is popularly supposed to be of slow
growth, but such is not always the case. Growth
depends on soil and situation. Planted hedges have
been known to produce posts in a few years. A log
in the University collection at Austin is twenty-three
inches in diameter, and it grew in forty-two years.
A tree less than thirty-five years old near Victoria,
Texas, is twenty-four inches in diameter.
Overcup Oak. The acorn usually is the means of
identifying this tree in the woods, but the wood so
closely resembles white oak that one may be taken
for the other. Their qualities and uses are much
the same. It is often called swamp white oak in
Texas. It is probable that more of it was cut than
Table I shows, because some manufacturers put it
down as 'white oak in their reports.
Pin Oak. Nearly a quarter of a million feet of
this oak was reported -by Texas manufacturers, at an
average price of $15.30 a thousand feet. There is
some reason to doubt the correctness of this identi-
fication, and those who reported it may have applied
the name to some other species. It is customary in
some localities to give this name to several species
of oak. The true pin oak (Quercus palustris) 'beare
a general resemblance to the true red oak, but its
leaves are deeper lobed and sharper pointed, the
bark is smoother in young trees, and the trunks are
bristling with small branches set at right angles
like pins. (Hence the name.)
Post Oak. The wood of this tree bears very close
resemblance to the true white oak (Quercus alba),
and for most purposes is as good It grows in Texas
westward to the 100th meridian, and south to the
San Antonio River. Some of the users consider
that the post oak in Texas is inferior to the same
species in the northeastern part of the United States.
Similar complaints are made against some of the
other oaks that grow in Texas and which are found
also in the cooler and damper parts of the country.
Red Cedar. The 2,000 feet of red cedar listed in
Table I is an inadequate showing for this wood in
Texas. It seems to imply that red cedar is one of
the least important of the State's native wood, while
the fact is it is one that promises much. The spe-
cies grows in at least half the State, and in the re-
gion about Austin, between that city and Ban An-
tonio, and south and southwest as well as in the
west over parts of the Edwards Plateau, this tree
is found growing 'by untold thousands. The growth
is usually small, the trunks often making only posts
or small poles; ! but what is wanting in size is made
up in quantity. The dry rocky ridges in the vicinity
of the eastern escarpment of the Edwards Plateau
are thickly covered with cedars which have appro-
priated practically all of the ground to themselves.
Train loads of posts are hauled from the region
into surrounding agricultural country. In some
places the loose bark is removed from the posts and
is sold in the towns for kindling wood. It may toe
put up in bales somewhat like hay to facilitate the
handling. When near enough to markets, the limbs
and tops are cut into stove wood. When this is
done, utilization is almost complete. But in districts
more remote it is not practicable to work up the re-
fuse so closly.
Red cedar is now and will continue to be a valu-
able forest resource in Texas. What the osage or-
ange is for fence posts in the northeastern part of
the 'State, red cedar is in the south, but not in the
extreme south. Much that is too small for posts
makes stakes to strengthen wire fences. Young ce-
dars spring up where the old are cut, and though
the growth is not rapid, .there is always a supply
coming on. It is a "poor land" tree, and 'by content-
ing itself with thin, rocky soils, it leaves more fa-
vored situations for farm crops. As the country
develops, the demand for fence material will in-
crease and red cedar will be one of the standard
woods for this purpose.
Red Gum. Red gum is cut in the eastern half
of Texas and is one of its important timbers. It
has won its way in spite of much prejudice against
it. It is not an easy wood to season, and for a long
time the belief prevailed that it could not be dried
in a way to flt it for any but rough purposes. Ex-
perience has snown that its seasoning is practicable,
and it has taken its place among the best furniture
and finish woods of this country. The same tree
has two kinds of wood, white or pale yellowish sap,
and darker colored heart. Occasionally a tree of
large size is nearly all white, while others are
largely heartwood. Red gum may be worked to
show a pleasing grain. It is made to imitate wal-
nut, oak, cherry, birch and other expensive cabinet
woods.
Red Oak. Many oaks pass as red oak, but the
United States Forest Service applies that name to
one species only (Quercus rubra), and that does not
grow in Texas. It is a northeastern tree, and its
commercial range approaches no nearer Texas than
where it is found in central Tennessee. It is hard
to identify it by the wood alone by tests available
to the ordinary user, as several of the red oaks bear
close resemblance. The names of several of them
are so confused that they afford no assistance in
identification. Red oak is a standard, first-class fur-
niture and finish wood. For most purposes it is
fully equal to white oak.
Sitka Spruce. This Pacific Coast wood comes
principally from the State of Washington, and its
high cost 'by the time it reaches Texas excludes it
from all uses except the* most important. It is receiv-
ed in stock so free from imperfections that waste in
its conversion at the factory is reduced to a mini-
mum. The average tree of this species in the most
favored regions of its range is three or four times
as large as the average spruce tree of the northeast,
and of course it yields more clear lumber.
Spanish Cedar. Spanish cedar is the most im-
portant cigar box wood in this country. It does
not grow in the United States, but comes from Mex-
ico, Cuba and other Spanish-American regions. It
is imported in various forms, but much comes as
logs of different diameters and lengths. The tree
attains large size if left to grow to an old age.
Early Spanish explorers in the West Indies and
along the coast of Mexico and Central America spoke
of canoes hewed from cedar trunks, large enough to
carry thirty or forty persons. It would now be dif-
ficult to find trees of anything like that size near
the coast. Much of the cigar-box material comes to
this country as logs the size of telegraph poles. This
is converted into thin lumber or veneer. If lumber
is used, the cigar boxes are of solid wood; but if
veneer is employed it is very thin, scarcely thicker
than paper, and is pasted on the backing of other
woods. When that process is followed, the cigar
hox is apparently solid cedar, but is really made
with very little of that wood.
Sugar Maple. The hard maple of commerce is
nearly all cut from the sugar tree, the same from
which sugar is manufactured in the north. The
tree touches the eastern part of Texas, and there
reaches the southwestern limit of its range. It is
too scarce to furnish much lumber, and only a
chance tree is cut in logging operations or when
land is cleared. All of the reported sugar maple in
Texas was shipped into the State from the North.
The usual name applied to the wood is hard maple.
The average cost in the State is more than twice
what it is in Illinois, but the small quantity used
in Texas is responsible for the extra high price.
Sugarberry. The description of hackberry applies
equally well to sugarberry, as the two woods are so
nearly alike that users do not distinguish between
them. Both are bought and sold as ash in Texas,
though for some purposes the wood is not quite as
satisfactory as ash.
Sugar Pine. California supplies this wood, and
Texas manufacturers use half a million feet of it
yearly. The tree is so named because on its native
mountains a sap or juice oozing to the surface where
the wood has been injured is condensed by evapora-
tion into a white sugary substance not unpleasant
to the taste. It is the largest of the pines in this
country. Single trees sometimes saw 20,000 feet of
lumber, a large percent of which is of high grade.
In the central and eastern States, sugar pine is often
taken as a substitute for white pine. It is cheaper
than white pine of the same grade where both are
shipped the same distance.
Teak. This high-priced wood, greatly admired for
boat finish and heavy doors, comes from India and
Siam. Its principal value is due to the wearing
qualities where it receives rough usage; but its
beauty is also appreciated. It bears some resem-
blance to mahogany, but its color is less rich. It
was the costliest wood imported in Texas, and the,
whole 8,000 feet was employed in 'boat building.
An oil in the wood has a tendencq to preserve iron
from rust, and ship builders appreciate this prop-
erty.
Texan Oak. The most aboundant oak in the State
is the Texan oak, which is commonly called red oak
by those who use it. Others know it as spotted or
Spanish oak. It belongs to the red oak group, and
is cut in tfie eastern and central portions of the
State. It is put to practically all uses for which any
oak is suitable. It is quarter sawed, and the grain
and figure compare favorably with those of the gen-
uine red oak of the Ohio valley. The acorns of this
species ripen in two years, the same as other mem-
bers of the red oak group. The acorns of the white
oaks ripen in one year.
Tupelo. Tupelo is cut in the forests and goes
to market under other names. In some localities
it is called bay poplar, in others simply gum, or
black gum. In the past the wood has been respon-
sible for many seasoning troubles, but these have
decreased in recent years as the handling of tupelo
has -become better understood. It is a swamp tree
and it can stand in water most of the year, and still
prosper. In that respect it is in a class with cypress.
It is a slow grower and a tupelo tree is not worth
much until it has a century or more to its credit.
Its slow growth makes it impossible that tupelo can
have much place in this country's future forest pol-
icy.
Western White Pine. This wood comes from the
northern Rocky Mountain region, chiefly Idaho. It is
often substituted for the white pine of the Lake
States, but it has not yet gained much foothold in
Texas, as is shown by the small quantity reported
in Table I. The wood is light in weight and color,
works well, holds its shape after seasoning, and is a
reliable material. By the time it pays freight on
the long haul from Idaho to Texas it is by no means
a low-priced wood. It should not be confused with
western yellow pine, which is often called white
pine.
Western Yellow Pine. When the wood reaches
Texas it is frequently called California white pine.
It is a western species, covering the region from the
eastern base of the Rocky Mountains to the Pacific
Coast. Its range extends into some of the western
counties of Texas, but the timber there is small and
of comparatively little value. The best comes from
California and Oregon, and from certain favored lo-
calities of the Rocky Mountains and the Basin
States. The wood belongs with the yellow rather
than the white pine, 'but it bears some resemblance
to the latter. It is soft and is easily worked, and
less resinous than longleaf pine, though experi-
ments have shown that naval stores may be obtained
from the western species. It was formerly believed
that the Rocky Mountain form of this tree, including
that found in western Texas, was a separate species
from the Pacific Coast form, but at present they are
considered to be the same species.
White Ash. This is the common ash in the east-
ern and central parts of the United States. Texas
supplies more than three-fourths of this wood used
by its factories. The species reaches its southwest-
ern limit in the State. It is a wood of all-round use-
fulness, and most industries employ it
White Elm. This elm is widely distributed over
the United States east of the Rocky Mountains, and
within that range most regions have enough of it to
meet their needs. It has half a dozen names, not
including "rock elm," which Is applied to all species
of elms in some parts of their ranges, though it is
not the proper name of any of them. Workers in
wood say that few trees show as readily as elm the
effect of soil upon wood. One soil may produce brash
wood, another a very tough one; and there seems to
be much difference in weight and color, which is ac-
counted for by differences in soils. This may ex-
plain why in one locality the name rock elm is ap-
plied to a certain species, and in another locality
the term is applied to an elm of a different species.
The wood of all the elms is coarse and character-
less, and is never employed where handsome ap-
pearance is the object sought.
White Oak. The range of the white oak overlaps
the northeastern region of Texas. It reaches its best
development In the Ohio valley and among the Appa-
lachian mountains, but it has extended its range
over the whole eastern and central portion of the
United States, and in Texas it reaches its southwest-
ern limit. Some of the white oak timber in Texas is
good, but most of it falls below the quality growing
in Kentucky and Indiana. Woods generally lose in
quality as they approach the limits of their ranges.
There is only one white oak which is properly called
by that name, but there are several species belonging
in the group of white oaks. The wood of some of
them closely resembles that of the true white oak,
and when the different kinds are mixed it is very
difficult to separate them according to species. In
practice it is not done. White oak is so named be-
cause the bark and the wood present a whitish ap-
pearance; but the wood and the bark of post oak
are as white, and several other species are nearly.
The oaks may be broadly divided into four groups
if the shape of the leaves is made the basis for divi-
sion. The white oaks, including a dozen or more
species, have leaves with rounded lobes; red or black
oaks, with a score of species, have lobes with sharp
points; the chestnut oaks, with four or five species,
have notched leaves like those of the chestnut, and
the willow oaks have leaves like the willow or laurel,
without notches or lobes. Representatives of all
four groups are found in Texas. There is a repre-
sentative species for each group. The white oak is
the type for the round-lobed species; the red oak
for the pointed-leafed group; the chestnut oak for
those with notched leaves; and the willow oak for
those with smooth-edged leaves.
The men who work in factories are not necessarily
acquainted with the appearance of the trees as they
stand in the forests. They judge a wood by its ap
pearance, and not by the shape of the leaves, which
they may never see. They are for that reason less
exact in designating species than is the man who
works in the woods. They class as a white oak all
light-colored oak that works like true white oak and
they follow the same course with red oaks. In actual
practice nearly all oaks are considered either white
oak or red oak. The compiler of statistics often
finds it necessary to make special inquiry to deter-
