New Orleans, La., June 15, 1912.]
THE LUMBER TRADE JOURNAL
31
mine the exact species. If this were not done, most
state reports of wood uses would name few species
of oak other than white and red.
White Pine. The reign of the white pine in the
United States is a thing of the past, though a large
amount is still demanded. It does not grow in the
state, and the lumber now used here comes princi-
pally from the Lake States, where it was once lum-
bered in enormous quantities, but now to a much
less extent. Much white pine lumber is still i the
market, but not all that passes for white pine is the
genuine article. Some is Norway pine cut in the
Lake States and Canada; some is the western white
pine, a different species from the northern Rocky
Mountain states; the California sugar pine furnishes
some of it, and the western yellow pine more, and a
small amount is the Mexican white pine. These sev-
eral species pass as white pine in the lumber mar-
ket, and it is difficult to determine how much of the
total is the real article All are good woods, and for
some purposes are doubtless as good as white pine.
No manufacturer expects, nor should the buying
public expect, to obtain much white pine now of a
grade equal to that on the market when the original
pine forests of New England, New York, Pennsyl-
vania and the Lake states were available.
Willow Oak. This tree is nearly but not quite an
evergreen in the extreme southern part of its range.
Its thick, willow-shaped leaves adhere to the twigs
until the new crop of the following year pushes
them off. The wood resembles red oak, and it often
passes under that name. The tree grows rapidly and
the annual rings are broad and clearly defined. It
is one of the most promising species of eastern
Texas. Not only is the wood of high grade and
useful for many purposes, but the tree increases in
size so rapidly that few species promise better re-
turns from planted stands. It has not yet been
planted to any extent. One factor not in its favor
is that it is somewhat exacting in its soil and moist-
ure conditions. It must have plenty of water or the
trunk becomes stunted. It may be expected to do
well in Texas only in the eastern half of the state,
and there only near water courses where the soil is
deep and damp.
Wing Elm. This wood passes under various
names, and those who use it are apt to call it elm
without any qualifying term. The wood differs lit-
tle from white elm, but some consider it a little
harder and tougher. It is not called wing elm 'be-
cause its seeds are equipped for flying,, as might be
supposed, but 'because its small twigs are provided
with flat keels, often a half an inch or more wide.
The wings are of no use to the tree, as far as is
known, but they are an easy mark of identification.
The tree is called cork elm and rock elm, but these
names are applied to other species of elm as well,
and cork elm is the proper name of one of them.
Yellow Pines. Three species of yellow pine grow
in Texas, and are cut in large quantities by sawmills
and are made into finished commodities by manu-
facturing plants. The three kinds of pine are some-
times spoken of collectively as yellow pine or south-
ern yellow pine; but it often happens that it is nec-
essary to be more exact in specifying the kinds, and
they are listed according to species as longleaf,
shortleaf and loblolly. Sawmill output, as it is han-
dled by the census, usually groups all three under
the common name of southern yellow pine. The
purpose in that case is merely to separate them
from the western yellow pine of the Rocky Moun-
tains and Pacific coast regions, and the other pines
figured in the lumber cut of the United States. That
general classification is considered sufficient in re-
porting the sawmill output, but factories which work
the lumber into finished products find it necessary
to separate the general groups of woods into spe-
cies.
Shortleaf Pine. Factories in Texas report the
use of 48 species of wood, but more than ninety per
cent of all consists of the three species of yellow
pine. Shortleaf leads in quantity, with longleaf
second, and loblolly third, according to the reports
of manufacturers. The principal supply of shortleaf
pine comes from the northeastern section of the
state; the loblolly belt is south of that, and the long-
leaf nearer the coast. The belts of the different
pines are not clearly defined in all places and there
is much overlapping of ranges.
Shortleaf pine 'has a number of characteristics
which separate it from its relatives in the yellow
pine group. Its leaves are shorter than those of any
other timber pine in Texas, and that usually makes
the identification of the standing tree easy; but it
is often desirable that the logs or lumber be iden-
tified when far removed from where the trees grew.
It is not always easy to do that, particularly to dis-
tinguish shortleaf from loblolly pine in the log yard
or lumber pile. There are some general features
belonging to each of the species which will assist
in distinguishing one from another. Longleaf has
comparatively thin sapwood and much heart. Both
shortleaf and loblolly pine have thick sapwood and
comparatively little heart. These features alone
usually are sufficient to identify longleaf pine logs,
if compared with those of the two other species;
but shortleaf pine and loblolly are so nearly the
same in the proportionate amounts of heartwood
and sapwood that some other mark of distinction
must be sought and it is not always possible to find
it on a general view of the logs.
Shortleaf pine grows rapidly the first thirty or
forty years of its life, and the yearly rings showing
the growth are wide. But after that age is reached
the tree develops a tendency to grow more slowly
and the annual rings are narrower. Upon examin-
ing the end of a shortleaf pine log, therefore, the
part next the center is apt to be found made up of
broad rings and the outer part of narrow rings. The
rule does not always hold, but generally does. Lob-
lolly pine grows rapidly and has wide rings until the
trunk attains large size.
;Shortleaf pine is at this time the most extensive-
ly used wood in Texas, and the greatest demand for
it is by manufacturers of doors, sash, and interior
house finish. It is a soft wood and joins nicely. It
is not difficult to season, and it retains its shape
well. The figure is handsome, and the grain holds
and displays points and stains. It works easily.
The belief is quite general among workers in pine
that there are two species of shortleaf in Texas, one
whiter and softer than the other, but botanists have
not been able to work out two species and hold that
the differences in wood are due to soil, climate and
other factors of environment. In some instances
the soft variety of shortleaf is called Texas white
pine. The best of It closely resembles the white
pine of the Lake states..
The cutting of this species is gaining rapidly on
the growth and the supply must run short before
many years. It is said that pines have encroached,
a good deal on the prairie land in Texas since the
country was settled, and the Indian fires stopped.
The young growth coming on is not enough to make
up the yearly drain to supply the mills.
Longleaf Pine. A considerable amount of small
growth of longleaf pine is met with in places near
the southeastern border of Texas; but the fact is
apparent that the end of this fine wood, as a timber
supply, is only a question of a few years or decades.
Large tracts which were once heavily wooded are
now bare of trees. In many instances farmers fol-
lowed the lumberman, and crops grow among the
stumps. In other cases, stumps dot wide expanses
of pasture.
This pine possesses great strength, stiffness, and
hardness, and is fitted for special places. It is the
great bridge wood of the central and eastern part
of the United States. Its chief competitor in that
line is the Douglas fir of the Pacific coast. Each
holds the field nearest it, and in the broad belt of
country, midway between the two, they meet in
sharp competition. In good qualities they are pret-
ty evenly matched. The western wood may be had
in larger pieces, bu.t the southern pine is sawed in
dimensions large enough for all ordinary purposes.
The hardness as well as the strength of longleaf
pine qualify it for use as flooring. It wears well,
is not inclined to splinter under hard usage, and is
of handsome appearance. Car manufacturers use
it for framing timbers, as well as for flooring and
siding. The long beams cut from the shapely
trunks of this species constitute excellent frames
and trusses for large buildings.
The longleaf forests of Texas are now coming in
as a source of naval stores, such as rosin, pitch,
turpentine, and oils. A few years ago Texas con-
tributed little to that industry. Georgia was once
the chief field; then it moved westward successively
into Alabama, Mississippi, and Louisiana. The
gradual shifting of the center of the naval stores
supply westward marks in a general way the deple-
tion of longleaf pine. Texas has the farthest west
and the last of the large stands.
Loblolly Pine In some instances loblolly is call-
ed longleaf pine, and in others it is classed as
shortleaf. Its needles are midway in length be-
tween longleaf and shortleaf, and when compared
with the former they are short, and in comparison
with the latter they are long. It is not improbable
that the figures for loblolly pine in Table 1 are far
too small because of the custom of calling this wood
either longleaf or shortleaf pine. The wood bears
much closer resemblance to shortleaf than to long-
leaf pine, and is made into doors, frames, and dif-
ferent kinds of finish.
Loblolly pine is an aggressive tree. It pushes
into vacant land wherever it finds it, and takes pos-
session and generally crowds out most other spe-
cies. It prefers old farms as a seeding ground, and
so 'prompt is it in improving opportunities of that
kind that it is apt to distance its competitors in the
race. In some of the Eastern states, particularly
Virginia, Norh Carolina, and the eastern shore of
Maryland, it has taken possession of thousands of
old fields where corn and tobacco once grew. In
Texas there are few worn-out fields, and the spread
of loblolly pine over land of that character is not
common; but the species is spreading where forests
have been cut, and also into many prairie tracts
where no trees grew half a century ago. If one
may judge the future by present indications, this
tree will be the longest survivor of the pines of
Eastern Texas. The longleaf will be the first to
give up the fight because of its inability to compete
for space, and the loblolly will be last because it
will win in that competition.
yellow Poplar. This fine forest tree is not found
growing in Texas in commercial quantities. Its
range is in the Appalachian region, but demand for
the wood exists in practically every manufacturing
section of this country. It once competed with
pine, but it is no longer a competitor, having risen
above most of the pines in refinement of uses. Its
high price excludes it from many places where it
was once common, but it has a few places Which it
continues to hold in spite of cost. One of these is
in the manufacture of fine carriage bodies, where
broad panels, particularly those of curved form, are
demanded. No wood surpasses yellow poplar in
smoothness of finish and in ability to hold high-
class paints.
One-Seed Juniper. The one-seed juniper is a des-
ert tree that comes down into western Texas from
the mountains. It is not of good form for lumber,
the trunk being short and rough. The numerous
knots are apt to be much darker in color than the
body wood; but that is not necessarily a defect, for
in making clothes chests, the remarkable contrast
in color between the knots and other wood gives the
articles a peculiar and attractive appearance. The
trunks are sharply buttressed and deeply creased.
Sometimes the folds of bark within the creases al-
most reach the tree's heart. The sapwood is thin,
the heartwood irregular in color. Some is darker
than the heartwood of the southern red cedar; other
is clouded and mottled, pale yellow, cream-colored,
or streaked with various tints.
This tree can be economically worked only as
small pieces. It takes a soft, pleasing finish. It
is a lathe wood and shows to best advantage as bal-
usters, ornaments and small posts; and as Indian
clubs, dumb-bells, balls and lodge gavels. It has
been made into small game 'boards with fine effect,
and it is excellent material for small picture frames.
Furniture makers find for it several uses. It ought
to be valuable in the manufacture of small musical
instruments where fine polish and novel figures are
desired, but inquiry failed to discover that it has
ever been so used in Texas. It is not an abundant
wood, nor is it convenient to market.
Mountain Juniper. This tree has several local
names in Texas, among them being juniper cedar,
mountain cedar, juniper and rock cedar. It grows
in southwestern Texas, and is closely related to the
red cedar. When mountain juniper grows under
adverse circumstances it assumes fantastic and dis-
torted forms which bear little resemblance to any
of its relatives. It has been planted for ornament
to a small extent, along the coast about Corpus
Christ! and between there and the Rio Grande. That
region is outside of the species' natural range, and
the trying climatic conditions strangely affect the
tree's form, and the trunks often resemble twisted
and interwoven bundles of lead-colored vines but-
tressed, fluted and gnarled. The branches under
these circumstances lose the horizontal or upright
positions which they have in their natural environ-
ment, and droop in ragged festoons; and the wind
in winter whips most of the foliage from them. Few
of the planted trees are yet above a foot in diameter
or more than twenty or thirty feet high. In its
natural range the tree may attain a diameter of
two feet and a height of 100 feet. Even in its nat-
ural range the creases in the trunk are often so
deep as almost to divide the trunk in two; and
trunks of planted trees are sometimes entirely divi-
ded, forming two or more stems.
The sapwood of the mountain juniper is very thin.
It is not a tree that can be profitably cut into lum-
ber of the usual kinds and sizes, because of its odd-
shaped and irregular trunk. It lends itself more
economically to the manufacture of articles made up
of small pieces. Some of the wood is extremely
beautiful, having the color and figure of French
walnut. There is great difference, nowever, in color
and figure, and the wood from one tree is not a sure
guide to what another may be. Boards a foot wide.,
or even less, may show several figures and colors.
Some pieces of the wood suggest variegated marble;
others are like plain red cedar. Some is light yel-
lowish in color; other has a tinge of blue. Small
spindles, such as are made into grills, show to fine
advantage. It may be highly recommended for pic-
ture-frame molding and for small panel work and
turned ornaments. Fine stair balustrades have been
made of it, including newel posts and railing. Fur-
niture makers use it. Those 'well acquainted with
it say that the wood varies greatly in hardness, even
in the same trunk. Some is tough and flinty, other
soft and brittle enough for lead pencils. It has
been substituted for red cedar by clothes-chest mak-
ers; and goblets, cups, rings, dishes, trays and other
small wooden-ware are turned by the lathe.
Mesquite. Persons well acquainted with Texas,
