32
THE LUMBER TRADE JOURNAL
[New Orleans, La., June 15, 1912.
both past and present, say that the mesquite area
is at least double now what it was when the state
came into the Union. Old stands were scattered
here and there, 'but hundreds of square miles which
were in grass only, and little of that, half a century
ago, ,now support forests of mesquite. It is per-
haps a misnomer to designate some of these stands
as forests, for they present a rather ragged and
sorry appearance, but they are forests in the pro-
cess of forming. The old growth, which is found
principally in the counties bordering on the lower
Rio Grande, is made up of trunks of large size, but
the stands that have come on within the past fifty
or sixty years are of smaller trees. A large mes-
quite trunk is from one to three feet in diameter;
a small one from one foot down to an inch or two.
A person 'would need to hunt from center to cir-
cumference of Texas to find many mesquite trunks
that would make a straight saw-log twelve feet long.
The tree is generally one of the most crooked, de-
formed and unpromising in the whole country; and
its habit of dividing into forks near the ground,
like a peach tree, makes it still more difficult to
make use of. In fact, in winter when mesquite trees
are bare of leaves the appearance of a forest re-
minds the observer of an old, neglected, diseased,
moss-grown peach orchard in the eastern states;
but in summer the leaves conceal much of the trunk
scaliness and deformity, and there is something pos-
itively restful and attractive in the prospect of a
wide range of these trees, covering hills and prai-
ries. The leaves are compound like the acacias, and
are delicate and graceful.
The spread of mesquite in the last fifty or sev-
enty-five years has been attributed to the
checking of grass fires which Indians once set year-
ly to keep the prairies open. The dispersion of the
trees is facilitated by the scattering of seeds by
cattle which feed on the pods. It is a tree hard to
kill. Roots send up sprouts year after year during
long periods. Sometimes, but not often in Texas,
when adverse circumstances become so severe that
the mesquite tree can no longer survive above the
surface, it grows beneath the ground, sending only
a few sprouts up for air. "Dig for wood" is a term
applied to trees of that kind, when fuel is dragged
out with mattocks, grab 'hooks, and oxen.
The roots of the mesquite penetrate farther be-
neath the surface for water than any other known
tree in this country. Depths of fifty or sixty feet
are occasionally reached. Well diggers on the fron-
tiers learned to go to the mesquite for water.
Large trunks never develop unless their roots are
abundantly supplied with moisture. Railroad engi-
neers on the "Staked Plains" of Northwestern Tex-
as turned that knowledge to account in boring wells.
Though mesquite is seldom or never mentioned
in the lumber business, it is and has been one of
the most important trees of the state. Its fuel
value is very great. It has cooked more food,
warmed more buildings, burned more bricks, than
any other wood in Texas. The tannic acid in it in-
jures boilers and it is not much used for steam pur-
poses. It is a high-grade furniture material, though
it is difficult to work because of its exceeding hard-
ness. Ordinary wood-working tools and machinery
will not stand it. Suites of nine pieces are sold in
San Antonio at $200 or $300. The merchants find
difficulty in getting mesquite furniture made. Fac-
tories do not want to handle it. though the articles
sell higher than mahogany. Large, heavy tables,
deeply carved, are sold in some of the cities, but
all seem to be made to order and lareelv by hand.
The appearance of the polished and finished wood
is a little lighter in color than mahogany. It is not
uniform in color, but shades from tone to tone in
the same piece. A little of the lighter colored sap-
wood is worked in with pleasing effect. Some of
the tones resemble black walnut, and some suggest
the luster of polished cherry.
House movers in Central and Southern Texas
make rollers of mesquite. It is of such hardness
that some claim a set of mesquite rollers will out-
last three of maple or black gum. The wood is brit-
tle, however, and is apt to break if subjected to
heavy blows or jolts. Notwithstanding its brittle-
ness, it has always been used for lintels and short
beams. The Indians so used it in New Mexico be-
fore the Spaniards reached the country, three hun-
dred years ago, and the Spaniards in Southern and
Western Texas used it in constructing their forts,
churches, and missions. The heartwood is almost
immune from decay. Pence posts outlast the men
that set them. A timber taken this year from the
Alamo at San Antonio was said to have served more
than 190 years, witn no sign of decav. It was set
apart for manufacturing souvenirs. Paving blocks
at San Antonio, Brownsville, and other places are
reported to wear longer than stone pavement sub-
jected to the same wear. Railroads in the vicinitv
of Brownsville employ this wood for crossties, but
it is so hard that holes must be bored for spikes.
Mesquite baskets are made by hand of splits the
size of knitting needles, some of white sapwood,
others of dark heartwood. Such baskets, large
enough to contain five quarts, sell in the curio shops
at San Antonio for $1.25 each.
Some wagon makers insist that mesquite is in
the same class with osage orange for wagon felloes
in hot, dry regions; but it does not appear that much
of it is so used. The brittleness of the wood is
against it, in use as felloes, except for vehicles of
the heaviest sort where large pieces are demanded.
Among the uses of mesquite, by-products are an
important consideration. The pods are food for
farm stock. Before the first railroad reached San
Antonio mesquite pods were a regular market com-
modity. The Mexicans know how to make bread
and brew beer from the fruit; tan leather with the
resin; dye leather, cloth, and crockery with the
tree's sap; make ropes and baskets of the bark.
Parched pods are a substitute for coffee; bees store
honey from the bloom which remains two months
on the trees; riled water is purified with a decoc-
tion of mesquite chips; vinegar is made from the
fermented juice of the legumes; tomales of mes-
quite bean meal, pepper, chicken, and cornshucks;
mucilage from the gum; and candy and gum drops
from the dried sap.
One of the most promising uses for this wood is
in turnery. Short lengths can be utilized to ad-
vantage. The artistic color fits it for the manufac-
ture of lodge gavels, curtain rings, goblets, plaques,
trays, and numerous kinds of novelties. Spindles
for grills and stairways do not suffer in comparison
with black walnut, mahogany, cherry, and teak.
UNREPORTED WOODS.
An inspection of Table 1 will show that several
of the woods listed are accompanied by no figures
giving the feet used annually. That is because no
manufacturer reported those woods. As far as lists
sent in by the makers of furniture, finish, boats,
vehicles, and other commodities are concerned, the
table might have ended with African mahogany.
That wood in the table, however, is followed by
others. Some of these have been mentioned in the
foregoing discussion, where they were included un-
der the names of others, as the elms, hickories, and
maples, and the reason for including others, though
not mentioned by any manufacturer, will now be
given.
During the progress of the field, work in Texas
many parts of the state were visited, and it was
discovered that several woods were being cut in
the forests, sent to sawmills, cut into lumber and at
that stage they disappeared from view. If this lum-
ber were used in the rough as in construction of
buildings, fences, and the like, and was not further
manufactured this investigation was done with it;
for it took into account such lumber only as passed
through further stages of manufacture. Careful in-
quiry developed the fact that much of the lumber
which, under its own name, had dropped out of sight
after it left the saws, was being shipped to fac-
tories under other names, or by no names at all.
In addition to these, many woods in Texas are
employed to a small extent, or for a few special
purposes, yet seldom find their way to factories.
They are of some value locally, but are practically
unknown to the general manufacturer; and if there
were not believed to be a future for them, they
might very well De passed without mention. But it
may be taken for certain that every wood fit for
anything has a future. It is not necessarily a ques-
tion of quantity. Very scarce woods may exactly
meet special demands, thereby becoming valuable.
There are rare woods in some of the world's mar-
kets worth from $1 to $3 a square foot. Woods of
that kind need not be plentiful to be valuable
Texas may not have any which will ever be worth
that much, yet its forests produce many hard,
strong, beautifully colored woods, and the public
knows very little about them.
In collecting material for this repart on the use
of Texas woods, a special effort was made to find
out something more about the scarce tree species
as well as the plentiful. To obtain that information
it became necessary to depart somewhat from beat-
en paths usually followed by compilers of statistics,
and to approach as nearly as possible the original
sources of information the people who use the
woods and know about them. No tree was passed
by because its trunk was small, or gnarly, or knot-
ted, or twisted ,and no pains were spared to ascer-
tain if anybody had ever tried the wood for anv
useful purnose, and what success attended such
trial. In the list of eighty-one minor species (so-
ralled) which follow, not one is included which was
not found to have been used for some purpose. In
nearly every instance the wood was examined to
ascertain as many of its properties as could be de-
termined by such an inspection; and in as many
instances as possible the living tree was sought in
the woods, and was examined with a view to de-
termining size and form as well as the probable
quantity of the timber available. Figures showing
quantity, however, if they are to be of value, should
be based on more general and more widely-collected
information than could be procured in the short
period given to this study in Texas.
The main purpose of the search for unreported
species those which no manufacturer listed or de-
scribed was to ascertain the kinds and qualities of
such woods, and not to attempt a compilation of
figures showing the total available amount of each
in the state.
The identification of many of the woods in use
was difficult. Three or four names may be locally
applied to the same wood, or three or four woods
pass by the same name. The identification of each
species, as accurately as it could be worked out un-
der the somewhat unfavorable and trying circum-
stances, is shown in Table I. The English name (if
it has any) is given in the first column, and the
Latin or scientific name in the second. The names,
both common and scientific, are those recognized
as official in the United States Forest Service's
check list of trees. This explanation is made be-
cause some species have many names and it is not
practicable to give all of them in a tatole.
In studying the list of unreported and so-called
minor species it should be borne in mind from the
beginning that most of the woods are scarce. Few
of them will ever become attractive to the manu-
facturer because they can be had in large amounts.
Their value must come from a consideration of their
quality, not their quantity. Those who look for the
latter in Texas will seek it in the yellow pines,
the oaks, cypress, red cedar, tupelo and red gum.
Most of the minor species are hardwoods very
hard, strong, durable and many of them are of rare
and beautiful colors. They are in the class with
fine cabinet woods, such as mahogany, teak, prima
vera, ebony, walnut, cherry, and others. Their best
use appears to lie in the direction of expensive
wares. They ought to find place in the manufac-
ture of a long list of commodities in which small
pieces can be used, and first cost of wood is not a
serious matter. High-grade musical instruments
would come in for first consideration. Some of the
acacias, ebonies, mesquites and other hard, splen-
didly colored woods, growing for hundreds of miles
along the Rio Grande valley, could be manufactured
into veneers that would compare with most of the
rare tropical species. The wood carver can find ma-
terial there; so can the maker of costly furniture;
of artistic wooden-ware; of novelties, specialties,
and souvenirs. The idea of cheapness of the fin-
ished product should not be the controlling factor
with those who turn their attention to the rare
woods of southern Texas; but high-grade should
hold first place.
The necessarily brief descriptions of the woods
which follow, and the mention of a few uses already
found for them, are offered only as suggestions to
indicate the direction in which interested parties
might make further investigations.
Agarita. The value of this small tree is due to
the rich yellow color of the wood, and its fine grain.
It is used In small turnery, such as napkin rings,
checker pieces, handles for paper knives, crochet
hooks, button hooks, hairpin boxes, and articles of
that kind. It is one of several different colored
woods which are glued together in small strips, the
whole forming a block large enough for turning
small objects on the lathe. The strong contrast be-
tween the different-colored woods joined in the gob-
let, ,cup, ring, vase, or box, in its finished form, is
very striking. Agarita is said to possess the deep-
est yellow color of all American woods. In Texas
the turners who use it join it with holly, Texas
ebony, junco, prickly ash, red or scarlet haw, Texas
cat's claw, buckeye, sumach, and other richly col-
ored woods to give the desired contrast in com-
posite work.
Agarita seldom attains a diameter above five
inches, and In Texas a two-inch stem is up to the
average. The roots are as yellow as the trunk wood
and are put to the same use. It is the opinion of
some persons that the growing of this small tree
for its wood might be made profitable. It is grown
now for ornamental purposes, and use has been
made of its sour, edible berries. It reaches its best
development in New Mexico and Arizona.
Alligator Juniper. Two of the five junipers or
cedars of Texas were not reported by any manufac-
turers. This is one, and drooping juniper was the
other. This may justly 'be considered the poorest in
form of the cedars of the state,,, though it is not the
smallest. Trees have been reported five feet in di-
ameter and sixty feet high. ,but such are extreme
cases. Some use is made of the wood by hand-work-
ing it into furniture and clothes chests. A little
goes to lathes in Austin and San Antonio to be made
into novelties, such as trays, cups, rings, and match
safes. Small boxes for -handkerchiefs and collars
are made in cubical form by joining pieces together,
and some are turned from solid blocks, the lid being
also turned.
The line separating sapwood from the heartwood
in alligator juniper is often irregular and vague.
Patches of sap may be included in the heartwood,
while streaks of the latter are enclosed in folds
