New Orleans, La., June 15, 1912.]
THE LUMBER TRADE JOURNAL
33
of the sapwood. The heartwood Is usually of a
dirty, red color, the sapwood lighter. In small arti-
cles the color is attractive but it does not show very
well in panel work Where wide pieces are used. The
best utilization of alligator juniper would seem to
be in the manufacture of articles consisting of small
pieces.
American Holly. This is the common holly of the
eastern and southern United States, the same that
yields the red berries and green leaves for Christ-
mas decorations. In Texas it reaches a size of ten
inches or over. The wood is white, and the largest
trunks are usually of one color from the bark to
the center. Local shops use holly for furniture, and
lathes make novelties of It. Sometimes it is worked
into parquet floors. Turned candle sticks and cur-
tain rings are among commodities made of this
wood in the state.
Anacahuita. A little of this wood is used in Tex-
as in the Rio Grande valley for chair rounds, but it
has little to recommend it except convenient to
those who use it. The wood is brown, and rather
fine in appearance, but the trees are too small to be
valuable for general purposes.
Anagua. This wood, 'which in color and general
appearance somewhat resembles maple, is usually
.called "Knackaway," which is evidently a careless
attempt to pronounce the real name. The tree
ranges from the upper San Marcos river to the Rio
Grande. It is of rapid growth, and trunks up to
nine inches in diameter examined in course of the
wood-using study in Texas, showed no heartwood.
The wood has a slight yellowish tinge. A little of
it is made into molding for interior house finish,
also for picture frames. It has little figure, is not
plentiful, its size is small, and its future importance
is dou'bhtful.
Angelica Tree. This is a small tree in Texas, and
usually develops little or no heartwood. A six-inch
log at Austin showed twenty-seven annual rings. The
springwood, or the inner and porous part of the
rings, is broad and yellow, the summer wood, or
exterior part of the ring, is narrow and dark. The
wood's figure, due to the marked contrast between
the outer and inner portions of the rings, is strong.
When finished it shows a rich yellow, but somewhat
lighter than dwarf sumach which it resembles. It
is made into small shop articles, like 'button 'boxes,
photograph frames, pen racks, stools, ,and arms for
rocking chairs.
Bitternut. This is one of the Texas species of
hickory not separately reported for any purpose,
but it is used like other hickory, and besides is
made into furniture, balusters, and thin strips with
which to fasten screens in doors.
Black Haw. A small, scarce tree, and of slow
growth. A five-inch trunk that was measured had
fifty-four annual rings, and had not yet developed
any heartwood. It has little figure, and is whiter
than iron wood which it resembles. It takes a
splendid polish. Canes are made of it and small
articles of turnery. Its color fits it for parquetry,
and the wood's smoothness suggests that it might
make shuttles, though it is doubtful if enough of It
exists to make it commercially important.
Black Jack. Black jack grows In most of the
eastern part of the United States, and is neglected
and not without cause everywhere. It is usually
too small, and of grain too coarse to tempt the wood
worker. It has some good qualities, however. A
trunk of fourteen inches In diameter had one and a
half inches of sapwood, annual rings vague, the
heartwood ringed and splotched with different col-
ored woods, but the general tone dark. The Texas
University collection at Austin has moldings, spin-
dles, and balusters that show the grain well, and
also broad panels made up of quarter-sawed narrow
strips, which exhibit the dark flecks in the wood to
good advantage. It has evidently not been put to
its 'best in furniture making or in grill and spindle
work.
Blue Beech. In Texas this plain, fine-figured,
strong wood is used to a small extent for repairing
wagons, and for sledge-hammer handles. The trunk
is short and is usually ribbed and angular. The
best in Texas grows in the eastern part of the state.
Some know it as water beech.
Blue Gum. It is an Australian tree and grows
fairly well in Cameron county and in other extreme
southern parts of the state; but the effect of occa-
sional light frosts is seen in stunted twigs. Some
of the trees first planted are now eighteen inches in
diameter and the wood has been tried for ax handles
and singletrees. It is pronounced satisfactory as
to toughness and strength, but it warps and checks
so persistently in seasoning that persons who have
experimented with it see little promise of turning it
to practical account. It does not grow as rapidly
nor does it appear as healthy in Texas as in central
and southern California. It is locally known as
eucalyptus in Texas.
Blue Jack. This tree, often called Durand oak,
grows among the rolling hills west of Dallas. Wagon
shops use it as a repair material, and it has served
for bridge floors, though it is too small for much,
use in that line.
Blue Oak. Sawmills call this blue whistler oak
and cut a little of it and sell it as white oak. It is
made Into furniture, stairwork, and agricultural
implements. A measured trunk twenty-four inches
in diameter had sapwood one and a half inches
thick.
Bluewood. Paper knives paper weights, curtain
rings, dominos, and card receivers are some of the
local uses for this wood along the Rio Grande. At
Brownsville it is known as Brazil wood and purple
haw is another of its names. Trunks are seldom
more than six inches in diameter, and ten feet long.
The wood is very hard and heavy and takes fine
polish. le has been locally used for dye by boiling
the chips; but there is difference of opinion as to
its value for that purpose. Some call it logwood
because of its similarity to the well-known dyewood
from Belize.
Box Elder. Furniture makers employ some of
this wood in their business and call it soft maple.
It resembles that wood, and the name elder is mis-
leading.
Bur Oak. This oak is not considered of very
high grade in Texas, but a little finds its way into
wagon repair shops.
Cedar Elm. Cedar elm goes into the various uses
for which other elms are fitted. It is worked into
inside parts of furniture and is liked for refrigera-
tors 'because it whitens under repeated scrubbings
and is easily kept clean. Wagon makers regard it
a little tougher than the other elms and make wheel
hubs of it. The species reaches its best in the val-
leys of Trinity and Guadalupe rivers where it is
fairly abundant.
Chalky Leucaena. This tree has leaves like the
acacias. It is sometimes called mimosa and is also
known as "tepeguaja," which in the Spanish lan-
guage is said to be equivalent to "hardwood." The
best representatives of the species are found near
the mouth of the Rio Grande, but the tree has been
reported nearly as far north as San Antonio. It
has been so much planted for ornament that it is
now not easy to determine its exact natural range.
It is a beautiful, finely-proportioned tree. A twelve-
inch trunk that was measured had one inch of yellow
sapwood, and the heartwood resembled mesquite but
was not quite so dark. The wood is very hard, solid
and smooth, and, judging from its appearance, It
might make shuttles. It is used in grill work, small
pieces of furniture and tool handles. Sample jew-
elry boxes made of it suggest the lighter shades of
mahogany. A sample of this wood that has been
several years in the State University collection at
Austin is badly perforated 'by some small bor-
ing insect, but the riddling affects the sapwood only
and does not penetrate the heart.
Chinquapin. A little of this wood goes into fur-
niture factories where it passes as chestnut. It is
not a large tree anywhere in the United States, 'but
that in Texas is nearly at the species' best.
Cholla. A species of cactus which assumes tree
form, and attains a height of perhaps ten feet in
western Texas, maybe a foot in diameter, is known
as cholla. The medullary rays decay after the stem
dies, leaving the other fibers intact. The trunk is
thus perforated, resembling carved work. Small
stems from the dry regions of western Texas are
made into canes which are very light and strong,
and into shoe buttoner racks.
Cow Oak. The name of this species is given it
because cattle eat the acorns. It belongs to the
chestnut oak group, its leaves being toothed like
those of the chestnut. Manufacturers class the
wood as white oak. It is found in Texas as far
west as Trinity river. It is used for wagons, fur-
niture and stairwork, and in fact for most purposes
where white oak is used.
Deciduous Holly. Eastern Texas furnishes a
small amount of this wood which goes to furniture
factories where some of it is turned for drawer
knobs. The wood differs little from the common
holly.
Devil's Claw. An unseemly name and a mass of
curved thorns are calculated to repel an approach
to this, one of the handsomest cabinet woods of
Texas. At Brownsville and at other points along
the Rio Grande, cabinet makers use it to make
small pieces of furniture, novelties, and ornaments
of extra 'beauty. The wood is dark red, but is
clouded with streaks and patches of other shades
and tints which may be artistically combined to form
pleasing patterns. Sometimes the wood is grayish
green. So hard is the wood that those who work it
drill holes for nails and screws. An ordinary gim-
let meets poor success in boring. It is so saturated
with oil that it is greasy to the touch. In that re-
spect, it resembles junco. In Austin this wood has
been made into grills, combined with certain other
woods, and at San Antonio it makes tool handles,
and small turned ware.
Though not plentiful, it is entitled to a place
among the commercial woods of Texas. Trunks
reach a size above one foot in diameter. The an-
nual rings of a log eleven inches in diameter, meas-
ured in the course of this study, was thirty-one
years old, with half-inch of sapwood. The wood is
inclined to be contorted, due to the presence of pits
and cavities which slowly close as the tree ad-
vances in age. These add to rather than detract
from the wood's beauty. The tree is sometimes
called "unadegato," which name is also applied to
the Texas cat's claw, a different but closely related
species, and confusion occasionally results. Both
are acacias. The devil's claw is known also as
ramshorn.
Downy Basswood. The difference between this
species and the common basswood is too slight to
be easily recognized in the wood. Both are used for
the same purposes.
Drooping Juniper. This scarce and graceful ever-
green grows among the Chisos Mountains of west-
ern Texas. It can never be of much commercial
importance. The wood has been made into candle
sticks, pin boxes, picture molding, and small square
boxes. Its grain and color resemble alligator juni-
per. It has been planted for ornament in this coun-
try, Europe and North Africa.
Dwarf Sumach. The name applied to this wood
is unfortunate. It is one of the largest of the Texas
sumachs, and trunks of sufficient size for turned
articles are reported. It is richly striped with yel-
low and black. Balls turned of it, seven inches in
diameter, are used for newel-post ornaments and
smaller balls are made for use in darning stock-
ings. Cups are turned on the lathe, and the bright
stripes in the wood give the wares a striking ap-
pearance. A measured trunk ten inches in diam-
eter was forty-seven years old.
Emory Oak. Not much can be said for this wood
from the standpoint of use. Balusters and mold-
ings made of it are to be seen in the university col-
lection at Austin, and they present a rather poor
appearance. The tree belongs among the moun-
tains of western Texas where Indians and Mexicans
eat the acorns. A measured trunk thirteen inches
in diameter showed very little sap. The wood was
coarse, very dark, with but little figure, and with
numerous black knots.
Flowering Dogwood. Dogwood is one of the best
materials in this country for shuttles, but none was
reported cut for that purpose in Texas, although it
there attains size proper for shuttles. Sticks seven
inches through or larger are found and with little
or no heartwood. It has been tried for small turned
articles, such as small rollers. It is very hard and
wears well. Some use has been made of it for
rounds and other small parts of chairs, where
strength is a desirable property. Small wedges used
in stone quarries are made of it. The wood is lack-
ing in figure and there is nothing attractive in its
dull white color. It polishes smoothly and is valua-
ble as cogs in small wheels.
Fremont Cottonwood. This species does not com-
pare favorably with the common cottonwood in
Texas. It is usually smaller where it occurs among
the mountains of the western part of the state. A
trunk fifteen inches in diameter was all sapwood
as cottonwoods usually are and the annual rings
scarcely visible. Rude clumsy carts are made of it
by Mexicans, and the amount of service they stand
is proof that the wood is tough. A little of it finds
its way into towns and is made into furniture and
sideboards for wagon beds.
Frijolito. Some call this the coral bean from its
red seeds which hang in knotted pods. The beans
contain a narcotic poison. The wood is yellow, and
handsome canes have been made of it. In the ab-
sence of something 'better, it is used for small tool
handles in southwestern Texas.
Gambel Oak. This species is plentiful on the
high mountains of western Texas and along nearly
the whole course of the Pecos river, but except a
little wagon-repair material, it was not found in
use for anything in course of the study of wood uses
in the state. The Texas university at Austin has
balusters, spindles, and small panels of this wood
in the collection.
Green Ash. In the south of Texas green ash is
a repair material for vehicles, and is used for spokes,
felloes, 'hubs and poles. Factories employ it for fur-
niture and stairwork, but call it white ash. It is
considered more brittle than white ash.
Honey Locust. No manufacturer reported the use
of honey locust, but it occasionally goes to furniture
shops and appears to a small extent in general mill-
work. The medullary rays show in broad 'bands,
and the wood is quarter-sawed to advantage. Its
general tone is dark but with light flecks and
streaks. When made into furniture it bears some
resemblance to sycamore, but is not quite as coarse
in texture. Stair balusters are handsome, the flecks
adding much to the wood's appearance. Picture
molding shows the grain well, while large stair
posts are satisfactory from the artistic standpoint.
A tree with forty-two annual rings was thirty inches
in diameter.
Hornbeam. Hornbeam has little figure except that
due to prominent medullary rays. The color is
