34
THE LUMBER TRADE JOURNAL
[New Orleans, La., June 15, 1912.
light and flat. It, has been tried experimentally for
stair balusters and molding, but the effect is too
plain to be popular. Its most common use is for
vehicle repairs and tool handles.
Horsebean. The shape of this tree is against its
extensive use as a commercial wood. It has a per-
sistent habit of dividing near the ground into from
three to a dozen stems, some of which may be a foot
in diameter. It is a green-bark tree, wide-spreading
and handsome, and has been planted in this and
foreign countries. It grows about San Antonio, 'but
is at its best near the Rio Grande about and above
Brownsville, and between there and Kingsville,
where it is called "ratama." It is armed with thorns
and it seems to be able to make room for its low,
wide spreading crown by shading to death other
growth near It. The wood is fine grained and tinged
with yellow. It lends itself well to the making
of small articles, and local shops and individuals
work it into paper knives, rulers, cups, goblets, pa-
per weights and various novelties.
Huisache. Along the Rio Grande they. call this
tree "cassie," a shortening of acacia. It is much
planted for ornament about Brownsville. While
the tree is standing it is clearly enough distin-
guished from mesquite, but the woods of the two
species are so much alike that popularly they are
regarded the same. Mesquite is much more abund-
ant and reaches larger size. The sapwood of hui-
sache is thin and logs that remain in shelter for
some time are apt to be bored through the sap by
beetles, but the borers stop when they come in con-
tact with the heartwood. An examination of several
large pieces that had 'been seasoning for several
months showed that the wood warps and checks
pretty badly. It shows well in turn'ery, such as ta-
ble legs, spindles, mallet handles, and small egg
cups, .button boxes, and rounds for large chairs. It
takes a 'high polish, and it closely resembles the
best grade of black walnut, but is much harder and
stronger. It was not reported from any furniture
factory, tout it is used to some extent in furniture
making. The chief objection to it is its extreme
hardness. It is next to impossible to drive a nail
into it without first boring a hole. 'Some of the rail-
roads near the Rio Grande make cross ties of it.
The wood resists dec*y many years.
Iromvood. They make wedges and small tool han-
dles of this white, unattractive wood. It is of slow
growth and is never large.
Kalmia. The roots of this laurel are made into
pipes, spoons, paper knives and other novelties, but
not in large quantities. It is sometimes called calico
bush, sometimes spoonwood, and occasionally moun-
tain laurel.
Koeberlinia. The local name of this peculiar tree
is "hoonkoo" (Junco). Its nearest relative in this
country is the paradise tree of Florida and the ailan-
thus introduced from China. It has a small, thorny,
crooked trunk; the wood is dark, turning nearly
black with exposure; it is rich with oil; and it is
very hard. The species grows in certain places
along the Rio Grande. The wood is made into canes,
rulers, knife handles, turned articles, and a little
furniture of the smaller kinds. The trunks are too
small for ordinary sizes of lumber. Samples of this
wood in furniture were exhibited at the Brownsville
midwinter fair in 1911-12.
Lignum Vitae. The range of this species in Tex-
as extends along the lower course of the Rio Grande.
A trunk eight inches in diameter, near Brownsville,
came from a tree thirty feet high. The annual rings
were too vague and complicated to -be counted, ,but
the tree is evidently of slow growth. The wood is
pitted and it contains cavities and creases; but the
clear wood is very hard and of fine and various
colors. It is dark green, brown, black, yellow and
of mixed colors, and clouded effects, all in the same
block. Small pieces of furniture, like bureau cab-
inets, present attractive combinations of colors. The
wood is of such exceeding hardness that it turns,
'breaks, or batters the carpenter's tools. An army
officer at Brownsville some years ago made numer-
ous articles of it, such as boxes, trays, souvenirs,
canes, paper knives and others which are said to
have attracted much attention. Candlesticks, egg
cups, goblets, vases, checker pieces, and dominos are
now manufactured in a small way. The local name
for the wood is "guayacan" in Hidalgo county where
the best of it is said to grow.
Lire Oak. Since live oak passed out of use for
shipbuilding, it has been a neglected wood, and is
now almost forgotten. In some states where it
grows it is not even mentioned in wood-using re-
ports. A year or more ago a lot of solid logs three
feet or more in diameter, and in or very near the
city limits of New Orleans, were offered free to any-
one who would haul them away, and no one took
them. Yet live oak when properly sawed and fin-
ished is among the handsomest of the oaks. Trunks
are short and the usual lengths of lumber cannot be
had. In Texas small quantities are used for a num-
ber of purposes, among them being parquetry floor-
ing, pedestals, panels, molding, grills, balusters, or-
naments and vehicles. The wood shows remarkably
well when properly finished. The general tone is
dark brown and very rich. It takes a smooth polish.
The medullary rays are dark, conspicuous and run
in wavy lines which give a mottled effect when the
wood is made into spindles and small articles. When
worked into broad panels the colors may not run
uniformly, and the artistic effect is not quite so
good as in balusters and small moldings.
Composite panels are manufactured by joining
several narrow strips edge to edge. The small pieces
may be matched in a way to form a pleasing whole.
Some finished pieces of live oak suggest Circassian
walnut, but would scarcely pass as an imitation of
it, and some resembles black walnut. This indi-
cates how different may be the appearance of se-
lected pieces of this oak. There is room for the
workman to select and match this wood to show
the best results. The value of this species as a
cabinet material has not been appreciated in the
past, nor have its possibilities been suspected. The
fine effect produced by made-up panels, and by
turned balusters and columns, indicates that piano
makers would find something new in live oak that
might be worth investigating. It is one of the most
abundant of the oaks in the extreme South, and the
best of it does not grow far inland from the castal
plains.
Stone masons and others who use mallets and
mauls often prefer those made of live oak. The
junction of a limb with the trunk is selected as the
block from which the mallet is made.
Longleaf Willow. Unless this species is too scarce
in commercial sizes it is worth a trial as furniture
material. The tone is softer and the color more
pleasing than black willow. When polished it bears
some resemblance to 'butternut. A tree fifteen
inches in diameter in eastern Texas had eighteen
annual rings and no heartwood. The color is a
dull white with a suggestion of yellow. The uni-
versity collection at Austin has a twenty-four inch
slab of this willow. An inspection of sample pan-
els and balusters made of it leaves a good impres-
sion of the wood's value.
Longstalk Willow. Osiers of this species are used
along the Rio Grande by Mexicans to thatch houses.
The willow grows in dense holts on mud flats in the
river's flood plain. In the absence or scarcity of other
fuel, the small willows are whacked up, roots and
all, as wood for cook stoves.
Mexican Madrona. Plane stocks and tool handles
are made of madrona in Texas, but not much is used.
The wood is hard, checks badly, and in color is a
little lighter than apple wood which it resembles. A
seven-inch trunk that was measured had no sap-
wood, and its annual rings were scarcely visible.
The bark's wine-color readily identifies the species
in the forest.
Mexican Palmetto. In the vicinity of Browns-
ville, summer houses and picnic pavilions are con-
structed with posts or palisades of palmetto. The
leaves are occasionally employed for thatching.
Such posts are said to last many years. The lar-
gest posts used in that way are about one foot in
diameter and twenty feet high, but trees of larger
size grow along the Rio Grande.
Mexican Persimmon. The value of the Mexican
persimmon lies in its dark heartwood. A trunk six
inches in diameter in the university collection at
Austin is nearly all heartwood. The wood is irreg-
ular in color, even in the same piece, 'being varie-
gated with lighter and darker streaks, and cloudy
effects. It ought to be fine brush-back material. It
is worked into tool handles, lodge furniture, canes,
rules, pen holders, picture frames, curtain rings,
door knobs, parasol handles, and maul sticks for
artists. The trunk is gnarly, and the bark smooth
and thin.
Mexican Walnut. The Mexican walnut does not
reach as large size in Texas as farther west. A
trunk eleven inches in diameter was the largest seen
in the course of this investigation. The wood re-
sembles black walnut, but is a little heavier, and
does not appear as regular in color. It polishes
well, and is worked into small turnery, gavels, cups,
picture frames, knife handles, and a little goes into
furniture. The wood is said to be scarce. The
nuts are edible, but are quite small, those growing
in the canyon of Devil's river not being more than
half as large as a medium sized nutmeg and bear-
ing much resemblance to it.
Mistletoe. This is not a tree, and if classed as a,
wood it is a peculiar one. It is a parasite, and
grows on trees like a branch. No claim of com-
mercial importance is made for it, but it has been
experimented with for parasol handles, pipe stems
and pen racks. The wood is white and weak, and
stocks an inch in diameter are exceptionally large..
Palo Blanco. In Cameron and Hidalgo counties
palo bianco goes to the wagon shops as ash. It is
hard but is said to be weaker than ash. Table legs
and doubtless other parts of furniture are made
of it as a substitute for ash.
Persimmon. The heartwood of persimmon is
made into mallets and gavels and other lodge fur-
niture. The sap is white, the heart very dark;
though a trunk ten inches in diameter may have
no trace of heartwood. Persimmon belongs to the
ebony family.
Pinon. Considerable of this nut pine is said to
be used locally in western Texas, on the ranches,
and in charcoal burning; but in the central and
eastern parts of the state it was not found in use
except that the university collection of woods at
Austin shows samples of it worked into panels and
balusters.
Poison Sumach. Veneer for inlay and small strips
for musical instruments are the principal uses for
this small tree. The trunk may be five or six
inches in diameter. The wood is brown, streaked
with red and green, and contains dark rings not
apparently due to annual growth. The figure is
novel and attractive.
Prickly Ash. Some know this species as "tooth-
ache tree," "tear-blanket," and "sting tongue." The
wood shows little difference in color between heart-
wood and sap. A measured trunk eleven inches in
diameter grew in twenty-three years. The wood
bears some resemblance to buckeye. It takes good
polish and some of it looks like birdseye maple, but
the figure does not seem to 'be due to adventitious
buds. It has been made into picture frames and
looks well. It is a rapid grower and since its color
fits it for the stencil, it might be worthy of consid-
eration for box material, when the time comes in
Texas for planting woodlots.
Prickly Pear. Novelty stores at San Antonio and
elsewhere in southern Texas sell baskets made by
Mexicans from prickly pear roots the thickness of
a small toothpick. The baskets have capacities from
two or three to a dozen quarts. The roots are dyed
in different colors and the baskets are woven in
characteristic patterns.
Red Bay. The bright red color commends the
wood for wider use Ihan it now has in Texas. Pin
trays, wooden dishes, small mirror frames, canes
and cupboard shelves were the only uses found.
Red Maple. Its bright scarlet bloom gives the
red maple its name. The wood differs so little from
that of ordinary sugar or hard maple that in prac-
tice the two pass for one. Their uses are, conse-
quently, the same, but the red maple belongs more
to the South and sugar maple in the North.
Red Mulberry. Selected mulberry heartwood is
darker in color and richer in appearance than much
of the black walnut on the market. If it were more
abundant it would hold a high place as furniture
material. It is used for table legs, chair arms,
small turned stock, grills and lattices, base-blocks
and panels, and is employed for cup and goblet turn-
ing. Mulberry is combined with agarita, prickly
ash, Mexican persimmon, holly and others in mak-
ing composite vases and cups by first gluing several
different colored woods in one block, and passing
it through the lathe. Some mulberry is made into
parquetry flooring. The tree is not a quick grower.
A log ten inches in diameter, measured near Austin,
had fifty annual rings.
Rocky Mountain Oak. The largest trunk of this
species measured was only one foot in diameter,
with sapwood nearly two inches thick. The medul-
lary rays are broad and bright, and though the logs
are small they give good results in quarter sawing.
The figure is distinct. Spindles and balusters for
stairways, and turned capitals for newel posts have
been made of this oak. The trees in Texas are not
only small but they are scarce.
Sassafras. In eastern Texas sassafras is used in
furniture making. It is not abundant in that re-
gion and is only occasionally cut. It is strong and
substantial, and while of deeper brown than ash it
otherwise resembles that wood in appearance.
Scarlet Haw. Red haw is the usual name for this
tree in Texas. It is small and can never be of much
impotrance, but it has been used in small turnery
with good results. The wood is very hard and
heavy.
Screwbean. The screwbean is much like mes-
quite and is put to similar uses, except that the for-
mer is smaller and more limited in its range. It
occurs along the valley of the Rio Grande from the
mouth of Devil's river to El Paso.
Shittimwood. This species is abundant in por-
tions of Texas, trees at their best attaining a height
of sixty feet and a diameter of two or three. It is
frequently known as "gum elastic," the name re-
ferring to a resin exuded from wounds in the wood.
The resin is used locally as chewing gum. Some-
times the berries are added. A rather large quan-
tity of this species goes to the hardwood mills. The
wood is white, with a tinge of yellow, and Is used
for furniture, vehicles, agricultural implements,
boxes, crates, and for most other purposes for which
cheap ash, maple or elm is suitable. The wood is
plain.
Silver Maple. Soft maple is the name commonly
applied to this species in Texas. It is softer, weak-
er and generally inferior to the sugar or hard ma-
ple (which does not grow commercially in Texas),
but for some purposes silver maple is liked better.
It is white and delicate, fits nicely in joinery, pol-
