New Orleans, La., June 15, 1912.]
THE LUMBER TRADE JOURNAL
35
ishes well, and meets most requirements. In Texas
it goes to the furniture and wagon shops and is
often used for interior house finish, and is one of
the best woodenware materials in the state. It
stencils well, is clean and odorless, and this fits it
for first-grade tox lumber.
Slippery Elm. Commercially this is not usually
distinguished from other elms with which it is as-
sociated in Texas. It is of a little darker color, and
some users insist that it is stronger than other trees
of the genus. It is used for furniture, agricultural
implements, boxes and crates, vehicles and fixtures.
The inner bark has medicinal value and is sold in
most drug stores. This tree in south Texas iscalled
"olmo Colorado."
Sophora. The color of the wood of this species
gives it the name "pink locust" in Texas. It is
whittled into canes which are hard, strong and
heavy. The trees are too small for lumber.
Spanish Bayonet. Some call the tree Spanish
bayonet and know the wood as yucca. At San An-
tonio, the novelty stores sell pin cushions, hatpin
holders, and other useful and ornamental articles of
this material. The rim of the trunk or stem is
hard and tough, and the inside soft and spongy.
Pins are easily inserted in the pith of cross sec-
tions. The articles are made in local shops. Stems
three or four inches in diameter are liked best.
Spanish Oak. So many species of oak are locally
called Spanish oak that it becomes difficult to de-
termine to what extent the true Spanish is used in
Texas. It is at its best near the coast in the eastern
part of the state. It goes to wagon shops for repair
work, and makers or repairers of cotton and rice ma-
chinery use it. A log twenty-four inches In diam-
eter which was examined showed little difference in
appearance between heartwood and sapwood. Sam-
ples of 'balusters, panels, capitals, and molding in
the university collection at Austin resemble white
oak in color and figure.
Sweet Magnolia. This finely-colored wood is too
scarce in Texas to become commercially important,
but some excellent specimens are found. A meas-
ured trunk seventeen inches in diameter had one
inch of sapwood. The heart is used as an imitation
of mahogany. It takes high polish, and the 'brown
and darker shades combine with fine effect. Small
articles are turned on lathes, and spindles for arm
chairs are another class of products made of this
wood. By some it is called sweet bay.
Sycamore. The common eastern sycamore grows
as far west in Texas as Devil's River, but it is scarce.
What little is cut is likely to go to the furniture
shops. A considerable part of the supply is made
into chair seats. Some is used for newel posts and
railing for stairs, and for panels. A little is con-
verted into picture-frame molding, and a rougher
place for other is found in making ox yokes near
the Louisiana line.
Texas Ebony. The color of the heartwood gives
this species its name. The roots are blacker than
the trunk, and small articles made of root wood re-
semble the black ebony of Ceylon; but the trunk
wood is apt to be striped with black, brown and
medium yellow. The annual rings of growth are fre-
quently of different colors. A trunk that was meas-
ured was twelve inches in diameter and twenty-four
years old, with one and a half inches of sapwood.
Many kinds of articles are made of ebony from
turned candlestick, goblets, cups and rings, to cross
ties and house blocks and rollers. When used for
railroad ties they must be bored for spikes, for the
hardness of the wood makes driving very difficult.
It resists decay many years and is one of the com-
mon fence-post materials near the Rio Grande. It is
in much use as fuel, 'but is sai dto be objectionable
for stove wood because of the intense heat it pro-
duces. In open fireplaces it burns with cheerful
blaze and glowing coals. Large amounts of it are
sold as cordwood about Brownsville.
It is suitable for higher uses than cordwood and
cross ties. It makes first-class cabinet material, and
by selecting and matching colors, it is worked into
furniture. Even large tables are made of it which
are elaborately carved, and present a massive and
pleasing appearance. At Austin it is manufactured
into parquetry floors, being one of the darkest woods
employed. The seeds have been used as a substitute
for coffee.
Texas Cat's Claw. A log in the university collec-
tion at Austin is nine inches in diameter with
twenty-three annual rings. In San Antonio the wood
is used (for chisel and gouge handles, and at Austin
for small frames, scroll work, and curtain rings. In
Brownsville small pieces of cat's claw furniture are
exhibited in some of the shops or show windows. It
is manufactured into mission lamps, candlesticks,
paper weights, rulers, canes, umbrella handles, and
numerous ornaments. The sapwood is not much
used as it is liable to be attacked by boring insects.
The heart is dark in color and exceedingly hard. The
color varies, however, from nearly red to nearly
black. The wood takes a high polish, and is among
the most handsome in the state.
Tree Huckleberry. This is known also as farkle-
berry and sparkleberry, and reaches its best devel-
opment in eastern Texas. Trees five or six inches
in diameter are the maximum. The wood is hard
and heavy, is light brown, tinged with red. Occa-
sional uses of the wood are reported. It has been
employed in a small way -for turnery in the Texas
Agricultural and Mechanical College. The wood is
hard to split but is liable to check in drying.
Umbrella Tree. A few small picture frames and
spindles for grill work make up the uses found in
Texas for this planted tree. The trunk is short, the
wood coarse, and of brown color, with figure and
general appearance of chestnut. It is a foreign tree
brought from southeastern Asia.
Water Hickory. This is a member of the hickory
group and is put to the same uses as the others,
though it is seldom given its proper name. The
woods of the hickories are so similar that users do
not care to separate them. This particular species
has been manufactured into counter tops.
Water Oak. The custom of listing this wood as
red oak robs it of some of the credit that should
come to it. Though not reported under its own
name by a single manufacturer in Texas, it is known
to supply material for wagons, furniture, fixtures
and general millwork. The figure of the wood is in-
ferior to that of many species of oak, and it is ob-
jectionable on account of its poor seasoning quali-
ties; but the wood is strong and reliable and is
-worthy of more consideration than has been given
it.
Whiteleaf Oak. The beauty of this small, ever-
green oak that grows on the high regions of western
Texas is in the foliage rather than the wood. Large
trunks are apt to be hollow, but the sound wood is
used for repairing wagons and it has been tried with
some success for furniture. It will never become
of other than local importance.
Wild China. This tree is abundant in Texas, but
is of poor form for lumber, the trunks being short
and none too straight. It is often planted for shade.
It is not a foreign tree 'brought into this country, as
its name might imply. It grows from Georgia to
Arizona, but probably will never attain to any more
importance in the timber supply than it now holds.
It is sometimes called soap berry because sub-
stances extracted from the roots and the fruit have
been used for soap. The true soap berry is a closely
related species. It is credited with being a rapid
grower, but the count of annual rings in a number
of trunks in Texas did not show it so. The wood
bears some resemblance to ash, but is not as coarse.
It is used for boxes, crates, furniture and vehicle
repairing, but not in large amounts.
Wild Plum. The wood looks like apple but is of
deeper red. It was found one of the woods in use
in a shop where butcher-knife handles and wooden
spoons are made. A log that measured seven inches
in diameter had three-fourths inch of sapwood.
Yellow Buckeye. A little of this wood is made
into boxes in eastern Texas, and ironing boards and
'bread boards find places for a little. It is a white,
soft wood, useful for many purposes, but it is not
plentiful or of large size in Texas.
fellow Oak. The yellow oak loses its forest name
when it reaches the lumber yard and becomes red
oak, and is used wherever it is found. The wood
varies in quality (like elm) in accordance with soils
on which it grows. Good soil produces clear, sound,
good-colored wood; poor soil shows results in brash,
defective trunks.
Yopon Holly. The only use found for this small,
scarce wood in Texas was for wooden spoons and
manicure sets; and the largest trunk measured was
only three inches in diameter. The wood is white
like other hollies.
INDUSTRIES.
The sawmills of Texas cut 1,884,134,000 feet of
lumber in 1910, as is shown by the census figures
for that year. Reports came from 466 mills. The
quantity further manufactured last year was 768,-
336,112 feet, according to special reports received
and compiled by the Forest Service. That shows
the further manufacture of the equivalent of 41 per
cent of the cut of the mills. About 9 per cent of
the quantity further manufactured is shipped into
the State, it being largely such woods as are not
abundantly produced in Texas.
Five foreign woods are used in Texas factories
the two mahoganies, African and American: Mexi-
can white pine, Spanish cedar, and teak. The Mex-
ican white pine grows also in the United States and
is not strictly foreign species. The combined
amount of the foreign woods is only a little more
than half a million feet.
It is not always an easy matter to define what is,
meant by and included in an industry. There are
many overlappings and doubtful cases. A clear
line between furniture and fixtures, for instance,
can not always be drawn; nor between handles and
agricultural implements; nor between tanks and
coperage ,and so on down the whole list. In dividing
into industries the whole amount of wood used in
the State, the Forest Service follows the same sched-
ules and rules In all the States in order to have uni-
formity, and to facilitate the comparison of one
State with another. The classes of commodities in
the trunk industry, or the musical instrument in-
dustry, or the horse vehicle industry, or any other
industry, are the same in all the States. One wish-
ing to ascertain how Michigan compares with Texas
in the tank industry can consult the reports for the
two States, with the assurance that the same kind
of commodities, and no others, are included in both
States. The rather large group of industries which
are marked "Miscellaneous" in the table is made
up partly of odds and ends and of doubtful articles
which do not clearly belong in any of the listed
industries. That is the place where all the left-
overs go.
After this explanation it will be of interest to
compare the numbers of industries in certain States.
The quantity of wood used is no gauge by which to
measure the number of industries, for where devel-
opment is high and utilization close, subdivisions
are clearly differentiated; but -where quantity is
the principal item considered, industries are apt
to be few. The following list by States includes
"Miscellaneous" as an industry in each.
No. of
State. Industries.
Louisiana 9
Mississippi 9
Texas 13
Maryland 13
Arkansas 15
Kentucky 19
Alabama 19
Oregon ; . . . 20
Massachusetts 20
North Carolina 21
Wisconsin 22
Missouri 24
Illinois 51
If there are not at least three manufacturers en-
gaged in making the same commodity, it is not
classed as an industry If less than three, they are
listed with the "Miscellaneous." That is to avoid
revealing the Identity of any manufacturer's fig-
ures.
A comparison of prices paid for lumber in differ-
ent States 'by firms making similar commodities
would show such differences that ordinary market
conditions would not afford a satisfactory explana-
tion The real cause of difference in cost, where it
is great, is often to be found in the quality of the
products manufactured Some furniture makers, for
instance, pay $20 or less for lumber, while others
pay $100; but they do not both make the same grade
of furniture. When a greater difference in cost of
lumber exists than freight and the ordinary market
conditions will account for, the difference will
usually 'be found in the grades used Some white
oak may be bought for $25 a thousand, and other
can not be bought for three times that It is prac-
tically impossible in a report such as this to enter
minutely into grades of wood used. The average
prices paid must serve as an index to the grades.
Planing-MIII Products.
The output of planing mills constitutes the largest
wood-using industry in Texas, amounting to 77 per
cent of all, and the average cost of the lumber used
as raw material is less than in any other industry.
The items are flooring, ceiling, and siding. The
planing mills which turn out these products are
nearly all operated in connection with and as ad-
juncts of sawmills. The latter make rough lumber
which, when it has been properly seasoned, is run
through the planers, and is then considered a fin-
ished commodity ready for use, and is shipped to
market. Stock sizes, kinds, and patterns are made
and no special machinery is needed. The mills
which saw the lumber, plane it also because it can
generally be done more cheaply in that way than
by shipping the rough lumber to be made into ceil-
ing, siding, and flooring elsewhere to be planed. But
some planing mills do that kind of work though
they are not connected with any particular sawmills.
They are so situated in relation to supply that they
can obtain rough lumber very cheaply and can dis-
pose of the finished product to advantage.
The three species of yellow pine, shortleaf. long-
leaf, and loblolly, contribute practically all of the
wood demanded by this industry. Though eight
other species are listed, their aggregate contribu-
tion is less than 1,000,000 feet, which is not a quar-
ter of 1 per cent of the whole. White pine is highest
in price and loblolly pine the lowest. Seven of the
eleven woods, as listed in Table II were supplied
wholly by Texas, and only one, white pine, came
entirely from without. The State furnished more
than 98 per cent of all the raw material used by this
industry.
The table does not show where the products are
sold, but it is known that one of the best markets
