-vt
44
THE LUMBER TRADE JOURNAL
[New Orleans, La., June 15, 1912.
Oak 33,998,000
Maple 120,000
Red gum 11,618,000
Beech
Birch
Basswood .
Hickory . .
Elm
Ash
Cottonwood
Tupelo
Sycamore .
Walnut . . .
All others .
40,000
11,000
20,000
781,000
431,000
3,630,000
3,853,000
59,000
71,000
92,000
825,000
The total yearly amount of wood in Texas further
manufactured after it leaves the sawmills is shown
in Table I to 'be 768,336,112 feet, which is 41.5 per
cent of the mill cut.
The making of veneers in Texas has assumed
large proportions, and most of the product is pine,
red gum, tupelo, magnolia and cottonwood T.he
cut in 1910 was 8,584,000 feet log measure, which
was nearly 2 per cent of the veneer cut for the
whole United States that year. Expensive hard-
woods, such as white and red oak, black walnut and
mahogany, are the materials of which the highest
classes of veneers are made. There are three meth-
ods of manufacturing the commodity rotary-cut,
sawed and sliced. Most of it in Texas is rotary-cut.
A log a few feet long is placed in a lathe and is
turned rapidly against a strong knife which peels
off a thin ribbon of wood the length of the log,
round and round, until the log is cut down to a
small central piece called the core. The part sliced
off may consist of one piece probably 100 feet long,
resembling a bolt of cloth. It is usually about as
thick as a sheet of cardboard. The veneer thus cut
is made into small boxes, crates and baskets for
shipping fruits and vegetables; or, if it goes to a
furniture factory, it is made into panels or other
pieces by gluing several sheets one upon another
until the desired thickness is obtained. Sometimes
a thin sheet of veneer is glued upon a thick piece
of some other wood, and the veneer becomes the vis-
ible outer part. Much furniture and interior finish
is made in that way. The finished article appears
to be solid wood, but it really is a thin layer of out-
side veneer upon some cheaper wood. This cheaper
wood, which is concealed by the veneer glued upon
it, is called "backing" or "core." The word "core"
has, therefore, two meanings when used in connec-
tion with veneer. It may mean the wood upon
which the veneer is glued, or it may mean the
central remnant of a log from which veneer has
been cut by the rotary process.
Some veneers are sawed much as ordinary lumber
is cut in a sawmill, but special machinery is used.
The most important part is the extra thin saw
which cuts the veneer with the least possible waste
in sawdust. Veneer of this kind is generally made
from valuable, well-seasoned hardwoods, while ro-
tary-cut veneer is made from logs./g'enerally in the
green state, and usually steamed to soften them.
Sawed veneer is generally less than a foot in width,
and runs about like ordinary lumber in length. The
sawed product often shows the grain of the wood
quarter-sawed if the wood permits it. Sliced veneer
is cut from the side of the log like that which is
sawed, but a knife is used in place of a saw, and the
machine by which the slicing is done is very strong
and rigid. One of the advantages of slicing over
sawing is that the slice wastes no sawdust.
APPENDIX.
The Bureau of the Census, in co-operation with
the Forest Service, collects and publishes year by
year statistics showing the output of lumber, lath,
shingles, cooperage, veneer and certain other forest
products in the United States and in the separate
States. That work is independent of the studies
of the manufactures which the Forest Service has
made in several of the States. The latter supple-
ments the former, and care is taken that work done
by the Bureau of the Census, is not duplicated. The
Forest Service begins where the Census leaves off
after lumber leaves the sawmill. There are certain
products in their finished form when they appear in
the Census figures, and for that reason they are out-
side the scope of the Forest Service's study, because
they are not subject to further manufacture. If,
however, a State's wood-using industries are to be
fully presented, it becomes necessary to include some
of the Census statistics. Such is one of the purposes
of this appendix. The figures which the census
gives are for all the States, but such only as relate
to Texas are here presented and in condensed form
for the year 1910, which are the latest available.
