Timber Resources and Wood-Using Industries of State of Idaho
The state of Idaho is distinctly a lumbering,
mining and agricultural state. The lumbering and
mining regions are confined mostly to the north-
ern and central portions of the state, while horti-
culture and agriculture are the pursuits in the
southern part. Idaho has a population of about
325,594 people and is one of the least densly popu-
lated states of the country. The natural environ-
ment of the state and its small population pre-
cludes at this time an extensive development of
manufacturing industries. The manufacture of
lumber is by far the most important of the
industries represented here.
It is estimated that the stand of timber in Idaho
approximates 129 billions of board feet. Of this
amount 71 billion feet are within the National
Forests, 8 billion on other government lands, and
50 billion are privately owned. It is the privately
owned timber which furnishes the great bulk of
the lumber output of the state, although govern-
ment timber is coming into the market more and
more each year through sales from the National
Forests by the Forest Service.
As a rule privately owned timber is immediately
accessible to the mills, while the greater quan-
tities of government stumpage lie in more 'in-
accessible mountainous regions.
It is the purpose of this report to present data
regarding the industries of the state which further
manufacture sawmill and woods products into fin-
ished articles of general use, made wholly or in
part of wood, and to correlate data concerning
like industries to show the present uses of various
species of wood and their suitability for different
manufactured products. The Bureau of the Cen-
sus, United States Department of Commerce and
Labor, annually compiles statistics of the produc-
tion and consumption of lumber and other forest
products which are not included in this study.
The following table contained previously ob-
tained statistics from the lumber industry of the
state :
Lumber Cut of Idaho for Various Years.
Quantity, feet, B. M.
Percent of
Increase
1909 | 1B08
to 1 to
1910 1 1909
Percent of
Total Cut in
I" lilted States
1910
1909
1908
1910
1909
I'.IOS
745.984.000|645.800.000|518.625.000| IS.S \ 24.5 | 1.9 | l.B | 1.6
Idaho ranked twenty-first of all the states in
lumber output in 1910. Over 229 active sawmills
are represented in the cut reported for that year.
In addition to lumber, Idaho mills produced 84,-
134,000 lath and 60,425,000 shingles during 1910.
The state's lumber cut in 1910 is shown below by
species: Feet.
Western yellow pine 280,533,000
Western white pine 232,442,000
Western larch 100,512,000
Douglas fir 62,793,000
Western red cedar 38,831,000
White fir 25,266,000
Western hemlock 3,423,000
Lodgepole pine 934,000
Engelmann spruce 842,000
Cottonwood 408,000
Total 745,984,000
In addition to lumber, lath and shingles, Idaho's
forests furnish large quantities of poles, piling
and posts, mine timbers, hewed ties and other
forms of forest products not reported by the cen-
sus or included in subsequent statistics of this
report. Northern Idaho is one of the largest pole
producing regions of the country, and Western red
cedar poles produced here are distributed through-
out the United States. The longest poles of the
country are obtainable in this region.
The principal woods of the state, namely, West-
ern yellow pine and Western white pine, are em-
ployed in greater quantities than other woods by
secondary wood consuming industries operating
within the state.
The species of timber on National Forests are
practically the same as those on private lands.
Western yellow pine, white pine, Douglas fir,
larch, spruce and lodgepole form the bulk of the
stands of timber. Owing to the absence of hard-
woods, no substitutes from the National Forests
are available to replace the species already in use.
The timber on the National Forests is sold
wherever it is old and mature under regular con-
tracts in which the operator removes the timber
as he pays for it at a stipulated price per thou-
sand feet, determined upon competitive bidding.
The study upon which this report is based was
undertaken by the Forest Service, United States
Department of Agriculture, the work being done
under the direction of J. B. Knapp, Assistant Dis-
trict Forester, Portland, Oregon. The statistics
were compiled from data collected in the summer
of 1911, covering a period of one year from Janu-
ary i to December 31, 1910, inclusive.
Detailed information can be obtained through any
authorized forest officer.
Planing Mill Products.
In Idaho, sawmills generally operate planing
mills which are employed in remanufacturing
rough lumber into many forms for final use.
These planing mill products include surfaced di-
mension and lumber of all forms; flooring, siding,
rustic, finish, ceiling, shop and factory lumber,
dressed and matched stock, O. G. stock and bat-
tens, tank stock, finish and mouldings. Fully 25
per cent of the lumber cut of the state passes
through some form of further manufacture after
leaving the sawmill proper.
The nature of the milling operations and the
common practice of mixing species makes it im-
possible to obtain authentic statistics on the
amount of the various kinds of wood remanufac-
tured into specific forms at planing mills.
Planing Mill Products by Species.
Western Yellow Pine (Pinus ponderosa).
The texture and general quality of this wood
make it highly serviceable for many of the com-
mon planing mill products. Thick finish from 1^4
to 2 inches, inch finish, siding, flooring, factory
plank or shop common, factory selects, thick com-
mon lumber, common boards, shiplap, grooved
roofing and dressed and matched (D. & M.), di-
mension, fencing, and lath are the principal pro-
ducts into which western yellow pine is separated
when it leaves the yard or planer. Many of these
products are shipped in the rough as they come
from the sawmill, but the bulk of the material is
run through the planer and either surfaced or
remanufactured into some of the finished forms.
This renders possible a closer grading and at the
same time by lightening the weight assists con-
siderably in reducing freight charges. The grades
into which western yellow pine as well as western
white pine are separated as the lumber comes
from the" saw are :
A Select, C Select,
B Select, D Select.
Factory or shop lumber:
No. 1 Common,
No. 2 Common,
No. 3 Common,
No. 4 Common,
No. 5 Common.
The first five grades called "selects" yield the
largest part of the profit in lumber manufacture.
Numbers 4 and 5 common scarcely pay for the
cost of production, and many mills do not attempt
to save them. When putting through the planing
mill or sorting for final disposition these grades
are redistributed into those classes above named
for which they are best suited or for which the
demand calls. Shiplap, grooved roofing, dressed
and matched material (fencing, drop siding and
poorer classes of flooring), dimension timbers and
common lumber come from the "common" grades,
while the other and higher classes of products
usually come from the "select" grades. Other
classes and grades are manufactured in smaller
quantities and require less amounts of shaping or
further mechanical effort.
The wood is well suited for flooring, although
considerably softer than its chief competitors,
Douglas fir and western larch, or even than the
yellow pines of the South. Its even grain and
wearing properties commend its use for flooring
and it does not shrink or warp greatly after
proper seasoning.
The wood is very serviceable for drop siding,
and is inferior only to white pine or western red
cedar for bevel siding. Its light weight, ease of
working, lack of pitch, suitable grain and ability
to hold its shape and to hold paint make western
yellow pine one of the favorite woods for siding.
Douglas fir drop siding, manufactured by coast
mills, is the chief competitor in Idaho markets.
As a finishing wood, for window and door cas-
ings and baseboards it readily meets a big de-
mand, especially when it is to be painted. Its
grain figures do not enhance its value for finish
when it is desired to stain the wood, in which
case it gives place to western larch and Douglas
fir. Its resistance to warping and checking com-
mend it for paneling and general finish, especially
when enamel paints are used.
For shop and factory lumber the western yel-
low pine is in great demand for sash and door
stock, cabinet work, furniture parts and general
finishing and manufacturing purposes. Its even
grain, smooth finish, easy working properties and
resistance to warping and checking enhance its
value for uses of the trades. In its general service-
ability for secondary manufacturing plants requir-
ing soft woods it is exceeded among its associated
species by western white pine (Pinus monticola),
for which it is often mistaken and substituted.
Common lumber of western yellow pine is often
manufactured in planing mills for use as tank
stock, step plank and box lumber. Large quan-
tities of surfaced lumber are consumed for box
manufacture within or without the state. Lumber
consumed in the actual manufacture of boxes in
the state is listed in a subsequent part of this
report.
Western White Pine (Pinus monticola).
The western white pine is in many ways the
equal of the eastern white pine, the superior soft
wood of the United States. It is serviceable for
planing mill products, more particularly shop
lumber and plain surfaced forms which are later
to be remanufactured into finished products by
woodworking plants. Sash and door stock of
western white pine has no superior in its own
region and in this form large amounts of the wood
are consumed by factories throughout the United
States. The wood is too valuable for general work
and as common lumber forms; it is in demand for
cabinet work, furniture, drawing boards, patterns
and numerous other similar uses.
The wood is almost free from pitch, is white or
light yellow in color, fine grained and soft. It does
not shrink after thorough seasoning, retains its
manufactured form permanently, is very light in
weight and is neither strong nor stiff when com-
pared with western yellow pine, Douglas fir or
larch, the other common species in the regions
of its growth.
Western Larch (Larix occidentalis).
The western larch and Douglas fir occurring in
the state of Idaho are rather inferior commercial
woods when compared with the highly valuable
and widely used white and yellow pines. The
two species have many qualities in common and
are often utilized for the same purposes, so that
they are mixed in manufacture and are not sepa-
rated when placed on the market. Larch, however,
yields a larger percentage of clears and therefore
most of the products made from the select grades
are of that species and are sold as larch. The
most important of these products are flooring and
finish. Larch is particularly suited for these uses
because of the fineness and beauty of its grain,
its hardness and the small amount of pitch it con-
tains. Its even and uniform grain and hardness
cause larch flooring to be particularly serviceable.
For these uses larch is quite the equal of Coast
Douglas fir. Larch is also used for ceiling,
beveled and drop siding and some other purposes.
Its qualities recommend it for practically the
same uses throughout as those to which Coast
Douglas fir is put, although the presence of other
better-known woods have hitherto prevented its
extensive utilization for high-grade products. The
bulk of the species is cut into timbers, dimension
and common lumber, for structural purposes, since
the stiffness, strength, hardness and other qual-
ities of the wood eminently adapt it for that class
of work.
Douglas Fir (Pseudotsuga taxifolia).
Because of its smaller size and absence of clear
length the Douglas fir manufactured by Idaho mills
is inferior to the same species which forms the
principal output of west coast mills, the quantity
of high grade material, called "clears" on the
Coast and "selects" in the Inland Empire, being
a very small percent. A small amount of fir fin-
ish and similar products is manufactured along
with the larch, but probably 98 per cent of the
rough fir lumber from the saw mills is used in the
rough or surfaced state in structural forms. Most
of it is made into timbers and dimension stuff,
although the larger part of the common grades
of boards used locally are of this species or of
larch. Douglas fir is most highly prized for min-
ing timbers and railway cross ties, for which uses
larch is considered as second choice.
