THE SOUTHERN LUMBERMAN
39
Wood-Using Industries of Tennessee
By CLARK W. GOULD, Forest Agent, and HU MAXWELL, Expert, Forest Service, United States Department of Agriculture
Note.
The investigation upon which this report is based
was undertaken by the Forest Service, United States
Department of Agriculture, in the spring of 1911,
the data collected covering a period of one year,
from January 1 to December 31, 1911, inclusive.
The work was done under the direction of H. S.
Sackett, Chief, Office of Wood Utilization, Forest
Si'i-vice; and the statistics were compiled and the
report written by Clark W. Gould, Forest Agent, and
Hu Maxwell, Expert. Much assistance was also
g-iven in the collection of data by John T. Harris,
Statistician in Forest Products.
PREFACE.
Tennessee is 432 miles long, 109 miles wide, and
has a total area of 42,050 square miles, of which
300 miles are water surface. The streams within
the state, or forming part of its boundary, afford
2,000 miles of navigation, but not during all the
year. The surface of the state is mountainous in
the east, hilly iu much of the central portion, and
fairly level in the west. The highest mountains
are more than 6,000 feet above sea level, while the
western border of the state has an elevation of
only a few hundred. Nearly all conditions of sur-
face exist: steep, stony, and precipitous moun-
tains; hills of thin soil, fertile slopes, rich valleys.
The rain fall is abundant in all parts; the summers
generally are pleasant, the winters mild. Altitude
alone produces much difference in climate. The
high mountains receive abundance of snow, the
low valleys little. Drainage from all of the state
is toward the Gulf of Mexico, though some of the
rivers flow far to reach their destination.
Tennessee was originally one of the heavy for-
ested regions of this country, and it yet has a large
amount of timber. The best was cut when the
farms were cleared, and the remnants are still
being cut, and will continue for a long time to
come to supply lumber to its own people and to
the distant markets. In its primitive condition,
there was little of Tennessee which was not heav-
ily timbered. There were a few canebrakes along
the rivers, but with that exception, the region was
an unbroken expanse of timber from the Missis-
sippi River to the summits of the eastern moun-
tains. Some of the finest kinds and the largest
trees of the Eastern United States were there.
More than three hundred and fifty years ago De
Soto, with his army that had marched from Florida,
cut his way through woods and reached the Mis-
sissippi River near Memphis. Nearly two centu-
ries later a company of French adventurers felled
a few trees and built cabins where Nashville now
stands. Forty years later the real settlement of
the region began along the fertile valleys in the
northeastern part of the state, and the forest re-
sources were soon recognized. It was a third of
a century before Perry launched his fleet on Lake
Erie and reported, "We have met the enemy and
they are ours;" that Isaac Shelby constructed a
fleet of canoes hewed from enormous yellow pop-
lar trees, and launched them in the Holston River,
manned by seven hundred and fifty Tennessee
backwoodsmen, and captured the British powder
magazines at the mouth of Chicamaugua Creek,
and by that bold stroke destroyed the power of
England's Indian allies to fall upon the rear of
the Carolina settlements in the most perilous pe-
riod of the Revolution.* Another remarkable fleet
was launched in the same region a year later, and
under John Donelson conveyed more than 200 set-
tlers to the site of 'Nashville. The largest -vessel
carried 100 people. The forty boats descended the
Holston and the Tennessee, ascended the Ohio to
the mouth of the Cumberland River, and pushed
up that stream to Nashville, a distance, following
the meanders of the streams, of about 2.000 miles.
Boat building, therefore, appears to have been
the earliest important use of wood in Tennessee,
except for fuel, and yellow poplar held chief place.
The valuable and beautiful tree is at its best in
the fertile valleys of Eastern Tennessee, and the
pioneers turned to it when they needed canoes to
navigate rivers before roads were opened overland.
Not only is Tennessee rich in soil for agriculture,
and bounteously supplied with timber for manufac-
turing purposes, but its rivers will afford abundant
water power to turn the wheels of factories for
all time. Most of this power is yet undeveloped,
but it is a resource in reserve and can be drawn
upon when needed. This makes the future sure.
Cheap power and abundance of raw material guar-
antee business during years to come.
The timber resource is only one of many pos-
*\Vithout boats that remarkable feat would have
been impossible, as the army could not have- marched
the long distance through the woods in time to
make a successful attack. In three days Shelby's
men rowed down stream three hundred miles, de-
feated 1,000 Indians, captured the powder, 150 horses,
100 cattle, destroyed 20,000 bushels of corn, and
were upon the return, having destroyed their own
canoes, which were no longer needed.
CONTENTS.
Preface
Commercial woods of Tennessee.
Page
39
40
The Pines 40
Shortleaf pine 40
White pine 40
Table mountain pine 40
Pitch pine 40
Scrub pine 41
The Oaks 41
The white oaks 41
The red oaks 41
The chestnut oaks 41
The hemlocks 41
The cedars 41
Red cedar 41
Cotton wood 41
The ashes 41
The elms 41
The gums 41
Red gum 41
Tupelo 41
Black gum 41
Birch .' 41
The hackberries 42
The maples 42
The walnuts 42
Other hardwoods 42
Yellow poplar 42
Dogwood 42
Sycamore 42
Persimmon 42
Black cherry 42
Black willow 42
Sassafras 43
Buckeye 43
Mahogany 43
Chestnut 43
Osage orange 43
Basswood 43
Cucumber 43
Beech 43
Planing-mill products 43
Packing boxes and crates 43
Furniture 44
Sash, doors, blinds, and general millwork 44
Vehicles and vehicle parts 44
Car construction 44
Handles 45
Caskets and coffins : 45
Chairs 45
Pencil stock 46
Woodenware and novelties 46
Trunks and valises 46
Agricultural implements 46
Sporting and athletic goods 47
Shuttles, spools and bobbins 47
Boat and ship building 47
Fixtures 47
Excelsior 48
Miscellaneous 48
Summary of industries 49
Apportionment of woods among industries 49
Cost of species by industries 49
Saving waste 50
Appendix 50
Lumber cut in 1910 50
Other products .....' 50
Uses of woods 51
Directory 52
sessed by the state, and, though it is not the great-
est, it is of supreme importance. This report is
based on statistics collected by the United States
Forest Service in 1912. and undertakes to show the
condition and scope of the. wood-using industries.
A year's business is shown; and, in presenting the
figures in a series of tables, attempts are frequently
made to make clear by discussion the significance
of the data. It has not been a part of the plan
to give a history of wood utilization in Tennessee.
If allusion is occasionally made to isolated in-
stances in past years (as in the above paragraphs
regarding the boats built in 1779), the purpose is
solely to show that the use of wood in the region
is not a new thing, but has a foundation resting
on long periods of experience. The real lessons
to be taught by studies such as this concern the
future rather than the past; for if anything prac-
tical comes from such studies it must bear its
fruit in years to come. That which manufactur-
ers are now doing should serve as a guide a start-
ing place, as it were -for the future. They are
the teachers, the experimenters, the pioneers whose
successes and failures will inspire or warn those
who shall follow the same calling in years to
come. Important problems are being worked out,
and others will demand solution in the future. We
are now trying to master the immediate problems,
and thereby throw light, if possible, upon ques-
tions which will come later. It is not possible to
foretell all that wood utilization in the future will
attempt and accomplish, but certain lines are indi-
cated by present tendencies. A hundred years
ago nobody thought of it, and twenty-five years
ago few considered it seriously; but now it is pres-
ent in the thought and plans of all successful work-
ers in wood.
Another matter which is now attracting more
serious attention than ever before is the study
of the best uses for each wood. The properties
and qualities of woods are considered strength,
elasticity, hardness, color, odor, grain, figure, sea-
soning qualities. Much of this may be discovered
by scientific methods, but some of it is learned only
in the school of experience. The tables and dis-
cussions in a report like this are really a record
of the experiences of men who are working on the
problems. Investigation, backed by necessity, is
bringing into use many species of wood not usually
listed in reports of sawmill output. They are some-
times known as minor species. Every region has
a few, and the workers in wood are experiment-
ing with them and finding out what they are good
for. Reliable information on the subject, when it
is secured, is given in the reports prepared by the
Forest Service. In many instances these minor
species are meeting part of the demand and lessen-
ing the drain upon well-known woods.
The planting and growing of commercial woods
are subjects which do not properly fall within the
scope of wood-using studies, and for that reason
little space is given to them in this report. It is
deemed sufficient to point out tendencies and facts
which are now apparent and which must speedily
affect the available supply on which wood-using
industries depend.
Investigation similar to this in Tennessee have
already been made by the Forest Service in a num-
ber of states, and the results have been published.
The class of manufacturing done and the kinds of
woods used vary in different regions; but certain
prominent and encouraging features stand out
prominently in all of them. Wood is being saved,
and cheap woods are taking the places of expen-
sive. The Forest Service adheres to one plan
in all of this work and attempts to reach every
important user of wood. Lists are compiled, let-
ters are written, and blanks to be filled are mailed
to all. To those who fail to respond within a rea-
sonable time a second request for information is
sent. There are usually a considerable number
of manufacturers in a state who fail to respond
to both the first and second requests, and they are
visited in person. The data secured by correspond-
ence and by the personal interviews with manufac-
turers are supplemented by studies of various
phases of the business in the region, and with this
material in hand the report is compiled for publi-
cation. It shows the kinds of wood used, the in-
dustries which demand the different woods, the
cost at the factories, what commodities are made
of each and all of the woods, and various other
matters. Some attention is paid to markets, though
the compilations are not intended to be market
reports. Special consideration is given to supply
of raw material on which the various wood-using
industries depend. The tables are made up to
show how much of each species of wood is pro-
cured in the state which uses it, and what part
comes from other states and countries. As much
relative weight is given to the small manufacturer
as to the large. In fact, some of the most inter-
esting and valuable experiments in the uses of
woods come from sm-all shops.
The Bureau of Census compiles yearly reports
of the sawmill output in all the states. Species
are separately shown, except that in some in-
stances several are grouped as one. The annual
census report should not be confused with the
special reports by the Forest Service. The former
deals with sawed lumber and rough mill products;
the latter takes rough lumber where the census
report leaves it and follows it through other pro-
cesses of manufacture until it reaches its final
form in some finished product. Thus the two re-
ports, while dealing with the same material in
part or wholly, do not show the same results, and
are not meant to do so. For example, the census
report takes a maple log as raw material and car-
