THE SOUTHERN LUMBERMAN
41
by calling one white and the other black. It is
fairly abundant in an area of some thousands of
square miles in the eastern part of the state. Most
of the trees are small and short, but where con-
ditions are favorable saw-logs are cut. The lum-
ber is used more in the rough than in the finished
condition, but some goes through wood-working
machines and is made into frames and flooring.
Box and vehicle makers use some of it. The wood
is of rather low grade compared with most other
pines. It is 64 per cent as strong and 39 per cent
as stiff as longleaf and about three-fourths as
heavy. Few other trees withstand forest fires as
well as pitch pine, and it can maintain itself on
very poor land. The stand is generally thin.
SCRUB PINE (PINU'S VIRGINIANA) This is
another tree not reported by any manufacturer in
Tennessee, though some of it is used. It is one
of the poorest of the pines, small in size, unprom-
ising in form, with characterless wood. It makes
good boxes and crates.
The Oaks.
Users of wood usually separate oaks into two
classes, white and red. That classification holds
only in a general way, for the rule is subject to
many exceptions. The color of the wood determines
the class, as understood by actual users. Some-
times the classification includes the chestnut oaks,
thus making three classes instead of two. This is
not a botanical division, and takes little account
of leaves and acorns, but is intended for con-
venience only among users of wood. In Tennessee
the manufacturers reported five oaks by name, and
perhaps used a dozen others which they included
under one or another of the five names.
THE WHITE OAKS .Speaking in a general way.
the oaks used in Tennessee under the name of
white oak are post oak (Quercus minor), bur oak
(Quercus macrocarpa), overcup oak (Quercus
lyrata), and white oak (Quercus alba). The last
named is the true white oak, the type of the group,
the most abundant, and the best of all when all
things are considered.
THE RED OAKS There are more species in the
red oak group as classified by users of the wood in
Tennessee. The type of the group, and therefore
the genuine red oak, if one of the group can be
more genuine than another, is the Quercus ruhra,
which is the only tree called red oak in the Forest
Service's official check list. It is best developed
in regions north of Tennessee, hut extends into
that state where much good timber is cut. Table 1
credits this species with 50 million feet, as re-
ported by Tennessee manufacturers; but this is
partly made up by counting a number of other oaks.
Those so included are probably the following:
Texan oak (Quercus texana), yellow oak (Quercus
velutina), Spanish oak (Quercug digitata), pin oak
(Quercus palustris), blackjack oak (Quercus mari-
landica), water oak (Quercus nigra), shingle oak
(Quercus imbricaria), and willow oak (Quercus
phellos).
THE CHESTNUT OAKS Only half a million
feet was reported under this name and it may all
have been the true chestnut oak (Quercus prinus).
but three other species belonging to this group grow
in Tennessee and some of each may be included.
They are: Chinquapin oak (Quercus acuminata)
cow oak (Quercus michauxii) and swamp white
oak (Quercus platanoides). These oaks have leaves
resembling those of the chestnut, hence the name;
but the oaks of the other groups, white and red
are so called from the color of the wood and not
from the shape of the leaves.
The Hemlocks.
A little more than half a million feet of hemlock
was reported in the state, and most of that came
from other states. It is not, therefore, of a great
deal of importance in Tennessee from the manu-,
facturer's standpoint. In 1910 not a single mill re-
ported hemlock in its output Li the state. Never
theless, some of it was cut. Two species grow
among the mountains of Eastern Tennessee. The
Northern hemlock follows the mountains that far
southward and is found along the water courses
and on steep, damp slopes on the upper tributaries
of the Tennessee River. The other species, the
Carolina hemlock, is scarce.
The Cedars.
Though manufacturers report the use of two spe-
cies of cedar in Tennessee, the correctness of the
reports may he questioned with regard to Northern
white cedar (Thuja occidentalis), yet it is not im-
possible that some of it was cut on the high moun-
tains of Eastern Tennessee and made into pen-
holders, as stated. The species there approaches
the extreme Southern limit of its range and grows,
on high and rugged mountains, the trunks being
small, crooked, and difficult to procure. More likely
the white cedar listed was the white sapwood of
red cedar.
RED CEDAR Tennessee is ihe home of this fine
wood. The state has produced great quantities
in past years, and it is generally considered that
the species is more highly developed there than
anywhere else. It has a wide range, and, if closely
related species are included, it is found in alfl
regions of the United States. Its form is more like
a park tree than an uncared-for inhabitant of the-
forest. Its tall, sharp, conical crown looks as if
the gardener's pruning shears might lately have been
at work upon it. The trunk is occasionally fluted
and not of best form, but the top is almost fault-
less, unless the tree has met with some accident
or is very old. It grows in every part of Ten-
nessee, but is now most conspicuous on thin land
and dry ridges. That is because it has been cut
from the best land. It is so tenacious of life, and
ekes out a living under circumstances so adverse,
that in many parts of the state it is nearly the only
tree to be seen on rocky bluffs, gravelly flats, and
sterile ridges. Other species have starved out
and have given up the ground to the red cedar. It
has entered into possession and is making good.
It is one of the most valuable forest trees of Ten-
nessee. In 1910 the sawmill cut was 31,000,000 feet,
and that did not represent half of the output. Mil-
lions of posts and poles were cut and were shipped
to many parts of the country. The drain has been
enormous, and it looks as if the end must be near;
but in spite of appearances the red cedars keep on
coming, new thickets spread into cut-over land
and untold thousands of young trees take the placer
of those cut for the markets.
It is a tree of slow growth, but it keeps at it.
Specimens as large as those in the original forests
need not be looked for again, for centuries would
be needed to produce them. Early settlers found
it the most available farm timber in many locali-
ties, and cedar rails fenced the farms, cedar logs
built the barns, cabins and mills, and in many
cases cedar fuel warmed the houses, and cedar
furniture fitted them for occupation. It became tht
greatest pencil wood because it is soft, light, odor-
ous and handsome. Pencil manufacturers in this
country and in Europe have ransacked the state for
suitable timbers and have taken most that is fit.
The small trees escape that search because they
are too knotty for pencils and do not contain
enough red heartwood, nor are they of the desired
whittling qualities.
Cottonwood.
Two woods are reported in Tennessee belonging
in the cotton wood group: the common cotton wood
and the large-toothed aspen. Only 100,000 feet of
the latter was used and 28,000,000 of the former.
Some peculiarities are found in the reports of
the uses of cottonwood in Tennessee. The total
quantity is shown above. The total saw mill cut,
including the veneer output in the state, according
to the latest available statistics, is less than what
the manufacturers use of state-grown wood. The
discrepancy may be accounted for on the assump-
tion that much of the cottonwood going to the
factories was in the log, and was not counted in
the census returns of mill output. The country's
cut of cottonwood is declining. In 1899 it was
415,000,000 feet, and fell off 36 per cent by 1907,
and declined 45.000,000 feet further by 1910. The
mill output for Tennessee in 1909 was over 18,000,-
000 feet, and in 1910 had fallen below 9,000,000. The
conclusion is that this wood is approaching prac-
tical exhaustion.
The Ashes.
Four or more species are used in Tennessee, but
only two are reported. The wood in all is much
alike and the user frequently cannot tell the exact
species he has in hand, so he gives it the name of
the species he knows best, usually the white, but
if not that, the black. The species makes little
difference to the man who manufactures some com-
modity, so long as the wood is satisfactory, and
most of the asfhes give satisfaction. The two
species reported are: White ash (Fraxinus amerl-
cana), and black (Fraxinus nigra); while the two
most plentiful of the unreported species are red ash
(Fraxinus pennsylvanicum), and green ash (Frax-
inus lanceolata). It may be noted that these woods
are designated by colors -white, black, red and
green.
The Elms.
White elm and slippery elm were reported in
small quantities. The former is the most common
elm in this country and is native in nearly all
the states east of the Rocky Mountains. The slip-
pery elm is not so common, but where it exists it
is best known on account of its mucilaginous in-
ner bark which was formerly a household remedy
for most external injuries. The bark is sold in
nearly all drug stores. The wood of this tree is
rather deeper in color than that of the white elm,
and for that reason is known in some localities as
red elm. Two other trees of the elm genus are com-
mon in Tennessee and are in general use, but
chiefly under the name of white elm, or some other
of the multitude of names with which most of the
elms are burdened in the regions where they are
in commercial use. The cork elm (Ulmus racemosa)
is so named because of thickenings, ridges and ex-
cressences of the bark, resembling cork. The wood
is of good quality and is suitable for many pur-
poses, but like all the other elms it has no grain
or figure of a kind to give it attractive appear-
ance. Wing elm (Ulmus alata) also owes its
name to peculiarities of its bark. Flat keels on
the opposite sides of small twigs resemble wings.
They are about as thick as heavy paper, and range
from one-fourth to one inch in width, measured
from the center of the twig outward. They some-
times occur on larger limbs and on the trunks of
small trees. When the branches are bare of leaves,
the peculiar appearance of winged branches and
trunks seldom fails to arrest attention. Rock elm
is a name often applied to trees of this genus.
There is no such species. It is simply a name
which in different regions is applied to whatever
elm happens to grow of best quality there. Some-
times jt means the white elm, sometimes slippery
elm, and again some one of the others. "Rock
oak" is a name applied in much the same way to
the oaks, and "rosemary" to some of the Southern
yellow pines. The custom of the community must
be understood before one can determine what trees
these names are meant to designate.
The planertree (Planera aquatica) resembles the
elms so closely that distinctions are often not made
by users of the wood. None was reported in Ten-
nessee, though it is well known that lumbermen
cut the planertree when they come to it in course
of their logging operations, and the saw mills
convert the logs into lumber. In most places it
goes into the elm lumber piles and loses its cor-
rect name.
The Gums.
Three woods in Tennessee belong to this group
and the common name "gum" is frequently applied
to each and all, but at other times they are consid-
ered separately. They have some characters in
common, but they have differences also.
RED GUM In 1910 Tennessee sawmills cut 62,-
000,000 feet of this wood, which was about one-
tenth of the cut in the United States. The largest
output was in Arkansas, next in Mississippi, Mis-
souri was third, and Tennessee stood fourth. A
large amount was made into veneer in addition to
the sawmill product of lumber. In Tennessee the
veneer output of red gum is about one-fourth of
the lumber, or 15,000,000 feet. Practically all of the
veneer is rotary cut and the quantity given is based
on log measurement. Much of the veneer is used
by manufacturers of boxes and crates, but a large
amount is demanded by furniture makers. Some
of it is finished to imitate more costly woods. The
seasoning problem is a serious one with red gum
intended for fine work. The wooJ contains an oil
which makes gluing difficult, unless the wood is
thoroughly dried. It has been mastered by many
manufacturers who now produce excellent furniture
and finish made wholly or partly of the wood. Its
beauty is widely known. In fact, its beauty is
known by many who do not know the name of the
wood they admire, but who suppose it is black wal
nut, white oak, sweet birch, cherry or Circassian
walnut. Men well acquainted with the lumber in-
dustry predict that red gum has not yet reached the
position which it is destined to attain in this and
other countries.
TUPELO This wood is not very important in
Tennessee, but some of it is cut there, usually
associated with cypress in swamps and near water
courses. It is often known commercially as bay
poplar a term which it is claimed was originally
employed to convey the impression that it was
yellow poplar (Liriodendron tulipifera). The "bay"
referred to the fact that the trees grew close to
water, particularly the southern part of Chesapeake
Bay. The bark of the tupelo bears rather close
resemblance of that of yellow poplar, and the wood
of certain trees looks much like the yellow pop-
lar's wood. Botanically, the trees are quite dif-
ferent.
BLACK GUM Manufacturers in Tennessee used
more than a million feet of this wood last year,
all of which was grown in the state. The Bureau
of the Census, in returns for 1910, included black
gum with tupelo and separate figures were not
given. It grows in all parts of Tennessee, not ir
thick stands like some other species, but here and
there through the forests. It is one of the most
unwedgeable woods of this country. The fibers sr
cross and interlock that no line of cleavage can be
found. For that reason, it has been much used
for mauls. They can be beaten into splinters be-
fore they will split. The black gum mauls of
early times pounded out many millions of fence
rails for farm fences. In very cold weather, how-
ever, such mauls could not be used, for whe 1
frozen they burst under the impact of heavy blows.
Birch.
Several species of birch contribute to the lumber
supply of this country, and when the wood reaches
the manufacturer who makes furniture, finish and
other commodities of it, it is not always possible
to determine what species is used. Any one or
all of three species may be used in Tennessee.
Forty-five mills cut birch in this state in 1910.
Sweet birch (Betula lenta) grows in the moun-
tains, and with it occurs the yellow birch (Betula
lutea). Both species contribute to the commercial
birch lumber of the markets. It can not be stated
what proportion of each was reported by manu-
facturers in Tennessee who used 1,363.000 feet.
Three-fourths of it came from outside the state.
That brought from the Lake States was chiefly
yellow birch, while Pennsylvania and West Virginia,
