42
THE SOUTHERN LUMBERMAN
contributed sweet birch, and most of what was cut
in Tennessee was sweet birch. The most abundant
birch in the state is neither of these, but the river
birch (Betula nigra). It is not much sought after
because it lacks grain and figure to make it at-
tractive. Moderate success has attended efforts
to stain it in imitation of other woods. The tree
grows along river banks and is easily recognized
by the ragged appearance of its trunk, covered
with hanging rolls and tatters of light brown bark,
which the tree seems to be always in the act of
shedding.
The Hackberries.
Two species of hackberry occur in Tennessee
both passing by that name. They are much alike
and while botanists recognize both, the lumberman
does not. In fact, as often as not, hackberry is
classed as ash at the mill yards and is sold as such.
Hackberry (Celtis occidentalis) and sugarberry
(Celtis mississippiensis) may grow side by side,
but in most regions where both occur the former
is most abundant.
The Maples.
Two species of m-aple are reported by manufac-
turers in Tennessee, aggregating about three and a
quarter million feet. In 1910 there were 229 mills
in the state cutting maple, but in small amounts
for the total product was little more than the tota'
used by manufacturers. In all parts of the maple
region east of the Rocky Mountains it is the cus-
tom of users to recognize two kinds of maple gen-
erally termed "hard" and' "soft." These names do
not conform very closely to species, for half a dozen
are called by the former name and occasionally
more than one by the latter, though usually soft
maple means the silver maple (Acer saccharinum).
Hard maple, or sugar maple, (Acer saccharum) i
the most abundant of the maples in Tennessee. II
is the tree which produces sugar in early spring.
Others which are found in the state, and which are
commonly classed as hard maple, are mountain
maple (Acer spicatum) a small tree called low
maple in Tennessee because it is apt to grow near
mountain water courses; the striped maple (Acer
pennsylvanicum) ; black maple (Acer saccharu'
nigrum) ; red maple (Acer rubrum); and Drum-
mond maple (Acer drummondii) in Southwestern
Tennessee. This tree is scarce and is generally
small. To these should be added the box elder
(Acer negundo) which in spite of its name belongs
with the maples. It is not an important timber tree
in the state, nor anywhere else, but is sometimes
used. The black maple may be recognized by the
dark color of the bark which characteristic is more
noticeable in winter than in summer, ,but the bark
alone is not an unerring criterion in determining
the species. The red maple is so called from the
bright color of its winged seeds which make a fine
display in early spring. In Tennessee this tree
occupies swamps and in the western part of the
state closely resembles the Drummond maple.
The Walnuts.
Black walnut and butternut are both reported by
Tennessee manufacturers, the former in largei
quantity than the latter, though most of the black
walnut came from outside the state, while all of
the butternut was home grown. Butternut is known
also as white walnut, a name which in early times
was often applied to hickory. The heartwood of
butternut is lighter in color than the heart of black
walnut, but otherwise the woods bear close re
semblance. The black walnut is generally regarded
as more handsome. Neither of them should be
counted on for a large part of the future lumber
supply. The butternut never contributed much,
but twenty-five years ago and lon s er ago than that
black walnut was in great demand for furniture.
It is not now in fashion in this country, and, be-
sides, it has become scarce and high priced. The
best wood comes from large trees because they
have comparatively more heart than small trees
and it is blacker and of finer grain. Black walnut
has long been, and still is, the choice wood for gun
stocks and pistol grips. Some prefer the softer
toned wood from the planted walnut trees of Eu-
rope. Tennessee produces good walnut, but the
best was long ago cut and not much young growth
is coming on. Trees in the open may be worth
more for their annual crops of nuts than for lum-
ber. In some of the northern states the butternut
pays better if left to bear nuts when other forest
trees are cut from around it. It might be more
profitable to let the Tennessee butternut stand. The
average value of the wood at the factories was only
$13.45.
Other Hardwoods.
A number of other hardwoods went to the fac-
tories in Tennessee, some in a small way, others
in large amounts. The particular commodities
made wholly or in part from each are shown in
the various industry tables in this report; but
the importance of the several species as a re-
source in Tennessee is not always apparent in these
tables. A wood must be fairly abundant and must
be fit for something in particular to make it a
commercial resource. The extent of its present
use is not a correct measure of its value. Some
species are not now in much demand, but they
possess properties which will give them a higher
place in the future. On the other hand, some are
passing down the scale from their former high posi-
tion to minor places because of increasing scarcity.
Instances of that kind should be carefully consid-
ered, and if an increase of supply seems practicable
it ought to be encouraged. The extirpation of val-
uable species is not necessary in this country. The
people of Massachusetts cut all their original white
pine forests long ago, but they are growing young
forests to take the place of the old. Other states
can with profit follow the example of Massachusetts,
each devoting its care to the forest trees which pay
best.
YELLOW POPLAR This is one of the finest
trees of the American forest. It is generally con-
sidered the largest hardwood of this country and
none exceed it in well-balanced proportion of trunk.
The fertile valleys and slopes of Tennessee have
furnished some of the largest poplars on record.
Reference has already been made to the five-fooi
poplar trunks, felled in 1779 on the Holston River
by Isaac Shelby, to be hewed into canoes to carry
his army of 750 men down the river to attack the
Indians who were assembling near Chattanooga to
march against the Carolina frontiers. This tree
has been the greatest canoe wood of America, next
to the paper birch. In some regions the name
canoe wood has been given it. A list of uses for
which it has been found suitable would include
almost every commodity of wood from the earliest
settlement of this country to the present time.
Only where great strength, hardness and toughness
are essential is it unfitted.
The maximum annual cut of yellow poplar in this
country seems to have been passed, and the future
supply must come from a rather small region of
which Tennessee, Kentucky and West Virginia
are the center. More than half of the country's
supply in 1910 came from those states, most from
West Virginia, next from Tennessee, and third
from Kentucky. Estimates have been made that
the remaining yellow poplar on the stump in this
country does not much exceed 6.000.000,000 feet,
which will be exhausted in nine or ten years at the
present rate of cutting. Definite conclusions and
great weight should not be given estimates of this
kind. While they are based on the best obtainable
data, no one knows how much poplar remains in
the forests, and most of the general estimates of
this kind have proved too low when the time comes
to check them by exact information. It is certain
that most of this wood in the original forests of
this country has been cut, and that no large amount
remains. The yearly output must, for that reason,
soon decline with no hope that it can ever again
reach high figures; but some yellow poplar will
reach the markets for a long time to come. It re-
quires many years to grow a good sized tree as
poplars are usually rated, though it is a rather fast
grower. The long time required will stand in the
way of extensive planting. People who set apart
wood-lots will choose loblolly pine or some other
fast grower. A further fact against planting the
poplar is that it wants the richest soil. It had the
richest slopes and coves when it had choice of the
whole country. Farmers of the future will not give
up their best land to any forest tree, but will plant
food and provender crops there and put their wood
lots on poor or rocky corners. That will give the
yellow poplar no chance in competition with other
less choice species in the forests of the future. If
it is compelled to exist on thin soil it degenerates
so quickly that it becom.es a "white poplar." That
is the name usually applied to a runt yellow pop-
lar a poor soil specimen. It has little or no heart-
wood, is hard and tough, and being nearly all sap.
which is white, a quite common belief has devel-
oped that it is not the same species as yellow
poplar. It is the same, however, for there is only
one species of this tree in America, and one in
China; and, in fact, both might be considered as
one, though separated by ten thousand miles.
Though not exactly on the subject of wood uses
in Tennessee, the evidence of geology is interest-
ing, because it warrants the belief that the yellow
poplar was growing in the Appalachian region cov-
ering Eastern Tennessee in the cretaceous age a
time so remote that no geologist will venture tc
measure it in years. The yellow poplar's peculiar
notched leaf is among the fossils in the strata be-
yond the Mississippi, which rocks, it is believed,
were laid down as sands in the sea which then cov-
ered the Mississippi Valley; and the sands, and
doubtless the poplar leaves also, were carried from
the Appalachian highlands to that sea by rivers
which then flowed westward, as they still do. If
that view is correct, the yellow poplar is one of
the very oldest broad-leaf species on earth, having
come down to us through almost measureless ages.
The character of the rocks in which the fossil
leaves are embedded indicates that the tree then
grew in soil of great fertility, as it does today, and
leads to the conclusion that the mountain regions
of Eastern Tennessee had deep, rich soil at a time
when the Gulf of Mexico extended at least as far
north as Nebraska. A tree so ancient, so splendid
and so vigorous does not deserve to perish by the
hand of man in the very region where it has held
its ground during millions of years, There are
sentimental as well as sound business reasons why
steps ought to be taken to perpetuate the yellow
poplar in protected woodlots, since it cannot much
longer hold its place as a wild tree of the forests.
DOGWOOD In 1910 Tennessee led in saw mill
output of dogwood. That for the whole country
was 1,469,000 feet. This quantity is so small as
to place dogwood among the minor species; yet in
the saw mill reports dogwood is not given justice.
The total is certainly too small. Tennessee alone
last year manufactured more dogwood into shuttle
blocks than the whole reported output of saw mills
in the United States. The explanation is that most
of the dogwood does not go through saw mills,
but is shipped in rough blank form to the shuttle
factories. The trees are small and logs one foot
in diameter are unusual, and a length of a few
feet is the average. Two species grow in Ten-
nessee, flowering dogwood (Cornus florida) which
is most common, and blue dogwood (Cornus alterni-
folia). It is doubtful if the latter is a commercial
commodity in Tennessee.
SYCAMORE Tennessee is the fourth state in
the production of sycamore, it being exceeded by
Indiana, Missouri and Arkansas. In 1910 the saw
mill cut in Tennessee was 5,000,000 feet and the
manufacturers reported less than three-quarters
of a million feet. It is apparent that most of the
state's output of this wood is taken by manufac-
turers not operating in Tennessee. Twenty-six
states contribute to the saw mill supply, and, con-
trary to general belief, the total yearly output has
not decreased in the past ten years, though it was
not the same from year to year. In 1909 the cut
of sycamore in the United States was twice as
great as in 1899. For the most part it is a waste
land tree, and it should be encouraged. It takes
possession of gravel bars along rivers, steep banks
of ponds and streams and land subject to frequent
overflow. The best lumber comes from trees of
moderate size, for the very large are usually hol-
low. Sometimes trunks of great dimensions are
mere shells and of no value, though formerly
they were made into gums for the barn and gran-
ary, and wheat and corn were stored in them in
place of barrels. There is only one species of syca-
more in the eastern part of the United States,
but California and Arizona each has one.
PERSIMMON The entire reported saw mill out-
put of persimmon in the United States does not
exceed one million feet, yet manufacturers in Ten-
nessee alone used 680,000 feet. Many other states
produce it, and the total cut must amount to sev-
eral million feet. The same custom prevails with
persimmon as with dogwood, that much is sold in
the log or bolt, and the saw mills never handle it.
The wood goes to the shuttle factories or is
made into golf heads. Statistics are too meager to
determine whether the cut of this wood is in-
creasing or diminishing; but complaint is made by
shuttle people that they frequently find the wood
hard to procure. They use the sapwood only,
which is white, and in appearance somewhat re-
sembles hickory. The persimmon tree is a good
fighter in the contest for ground, and it spreads
rapidly into open spaces. The seeds are widely
dispersed, and a vigorous growth springs up from
stoloniferous roots. It is not probable, therefore,
that this valuable tree will disappear from Ten-
nessee in the near future, but whether it will pro-
duce enough wood to meet demand is doubtful.
BLACK CHERRY In the annual report of saw
mill output by the Bureau of Census, black cherry
is classed among the minor species, not because
it is of small value, but that it is scarce. The
whole reported cut in 1910 was a little over 18,-
000,000 feet, and Tennessee's part of it is not
stated. Manufacturers in the state used less than
half a million feet. The species grows slowly, and
it is doubtful if much of it will ever be planted for
use. A tolerably good imitation of this wood can
be produced by staining red gum and tupelo; but
the real luster, the characteristic tone, of cherry
is due to the bright lining of the wood cells, and
this has not yet been successfully imitated by stain-
ing any other wood. '
BLACK WILLOW This is one of the most rapid
growing of Tennessee's native trees, and it is
worth considering in plans of future forestry and
conservation. The wood is plain and can never
have a wide range of uses, but it is suitable for
boxes and is worth growing for that purpose alone.
A mud flat, too wet for cultivation, has been known
to grow more than two thousand feet of lumber
yearly per acre, for forty years. That is doubtless
above the average growth of willow, but it shows
the possibilities. Willow plants itself and cares for
itself when ground is available. Tennessee has
much wet land, too much subject to overflow to be
profitable for field crops, and in such places willow
ought to be encouraged. It protects the land
against washing, collects sediment, gradually builds
the surface higher and ultimately may convert it
into dry land for farming. The wet situation in
which willow grows affords protection against fire,
and gives the young trees an advantage which is
denied to many species on dry land. The willow
produces a fence post or a small saw-log in a few
years; and old trees two or more feet in diameter
