7O
THE ST. LOUIS LUMBERMAN.
all parts of the State and small amounts are cut
in all the counties. It is not the tree's habit to
produce pure forests, like short-leaf pine, but trees
are scattered among forests of other species, grow-
ing best where the soil is fertile and deep. When
no obstacles are met, the hickory likes to send a
large central root, like a radish, deep down into
the subsoil. It is a tree of fairly rapid growth,
and the wood is separated in two parts, white and
red. The white is the sapwood, and in young trees
makes up most of the trunk. Many small trees
show only a small core of redwood in the center;
large trees increase the proportionate quantity of
the red. The white wood of a young trunk becomes
red when the trunk is old. Hickory is not peculiar
in this respect, however, since most trees change
the sapwood to heartwood as the tree becomes old*
The belief is well-nigh universal that the white
wood of the hickory is better than the red; yet
the differences are so slight as to be negligible, and
for some purposes the red wood is fully equal to
the other. The red is more often rejected through
prejudice or misunderstanding than for any just
cause. There are many degrees of excellence in
both the white and the red. The butt of a tree
is usually better than the top, and a young trunk
growing in the open is more apt than a large one
to possess the desired properties of toughness, elas-
ticity, and strength. Of course, a large trunk near
the ground is freer from knots than is the top of
the same tree; and the matter of knots often has
much to do in determining the fitness of hickory
for special purposes.
It is well known that good commercial hickory
is becoming scarce. The demand is enormous;
but until recent years there was always plenty a
little farther back, and a higher price would bring
it to market. But the time has now come when
not much lies farther back anywhere, and even if
higher prices were offered, few new sources would
be made available though the supplies might be
used up a little faster. It is by no means too early
to discuss the effects which will follow decline in
the hickory output. Scarcity is bound to come, and
nowhere in the world has there yet been found a
wood to take hickory's place for some of its most
exacting uses. Claims have been made for a few,
notably some species of eucalyptus and the crow-
foot elm of Australia; but these claims have not
yet been made good. The supply of hickory can be
lengthened by economy, by using this wood for
the highest purposes only for which it is suitable,
and substituting other woods in inferior places.
There is much waste and it might be lessened. In
some instances it seems well-nigh unavoidable be-
cause of distance from market and other economic
conditions which prevent full utilization. There
is, nevertheless, much waste which might be pre-
vented by care and foresight.
Hickory might be grown with profit. There Is
much land in Missouri suited to that purpose.
Woodlots planted with trees properly spaced, and
the trunks cleared of limbs to give clean and
smooth boles, would grow rapidly into money. The
cordwood from the tops and limbs of such a cut-
ting, when the woodlot is harvested, would, if near
a good market, be worth enough to pay a large
part of the taxes and other costs incurred tn bring-
ing the trees to marketable size. A hickory need
not be very large to make good handles, and the
growth of a few more years will give it size suffi-
cient for larger commodities.
Yellow Poplar.
Missouri is not a large producer but is a rather
large user of yellow poplar. This fine tree is at
its best farther east, in Tennessee, Kentucky and
West Virginia, but 86 mills reported cutting some
of the lumber in 1909 in Missouri. It is another of
the valuable timbers which are passing away. The
cut for the whole country in 1909 was 23 per cent
less than it was ten years earlier. Poplar was once
used for nearly all ordinary purposes, but it has
now become expensive and goes chiefly into high-
class work. Missouri finds place for nearly ten
and three-quarters million feet of it a year, which is
several times as much as its forests produce. Nine-
ty per cent of the total demanded by the factories
of the State comes chiefly from Tennessee and
Kentucky. It finishes very smooth, and it takes
stains so well that one of its principal uses is as
imitation of mahogany, cherry, and birch. It was
once largely used for farm wagon beds, but it is
made into bodies and panels for buggies, carriages,
and automobiles. There is no wood in this country
that will paint to better advantage, and that quality
gives yellow poplar one of its principal values.
The trunks grow large, tall, and free from limbs
half or two-thirds of the way to the tops. They
yield clear lumber, and of high grade. No Ameri-
can hardwood surpasses it in this respect, and few
softwoods are its equal. Extra wide pieces are cut,
suitable for large panels, or whole counter tops.
White Ash.
Six species of ash are found in Missouri, all of
some commercial importance, and in the aggregate
ot much value. Only one species is reported by
manufacturers in the State, the white ash. There
is no question that most or all of the others are
used, but they are not separately distinguished
by those who handle them at the mills and fac-
tories, and thus go in under one name. The white
ash is more abundant than the others; perhaps
in Missouri it exceeds in quantity all the others
combined. The differences between the wood of
that species and that of the other ashes associated
with it are not apparent to the ordinary observer.
The species of ash in Missouri are the white, black,
blue, green, red, and pumpkin. It is noticeable
that all, except the pumpkin ash, are named from
some color. It is difficult to assign a satisfactory
reason why this is so. The winter buds and the
bark of the red ash suggest the name, but the red
color is by no means pronounced; the other spe-
cies in the list have not that much to suggest the
colors which commonly go with their names.
Ash is a strong, stiff, serviceable wood. White
ash is usually considered a little better than the
others for general use. It is widely distributed in
this country, and Missouri produces some of the
best in the market, though it is not among the
largest producers, as nine States were ahead of it
in 1909, Arkansas standing first on the list. More
than four per cent of the country's ash lumber is
credited to Missouri. This species seldom forms
thick forests, but usually the trees grow scatter-
ingly, a single tree or a few in a place. It may
be said generally that ash is used where strength
and rigidity are desired in furniture, machines,
and particularly in farm tool handles, such as shov-
els, rakes, scythes and hoes. The grain of the wood
is rather coarse, yet it may be nicely finished and
it then presents a handsome appearance in furni-
ture and interior finish. It is the most widely used
wood in this country for boat oars. It is heavier
than spruce and cedar and for that reason they
are sometimes preferred to it for oars. The ash is
well able to hold its own among other trees in the
matter of reproduction, and it will maintain a place
in the forest for a long time to come. Its seeds
are winged, and the wind carries them. They do
not, however, fly as readily or as far as the ma-
ple's seeds, whose wings whirl them rapidly in air
and help to sustain them, while the ash's seed has
a wing so narrow and of such a shape that it does
not whirl as rapidly as the maple's and can not
carry the load so far. Seedling ashes, therefore,
are usually found in the vicinity of the parent
trees.
Douglas Fir.
This wood was unknown in the eastern and mid-
dle regions of the United States a few years ago,
and as a comparatively new comer, it has met
with favor. Most of it is cut in Washington and
Oregon, but it abounds in the northern Rocky
Mountain States. A common name for it is Ore-
gon pine, and it is occasionally called red fir. The
trees attain great size, and very large timbers are
cut from them. In Missouri it enters into competi-
tion with long-leaf pine probably oftener than with
any other. The two woods are much alike in many
ways. Both are very strong and stiff, and are used
for similar purposes. Douglas fir is cut in larger
quantity than any other wood in the world, except
the southern yellow pines, and is so cheap in the
regions where it is produced that it is able to force
its way into markets hundreds or thousand of
miles away. More than five million feet yearly
are bought by manufacturers in Missouri at an
average price of $33.76 delivered at the factory.
That is between seven and eight dollars more than
the average price paid in the State for long-leaf
pine.
White Pine.
The reign of the white pine in the United States
is a thing of the past, though a fairly large amount
is still demanded by Missouri manufacturers. The
tree does not grow in the State, and the lumber
now used there conies principally from the Lake
States, where it was once lumbered in enormous
quantities, but now to a much less extent. One of
its largest uses in Missouri is for patterns. No
other wood as satisfactory can be had. Of course,
much white pine lumber is still in the market, but
not all that passes for white pine is the genuine
article. Some is Norway pine cut in the Lake
States and Canada; some is the western white
pine (a different species) from the Northern Rocky
Mountain States; the California sugar pine fur-
nishes some of it, and the western yellow pine
more, and a small amount is the Mexican white
pine. This last is said by good judges to be the
nearest approach to genuine white pine lumber in
this country. These several species pass as white
pine in the lumber market, and it is difficult to
determine how much of the total is the real article.
All are good woods, and for some purposes are
doubtless as good as white pine. No manufacturer
expects, nor should the buying public expect, to ob-
tain white pine now of a grade equal to that on the
market when the original pine forests of New Eng-
land, New York, Pennsylvania, and the Lake States
were available.
Silver Maple.
In Missouri this tree is usually called soft ma-
ple, and four and a half million feet are bought
annually by factories, at an average cost a little
under $25 a thousand. One-third of it is cut in the
State. The only other maple reported was sugar
or hard mapli. It was demanded in smaller quan-
tity and cost nearly ten dollars more a thousand.
Most of it came from States north of Missouri.
The wood of these two maples bears much resemb-
lance. Their differences are well expressed by the
terms hard and soft as applied to the wood. That
of the silver maple is weaker and of the sugar ma-
ple stronger. Both produce accidental forms of
growth called birdseye. This is not, as some sup-
pose, a different kind of tree, but the birdseye ef-
fect is caused by buds that grow up through the
wood during many years, and never succeed in
forcing their way through the bark. Birdseye ef-
fect is found in other woods than maple, and is
due to similar causes.
The botanical ranges of the sugar and the silver
maple lie in the same general regions the eastern
and northeastern parts of the United States, ex-
tending into the Gulf States but their commercial
ranges differ. Most of the sugar maple is cut in
northern regions, but not much in the South. The
reverse is true for silver maple. Little is cut in
the North, and a comparatively large amount fur-
ther south. Missouri produces more silver maple
than sugar maple. Sawmills do not usually keep
the two species separate where they cut both, for
which reason it is difficult to determine the pro^
portionate quantities of each in the output. The
census returns compiled by the United States do
not list maple separately in lumber returns, though
five or six species contribute to the total. The
maple is a tree difficult to exterminate. It pro-
duces multitudes of seeds, ripens them in the spring
and scatters them well before the early sur/mer
rain? are over, and maple reproduction is heavy.
Young trees thus constantly come on, and their
effect on the lumber supply will be apparent in
future years. Trees, like the cypress, which go
and leave few seedlings to take their places, can
not be counted upon in the country's future lum-
ber supply, as the maple can.
White Elm.
This was the only elm listed by the Missouri
manufacturers, but there can be no question that
other species of elm were included. Pour are found
in that State in quantity to make them commercial-
ly important. The white elm is most abundant, and
is associated with slippery elm, cork elm, and wing
elm. The name "rock" elm is sometimes applied
to all of these, by different persons and in differ-
ent localities. It is a term like "rock" oak which
does not mean any tree in particular, although
the man who uses the term may know what species
he has in mind. White elm is the most common
of the elms in most regions where different species
grow; slippery elm is seldom mistaken for any
other, because of its thick, soft, mucilaginous inner
bark; cork elm is so named on account of the
dark, chocolate colored corky excrescences on the
small twigs; and wing elm receives its name
from a very similar growth, but in its case, the
excrescences are flattened, like little keels, on op-
posite sides of the twigs, and resemble long narrow
wings.
Workers in wood say that few trees show as
readily as elm the effect of soil upon wood. One
soil may produce brash wood, another a very tough
one; and there seems to be much difference in
weight and color, which is accounted for by differ-
ences in soils. This may explain why in one lo-
cality the name rock elm is applied to a certain
species, and in another locality the term is given
to an elm of a different species. The wood of all
the elms is coarse and characterless, and is never
employed where handsome appearance is the ob-
ject sought.
Sweet Birch.
Manufacturers of furniture, interior house finish,
and other wood commodities in Missouri use nearly
three million feet of birch, which comes almost en-
tirely from outside the State. A large part of it
is sweet birch, also called cherry birch and ma-
hogany birch because it is frequently finished in
imitation of those woods. It is a northern tree,
rather expensive when it reaches the furniture fac-
tory, and it is becoming scarce. The name "sweet"
is given it because the soft new growth of wood
just under the bark in early summer is often
scraped off and eaten by children and others. It
has an aromatic flavor and a pleasant and peculiar
taste. Most of the oil of wiutergreen of commerce
is made from this birch. There are other birches
in the lumber market, but yellow birch is probably
the only one which ever passes for the sweet birch.
Most of it comes from regions where the sweet
birch grows, and the heartwood of the two species
bears considerable resemblance, but no one would
ever mistake a standing tree of one for the other.
River birch grows in Missouri, and doubtless some
of it is used, though no manufacturer reported it.
The wood is very plain, presents no figure, and the
color is dull and without character; yet the wood
possesses substantial qualities which fit it for many
common purposes.
Chestnut.
This wood does not grow in Missouri, and there
is no reason to suppose that it will ever be planted
in the State for commercial purposes. The larg-
est supply comes from Pennsylvania, West Vir-
ginia, Kentucky and Tennessee. Some chinquapin,
which resembles chestnut, grows in Missouri and
