THE ST. LOUIS LUMBERMAN.
7 1
is occasionally made into lumber, but more fre-
quently crossties.
Sycamore.
This is a waste land tree, in the same class with
cypress in that particular. It has no objection to
good ground, but thrives on mudflats, hollow banks,
and gravel bars, and it thus brings profit where
otherwise there might be none. It occasionally
attains large size, but the best lumber comes from
trees of moderate dimensions, because the largest
are usually hollow. The growing of sycamore for
profit is perhaps practicable in Missouri where
there is much wet land and many tracts liable to
such frequent overflow as to be unsuited to agri-
culture. Sycamores plant themselves in countless
thousands along streams where the space is suffi-
ciently open to let in the sun, and the ground
moist. Growth is rapid, and as soon as the trunk
develops enough heartwood to make boards six or
eight inches wide, cutting may begin. Sycamores
from 10 to 15 feet in diameter have been measured
in the State, but they were never plentiful, and
probably none that large exists now. Missouri
stands second among the States in the production
of sycamore lumber, being exceeded only by Indi-
ana, and produces nearly five times as much as its
factories demand, and yet about half of their de-
mand is supplied by imported lumber.
Basswood.
Missouri ranks low in the production of bass-
wood. In 1909 the census report gave 111 mills
cutting it. The chief supply comes from the North,
and Missouri is on the extreme western edge of
the tree's region. Basswood is soft and white, and
has no grain or figure to make it attractive. It
finishes nicely, but always presents a plain appear-
ance. The name "bee tree'' is sometimes given it,
and this is supposed to mean that the trunks are
frequently hollow and are occupied by wild bees
for storing honey. This, however, is a misnomer,
for the trunks are no more liable to hollowness
than other trees. The bloom is abundant, is rich
in honey, and bees frequent it hence, the name.
Black Willow.
This tree is not of great importance in Mis-
souri at present, but its value will increase, rather
than diminish in the future because it grows rap-
idly, and thrives on land too wet or too much sub-
ject to overflow to be attractive to farmers. At an
age when cypress is scarcely large enough for
handspikes, willow may be cut for saw logs. Im-
mense quantities of it will come to maturity on
comparatively small tracts, from 100 to 200 trees
to the acre having been reported". It is the most
common willow in this country, though many other
species are found. It grows from Maine to Cali-
fornia, but only where water is abundant. It
reaches its best size and form near large water
courses where it prefers low, rich ground, but it
will do fairly well on thin soil if moisture condi-
tions are right. Until recent years the willow was
seldom put to any purpose; but it is now becoming
valuable for certain commodities. Millions of feet
of it are annually made into boxes in the United
States, principally for meats and other provisions.
It is one of the substitutes for yellow poplar and
cottonwood for wagon beds, and furniture makers
are working it into interior places where its ap-
pearance does not matter. It is not a handsome
wood, its color being dark and dull. Some manu-
facturers call it brown cottonwood. The lumber is
tough, light, difficult to split, and is cheap. Trees
four feet in diameter are occasionally cut, but the
average size of willow saw logs is less than half
of that: The willow's importance in Missouri would
seem to lie principally in the future. The wild
forests will be cut out in time, and only species
which will pay best will be planted and cared for.
As rough, coarse lumber, willow will commend it-
self, because of its rapid growth and the large yield
per acre.
Sitka Spruce.
Five woods known as spruce figure in the coun-
try's lumber output, the red, black, white, Engel-
mann, and Sitka. The three first named come from
the north and northeast, the Engelmann is a Rocky
Mountain species, and the Sitka's home is in Ore-
gon and Washington. Tlie Missouri manufacturers
use two of these woods, the black and the Sitka,
but much more of the latter than of the former.
The two woods average about the same in price
when they reach that State. The grades used are
rather high.
Locust.
This is one of the hardest, strongest, and most
enduring woods in this country. It was originally
confined to the eastern half of the United States,
and was best developed in the Appalachian Moun-
tains between Georgia and New York, but the
species has spread through the agency of man to
many districts where it did not formerly exist.
The tree is well known in Missouri, though it is
doubtful if it was found there at the coming of the
early settlers. Its rapid growth, and the natural
beauty of its foliage and bloom, together with the
excellence of its wood for posts and pins, made it
a favorite with those who planted trees for orna-
ment and use. However, the reports of Missouri
manufacturers who work in wood do not show that
a single stick of home-grown locust was used In
the State, and the demand was met from without.
In some parts of the country the tree suffers much
from the attacks of the locust borer (Cyllem ro-
binia) which perforates the trunk and large
branches. Forty other known enemies attack the
tree, but most of them do little harm. The honey
locust is found in Missouri, but is inferior to the
above named locust in all respects except size, and
it has not been reported for manufacturing pur-
poses in the State.
Black Walnut.
The Missouri sawmills cut more than thirty
times as much black walnut as the factories in the
State make use of. The State ranks fifth as a
producer of this cabinet wood; those above it, in
the order named, are Ohio, Indiana, Illinois and
Kentucky. The best walnut lumber is cut from
large trees, for age is necessary to give the heart-
wood the rich color which makes it valuable. For
that reason, the planting of walnut trees for the
purpose of growing timber does not promise as
quick returns as in the case of some other species
which grow no faster. The wood has great value,
and is becoming scarce. It is the highest priced
wood in the United States that goes to market as
lumber, though osage orange, which is sold for a
special purpose, is above It.
The Cedars.
Four cedars figure in Missouri's wood-using in-
dustries, but in rather small quantities. Spanish ce-
dar, from Mexico, supplies most, and it is all made
into cigar boxes. Next is western red cedar from
Oregon and Washington, and its chief use is for
doors and frames. Red cedar, which grows in all
parts of the South, East, and Middle West, is in
much demand by coffin and casket makers; but
the total amount consumed in Missouri is small be-
cause the wood is expensive and scarce. Lead-pen-
cil makers pay so much for red cedar that they
secure most that reaches the market. There are
two pencil slat mills in the State. The northern
white cedar reported came from the Lake States.
It is frequently known as arbor vitae, and is seldom
sawed into lumber, though large quantities are
made into poles, posts and formerly into street
paving blocks. That converted into lumber is
chiefly consumed by manufacturers of canoes and
small boats, but a little finds place as car lining or
ceiling.
Minor Species.
Several woods are reported in use by Missouri
manufacturers, but in small quantities. Hackberry
is one of them. This bears more resemblance to
ash than to any other, but is in most ways inferior
to it. The species is not plentiful, but scattering
trees range over the country. Sassafras occasion-
ally attains to saw-log size, and it goes to saw-
mills with logs of other species. The lumber is
not generally set apart and kept separate, but
sometimes flooring is made of it. An old belief
prevailed, and possibly yet survives in some locali-
ties, that sassafras floors and bedsteads repel
troublesome insects, and conduce to sounder sleep.
Whether that view is correct or not, the wood
makes good flooring, wears well, is handsome in
appearance, strong for its weight, lasts well in'
damp situations, and in pioneer days was much em-
ployed along the Mississippi river for dugout ca-
noes. It reaches large size in Missouri. Pecan
is a species of hickory which is at its best in the
region south of Missouri. It is substituted for hick-
ory in some situations where great toughness is
not required. Holly appears among the woods used
in the State, but in quantity so small as to be unim-
portant, and it is not plentiful in Missouri. It is in
most demand by the manufacturers of brush backs
and musical instruments. Butternut receives little
more than mention among the woods in use. If it
can be had in sufficient amount it serves well in
many places, and in some can be substituted for
black walnut. It is lighter in color, and to some
it is known as white walnut. It is native to Mis-
souri, but most of the butternut lumber in the mar-
ket is cut in Texas, Indiana and Wisconsin. A
peculiar far western tree is listed by manufac-
turers in Missouri, but the total amount demanded
yearly is only a few thousand feet. The tree is
the yucca, a sort of palm, growing in California and
Arizona, with a trunk a foot or more in diameter,
consisting of tough fibers and a kind of pith, not
much resembling wood. It is cut in thin strips and
veneer, and is used for surgeons' splints and as
wrapping material for bottles.
Foreign Woods.
A number of foreign woods are employed by
manufacturers in Missouri, but mahogany and
Spanish cedar are the only ones demanded in fairly
large amounts. Circassian walnut comes from the
Caspian sea provinces of Russia and Turkey. It
generally costs about twice as much as black wal-
nut, or an average of ?203.33 per thousand in Mis-
souri. It has pleasing figure, and the colors are
subdued. It is not practicable to give even approxi-
mate figures by which to compare the amount of
the genuine with woods employed for imitation in
this country: but it is certain that imitations are
seen much oftener than the real. Perhaps the ratio
of the imitations to 'the true Circassian walnut In
furniture, finish, and musical instruments exceeds
ten to one. Prima vera or white mahogany, is a
native of southern Mexico and Central America,
it has been in the market about thirty years, and
is not a true mahogany though it is not farther
from it than are some of the darker woods on the
market which pass for mahogany. The foliage is
bright yellow, at least at certain seasons of the
year, and trees may be distinguished at long dis-
tances. Historically, prima vera occupies a unique
place in that it was well known to the lumber
trade many years before botanists knew of its ex-
istence. The tree was first described by Captain
John Donnell Smith of Baltimore, who found it
growing in Guatemala in 1890. His name was
given it by botanists. Furniture makers have ex-
pressed the opinion that it is less durable than true
mahogany, but it is not apparent that sufficient
tests of the matter have been made to warrant a
conclusion.
Turkish boxwood is used in amount so small in
Missouri that it is of interest there only because
of its great cost per foot. It is one of the most
expensive woods in the" world, and in Missouri the
price was a dollar a foot, and it sometimes costs
more than that. Ebony comes from a number of
foreign countries and is of different shades of black-
ness. It is the heartwood of different species of
persimmon trees. Some of the best comes from
Ceylon, Madagascar and the east coast of Africa.
There is historical evidence that ebony was cut for
commercial purposes on the Red Sea coast 5,000
years ago, and some of the wood cut 4,500 years
ago is still in a good state of preservation. Tulip
wood is a name applied to several woods which
are brightly colored, or variegated. The small
amount used in Missouri came from Brazil. The
principal objection to it is that the bright colors
are liable to fade upon long exposure to the air.
Rosewood listed in Missouri is a native of Africa,
but there are different species of rosewood from
different regions. The satinwood is a native of
India, and so is vermilion.
INDUSTRIES.
The various woods available to manufacturers In
Missouri are listed and discussed on preceding
pages, and the wealth of forest resources is large.
It remains to be shown what industries avail them-
selves of those resources, and to what extent. The
following pages will present that information In
considerable detail, and it will be pointed out, in
many instances, why one wood is more valuable
than another for certain purposes.
Boxes and Crates.
The manufacture of boxes and crates is the
largest of the wood-using industries of Missouri,
measured by the amount of material used, but
more money is spent for the lumber in the sash,
door and general millwork business. Boxmakers
generally use a rather cheap class of material.
Many buy it in the log and convert it into lumber
or veneer themselves, and thus keep cost down.
There are wood-using industries in Missouri, how-
ever, which buy their raw material at a lower
price than boxmakers buy theirs. The cheapest
of all is bought by excelsior makers.
The boxmaking industry includes practically
all boxes and crates, except cigar boxes
which are considered as belonging to an industry
by themselves. The piano box and the large ship-
ping case used for dry goods are the limit in one
direction, and the pint or pound container is the
limit in the otaer. There are all kinds and sizes
between. Formerly when lumber was plentiful
and much cheaper than it now is, the custom was
to make most boxes of lumber from one-half to
one inch thick; but as the price of lumber rose
from year to year, the boxmaker used thinner lum-
ber, in an effort to make a given amount go far-
ther. The use of veneer in this industry has in-
creased. The kind employed by boxmakers is near-
ly always rotary cut. A log three or four feet long
is fixed in a machine like a lathe and is turned rap-
idly while a powerful knife is held against it, slic-
ing off veneer in ribbons as broad as the log is
long. It varies in thickness from 5-16 to 1-50 of an
inch. Frequently three sheets of veneer are glued
together, making three ply, with the grain of the
middle sheet running across that of the other two.
This is very strong, and is much used by boxmakers
in the manufacture of large shipping cases. The
corners are reinforced with lumber. A well-made
reinforced box of three-ply veneer is not only
cheaper than a box made of boards, but it is also
stronger, unless the board box is of extra thick
lumber.
Advance in the cost of lumber has caused box-
makers to resort to cheaper grades. At one time
clear, soft white pine was most frequently the box
material in all regions within reach of the white
pine country; for it was, when all things were
considered, the most satisfactory wood for that
purpose. The day of the clear white pine box Is
long past. This species is yet much used in many
States, but it is not the clear lumber. The box
boards are sawed from small, defective logs, from
tops, and from sapwood. Wood of that kind was
once thrown away at the white pine mills, or was
