FORESTRY
New Orleans, La., May 1, 1912.]
THE LUMBER TRADE JOURNAL
COLttSE Of* AGRICULTUItt
MIVCKSlTV or CAUrOKN I A 1 9
WOOD USING INDUSTRIES OF ALABAMA
Bureau of Wood Utilization of Forest Service Tells of Plants
Already Established and Opportunities for New Enterprises;
Division of Various Woods among Existing Manufactures.
NOTE.
The following report was prepared by John T.
Harris, statistician, and Hu Maxwell, expert, under
-the direction of H. S. Sackett, chief of the Office of
Wood Utilization, United States Forest Service. It
is published and thus made available to the public
through the courtesy of the LUMBKR TRADK JOURNAL,
New Orleans, La.
CONTENTS.
Page
Preface 19
Woods used in Alabama 19
Longleaf pine 20
Shortleaf pine 20
Loblolly pine
Spruce pine 20
White pine
Cuban pine
Cypress
Magnolia 20
Red cedar 20
Hickory ; 20
Birch 20
Yellow poplar , 20
Gum 20
The oaks 20
Dogwood 20
Elm 20
Chestnut
Cotton wood
Persimmon 21
Mahogany 21
Green haw 21
Wild cherry 21
Hackberry 21
Black walnut
Spanish moss , 21
Planing-mill products 21
Sash, doors, blinds, and general millwork 22
Peaking boxes and crates 22
Car construction 22
Vehicles and vehicle parts 22
Excelsior 23
Chairs 23
Boxes, tobacco 23
Agricultural implements 23
Furniture 23
Handles 23
Sporting and athletic goods 23
Shuttles, spools, and bobbins 23
Fixtures 24
Refrigerators and kitchen cabinets 24
Caskets and coffins 24
Ship and boat building 24
Wooden ware and novelties 25
Miscellaneous 25
Summary 25
Percentage of woods used by industries 25
Cost of woods by industries 25
Lessening waste 25
Woods waste 25
Mill waste 26
Substitution etc 26
Forest conditions 27
Co-operators 27-28
Uses of wood 29
Appendix 29
Annual lumber cut 30
Softwood distillation 30
Cooperage 30
PREFACE.
The state of Alabama embraces 33,000,000 acres,
of which about 24,000,000 are classed as 'wooded
land, 9,000,000 farm land, and 500,000 water surface
In this division the water surface alone remains
fairly constant, while the proportionate amounts of
wood and agricultural land change from year to
year. In some instances, old fields are lapsing into
forest, but iu many more instances the wooded areas
are being converted into farms. In its original con-
dition the whole region now included in Alabama
was wooded, the exceptions being so few as to be
unimportant. Clearings were made in a small way
by the native Indians who cultivated corn, pump-
kins, and melons; and about 200 years ago more ex-
tensive clearings were begun 'by the first European
settlers. From that time until the present, the
primeval forests have steadily given -way to cotton,
grain and tobacco. For a long time the timber was
an encumbrance, as was the case in so many other
parts of t/he United States where the ground was
wanted for crops. \A little was used for fences,
bridges, and buildings, tout there 'being no manufac-
turing, most of the timber cut in clearing farms
was burned either for fuel, or in log heaps. Al-
though Alabama has anchorage and sea coast, the
early people built few ships, and sought no oversea
trade. As early as 1777, however, naval stores were
manufactured to a small extent at Mobile, the chief
product being tar.
The soft woods; that is, pines and cypresses,
grow in all regions of Alabama, though not every-
where equally dispersed; 'but the pine 'belt, where
the finest forests of longleaf pine are found is about
fifty miles wide and lies in the southern part of the
state on lands usually flat and sandy. The genera 1 !
elevation of this belt is not much above sea level.
Next above this, northward in the state, is the cot-
ton belt, which consists of broad, rolling prairies,
with many strips of timber still remaining. The
soil is tolack and fertile and the region is crossed
by many streams. Still north of this is the mineral
belt, where coal and iron are mined and constitute
the chief wealth of the region at this time. Timber
of some kind is found all over the hills, beneath
which the minerals lie. This timber has been and
still is of much value in mining operations, though
in this report little mention is made of it for the
reason that most mine timbers are used in the
rough as pit posts, proips, ties, lagging, etc. and
this report deals with manufactured products only.
Considerable areas of pine in this part of Alabama
were stripped many years ago by charcoal burners
who found sale for their products at the iron fur-
naces. The mining of iron in this region was stim-
ulated during the civil war by demands for the metal
in the South when supplies from other parts of the
country were difficult to procure. The confederate
ship, Tennessee, was built of Alabama iron; and
large cannon foundries obtained their supplies from
the same mines. Much of the iron was smelted
with charcoal made from pine cut in the vicinity.
To this day charcoal pits are common in the region
and hills are still being cleared of pine (some other
woods also) to meet the demand. Still north of
the mineral belt in Alabama lies the cereal belt,
where grains constitute the leading crops. This
region embraces the fertile lands of the Tennessee
river valley, extending entirely across the state,
east and west. When' the primeval forests covered
the country, this was a remarkable hardwood re-
gion; but the fertility of the soil tempted the early
settlers to cut the woods to make corn fields. Com-
paratively little of the timber was sent to market,
for it was not salable at that time. However, in
this region some of the best hardwoods of Alabama
are still found.
Alabama is well supplied with facilities for ship-
ping its forest products by land and water. Rail-
roads are numerous, and they handle in a satisfac-
tory manner the 'business that comes to them. The
state's rivers give 1,500 miles of inland navigation,
without counting the streams too small for steam-
ers, yet large enough for a raft or for floating logs.
Mobile is the gateway to the sea, and to the mari-
time countries of the world. It has a splendid har-
bor, connected by a twenty-six-foot channel with the
Gulf of Mexico. The harbor always presents a busy
scene, and it is seldom without two or more foreign
vessels loading for distant ports. It is the confident
belief of the business men of Mobile, and of the
whole state, that the completion of the Panama
canal will add immensely to Mobile as a shipping
port and port of entry, and that new markets for
the products of forest and factory will be opened
on the western coast of Central and South America,
as well as in the Orient.
The output of the sawmills in Alabama in 1910,
according to the federal census of that year, which
is the latest thus far published, was 1,465,623,000
feet. The cut was made up of eighteen species. It
should be explained, however, that in some instances
two or more species are grouped as one. For ex-
ample, all pine is listed under the common name
"yellow pine," though at least five species are in-
cluded, viz., longleaf, shortleaf, loblolly, Cuban and
spruce. The same method was pursued in tabulat-
ing oak lumber in the census returns. All is class-
ed simply as oak, though it is well known that more
than one species perhaps half a dozen species
are included. The compilers of census statistics
pursue that method 'because it is impossible to list
each species of oak or pine separately, as many
mills which convert them into lumber make no
distinction between species. The drain upon Ala-
bama's pine has been very heavy. In 1910 it con-
stituted ninety per cent of the whole sawmill out-
put. It is, therefore, evident that any lessening of
the available pine supply will affect in a visible way,
the state's total lumber output.
The state's timber resources are yet very large,
though the drain in the past has been heavy. De-
cline in value need not follow decline in output.
Closer utilization and preparation of tne product
for other markets, may more than make good all
losses due to a smaller total output. This can be
brought about toy converting more of the rough lum-
ber into finished product; that is, prepare it for
markets which will pay more for it, and toy that
means sell a less quantity of forest products for
more money. Farmers are learning to make more
profit from a small tract of land by intensive culti-
vation than was realized from large tracts under
the old way of growing one thing and selling it in
the rough. Timber men can follow the same plan
and dp as well. Lumber sold as it comes from the
sawmill is one commodity only; manufactured into
furniture, boats, vehicles, finish, and the like, it toe-
comes a number of products, each of which has a
market of its own.
This study of the utilization of wood in Alabama
was undertaken by the United States Forest Service
in the hope that it would assist manufacturers and
timber owners in the state in converting the wood
into commodities which will be most profitable.
The figures brought together and shown in the vari-
ous tables should not be regarded as dry statistics,
for each table tells a story of progress and success.
It is an exhibit of diversified industries with the
forest as the raw material and the finished products
as the salable commodity. The census figures for
1910 (1,465,623,000 feet) show the timber converted
in a year into lumber. The tables in this report
show that nineteen industries in the state use 726,-
816,900 feet of rough lumber a year; and that 105,-
000,000 more is simply planed and is sold in that
form, while the remainder is apparently disposed of
in the rough form. About 36,000,000 of the 726,816,-
900 feet demanded by manufacturers is brought into
Alabama from other states; and about 770,000,000
feet of lumber cut yearly in Alabama is used in the
rough or is shipped outside the state for further
manufacture.
It is a well-known economic principle that the
community, region, or state which produces abund-
ance of raw material and converts it into finished
products ready for use, is more prosperous than the
region which sends its half-finished product away
from home to be completed. It is unnecessary to
show by argument and figures the value of manufac-
turing concerns to a region; the facts are self-evi-
dent. Alabama is producing abundance of lumber,
but about half of it is not being further manufac-
tured in the state. Some of it, of course, is demand-
ed for use in the rough form ; tout there is no reason
why all necessary manufacturing can not be done
in the state, thus employing home people, and keep-
ing the money at home. Cheap power is abundant,
and facilities for shipping the finished products are
adequate.
WOODS USED IN ALABAMA.
Manufacturers in Alabama report the yearly use
of thirty-eight woods, ranging in amounts from
