New Orleans, La., May 1, 1912.]
THE LUMBER TRADE JOURNAL
21
seems to have spread northward through the penin-
sula of Florida into the adjacent regions further
north, and it is still spreading rapidly by taking
advantage of openings in Che forests of other spe-
cies, made by lumbermen.
Cypress. Alabama is not a large producer of cy-
press when compared with Louisiana, Florida, Mis-
sissippi, and some other states. This tree thrives
best in swamps, and Alabama has no large tracts of
such land. Two species of cypress grow in this state,
but they are so nearly alike that few recognize any
difference between them.
Magnolia. Two species of magnolia are in use
the evergreen and the sweet. The former is more
abundant, the trees of greater size, the leaves are
'longer, and the flowers much larger, being from six
to eigiht inches across; the sweet magnolia ibeing
only two or three inches. The wood of the ever-
green magnolia 'bears some resemblance to yellow
poplar, though the heart is often much darker;
while the wood of the sweet magnolia (the heart-
wood) is a rich brown that polishes well, and when
carefully selected and finished, it is one of the hand-
somest woods of the southern forests.
Red Cedar. A very small part of the total cut of
cedar in Alabama is shown in Table 1, because that
represents only what passes through shops and man-
ufacturing plants, while the bulk of the cedar is
used for poles and posts. In northern Alabama the
railroad yards are filled with cedar poles and posts,
the former for telephone and telegraph lines, the
latter for fences. Many are shipped to other state.
Pencil manufacturers search so diligently for cedar
that it is not unusual to see a train load of old cedar
fence rails on the way to market, there to be con-
verted into pencils. In some instances buyers of
cedar build a new post and wire fence in exchange
for the old cedar rails. This is a remarkable change
from twenty-five years ago. There are two species
of red cedar in Alabama, but they are so similar
that few persons recognize the difference, and in
the market no distinction is made. Red cedar holds
its ground with remarkable vigor. If it were not
such a slow-growing tree it would be one of the most
valuable in this country. It is found in more than
half of the United States, but it thrives 'best in tho
South. In a region extending from eastern Ten-
nessee, northern Georgia, and eastern Kentucky to
central and western Texas, it is not unusual to see
this cedar in tens of thousands, taking possession of
stony ridges, sterile hillsides, sandy flats, and steep
ravines. Posts by millions are now cut from land
where fifty or seventy-five years ago few cedars
grew. This statement applies to a wider region
than Alabama, but as much to that state as to any
other. If left growing for a long period of years
a century or more these cedars would attain a size
fitting them for use in the manufacture of pencils,
chests and furniture, but tehe ordinary land owner
does not .want to wait so long and he cuts his trees
when they are large enough for posts and poles. The
mature cedars that stood in old forests have nearly
all been cut to meet demand in the past. Houses,
barns, mills, bridges, and fences were formerly
often built in part or wholly of cedar. That, of
course, is no longer possible.
Hickory. 'Seven or eight species of hickory are
grouped as one in Alabama and are reported by
manufacturers simply as hickory. That is the prac-
tice in all hickory regions, because it has been
found impossible, or at least impracticable, to sep-
arate and distinguish 'between the different hick-
ories. Among those growing in Alabama are bit-
ternut, nutmeg, pecan, paleleaf, pignut, mockernut,
shagbark, and water hickory.
Birch. The remarks concerning hickory apply
also to 'birch, except that fewer species are used in
Alabama, and all that was reported came from out-
side the state. The birches which possess attract-
ive color and grain, and for that reason are demand-
ed for furniture and finish, consist principally of
two species sweet birch (Betttla Icnta) and yellow
birch (Betula lutea). Both are northern trees, ex-
tending southward along the Appalachian Mountain
ranges to North Carolina ant! Tennessee. Birch that
is cut in the Lake States is usually yellow birch,
though sweet birch is lumbered in that region also;
while birch from Pennsylvania, Maryland, West Vir-
ginia, and neighboring regions is likely to be the
sweet species, though yellow birch is cut also. Sev-
eral other birches grow in the United States and
are valuable for certain purposes, but the majority
of them show little color, grain or figure in the
wood. No one of them is reported for use in Ala-
bama. The river ibirch (Bctula nigra) grows in
considerable abundance along the streams of that
state and is doubtless put to use though not report-
ed. It is a plain but substantial wood.
Yellow Poplar. In addition to supplying its own
shops and factories with nearly twelve million feet
of yellow poplar, the state of Alabama is now ex-
porting large numbers of poplar logs to Europe. The
logs are stripped of bark to reduce weight and les-
sen the space they will occupy in the holds of ves-
sels. This splendid timber tree reaches the southern
limit of its commercial range in Alabama.
Gum. Table 1 lists the wood of three species of
gum in Alabama, red, black and tupelo. Two other
gums grow in the state and doubtless are made use
of, though not reported. They are the water gum
(Nyssa J>iflora) and sour tupelo (Nyssa ogeche).
The Oaks. In Table 1 six oaks are listed, white,
red, post, willow, pin and Texan. This separates
the oaks into species, with the amount of each used,
with as much accuracy as available information will
allow; but its absolute accuracy is doubtful. It is
reasonably certain that more than six kinds of oak
are used by Alabama manufacturers, and it is prob-
able that several were grouped under one or more
names. Water oak, yellow oak, and live oak are
fairly abundant in Alabama, yet do not appear in the
table, while red oak (Quercus rubra) barely enters
the northeastern corner of the state, yet it was
largely reported. The most likely explanation is
that some of the oaks, which do not appear under
their own names, were reported as red oak. In com-
piling this report, the figures furnished by manu-
facturers were used, but an explanation is deemed
necessary because of the various names by which
the same oak may be known and reported. White
oak and red oak are two general terms by which
many lumbermen report oaks of various species.
Those which have pointed-lobed leaves and ripen
their acorns in two years are generally called red
oak, and those with one-year acorns and round-lobed
leaves are known as white oak. There are about
fifty oaks in the United States, and at least one-
third are found in Alabama. Among them are white
oak, red oak, post oak, overcup oak, chestnut oak,
chinquapin oak, cow oak, Durand oak, live oak,
Texan oak, yellow oak, Spanish oak, black jack oak,
water oak, shingle oak, and willow oak.
Dogwood. This is not a timber tree as the term
is usually understood, but is cut in considerable
quantity and is usually bought and sold by the cord.
Elm. Manufacturers reported the use of only one
elm in the state, the white elm. That is the com-
mon and most abundant elm in the United States,
and it grows in practically all the states east of the
Rocky Mountains. Alabama has two other species
of elm, both serviceable for manufacturing pur-
poses, and doubtless both are in use. They are wing
elm and slippery elm; the latter may be known by
its mucilaginous inner bark, and the former by the
flat keels on the twigs and sometimes on the large
limbs and trunk of the tree. When this elm is not
in leaf, the peculiar appearance of the flat twigs
will not fail to attract attention.
Chestnut. In Alabama the chestnut approaches
the southern limit of its range.
Cottomvood. This wood does not occupy an im-
portant place in Alabama, either as rough lumber
or as a finished product. Only thirteen mills in the
state cut it in 1910, while there were 110 in Missis-
sippi, 126 in Arkansas and 300 in Missouri.
Persimmon. The persimmon is not cut for gen-
eral lumber but for special commodities, principally
shuttle blocks, and golf sticks.
Mahogany. The mahogany used in Alabama was
grown in West Indie's, Mexico and Central America.
Another wood usually classed as mahogany and
largely demanded by manufacturers of furniture and
finish in this country comes from Africa.
Green Haw. This wood is seldom reported by
wood-using industries. It may reach eight or ten
inches in diameter of trunk. The wood is light in
color, resembling ironwood.
Wild Cherry. This is not a foreign tree brought
into this country, as its name might imply. It
grows from Georgia to Arizona, but probably will
never attain to any more importance in the timber
supply than it now holds. It is sometimes called
soap berry because substances extracted from the
roots and the fruit have been used for soap. The
true soap berry is a closely related species.
Hackberry. This tree grows in practically all sec-
tions of the state, and is often bought and sold as
ash.
Black Walnut. A little black walnut is used in
Alabama, but none of it is state-grown. This wood
was once popular for many purposes, but it has
lost some of its popularity in recent years. If it
were demanded now in as large amounts as for-
merly, the price would be very high, for the wood
is scarce, and no unculled forests exist from which
new supplies may be drawn.
Spanish Moss (Dcndropogon usenoides). This is
not a wood, but as a product of the forest it is enti-
tled to mention. It is gray in winter but light green
in spring and summer, and hangs in long festoons
from the branches of trees. It is most abundant in
swamps, and on the flood plains of rivers. On dry
uplands it is scarce or absent. In localities which,
because of warmth and dampness, favor its growth,
it frequently covers trees so completely that most
of the branches are invisible. Although the growth
has the appearance of moss, and is nearly always
spoken of as such, it is not really a moss, but a
plant of the pineapple family, and it bears leaves,
flowers and fruit. It is not even a parasite, accord-
ing to the opinion of most botanists who have stud-
ied it; that is, it takes no substance from the tree
on which it grows. It is an air plant, deriving its
subsistence from the air and the rain and dew. It
is propagated either by seeds or by small parts of a
parent plant blown by wind against the trunk or
branches of the tree. Small rootlets develop at first
and secure the young plant in its new position by
tying it to the tree's bark; but afterwards the root-
lets disappear and the plant hangs on the tree much
as clothes might hang across a line. It grows in
strands and festoons which may attain a length of
several feet, usually three or four, but occasionally
more than ten.
Early settlers attempted to convert the moss into
provender for farm stock, but with little success,
though it was said that deer in winter would eat
It. It has long been employed as filling for mat-
tresses, cushions, and horse collars. It is prepared
for such use by curing and ginning it, by which
process the gray or green leaves and bark are re-
moved, and a black thread-like material, resembling
horsehair, remains. In late years another use for it
has been found, and the market is said to be good.
The moss is dyed bright colors, generally green or
blue, and is sold for store decorations Where wood-
land scenes are to be imitated. It is sent to market
in crates or bales.
In Table 1 the third column of figures gives the
average price paid at the factories for each of the
species. Where the amount is large and the buyers
many, the cost shown in the table may be accepted
as representative but in some instances the amount
of wood is rather small, and perhaps the whole
quantity was purchased by two or three factories,
and the cost may appear too high or too low. This
may be explained by the circumstances under which
the purchases were made. If the wood is wanted
for a special purpose, none but a very high grade
may answer, and the price will be unusually high.
Or, if a very low grade will do, the cost may be un-
usually low. In some instances in Alabama black
walnut was bought for less than twenty dollars a
thousand feet. Without an explanation that price
would seem ridiculous, but it becomes reasonable if
it is stated that the purchase was in the log, and the
logs were small, nearly all sapwood, and suitable
only for boxes or some other common purpose. In
Table 1, pin oak costs $40 a thousand, Texas oak
$38.40, while red oak costs only $18.91, and white
oak $20.17. On the face of it, the prices seem ab-
surd for it is well known that ordinarily pin oak
and Texan oak are not worth more than White and
red oak. But the two latter woods were purchased
in millions of feet each, and the costs are averages
of many sales; while only a few thousand feet of
pin and Texan oak were bought, and for particular
purposes demanding .extra high quality. The sta-
tistics as compiled for these tables in this report
show what was actually reported by manufacturers.
It in a few instances apparent inconsistencies are
found in cosl^ they may generally be attributed to
the smallness of the amount bought, or to the fact
that it was of unusual quality or dimensions.
Planing-Mill Products.
This is very much the largest wood-using indus-
try in Alabama, and accounts for eighty per cent,
of all the wood reported. When the further fact
that ninety-six per cent of all shown in Table 2
consists of two species, longleaf and shortleaf pine,
is considered, the importance of these species be-
comes apparent. 1 ne principal commodities includ-
ed in this industry are flooring, molding, ceiling, sid-
ing and other finish for interior and exterior of
buildings. The average cost of the rough lumber
when it reaches the planer is low, $11.72; and its
low cost is chiefly due to the fact that most of the
operators of planing mills are owners of sawmills
also, and the cost of the lumber is figured upon the
price of stumpage (often for less than such stump-
age can now be bought), the delivery of the logs to
the mill and the sawing. Estimated in that way,
the average cost is shown to be very low. In many
cases, no profit is included and sometimes not even
the depreciation of the plant.
A number of large mills in Alabama employ con-
vict labor under contract with the state, paying $25
to $30 per man per month. The effect on production
is apparent. The mills are kept going in dull sea
sons, for the expense goes on and must be met.
with the result that overproduction is stimulated.
In some of the Southern states, cotton planters are
asked to reduce their acreage when there is danger
of too much cotton being grown. The sawmills
might adopt the same policy, but those who are
under contract to pay for convi-.-t labor can not join
the others in curtailing output, for the labor charges
go on and must be earned by operating the plants.
The sentiment among business men in some parts
of the state is pretty strong that the state should
employ its convicts upon public roads where their
labor will be less likely to conflict with private en-
terprise, and sound business principles.
