New Orleans, La., May 1, 1912.]
THE LUMBER TRADE JOURNAL
2JJ
Sporting and Athletic Goods.
J. W. Reece, Decatur.
Hallett Manufacturing Company, Mobile.
Innis Golf Club Company, Montgomery.
Vehicles and Vehicle Parts.
Hale Buggy Company, Anniston.
Cruse & Coleman, Birmingham.
Jervis Lumber Company, Decatur.
H. H. Hitt Lumber Company, Palkville.
Florence Wagon Works, Florence.
Garden City Hickory Company, Garden City.
Globe Carriage Works, Montgomery.
J. H. Hi'bble & Son, Piedmont.
The Selma Spoke Company, Selma.
Sheffield Hub & Column Company, Sheffield.
M. R. Campbell, -Stevenson.
J. F. Mitchell, Stevenson.
D. W. Boatright, Tallassee.
Woodenware and Novelties.
Andalusia Manufacturing Company, Andalusia.
Randolph Lumber Company, Birmingham.
W. R. Flowers Lumber Company, Dothan.
USES OF WOOD.
Manufacturers and others in Alabama report uses
for the different woods as follows:
Basswood.
Balusters, blinds, cabinets, casing, doors, interior
finish, mantels, sash, shelving, stairwork, trams.
Beech.
Chairs, door frames, drawer sides and bottoms,
finish, flooring, interior finish, siding, window
Frames.
Birch.
Ceiling, chairs, doors, fixtures, flooring, interior
finish, magazine racks, music cabinets, partition,
sash.
Black Cherry.
Baseboards, bookcases, ceiling, coaches (passen-
ger), furniture, hat racks, interior finish, molding,
partition, stands, tables.
Black Gum.
Boxes (packing), crates (berry), finish, grape
baskets, interior trim, mine rollers, novelties, pails,
tubs, woodenware.
Black Walnut.
Chests, china closets, drug cabinets, fancy boxes,
finish, fixtures, kitchen cup-boards, showcases, stair-
work.
Chestnut.
Cars (freight), ceiling, coaches (passenger), doors,
interior trim, mantels, molding, partition, sash.
Cottonwood.
Baskets, -box covers, boxes (packing), brush heads,
excelsior, ginning machinery, sample cases, trays.
trunks, vehicle parts.
Cuban Pine.
Boxes, cars (freight), ceiling, coaches (passen-
ger), flooring, interior finish, peach crates, siding.
Cypress.
Boats, boxes (packing), caskets, chair rounds,
coffin boxes, columns, interior finish, chips (outside
trim), silos, tanks, vats.
Dogwood.
Bobbins, golfshaft heads, shuttles, spindles, spools.
Evergreen Magnolia.
Bookcases, chairs, desks, furniture, hat racks,
stands, tabourets, umbrella stands.
Green Haw.
Chair rounds, furniture stock, lawn furniture,
racks, rustic chairs, stands, table legs.
Hackberry.
Furniture backs, lawn furniture, racks, rakes rus-
tic chairs, stands.
Hickory.
Axles, buggy poles, chairs, doubletrees, farm im-
plements, felloes, gearing, golfstick shafts, handles
piekersticks, reaches, rims, singletrees, spokes, suck-
er rods, sweeping fiber, tool handles, vehicle stock.
Loblolly Pine.
Agricultural implements, boxes, cars (freight),
cars (railroad), ceiling, coaches (railway), excel-
sior, finish, flooring, interior trim, kitchen safes,
molding, newels, porch posts, sash, shiplap, siding,
wagon boxes.
Longleaf Pine.
Boats, boxes, buffets, cabinets, cars (railroad),
china closets, coaches (railway), coffins, columns,
crates, doors, engine parts, excelsior, fixtures, floor-
ing, furniture, gin machinery, interior finish, kit-
chen safes, mantels, medicine cabinets, novelties,
sash, school desks, ships, sideboards, siding, tables,
turned stock, wagon boxes, woodenware.
Mahogany.
Cabinets, coacnes (passenger), finish, fixtures, in-
terior trim, magazine racks, music cabients, street
cars.
Persimmon.
Bobbins, golfstick -heads, shuttles, spindles, spools.
Pin Oak.
Bolsters, felloes, gearing, poles (wagon), spokes,
vehicle stock.
Post Oak.
Buggies, chairs, furniture, hubs, vehicle stock,
wagon poles.
Red Cedar.
Boxes (clothes), boxes (fancy), 'boxes (tobacco),
cabinets, chests, china closets, faucets, novelties,
sideboards, wardrobe shelves.
Red Gum.
Agricultural implements, baskets, beds, boxes,
brush heads, bureaus, ceiling, chairs, crates, desks,
dressers, egg crates (tops and ends), finish, fixtures,
flooring, furniture, gin brush ribs, gins, grape bas-
kets (tops and ends), hampers (clothes), handles,
kitchen safes, mine rollers, partition, shocks, siding,
tables, wagon boxes.
Red Oak.
Car construction, ceiling, coaches, counters (store),
engine repairs, flooring, interior finish, newels,
porch posts, siding, vehicles.
Shortleaf Pine.
Boxes (packing), cars (railroad), caskets, ceiling,
coaches (railway), columns, cornices, cotton gins,
crates (tops and bottoms), doors, fixtures, flooring,
handles, interior finish, molding, partition, sash, sid-
ing, turned stock, vehicles, wagon boxboards.
Spruce Pine.
Baskets, boxes, ceiling, crates, flooring, Interior
finish, panels, partition, siding.
Sugar Maple.
Base>boards, cabinets, ceiling, columns, .finish (in-
terior), flooring, handles, mantels, molding, panels,
partition, siding.
Sweet Magnolia.
Boxes ('berry), crates (berry), furniture, grape
baskets, interior finish, racks.
Sycamore.
Boxes (packing), crates, flooring, interior finish,
shocks.
Texan Oak.
Felloes, gearing, hubs, wagon poles.
Tupelo.
Beds, boxes (packing), boxes (tobacco), columns,
dressers, egg crates (sides and bottoms), finish,
flooring, furniture backs, kitchen cabinets, mantels,
novelties, panels, refrigerators, safes, tram-ways.
White Ash.
Box ends, cars, chair legs, engine parts, gin ma-
chinery, handles, poles, vehicle stock.
White Elm.
Baskets, boxes, crates, furniture stock, hampers
(clothes), hubs, packing (fruit), trunk slats, vehicle
stock.
White Oak.
Agricultural implements, axles, bank fixtures,
beds, boats, bolsters (wagon I, brackets, cabinets,
cars, casing, ceiling, chairs, coaches (railway), col-
umns, cornices, cots, desks, doors, doubletrees, dress-
era, felloes, finish fixtures (office) fixtures (store),
flooring, gearing, gin machinery, mislon furniture,
panels, partition, poles (wagon), safes, sash, ships,
siding, single trees, spokes, stands, tables, vehicle
stock.
White Pine.
Agricultural implements, blinds, cabinets, caskets,
columns, doors, flooring, interior finish, sash, turned
stock.
Wild China.
Boat finish, Interior trim, laundries, lawn furni-
ture, novelties.
Willow Oak.
Furniture, kitchen safes, panels, partitions, stands,
tables.
Yellow Poplar.
Agricultural implements, bed slats, box ends
(fruit), boxes (packing), brackets, cabinets, cars,
ceiling, china closets, coaches (railway), colonial
columns, cots, desks (drawer bottoms), doors, finish,
fixtures, flooring, furniture, gins (feeders and press-
ers), handles, kitchen safes, mirror .backs, molding,
partition, pins, sash, scrolls, shelves, stairs, trunk
trays, wagon (boxboards).
. APPENDIX.
The Bureau of the Census, in co-operation with
the Forest Service, collects and publishes year by
year statistics showing the output of lumber, lath,
shingles, cooperage, veneer, and certain other forest
products in the United States and in the separate
states. That work is independent of the studies of
the manufactures which the Forest Service has made
in several of the states. The latter supplements the
former, and care is taken that work done by the
Bureau of the Census, is not duplicated. The Forest
Service begins where the Census leaves off after
lumber leaves the sawmill. There are certain prod-
ucts whieh are in their finished form when they
appear in the Census figures, and for that reason
they are outside the scope of the Forest Service's
study, because they are not subject to further manu-
facture. If, however, a state's wood-using industries
are to 'be fully presented, it becomes necessary to
include some of the census statistics. Such is one
of the purposes of this appendix. The figures which
the census gives are for all states, but such only as
relate to Alabama are here presented and in con-
densed form.
The statistics are for the year 1910, w-hich are the
latest available.
Alabama's cut of shingles for that year was 142,-
810,000, principally of cypress and pine, and of an
average value of $2.86 per thousand at the mill.
Lath -were manufactured to the number of 40,-
982,000 and of the value of $1.88 per thousand at the
mill. Waste, consisting of slabs and defective logs,
is largely worked into lath, and various woods are
taken, -but in Alabama the yellow pines constitute
most of this material.
Nearly 27,000,000 -feet (log measure) of veneer is
made yearly in Alabama, for various species of wood,
but most of it is yellow pine, red gum, tupelo, mag-
nolia and cottonwood. Expensive hardwoods, such
as white and red oak, black walnut and mahogany,
are the materials of which the highest classes of ven-
eers are made. There are three methods of manu-
facturing the commodity: rotary-cut, sawed and
sliced. Most of it in Alabama is rotary-cut. A log
a few feet long is placed in a lathe and is turned
rapidly against a strong knife which peels off a thin
ri'bbon of wood the length of the log, round and
round until the log is cut down to a small central
piece called the core. The part sliced off may con-
sist of one piece probably one hundred feet long,
resembling a bolt of cloth. It is usually about as
thick as a sheet of pasteboard. The veneer thus cut
is made into small boxes, crates and baskets for
shipping fruits and vegetables; or, if it goes to a
furniture factory, it is made into panels or other
pieces by gluing several sheets one upon another un-
til the desired thickness is obtained. Sometimes a
thin sheet of veneer is glued upon a thick piece
of some other wood, and the veneer becomes the
visible outer part. Much furniture and interior fin-
ish is made in that way. The finished article ap-
pears to be solid wood, but it really is a thin layer
of outside veneer upon some cheaper wood. This
cheaper wood, which is concealed by the veneer
glued upon it, is called "backing" or "core." The
word "core" has, therefore, two meanings when
used in connection with veneer. It may mean the
wood upon which the veneer is glued, or it may
mean the central remnant of a log from which ven-
eer has been cut by the rotary process.
-Some veneers are sawed much as ordinary lumber
is cut on a sawmill, but special machinery is used.
The most important part is the extra thin saw which
?uts the veneer with the least possible waste in
sawdust. Veneer of this kind is generally made
from valuable, well-seasoned hardwoods, while ro-
tary-cut veneer is made from logs, generally in the
green state, and usually steamed to soften them.
The rotary-cut veneer is often in sheets several feet
wide and many yards long; but the sawed veneer is
generally less than a foot in width, and runs about
like ordinary lumber in length. The sawed product
