New Orleans, La., March 15, Hi 1 2.]
THE LUMBER TRADE JOURNAL
lumber used in building was planed by hand. Car-
penters could dress two or three hundred feet a day;
but the condition then prevailing shows an almost
total absence of wood manufacturers as the term is
now understood. Doors, sash, flooring, ceiling, sid-
ing and vehicle making -were pratcically all hand
work, and some of 'it was done by slave labor. The
absence, in the first place, of good harbors, and in
the next place, the want of large cities or towns as
centers of surrounding populations, discouraged
manufacture in that state before railroads had great-
ly modified industrial conditions. The want of min-
eral resources was also a serious drawback, and the
state was, largely by force of circumstances, forced
to become almost exclusively agricultural to the
neglect of its phenomenal wealth of timber. There
was not much improvement, as far as forest pro-
ducts were concerned, up to 1880, when there were
295 sawmills and six planing mills. In 1900 the
sawmills had increased to 481, and the planing mills
to twenty-eight. Modern manufacturing conditions
began to take a firm hold about that time. The
United States census in 1909 gives the number of
mills at 1,470 cutting yellow pine alone. Many of
these were large, complete and up-to-date plants,
and perhaps the largest of them turns out as much
in one day as was cut daily by the entire 277 mills
in the state in 1860. Instead of counting planing
mills on the fingers of two hands, as could be done
up to 1880, they now number hundreds, and probably
a single one of the most complete now dresses as
much lumber in one day as the single mill in the
state turned out in the year 1860. The lesson to be
learned from this development is that old things in
manufacturing have passed away to make room for
new.
In taking up this study of the wood-using indus-
tries of Mississippi, the Forest Service purposed to
supply information not availablS in. any public or
private report. The Bureau of the Census co-operat-
ing with the Forest Service, collects and compiles
annually statistics showing what the country's total
sawmill output is; what the output in each state is;
what is the mill value for each kind of wood in the
several states; what kinds of wood and how much
of each one are manufactured into lumber in each
state, and in all the states. But this stops short of
giving all needed information on the subject. It
does not go beyond the rough lumber, and presents
no statistics to show what becomes of the lumber
after the sawmills turn it out in the rough state.
The present report takes up the subject where the
census leaves off; that is, it considers rough lumber
as raw material for further manufacture, and shows
what becomes of it, what it is used for, and what
products are manufactured from it. For instance,
the census statistics give figures showing how much
white oak the sawmills cut into rough lumber, but
that is all. This report follows that lumber until it has
been made into finished commodities, such as furni-
ture, vehicles, finish for houses, ships and boats,
musical instruments, and whatever it goes into. It
is thus shown what becomes of the wood which
sawmills convert into lumber and stack in their
yards. This report, however, does not take up the
wood which is not further manufactured after it
leaves the sawmills. If oak or any other wood goes
into rough construction, or railroad ties, or bridge
timbers, or is taken for any other purpose which
uses it in the rough, it is not considered as raw ma-
terial for further manufacture. A state's sawmills
may turn out a large quantity of a certain wood, and
little of it may be further manufactured. In that
case, if no explanation were offered, it might appear
that the difference between what the mills cut and
what the factories account for is unreasonable. To
illustrate, Mississippi's mills cut about 168,000,000
feet of oak yearly, yet the state industries further
manufacture only about 13,000,000, /which is less
than eight per cent. This means that ninety-two
per cent, of the oak is either used in the rough or
is shipped out of the state to be further manufac-
tured elsewhere. Bearing this explanation in. mind,
the tables of uses in this report, and the amounts of
the several species demanded, will be easily under-
stood and will furnish a basis for ready comparison
between the rough lumber produced in the state and
the amount further manufactured. There are, nev-
ertheless, modifying conditions which should be held
in view, particularly in a general study of wood-
manufacturing in states. Manufacturers in some
state's import lumber from other regions and actual-
ly manufacture more than their own sawmills cut.
Except in the case of foreign woods, the Southern
states do not import much lumber, but some of the
Central and Northern states do. Mississippi brings
in almost no wood to supply her factories less than
one per cent.; but it ships to other states, chiefly
to the Middle West, hundreds of millions of feet.
It is, therefore, a state which -pours its wealth of
raw material into other regions to build up their in-
dustries, while its own are growing with compara
tive slowness.
To some extent, that condition is due to local cir-
cumstances. Nature was not quite as liberal with
Mississippi as with many other regions in supplying
it with water power. The absence of rivers of
large volume and steep gradients prevents the erec-
tion of vast water-power plants as in the Appalach-
ian region. Coal is wanting in the state, though
abundance is available within moderate distances of
the state's borders. Thus, while it possesses re-
sources of the highest value, it lacks others, from
the manufacturing standpoint. If a 'balancing of
accounts were made, however, it would show to
Mississippi's credit wealth which places it among
the most fortunate states of the whole country.
KINDS OF WOOD USED.
Eighty or ninety kinds of wood grow in the for-
ests of Mississippi, not counting a number that are
too small or too scarce to be of commercial value.
About half of that number are now of sufficient im-
portance to find a place in the list of woods put to
use in. the state, and with closer utilization in the
future a number of other woods will take their place
among the region's resources. It is a rule which
appears to hold nearly everywhere that while wood
is abundant only that which is 'best and most con-
venient is put to use, but when the pressure of
scarcity begins to be felt, neglected woods are
pressed into service.
The timber which grows in Mississippi is of two
classes or kinds hardwood and softwood. In a
general way these terms describe the characters of
the woods, but not absolutely so; for some trees in
the hardwood class have wood actually softer than
some in the softwood class. For example, bass-
wood, willow, and cottonwood are never considered
anything but hardwoods, yet they are softer than
long leaf pine, which is in the softwood class. The
separation of all woods into the two classes is, for
that reason, a somewhat artificial arrangement, and
is accepted only iby mutual consent. There is an
easily understood line separating the two classes of
wood. Broad-leaf trees are usually classed with
hardwoods. Among such are the oaks, hickories,
maples, gums, cottonwoods, and trees of that kind.
The needle-leaf trees are softwoods. Such are the
pines, spruces, hemlocks, cedars, and cypresses. In
a general way, the evergreen trees are softwoods,
the deciduous species hardwoods; but there are so
many exceptions to this rule that confusion is lia-
ble to result. Cypress in the South and tamarack
in the North are needle-leaf species which shed
their leaves yearly; and live oaks, and some of the
magnolias and hollies, are broad-leaved, yet they are
evergreen. It is thus apparent that the simple fact
that a tree is or is not an evergreen is not suffi-
cient reason for calling it a softwood or a hard-
wood. Some persons would call a cone-bearing tree
a softwood, and all others hardwood. This distinc-
tion holds good in most cases. The United States,
when it collects statistics of lumber cut, and the
Forest Service in discussing tne country's timbers
in a practical way, recognize a clear division be-
tween hardwoods and softwoods, and base the dis-
tinction upon ibroad-leaf and needle-leaf trees. Con-
fusion is apt to follow an attempt to call a tree a
softwood because it bears cones. Some trees bear
What look like cones, but they are not. Among
trees of that kind are some of the birches, hophorn-
beam, cucumber, and yellow poplar. Neither is it
safe to base a division into hard and soft woods
upon the annual fall of leaf alone. As already said,
there are several exceptions, but in addition to that,
every living tree sheds its leaves sooner or later,
although the evergreens do not cast them all down
at once, but grow a new crop <before the old falls.
Anyone walking through a pine, spruce, hemlock,
cedar, or live oak forest, and noting that the ground
is covered with dead leaves or needles, has un-
doubted evidence before him that even the leaves of
vergreens fall in larger numbers. In Mississippi
the long leaf pine's needles fall at the end of the
second year; the loblolly pine's fall the third year;
the shortleaf pine's at the end of the second and be-
ginning of the third year, while the sand pine car-
ries its needles to the third and fourth years. Some
of the evergreen trees on the high Western moun-
tains carry their needles much longer than the
-Southern pines retain theirs. The foxtail pine,
growing at the perpetual snowline in the Sierra Ne-
vada mountains, may cling to its needles as long as
twelve years; for in its barren soil and bleak cli-
mate that tree can grow new leaves only very slow-
ly, and it keeps what it has as long as possible; but
pines in the warm and friendly climate of the South
find it no hardship to part with their needles every
second or third year.
The Pines.
In quantity, the pines in Mississippi much exceed
the hardwoods. Seven or eight kinds of pine are
cut for lunrber, but three or four are scarce, and
even when they are distinguished from other pines
with which they are associated, it is not customary
for lumbermen to keep separate the lumber cut from
each kind. The census reports from year to year
call it all "yellow pine." It is evident to any one
that it is not all the same kind of lumber when it
comes out of the mill. Some of it has narrow rings
of annual growth, some has wide rings; some of the
lumber is comparatively free from sapwood, other is
largely sap. The wide-ringed thick-sapped wood is
usually classed a little softer than the wood of nar-
row rings and little sap, and not quite so strong.
There are other differences well known even to
those who are satisfied to call it all yellow pine.
The same observation holds for the appearance of
the standing trees as for lumber in logs. Some of
them have long needles, others are short, and this
difference serves to distinguish the trees nearly as
far away as their appearance can be made out.
There are four species of pine usually cut for lum-
ber in Mississippi, and it is proper that a short ac-
count be given of each, together with references to
the parts of the state where they are most abund-
ant.
Longleaf Pine (Pinus palustris).
Much of the yellow pine lumber in Mississippi is
cut from this tree, which is found in greatest abund-
ance in the southern half of the state. It has long-
er needles than any other Southern pine, and they
range from eight to eighteen inches in length, and
are arranged three needles in a little bundle or
sheath (white pines have five needles in a bundle).
The longleaf pine has thinner sapwood than any
other Southern pine. This sapwood generally forms
a thin ring round the darker colored heartwood.
The rings of annual growth are narrow, due to the
tree's slow growth. Thus there are three visible
features which usually serve to distinguish this tree
from others in the woods, and the logs or lumber
from other pine lumber in the lumber yard. The
three points are: longer needles than other pines,
thinner sapwood, and narrow annual rings. Being
a tree of slow growth, a new stand does not quickly
come on to take the place of a forest cut down. A
period of eighty to 150 years is necessary to grow a
longleaf pine tree to merchantable size. The lum-
ber of this species is often known as hard pine, and
certain trees that are rich in resin are occasionally
called "pitch pine." That name, however, is among
the pines what the name "rock elm" Is among elms
in some regions; it Is applied to any one of several
species, and, except as far as local custom extends,
it does not mean any species in particular.
Shortleaf Pine (Pinus echinata).
The shortness of this pine's needles gives name
to it and serves to distinguish it at once from the
longleaf pine. There is little likelihood that any
one will mistake one for the other while the trees
are standing, for the difference in the appearance of
the needles attracts immediate attention; but when
shortleaf pine trees are compared with two other
pines growing in the same region loblolly and Cu-
ban the differences in the appearance of the need-
les is not quite so apparent, though it is not usually
difficult to separate the shortleaf species from the
others. Shortleaf lumber has certain characterist-
ics which differentiate it from longleaf. The sap-
wood is much thicker, and the annual rings near
the heart of the tree are generally wider than those
of longleaf; but the outer rings of both are much
alike. Longleaf is heavier and stronger than short-
leaf, and is generally preferred for structural tim-
bers which are expected to carry heavy loads, but
the softness and the attractive grain of shortleaf
pine lead to its extensive use for doors and interior
finish. The two pines are found growing near to-
gether in many parts of Mississippi, but generally
the longleaf is in the southern half, and the short-
leaf northward.
Loblolly Pine (Pinus taeda).
The needles of the loblolly pine are in length
nearly double those of shortleaf, but much shorter
than longleaf. The loblolly and the shortleaf pines
are often cut and sent to market as one. There are
differences in the wood of the two trees, but they
might not be noticed by a casual observer. The
shortleaf trunk grows rapidly during its first quar-
ter or third of a century and more slowly later in
life, and the record of the growth is shown by the
annual rings; ibut the loblolly grows rapidly and at
a fairly uniform rate its whole life, and the rings
are wide from heart to bark. This generally serves
to distinguish loblolly logs from shortleaf, but it is
not an unerring guide, because accidents may befall
trees and interfere with their growth. The loblolly
pine is liable to be met with in all of the pine re-
gions of Mississippi. It has not, nevertheless, de-
veloped in the Mississippi valley states as vigor-
ously as in Virginia and North Carolina, where it
has taken possession of large areas to the exclusion
of almost all other pines. Its wood serves practi-
cally the same purposes as that of the shortleaf
pine.
Cuban Pine (Pinus heterophylla).
The Cuban pine is occasionally confused with lob-
lolly. There are a number of differences which may
