THE LUMBER TRADE JOURNAL
[New Orleans, La., March 15, 1912.
be noted. The Cuban pine's needles are generally
longer, the wood is heavier, stiffer, stronger, harder,
and is much more resinous. Turpentine operators
orchard .the Cuban and the longleaf pines, but sel-
dom the loblolly or the shortleaf. The Cuban grows
rapidly and has wide rings and thick saip. Seed-
lings spread readily into areas left vacant by lum-
bering or by fire. In this habit it resembles loblolly.
The Cuban pine has apparently worked its way
north-ward through the Florida Peninsula, although
there is no historical record that it has done so. It
seems to have crossed from Cuba ages ago. It is
now the only pine in South Florida. At about one-
third of the distance up the Peninsula it meets long-
leaf pine, and the two mingle together. Loblolly
is encountered at about the same time, (but shortleaf
is not met until the northern part of Florida is
reached. There the four southern yellow pines,
longleaf, shortleaf, loblolly and Cuban, mingle, and
all four grow in. southern Mississippi. The Cuban
pine has not yet advanced much further north or
west than the southern part of that state, though It
is probable that it will continue to advance and
take possession of land where longleaf once grew,
provided the agricultural interests of the people per-
mit it to do so. It holds out much promise to toe-
come one of the most profitable pines of the South.
It is not known how far north this tree can endure
the climate.
The four pines listed above constitute the group
from which the southern yellow pine lumber is cut,
but two or three other pines are occasionally lum-
bered in Mississippi, though the amounts are small.
One of these is the spruce or cedar pine (pinus
glabra). It has very short leaves and thin bark,
and the wood is somewhat like the northern white
pine, light, soft and easily worked. It is not abund-
ant. The sand pine, occasionally called spruce pine
(pinus clausa) is found in the state, but tfhe tree is
usually small.
Cypress.
Except pines, cypress is the most important soft-
wood found in Mississippi. 'Botanists recognize two
species of this tree, Taxodium distichum and Taxo-
dium imbricarium, but lumbermen do not distin-
guish them apart. The heaviest stands are in the
Delta region, along the 'banks of the rivers, ponds,
and lagoons, and on the flat lands subject to fre-
quent overflow. The tree is able to maintain itself
on ground which is under water much of the time.
It has been generally observed by persons familiar
with the region that young cypresses are not com-
ing on in sufficient numbers to take the places of old,
mature trees which are ready to fall toy natural de-
cay or before the lumberman's ax. It is pretty gen-
erally understood that when the present cypress
forests have been cut, there will be little prospect
of a future cutting. The sunlight let in by lumber
operations seems to be fatal to small seedlings. In
some localities and in restricted areas young cy-
presses are getting started, but such is the exception
rather than the rule.
There is a little red cedar (Juniperus virginiana)
in Mississippi, 'but not enough to cut much figure in
the state's timber resources. It is a tree of rather
slow growth, and unless seedlings come in out-of-
the-way places, they are not apt to be encouraged
by farmers who may need the land.
The Oaks.
The Bureau of the Census in compiling yearly
statistics of lumber cut does not distinguish 'be-
tween different species or kinds of oak. There are
in ithe United States several dozen species of oak,
not all in one region, but scattered from Canada to
Mexico and from ocean to ocean. Almost every spe-
cies is made into lumber to a larger or smaller ex-
tent, yet statistics group all of them as if they were
a single wood, like yellow poplar. Sawmill men in
their own yards usually recognize at least two
classes of oak lumber, white oak and red oak. There
is a particular tree whose proper name is red oak
(Quercus rubra), and another whose name is white
oak (Quercus alba), but sawmill men usually group
several similar oaks and call the lumber from one
whole group white oak, or a group of another kind
is called red oak. Just what this "white oak" or
"red oak" lumber is actually composed of depends
upon the region where it is cut. If produced in
New York, for example, it would contain species
somewhat different than that cut in Mississippi, be-
cause the two regions do not produce exactly iden-
tical species of oaks. It is not very difficult to de-
termine what constitutes white oak or red oak lum-
ber in a single state. There are seven white oaks
in the forests of Mississippi, if the live oak is count-
ed as a white oak, and there are nine red oaks, six-
teen oaks in all, cut for lumber, though some of
them in quite small quantities.
Certain characteristics help to distinguish white
oaks from red oaks. The leaves of the former usu-
ally have rounded lobes, but those of red oaks are
sharp pointed. These features do not hold in all
cases. The live oak's leaves are unlobed in Missis-
sippi, and the black jack (a red oak) does not have
sharp-lobed leaves, and the willow oak's leaves have
no lobes. The shape of the leaf, therefore, is a use-
ful guide in determining whether an oak belongs to
the white oak or the red oak group, but something
more than that is necessary to make sure in most
cases.
The white oaks ripen their acorns in one season;
the red oaks require two. That is a pretty safe test,
but in practice it is sometimes difficult to apply. It
Is not always convenient to watch a tree two years
to see when the acorns fall. By noting the leaves
and the acorns, and likewise the general appearance
of the trees, one can usually determine whether a
tree belongs in the white oak or the red oak group.
A third test is found in an examination of the wood
itself. The structure of the wood of no two species
of oak is exactly the same. A study of these differ-
ences will make it possible for an observer to deter-
mine the exact species of oak to which a piece of
wood belongs, though the study is somewhat tech-
nical, and care and experience are necessary to work
out satisfactory results. The United States Forest
Service has prepared a manual and a key to assist
those who desire to identify oaks from an examina-
tion of the wood. (Bulletin 102 U. S. Forest Ser-
vice. )
White Oaks.
The common white oak (Quercus alba) is a val-
uable forest resource of Mississippi. This tree holds
an important place in more than half of the states
of the Union, and the lumber is shipped to every
state. The standing tree is not apt to be mistaken
for any other if it is closely observed; besides, in
most localities, it is the commonest of the white
oaks.
Post Oak (Quercus minor).
This tree receives its highest praise when it is
declared to be as good as white oak. Many lumber-
men cut it and suppose they are cutting common
white oak, though they recognize a slight difference
in the leaves and frequently in the shape of the
tree. A few manufacturers who buy different spe-
cies of white oak insist on post oak beimg kept sep-
arate from others. They consider it a little better
tJhan the others, or, at least, it meets their particu-
lar requirements a little better.
Cow Oak (Quercus mictiauxii).
The only reason offered for the name of this oak
is that cattle eat the acorns. It is occasionally
known as basket oak, because the wood separates
readily into long, thin splints useful in making
basekts.
Overcup Oak (Quercus lyrata).
In some parts of Mississippi this tree is called
water white oak. The cup nearly encloses the acorn,
and because of that, the tree is usually easy to iden-
tify.
Chinquapin Oak (Quercus acuminata).
This should not be confounded with the chinqua-
pin, wliich is a little chestnut. The acorn of the
chinquapin oak is sometimes eaten as a nut. The
tree is smaller than most other white oaks, but is
occasionally cut for lumber.
Durand Oak (Quercus breviloba).
This white oak is so scarce in Mississippi that it
hardly deserves a place as a timber tree, though the
wood is of excellent quality. It is found near Co-
lumbus and in Mhoon's Valley.
Live Oak (Quercus virginiana).
This is the common live oak tree of the Southern
states. It is scattered from the Atlantic to the
Pacific. Its chief value once was for ship-building,
when large vessels were of wood. iLive oak knees
were hewed from the junction of roots or large limbs
with the trunk, but at the present time this extraor-
dinarily strong, "hard wood serves few purposes. The
trunks are generally too short and misshapen for
saw-logs. The fact that its acorns ripen in one sea-
son, as among the white oaks, is the principal reason
for calling this tree a white oak. Otherwise, it bears
greater resemblance to the red oaks.
Red Oaks.
Nine or more of Mississippi's oaks belong to the
red oak group. Some of them are of much import-
ance In the lumber supply, while others occupy mi-
nor places. At least five different species are called
red oak at the sawmills before they are cut into
lumber, and others are given that name in the lum-
ber yard. There is rather more difference between
the woods of the different species of red oak than
between the white oaks. Most of the latter show
very good grain when quarter sawed; some of the
red oaks show good grain, others do not.
Red Oak (Quercus rubra).
This tree is not plentiful in any part of Mississippi
and is not believed to exits at all in the southern
part. The extreme southern limit of the tree's
range barely enters the state, while its best devel-
opment is found in Kentucky, West Virginia and
Pennsylvania. In most cases when a lumberman as
far south as Mississippi speaks of red oak he has in
mind one of the other oaks of the group, and not the
Quercus rubra or the genuine red oak. He most
likely means the yellow oak or the Texan oak, per-
haps the water or the willow oak.
Texan Oak (Quercus texana).
This species is very common in Mississippi, and is
occasionally called spotted or Spanish oak, though
it is most commonly known simply as red oak.
Probably no oak in Mississippi supplies more lum-
ber than this, but it is impossible to produce statis-
tics to substantiate this statement, because of the
custom of lumping together several oaks in the mill
yards as one. Some of the best Texan oaks show
grain and color which very nearly approach choice
northern red oak.
Yellow Oak (Quercus velutina).
This is an easy specie to identify in the woods.
The inner bark, a thin layer next the wood, is yel-
low, and it may be exposed to view with a stroke
of an ax, or even by boring through with the point
of a pocket knife. Old settlers used this substance
in dying cloth. The yellow oak tree as it grows in
the forest is an uncertain quality from the lumber-
man's standpoint. 'Very good stuff may be cut from
it, or the output may be poor. Few kinds of trees
are more dependent upon 'the soil in which they
grow. Good ground grows good timber, poor soil,
the reverse. It is true that most trees are influ-
enced by the quality of the soil, and by the climate
in which they grow, but yellow oak is more respon-
sive than most others. Trees on rich, well-drained
ground may produce wood fit for tight cooperage
which is a very exacting use; while others in poor,
dry situations are scarcely worth cutting, so worm-
eaten, wind-shaken and doty are they.
Turkey Oak (Quercus catesbaei).
Turkey oak has never been of much importance in
Mississippi and is not likely to become so. Choice
trees make good lumber, but are met with only occa-
sionally. iSome call it "forked-leaf oak," and the
name is due to the leaf's somewhat fanciful resemb-
lance to a turkey foot.
Spanish Oak (Quercus digitata).
Attempts to identify this oak by its leaves alone
sometimes leads to confusion, for leaves differ great-
ly. Some have well-developed lobes, others have
none. The same tree often produces leaves of very
different forms. In this respect it is like sassafras.
The 'bark and general appearance of this oak resem-
ble the water and the willow oaks. The three, in
fact, look so much alike that they seem to belong
in a class by themselves.
Water Oak (Quercus nigra).
Water oak is not generally well liked by lumber-
men. They complain that the wood is difficult to
season, and that it has no beauty of grain to com-
mend it for high-grade furniture and finish. It
seems to be slowly working its way into use, and it
will ultimately win, for the wood, in spite of some
drawbacks, has good qualities. One point in its
favor is that it grows rapidly, and though it may
not measure up to the cypress in good appearance
of the lumber, the tree may be expected to increase
in size nearly ten times as rapidly. When the
leaves are young, in the early spring, they show a
soft, delicate, velvety green unsurpassed in beauty
by any other oak. It is well fitted for parks and
street shade, and the people of Mississippi are show-
ing their appreciation of it for those purposes.
Willow Oak (Quercus phellos).
This tree owes its name to its willow-like leaves.
Its wood is probably never known in the lumber
yard or factory as willow oak but always as red oak.
The tree, while standing, bears so little resemblance
to the true red oak that no one could possibly mis-
take one for the other; but when the lumber of the
two has been seasoned and dressed and laid side by
side, it would often puzzle a good lumberman to
tell which was which; but willow oak, if it is to be
compared with red oak, should be well selected from
choice trees, for the run df it is probably not quite
equal in appearance to Northern red oa'k, being a
little paler in color. The willow oak grows rapidly,
and the wide annual rings show well in finished lum-
