January 1, 1912.]
THE LUMBER TRADE JOURNAL
19
The Wood-Using Industries of Louisiana
BY HU MAXWELL, EXPERT UNITED STATES FOREST SERVICE.
NOTE.
The following report was prepared by Hu Max-
well, expert, under the direction of H. S. Sackett,
chief, Office of Wood Utilization, United States For-
est Service. It is published and thus made avail-
able to the public through the courtesy of the LUM-
IIKB TRADE JOURNAL, New Orleans, La.
TABLE OF CONTENTS.
Page.
Preface 19
Woods used in Louisiana 20
Planing mill products 23
Boxes and crates 24
Sash, doors, blinds and general mill work 24
Furniture 25
Vehicles and vehicle parts 26
Tanks 26
Ship and boat building 27
Fixtures 27
Miscellaneous < 27
Apportionment of woods among the industries. 29
Summary by industries 28
Spanish moss 30
Uses of various v oods 31
List of manufacturers 32
Appendix 32
PREFACE.
Louisiana has 18,000,000 acres of forest land, the
hardwoods being principally In the northern half,
the softwoods in all parts. More than 100 kinds of
trees make up the forest, about one-half of the spe-
cies possessing commercial value, the others being
too small or too scarce to count for much. Six or
seven softwoods the pines and cypresses supply
fourteen-fifteenths of the annual lumber output of
the state. At this time the softwood forests are
given much more attention than those of hard-
woods; but it may be expected that a change will
come in time, diversified manufacturing will in-
crease, and the large sawmills will lessen in number
as the primeval stands of pine and cypress are cut
out. Plants which manufacture lumber into other
commodities will take the place of mills which now
sell their output in the rough, or sell it planed or
surfaced. Diversified manufacturing of wood pro-
ducts has not progressed nearly as far in Louisiana
as in the northern and eastern states. Many south-
ern industries of that kind are still In their infancy,
and there is room for many others which have not
yet had a beginning. Development will come in
time, for the raw material is abundant. The least
encouraging phase in the outlook for Louisiana is
found in the fact that it is selling immense quan-
tities of its logs and lumber in the rough, to feed
factories in other regions, and when the develop-
ment of home wood-working industries shall be
undertaken in the future, it may be found that the
forests will be much depleted. It may thus happen
that its forest resources will never reach their best
development.
Uses are being found for every wood that grows
large enough and symmetrical enough for econo-
mical working. Search for new woods is stimulated
by the increasing scarcity of some of the well-known
species. The Forest Service of the Department of
Agriculture has been pushing this search for some
years. It has studied many woods to find out what
they are best fitted for, and has investigated the
forests and factories of various states and regions
to ascertain in what amounts the commercial spe-
cies exist, and what use is being made of them.
Constant attention is given to the discovery of
new uses for well-known woods, and to bringing
little-known woods so-called "minor species" to
the attention of users. Many trees which were once
looked upon as mere forest weeds, are now taking
their place as valuable members of the American
forest family. Red gum, hemlock, and tupelo, are
examples. In the spring of 1911 the Forest Ser-
vice undertook an investigation of Louisiana's wood-
manufacturing industries, and this report embodies
the result. Statistics collected by the Bureau of
the Census show that, with the single exception
of Washington, Louisiana produces more lumber
than any other state. Interest would naturally
attach to a study undertaken to ascertain how much
and what kind of further manufacture Is given
this lumber in the region that produces it wheth-
er it is sold in the rough and shipped to other
regions, or whether furniture, machinery, boats,
finish, vehicles, and other commodities are made
of it at home. Similar studies had already been
made in seven states Illinois, Kentucky, Maryland,
Massachusetts, North Carolina, Oregon, and Wiscon-
sin. These represent the eastern, central, northern
and western parts of the United States, and Louisi-
ana was chosen as a representative of the hard-
wood and softwood forests of the South. As a
lumber region it is new in comparison with some
others, and that fact was expected to add to the
value of the investigation. Some of the states prac-
tically exhausted their primeval forests long ago
and now depend on young growth; 'but not so
with Louisiana. The cutting of its original forests
is now in full swing, and new growth, either present
or prospective, is given little attention by the
people of the state. The same human character-
istic or human frailty which showed so conspi-
cuously while the Pennsylvania, Michigan, and
New England forests were being cut, appears again
in Louisiana where they are harvesting the present
crop with no thought for the future. It was be-
lieved, therefore, by the Forest Service that a
study of manufacturing conditions in Louisiana
would result in good by calling attention of thought-
ful business men of the state to the subject. If the
people are not manufacturing as much of their
rough lumber into finished products as they might,
means may be found for improving the situation,
and developing home industries while wood is yet
plentiful. It was not a part of the plan of this
investigation to make a silvical study of the state,
to look into the condition of the forests, 'note the
stand of timber, rate of depletion, quantity and
character of reproduction, and the like; but, inci-
dentally, some attention has been given to this
phase of the question and the concluding para-
graphs of this report present a few important
facts which must be apparent to any one who travels
through the various regions of Louisiana.
The investigation was conducted upon lines simi-
lar to those followed in other states where work of
like kind has been done. Lists were obtained of
manufacturers who were reported to be engaged
in the conversion of rough lumber or wood into
finished products. Blank forms for reports were
sent them by mail with requests that the reports
be filled out and returned. A second request was
sent to such as failed to respond to the first. The
salient points of the inquiry were: The kinds of
wood used, the amounts required annually, the
cost of each at the factory, the products manufac-
tured, sizes and grades of lumber used, where it
comes from, and the market for the products. After
sufficient time had been given for all to reply who
meant to do so, the field work began. This con-
sisted in visiting those who had not replied ,and
also many who had but whose replies were not
quite satisfactory.
One of the constant purposes of the field work
was to note any new or little-used woods which
were beginning to make their appearance in the
mills and shops, and to observe any properties in
them which seemed to commend them for wider
use. One of the earliest discoveries made was that
a number of woods were going into the sawmills
as one species and coming out as another. This
was not due to any purpose to palm off an inferior
wood for a better, but was owing to the fact that
Louisiana has more than a hundred species of
forest trees, while the lumber yards recognize
scarcely a score of species as lumber. For in-
stance, three maples are cut as saw logs, but all
appear in the lumber yard as "soft maple." Two
species of ash are cut in the woods, and sugarberry
and hackberry are loaded on the log truck with
them; but in the lumber yard the whole four are
often simply "ash." Turkey oak, post oak, overcup
oak, cow oak, and white oak all come from the mill
as "white oak." Texan oak, yellow oak, willow
oak, and water oak blend in the yard as "red oak,"
and not one of them is the true red oak (Quercus
rubra) which is a more northern tree. Three elms
go to the saw mill; one comes out. The same meth-
od holds to some extent in the softwoods. The
two cypresses are never distinguished apart, and
in many lumber yards where three or four pines
are stacked side by side, one or two may be rec-
ognized. Black gum and tupelo are never mis-
taken for each other In the woods; but black gum
almost invariably becomes tupelo if sawed into
lumber.
This method is not pointed out for criticism, nor
is it peculiar to Louisiana. It exists as a matter
of convenience, and because no one objects. The
time is near at hand, however, when there will be
less grouping and mixing of species in the lumber
yards and shops. Each will go by its true name.
Farmers once had simply "cattle;" but specializa-
tion has gone on until now there are many breeds
which buyer and seller clearly distinguish. Spe-
cies of wood are capable of being separated and
distinguished equally as well, and it will be done
when wood-using shall become as highly specia-
lized as stock raising. During the progress of the
field work of this investigation, 24 woods were
found in use, though not one of them was listed
by any manufacturer under its proper name. Some
went under other names, others were unknown,
and still others were used in amounts so small as
to be thought not worth mentioning. In some in-
stances, manufacturers were inclined to apologize
for using a certain wood, not because it was not
good, but because it was new and it was feared
the public might not take kindly to innovations.
The use of some of the minor species which are
just corning in, would not have been discovered
had the reports of manufacturers alone been de-
pended upon, for in many cases they do not know
all the woods coming to their factories. Valuable
information along that line was obtained from saw-
mill men, lumbermen, and woodsmen. They know
the trees, and can often tell what industry buys
th? lumber. In this way, by carefully following
lumber it may be traced to the shop or factory
that uses it. In many instances, too, local uses of
wood may be learned from people not in the lum-
ber business at all.
It may be instructive to compare the number of
wood-using industries in Louisiana with those in
other states where similar studies have been made.
An "industry," it should be explained, is not a de-
finite term, and does not mean exactly the same
everywhere. The comparison should, therefore, ap-
ply in a general way only. Following are the
numbers of industries:
Illinois 51, Wisconsin 22, North Carolina 21, Mass-
achusetts 20, Oregon 20, Kentucky 19, Maryland 13,
Louisiana 9. This low place is held by Louisiana
because its forests products, that is, its logs and
lumber, are sold in the rough. Other states take
these rough products and furtner- manufacture,
them. It is the further manufacture, not the rough
lumber, which is considered in this report. Take
from Louisiana's total the one item, "planing mill
products," and not much remains. Its total would
be lower than that of any other state named above,
not only in the number of industries but in the
amount of wood used, and this in face of the fact
that it is next to the highest state in lumber cut,
and perhaps exceeds every state in the total out-
put of forest products. (See Table 29 and accom-
panying footnote.) Much of the "planing mill
products," Table 2, is really raw material for north-
ern factories which buy it in Louisiana because they
can procure it more cheaply there than elsewhere.
In addition to more than a billion feet of planing
mill products, much of which goes out of the
state to be further worked up, Louisiana sends out
perhaps half of its total mill output as rough lum-
ber not even planed at home.
In reaching some of the best markets in the
United States those from New York to the Rocky
Mountains, and north of the Ohio River the Louisi-
ana manufacturers of wood commodities are at
some disadvantage compared with makers of like
articles more centrally located as regards those
markets. Long hauls by rail make freight rates
high. Compensating circumstances are found in
the fact that Louisiana's only market does not lie
at the terminus of long overland hauls. Take New
Orleans as a point in the end of an elipse and
complete the figure by extending its enclosing line
along the eastern coast of Mexico and Central
America, the northern coast of South America to
the mouth of the Orinoco River, thence northward
through the West Indies back to New Orleans. That
touches some of the foreign markets in which the
forest products of Louisiana may be laid down so
cheaply, because of low rates of water carriage,
that competition with the great wood-manufactur-
ing industries of central and northern states need
not be feared. There is. however, a still wider
foreign market open to Louisiana manufacturers
Europe, South Africa, and the eastern countries
of South America. This market is not merely theo-
retical, or a future possibility, but is now being
developed. An examination, industry by industry,
of the reports of Louisiana manufacturers shows
that commodities are now regularly sold In all
those countries, and manufacturers are already
planning for an enlargement of trade when the
completion of the Panama Canal makes new ports
accessible.
