January 1, 1&12.]
THE LUMBER TRADE JOURNAL
21
rings narrow. It is the most abundant and the
most widely used, wood in Louisiana.
Shortleaf Pine.
This wood was reported second only to longleaf
pine in amount used, and it goes for similar pur-
poses. It is of more rapid growth than longleaf,
consequently the annual rings are usually broader.
As the tree approaches maturity the rate of growth
is apt to lessen, thus producing rings narrower
next the outside of the tree than near the center.
The narrow outer rings may resemble those of long-
leaf pine, but the proportionally larger amount
of sapwood Is nearly always sufficient to distinguish
it from longleaf. It has not the weight, strength,
or stiffness of longleaf pine.
Loblolly Pine.
This tree has broad rings and usually little heart-
wood, and for that 'reason would seldom be mis-
taken for longleaf pine, though it might be for
shortleaf or Cuban. It is stronger and stiffer than
shortleaf, but is considerably lighter, and a cubic
foot of it, well dried, Is ten pounds lighter than
a cubic foot of longleaf pine. It grows rapidly, and
persistently pushes into abandoned fields or other
vacant ground. In this respect it Is much more
vigorous than either longleaf or shortleaf. The
two latter show a disposition to contract the areas
which they once held, while loblolly is constantly
extending its range. It will probably, therefore,
become more important in Louisiana than it now
is, and it will be well to reckon with it in figuring
on a future wood supply for the state's indus-
tries.
Cuban Pine.
This is the heaviest and stiffest of southern pines,
but in strength it is a little under longleaf. Its
rings are wide and its sap thick. In this respect
as well as in other respects, it so much resembles
loblolly that it is frequently mistaken for it. It
contains more resin than loblolly or shortleaf, and
compares favorably with longleaf. It resembles
loblolly In the vigor with which it fights for pos-
session of vacant land. In some regions it is
spreading over areas once occupied by longleaf
pine. It has been suggested that the Cuban pine
entered the United States by way of the Florida
peninsula and has spread northward and westward.
Its range is constantly extending. It is an excel-
lent timber tree, and promises much for the fu-
ture.
Spruce Pine.
This is one of the minor and little known spe-
cies of Louisiana, but is a fine wood for doors and
interior finish. Only 200,000 feet were reported in
the state, and one factory had the whole amount,
having procured it in the region of Pearl River
in the southeastern part of the state. Its identity
was unknown by the factory which was working
it, and it was reported as "a cross between short-
leaf and cypress." In softness and color it ap-
proaches nearer to white pine than any other south-
ern wood. It is of interest to note that this is the
only instance where this pine has been reported
for manufacturing purposes. Some years ago a
little of it was used as masts for small boats on
the Florida coast.
Cypress.
This wood stands third in quantity manufactured
in Louisiana, amounting to 16 per cent of all used
by wood-working factories. There are few trees
in the United tSates that will compare with cypress
in extent and diversity of use. Nearly two-thirds
of the cypress cut in Louisiana's sawmills is sent
outside the state in the rough, and it goes into prac-
tically every market in this country, and into
many elsewhere. It is one of the timbers destined
to disappear, for when the swamps where it is now
cut have been cleared, there will be no new growth.
There is geologic evidence that it has occupied the
swamps during an immense length of time, for
logs have been dug from deep excavations, the stra-
ta of sediment upon them indicating a period of
perhaps 30,000 years since they grew. It is re-
markable that some of those logs were "pecky," the
same as much of present-day cypress is. This di-
sease is caused by a species of fungus (Daedalia
vorax), which hollows out little pits in the wood.
The cypress is the largest tree of Louisiana. For
many years there was exhibited in South Peter
street a cypress plank 71 feet long, 42 inches wide
and 5 inches thick, with scarcely a blemish or
defect visible. It was burned in 1890. An impor-
tant use for cypress in early times was for dug-
outs, a kind of canoe hewed from a single log. In
late years boats have taken their place, but some
old ones are still to be seen. One made in 1871
was still in service In 1911 on a northern Louisiana
river.
Red Gum.
Nearly one-half of the red gum cut in Louisiana
is further manufactured after it leaves the sawmill.
Five states Arkansas, Mississippi, Missouri, Ten-
nessee, and Kentucky -cut more of this wood than
Louisiana, which produces only five per cent of the
total output. This tree is occasionally called "star-
leaved gum," "sweet gum," and "sap gum." The
last name applies to certain grades of the lumber
rather than to the tree itself. The proportion of
heartwood and sapwood varies greatly in different
trees. Sometimes a large log is nearly all white
sapwood; others are largely red or brown heart-
wood. Two quite distinct classes of lumber are
produced, and each has its particular uses. This
wood passes under several names. Furniture mak-
ers in England often call it "satin walnut," while
makers of furniture and interior finish in this coun-
try frequently sell it as "Circassian Walnut." If
grain and figure are carefully selected, the finished
product so closely resembles Circassian Walnut that
it is difficult to distinguish one from the other.
Much of the "Circassian Walnut" furniture seen
in show windows is red gum. Little staining or
"doctoring" of the figures is necessary. Red gum
may be stained, however, to imitate other woods,
particularly white oak, cherry, and mahogany. It
may be said with much truth of some furniture
factories not necessarily in Louisiana that "red
gum lumber goes in and white oak furniture comes
out." It is one of the finest woods in this country.
It is more highly appreciated in Europe than at
home, for it is more skillfully handled there than
here. Some dealers whose opinions are worthy
of consideration believe that before many years
red gum will equal or excel white oak in price.
Cottonwood.
This wood grows rapidly, and it has long been
a staple article in Louisiana's lumber trade. Com-
plaint is heard that the best grades are becoming
scarce. One-fifth of the demand in the state is
met by shipments from without. The scarcity of
good grades is attributed by some to the large ex-
port to Germany and elsewhere of those grades
some years ago. This trade is now much smaller.
Another drain upon high grade cottonwood has
been due to its demand by wagon factories. When
yellow poplar a few years ago rose in price so
high that its use for wagon beds diminished, cot-
tonwood was found to be one of the best substitutes.
The tree grows rapidly, and the soil and climate of
Louisiana are suited to its best development, and
it may be counted upon to fill an important place
in the state's future forest policy.
Tupelo.
There does not seem to be any generally recog-
nized name for the wood in Louisiana. Some call
It "bay poplar," others "black gum," or simply
"gum," "cotton gum," "tupelo," or some other name.
It is a swamp tree, and is usually cut with cypress.
The appearance of the tree, if judged by its bark, is
like ash; if its leaves are considered, it looks like
the true black gum; while in form, but in no other
respect, it resembles cypress, as the bases of the
trees are frequently much enlarged a character-
istic of swamp-grown trees. The logs have thick
sapwood. Formerly much complaint was heard
that the lumber was difficult to season; but improved
methods have lessened the difficulty.
Black Willow.
There are many species of willow in this coun-
try, but practically all the lumber is cut from black
willow, which is the common kind seen nearly every
where. It is remarkable that the people of Louisi :
ana manufacture into boxes and furniture seven
times as much willow as the reported total cut
of this wood for the whole United States, as given
in the Census of Forest Products in 1909. The
discrepancy is in part explained by the custom pre-
vailing in Louisiana of marketing willow lumber
and products as cottonwood. It is frequently list-
ed as "brown cottonwood," and in the Census re-
turns, much willow was doubtless listed as cotton-
wood. It is strong, tough, cheap and serviceable.
The worst thing against it is its color, which is
generally quite dark. It is one of the timber trees
which will be heard of in the future, for its possi-
bilities are great. It grows rapidly, and such is its
tolerance of shade that trunks grow crowded to-
gether in such close stand that the like is seldom
seen with any other timber. An instance is cited,
and is apparently well authenticated, of a tract near
the Mississippi River in Louisiana, which was grow-
ing cane during the Civil War, but was abandoned
because of the frequency of overflow; and since
that time more than 100,000 feet of willow per acre
has been cut from it. The size of willow logs is
often surprising. In the early spring, rafts of this
wood may be seen tied up along the Mississippi,
above Baton Rouge, the logs of which are two, three,
and many four feet in diameter.
Small black willow osiers, one and two years old,
are supplied to basket makers in New Orleans.
Most of them are cut along the edges of streams
and swamps in St. Bernard Parish, east of the Mis-
sissippi River. The industry is carried on after
the most primitive fashion. The basket makers
import cultivated rods from Europe for the visible
parts of their wares, but use wild willows for ribs,
stays, hoops, and bands. The cutters go by ones
and twos into the swamps, their only tool a pocket
knife, and cut osiers where they can find them,
seldom asking leave and seldom encountering in-
terference from owners. Long rods are used for
bands and hoops; short, stout ones (usually the
butts cut from long ones are pressed into service
as ribs and stays for lids, sides, and bottoms. The
freshly cut rods are usually carried to some log
that rises a few inches out of the swamp water,
and the operator sits in the shade and peels them,
then lays them in the sun to dry. Sunshine whitens
the rods, but a shower of rain, or even a cloudy
day, will darken them and lessen their value. The
cutters have no way of bleaching them white again.
The cutting and peeling of 500 to 700 osiers is a
day's work, and they sell for 25 to 75 cents a hun-
dred, delivered at the basket factory. The usual
size sells for 25 cents. The butts for stays bring
10 to 25 cents a hundred. The rods must be cut
"in season" or they are 'brittle. There are two sea-
sons, one from February to April before the new
wood has begun to form under the bark, the other
from August to November after the new wood has
hardened and grown tough. It was not found prac-
ticable to procure statistics of the annual cutting
of the wild willow osiers, as the cutters make no
reports, and guard their trade secrets with jealous
care. The total quantity cut, however, cannot be
very large. Some kinds of rough, heavy baskets,
for barn, factory, and plantation use, are made
wholly of wild osiers.
White Oak.
A number of oaks in Louisiana pass as white
oak at the sawmill; and, after they leave the saw
mill for further manufacture, it is generally im-
possible to separate the true white oak lumber
from other which passes for it. The difference in
the appearance of the woods of several of these oaks
is slight, and for all practical purposes it is not
necessary to distinguish between any of them.
Hickory.
Five or six hickories in Louisiana pass as one
in the factory. Between some of them considerable
difference exists in the appearance of the growing
tree and of the manufactured wood, but most man-
ufacturers in reporting the use of hickory did not
say whether it was shag, bitternut, water hickory,
pignut, or mockernut. All of these are used, but
the amount of each could not be ascertained. The
state has only fairly commenced to draw upon its
own hickory resources, and much goes to northern
cities for final manufacture.
Texan Oak.
This wood is sometimes called "spotted oak" in
Louisiana, but it nearly always is listed as red
oak. The true red oak (Quercus rubra) is a more
northern wood but there are a number of excel-
lent timber trees belonging to the red oak group,
and Louisiana is well supplied with them. They
are broadly distinguishable from the white oak
group on account of their sharp-pointed leaf lobes,
while those of the white oaks are rounded. How-
ever, some oaks in Louisiana that have unlobed
leaves are commonly spoken of as red oak the
willow oak for example; and, in practice, it is
generally the appearance of the wood and not the
shape of the leaves that determines the classifica-
tion of oak lumber in the mill yard. If the wood
looks white, or bears considerable resemblance to
genuine white oak (Quercus alba) it is called white
oak; otherwise, it is considered to be red oak.
Though the manufacturers in the state used a mil-
lion and three quarters feet of Texan oak, they re-
ported less than twenty thousand feet that could
be identified as northern red oak. The locality
whence it comes, and the price, assist in its identi-
fication.
White Ash.
The word ash in Louisiana means several things;
but white ash is most common and it greatly ex-
ceeds in quantity used all other woods that pass
through the factories under its name. Among the
other woods in the list with this one are green
ash, hackberry, and sugarberry. The two last
named do not belong in the ash family, but their
wood looks somewhat like ash and goes along
with it. Both are cut and sold in considerable
amounts in the state, and go to the shops and
factories, yet not one manufacturer in Louisiana
reported their use. In nearly all cases it was
