22
THE LUMBER TRADE JOURNAL
[January 1, 1912.
doubtless a matter of mistaken identity the sugar-
berry and hackberry when they reached the facto-
ries were supposed to be ash.
Magnolia.
Two magnolias are used by the manufacturers
of Louisiana, the evergreen and the sweet. The
former is the larger and more valuable tree, and
more than one and a half million feet were re-
ported, while the use of sweet magnolia was only
45,000 feet. The evergreen magnolia is praised
by some users and condemned by others. Some
claim that it is a satisfactory substitute for yellow
poplar in many places, while others find fault with
hard, black, flinty streaks which the wood some-
times contains. The streaks dull tools quickly,
and are blemishes on the surface of dressed wood.
If the lumber is carefully selected, some high grade
stuff can be picked out. Few woods show less uni-
formity in quality. The white wood in a magno-
lia tree compares not unfavorably with holly, but
is not quite as white. Next to the white portion
may lie wood almost as black as ebony, and there
are all shades and colors. A distinct pink some-
times shows when large logs are freshly sawed.
It is said that none of the colors are permanent,
but the lights grow darker, and the darks lighter
with exposure to weather. In rural communities
dugouts are made of this wood for navigating rivers
and estuaries, and give satisfactory service.
Yellow Poplar.
Louisiana lies on the southern outskirts of the
yellow poplar"s range, but the supply reported by
manufacturers comes wholly from without the
state. The saw mills in the state cut a little, but
at least part of the small amount comes down the
rivers from the north.
Basswood.
The whole reported supply of basswood came from
without, though, as with yellow poplar, a little
grows in the state. A very small but unique use
is made of this tree in the northern parishes. The
inner bark, which is tough, soft, and pliable, is
braided into mule collars by negroes for use in the
small fields and truck patches. Such collars are
similar in mechanism to those made of corn husks
in pioneer days in the Ohio valley. The braids
of bark are sewed together with small splits of
cow oak or some other tough wood.
Engelmann Spruce.
This wood does not grow in the south, and it is
a matter of surprise that 100,000 feet of it was used
by the manufacturers in Louisiana. It comes from
the northern Rocky Mountain region.
Black Gum.
When a Louisiana sawmill man speaks of black
gum he frequently means tupelo. Black gum is
good for a few purposes, and unfit for others. It
is unwedgeable, and this property sometimes gives
it a value. It makes good rollers, such as are used
at the wharfs and landings where boards and planks
are unloaded from barges. The lumber is shoved
along the rollers from the boat to the land. In
Rapides Parish a little black gum lumber is mixed
with tupelo and sold as such, and the practice proba-
bly obtains elsewhere.
Cow Oak.
This tree belongs to the white oak group, and its
lumber is generally marketed as white oak, but a
little is sold under its own name. Overcup oak
stands in a similar position. Both of these are
plentiful in some parts of the state and in some
parts baskets are made of cow oak splints long,
narrow ribbons of wood split or drawn from billets.
Such baskets were in general use before the Civil
War on plantations, and some are still made and
in use there. They are now more frequently seen
in laundries and markets where a rough, strong
basket is demanded. They are home made, and
many of the makers are old people who learned
the trade many years ago and now follow it for a
livelihood. Chair seats and backs are braided of
the same material. Lumbermen in northern Louisi-
ana occasionally split canthook handles of the wood,
and use them in preference to any other native
species.
Elm.
Three species of elm go into manufactures in
Louisiana, white elm, wing elm, and cedar elm.
The first is the common elm, and it was the only
one listed in the returns, but the two others are
in pretty general use. The woods are similar, and
no great difference in leaves or form of trees are
noticeable, and furniture and vehicle manufacturers
who are the principal users consider the three elms
as one.
Mahogany.
Strictly speaking, there is only one mahogany,
but several woods are bought and sold as such,
and by common consent pass in the markets as ma-
hogany. Two such woods are reported by the Louisi-
ana manufacturers, one from Mexico (Swietenia
mahogoni) the true mahogany, the other from
Africa (Khaya senegalensis), which is a very fine
wood and is used the world over.
Chestnut.
Practically the entire demand for chestnut in
Louisiana comes from the makers of coffins and
caskets. The wood does not grow in commercial
quantity in the state.
Beech.
Beech in Louisiana usually goes begging. The
Census of 1909 reported only seven mills cutting
it in the state, and only two manufacturers men-
tioned it in their reports. However, there Is plenty
of it growing in the forests of the northern regions,
but generally the quality is not good. The trees
lack the smooth, clear boles common in the beech
of the northern states. A little flooring is sawed
from this wood in the region between Monroe and
Shreveport, but elsewhere the lumberman of Louisi-
ana passes the beech by, and manufacturers of fur-
niture do not demand it. There is only one species
of beech in the United States the same in Penn-
sylvania and in Louisiana. The blue beech (Car-
pinus caroliniana), though bearing some resem-
blance both in appearance and name, belongs to
a different family-
Red Cedar.
This species is scattered over a good deal of Louisi-
ana, but very little goes to saw mills, and Tennes-
see supplied nearly all that is used.
Maple.
As with oak and elm, several species of maple
are classed as one wood. Sugar maple is usually
listed separately because it does not grow in Louisi-
ana. Three native maples figure in the supply
drawn upon by manufacturers in the state, though
the total amount is small. They are silver maple,
Drummond maple, and Florida maple. When these
are used, they are listed as "soft maple," without
further distinction. Makers of violins and gun
stocks have found the Drummond maple in Union
Parish of fine quality, with curled grain and bird's
eye effect. Makers of bentwood rustic furniture
occasionally obtain supplies of Florida maple in
the northern part of the state, particularly In
Ouachita Parish. Mills in the region where these
species grow, saw them and send them to market
simply as maple.
White Pine.
For more than a century white pine has been
in the Louisiana markets. It does not grow in that
state. Within two years after the purchase of
Louisiana by the United States, rafts of white pine
cut in western New York and northeastern Penn-
sylvania had floated down the Allegheny, Ohio, and
Mississippi Rivers, 2,000 miles, by the windings
of the streams, and were sold at New Orleans
foi $40 per thousand. The raftsmen who made these
journeys were accustomed to return to Pittsburg
on foot. White pine still goes regularly to Louisi-
ana, but the amount is small and most of it is
made into patterns.
Birch.
Two species of birch are listed for use in Louisi-
ana, the sweet birch of the north, and the native
birch, or river birch, which is fairly abundant in
many parts of the state. The native species lacks
figure and grain to make it valuable as furniture
wood, but it has many good qualities which will
doubtless win for it a place at no distant day in
the esteem of Louisiana manufacturers. It will make
good frames or cores, upon which to lay veneers
of more attractive woods. At present, the whole
cut is converted into ox yokes.
Persimmon.
This belongs with minor species as far as manu
facturing in Louisiana is concerned. It is a shut-
tle wood, but shuttles are not made in the state.
Dogwood.
This wood is in the same class with persimmon
as to use. What is cut goes to northern or foreign
shuttle makers.
Osage Orange.
A few planted trees of this species are occasion-
ally cut in the northern part of the state, and aro
sent to wagon makers. A little -wood is used, as
inlay for furniture, tool handles, and novelties.
There is no reason to suppose that its importance
as a commercial wood will increase in the state.
No supply of it is coming on for future use. What
little is now cut comes from remnants of old hedges.
Locust.
A rather large number of buggy hubs are sold
yearly in Louisiana, but few are made there. This
is about the only demand for locust. It is not cut
in the state, but comes from Kentucky and North
Carolina.
Circassian Walnut.
Red gum has made great inroads upon the use
of Circassian walnut for furniture and finish,
though small amounts of this scarce and expen-
sive wood find their way to this country from re-
gions south of the Caspian Sea. The price of the
1,000 feet reported in Louisiana was $140, which is
very low for this wood. It is procured with diffi-
culty in the remote valleys of Asiatic Turkey and
Russia, and smaller and smaller amounts reach
the market year by year.
Cherry.
This wood is scarce and little thought of in
Louisiana, and the small quantity cut in the state
was reported at ten dollars a thousand feet. It
was bought in the log, and the cost of sawing was
added to the price.
Catalpa.
This wood will probably never be much used for
manufacturing purposes, being more valuable for
fence posts. The small amount reported in Louisi-
ana was used for tables, newel posts, and boat
knees. Natural crooks were utilized for the knees.
It is claimed that artificial crooks may be grown
by bending the young tree and compelling it to grow
in that form. If so, it may attain to some impor-
tance in the manufacturing of small boats. Efforts
have been made to stain the wood to resemble ma-
hogany. It is not difficult to imitate the color,
but the rings of porous springwood are so marked,
and are so different from mahogany, that success-
ful imitation is difficult. Neither would it be pro-
fitable to substitute catalpa, for the counterfeit
would cost more than the genuine article. Catalpa
bears the Indian name given it by the Cherokees
who once occupied the region northeast of Louisi-
ana. That was the original home of the common
catalpa.
Umbrella Tree.
There is little reason to suppose that this tree,
whose chief value is in its shade, and in its sym-
metrical crown, will ever become important as a
producer of lumber. However, it posseses some prop-
erties which make it interesting. It is a native
of India, but flourishes so well in Louisiana that
it has escaped from cultivation and is running wild.
It is of very rapid growth. Boards clear of knots
and sapwood have 'been sawed in Tangipahoa Pa-
rish eight feet long and 15 inches wide from a tree
18 years old. When the tree grows in the open and
is cared for, its crown takes the form of an umbrel
la, whence the name; but the forest-grown tree
loses its symmetrical form. Some growing on the
borders of swamps in St. Bernard Parish might pass
in shape and general appearance for butternut trees
growing in the forests of Pennsylvania. The same
characteristic may be observed where the trees have
escaped from cultivation in the parishes of La-
fourche, Terre Bonne, St. Mary, Iberia, and else-
where in southern Louisiana. The tree's very rapid
growth, fine color, and the marked rings of its
wood, may lead to its use where novelty of effect
is desired. A little furniture and finish are now
made of it. The wood does not finish smoothly in
an ordinary planer, but sandpapering improves it.
The grain is coarse, that is, the 'spring wood is
very open and porous, while the broader bands
of summer wood are dense. The natural color of
the wood is reddish brown, the sapwood yellow.
Red Mulberry.
The mention of red mulberry, though the quan-
tity is very small, shows the use of an unusual
wood in furniture making.
Willow Oak.
In Louisiana the willow oak is called red oak.
Its leaves are willow-shaped and distinguish the tree
from any other with which it is likely to be asso-
ciated. In only one instance is this wood mentioned
under its true name in the reports of Louisiana
manufactures, yet it is cut by millions of feet in
the state. In some localities it is the prevailing
species, more of it being found than of any other
one species. This is true in the flood plains of
many of the streams in Chatahoula, Caldwell, and
