January 1, 1912.]
THE LUMBER TRADE JOURNAL
23
Ouachita' Parishes, and also in many other parts
of the state. Perhaps no other hardwood in Louisi-
ana promises as much for the future as willow oak.
It grows rapidly, assumes good shape of trunk in
forest situations, and has many good qualities. The
court house square at Monroe, La., contains a num-
ber of planted trees of this species. Two were
sawed down in the spring of 1911. Annual rings
showed them to be 55 years old, sound, and free
from shake. At 3 1-2 feet from the ground one
was 42 inches in diameter, the other 49 inches.
During the first thirty-five years these trees grew
from two-thirds of an inch to one and three-fourths
of an inch In diameter per year. The sapwood of
each was about three inches thick. The general
appearance of the heartwood resembled that of
northern red oak. The logs cut from the trees
scaled 1300 feet, board measure, for the smaller,
and 1700 for the larger, representing a growth of
lumber of about 28 and 31 feet per year respec-
tively. It is evident that a woodlot of such trees,
planted and cared for under forestry methods,
would produce lumber in large amounts. When
the time comes for the people of Louisiana to plant
forests, the willow oak will doubtless merit a promi-
nent place in wood supply. The stumps, and part
of the trunks, of two other willow oaks In a va-
cant square in Monroe were still larger. One was
60 and the other 61 inches in diameter, breast high,
the age of one having been 69 and the other 70
years, as shown by the rings. Calculations based
on the stumps and the portions of the trunks re-
maining on the ground indicated that one tree
contained 3450 and the other 3555 feet of lumber.
During their growing periods one laid on approxi-
mately 49 and the other 51 feet, board measure, of
wood a year.
It is remarkable how different are the opinions
expressed of the value of willow oak for manufac-
turing purposes. It Is praised and condemned.
Those loudest in its condemnation base their ob-
jection upon the difficulties encountered in season-
ing the wood. Others complain of no such diffi-
culty. In some instances men disparage willow
oak when they have in mind water oak (Quercus
nigra), a tree baring some resemblance, but of
a different species. Even water oak, upon better
acquaintance, will probably be found much better
than its present reputation. Tupelo was once con-
sidered a nuisance, but it is now valuable. Ono
by one the rejected woods are coming into favor,
as men learn how to handle them, and find out
what they are good for. Willow oak is coming
into its own in Louisiana now, and water oak
will follow at no distant day, for the small matter
of seasoning a wood cannot long keep it out of use.
Since these two oaks seem to promise much in the
future, particular care was had to inquire into their
uses in different localities, while prosecuting the field
work connected with this investigation. An exami-
nation of the list of uses for various woods, begin-
ning on page 30 of this report, will show that Wil-
low oak and water oak compare favorably with
most other species.
UNREPORTED WOODS.
An inspection of Table 1 will show that several
of the woods listed are accompanied by no figures
giving the feet used annually. That is because no
manufacturer listed those woods. As far as re-
ports sent in by the makers of furniture, finish,
boats, vehicles, and other commodities are con-
cerned, the list of woods in the table might have
ended with lignum-vitae. That wood in the table,
however, is followed by twenty-four others. Some
of these have been mentioned in the foregoing
discussion, where they were included under the
names of others, as the elms, hickories, and ma-
ples, and the reason for including others, though
not mentioned by any manufacturer, will now be
given.
During the progress of the field work in Louis-
iana, many parts of the state were visited, and it
was discovered that several woods were being cut
in the forests, sent to saw mills, cut into lumber,
and at that stage they disappeared from view. If
this lumber were used in the rough as in con-
struction of buildings, fences, and the like, and was
not further manufactured this investigation was
done with it; for it took into account such lumber
only as passed through further stages of manufac-
ture. Careful inquiry developed the fact that much
of the lumber which, under its own name, had
dropped out of sight after it left the saws, was
being shipped to factories under other names, or
by no names at all. In addition to this, a few
woods were used in a small way locally, perhaps
not passing through a manufacturing plant.
American Holly.
A small holly tree is occasionally cut in Louis-
iana, and goes to the brush makers, or is converted
into small articles, such as surveying instruments,
or small boxes for handkerchiefs and collars.
Black Jack.
This oak is always rather small and generally
of poor quality. It is abundant in Louisiana, and
the wood serves as repair material for heavy
wagons, and sometimes goes into new vehicles.
Chair makers buy it, and a little is made into
other furniture. It seems to be more in favor in
Grand and Rapides Parishes than elsewhere in
the state, and it is not unusual to see black jack
logs on skidways, trucks, and at mills in that re-
gion. Logs above eighteen inches in diameter are
uncommon.
Chittimwood,
and its near relative, Buckthorn Bumelia or Southern
buckthorn, are used for crosscut saw handles,
small cabinet work, sometimes for box lumber,
and fence posts. Only occasionally are these
woods large enough for saw timber.
Honey Locust and Water Locust.
These two thorny trees, the latter generally
smaller than the first, are nearly always consid-
ered to be one and the same in Louisiana, where
their common name is "thorntree." In the Red
River Valley, sawlogs two feet in diameter are
sometimes seen, but that size is unusual. The
lumber is rough, coarse, and is little thought of.
Some of it goes to furniture factories, but may be
employed as crating material only. Carpenters
lay it for subfloors the rough floor which is to be
covered with some better wood. The trees are so
little valued that unless quite convenient, they
may be passed t>y in logging operations.
Live Oak.
This tree is abundant in the flat, coast regions
of Louisiana, and is found in all parts of the state.
It was once valuable as ship timber, but it is now
one of the most neglected woods in this country.
The unshapely trees are unsuitable for saw logs.
A little of it goes to vehicle factories, but no other
use, except fuel, could be found for it in Louisiana.
Pecan.
This tree is "pecan" where it grows for orna-
ment and bears nuts, but when it is cut and goes
to the vehicle factory it becomes "hickory." It is
not regarded as the equal of the other hickories to
which it is related, and that is perhaps the reason
why those who use it do not list it by its true
name.
Spanish Oak, Turkey Oak and Yellow Oak
are regularly cut by the hardwood mills in the
northern parts of Louisiana, and the operators oc-
casionally recognize them; but when the lumber
goes to the furniture factory and vehicle shop it
is called either red oak or white oak.
Sassafras.
Though sassafras is seldom mistaken for any
other wood, it was not reported by any manufac-
turer in the state. Some of it is cut, however, in
the northern parishes, and one of its uses is for
flooring. Cabinet makers buy it and make ward-
robes and clothes chests of it. It is highly es-
teemed along the rivers of northern Louisiana for
dugout canoes, being light, long-lasting, and not
liable to split or check by action of the weather.
The sassafras trees of Louisiana are generally too
small for canoes, for the species there approaches
the southern limit of its range. Rivermen in need
of dugouts watch the streams that flow from Ar-
kansas, and gaff choice sassafras logs as they
float down on floods, and these supply their wants.
PLANING MILL PRODUCTS.
Table 2.
PLANING MILL PRODUCTS.
Av. cost
Quantity per 1000
used annually feet at
Species (Ft. B.M.) factory.
Longleaf pine 644,321,266 $10.50
Shortleaf pine 377,476,618 10.50
Cypress 184,210,000 16.21
Loblolly pine 7,500,000 12.00
Tupelo 5,000,000
White oak 3,635,000 15.95
Texan oak 1,063,000 24.99
Grown in Louisiana. <
Av. cost
per 1,000
Quantity feet at
Total cost.
(Ft. B.M.) factory.
$ 6,764.976
641,521,266 $10.49
3,964,941
374,476,618 10.52
2,985,611
184,210,000 16.21
90,000
7,500,000 12.00
42,500
5,000,000 8.50
57,995
3.635,000 15.95
26,563
1,063,000 24.99
Grown Outside La.
Av. cost
per 1,000
Quantity feet at
(Ft. B.M.) factory.
2,800,000 $12.86
3,000,000 9.00
Totals 1,223,205,884 $11.39 $13,932,586 1,217,405,884 $11.40 5,800,000 $10.86
Nearly all manufacturers of wood products use
machines of some sort to dress lumber and to that
extent most of the output of such factories might
be classed as the product of planing mills. The
accompanying table (No. 2), however, does not in-
clude so much. What appears in this table does
not appear in other tables of this report, except
that there may be slight and unavoidable duplica-
tion in a few particulars, for it is impossible to
trace all lumber from the sawmill to the last manu-
facturer who handles it before it becomes a fin-
ished product. The manner in which the statistics
for this report were collected and compiled made
it possible to so check and cross-check the items
that few, if any, of them appear in more than one
table, and there is, therefore, practically no
duplication.
A considerable part of Table 2 consists of floor-
ing, siding, car roofing and siding, fencing, and
heavy timbers, but it was not found practicable
to separate these items into classes, to make a
table (or industry) of each class. Many of the
large mills in Louisiana plane boards, planks, and
dimension stocks simply to lessen the weight and
reduce freight charges on long hauls. Items of
this kind figure prominently in the table. Timbers
of large size, for bridges, trestles, and large build-
ings, are occasionally surfaced by the mill that
saws them. This item appears also in the table.
Louisiana supplies practically all of the wood
listed in table 2. A little longleaf pine came from
Mississippi and some short leaf pine from Texas,
and none from elsewhere. A large part of the ma-
terial reaches the mill as logs. The bulk of the
output is from large mills which do their own log-
ging. The low average price of the lumber is due
to that fact, and the price is made up.chiefly, of
slumpage, cost of logging, the cost of sawing, and
the handling at the mill up to the time it reaches
the planer. Some of the mills in giving the cost of
the rough lumber when it reaches the planer omit
the item of "depreciation of plant." That is as
much a charge against the lumber as any other
item is. for a plant, costing perhaps one hundred
thousand dollars, will wear out, and if the work is
to continue the plant must be replaced, and at any
event, the cost of the plant constitutes part of the
cost of the lumber sawed. With this explanation,
it will be apparent that the average costs in the
table are a little too low, though the difference is
very small in most cases.
The market for the planing mill products of
Louisiana is both domestic and foreign. Shipments
go regularly to all parts of the United States. The
foreign demand is large and in many countries.
Canada and Mexico are important buyers, and
nearly every seaport and many interior cities of
the W r est Indies, Central America, and South
America draw supplies of this material through
New Orleans, and other ports on or near the Gulf
of Mexico. Large quantities go to England and
Scotland, to Germany, France, Belgium, Italy, and
Spain. In northern and western Europe the hard
pine of Louisiana competes with the pine from the
Baltic Provinces which once nearly monopolized
the European markets. The southern pines have
been able to gain and hold a considerable part of
that market. South Africa is a large buyer of
pine from the Gulf region.
Table 3 compares the planing mill output of
Louisiana with certain other states. In order to
make the basis for comparison the same for the
several states, tables 2 and 6 for Louisiana are
combined, because the figures for the other states
represent a combination of similar products.
Table 3.
Planing Mill Products of Louisiana Compared with
Certain Other States.
Quantity used Average cost No. of
States. annually per 1000 feet woods
Feet B. M. at factory. used.
Louisiana 1.259,775,551 $11.52 15
North Carolina.. 368,016,000 12.59 14
Wisconsin 174,185,000 30.19 25
Maryland 81,356,000 27.46 23
