WOOD-USING INDUSTRIES OF MONTANA INCLUDE A BROAD RANGE OF UTILITY
The study upon which this report is based was
undertaken by the Forest Service, United States
Department of Agriculture. The statistics were
compiled from data collected in the summer o:
1911, covering a period of one year from January
1 to December 31, 1910, inclusive.
Preface
Lumbering, mining and agriculture are the
principal industries of Montana. Lumbering and
mining are confined to the western mountainous
section of the state, while the fertile valleys in
this region and the plains of Eastern Montana
furnish agricultural crops and grazing for sheep,
cattle and horses. The towns of Missoula, Kalis-
pell, Hamilton, St. Regis and Libby are the most
important lumber distributing centers. Montana
produces more copper than any state in the Union.
Butte, the principal city, is the largest metal min-
ing camp in the world, and here immense quan-
tities of timber are consumed in developing the
mines.
Montana's standing timber approximates 65,-
600,000,000 feet, board measure; of this, 21,800,-
000,000 feet are privately owned, the National For-
ests contain about 39,500,000,000 feet, and the stand
on other government lands, including Indian and
military reservations approximates 5,800,000,000
feet.
While the cut of lumber in Montana is com-
paratively small, the state yields a large output
in proportion to its population, which in 1910 was
376,053 persons. Montana ranked twenty-eighth
in the list of states arranged in the order of
their lumber cut.
Table 1 shows the lumber cut of the state for
1908. 1909 and 1910:
TABLE I.
Quantity M ft., B. M.
Per Cent of
Increase.
Per Cent Total Cut
in U nited States.
1910
1909
1908
1P09
to
1910
1908
to
1909
1910
1909
190S
319,089
308.582
311,533
3.4
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.9
-Decrease.
In 1910, 140 active mills reported the lumber cut;
in 1909, 180 mills were operating, and in 1908,
173 mills reported.
The lumber cut of Montana in 1910 was made
up of ten species and each contributed the fol-
lowing amounts of sawed lumber:
Species. Cut M Feet.
Western yellow pine 135,817
Western larch 99,283
Douglas fir 53,070
White fir 13,589
Engelmann spruce 10,273
Western white pine 3,090
Lodgepole pine 2,380
Black hemlock 1,201
Black cottonwood 260
Western red cedar 126
Total 319,089
In addition to lumber, the mills of this state
produced 40,876,000 lath and 533,000 shingles.
Statistics on the amount of wood consumed in
the form of mine timbers, poles, railway ties, fence
posts, fuel and for other purposes not subsequently
mentioned in this report, are not available. Large
quantities of lodgepole pine, western larch, Doug-
las fir, western yellow pine, Engelmann spruce,
and small quantities of other species were used
in working the mines of the state and for poles,
railway ties and construction work, firewood and
general purposes.
The mines at Butte, Montana, annually consume
approximately 70,000,000 feet of lumber, 240,000
stulls, averaging 9 inches in diameter and from 14
to 16 feet long, and 150,000 lagging poles 3 inches
in diameter and from 12 to 16 feet long. It is esti-
mated that there are 1,624,000,000 board feet of
sawed timber, stulls and lagging underground in
the mines of the Butte camp, divided as follows:
Sawed lumber, 1,500,000.000 board feet; 2,500,000
stulls containing 100,000,000 board feet, and 2,000,-
000 lag poles containing 24,000,000 board feet.
Commercial Woods of Montana
Western Yellow Pine
Western yellow pine grows in all states west
of the Great Plains. In Montana it reaches its
best development in the Bitterroot and St. Regis
valleys. The wood is soft, has a straight even
grain, and works well under a cutting edge In
color it is light yellow, often almost white. West-
ern yellow pine lumber shrinks and warps com-
paratively little in seasoning. The wood is resin-
ous, but when properly dried little difficulty is ex-
perienced from exuding resin. In 1910 over one-
third of the lumber cut of Montana was made up
of western yellow pine.
Western Larch
Western larch is the most abundant timber in
Montana, The heaviest stands are located in
the northwestern part of the state in the vicinity
of Kalispell. The texture of the wood renders
it less adaptable to general mill work than western
yellow pine or western white pine, but on account
of its comparative hardness it is preferred locallj
as a flooring material. The swelled butts common
in western larch trees and the frequency of wind
shakes cause considerable waste in logging opera-
tions, since it is common practice to "butt off" and
discard the lower portion of the trunk. On this
account the timber cuts a low proportion of up-
pers.
Douglas Fir
The Douglas fir cut in Montana does not furnish
as high a quality of lumber as that grown in Ore-
gon and Washington. The better quality of Mon-
tana Douglas Fir is used for flooring and finish,
but most of it is used as rough lumber for con-
struction purposes.
White Fir
White fir is found in small quantities in mix-
ture with other species in the mountains of West-
ern Montana. It is cut occasionally in logging
other timber and manufactured into common
boards and house framing, but contributes only
about ten per cent of the total cut of lumber in the
state.
The wood is light in weight, soft and generally
coarse grained, white or light brown in color and
straight grained. It is practically free from pitch,
works well with cutting tools and has prospects
as a pulp wood.
Engelmann Spruce
Engelmann spruce finds its' best development in
Northern Montana and Idaho. It forms extensive
stands at high elevations, but has been little ex-
ploited thus far. In dense stands a straight,
slender, clear trunk is formed, which is admirable
for lumber manufacture.
The wood is pale reddish yellow in color, light
in weight, straight and close grained, but
not strong or durable. It is practically odorless
and contains no pitch. It furnishes less than
10 per cent of the lumber sawed in the state
at the present time, and is manufactured prin-
cipally Into boards.
Western White Pine
The quantity of western white pine manufac-
tured in Montana sawmills is small compared
with the amount of this species manufactured
in Idaho, where the largest stands of this
species are found. The wood is generally manu-
factured into shop lumber and plain surfaced forms
for supplying wood-working plants in Montana
and elsewhere throughout the United States.
Western white pine is one of the finest soft woods
known to this country, and because of its high
value it is not employed where the cheaper woods
will serve.
The wood is almost free from resin and is fine
grained and soft. It can be easily dried and has
little tendency to shrink or warp. In color it is
white or light yellow. It is neither strong nor
stiff as compared with Douglas fir or western yel-
low pine, and is very light in weight. For pur-
poses where a light, soft, even-grained wood with
little tendency to shrink or warp is required, the
white pine of Montana and Idaho is the equal of
the white pine of the Northeast and the Lake
States, which has for so long supplied the demands
of Eastern manufacturers.
Lodgepole Pine
While lodgepole pine contributes little to the
lumber cut of the state, this wood is probably the
most important in its general uses. The species
is found in quantities throughout the forested reg-
ions of Montana and is extensively employed for
posts, poles, firewood and in the many mines. It
is sawed into rough building material. This wood
has excellent prospects of becoming highly ser-
viceable as a pulp wood for use by the sulphite
and mechanical processes of manufacture.
Lodgepole pine is slightly resinous and is not
durable without preservative treatment, especially
when in contact with the soil. It is fairly heavy
in weight, close, straight grained and easily
worked. In color it varies from light yellow to
pale brown. The taper of the tree and its strength
recommend it for poles, provided the butts are
given a preservative treatment.
Black Hemlock
Black hemlock is found in small quantities at
high elevations in Western Montana and is re-
ported as contributing only 1,201,000 board feet
or less than one-half of one per cent of the lum-
ber cut in the state in 1910.
It is a very fine grained wood, soft, not strong
and pale brown or red in color. It is manufactured
principally into common building lumber. It is
not greatly dissimilar to the western hemlock of
the coast and could readily be substituted for that
species in many products.
Black Cottonwood
Black cottonwood is of little importance to the
lumbering industry of Montana. However it
serves numerous secondary wood-using indus-
tries. Considerable quantities of this species
are found within the forests of the state growing
principally along the banks of streams. It is a
light, soft, non-odorous wood of light color, and
is admirably suited for boxes, butter tubs slack
cooperage, woodenware, excelsior and pulp
The same species occurs in Western Oregon
and Washington, and until the accessible supply
was practically exhausted it was extensively used
by pulp mills in that region.
Western Red Cedar
Unlike the western red cedar of the coast this
species is of little importance to the lumbering in-
terests of Montana. A small amount is cut into
lumber products by local sawmills. Montana
wood-working plants depend more largely on the
cedar imported from the State of Washington
where the trees grow to much larger size The
small trees of Montana yield excellent pole and
post forms, and it is for these purposes that the
local cedar serves its best use.
The wood is straight and rather coarse grained
light in weight and dark brown or almost red
in color. It is fairly strong and very durable in
contact with the soil or in exposed situations
The western red cedar furnishes the standard
pole of the Western United States. The natural
taper of the tree and its durability, combined with
the reasonable strength of the wood, recommend
. for this purpose. Its durability and easy split-
ting properties are its principal assets for use as
posts. While extensively used in the manufacture
f shingles in Western Washington, the small size
of the trees occurring in Montana and the quality
of the wood prevent the development of the shingle
industry in that state.
Wood-Using Industries
Only a small quantity of products manufactured
wholly or in part from wood are used in the state
on account of its comparatively small population
With the exception of planing mills, the industries
in the state which manufacture articles from wood
e u e . W u' n number and generally small in size.
Ihe higher class of wood products such as furni-
ture, fixtures, vehicles and agricultural imple-
ments, are largely imported from other states.
Planing Mill Products
Montana sawmills generally operate planing mills
for further manufacturing portions of the cut of
rough lumber. These planing mills consume a
considerably larger amount of wood than any of
the other wood-using industries, but the nature
of their products and the mixture of like forms
from different species prohibit an accurate com-
pilation of the amount of each species manufac-
tured into the different forms. The planing mill
products include flooring, siding, finish, ceiling
rustic, shop and factory lumber, all forms of
dressed or matched stock, battens, tank stock
molding and general mill work. Fully 25 per
cent of the lumber cut by sawmills is further
manufactured into planing mill products.
Boxes
Five woods are used in the manufacture of boxes
and crates in Montana. All are soft woods and
the entire supply is grown within the state. Box
woods should be light and strong, hold nails well
and should be cheap. In general, the woods used
combine these requirements. The principal box
wood western yellow pine, supplies 82.79 per cent
of all of the wood consumed annually by Mon-
tana's box factories. This is an exceptionally
good box wood and is serviceable in the manufac-
ture of all forms of boxes.
The boxes produced in the state are employed
largely for fruit and packing purposes. Some
butter boxes are made from western larch and
Engelmann spruce. The heavier packing boxes
and crates are generally made from western larch
or Doglas fir, while apple boxes are made from
all species, but principally from western yellow
pine and western white pine. Western white pine
and western yellow pine yield superior boxes for
the packing of high class articles.
The average price per thousand of all species
delivered at box factories was $11.50. Douglas fir
with an average price of $17.7&, was the most
expensive wood used, while western yellow pine,
which furnished a preponderance of the demand
for box wood, costs less than any of the other
species and was delivered at an average price
of $10.67 per thousand feet.
Montana planing mills produce large quantities
of lumber which is manufactured into box shooks
and shipped outside the state before being as-
sembled. These are not included in this report
