3O
THE LUMBER TRADE JOURNAL
[January 1, 1912.
Though it is spoken of as moss wherever it is
known, it is not a true moss, as botanists define
it, but a leaf-bearing, flowering plant of the pine
apple family, that lives on air and water, and
uses the tree chiefly as a support to hang on. It
seems probable that it was carried to our shores
from the West Indies, but not in historic times. It
grows in the vicinity of the coast from Virginia
to Texas. A single tree may bear a ton, though
usually much less. The plant hangs in strands from
a few inches long to many feet. Ten feet is not
unusual, fifteen is occasional, and a single strand
21 feet long, observed in Calcasieu Parish, was the
longest seen during the investigation of the in-
dustry in the spring of 1911.
The plant bears a small, solitary green flower,
so inconspicuous that few persons notice it. The
seed is covered with fine hairs which render it suf-
ficiently buoyant to float long distances on the wind.
When the seed strikes the side of a tree, or a
branch, the hairs adhere to the bark and hold the
seed until it has had time to germinate. Rootlets
fasten themselves in minute crevices of the bark
and the plant hangs there and grows. Strands
wind themselves around twigs, limbs or protuber-
ances of bark, and the rootlets soon decay. Thence-
forth the plant, or moss as it is called, hangs like
clothes on a line, and all the nourishment it gets
comes from air and water. It may be propogated
without seed. Tufts of the moss may be blown by
wind, or carried by birds in building nests, and it
securely fastened to the branch of a tree, they
may grow. The plant more frequently spreads by
that means than by the scattering of seeds.
The moss is used in upholstery for stuffing mat-
tresses, cushions, and saddles and has been so
employed for generations. It is not, therefore, a
new thing, but its use has greatly increased in re-
cent years. Louisiana is said to furnish much more
than half of the world's supply, and a brief account
of the industry lliere should be of interest.
Harvesting the Crop.
Though the moss is planted naturally, and grows
wild, its gathering and preparation for use must be
done with due regard to season. Practically all
the crop in Louisiana is harvested by negroes who
go about it singly or in small companies at times
of year when plantation work is slack. The moss
hangs on trees along the borders of swales and In
deep swamps, some of it near the ground, other
on branches all the way to the tops of the tallest
trees. The gatherer's chief care is to bring it
down. Sometimes he climbs the trees, pulls it
loose and lets it fall. He often takes serious chances
by going out on limbs to make a clean pick. Others
do not climb, but use long poles with sickle-like
hooks to bring the moss down. Still others con-
tent themselves with gathering what may be reached.
by hand, or such as may be blown down by wind.
Since most of the moss, if left to grow, will sooner
or later be blown down, the harvesters have only
to bide their time, and they will secure most of
it on the ground. Many of the swamps are cov-
ered with water most of the time. In such places
the gathering is done in boats that are pushed
among the trees; but this method has its disad-
vantages, the chief of which is that overhanging
branches constantly rake the moss from the boat
into the water. The moss-gatherers find their best
harvest when timber cutting is carried on where
moss is plentiful. They can harvest the whole
crop without climbing. When moss is stripped from
standing trees, a new crop grows in a year or two.
Though it will hang a considerable time after the
tree that bears it has died, it seldom, if ever, at-
taches itself and grows on a dead tree. Some in-
sist that moss kills trees, but this view should be
accepted with reserve; for a tree has borne its load
of moss as long as the oldest resident can remem-
ber, with no noticeable injury to the tree's vitality.
Curing Moss.
After moss is picked from the trees it is rotted
or cured after the manner of flax, and for the same
purpose, namely, to get rid of the waste portion
of the stalk. It is the inner, hard stalk of flax
which is objectionable; but it is the outer, powdery
bark of the moss which the rotting removes. The
real body of the moss, the fibro-vescular skeleton,
is a long, slender, horsehair-like thread extending
the whole length of the plant. This is the valuable
part, and it is separated from the outer bark by
rotting. To do this the moss is piled in heaps on
damp ground, or in water, and is covered with thin
earth. Its slow combustion generates sufficient heat
to burn off the outer bark, and a mass resembling
black horsehair is left, and that after it has re-
ceived certain other treatment becomes the moss
of commerce. Tha time allowed a heap to complete
its rotting process varies depending on the owner's
hurry to sell it. At the end of ten days the heap
is hot enough to burn the hand if thrust beneath
the surface. At the end of thirty days much of
the hull or bark has disappeared, and the moss
has grown dark, but is not yet black. If the owner
is Impatient to realize on it, he sells it at that stage,
but receives a low price, because the product is yet
in a crude state known In the trade as "gray
moss." He may receive a cent or a cent and a
quarter a pound when he has carried it to the
dealer. The longer it is left in the rotting pile the
blacker it becomes, and the more it is worth. It is
not profitable, however, to leave it more than three
months, and few leave it that long. The best
three-months moss sells for four cents per pound.
The bulk and weight diminish as the rotting pro.
cess is lengthened, and though the price per pound
increases, there are fewer pounds.
Process of Drying.
Dealers insist that moss offered for sale must
be comparatively dry. If it is otherwise, they de-
duct liberally for its dampness, and the seller has
learned by experience that there is little profit in
wet moss. Therefore, he makes an effort to dry
it before it goes to market. In traveling through
the moss-producing regions of Louisiana, one often
sees the fences, sheds, clothes lines, and other ob-
jects about cabins covered with moss, hung there to
dry, after it has completed the process of the rotting
heap. Wind and sun dry it in a day or two, and
it is ready for its first market. It should be ex-
plained that the moss usually passes through two
successive markets before it reaches the ultimate
consumer. The first is the country store which
buys it from the people who gather it; second Is
the wholesaler who gins it, bales it, and ships it
to near and distant regions.
The Market.
Local dealers, generally country merchants, bar-
ter with gatherers for their moss. Payment is
sometimes made in money, but usually in merchan-
dise, such as groceries, shoes, and clothing. The
moss finds its way to the country stores by many
modes of conveyance, in sacks carried on shoulders
or head, in wagons, carts, sometimes by boat or
canoe; and in quantities ranging from a ton or
more down to a few pounds. The country or vil-
lage store-keeper puts it up in bales weighing sev-
eral hundred pounds, and bound with old rope or
wire. He ships it to the wholesalers in New Or-
leans or elsewhere. Much goes to that city by
boat, and immense piles of it may often be seen
at the wharfs, whence it is hauled to the ware-
houses and gins to be cleaned, rebaled, and sent
all over the world. The annual crop in Louisiana
amounts to millions of pounds when bought by the
country merchants, and the gatherers receive ap-
proximately $250,000 for it. The wholesalers who
clean it and sell it to consumers expend consid-
erable money in the process, and by ginning it re-
duce the weight almost one-half; but they receive
higher prices, and their annual sales reach about
half a million dollars. The best is worth ten cents
a pound.
Ginning.
When the moss reaches the wholesaler it is filled
with many impurities which must be removed be-
fore it is fit for the consumer. It contains twigs,
sticks, leaves, and bark. Some of the wholesalers
clean the moss by hand, paying operators by the
pound for the work. Hand-picked moss is usually
rated a little higher than that cleaned by machinery,
because the threads are less broken. Until a few
years ago all moss was cleaned by hand, and if
dyed, as much of it was, it was afterwards dried
like clothes on lines. Some still do it that way; but
the gin now does most of the cleaning. An up-to-
date moss gin requires an engine of 100 horse
power. The moss arrives in bales of some hundreds
of pounds. It is fed into machines which remove
the impurities, frequently as much as 800 pounds
for a ton of crude moss. Although every known
appliance for preventing the escape of dust into
the air is made use of, the process is very trying
on the lungs of operatives. The position of feed-
ers the putting of moss into the machines and
off-hearers of refuse are so trying that few can
do the work. However, men are occasionally found
who fill the places without apparent discomfort,
though much of the time almost lost from sight In
clouds of dust. The operatives are nearly all ne-
groes, men and women, and some have done the
same tasks many years, with little vacation or holi-
day. The dirt which is removed in the process of
ginning supplies a considerable part of the factory's
fuel. The moss which goes into the machines :i
gray mass, comes out clean black. Electric hoists
pick up hundreds of pounds at a time and carry
it to dye vats where it is made a shining black,
after which it passes through dryers, and is then
pressed into bales of from 40 to 100 pounds, and is
ready for the markets of the world. It looks like
hair, and many persons who buy it in cushions and
upholstery suppose it is hair. There is a test which
will determine this. A hair drawn between the nails
of the finger and thumb will pass smoothly its
whole length. A thread of moss so drawn will
show a joint or rough place every two or three
inches. The cost of hair is about 50 cents a pound,
the cost of the best moss 10 cents. A moss mat-
tress or cushion, under usual conditions, is good
for eight or ten years.*
*In ginning moss constant vigilance is required to pre-
vent solid bodies from going into the machines. The
temptation to put heavy objects in the bales to make
them weigh more seems well nigh Irresistible. Stones,
brick, plough shares, flat Irons, log chains, and axes, are
neatly stowed away in the center, and In one case a large
iron pump was found, and In another a 98-pound lump of
lead. Inasmuch as the wholesalers tag every bale as It
comes In, they are generally able to ship the stones and
bricks back to the men that sold them, but Iron and lead
are worth more by the pound than the crude moss, so
these are sold to junk dealers.
Dealers prefer winter-picked moss, for it is then
dryer, as it does not grow in cold weather. They
claim that moss growing on some trees is much
better than that on others, and experts who handle
much of it claim to be able to determine the spe-
cies of trees on which it grew by simply examining
the moss. The strongest moss grows on cypress,
and for most purposes is conidered the best; but
that growing on live oak is more elastic. Next in
the scale comes tupelo moss. The bulk of the sup-
ply comes from these three species, probably be-
cause they are more abundant than other species
in the swampy tracts and fog belts where moss
reaches its best growth. Moss from pine trees is
said to be unmarketable. In fact, little moss grows
on pines, perhaps because they usually occupy dry
tracts. Dealers, however, with one accord, declare
that pine moss is worthless.*
No attempt Is here made to reconcile the conflicting
claims of botanists who say that the moss takes nothing
from the tree, but simply hangs on It, and the moss buy-
ers who declare that the quality of moss depends upon the
species of the tree which bears It. Perhaps there Is lack
of data to support the statement that the moss prefers
certain species, other things being equal, hut willow seems
remarkably free from Its presence, while live oak, cypress,
tupelo, and haekberry though mixed with the willows,
are often loaded with it. In fact, observations In more
than thirty parishes of Louisiana, in course of this study,
failed to show a single Instance of moss growing on wil-
low, though dead bundles, carried by wind, frequently
hang on the branches of this tree.
As a forest resource, moss in Louisiana is in no
immediate danger of exhaustion. The present de-
mand is met without difficulty. Little moss is now
being gathered north of Lakes Pontehartrain and
Maurepas where much grows, and many other pro-
ducing regions are practically untouched. The de-
pletion of the supply will probably not come until
the swamp forests have been cut.
USES OF WOOD.
Manufacturers and others in Louisiana report
uses for different woods as follows:
AMERICAN HOLLY Brush backs.
BASSWOOD. Boxes, horse collars (bark).
BEECH. Boxes, crates, gearwheel teeth, heavy
wagon felloes, veneer, wagon bolsters.
BLACK CHERRY. Furniture, plane handles, to-
bacco pipes.
BLACK GUM. Boxes, crates, excelsior, ox yokes,
rollers.
BLACK JACK. Chair backs, chair seats, table
legs, wagon tongues, reaches, bolsters, sandboards,
felloes, spokes.
BLACK SPRUCE. Boat spars.
BLACK WALNUT. Taborets, screen doors.
BLACK WILLOW. Baseball bats, boats, boxes,
crates, furniture shelving, wagon beds.
BUCKTHORN BRUMELIA. Boxes, crosscut saw
handles, fence posts, small cabinet work.
CATALPA. Boat knees, brackets, newel posts,
small furniture.
CEDAR ELM. Chair stock, hoops, trunk slats,
wagon poles.
CHESTNUT. Caskets, coffins, office fixtures.
CHITTIMWOOD. Saw handles, wedges.
CIRCASSIAN WALNUT. Finish, furniture.
COTTONWOOD. Carriage panels, cracker boxes,
egg cases, excelsior, furniture shelving, kitchen
tables, sugar barrel heading, trunks, wagon beds.
COW OAK. Canthook handles, chair stock, furni-
ture, vehicles, axels, bolsters, felloes, hubs,
hounds, reaches, spokes, tongues, wagon bed bot-
toms, woven or braided chair bottoms and backs,
woven baskets for laundry and plantation.
CUBAN PINE. Balusters, bed slats, boats, boxes,
car siding, ceiling, doors, excelsior, flooring, frames,
grain doors, molding, wagon bottoms, weatherboard-
ing.
CYPRESS. Balusters, barges, beer vats, blinds,
boats, boxes, brackets, bric-a-brac, butter tubs, ca-
binets, car siding, caskets, ceiling, chairs, china
closets, churns, cisterns, coffins, columns, conduits,
cotton gins, cross arms, doors, doughtray, drying
racks, dyetubs, fence lath, finish, flooring, frames,
furniture, garden sash, gavels, hothouse frames,
hothouse sash, ladders, lath, mantels, milk buckets,
molding, motor boat finish, newel posts, panels, pat-
