January 1, 1912.]
THE LUMBER TRADE JOURNAL
5,400,000 feet. That is about twenty times the
average cut of the mills in the state of New York.
Owing to the fact that statistics for poles, hewed
ties, and wood distillation are not in form for use
in state reports, the total of Louisiana's forest
products cannot 'be given. Table 31 gives all avail-
able figures showing amounts. Though in cut of
lumber, the latest statistics show Washington, a
little ahead of Louisiana, the grouping of all known
data for each state shows that Louisiana's forests
yield more wood than those of any other state.
Whether an apportionment of hewed ties, poles, and
wood distillation to the states where they belong
would change the relative rank of these two states
cannot be told with certainty, but it would probably
leave Louisiana still two hundred million feet ahead
of any other state in total output. That may be
proper subject for congratulation by the business
men of Louisiana, but it calls up a question of a seri-
ous kind: How long will the state's forests hold
out with a drain of five billion feet a year, and what
is being done in the way of providing a future sup-
ply? It is a fact apparent to all who travel through
the state that the forests are not reproducing any-
thing like they do in some other regions.
'Young cypress trees are almost unknown, and
when the present stand has been cut, the end of
cypress lumbering in that region will come. Even
if young cypresses were coming on, it takes two
hundred years for one sawlog to grow. Longleaf
pine is in nearly the same situation. Occasionally
vigorous stands of seedlings are seen, but the areas
are usually small and far apart. The end of the
longleaf lumbering will come about as soon as the
end of the cypress. Longleaf pine seedlings have
bark so thin that a moderate fire kills them even
when they have reached sapling size and fires are
frequent in Louisiana. They do not attract as much
attention as the fires in the Northwestern states,
which frequently become spectacular conflagrations;
but as destroyers of future forests, it is not im-
probable that the slow, easy-going fires of Louisiana
do as much damage as those of Idaho or Wash-
ington.
There is a little more hope for the shortleaf,
loblolly, and Cuban pine in Louisiana, for they seem
to possess more vigor, reproduce better, and grow
faster, but unless those species are given some en-
couragement, they cannot supply sawlogs in quan-
tity sufficient to keep future lumber yards stocked.
In some parts of Virginia and North Carolina lob-
lolly pine overran abandoned plantations in past
years, and grew so rapidly that large lumber oper-
ations are now carried on in old cotton and tobacco
fields. The same pine would probably repeat the
process in Louisiana and solve part of the problem
of supply, if the chance were given; but the Louisi-
anans are showing no disposition to abandon their
plantations. Therefore, the future sawlogs must
come from elsewhere than from old fields. The
state has broad stretches of as fertile land as can be
found anywhere; but it has much other soil that
is thin, and it is the thin soil which must produce
the lumber, for the rich land is and will be in too
much demand for cultivation for much of It to be
spared for trees, except along swamp edges and
estuaries where willow and cottonwood will repay
well those who give them a chance to grow.
The people of the state might assure an ade-
quate supply of lumber by keeping the poor lands
growing pines, and the wet lands in willow, cotton-
wood, willow oak, white oak, and other oaks, red
gum, and a few others; but those things will not
come about of their own accord; and the present for-
ests are going at a rate never seen elsewhere in the
United States as the following table shows.
Table 31.
Summary of Louisiana's Forest Products.
Annual Output
Products. Peet B. M.
Sawed Lumber 3,551,918,000
Shingles 194,141,000
Lath 105,756,000
Tight cooperage 20,055,000
Slack cooperage 14,474,000
Veneer 3,164,000
Fuel *1,285,862,000
Total 5,175,370,000
This number is calculated on the basis of 600 feet
board measure to the cord of wood. The number of cords.
2,143,104, is taki-n from Forest Service Circular 181, "Con-
sumption of Firewood in the United Stall's.
