New Orleans, La., June 15, 1912.]
THE LUMBER TRADE JOURNAL
29
KINDS OF WOOD.
Common Name. Botanical Name.
Water hickory Hicoria aquatica ....
Water oak Quercus nigra
Whiteleaf oak Quercus hypoleuca . .
Wild china Saplndus marginatus.
Wild plum Prunus americana. . . .
Yellow buckeye Aesculus octandra ..
Yellow oak Quercus velutina ....
Yopon holly Ilex vomitoria
Quantity Average Total cost
Used annually. cost per f. o. b.
FeetB. M. Percent 1,000ft. factory.
Grown
Grown out
in Tex. of Tex.
Per ct. Per ct.
Totals 762,336,112 100.00 J13.30 $10,144,925 91.51 8.49
*Less than 1/100 of one per cent.
tThis and 79 species which follow were not reported by any manufacturer but were found in use.
suit it best, and when it finds conditions just right
it grows nearly or quite as fast as any tree in this
country. Twenty or thirty years will produce sinall
sawlogs, and twice that period suffices for trunks
occasionally two feet or more in diameter. Being
a waste land tree, ,it is worth the consideration of
those who think of planting woodlots for commer-
cial timber growing. Its light seeds are scattered
far and wide by the wind, and if suitable tracts are
made ready, the planting will generally be done by
nature if seed trees nappen to be in the viciinity.
The wood is strong and reliable, but not handsome.
Chestnut. Texas grows none of the chestnut
which its factories use, 'but Imports it from the
States in the Appalachian region, or the Ohio valley.
Though it is an excellent wood for certain purposes,
it does not belong in the indispensable class, and if
it were withdrawn from market its place could be
filled with something else. Considered for the whole
United States, it is probably the most important
wood in the manufacture of coffins and caskets.
Custom controls that use. Undertakers insist that
no reason can be given for the demand made upon
chestnut for burial cases, except a long-standing
custom which had its origin no one seems to know
where. The wood is still abundant, but the cut is
heavy, both for lumber and tanning extract; and in
recent years the appearance of a diseased condition
affecting this timber in some of the best chestnut
regions of the country has caused concern for the
future.
Chinquapin Oak. This oak seems to supply a
large quantity of wood to manufacturers in Texas.
It is possible that some reported by this name was
other oak. Its range does not extend westward of
the Guadaloupe Mountains, and it attains its best
size and form in the eastern part of the State.
Trees eighty feet high and three feet in diameter
are occasionally found. The wood is strong, of good
grain, and is serviceable for many purposes. The
leaf resembles that of the swamp white oak and
the chestnut oak, .though it is smaller than either.
Common Cottonivood. Texas is not a large pro-
ducer of this wood and in 1910 only fourteen mills
in the State reported any in their output. Many
mills cut small amounts and did not report it in
the census returns for that year. This tree is able
to eke out an existence in nearly any kind of soil,
and it can get along with comparatively little water,
but it does not prosper under such circumstances.
It wants plenty of moisture and a fertile soil to show
best results. It is a frontier tree, and not only in
Texas but elsewhere in the Plains States it was
found by explorers and first settlers miles in ad-
vance of the fringe forests of other species. The
seeds are light, and the wind carries them long dis-
tances. Some of the millions thus scattered found
lodgment near springs of water and in damp situa-
tions along water courses, and thus the outposts of
the forests were planted. The trees' custom of grow-
ing where the ground is damp often saved it from
prairie fires in the days when grass was burned
yearly. The fact that cottonwood grew farther out
on the plains than most other trees gave it an im-
portance in early years which it does not hold now.
Frontiersmen built corrals and barns of cotton-
wood logs when they could procure nothing else.
At the present time it has taken its place as a ma-
terial for manufacturing, and is bought and sold
on its merits as far as supply will permit. It is
becoming >scarce. The sawmill cut in the country is
less now than it was ten or twelve years ago. There
is no immediate danger that cottonwood will fail
entirely either in Texas or in the country generally,
but the best has already been cut in most States,
and dependence must be placed on young trees now
coming on.
Cypress. Cypress in Texas is of less importance
than the pines, and the yearly output of this wood
will likely decrease until it reaches a low place in
the State's list of natural resources. Nature has
confined it to overflow land and many tracts of that
kind in Texas produce no cypress. It grows in cer-
tain river bottoms, but usually not in extensive bod-
ies. The State has no large cypress mills, as Louis-
iana has, and the total cut is only moderate. There
are few young cypress trees coming on. When the
old trunks have been cut, or when they fall in course
of nature, their places will he left vacant, unless
some other kind of tree fills the openings. It is a
tree that grows very slowly, and two or three centu-
ries are required to produce a trunk large enougn
for first-class sawlogs. It can not 'be expected that
young cypress will be set apart for future cutting.
The returns will be too far in the future, and if any
tree planting is done, some species of more rapid
growth 'Will be chosen.
Douglas Fir. This wood was unknown in the
eastern and middle regions of the United States a
few years ago, ,and, as a comparatively new comer,
it has met with favor. Most of it is cut in Wash-
ington and Oregon, but it abounds in the nonrthern
Hocky Mountain States. A common name for it is
Oregon pine, and it is occasionally called red fir.
The trees attain great size, and very large timbers
are cut from them. In Texas it enters into com-
petition with longleaf pine probably oftener than
with any other. The two woods are much alike in
many ways. Both are very strong and stiff, and
are used tor similar purposes. Douglas fir is cut in
larger quantity than any other wood in the world,
except the southern yellow pines, and is so cheap in
the regions where it is produced that It is able to
force its way into markets hundreds or thousands of
miles away. Its high price In Texas limits its com-
petition with its great rival, longleaf pine. It costs
more than three times as much as the pine.
Evergreen Magnolia. This is not a timber tree of
first importance in Texas or anywhere else. A few
years ago it was seldom cut except in very small
quantities; but it was found to possess good quali-
ties, and now it goes regularly to the mills which
saw hardwoods in the region where it grows. The
wood of different magnolia trees, or even the wood
of the same tree, shows lack of uniformity. Some
of it looks like yellow poplar and compares favor-
ably with it in several particulars, .while other of
it is very dark, with hard flinty streaks which not
only presents a poor appearance, but dull the tools
ot the wood-worKing machines ana create an unfa-
vorable impression of the wood generally. Tnis
magnolia holds pretty closely to the damp lands in
eastern and southeastern Texas. The amount of
the annual cut is not known, because it goes in with
the minor species in most places and no separate ac-
count is taken. It is coming into more notice every
year, and some manufacturers have been so success-
ful in finding ways to make it serviceable that the
best grades are easily sold. The wood does not hold
its color very well. The light-colored sapwood is
apt to become darker after exposure to the air, and
the dark heartwood fades a little. The tree is so
handsome in the forest that it is occasionally spared
when the surrounding trees are removed. For
purely ornamental purposes it is one of the finest
of all southern trees. In the parts of Texas where it
grows naturally, it is destined to survive most of
its associates, and in years to come it may be re-
garded as more ornamental than useful.
Gamoel Oak. This tree will never be important
except locally. It is scarce in Texas of a size fitting
it for commercial purposes, and much of the woou
contains hard and dark colored streaks. When a
choice tree is found the wood makes good furniture
and finish. It is found in the western part of the
State where woods are scarce, and this gives it more
value than it would have if its range lay in the
wooded regions of the east. Nearly any kind of
tree is valuble when it is the only one to be had.
Hackberry. A good deal of confusion exists ia
Texas between hackberry and sugarberry. One is
frequently mistaken for the other. They are so
nearly alike, however, that for all practical purposes
they might be considered the same. Botanists more
than wood users try to keep them separate. Though
hackberry is cut in rather large amounts in Texas,
as well as in more than a dozen other States, the
census returns of the lumber cut of the United
States do not mention this wood, not even among
the minor species. That is because it loses its iden-
tity when it reaches the sawmill. Hackberry lum-
ber is seldom heard of. It goes as ash, or else by
no name at all. Users generally consider it not
quite as strong as ash, ,aud with grain and figure
less pronounced, but otherwise it compares favor-
ably with white ash. Mature trees often have little
or no colored heartwood.
Hickory. Texas is not an important producer of
hickory. Thirteen mills reported it in their output
in 1910, the latest census figures. Wood users lis?
less than 200,000 feet a year. Hickory approaches
its southwestern limit in Texas, and the species
known as pecan is the only one that is fairly abun-
dant, though five other species grow in the State.
Users of hickory generally make no distinction be-
tween the species in listing them for statistical pur-
poses, but they clearly recognize a difference when
selecting the material for use. Few manufacturers
will buy pecan hickory on equal terms with bitter-
nut, shagbark, or pignut. The six species of hick-
ory found in Texas are, mockernut (Hicoria alba),
pecan (Hicoria pecan), bitternut (Hicoria minima),
water hickory (Hicoria aquatica), shagbark (Hic-
oria ovata), pignut (Hicoria glabra). The only one
of these to attain its best development in Texas is
pecan. Along some of the water courses in the
southwestern part of the State, pecan trees grow
four or five feet in diameter.
Mahogany. Two species of mahogany are im-
ported by Texas manufacturers. The most common
is the American species, which, speaking from th
standpoint of the botanist, is the true mahogany,
the kind that has been in use four hundred years.
It is cut in 'Mexico, Central America ,the northern
States of South America, and the West Indies, and
is usually imported in the log. The other kind re-
ported in Texas is the African species. The two
bear close resemblance, and some manufacturers
prefer one and some the other. There are other
woods which pass commercially for mahogany, but
none were reported in Texas. Wood staining has
'been so far perfected that many common American
woods are finished in such close imitation of mahog-
any that they successfully pass for it.
Mexican White Pine. This tree is more abundant
in Mexico than north of the international bound-
ary, but it occurs in the southwest, where some call .
it Arizona pine, or simply white pine. Competent
judges have pronounced it the nearest approach in
good qualities to the white. pine of the Lake States
of all the woods of this country. It has not yet
been much used in the United States. Large and
fine forests of it are said to exist among the moun-
tains of northwestern Mexico.
Osage Orange This valuable wood is of peculiar
interest to Texas, because of its unique history and
because of its probable future importance when the
country shall be brought to depend on planted trees
for wood supply. Osage orange has been planted
in perhaps every State of the Union, and grows suc-
cessfully in most of them. It is one of the most
widely distributed of American forest trees, but its
distribution has been chiefly artificial. It was found
originally in a very restricted region, from which
it was carried for hedge and ornamental planting
far and wide. Its natural home, to which it was
confined when first discovered, embraced little more
than 10,000 square miles, and probably half of that
small area produced no trees of commercial size. Its
northern limit was near Atoka, Okla., its southern
a little south of Dallas, Texas; a range north and
south of approxximately one hundred miles. Its
broadest extent east and west was along Red River,
through Cooke, Grayson, Fanning, Lamar and Red
Kiver counties, Texas, .about 120 miles. Some osage
orange of commercial size grew outside the area
thus demimited, but no large amount. Much of that
region, particularly south of Red River, was prairie,
without timber of any kind; but scattered here and
there were belts, strips, thickets, and clumps of
osage orange mixed with other species. On the
very best of its range, and before distributed by
white men, this wood seldom formed pure stands of
as much as 100 acres in one body, and since the
country's settlement, the stands have become smaller
or have been entirely cleared to make farms. All
accounts agree that the osage orange reaches its
highest development on the fertile lands along
Boggy and Blue Rivers in Oklahoma, though fine
bodies of it once grew south of the Red River in
Texas, and much is still cut there, though the
choicest long ago disappeared. Few trees are less
exacting in soil, ,yet when it can make choice it
chooses the best. In its natural habitat it holds its
place in the black fertile flats and valleys, and is
seldom found on sandy soil. It is not a swamp tree,
though it is uninjured by occasional floods. The
tracts where its grows are sometimes called "bo-
dark swamps," though they are marshy in wet
weather only.
Thirty or forty thousand square miles of north-
eastern Texas are fenced with osage orange posts,
and nearly half of the houses in the same region
stand on blocks of this wood. It is equal to any
timber in this country in resulting decay. It has
been much used as bridge piling, and to a less ex-
tent for telephone poles. Ten or twelve thousand
wagons are made yearly with osage orange felloes.
The wood shrinks and swells very little, and wheels
