Dec. 20, 1962 A Meroitic Tomb Inscription 7
ing wetneeineqeli is impossible (ibid., 13, section 3). A variant
also occurs in inscription 1 from Faras (Griffith 1922: 570)
in the second half of which mklh [Great God? (Griffith 1912:
57)] replaces the name of Osiris.
Section (b). This section gives the name of the deceased,
which is referred to in the literature as the A name. As in some
other inscriptions the name is introduced by the expression
qe, which Griffith renders tentatively as "the honorable." The
expression qewi regularly follows the name of the deceased and
it is not often separated from it by a word divider. Hence the
name is Mli-wes, the prefix mli indicating that it is a woman's
name (Griffith 1911: 55). This prefix is often separated from
the rest of the name by a word divider.
Following this we find eight parallel phrases listing people
who stand in some sort of relationship to the deceased. In their
fullest form these phrases consist of a title, the person's name,
and a word describing the relationship between him and the
dead person. Griffith (1911: 38) called this last word the
descriptive phrase. Grammatically it stands in apposition to
the name of the deceased. The terminal particle lewi (which
sometimes replaces qewi in the preceding phrase may either
represent a copula or be for emphasis (ibid., 35). Two descrip-
tive phrases which very frequently occur in funerary inscrip-
tions are absent here. These are tedhelewi and terikelewi. The
former follows the name of the mother (the B word) of the de-
ceased, and the latter that of his father (the C word) and they
seem to give a reading: A borne by the woman B, begotten of
the man C. On the other hand six of the sections in this inscrip-
tion contain the descriptive phrase kditelewi which is unrecorded
in Griffith's word lists. Griffith (1911:38, 39) lists two forms
beginning with kdi (which is believed to mean "woman"), kdis-
betewi and kdithci, both of which are associated with feminine
A names. Taking the forms which are known, it would seem to
be composed of kdi (woman?) and telewi (the locative particle
plus the copula? lewi). Telewi, however, seems to be added
only to place names (Griffith 1911 : 23, 40). If, as conceivably
might be the case, te was written here as a variant for te, the
genitive suffix, then this word might be closely related to kditcwi
and be read "a woman? of A." But this sort of comparison,
