8 Postilla Peabody Museum No. 72
which has constituted the main approach to the study of
Meroitic grammar so far, tends to provide little in the way of
satisfactory solutions to such problems in the absence of a
more fundamental break-through in the study of the language.
Sections (c) and (d). Despite the lack of a divider, the ini-
tial s in line 3 undoubtedly belongs with the final word on the
preceding line. Pelmes, a variant of plmes or pelmes, is derived
from the Egyptian p* imy-r ms' meaning st rat egos or com-
mander. The form pelmes adblis does not appear in the word
lists but seems to be a variant of pelmes adblite, with a genitive
particle s substituted for the alternative (?) genitive particle
te. The expression is translated "commander of the land" or as
Zyhlarz (1956: 33) has suggested "commander of the deserts."
The closely related term "commander of the water" is written
pelmes atelis and pelmes atelit (Griffith 1912:64). The last
portion of the name Adilememe is the same as that of the name
Arlememe occurring in inscription 24 from Faras (Griffith
1922:583).
Section (e). qntkleb may be a person's name or it may con-
sist of the root qntk plus the plural particle leb. Neither form
could be located elsewhere. The leb ending would seem to make
a personal name less likely.
Section (f). hrphfi and variants, a civil title believed by
Griffith (1922: 567) to refer to the governor or leading person
of a community, in rank inferior to a paqar and a pesate. phrs
(Pachoris) is the old name of Faras ; te is the locative particle.
Hence "a civil official in Pachoris."
Sections (g) and (h). apete, from the Egyptian ipwty, mes-
senger or envoy; aremelis, "of (the) Rome." Presumably the
so-called ^-genitive here has the force of a dative, as Griffith
(1911: 72) himself has suggested. The considerable number of
people holding this title would suggest that it is applied to
individuals having dealings with Roman Egypt, perhaps to
government sponsored traders. Hence the title may mean some-
thing like "agent to the Romans." yetmdelewi is a common des-
cripive phrase rendered as "cousin of" or "kinsman of" (Grif-
fith 1912: 65).
Section (i). The first word seems to consist of apete plus kzi
which is sometimes added to a noun to give it a feminine form.
