Dec. 20, 1962 A Meroitic Tomb Inscription 9
Hence it would appear to read "a female ambassador." Here,
however, it may well be used as a person's name as Griffith
(1911:59) shows a variant to be used elsewhere. The terminal
yi is unaccounted for. tkitelewi seems to be another unlisted
descriptive phrase.
Section (j). The first three words have been made plural by
the addition of the suffix leb. This list of titles may either be
resumptive or refer to Mli-wes's relatives (?) in general. The
descriptive phrase used here would seem to be a plural form,
since it contains a 6-infix. But such a form has occurred only
once before in an inscription commemorating a single person.
This is in inscription 99 from Karanog, and Griffith (1911 : TO)
believed it to have been written inadvertently. Moreover the
tezci-endmg normally becomes tebkwi in the plural. Hence a
completely different word or form may be involved. The ending
betewi occurs in inscriptions 89 and 125 from Karanog (See
Griffith 1911: 40).
Section (k). The form ate introduces the terminal formula
Type A, the commonest and invariably the first of a number of
such titles, ate is rarely separated by a divider from the follow-
ing letters, which in almost all the variants of this formula are
ms. msb is found in Type Ae (Griffith 1911: 46) but here any
resemblance between our inscription and an} 7 of the varieties
listed by Griffith ceases. The second word is very carelessly
written and may be read several ways. It does not bear resem-
blance to any other of the types of terminal formulae, except
perhaps a crude and unconvincing one to type F (Griffith 1911 :
52), and hence it would appear that we have here only one for-
mula. Griffith (ibid., 46) suggests that the general meaning of
this phrase is "abundant water may you drink," this wish being
made on behalf of the deceased for his afterlife. The formation
of the various forms is exceedingly speculative and no purpose
could be served in discussing them here
CONCLUSIONS
As can easily be seen in the preceding discussion, there exists
at present only a rudimentary understanding of the Meroitic
language. The sound values of the letters have been generally
