Dec. 20, 1962 A Meroitic Tomb Inscription 11
Despite plundering and reuse, this Meroitic funerary in-
scription from Toshka West has been preserved virtually in-
tact. It appears to date from the third century and commemo-
rates a woman whose name was Mli-zves. She has no specific ti-
tles, although this is often the case when women are commemo-
rated. Her name is followed by a list of the names and titles of
a number of individuals whom we presume to be her relatives. In
spite of orthographic peculiarities all the titles which are listed
are known, with the possible exception of qntk, if it is a title.
Although close parallels exist for the name apetekdiyi, we are
not sure that it is here being used as a personal name. A search
of the literature has failed to turn up occurrences of the other
personal names in the inscriptions from the Meroitic cemeteries
at Karanog, Shablul (Griffith 1911), and Faras (ibid., 1922).
The inscription is somewhat unusual in that the formulae giv-
ing the names of the parents of the deceased are lacking. Also
several new descriptive phrases are found here.
This text is of interest since it one of the very few Meroitic
funerary texts to have come from the Toshka-Arminna region,
and the only one preserved intact. Junker (1925: 104) found a
few fragments of broken funerary inscriptions in the Meroitic
cemetery at Arminna East, and a few more have been found by
the Pennsylvania-Yale expedition at the village site at Ar-
minna West. These are as yet unpublished. Apart from a few
graffiti scratched on rocks and a number of inscribed potsherds
from both Toshka and Arminna, these constitute the entire cor-
pus of Meroitic writing from this section of Lower Nubia.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The 1962 excavations of the Peabody Museum of Yale Uni-
versity and the University Museum of the University of Penn-
sylvania were directed by Professor William K. Simpson of
Yale University and were supported by the E. B. Coxe, Jr.
Fund of the University Museum, a grant from the Bollingen
Foundation, established by Mr. Paul Mellon, to Yale Univer-
sity, and by a grant of the Department of State through Pub-
lic Law 480. The author's participation in this year's work-
was facilitated by a grant of the Augusta Hazard Fund of
