2 Postilla Peabody Museum No. 72
The stela, on which the inscription was carved, was found
face up and reused among the blocks in the largely denuded
superstructure of a Christian grave numbered TW-A 198. The
superstructure was of the type found by Monneret de Villard
(1935: 132-141) at er-Rammal. Without much question the
stela had been plundered from one of the Meroitic graves
nearby for use as a building block. Since none of the Meroitic
superstructures were preserved, however, it is impossible to dis-
cover from which grave it came. Funerary inscriptions were
generally written either on offering tables or on stelae, more
commonly the former. The stelae have a variety of shapes and
apparently were set up in little shrines which projected from
the front walls of the Meroitic superstructures (Griffith, 1911:
29). Sometimes representations of the deceased were painted or
carved on these stelae, but more often there was only a text.
The Toshka West inscription is engraved on a block of grey,
fine to medium grained Nubian sandstone. It has been given the
Pennsylvania- — Yale expedition number TW-A 198.2, and was
assigned to the expedition for a subsequent division of finds be-
tween the University Museum and the Peabody Museum. The
block is roughly rectangular, though the left side tapers slightly
toward the base. Its measurements are: height 52 cm, width
40-45 cm, thickness 6.5-11 cm. The inscribed surface undulates
slightly but is smooth except for some ridges in the lower right
hand corner. These antedate the inscription. There is no evi-
dence that this face was artificially worked, and it seems to be
merely the natural, sand-scoured surface of a local rock expo-
sure. This contrasts sharply with the carefully leveled surfaces
of the fragments of two funerary stelae found by the expedi-
tion at Arminna West. The block was apparently quarried by
scoring it along the sides and top edge and then prying it
horizontally along the lines of natural bedding. The back is
domed where large flakes were knocked marginally from the top
and sides in order to lessen its weight. The sides were then
smoothed near the upper face though traces of the scoring and
prying still remain visible underneath. The upper edge, which
suffered accidental chipping at a later time, was probably
meant to be convex. Below the inscription the face of the block
was quite rough, and no attempt was made to square this sec-
