PHYSICAL FEATURES OF NOVA SCOTIA. — MURPHY. 135
ourselves whether these markings were caused by a slow grind-
ing process, or by the abrasion of icebergs striking, rocking or
slipping on an inclined rock surface, we will, I have no doubt,
conclude that the former, viz, the slow grinding process, was the
much moie likely to produce them.
If we judge from efFect, there is no leason whatever that Dr.
Hone3'man's theory, which is, also, I believe, that of Sir William
Logan and Professor Hind, that larger masses of ice moving in
glacial form over the surface, and carrying with it pebbles and
boulders, is not the correct one to assign to the work performed.
There are so many evidences which tend to establish it, both
from a mechanical and theoretical point of view, that it would
be superfluous here to mention them. They are plainly given
in Dana's text-book of American geology, as well as by Profes-
sor Tyndall and other writers, who have made the subject a
study.
We cannot, however, stop here : there are other features to be
accounted for; they are, viz: — The old sea beaches and a local
drift, which must have occurred at a more recent period. For, if
these beaches then existed, and also the local drift, which I shall
hereafter more particularly refer to, any glacial movement must
have carried them with it, and deposited them elsewhere in a
much more irregular manner than their present appearances
would indicate.
I have been considering this matter, and give some notes on
the subject for what they are worth.
Every practical miner in our gold fields knows (for every
miner in Nova Scotia is also a prospector or searcher for paying-
quartz leads on its surface), that if he finds a boulder shewing
gold, he will invariably look for the lead or quartz vein to the
north of where he finds it, so sure is he of finding the lead to
correspond in width and richness as is indicated by the boulder,
and that he will exhaust, probably, all his means in the search, or
succeed in the find. The direction in which to prosecute the search
and the distance, which will vary generally, according to the
depth of the drift, is so well understood as to become proverbial.
The quartz boulders are not at all weather-worn, their edges
