PHYSICAL FEATURES OF NOVA SCOTIA.— MURPHYi 137
their existence to originate from Moraines, because they appear to
be of similar constitution to our sea beaches of to-day.
In a paper read by Mr, Gilpin, Government Inspector of Mines
for this Province, before the North of England Institute of Mining
and Mechanical Engineers, he says :- — " There seems to have been
two periods of attrition and transportation. The efiects of the
earlier are now visible in immense " boar's backs " from 50 to 150
feet in height and sometimes a mile in length, following a general
north and south course;" and again he says : "A second and more
local action is also visible, and by its agency the auriferious veins
are usually found. This action has carried the quartzite and
slate boulder from 100 to 1800 feet, on a coui'se corresponding
very nearly to that of the stripe. Thus prospectors finding
auriferous quartz boulders, costean to the North, and frequently
trace the boulders to lodes corresponding in every respect to the
boulders first found."
If our surface, as is shewn by research, has undergone great
and remarkable vicissitudes during geological history, with alter--
nating epochs of genial temperature and snow and ice, the
striation and polishing of our rock surfaces may have been effected
by glacial action; and subsequently another, and less destructive
movement of the same nature, may have taken place which might
account for the local drift according to the theory of Mr. Gilpin.
1. Geological.
Commencing at the shore of the Bay of Fundy, we first en-
counter a thick bed of Amygdaloidal trap, varying in calour from
gray to a dull red. It is full of cavities and fissures filled or
coated with quartz and other associated minerals. It forms the
face of a clift" and rises vertically to a height of 110 feet, and
from thence rises gradually with its associated slates and schists,
until it attains a height of 595 feet in a distance of three miles J
from thence it descends to the Annapolis valle}^, 345 feet below
the summit, within the distance of a mile.
We have now crossed the North Mountain, a narrow ridge not
more than four miles wide at its base, and attaining a height of
nearly 600 feet, and have reached the Annapolis Valley, which
from here to the Village of Nietaux, a distance of 7 miles, is of
