PHYSICAL FEATURES OF NOVA SCOTIA — MURPHY. 141
The general character of the surface for the last 16 miles is
that of a long, rich agricultural valley, bounded on each side by
a continuous line of hills of various forms and surfaces. The
timber is heavy, pine is fi'equently met with ; but the growth
principally varies with the varied surface of the land.
The country, so far, sketched along the line of survey, ought
to be understood as being local. There are many thriving settle-
ments and farms, not mentioned here, lying in close proximity.
DRAINAGE.
The southern promontory of Nova Scotia lying west of the
64'' of longitude, embracing the counties of King's, Annapolis>
Digby and Yarmouth, on the north and west, and those of
Shelburne, Queen's and Lunenburg, on the south and east, are
very marked both as to typography and drainage, extending in
a south-westerly direction beyond the 6Q°, between the Bay of
Fundy and the Atlantic Ocean. The South Mountain range of
elevated land extending from the Basin of Minas to near Anna-
polis Royal, in the same south-westerly direction, and from thence
converging more southerly through the County of Digby, forms
the grand features of the country and regulates its drainage,
disposing of its surface water from the northern slopes through
the rivers Annapolis, and Cornwallis, which run respectively
south-west and north-east to the Basins of Annapolis and Minas.
The Windsor and Annapolis railway found an easy location
along these rivers, which traverse the two beautiful alluvial
valleys of Cornwallis and Annapolis, famous for their natural
fertility.
The physical features of the country south of the South Moun-
tain, are very different to those described on the north side,
instead of the rivers receivino- the drainag-e and running laterallv
with them, they run at right angles to them, and course nearly
parallel to each other. Such are the Gold E-iver, LaHave, Port
Med way, Liverpool and Jordan rivers.
The summit of the water-shed is crossed between the Nictaux
and LaHave rivers ; these rivers here interlace and cross each
other in a series of lakes lying in an extensive plateau.
