142 physical features of nova scotia — murphy.
Topography alono Annapolis and Liverpool Line of
Survey.
We started from the Annapolis and Yarmouth " Interior
survey" at a point distant from Annapolis llf miles near Quarry-
Road, on the east side of East Branch, Moose River. The line
folloAYS the course of the stream to the Hessian line road, which
it crosses at one hundred and twenty-nine feet east from the
bridge. Thence keeping the east side of the stream, and gradually
ascending the side hill, with a grade of one in ninety, or 58'7 feet
per mile, till it reaches Lake Katy, where it crosses the river at
the outlet from lake. Continuing along the east side of Lake
Katy to near Virginia Settlement, it crosses the road bearing
that name and thence follov/s the general course of that road till
it arrives at Mud Lake, crossing the head of same and thence
running direct to the lake known as " Head Waters of Liverpool
River." Having arrived at the " Liverpool Head," we were then
on the southerly slope of South Mountain, and on the water shed
of Liverpool River.
The distance of this summit from Liverpool, in an air line, is
nearly fifty-five miles, and the elevation five hundred and sixty
feet above the sea. Keeping the west side of lake, crossing
Sandy-bottom Brook and Virginia Road, running along the south
of the latter for one-fourth mile, recrossing the same, and keeping-
its north side to Liverpool and Annapolis post-road at Milford^
following the road through Milford Settlement ; thence along the
western side of Long Lake, keeping the general course of post-road^
and following the western side of Branch Lake, and the same side
of Maitland River to Five Mile Lake, and from here along the
western side of Liverpool River we arrive at Millford.
The slopes of the adjoining hills are well covered with heavy
timber, pine, spruce, hemlock, and hardwood.
Leaving Caledonia, the line crosses the course of the lake, near
the post road, Mr. Moor's farm road and the *' naiTOWs " of
McLeod's Lake, keeping the valley along same, crossing Smith's
mill brook and entering a meadow, distant from Brookfield one
half mile.
Leaving Brookfield and taking a south-easterly course, the line-
