PHYSICAL FEATURES OF NOVA SCOTIA. — MUEPHY. 148
crosses Payzant's and Cameron's farm roads, runs close to Chris-
topher's Lake, and crosses Cameron's river, at up-stream side of
bridge on main post-road, between it and Bear Trap Lake to a
stream bearing the same name, following the westward side ot
lake to the 45th mile, thence to the western side of Moose Horn
Lake, crossing- Seventeen Mile Brook at about one half mile from
main road, striking Greenfield and Sixteen Mile Settlement road,
about two miles from Greenfield.
Thence the course taken continues across Fifteen Mile Brook
and through Allen Morton's pasture, about one-fourth mile from
Middlefield, meeting the new Greenfield road at a distance of
150 feet from the main road, and taking the east side of the
latter to Ten Mile Brook, which it crosses at one hundred and
twenty feet from the bridge on post road ; again crossing this
road, it strikes the eastern side of Ten Mile Lake.
Most of the ground over which the survey passes in this dis-
tance of fifteen miles is almost denuded of alluvial surface.
Continuing along the east of Ten Mile Lake, and the west side
Liverpool and Annapolis road, the line crosses the Liverpool
River road at three hundred feet from its junction Avith the
main post road ; thence running for and keeping the east side of
Liverpool Eiver to Milton. This distance of ten miles is through
a well-wooded but thinly-settled country.
Milton, two miles from Liverpool, although having distinct
characteristics from the latter, may be considered as an extension
of that town, and, judging from the appearance presented by its
buildings, as well as the extent and lesources of the mill privi-
leges more or less made available for the manufacture of
lumber, it is not the less important. The Liverpool River here,
for a distance of nearly two miles, is a series of small lakes or
pools, impounded by mill dams, and made to pay easy tribute of
its strength on its journey.
The mechanical force thus stored and so aptly utilized by the
predecessors of the present generation, for the manufacture and
export of Lumber, proved so remunerative that comfortable
homesteads, nestling in shady nooks, half embowered by trees
and sombre woods, remain as a transcendant example of the
fruits of industry, skill and perseverance.
