144 PHYSICAL FEATURES OF NOVA SCOTIA. — MURPHY.
SOUTHERLY SLOPE — SOUTH MOUNTAIN.
If we were to follow a course along the South-eastern or
Atlantic slope of the South Mountain, keeping parallel with the
trend of its summit and lower than the granitic outcrops, we
would traverse a district of much interest which is known to
few, and would find many places obscure and lonely, possessing
great natural beauty and fertility. Along the southernmost slope,
this belt, varying from ten to fifteen miles in width, is reticulated
by many green patches of foliage and luxuriant growth of
timber, exhibiting remarkable contrast with the barren denuded
surface of a great portion of the country further down. If you
would follow this varied yet regular range of landscape, alter-
nating with lake and woodland, many strange phases of primitive
grandeur would present themselves. Some noble forest trees of
vigorous growth, some far gone in years, some shattered by the
winds and frosts, bent and bioken, lying athwart their neigh-
bours, others long since departed yet still bolt upright with their
bare white rampike branches atop, and here and there small
clumps of new growth shewing all the beauty and vigour of
youth. Further on is the "hardwood hill," with its stately
white limbed birchen or maple, shewing smooth firm trunks and
wide protection of bough, as regular and as trim as if pruned
and trained by the expert to beautify some lawn or avenue in the
frequented and ornamental parks of Europe. Rising from a
carpeted floor of crisp leaves, at remarkably regular distances
apart for their convenience of gi'owth and development, these
trees, indigenous, clothe receding hill sides for many miles. We
notice that the lines are somewhat finely drawn between the
domain of each of its kind, each generally keeping within its own
boundary. There are, of course, many intervening patches of a
mixed growth of pine, birch, maple and others, yet generally
speaking, the first named three keep within the zones of their
kind. Long vales of meadow, with a copious covering of grasses,
frequently are met with. They generally encompass lakes,
or border streams on alluvial or peaty surface, and often open up
glades that permit the eye to range over a prospect beautiful
and extensive. Rosignol, with its clustered islands, secluded
