NOVA SCOTIA FRESH-WATER SPONGES — MACKAY. 145
and solitary, the lai'gest of our inland lakes, is exceedingly
pleasing and picturesque — here expanding into a broad sheet of
limpid glow, there presenting nan-ow wav}' outlines in the sombre
shadows of islands that look as if afloat, and bearing mast like the
spruce and hemlock which give them a trim and characteristic
appearance ; and again we come unawares on long winding
armlets branching and converging with fringed borders of willow
and alder, that dip their pendant branches into the water, all
giving a semblance of vastness to this natural landscape scenery,
that when once seen is not easily forgotten.
The Mic-Mac has for ages established this secluded retreat,
commonly known as the Indian Gardens, as the centre of his
hunting operations. Here in summer he can provide himself with
fish, and in winter he is in the path of the Moose or Elk, that
still roam at large and almost unmolested over the vast tract
of wilderness. The Beaver, too, is still active in the lakes and
swamps along this district, and although his domain, like that
of the Moose, is fast becoming circumscribed, he yet furnishes
some winter sport and employment to the hunter and trapper.
Art. IX. — Notes on Nova Scotia Fresh- water Sponges.
By a. H. MacKay, B. A., B. Sc.
(Read 12th May, 1S84.)
About the middle of August, 1883, I spent a few hours
examining the Macintosh Lake, near the north-eastern extremity
of the Cobequid range, and the Earltown Lakes, a little higher
up on the same range, with the obiect of learning the nature of
the deposits at their bottoms. Having extemporized a small
raft on the former lake, I paddled out a little distance, and with
my face close to the water, saw old branches of trees in the
bottom, with patches of a thick green growth surrounding por-
tions of them, sometimes bearing short finger-like projections.
Drawing these up, I made my first practical acquaintance with
a fresh-water sponge. On the hard, gravelly beach of a small
