146 NOVA SCOTIA FEESH- WATER SPONGES — MACKAY.
island in the centre of the lake, I found green sponges branching
out four or five inches. The external configuration of this
sponge was sufficient to point it out as Spongilla lacustroides,
Potts, the American form of the European S. lacustris, which it
much resembles. The deposit in the lake was chiefly composed
of the exquisitely sculptui'ed silicious cells of over fifty different
species of diatoms to which I shall specially refer in another
paper, mingled with a great number of the skeletal and other
spicules of more than one species of silicious sponge. Among
the plants of the higher orders the waters had an abundant
suppl}^ of Potamogeton, namely, P. natans L. and Var. prolixus
Koch., P. praelongiis, Wulfen, and P. ohtusifolius, Mertens and
Koch., and Naias Jlexlis, Rostk, of the same family, and of the
Gentian family, LiinnantheTiium lacunosiim, Grisebach, with its
floating, heart-shaped leaves, while eriocaulou sei^tangulare
Withering, and Lobelia Dortmana, L., studded the shallows. In
the Earltown lakes the following were, in addition, plentifully
found : Ranunculus aqiiatiliso, Var., trichophyllus, Chaix, and
Chara fragilis. Also, near by, in a pond just below McKay's
mills, a luxuriant mass of Nitella flexilis was found. The
altitude of this position will be probably not very far from 1000
feet above the sea level. Mackintosh Lake, which is a little
lower, and on the north-eastern side of the water shed, is most
easily accessible from Pictou County, near the boundary of
which it is situated, a few miles above Loganville, on the West
Branch of River John, yet in the County of Colchester. The
waters of both lakes are very clear, and the drift around the
Mackintosh especially, is characterized by the presence of
granite.
I have had but little time to follow out the collection and
study of the sponges since the accidental discovery alluded to. I
shall therefore throw this paper into the form of notes, or of a
report of progress, hoping to be able to give more complete in-
formation by the end of another year. I shall now simply des-
cribe the freshwater sponge as a mass of reticulated or
channelled sareode, green, when exposed to the influence of the
light, supported by a framework of interlaced silicious spicules,
