NOVA SCOTIA FRESH-WATER SPONGES — MACKAY. 147
about the one hundredth or 12 one thousandths of an inch in
length, (See slides, Nos. 2, 3, 5, &e.) In the sarcode is another
system of smaller generally cured and tuberculated spicules,
averaging from 2f to 3 one thousandths of an inch. (See Nos.
1, &c.) And thirdly, we have in the statoblasts or reproductive
gerumules which are generally formed towards the close of the
summer season in the body of the sponge, what are called the
statoblast spicvdes, smaller than the others, forming the best
basis for classification. I have sent specimens of the material
collected to H. J. Carter, Esq., F. R. S., of England, the author
of the " History and Classification of the known species of
Spongilla," the latest and most authoritative monograph on the
subject. Mr. Carter kindly assisted, and sont me specimens of
some English and American forms. The following is a summary
of what is already known : —
S'pongilla lacustroides, Potts. — This species I have found
growing abundantly in the Mackintosh and Earltown lakes. It
probably also exists in the water supply lakes of Halifax, judg-
ing from the appearance of some of the skeletal spicules-
in their deposits received through the kindness of Professor
George Lawson, of Dalhousie College. There is a great rarity
of statoblast spicules in the lake deposits examined. This will
not be so surprising when it is considered that in the specimens
of spongilla collected in August last, of which some dried
fraoments are here for examination, when treated with acid
to destroy the organic matter, only skeletal and flesh spicules
are to be seen, as in slides Nos. 1 and 2. Slide No. 5
.shows the spicules, all three kinds, of 8. lacustris from the
Exeter River, England, obtained from a poi'tion of a speci-
men sent me by Mr. Carter. The statoblast spicules are few,
more curved, broader than, and not tapering like, the flesh
spicules. The corresponding ones of >S'. lacustroides would
be less curved. On slide No. 3 are shown the spicules of
another species in addition to the first named, which I was sus-
pecting to be those of S. fiuviatilis from the large tuberculated
skeleton spines, and the impression that they had come from a
large though not branching sponge wdiich, from the unexpected
