148 NOVA SCOTIA FRESH-WATER SPONGES — MACKAY.
character of the discovery, I had unwittingly mixed up with S.
laciiLstroides. However, I discovered none of its stellbate biro-
tules, and neither Mr. Carter nor Mr. Potts, of Philadelphia,
have observed any evidence of the existence of this species in
lacustrine deposits sent thern.
Meyenia Leidii, Carter. — Slide No. 10 contains the skeletal,
desh and small birotulate statoblast spicules obtained by the
acid treatment from this sponge which comes from the Schuyl-
kill, Philadelphia. A few birotules like this have been observed
in the lake deposits, from which the presence of the species is
inferred. I have not been fortunate in securing one in any of
my mounts.
Meyenia c>'«feri/brma.— Slide No. 12 shows the spicules of
this species, the large hooked birotules being in great numbers.
This also comes from the Schuylkill. A few birotules like these
have also been observed in the deposits alluded to, but so rare
that none happen to be in any of my mounts.
Meyenia Everetti, Mills. — Birotulate spicules, identical with
those of this species, are found one in each mount on an average
in the Halifax Water Lake deposits, which I received from
Professor Lawson. Slide No. 15 contains one if not two near
the rio-ht hand lower maro-in of the cover. It is smaller than
the birotule of M. crateriforina, with the shaft quite smooth'.
Slide No. 84 contains 14 skeletal spicules of the most common
form from Earltown lakes, arranged in the two lower lines of
the lower right hand rectangle. Accompanying the slides which
explain themselves is a small box with dried portions of 6'. lacv^-
stroides and some of the fresh water deposits from both
Mackintosh lake and the Earltown lake. The amount of silica
derived from these waters and formed into diatom cells and
sponge spicules must be very great, as the deposits are in some
places very many feet in depth.
Note. — Since the above paper was presented, the author has
observed nine species of freshwater sponges, f/bur genera) living
in the lakes of Nova Scotia. Of these, two, viz., Spongilla Mac
Kayii, Carter, and Heteromeyenia Pictovensis, Potts, are now to
science. They will appear in next year's Transactions.
