156 A PAPER— BY WM. GOSSIP.
the Atlantic that a learned association has been introduced to a
community under more exalted or more favourable auspices. It
will go down to posterity as a worthy conception of the Repre-
sentative of Her Most Gracious Majesty, her si>n-in-law, a noble
Governor-General, anxious for the advancement and piosperity
of a countrj' whose interests were committed to his charge — a
country than which none other on the face of the earth possesses
in a greater degree the elements of national greatness. With his
name also, as its founder, must ever be identified, that of his
royal consoit, the Princess Louise, whose august presence among
us is an evidence alike of the confidence of the Imperial Govern-
ment in the unswerving loyalty of the Dominion, and of the
parental reliance of the Sovei'eign on our zealous affection
towards her person and government. Various, therefore, as may
be the nationalities of which our country is couiposed, more em-
phatically than ever may we now claim Great Britain as the
Mother Country, and under the segis of her unrivalled constitu-
tion combine to work out to their fullest fruition all those
political, commercial and national advantages, which have so
freely and lavishly been bestowed upon us.
With a centralized Institution like the Royal Society, so well
calculated to promote the advancen.ent of science, it would be a
remissness of the duty we ow^e to ourselves, if the Nova Scotian
Institute of Natural Science failed cheerfully to respond to your
invitation to unite with you and to lend its aid to facilitate and
promote your high objects. When, therefore, with a true liber-
ality which did you honour, and was perhaps expected, you held
out the right hand of fellowship, and so deigned to endorse our
humble labouis, we hailed it as a formal recognition of the
brotherhood of science, not limited by colonial or national
boundaries, but expansive as civilization, and wide as the worhl.
We felt glad of youi- desire to affiliate, and I am here to-day to
show to you that we rejoice in your biotherhood. It may not,
therefore, be out of place, being one of its oldest members, and
with your permission, if I devote a few short sentences to inform
you of our origin and history.
The Nova Scotian Institute is placed by you among the chief
