A PAPER — BY WM. GOSSIP. 157
scientific associations of British America, although but little more
than twenty years in existence. Short, however, as its time has
been, it may be said so far to have done good service.
The Institute originated with a few gentlemen who believed
that in a Province which contained vast mineral resources, and
further was an untrodden field in other branches of natural
science, there would be found men of culture and experience who
wouW gladly lend their aid to develop them into successful
activity. After seveial meetings in the office of Mr. Robert
Halibuiton (well known in this city, i. e., Ottawa) the Institute
was organized and the officers appointed. This was in January,
1863. Our first President was Mr. J. Matthew Jones, F. L. S.,
an English gentiemen who had acquired some distinction as a
naturalist. I became its first Secretary. The Provincial Govern-
ment gave us the use in the Province Building of the only spare
room at their disposal. The first or second meeting (I forget
which) was attended by His Excellency the Earl of Mulgrave,
Lt.-Governor of the Province, and since Governor of Queensland,
and more recently has succeeded to the hereditary title of Lord
Normandy. He made an excellent speech, commendatory and
congratulatory of the enterprise, which I regret to state has not
been recorded in our Transactions. The inaugural address was
deliveied by P. C. Hill, Esq., more recently the Premier of the
Nova Scotian Assembly. In the first volume of our transactions,
embracing a period of four years, will be found papers on the
Provincial zoology, geology, mineralogy, ichthyology, gold fields,
ethnology, conchology, lepidoptera, meteorology, and other bran-
ches of science, to which I need not more particularly allude.
Coming from a country so little known as Nova Scotia then was,
this volume seems to have commanded considerable attention,
and applications from scientific societies abroad were frequent
for exchanges with their own publications, and soliciting corres-
pondence. These were responded to so far as we were able
until now most of the earlier volumes of our Transactions have
been expended. We thus early realized the anticipations in the
inaugural address of Mr. Hill, who, after some preliminary
remarks on the value of well organized over individual efforts,
