158 A PAPER — BY WM. GOSSIP.
modestly observed : — " Should our hopes not be disappointed, we
look forward to the time when our ' Transactions' shall be
exchanged with older and more important institutions, and any
new or well authenticated fact having passed the ordeal of our
own local organization, shall be submitted to the great centre of
science, and become the property of the whole world. "
But it was not so much the early accomplishment of the re-
sult thus anticipated, as a conviction of the Institute, that it
was within the scope of the talent and ability of its members to
command attention both at home and abroad, and to enter upon
a high career of usefulness whenever they choose to bestir thetn-
selves. They lost no time in doing so. The inaugural being
disposed of, the first scientific paper, appropriately devoted to^
practical zoology, was read by Dr. Bernard Gilpin, a naturalist,
well known in British America and the United States as the
Nova Scotia Zoologist. He furnishes an exhaustive description
of the herring of our coasts, clupea elongata, and its peculiaiities
and species, which leaves nothing to be desired. In further
numbers he enlarges upon the Zoology of Nova Scotia, and to all
who are curious or desirous to be instructed in such matters, he
has so identified himself with the natural history of every fish,
bird, r-eptile and mammal of the country, and so accurately
described and illustrated them, that future writers or readers
will requir-e no other guide on these br-anches of the subject.
This first paper was read Feb. 2, 1868.
Other papers followed in rapid succession, to wit : — By Capt.
(now General) Hardy, " On Nocturnal Life of Animals in the
Forest ;" further on, " On the Caplin, Mallotus VUlosus," of
which he gives a most interesting and animated descr-iption.
By this paper the fact not hitherto settled was established, that
the southern limit of this ancient fish, an inhabitant of the deep
in the days of the tertiary period, and found fossil near Montreal,
is the coast of Nova Scotia, which it frequently visits. By
Thos. Belt, who was afterwarxls distinguished as " the natur^alist
of Nicarajjua," " On Some recent Movements of the Earth's
Surface." By Heni-y Poole, Superintendent of the Albion Mines
