A PAPER — BY WM. GOSSIP. 161
Micmacs was derived, and have reason to believe it is not a proper
designation. If there are Irishmen and Scotchmen in this assem-
blage, they may by putting their heads together be able to guess
at a solution of the problem. I once asked an intelligent Squaw
the question. She did not know. " They were becoming so mixed
that no one knew." A more ancient and euphonious name for
them is that of Souroquois, which has a French sound, and
certainly divides the honours with that of Micmac. I believe
that neither is correct. Neither can it be " Mignog, which some
suppose it to be." I have never been able to discover it from the
Indians themselves, who inherit little or no tra'litions except
some legendary ones. In conversation once with an intelligent
Micmac I asked him how they came to be called by that name
The question seemed rather to puzzle him for a moment, and he
replied by asking another, " How you come to be called Blue
Nose ? Micmacs, I suppose, come in same way." Then, said I,
you are not Micmacs ? " Not very much." said he. The Rev.
Mr. Rand, of Nova Scotia, a Baptist Minister, than whom no one
alive is better acquainted with our Indians, who has lived
amongst them, preached to them, and done all he could to improve
their morality, and make them adopt more civilized habits, replied
as follows to a question I submitted to him on the subject :*
Perhaps one cause of his failure to influence them may be that
they are staunch Romanists and will not be otherwise persuaded.
There is no direct evidence from which to prove the extreme
antiquity of the Algonkin race ; but the man himself and his
works are before us from which to deduce the fact. His natural
colour is that of the Adam, and remains unchanged, except
through intermixture with other races. He lived in a rude camp
or wigwam made expressly for removal from place to place, and
never intended for permanent settlement. He is a hunter and
fisher, and a wanderer from the beginning, and may have com-
NoTE. — 1 regret that the letter of Rev. Mr. Raad, replying to my question, has
gone astray since the cipy of this paper was prepared and furnished for the
press. So fnr as I can recollect, it implied that the tribe were very strong men
— head crushers —could bent nil crention. and gave the true tribal name as Buc-
towec/e —which has much the same signification, and may be translated as " strong
driak," the strength of which, uufortunately, the Micmacs are too foud of prov-
ing. —W. G.
