164 A PAPER — BY WM. GQSSIP.
Society which is .so patronized and upheld, that it may ahnost be
deemed a Government Institution, at the saine time while it is so
distinct, as to prove that its chief support must depend upon an
appreciation of its merits by the people. Hitherto whatever has
been done in this respect has been with little or no extraneous
aid and assistance. Take our Institute as an example. After
veiy creditable progress, and increasing popularity for several
years, the pressure upon its funds for necessary maintenance had
become so severe, that an application had to be made to the local
legislature, which granted a small annual sum, then, and still,
very acceptable, which enables us to look the Province in the
face with a creditable annual Book of Transactions, and in this
way to repay the obligation by making the country better
known both at home and abroad. But we aie still indebted to
the generosity of individuals for a place wherein to hold our
meetings, and a place to keep our library, which is becoming
valuable in many original publications. We are not able to
build a hall of science as was sanguinely contemplated, nor are
we able to procure out of the funds at our disposal, such publi-
cations connected with our object, as we would like to call our
own. I do not affirm that the interest has abated which was
inspired at the biith of our Institute, certainly it has not
beyond the confines of Nova Scotia, but wilh the strain upon
the knowledge and the active intellect of our members, it is
rather wondeiful that their energies have proved equal to the
demand upon them, or that its meetings are regularly held. It
may be within the bounds of probability that the Royal Society,
as a head or centi'al Institution, with a position so well secui'ed
and acknowledged, may be able to supply by its influence just
the momentum that is so much required to remedy some of those
defects. Most likely our case is that of all Provincial or
Canadian societies affiliated with it. They will without doubt
desiie to preserve their independence in their separate Provinces,
and all alike deserve consideiation. It may not be right there-
fore that the aid of the Government should be bestowed on one
Institution exclusively, but a discriminating assistance to all
miffht be afforded througch one well recognized channel, to be
