A PAPER — BY WM. GOSSIP. 165
claimed as required, by proper application and well proved
necessity. I throw out the suggestion for what it is worth.
Something of the kind is required to secure the proper control
and efficient working of the Royal Society, and I hope for it a
fair degree of attention.
I might enlarge upon other matters favorable to ourselves and
to similar efforts elsewhere, but neither time nor opportunity
serve at present for more extended observations. I will remark,
however, in conclusion, that the Dominion, with regard to every
element of national progress, occupies a proud and enviable posi-
tion amongst the nations of the earth. We reckon up our
ancestry from the Norman conquest, without much thought of
the wonderful Providence which has consolidated the nation, and
guided it through the chaotic and brutal ignorance of that early
period, to the contrast of its present proud rank and develop-
ment, at the acme of civilization and refinement and progress in
art and science of the nineteenth century. How unmeasurably
superior is our position. To us the offspring of all the nation-
alities of our remote ancestry, whose blood is commingled with
that of the Saxon, the Norman, and the Gael, the habitants of
an hemisphere of which no knowledge then existed, is the fusion
bequeathel which has made us all Englishmen and Britons, and
developed the greatest nation the world ever saw. We are the
heirs of all their progress, to mould the future of this vast
Dominion, — not to rest here, — but to carry it onward to a far
greater expansion. " No i^ent up Utica contracts our poivers."
The vast extent of our country and its surprising fertility.
Its settled constitutional government and perfect freedom.
Its healthiness of climate everywhere. Its frontage on two
oceans so favorable to commerce. Its mineral and finny wealth, —
are all bases of advantage which point to a glorious destiny. It
needs no spirit of prophesy to foretell the result if true to our-
selves. We have already an earnest of progress towards that
€nd, in the spread of our manufactures fostered by an enlighten-
ed government — in the liberal institutions which are conferring
their blessings on the land and helping the consummation — in
our Hoyal Society and cognate institutions, under the highest
