GEOLOGICAL NOTES^^-HONEYMAI^. 167
"middle carboniferous" formation and of the synclinal to the
Joggins section. Proceeding, we passed into the red sandstones
■of the lower carboniferous. At a distance of about 11 miles, we
seemed to come to the end of this. I expected as much, from
the proximity of the line to a road and river section that I
made from Spring Hill to Five Islands. (Vide Paper, year 187~.)
From this onward, to a distance of about four miles, all is
obscured by drift. From the analogy of the section just referred
to, as well as for reasons which I shall adduce in the sequel, I
consider that the underlying rocks ai-e Archaean. In the other
section, lower carboniferous conglomerates come in contact with
the granites without the intervention of other pre-carboniferous
formations. The I. C. R. section has the Wentworth series,
which I consider to be of lower silurian age, intervening between
the lower carboniferous and archasan. ^^ide Paper 1870.^
Proceeding I observed outcrops of rocks to the east of the
railway, and masses of rock even on the line, which are evi-
dently metamorphic. On the other section, near Five Islands^
we have 2^ miles of metamorphic rocks, which I regard as
silurian, and as probably the extension of the Londonderry ferri-
ferous series. Underlying Parrsboro', we have probably the
extension of the Harrington river rocks (Five Islands), which
produced carboniferous fora and fauna.
PAEESBORO' AND PARTRI'DGE ISLA>?D.
In a walk along the road I had an opportunity of examining
a carboniferous series, which is considered to be synclinal to the
preceding. The upper beds of these, which are thin sandstones,
and grey and black shales, have a northerly dip in 7-5° and an
cast and ^west strike— ^they are seen crossing the road below
Parrsboro'. They are, therefore, synclinal to the Parrsboro'
series. The outcrops on the road farther on seem to have the
same high dip. The shore sections east and west of the pier, are
evidently of the same character. In some of these — -a red sand-
stone — Mr. Gilpin found carboniferous fossils, — shells. I was
surprised to find them where I expected to find Triassic Sand-
stones. On the shore section east of Parrsboro', these were seen
