168 GEOLOGICAL ISTOTES — HONEiTVTAN'.
and distinguished by their bright red colour. These were also-
observed to the west of Cape Sharp. The intervening part of
the formation has been evidently obscured by glacial and post
glacial marine denudation.
PAE,TRII>GE ISLAM>.
This island, or rather peninsula, is very interesting. Walk-
ing over the rocks, we found tlie tide conveniently low, so as-
to enable us to compass it. The east side is basaltic and bold ,
—some of it having a "causeway" aspect. Numerous veins are
seen permeating the basalt. These are generally jaspideous or
ehalcedonic ; some appear to be magnetite, — a specimen was
found among the basalts. At the point the rocks are split, so
as to form an easy passage to the western side, when the tides
are rising. On this side the rocks are more interesting to the
collector. They are afnygdaloids, &c., and other traps, replete
with minerals in veins, gledes and amygdules. Here we col-
lected beautiful specimens of minerals and amygdaloids — the
latter for the purpose of comparison — with boulders, in the drift
of Halifax and other places. Coming to the north side, we saw
a tine section of triassic sandstones-. They were seen to dip
towards the eruptive rocks, and at the junction to be overlaid by
them. They were thus dipping in a direction contrary to the
carboniferous of the shore. This may be considered a continua-
tion and a termination of our section.
PASSAGE FHOM PARRSBORO' TO WINDSOR.
On board of the steamer "Hiawatha," we made further obser-
vations. Clearing Partridge Island, we observed Cape Sharp,
with its triassic and eruptive rocks. Easterly in the distance
was seen Cape d'Or, having an insular appearance in conse-
quence of a mirage. Succeeding was Cape Split, with its fan-
tastic peaks, and the grand ridge of eruptive rocks ending in
Cape Blomidon. The day was exceptionally clear, so that dis-
tant objects could be seen with great distinctness. Blomidon
was beautiful, with its great stretch of underlying bright red
triassic sandstones, overlaid and crowned with dark basaltic
and other trappean rocks. Rounding the cape, we admired its-
