LOUISBURG— PAST AND PRESENT. — HONEYMAN. 191
Art. v. — LouiSBURG— Past and Present. A Historico-Geo-
LOGicAL Sketch. — Rev. D. Honeyman, D. C. L.,
F. R. S. C, &c.
{Read April I3th, 1S85.)
LouiSBURG is situate on the south-east side of the Island of
Cape Breton, in lat. 45° 55", and in long. 59° to 60.o It lies thus
in the meridian of Standard time of Nova Scotia and the 16
hour meridian of Cosmic time. It is S'^ 40° east of Halifax, and
is the only place of notice in this meridian. It is first known in
History as Havre a I'Anglois or English Harbour. It was so
called as it was a place of resort for English Fishermen. This
was its name previous to the year 1713. By the treaty of
Utrecht, Cape Breton was ceded to France ; it then received the
name L'isle Royal. On its cession the French proceeded to fortify
it, chiefly, by the erection of one Stronghold. The Port St. Anne,
called also Port Dauphin and Havre a I'Anglois became rivals
for this enviable distinction. La Ronde Denys says " Port Sainte
Anne is without contradiction the finest Harbor in the world.
It would cost only half the expense to make the fortifications
there that it would at Port I'Anglois, as the materials are at hand.
My deceased grandfather, Denys, had a fort there, the vestiges
of which are yet to be seen."
Charbeois, says, " The sole inconvenience of the Port St. Anne,
which every one admits to be one of the finest Harbours in the
New World, is that it is not easy to make it. Havre a I'Anglois
is considered to be of easy access and reputed to be generally
free from ice. Another recommendation is, it opens direct into
the Atlantic Ocean and consequently cannot be blocaded by an
enemy." These considerations led to its selection as the future
stronghold. Louis the Fourteenth was then King of France.
After the " Grand Monarque " it was named Louisburg.
In 1714 Queen Anne died, and George the 1st, Elector of
Hanover, succeeded to the Throne of Great Britain. In the
following year Louis the Fourteenth died. His successor was
his grandson, Louis the Fifteenth. As the latter was under age.
