192 LOUISBURG — PAST AND PRESENT. — HONEYMAN.
Philip the Duke of Orleans became Regent. It was during his
regency" that the French were engaged in laying the foundation
of the Cit}^ and Fortress Louisburg, in the year 1718.
The first Governor of Cape Breton and Louisburg was M'de
Costabelle, who was transferred from Placentia Bay, Newfound-
land, when it was given up to Great Britain by the Treaty of
Utrecht, With him were transferred the French inhabitants of
Placentia Bay. These, with others from France, Cana:da and
Acadia, formed the first population of Louisburg.
In the year 1723 the regent died, and Louis XV. assumed the
reins of power, while only fourteen years of age.
In 1727 George I. died, and George II. succeeded him. At
this time the Governor of Louisburg was M. de St. Ovide, who
had been lieutenant du Hoi under M. de Costelello.
In 1732, Louisburg was considered to be almost impregnable ;
about 30,000,000 livres, or 7,500,000 dollars, had been expended
on its works. It had a strong citadel, and several other forts
and batteries, well mounted with cannon.
In 1744, the garrison consisted of 600 regulars and 800 militia.
At this time wars arose in Europe ; thus, Maria Theresa, of
Austria, had succeeded her father, the Emperor Charles VII., in
1740, but the Elector of Bavaria was made Emperor Charles
VII., at Frankfort, in 1742, and claimed the Austrian possessions.
The King of France took the part of the Elector, while George
II. aided Maria Theresa. France and Great Britain were thus
ranged on opposite sides. War was consequently declared by
France against England, and England against France, in 1744.
Duquesnel, who was then Governor of Louisburg, received inti-
mation of the declaration of war two months before it was
received in Boston, and immediately commenced hostilities. He
sent M. de Vivier, with armed ships and 900 men, to Canseau,
which was captured without opposition, and the inhabitants,
who capitulated on certain conditions, were taken prisoners to
Louisburg.
CITY AND FORTIFICATIONS OF LOUISBURG, IN 1745.
Looking at the chart before me, we are reminded somewhat of
the Oity of Paris^ inclosed within its fortifications. Our plan is
