LOUlSBtJRG^PAS* Ai^D PRfeSENl— HONtitMAif. 19^
from a survey made by Richard Gridley, lieutenant-colonel of
the train of artillery at the siege in 1745. We could not well
have better authority for our subsequent description. The scale
is 300 feet to the inch.
The city and its fortifications occupied a tongue of land which
formed the south-west side of the harbour. The suburbs seem to
have been sparsely settled. The only settlements indicated in
the map which accompanies the plan, are along the north-east
side of the harbour. The city is divided into squares. Its streets
run east and west and north and south. Of the former there
are six in number, of the latter there are seven. The main
street is No. 3 from the north. It extends from the Maurepas
Gate on the east, to the Grand Parade, on the west. On this
street is situate the hospital and the nunnery. The hospital on
its north side is otherwise bounded by the second street on the
north, and by the second and fourth cross streets, counting from
the east the third cross street is intercepted by the hospital, and
terminates on the main street. The nunnery on the south side
of the main street is otherwise bounded by street No. 4 and No.
5. There is a square between this establishment and the grand
parade. Other buildings named are the ordnance store and the
general store. Attached to the former are the arsenal and bake
house. Adjacent is the fortification stores. These occupy a
grand square in the north-west cf^rner of the city. There are
three gates having names, viz., Maurepas Gate, already referred
to, at the east end of Main Street. Queen's Gate at the south
end of the second cross street, and Frederick's Gate on the
north, opposite the seventh cross street leading to the harbour
near the general store, and which is called the Key Curtain and
the West Gate. The length of Main Street from the Maurepas
Gate to the Grand Paiade is 1500 feet. This is the greatest
length of the city The street north of it is 1300 feet in length.
This is shortened by the great pond which is on the north-east
side of the city. It extends, however, farther west than the
main street, as the latter is shortened by the Place of Arms of
the citadel, which is on the west of the Grand Parade. The 4th
eross street has a lenoth of 1300 feet, The fifth street is 1200
