194 LOUISBUEG — PAST AND PKESENT. — HONEYMAN.
feet long. These two represent the greatest breadth of the city.
Length of the city 1300 to 1500. Breadth 1200 to 1300.
FORTIFICATIONS.
On the east side of the City, we have on either side of the
Maurepas Gate, guard houses, then the Talus or slope of the
Rampart and Rampart, then a broad ditch crossed by a bridge
150 feet in length. On the left (N) of this is the Maurepas
Bastion, and on the right (S.) the Brouillan Bastion. In front of
the Ditch and Bastions is the intermediate angular place of arms
with Traverse on either side, Ramparts and Glacis with entrance.
The south-west side has its fortifications. The chief is the
Citadel or King's Bastion. I have already said that this isi
situate on the west end of Main Street and the west side of the
Grand Parade. This is an exceedingly strong fortification. It
has a spacious Place of Arms and Glacis towards the Grand
Parade. There is a Guard House near the entrance to the City.
There are then two Covert- ways with two Traverses, between
these is the entrance to the Citadel. The entrance crosses a
ditch which is about 50 feet wide. In the inside we have (1st)
the Chapel next the entrance. In a line with this, occupying
the south-east corner, are (2nd) the Governor's Apartments.
In a similar position on the north-west corner are (3rd) the
Barracks, The sides adjoining 3rd and 2nd have Casements.
Beside the Barracks is the Parade. The four sides are bounded
by the broad ditch which extends along the whole series of,
fortifications, and hence in our description may be called the
Great Ditch. Its length is about 3000 feet, and its breadth
from 100 to 200 feet. On the other side of the Ditch is the
Covert-way, and then the Glacis. Opposite (west) north corner
is a Place of Arms with Glacis. Here there are neither Traverses
nor outward passages. The distance from the foot of the
Glacis of the Place of Arms on the east to that of Glacis of the
Place of Arms on the west is 2900 feet. This running along the
length of the City represents the extreme length of the City and
fortifications.
