lOUlSBUfeC— fAST AND PRESENT. — fiONEYMAN. ID?
'?>5giments were raised and equipped in 50 daySj^xinder the com-
mand of Sir Wm. Pepperill. A British Fleet under the command
x>i Commodore Warren assisted. From Boston the Expedition
proceeded to Canso.
On Sunday, Apiil 29th (0. S.) they sailed from Canseau. On
the 30th the British Fleet and transports anchored off" " Flat
Point," in Gabarus Bay, which lies to the S. W. of Louisbourg,
■"but the foi^ces were prevented from landing by a detachment
from the city." At Kennington Cave, in the same bay which
was subsequently so named, the New England Forces landed
before the detachment from Louisburg could come round to
-oppose them. The distance between this and Low Point is a
mile and a half.
On May 2nd the settlements on the N. E. side of the harbour
Were destroyed by the besiegers ; on which, the garrison in the
"Royal Battery" immediately dcvserted it.
" On May 26th the English attempted to take the ' Island
Battery' when 60 men were drowned and 116 taken prisoners."
"The English Battery, erected at the Light House on the N.
E. side of the entrance to the harbour, on June 11, demolished
the Island Battery." •
" This important fortress was taken on the l7th of June, 1745,
after a siege of 49 days and the loss of 100 men killed and 30
that died by sickness." These quotations are from notes on our
-plan and map.
CONTEMPORARY EVENT.
The battle of Fontenoy, Belgium, was fought the same year,
■{1745).
CELEBRATION OF VICTORY.
The ne\\^ of the fall of Louisburg reached London on July
-23. The event was celebrated with the customary demonstra-
tions of joy. The firing of guns in the Tower and Park, the
illumination of London, blazing bonfires, and the ringing of bells.
"Sir Wm. Pepperill was created a Baronet, and Commodore War-
ren was promoted Rear Admiral of the Blue. ' *
A glorious reception was accorded to Sir Wm. Pepperill, Bar^
•onet, and the Hon. Admiral Warren when thev reached Boston
