1&8 LOUISBURG^— PAST AND PRESENT. — HONEYMAN".
on the 25tli June, 174G. The speaker and representatives also'
tendered their cong-ratulations. In 1746 Louisburg had become'
the head military quarters of the British. The New Englanders,
numbering about 1500, occupied the place from the time of its
surrender. These were succeeded, in Autumn 1745, by two-
regiments of foot and three companies of another regiment.
In the same year a fleet was sent from France for the purpose
of recapturing Louisburg, and also Nova Scotia. This was
under the command of the Due d' Anville. Contrary winds,
storms and other casualties proved fatal to the fleet and its
commander, and Louisburg remained undisturbed. We find,
however, that the new proprietors were much discontented with
the state of matters existing in these new acquisitions, and gave
full scope to their complaints. Knowles, the Governor, sent such-
doleful representations to the Duke of Newcastle that the British
authorities seem to have considered Cape Breton and Louisburg
not desiiable possessions, so that it is not surprising to find that
" This place was afterward,s restored to the French by the treaty
of Aix la Chapelle." In 1748 the war between England and
France, which began in the spring of 1744, came to an end, and
(lape Breten again became a French possession by the treaty.
The British Parliament voted indemnity to the colonists for
expenses connected wnth the conquest of Louisburg. The sum
voted amounted to £235,749, 2s. 10|d. sterling. As the same
treaty secured Nova Scotia for Great Britain, it was considered
advisable to fortify Chebucto as a naval and military station.
Cornwallis, who had been appointed Governor, strongly recom-
mends this step in his despatch to the Duke of Bedford, the
Secretary of State. Cornwallis sends one of the transports to
Louisburg on the first of July and four others on the fourth, ta
transfer the English Troops from Louisburg to Chebucto. Col.
Hopson, who had been the English Governor, delivers up the
place to M. des Heblier, the French Commandant, embarks on
the 12th with the two regiments under his command, and shortly
after arrives at Chebucto.
Of the Governor Desheblier, Cornwallis bears the following,
testimony, '" I am extremely sorry to hear that M. Desheblier
