LOUISBURG — PAST AND PRESENT, — HONEYMAN. 201
This was probably erected when the British were engaged forti-
f}dno- Halifax harbour.
The battery is on the point of the tongue of land on which
Louisburg is built. Between it and the city is the burying
ground and a " Lime Kiln." It is semicircular, commanding the
harbour and its entrance as well as the outside, between the
tongue of land and Black Cape. The latter lies between the
latter and the former.
At Black Cape there is " A battery (c.) erected by the French
to oppose the English landing."
At White Point, S. W. of Black Cape, and east of Gabarus
Bay are " Lines B. B." erected for the same purpose.
At Flat Point, 1| miles (W.) in the bay where the "British
fleet and the transports anchored in 1745 " are also " Lines B. B."
Here is Artillery Cove, or Fresh Water Cove, into which flows
Fresh Water Brook. In the cove, farther west, (subsequently
called Kennington Cove) " whei-e the New England forces landed
in 1745," are "Lines B. B. to oppose the English landing." In
the harbour, north of the city, are anchored " French Ships,"
President, 74 ; Entreprenant, 74 ; Capricieux, 64 ; Celebre, 64 ;
Bunfaisart, 64; Diana, 36; Echo, 26; Apollon, 50; Chevre, Biche
and Fidele. In the mouth of the harbour the Island battery, and
the English battery at the Light House. The land forces are 24
companies of Marines, 2 companies of Artillery, 2nd battalion
Voluntaires Ebrangers, 2nd battalion reg. de Canbere, 2nd battal-
ion de Reg. d'Artois, 2nd battalion de Reg. de Bourgogne, 3000
soldiers and 700 cavaliers. By comparison.it will be observed
that now the British odds was overwhelming. On May 28th,
Admiral Boscawen sailed for Halifax, fleet and troops. He was
joined by General Amherst and General Bragg.
On June 2nd the fleet with about a third of the troops an-
chored in Gabarus Bay. They were then arranged as follows,
off" White Point : " The White Division, Detachments of the
Bio'ht Wing. Brio-ad ier General Whitmore ; Colonels Burton
and Foster ; Majors Prevost and Darby. In front (right) the
Squirrel, frigate; left, the ship Sutherland, 50 guns. About \
of a mile to the right, a detachment of the Right Wing."
