202 LOUISBURG — PAST AND PRESENT. — HONEYMAlSr.
Off Flat Point is the Blue Division, Detachments of the Left
Wing;, Brigadier General Laurence, Colonel Wilmot, Lieut. Col.
Handfield ; Majors Hamilton and Hussey. In front (centre) the
Shannon, frig^ate ; on the right Diana, friojate ; on the left Gram-
ment, frigate.
Off Kennington Cove is the Red Division, Grenadiers, Irregu-
lars, Light Infantry, Highlanders. Brigadier General Wolfe ;
Colonels Fraser, Fletcher, Murray; Majors Murray, Scott, Far-
quhar. In front is the Kennington Frigate. On the left (front)
between the troops and the land is the Halifax, snow. On the
shore about | of a mile N. W. of the Kennington is " (A) the
place where the English landed."
About sunrise the Kennington and Halifax, snow, began to fire,
this was followed by the Gramment, Diana and Shannon in the
centre, and the Sutherland and Squirrel on the right. After a
quarter of an hour's firing the boats upon the left rowed into
shore, commanded by Geneial Wolfe. Lieuts. Brown and Hop-
kins and Ensign Grant, with about 100 light infantry, gained the
shore over almost im-practicahle 7'ocks and steeps to the right of
the cove (A). General Wolfe directed the remainder of his com-
mand to f)ush on shore. Light Infantry, Highlanders and
Grenadiers rushed on intermixed. General Whitmore with his
command made a feint of landing at White Point. General
Laurence's division did the same at Fresh Water Cove. The
enemy's attention was thus drawn to every part and prevented
from concentrating at Kennington Cove. General Wolfe having
landed at the left of- the cove, attacked the enemy and forced
them to retreat. As soon as this division was landed, the centre
and the right division followed. The pursuit ended with a can-
nonading- fiom the town. This seemed to indicate the rangre
and position for encampment. In our chart we have " The
encampment of British troops during the siege in 1758." It is
in the form of the half of an ellipse. The south-west end is at
Flat Point or Artillery Cove. The north-east is near a small
brook that enters Barasoi and the harbour. Its extremities are
distant two miles. The middle is nearly two miles distant from
the city fortifications. Then we have Greenhill half a mile west
