XOUISBTJRG — PAST AND PRESENT. — ^^HONEYMAN. 203
■6i the city (X) with "The Epaulments." This was one-quarter
of a mile long, 60 feet wide and 9 feet deep, consisting of gabions,
fascines and earth (X), The plan of operation now, as suggested
hj Col. Bastide, engineer, was to make their approaches by
•Grienhill, to connect the camp with the light-house battery by a
road, i-edoubts and bloct -bouse around fhe liarbour, and to use
the light-house battery for the destruction of the ships, and in
silencing the island battery. The French destroyed their battery
(C) at Cape Noir, and all the other buildings, and left nothing
standing within two miles of the town walls but ruins. They
also destroyed the light-house battery and spiked the four guns.
Wolfe marched round with 1200 to the light-house, sent guns,
etc., by water, and took possession of the ground and outpost
which the French had abandoned. "The Epauhnent " at Green-
Ihill was made 60 feet wide, -9 feet deep, and five-eights of a mile
long. Between OreenhilJ and the City we have the "First line
•of approach " at a distance of a quarter of a mile from the city.
:Still nearer is the " Second approach," extending to the harbour
•on the north, and a distance of about 200 yards from the Dau-
phin Bastion, and 3S0 yards from the Citadel These works
extend from the e«,stern extremity of the "Epaulment" and
stietch the whole rear of the city — from the Dauphin to the
Princess Bastion. On the 20th the island and ships began to
iire at tlie batteries on shore. On the 25th the liofht-house
battery had silenced the island battery. On the 29th the Eng-
lish were at work on the road between the encampment and the
light-house battery. The French now sunk four vessels in the
mouth of the harbour, 1st the ApoUon, a two decker, whose
position and name is seen on our charts.; the Fidele, of 36 guns;
La Chevre and La Biche, ©f 16 guns each — cutting off' their
anasta. This reduced the number of their ships to 6, as the Echo
2iad been captured previously by the Tuno and Scarl>ero, on her
'leaving the harbour for Quebec. July 1st, a Fiench party were
driven in by Wolfe and Scott's light infantry. 2nd, The French
'Continued their canonade, and sent out parties to skirmish. 3rd,
Their canonade was heavy. At this time Wolfe was making an
.advanced work on iis right to bear on the Citadel Bastion ('2nd
