204 LOUISBURG — PAST AND PRESENT — HO^TEYMAN:
approach}. During the bombardment that succeeded " The bar-
racks, government house and church were burnt. Each cannon
shot from the English batteries .shook and brought down im-
mense pieces of the ruinous walls, so that on a short cannonade-
the Bastion du Roi, the Bastion Dauphin and the Courtin of
communication w^ere entirely de-molished,alt the defences ruined,,
all the cannons dismounted,, all th« parapets and banquets razed,,
and as there was one continued breach, an assault was possible
everyM'here."— Description by a FremcJi Officer. On the 2Gth
July all the French batteries were in ruins, all their cannon
disabled, all their men-of-war were captured or destroyed. The
inhabitants petitioned M. Drucourt ta surrender. Articles of
capitulation were agreed upon, and Louisburg and Cape Breton,
a second time became a British possession.,
ADMIRAL BOSCAWEN.
In the collection of medals of the Provincial Museum there is
one of rude make, which commemorates the last siege of Louis-
burg. On one side is an effigy of Admiral Boscawen, and the-
inscriptio-n "Admiral Boscawen took Cape Breton." On the
reverse is a representation of Louisburg and its bombardment-
with the fleet in the bay. Above is "Louisburg," and at the
foot "July 26, 1758." The medal w-as found in New Jersey,,
1875, and presented by Mr. Hamilton.
The plans of Louisburg, to wdiich I have referred so often,,
were published by Thomas Jeffreys, Geographer to the Prince of
Wales, at Charing Cross, Oct. Otli. l7o8. Presented to the^
jnuseum by the late Archbishap Hannan.
HISTORY CONTINUED.
In the year 1759 we find Vdmiral Saunders, with his squad l•on^,
off Louisburo- and unable to enter the harbour on account of
the ice. On May 14 he again came to Louisburg and found the
harbour open. This was in anticipation of the expedition to.
Quebec, Louisburg being a rendevous in common with Halifax.
By the 26th of June we find Admiral Saunders and General
Wolfe at the Isle of Orleans, a fev/ leagues below Quebec.v
Whitmore Avas then Governor of Cap at Louisburg,
