LOUISBURG — PAST AND PRESENT — HONEYMAN. 205,
On Feb. 9th of the following year, 1760, (Secretary Pitt sent
the King's orders) orders came from England to demolish and
raze the fortifications of the town and harbour of Louisburg,,
and to transport garrison, artillery, stores, and useful building
material to Halifax. Nine months after the fortifications were
razed and blown up, the Key Curtain destroyed, every glacis
levelled, and everything of use transported to Halifax. This
was in the 46th year of the reign of George, second, and the 37
years of Louis XV. reign. Thus in the course of 57 years Louis-
burg rose, culminated, and set. It had a short but eventful
history.
The close of the seven year's war and the peace of Paris oc-
curred in 1^63, i. e. three years after the destruction of Louis-
burg.
In September, 1861, I visited Louisburg, shortly after it had
been visited by Prince Napoleon. The object of my visit was
more for geological than historical investigation. Finding no-
thing of geological interest between Mira Coast and its Carboni-
ferous (coal) Formation and Louisburg harbour, as all the rocks
were obscured, I made my way to the shore at North Cape
near the light-house. Here I saw stretching along the shore a
magnificent expanse of Syenitic rocks, which I did not expect to
find. They were of reddish color with Iwoad green bands. I
aecured a specimen representing this interesting feature. At
that time I regarded the rocks as of igneous origin and uncertain
age. With Dr. McLeod and others I then visited the ruins of
Louisburg, and examined them. The orders received for the
demolition and razing of the fortifications were certainly faith-
fully executed, still there are interesting remains that seem to
mark the place where the fortifications stood. Here are what is
styled remains of the " Bomb proof vaults." There are three of
them which were used as sheep pens, sheep taking shelter there
and making an organic deposit. There are evidently portions of
the casements which I have indicated from the plan as formings
part of the King's Bastion or Citadel. After lingering as long a&
our time would permit we proceeded towards Gabarus Bay. I
had aeen molybdenite taken from the rocks of Gabarus, and it.
