i^OVA SCOTIAN ICHTHYOLOttY. — HONEYMAN. 231
without cartilaginous rings penetrating the palate. One medium
tooth on the palate, and two comb-like series of teeth on the
tongue. Branchial apertures at a great distance from the head.
The inner branchial ducts lead into the sesophagus. A series of
mucous sacs along- each side of the abdomen. Intestines without
special value." — Oiinther.
In the naturalist's library it is called GaMerobranchus cwcus.
it is so named as its gills are on the belly, and as it is blind.
Huxley places in the order Marsi'pobranchii — Marsipos a pouch
hranchia gills, as its "gills are sac-like, not ciliated." — (Intro-
duction to the Classification of Animals — London, 18G9. Gun-
ther says — "Its eyes are rudimentary, and are covered wath the
muscles and skin." Linnseus at first classed it amongliis order
Vermes. Worms — Nat. Lib.
One specimen was brought to the Museum by another Devil's
Island fisherman. He caught it at a distance of 70 miles from
the island, and in depth of 54 fathoms. It was twisted round a
trawl hook. When brought it was living, and very active. It
had secreted a large quantity of ^lime in the tin can. Its lam-
prey affinities were readily recognized from its eel-shape and
the form of its mouth. I put it into a large glass jar, and filled
it with fresh sea-water, that I might keep it alive and study its
movements. It lay quiet at the bottom for nearly an hour,
during this time it secreted a large quantity of slime. Lifting
it up in the vessel, it became quite active, wriggling and moving-
its barbels. On referring to Gillis' Catalogue of Fishes, I readily
identified it as Myxine Gltitinosa slime-fish. Referring also to
vol. 37 of the Naturalist's Library, I found a picture of myxine,
which, in its main featui-es, depicts our specimen. Consulting
Ounther, the identification was complete.
Next morning I found it dead and suspended in the water.
It is 18 inches in length. Its girth near the two branchial
apertures is two inches. The nostril at the extremity of the
head has two pairs of barbels ; two pairs are at the mouth. The
distance of the branchial apertures from the nostril is oh inches.
Its colour is light brown, — lighter on the abdomen. On either
