PEESH WATEB SPONGES OF NOVA SCOTIA — MACKAY. 233
Art. IX. — Notes on the Fresh Water Sponges of Nova
Scotia. By A. H. MacKay, B. A., B. Sc.
When examining the diatomaceous deposits of our lakes, we
always found present in greater or less abundance the silicious
spicules of fresh water sponges. In some of the material exam-
ined there appeared to be even a greater amount of silica deposit-
ed as sponge spicules than as diatom cells. A search for the
origin of this spicular deposit, has revealed, up to date, the exist-
ence of four genera containing nine species of fresh water
sponges, which form a part of the living fauna of Nova Scotia.
In the summer of 1884, in company with Hector Mclnnes, Esq.,
of the Pictou Academy, and John H. MacKay, Esq., Principal of
the River John High School, we made a most enjoyable explora-
tion of the physical and natural history characters of the lakes
in the basin of the East River of Pictou and beyond the water-
shed of the Province on the upper sources of the St. Mary's on
the Atlantic slope. We constructed rafts when necessary, so as
to be able to take soundings of their depths, and dredgings from
various parts of their bottoms. This paper is simply an outline
and classification of the species of spongillina found on this
expedition.
Fresh water sponges are generally rather inconspicuous
-objects. The first reference to them in a piinted work appears
to have been made in 1696. Linnaeus described two species in
1745, under the names Spongia laciistris and S. fluviatilis. In
1816 the name spongilla was given the genus by Lamarck. In
1839, Meyen pointed out the peculiar spiculation surrounding
^he " seed-like" bodies of one of these two species (our
Meyenia fiuviatilis, see slides 26 and 27). In 1840 Hogg
demonstrated that these " seed -like bodies" germinated and re-
produced the spongilla. In 1867 Carter established the
"' animality" of these sponges. Lieberkuhn and Bowerbank, by
aneans of the spiculation of what the latter called " ovaries,"
