234 FPxE&H WATER SPONGES OF NOVA SCOTIA — MACKAY..
cTefitiitely distinguished between the two known forms at that
time, naming them respectively Spongilla lacustris and fiuvi(t~
tills (now, Meynia jiivviatilis). The macroscopic characters of
fresh water sponges are often so varialile or ill-defined that a
microscopic examination of the general structure of the repro-
ductive gemmule which Carter denominates a " statoblast," is
necessary to make sure of its identity. Accordingly, Carter, in
1881, divided the fresh water sponges then known to science
into five genera, each of which is distinctly characterized by the-
spiculation.
In Canada, Sir William Dawson, of McGill, in 1863, sent a
specimen of freshwater sponge to Bowerbank, who described it
under the name of ;S'. Dawsoni. In 1875, George M. Dawson,
son of Sir William, described four addition?! sponges as new to
Canada and science. Although these ai'e not likely to rank as.
species in the future system of classification, they mark a good
step in the advance of our knowledge of these organisms by one-
whose energy and encyclopasdic knowledge of <'anadian Natural
History have done much, and promise to do still more, in bring-
inef our Dominion under the notice of the scientific world.
Our freshwater sponges are, so far as observed, generally
greenish, poriferous or variously channelled masses, of a rather
soft,but not fluid sarcode, supported by a .skeleton of silicious spi-
cules, or needles, approximating the one hundredth of an inch in
length, variously combined to form a mesh-work structure, which,
may assume the contour of thin or thick encrusting layers, even
or lobed, in some species branching erect, or creeping in slender
filaments. The statoblasts which appear to mature before win-
ter, commonly in the basal portion of the sponge, are more or less
spherical, siL.aller than the head of a pin, variable as to size and
mode of aggregation, and contain a mass of free cellidar germinal
matter, which is enclosed b}^ a strong chitinous membrane, with
a. small variously formed and directed aperture. The chitinous
coat is surrounded by an outer structure, generally densely
charged with a regularly arranged investing layer of character-
istic spicules, in most species bearing no resemblance either ini
form or size to the skeletal spicules..
