FRESH WATER SPONGES OF NOVA SCOTIA — MACKAY. 235
It is upon the distinct and invariable characters of this stato-
blast spiculation that the modern g-enera are based. Some
sponges have a third class of spicules on the suiface and in the
interstitial spaces or flesh. They are ahvays slender, and very
much smaller than the skeletal spicules. Nearly all the sponges
taken in Nova Scotia have been of some shade of green when
living and exposed to the influence of light. When attached to
the unut;!' siue of stones so as to be excluded from the light, they
become whitish. When dried rapidly, most of the sponges
shrink considerably, yet preserve their approximate form and
colour without decomposition. Exposure to light, however,
soon destroys the green of the dried sponge. The great bulk of
the specimens secured have been taken from water varying from
a fe.v incbc? to seven or eight feet. Specimens have been taken
from between thiity and forty feet of water by the dredge.
They grow attached to submerged pieces of wood, bark, weeds,
stones, gravel, and even on ferruginous concretions. Water liable
to become turbid is unfavourable to their development. The
largest specimen was one of Meyenia Jiuviatilis, taken from a
depth of seven or eight feet, in the Garden of Eden Lake, Pictou
County, on the 1st of August. It was encrusting a small branch
of about one inch in thickness, which was projecting from a
submerged tree. It was fusiform in contour, — the greatest
diameter being four inches, and its length twenty-seven inches.
During winter these sponges generally die, and the most of their
spicules are scattered in the neighboring deposits. The stato-
blasts are also often drifted about, and germinate the following
spring when a congenial environment is found.
We give the following systematic outline descriptions of the
species collected :
Genus I. ■ Spongilla.
Statoblasts, more or less spherical, single or aggregated in
larger masses about the size of a head of a pin, invested with
linear spicules, straight or curved, cylindrical or acerate, more or
less spined and arranged tangenti^lly to the chitinous coat of the
statoblast.
