APPENDIX. 243
20 W., mag., at a distance of three degrees from the Halifax line.
It, too, passes into Hudson Bay, east of Marble Island, and west
of Nottingham Island. It was remarked that these two parallels
included similar and different, even opposite courses, the agencies
not proceeding to any great distance in straight lines, and often
having their courses changed by obstructing causes, e. g. On
the east side of Halifax harbor we have S. 5 E. lines, and between
the Hyijothetical lines to the east of Rimouski a line S. E.
(Logan's Tables — Geology of Canada, 18':'3.) The harbours or
fjords were seen to run approximately with the parallels, or the
changed courses. {Vide Admiralty Charts.)
Lines of Equal Variation (Evans.)
I would observe that the line of equal variation, 20° , (Vide
Sir Frederick Evans, Manual of the Variation of the Compass in
Iron Ships, Plate VI., 1870, and Encyclopedia Britannica, Art.
Meteorology, Fig. 30, Ninth Ed., Vol. 16, 1883) runs hetiueen
these parallels from Nova Scotia to Hudson Bay.
Examining Sir F. Evans' Chart, Fig. 30, Etic, Brit., the line of
equal variation, 20° in its southerly course, is seen to intei'sect
the corresponding line, 20° , which runs through Great Britain at
about lat. 17° N., and long. 23° W. In my Paper " On Glacial Ac-
tion at Rimouski, Canada, and Loch Eck, Argyleshire, Scotland,"
Trans. 1883-4, I incidentally connected glacially what Evans
connects magnetically.
I would remark, however, that "Marble Island" seems to be
in lines of equal variation, 15°. This is west line 20°. Not-
tingham Island seems to be between lines 5.5° and 50° , the equal
variation lines that run along Hudson's Strait from the
Atlantic. This is the course of Dr. Bell's " Hudson's Strait
Glacier. {Vide Report.)
Line of 7io Variaticn. (Evans.)
Having defined this on our chart, we find that it lies to the
west of all the Hudson Bay Stations, having S. E. giaciation.
It also lies to the west of all the leading S. E. lines of Sir W. E.
Logan's Tables. In fact it passes between the S. E, and S. W.
