252 NOTES ON GLACIAL ACTION — HONEYMAN.
The mollusca of Halifax harbor are decidedly Arctic and
Boreal. — (Vide below.)
The Intercolonial Railway traverses its western side and
south as far as the Nairows and Richmond. On its south side
a branch line from Richmond extends to the cotton factory.
This passes below Rockhead — the city prison. The cotton fac-
tory siding runs up a hollow to the west of Rockhead. Through
this passes the short roads from Bedford to Halifax. Still
further west is a deeper hollow. Through this passes the road
to Dutch Village. It connects also the Bedford Basin with the
North- West Arm. South of Rockhead, lies Foit Needham. I
indicate these as they are connected with our investigations.
Along the west and south sides of the Basin are large accu-
mulations of drift. On the west these are well exposed in roads
and railway sections. They consist of rock masses, large and
small stones in great abundance. There are quartzites imbedded
generally in quartzite debris which is used for road material. I
have searched diligently in this drift for triassic and archaean
boulders, such as those found on Navy Island, without success.
I have been equally unsuccessful in finding such boulders in the
drift in the road cuttings towards Halifax and Dutch Village.
On the south side of the Basin I examined the sections on the
shore, and also on the railway and cotton factory branch, with-
out success.
Great caution had to be exercised in this investigation from
the circumstance, that we have hero railway rerstis glacial
transportation. A great propoi'tion of the railway ballast was
brought from Truro, from the banks of glacial drift, through
which the Intercolonial railway passes. This drift is largely
derived fram Archeean rocks of the Cobequid Mountains. Out
of this ballast stray boulders of syenites, gneisses, diorites, etc.,
are found on the shoi-e and at the bottom of the drift cuttings.
We have therefore to observe well, and reject all boulders that
are not in the undisturbed drift.
We consider that all the drift under examination is either of
local origin or at the farthest can only have come from a dis-
tance of 20 miles, the north side of the Cambrian quartzite band
