254 NOTES ON GLACIAL ACTION — HONEYMAN.
1. Three Fathom Harbour, on the Atlantic Coast.
2. Preston.
3. Goft"s, on Old Guysboro' Road, or rather | mile beyond.,
4. Enfield, on the Intercolonial Railway. Trans. I. N. S.
E. Connecting these points we have a line which may be
regarded as the eastern boundary of Amygdaloidal drift distri-
bution, while A line may be legarded as the western boundary.
We may thus have the appioxiniate form and width of the
moraine of which the accumulations formed a part. The width
from N. W. Arm to Three Fathom Harbour is about 10 miles,
from Navy Island to Preston it is 9- miles. Enfield is 23 miles,
nearer Blomidun and Partridge Island than Three Fathom Har-
bour.
Col. Akers directed my attention to a scooped out ledge on
the site of the Old Chain Battery at the North-West Arm. I have
pointed out the roche inoutonnee, containing what is supposed
to be a relic of the Chain Battery, with a scooping of argillites,
on the entrance to the road that leads to the Prince of Wales
Tower.
These indicate the scooping power of the agency which seems at.
least to have aided in the formation of the North-West Arm. At
the top of the Arm, on its western side, I also shewed another
scooping, when I was engaged making observations on the glacia-
tion of the Halifax Peninsula.
Bi'eccia.
It is upwards of 20 years since my attention was directed ta
a formation of this kind overlying the tilted argillites. This
conglomerate was observed at the east side of the North-West
Arm, at its top, and also on the west side of the Harbour between
Richmond and H. M. Dockyard. Considering this to be like
other conglomerates, formed by the action of sea agency, I was
disposed to regard our conglomerate as the remains of an ancient
formation, e. g., Carboniferous. Good examples of this may be
seen at the west side of the North Street I. C. R. Station and
opposite the late Observatory Hill, and at the north-end of Dutch
Village. I am persuaded that the rock is a glacial debria
