262 AQUEOUS SOLUTIONS — MACGREGOK.
being filled with distilled water of known temperature, frotii'
measuring vessels whose volumes were known. The one used
in calibrating the tubes was so divided that changes in the
volume of the water it contained could be read to 005 c.c. The
water, with which the bottles were thus filled, had been freed
from air under the receiver of an air-pump.
To test the tightness of the stoppers, the dilatometers were-
filled, until the upper surfaces of the water were near the tops
of the tubes. The stoppers were thus subjected to as great
pressures as they would be during the experiments. After the-
bottles had taken the temperature of the bath, I observed the
variation of the height of the water in the tubes from time to
time, until I had satisfied myself that there was no leak, — a
return to a formerly observed height in one bottle being accom-
panied in all cases by a similar return in the others.
I next satisfied myself that difierences of temperature between-
the bottles, greater than any which could arise during the
experiments through the dissolving of salt in some bottles and
not in others, would vanish in less than the time that was to
intervene between successive measurements.
As the dilatometers could not be kept at constant temperature,
and as any change of volume of their contents must therefore be
partially due to change of temperature, it was necessary to know
the relative apparent thermal expansion of their contents. For
this purpose, both at the outset when ail the bottles contained
water, and at intervals during the series of experiments when
some of them contained solutions, the temperature of the bath
was varied, and the heights of the water or solutions in the dif-
ferent tubes were observed when the bottles had assumed the
temperature of the bath. These results were tabulated for pur-
poses of correction.
The solutions, whose volumes were measured, were formed by
the addition of known masses of anhydrous salt to the water in
the bottles. The salt was simply dropped little by little down
the tubes of the dilatometers. Occasionally the salt was found
to cake at the surface of the liquid. In that case various
expedients were adopted to hasten the solution ; but the greatest
