AQUEOUS SOLUTIONS — MACGREGOR. 263
care was taken to prevent the loss, either of any of the salt
which had been weighed out for solution, or of any of the liquid
in the bottles. When the desired amount of salt had been
added to a bottle, tiie upper end of the tube was closed with a
small cork to prevent evaporation, and the bottle was put in the
bath. After an interval of about twenty-two hours the bottle
was taken out, and, if the salt was found to be dissolved, was
first well corked, and then rolled, until its contents had been
thoroughly mixed. It was then replaced in the bath and left
for another hour, when the height of the free surface of the
liquid was observed. Not possessing a cathetometer, I required,
for measuring differences of level, to trust to a steel scale placed
in contact with the tube. Care was of course taken to avoid
parallactic errors as much as possible.
To one of the bottles no salt was added ; and it was kept caj-e-
fully corked up, so that the quantity of water it contained might
be constant. The variation of the height of the water in the
tube of this bottle was due, of course, to change of temperature
alone. This variation being observed, and the relative apparent
thermal expansions of the liquids in the four bottles being
known from the subsidiary experi'uents referred to above, the
variations due to changes of temperature, of the heights of the
solutions in the tubes of their re-pective bottles could be deter-
mined and eliminated. The variations of temperature were in
all cases slight, the bath being large and its daily thermal history
being very constant.
The salts used, the acid phosphate of Sodium (Ho NaPOj +
12 He 0) and the basic carbonate of Sodium (Na,. CO3 + 10 Ho O)
were bought as pure, repuritied by crystallization, and dehy-
drated by careful heating to the necessary temperature.
In all cases, after the solutions had stood awhile, a slight
fluffy appearance presented itself in the bottles. The mass of
the precipitated solid was, however, very small — so small that it
was hardly possible to weigh it. Hence I considered that its
effect on the result might be neglected. It was probably due to
the presence of some impurity in the water.
In both cases I found weak solutions of these salts to have
