14 NOTES ON SABLE ISLAND — MACDONALD.
In the museum of Paris is another chart, made by Gaftaldi
(of New France), in 1550, showing the fishing banks extending
from off Lahave to Newfoundland, on which this island appears
as "Isolla del Arena."
In 1518, Baron de Lery made the first attempt to colonize
this New France, but meeting with a succession of gales, which
drove him back several times, he arrived on this coast too late
to place his people under shelter before winter would overtake
them, so he left part of his cattle at Canso, and sailed for Sable
Island, where he placed the remainder, and returned to France.
In after years these cattle had so multiplied that it became a
matter of speculation for parties to land and hunt them for their
hides and tallow.
The next mention made of this island is in the record of the
disastrous voyage of Sir Humphrey Gilbert, who sailed from Eng-
land with a fleet of five armed vessels. Arriving at St. John's, Nfld.
— he found a large fleet of fishermen, of different nations —
and took formal possession of the place in the name of Queen
Elizabeth. The Portuguese treated him well, and after supplying
him with wines, marmalade, sweet oil, &c., told him of their
having placed swine and cattle on Sable Island. Thither Sir
Humphrey sailed.
Several days after, during a thick fog, he lost his second in
command on Sable Island. As this is the first wreck of which
there is any history, written in quaint old English, I will
read it as recorded :
"Sabla lieth, to the seaward of Cape Breton about 45°,
whither we were determined to go, upon intelligence we had of
a Portingall, during our abode in St. John's, who was also him-
self present when the Poi tingalls, about 30 years past, did put
into the same Island both neat and swine to breed, which were
since exceedingly multiplied.
" The distance between Cape Race and Cape Breton is 100
leagues, in which navigation we spent 8 days. Having the wind
many times indifferent good, but could never obtain sight of any
land, all that time, seeing we were hindered by the cuiTent. At
last we fell into such flats and dangers, that hardly any of us
escaped. Where nevertheless we lost our Admiral, with all the
men and provisions.
