SABLE ISLAND — MACDONALD. 267
56 miles long; westward again wc have the Gr^at George's bank,
with shoals reaching the surface ; a little further westward we
reach the shoals of Nantucket ; the whole forming an immense
deposit, following the curvation of the coast.
We will now turn from ffeolosjical formation to the course of
those great currents which divide and control ocean forces.
By glancing at Maury's physical chart it will be seen that the
Gulf Stream, after discharging its heated water through the chan-
nel formed by the coast of Florida on the one side and Cuba and
the Bahamas on the other, follows the trend of the American
coast northward until approaching the shoals of Nantucket where
it swerves to the N. E., passing south of Sable Island to the tail
of the great bank of Newfoundland, and then stretching over to
Europe in a due east direction.
In opposition to this we have the cold ice-laden current of the
north, one portion of which after leaving the Arctic ocean, passes
southward along the eastern coast of Greenland where, being
joined by another branch coining from Baffin's Bay and Davis
Strait, it passes along the coasts of Labrador and Newfoundland
to the great banks, where it is met by the northern edge of the
Gulf Stream.
At this point a division of the polar current takes place. On«
portion, from its greater density, sinks below the warm current of
the Gulf Stream, and continues its coui'se southward as a sub-
marine current.
The other portion of the polar current, where it impinges on
the Gulf Stream at the Great bank, becomes deflected to the
westward partially by contact with the Great bank, and in its
-course its northern edge sweeps around Cape Race into St.
Mary's and the other bays north until losing its momentum it
falls back and joins the main body of the current. This portion,
sweeping around and into those bays, is commonly called the
indraught by mariners, and to it being accelerated by certain
storms may be attributed the loss of the Cedar Grove at Canso
^nd the Cromwell boats and the Hanoverian at Cape Race.
The southern edge interlaces the Gulf Stream and carries west-
•era bound vessels at such a rate as frequently leads mariners to
