268 SABLE ISLAND — MACDONALI>.
miscalculate their position with reference to this Island, to whiclii
fact is attributable many of the wrecks.
Capt. Darby, a former Supeinntendent of the Island, in a
letter to Blunt's coast pilot, with regard to the strength of this,
polar current, says :
" The most of the wrecks occurring here arise from error in
longitude. I have known vessels from Europe that had not
made an error of half a degree in their longitude until they came
to the banks of Newfoundland, and from there in moderate
weather and light winds have made errors from 60 to 100^
miles."
It is difficult to understand how that the commanders of
vessels making voyages to and from this country for so many
years, should be apparently so ignorant of the strength of these
currents, unless as it would seem they have periods of compara-
tive quiescence and activity.
Then again we have a third current, a portion of the polar
current, which, becoming: detached at the southern end of Labra-.
dor and sweeping through the Strait of Belle Isle, is joined by
the vast flow of the St. Lawrence, and forms what is known as
the Gulf of St. Lawrence current. This combined current skiits
the east side of Cape Breton, passes south and strikes obliquely
in the vicinity of Sable Island, that portion of the polar current
Avhich is deflected westward by contact with the Banks of New-
foundland.
We will refer to this oblique current again. —
From ocean currents we will consider another of nature's great
forces shown in the transporting power of ice.
This great polar current skirting the coast of Greenland and
Labrador is constantly bringing its great ice rafts laden with
rock, sand and gravel from the north to the margin of the Great
Bank, where meeting the warm waters of the Gulf Stream thej'-
deposit their burdens, the finer portion of which being carried
forward by the current is distributed along the line of the
impinging stream.
To learn something of this transporting power we will refer
to the evidence of those Arctic navigators who haye minutely
chronicled theii: observations.
