THE CARBONIFEROUS OF CAPE BRETON — GILPIN. 293
nodules, and the more argillaceous beds are crowded with fossils,
chiefly ferns. Many trunks of erect and prostrate sigillariae,
with roots attached and grown into the coal, are seen in these
shales ; they have been observed nearly five feet in thickness,
but those which have come under my notice have not usually
exceeded two feet in diaineter. The term marl is applied here
to beds not necessarily calcareous, but to red and green shales
which crumble readily on exposure. Sandstone beds, gray and
white in coloui-, and often fifty feet in thickness, are met at fre-
quent intervals, and neaily always occur a few feet above a coal
bed. Many of the sandstone beds are calcareous, and are then
flaggy micaceous, and sometimes ripple-marked.
Almost invariably underclays highly charged with stigmarise
roots and rootlets, and from a fev,' inches to eight feet in thick-
ness, fcrm the floor of the Coal seams. In a few instances Coal
seams rest directly on thin beds of fossiliferous limestone, and
in one instance the floor is sandstone. Beds of black bituminous
limestone, from a few inches to three feet in thickness, have
been observed about the middle of the section. The physical
characters of the coal beds will be refeired to in connection with
the analyses to be given in the appendix, and it may be remarked
here that they resemble in many points those of the Durham
district in England.
The division line between the Millstone Grit and the Productive
Measures is an arbitrary one, and, as marked on the Geological
Survey maps, is considered by many as encroaching on measures
which may fairly, so far as their coal contents are concerned, be
considered productive. This opinion is strengthened by the fact
that a large collection of plants from the Cossit pits, a short dis-
tance east of Sydney town, at a horizon considered low down in
the Millstone Grit, were reported on by Sir William Dawson as
distinctly marking the productive horizon. Further investiga-
tions may show that the distinctions at present laid down as
separating the upper part of the Millstone Grit from the Coal
Measures are due more to local conditions of deposition, which
have modified the Coal Seams and their encasing strata, than to
any change of the distinctive features of the preceding horizon.
