294 THE CARBONIFEROUS OF CAPE BRETON — GILPI]!^.
As compared with the productive measures, these strata show
a much larger percentage of sandstones, frequently coarse and
sometimes conglomeritic. There are fewer argillaceous layers
and much false bedding. Near the old syenitic and felsitic rocks
the prevailing color is red ; further away, where the material has
been derived from the preceding Carboniferous horizons, gray
shades are met. The formation is also distinguished from the
Productive and the Marine Limestone series by the absence of
calcareous matter. Numerous coal seams are met, some of which
are persistent over long distances and of workable dimensions.
Others are not at present considered of value in the presence of
the large seams now worked, but will prove in the future an
important source of coal. This series stietches from the Mira
Biver to the Eastern shore of Sydney harbour, and then widens
until it occupies nearly all Boularderie Island. The maximum
thickness in this district is 5,700 feet, but it rapidly diminishes
to the Northward, until at Cape Dauphin only 500 feet is
'exposed.
A long arm of millstone grit extends up the Salmon and Mira
Rivers and overlaps unconfonnably the marine limestone and
basal conglomerates, and rests against the Mira and East Bay
felsites. The underlying divisions of the carboniferous crop at
various points throughout the district, and extend irregularly
through Loch Lomond and Grand River to St. Peter's,
This outliei- presents the outcrops of several small seams of coal
apparently underlying a large extent of ground. There has not
been any attempt made to find other seams, or even to test the
value and extent of these outcrops. The measures including the
coal seams possibly represent the upper part of the millstone grit
as exposed to the eastward of the Productive Measures of the
Sydney Coal Field, and are on a horizon corresponding to that/
of part of the millstone grit lying south of Sydney town, where
similar outcrops of coal are found.
The Marine Limestone formation occupies a triangular tract
of ground between the arms of Sydney harbor, and attains a
thickness of about 2,000 feet. It is composed principally of red
and gray shales, sometimes approaching marls in aggregation,-
