296 THE CARBONIFEROUS OF CAPE BRETON — GILPIN.
It is essentially white, but tinted and spotted with many
colours. It occurs in beds, often massive but frequently jointetl
in every direction. It is compact, or granular, minutely crystal-
line, or fibrous and radiating-. Crystals of selenite of a brownish
or white colour frequently occur in it ; they are isolated, or arran-
ged in radiating groups, and sonietinies give the rock a porphy-
ritic appearance. The rock is frequently traversed by veins-
filled with fibrous gypsum of various colours, or by large plates
of transparent selenite. Layers and nodules of anhydrite and
of limestone frequently occur in the beds or divide them. Long-
continued weathering roughens the surface of the gypsum, owing
to the presence of silica as sand.
These beds of gypsum are sometimes presented as immense
lenticular masses, but they often extend for miles as an irregular
cliff, reminding the tourist of a luined marble wall. The vicinity
of their outcrops is marked by the luxuriance of the grass, and
by the vigorous growth of the evergreens which mask the conical
holes formed by the removal of the gypsum through the action
of the water drainage of the district. It may be remarked here
that possibly some of the irregularities characterizing the out-
crop of this rock may be due to the washing away of masses of
salt. It is true that at present there is no evidence to show that
.such deposits existed, but the numerous brine springs issuing
from this formation, and the common association of gypsum and
salt, afford reasonable ground for anticipating valuable discoveries
of rock salt in Nova Scotia in the vicinity of the gypsum beds.
Lower Coal Measures.
This term, as used by Sir William Daw.son in describing
measures such as those of Horton and Hillsboro, is applied, in
sp'jaking of this district, to strata of a quite difierent character.
This, the lowest member of the carboniferous group, corresponds
with the Bonaventure formation of Gaspe, and the basal conglo-
merate of New Brunswick and Newfoundland is in this district
of variable volume, and cannot be separated by any strict line
from the overlying limestone formation, and it is Mr. Fletcher's
opinion tlmt in the districts surrounding the Bras d'Or Lake
