THE CAEBONIFEROUS OF CAPE BRETON — GILPIN. 297
liiuch of it must be considered contemporaneous with the lime-
-stone formation. In the Sydney district, near the Coxheath Hills^
it has a thickness of 2,525 feet, which rapidly diminishes as its
•strike is followed to the North and the South.
This formation in the Sydney or Eastern district presents
itself genei-ally as a friable reddi-h conglomerate, the pebbles
varying in size up to a dia'meter of three feet. The masses are
frequently of little coherence, in some cases the niatiix is calc-
spar, hematite, or quartz. The conglomerates, the distinguishing
feature of the formation, alternate with masses and beds of red-
dish, coarse and fine ofrained, friable sandstones, and with beds of
red and green marl and an occasional bed of limestone. Usually
"the upper beds are finer than those near the base of the formation^
and the line between it and the succeeding horizon may be said
to be drawn at the first plainly marked calcareous deposit, which
is not untrequently a coarse arenaceous limestone obscurely
fossiliferous.
Passing to the westward we meet the Carboniferous of St.
Peter's Bay and the Rivi-r Inhabitants- The marine limestones
and some beds of the lower horizons border St. Peter's Inlet and
Bay and the northern shores (jf Isle Madame, and passing to the
north under the higher measures skirt the Sporting Mountains,
and passing lo^und the head of West Bay fill the valley of the
Kiver Inhabitants and are exposed on the shore of the Strait of
Canso at Plaster Cove. These stiata show at several points sec-
tions more closely resembling the typical lower coal measures of
Nova Scotia than any met in the Eastern district. The colour-
ing of the geological maps of ;tlie Canadian Survey does not
separate these two subdivisions. They extend northward until
they reach the River Denny's Basin, and stietch to the Grand
Narrows and the Little Bras d'Oi-.
The officers of the Geological Survey have grouped the Car-
boniferous measures overlying these strata, in the district we
are now considering, under the term "Middle Carboniferous,"
including millstone grit, pi'oductive measures, and some beds
.referred with doubt to the upper coal foimation, as the dividing
line« are obscui-e, and the structure not yet fully worked out
