Notes on sable island — macdonald. 15
"Contrary to the mind of the expert Master Cox, on Wed-
nesday, 27th August, we bore up toward the land. Those in the
doomed ship continually sounding trumpet and drums. Whilst
strange voices from the deep scared the helmsman from his post
on board the Frigate.
" Thursday, the 28th, the wind arose and blew vehemently
from the south and east, — bringing withal rain and thick mist,
that we could not see a cable length before us. And betimes we
were run and foulded amongst flats and sands, amongt which
we found flats and deeps every 3 or 4 ship's lengths. iTnriie-
diately tokens were given to the admiral to cast about to
seaward, which being the greater ship, and of burden 120 tons,
was performost upon the beach. Keeping so ill a watch they
knew not the danger before they felt the same too late to
recover, for presently the Admiral struck aground, and had soon
her stern and hinder parts beaten in pieces. The remaining two
ships escapad by casting about E.S.E., bearing to the south for
their lives, even in the wind's eye. Sounding on while 7 fathom,
then 5, then again deeper. The sea going mightily and high."
In the wreck of the " Delight," or " Admiral," as she was
called, upwards of 95 -perished, 12 only escaped, and afterwards
reached the Nova Scotia coast and were carried by some French
vessel to England.
In 1598, the Marquis " De la Roche" obtained a charter
from Henry III. to colonize and Christianize New France, and
sailed in May of that year. Arriving ofl" this coast, and fearing
that his people, — consisting of 40 convicts from the French
prisons — might escape, he landed them on Sable Island until he
could make arrangements to settle on the main land. On returning
he encountered a furious gale which, in 15 days, drove him on
the French coast. He had scarcely landed, when he was thrown
into prison by an enemy, and was prevented from communicating
the result of his voyage to the king. Five years after, the king,
receiving intelligence, ordered the pilot who had led them thither
to proceed to Sable Island and learn their fate, which was found
to be deplorable. Out of the forty landed five years previous,
only twelve remained alive.
Finding themselves alone, and deserted, as they thought, by
the very one whom they looked to for liberty and comfort, they
