CURRENTS IN THE GULF OF ST. LAWRENCE — FOX. SOS
specific gravity. It also increases its altitude and bulk, and
being lighter than the water below floats on its surface anc^
forms a current, which to find its equilibrium sets down in a
southerly direction towards Capes Ray and North into the
Atlantic ocean.
The ice generally disappears about the middle of May and
forms again in such quantity by the end of December as to,
obstruct navigation.
There are three channels or entrances into the Gulf from the
Ocean : one is to the north of Newfoundland through the Straits
of Belle Isle, another to the south of Newfoundland, and the third
is through the Strait of Canso.
The channel generally used by ships bound to the Ports of Que-.*
bee and Montreal, is that to the south of Newfoundland, between
Capes Ray and North, and to which these observations, are chiefly
intended to apply.
This channel is about fifty miles wide. Twelve miles east from
Cape North lies the Island of St. Paul, and forty-five miles in a
northwesterly direction are the Magdalen Islands, the distance
from thence to the Island of Anticosti is about eighty miles.
These Islands lie directly in the track of vessels, bound to
Ports in the Gulf.
From Anticosti to the northern end of the Straits of Belle Isle
the distance is about three hundred and forty miles. This Strait is
twelve miles wide at its northern entrance, and about one hundred
miles at its southern, between Cape George, Newfoundland, and
Cape Whittle, Labrador, through which is the route taken by the
Ocean Steamships from Europe to Quebec during the summer
months.
A branch of the Polar current sets in a southwesterly direction
through the Sti-aits of Belle Isle, and is strongrer on the north, or
Labrador coast, than on the south or Newfoundland, the water
being deeper there, its velocity' is influenced by the winds, and
greater in spring and autumn than in summer, when southwest
winds prevail with increased temperature. This occasionally creates
a surface current setting to the north-east ; the colder eurrenti,
below setting through south-west, or in the opposite direction.
