304 CURRENTS IN THE GULF OF ST. LAWRENCE — FOX.
Various opinions are held with regard to Icebergs drifting
through this strait into the Gulf of St. Lawrence, the correct one
appears to be that bergs are occasionally found about its northern
entrance. A few years ago one was found aground off Forteau
Bay in twenty-five fathoms oi' water with an elevation of seventy
feet above the sea, but Icebergs are rarely, if ever, seen in the
Gulf, to the southwest of Anticosti.
A dangerous current sets into the Gulf from the Atlantic Ocean
between the Newfuundland and Nova Scotia coasts, and often
proves fatal to Ships about Gape Kace. It is formed by the
Polar Current setting down from the north on one side, and an
offset from the Gulf Stream setting in from the southwest on the
other.
This current, after passing Cape Race, and along the south
coast of Newfoundland, enters the Gulf in a northerly direction,
between Cape Ray and Cape North, flowing towards the Island of
Anticosti. Its velocity is increased with winds from a south to
east direction, it frequently precedes the wind, causing very high
tides, and givino- warninsf to the observer on shore of an
approaching gale, before any indications are given of it by the
Barometer. After passing Cape Ray it is traversed obliquely by
the Polar Current, setting down through the Straits of Belle Isle,
and deflected to the southwest, then coming in contact with the
shoal grounds around the Magdalen Islands, it divides; one por-
tion runuins: to the southwest alonfj the south side of those Islands,
and the other continuing its northerly course up towards the
Island of Anticosti until coming in proximity to the south shore
of that Island, it curves to the westward and falls into the River
St. Lawrence cuirent setting oat to the southeast.
The southwest stream, after passing the southeast end of the
Magdalens, again divides, one poition swerving jound to the north
and west, up the Gulf towards the Bay de Chaleur, thence round
the North Cape of Prince Edward Island, and enters the Straits
of Northumberland, through which it flows towards the Strait of
Oanso. The other portion continuing its southwest course to-
wards the East Cape of Prince Edward Island, and setting round
that dangerous promontory, it runs westerly, and meeting the
