CURRENTS IN THE GULF OF ST. LAWRENCE — FOX. 305
stream through the Straits of Northumberland, turns south-
easterly, and along the Nova Scotia coast towards the Strait of
Canso, then past the Cape Breton coast, and out of the Gulf
between Capes North and B^aj, to the Ocean.
The Island of Anticosti divides the entrance to the River St.
Lawrence into two channels, called north and south ; through
these the current fiom the river sets with great rapidity, in the
spring with the melting snow, from two to three miles an hour.
The polar current through the Straits of Belle Isle meeting this
stream in the north channel, and striking it obliquely, causes those
eddies, and counter currents, which are so oft^n fatal to shipping
on this much dreaded Island.
The south channel stream sets down from the river in a south
and southeasterly direction, contracting and expanding in breadth,
by the action of the winds, either to the east or west, and its influ-
ence is sometimes felt down the Gulf below the Magdalen Islands.
On the twentieth of November, 18§0, the steamship " Ottawa "
of the Dominion Line, giounded in the " Cap de la Roche " Chan-
nel, between Montreal and Quebec, and a portion of her cargo was
thrown overboard to lighten her. About four weeks afterwards
some of this cargo was found upon the North Beach of the
Magdalen Islands, proving, beyond doubt, the force and direction
of this dangerous current.
During the summer solstice, when the water of the Gulf attains
a high temperature, most of the currents met with there are sur-
face currents and controlled by the winds. The cold Polar cur-
rent, which sets to and fro from the Ocean, from its greater
weight and density sinks below and becomes a submarine current,
and a resort for the schools of codfish, mackerel, and herring, which
abound in those waters.
To illustrate the influence these dangerous currents have upon
ships navigating the Gulf of St. Lawrence, we will suppose a
ship passing Cape Race and bound for Quebec with a southerly
wind and clear weather. The master, after verifying her position,
takes his departure and shapes his course up in z northerly direc-
tion, suddenly the weather becomes obscured by fog or snow-storm,
which often occurs here, and not being aware of this northerly set
