SOG CURRENTS IN tHE GULP" OF St. LAWREJiTCiE — FOiC.
or current, he is carried by it ahead of his reckoning, and after
passing Cape Ray encounters the Belle Isle current, setting down
to the southwest, or obliquely across his track, and before he is
aware of the danger, his ship is stranded upon the southeast end
of the Magdalen Islands, to the westward of her course, when, by
his reckoning, he supposes himself to be many miles frou; them.
Or should he be so fortunate as to steer far enough north to clear
the Magdalens (by the same causes), he may find his ship on the
south shoie of Anticosti, where wrecks so frequently occur.
To ships bound down the Gulf they are equally fatal. After
leaving the River St. Lawrence through the south channel, and
passing the southwest end of Anticosti, the ship's course down the
Gulf is southeast by east ; the southwest current from the Straits
of Belle Isle, crosses this course and combining with the River
St. Lawience current, setting southerly, carries the ship ahead of
her reckoning, ami again to the tvestivard of her supposed posi-
tion, upon the northeast end of the Magdalens. Between the
years 1868 and 1880, six ships were wrecked in this region, and
fifty-five seamen perished, through the influence of these currents.
The ocean current which sets into the Gulf past Cape Race
after passing the southeast end of the Magdalen Islands (as I
have before observed) takes a northerly direction, and in thick
weather is very dangerous to ships bound down the Gulf from
New Brunswick Ports, these usually sail with a southwesterly
wind, and after rounding the North Cape of Prince Edward Island
shape a southeast by east course, so as to clear the south end of
the Magdalens which (to use a nautical phrase) brings them sharp
upon the wind on the starboard tack, consequently this northerly
current runs obliquely to theii' course, and in light winds, not
only retards their headway but sets them to leeward and on shore
about the west end of the Magdalens, when the shipmaster by
his reckoning judges himself to be at a safe distance to the west-
ward of them. Between the years 1876, and 1881, four ships
were stranded on the west end of those islands by the force of
this current.
The meteorology of the Gulf of St. Lawrence, has somewhat
changed during the past fifty years. Fogs and changes in atmos-
