GEOLOGY OF ANTIGONISH COUNTY — HONEYMAN. 311
also overlies conglomerate^. We have already parted vs'ith the
mountain metamorphic rocks, and come to a break between the
two mountain ranges. This break is occupied by rocks of the
two carboniferous areas of the Countv, — conglomerates, grits.
A quarry of the latter in the so called "Yankee grant," furnished
the other building stone of the cathedral. Still proceeding, we
have the gypsums on the right and another brook, Braley Brook,
having turned away from our course. On the left side of this
brook we have another limestone quarry, with brown ochre.
Still fuither, we pass into conglomerates, and cross Right's River
above the facfcoiy. Below it is a bluff' of conglomerates, with
the gypsum? outcropping on the side of the river. Crossing the
intervale, we come to the railway station at Antigonish. This is
also the site of the "Old Salt Works." In my paper "On the
Geology of Antigonish County" — Vide transactions of the Insti-
tute of Natural Science, 186(5 — I made mention of the salt pond
in the Town and salt spiings in the County. Ln my recent
paper "On the Geology of Antigonish County," Trans. I. N. S.,
1875, is a "History of the Salt Works." Extract : "Mr. Deacon
next operated on the intervale below the town, not far from the
confluence of Right's River, Braley Brook and West River.
Here, after passing through a considerable thickness of clay,
impregnated with salt, he came to gypsum. In this the boring
was so dry that it was difficult to work ; suddenly the bore-hole
was found to be filled to some distance from the top. Mr. Deacon
was in transports when he found that the fluid was brine.
Notwithstanding vigorous pumping, the brine kept up to the
mark, with a great discharge of sulphuretted hydrogen. Being
now very sanguine in his expectations, he had a steam engine
erected for pumping, and furnaces, tanks and evapoi'ating pans
of large dimensions constructed for the production of salt. After
the manufacture of a considerable quantity of salt, the strength
of the brine became very much reduced. He accordingly com-
menced another boring at a point near to the evaporating build-
ing; after boring through clays, impregnated with salt to a depth
of 65C feet, without finding any indications of brine, that of
the other boring becoming too weak for use, and the working
capital exhausted, the work was abandoned,"
