312 GEOLOGY OF ANTIGONISH COUNTY — HOSfEtMAl'J'.
About one mile north of the salt works, we have the mountain
called the "Suofar-loaf." The hei^-hb of this is 760 feet. Its
rocks are highly metamorphic slates, argillites. A section of
them is seen on the "Old Gulf Road." They are destitute of
fossils. The summit roek is syenite. — -(Vide " Polaviscopic
Notes." A Paper preceding.) On the side not far from the sum-
mit, the argillites outcrop. They are also seen outcropping in a
brook at Doctor's Qua^r3^ I have correlated these with rocks
in McLellan's Mountain, which 1 regard as "Lower Silurian
metamorphic" (?) ; overlying these are Lower Carboniferous con-
glomerates. The upper parts of these have a little green copper
carbonate. The ochreous limestones of the quarry overlie them.
South of this mountain is another mountain of less elevation — ■
480 feet. The argillites of this are overlaid by conglomerates
and limestones of another quarry. Returning to the line of
railway: In its farther progress, it passes over to the south side
of Antigonish harbour. Here gypsums are seen outcropping on
its course as far as South River. Before reaching Williams
Point, it comes to heights which rise 300 feet above the sea
level. In these are syenites with fossiliferous limestones in
closest connection, forming a breccia. The limestones are wholly
unaltered. Leyerditia, conidaina, &c., are found near the
syenite, and crystals of Galenite. Here We have a sea bottom,
while on the "Sugar-loaf," and other mountains, we have sea
beaches of the Lower Carboniferous period. The former have
been raised niore than 300 feet since they Were formed, as the
fossiliferous limestones occur on the summit as well as the
syenites. It is probable that the latter, and the mountain range
itself, have been elevated to the same extent.
Section II., from North River, Antigonish harbour, to Cape
St. George. — Crossing from Williams point to the mouth of
North River, Vv^e find the gypsums re-appearing on the north
side of the harbour. Up the river, on both sides of the Harbour
Road, they are very largelj^ developed, and they continue still
farther towards the mountains. Beyond this conglomerates
occur as far as the mountain rocks. At Town Point, on the
■itarbour, "Mr. Deacon made a six-inch boring, and lined it with
