16 NOTES ON SABLE ISLAND — MACDONALF.
became desperate. With no law to restrain, nor punishment to
fear, each man's hand was turned against his fellow, and several
had come to a violent end. The remainder, from ill-prepared
food and exposure, became reduced in spirits, and had lately led
more quiet lives. After being landed on the Island they managed
to erect huts from the remains of a Spanish vessel wrecked in
the breakers, and maintained existence by eating the raw flesh
of the cattle Baron de Lery, or the Portuguese, had placed on
(he Island many years before, and which had become very numer-
ous. In a short time their clothes were worn out, and they
dressed themselves in the skins of seals.
On their arrival in France they were presented to the king.
Their savage expression, unkempt hair and beards, which reached
to their waists, together with their pitiful tale of want and
exposure, so moved the king that he gave them fifty crowns
a piece and permission to return to their homes. Strange to say,
they afterwards sought passage to the island, where they accu-
mulated a large quantity of fur.
In 1638, John Rose, of Boston, lost his vessel — the "Mary
& Jane" — at this place. He was here three months constructing
a yawl from the remains of his vessel, by which he reached the
main land. His reports of having seen "more than 800 head of
wild cattle, and a great many foxes, many of which were black"
so interested the Acadians that 17 of them embarked in a vessel,
taking Rose as pilot. After this Rose returned to New Eng-
land, where the tidings of this wonderful Island soon spread.
A company was soon formed at Boston to hunt on the Island.
On their arrival they found that the 17 Frenchman who had
wintered on the Island, had built houses and a fort, and so
slaughtered the cattle that only 150 remained.
About 100 years ?a^er, a French clergyman named LeMercier,
claiming to be an Englishman by naturalization, sent thither a
number of cattle, previous to removing with his family. He had
petitioned Governor Armstrong, at Annapolis, for a grant of the
Island, but declining to pay a Quit rent to the government, the
grant was withheld. A proclamation was issued forbidding per-
sons from killing those animals, and they continued there for many
