GEOLOGY OF ANTIGONISH COUNTY — HONEYMAN. 813
iron tubing. At a certain depth in the soil and clay, he entered
gypsum. He came to sandstone without finding any indication
of brine, and concluded that further operation in this locality
was useless." This was his first boring. Back from this, nearer
the mountain, gypsum is seen rising to a height of fifty feet. I
would here remark that all these altitudes are taken from the
Admiralty Chart of Antigonish harbour. After another inter-
ruption, they re-appeai', having tlie same height, advance to
the road, where they are cut off" by it; disappear again, pits
only showing their existence underneath, and re-appear on St
George's Bay. The mountains come forward at the same time
and end near the road. The termination of the gypsums is
shown as it was 25 years ago in "Acadian Geology." By the
'Constant undermining process going on, the once picturesque pro-
minence has been sadly reduced, and almost destroyed. This is
the other corner of the "north side of the southern carboniferous,
area of the County. The rocks "consist of conglomerate, breccia,
sandstone and limestone, partly covered by a great bed of drift,
containing and discharging large boulders on the shore of
strikingly characteristic rocks of the Lowei; Arisaig (Archaean)
series of Northumberland Strait." In the limestones there
is a cave, where ice can be had at any time. Every variety
of gypsum, selenite, fibrous, soft, anhydious and red, occur in
this section. At Mclsaac's Brook theie is a low lying outcrop
of slates and igneous rocks. This is the extension of the moun-
tain series north of the "Suorar-loaf." Continuing the section,
we come to Cribbean's Head. Here is a large exposure of Lower
Carboniferous strata containing casts of trees and calamites.
This is on the south .corner of the noithein carboniferous area.
Beyond this are Morristown Lakes, obscurity, or rocks without
anything of sp cial interest, until we reach Sinclair's Brook.
Here are sandstones with yifoya, casts of lepidodendra. Farther
on are sandstones, grits and conglomerates. In the sandstones I
found scales of Paloeonisciis and casts of sun-cracks. The con-
glomerates constitute Cape St. Geoige and its ledges. These
rocks belong to the north side of the carbonifeious area.
Section III., on Northumberland Strait, from Cape St,
