314 GEOLOGY OF ANTIGONISH COUNTY — HuNEYMAN.
George to Pictou County line. — At the Cape and westward, as
far as "Aiisaig Township" line, we have conglomerates, with a
projecting trap-rock here and thei'o, especially at the point of
the cape. Beginning at the line, we find exposed on the shore,
and up a brook, metamorphic slates of dark colour, with a thin
bed of calcite. They seem to be identical with the rocks of the
"Suo-ar-loaf." We shall have occasion to I'et'er to them again.
These bring us to what I have, in former Papers, called the
"Lower Arisaig" and "Archaean Typical Series." The first rocks
of this series are (quartz) syenites, dark red, cream-coloured and
white ; they are finely granulai', sparingly hornblendic, and sus-
ceptible of a fine polish. Green feldspar occurs in these syenites.
They are also traversed by veins of calcite, several inches thick.
Succeeding these are strata of petrosilex. These are traversed
by quartzite veins having mica. After these come steep cliffs
of granited diorites, which project into the sea. We have then
a bed of ophite and ophicalcite. They extend to the road south
of the shore, where it outcrops. To a distance of nearly 2J
miles, there occur diorites, ophites, crystalline limestones and
ophicalcites (marbles), hornblende rock, hornblende and albite
rock. (Vide Polari.scopic Notes, No. 1. Paper preceding.) The
last is the rock which produced the "boulders in the drift" and
on the shore. (Vide Section II.) A line connecting this rock
wuth the drift runs S. 20 to 30 E. This is the course of trans-
portation of amygdaloids, &c., from Blomidon. (Vide Paper
"Glacial Transportation in Nova Scotia and Beyond." — Trans.
Institute Natural Science, 1872-73.) Diorites of this series aie
also traversed by veins of snow-white calcite and quartz.
When I discovered these in ISGS, I considered thein to be of
"Laurentian" age. Sir W. E. Logan thought they weie of
"Quebec" age. Dr. Hunt's opinion coincided with my own. In
order to harmonize the two opinions, I have adopted the term
"Archaean," which has been applied to the series under considera-
tion in Dana's Manual, last edition, and I thereby designate
corresponding rocks. Boulders of these rocks, which first direct-
ed my attention to the rocks themselves, succeed. After these
are sections of "drift." I regard these as something different
