GEOLOGY OF AXTIGONISH COUNTY — HONEYMA-N. SIS
,lrom the drift of Section 11. While I regard the latter as the
result of glacial (ice) transportation, I consider water as the
agency employed in the production of the former. We shall
notice this again. At the Cove solid locks appear. Here we
have an isolated patch of Lower Carboniferous conglomerates.
Originally this was doubtless connected with the other isolated
patch of th« same formation v/liich occurs farthci* west, on the
middle and eastern branches of Doctor's Brook. The associated
and intei vening igneous rocks evidently effected a separation.
We find similar rocks dividing into parts and branches a band
of an dder formation, which we shall yet have occasion to
.notice.
By the igneous rocks the conglonierates have been much har-
dened and permeated. We therefore infer that the one is of
more recent formation than the othei'. The igneous rocks also
appeal- in a brook a little to the west. Drift then occurs until
we reach McNeil's Brook. Hei'e the first strata of the Fossilifer-
■ous Silurian series occur. Their second occurrence in the section
is at the cove west of Doctor's Brook, f'rom Arisaig Pier to
McAra's Brook they then occupy the section. The other rocks
;in the section, f lom McNeil's Brook to Arisaig Pier, are a band of
;metamorphic rocks of Lower Silurian age associated with a great
dyke of igneous rocks which extends into the sea, making the
shore i-ocky and dangerous.
At McAra's Brook and beyond are Lower Carboniferous con-
glomerates, grits and sandstones, with trappean ledges and seem-
ingly intercalary beds, which have been much worn by the sea,
.frosts and ice. One great projecting mass of amygdaloid to the
east of the bi-ook, which was a bold and picturesque feature of
sthe section twenty years ago, now has scarcely a vestige left.
The seemingly intercalary beds of trap standing out from the
■ excavated sandstones are very striking. Near the county line,
after an alternation of grits, sandstones and slates, there is a
considerable bed of Lower Carboniferous limestones resting on
slates, marls and a thin bed of limestone having oolitic structure,
and characteristic Lower Carboniferous fossils. Still farther
.there are sandstones in which I found, in 18G8, two thin beds. of
