318 GEOLOGY OF ANTIGONISH COUNTY — HONEYMAN".
of this much disturbed band, while an outcrop at Malignant
Brook to the south of the "Igneous" rocks of the coast section
may be its eastern termination. Veins of iron ore occur in this
-series.
Carboniferous series. I have already refei-red to this isolated
rseries when describing the other isolated cono^lomerates at
Malignant Cove^ in the Section III.
We have two fossiliferous silurian sei-ies, both of which are
very defective. Next the Mountain we have B' and C\ A. B.,
are wanting as well as C. D. and E. Next the shore (N) we
have A. B ; B.' C. C D. E., are wanting. Farther up Doctor's
Brook on the risin^r oTound south of Arisaio- Pier, We have D.
and E., (?) w^ith C possibly underlying as well as B."
The arrangement of the two series is synclinal.
A. occurs at Doctoi's Brook and in .Section III. Cove to the
Westward. In the latter it is very complete and characteristic,
lithologically and palfeontologically. The lowest part next sea
is ar'gillaceous, the next is aienaeeous, the third is aigill-aren-
aceous, and respectively — have fauna, characteristic, 1st — orthis
and athyris; 2nd — trilohites, cyclonema crehristriata, stro-
phomena corriigatet, petraia; 8rd — Ivngiila, 'petraia.
B. at Doctor's Brook is characteristic in its Graptolites. ' At
the Cove in its lingnla at the Cove at Arisaig Pier, in its
trilohites, corals, &c.
B' C. C D., lequire no revision. I would refer to "Geology of
Arisaig," Quart. Jour. Geol. &c., 1864<. E. at its junction with D.
in section is characteristic in its fauna, there as well as in
McAra's Brook and McAdam's Brook, its litholology is distinctive^
The only part of this Typical Series that calls for special Re-
vision is A. and B., with associate rocks (a.) When my collections
were examined by Mr. Salter and Sir R. I. Murchison in 1862,
I had not discovered the bed of graptolites in the lower part of
B. at Doctor's Bi-ook, consequently these w^ere not taken into
-consideration when A was correlated with the " May Hill Sand-
stone." I have no doubt that Sir R. I. Murchison would have
-considered the Diprionidean graptolites as of Lower Silurian
age and have regarded B as of that age and consequently A as
