(JEOtOGY OF ANTIGONISM COUNTY — HONEVMAJ^. 321
Considerable work 'ias been clone in the search for coal under
the direction of John Campbell, Esq., of Dartmouth, N. S., who
has reported the discovery of coal beds having an aggiogate
thickness of 28 to 30 feet. Work has been discontinued for
many years. Not far from this locality there is a bed of lirae-^
stone. Advancing further, four miles, we reach the conglomer--
ates of the south side of the basin, at the back of the Antigonish
Sugar Loaf. We have noticed the eastern extension of these at
Mclsaac's Point and Cribbeau's Head, in Section II. The west^
ern boundary of the basin are the Aiisaig Mountains, as already'
noticed, and the Antigonish Mountains of Section I. At the
back of the former and the beginning of the latter, as the road
from Arisaig Pier and Brook descends into Pleasant Valley^
Lower Carboniferous limestones are seen outcropping. Fine
exposures of conglomerates and coarse grits are seen in Right's
Kiver. Black shales outcrop in the "Big Marsh," on the "Old
Gulf Road." Sandstones outcrop in all directions, and in Ma-
lignant Brook before we reach the cove, and Section IIL To
the west of this brook hills are seen in the rear of McNeil's
Mountain. These are formed of conglomerates belonging to the
west side of the basin.
Crossing the mountains of the section, at a distance of half a
railej we find an axial series of igneous rocks. We have already
met these at St. George's Bay, Section II. They also outcrop to
the west in a bluff on Right's River. The central rock of the
"Sugar Loaf" is Archaean (vide "Polariscopic Notes "J. The
rocks of these mountains, with the exception of the igneous
rocks, are of Lower Silurian age (?). With the igneous rocksj
they are analogous to McLellan's Mountain, Pictou County. Two
miles farther we come to their south side, and to the north side
of the southern Carboniferous area. A little farther w^e reach
Section I, Line of Railway. Proceeding further (18 miles) we
pass through this ai'ea with its conglomerate sandstones, gyp-
sums and saltsprings, limestones, ochreous and non-fossiliferous.
To the west there are great beds of gypsum. On a small tribu-^
tary of the Ohio River there is an interesting limestone replete
with Lower Carboniferous Brachiopoda. It is one of the two
