322 GEOLOGY OF ANTIGONISH COUNTY — HONEYMAlSr.
limestones in Nova Scotia's Carboniferous having tvilobites^
Phillipsiaan of interesting Palaeozoic race, that aljounded at
Arisaig in Silurian time. To the west of these is the Archaean
formation of the Ohio Mountains, which are common to the
counties of Antigonish and Pictou. To the east are the lime-
stones, sandstones, «Sz;c., of Upper South River and St. Andrew's,
and at Poinquet small seams of coal and sandstones, with copper
sulphide.
0-ur section terminates in a Silurian legion of moi'e than com-
mon interest, having lakes in aljundance. The chief of these are
Lochaber Lake, Poison's Lake and South River Lake. This is a
water shed. The first sends its water to the Atlantic; the two
last to Antigonish harbour.
There are two series of ro^ks about those lakes : 1st — a fossi-
liferous ; 2nd — a metalliferous. The Jii'st is on the west side of
Lochaber Lake. It begins near the head of the lake and
extends nearly a mile. The lower part is on the side of the
mountain, the upper is on the side of the lake and enters it.
The second forms an island in the lake, and passes over to the
west side. It forms the high lands on the east side, and extends
into the County of Guysboro' southward. It extends eastward
beyond South River Lake, including Poison's Lake. It bounds
and underlies the Carboniferous of the Section from above
Lochaber Lake to Upper South River and beyond. The "fossi-
liferous series" consists of equivalents of A, C, and D, '•'Arisaig
Series." It is defective by the absence of equivalents of B, B',
C and E. This was the locality where I first found A, Subse-
quently it was found at Doctor's Brook, Arisaig. A beautiful
internal cast of the characteristic coraX Petrciia,(forrestari Salter, j
McCoy led to the discovery. The rocks are dark brown in colour,
and almost of flinty hardness. All the fossils in it that I have
collected are casts, with the exception of Athyris. In some cases
the calcareous part of Petrala has b:en replaced by quartz.
Fossils are by no means numerous, but those that do occur are
characteristic. There is not the variety in lithology that we find
at Arisaig, neither are the fossils regular in their general mode of
occurrence. Orthis, athyris and Petraia intermingle. The
