(JtOLOGY OF ANtlGONISH C-DUKTY — HONETMAN. 323''
peculiar cornulite was by Salter characterized as "trumpet-
shaped." The chief rock of the mountain, which rises to a con-
siderable height, is crystalline dioi'ite and intrusice ? There
is nothing intervening between this and A. The D member oF
the series is seen outcropping on the road and side of the lake.
Between this and the outcrops of A are cultivated fields. That
C underlies, I know from the rocks of cairns which have pro-
duced two large orthoceratites, the trilobite JwmaloTnatus of C
horizon, as it appears at Arisaig and elsewhere. D. strata have
produced the characteristic fossils— Brachiopoda, Ghonetes Nova
Scotia, Hall. Crania, Acadiensis, Hall. Trilobite, Dalmania
Logani, Hall. Here, then, we have A of Hudson River Lovjer
Sihirian, and C of Aynestry Limestone, or Niagara Limestone,
age, and D of Upper Ludlow or Lower Helderberg age — Upijer
Silurian.
We now e:xamine the "Metalliferous Series.'' I quote the
description of this from my Paper — "Geology of Antigonish
County." Trans. 1866, page 110: "A very broad band of red-
dish brown and grey argillaceous slates, which form an island
in the lake, extend to Poison's Lake and beyond it. In their
strike they extend to the west of Lochaber Lake in the one
direction and through South River Lake and the river itself in
the other direction ; at right angles to the strike they pass into
Guysboro' County. On the western side of Lochaber there are
magnificent exposures of the brownish red strata in the course
of a small brook that runs into the lake. To the south of the
brook there is a thick bed of limestones, altered and contorted,
which contains blue /•M-or'ife This seems to be a carboniferous
limestone. Between Lochaber Lake and Poison's Lake the slates
contain veins of quartz of considerable thickness, which contain
plates of specular iron ore, and at one of the streams that ilow
into South River, grey and bro%unish red sloAe is associated with
quartzite, which contains veins of quartz having colourless
crystals (rock crystal) of considerable size and beauty. I also
found garnets and crystals of pyrite of the beautiful foim. — YW,
4, Dana's Manual, 1878. But these were not found in situ. The
slates at Poison's Lake are of darker colour than the others."
