^^4 GEOLOGY OF ANTIGONISH COUNTY — HONEYMAN.
In these are veins of calchopprite, which &re considered to be oi
economic importance, "Poison's Lake copper mines." There is
also a vein of micaceous oxide of iron, out of which I had masses
at the London Exhibition of 1862. I would observe that these
■si-j-af a have been complicated by trap dykes. The position occu-
pied by this series, placed between Fossiliferous D Upper Silu^
rian of Lochaber Lake and the Lower Caiboniferous of South
River led me to regard it as of Devonian age (in 186C), and to
correlate the red strata with E of the Section III., and Mc-
Adam's and McAra's Brook. At that time I was not aware of
the great band of red and grey strata, No. 6, of the Arisaig
mountains, with its disturbing "igneous locks," with which I
now believe it to corresponib I thus place the " Metalliferous
Series" under, Lovjer Silurian A of the "Fossiliferous Series,"
and assign it to an age prior to the Hudson River. I am somewhat
disposedjon consideration of its lithological and metalliferous char-
acter in connection with its "igneous" association, to correlate it
with metalliferous rocks of Nictaux and Moose Riverj in the
County of Annapolis.
Pleistocene.
" Drift accumulations abound throughout the county. The
transportation of the boulders at Ogden's, Section III, from the
Lower Arisaig (Archtiean) series of Section III is in the direction
S. 30 E. There can be no doubt that this transportation has
been effected by glacial action, although no glaciation has been
observed in the county. Large masses have been transported
from Frenchman's Barn (rock) and Arisaig Pier of the same sec-
tion to elevated portions of the south." — ("Geology of Antigonish
County," Trans., 1875.)
In my Paper "On Glacial Transportation in Nova Scotia and
Beyond," (Trans., I. N. S., 1883,) I have referred to this trans-
portation, and especially to the "Archaean" from Section III to
Section II, and its course. It corresponds in character with that
from the Cobequid Mountains, and in direction with the glacia-
tion which points to Bloraidon or Partridge Island as the source
of the amygdaloids that are to be found in Halifax and vicinity.
