¥rOTES ON SABLE ISLAND — MACDONALD. l7
years. At what period they were destroyed, and succeeded by
the wild horses now upon it, is not known.
From this date up to the beginning of the present century,
We have little information respecting this Island, except that it
became a favourite resort of fishermen, for the purpose of hunting
the walrus and seal.
With the inci'ease of commerce, wrecks were more frequent,
and it became the haunt of pii'ates and wreckers of the worst
description, who are said to have lighted fires on the shore
luring vessels to their destrucftion. Valuable jewels and rare
articles having been exhibited as coming^ from there from time to
time, strange stories of piracy and 'murder became frequent.
This, together with the report of several vessels being lost
with all hands, in quick succession — among them being the
"' Princess Amelia," a transport having on board the household
effects of the Duke of Kent and upwards of 200 officers and
recruits, all of whom perished, although it was thought that
many of them reached shore and were afterwards murdered by
the pirates, excited the suspicions of the authorities.
The gun brig " Harriet" was dispatched, under Lieut.
ToREENS, to investigate matters, when she, too, was lost. The
government at once took action, and, by the advice of Sir John
Wentworth, an amount was appropriated for settling families on
the Island to assist shipwrecked persons and for saving property.
A proclamation was issued, stating that persons found resid-
ing upon the Island without a license from the government
would be removed and imprisoned for a period of not less than
six years. This had the desired effect, driving off the wretches
who infested it, and the pi'esent establishment was formed under
the superintendence of one James Morris in 1802.
Such is the early history which, though dim and frag-
mentary, yet serves to show that the Island was well known
and frequented hundreds of 3''ears before the founding of Halifax,
and that by a race of people who have left no descendants
along our coast.
We will now consider the geneial features of this
Island. It is simply an enormous accumulation of loose grey
