GEOLOGY OF ANTIGONISH COUNTY — HONEYMAN. 325
I have also referred to this as a proof that the great glacial
movement originated beyond Nova Scotia, and that the coast of
Section II was one of its termini.
My study of glacial accumulations during the past decade has
led me to recognize distinctions in the drift accumulations of this
county which I failed to recognize in 1875.
When describing Section III above, I indicated a distinc-
tion between the drift of the shore at Malignant Cove and the
glacial drift. I connect with this other accumulations to which I
referred at the time referred to (1875): "The great drift deposits,
which occur in every direction, obscuring the adjacent rocks and
rendering the work of exploration often difficult and perplexing.
The more prominent are the accumulations on the hills that
occur in the break that separates the 'Archaean' from the Mc-
Neil's Mountain Archaean. About one mile f jom the shore there
are gravelly and sandy mounds; gradually they increase in size
and numbers until, at a farther distance of two miles, the last of
the series forms the elevated site of St. Mary's Chapel, which is
seen at a distance of several miles. In and around the town of
Antigonish are similar elevations. My attention was speciallj*-
directed to these about 20 years ago by the sinking of a well on
the side of one on which the 'Old Court House' then stood.
After passing through several feet of gravel a bed of clay was
struck, which was particularly dry. It was first dark and then
light in colour, containing fossil wood, in the centre of which was
phosphate of iron of a beautiful blue colour, which might be
used as a paint. This is noticed in 'How's Mineralogy of Nova
Scotia.' In a section of clays on the side of a small brook, not
far from the railway station, I found the same fossil without the
phosphate of iron. The fossil was abundant."
These are supposed to be aqueous deposits of Pleistocene age.
(Champlain.) Illustrated by a Geological Map of the County.—^
Scale, one mile one inch. — Museum Collections,
