11 REPORT OF DELEGATE TO ROYAL SOCIETY.
occurred to mar the pleasure of the excursion, or is likely tc
occur on any similar occasion, so far at least as careful manage-
ment of the Intercolonial is implicated.
Professor Allison, Superintendent of Education, and delegate
of the Nova Scotia Historical Society, and Professor MacGregor,
of Dalhousie College, a member of the Royal Societj^ and gf our
Institute, were fellow travellers with mj'self from Halifax, and
a delegate from New Brunswick, on the same errand, met us at
Moncton. There was very little lailway detention at any of the
stations, and we realized a decided improvement since former
visits in this direction, at the stations where provision and
attendance are furnished,* the quantity and quality of which
minister so largely to the comfort and convenience of locomotion.
There is a marked difference in the length and severity of the
winter between the Atlantic coast of Nova Scotia and those
parts of New Brunswick and Quebec through which we had now
to pass. We left no snow behind us, either at Halifax or Truro,
and cultivation was fairly progressive, onward and past Amherst
to Moncton. But although this was well toward the end of Mav,
the snow had not entirely disappeared further along the route,
and very few signs of progressive vegetation were to be seen.
On the hills around, here and there, and often in secluded places
on the railway level, were large patches of snow, first seen at
Coal Branch, N. B., most frequent from Campbellton on the
Restigouche, and onward on the Metapedia, an affluent of the
Restigouche, which, spreading into a large lake-like expanse, still
retained its winter covering of ice, although evidently on the
point of breaking up. The ice was all gone on our return, eight
days later.
We get no more than a passing glimpse of the small townshipsi
or villages, which follow each other in rapid succession on the
railway route by the lower St. Lawrence, on to Chaudiere Junc-
tion, near to Point Levi. Rimouski, a summer port of the Allan
steamship line, is apparently the largest and most important.
What can be seen by the railway traveller does not exhibit
signs of any modern improvement except the railway itself. The
* Except at Chaudiere Junction.
