REPORT OF DELEGATE TO ROYAL SOCIETY. Ill
approaches to some o£ the stations are picturesque and of much
natural beauty. On the sea side is the Gulf, at this season a sombre,
sailless, vast expanse of open water. On the land side the ground
presents a bare, uncultivated appearance, with a few sheep and
cattle p-razine,', where a human beine' at this season is a rai'e.
lappearance. At the stations the scene changes. There the
arrival of a train is still an important event, and excites curiosity
and talkativeness. The language is French patois. The
people around the stations are all seeming idlers and French
labourers and artizans. The village dwellings look comfortable,
but without any pretensions to architectural neatness or design.
A further acquaintance might, however, develope something-
better worth looking at than tavern and other signs and insignia.
Almost every station bears the name of a saint, who, from
appearances around, does not seein to care much for the growth
or prosperity of the place after which he or she is named. To
use an expressive and homely Scotch phrase, these holy patrons
appear to " have ta'en a scunner " at the w'hole region. There is,
however, a large bid ail along the Lower St. Lawa*ence, in spite
of apparent, neglect, for saintly protection and intercession in
mundane concerns.
On arriving at Chaudiei-e Junction, near Quebec, the Interco-
lonial ends, and the Grand Trunk monopolizes passengei^ and
freight onwards, to the serious detriment of our railway line.
We airive at Montreal early Sunday morning, and express some
astonishment that so far the attendance of members and delegates
from the Lower Provinces is so scant. The day was remarkably
hot, and the morning was spent in leisurely visiting Notre Dame,
the Quays, and other remarkable localities. In the afternoon
Prof. MacGregor, our New Brunswick friend and myself strolled
up the mountain to McGill University, or College — the latter being
its more popular and familiar appellation. It occupies a conspicu-
ous site, and is a cluster of detached buildings, about which
exteriorly there is nothing remarkable, either in architectural
•design or beauty. The Pi'incipal was away at Ottawa. After
satisfying, so far as was possible, our curiosity, we climbed the
steep stairs back of the house and grounds which formed the
