IV REPORT OF DELEGATE TO ROYAL SOCIETY.
handsome residence of the late Sir Hugh Allan, who gave to
Canada the noble line of steamships that bear his name, passed
on above the reservoirs that regulate the water supply of the
city, ascending in this way to the summit of the mountain, from
which spreads in every dii-ection the most enchanting and exten-
sive view of the country around. At our feet in Sunday
quietude and silence lay the City of Montreal, every tower and
spire (Notre Dame conspicuou'*) easily distinguishable. Next the
noble river with its wealth of shipping at the quays, the Victoria
Bridge, its chief feature, — and then the country beyond and
around on all sides, studded with villages and farms— the whole
embracing a circumference of fifty miles or more. There were
not many on this hot day who had achieved so elevated a posi-
tion — but the scene well repaid the exertion. The mountain
with its palatial I'esidences, religious houses, and sylvan scenery,
presents of itself a richly picturesque appeaiance. At this height
and so early in the season, indicatory of the r^apidity with which
spring or summer succeeds the intensity of winter's cold around
Montreal, the ground was covered with quite a luxuriant growth
of herbaceous plants and wild flowers in firll bloom and rare
beauty, not having, so far as we are aware, their counterpart in
Nova Scotia (of which our New Brunswick botanical friend took
particular notice), completing the beauty of the glorious prospect.
We could have remained for hours in admiration of the lovely
panorama, and its natural and artificial beauties, but a gathering
rain obliged a reluctant retreat, and highly delighted as we had
been, we descended the nrountain, but at a much more rapid
pace than we had taken to gain the summit, somewhat tired
withal, and glad to arrive as quickly as possible at the shelter of
our hotel.
The tr^ain left for Ottawa, 120 miles, on Monday mor^ning,
which was reached by 12 noon. The country everywhere had
thrown off its winter garb. There were no lingering patches of
ice or snow. Wild flowers, skirting the ti'ack, met us at inter-
\"als, this time of a bright yellow colour, clustering like primr-oses.
Our friend, the sole New Brunswick botanical delegate, spoke
of them as not beino- indigenous either in that Province or Nova
