REPORT OF DELEGATE TO ROYAL SOCIETY. V
Scotia. Certainly the season here is at least a full fortnight in
advance of all the country between Montreal and the Lower
Provinces. The villages from St. Polycarp onward, were quite a
contrast in beneficence of their saints, to those on the Gulf shore
below Quebec, more picturesque and prosperous, especially in the
vicinity of streanis, the characteristics of each decidedly Cana-
dian, but becoming more and more of a British t3'pe, the nigher
we approached the metropolis — the land low and the soil rich.
Lumber was apparentl}^ the prevailing mercantile commodity,
and numerous piles attested its value. An hour improved
appearances in every respect. We came in view of the noble
Ottawa, much pleased with the morning's ride, and prepared for
a closer acquaintance with the Metropolis.
Ottawa is a city of magnificent distances, a fact easily realized
in passing from the railway terminus to the hotel. Many of the
streets seemed to be more than a mile in length, crossing at right
angles, wide and spacious. It is to be hoped they are all suffi-
ciently high above the river to prevent danger from floods. The
Parliament Buildings, erected on a gentle elevation, imposing in
the style of their architecture, are conspicuous objects, in every
way creditable to the youthful energy and ambition of the
Dominion, and crown the city with an air of regal splendor.
Ottawa is a Capital of large pretensions, the site and plan being-
chosen and approved by Her Majesty Queen Victoria, as a
central ])osition in a beautiful country, removed from the
American frontier, and easily defended in the event of war.
Rideau Hall, at the distance of a mile from the Parliament Build-
ings, the palace of the Governor-General, is quite insignificant in
its contrast with the Parliament Buildings, and ought ere long
to give place to a structure more in keeping with the Viceroyalty
of a Dominion which spans the British American Continent, and
east and west is bounded by the Atlantic and Pacific oceans.
No one can be mistaken who visits Ottawa and its environs,
as to its principal industrial staple. The immense piles of sawn
timber, here, there and everywhere, strike the beholder with
amazement. It was remarked by several, as by the writer, that
they never saw anything like it. Yet this was not the busy
