VI REPORT OF DELEGATE TO ROYAL SOCIETY.
season, and of what that may be, both on the river and the shore,
we could form only a vague conception. Withal an opinion is
broached by some residents, not however general, that Ottawa is
unlikely ever to become a flourishing Capital. They probably
expected a large and sudden development on its assuming that
character, or it may be based upon correct and continued obser-
vation. As a stranger, however, we could see no reason for it,
and in all respects it is unfounded by any comparison with
maritime progress. The immensity of the staple, the bustle of
business, the din of steam machinery incessantly at work, the
cabs and busses continually running to and fro full of passengers,
several first-class hotels, the customei's frequenting various
handsome retail stores contiguous to the parliament houses, large
churches of various denominations, the activity everywhere
displayed, all tended to disprove the grumbling element.
Ottawa is delightfully situated, but a large area remains to be
built upon. Its geological foundation is sure, being the Trenton
limestone formation, which, comparatively in the ascending series,
is not much above the lowest non-fossiliferous rocks that hrst
solidified into the crust of the globe. The displacements and
contortions of thousands of ages, the disruptions and denudations
of overlying strata, as numerous periods have passed over them,
have made the country what it is, an invaluable legacy, be-
queathed to the energies of the most energetic branch of the
human family, to perfect the beneficent designs of an Omnipotent
Creator. The natural scenery, in a limited circumference, is all
that can be desired either for walks or drives. It is more varied
than that of our own Halifax, but can hardly be surpassed,
which is saying a good deal for its beauty ; the sky, at all
events, at this season is of a paler blue than with us.
Hull, a township or district on the opposite side of the river,
which we did not visit, is crossed to by a ferry, looked pretty in
the distance, and is an attractive outskivt of the Capital. At a
short walk in another direction are the Falls of the Rideau and
the timber slides, inviting to passive courage. Canals, having
numerous locks, pierce the city and communicate with the
rivers. The extensive- machinery which regulates the water
