18 NOTES ON SABLE ISLAND — MACDONALD.
sand, forming two parallel ridges united at either extremity.
It is crescent-shaped, with its inner side towards the coast.
The valley formed by these parallel ridges extends the
length of the Island, 8 miles of which is occupied by a lake. A
narrow ridge separates this lake from the ocean on the south,
over which the sea breaks in many places during heavy weather.
According to the last admiralty survey, this Island is situ-
ated 85 miles from White Head, the nearest point on the Nova
Scotia coast. The west end is in lat. 43, 56, N., and 60, 08, W,
lonsf., — 22 miles in length and 1 mile in breadth.
From a northern approach it presents the appearance of a
succession of low, naked sand hummocks, some partially cavered
with vegetation. Beginning at the west end, those hills or
hummocks have an elevation of about 20 feet, gradually rising
eastward, attaining the height of about 80 feet in the vicinity of
the east end light, beyond which they slope away until they
meet the N. E. bar, which in fine weather dries for a distance of
4 miles from the grassy sand hilli?. About two miles from the
besinninof of this bar, an island is forming over an old wreck,
and is covered with grass.
This dry bar is succeeded by 9 miles of heavy breakers, to
a depth of 6 fathoms, 4 miles further with a heavy cross sea,
with from 10 to 13 fathoms, and then ends abruptly, the depth
increasing in a distance of 3 miles to 170 fathoms.
The N. W. bar dries about 1| miles from the gi'ass hills,
with patches or shoals nearly dry one mile further out. Then
9 miles of heavy breakers in fine weather, succeeded by seven
miles more in heavy iveather, when the depth increases from five
to ten fathoms, and where there is a great ripple and a heavy
cross sea. The whole extent of this bar is 17 miles, beyond
which the water gradually deepens.
Thus we have the Island, with its bars in bad weather, a
continuous line of over 50 miles of foaming breakers, producing
the most terrific efiect ; the Island seeming to shake to its
foundation as the whole body of the Atlantic breaks upon it.
In addition to this bar, at either extremity there ai-e three
submerged bars, or ridges, parallel with the shore on both sides,
