REPORT OF DELEGATE TO ROYAL SOCIETY. Vll
supply, is well worthy a visit. There are also the Parliament
Buildings, with the Senate and Couunons Chambers, the really
splendid Legislative Library, the Museum and the Patent Office,
Avhich represents in great and astonishing variety — rather
crowded, however, — the inventive genius of the Dominion. In
a building in the vicinity, used as a temple of art, some pictures
of high meiit were recognized, some of which had graced the
late exhibition at Halifax, held under the auspices of the
Governor-General. Strangers should see all these and every-
thing. In fact there is nothing to disappoint, but enough to
gratify curiosity and taste in all the surroundings of Ottawa,
which alone of themselves are amply sufficient to make a visit to
the Capital of the Dominion highly agreeable.
Ottawa is not gone over in a day ; but the remainder of
Monda\' was spent in the gallery of the Commons Chamber of
the Parliament, a large, handsome and commodious hall, where
the Liberal-Conservative and Grit elements sat facing each other.
Sir John and Sir Charles on one side, and confronting them Mr-
Blake and his following. Apparently they were seeking expla-
nations one of the other, preparatory to winding up the business
of the session, which occupied l:)oth parties far into the night.
We left long before the adjournment.
On Tuesday the Royal Society met in the Parliament Building
to be organized, Dr. Dawson, the President, in the chair. Mr.
Bourinot, the Secretary, read the minutes. The President ad-
dressed the meeting. The roll was called, and a large number
from various parts of the Dominion, members and delegates,
answered to their names. The Society was divided into sepai'ate
sections, which weie referred to their several places of meeting-
I was consigned to the Natural Science section, which was also
where the efeneral business was transacted. Several interesting
papers were read, having reference to the Zoology of the North-
West. As I was anxious to find anything that would tend to
settle the question, whether any two species were common alike
to the eastern and western hemispheres, I ventured to ask of the
gentlemen Avho had contributed the papers in which badgers and
earthworms were mentioned, if they were of similar species to
