Vlll REPORT OF DELEGATE TO ROYAL SOCIETY.
the baclpers of England and the earthworms of our fields and
gardens, a;:d was very kindly informed that the badgers were
precisely similar to those of England, with the same habits, only
much larger ; also that the earthworms were similar to those of
our fields and o-ardens. I remain still in doubt about this latter
conclusion. It is certain, 1 believe, that our anglers never find
earthworms in the virgin soil of the woods, but are obliged to
take such bait with them. The question may still be one of
some zoological importance. A member from New Brunswick
laid before the Section a number of well-preserved Indian relics,
- — axes, chisels, pipes, spear and arrow heads, &c., all stone
implements, which had been found in that Province. They were
of the Algonkin type of ancient aboriginal relics, and it was
presumed were Micmac weapons and utensils. From the absence
of pottery in this and other instances noted, it was supposed that
the more eastern tribes did not possess the art of making it.
Being called upon, I was enabled to contradict this, as in one of
the field excursions of the Halifax Institute, with the express
object of opening an ancient refuse heap at St. Margaret's Bay
and examining its contents, several pieces of broken pottery
were found, the remains of dish or bowl, the edges or rims
Ornamented with small bead-like cubes of iron pyrites, inserted
when the clay was soft and compressible. In gener-al the ex-
hibits were very clean, as though carefully washed, and there
were present implements of black stone, the like of which I had
never before seen, although there are a great variety of Micmac
implements in the Halifax museum. They could scarcely be
classed entirely as Micmac. Some thought they might be
Milicete or Penobscot, or partly of a type more southern still.
It was an interesting collection, very appropriate as a memento
of the very recent age of stone in Au)erica, when man on this
portion of the continent had made no pi'ogress beyond the
rudest appliances to provide for his immediate wants.
It was intimated by direction of the President, that the dele-
gates would meet next day at the Section of Natural Science, to
present reports from the various affiliated Societies. Also, that
the Governor-General and Princess Louise would hold a reception
