XIV GLACIAL DISTRIBUTION IN CANADA — HONEYMAN.
An interesting problem was thus presented for solution. I found
similar boulders occurring in abundance on the Atlantic shore,
from Point Pleasant, Halifax Harbour, west of Cow Bay, to Three
Fathom Harbour, east of it. Associated with these were Lower
Carboniferous Limestone boulders with fossils (Brachiopoda, i:c.,)
and boulders with Carboniferous plants, such as Stigmaria,
Lepidodendra, and Calamites, from the beds intervening between
Blomidon and the coast. This is very interesting, as showing that
the transporting agency levied upon every formation over which
it passed. An iceberg could not do this : a glacier could. The
distance between Blomidon and Cow Bay is 62 miles. Drift
accumulations and drift sections occurring on the lines of rail-
way, especially the Windsor and Annapolis Railway, were all
examined, and the amygdaloid boulders were found to increase
in numbers as we approached their source.
2. Triassic A'tnygdaloids (B). — From a distance of 45 miles
west of Blomidon, amygdaloids have also been transported to
the Atlantic coast. In the drift cuttings of the Nictaux and
Atlantic Railway, on the side of the Nictaux River, I found
amygdaloids of the same character as those of Blomidon. I
also observed a fine outcrop of Lower Silurian argillities on
the north of Cleveland Mountain, on the south side of the
Annapolis Valley. North Mountain, a continuation of the
Blomidon range, is on the north side of the valley. The position
of the glaciated rock-surface is at a height corresponding with
the general elevation of North Mountain, 600 feet. This
is the most northerly glacier found in Nova Scotia. The
Triassic sandstones, which are undoubtedly in the valley, although
they cannot be seen, must have filled the interval between the two
mountain ranges in Pre-glacial times to account for the glaciation
indicated and the passage of the amygdaloids. In my collection
I have a large amygdaloid boulder which was picked up at Lunen-
burg the Atlantic terminus. The Nictaux and Lahave Rivers,
which nearly meet at their sources, are approximately in the line
of transport, as are also a long chain of lakes. The Nictaux River
flows northerly into the Annapolis River in the valley : the
Lahave River, southerly, into the Atlantic, The Nictaux and
Atlantic Railway runs generally in the same course.
