GLACIAL DISTRIBUTION IN CANADA — HONEYMAN. XV
3. Archccan Gneisses, &c. {A.) — On the north of Blomidon,
at a distance of 13 miles, is the south side of the Archaean
rocks of the Cobequid Mountains. This range extends from
Cape Chignecto, on the Bay of Fundy, through Nova Scotia,
to a distance of ninety miles. Boulders have been transported
from it in a direction, indicated by glaciation, S. 20 E. mag.,
the same as the Blomidon amygdaloids. These are spread
broadcast in the eastern part of Colchester County and the
County of Hants, which bound Halifax County on the north.
{Vide papers in the " Transactions of the Nova Scotian Institute
of Natural Science," 1881-2 and 1882-8). In Halifax County
they are largely intercepted by a great belt of granite, which is
generally six miles wide, extending from Major's Lake, near
Waverley Gold Mines, on the west, to Ship Harbour on the east.
Some of the Cobequid boulders reach the shore along the course
of the Musquodoboit River, and other breaks in the granite
belt, i. e., a granitic transportation takes the place of the other, the
boulders of the latter having to be closely searched for among the
abounding granite boulders at Musquodoboit Harbour and Clam
Bay. At the Waverley (W.) end of the granites, or rather at the
end of another granite occurring farther north, which seems to
come into a line of it, the Cobequid boulders have found a better
passage. Their course became changed to S. W., as is seen by
the glaciation of the Cambrian argillites at the Intercolonial
Railway, near the Grand Lake. This brings them into Bedford
Basin, Halifax Harbour, and the City. The Archsean trans-
portation thus unites with the Triassic, so as to predominate
over the latter. The combined transportation then deposits the
accumulations at Laurence Town, Cow Bay, and at Eastern
Passage, Halifax Harbour, at Thrum Cap, McNab's Island, and
George's Island in the Harbour, at Point Pleasant, Fort Massey,^
Fort George, Observatory Hill, H. M. Dockyard, and Fort Need-
ham, and at Navy Island, Bedford Basin ('Trans.,' 1881-2.)
In like manner the great and extensive granites (B) on the
west side of Halifax Harbour, in their extension toward Blomi-
don, at Bedford, intercept a part of the amygdaloids, and in turn
are transported towards the Atlantic. Some of these boulders
