XVI GLACIAL DISTRIBUTION IN CANADA — HONFA''MAN.
become huge rocltes j^erches e.g., the great " Rocking Stone " of
Spryfield.
3. Archcean Gneisses, <&;c. (B). — Eight miles from the north-east
termination of Nova Scotia, near Cape St, George, Antigonish
County, on the Northumberland Strait, is the " Typical Archaian
Series," which I first recognized in 1866. Dana, in his ' Manual
of Geology ' (1674), gave it the name " Archaean," which I have
since adopted. I found the boulders of the series, on the shore
and in the drift, at Ogden's, Gypsum Bluff, St. George's Bay.
The largest boulders on the shore are very striking in appearance.
It is more than twenty years since I first noticed them. It was
then supposed that they had been carried from the coast of
Labrador. The identical rock was easily recognized among the
series on the Northumberland Strait, associated with crystalline
limestones and serpentines. There is no apparent glaciation,
but a line drawn on the Admiralty chart from the rock in situ
to the drift-section of St. George's Bay coincides exactly with
the line of Bloraidon transportation.
Fiords. — Looking at our chart, we observe that the Strait of
Canso, which separates Nova Scotia and Cape Breton, and which
enters St. George's Bay, runs parallel with our last Archasan
transportation line. All the harbours of Nova Scotia, from the
Strait of Canso to Ship Harbour, where the great granite belt
ends, are approximately parallel. From Ship Harbour to Hali-
fax Harbour, the harbours conform with the changed direction
of transportation. Halifax Harbour, Bedford Basin, and the
Estuary of the Avon are approximately in the line of the Blomi-
don amygdaloid transportation, and are only about eight miles
apart.
Remarhs. — The Archaean of Northumberland Strait lies (14')
north of the Archaean of the Cobequids. The transportation
could not originate there ; we must, therefore, look beyond Nova
Scotia. This consideration led me to refer to Logan's ' Geology
of Canada,' (1863). Examining the Tables of Glaciation Grooves,
I found that the S. E. courses to the N. E., N., and N. W. of
Nova Scotia, prevailing over the S. W. in the proportion of two
to one. The Nova Scotia transportation is, therefore, a contin-
