GLACIAL DISTRIBUTION IN CANADA — HONEYMAN. XVll
uation of that of Quebec Province, and my investigations have
given it an Atlantic terminus.
Otfcma Gneisses (C.) — On a visit to Ottawa, in May, 1882, I
observed massive boulders of Archaean gneisses in a number of
places. At the Rifle Ranges I examined them more particularly.
Some of the gneisses were beautifully banded, others of them
contained abundance of magnetite. In Sir W. Logan's table^
the course of the glacial grooves at Rideau River, Stegman's
Rapids, and also at Barrack Hill, is S. 45 E., true meridian.
Defining this course on Vennor's Map, I found that a N. 45 W.
extension passed between the Hull and Laycock Magnetite Iron
Mines. According to the same table, at Hull the glacial grooves
run S. 45 E. This is certainly a satisfactory coincidence.
Kingston Gneisses (D) Archcean. — When I was at the Domin-
ion Exhibition at Kingston, in September, 1882, my attention
was directed to the large quantity of boulders which lay about
the. exhibition grounds. The greater part of them corresponded
with the Ottawa boulders, with the exception of the magnetic
ones, and were consequently Archfean. One boulder was of
Trenton Limestone, and was glaciated. Looking for glaciation in
situ, I found it on the limestones at the edge of the water near
the entrance to the Royal Militaiy College. The course of the
grooves was S. 54 W. magnetic. The direction observed by Sir
W. E. Logan was S. 45 W., true meridian, while " other grooves
run S. 85 E." Trenton Limestone is the formation on which
Kingston is built, and of which it is built. Hence it is called
" the Limestone City." In the approach to it, near the Rideau
Canal, the Archaean (^Laurentian) is seen with the Trenton Lime-
stone lying directly upon it, in the same way as on the Railway
from Montreal to Ottawa, near the latter. We have now reached
long. 76° 25' to 29', and lat. 44° 14' to 19'. In long. 80° 54', lat.
44° 28', is the last of the south-easterly grooves (S. 5 E.), accord-
ing to Logan. In long. 79° 33', lat. 46° 10', is Nipissing Lake,
Here, and beyond all grooves are, therefore, S. W. Lake Temis-
camang, long. 79° 26' to 30', lat. 47° 7' to 36', has glaciation
generally S. E. This is the region of divergence as well as of
watershed.
