22 NOTES ON SABLE ISLAND — MACDONALD.
wreck. They are small, but strong and active, and show a
power of endurance almost surp7'isiny ; withstanding the incle-
mency of winter without other shelter than that afforded by
the hillocks of sand.
The English rabhit has at different periods been very numer-
ous, and threatened at one time to over-run the Island. But, to
their misfortune, the Norway rat landed from an old vessel, and
in a short time became so numerous that they nearly annihilated
the rabbits, and then turned their attention to the stores of the
Island, so that during one winter the staff were without bread
for some months. In the spring the Government sent a detach-
ment of cats to look after the rais. The cats killed the rats and
then finished the remaining rahhits. In a short time the cats
became so ivild and numerous as to be a source of danger, when
dogs were sent to hunt the cats, and with the assistance of shot
guns in the hands of the staff, the cats were finally extirpated.
Again the Island was stocked with rabbits, when a snoiuy
oiul found his way thither, and being so delighted at his Jind,
disappeared, and in a few days returned with his friends, who
remained long after the rabbits were extinct, and still shows his
Jsind remembrances by making periodical visits.
Until 1814, herds of wild hogs roamed the Island, which
became exceedingly fierce, often attacking the cattle. But
during a very severe winter all perished. Since that time this
species of stock has not been allowed to range the Island, since,
owing to their proclivity to hunt bodies in the sand, and devour
those found in the land-wash, they became objects of horror
and disgust.
The walrus, or sea Hon, once repaired to this Island in
large numbers. Their tusks are still being washed out of the
sand, although they disappeared many years ago.
Early in January the Greenland seals make their appearance
on the bars, for the purpose of luhelping, and are sometimes
hunted by the staff. The male is about 8 feet long, weighs
often 800 lbs., and swims at the rate of seven miles an hour.
They are very tenacious of life, often surviving the most severe
wounds. Their habits are very interesting. When on shore
.they live in families, each male attended by several females.
