NOTES ON SABLE ISLAND — MACDONALD. 23
The young at twenty days are nearly white, and those who
have partaken of their flesh, pronounce it equal to that of
sucking pig. When the males are old they are deserted by the
females, and living apart from the rest, become exceedingly
fierce. In their encounters they inflict on each other wounds
like sabre thrusts, and after their engagements throw themselves
into the sea to wash away the blood. The hunting of this species
of seal is not without its dangers. They often turn upon their
pursuers, and will sometimes ward off" a blow, seize the club in
their tusks and escape.
The common harhour seal is a constant dweller on the Island.
In May their new-born whelps ma}' be found sleeping on the
sand in velvet coats, or riding the surges on their mothers' backs.
LIGHTS.
In 1873 the Government erected two powerful lights — one
on each end of the Island — at a cost of $80,000, the propriety of
which has been very much (i[uestioned.
Nearly every government that has come into power has
had the subject of light houses on Sable Island before them, and
as often has it been opposed by sea-faring men, who maintained
that it would render navigation more dangerous than before-
Their argument beino- that were no inducements offered to
CD O
approach the Island, vessels would keep at a sufficiently safe
-distance from it ; whereas, in the hope of making the light, they
would be drawn near the bars, thereby increasing the risk and
danger.
Some maintained, on the other hand, that if two pow-
erful white lights were exhibited — one fixed the other revolv-
ing — they would be visible twenty miles, which would be
quite far enough to warn vessels of their danger, and enable
them to define their position. Mr. Howe, in his report of 1848,
stated that although Capt. Darby and Mr. Cunard entertained
the belief that a light would induce vessels to run for the Island,
and lure them amid shoals and sand-bars, it was, in his opinion,
strongly advisable that a light should be erected near the central
