24 NOTES ON SABLE ISLAND — MACDONALD.
station, and that vessels not bound for the Island, nor driven
there by currents or stress of weather, would no more run for it
than they do now, — that they would, in fact, keep clear of it, it
having no harbour of refuge ; and that vessels outward bound
would not require a new point of departure, while those homeward
bound had all the coast before them ; and if made to revolve
E. and W., it would show in which direction the bars lie, and to
government vessels it would be of great service. But, as before,
no further action beyond debating the matter took place — at
that time.
Foremost among the dano-ers surroundinsj this Island is that
arising from the irregularity of the marine currents that sweep
its shores. To trace the origin of which let us turn our atten-
tion for a while to the course of the gulf stream and polar current.
By glancing at Maury's Physical Chart, it will be seen that
the gulf stream, after discharging its heated waters through the
channel formed by the coast of Florida on the one side and Cuba
and the Bahamas on the other, follows the trend of the American
coast northward until approaching the shoals of Nantucket,
where it swerves to the N. E., passing south of Sable Island to
the tail of the great bank of Newfoundland, and then stretching
over to Europe in a due east direction.
In opposition to this, we have the cold, ice-laden current of
the North, one portion of which, after leaving the Arctic ocean,
passes southward along the eastern coast of Greenland,where being
joined by another branch coming from Baffin's Bay and Davis'
Straits, it passes along the coasts of Labrador and Newfoundland
to the great banks, where it is met by the northern edge of the
gulf stream. At this point a- division of the polar current takes
place, — one portion, from its greater density, sinks below the
warm current of the gulf stream and continues its course south-
ward as a sub-marine current. This has been doubted. In the
Transactions of this Institute for 1865, is a letter from Admiral
Milne to the President of this Society, concerning the currents
on the N. E. coast of North America, in which he says : " This
polar current passes along the east coast of Newfoundland as
far as Cape Race, where a western part runs round it into S^.
