NOTES ON SABLE ISLAND — MACDONALD. 25
Mary's Bay, but the eastern part becomes lost. It is probably
checked by the northern limit of the gulf stream, and turned
into a more N. E. direction."
In that same year, however, it is recorded by Carpenter,
that while laying the Atlantic cable in lat. 51° N., and Ion. 38°
W., a heavy storm came down upon them, and they were obliged
to cut the cable. A red buoy was attached to it by a long wire
rope, which, however, soon after broke loose and drifted away.
Seventy-six days after this buoy was seen by a West India mail
steamer in Lat. 42° N., Ion. 40° ; having travelled due south 600
nautical miles, a rate of about eight miles a day, directly against
the gulf stream and prevalent winds, which can be only account-
ed for by the fact of the great length of wire rope that was
hanging in the deeper polar current.
This has been further demonstrated by deeply-submerged
icebergs being carried into and across the gulf stream, and being-
seen repeatedly as far south as 36° lat., by which it is inferred
that the deeply-immersed portion ofFei-ed more resistance to the
lower current than to the shallow surface current, and was thus
borne southward across the gulf stream.
The other portion of the polar current, when it impinges on
the gulf stream at the great bank, becomes deflected to the west-
ward, partially by contact with the great bank, and in its course
its northern edge sweeps around Cape Race, into St. Mary's and
the other bays north, until losing momentum it falls back and
joins the main body of the current. This portion, sweeping
around and into those bays, is commonly called the indraught
by mariners, and to it, being accelerated by certain storms, is
attributed the loss of the " Cedar Grove," at Canso, and the Crom-
well boats at Cape Race.
The southern edge interlaces the gulf stream, and carries
western bound vessels at such a rate as frequently leads mariners
to miscalculate their position with reference to this island ; to
which fact are attributable many of the wrecks.
Capt- Darby, a former superintendent of the Island, in a
letter to Blunt's Coast Pilot, with regard to the streno;th of this
polar current says : " The most of the wrecks occurring here
