26 NOTES ON SABLE ISLAND — MACDONALD.
arise from error in longitude. I have known vessels from
Europe that had not made an error of one-half degree in their
longitude until they came to the banks of Newfoundland, and
from there in moderate weather and light winds have made errors
from 60 to 100 miles." It is difficult to understand how that
commanders of vessels, making voyages to and from this country
for so many years, should be apparently so ignorant of the
strength of these currents, unless, as it would seem, they have
periods of comparative quiescence and activity.
Then, again, we have a third current — a portion of the polar
current, which, becoming detached at the southern end of Labra-
dor, and sweeping through the Straits of Belle Isle, is joined by
the vast flow of the St. Lawrence, and forms what is known as the
Oulf of St. Lawrence current. This combined current skirts the
east side of Cape Breton, passes south, and strikes obliquely in
the vicinity of Sable Island that portion of the polar current
which is deflected westward by contact with the banks of New-
foundland.
To these opposing currents, then, must be attributed those
dangerous marine disturbances off our coast, of which Sable
Island seems to be the centre. Capt. Cloue, of the French navy,
remarked that during his survey of the Quero bank, adjoining
that of Sable Island, nothing surprised him more than the
strength and uncertainty of the currents, which often set in a
contrary direction to the prevailing winds, and change all
round the compass in 24 hours.
This, of course, is in accordance with well-known law.
Currents of water, like currents of air, meeting in opposite direc-
tions, produce eddies and swirls of the most conflicting character-
In February, 1808, the first superintendent, having had
three months of anxiety from the rapidity with which the Island
had washed away in the vicinity of his house, and having lost
much of his provisions from the depredations of rats, and fearing
that ivant would stare him in the face before relief would reach
him in the spring vessel, built a dispatch boat and sent her out
crowded with sail before a S. E. gale, in hopes that she would
reach the main land, or be picked up by some inbound vessel that
