NOTES ON SABLE ISLAND — MACDONALD. 27
would carry the dispatches to the Government, and acquaint
them of the starving condition of those on the Island. To his
surprise, in 13 days after she returned to the beach, six miles
above where she set out from.
This swirl motion around this Island is very marked. In
calm weather an empty barrel or cask will make circuit after
circuit of the Island, and this experiment is often resorted to for
testing the velocity of -the current. Again, bodies from wrecks
have often made the same circuit, and it is quite customary for
the surfmen to search on the opposite side for things which
in consequence of an off-shore wind, have been carried thither b}
the current, and deposited upon the beach. During the preva
lence of stormy weather these currents become terribly conflict
ing, and if accompanied by high tides, often remove by thei-
eroding action, hundreds of feet from the embankments Then
again, danger often arises from the lowness of the shores.
Being treeless — with the exception of the light house;
having nothing to distinguish it from the surrounding ocean
which it so resembles in colour — vessels have been known in f.
stiff breeze and clear weather to run directly for the Island
without the slightest knowledge of its proximity, until their
attention has been arrested by the red ensign flung to the breeze
from the flagstaff at one of the stations. Often sailing vessels
and mail steamers are seen fi'om the Island in positions clearly
showing that they were unaware of its pi^esence.
Fogs of a density seldom experienced elsewhere are pre-
valent all the year round, and accompany all winds from N. E.
round by south to S. W. The warm, moist air from above the
gulf stream meeting the cold air above the polar cun-ent, is
condensed into fog which gives but little warning of approach,
and contributes in a marked degree to the dangerous surround-
ings of this Island.
Another danger arises from its proximity to the gulf stream.
Ask the mariner where he most dreads to encounter the storm,
and perchance he will answer on a lea shore or the northern
edge of the gulf.
Maury, who made a life study of the stream, says : " With
