28 NOTES ON SABLE ISLAND — MACDONALD.
such elements of atmospheric disturbances on its bosom, it fol-
lows that storms of the most violent character would accompany
it in its course. Accordingly the most terrific that rage on the
ocean have been known to spend their fury on its northern
border."
There have been some memorable tempests here which have
marked, as it were, periods in the history of this Island, — nights
of terror never to be forgotten. The inhabitants of this lonely,
desolate sand-bar have often despaired of ever seeing the dawn,
and sat speechless for hours, listening, terror-stricken, to the
howling of the blast, which threatened every moment to hurl
their dwellings from their unstable foundation into the seething
ocean. On one occasion, on going forth after such a night, they
were horrified to find that, in addition to the transformation
undergone around them by the removal of sand-hills, and the
creation of others, that a portion equal to 3 miles long, 40 feet
wide, and from 20 to 60 feet high, had gone bodily from the
north side of their Island. This now forms one of those parallel
bars over which the sea in storms breaks in terrific tumult. The
awful violence, as well as the suddenness of those storms, which
are cyclonic in their character, form one of the most remarkable
phenomena of this Island..
The sun often rises clear, giving indications of continued '
good weather, and, with the exception of the sea breaking high
on the bars, and the fretful moan of the surf as it breaks along
the shore, there is no premonition of the coming storm. Sud-
denly a dull, leaden haze obscures the sun : clouds gather from
all directions, The sky assumes a wild, unusual appearance,
The wind begins to rise in fitful gusts, carrying swirls of sand
before it. The darkness increases as the low, driving scud shuts
in all distant objects. Now the gale bursts in awful fury,
whipping off" the summits of the hummocks, carrying before it
a cloud of blinding sand-drift. Darkness adds to the horror of
the scene, while rain descends in a perfect deluge. No human
voice can be heard above the tempest. The crinkled lightning
for an instant lights up the mad waves, as they rear and hiss
along the beach. Then a sudden calm ensues, — as strange as
