NOTES ON SABLE ISLAND — MACDONALD. 31
this circumstance that brought us all out there in that terrific
o-ale, as if Providence directed that we should all be out and all
together so as to be the better prepared for what was going to
follow. All of a sudden, we saw an object off the North side
dead to windward which we first thought was a large bird, but
shortly after discovered that it was a sail distant five or six miles,
and that she was running down right before this tremendous gale
dead on a lee-shore. We could work no more at the barrels.
Our eyes w^ere strained in the direction of the object that appear-
ed to be running to inevitable destruction. My first impression
was that it was the schooner Daring which had left the Island
the evening before, and that they had met with some disaster so
as to disable the vessel in the gale, and were going to run her on
shore before night to save their lives.
We could see that she w^as a schooner with a close-reefed main-
sail set, steering directly for our flag-staff. I was convinced that
it was my son, who with two of his sisters on board, and a great
number of other passengers, were taking this method to preserve
their lives. The sea was breaking everywhere off the North side
as far as the eye could see, and it appeared almost incredible that
any vessel could live to come so great a distance through such
mountains of broken watei'. I got a rope prepared, to assist in
preseiA'ing the people's lives should the vessel be able to reach
the beach through the roaiing and boiling mountains of water
that surrounded her. When she approached within three miles
of the land she appeared to be in the heaviest breakers, and we
could plainly perceive mountain waves on each side of her that
would raise their curled heads as high as the tops of her masts
and pitch over and fall with the weight of hundreds of tons,
either of which would have been sufficient to have smashed that
frail bark to atoms ; but, miraculous as it may appear, not one of
them touched her. At one moment you could just perceive the
heads of her masts between the mountains of waters that were
smashing and breaking to pieces all around, but not permitted
to hurt her ; at the next moment you would see her on the top
of a tremendous wave which appeared like certain destruction to
her ; at another, you would see a mountain sea rising up before
her and breaking all to fragments in her path, but when she
arrived at the spot the surface was smooth as glass. When she
arrived within one mile of the shore she had to pass over what
we call the Outer Bar, where every sea broke from the bottom,
and our greatest anxiety for the safety of the vessel was at this
point. The sea was there breaking with tremendous violence,
but that heaven-:Pkvored bark passed through untouched, — the
