S2 NOTES ON SABLE ISLAND — MACBONALD.
sea became smooth before her, and she left a shining track behind.
Now, here was the miracle. I looked on this with wonder, awe
and admiration, and not without hope. When she approached a
little nearer, I could see one man lashed to the helm and two
men forward lashed by each of the fore-shrouds, and by each
man a large cask standing on end. We could also see that the
two men were making great exertions with their arms, as if
throwing something up in the wind. The vessel had now passed
the most dangerous place, and her safety seemed certain, — I could
breathe much freer than I had done for some minutes. Another
half-mile brought her to the beach, and her bow struck the sand.
From this spot to the high bank was about fifty or sixty yards
over a flat beach, which was always dry except in heavy gales,
but was now covered over with water. A number of heavy seas
Would roll together over the beach, and then recede, leaving it
dry. Over this place myself and the men were extended with a
rope leading from the bank down to the vessel's bow, on which
we held to keep the sea from washing us away ; and when the
great body of water receded, we could approach as near as the
jib-boom end, from which, one by one, the crew lowered them-
selves by a rope into our arms, and we passed them in safety to
the bank.
" The Schooner was the Arno, Capt. Higgins, with twelve
men, from Quero Bank, where they had been fishing. They left
the Bank at the commencement of the gale. He had lost all his
head sails when at daylight this morning he made the land dead
under his lee, with the gale blowing right on shore. The vessel
havino: no head-sail, he could do nothincr M'ith her on a wind.
He let go his anchor in twenty fathoms of water, paid out three
hundred fathoms of hemp cable, and brought the vessel head to
wind. In that tremendous sea he held on until noon, when, seeing
no prospect of the gale abating, he cut his cable and put the
vessel before the wind, preferring to run her on shore before night
to ridino- there and founderincj at her anchor. He lashed him-
self to the helm, sent all his men below but two, and nailed up
the cabin-doors. He had two large casks placed near the fore-
shrouds and lashed there. He then directed his two best men to
station themselves there and lash themselves firmly to the casks,
which were partly filled with blubber and oil from the fish. They
had each a wooden ladle about two feet long, and with those ladles
they dipped up the blubber and oil, and threw it up in the air as
high as they could. The great violence of the wind carried it far
to leeward, and, spreading over the water, made its surface smooth
before her and left a shining path behind ; and although the sea
