Notes on sable island — macdonald. 33
would rise very high, yet the top of it was smooth, and never
broke where the oil was. It was raging, pitching and breaking
close to her on each side, but not a barrel of water fell upon her
deck the whole distance. The vessel was so old and tender that
she went all to pieces iti a very short time after the crew, with
their clothing and provisions, were saved."
With regard to this phospheresence of the sea, at times
there are magnificent displays of it here. Among the early
inhabitants it was the cause of much alarm, and augmented the
many stories of the supernatural told in connection with the
place. Its first appearance to one of the superintendents, is
recorded in the journals of the Island as follows :
" Last night a singular phenomenon appeared on the south
side. The sea being high, and the night very dark, the breaking
of the sea would exhibit at intervals of from 5 to 10 minutes a
phosphorescent light. In some places it would be seen through the
gulches on the south side. When the beach was low, and the
sea broke high, it would rise in a great bright light to the height
of 15 or 20 feet, like an enormous fire, yet only to be seen at
certain places at a time." \,
In other places it is spoken of as the sea being on fire.
It generally appears after much southerly wind, and is
probably brought by the drift, or surface current, from the Gulf
Stream.
In the short time allotted me this evening, Mr. President,
I can but glance at the many interesting phenomena of tlie
Island and its surroundings. These facts and incidences are
such as I have been able to obtain from available documents, as
well as from personal observation. From these facts I have
deduced certain inferences, the plausibility of which I humbly
subiiiic to the judgment of the Institute.
On some future occasion I hope to present to you in detail
wh^t is, perhaps, the most interesting and important feature in
connection with this Island, viz. — Its Changed Position.
