GLACIAL TRANSPORTATION — HONEYSIAN. 35
subsequently of the Archasan rocks of Nova Scotia and Cape
Breton, or elsewhere, I have not found another rock like it. On
re-examining the shore where the boulders lay, I observed similar
boulders rolling down the bank out of the drift which overlies
the gypsums and limestones. I consequently concluded that the
boulders had been derived from the Archfean rock on Northum-
berland Strait, — having been transported a distance of 10 miles.
A line drawn on the Admiralty Chart from the position of the
rock to that of the boulders on the shore, funs S. 20 E., N. 20
W., magnetic. This is parallel to the line of Blomidon amygda-
loid transportation. This is a striking coincidence. It is also
parallel to the intermediate glacial lines of Gay's River road and
the Gore. (Acadian Geology Table.)
Further west in the Arisaig Township, we have the jaspi-
deous rocks of Frenchman's Barn and of Arisaig Pier, trans-
ported southwardly ; massive boulders being found landed oa
the higher crrounds.
ADMIRALTY CHART LINES.
My working chart shows the Strait of Canseau running
parallel with the extension of the Northumberland Strait and
Morristown (Antigonish) Archaean transportation course, and all
the Atlantic coast harbours of Nova Scotia, as far west as Ship
harboui-, approximately parallel. From Ship, harbour to Halifax
harbour the harbours follow approximately the course of lines
made by local glaciers. (See preceding Papers. Trans. 1875-6,
and 1881. S. and E.)
Halifax harbour and the estuary of the Avon are in the line
of the Blomidon and Halifax glacier, which has transported the
triassic amygdaloids. The Archasan transportation glacier con-
verging on Bedford Basin. The Blomidon glaciation lines
extended N. W.. pass through the depression of the Cobequid
mountains.
ANNAPOLIS COUNTY.
As I have noticed in other papers on general geology,
triassic amygdaloids, from North Mountain, a continuation of
Blomidon, were collected by myself in the drift cuttings of the
