36 GLACIAL TRANSPORTATION — HONEYMAN,
Nictaux and Atlantic Railway, on the S. E. side of Cleveland
mountain, a part of which is called South mountain, on the
south side of the Annapolis Valley. Near the front of Cleveland
mountain (N.), an interesting exposure of glaciated argillites
occurs where the old or steep road meets the new one. This
position is nearly on a level with the general el evation of North
mountain. This is the only striation that I have noticed on the
north side of Nova Scotia. I remarked of this striation that the
agent making it and transporting the amygdaloids from the
North mountain, must have had a highway across the tract
intervening between the two mountain ranges. I therefore
inferred the non-existence of the Annapolis Valley in the glacial
period.
I also noticed at Nictaux a transportation of granite north-
wards, from the granites of South mountain towards the Anna-
polis Valley. I have considered the amygdaloid transportation as
during the glacial period, and the granite as occurring towards
its close during the formation of the Annapolis Valley, the
granite having been transported by IS^nd -slips or avalanches. /
king's county.
In the middle of the Annapolis valley, near the Berwick
station of the Windsor and Annapolis Railway, numerous boul-
ders of granite were found. These, too, have been transported
northerly from the granite region of South mountain. The time
of transportation, and the agency, may possibly have been the
same as referred to in the preceding case.
At Kentville, trappean boulders from the North Mountain
were observed, and a beautiful specimen of fortification agate
collected.
On the south side of Wolf ville — on the side of the road that
passes Acadia College — abundance of amygdaloids and other
trappean boulders were observed. At the south-east they were
very abundant, near, and in the Gaspereaux Valley. The size
and number of these were such as might be expected in sight of
Blomidon, and without any apparent obstruction in the path of
jtransportation. I was disappointed, however, in observing their
