GLACIAL TRANSPORTATION — HONEYMAN. 37
rarity in the space intervening between Wolf ville and Blomidon. I
do not recollect of seeing any trappean boulders until approach-
inrr the latter. I found on Blomidon the amygdaloid rocks, — the
source of supply — far from exhausted by the enormous levy
that had been made to supply so liberally the drift between
Wolfville and the Atlantic.
I noticed, also, another great granite transportation. Granite
bouldei'S were first observed in Halfway River, at the line
between the Counties of King's and Hants. Approaching their
source, the extension of the granites of South mountain, already
referred to, the size and number of the boulders was so great aS
to lead to the belief that the solid granite was underneath, while
the underlying rocks were found to be argillites. The transpor-
tation is like the cases already referred to northerly. Arnygdaloids
of the southerly transportation were also observed among the
granite boulders amonof the argillites of Greenfield.
HANTS COUNTY.
On the estuar}^ of the Avon, from Horton Bluff to Windsor,
amygdaloids are seen in great abundance, and often of consider-
able size. Besides the lower carboniferous limestones, above the
old Avon bridge are abundance of small amygdaloid boulders-
It was when examining these limestones, and collecting their
fossils, in 1861, that I first noticed the amygdaloid boulders.
Prof. How then informed me that they were from Blomidon.
On every subsequent visit to this locality, I made a more intimate
acquaintance with them and their minerals. It was this acquaint-
ance that led me to recognize their fellows at Cow Bay and
elsewhere.
BEYOND.
While some of the movements were undoubtedly local, others
— e. g., the Archaean transportation of Antigonish — could not
possibly originate on the border of Northumberland Strait. This
conviction left me to consult the record of observations made in
Canada by Sir Wm. E. Logan and others, in the table of glacia-
tion grooves in " Geology of Canada, 1863." Pp. 890, 1-2. Here
I found Nova Scotian courses S. E. prevailing over S, W., up to
