38 GLACIAL TRANSPORTATION — HONEYMAN.
Lon. 80° 54, in the ratio of 2-1. This convinced me that the
Nova Scotia courses were part of a system having their beginning
in the distant N. W. To illustrate the relation of these to
the general transportation of Nova Scotia, S. E., I added a sheet
to my chart, so as to be able to locate the groove lines of the
table as far as Lon. 88° W. The illustration is very striking.
The variations from the S. E. course are probably like those of
Nova Scotia, — deviations arising from local causes.
About the 80° meridian the arrangement of glacial lines is
peculiarly striking. Here we have a point of general divergence.
West of this the glaciation has a S. W. course, S. E. lines being
the exception.
Lake Temiscamang has 10 localities with S. E. striation.
East Bay of this lake, Lon. 79° 30, seems to be about the point
of divergence. Here the striation has a course S. 53° E.
Beyond the lake the courses are S. W. This is one of the lakes
of Ottawa river. The sources of the river lie to the north of it,
nearer Hudson's Bay. Lake Nepissing, S. E. Bay, Lon. 79° 33
has striation course S. 35° W., and a westerly water course, so
that the point of glacial divergence seems to be also that of
water.
Last summer I had repeated opportunities of making a
reconnaissance of the superficial and other geology of the region
trPoVersed by the Intercolonial Railway as far as Point Levis. I
observed frequently bouldei'S which doubtless were transported
from the Archaean region north of the River St. Lawrence.
OTTAWA.
At Ottawa I made a closer examination of Archaean trans-
portation when making acquaintance with the geolog}^ of the
district. On the Rideau river, at the shooting range, I examined
the large boulders lying around. The majority of these were
gneisses, and foreign to Trenton limestone and Utica slate of the
district. There were boulders of syenite, diorite, granite and
syenitic gneisses. One syenitic gneiss boulder was replete with
magnetite. Of these I secured Museum specimens. In Sir W.
E. Logan's table, there is reported striation at Barrack-hill,
