GLACIAL TRANSPORTATION — HONEYMAN. 41
are seen in their alternate retreat, advance ai:!d retreat, unloading
their freight, raising drift accumulations, and obstructing or
destroying the great highway so as to render it impossible for
any like agency to accomplish similar work. This is the condi-
tion in wdiich we now find it, unless where the condition has
been aggravated by the operations of agencies at work in post
glacial times.
HISTORY OF THE PROBLEM.
In the summer of 1872, Judge (in Equity) James showed
me, in the Museum, a beautiful specimen of agate, which he
found at Cow Bay. I recognized it at once as an agate from the
Blomidon series of rocks, and said so. I thought no more about
it. On the 24th of May the following year — the Queen's birth-
day — I went to Cow Bay with my late lamented friend — W. S.
Stirling, Esq., of Halifax, to spend a holiday. Wandering along
the shore, my attention was atte^acted to the amygdaloid boulders
washed by the sea. I recognized them as Blomidon rocks.
Their occurrence here was perplexing, until abundance of like
boulders and a beautiful specimen of agate, were seen and col-
lected out of the lofty section of drift on the east side of the
bay. Masses of quartzite, curiously furrowed, also fallen from
the drift, suo-o-ested a connection Avith the striation of Point Plea-
sant. An interesting problem in glacial transpoi'tation thus
presented itself for solution. I forthwith commenced investiga-
tions. I communicated two papers to the Institute containing
the results of these investigations. One was read in December,
1875, and the other in March, 1876. At the request of my
friend. Prof. Lesley, the substance of these was communicated
to the American Philosophical Society in May 16, 1876. The
Paper was illustrated by a sketch map, and an extensive suit of
bouldei"S, derived from the various formations over which the
transporting agent had passed. This collection, of which there
is a list in my paper read to the Institute " On Nova Scotian
Geology at the Centennial Exhibition of Philadelphia, 1876,"
was awarded a prize medal by the International Judges of Class
I. Further investigations were recorded in my paper " On the
