44 ANALYSIS OF A PICTOU COAL SEAM — GILPIN.
contain them in vaiying proportions, sometimes to such an
extent that the coal is rendered vahieless for economic purposes-
Almost the onl}' value these bands of shale possess, is their
record of the progress of growth of the associated coal. Applying
the record of the numerous small bands of shale and shaley coal
found in the seam under consideration, we learn that the growth
of this deposit was not an uninterrupted one. Scarcely had the
vegetation for a few inches of coal been accumulated, when a
change took place, and it w^as covered by a layer of mud.
It is useless, perhaps, now to speculate how this covering
was formed, perchance the shelter of some bar was broken, and
for a season the tides could deposit their burden,. or some name-
less river of bj'gone days became obstructed and flooded the
swamps, in which grew the weird vegetation of the carboni-
ferous era.
Then, again, the vegetation accumulated to be once more
interrupted. The presence of layers of coarse and shaley coal
shows that the transition from a flourishino- veQ-etation to a
mud-laden flat was, in some cases, a gradual one, due, perhaps, to
periodic inundations. Similarly the return to the conditions
favourable to the growth of the coal plants was sometimes a
slow one, as the struggle between land and water was year after
year more and more in favour of the vegetation.
Thus grew our coal deposits, subject to the fluctuations of
the district, and wdien the miner's pick thus reveals page after
page of this wondrous history, it is not unreasonable to hope that
some time they will be deciphered even more readily and with
greater certainty than the changes now progressing around us.
So far as I am aware, it is noticeable that in all seams
these layers are composed of very fine material, that never
have the conditions of growth been so abruptly altered as
to allow gravel or cono-lomerate to intervene. Such inter-
calations might, however, be observed in seams formed on
the edges of productive districts where changed physical
conditions held sway. So strongly marked were the general
conditions of wide spread- levels of vegetation during the pro-
ductive period, that we find, even when oscillations permitted
