ANALYSIS OF A PICTOU COAL SEAM— GILPIN. 45
streams to cut through coal beds, they carried only the finest
sediments. An illustration of this recently came under my
notice in the Cumberland district, where a brook of the carboni-
ferous period had eroded the coal down to and partly through
the underclay, the " want" being filled with a fine laminated
gray shale. This is also interesting, for from the abrupt passage
from coal to shale it is apparent that even at that early date in
the history of the future coal bed it must have acquired a certain
amount of coherence, enough to form the banks of even a slucj-
gish stream.
There is another interesting point in connection with coal
seams which I have not yet seen referred to in any books on
this subject. That is the influence of the water and land sur-
rounding the coal producing district upon the purit}'- and homo-
geneity of the resulting coal bed. It is frequently found by the
miner that, as he follows the seam, it changes its character. At
first he was proud of the absence of " bands and balls" and of
the facility with which he could supply pure coal. Gradually he
finds that the bands of shale grow larger with ominous persist-
ence. At last he awakens to the fact that his coal is cjettinor
" boney ;" finally it pi'oves unmarketable, and he turns his levels
in another direction.
Sometimes trial-pits and bore-holes in advance prove that
the coal has become a mere mass of carbonaceous shale, or that
the seam has ceased. These changes may frequently be explained
by the proximity of the vegetation to an arm of the sea or to a
river, so that the deposition of mud from floods, etc., at first
slight, becomes gi'eater, both in the form of bands, and of a general
addition of clayey and silicious matter. Finally a point is
reached where the conditions of coal deposition ceased. In some
cases the proximity of land covered by sand, which was carried
by prevailing winds upon the accumulating vegetation, may
explain the presence of an excessive amount of ash in seams not
holding bands of shale. It may also have been possible that
both these causes united to the deteiioration of seams of coal.
This would show that some of the beds were formed in what
might be termed broad shalloAv basins, in the centre of which is
