48 TEANSITION RESISTANCE— MACGREGOR.
whose parts had the same aggregate resistance that in the one
there was a single passage from one metal to another, in the other
several such passages, and finding that the resistances of the two
circuits were the same.
In the case of electrolytes there may be not only the form
of transition resistance mentioned above, but also another aris-
ing from the chemical decomposition which the current effects.
Even when no solid or liquid substances are deposited on the
electrodes and no gas is given off from them, there is usually
some change produced by the current in the surfaces of the elec-
trodes, for they are usually polarised. It is possible therefore
that the very process of electrolysis may give rise to such a state
of the surfaces of the electrodes that the current is weakened
in passing across them.
These two possible forms of transition resistance are usually
spoken of together under the one name, there being no experi-
mental means of separating them. The determination of their
existence or non-existence is rendered diiSicult by the fact, that
the passage of the current through an electrolyte modifies the
resistance of the electrolyte by changing its constitution, and
changes the electromotive force of the circuit by producing
polarisation.
LENZ-f- and Poggendorff* thought to eliminate polarisation
by the use of rapidly alternating magneto-electric currents ; and
the latter, basing on this assumption, not only regarded the ex-
istence of a transition resistance proven, but made an investigation
of its laws. VoRSSELMAN DE Heer,| however, has pointed out
that this assumption is not only unwarranted but shown by ex-
periment to be inaccurate. I have arrived at the same result
in some experiments made to test the method which Kohl-
rausch and Nippoldt used to measure the resistance of elec-
trolytes. Although I made 250 currents per second pass through
various saline solutions from a magneto-electric machine which
was made to work with great regularity, yet a sensitive galvan-
tPogg. Ann. XLVII (1839).
*Pogg. Ann. LII (1S41).
JPogg. Ann. LIII (1841).
