TRANSITION RESISTANCE — MACGREGOR. 51
insertion across the cell increased slightly the depth of the
liquid and displaced a certain quantity of liquid by a better
conductor, the change produced in the resistance of the cell must
have been very small. The specific resistance of the solutions
I used was about 28 ohms, and the ends of the tube connectinof
the compartments were about 6 cm. from the electrodes. The
total resistance of the cell was about 3000 ohms. With these
data it may be easily shown that the change in the resist-
ance of the cell produced by the insertion of the plates could
not be more than between y^^jj^ and ^ooifu o^ ^^^^ resist-
ance of the cell itself. The fact that the connectino- tube
was completely surrounded by the electrolyte and the large
volume of the box rendered it easy to prevent any variation
of the resistance of the cell due to change of temperature
during the short time necessary to make a measurement. The
electrodes and the four plates described above, were of zinc,
carefully aumlgamated. The resistance of the cell was determined
by using Wheatstone's bridge, in the same way as when the
resistance of a metallic conductor is measured. In the salvano-
meter branch of the bridge, I used one of Sir Wm. Thomson's
very sensitive galvanometers, whose resistance was so propor-
tioned to the resistances in circuit as to mve it the o-reatest
possible sensitiveness. The solutions which I used were of zinc
sulphate, bought as pure and refined by crystallization. Their
density was about that of minimum specific resistance. In order
to prevent the condensation of dissolved gases on the surface of
the electrodes and plates, the solutions were boiled before each
set of experiments, and the electrodes and plates were kept for
some time in a boiling solution .of approximately the same
density as that in the cell, before being used. I found great
•difficulty in getting the electrodes and plates into such a state
that they would neither originate a current themselves when
dipped in the solution, nor become polarized when a current was
sent through the circuit. In some cases, however, I succeeded,
and was therefore able to make the necessary measurements.
In these cases the observations were, of course, ver}' simple.
They consisted in the measurement of the resistance of the
electrolytic cell, first without the plates, then with the plates,
