52 NOVA SCOTIAN GEOLOGY — HONEYMAN.
and again without the plates, each measurement being preceded
and succeeded by tests of the electrical similarity of electrodes
and plates. Without the plates the current had to pass across
two surfaces of contact between amalgamated zinc and electro-
lyte. "With the plates it had to cross ten such surfaces. If there
had been any transition resistance, therefore, the measured resist-
ances in these two cases should have been different. In no case,
however, was I able to detect any difference greater than could
be accounted for by the mere insertion of the plates. In some
experiments in which I used a connecting tube so small that the
resistance of the cell was about 4,000 ohms, I could detect no
difference at all. In others in which I used a tube of larger
bore, so that the resistance was about 1700 ohms, differences
were noticeable, but they were not such as to necessitate the
assumption of a transition resistance to account for them.
The apparatus which I used enabled me to measure resist-
ances accurately to "1 ohm. It is therefore clear that the
transition resistance which the current meets in passing eight
times across the bounding surface between amalgamated zinc
electrodes, of the area mentioned above, and solution of zinc
sulphate, does not amount to one-tenth of an ohm, and that
therefore the transition resistance at one such surface is not so
much as .0125 ohm.
This result was sufficient for the purpose for which I
made the experiments.
The above experiments were made in the Physical Labora-
i;ory of the University of Edinburgh. I am indebted to Prof.
Tait for his kindness in furnishing me with the necessary
.apparatus.
Art. VII. Nova Scotian Geology — Halifax and Colchester
Counties. By Prof. D. Honeyman, D.C.L., &c.
(Read 14th May, 1883.)
By looking at the Map of Nova Scotia it will be observed
tliat the Counties of Halifax and Colchester are large. Halifax
County extends from La*: 62 deg, 13 min. to 64 deg. 5 min. The
