NOVA SCOTIAN GEOLOGY — HONEYMAN. 53
eastern side of Colchester is in 62 deg. 47 niin. The southern
line of Halifax County is the Atlantic Coast. It is bounded on
the north by the counties of Hants, Colchester and Guysboro'.
A large part of the County of Colchester, which includes part of
the Cobequid Mountains, is separated from the County of Halifax
by the County of Hants. In this Paper, Parts I., II. and III., I
intend to confine attention chiefly to the parts of Halifax and
Colchester included between the meridians 62 deg. 55 min. and
63 deg. 41 min.
To the Geology of this region I have devoted considerable
attention during the past 20 years. The results of my first work
were communicated to the Geological Society of London during
the time of the London Exhibition of 1862, by request of the
Nova Scotia Commission. Quarterly Journal of G. S., 1862. Paper
"On the Nova Scotia Gold Fields." The results of an examination
of the Gays River Gold Field, were communicated to the Institute
in 1866, Transactions. When I read my Paper " On the Geology
of Nictaux, Annapolis Co.," to the Institute on Nov. 12, 1877,
my new views on the Geology of Nictaux suggested and was
followed by the reading of a paper " On the Geology of Halifax
County." The latter Paper was not printed, as I considered it
proper to defer the publication of views advanced on the age and
foreign relations of certain formations, until I had further investi-
gated the character and relations of the Nictaux formations.
Since then I have investigated these formations thoroughly and
communicated the results to the Institute in a series of Papers.
I have also investigated thoroughly the Geology of the region
now about to be examined. I have already, in three Papers, tra-
versed the same field, vide Papers on the " Superficial Geology
of Halifax and Colchester Counties." Localities and names to
which I may now refer may be presumed to be familiar.
SECTIONS.
I would define the general geology in three transverse sections
following certain meridians of longitude, so that each can easily
be located on any map of Nova Scotia. The map on which I
have already defined my work is Mackinlay's Map, Geologically
coloured, which I exhibited at the Centennial Exhibition, Phila.,
1876, and the Nova Scotia Government departments of the
Dominion Exhibitions, in Halifax 1881, and Kingston 1882.
