54 NOVA SCOTIAN GEOLOGY — HONEYMAN.
SECTION A, LONG. 63 (leg. 35 min.
From Cape Sambro the Arcbaeo-Cambro Silurian (lower)
extends 34 miles, 1 J miles of Lower Carboniferous succeeds when
we reach the Schubenacadie River. North of this is Hants
County.
SECTION B, LONG. 63 deg. 20 min.
From Three Fathom Harbour the Archseo-Cambro Silurian
(lower) extends to Gay's River Road, a distance of 28 miles, the
Lower Carboniferous succeeds and extends a distance of 20 miles
to the vicinity of Truro, then comes the Triassic. Beyond are
the Carboniferous, Silurian and Archsean of the Cobequid Mount-
ains which do not come within the scope of our Paper, as the
Pictou Raihvay line is our boundary in this direction.
SECTION c, LONG. 62 deg. 55 min.
From Clam Bay the Archseo-Cambro-Silurian (lower) ex-
tends 47 miles to Cox's Brook, a tributary of the Stewiacke River.
Succeeding this are 12 miles of the Lower Carboniferous, before
w^e reach the Pictou Railway.
The composite term Archaso-Cambro-Silurian (lower) of the
above sections, was first used in my paper "On the Geology of
Digby and Yarmouth Counties." Trans. It was there explained
that Archcw-Carnbro refers to Forrtiation, and Silurian-lower to
subsequent metamorphism with the introduction of gold and
associate accidental minerals. The term "grossly cotemporaneous"
has been used to characterize this. It seems to me that this is
too indefinite and unscientific. My use of the term "Archaean" is
that of Dana in his Text Book of Geology, where it is equivalent
to the old term Azoic, and includes the Laurentian and Huron-
ian formations. The Huronian seems to include the Lower
Cambrian of certain Enolish Geoloo-ists, Salter and others.
H. M. Geologocial Society does not recognize this sub-division of
the Cambrian. I explained, Loc. cit., that I used the term Cam-
brian as it is used by H. M. Survey. In my Paper I was led by
fossiliferous evidence and sequence to regard the auriferous rocks
of Yarmouth as of Pre-Silurian age, Cambrian in Formation, and
to give them a lease of a portion of subsequent time for alteration,
metamorphism and the acquisition of Gold and Gems, &c. The
associated granites were prefixed to these and made participants
