NOVA SCOTIAN GEOLOGY — HONEYMAN. 55
-of the same metamorphosing influence, hence the whole complex
system was named Archseo-Cambro-Silurian (lower). In my
paper, on the Geology of Nictaux, I showed that Geologists had
heretofore been mistaken in regarding certain strata as of Devon-
ian age on supposed palseontological evidence. Those views as I
have subsequently shown, were confirmed by the pahieontological
evidence of the Digby cognate formation, which had rightly been
a^egarded as equivalent to that of Nictaux. I also showed that
the Middle and Lower Silurian, fossiliferous-strata of Nictaux had
not been affected by the underlying granite. I showed that the
gneisses, which seemed to have been affected by the granite, be-
longed to an entirely different series of rocks, in short, that the
granite and associated metamorphic gneissoid rocks were Archajo-
CJambro-Silurian (lower) and a continuation of the Yarmouth
Series.
In my paper " On Metalliferous Sands," read last session, I
showed the correspondence of auriferous rocks in Wyoming, in
lithology and minerals, with our own auriferous and the virtual
coincidence of age. The only difference is that the Wyoming-
rocks ai'e regarded as Huronian, and therefore Archasan. As our
Cambrian is on the border of Azoic, with only doubtful life,
there seems to be no formidable obstacle in the way of regarding
our gold fields as closely Archsean. However, in the meantime
we may characterize our gold fields as ArchaBO-Cambro-Silurian
(lower.)
While I consider that we have little (if any) interval or
break between the auriferous and succeeding formations, in
Annapolis, Digby and Kings Counties, the case is much diiferent
in Halifax and Colchester. This will be seen by referring to
.sections "A," "B" and "C." It will be there observed that the
Archseo-Cambro-Silurian (lower) is succeeded by the Lower Carbo-
niferous. If one were thus to infer the age of the former from
that of the latter, it would be concluded to be of Devonian age.
This irregular sequence, and the want of distinct fossiliferous
evidence, has always been a difficulty in the way of the satisfac-
tory correlation of the formation of our gold fields. In my
paper read before the Geological Society of 18G2, I illustrated
the geology of the gold fields by an examination of the railway
