oU NOVA SCOTIAN GEOLOGY — HONEYMAN.
sections, especially from the Windsor Junction to Windsor, in
connection with the Waverley gold fields and its barrel quartz.
(Vide paper [with illustration] in " Quarterly Journal," 1862.)
I reasoned thus : The rocks are widely different from any mem-
ber of the Arisaig series, at Arisaig, or elsewhere, in the eastern
part of the Province, which ranges from the Devonian to the
Middle Silurian. They are extremely mctamorphic, more so
than any of the preceding. Gold has now been found in them
in sufficient quantities to be of economic importance. These
considerations seem to warrant the conclusion that the formation
in question is Lower Silurian. The author of "Acadian Geology"
had, on other considerations, come to the same conclusions. In
the discussion that followed the reading of my paper, two
eminent geologists, only, took a part. The one considered the
rocks of our gold fields to be of Devonian age, the other agreed
with me in the views that I had taken. In a subsequent
conversation which I had with the former, the granites were
referred to, which had been noticed as occurring at Mount
Uniacke, but had not been taken into account in the discussion.
It was then agreed that they were of igneous origin, and might
be of Devonian or any age.
Among all the interesting exhibits of gold at the London
Exhibition of 1862, there was one which was to me peculiarly
interesting. This collection stood at the entrance to the Eastern
Annex, in which was the wondrous economic mineral display of
Great Britain. The exhibit was from the Dolgelly gold field in
North Wales. Here were a magnificent bar of gold, rock speci-
mens and gold in its matrix. Accompanying this was a map by
Mr. T. A. Readwin. A . pamphlet was disti-ibuted, entitled,
"Notes explanatory of a map of the faults of tlie Dolgelly Gold
District, undertaken for Mr. T. A. ReadwixNT, by J. W. Salter,
F. G. S., &c." I was fortunate to secure a copy of this pamphlet '
which I have carefully preserved as a memento of pleasant
intercourse had with its illustrious author, and pleasant walks
among the various departments of the exhibition, where any
thing relating to "Silurian" was to be found. I looked upon
this gold collection as intimately related to that of the gold
fields from Nova Scotia, although there seemed to be a difference
