NOVA SCOTIAN GEOLOGY — HONEYMAN. 57
in age, — the Dolgelly gold being of Cambrian age, while the
other was considered to be of Lower Silurian age. The researches
and discoveries in the palaeozoic geology of old Acadia — New
Brunswick, Nova Scotia and Cape Breton — during the past 20
years, have added Primordial or Upper Cambrian, Upper Lingula,
Flags, Hudson and Trenton, with their characteristic forms of
life. Every effort has been made, especially by diligent study, of
the rocks Saint John and Halifax, to correlate our gold fields with
the most ancient of the Paleeozoic series. The old Igneous rocks
have, to a great extent, been resolved into Archaean Metamorphic
rocks — Laurentian and Huronian — so that the Lower Cambrian>
or Dolgelly, auriferous period seems now to be the only resting
place for our own auriferous series of rocks. The want of life,
or its existence in low and doubtful forms, seems to indicate this.
This view accords with the conclusion at wdiich I had arrived by
the lithology, sequence and palaeontology observed in the Western
Counties, especially of Digby and Yarmouth.
CORRELATION.
Previous investigations in Kings and Annapolis Counties,
and especially at Nictaux in the latter, had ^'g-conducted to Dol-
gelly and led to a correlation with the auriferous formation of
Halifax County. In my unpublished paper, read at the same
meeting, on the 12th of November 1877, that I read my published
paper, " On the Geology of Nictaux," I made use of Salter's
notes on Readwin's Map and compared the Halifax Quartzites
and Argillites with the " Lower Cambrian," " Barmouth and Har-
lech Rocks of Prof. Sedgwick." " The Dolgelly Gold district
comprehends the upper part of the Lower Cambrian or Barmouth
Rocks, and the lower part of the Upper Cambrian or Lingula Flags
(Primordial), which range all along the Barmouth estuary and
thence northwards to Festiniog." The whole series of these rocks
(Barmouth) consists of a very hard sandstone with beds of purple
slate, which occur chiefly in the middle and lower portions of the
series, but the upper sandstone beds are frequently interstratified
with bands of green slate which distinguish it readily from the
overlying formation, viz: — The Lingula Flags or Upper Cambrian.
This is a triple formation measuring about 6000 or 7000 feet in
thickness, according to Professor Ramsay. It has been divided
