58 NOVA S€OTIAN GEOLOGY — HONEYMAN
■by my own research, into a lower group of black slate and trap-
pean shale, a middle group of sandstone, and a thin upper group
■of very black shale, which in North Wales is rich in fossils."
" Of these formations we have onlj'- to deal with the lower,
for in that only, at present, are the gold veins worked in the dis-
trict, but the gold is not confined to these lower members, for
the productive mine at Castell Carn Dochan is in much higher
rocks. Indeed it is at the junction of this formation with the
underlying Cambrian grits (quartzites.) that the principal bear-
ing lodes are found." Pp. 1, 2.
Salter's description of the Barmouth rocks might with very
little change be employed in describing our quartzites (grits) and
argillites the only difference existing between the English series
and our own seems to be accidental. Their metamorphism may
have taken place in Upper Cambrian time, which seems to cor-
respond with our Lower Silurian which is meant to include the
Primordial of Saint John, N. B., the Lower Lingula Flags and the
Mira ridge, C. B., Olenus and Agnostus, Upper Lingula Fhigs of
Salter's Appendix to Ramsay's Geology formation of North
Wales.
ARCH^O-SILURIAN (LOWER).
This is a term which I use to denote the granites of the
series. At Nictaux these were considered to be igneous rocks of
Devonian age and were considered as having so metamorphosed
the supposed Devonian fossiliferous rocks, as to have converted
them into gneissoid rocks. The inclusion of portions of these
gneissoid rocks was also regarded as conclusive evidence of
the igneous origin of the granite. The old view is that the
granite is of igneous origin and that it is an intrusive rock,
the new and orthodox view is that granites are generally meta-
morphic rocks, and not necessarily intrusive rocks, and that
remetamorphism may account for the apparent fusion and intru-
sion. At Nictaux I i»nnd, Jirst that the supposed Devonian rocks
having fossils are of Middle Silurian age, second that the rocks by
which they are intruded and metamorphosed are igneous diorites;
hi7xl that in positions where granite and the fossiliferous rocks
were in actual contact, the latter were very little metamorphosed
and certainly not converted into gneissoid rocks. The granite
