NOVA SCOTIAN GEOLOGV — HONEYMAN. 61
of jet black tounnaline are often found prevailing in clusters,
Specimens of those in the museum collection are very strik-
ing. There is a specimen in our Webster Collection, it is
probable that it has come from the granite region of Paradise,
Annapolis County, where white quartz with groups of black tour-
maline is of frequent occurrence. The specimen is a crystal of
beautiful smoky quartz (caii'ngorm) with long crystals of black
tourmaline permeating the interior. Crystals of tourmaline are
of frequent occurrence in our granite area. Groups are sometimes
arranged in stellar forms. Small crystals of colourless quartz
are often found in the granite under examination. I have a
large crystal of opaque smoky quartz which is said to have come
from the Queen's granite quarry, where black tourmaline is also
found.
CAMBRO (SILURIAN).
The rocks of this series are, 1, gneissoid (ironstone),
2, micaceous.
3, Argillites, slates.
4, " shales.
5, Quartzites (grits).
6, " banded.
7, " calcareo-
(The line of the granite is generally N. E. and S. W. while
the line of strike of the formation that succeeds or abuts is gene-
rally E. and W.)
While all the members of this series are readily recognisable
no line can be drawn as a separating line, they all pass into each
other insensibly, gneissoid into micaceous and argillites, argillites
into quartzites and quartzites into calcareo-quartzites, e. g.,
Examining the Queen's quarries on the W. Side of the N. W,
Arm, we first find the two formations in contact. Abutting
against the granite we have a micaceous-schistose rock with
distinct bedding, E. and W. strike and North dip, I generally
try to secure a specimen at a junction of this kind so as to illus-
ti-ate it, I did not succeed here, the granite and the schist always
separated. This rock passes into the hard gneissoid (ironstone)
of the quarry. On the East side of the Arm, at Point Pleasant,
we have the same becoming a coarse ferruginous and argillaceous
