62 NOVA SCOTIAN GEOLOGY — HONEYMAN.
rock with the same strike and dip. The ledges on the east side
of Point Pleasant are a continuation, these are generally argillites.
2. At Pleasant street, not far from the Park, there are beautiful
exposures of argillite strata. Coming to the shore on the opposite
side we find a great ledge of similar strata. At the side and back
of these are argillite shales and massive quartzites with veins
of quartz, all the three pass into each other insensibly. In the
gold fields argillites are seen when mining where the surface
would lead to the expectation of only quartzites. 3. The Calcareo-
quartzites are a striking illustration. I first observed these on
the shore between Cow Bay and Cole Harbour. When walking
along the shore, I vv^as surprised to find certain rocks singularly
worn, as I have seen Lower Carboniferous Limestone worn on the
sea shore, by the action of the waves, while other parts of the
same rock had the usual appearance of the hard quartzites exposed
to similar action. I found in subsequent chemical examinations
that 18 per cent of the highly worn parts of the rock was cal-
careous, while the other parts were quartzite. The acid only
can indicate the passage with precision, which is gradual, the
sea indicates it approximately. Similar rock and indications
are observed on the Eastern Passage, opposite Lawlor's Island-
The constitution of the original sediment and accident are doubt-
less the causes of the variation. The series, therefore, is not divis-
ible into subordinate members or groups.
SYNCLINAL.
On the East side of Pleasant Park, at Steele's Pond is a point
where there was in olden times a Three Gun Battery. The rocks
of this are exposed on the shore, and exhibit interesting structure.
Thev are seen to dip on the right to the South and on the left to
the North. In the centre the strata are bent so as to display a
series of parabolic curves. A photograph of this taken by the
photographer of H.M.S. Challenger for Sir C. Wyville Thomson,
is a very striking picture.
SECTION.
On the riofht or north of the Svncline the argillite strata
become confused, they then become shaly. In the shales I found
forms which at first sight seemed to be graptolite stipes but
