NOVA SCOTIAN GEOLOGY — HONEYMAN. 6S
tui-ned out to be chiastolites. In this band all is confusion, dip
l^einsf at different anodes and strike in all directions. At leno-th
the strata become slaty having a distinct southerly dip and cleav-
age at right angles to the dip. The extension of these westerly
outcropping in a field has similar structure. Proceeding in the
same direction along Pleasant street, splendid outcrops are seen
dipping in the same direction, opposite the last of these we have
again a fine outcrop on the shore ; here the dip is also southerly
and the strike nearly East and West. This outcrop was referred
to above, as exhibiting slates and shales, passing into quartzites
with veins of quartz. These outcrops are an interesting study,,
not merely on account of the transition just referred to, but also'
on account of the metamorphic phenomena which are beautifully
striking and instructive. The last, street section, show^s beautiful
wavy lines of bedding with a southerly dip, slaty cleavage at
right angles, joints and other striking features, e. g., concretions?
around which the wavy lines are seen to curve and then return
to their original course. Some years ago I examined similar
argillites exposed in blasting the foundation of the Young Men's
Christian Association Building in the City, these were seen dip-
ping in the same direction with similar cleavage. A specimen in
my rock collection in the mu.seum, shows pyrite in flat rhomboid
crystals which might be mistaken for ganoid scales. If the
arrangement from this to the syncline were to be regarded
generally regular, it would indicate a great thickness of argillite
strata. There may be doubt, however, on account of obscuration
of the intermediate strata, as well as the probable causes of the
existing arrangement of strata, lateral pressure, non-intrusion.
Returning to the syncline and proceeding to the left, south, we
have first an obscuration of strata, then a point with confusion of
strata, again, obscuration and then a ledge with crumpled bedding
of argillites and a northeidy dip. Here too there is cleavage and
joints with glaciation and scooping in the line of joint, showing
beautiful lines. The glaciation is S. 38° E. A ledire to the south
of this and next to the fort at the Point, is composed of quartzite
strata with overlying slaty strata, an arrangement similar to that
observed at Cranl^erry Head, Yarmouth. (Vide Paper on the
" Geology of Digby and Yarmouth Counties." Trans. 1881-2)-
