€4 NOVA SCOTIAN GEOLOGY— IlONEYMAN.
On the quartzite stratum are seen markings when the shaly
strata are removed, these are considered to be Helminthites (worm
"tracks). I have pointed out these again and again to members of
Institute, to students and others for several years. Every season
there are new exposures. I have tried to secure specimens for
the museum but without success, on account of the great hard-
ness of the stratum.
On the west of the syncline, the confused strata on
the right, the obscuration and confused strata on the left,
is the road succeeded by confusion. Steel's Pond and Miller's
Field, with wonderfidly crumpled strata on either side ; Pine
Hill, the seat of the Presbyterian College, beautiful country
residences and the Penitentiary. We have now reached the
North West Arm. Crossing to the opposite side we come to the
Sugar Kefinery. Here we find the argillites of the .syncline
continued. The rocks of which these are a part, are exposed in
a beautiful and instructive section which I would now describe.
The stratified rocks — argillite and gneissoid — extend a consi-
derable distance to the right, N. W. and left. In the latter
direction they extend to the Point, at the entiance to the Arm
where we have the Ironstone (gneissoid) Quarries. In the
section succeed the granite of the Queen's quarries. The gneissoid
rocks have the northerly dip of the Point Pleasant extension and
of the previous section. On the road to the Queen's Quarries
they are seen butting against the granite as a distinct micaceous
schist. At the Junction the two are so loosely coherent that I
found it impossible to secure a sj^ecimen which would indicate
the Junction. We now come to Purcell's Cove, where the gneis-
soid rocks succeed the granite in section and butt against the
granite and maintain a northerly dip. The granites again come
forward to the section and continue as far as Falkland Village,
where they are again succeeded by gneissoid rocks. On the shore
the first of the latter is seen to overlie the granite. At the Junc-
tion they are so firmly coherent that there is no difficulty in
securing a Junction specimen. From this point to York Redoubt
point, the stratified rocks are seen in the section., while the
granite retreats, forming a bay which is occupied by the gneissoid
rocks. These have an east and west strike and a northerly dip,
