NOVA SCOTIAN GEOLOGY — HONEYMAN. 65
up to York Redoubt Point. As the granite retreats on the north
side of Falkland Village, the gneissoid rocks dip toward it, seem-
ingly into it, not away from it. There is no anticline. On the
shore the rocks are very ferruginous. Pyrite is found in them
in large crystals. Some of the strata are very andalusitic. The
mineral is in slender, pearly prisms. These are often arranged
in stellar forms. One stratum is covered with these. In York
Redoubt, the strata which is seen to overly the granite which
rises on the south side of the fort, have a northerly dip and are
very andalusitic. The extension of the shore andalusitic strata
in the granite bay, are schists without andalusite. This is their
character near the Junction with the granite. In the section
south of the Redoubt pier, is another kind of rocks which are
hard to characterize; they might be called a quartzite. In these
are abundance of discinoid forms. I am very doubtful regarding
their character. I find them in three other localities to which I
will yet refer. The inclination of strata is low and its direction
doubtful until it is decidedly westerly, and towards the associate
granite. The granite then comes into the section and alternates
with the stratified rocks. At the Point the latter make their
exit, and then the granites are the only shore rocks. I have
reason to suppose that the stratified rocks appear again at Portu-
guese Cove. At the Point the stratified rocks have a slight
easterly inclination. The junction of these with the granite is
very interesting. The two are seen dove-tailing, but not blend-
ing. A museum specimen shows this in a striking manner. The
stratified part is banded with a right angled termination; another
piece is pointed. The granite seems to have been inserted by
fusion. In the discinoid part there are long veins of quartz
with mica. I regard these phenomena as having been induced
by re-metaTnorphism.
I am here reminded of an observation which I made on the
Nepisigit river, on the Bay des Chaleurs, New Brunswick. Vide
Paper Trans., 1875-6 : "A month among the Geological Forma-
tions of New Brunswick."
At the " Rough Waters" we have the junction of the granite
and the Bonaventure formation (Lower Carboniferous), granite,
