66 NOVA SCOTIAN GEOLOGY — HONEYMAN.
granite debris, and sandstone or grit. I became aware of the
existence of a distinct stratum of debris when I was trying to
find the junction of the solid granite with the sandstones, in
order to secure a representative specimen. The debris had been
previously observed by Sir W. E. Logan's Geology of Canada,
It has also been noticed by Mr. Ells, in his recent report, and
by him united with the Lower Carboniferous, as the lowest bed
of the series. I cannot help believing that if metamorphism
were induced in this region, of the intensity to which the Halifax
rocks have evidently been subjected, phenomena similar to those
under examination would be the result.
Returning to the N. W. Arm part of the section, I would
again notice the junction of the Queen's Quarry granite and the
gneissoid and schist strata. Dr. Warren and I investigated
thoroughly the extension of this line of junction, and defined it
as exactly as possible on the Admiralty map of the harbour as
we proceeded. We were able to do this on account of the scant-
iness of the vegetation, the contrast between the white granite
and the black stratified rocks, and the minute exactness of the
contour lines of the map. The east and west penetrations of the
strata into the granite were numerous, some of these were too
small for indication on the map, but the larger ones were defined,
until we reached the vicinity of the Coal-pit lakes, where the
rankness of the vegetation obscured the lines of junction.
Afterwards I resumed the investigation, when I examined and
observed the strata of the syncline in and around Williams' lake.
On the road at the top (west) end of this large lake, the stratified
rocks and the granites were again observed in junction. The
two were very intimately connected, so as to be inseparable, yet
there was no blending. The stratified rocks, in considerable
width, proceeded onward, crossed the York Redoubt pmrn, and
seemed to terminate abruptly in the bushes on the west side,
— low, swampy ground, extending beyond, to Long Lake I
referred to this extension in my paper of last session, when
describing the rocks on our way to the Rocking Stone. We
encountered it after a tramp over granites, extending from the
vicinity of Melville Island. I therefore recognized it as an old
