94 NOTES ON THE DEBERT COAL FIELD. — GILPIN.
and a few thin seams of coal, and abundance of leaves of
cordaites, and a few calamites and stigmaria."
He further remarks : " We can trace this coal measure back
from Advocate Harbour, near Cape Chignecto, to the upper part
of the Salmon River of Truro, where it adjoins the carboniferous
district of Pictou. It is (generally speaking) much broken and
disturbed ; and although it widens considerably towards its
eastern extremity, it nowhere attains a great development,
either in horizontal extent, or in the magnitude of its coal
seams." From Advocate Harbour to Pai'tridge Island the belt
contains contorted shales and sandstones yielding a few fossil
plants, scales of fishes, and shells of Naiadites. Mr. Matthew
Jones, a member of this Institute, some years ago found in these
strata footprints of a large reptilian animal, referable to the
genus sauropus. Similar shales and sandstones outcrop on the
banks of the various rivers falling into the Basin of Minas, and
show beds of bituminous limestone, with cyprids and fish scales,
fireclays, clay ironstones, etc., and yield characteristic fossil
plants of several of the species found in the Joggins section.
In the same work Dr. Dawson has discussed the physical con-
ditions which governed the deposition of the coal and associated
carboniferous measures of the district. The evidence of the
foldings of the carboniferous of the north side of the Basin of
Minas, plainly given by the various river sections, leads to the
anticipation that the coal measure band may prove disturbed.
The longitudinal foldings are useful to the prospector, as they
bring the various coal crops to the surface, and define the limits
within which his researches can be canied on with profit. The
transverse folding and faults caused by unequal strains, and by
the irregularity of the great mountain chain, the determining
element, may prove a source of expense to the miner engaged
in economic development.
The upper DeBert bridge, on the Londonderry road, appears
to be a little to the south of the centre of thts Basin in this
locality. Following the stream downwards from the bridge the
coal beds appear about in the relative order of the section, which
ds descending geologically speaking : —
