NOTES ON MANGANESE ORES OF LOCH LOMOND. — GILPIN. 97
at the eastern apex of a subordinate basin formed by transverse
folding.
Should further research show that at this point the seams
referred to maintain their size, and extend in a form permitting
of economic exploitation, the discoveries are of great importance.
The search for similar seams may then reasonably be made at
other points along the coal band, and certainly the areas of the
Minas Basin coal field is large enough to allow a hope that in the
future it may be added to the list of our productive districts.
Art. II. — Notes on the Manganese Ores of Loch Lomond,
C. B. By Edwin Gilpin, A. M., F. G. S., F. R. S. C,
Inspector of Mines.
(Read 14th Jan., 1884.)
For a number of years the presence of these ores in Cape
Breton was recorded cnly by the mineralogist. Recently, how-
ever, deposits of economic value have been found and worked.
The ores of manganese occur, in Nova Scotia proper, in strata of
Lower Carboniferous age, occupying a horizon low down in the
Marine Limestone formation. The late Dr. How, in a paper
read before this Institute some years ago, gave an interesting
account of these minerals as they occur and are worked in Hants
County. This evening I purpose merely to draw the attention
of the Institute to their occurrence in Cape Breton, an interesting
fact, as the knowledge of their presence in workable amounts in
the Loch Lomond district will lead to a search for them in other
parts of the Island. In all probability, the wide extent of the
Cape Breton Limestones will before long afford several localities
containing deposits worthy of the miner's attention. My notes
are from a visit to the mine, and from information kindly
furnished me by Mr. Fletcher, of the Geological Survey of Canada,
who made a detailed survey of this district summer before last.
The geological features of this part of Cape Breton are repre-
sented by a band of millstone grit extending from Mira River,
