98: NOTES ON MANGANESE ORES OP LOCH LOMOND. — GILPIN.
up the Salmon River, to Loch Lomond ; and bounded on the
north by the felsites of East Bay, and on the south by the
felsites of the Mira Hills. At sevei^al points the Lower Car-
boniferous marine limestone formation crops o-ut beneath the
millstone grit, and occurs as isolated patches resting directly on.
the felsites, and there are patches of the basal carboniferous
conglomerates brought up by faults through the millstone grit.
The locality in which these deposits have been discovered is
on the Salmon River Road, about two miles east of Loch
Lomond, near the line dividing Cape Breton and Richmond
Counties.
The felsites formed a shore along which we now find lime-
stones, conglomerates, shales and grits exposed as they were
accumulated under the varying conditions of current, depth of
water, and of the prevailing winds of the period under con-
sideration. At some points the limestones rest on the felsitos, at
other points conglomerates and shales intervene. The discoveries
of manganese ores, more particularly the subject of my paper,
were made in one of these bays, where the felsites are succeeded
by shales, grits, conglomerates, and' finally by limestones, the
latter extending apparently from point to point of the ancient
Bay.
The. manganese ores are found at the Western, or McCuish
Mine, in irregular bedded layers in a soft arenaceous shale, which
is in places calcareous, and coated with manganese oxide The
layers vary in thickness up to 18 inches, and are sometimes
connected by vertical stringers of ore. The shales when
weathered present nodules of ore, and large quantities are present
as films on the cleavage planes of the shale.
At the Eastern, or Morrison mine, the ore at the time of m}^
visit was mined from a bed underlying a thin layer of black
manganiferous limestone, with red and greenish shales and sand-
stones and conglomerate. The thickness of the ore and of the
limestone varied from 2 to 8 inches. The average thickness of
the two layers being 8 inches.
The ore was found at several other points in the vicinity as
lenticular masses ajid irregular nests in conglomerate,, etc., and,
