NORTHERN LIMIT OF WILD GRAPE VINES. — LAWSON. 101
Art. IV. — On the Northern Limit of Wild Grape Vines.
By George Lawson, Ph. D., LL. D.
Read 14th Januarj% 1884.
I lately received a letter of enquiry from Professor Blytt in
reference to the Northern Limit of the Grape Vine, as bearing
upon the early discovery of America by Norwegian sailoi^s. As the
exact range of our wild gi-apes had not been made a special subject
of enquiry by botanists, and as these plants, wherever they
occur, are so conspicuous as to attract the attention of persons
who might overlook other plants, I requested publication of a
note, for the purpose of eliciting information, in the Halifax
Morning Chronicle, Morning Herald, and Acadian Recorder-
This brought some facts which will be found in the following
correspondence. It is now published in the hope that additional
information may be obtained. It is not improbable that the range
of Grape Vines along the Atlantic Coast region was more extensive
before the country was settled than it is now, when the best
lands ai'e cleared and the country pastured by cattle. Any
information on this point from old records or reliable tradition
would be of special interest.
AMERICAN species OF VITIS.
The proper Grape Vine (Vitis vinifera) is believed to have
been originally a native of the hilly region on the southern
shores of the Caspian Sea, and of the Persian province of Ghilan ;
but it has been cultivated by man from the earliest times of
which we have record, and has thus been extensively distributed
over the world. It was not known, however, on the American
Continent before the settlers from Europe had brought it with
them. Nevertheless early voyagers speak of finding Wild Grapes
on landing on the American shores. These so-called Wild Grapes
are vines very distinct in character from the old-world Grape
Vine, but they nevertheless consist of species of the same genus
Vitis, several of which bear, even in the wild state, clusters of
well-flavoured grapes, whilst the fruit of other kinds is acid or
mawkish.
V. hipitinata, which extends through Virginia to Georgia and
