NORTHERN LIMIT OF WILD GRAPE VINES — LA^VSON. lOS
V. Labrusca, Linn. Canada. — Pursh, Torrey d' Gray,
Near the Falls of Niagara. — Provancher. Extends south ta
Georgia and west to Arkansas and Texas.
Torrey speaks of the fruit of the wild plant as having a strong
disagreeable flavour, whilst when cultivated " it is as pleasant as.
any of the varieties of Vitis vinifera." In Hooker's Flora (pub-
lished so long ago as 1833J it is remarked that " two sorts are
much esteemed at New York, and known under the name of
' Bland's-grape' and the ' Isabella-grape.' "
V. CORDIFOLIA, (F. vulpina, of Hook.) Shores of Lake Ontario.
west from Kingston ; several places on the bajnks of the St.
Lawrence, as at Thousand Islands, Brockville, La Chine, etc.
Extends south through the United States to Florida and west
to Arkansas.
V. RIPARIA, Mich. Canada. — Mr. Cleghorn, Mrs. Percival. Lake-
Huron. — Dr. Todd, extending to the south end of Lake Winnipeg
in lat 50 degrees N., (Hook. Fl. B. A.)
Nicolet, P. Q., and Maiden Out— Dr. P. W. Maclagan..
Belleville, common, especially along streams. — J. Matoun. L'isle-
aux-Coudres. — Provancher. Some of the localities may belong to
V. cordifolia. Extends through the United States south ta
Virginia and west to Arkansas.
Without specimens from the several localities, or careful deter-
minations made on the spot by competent botanists, it is impos-
sible to assign with certainty to their proper species the stations
quoted for V. cordifolia and V. riparia. Dr. Engleraann made
a very careful examination of the distinctive characters of the
N. American species of Vitis, and characterized V. rijiaria, as
differing from its ally as follows : — " Leaves larger, usually
incisely three lobed, the lobes long-pointed ; panicles small,
rather simple ; berries larger and mostly with bloom ; seeds
larger, obtuse and somewhat obcordate and with an inconspicu-
ous raphe. May, earlier than the allied species." — See Gray's
Manual, fifth edition, eighth issue, — Addenda, p. 679 (January
1868). F. cordifolia "lias the berries black without bloom, the
