108 NORTHERN LIMIT OF WILD GRAPE VINES — LAWSON.
on the warm south side of New England and which as a boy I
knew so well — very thick skin and very tart flavor. I have no
doubt it still exists, but the snow would cover it now. I hear of
many other vines about here, but this is the only one I have
personally seen. If you want more knowledge let me know and
next spring I could send you a specimen.
B. Gilpin.
St. John, N. B., 10th Dec, 1883.
My Bear Sir,—1 notice your communication in Saturday's
Chronicle regarding the " Wild-Grape" and its Northern Limit.
Some years ago I was puzzled over the statement, in Demont's
account of the discovery of the St. John River, that they noticed
(in June 1604 or 5) grapes growing in profusion on its shores.
Foi' some time I was under the impression that they had mistaken
some other vine for that of the grape. But I found afterwards
that in fact the wild grape does grow in several places on the
River St. John, — on the sandy points along its south-westerly
bank at Westfield in King's County, — luxuriantly on some islands
near Oak Point known as " Caton's Islands," — a little further up
and beyond this on the islands Oromoeld and Prince William.
Curiously enough I have always heard of it on the south-westerly
shore of the River or the Islands, never in a wild state on the
northerly or easterly bank, nor can I discover it on the Kennibe-
casis tributary, where I have searched for it, as I have a summer
residence at Lakeside near Hampton, where I am collecting these
wild vines from Westfield, Greenwich, etc., with a view to amusing
myself testing them as stocks on which to bud or graft some
of the hardier improved varieties.
I am, Dear Sir, yours faithfully,
W. M. Jarvis.
Fredericton, N. B., Dec. 29, 1883.
My Dear Doctor Lawson, — I am in receipt of your note referring
to the distribution of the wild grape in New Brunswick, but
regret to say that I have little information to give upon the
subject. I have gathered the fruit in some of the valleys near
