112 SABLE ISLAND — (CONTIISTJED). — MACDONALD.
possessed in early times of the coast and the adjacent islands was
even greater than ours of to-day. And it is difficult indeed to
give a satisfactory explanation of the variation of those charts
unless we attribute it to actual changes undergone. But let us
proceed.
In 1850 the late Hon. Joseph Howe visited this place as
commissioner, for the purpose of making himself personally
acquainted with the Island and its requirements. In his report
he called the attention of Parliament to the rather startling fact,
that by actual measurement the island had decreased at the west
end 11 miles in the last 30 years. And further, for the safety
of navigation and the prevention of disasters their first duty
with regard to Sable Island was to have the position defined.
In the cabin of the " Daring " before him lay a chart by
which that vessel was supposed to be navigated, also another
compiled from observations taken by Capt. Darby in 1829. The
discrepancy between which, and its possible effect on navigation,
was appaling to contemplate.
The variations were as follows : —
The cutter's chart, W. E. 60° 32' W. Ion.
E. E. 60° 03'
Darby's chart, W. E. 60° 10' W. Ion.
E. E. 59° 48^
Difference 22 miles.
This chart on board the cutter appears to have been one
issued about 1815, on which the island is made to be 29 miles in
length, a difference of 2 miles smaller than the chart of 1799.
On the strength of Mr. Howe's report, the admiral was com-
municated with, who ordered Commander Bayfield and staff" to
the island for the purpose of making a new survey. A corrected
chart was issued by Bayfield the following year, locating the
Island as follows : W. E. 60.08., E. E. 59.45., showing a still further
reduction of area, and placing the west end 2 miles still further
eastward than shown by Darby's chart of 1829.
Surprising as this evidence of change may appear it is fully
borne out by the testimony of all those whom fortune has led in
the interests of humanity to dwell upon its shores.
