SABLE ISLAND— (continued). — MACDONALD. 113
The position chosen for the main station in 1802 was one
remarkably sheltered among the sand hummocks at a distance of
5 miles from the west end.
In 1814 the superintendent, Mr. Hudson, wrote the Govern-
ment, that owing to the rapid manner in which the island was
being washed away it would be necessary for him to remove
the establishment to a more secure position; that within 4 years
previous, 4 miles had gone entirely from the west end, leaving
but a mile between him and the sea, which was advancing steadily.
On the north side an area equal to 40 ft. wide and 3 miles
long had gone bodily from the island duiing a single night.
He intended moving the buildings to a place called " Middle
Houses," 3 miles further east.
In 1820 the superintendent again wrote the Government, "that
not only had the old site of the main station gone seaward ; but
the sea was again encroaching to such an alarming extent that
he would be obliged to once more remove tlie station, and had
selected a place known as the "Haul over," 4 miles further
east. This moving of the main station incurred no little trouble
consisting as it did of superintendent's dwelling, another for the
staff, a sailor's home for the accommodation of shipwrecked per-
sons, stores for provisions and material saved from wrecks, barns,
workshops, boat house, &c.
Again the sea advanced, the two following winters were noted
for the frequency of storms and the havoc made along the sand
cliffs, every gale sensibly diminishing the western portion of the
island, toppling great masses of sand hills into the surf below as
well as changing the surface of the interior. One instance I
have already mentioned in my last paper when thousands of tons
of sand were carried from the beach and strewn over the island,
smothering vegetation, so that hundreds of horses died for want
of food.
Seeing the necessity of securing more permanency for the
main station, and the buildings from being so often removed,
becoming dilapidated, the present position was selected on
the broadest and most protected portion of the Island and new
buildings erected in 1833, The old dwelling of the superinten-
