114 SABLE ISLAND — (CONTINUED). — MACDONALD.
dent was again removed 4 miles further east and used as a house
of refuge. Here it enjoyed a short respite when again the sea
threatened its foundation. This marks the 1 1 mile point mentioned
in Mr. Howe's report.
Now all this seems so much like romance that were it not for
the authenticity given it by parliamentary reports and the records
of the Island, I should hesitate in giving currency to these state-
ments.
But I think I hear you say, — What of that house — is it still
moving ?
No, it is now at rest, it has found a grave, for the fourth time
it was moved, this time 2 miles further east. Gradually the
gales rem::ved the hummocks that sheltered it. Then, left to the
rake of the winds, sand laden eddies twirled about it till slowly
mound arose closing it from sight, the house, and the surface
became levelled out above it.
Another short rest and again it may open up to view, and be
bared to its foundation, or be thrown down with the embank-
ment and floated away by the current.
Between the years 1850 and 1881 this western portion of the
island appeared to enjoy a period of comparative repose. This
may be accounted for by the fact that so much material had been
thrown down a shoal was formed to the west on which the seas
would probably break before reaching the sand bluffs and thus
lose their abrading force. In the same manner the main body
of the island is defended by three parallel bars which act as
barrier reef, and protect or at least retard the work of devastation
which would otherwise proceed with great activity. On the
removal of this shoal to the westward, by the currents, the seas
bee^an ao^ain to manifest their force.
The winter of 1881 was remarkably stormy, gale succeeding
gale in quick succession. In addition to this gradual work of
erosion great areas were removed bodily. During one gale 70 feet
by I mile departed, a month later 80 feet of the whole width of
the island disappeared in a few hours.
The winter of 1882 was even worse than the preceding one,
and was noted for the destruction wrought among the buildings.
