IIG SABLE ISLAND — (CONTINUED). — MACDONALD.
While changes are readily observed along the bluffs the
beach itself is continually varying in form, increasing and
diminishing in particular parts. In this way old wrecks are
brought to the surface and others concealed during a single gale.
Some years ago, after a heavy gale, spars, canvas huts, &c.,
showing a prolonged stay of which there is no record, were dis-
covered. This spot has also passed under the sea.
In 1837 Mr. Miller, the third commissioner appointed to enquire
into the possibility of erecting a light house, reported that on
visiting the Island he found the position chosen by him in 1833
had undergone a complete change. The site selected by
a former commissioner favorable to the project, had been
completely removed by the high winds that have at times so
much effect in causing remarkable changes in the interior,
as well as on the shores of the Island. He would only feel
justified in recommending a temporary erection, such as could be
easily removed to a more permanent position when necessity-
required it.
We can readily understand how hills of loose sand thrown up
by the wind into every fantastic shape that snow drifts can
assume, are ever changing their extent and position.
The removal of those sand drifts or dunes have brought some
interesting historical facts to light.
In 1842 during a severe gale an old landmark in the form of
a pyramid near the west end station, said to be 100 feet in height,
was completely blown away, exposing to view several small
houses built from the timbers and plank of a vessel; on examina-
tion they were found to contain quite a number of articles of
furniture, stores put in boxes, bales of blankets, quantities of
military shoes, and among other articles a dog collar of brass, on
which was engraved the name of Major Elliot, 43rd Eegt.
It was afterwards ascertained that this regiment while returning
to Halifax after the siege of Quebec, was wrecked here, but after-
wards taken off without loss of life.
Many years ago a roundsman's attention was attracted to a
blackened line along the sand cliff; on climbing to the place and
removing the sand he uncovered what afterwards proved to be the
