122 CRYSTALINE ROCKS OF If. S. AND C. B. — HOlfEYMAK'.
I have had sections of the preceding rocks carefully prepared
by Dr. Alexis S. Julien, New York. Four of them have already
been imperfectly examined by an inferior polariscope. I have
re-examined these thoroughly by the splendid new Polariscope-
Microscope made by Anderson & Sons, London, for our President,
and added the other seven to the number ; and I propose in these
notes to give an account of the interesting results and to
illustrate with the instrument.
DOLERITES,
1st. I begin with the Blomidon Basalt, as this mountain is
well known wherever Nova Scotian mineralogy is an object of
study. Its zeolites and other minerals are to be found in all
great museums, and it is noted in works on general mineralogy as
one of the principal localities where trappean minerals can be col-
lected. The section examined is of a compact basaltic prism which
I picked up at the foot of the mountain in 1875, (a.) Examined by
the Polariscope, with nicols crossed, the section is brilliant and
striking. Revolving the Polariser or Analyser, as both can be
turned, the change in prismatic colours, and their arrangement is
kaleidoscopic. The abounding parallel lines with changing and
alternating colours (trichoic) indicate combinations of crystals into
twins, three lings and four lings, with chroism of labradorite,
among these is a constant, unchanging brown colour, this
distinguishes augite from hornblende, which is dichroic. We have
thus indicated the two minerals which constitute a dolerite.
When the nicols are crossed parts of the section have a vivid
chromatic polarisation. This is owing to the presence of quartz.
There is also another obvious constitutent which is opaque. All
that we can distinguish with the polariscope is the presence of dark
forms with acute angles or of irregular shape. (6.) Removing
the polariser and analyser we then examine them in sunshine with
the microscope, the dark forms are seen to be blue-black in colour
with metallic lustre. This shows that it is the mineral
magnetite. Surveying, then, the whole section we find a large
number of these. At the same time we detect green specks of
olivine. The basalt is therefore dolerite, consisting of labra-
dorite and augite with the accidental minerals, quartz, magnetite
