CRTSTALIJiE ROCKS OF N. S. AND C. B. — HONEYMAN. 123
and olivine. 2nd. A boulder of Basalt. When I was surveying
parts of the Counties of Digby and Yarmouth, Trans. Inst. 187,
I observed at the Weymouth Station of the Railway a large^
rough-looking boulder; breaking part of it I found it to be basaltic.
It was considerably weathered and easily broken. Examining the
pieces macroscopically I found it replete with crystals of olivine
of considerable size. These, like the rock, had suffered from
decomposition and were very friable. Regarding it as different
from the basalt of Blomidcn in having olivine, I called it an
" Olivine Basalt." The examination of the preceding basalt shews
that this is a useless distinction. As fas as I can find this is the
first time that olivine has been found in these basalts, {a.) Exam-
ined with crossed nicols the section of this boulder surpasses the
other in brilliancy. The crystals are similarly pervaded by parallel
lines. Turning the polariser, these are also trichroic. Before the
polariser is turned, the vivid chromatic polarisation of the quartz
is greater than that of the preceding section. The unchanging
greenish brown colour shows the presence of augite, dark forms
are also seen but they are small. A crystal of olivine of bright
green colour adds to the variety, (h) Examined by the micros-
cope in sunshine, the small dark forms are seen to be of
magnetite and to be arranged in groups rather prettily. The
crystal of olivine is seen to be surrounded with a decayed crust
which has lost its green color. Smaller crystals, (broken,) are
seen in different parts of the section. The constituents of the
boulder are thus, labradorite, augite, quartz, olivine, magnetite,
2nd. Basaltic dyke at Jebogue Point. I have partially
described this already, as peculiar and interesting because pene-
trating Cambro Silurian rocks. I would now describe the section
more particularly, {a.) In the polariscope with crossed nicols, it
appears dark, with faintish light, excepting when it is surveyed
throughout, the crystals of good size are seen divided by a median
line. Turning the polariser these crystals are brilliantly trichoic-
They are therefore labradorite twins. Numerous small crystals
are also seen, which are also trichroic and give considerable
brightness to the section when the nicols are parallel. The dark
brown colour is constant, indicating a predominance of augite,
