124 CRYSTALINE ROCKS OF N. S. AND C. B. — HONEYMAN.
Occasional bright spots with quartz polarisation occur. Other
sections might shew more of this, as a macroscopic exami-
nation of the rock shews amygdules of quartz, and grains in
abundance, (b) Examined with the microscope, numerous
black grains combine with the augite to darken the section.
These are seen to be magnetite. Brassy crystals are also of fre-
quent occurrence. These are of pyrite. Olivine is not observed
in this section. The minerals in this basalt are thus labrado-
rite, augite, quartz, magnetite, pyrite. This rock has the same
essential minerals as the two preceding, and is a dolerite. They
differ in proportion. It has the same accidental minerals only
pyrite takes the place of olivine. Is the third identical with the
first and second ? Or is it part of an older rock than these ?
DiORITES.
4. I take as a typical diorite a crystalline rock which
occurs in Cape Breton, in that narrow neck of land which
separated the waters of the Atlantic and the inland waters of
Cape Breton but which have recently been connected by St.
Peter's Canal. The specimen which furnished my section is one
of a collection made at different depths in the process of excavat-
ing the canal, and kindly presented to the Museum by a
gentleman residing in the locality. I visited the locality in 1861,
after the excavation had been begun and work suspended. I then
noticed the rock but did not examine it particularly. The
Geological formation of the locality is Carboniferous. I collect-
ed y?orc6 in the vicinity, the precise relation of the rock to the
formation may be uncertain, it is likely a pre-carboniferous
diorite. (a.) Examined with crossed nicols, it is more beautiful
than any of the sections already described. Seven prismatic
colours, violet, blue, orange, yellow, &c., are arranged in four
groups and in parallel lines. This is pleochroism in the strictest
sense. In an orange colored crystal there are 7 parallel lines.
Turning the polariser this becomes trichroic, but without alterna-
tion between the parallels. A very beautiful group of colors show
the arrangement from left to right, deep blue, violet, yellow,
orange, yellow, violet, light blue in parallel lines. Turning the
polarizer from left to right about half a revolution the arrangement
