CRYSTALINE ROCKS OF I?'. S. AND C. B. — HONEYMAN. 125
changes to yellow, dark blue, light blue, yellow, orange. We
have thus a triclinal feldspar, oligoelase. Crossing the nicols,
We observe on the right side of the last described, a lovely
green, giving the polariser half a turn the green is changed to a
bright purple. This is a dichroism indicating hornblende. Sur-
veying the field while turning the polarizer the pleochroism and
dichroism is constantly appearing. The rock is thus evidently a
diorite, there are also black forms constantly appearing, (b.)
Examining there with the Microscope they are seen to cou'
sist of magnetite and pyrite. The minerals of the rock are
oligoelase, hornblende, magnetite, pyrite.
5. This is the section of a rock which I observed at Cranberry
Head, Yarmouth County. It is associated with Lower Cambrian
rocks, and in close proximity to the auriferous strata of the gold
mine. On this account it is singular and interesting. (Vide
paper, Transactions.) I described it as a diorite. Looking
at the section with crossed nicols, we see a pleochrism of pretty
much the same character as that of the preceding, but not so
brilliant. Turning the polariser, the changes also bear a close
resemblance. Parallel lines are equally numerous. There is also
a corresponding dichroism throughout the section. We have
thus as constituents of the rock oligoelase and hornblende.
There is also mica, an accidental mineral, whose presence
is readily enough observed macroscopically. Opaque forms are
abundant, (h.) The microscope shows that the opaque forms
are of magnetite and pyrite. The minerals of this rock are
oligoelase, hornblende, mica, magnetite and pyrite.
6. Diorite of Nictaux. The rock of our section belongs to a
Very important series of intrusive rocks which I have pointed
out and described in my papers (1) "On the Geology of Kings
Counties;" (2) "On the Geology of Annapolis County;" (3) "On
the Geology of Digby and Yarmouth Counties." (Vide Trans-
actions.)
On geological considerations, and from macroscopical examina.
tions, I have named these diorites. Members of the series have
been pointed out as occupying the dividing line between the
lower and middle Silurian and the lower Cambrian (auriferous)
