126 CRYSTALINE ROCKS OF N". S. AND C. B. — HOSTEYMAST.
formation at Nictaux, Bear's River and Cape Cove, Cape St,
Mary's, Bay of Fundy. These diorites have themselves been
referred to post-upper Silurian and pre-carboniferous (Devonian)
time, with similar rocks of undoubted Devonian age, at Arisaig,
Antigonish County, and East River, Pictou County. (Vide
•papers in Transactions.) Of these I intend to have sections
prepared for subsequent examination.
(a.) One section examined by the polariscope, with crossed
nicols and revolving polariser, shew, first, a brilliant dichroism
indicating the existence of a large proportion of hornblende.
The other chief constituent mineral is a triclinic feldspar albite.^
That the feldspar is triclinic is evident from the forms of
the crystals, medium lines, twining, and other parallels. When
the nicols are crossed these are distinctly seen. There are no
prismatic colours betv/een the parallels. The colors in this case
are purplish, grey and white. Turning the polariser these are
seen to change from light to dark, or vice versa. (In the Blomi-
don basalt section there occur, often, crystals having the same
character.) Tliere are also opaque forms in considerable number.
(h.) Examined by the microscope these appear as magnetites and
pyrites.
The minerals of this rock are albite, hornblende, magnetite
and pyrite.
7. Diorite of the Intercolonial Railway, Cobequid mountains.
In the Went worth cutting I have pointed out the singular asso-
ciation of Lower Silurian claystones, having characteristic fossils
with crystalline rocks which have every appearance of being
interbedded igneous rocks. I characterized them as homogeneous
diorites — (Vide papers "Geology of the I. C. R.," — Trans. 1873.)
— they appeared so niacroscopicolly. I have selected one of these
as a representative of this series and had a section made. This
is far from being microscopically hamogenous ; so that the term
'•'homogeneous" is no longer appplicable to these rocks, (a.)
Examined by the polariscope it shows much dichroism from the
prevalence of hornblende. The predominence of light crystals
with median and other parallel lines, indicate the prevalence of
triclinic feldspar. The colours within the parallels resemble those
