CRYSTALINE ROCKS OF N. S. AND C. B. — HONEYMAN. 127
of the preceding (Nictaux) section, and indicate albite. The rock
is therefore a diorite. Opaque forms are numerous, (h.) These
examined by the microscope are seen to be pyrite and magnetite.
The pyrite is readily seen in the rock with a pocket magnifier.
The minerals are hornblende, albite, pyrite and magnetite.
PORPHYRITES.
8. Sunday Point Porphyrite. Macroscopically this rock con-
sists of a darkish groundmass, with light colored crystals plenti-
fully distributed ; hence I have na;ned it porphyrite. Mica is also
observed as a prominent mineral, (a.) The section examined by
the polariscope, with crossed nicols, and the turning of the pola-
rizer, show the crystals with parallels and pleochroism only
inferior to that of St. Peter's Canal typical diorite section, and
surpassing that of Cranberry Head. The groundmass itself is
evidently largely composed of oligoclase. Dichroism shows that
another constituent is hornblende. The rock is therefore a
diorite-porphyry. The opacity of the groundmass arises, to a
large extent, from the abundance of black granules, clouded
spots and dark grains, (h.) These examined by the microscope
are seen to consist of magnetite and pyrite. Mica is also present-
The constituent minerals of the porphyrite are thus: oligoclase,
hornblende, mica, magnetite and pyrite. Sunday Point is situate
at the mouth of Yarmouth Harbour, between the latter and
Jebogue Point. It is nearer to the latter than to Cranberry
Head. Our polariscopic and microscopic analyses show, how-
ever, that the crystalline rock of Sunday Point is more closely
^elated to that of Cranberry Head than it is to that of Jebogue
Point, and that they may belong to two different eruptions, ages
apart.
9. Porphyrite and amygdaloid diorite of Cobequid mountains,
near Wentworth station, I. C. R. In my paper on the I. C, R., I
described a very coarse conglomerate, consisting largely of volca-
nic constituents. This seems to have been the product of a
sub-marine volcano of Lower Silurian or Upper Cambrian age.
Part of this conglomerate was a singular and rather beautiful
rock, having a green groundmass, with amygdules of white calcite
and crystals of reddish feldspar. (?) This is the rock of our sec-
