128 CRYSTALINE ROCKS OF N, S. AND C. B. — HONEYMAN',
tion. The groundmass transmits polarised light with the nicok
crossed, and brightens considerably with the turning of the pola-
riser. Its dichroism shows that one constituent is hornblende.
Crystals interspersed, having median lines and the general
colours, seem to indicate albite as also a constituent. The red
crystals which led me to characterize it as porphyrite, are of un-
certain character, not having any distinguishing feature. The
amygdules which I consider to be calcite, show a varied and
beautiful cliroism. One or two of these are pervaded by fine
parallel lines which are sometimes crossed by other parallels.
The turning of the polariser does not much affect this striation.
It is not, therefore, of the character of the feldspar striation.
Some of the amygdules are of a yellow colour ; three of these
are in the section with the nicols crossed ; these are green and
black, so arranged as to appear to radiate from the centre.
Turning the polariser half a revolution, they become yellow,
without the appearance of radiation. The mineral is evidently
dichroic. I do not know what it is. There are also dark forms'
in the groundmass. (b.) The microscope shows that these are
magnetite. The constituents of this rock are therefore horn-
blende, albite, calcite, magnetite and (?) mineral.
10. In the second of the Whetstone Brook sections which
succeed the Wentworth, I. G. R. is porphyrite which is associated
with Diorites. The slates which include them have only produced
one fossil a large lingala. They have been referred doubtfully to
the middle silurian period. (Vide,) paper already referred to. This
porphyrite has a dark ground mass in which are scattered reddish
crystals and kernels of hj'^aline quartz, (a.) In section the
ground mass transmits light with crossnicols and brightens with
rotation of the polariser, hornblende is evidently one constituent.
The sections of the reddish crystals are dichroic, the mineral is
therefore monclinic, orthoclase. One has four different shades of
color (brown,) irregular dividing lines which deepen in different de-
grees with the rotation of the polariscope, and after half a rotation
or a little more, becomes white (grey.) #One of these has a distinct
inclusion (mineral.) The hyaline quartz is of a dark blue when
the nicols are crossed. The ground mass is unindividualized. (a.)
