PHYSICAL FEATURES OF NOVA SCOTIA. — MURPHY. 133
visible along the valley of the Rhone for a distance of 80 miles,
until lost in Lake Geneva, are due to the same cause. For, says
the learned Doctor, " Grand as the present glaciers seem to those
who explore them to their full extent, they are mere pigmies in
comparison with their predecessors." By their predecessors he
means, as expressed previously, traces of ancient glaciers.
There are many theories for the cause of glacier motion.
1. That of Dr. Saussure, — The slow but continual sliding of
the icy masses on inclined bases.
2. The dilation theory, from expansion of water accumulating
daily in its fissures, tending to urge the glacier onwards.
3. Then there is that of Professor Forbes, viz :— A glacier is
an imperfect fluid or viscous body which is urged down slopes
of a certain inclination by the mutual pressure of its parts.
The Encyclopedia Britannica, after giving in its usual preci-
sive style, a description of the glacier, concludes its last paragraph
on the subject thus : — " The problems of the cause of glacier
motion cannot yet be considered to be satisfactorily solved," and
goes on to quote the contributors on the subject^ such as Professor
James Thompson, Professor Forbes, Sir William Thomson, Tyn-
dall, Faraday and others, ending with the views of 'Dr. Croll, who
regards the motion of ice of a glacier as molecular, resulting from
the very conduction of heat through the mass of the glacier,
which will melt the ice and create a wave of thaw, but will in turn
freeze again and cause a downward movement in the direction
which has the least resistance, and the direction in which gravi-
tation co-operates.
If we take a broad view of the extent of surface which exhibits
such markings as those under consideration, we can scarcely
admit the theory of a gradual subsidence and the re-elevation
with the action of the sea and its currents bearing ice at certain
seasons of the year, which is really that of Dr. Dawson.
The slope running back from the south-eastern shore to the
top of the ridge of the low mountain range all the way from Cape
Canso to Cape Sable, although rugged, undulatory and serrated^
in numerous places, is nevertheless free from very high protu-
berances.
