134 PHYSICAL FEATURES OF NOVA SCOTIA. — MURPHY.
A large extent of its surface is so much denuded of drift that
any extensive forest fire burns up all the clothing on patches of
its surface, leaving the rocks so bare that the miner is invariably-
tempted to prosecute a search.
The presence of granite patches here and there at the existing
surface, shewing that the denudation had reached so far, and the
evidences of a granite nucleus in the higher ridge outcropping in
like manner, shews that most of the strata iinder which the
granite was consolidated have been reduced to a mere shell by
denudation, a work which we could scarcely attribute to
depletion by icebergs alone.
And again, the markings are mostly flutings or furrowings, and
the mechanical action which caused them can be more reasonably
attributed to a slow grinding process than to the force of impact
by icebergs, which would exhibit more denticulated or notched
abrasion.
The nature and extent of the work performed in excavating
and removing a depth of rock surface probably greater in height
than some of our present mountains, and extending over two
hundred miles in length, could, to our senses, be more reasonably
assigned to the agencies exerted in the glacial period or ice age,
than any other we can conceive. If we assume a uniformity of
action, and adopt the assumption that the whole slope of our
Atlantic sea board was being sculptured or shorn at one and the
same time by glaciers moving from the north, we can comprehend,
to some extent, the cause of the glacial markings. The theory of
Dr. Honeyman, of the drift from the north, is the only one that
will truly reconcile us to the great effect produced. If denudation
other than that of glaciers contributed to reduce the rock surfaces
now visible above the sea level, they must have exerted their
influence before the Post Pliocene period. The flutings, as I
would call them, are, no doubt, the work of large superimposed
masses moving slowly ; and these traces are on the floor, on
the surface of our rocks only, — they have not been observed
lower, so far as I can ascertain.
If we carefully observe the fluted-like etchings visible on the
rock surfaces of Nova Scotia, with the view of determining for
