PRAIRIE-FLOWERS OF EARLY SPRING. 95
relatives. This disagreeable shrub, to make itself doubly sure of
escaping the ravages of foraging animals, has armed itself with multi-
tudes of keen prickles upon all its parts. It has won in the race, for
in many places on the low land along the streams it occupies the
ground to the exclusion of all else of a woody nature. The small-
flowered buttercup is an instance of where, in a large genus having
mostly showy flowers, the petals of a species may be much reduced.
The wild gooseberry is a plant with possibilities that still remain
undeveloped. It may have vast resources that only the practical
horticulturist can develop in his own time and way. The gooseberry
is not the only wild fruit plant that deserves the quickening hand of
skill to bring it, in an improved and acceptable form, before the world.
Our wild apples, plums, cherries, blackberries, thorn-apples, papaws,
huckleberries, cranberries, and an extended list of native fruits, are all
hopeful subjects for the fruit-grower. Let any who would begin the
work of subjugation look at the results already obtained from the
culture of the American grapes.
The 22d of the month has Astragalus caryocarpus (Ker.) and
Celtis occidentalis (L. ) scored against it. The former is a vetch, with
a pod so hard and plump that it has taken the common name of
ground-plum. The latter, the hackberry, is a choice tree closely
related to the elms, but bearing berry-like fruits instead of those with
wings.
From this time forward the list for each day lengthens. For the
23d, the dandelion [Taraxacum officinale, Weber) ; the two wood-
sorrels (Oxalis violacea, L., and 0. corniculata, var. stricta, Sav.) ;
false Solomons-seal (Smilacina stellata, Desp.) ; wild ginger (Asarum
Canadensis, L.) ; slippery-elm (Ulmus fulva, Michaux) ; and the wild
sweet-william (Phlox divaricata, L. ), make up a full list that ought
to satisfy any ambitious collector. If we except the slippery-elm and
the dandelion the latter, because it grows as a weed in our lawn and
not from any lack of inherent beauty we have five species of spring
flowers, strictly so called, and objects of the flower-hunters eearch.
The tyro will be quite sure to find the prairie phlox with its high
and showy flower-cluster, and likewise he should return with the first
of the smilacinas and the sorrels, but no blame will rest upon his head
if he oversteps the inconspicuous although large flowers of the wild
ginger that shyly keep close upon the ground beneath the plants large
reniform leaves. The next day added the following to the list of
plants in flower : Gill or ground-ivy (Nepeta glichoma, Benth.) ; the
great bellwort ( Uvularia grandiflora, Smith) ; the little Anemonella
thalictroides (Spach.), before mentioned with isopyrum ; and Ostrya
Virginica ( Willd.), the hop-hornbeam. The bellwort has the most
showy flower of the day, and the hornbeam the least conspicuous.
April 25th continues the list as follows : The star-grass (Hypoxis
erecta, L.), the old hand-leaf violet ( V. cucidata, var. palmata, Gray),
