98 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
which diminish in size by frequent branching as they converge toward
the top of the head. They are in a most favorable position to be com-
pressed, lying on unyielding bone and covered by thin tissue. Con-
sider what effect must be produced by a close-fitting, heavy, and rigid
hat : its pressure must lessen to a certain extent the flow of arterial
blood, and obstruct to a greater extent the return of the venous ; the
result being a sluggish circulation in the capillaries around the hair
follicles and bulbs, a consequent impairment of nutrition, and final
atrophy. This pressure is not trivial or imaginary, as any one will
admit who has noticed the red band of congestion on the forehead
when a hard hat is removed after moderate exercise. If the man is
bald, the red pressure-mark can be seen all around the head.
It may be asked, Can the wearing of a tight band around the head
for a few hours a day have any perceptible effect on the growth of
the hair ? That the hair-bulbs are susceptible to disturbances of nu-
trition is evident from the effect of a continued fever, or any wasting
disease, where nutrition is seriously impaired. They (the hair-bulbs)
suffer with the general system ; the hair has been starved to death, so
to speak, and comes out in large quantities, sometimes amounting to
temporary alopecia. If the hair-crop can be thus destroyed by three
or four weeks of constant lessened nutrition, it is reasonable to sup-
pose that the same cause, though slight and intermittent, will in time
produce the same result.
The course of an ordinary case of baldness corresponds with this
view. We observe usually a thinning out of the hair at the poll of
the head, or part corresponding to the posterior fontanelle of infancy ;
a patch appears two or three inches in diameter like the tonsure of a
priest. Or, instead, the thinness may begin above the forehead, but
in every case, the hair disappears first where the circulation is weakest
that is, along the top of the head, the region most remote from ar-
terial force. The sparseness, at first slight, becomes year by year more
apparent, and, finally, a bare and polished surface is presented which
gradually descends to the hat-band and there stops. Mark this point,
it never goes below the rim of the hat. I admit that the line of de-
nudation does not in some cases correspond exactly with the hat-band ;
it will be noticed that the coincidence is accurate enough at the back
of the head from a point opposite the top of the ear on one side to the
corresponding point on the other, but in front of this on either side is
often a tuft above the horizontal line that still maintains its growth.
The explanation is, that the temporal muscle, occupying the hollow
space in the temporal bone, acts as a cushion, thus relieving the press-
ure on the blood-vessels. In men with rounded heads, full in this
region, a continuous line will be observed.
Before leaving this part of the subject I would direct attention to
the complete change effected in the scalp after the disappearance of
the hair. Unlike the thick, stiff, glandular structure it formerly was,
