104 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
I may always comport myself with honor and propriety, and that you
may have no cause for displeasure in listening to the few words I
have come hither to say. It has not remained unknown to me, dearest
neighbor, that many years ago you were pleased to enter the holy state
of matrimony, taking to yourself a beloved wife, with whom you have
lived ever since in peace and happiness ; and that furthermore the
Almighty God, not wishing to leave you alone in your union, was
pleased to bless you, not only with transitory temporal goods, but
with numerous offspring with dearly beloved children to be your
joy and comfort. And among these dearly beloved children is a
daughter, who has prospered and grown up in the fear of the Lord
to be a comely and virtuous maiden. And as likewise it may not be
unknown to you, that many years ago we too thought fit to enter the
holy state of matrimony, and that the Lord likewise was pleased to
bless our union, not with temporal goods and riches, but with various
beloved children, among whom is a son, who has grown up, not in a
garden of roses, but in care and toil, and in fear of the Lord. And
now this same son, having grown to be a man, has likewise bethought
himself of entering the holy state of matrimony, and has prayed the
Lord to guide him wisely in his choice, and to give him a virtuous and
God-fearing companion. Therefore he has been led over mountains
and valleys, through forests and rivers, over rocks and precipices, until
he came to your house, and cast his eyes on the virtuous maiden, your
daughter. And the Lord having been pleased to touch the hearts of
the two young people with a mighty love for each other, they have
begged me to come hither to crave your consent to letting them be-
come man and wife.
Probably the young couple have grown up within sight of each
other, the garden of the one father adjoining the pig-sty of the other,
but the formula must be adhered to notwithstanding, and neither rocks
nor precipices omitted from the programme of the speech ; and even
if the parents of the bride be a byword in the village for their noisy
domestic quarrels, yet the little fiction of conjugal happiness must be
kept up all the same, with a magnificent sacrifice of veracity to eti-
quette worthy of any diplomatic newspaper discussing a royal alliance.
And, in point of fact, a disinterested love-match among Saxon peas-
ants is about as rare a thing as a genuine courtship between reigning
princes. Most often it is a simple business contract, arranged between
the heads of the families, who each of them hope to reap advantages
from the contemplated alliance. It too often happens that young girls
of fifteen, and even younger, having no experience of life or of their
own feelings, are persuaded by their parents to give their hand with
indifference, or even dislike, to some man whose property happens to
fit in conveniently ; and when they urge the want of sympathy to the
husband proposed, these objections are met by the practical advice of
the long-sighted parents : Try him for a time, and perhaps you will
