WILLIAM BAB COCK HAZEN. 113
volunteer army. During the war he distinguished himself on many
occasions, and his commission as major-general was granted him De-
cember 13, 1864, for specific distinguished services i. e., for long
and continued services of the highest character, and for special gal-
lantry and service at Fort McAllister. This placed him fifth in a
list of twenty-four officers who had received commissions for distin-
guished service.
He continued serving on the frontier territories, north and west,
and was especially active in Indian affairs until 1870, in which year
he was allowed leave of absence to visit the seat of war in Europe.
The results of his observations and studies during his six months ab-
sence are embraced in a volume entitled The School and the Army
in Germany and France, with a Diary of Siege-Life at Versailles,
New York, 1872. This volume contains a very interesting sketch of
Bismarck and Bismarcks own account of the state of affairs in Eu-
rope. It contains especially a fair criticism of the relative excellencies
of the German and French systems, both civil and military ; in a spe-
cial chapter on that subject, he incidentally brought out more promi-
nently some weak points in our own military organization. It would
seem that the courage displayed so brilliantly on the battle-field fre-
quently nerved him to utter not only these but other fearless criti-
cisms of things that were palpably wrong, and some of which have
since been corrected.
He was married February 15, 1871, to Millie, daughter of the Hon.
Washington McLean, of Cincinnati, who with one son survives him.
On his return from Europe in 1871, he returned to duty in the
Indian Territory, and was with his regiment in Kansas and Dakota,
except for a short absence, until December 15, 1880, when he was by
President Hayes appointed brigadier-general and chief signal-officer,
and since then has been stationed at Washington. The absence just
referred to was occasioned by his again visiting Europe as military
attachb to the United States legation at Vienna, for the purpose of
studying the operations of European armies during the Turco-Russian
war. He was absent on this service from December, 1876, to June,
1877, and the results of his observations were published subsequently
in a highly interesting popular volume.
The general account of his activity during the war of the rebel-
lion was published by him in his Narrative of Military Service, Bos-
ton, 1885.
His letters and pamphlets on the Bad Lands show that for many
years General Hazen had been studying the relations of meteorology
and agriculture ; upon his appointment as chief signal-officer he be-
came indefatigable in his efforts to improve the military and depart-
mental relations of the Signal Service, its scientific character, its prac-
tical usefulness to farmers and herders, and its popular influence. His
labors in Washington stirred up most virulent opponents first, when
VOL. XXXI. 8
