WILLIAM BAB COCK HAZEN. 115
the House on Expenditures of the War Department : At the begin-
ning of the work of the Signal Service, the duty of giving notice of
the approach and force of storms and floods for the benefit of com-
merce and agriculture throughout the United States implied that the
notices should be correct, reliable, and timely, as none others could
possibly be of benefit ; it was, therefore, absolutely necessary to pro-
vide for the careful study of the atmosphere. On my accession, I
found every evidence, from popular criticism, that still further prog-
ress in weather predictions was expected. I therefore emphasized
especially the necessity of the study of the instruments and methods
of observing and the investigation of the laws of the changes going
on in the atmosphere. ... It is evident by these successive steps that,
in addition to knowledge gained for current work, the office is power-
fully contributing toward the establishment of a deductive science of
meteorology which will eventually give us a solid, rational basis for
predictions, thereby improving on the empirical rules by which pre-
dictions have generally been made hitherto. And he adds that he
was led more especially to assist in the researches on the suns heat
by reason of the encouragement given him by the late President Gar-
field, whose last words to me were, Give both hands of fellowship
and aid to scientific men.
As a further illustration of General Hazens appreciation of the
scientific needs of the office, must be noted his appointment of Pro-
fessor William Ferrel as meteorologist, and of Professor T. C. Men-
denhall as electrician ; to the latter, all matters relating to standards,
instruments, and instrumental research were also committed. Nor did
he stop here, but, by appointing several younger men to positions as
junior professors, he largely increased the amount of study and re-
search that the office was able to perform, and, by publishing a series
of professional papers and smaller notes, he took the final steps neces-
sary to stimulate every man to do his best. Laboring in this same
direction, he sought to elevate the intelligence and scientific train-
ing of the Signal Corps proper, by enlisting college graduates as
far as possible, by extending the course of instruction for observers,
and by establishing a course of higher instruction for commissioned
officers.
In still another direction General Hazen showed his affiliation with
scientific interests, namely, by his desire to conform as thoroughly as
possible to the recommendations of the International Meteorological
Conferences. These recommendations, as soon as received in the
printed minutes of the conferences, were, by General Hazens orders,
carefully examined, and instructions at once prepared calculated to
introduce methods of observation and publication in conformity
with the recommendations of the leading meteorologists of the
world.
Among the items specially noteworthy, wherein General Hazen de-
