SKETCH OF JAMES FERGUSSON. 119
1845. It was followed, in 1847, by Picturesque Illustrations of An-
cient Architecture in Hindostan, and at later dates by contributions to
the works of Captain Hart, Mr. Hope, and Meadows Taylor, on special
or local features in the architecture of India. Another work connected
with this subject may be mentioned here Archaeology in India,
published in 1884, which was called forth by strictures on his views,
and had much of the controversial in its composition. Mr. Fergussons
studies on these subjects, which he believed were prosecuted under sin-
gularly favorable circumstances, assumed such a character that he could
say : Not only was I able to extend my personal observations to the
examples found in almost all the countries between China and the At-
lantic shore, but I lived familiarly among a people who were still prac-
ticing their traditional art on the same principles as those which guided
the architects of the middle ages in the production of similar but scarce-
ly more beautiful or more original works. With these antecedents, I
found myself in possession of a considerable amount of information re-
garding buildings which had not previously been described, and what
I considered of more value of an insight into the theory of the art,
which was certainly more novel. On the strength of this knowledge
he published, in 1849, An Historical Inquiry into the Principles of
True Beauty in Art, with Especial Reference to Architecture. The
book was not written in a popular style, and did not sell. The matter
of this essay was afterward written over in a more engaging style, into
the Illustrated Hand-Book of Architecture, a concise and popular
account of the different styles prevailing in all ages and countries,
which was published in 1855. This book was successful. Having
gone out of print, it was again rewritten in an entirely new form, and
the result of the remodeling appeared in 1865, as the History of
Architecture in All Countries from the Earliest Times to the Present
Day, in three volumes, afterward enlarged into four. This book is
described by a critic in the Academy as practically standing quite
alone in the English language as an encyclopaedia of architecture ; and
though its immensely wide scope necessarily forced its author to de-
pend largely on the drawings and statements of others, and so caused
many inaccuracies to creep into the text, yet on the whole it is a work
of real and, to all appearance, lasting value. The purpose of the
work was declared to be to write a universal history of architecture,
in which each style shall occupy exactly that amount of space which
the extent of the buildings or their merit would appear to justify ;
and to apply one law of criticism to all styles, ancient and modern,
Eastern and Western, showing why one building has been successful or
another failed, by a reference to those principles of design in archi-
tecture which seem to be universal and are easily understood. While
the method of the Hand-Book was topographical, the historical
method was adopted in the History as the one better suited to the
purposes of giving a general view of the whole of the subject, and of
