EDITORS TABLE.
125
you-pleaso system. We ask whether
everything that is left to private enter-
prise can properly be said to be left to
a go-as-you-please system. If so, all
we can say is, that the system in ques-
tion, call it as you will, produces some
very good and marvelous results. Lais-
sez-faire has made the railway systems
of this country and of England ; it has
made great steamship companies and
telegraph companies and life-insurance
companies ; it has organized the most
gigantic industrial and commercial en-
terprises, and provided in the most won-
derful manner for the whole material
life of the community. To say that a
social function not controlled by the
Government must necessarily fall into
disorder (which, of course, is what the
term go-as-you-please is meant to
imply), is to go further than our corre-
spondent probably meant to go, or than
any sensible man would go; and yet
the contrast he seeks to draw between
governmental methods and the go-as-
you-please system involves this as a
general principle. But is there no go-
as-you-please in governmental methods?
Is our public-school system free from
the intrusion of vicious political influ-
ences? Are not teachers in different
states agitating at this very moment for
some greater security in their positions
than can be enjoyed under existing laws?
And do not they feel that their useful-
ness is continually being impaired by
their dependence on the favor of trus-
tees who are themselves dependent on
the political machine? We know of no
go-as-you-please that is more destitute of
all moral impulse or direction than the
go-as-you-please of municipal politics.
It is really go-as-the-boss-pleases, and
the boss goes for the offices and the
plunder by the most direct road ! We
attach the educational interests of the
community to precisely the faultiest part
of our whole political system, and then
exult that we have rescued it from
the regime of go-as-you-please ! Well,
when we say we, we must be al-
lowed to exclude ourselves, for we dont.
Our proposition is characterized by
our correspondent as revolutionary.
We think the word too strong ; call it
radical if you like, seeing that it goes
to the root of things ; but we think it
a mild form of revolution to propose
that people should not look to the Gov-
ernment to educate them. We should
like to see the people educating the
Government ; and the people could do
this if they would only first educate
themselves.
Our correspondent has the true dem-
ocratic spirit, and does not want to see
classes formed in this free country ;
nevertheless, he talks of the poor as
people whose children ought to be edu-
cated at the expense of the wealthy
tax-payers. If this is not establishing
classes with a vengeance we dont know
what is. We hold that nothing would
tend more to raise the spirit of the poor
and enhance their sense of citizenship
and of social equality than to feel that
they did not depend on the rich for the
education of their children, but that
they provided for that all-important ob-
ject by their own labor, and, if neces-
sary, self-denial. If the rich are to con-
tribute of their substance to the poor
under legal compulsion, why should
education in particular be the thing for
which they are called to pay ? Why not
provide shoe-leather or blankets, and
let the poor have the benefit that as-
suredly would come to many of them
from having a direct interest in their
childrens education? But the whole
idea of the rich being bound to con-
tribute to the maintenance of the poor
is a vicious one. If such an obligation,
properly enforcible by law, exists, then
let us not hesitate to say it there
must be something rotten in our eco-
nomics ; and we can not too soon apply
ourselves to finding out what that is,
instead of dealing in weak and ineffect-
ual palliatives.
But, we are told, the public-school
system educates the people more rap-
idly than private education could pos-
sibly do educates a greater number in
