LITERARY NOTICES.
*3i
trust The Open Court will become a po-
tent influence favoring the reduction to a
scientific platform of the principles and
precepts of these great departments of hu-
man interest.
We do not understand that the presen-
tation of the Monistic philosophy is in-
tended to make the successor of The In-
dex an organ of any theory of knowledge
or being ; for, while philosophy is not to be
disparaged, it is far better to stand firmly
upon science, and thence reach outward and
onward to philosophy with much caution.
If the prime object of the journal is the
scientific study of morals and religion, it is
not likely to become conspicuously a vehicle
for the expression of speculation, but will,
as The Index used to do, make the prac-
tical work of improving mens lives and pro-
moting the organic growth of society its
cbief end, quite irrespective of philosophical
or metaphysical doctrine.
The Chemistry of the Sr/x. By J. Nor-
man Lockver, F. R. S. Illustrated. Lon-
don : Macmillan Co. Pp. 457. Price,
$4.50.
The general problem of the chemical
constitution of the suns atmosphere, to
which the author has given a large share
of his attention for many years, is among
the newest and freshest, as well as one of
the grandest and most fascinating, ques-
tions which science has yet attempted to
answer. Although astonishing progress has
already been made in this field, consider-
ing the difficulties encountered, yet the
work is so vast that the time of many ob-
servers must be devoted to it before it can
be said to be more than begun. The first
step in the direction of spectrum analysis
was taken by Kepler, who, one hundred and
fifty years before Newton, observed the de-
composition of white light by the prism.
Nothing further was done till Newton took
up the subject, and by reasoning and ex-
periment greatly enlarged our knowledge
of it. Another period of a century and a
half elapsed, and then Wollaston discov-
ered that the spectrum of sunlight is di-
vided into several portions by dark lines.
In 1814 and the following years the first
great advances in spectrum examination
were made. Fraunhofer constructed a map
of the solar spectrum, on which he marked
no less than five hundred and seventy-six
dark lines, and these have ever since been
known as Fraunhofer lines. His attempts
to account for the lines satisfied him that
they were not due to any terrestrial cause,
but that they have their origin in the
nature of the light of the sun. He intro-
duced the use of the telescope for observ-
ing the beam of light after its passage
through the prism. He also introduced
the method of observing stellar spectra
which is still employed, and he investi-
gated the spectra of artificial light-sources.
Sir David Brewster discovered that dark
lines were produced in the spectrum when
nitrous -acid gas was interposed between
the prism and the source of light. Many
of these lines seemed to him to be identi-
cal in position with some of the Fraunhofer
lines in the solar spectrum, and he accord-
ingly felt himself justified in announcing
the discovery of nitrous -acid gas in the
atmosphere of the sun. This was the first
chemical touch in solar inquiry. He also
stated his belief that all the Fraunhofer
lines were due to some absorption at the
sun. Foucault then discovered that the
bright lines from a colored light had the
same places as the dark absorption bands
from the same source. In 1852 Professor
Stokes first proposed an explanation of
this phenomenon, and the same idea was
published by Angstrom in the following
year. The famous discoveries of Kirch-
hoff and Bunsen began to appear in 1859.
Among the earliest of these was that the
absorber must be cooler than the radiator.
Stokes had suggested that the presence
of many terrestrial elements might be de-
tected in the suns atmosphere by a com-
parison of the spectra of these elements
with the Fraunhofer lines, in the way that
sodium had already been detected. Kirch-
hoff attacked this problem vigorously and
obtained abundant results, finding nine ter-
restrial metals present in the solar atmos-
phere. Angstrom and his collaborator,
Thalen, were occupied with similar inqui-
ries.
About this time Mr. Lockyers work on
solar phenomena began, ne applied to the
examination of sun-spots and faculaa the
device of throwing an image of the sun, or
of any desired part of the sun, on the slit
