132
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of the spectroscope. Up to 1866 it had
been possible to examine the solar promi-
nences only during eclipses. In that year
Mr. Lockyer devised a method of observa-
tion which can be used at other times, mak-
ing for the observer what have been called
artificial eclipses. It was the illumination
of our air that interfered with such obser-
vations, and he abolished this interference
by using several prisms in the spectroscope,
which, by successive dispersions, so greatly
enfeebled the continuous spectrum of the
light diffused in the air, that the bright
lines due to the prominences could be read-
ily seen. Current investigations were being
made on the basis of Kirchhoffs hypothe-
ses, that the absorption which produced the
Fraunhofer lines took place at some dis-
tance above the photosphere, the spots be-
ing solar clouds, and that the chemical ele-
ments present in the solar atmosphere were
identical with some of those existing on the
earth, and their spectra were identical. The
observations of Mr. Lockyer and his collabo-
rator, Dr. Frankland, soon led them to pro-
pose modifications in Kirchhoffs theory, for
they showed that the dark lines increased
both in width and number as the photo-
sphere was approached. Moreover, the lines
in the spectra of the various terrestrial ele-
ments were found not to coincide so per-
fectly with the Fraunhofer lines as had
been believed. Certain lines were found in
the spectra of two or more substances, and
the same substance was found to have more
than one spectrum. Difficulties multiplied.
The sun had been regarded as a type of
what our earth once was, but spectrum
analysis apparently showed it to have a
chemical constitution widely different from
that of the earths crust. Only one terres-
trial substance classed as non-metallic (hy-
drogen) had been found on the sun, while
no trace of elements so common on the
earth as oxygen, silicon, and chlorine, could
be discovered. It had been noted by Ang-
strom that spectral lines vary their intensi-
ties with the temperature. This is the start-
ing-point from which Mr. Lockyer develops
his theory of the chemical constitution of
the solar atmosphere. When a metallic com-
pound vapor is dissociated by the electric
spark, the character of its spectrum changes
from channeled and banded to lined. The
effect of increasing degrees of heat within
the limits known on the earth is to reduce
compound bodies to simple ones. Now, on
the sun occur temperatures immeasurably
greater than we are able to produce on the
earth, and it occurred to Mr. Lockyer to
ask if iron, for example, were subjected to
the heat of the sun, whether it would ex-
hibit the spectrum of iron, or the spectra
of some simpler substances the constitu-
ents of iron. Many facts relating to ter-
restrial, solar, and stellar spectra unite to
convince him that in the reversing layer
of the sun a high degree of celestial dis-
sociation is at work, which prevents the
coming together of the atoms which at all
temperatures yet attained on earth compose
the metals, metalloids, and compounds. He
has applied many and various tests to this
theory, but the results of all serve only to
confirm his belief. The theory also seems
to him to conform satisfactorily to the
observed physical phenomena of the sun.
Mr. Lockyer has stated his views, and
detailed the investigations which led up
to them, in a way that will command the
attention and respect of scientists, even
where he does not produce conviction.
Moreover, his work and that of his prede-
cessors has been described in so clear and
interesting a style, that the general reader
will be able to go through the book with
pleasure and profit.
Mineral Piitsiology and Physiography.
A Second Series of Chemical and Geo-
logical Essays, with a General Introduc-
tion. By Thomas Sterry Bunt, M. A.,
LL. D. (Cantab ). Boston : Samuel E.
Cassino. Pp. 710.
The essays of which this volume is made
up have been written in accordance with
a predetermined plan that is now accom-
plished. The first and second are intended
to serve as a general introduction, and to
show the relations of the natural sciences to
each other, and to that complex study known
as geology.
The first essay is entitled Nature in
Thought and Language, and gives histori-
cal and philosophical reasons for the use
of the term physiology in relation to the
mineral kingdom. The second embodies a
simple scheme for the classification of the
natural sciences, by which the sciences of
