POPULAR MISCELLANY.
39
ment in producing this result. But whether
the chance of air-pollution is greater from
sewers or from cesspools is not so easy to
determine. There are a few records, how-
ever, which will help to clear this point.
In Berlin, the distribution of cases of fever
has been found to be one to each 93 un-
sewered, one to each 493 sewered houses.
In Dantzic the mortality from typhoid fever
dropped to less than one fourth the old rate
after the introduction of the sewers in
1872, and has been still lower during the
last five years. In Cincinnati the water-
supply is abundant, but the sewerage is im-
perfect, and the death-rate from typhoid is
increasing. The city of Mexico enjoys a
water-supply of forty-four gallons a day to
each person, but there are no sewers, and
the fever mortality is very high.
Various Kinds of Rivers. M. Woeikoff,
the Russian meteorologist, considering riv-
ers from a climatological point of view and
with regard to their sources of supply, makes
Beveral types or classes of them. The first
are those which derive their waters from
the melting of snows in plains or regions of
not more than three thousand feet eleva-
tion ; such rivers exist only in the extreme
north. Next are rivers fed hy the melting
of snows in the mountains. Instances are
the Amou and Syr Barias, the Tarim, and
the upper Indus. In their lower course
these rivers traverse regions where it sel-
dom rains, or rains only in winter. High
waters occur in them at fixed periods,
and the maximum height depends on the
quantity of snow on the mountains. They
are utilized in the plains of their lower
course, where cultivation would not other-
wise be possible, in vast systems of irriga-
tion. A third class of rivers depend on
rains, usually tropical and monsoon rains,
and reach their maximum in the hot season.
They are best represented by the Congo
and the Orinoco, in whose valleys snow nev-
er falls. They are low in winter, or the dry
season, and reach their maximum stage in
summer, when immense quantities of rain fall
into them. Some of the tropical rivers, like
the Amazon, are partly fed by melting snows,
but in very small quantity; for the snow
exist3 only on mountain-tops above twelve
thousand feet in height. To this third class
belong also the Nile, the Ganges, and Brah-
mapootra, and the great rivers of China.
That the rivers of China, Mantehooria, and
the Amoor region possess the common feature
with tropical rivers of having their freshets
in summer is a testimony to the prevalence
of the monsoons in their regions of supply.
To a class that receive most of their waters
from rains, but are swollen periodically by
the melting of the snows, belong most of
the rivers of Western and Northern Siberia,
European Russia, Scandinavia, Eastern Ger-
many, and the Northeastern United States.
The southern hemisphere has no such riv-
ers. A fifth class of rivers depend on rain-
water, are of constant flow, and are highest
in the cold season, without being subject to
sudden freshets. They are found in the
eastern part of the United States, in New
Zealand, and in South America beyond lati-
tude 40. Other rivers receiving their wa-
ters from rain, and being highest in the cold
season, are marked by great differences be-
tween high and low water. They predomi-
nate in Southern Europe, and are exempli-
fied by the Po and Tiber, and by some riv-
ers in the United States. Other types may
be constituted of rivers which become dried
up or lost in their course, and of those which
exist as streams for only a part of the year.
They are found in desert regions.
Improvement of onr Climate. Mr. John
C. Goodridge, Jr., has suggested a project
for modifying the climate of the Atlantic
coast by closing the Strait of Belle Isle,
and advances the theory that this scheme is
feasible as a problem in physical geography
capable of an engineering solution. He
argues that it is shown by charts that the
great body of the cold wall comes to
us through that strait. Newfoundland de-
flects the remainder of the Arctic current
to the southeast. Here, pressing against
the Gulf Stream, it veers southward in the
form of a loop, and finally, running under
it, goes on toward the equator. That part
of the Gulf Stream that passes our shores
has a course directly north and a little
west, is deflected slightly toward the east
by the coasts of South and of North Caro-
lina, and thence turns more to the north
again, when it is deflected by the cold cur-
rent returning from the pole. When this
