146 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
mere replica of the schoolboy fallacy : Food is necessary to life : Corn
is food ; ergo, corn is necessary to life (in which the undistributed mid-
dle is supposed to elude the urchin logician), and are altogether beside
adult discussion of economical questions. But let Mr. Hudsons pro-
cesses be waived while we address ourselves to the material of the
charges he pastes and I assume that he pastes them correctly in his
scrap-book :
I. The Long and Short Haul. There certainly never arose in
practical railway operation a situation wherein a railway company was
solicitous to charge less money for doing more work and to pay its own
expenses meanwhile. But in practical railway policy a difference be-
tween the cost and the value of certain business to the company might,
and sometimes does, arise which appeals to the companys instinct of
self-preservation too despotically to be disregarded. A railway com-
pany, which has for long years acceptably served its local and through
patrons, finds itself suddenly paralleled by a rival company, serving all
or some of the same localities not only, but prepared as a part of its
(the second comers) investment to undergo the expense of cutting
rates, and so to supplant the first comer by offering to take business
for less than the actual expense of doing it, even though some of the
competing points are farther distant from the common terminals of
the paralleled line than the actual length of the roads. Under such
circumstances, the value of all of its original business it could retain
would be clearly of more value to the first company than the then
present cost of doing it : and the result would, of course, by every law
of human economy or of human nature, be that the first company
would either anticipate or respond to the cut. The effect in either
case would be to cheapen tariffs to the shipper to the people. But
Mr. Hudson, at this moment, does not care for the people. Later on
he will take up the cudgels for them, but just now he kindly holds a
brief for the railroads. He thinks it shameful that deserving and
hard-working railroads should be obliged to take long hauls for actu-
ally less than they are legally entitled to charge for short hauls for
much smaller distances. Mr. Hudson has no objection, of course, to
one of his fellow-countrymen riding from New York to Chicago for
five dollars, or shipping livestock from Toledo to Buffalo at one dollar
a car-load during a railway war. (Or, if he should still remember the
poor public, it will be not the poor public who ride a thousand miles
for five dollars, or at the rate of half a cent a mile, but the poor public
who commonly ride one hundred and sixty-seven miles for five dollars,
thereby being compelled to either walk or pay the legal mileage of
three cents which the company is allowed by law to charge.) But
should the railway companies find that carrying passengers from New
York to Chicago for five dollars, or cattle from Toledo to Buffalo at
one dollar a car-load does not pay that by making such rates they
are robbing not the public at large, perhaps, but their own stock-
