i 5 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
to the greatest number, but tbe least good to the greatest number (or,
possibly, the greatest good to the least number), so that the selected
village is favored. But what else would this be, again, but a mo-
nopoly of commercial privileges ; and how soon did the railway or the
railways adopt Mr. Hudsons suggestion and discriminate exclusively
in favor of his village before Mr. Hudson would be on his feet again
with an entirely new compilation of grievances, demanding to know
why this particular village was selected out of the entire continent to
be so pre-eminently favored? Does not even Mr. Hudson begin to
catch a glimpse of just how vast, how complicated, and inexhaustible
this railway problem really is ? But possibly he does not, for he says,
You charge this village of B too much. No, we charge everybody
according to geographical position ; it saves us labor to do so, says
Mr. Alexander. Well, anyhow, says Mr. Hudson, you lowered the
rate to A, and did not lower the rate to B, and thats the act of a public
enemy ; and he straightway sits down and inflicts us with a book of 500
pages, of which the argument is (or ought to be, to be consistent) that
A is not the public or even the republic, whereas B is both the one
and the other. If Mr. Hudson will kindly turn to one of his own pages
(in which possibly the mass of excerpta has bewildered him), he will
be doubtless surprised to find (page 159) an admission that, astound-
ing as it may seem, on a single trunk-line in a single year, as between
the anti-pool rates of 1865 and the pool rates of 1882, a saving to the
public, in freights alone, of $318,947,486,261 has been effected. But,
having made the admission, he is ready to meet it after his kind.
This is an astonishing instance, he continues, of giving away what
the giver never owned or possessed ; the fact is kept out of sight that the
business of 1882 is the result of the progressive reduction of rates for
many years, and could never have existed but for the reductions. Sure-
ly, the readers of The Popular Science Monthly have never witnessed
quite such a wiping out of the laws of supply and demand as this !
Mr. Hudson will have us believe that the people of the United States
on the line of the given railroad would not have eaten and drunk, or
purchased supplies, worn clothes or slept on beds, and that population
itself for seventeen years would have suspended its rules perhaps the
laws of gravitation themselves have ceased had not this railroad re-
duced its rates. But let us overlook any possible increase of popula-
tion or of the wants or luxuries of a given territory in the space of
twenty-two years, and consider this particular railway company as all
railways. The argument will then remain as follows : Railways are
public enemies because they are exorbitant in their charges. But fig-
tires show that their charges are constantlv decreasing. Never mind
that, says Mr. Hudson, if railways reduce their rates they only do so
from the selfish motive of getting still more business. Most shippers
over a railway would be contented if the railway would only charge
them low rates. But Mr. Hudson (who, possibly, is not a shipper over
