ARE RAILROADS PUBLIC ENEMIES? 153
cent lower than at the dates at which their recapitalizations occurred.
Mr. Hudsons platitudes against stock-watering, so long as he con-
fines himself to platitudes and truisms merely, are perfectly safe. But
when, in 1887, he prints the newspaper-clippings of 1872-74, and
moralizes therefrom, he can hardly complain if his public demur, not
only to his antique instances, but to his general safety as a guide in
the complicated questions with which he assumes to deal. I mention
these two examples (which are now ancient history) not to suggest an
excuse for them, but as showing how entirely superfluous Mr. Hudsons
employment of them is ; and how as a matter of fact the wrong, so far
as the public is concerned, has been entirely neutralized by application
of the pooling system. Other things being equal, there is no reason
why a railroad should not capitalize its earnings by employing them
for betterments, any more than that an individual should capitalize
his by putting back his earnings into his business. Nor is it quite ap-
parent that any moral dishonesty enters into the act of even capitalizing
those betterments which Nature and the march of civilization bring,
which I understand are called (just now) the unearned increment.
I do not remember that any company has so far been guilty of this
particular sort of watering ; but, had the early Dutch settlers of Man-
hattan Island built the present elevated railway, it is interesting to
speculate what sin would have been committed against natural or
moral law had their assigns in 1887 capitalized that structure, not at an
approximate to its earning power at the date of its construction (in,
say, 1666), but at a sum representative of its actual earning power in
the later year. Neither am I aware by what mental processes one
can insist on unearned increments at all^ if by that popular term
we mean the increase to ones property by the efforts or investments
of ones neighbors. It is fashionable, I am aware, to say that if As
corner lot increases fifty per cent by reason of the purchase and im-
provement of adjoining lots by B, C, D, E, and F, that fifty percentage
is As unearned increment ; but is As foresight and shrewdness in in-
vesting in the corner lot aforesaid, when he might have placed his
money elsewhere, to count for nothing? Are not brains a part of
ones capital, and may not As foresight and shrewdness have been
and continued a considerable part of his capital or stock in trade or
earning power? Assuming that Mr. Hudson does not contemplate the
removal of cerebral inequality between man and man by due process of
law, it might occur that whereas the rest of the alphabet had no confi-
dence in the future of let us say, a certain B and C Railroad A might
foresee a Pacific Railway, or a commercial development, or the bank-
ruptcy of a competing line which would make it valuable, and so
might without sin buy up its stock at five cents on a dollar and in due
time reap substantial rewards. And supposing even that A, by the
transaction (or even by recapitalizing this same B and C Railroad),
was ultimately enabled to accumulate one of those enormous fortunes
