154 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in which Mr. Hudson sees such peril to his republic, would even such a
public calamity go to prove railways public enemies, or that any and
all increase of capitalization was stock-watering? Doubtless im-
proper practices will obtain with evil-minded men until the end of
time. But if the enormous fortunes aforesaid have been accumulated
by watering railway-stocks, then it instantly follows that they have
not been accumulated by the management and operation of railways ;
and thus another of Mr. Hudsons charges falls to the ground. And
the facts are within this statement. As a matter of fact these accu-
mulators of mammoth fortunes were operators in Wall Street, who by
accident became loaded with a favorite security, or with the debent-
ures or stock of a single corporation, which necessitated (or at least
suggested) their identification or assumption of the management, di-
rectorship, or presidency of this, that, or the other railway corpora-
tion. In not a single case have these fortunes arisen from the earning
power of the road itself. If a certain railway corporation increases
its stock without proportionately increasing its earning power, then
the transaction is properly characterized as stock-watering. But it
does not make all railways enemies of the republic, nor in any way
cause them to dominate the people who have granted them fran-
chises for transportation purposes. It is from a prevalence of the
very spirit which Mr. Hudsons volume, The Railways and the Re-
public, labors vigorously and constantly to cultivate in this people,
that railway-wrecking and stock-watering ever become possible. If
Mr. Hudson honestly desires to make stock-watering impossible, let
him advise his constituency to yield the railways such tariffs as they
are obliged to demand, thus enabling them to meet their fixed charges
and so keep out of the hands of speculative directors, who will,
from private greed, proceed to water their stocks. Here is a field
wherein Mr. Hudson could write books to his hearts content, from a
consistent, public spirited, and even contemporary standpoint, and
with the best results. The mere collecting of antique newspaper-
clippings is, beyond the passing amusement of the hour, of very small
utility, of trifling exemplary value, and certainly of not the slightest
assistance whatever in solving the problem of the American railway.
III. Eminent Domain. Mr. Hudsons definition of this facility of
railroad companies is as follows : To take away the property of A
and give it to B for the latters private use and behoof, provided al-
ways that B is a railway corporation (page 114). Now, actually and
practically, the above is a remarkably comprehensive and exact defini-
tion, not of eminent domain but of what eminent domain is not, and
of what it never can be under any circumstances. Mr. Hudson himself
has inadvertently told us what it really is : Experience shows that
no railroad twenty-five miles in length can be built without the resort
to the power of the State, for there are always some proprietors who
demand an exorbitant price, or altogether refuse to let the railway
