ARE RAILROADS PUBLIC ENEMIES? 155
pass over their property. . . . No railroad of greater importance than
a mere switch ever has been or ever can be built without invoking the
sovereignty of the Government in its behalf (page 111). Under such
circumstances, where a mans neighbors have decided that they want a
railway, the law so far from taking anything from anybody simply
steps in and applies the well-known maxims that a man must use his
own so as not to injure his neighbors ; and that, in civilized commu-
nities, every citizen yields a fraction of his rights for the general good
and society of all. To enable the railway to enforce the general con-
sent, it is convenient to apply these maxims against the recalcitrant
citizen by the fiction that the Government endows the railroad com-
pany for the emergency and for the emergency only with a portion
of its own (the Governments) right to take the property of its sub-
jects in cases of necessity (as for the public good in times of peace,
or the public defense in time of war, etc.). This force is applied, how-
ever, not at the expense of the Government, nor even at the expense of
the recalcitrant and unpleasant citizen who will not accord with his
neighbors, but at the sole expense of the railway company. The
result is that, instead of the citizen suffering for his obduracy and
obstinacy, he is actually rewarded since he ultimately receives a
greater value for his land, without being mulcted in any of the ex-
penses of the taking. So far as he is concerned he has lost nothing by
his contumacy ; whereas the railway, by his contumacy and without
fault on its part, has been put to the costliest plan of acquiring the
land. For the purchase of any strip of land, at almost any price, is
invariably cheaper than the process of condemnation by private
view, which, both in time and money, is by all odds the very
costliest known method of obtaining a railroads right of way. These
views are, by statutory requirement, made by persons of the vicin-
age, who, in estimating their neighbors land, estimate their own ; as
individuals it can be readily imagined they are not over-solicitous to
save the corporation expense, nor to estimate at all without liberal
compensation to themselves for their own services : and the result can
be readily computed. The laws of eminent domain, as appertaining
to railway companies, and their operation in cases of land condemna-
tion, are too technical to be elaborated here. But it may be said, as
a matter of fact, that their application ceases with the single act of
the acquirement of land. Nor is the power of the Government over
the citizen ever, except in this solitary instance, exercised by the rail-
way company from the beginning to the fine and term of its career ;
and, moreover, the grant itself is not only not against public policy
and interest, but is directly in favor of the public : being positively
granted to the railways as against themselves rather than in their
favor, so far as a possible question between the railways and the public
can possibly arise.
What is known as the police power of railways, which is derived
