162 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
often ripens in a child with almost startling suddenness. A few sig-
nificant sounds are gradually acquired, but the vocabulary is very
small until the impulse of imitating sounds awakes. When its awak-
ening is abrupt it is impossible to talk with the child. His condition
is that of echolalia: instead of answering, he repeats the question.
His whole energy may for a few days be poured into this channel,
and during those days the foundations of his future vocabulary
are laid.
Imitation is a human instinct which has other fields of application
than the vocal one. Say what one will of monkeys, man is the imita-
tive animal. Civilization, in fact, depends on the trait. Nil humani a
me alienum, is the motto of each of us, and we are uneasy when an-
other shows any power or superiority, till we can exhibit it ourselves
as well. Much might be said of this propensity, as well as of the im-
pulse to rivalry which is akin to it, and equally instinctive ; but I must
hasten on to
Sympathy is an emotion as to whose instinctiveness psychologists
have held hot debate, some of them contending that it is no primitive
endowment, but, originally at least, the result of a rapid calculation of
the good consequences to ourselves of the sympathetic act. Such a
calculation, at first conscious, would grow more unconscious as it be-
came more habitual, and at last, tradition and association aiding, might
prompt to actions which could not be distinguished from immediate
impulses. It is hardly needful to argue against the falsity of this view.
Some forms of sympathy, that of mother with child, for example, are
surely primitive, and not intelligent forecasts of support to be reaped
in old age. Danger to the child blindly and instantaneously stimu-
lates the mother to actions of alarm or defense. Menace or harm to
the adult, beloved, and friend, excites us in a corresponding way, often
against all the dictates of prudence. It is true that sympathy does
not necessarily follow from gregariousness. Sheep and cattle do not
help a wounded comrade ; on the contrary, they are more likely to dis-
patch him. But a dog will lick another sick dog, and even bring him
food ; and the sympathy of monkeys is proved by many observations
to be strong. In man, then, we may lay it down that the sight of
suffering or danger to others is a direct exciter of interest, and an im-
mediate stimulus, if no complication hinders, to acts of relief. There
is nothing unaccountable or pathological about this nothing to justify
Professor Bains assimilation of it to the fixed ideas of insanity, as
clashing with the regular outgoings of the will. It may be as primi-
tive as any other outgoing, and may be due to a random variation
selected, quite as probably as, in Spencers opinion, gregariousness and
maternal love are due to such variations.
It is true that sympathy is peculiarly liable to inhibition from other
instincts which its stimulus may call forth. The traveler whom the
good Samaritan rescued may well have prompted such instinctive fear
