168 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
JBlacJc things, and especially dark places, boles, caverns, etc., arouse
a peculiarly gruesome fear. This fear, as well as that of solitude, of
being lost, are explained after a fashion by ancestral experience.
Says Schneider :
It is a fact that men, especially in childhood, fear to go into a dark cavern
or a gloomy wood. This feeling of fear arises, to he sure, partly from the fact
that we easily suspect that dangerous beasts may lurk in these localities a sus-
picion due to stories we have heard and read. But, on the other hand, it is
quite sure that this fear at a certain perception is also directly inherited. Chil-
dren who have been carefully guarded from all ghost-stories are nevertheless
terrified and cry if led into a dark place, especially if sounds are made there.
Even an adult can easily observe that an uncomfortable timidity steals over him
in a lonely wood at night, although he may have the fixed conviction that not
the slightest danger is near.
This feeling of fear occurs in many men even in their own house after dark
although it is much stronger in a dark cavern or forest. The fact of such in-
stinctive fear is easily explicable when we consider that our savage ancestors
through innumerable generations were accustomed to meet with dangerous
beasts in caverns, especially bears, and were for the most part attacked by such
beasts during the night and in the woods, and that thus an inseparable associa-
tion between the perceptions of darkness of caverns and woods, and fear took
place, and was inherited.*
High places cause fear of a peculiarly sickening sort, though here,
again, individuals differ enormously. The utterly blind, instinctive
character of the motor impulses here is shown by the fact that they
are almost always entirely unreasonable, but that reason is powerless
to suppress them. That this is a mere incidental peculiarity of the
nervous system, like liability to sea-sickness, or love of music, with no
teleological significance, seems more than probable. The impulse is
much of an individual idiosyncrasy, and its detrimental effects are
so much more obvious than its uses, that it is hard to see how it could
be a selected instinct. Man is anatomically one of the best fitted of
animals for climbing about high places. The best psychical comple-
ment to this equipment would seem to be a level head when there,
not a dread of going there at all. In fact, the teleology of fear, be-
yond a certain point, is very dubious. Professor Mosso, in his inter-
esting monograph, La Paura (which has recently been translated into
French), concludes that many of its manifestations must be considered
pathological rather than useful ; Bain, in several places, expresses the
same opinion ; and this, I think, is surely the view which any ob-
server without a priori prejudices must take. A certain amount of
timidity obviously adapts us to the world we live in, but the fear-
parozi/sm is surely altogether harmful to him who is its prey.
Fear of the supernatural is one variety of fear. It is difficult to
assign any normal object for this fear, unless it were a genuine ghost.
* Dcr Menscblicbe WiHe, p. 224.
