SOME HUMAN INSTINCTS. 169
But, in spite of psychical research-societies, science has not yet adopted
ghosts ; so we can only say that certain ideas of supernatural agency,
associated with real circumstances, produce a peculiar kind of horror.
This horror is probably explicable as the result of a combination of
simpler horrors. To bring the ghostly terror to its maximum, many
usual elements of the dreadful must combine, such as loneliness, dark-
ness, inexplicable sounds, especially of a dismal character, moving
figures half discerned (or, if discerned, of dreadful aspect), and a ver-
tiginous baffling of the expectation. This last element, which is intel-
lectual, is very important. It produces a strange emotional curdle
in our blood to see a process, with which we are familiar, deliberately
taking an unwonted course. Any ones heart would stop beating if he
perceived his chair sliding unassisted across the floor. The lower ani-
mals appear to be sensitive to the mysteriously exceptional as well as
ourselves. My friend Professor W. K. Brooks, of the Johns Hopkins
University, told me of his large and noble dog being frightened into
a sort of epileptic fit by a bone being drawn across the floor by a
thread which the dog did not see. Darwin and Romanes have given
similar experiences.* The idea of the supernatural involves that the
usual should be set at naught. In the witch and hobgoblin super-
natural, other elements still of fear are brought in caverns, slime and
ooze, vermin, corpses, and the like.f A human corpse seems normally
to produce an instinctive dread, which is no doubt somewhat due to
its mysteriousness, and which familiarity rapidly dispels. But, in
view of the fact that cadaveric, reptilian, and underground horrors
play so specific and constant a part in many nightmares and forms of
delirium, it seems not altogether unwise to ask whether these forms
of dreadful circumstance may not at a former period have been more
normal objects of the environment than now. The ordinary cock-sure
evolutionist ought to have no difficulty in explaining these terrors,
and the scenery that provokes them, as relapses into the consciousness
of the cave-men, a consciousness usually overlaid in us by experiences
of more recent date.
There are certain other pathological fears, and certain peculiarities
*Cf. Romanes, Mental Evolution, etc., p. 156.
f In the Overland Monthly for this year, a most interesting article on Laura Bridg-
mans writings has been published by Mr. E. C. vSandford. Among other reminiscences
of her early childhood, while she still knew nothing of the sign-language, the wonderful
blind deaf-mute records the following item : My father [he was a farmer and probably
did hi3 own butchering] used to enter his kitchen bringing some killed animals in and
deposited them on one of sides of the room many times. As I perceived it it make me
shudder with terror because I did not know what the matter was. I hated to approach
the dead. One morning I went to take a short walk with my Mother. I went into a snug
house for some time. They took me into a room where there was a coffin. I put my
hand in the coffin felt something so queer. It frightened me unpleasantly. I found
something dead wrapped in a silk hdkf so carefully. It must have been a body that
had had vitality. ... I did not like to venture to examine the body for I was con-
founded.
