THEOLOGY UNDER ITS CHANGED CONDITIONS. 171
THEOLOGY UNDER ITS CHANGED CONDITIONS.
Br Eev. CANON FEEMANTLE.
A PROFESSOR of divinity who has been thought at times to be
by no means insensible to a reputation for orthodoxy, preach-
ing in the University of Oxford a few days ago, said : The field of
speculative theology may be regarded as almost exhausted ; we must be
content henceforward to be Christian agnostics. It is probable that
these words, had they been uttered in the same place twenty-five years
ago, would have excited an alarm comparable to that which was raised
by Bishop Colenso or the Essays and Reviews. In the present case
they appear to have been accepted without a murmur ; so great is the
change which has come over the conditions of theological thought in
England in a quarter of a century. It will be the object of the pres-
ent paper to make clear what are the new conditions of which theol-
ogy has to take note, to point out what they involve either certainly
or by probable inference, and to show what we may expect theology
to be under these new conditions.
It is very necessary that such an attempt should be made, so that
illusions should cease, and also unnecessary alarms ; and that theo-
logians should strike boldly into the new paths, not reverting to un-
fruitful methods which separate theology from other parts of human
knowledge. For it is to be observed that such utterances as that just
quoted are met with again and again, even when least expected, in
theological literature, but that this has by no means prevented the
prevalence of dogmatism. St. Augustine wrote, in his treatise on
Christian Doctrine :
God is unspeakable ; yet what we say of him would not be spoken at all
if it were unspeakable. Even when we say God is unspeakable, we hardly
speak rightly ; for even in saying this we make an assertion. By pronouncing
the word Deus, we do not make him known as he is. Only when that sound
strikes the ears of men who know Latin, it moves in them the thought of a
certain most excellent and immortal nature.
Yet this did not hinder him from repeating the language in which he
had suddenly checked himself, and his methods have so enchained the
study of theology that we are only now beginning to free ourselves
from them. The melancholy experience of the sixteenth century
which turned the Reformation from a great act of emancipation into
a renewed scholasticism must not be repeated in our day.
The conditions which it is necessary to notice may be taken under
four heads : 1. Those imposed by the advance of science, and 2. Of
criticism ; 3. Those made by the altered state of church-life ; 4.
Those caused by social and democratic progress.
1. Under the head of Science we may notice as specially bearing
