i 7 2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
on theology the fuller knowledge of the laws of nature with the in-
creasing sense of their uniformity which imposes itself as a necessary
condition of thought wherever things physical are concerned ; the
hypothesis of evolution, which suggests an account in harmony with
this uniformity of the genesis of the whole animate creation ; and,
turning to another department, the history of religion, of which so
much more is know now than formerly. 2. In referring to criticism
we may dwell upon the discoveries recently made as to the dates of
the books of the Old Testament, and the consequent rearrangement
of Hebrew literature and history ; the views now given by scholars
of the origin of the Gospels, the diminished historical value which it
is found necessary to ascribe to the Acts of the Apostles, the dubious
character of the later Epistles ascribed to St. Paul, and the greater
clearness of the circumstances under which the Apocalypse was com-
posed we must pass on to the investigations into the structure of the
early Christian Churches and their theological ideas, especially those
relating to the Eucharist, and we must also take in the change which
has come about in the treatment of all early documents that which
teaches us to value them as literature, not as the quarry from which
dogmatic statements may be hewed out. 3. Turning to the conditions
of church-life we shall have to notice the abolition or mitigation of
tests and subscriptions, and the greater tolerance and friendliness be-
tween those who hold different opinions or belong to different relig-
ious bodies ; the freedom which the law of the Church, as interpreted
by the Privy Council, gives to theological opinions of clergymen ;
together with the tendency, to which all religious bodies have been
subject for some time past, to make less of abstract theological state-
ments and more of practical piety and philanthropy. 4. Lastly, turn-
ing to the social and political conditions, we must consider the effect
of our greater acquaintance with the wants of the masses, and the
admission of the demand for equality. Theology has to take account
not of a mere mass of ignorance and sin, but of human beings stand-
ing in moral equality with their teachers, and capable of virtue and
self-direction, who require to be told, not, after the manner which
reminds them of the older political economy, of a way of salvation
under which a few elect souls may be saved, but, in a manner corre-
sponding with the better social policy, how they may be helped to
rise in all respects and all together.
Before going more into detail and showing the necessary or prob-
able effects of these conditions upon theology, there are three remarks
which should be made :
First, in the present day every institution is passing through the
ordeal of criticism, and lives only because it can justify its existence.
It would be foolish, if it were possible, to attempt the exemption of
the study of theology from this process, ^sor is there any reason why
it should shrink from the questioning, if only it be applied with the
