180 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
are exceptions to this which are becoming more frequent ; personal
esteem is often sincerely felt even where co-operation is refused, and
co-operation is sometimes given in philanthropic schemes when refused
in spiritual work. The free discussion of religion in the reviews and
magazines and in private circles induces a still larger tolerance, so that
even agnostics and positivists are not treated as outcasts by the
most zealous of their Christian relations.
We must add to this the new state of things created by the modi-
fication of the tests imposed upon the clergy, and their abolition both
in public life and at the universities. The clergy now profess only a
general adherence to the formularies of worship, while in all other
spheres tests are gone or doomed. This has tended to make religious
profession more sincere, and to separate religion from injustice. It
has also brought together those who would never have met. The
presence even of one like Mr. Bradlaugh in Parliament is a preserva-
tive against conventionalism and hypocrisy when matters moral and
religious are under debate. In the universities the fact that young
men who are preparing for the ministry of various denominations,
live together and share the same thoughts and associations, is preg-
nant with consequences to the future of church-life and of theology,
as is also the freedom of speech and practice and the altered tone of
religious instruction resulting from the presence of dissenters.
4. Theology can not separate itself from public life. The demo-
cratic and social uprising of our day must influence it. While a sys-
tem of privilege was dominant in the state, it was natural perhaps to
think of the few who were called, and to pass over the rest. The
idea of men having no claim upon God, and of his relation to them as
being either that of a vigorous upholder of law, or of one who only in
certain cases and on certain terms showed favor to transgressors, was
congenial to all to whom the chief political factors were the monarch
and the upper classes, and the maintenance of a law in the making of
which the mass of the subjects had had no hand. But the modern
conviction that all men have their rights, and that the government
exists for their sake, has communicated itself to theology. We can
not think of men simply as offenders who need pardon ; rather the fact
that they have been created seems to give them a claim on their Cre-
ator. The mission and self-sacrifice of Christ seem an answer to this
claim, and a promise of a better condition in this world as well as in
the world to come. Nor is this only for individuals. The democracy
moves in masses ; we can not be content with the blessing of individ-
uals as separate from their fellows, but must strive for the building up
of the masses in true relations and brotherly equality.
Such appear to be the main conditions under which our theological
beliefs are destined in future to move. We have now to consider what
the movements of theology can be under these conditions.
II. When the preacher whose words were quoted at the beginning
