io THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
swarmed with spirits, good and evil ; disease, pestilence, storms, and
fires and floods were the work of evil spirits ; the more kindly motions
of Nature were the work of good spirits. A decrepit old woman could
turn herself into a wolf and devour her neighbors flocks. Meteors,
eclipses, and comets were portents sent directly from Heaven for the
warning of mankind.
How has all this been changed ! How completely the mind of man
now faces the other away, in everything except in theology faces
toward a natural explanation of all phenomena !
Let no hasty reader conclude that I am arguing against the reality
of religion ; I am only arguing against the reality of magic and mira-
cles ; against the conception of Christianity as a scheme for mans sal-
vation interpolated into human history, and in no sense one with the
constitution of the world ; against the idea that the spiritual life is in
no sense a possible development of mans natural capabilities ; but some-
thing superadded from without, a unique and peculiar kind of life,
which was made possible to man by the life and death of Christ, and
in no way possible before that event. It is not an evolution from
mans proper nature ; it comes from the opposite direction, and is
external and supplementary. Christianity, say the Andover doc-
tors, is a source of knowledge concerning God which is not given by
the external universe nor by the constitution of man, but only by
Christ. Religion is still conceived of as a miraculous scheme to rem-
edy some miscarriage or failure in the plan of Gods dealings with man,
a failure whereby his relation to the race was radically changed. It is
looked upon as something naturally foreign to man, something to be
ingrafted upon him from without, not related at all to his natural
capacity for virtue and goodness ; something which a blameless man
may live and die without, but which a cut-throat during the last
moments of his life upon the scaffold may, by what is called an act
of faith and repentance, obtain ! Against such notions I am directing
my argument ; I am urging that the sentiment of religion is the same
in all ages and lands, differing in its outward forms, but not in its
inward essence, just as the sentiment of patriotism or of loyalty is the
same. How is a reasonable man to favor any scheme that rules out
the religion of Plato, and Zeno, and Seneca, and Epictetus, and Cicero,
and Lucretius, or Spinoza, or of Darwin, as of no avail, as only snares
of Satan ? The flowering of mans spiritual nature is as natural and
as strict a process of evolution as the opening of a rose or a morning-
glory. The vital inflorescent forces are from within, and are continu-
ous from the root up. But there is this difference : While the plant
must have a congenial environment, light, warmth, etc., the human
flowering often takes place amid the most adverse surroundings ; but
no more so in the religious sphere than in the intellectual.
Neither would I say that the conversion upon which our Puritan
ancestors laid such stress, and which is so dramatically illustrated in
