ASTRONOMY WITH AN OPERA-GLASS.
201
Berenices Hair.
yond the reach of an opera-glass, but it is worth while to know where
this curious region is, even if we can not behold the wonders it con-
tains. The stars Omicron (o), Pi (tt), etc., forming a little group,
mark the head of Virgo.
The constellation Libra, lying between Virgo and Scorpio, does not
contain much to attract our attention. Its two chief stars, a and (3,
may be readily recognized west
of and above the head of Scor-
pio. The upper one of the two,
/3, has a singular greenish tint,
and the lower one, a, is a very
pretty double for an opera-glass.
Just north of Virgos head
will be seen the glimmering of
Berenices Hair. This little con-
stellation was included among
those described in the article on
The Stars of Spring, but it is
worth looking at again in the
early summer, on moonless nights,
and we give here a picture of its
stars as seen with a good glass. The singular arrangement of the
brighter members of the cluster at once strikes the eye.
Bootes, Avhose leading brilliant, Arcturus, occupies the center of
our map, also possesses a curious mythical history. It was called by
the Greeks the Bear-Driver, because it seems continually to chase
Ursa Major, the Great Bear, in his path around the pole. The story
is that Bootes was the son of the nymph Calisto, whom Juno in one
of her customary fits of jealousy turned into a bear. Bootes, who
had become a famous hunter, one day roused a bear from her lair, and
not knowing that it was his mother, was about to kill her, when Jupi-
ter came to the rescue and snatched them both up into the sky, where
they have shone ever since. How this story remained in mens minds
is shown by Lucans reference to it when, describing Brutuss visit
to Cato at night, he fixes the time by the position of these constel-
lations in the heavens :
Twas when the solemn dead of night came on,
When bright Calisto, with her shining son,
Now half the circle round the pole had run. 1
Bootes is not specially interesting for our purposes, except for the
splendor of Arcturus. This star has possessed a peculiar charm for
me ever since boyhood, when, having read a description of it in an
old treatise on Uranography I felt an eager desire to see it. As my
search for it chanced to begin at a season when Arcturus did not rise
till after a boys bed-time, I was for a long time disappointed, and I
