SCIENCE AND PSEUDO-SCIENCE. 209
to the clergy than the practice, too common among laymen, of regard-
ing them, when in the pulpit, as a sort of chartered libertines, whose
divagations are not to be taken seriously. And I am well assured
that the distinguished divine, to whom the sermon is attributed, is
the last person who would desire to avail himself of the dishonoring
protection which has been superfluously thrown over him.
So much for the lecture on propriety. But the Duke of Argyll,
to whom the hortatory style seems to come naturally, does me the
honor to make my sayings the subjects of a series of other admoni-
tions, some on philosophical, some on geological, some on biological
topics. I can but rejoice that the dukes authority in these matters
is not always employed to show that I am ignorant of them ; on the
contrary, I meet with an amount of agreement, even of approbation,
for which I proffer such gratitude as may be due, even if that grati-
tude is sometimes almost overshadowed by surprise.
I am unfeignedly astonished to find that the Duke of Argyll, who
professes to intervene on behalf of the preacher, does really, like
another Balaam, bless me altogether in respect of the main issue.
I denied the justice of the preachers ascription to men of science
of the doctrine that miracles are incredible, because they are viola-
tions of natural law ; and the Duke of Argyll says that he believes
my denial to be well founded. The preacher was answering an
objection which has now been generally abandoned. Either the
preacher knew this or he did not know it. It seems to me, as a mere
lay teacher, to be a pity that the great dome of St. Pauls should
have been made to echo (if so be that such stentorian effects
were really produced) a statement which, admitting the first alterna-
tive, was unfair, and, admitting the second, was ignorant.*
Having thus sacrificed one half of the preachers arguments, the
Duke of Argyll proceeds to make equally short work with the other
half. It appears that he fully accepts my position that the occurrence
of those events, which the preacher speaks of as catastrophes, is no
evidence of disorder, inasmuch as such catastrophes may be necessary
occasional consequences of uniform changes. Whence I conclude, his
Grace agrees with me, that the talk about royal laws wrecking
ordinary laws may be eloquent metaphor, but is also nonsense.
* The Duke of Argyll speaks of the recent date of the demonstration of the fallacy of
the doctrine in question. Recent is a relative term, but I may mention that the ques-
tion is fully discussed in my book on Hume, which, if I may believe my publishers, has
been read by a good many people since it appeared in 1879. Moreover, 1 observe, from
a note at page 89 of The Reign of Law, a work to which 1 shall have occasion to advert
by-and-by, that the Duke of Argyll draws attention to the circumstance that, so long ago
as 1866, the views which I hold on this subject were well known. The duke, in fact,
writing about this time, says, after quoting a phrase of mine, The question of miracles
seems now to be admitted on all hands to be simply a question of evidence. In science
we think that a teacher who ignores views which have been discussed coram populo for
twenty years, is hardly up to the mark.
vol. xxxi. 14
