SCIENCE AND PSEUDO-SCIENCE. 211
necessary dogma of uniformitarianism. It is extremely astonishing to
me that any one who has carefully studied Lyells great work can have
so completely failed to appreciate its purport, which yet is writ
large on the very title-page : The Principles of Geology, being an
Attempt to explain the Former Changes of the Earths Surface by
Reference to Causes now in Operation. The essence of Lyells doc-
trine is here written so that those who run may read ; and it has noth-
ing to do with the quickness or slowness of the past changes of the
earths surface, except in so far as existing analogous changes may go
on slowly, and therefore create a presumption in favor of the slowness
of past changes.
With that epigrammatic force which characterizes his style, Buff on
wrote, nearly a hundred and fifty years ago, in his famous Theorie
de la Terre, Pour juger de ce qui est arrive, et meme de ce qui
arrivera, nous navons qua examiner ce qui arrive. The key of the
past, as of the future, is to be sought in the present, and only when
known causes of change have been shown to be insufficient have we
any right to have recourse to unknown causes. Geology is as much
an historical science as archaeology ; and I apprehend that all sound
historical investigation rests upon this axiom. It underlay all Huttons
work, and animated Lyell and Scrope in their successful efforts to
revolutionize the geology of half a century ago.
There is no antagonism whatever, and there never was, between
the belief in the views which had their chief and unwearied advocate
in Lyell and the belief in the occurrence of catastrophes. The first
edition of Lyells Principles, published in 1830, lies before me, and
a large part of the first volume is occupied by an account of volcanic,
seismic, and diluvial catastrophes which have occurred within the his-
torical period. Moreover, the author over and over again expressly
draws the attention of his readers to the consistency of catastrophes
with his doctrine :
Notwithstanding, therefore, that we have not witnessed within the last three
thousand years the devastation by deluge of a large continent, yet, as we may
predict the future occurrence of such catastrophes, we are authorized to regard
them as part of the present order of Nature, and they may he introduced into
geological speculations respecting the past, provided that we do not imagine them
to have been more frequent or general than we expect them to be in time to
come (vol. i, p. 89).
Again :
If we regard each of the causes separately, which we know to be at present
the most instrumental in remodeling the state of the surface, we shall find that
we must expect each to be in action for thousands of years, without producing
any extensive alterations in the habitable surface, and then to give rise, during
a very brief period, to important revolutions (vol. ii, p. 161).*
* See also vol. i, p. 460. In the Dinth edition (1853), published twenty-three years
after the first, Lyell deprives eves the most careless reader of any excuse for misunder-
