SCIENCE AND PSEUDO-SCIENCE. 217
little ones, become quite intelligible. And, in fact, the honor of the
paternity of those remarkable ideas which come into full flower in the
preachers discourse must, so far as my imperfect knowledge goes, be
attributed to the author of the Vestiges.
But the author of the Vestiges is not the only writer who is
responsible for the current pseudo-scientific mystifications which hang
about the term law. When I wrote my paper about Scientific
and Pseudo-Scientific Realism, I had not read a work by the Duke of
Argyll, The Reign of Law, which, I believe, has enjoyed, possibly
still enjoys, a wide-spread popularity. But the vivacity of the dukes
attack led me to think it possible that criticisms directed elsewhere
might have come home to him. And, in fact, I find that the second
chapter of the work in question, which is entitled Law ; its Defini-
tions, is, from my point of view, a sort of summa of pseudo-scien-
tific philosophy. It will be worth while to examine it in some detail.
In the first place, it is to be noted that the author of the Reign
of Law admits that law, in many cases, means nothing more than
the statement of the order in which facts occur, or, as he says, an
observed order of facts (p. 66). But his appreciation of the value
of accuracy of expression does not hinder him from adding, almost
in the same breath, In this sense the laws of Nature are simply those
facts of Nature which recur according to rule (p. 66). Thus laws,
which were rightly said to be the statement of an order of facts in
one paragraph, are declared to be the facts themselves in the next.
We are next told that, though it may be customary and permis-
sible to use law in the sense of a statement of the order of facts,
this is a low use of the word ; and indeed, two pages farther on, the
writer, flatly contradicting himself, altogether denies its admissi-
bility :
An observed order of facts, to be entitled to the rank of a law, must be an
order so constant and uniform as to indicate necessity, and necessity can only
arise out of the action of some compelling force (p. 68).
This is undoubtedly one of the most singular propositions that I have
ever met with in a professedly scientific work, and its rarity is embel-
lished by another direct self-contradiction which it implies. For, on
the preceding page (67), when the Duke of Argyll is speaking of the
laws of Kepler, which he admits to be laws, and which are types of
that which men of science understand by laws, he says that they
are simply and purely an order of facts. Moreover, he adds, A
very large proportion of the laws of every science are laws of this kind
and in this sense.
If, according to the Duke of Argylls admission, law is understood
in this sense, thus widely and constantly, by scientific authorities,
where is the justification for his unqualified assertion that such state-
ments of the observed order of facts are not entitled to the rank of
laws?
