220 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
is not content with favoring me with his opinions about my own busi-
ness ; he also answers for mine ; and, at that point, really the worm
must turn. I am told that no one knows better than Professor Hux-
ley a variety of things which I really do not know ; and I am said to
be a disciple of that Positive Philosophy which I have, over and
over again, publicly repudiated in language which is certainly not
lacking in intelligibility, whatever may be its other defects.
I am told that I have been amusing myself with a metaphysical
exercitation or logomachy (may I remark incidentally that these are
not quite convertible terms ?), when, to the best of my belief, I have been
trying to expose a process of mystification, based upon the use of sci-
entific language by writers who exhibit no sign of scientific training,
of accurate scientific knowledge, or of clear ideas respecting the phi-
losophy of science, which is doing very serious harm to the public.
Naturally enough, they take the lions skin of scientific phraseology
for evidence that the voice which issues from beneath it is the voice
of Science, and I desire to relieve them from the consequences of
their error.
The Duke of Argyll asks, apparently with sorrow that it should
be his duty to subject me to reproof :
What shall we say of a philosophy which confounds the organic with the
inorganic, and, refusing to take note of a difference so profound, assumes to ex-
plain, under one common ahstraction, the movements due to gravitation and the
movements due to the mind of man?
To which I may fitly reply by another question : What shall we say
to a controversialist who attributes to the subject of his attack opin-
ions which are notoriously not his ; and expresses himself in such a
manner that it is obvious he is unacquainted with even the rudiments
of that knowledge which is necessary to the discussion into which he
has rushed ?
What line of my writing can the Duke of Argyll produce which
confounds the organic with the inorganic ?
As to the latter half of the paragraph, I have to confess a doubt
whether it has any definite meaning. But I imagine that the duke is
alluding to my assertion that the law of gravitation is nowise sus-
pended or defied when a man lifts his arm ; but that, under such
circumstances, part of the store of energy in the universe operates on
the arm at a mechanical advantage as against the operation of another
part. I was simple enough to think that no one who had as much
knowledge of physiology as is to be found in an elemental primer,
or who had ever heard of the greatest physical generalization of mod-
ern times the doctrine of the conservation of energy would dream
of doubting my statement ; and I was further simple enough to think
that no one who lacked these qualifications would feel tempted to
charge me with error. It appears that my simplicity is greater than
my powers of imagination.
