222 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
for it is the essential nature of matter to be the vehicle or substratum
of mechanical energy.
There is nothing new in all this. I have merely put into modern
language the issue raised by Descartes more than two centuries ago.
The philosophies of the Occasionalists, of Spinoza, of Malebranche, of
modern idealism and modern materialism, have all grown out of the
controversies which Cartesianism evoked. Of all this the pseudo-
science of the present time appears to be unconscious ; otherwise it
would hardly content itself with making het again the pseudo-
science of the past.
In the course of these observations I have already had occasion to
express my appreciation of the copious and perfervid eloquence which
enriches the Duke of Argylls pages. I am almost ashamed that a
constitutional insensibility to the Sirenian charms of rhetoric has per-
mitted me, in wandering through these flowery meads, to be attracted
almost exclusively to the bare places of fallacy and the stony grounds
of deficient information which are disguised, though not concealed, by
these floral decorations. But, in his concluding sentences, the duke
soars into a Tyrtsean strain which roused even my dull soul :
It was high time, indeed, that some revolt should be raised against that
Reign of Terror which had come to be established in the scientific world under
the abuse of a great name. Professor Huxley has not joined this revolt openly,
for as yet, indeed, it is only beginning to raise its head. But more than once
and very lately he has uttered a warning voice against the shallow dogmatism
that has provoked it. The time is coming when that revolt will be carried
further. Higher interpretations will be established. Unless I am much mis-
taken, they are already coming in sight (p. 339).
I have been living very much out of the world for the last two or
three years, and when I read this denunciatory outburst, as of one
filled with the spirit of prophecy, I said to myself : Mercy upon us !
what has happened ? Can it be that X and Y (it would be wrong to
mention the names of the vigorous young friends which occurred to
me) are playing Danton and Robespierre ; and that a guillotine is
erected in the court-yard of Burlington House for the benefit of all
anti-Darwinian Fellows of the Royal Society ? Where are the secret
conspirators against this tyranny, whom I am supposed to favor, and
yet not have the courage to join openly ? And to think of my poor
oppressed friend, Mr. Herbert Spencer, * compelled to speak with
bated breath (p. 338) certainly for the first time in my thirty-odd
years acquaintance with him ! My alarm and horror at the sup-
position that, while I had been fiddling (or at any rate physicking),
my beloved Rome had been burning, in this fashion, may be imagined.
I am sure the Duke of Argyll will be glad to hear that the anxiety
he created was of extremely short duration. It is my privilege to
have access to the best sources of information, and nobody in the
scientific world can tell me anything about either the Reign of Ter-
