GOFIO: FOOD AND PHYSIQUE. . 227
eating it for breakfast, as I had done before, the acidity immediately-
disappeared and has not returned.
In this connection I would say that I had previously observed the
same phenomenon of complete exemption from acid stomach while
using Carlsbad Zwieback, as the sole farinaceous food at breakfast.
Zwieback, as most persons already know, is bread cut in thick slices
and baked a second time. In Carlsbad the second baking is carried
so far that the slice is browned through its entire thickness. If there
remains a white central portion it is not good, and will undergo acid
decomposition in the dyspeptic stomach when the properly made Zwie-
back will remain for a long time unchanged except by gastric fluids.
But, while useful as a temporary expedient, Zwieback has not much
nutrition after undergoing the three processes of raising, baking, and
rebaking to incipient carbonizing. It is incapable of being used alone
as a sufficient aliment. To gofio there is no such objection. The
roasting is the first and only cooking of the food. Gofio is a food dry
cooked, no fluid coming to it till the very moment of eating it ; and
we know that dry heat produces changes in the structure and compo-
sition of cereals different from those produced by moist heat. The
roasting process is essentially different from the steaming, baking, or
boiling process, and, for one thing, converts starchy particles into
more soluble and more friable forms. Moderately browned bread-
crust illustrates the change produced.
Perhaps the roasting process has a protecting efficacy against the
action of the ferments which are always present in the alimentary
tract, ready to effect some form of decomposition should digestion be
long enough delayed to allow them to act. In fact, there is no doubt
that, in many cases, the stomach actually becomes a receptacle for the
cultivation of microbes. As one meal after the other is taken into
the stomach, each succeeding mass of fermentable material is affected
by the ferment-germs developed and energized by those which have
preceded it, till a high degree of potency is reached as in the usual
method of bacteria cultivation. In such a case normal digestion is
anticipated by fermentation, the wholesomeness of the food is impaired
by antecedent decomposition, the gastric power is lessened by contact
with noxious acids and gases, and we have the confirmed dyspeptic.
The worst of it is, that such a condition is self-propagating, all ordi-
nary means failing to energize digestion or to de-energize the ferment
that the former may precede the latter in the usual way. Even the
useful and often indispensable stomach-pump sometimes fails to pre-
vent prompt fermentation of the first food taken after its careful use
for cleansing purposes. In all my previous personal and professional
experience, I found, when once the rapid acidulation of the food dem-
onstrated the potentialization of the microbic ferment, there was no
so sure way to overcome it as, in turn, to energize the digestive action
by prolonged abstinence from food. In that case the ferment becomes
