236 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ent for their successful operation and development upon intelligent
direction and skilled labor, individually organized scientific schools and
training-classes in connection with their works. Some of these private
schools are equal to or excel in particular features the government
and municipal institutions. The conductors of many of them claim
that the best results are obtained where intimate relationship between
the school and the actual workshop is maintained ; thereby facilitating
the adaptation of theoretical training to the needs of the pupils and
the character of the work on which they are engaged.
The leading merchants and manufacturers of Crefeld, Prussia,
affirm that its silk industries largely depend for success on the influ-
ence of their technical school, which, among other things, raises the
tone and increases the knowledge of rising manufacturers and foremen,
and, by spreading technical education broadcast among industrious
and ambitious artisans, very materially widens the field from which
successful manufacturers and specialists may be chosen. At Miilhausen,
Germany, manufacturers go so far as to say that their trade could not
prosper without the influence of the textile museum ; and citizens look
upon the prosperity of the town as a result of what is learned at the
technological institutions, whose action has exerted a marked influence
in suppressing trade jealousies, which had almost entirely disappeared
from the community. The chief hope of Verviers, Belgium, in main-
taining pre-eminence in its textile industries, has been publicly ac-
knowledged to rest upon the superiority and not on the cheapness of
its productions. This community has felt none of the evils of the
late labor troubles in Belgium. The variety and excellence of the
textile manufactures of Chemnitz, Saxony, are accredited by the Brit-
ish Royal Commissioners to the weaving-school ; and the appreciation
had by the citizens of the place for technical education is attested by
the fact that, up to 1883, they had contributed over $440,000 for the
support of their industrial schools. So, among the results that have
accrued from the operation of the weaving and dyeing schools of Rou-
baix, France, are less need of supervision, economy in production,
fewer mistakes, and more reliable and efficient work.
Of the same order with these facts is the acknowledgment said to
be commonly made by the proprietors and managers of mines that
young men who have been educated in technological schools heat
their boilers better and with less coal than do the other workmen, and
that their scientific knowledge enables them to escape many accidents
and to avoid stoppage of machinery and repairs. In short, Dr. Bar-
nard observes, it is the testimony of all who have studied the subject
that technical schools, when rightly directed, give wonderful impulses
to industrial pursuits, by promoting scientific investigation and meth-
ods. Although at first this influence affects only those who attend the
classes, it soon makes itself felt throughout the entire body of work-
men of the community to which the school belongs, and the increased
