INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION AND RAILWAY SERVICE. 241
ployes upon systematic lines, such as, for example, produce at West
Point and Annapolis corps of young men whose basic education and
training, with a little experience, fit them for any position of respon-
sibility and trust in our military and naval service. Unquestionably
there must be in many of our large railway organizations those who
have long recognized the need of, and would warmly welcome, this
educational factor in railway management, and doubtless many of
them are, from previous education and long experience, peculiarly
qualified for making a forcible presentation of the advantages of
and in view of the great changes that scientific discoveries are making
in methods of production and transportation, and the new industries
that are continually springing up, I may say the absolute necessity for
a combination of scientific and technical education for the operatives
of the transportation service of the country. But, unfortunately, men
of this type are, as a rule with few exceptions, overtasked with respon-
sibilities and harassed with anxieties that leave few opportunities and
little inclination for expressing their views on any subject foreign to
their specific duties.
In the same ratio that our extensive railway system surpasses all
other branches of industry in the magnitude of its business, the num-
ber of its departments and the interests affected, is there greater need
for economy of administration and greater necessity for the application
of the highest obtainable scientific knowledge and manual skill to its
various operations. It has become the almost universal practice of our
great railway corporations, and especially those whose lines are reach-
ing out into undeveloped and sparsely settled territory, to assume the
entire repairs of their plant, even when they amount to practical recon-
struction, and there is also a steady tendency on the part of such com-
panies in the direction of manufacturing their own equipment from
raw materials. This places them in the category of manufacturers,
and makes them amenable to the laws and factors regulating produc-
tion. Because of the nature of their service, involving the transpor-
tation and care of many lives and valuable property, no less than as a
matter of economy, is it of prime importance to such corporations that,
in the construction and in the repair of their rolling-stock and appli-
ances, they should employ workmen of exceptional competency.
Railroad enterprise is a comparatively new thing in the worlds
history, and its development has been sudden. Men trained to carry
on the work could not easily be obtained. They were picked up
where they could be found ; lacking scientific training, they were
naturally guided by rule-of-thumb practice, and their lives were
sure to be narrowed, till they acquired a pride in being known as prac-
tical men. These men naturally transmitted their narrowness of
knowledge and skill to their apprentices ; and thus has been developed
the average railroad workman of to-day. Many of our railroads employ
armies of people, all of whom are supposed to be technically expert in
VOL. XXXI. 16
