252 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in which particular shades are given a changed appearance to our per-
ceptions by backing them one against another. When, for instance,
a tolerably clear red and a tolerably pure green are put together, both
colors appear to undergo a change, and to gain in purity ; or, in popu-
lar language, the red seems to become redder and the green greener.
This proceeds from two causes, one of which is purely mental, and
consists in the heightening of the contrast between the two colors
when they are brought into comparison with each other ; while the
other is physical, and depends upon a kind of fatigue which the nerv-
ous fibers suffer in consequence of the higher activity which the pre-
sentation of the contrast develops in them. As the perception of the
red becomes wearied, that of the green becomes more acute, and vice
versa, and the two in this manner react upon each other. By a similar
process, white reposing upon black appears clearer and purer, while
the black seems deeper and darker.
A painter, having to introduce two kinds of light, daylight and
candle-light, into his picture, would not be able to represent directly
the contrasts which the struggle between the two kinds of light calls
forth in Nature, because his colors are so inferior in intensity to the
reality. He has to paint the effect in by making the daylight rela-
tively bluer and the candle-light more of a red-yellow than in Nature.
He thereby leads us, after an interval, to an illusion of the same char-
acter with that which Nature, by the superior intensity of its light,
produces in a moment.
In like manner, the painter, by exaggerating the illumination of
his objects, reproduces similar effects to those which Nature gives with
the full brilliancy of its light ; as, for instance, the glow of the snow-
fields of the Alps, which the beams of the evening sun clothe as with
a garment of fire, in contrast with the dark-blue vault of the sky above
them, and with the valleys already hiding themselves in the shadows
of night. In all these cases the action of Nature is made more speedy
than that of the picture, because the light at its disposal is so much
stronger, but the effect of both is in the end of the same character,
and the seeming becomes clothed with reality.
The painter must, furthermore, give effect to other color-percep-
tions which are wholly conditioned upon the organization of the eye.
These are the subjective conceptions that show forth the complement-
ary colors. By this term are meant those colors which in combination
produce white, as red and green, blue and orange, yellow and violet.
The complementary tint also appears after the eye has become fatigued
in looking at a particular color, as when the eye has been gazing at
green, it turns to a white spot and appears to see it red.
The complementary effects may frequently be observed in Nature.
Parts of the sky between bright-red clouds sometimes appear green ;
and the ground of a wood, the bright-green foliage of which glitters
in the sunlight, looks rose-colored. The painter has to take these
