AMONG THE TRAN SYLVAN IAN SAXONS. 257
after the baptism, nor should it be held near an open window. A very
efficacious preservative against all sorts of evil spells is to hang round
the childs neck a little triangular bag stuffed with grains of incense,
wormwood, and various aromatic herbs, and with an adders head em-
broidered outside ; a gold coin sowed into the cap will likewise keep
the spirits away.
Two godfathers and two godmothers are generally appointed at
Saxon peasant christenings, and it is customary that one couple should
be old and the other young ; but in no case should a husband and wife
figure as god-parents at the same baptism, but each one of the quartet
must belong to a different family. This is the general custom ; but in
some districts the rule demands two godfathers and one godmother for
a boy two godmothers and one godfather for a girl.
If the parents have lost other children before, then the infant should
not be carried out by the door in going to church, but handed out by
the window, and brought back in the same way. It should be carried
by the broadest street, never by narrow lanes, else it will learn thieving.
The god-parents must not look round on their way to church ; and
the first person met by the christening procession will decide the sex
of the next child to be born a boy, if it be a man.
If two children are baptized out of the same water, one of them
will soon die ; and if several boys are christened successively in the
same church, there will be war in the land as soon as they are grown
up. Many girls denote fruitful vintages for the country when they
have attained a marriageable age.
If the child sleeps during the baptismal ceremony, then it will be
pious and good-tempered ; but if it cries, it will be bad-tempered or
unlucky ; therefore, the first question asked by the parents on the re-
turn from church is generally, Was it a quiet baptism ? and if such
has not been the case, the sponsors are apt to conceal the truth.
In some places the christening procession returning to the house of
the parents finds the door closed. After knocking for some time in
vain, a voice from within summons the godfather to name seven bald
men out of the parish. When this has been answered, a further ques-
tion is asked as to the gospel read in church ; and only on receiving
the answer, Let the little children come to me, is the door flung
open, saying : Come in ; you have hearkened attentively to the words
of the Lord. The god-parents next inquiring, Where shall we put
the child ? receive the following answer :
On the bunker let it be,
That it may jump like a flea ;
Put it next upon the hearth,
Heavy gold it will be worth ;
On the floor then let it sleep,
That it once may help to sweep ;
On the table in a dish,
It will grow then like a fish.
vol. xxxi. 17
