258 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
After holding it successively on each of these places, it is finally-
put hack into the cradle, while the guests prepare to enjoy the Tauf
ScJunaus, or christening banquet.
Each person is expected to bring a small contribution in the shape
of eggs, bacon, fruit, or cakes ; and the god-parents do not fail to
come each laden with a bottle of good wine, besides some other small
gift for the child.
The banquet is a noisy and merry one, and many are the games
and jokes practiced on these occasions. One of these, called the Had-
springen (jumping the bath), consists in putting a lighted candle on a
washing-trough, which is placed upside-down on the ground. All the
young women present are invited to jump over without upsetting or
putting out the light. Those who are successful in this evolution will
be mothers of healthy boys. If they are bashful, and refuse to jump,
or should they be awkward enough to upset the candle, they will be
childless, or have only girls.
The Spiesstanz, or spit-dance, is also usual on these occasions. Two
roasting-spits are laid on the ground crosswise, as in the sword-dance
and the movements executed much in the same manner.
Sometimes it is the grandfather of the new-born infant who opens
the performance, proud of displaying his agility as he sings :
Purple plum so sweet,
See my nimble feet ;
How I jump and slide,
How I hop and glide ;
See how well I dance,
See how well I prauce.
Purple plum so sweet,
See my nimble feet.
But if the grandfather be old and feeble, and if the godfathers can
not be induced to exert themselves, then it is usually the midwife who,
for a small consideration, undertakes the dancing.
It is hardly ever customary for the young mother to be seated at
the table along with the guests ; and even if she be well and hearty
enough to have baked the cakes and milked the cows on that same
day, etiquette demands that she should play the interesting invalid and
lie in bed till the feasting be over.
For full four weeks after the birth of her child must she stay at
home, and durst not step over the threshold of her court-yard, even
though she has resumed all her daily occupations within the first week
of her recovery. I may not go outside till my time is out ; the Ilerr
Vater would be sorely angered if he saw me, is the answer I have
often heard from a woman who declined to come out on to the road.
Neither may she spin during these four weeks, lest her child should
suffer from dizziness.
When the time of this enforced retirement has elapsed, the young
