EDITORS TABLE.
271
what modifications need to be intro-
duced into the education of women.
The principle of equality once firmly laid
down, it remains to be said that, from
the point of view of the intellectual fu-
ture of the female sex, too much impor-
tance probably is being attached to what
is called higher education. It is safe to
say that such intellectual advantages as
men now enjoy are but in a minor degree
dependent on colleges and universities.
We constantly see men arriving at high
scientific and literary eminence, with
little or no aid from scholastic institu-
tions ; and what is possible for men is
possible for women. The last thing we
should wish to do would be to dispar-
age systematic training ; but still it is
an indubitable fact that many have
contrived to accomplish great things
without it. Upon the whole, it is an
encouraging thought that higher edu-
cation is not confined to seminaries of
learning. It can be imparted largely in
the home-circle ; it can be obtained by
independent study and reflection. Let
the seminaries flourish, but let it be un-
derstood that common sense and right
feeling, and worthy aims in the house-
hold and in society, constitute in them-
selves the conditions, and even in some
degree the elements, of higher educa-
tion. We should like to see this whole
question reduced to its true proportions
and brought into direct relation with
the realities of life. We believe that
women (like men) have at the present
moment within their reach far more
extensive means of culture than they
care to avail themselves of; and that
what is really wanted for the diffusion
of higher education in the best sense
is not so much the multiplication of in-
stitutions of learning, as the communi-
cation of an impulse to individuals of a
nature to lead them to lay hold of the
means of intellectual improvement that
abound on every side. Could this be
accomplished, the general intelligence
of society would advance with rapid
strides ; while the multiplication of in-
stitutions of learning, and dependence
on them for intellectual results, will
only give us a select class of educated,
sometimes over-educated, persons, and
will leave society at large but slightly
modified by the culture that really ought
to mark this advanced stage of human
progress.
THE GREEK QUESTION AGAIN.
Since the article on the Present
Status of the Greek Question ap-
peared in the May number of The
Popular Science Monthly, we have
been informed by a graduate of the
University of Cambridge, England, that
it is now possible to obtain the degree
of B. A. from that ancient institution
of learning without any knowledge of
Greek whatever. This marks, of course,
a new era in the history of this question
in England.
It may be worth while to glance for
a moment at the amount of Greek re-
quired for the B. A. at the various Brit-
ish universities where it is still insisted
upon as a required subject of examina-
tion. We have not the requisitions of
Oxford before us, but we are assured
that they do not exceed those of the
University of Edinburgh and other Scot-
tish universities for the M. A. Accord-
ing to the Edinburgh University Calen-
dar for 1883-84, the Greek set for ex-
amination for the degree of M. A. com-
prised the following : Odyssey, book
vi; Sophocless Electra ; Thucydides,
book vi, and Platos Protagoras.
Now, when we consider that these au-
thors and the particular works or por-
tions of their works to be set are thus
announced a year beforehand, it will
be seen how small an amount of work
in Greek is really required for this de-
gree. It does not amount to more than
is required for entrance to the classical
course of any good American college.
A Cambridge graduate has asserted that
it was quite feasible for a man, in the
days when Greek was required at Cam-
