274
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
men of learning as could be found. The
emperor was fond of music, and promoted
the reform of church singing, introducing
the Gregorian Chants, and it is said, also
the organ. But his reform in education,
and that of Alfred in England a half-century
later, were temporary in their effects. Dur-
ing the three centuries after the death of
Charlemagne, learning languished in Europe,
but among the Arabs at this period it was
flourishing. About 1100 there arose studia
generalia, or what we should now designate
as professional schools, called forth, as Pro-
fessor Laurie believes, by the growth of
learning demanding specialization, by the
rise of a lay feeling in connection with the
work of the physician, the lawyer, and even
the theologian, and by the actual special-
izing of the three leading studies at differ-
ent centers of instruction. These schools
were open to all the world, free from mo-
nastic rule, and self-governing. The name
university came later. In 1224, Frederick II
combined the three faculties with a school
of arts at Naples, and incorporated the
University of Naples, with definite author-
ity and privileges. The University of Bo-
logna first became noted as a school of civil
law ; later instruction in canon law, arts,
medicine, and theology, came to be given.
The University of Paris had a similar grad-
ual development. The term univcrsitas had
at first no reference to the scope of the cur-
riculum, but meant simply a community. In
form of government, the literary communi-
ties copied the free trade-guilds. The rights
to practice and to teach medicine were the
first degrees. The degree of Baccalaureus
Arlium originally marked the end of what
was regarded as a preparatory course, fit-
ting the student to commence his study in
arts for the masters or teachers degree.
Professor Laurie sets the time of the be-
ginning of university life at Oxford, at
about 1140, and at Cambridge about 1200,
and he thinks their university organization
arose about 1230, after the large migration
of students came to them from Paris. The
University of Prague, founded in 1348, by
Charles IV, was the starting-point of the
great German system of universities. It
followed the plan of Paris, where Charles
had been a student. In his closing chap-
ter Professor Laurie gives an interesting
account of the university studies and the
conditions of graduation in the twelfth and
thirteenth centuries, from which the reader
may learn how many current academic forms
are survivals of mediaeval practices.
Elements of Physiological Psychology.
By George T. Ladd, Professor of Phi-
losophy in Yale University. New York :
Charles Scribncrs Sons, 1887. Pp. 696.
Price, $4.50.
We consider this the best book that has
ever been published in America upon that
particular branch of psychology of which it
principally treats. It deals chiefly with
the nervous mechanism and correlations
with the mind, embracing under the latter
head questions of the localization of cere-
bral functions, the quality of sensations, their
quantity, the various presentations of sense,
the time-relations of mental phenomena,
feelings and motions, the physical basis of
the higher faculties, and certain statical re-
lations of the body and mental phenomena.
Thus far and within these limits the book
is excellent. The latest results of the study
of mind from the physical point of view
are thoroughly exhibited. The fruits of
German study are especially well presented,
and the recent work done by the Johns Hop-
kins University scholars in establishing the
existence of the temperature sense, we arc
glad to see, meets, with the authors recogni-
tion. Without taking the space to particu-
larize merits, and without searching for
particular and minor defects, we are justi-
fied, upon the whole, in commending highly
this work as far as the close of Part Second.
The third part, entitled The Nature of
Mind, ought to have been entirely omitted.
It is not only superfluous, but painfully un-
satisfactory. No sufficient foundation is laid
for what is said, and the treatment itself
is extremely inadequate. Until the other
branches of psychology beyond the physio-
logical are considered, even hypotheses or
surmises respecting the ultimate nature of
mind are out of place. The author in his in-
troduction attempts to justify the metaphysi-
cal discussions and theses with which the
work closes on the ground that psychology in-
evitably leads up to philosophical questions,
and must furnish the basis upon which they
are to be answered. Undoubtedly so ; but
that does not warrant a writer who makes
