THE SUNS HEAT. 19
life is short, and that there are many different types of intellectual
ability calling for many different combinations of studies. The num-
ber of subjects of study has become so enormously large, and the value
of our own literature has increased to such an extent since the time
when Greek was incorporated into our school curricula, that it is now
utterly idle to think of requiring Greek of all students to whom we
will accord the distinction, so far as college degrees will do it, of being
liberally educated.
It will not do to say that we can have a separate degree for those
who have not studied Greek. The subject is no longer important
enough in comparison with other studies to deserve a separate degree;
and, as long as we make this distinction, we shall practically close the
doors of many of our institutions to numbers of students who would
otherwise be found in our academic halls. It may be said that the
degree of A. B. will have no recognized value such as it has at present.
It is a stretch of language to say that the degree of A. B. has in this
country a recognized value in the sense in which that expression is
used in this connection. Institutions of all kinds can give the degree
at pleasure, and some give it to men who could not enter the freshman
class at Harvard College. At any rate, it would mean something in
the same sense as the German Ph. D., which is one of the most honor-
able of degrees, and has lost neither in dignity, or value since Greek
was dropped from the list of studies required for it.
Whatever we may think of the movement, whether we favor or
oppose it, it seems perfectly clear that it is bound to go forward; and,
as in the case of all other great changes, those who oppose it so valiant-
ly at present may never be converted that is too much to expect of
those whose careers are identified with the old regime but they will
be overruled; or, when they retire, their places will be filled with men
who will wonder how their predecessors could ever have held such
opinions.
THE SUNS HEAT *
Bt Sir WILLIAM THOMSON, F. R. S.
FROM human history we know that for several thousand years the
sun has been giving heat and light to the earth as at present ;
possibly with some considerable fluctuations, and possibly with some
not very small progressive variation. The records of agriculture, and
the natural history of plants and animals within the time of human
history, abound with evidence that there has been no exceedingly great
change in the intensity of the suns heat and light within the last three
* Lecture on The Probable Origin, the Total Amount, and the Possible Duration, of
the Suns Heat, delivered by Sir William Thomson, F. R. S., at the Royal Institution, on
Friday, January 21, 1887.
