POPULAR MISCELLANY.
281
POPULAR MISCELLANY.
Elective Studies in American Colleges.
Most of the leading colleges of the country,
according to President Barnard, are admit-
ting the elective principle more or less freely
into their courses of study. In 1876 Yale
College extended its very limited optional
list from a minute fraction of the studies of
the junior year to about one fourth of those
of both junior and senior years. It was en-
larged again last year, so that now, out of
sixteen hours weekly, seven only are given
to prescribed studies in the junior year, and
three hours only in the senior. At Prince-
ton one third of the time is given to pre-
scribed studies in the junior year, and three
hours in the senior. At Bowdoin about four
fifths of the studies are prescribed during
both junior and senior years. At the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania and at Williams Col-
lege the published announcements indicate
that the time of the two later years of the
course is about equally divided between pre-
scribed and optional studies. At Rutgers it
is allowed to elect one study during the junior
and senior years. At Union one third of the
time is given to elective studies during the
senior year only ; but this institution offers
also elective courses, a classical and scien-
tific course running through the entire four
years. At Brown electives are offered as
early as the sophomore year, when they oc-
cupy about one fifth of the time. In the
same institution, in the junior year, they
extend to one third, in the senior to about
one half. At Amherst electives cover about
one half the time during the second and third
of the three terms of the sophomore year, and
during the whole of the two later years. In
the University of Michigan all the studies
are elective after the close of the freshman
year ; and at Harvard University there are
no prescribed studies at all.
Medicines and Digestion. Dr. Robert
G. Eccles lately called the attention of the
Brooklyn Pathological Society to the impor-
tance of regarding the effect of medicines
to be administered upon digestion. We
never stop, he says, to question the wis-
dom of pouring into the stomachs of the sick,
in the most promiscuous manner, drugs that
inhibit or check the production of life- and
health-giving peptone. In all chronic dis-
eases, the paramount consideration is that
of the patients nutrition. Where we can
not destroy the pathogenic micro-organisms
outright, the patients only hope in the
struggle for life lies in the strength of his
cells, and their power to triumph over their
foes. The most important consideration at
those times is digestion. To interfere with
it, or check it, is in many cases criminal.
When our remedies are incompatible with
the gastric juice, the time of taking is likely
to be of far more importance than the medi-
cine itself. To weaken patients by the pro-
duction of artificial mal-nutrition, gives their
diseases the advantage over them, when a
little more knowledge would have enabled
us to aid the vital forces instead of handi-
capping them. The author described the
properties of various remedies in this light,
and gave accounts of a large number of ex-
periments which he had made on the subject.
Coal-Tar Colors and Medicines. Sir
Henry Roscoe lately addressed the Royal
Institute on Recent Progress in the Coal-
Tar Industry. He said that the hydrocar-
bons, the essential elements, or skeletons of
all organic compounds, are classified as the
paraffinoid the bases of the fats and the
benzenoid hydrocarbons, which give rise to
the essences or aromatic bodies, to which
all the coal-tar colors, finer perfumes, and
anti-pyretic medicines belong. The natural
petroleum-oils consist almost entirely of
paraffines, and are therefore commercially
inapplicable for the production of colors.
Coal may by suitable treatment be made to
yield oils of a valuable character; and
these products are now extensively ob-
tained from the coal-tar which is a residue
of the gas-making process, and of coking,
when the conditions of temperature are
properly managed. Even to enumerate
the different chemical compounds which
have been prepared during the last thirty
years would be a serious task. To illus-
trate the amount of coloring-power con-
cealed in coal, Sir Henry Roscoe presents
tables showing that one pound of the min-
eral affords magenta enough to color 500
yards of flannel ; aurine sufficient for 120
yards of flannel 27 inches wide ; vermilline
scarlet for 2,560 yards of flannel or alizarin
