THE TASK OF AMERICAN BOTANISTS. 307
even with comparatively poor means; but a well-equipped laboratory,
and extensive collections and libraries, are of no avail to him who has
not the time to use them. The best work ought to be expected of
professional botanists that is, those attached to the schools and col-
leges as professors and instructors, rather than from private individuals
giving some of their time to botany, because the professors are sup-
posed to be selected for their special knowledge of and interest in
botany, and to have better means for work than any, except wealthy
private individuals. But if the professors do not accomplish as much
as is expected in the way of investigation, their principal excuse and
it is a good one is that they have no time. But the day is as long in
America as it is in Germany, it will be said, and the American profess-
or ought to find time for original work. Unfortunately, most if not
all his time is spent in class-work ; and his laboratory, his books, his
collections, are largely used in elementary instruction of beginners in
botany. For this abuse of time and material the public are in part to
blame, but, to a considerable extent, the botanists themselves are re-
sponsible for the present state of things. In the good old days, the
few botanical professors in this country were looked upon as an amiable,
harmless set of men who were allowed to give a few lectures every
year, and beyond that they were left severely alone. They had an
amount of leisure for undisturbed work unknown to the modern pro-
fessor, and there can be no doubt that their work in investigating
our flora did far more for botany in this country than any amount of
class-work which they might have done.
But now it is all changed. From being neglected, botany has be-
come a popular study ; and it is not enough that a professor should
give a course of lectures, but he must have laboratory classes and be
prepared to demonstrate the very latest European experiments. If the
public now expect far more in the way of personal instruction from
botanical professors than they used to, it is largely owing to the fact
that botanists themselves have for years been urging the importance
of botany as a help in education, and, until recently, have neglected to
lay sufficient stress on the value of original work. The educational
value of botany is pretty well recognized by the public, and, judging
by the last few years, they are rather liberal in providing the means
for class-instruction. When it comes to providing the means cf re-
search, the question is different ; and the trouble is not so much that
the public do not really appreciate a good piece of botanical work
when their attention is called to it, as that they, as yet, have not the
least idea of the amount of time and money required to prosecute
research successfully. The unscientific public have an idea that re-
search is a thing of inspiration, or perhaps a sort of recreation to be
indulged in after class-work is over, and no conception of the months,
and even years, of drudgery required before anything of value is really
in print. Not infrequently they regard the ordinary student in a
