3 i2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
has not had a larger number of followers with us. Possibly the attrac-
tions of physics and chemistry have drawn away some who might have
done good work in physiology. I fear that in this department, as in
some others, there is a tendency to delay beginning until a first-class
equipment has been provided, unmindful of the fact that good work
has been done by some who had few costly instruments. Evidently,
in the future, physiology is to play a more and more important part
in botany, and, as the subject is one which has attractions for the
public, they could probably be induced to provide the necessary in-
struments. It is to be hoped, however, that, in asking for a proper
outfit, liberally disposed persons will be given to understand that it is
to be used for work and not for ordinary class instruction. Certainly, if
the colleges are to keep pace with the times, they must pay more atten-
tion to physiology than they now do. It is too much to expect that
many of them should be able to support laboratories for physiological
research, but we ought to have at least half a dozen such labora-
tories in the countr}*. We shall probably have to do as they do
abroad, where some universities pay particular attention to physi-
ology, while others devote their main strength to other departments
of botany.
If we should look to college professors and a few experts for what
we still have to be done in systematic botany, and to those connected
with the more important laboratories for physiological work of the
higher grade, histology and the study of life-histories are subjects of
vast extent, and, in most of their phases, can be studied successfully by
private individuals as well as by professionals. Especially in the mat-
ter of life-histories, persons living in the country, or on the sea-shore,
are often more favorably situated than those obliged to reside at the
large colleges for the greater part of the year. Since for some years
to come the opportunities for research on the part of college instructors
must be limited by the excessive and unreasonable amount of ordinary
class instruction imposed on them, we must look to non-professionals,
to a large extent, to accomplish the work of research necessary to raise
us to the level of foreign investigators in the departments just named.
The proper direction and utilization of the work of amateurs is of
especial importance in this country. The amateur abounds more with
us than in any other country with the exception of England. We
have an immense variety, from the gay and gallant young man who is
going to do something for science, but who now can barely pay his
club expenses in winter and run a steam-yacht in summer, down to the
impecunious ignoramus who informs you that he is going to write a
book, to include all the fungi of this continent, and coolly asks you to
give or lend him all your books and specimens, and tell him how to
begin. We have the male bore, who kills our time by forcing us to
help him kill his ; and a copious supply of mild-eyed, sweet-tongued
women, whom we can not scold, because they are conscientious, and
