THE PANAMA CANAL. 323
waste of strength. We can compare the arm, for instance, with a
lever, the fulcrum of which is at the shoulder- joint, the point of action
at the hand, and the power in the muscles. It is evident that the
larger the arm of this lever is, the more energetic will the muscular
effort have to he. The large mans power of endurance is less than
that of the middling-sized man, hecause not only of the personal
weight that has to be carried, but also on account of the difference in
the proportional development of the respiratory system. The power
of endurance may be estimated in a man at rest by taking the propor-
tion between the height and the circumference of the breast at the height
of the mammary processes. The larger the proportion of the latter
element, the greater will be the power to resist fatigue. The French
marine formerly accepted only those men whose breast-measurement
was at least half their height. The same degree of development is
required in Switzerland, and the acceptance of young men who can not
display it is adjourned from year to year. Thus, looking at military
aptitudes, it is middling-sized or small men that offer the greatest
energy, power to resist fatigue, and activity in battle ; and of this
kind is the popular type of the French soldier the petit chasseur, or
the soldier of the line. Translated for the Popular Science Monthly
from La Nature.
*
THE PANAMA CANAL.
By STUART F. WELD.
VT~OT a little skepticism, and even some hostility, have existed
-I^N among us as to the Panama Canal ; and, perhaps, any other
nation in our situation would have entertained similar sentiments. It
is worthy of note, however, that the nation was not lacking in tact
when it refrained from showing any such feelings during the recent
visit of M. de Lesseps. De Lesseps was the guest of the United States ;
and it is hardly civil to criticise ones guests. He was here not as a rep-
resentative of the Panama Company, but as President of the Franco-
American Union. Upon the death of the first president, Edouard
Laboulaye, he had been elected to this position. This Union had col-
lected the funds destined to carry out the design of Bartholdi, and it
naturally devolved upon its head to make the presentation speech on
the 28th of October, the day of the inauguration of the statue. The
Panama Canal had no connection with the Statue of Liberty ; but
every one thought of De Lesseps as the constructor of one interoceanic
canal and the projector of another. It was natural, therefore, that
something should be said, after all, about the Panama enterprise. A
banquet was offered to De Lesseps by Cyrus TV. Field, October 27th,
the day before the ceremony upon Bedlows Island. On the 2d of
November, one was tendered him in like manner in Philadelphia by
