zz6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
j
with lottery drawings attached. It -was by just this method a lot-
tery loan that the Suez Canal was finished, but the French legislators
of 1886 hardly took the degree of interest in the Panama scheme
which those of 1868 did in the Suez. Only eight votes were cast
against the bill of 1868, and this enactment carried the work through
to its completion.* The result in the present case has been that De
Lesseps was obliged to go upon the market and raise about one third
200,000,000 francs the amount asked for, upon comparatively oner-
ous terms. This sum, added to 75,000,000 francs, the last quarter of
the stock capital, called in in September, will enable him to continue
the work for one or two years. It remains to be seen whether, prior to
the expenditure of these sums, a renewed application to the French
Government will meet with better success. It should be remembered,
after all, that the French Government favored the application of the
company. It intioduced a bill based in its essential features upon the
bill of 1868. Opposition existed not in the ministry but in the Cham-
ber, and it is possible, to say the least, that upon a subsequent occasion
the ministry and Chamber may find themselves in accord.
It may, perhaps, be considered doubtful whether the present com-
pany is to complete the work, and whether the French are to maintain
the financial control they at present possess. But it can not be denied
that powerful incentives must influence the French Government and
the French people toward the support of the company, and the keeping
of the work in De Lessepss hands. In no way can the weight of such
considerations be shown better than by the following extract from the
late report of Rousseau, the commissioner of the French Government.
lie inspected the work in February, 1886, and at the close of his report
says :
In fine, I consider the cutting of the Isthmus of Panama a pos-
sible work, and that at present it has been carried so far that it can not
be abandoned. . . .
Such an abandonment, he goes on, would be in fact a veritable
disaster, not only for the stockholders, who are nearly all French, but
as regards French influence all through America. . . .
It does not seem to admit of doubt that, if the affair failed in the
hands of the French company, it would be immediately taken up by a
foreign company to prevent the fruits being lost of the enormous sac-
rifices made and the results obtained. . . .
* It is true that the amount of the loan asked for in 1886, 600,000,000 francs the
calculation of the company being that 600,000,000 added to the 600,000,000 already
spent or still disposable would complete the work much exceeds the loan obtained for
Suez, 100,000,000 francs. But we may remember that the commerce and wealth of the
world have vastly increased available capital ; and, moreover, the astonishing financial
success of the Suez Canal ought to serve as a powerful stimulus. According to the
estimate of the Paris Congress, Panama was to cost double what Suez did. But the
commerce of the world will have more than doubled, reckoning from 1869, before the
work at Panama is completed.
