THE NORTH AMERICAN LAKES. 333
and by its own work. The undertaking is chiefly in French hands,
and we Germans have but little interest to favor the extension of
French glory and success ; but the divergencies which exist between
nations should disappear in face of the great spirit of enterprise, which
animates the director of the canal, M. de Lesseps, and in face of the
private capital invested, which, though it be invested to promote
private interests, has a general interest as well. *
Of such views it is safe to say that they are at least deserving of
consideration. They are much to the credit of the writer, whose
breadth of view and liberality of judgment alone enabled him to pen
them.
THE NORTH AMERICAN LAKES.
By ISAAC KINLEY.
IN America, as in the Eastern Continent, the North is the land of
lakes. A line from the mouth of the St. Lawrence to the western
end of Lake Erie, and thence to the mouth of the Mackenzie, lies
through and near a succession of lakes unequaled in number and
aggregate area by any other like extent on the earth. The great
North American depression, extending northward from the Gulf of
Mexico, bifurcates at about the fortieth parallel, one branch trending
northeastwardly to the Atlantic Ocean, and the other northwestwardly
to the Arctic, lying nearly at right angles to each other, and in ap-
proximate parallelism to the mountain-ranges and shore-lines of the
continent.
The forty-second parallel holds, to the north of it, nearly all the
North American lakes, while to the south are numerous lake-basins,
some of them rivaling even Superior in extent. These have been
drained of their waters by the deepening channels of their effluent
streams ; or, as in the arid regions of the Southwest, by evaporation.
If we define a lake as, what geologically it actually is, a local
digression of the surface, and treat the pressure or absence of water
as only one of its accidents, we shall find the South, no less than the
North, to be a land of lakes.
Lake-basins may be due
1. To local sinkings of the surface.
2. To excavations, notably by glaciers.
3. To the extinction of volcanoes, their craters filling with water.
4. To the breaking down of cave-roofs by earthquakes or other
causes.
To the first and second of these agents are probably due nearly all
the existing North American lakes, in some the one and in some the
* Bulletin du Canal InterocSanique, December 1, 1886.
