LAWSUIT OR LEGACY. 345
cation of the value of the medical examinations by the expert medical
examiners and directors of twenty-oue life-insurance companies ? A
risk good enough to pass some forty-five doctors employed by, and
for the protection of, the companies is, on the face of it, a good enough
risk to pay. If this is not so, then the companies, and not the public,
should be made to bear the responsibility of the incompetency of their
own officers.
But for the reputation of these medical men, it is a fortunate fact
that the contest did not prove Colonel Dwight to be an unsafe i*isk.
After his body was dug up several times, and a number of autopsies
held, and most of him analyzed, they succeeded in proving that he
owned a hotel where liquor was sold !
But under these forms of contract, the companies undoubtedly had
a legal right to refuse payment upon even so absurdly technical a
misstatement of occupation. It was claimed that his hotel was a
side issue ; that he did not think of himself as in that business, and
that his failure to say, because of it, that he was in any way con-
nected with the manufacture or sale of spirituous liquors, was a natu-
ral one under the circumstances. How many men give, in answering
the question as to occupation in their applications for insurance, all of
the numerous plants in which they have an interest of a financial
nature, more or less important r One man says he is a book-keeper,
but he may possibly, also, own stock in a mine. His claim could be
contested on that ground. Suppose that he really thought nothing of
his mining-stock when he made his application and signed his con-
tract ? Suppose that in a short time he was called to see the mine,
went into it, and died of the results of that trip ? His policy would
not, if it contained the usual conditions, be worth, in a legal fight, the
paper it was written on.
That companies often waive their reserved right to contest on such
grounds, is used as an argument to prove the innocent nature of these
forfeiture clauses and other oppressive conditions. But so long as
they hold the legal power to do so, the temptation to contest will be
too great for flesh and blood, not to say for corporations, to bear with-
out yielding sometimes. The Get thee behind me, Satan, of a fair,
plain contract will be the best safeguard for the heirs in the matter of
money, and for the companies in the matter of morals ; while the
economy for the sake of surviving policy-holders might be directed,
as there is surely room for believing that it needs to be, into other and
more legitimate channels. Economizing on debts to dead policy-hold-
ers is not a very good recommendation to living ones, for the com-
panies which thus lock the wrong stable-door.
The new move toward furnishing fair contracts is in the right di-
rection, and it now rests with insurers the public to see that it does
not stop short of fulfilling the promise of still better things in the
future.
