343 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and effective element in the total picture. The islets are also of every
imaginable shape, size, and grouping some of them big enough to
hold two or three farms, and others of them rising solitary from mid-
stream, crowned by a single waving stem of Canadian cedar. Here
is one, for example, a mere bare pinnacle of moldering rock ; and
here is another, a craggy little island, yet covered with endless variety
of timber, whose drooping foliage hangs over the bank and reflects
itself placidly in the silvery mirror below. Thus cluster after cluster
passes before ones eyes, all fairy-like, green, and romantic, but all as
infinitely varied in shape and contour as intricate intermixture of rock
and vegetation, and land and water, can possibly make them.
I must give the reader due warning, however, that on this ground
I am perhaps a trifle enthusiastic. To say the truth, if I may for once
be frankly personal, I speak with the pardonable partiality of a native.
I am, indeed, an aboriginal of this very district, born at Kingston, the
threshold of the St. Lawrence, and raised (as we say beyond the
Atlantic) on the biggest and longest of the Thousand Islands. Hence,
something of the glamour of childhood surrounds the region still in
my eyes : sweeter flowers blow there than anywhere else on this pro-
saic planet ; bigger fish lurk among the crevices, bluer birds flit be-
tween the honeysuckles, and livelier squirrels gambol upon the hickory-
trees, than in any other corner of this oblate spheroid. I see the
orange lilies and the ladys-slippers still, by the reflected light of ten-
year-old memories. So the cautious reader will perhaps do well to
take a liberal discount of twenty per cent off all my adjectives, to
submit my eulogistic verbs to a strict ad-valorem drawback, and to
accept the remainder as probably representing an unprejudiced view
of the situation. I am not, I will admit, a patriotic Canadian in so
small a community patriotism runs perilously near to provincialism
but I must allow that a warm corner still exists in my heart for the
rocks and reaches of the Thousand Islands.
The Princess Louise steams down the Canadian Channel one of
the two chief navigable currents past Wolfe Island, where I spent a
rustic boyhood with the raccoons and the sunfish, and on through end-
less groups of other wooded islets, with cedars sweeping low to the
waters edge, till, after a couple of hours aboard, two white wooden
lighthouses, guarding the entrance to the little harbor, announce our
approach to Gananoque. A creek, or minor river (pronounce it
crick if you wish to be thoroughly transatlantic), here joins issue
with the great St. Lawrence, and of course on its way indulges in some
local waterfalls, once pretty, but now made to do duty, alas ! with
American utilitarianism, in turning the saw-mills which are the raison
detre of the flourishing small village. I will not describe Gananoque
itself Canadian villages are best left to the imagination of the chari-
table reader ; I will only say that its natural situation is absolutely
charming, and its bay and outlook as beautiful as they make them.
