AMONG THE THOUSAND ISLANDS. 353
only Im afraid the courtesy of the proverbially courteous reader would
scarcely survive so severe a strain upon its well-known indulgence. I
will hurry on to the boat-house, therefore, which lay at the riverward
mouth of the deep ravine, and formed, so to speak, the embarcadere for
everywhere ; for the river is, of course, the true highway of the Thou-
sand Islands, and the boat is the gig by which one effects commu-
nication with the outer world, and pays ones visits to friends and
neighbors.
Indeed, among the islands one lives upon the water. By a certain
tacit understanding between the islanders, every resident has a recog-
nized right to explore every other residents petty domain. No obtru-
sive notice-boards flaunt before the innocent face of heaven the anti-
social and wholly uncalled - for information that trespassers will be
prosecuted with the utmost rigor of the law. On the contrary, the
usual formula painted on the neat little placard beside the tiny landing-
stages assumes the optative rather than the imperative mood : Parties
landing on this island are requested to kindly abstain from damaging
the ferns and flowers. The fact is, all the islanders are there as sum-
mer visitors only ; each possesses but a tiny realm of his own, often
beautifully varied, but always readily exhausted of its native interest ;
and the whole charm of the spot would evaporate entirely if proprie-
tors insisted with ingrained British churlishness upon their legal right
to shut themselves in from landless humanity with the effectual protest
of a high brick wall. Accordingly, everybody always lands freely, no
man hindering, upon everybody elses private island ; and the day is
mostly passed in wandering (afloat) in a delicious, aimless, listless fash-
ion down tiny channels between islet and islet, stopping here to pick a
rare wild-flower from a cliff on the side, and halting there to explore
and climb some jutting rock whose peak promises a wider view over
all the surrounding little archipelagoes.
Many of the islands are still uninhabited, and these are the best of
all for botanizing purposes. It is there that you may find the Indian-
pipe plant, known also by the still stranger and truer name of corpse-
weed ; a beautiful drooping white flower, as pale and soft in its mate-
rial as a fungus, of which our hostess said to us prettily : When I first
saw it I was half afraid to touch the uncanny thing. I thought I had
found the ghost of a flower. It is, in fact, a lily-like flowering-plant ;
a heath by family, which had adopted the habits and mode of life of a
fungus, living entirely like a parasite on the decaying foliage beneath
the forest-trees, and has therefore lost its green leaves and assimilated
in all unessential particulars to the other fungi whose ways it mimics.
But I have promised not to be botanical here, so I will refrain from
cataloguing all the other wonderful and lovely things to be found on
these little island Edens. I will only say in passing that the scarlet
columbines, the pinky-white water-lilies, the crimson baneberries, and
the snowy anemones combined with the creepers, the ferns, and the
vol. xxxi. 23
