3 54 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
club-mosses, to make as beautiful and varied a carpet as any I have
ever beheld anywhere.
Others of the islands have chalets or cottages perched upon their
tops, and to these we often rowed through devious channels, trailing a
spoon, for black bass, behind, and catching for the most part nothing
more valuable than water-lily leaves and Canadian river-weeds. Some-
times a cottage will occupy a single rocky islet, and its grounds will
extend to two or three adjacent ones, connected with the home island
by rustic bridges, just arched sufficiently to allow a boat to pass easily
beneath them. On the American side, the picturesqueness of the scene
is occasionally marred by too profuse a display of the national bunt-
ing : Canadian loyalty, though sometimes also a trifle obtrusive, seldom
indulges in so lavish an ostentation of the British ensign. There are
islands, too, where an ill-advised proprietor has had the bad taste to
paint up the name of his domain on a big board Idlewild, or
Sunnyside, or River Home as though the rock were a railway-
station, and the porter were at hand to shout out in incomprehensible
syllables, Change here for Montreal and Chicago.
Few modes of life could be more graceful or humanizing than sum-
mer life in these delicious archipelagoes. Here and there, to be sure,
as at Thousand Island Park, a whole big island has been bought up by
speculators (oddly mixed in the making with camp-meetings and other
revivalist religious gatherings), and laid out as a sort of exclusive Bed-
ford Park, where none but approved members of a particular sect may
take a cottage. One such little summer village is exclusively Meth-
odist, while another is wholly given over to serious Congregationalism.
But in most parts of the group (and it must be remembered that the
islands cover, roughly speaking, an area of forty miles by ten or fifteen)
each house occupies a little insular kingdom of its own, where the boys
and girls can swim, and fish, and play, and flirt, unmolested ; where
the seniors can lie in hammocks under the trees, and ruminate on poli-
tics, philosophy, and the tender affections ; where callers can be espied
from afar as they approach the shore ; and where hospitality on a sim-
ple scale is as universal as it is unexacting. Note, also, that big black
bass and muskallonge still lurk among the cracks and crannies of the
submerged granite, and that on many islands you can sit on the jutting
end of a tiny promontory and drop your line for them, plump from the
shore, into twenty feet of clear green water.
One last word to the British tourist who, stirred by my natural and
indigenous enthusiasm, may perhaps contemplate some day visiting and
exploring the Thousand Islands. Dont for a moment suppose that the
islands can be adequately seen from .the deck of one of the big lake-
steamers that ply up and down between Montreal, Kingston, and To-
ronto. This is the stereotyped British-tourist way of seeing them, and
nothing could be flatter or more disappointing. If you take them so,
I do not doubt you will come away objurgating me by all your domes-
