HUMAN BRAIN-WEIGHTS. 355
tic deities. The steamer sticks to one or other of the two main chan-
nels, which are wide and deep, and comparatively unencumbered by
rocks or islands ; it avoids the tiny minor reaches, rich in endless sur-
prises and varying vistas which constitute the real charm and beauty
of this fantastic, fairy-like region. No, no ! to see the islands properly,
you must live on one of them for several days at least, and row up and
down among the lost side-channels and tangled back-waters, exploring
the petty bays and inlets, and occasionally losing your way altogether
among the endless intricacies of that maze of water. But if you can
not afford the time to see them thus, you should at least spend a day
or two at Clayton or Gananoque, and take the round trip on the
little excursion-steamer, Island Wanderer, which threads its way in
and out through the loveliest windings of the landlocked river.
Longmans Magazine.
HUMAN BRAIN-WEIGHTS.
Bt JOSEPH SIMMS, M. D.
ALTHOUGH we may regard it as fully admitted that the external
appearance of the skull is no certain indication of the mental cali-
ber of the individual, still there are many who are inclined to measure
mind in terms of matter, believing it to be somehow dependent on the
material constitution of the brain. Texture, the relative proportions
of white and gray matter, and especially weight, are regarded as im-
portant factors in the problem, and it is on this latter subject that I
have compiled and would offer what, so far as I have heen able to
ascertain, are trustworthy data concerning the weight of this impor-
tant organ. The average brain-weight appears to be higher in cold
than in warm climates. The Lancet has recorded the observation
that men with large heads endure cold better than those with small
ones. The Lapps have the largest heads in Europe in proportion to
their stature ; Norwegians next ; then come Swedes, Danes, Germans,
French and Italians. The Arab head is smaller than any of these. In
the Pacific Ocean, far to the north, a people called Chugatshes, with
remarkably large heads, occupy the shores and islands of Prince Will-
iam Sound.
The average size of brain differs also at different stages of life ; so
that two men, each examining several hundred brains in the same city,
may not obtain exactly the same results ; because the subjects of the
one may be chiefly aged, and those of the other young, though mature.
In this case the latter would show a much greater average weight than
the former, because of the natural decrease of the brain with advanc-
ing years. The following acknowledged authorities have presented
the facts as they found them, after weighing a large number of brains :
Dr. John Reid, of the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, states the aver-
