356 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
age weight of the encephalon at the age of from five to seven to he
forty-three ounces, ten drachms ; from twenty to thirty, fifty ounces,
nine and a half drachms. The female hrain in the human species is
generally lighter in mature years than the male by five ounces, or ten
per cent, while her stature is only eight per cent less.
Dr. Peacock gives an average of one hundred and thirty-one male
brains, between twenty-five and fifty-five years of age, as fifty ounces,
three drachms. Dr. Austin Flint, of New York, estimates the male
encephalon at 50*2 ounces. Dr. Thurman considers the average brain-
weight of ordinary Europeans to be forty-nine ounces. This average
may answer for Europe in general, but it would be too small for the
colder regions, as shown by the averages of Dr. Reid and Dr. Pea-
cock, taken in Edinburgh, as also it would be too little for New York,
according to Dr. Flint.
In Italy, Greece, and Spain, the average is smaller than Dr. Thur-
mans, and in France, M. Bourgery finds the average weight of the
male adult brain to be 46*6 ounces.
The average male brain-weights of different nations is given at
50-3 oz. from 105 English and Scotch. (Peacock).
491 oz. from 18 Germans. (Wagner.)
48 - 7 oz. from 40 Germans. (Huschke.)
473 oz. from 60 Austrians. (Wiesbacb.)
470 oz. from 28 French. (Parchappe.)
45 - 4 oz. from 8 African negroes. (Broca.)
436 oz. from 7 African negroes. (Various authors.)
We borrow the above table from Dr. Paul Topinards Anthropol-
ogy, 1878, page 311.
To this we add the following average brain-weights, taken from
the Anthropological Review of 18G9, pages 190-192. If we com-
pare the average weight of the African negro brains given in the above
table with those of the full-blood negro brains taken from the one hun-
dred and thirty-nine negroes raised in the United States of North
America given below, it will be seen that the colder climate of the
United States produces heavier brains in the negro than the warm
climate of Africa :
139 negro brains in United States averaged 469 oz. avoirdupois.
1 Guinea negro : . . . 44*4 oz.
Hindoos mean brain-weight 44*2 oz.
3 Ashantees averaged 42 9 oz.
1 Fanteo 416 oz.
2 Congo negroes averaged 397 oz.
Dr. A. Wiesbacb, a famous investigator of brains in the Austrian
Empire, states that the heaviest are found among the Czechs ; those of
the Roumani are somewhat lighter; the Magyars or Hungarians lighter
still ; yet their brains average eight grammes more than the Germans
of this empire ; while the Italians are the smallest of all, being about
