3 68 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the action of those forces which produce tides in the ocean, and there-
fore at the same time cause a state of stress in the solid earth.
Then again it is found that earthquakes are indubitably more apt
to occur when there is a rapid variation of the pressure of the air,
indicated by a rise or fall of the barometer, than in times of baro-
metric quiescence. It is certain that earthquakes in both hemispheres
are more frequent in the winter than in the summer ; this is probably
connected with the greater frequency of sudden rises and falls of the
barometer at that season. It may, however, be urged against this
view that volcanic eruptions are somewhat more frequent in the sum-
mer. But whatever be the action of these external processes with
regard to earthquakes, it is certain that the connection between the
two is merely that of the trigger to the gun. The internal energy
stands waiting for its opportunity, and the attraction of the moon or
the variation in atmospheric pressure pulls the trigger. Thus the pre-
dictions of disaster which have frequently been made for particular
dates must be regarded as futile.
It has long been known that an earthquake is preluded by slight
tremors leading by a gradual crescendo to the destructive shocks.
But within the last fifteen years it has been discovered that the
earths surface is being continually shaken by tremors, so minute as
to remain unsuspected without the intervention of the most delicate
instruments. In every country where the experiment has been tried,
these tremors have been detected, and not merely at certain periods,
but so incessantly that there is never a second of perfect rest. The
earth may fairly be said to tremble like a jelly. The pioneer in this
curious discovery was Father Bertelli. His experiments relate only
to Italy, but that which has been found true also of England, France,
Egypt, Japan, Brazil, and a solitary island in the South Pacific Ocean,
probably holds good generally, and we may feel sure that earth-tre-
mors or microseisms are not confined to countries habitually visited
by the grosser sort of earthquakes.
Almost all our systematic knowledge of microseisms comes from
Italy, for a co-operation has been arranged there between many ob-
servers with ingenious instruments at their disposal. Besides Bertelli,
the most eminent of the observers is Cavaliere Michele de Rossi, who
has established at Rome a Geodynamical Observatory, and has
initiated as an organ of publication the Bulletino del Vulcanismo
Italiano, in whose pages are to be found contributions from Malvasia,
Monte, Cecchi, Palmieri, Egidi, Galli, and many others. The litera-
ture which has already accumulated on the subject is extensive, and it
will only be possible generally to indicate its scope.
The Italians have, of course, occupied themselves largely with
earthquakes, but in that field their results do not present a great deal
that is novel. The instruments in use for the observation of micro-
seisms are scarcely to be classed as perfect seismographs or seismom-
