NEW CHAPTERS IN THE WARFARE OF SCIENCE. 375
supporting the firmament ; then, throwing together the reference to
the firmament in Genesis and the outburst of poetry in the Psalms
regarding the waters that be above the heavens, he insisted that
over the terrestrial universe are solid arches bearing a vault, closing it
in and supporting a vast cistern containing the waters ; finally, tak-
ing from Genesis the expression regarding the windows of heaven,
he insisted that these windows are opened and closed by the angels
whenever the Almighty wishes to send rain upon the earth or to with-
hold it.*
This was accepted by the universal Church as a vast contribution
to thought ; for over a thousand years it was the orthodox doctrine,
and various leaders in theology devoted themselves to developing and
supplementing it. ,
About the beginning of the seventh century, Isidore, Bishop of
Seville, was the ablest prelate in Christendom, and was showing those
great qualities which led to his enrollment among the saints of the
Church. His theological view of science marks an epoch. As to the
waters above the firmament, Isidore contends that they must be
lower than the uppermost heaven, though higher than the lower heaven,
because in the one hundred and forty-eighth Psalm they are mentioned
after the heavenly bodies and the heaven of heavens, but before the
terrestrial elements. As to their purpose, he hesitates between those
who held that they were stored up there by the prescience of God for
the destruction of the world at the flood, as the words of Scripture
that the windows of heaven were opened seemed to indicate, and
those who held that they were kept there to moderate the heat of the
heavenly bodies. As to the firmament, he is in doubt whether it en-
velops the earth like an egg-shell, or is merely spread over it like
a curtain ; for he holds that the passage in the one hundred and
fourth Psalm may be used to support either view.
Having laid these scriptural foundations, Isidore shows consider-
able power of thought ; indeed, at times, when he discusses the rain-
bow, rain, hail, snow, and frost, his theories are rational, and give evi-
dence that, if he could have broken away from his adhesion to the
letter of Scripture, he might have given a vast impulse to the evolu-
tion of a true science.f
About a century later appeared, at the other extremity of Europe,
the second in the trio of theological men of science in the early middle
ages, Bede the Venerable. The nucleus of his theory also is to be
found in the accepted view of the firmament and of the waters
above the heavens, derived from Genesis ; the firmament he holds to
be spherical, and of a nature subtile and fiery ; the upper heavens, he
says, which contain the angels, God has tempered with ice, lest they
* Sec Cosraas, Topographia Christiana (in Montfaucon, Collectio nova patrum, ii).
f See Isidore, Etymologise, xiii, 7-9, De ordine creaturarum, 3, 4, and De na-
tura rerum, 29, 30 (Mignc, Patr. Lat., lxxxii, 476, 47V, Ixxxiii, 920-922, 1001-1003).
