NEW CHAPTERS IN THE WARFARE OF SCIENCE. 377
The most permanent contribution of Bede to scientific thought in
this field was his revival of the view that the firmament is made of ice ;
and he supported this from the w T ords in the twenty-sixth chapter of
Job, He bindeth up the waters in his thick cloud, and the cloud is
not rent under them.
About the beginning of the ninth century appeared the third in
that triumvirate of churchmen who were the oracles of sacred science
throughout the early middle ages Rabanus Maurus, Abbot of Fulda
and Archbishop of Mayence. Starting, like all his predecessors, from
the first chapter of Genesis, borrowing here and there from the ancient
philosophers, and excluding everything that could conflict with the
letter of Scripture, he follows, in his work upon the universe, his two
predecessors, Isidore and Bede, developing especially Bedes theory
that the firmament is strong enough to hold up the waters above the
heavens, because it was made of ice. *
For centuries the authority of these three great teachers was un-
questioned, and in countless manuals and catechisms their doctrine
was translated and diluted for the common mind, f But, about the
second quarter of the twelfth century, a priest, Honorius of Autun, pro-
duced several treatises which show that thought on this subject had
made some little progress. He explained the rain rationally, and mainly
in the modern manner ; with the thunder he is less successful, but in-
sists that the thunderbolt is not stone, as some assert. His thinking
is vigorous and independent. J Had theorists such as he been many,
a new science could have been rapidly evolved, but the theological
current was too strong.
The strength of this current which overwhelmed the thought of
Honorius is seen again in the work of the Dominican monk, John of
San Geminiano, who in the thirteenth century gave forth his Summa
de Exemplis for the use of preachers in his order. Of its thousand
pages, over two hundred are devoted to illustrations drawn from the
heavens and the elements. A characteristic specimen is his explana-
tion of the Psalmists phrase, The arrows of the thunder. These,
he tells us, are forged out of a dry vapor rising from the earth and
kindled by the heat of the upper air, which then, coming into contact
with a cloud just turning into rain, is conglutinated like flour into
dough, but, being too hot to be extinguished, its particles become
* See Rabanus Maurus, Comment, in Genesim and De Universe- (Migne, Patr.
Lat., cvii, cxi).
f For a charmingly naive example of these primers, see the little Anglo-Saxon manual
of astronomy, sometimes attributed to ^Elfric. It is in the vernacular, but is translated
in Wrights Popular Treatises on Science during the Middle Ages. Eede is, of course,
its chief source.
% See Honorius Augustodunensis, De imagine mundi, and Hexsemeron (Migne,
Patr. Lat., clxxii). The De philosophia mundi, the most rational of all, is,
however, believed by modern scholars to be unjustly ascribed to him. See note
above.
