3 86 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
consolation of such husbands, however, I may add that rapidity of
perception as thus tested is no evidence of what may be termed the
deeper qualities of mind some of my slowest readers being highly
distinguished men.
Lastly, rapidity of perception leads to rapidity of thought, and this
finds expression on the one hand in what is apt to appear as almost
intuitive insight, and on the other hand in that nimbleness of mother-
wit which is usually so noticeable and often so brilliant an endowment
of the feminine intelligence, whether it displays itself in tact, in repartee,
or in the general alacrity of a vivacious mind.
Turning now to the emotions, we find that in woman, as contrasted
with man, these are almost always less under control of the will more
apt to break away, as it were, from the restraint of reason, and to
overwhelm the mental chariot in disaster. Whether this tendency
displays itself in the overmastering form of hysteria, or in the more
ordinary form of comparative childishness, ready annoyance, and a
generally unreasonable temper in whatever form this supremacy of
emotion displays itself, we recognize it as more of a feminine than a
masculine characteristic. The crying of a woman is not held to betray
the same depth of feeling as the sobs of a man ; and the petty forms
of resentment which belong to what is known as a shrew, or a
scold, are only to be met with among those daughters of Eve who
prove themselves least agreeable to the sons of Adam. Coyness and
caprice are very general peculiarities, and we may add, as kindred
traits, personal vanity, fondness of display, and delight in the sunshine
of admiration. There is also, as compared with the masculine mind,
a greater desire for emotional excitement of all kinds, and hence a
greater liking for society, pageants, and even for what are called
scenes, provided these are not of a kind to alarm her no less charac-
teristic timidity. Again, in the opinion of Mr. Lecky, with which I
partly concur :
In the courage of endurance they are commonly superior; but their passive
courage is not so much fortitude which bears and defies, as resignation which
bears and bends. In the ethics of intellect they are decidedly inferior. They
very rarely love truth, though they love passionately what they call the truth,
or opinions which they have derived from others, and hate vehemently those
who differ from them. They are little capable of impartiality or doubt; their
thinking is chiefly a mode of feeling; though very generous in their acts, they
are rarely generous in their opinions or in their judgments. They persuade
rather than convince, and value belief as a source of consolation rather than as
a faithful expression of the reality of things.
But, of course, as expressed in the well-known lines from Marmi-
on, there is another side to this picture, and, in now taking leave of
all these elements of weakness, I must 6tate my honest conviction that
they are in chief part due to women as a class not having hitherto
enjoyed the same educational advantages as men. Upon this great
