3 83 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
pagan Rome, likewise threw the vesture of sanctity over all the other
virtues which belong by nature to the female mind. Until the rise
of Christianity the gentler and domestic virtues were nowhere recog-
nized as at all comparable, in point of ethical merit, with the heroic
and the civic. But when the ideal was changed by Christ when the
highest place in the hierarchy of the virtues was assigned to faith,
hope, and charity ; to piety, patience, and long-suffering ; to forgive-
ness, self-denial, and even self-abasement we can not w r onder that, in
so extraordinary a collision between the ideals of virtue, it should
have been the women who first flocked in numbers around the standard
of the Cross.
So much, then, for the intellect and emotions. Coming lastly to
the will, I have already observed that this exercises less control over
the emotions in women than in men. We rarely find in women that
firm tenacity of purpose and determination to overcome obstacles which
is characteristic of what we call a manly mind. When a woman is
urged to any prolonged or powerful exercise of volition, the prompting
cause is usually to be found in the emotional side of her nature,
whereas, in man, we may generally observe that the intellectual is
alone sufficient to supply the needed motive. Moreover, even in those
lesser displays of volitional activity, which are required in close read-
ing or in studious thought, we may note a similar deficiency. In other
words, women are usually less able to concentrate their attention ;
their minds are more prone to what is called wandering, and we
seldom find that they have specialized their studies or pursuits to the
same extent as is usual among men. This comparative weakness of
will is further manifested by the frequency among women of what is
popularly termed indecision of character. The proverbial fickleness of
la donna mobile is due quite as much to vacillation of will as to
other unstable qualities of mental constitution. The ready firmness
of decision which belongs by nature to the truly masculine mind is
very rarely to be met with in the feminine ; while it is not an unusual
thing to find among women indecision of character so habitual and
pronounced as to become highly painful to themselves leading to
timidity and diffidence in adopting almost any line of conduct where
issues of importance are concerned, and therefore leaving them in the
condition, as they graphically express it, of not knowing their own
minds.
If, now, we take a general survey of all these mental differences,
it becomes apparent that in the feminine type the characteristic virtues,
like the characteristic failings, are those which are born of weakness ;
while in the masculine type the characteristic failings, like the charac-
teristic virtues, are those which are born of strength. Which we
are to consider the higher type will therefore depend on the value
which we assign to mere force. Under one point of view, the mag-
