MENTAL DIFFERENCES OF MEN AND WOMEN. 389
nificent spider of South America, which is large enough and strong
enough to devour a humming-bird, deserves to be regarded as the
superior creature. But, under another point of view, there is no spec-
tacle in nature more shockingly repulsive than the slow agonies of
the most beautiful of created beings in the hairy limbs of a monster
so far beneath it in the sentient as in the zoological scale. And
although the contrast between man and woman is happily not so pro-
nounced in degree, it is nevertheless a contrast the same in kind. The
whole organization of woman is formed on a plan of greater delicacy,
and her mental structure is correspondingly more refined : it is further
removed from the struggling instincts of the lower animals, and thus
more nearly approaches our conception of the spiritual. For even the
failings of weakness are less obnoxious than the vices of strength,
and I think it is unquestionable that these vices are of quite as fre-
quent occurrence on the part of men as are those failings on the part
of women. The hobnailed boots may have given place to patent
pumps, and yet but small improvement may have been made upon
the overbearing temper of a navvy ; the beer-shop may have been
superseded by the whist-club, and yet the selfishness of pleasure-seek-
ing may still habitually leave the solitary wife to brood over her
lot through the small hours of the morning. Moreover, even when
the mental hobnails have been removed, we generally find that there
still remains what a member of the fairer sex has recently and aptly
designated mental heavy-handedness. By this I understand the clumsy
inability of a coarser nature to appreciate the feelings of a finer ; and
how often such is the case we must leave the sufferers to testify. In
short, the vices of strength to which I allude are those which have
been born of rivalry : the mental hide has been hardened, and the
man carries into his home those qualities of insensibility, self-asser-
tion, and self-seeking which have elsewhere led to success in his
struggle for supremacy. Or, as Mr. Darwin says: Man is the rival
of other men ; he delights in competition, and this leads to ambition
which passes too readily into selfishness. These latter qualities seem
to be his natural and unfortunate birthright.
Of course, the greatest type of manhood, or the type wherein our
ideal of manliness reaches its highest expression, is where the virtues
of strength are purged from its vices. To be strong and yet tender,
brave and yet kind, to combine in the same breast the temper of a
hero with the sympathy of a maiden this is to transform the ape and
the tiger into what we know ought to constitute the man. And if in
actual life we find that such an ideal is but seldom realized, this
should make us more lenient in judging the frailties of the opposite
sex. These frailties are, for the most part, the natural consequences
of our own, and even where such is not the case, we do well to remem-
ber, as already observed, that they are less obnoxious than our own,
and also that it is the privilege of strength to be tolerant. Now, it is
