39 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
a practical recognition of these things that leads to chivalry ; and
even those artificial courtesies which wear the mark of chivalry are of
value, as showing what may be termed a conventional acquiescence in
the truth that underlies them. This truth is, that the highest type of
manhood can only then be reached when the heart and mind have
been so far purified from the dross of a brutal ancestry as genuinely
to appreciate, to admire, and to reverence the greatness, the beauty,
and the strength which have been made perfect in the weakness of
womanhood.
I will now pass on to consider the causes which have probably
operated in producing all these mental differences between men and
women. We have already seen that differences of the same kind
occur throughout the whole mammalian series, and therefore we must
begin by looking below the conditions of merely human life for the
original causes of these differences in their most general form. Nor
have we far to seek. The Darwinian principles of selection both
natural and sexual if ever they have operated in any department of
organic nature, must certainly have operated here. Thus, to quote
Darwin himself :
Among the half-human progenitors of man, and among savages, there have
heen struggles between the males during many generations for the possession of
the females. But mere bodily strength and size would do little for victory,
unless associated with courage, perseverance, and determined energy. . . . To
avoid enemies or to attack them with success, to capture wild animals, and to
fashion weapons, requires reason, invention, or imagination. . . . These latter
faculties, as well as the former, will have been developed in man partly through
sexual selection that is, through the contest of rival males and partly through
natural selection that is, from success in the general struggle for life; and as in
both cases the struggle will have been during maturity, the characters gained
will have been transmitted more fully to the male than to the female offspring.
. . . Thus man has ultimately become superior to woman. It is, indeed, fortu-
nate that the law of the equal transmission of characters to both sexes prevails
with mammals ; otherwise it is probable that man would have become as superior
in mental endowment to woman as the peacock is in ornamental plumage to the
peahen.
Similarly, Mr. Francis Galton writes :
The fundamental and intrinsic differences of character that exist in individuals
are well illustrated by those that distinguish the two sexes, and which begin to
assert themselves even in the nursery, where all children are treated alike. One
notablo peculiarity in the woman is that she is capricious and coy, and has less
straightforwardness than the man. It is the same with the female of every
species. . . . [Were it not so], the drama of courtship, with its prolonged striv-
ings and doubtful success, would bo cut quite short, and the race would degen-
erate through the absence of that sexual selection for which the protracted
preliminaries of love-making give opportunity. The willy-nilly disposition of
the female is as apparent in the butterfly as in the man, and must have been
continually favored from the earlies* stages of animal evolution down to the
