CREATION OR EVOLUTION? 31
theories is to test them by facts, not to erect them into final and abso-
lute standards. We do not imagine that Mr. Curtis will claim that no
inquiry into mans descent can be carried on without assuming the ex-
istence of an infinite Creator, such as he describes. To such a claim,
if made, the immediate and appropriate answer would be, Solvitur
ambidando. Such inquiries are, in point of fact, being conducted
every day, without any reference to that particular theory, simply by
the aid of such facts and analogies as a study of Nature furnishes. It
is quite open, of course, to Mr. Curtis to set such bounds to his own
inquiries as he may approve of, and to exercise his originality to the
full in devising canons of interpretation for the facts which investiga-
tion brings under his notice ; but he should really not ask us to accept
the special opinions by which he, as an individual, chooses to be guided,
as the ultimate and indispensable conditions of all research. We are
quite prepared to arrive at his opinions as the result of inquiry, if the
evidence appears to be in their favor, and shall be only too happy to
find ourselves in agreement with so potent a logician ; but we are not
prepared to postulate anything that is not absolutely necessary to
intellectual movement.
If it should be said that Darwin himself postulated (even in the
loosest sense of the word) an infinite Creator, we should meet the
statement with a simple denial. Darwin expressed himself on a few
occasions in language pointing to a theistic belief ; but never so as to
imply that the conclusions to which he might be led by a study of
Nature were to be checked by general reasonings founded on the
nature and attributes of an infinite Creator. One great point of dif-
ference not to mention others between Darwin and his present
critic is that the former was profoundly conscious of his entire inabil-
ity to speculate intelligently concerning what an infinite Creator might
or might not, should or should not, would or would not, have done.
Far from being conscious of any such inability, Mr. Curtis seems to
entertain no doubt whatever of his perfect competency to discuss and
settle questions as to the probable mode or modes of special Divine
action. In one place, indeed, he admits that we can not penetrate
into his (the Almightys) counsels without the aid of revelation ;
but, on the very same page, he claims to be able to see sufficiently far
into the purposes of God to warrant him in believing that acts of
special creation are vastly more probable than the theory of evolu-
tion. Throughout the book, indeed, we are continually being called
upon to agree with the author that some particular method of action
is a much more probable one for the Supreme Being to have
adopted than some other (evolutionary) process. It does not appear
to have ever struck the learned and acute author that such language
may savor of impiety even to evolutionists. Where, it may very per-
tinently be asked, has Mr. Curtis obtained the knowledge that enables
him to judge what are the probable methods of Divine action ? We
