MENTAL DIFFERENCES OF MEN AND WOMEN 399
On the contrary, I believe that this system represents the greatest
single reform that has ever been made in the way of education. I am
only pointing out certain grave abuses of the system which are to be
met with in some of these schools, and against which I should like to
see the full force of public opinion directed. There is no public
school in the kingdom where a boy of sixteen would be permitted to
work from eleven to eighteen hours a day, with no other exercise than
a few minutes walk. Is it not, then, 6imply monstrous that a girl
should be allowed to do so ? I must confess that I have met with
wonderfully few cases of serious breakdown. All my informants tell
me that, even under the operation of so insane an abuse as I have
quoted, grave impairment of health but rarely occurs. This, however,
only goes to show of what good stuff our English girls are made ; and
therefore may be taken to furnish about the strongest answer I can
give to the argument which I am considering viz., that the strength
of an average English girl is not to be trusted for sustaining any
reasonable amount of intellectual work. Upon this point, however,
there is at the present time a conflict of medical authority, and, as I
have no space to give a number of quotations, it must suffice to make
a few general remarks.
In the first place, the question is one of fact, and must therefore
be answered by the results of the large and numerous experiments
which are now in progress ; not by any a priori reasoning of a physi-
ological kind. In the next place, even as thus limited, the inquiry
must take account of the wisdom or unwisdom with which female
education is pursued in the particular cases investigated. As already
remarked, I have been myself astonished to find so great an amount of
prolonged endurance exhibited by young girls who are allowed to
work at unreasonable pressure ; but, all the same, I should of course
regard statistics drawn from such cases as manifestly unfair. And
seeing that every case of health impaired is another occasion given to
the enemies of female education, those who have the interests of such
education at heart should before all things see to it that the teaching
of girls be conducted with the most scrupulous precautions against
over-pressure. Regarded merely as a matter of policy, it is at the
present moment of far more importance that girls should not be over-
strained than that they should prove themselves equal to young men
in the class lists. For my own part, I believe that, with reasonable
precautions against over-pressure, and with due provision for bodily
exercise, the higher education of women would ipso facto silence the
voice of medical opposition. But I am equally persuaded that this
can never be the case until it becomes a matter of general recognition
among those to whom such education is intrusted, that no girl should
ever be allowed to work more than eight hours a day as a maximum ;
that even this will in a large proportional number of cases be found
to prove excessive ; that without abundant exercise higher education
