4 oo THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
should never be attempted ; and that, as a girl is more liable than a
boy to insidiously undermine her constitution, every girl who aspires
to any distinction in the way of learning should be warned to be con-
stantly on the watch for the earliest symptoms of impairment. If these
reasonable precautions were to become as universal in the observance
as they now are in the breach, I believe it would soon stand upon the
unquestionable evidence of experimental proof, that there is no reason
in the nature of things why women should not admit of culture as
wide and deep and thorough as our schools and universities are able to
provide.
The channels, therefore, into which I should like to see the higher
education of women directed are not those which run straight athwart
the mental differences between men and women which we have been
considering. These differences are all complementary to one another,
fitly and beautifully joined together in the social organism. If we
attempt to disregard them, or try arlifically to make of woman an un-
natural copy of man, we are certain to fail, and to turn out as our
result a sorry and disappointed creature who is neither the one thing
nor the other. But if, without expecting women as a class to enter
into any professional or otherwise foolish rivalry with men, for which
as a class they are neither physically nor mentally fitted, and if, as
Mrs. Lynn Linton remarks, we do not make the mistake of confusing
mental development with intellectual specialization if, without doing
either of these things, we encourage women in every way to obtain for
themselves the intrinsic advantages of learning, it is as certain as any-
thing can well be that posterity will bless us for our pains. For then
all may equally enjoy the privilege of a real acquaintance with letters ;
ladies need no longer be shut out from a solid understanding of music
or painting ; lecturers on science will no longer be asked at the close
of their lectures whether the cerebellum is inside or outside of the
skull, how is it that astronomers have been able to find out the names
of the stars, or whether one does not think that his diagram of a jelly-
fish serves with admirable fidelity to illustrate the movements of the
solar system. These, of course, I quote as extreme cases, and even as
displaying the prettiness which belongs to a child-like simplicity. But
simplicity of this kind ought to be put away with other childish things ;
and in whatever measure it is allowed to continue after childhood is
over, the human being has failed to grasp the full privileges of human
life. Therefore, in my opinion, the days are past when any enlight-
ened man ought seriously to suppose that in now again reaching forth
her hand to eat of the tree of knowledge, woman is preparing for the
human race a second fall. In the person of her admirable representa-
tive, Mrs. Fawcett, she thus pleads : No one of those who care most
for the womans movement cares one jot to prove or to maintain that
mens brains and womens brains are exactly alike or exactly equal.
All we ask is that the social and legal status of women should be such
