4 o2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
boards make continually increasing demands upon the property of the
rich, and, in the true spirit of all Liberal legislation, tyrannically en-
croach upon the liberties of the poor. Cramming and competition,
standards and examinations, are being multiplied to such an extent
that they occupy a large portion of human life, which is becoming a
scene of probation indeed, in a sense in which the phrase was never
before used. At this rate of progress we seem likely soon to arrive at
the educational absurdity which prevails in the Chinese Empire, where
an official in his ninetieth year has recently passed his final examina-
tion, which places him on the pinnacle of Chinese wisdom and enrolls
him in the most exalted rank of mandarins, a sublime elevation which
the lengthened period of study it has taken to acquire it has left him
little time to enjoy.
But, in spite of all this clamor, it is open to question whether the
present rising generation are well educated, or even educated, in the
original and natural sense of the word, at all. The Latin word ednco,
from which our English w r ord is derived, means simply to draw out or
train. To strengthen the faculties, to sharpen the intelligence, and to
form the character are any of these objects attained, or even aimed
at, in modern education ? Practically only one faculty memory is
cultivated at the expense of all the rest, and that is overburdened.
The impossible is attempted, and the young mind strained and ex-
hausted, rather than strengthened, in the desperate effort to acquire a
superficial acquaintance with almost every form of human knowledge,
in order to answer the catch-questions of an examiner, who would be
baffled by his own wisdom if he had not the resource of referring,
when his memory fails him, to his notes or his books. A boy has
now no time to digest and assimilate what he acquires, nor has he any
encouragement to do so. He must think nothing gained while aught
remains, and push on to new conquests until either the dreaded day
of examination arrives, or his health breaks down, and renders him
unfit to be examined, or perhaps unequal to any occupation at all.
The simple course of education of the ancient Persians, to ride, to
draw the bow, and to speak the truth, had its advantages as compared
with the modern system. Of course, in these days it is not possible to
be satisfied with so limited a curriculum, though the native virtue of
speaking the truth might with advantage be cultivated much more
diligently than it is, more especially by some of our public men, who,
by-the-way, are the real teachers, for they it is who complete the edu-
cation of men Avho in their turn teach the youth. But some approach
might be made to the simplicity of the Greek system, -which, based
upon the truism that it is impossible to overstrain the mind in a
healthy body, in full exercise, seems to have been directed chiefly to
strengthening the frame and the mental powers without exhausting
either, cultivating a taste for study, and to acquiring the arts of
rhetoric and elocution. For most men at the present day this is
