SKETCH OF ISAAC LEA. 405
in the conduct of a large publishing-house, and was only able to give
his hours of leisure to science.
Isaac Lea was born in Wilmington, Delaware, March 4, 1792. He
was descended from ancestors who came over from Gloucestershire,
England, with William Penn, and were described as a couple of
noted and valued preachers. He was the fifth son of James Lea, a
wholesale merchant, and was at first put in a course of classical in-
struction at the academy in Wilmington, in preparation for the medical
profession. This purpose was afterward given up, and, when he was
fifteen years old, Isaac was sent to Philadelphia to engage in mer-
cantile business in association with his brother. He had inherited a
strong taste for Nature from his mother, and found a congenial spirit
in Professor Vanuxem, then also a youth, with whom he formed the
habit of making collecting excursions around the city. The two com-
panions were soon led, by what they found and observed, to inquiry
into the composition and structure of the rocks ; they had to pursue it
at first without any guidance, but in a short time became acquainted
with the mineralogical collection of Dr. Adam Seybert. A diversion
to their pursuits was given by the occurrence of the war with Great
Britain in 1812. They joined a volunteer rifle company, which offered
its services to the Governor. Although the company was disbanded
without being called into service, young Lea had, by joining it, engaged
enough in war to violate the principles of the Society of Friends, and he
lost his birthright in it. Among the excursions which the two youths
made was one to the coal-mines near Wilkesbarre, where they found
slates containing mollusca, which Lea described forty years afterward
in the Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences. They walked
back, over the Pocono Mountain through the Wind-Gap, where Lea
found the first trilobite they had ever seen, and down the Delaware
River. In 1815 they were both elected members of the Philadelphia
Academy of Natural Sciences, and began to take active parts in its
proceedings ; and in this society Mr. Lea read his first paper, already
referred to, embodying the results of many years of close observation
which the friends had made upon the rocks during their excursions.
On the publication, in 1818, of Professor Sillimans prospectus of
the American Journal of Science, Mr. Lea procured the names of
fourteen subscribers to the journal an act which Professor Silliman
afterward declared was the turning-point of the scheme ; for, re-
ceiving such encouragement from a person with whom he had no per-
sonal acquaintance, he was sure the journal would be successful. Mr.
Lea contributed several papers to the early numbers of this journal, at
the editors request ; but the article of this period which is perhaps
most worthy of special mention, is one that he published in 1828 in
the American Quarterly Review, on the Northwest Passage, in which
he expressed the opinion that, if the passage were ever made, it must
be, as was indicated by the direction of the currents, from west to
