SKETCH OF ISAAC LEA. 409
to the microscopic examination of quartz-crystals, with drawings and
descriptions of the inclusions and markings of each, so that Professor
H. Rosenbusch, in his work on the subject, mentioned him as having
been the first in America to enter into microscopic mineralogy. He
had engaged, since his return from Europe, in other branches of nat-
ural history than conchology. The elephant folio edition of the ac-
count of the fossil foot-marks near Pottsville elicited warm commenda-
tion for the beauty of its execution and illustration. In 1858 appeaied
a memoir on the embryology of the Unionidw, giving descriptions
and figures of thirty-eight species. In all of his papers he described
eighteen hundred and seventy -two species of mollusks of various kinds,
most of which were from the United States. The series was embodied
in a private edition of thirteen volumes, with three indexes, which the
author distributed among men of science and learned societies. Richard
Owen, acknowledging the receipt of one of the volumes, said, They
represent a kind or class of labors the most genuine and important
and lasting, in the hard endeavor to gain a knowledge of Nature.
Professor Haidinger, of Vienna, said, on a similar occasion, that his
work would last as long as natural science shall be cultivated by
mankind. The more it is compared and studied, the more appears
your power of observation, your efforts in pursuing your object, your
steadiness and perseverance. M. A. Boivin wrote, You render a
great service to science in devoting your time to the classification and
description of the Undo. About ten thousand individuals were dis-
played in Dr. Leas cabinet of Unionidw, so arranged that each could
be separately examined, and, in many instances, with a sequence from
the youngest to the oldest, so as to exhibit the aspects of growth. His
other cabinets contained nearly a thousand specimens of quartz-crys-
tals, nearly five hundred of corundum, thirty-five drawers of the mica
group, and several hundred sections of lamina prepared for the micro-
scope.
In his ninety-fourth year Dr. Lea continued in good health, with
his mental and physical faculties unimpaired ; and in 1884 he was
able to receive and entertain about two hundred members of the Brit-
ish Association at his cottage at Long Branch. He was President of
the Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia from 1853 to 1858,
and was President of the American Association in 1860. The list
given in his Bibliography of the society honors conferred upon
him numbers twenty-eight titles, and concludes with an etc. A corre-
spondent who maintained most intimate and confidential relations with
Dr. Lea for more than twenty years, furnishes a sketch of his personal
character and social life, from w r hich we quote the following words :
Possessing a mind of great vigor and culture, he was a most
genial companion to those whose tastes and sympathies accorded with
his own. He was an ardent admirer of the works of Nature ; and his
cultivated mind enabled him to perceive many qualities and properties
