4 io THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in them, the beauties of which are not comprehended by a less gifted
observei*. Few objects escaped his notice. He possessed, in an eminent
degree, a prompt and keen appreciation of the sublime and of the gro-
tesque ; and a speedy judgment in detecting merit or fraud, affectation
or sincerity.
Dr. Lea habitually, during a period of nearly half a century, spent
many hours of the night in his studies and his writings, seldom relin-
quishing them before midnight. These night studies were continued,
with little intermission, until he was nearly eighty years old ; and they
were gradually and finally abandoned only in compliance with the
warnings of his medical adviser. Until Dr. Lea became enfeebled
with age, at a late period in his life, it was a source of great .delight
to him to collect mineral specimens in Chester and Delaware Counties
in Pennsylvania. His most frequent companions, on such occasions,
were Mr. William W. Jefferis, formerly of West Chester, and the
writer. No ardent school-boy manifested more enthusiasm in digging
than he, when a fair prospect was afforded for obtaining specimens ;
and his well-trained eye quickly recognized a specimen, though cov-
ered with soil. He never permitted any person to clean his specimens
excepting himself ; and that operation he performed with great pa-
tience, in the most complete manner, in order to display all the beauties
which the minerals possessed. He was familiar with nearly all the
mineral localities in Eastern Pennsylvania. Many years ago the writer
described a locality for minerals in Delaware County, which he sup-
posed would be new to Dr. Lea, and received the following reply from
him : I have crawled all over that locality, on my hands and knees,
a half-dozen times, with good results every time.
Dr. Lea was a strong admirer of gems, and his familiarity with
precious stones was so great that he was considered to be one of the
best judges of them in this country. He devoted more time than any
other mineralogist to the microscopic examination of the precious
stones ; the results from which were published, at various times, in
the proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences. He possessed
a large collection of precious stones from all the important localities
in the world ; and copious notes, in his own writing, are still attached
to all the specimens.
During the last few years of Dr. Leas life, after he relinquished
much of the active work in his mineral cabinet, his time was usually
spent in his library, in the happy enjoyment of life, surrounded by his
books referring to his favorite studies, mineralogy, geology, and con-
chology. He enjoyed especially the company of his scientific friends,
and his interest in discussing scientific subjects was maintained until
his final illness.
Another friend of Dr. Leas expresses surprise that, in all the pub-
lished notices of him, no one has spoken of his wonderful powers of
observation of Nature even in her minutest forms. You will pardon
