SKETCH OF ISAAC LEA. 411
me if I say that I consider it one of his highest qualifications as a man
of science. Nothing ever escaped his quick eye in the field or by the
road-side when driving. Every tree, shrub, and flower, was full of
interest to him, from which he ever imparted knowledge to his friends.
In observing crystalline forms I believe he excelled others.
Another friend regards him from a different point of view, and
says : Something of his great-heartedness was revealed to even the
casual observer. It found expression in form, and feature, and voice.
Yet it was by those who knew him intimately that the social, affection-
al qualities of his nature were best perceived and most admired. Inher-
iting a loving spirit, and receiving the gentle impressions of a Chris-
tian home, he never lost his priceless dower. The demands of success-
ful, enlarging business, the fondness for scientific study, the passion
for scientific discovery, the allurements of fame, were wholly insuffi-
cient to make him other than amiable and self-forgetful. His home
was the source and center of his delight. He gratefully acknowledged
his indebtedness to those on whom he lavished his regard. During all
the years in which he used even the night-watches for his investi-
gations, the early hours of evening were spent, with free and joyous
mind, in the midst of his family. He ever took more from him-
self than from others. Hospitality was the very genius of his house.
With gentlest, heartiest courtesy his friends were welcomed to his
fireside and his board. To those of scientific turn his rare and
extensive scientific collections were opened with genuine delight. For
those whose choice was in other directions, provision was made with
equal care and gladness. Toward little children, and the young in
general, his sympathies went forth with spontaneous freedom. He
delighted to show to childish eyes, and to explain to childish compre-
hension, the beauties and marvels of Nature. Especially did he rejoice
in giving encouragement to those who were struggling upward against
great odds. The sight of such aspiration always awakened his enthu-
siastic interest. Not a few who to-day occupy positions of honor and
usefulness owe their success to his appreciative, generous help. To
envy his heart was wholly a stranger, and thus his friendships with
men of science, both young and old, and with men great in other
walks, were peculiarly tender and strong.
In truth, his kindly interest included whatever affected the wel-
fare of the race. He took pleasure in all honest effort. He exulted
in all honorable achievement. He felt that he was personally indebted
to whosoever made man better or more wise. In all social problems
he took profound, unflagging interest. He sought to hold in view the
progress of humanity in every land. In the alliance between religion
and philanthropy and science he was a firm believer. Pie was con-
fident that truth and right would triumph at last. To his perception
the laws of Nature were the constancy of Gods action, and Nature
itself a transcript of the Eternal Mind.
