412
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
EDITORS TABLE.
A GREAT SCIIOLAR OX EVOLUTION.
AS many of our readers are doubt-
less aware, the Fortnightly Re-
view has lately opened its pages to a
discussion of the present relations be-
tween theology and the general thought
of the age. The subject has been ap-
proached by several writers from differ-
ent points of view ; and we can not but
believe that the conflict of opinions will
result in some solid gain to the cause of
truth. Meantime we are interested in
the criticism which the Rev. Dr. Bur-
gon, Dean of Chichester, one of the dis-
putants, in replying to Canon Freraan-
tle, whose article was reproduced in our
last number, has bestowed on the doc-
trine of evolution. Dr. Burgon is, we
believe, one of the highest authorities on
the textual criticism of the Scriptures
now to be found in the Church of Eng-
land. He has devoted a long life, he him-
self tells us, exclusively to that study.
One would suppose that a man con-
scious of having given all his attention
to one line of thought and research
would be diffident about his compe-
tency in another and widely different
one. Not so with Dr. Burgon, how-
ever; he is quite satisfied that he is as
well able to deal with the doctrine of
evolution as with the age of a Greek
manuscript ; and in the April Fort-
nightly he tells us just what he thinks
on that subject in very emphatic and un-
mistakable terms. It is, he affirms, ut-
terly unscientific, a wild hypothesis,
the merest impertinence, the veri-
est foolishness. Does the reverend
gentleman advance any arguments in
support of these powerfully expressed
opinions ? Yes ; and one of them is,
that man is v ever found at all in a
fossil state. So convinced is the rev-
erend doctor that this is a great truth,
that he himself calls in the aid of ital-
ics to give it emphasis. Yet, had he
opened the most elementary contempo-
rary treatise on geology, he would have
found that abundant fossil remains of
man, and abundant traces also of his
works, have been found in association
with the bones of now extinct animals.
The other arguments used by the doc-
tor against the theory of evolution are
drawn principally from the book of
Genesis. He insists that man has not
yet been quite six thousand years upon
the earth, and quotes as an authority
on that question Clinton, the author of
Fasti Hellenici. On the subject of
miracles he has nothing better to tell
us than that they are strictly analogous
to human action in the realm of Na-
ture: ergo, because man finds that he
can do certain things by availing him-
self of natural laws, he must be ready
to believe whatever may be told him of
things done in apparent independence
of all laws.
Dr. Burgons article will do good.
The extreme ignorance he manifests on
scientific questions, and the unbounded
confidence with which he nevertheless
undertakes to discuss them, will open
the eyes of many as to the pressing
need for the scientific education of the
clergy. A knowledge of manuscripts is
all very well in its way; but a man who
has to deal with the minds and hearts
of other men, needs more than that.
He needs to know the times he lives
in, and the influences that are molding
contemporary thought. Imagine, for a
moment, a clergyman approaching an
intelligent parishioner who is studying
carefully the geological elements of the
question as to the antiquity of man, and
imagine that clergyman advising the
parishioner to put aside his Lyell or his
Geikie, and study Clintons Fasti in-
stead! Could a more absolutely absurd
situation be conceived ? Yet this is pre-
cisely what the learned Dean Burgon
