LITERARY NOTICES.
4!5
sian doctrine is flouted in some quar-
ters, and particularly in the region of
the Anti- Poverty Society, the sober
thought of the more instructed portion
of mankiud will incline them to believe
that there is something to be said on
behalf of prudence in incurring what is
simply the most solemn and important
responsibility than can be assumed by
any human being. That poverty has
been greatly promoted by carelessness
and indifference in this regard a blind
trusting to chance or Providence few,
we think, would deny.
But perhaps the most important sin-
gle aspect of the whole question is the
sanitary or hygienic. As long as there
are debilitated frames, enfeebled wills,
and morbidly developed passions, there
will be poverty. On the other hand,
of course, poverty tends to increase and
perpetuate these evils. This aspect of
the subject has lately been treated with
much force in the body of the Month-
ly, and we shall not dwell upon it to-
day. The main truth we wish to em-
phasize is that poverty results from
unfitness for social conditions, and that
the true mode of conducting an anti-
poverty campaign would be to attack
at every point those errors and vices
that tend to depress human beings be-
low the level at which they can fulfill
the conditions needful for their main-
tenance in health and well-being.
LITERARY NOTICES.
Public Debts: An Essay in the Science
op Finance. By Henry C. Adams,
Ph. D. New York : D. Appleton Co.
Pp. 407. Price, $2.50.
The purpose of this treatise is to por-
tray the principles which underlie the use
of public credit. While it is neither pri-
marily statistical nor historical, it relies up-
on statistics, and makes frequent appeals
to history ; and in these points, the experi-
ences of our national Government, so com-
prehensive and recent, and of our State and
local governments, so various and often so
impressive, afford a rich fund whence illus-
tration and the clinchers of argument
are drawn. The peculiarity of our Federal
Constitution necessitates a distinction in the
treatment of the subject as between national
deficit financiering and local deficit financier-
ing (State and municipal) which is not recog-
nized by European writers. Of the three
parts into which the treatise is divided, the
first is devoted to the general subject of
Public Borrowing as a Financial Policy.
The immense development of public indebt-
edness which the world is now witnessing,
which has reached an aggregate for the civ-
ilized states of $27,000,000,000, has taken
place since 1848, when the total stood at
$8,650,000,000. Searching for the causes of
this accumulation, they are found to lie main-
ly in the greater strength and effectiveness
of the feeling of nationality, for the main-
tenance of which large expenditures are
necessary, and in the spirit of socialism, or
the disposition of states to legislate and un-
dertake in the interest of the social well-
being of their peoples. Concerning the
political and social tendencies and industrial
effects of public borrowing, it is held that it
tends to obviate the free workings of consti-
tutional governments, to endanger the auton-
omy of inferior states, and to introduce com-
plications between the larger powers. So-
cially, public debts render permanent such
class relations as spring from disparity of
possessions, and introduce conflicting inter-
ests between citizens. The industrial effects
are complex, and depend upon the nature
of the loan, the conditions under which it is
contracted, and upon the fund of capital
from which it is filled. They are harmful
in proportion as the placement of the loan
disturbs the market value of commodities.
Public credit may be advantageously em-
ployed as opposed to material increase of
taxes to cover running deficits, to assist
in meeting unforeseen emergencies, and to
provide revenue for carrying on public im-
provements. In the second part Nation-
al Deficit Financiering the first topic is
the financial management of a war, the
principle of which, as summarized, is that
reliance can not be placed wholly upon loans
nor wholly upon taxes, but fiscal administra-
tion should be so adjusted as gradually to
change the burden of expenditure from cred-
it to clear income. As between the differ-
