LITERARY NOTICES.
419
New York city. It had eleven members at
the beginning ; at the end of the first year
it had more than six hundred members.
The ladies seem to have gone into their
enterprise with much energy, before which
several established nuisances, that had long
baffled the political powers, had to give way.
Their influence was felt in New Jersey,
where they were called on to help remove
some offensive conditions, and in the State
Legislature, where they labored to prevent
damaging legislation.
California State Miking Bureau. Sixth
Annual Report of the State Mineralogist.
Part I. By Henry G. Hanks. Pp. 145.
Part II. By William Irelan, Jr. Sac-
ramento. Pp. 222.
The first part, besides a general state-
ment of the condition of the Bureau and
its collections and a reference to the com-
parative merits of mining and manufactur-
ing as adapted to California, gives a paper
on Building-Stones and Building-Materi-
als in California, with a list of the stones
and their localities ; a table of altitudes of
twelve hundred and ninety-seven points ;
accounts of the Mineral Springs of Cali-
fornia ; descriptions of The Calistoga
Silver-Mines ; and the geology and miner-
alogy of San Diego County. The second
part contains the special report of the trust-
ees of the Bureau ; accounts of a consid-
erable number of mines and of the processes
and machinery employed at them; summa-
ries of the mineral products of the United
States in 1885 ; the mining laws of the
United States and the departmental inter-
pretations of them ; various tables and rules
of use in mining ; and tables of legal dis-
tances and routes of travel in California.
Ottawa Field Naturalists Club. Trans-
actions No. 7, 1885. \V. H. Harrington,
President. Ottawa, Canada. Pp. 90.
The Club appears to have enlisted a full
representation of the persons within its
sphere of action who are interested in its
work. Three Club excursions were made,
while the sub-excursions were more numer-
ous and more successful than in any pre-
vious season. Ten afternoon lectures or
classes were held during the winter, on en-
tomology, mineralogy, ornithology, and bot-
any. The fact that six of the meetings
were held in educational institutions is re-
garded as indicating that the Club is being
more and more recognized as able and will-
ing to impart instruction in the natural sci-
ences. With the Transactions are em-
bodied the special reports of the geological,
conchological, entomological, ornithological,
and botanical branches of the Club ; papers
on the Black Bear, by Mr. W. P. Lett,
and Ottawa Dragon - Flies, by Mr. T. J.
MacLaughlin ; a List of Mosses collected
near Ottawa, by Professor J. Macoun ; and
A New Departure in the Study of Miner-
als, by the Rev. C. F. Marsan.
Mathematical Teaching and its Modern
Methods. By Truman Henry Safford.
Boston: D. C. Heath Co. Pp. 47.
Price, 25 cents.
This paper is one of a series of Mono-
graphs on Education, which the publishers
have undertaken for the purpose of preserv-
ing a class of essays on the theory or prac-
tice of teaching which, not being suited for
popular magazine articles or voluminous
enough for books, are, while they are of
great value, in danger of being lost. The
thoughts expressed in the paper are such as
have been suggested by the authors long
practical experience in giving instruction in
mathematical subjects, and the conclusions
are believed to be in agreement with the
views of progressive educators, but not with
ordinary traditions. It is an old complaint
against mathematics as a mental disci-
pline, says the author, that it is too ab-
stract and unpractical. When we look at
the ordinary courses in our colleges and
schools, we shall find that there is much
truth in this ; but the complaints are en-
tirely groundless when mathematics takes
its proper place in our courses, and is taught
in the proper manner. It is the object
of the essay to search for the proper
manner.
McCartys Annual Statistician, 1887.
Edited by L. P. McCarty. San Fran-
cisco : L. P. McCarty.
The usefulness of well-edited and com-
prehensive compilations of statistics goes
without saying as a valuable vade mecum
for the editor, politician, scholar, even for
professional men and merchants. Of these
hand-books we have many more or less
