LITERARY NOTICES.
421
accuracy attainable by each method of lev-
eling.
No. 92. Petroleum : Its Production and
Use. By Boverton Redwood, F. I. C,
F. C. S. New York : D. Van Nostrand.
Pp. 210. Price, 50 cents.
The material of this volume is abridged
from a series of Cantor lectures given before
the Society of Arts, London, and originally
published in the journal of the society.
The parts omitted are such as were deemed
of no interest to American readers. Almost
every topic relating to petroleum has been
considered, beginning with the kinds of
rocks in which petroleum is found, in the
United States and in the Baku district, and
taking up in succession the chemistry of
petroleum, the construction of wells, meth-
ods of transporting crude petroleum, the
manufacture of commercial products and
their transportation, methods of testing oils
and paraffine in considerable detail, followed
by a sketch of the progress of invention in
oil-lamps.
Massage as a Mode op Treatment. By
William Murrell, M. D. Philadelphia :
P. Blakiston, Son Co. Pp. 100. Price,
$1.25.
The attention which has been given re-
cently to massage, in medical books and
journals, has excited a demand for a more
general introduction of that method of treat-
ment, and for operators. But much igno-
rance still prevails upon the subject, both
among those who require massage and
among those who offer themselves as oper-
ators. It is too important a matter to be
trifled with, and the remedy is too beneficial
a one to be neglected when it is practicable
to secure its proper application. Hence
this little book, telling exactly what massage
is, and how it should be applied, and how
the operator should be qualified, fills a felt
want. It gives the history of massage ; an
account of the method of performing it, de-
scribing particularly the Von Mosengeilian
system as practiced in Holland and Ger-
many ; chapters on The Masseur and the
Masseuse (male and female operators) and
The Physiological Action of Massage; and
indications as to the class of cases in which
it is most likely to do good. On the last
point the author says : The ignorant rab-
ble of course thinks that it will cure every-
thing, but as a matter of fact its sphere of
action is very limited. If carried out under
the direction of a scientific physician, who
has had experience in this mode of treat-
ment, it yields excellent results ; but if al-
lowed to drift into the hands of an ignorant
empiric, it soon degenerates into the most
arrant quackery.
Profit-Sharing. By N. 0. Nelson, St.
Louis, Mo. Pp. 40.
This pamphlet is a collection of articles
which were written by the author on differ-
ent occasions, but always by request, hold-
ing up the plan of giving to workmen an
equitable share in the profits of the busi-
ness as the true solution of the so-called
labor question. Force is given to the ar-
guments by the fact that the system which
the author advocates has been introduced
into the manufacturing establishment with
which he is connected, and is in successful
operation there. Two of the papers are
devoted to accounts of the introduction and
workings of the plan.
Proceedings of the Department of Super-
intendence of the National Educa-
tional Association, February, 1886.
Washington: Government Printing-Of-
fice. Pp. 90.
This is published as one of the Circu-
lars of Information of the Bureau of Edu-
cation. More than sixty superintendents
and persons actively interested in education
attended the meeting. Among the topics
considered in papers read and in discus-
sions were, The Duties of County Super-
intendents, Reading Circles for Teach-
ers, Co-education of the Races, Edu-
cational Statistics, The Educational and
Religious Interests of the Colored People
of the South, Forestry in Education,
Language- Work, Growth and Benefits
of Reading Circles, and City Superin-
tendence.
The Labor -Value Fallacy. By M. L.
Scudder, Jr. Chicago: The Patriots
League. Pp.112. Price, 10 cents.
This pamphlet is the first of a series to
be published by the Patriots League
an association of conservative citizens whose
purpose is to combat socialist heresies and
