34 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
theory, ought to be discoverable, the apparent immutability of species,
the infertility of hybrids. Whether it was worth while at this time
of day to write a somewhat lengthy treatise, for the purpose of putting
forward arguments so thoroughly known, is a question on which opin-
ions may differ. We do not mean that the arguments themselves are
not deserving of attention ; but we do mean that they are very acces-
sible to the reading public in a great many quarters, and are nowhere,
probably, stated with greater force than in the writings of the evolu-
tionists themselves. Such as it is, however, the scientific argumentation
of this volume is interwoven throughout with argumentation of a purely
theological character. The author would, possibly, call the latter
philosophical ; but, with every desire to be just, we think that term
would be misapplied. Take the following as an example of the kind
of thing we refer to : Why depict the infinite God as a quiescent
and retired spectator of the operation of certain laws he has imposed
upon organized matter, when there are discoverable so many manifest
reasons for the special creation of such a being as man ? Here we
have Mr. Curtis talking in his usual off-hand way of the Divine Being
as being swayed by reasons, and of these reasons as being discover-
able by ordinary human understanding. Have all the lessons of the
Book of Job, to say nothing of the Critique of Pure Reason, been
lost upon this latest foe of evolution ? It would seem so. Again we
are told, in the most magisterial manner, that in the economy of
Nature, which is but another name for the economy of the Omnipotent
Creator, there is no waste of power, as there is no abstention from the
exercise of power, when its exertions are needed to accomplish an
end. Can any one attach a rational meaning to the word waste
as applied to that the supply of which is infinite ? If we imagine, for
one moment, the Creator being arraigned for something that, to finite
intelligence, looked like waste, might not his reply be that he had
infinite reserves of power which were not being put to any use at all ?
And if the finite intelligence were to rejoin that this was waste on a
yet larger scale, what should we have but one more illustration of how
hopeless it is for the finite mind to grapple with the infinite and abso-
lute ? Working, however, upon his double principle that the Deity
never wastes power, yet is always willing to exert the full amount
needed for the accomplishment of his purposes, our author is led
to disbelieve entirely what the evolutionists assert in regard to the
derivation of the human species from lower types of life. As he in-
terprets the facts, the Deity economized power by making man on the
same general plan as the rest of the mammalians, instead of drawing
entirely new plans for him ; and at the same time expended power in
creating those specific differences which constitute him Man. A deli-
cate question might here arise as to whether the various rudiments
found in the human frame were left there through a prudent economy
of power, or placed there by a wise exertion of power. We should
