+ 2 4
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
new courses only in places here and there.
The Ohio River seems to have been in the
latter category, for in many places its valley
is too wide and too deep to have been exca-
vated by the volume of water now flowing
at ordinary stages. In fact, there seems
little doubt that tho Ohio flows in a channel
which was cut long previous to the glacial
period. This old channel has been largely
filled up, and the river now flows from
thirty-five to forty feet above its ancient
bed. This seems to be proved by the dis-
covery, at that depth below the present sur-
face of the ground, of an extensive bed of
carbonaceous material consisting of stumps
of trees, leaves, seeds, and other vegetable
remains. Several facts seem to point to the
conclusion that on and near the site of the
city was once spread out a sheet of water that
assumed almost the aspect of a lake. The
outlet of this sheet was not like the present
course of the river, past the mouth of Mill
Creek, but up what is now Mill Creek Val-
ley on one side, and up the Little Miami
Valley and an ancient channel between Red
Bank and Plainville on the other side, of
what then formed an island now occupied
by a part of the hill suburbs of Cincinnati.
These ancient channels extended northward
on the east and west of the island, and
united near where Ludlow Grove now is,
and thence together held their way north-
ward to Ilamilton; there they turned to the
west and south, and reached the Ohio River
Valley as it is now, somewhere near Law-
renceburg, Indiana, by following the course
now used by the Big Miami. In those days
a barrier of land stretched from Price Hill
across to the Kentucky side. It is supposed
that during the glacial period the end of an
immense glacier extended south as far as
the Ohio River, and at Cincinnati so com-
pletely blocked the channel as to compel
the river to seek another course. But at
the close of the ice age, and when the
glacier had melted, the river attempted to
return to its former channels. Finding,
however, its old bed filled with sand and
gravel, the debris of the retired ice-field,
and finding, perhaps, that the former im-
passable barrier had lost some of its height,
it beat against it, gradually wore it away,
and cut for itself a new channel from the
mouth of Mill Creek to Lawrenceburg.
Natural Gas at Pittsburg. From
lecture delivered at the Franklin Institute,
December 18, 1886, by Mr. Charles A. Ash-
burner, Geologist in charge of the State Geo-
logical Survey, it appears that there are
now six natural gas companies in Pittsburg,
managing 107 wells, and supplying the gas
through more than 500 miles of pipe, of
which 232 miles arc in the city proper.
The total area of pipe leading into Pitts-
burg is given as 1,346,608 square inches,
and the total capacity of the mines is esti-
mated at more than 250,000,000 cubic feet
of gas per day. One company supplies more
than 400 manufactories and 7,000 dwellings
with all the fuel consumed in them. The
composition of the gas varies greatly, but it
may be generally described as a mixture of
hydrogen, nitrogen, and marsh gas, with
occasionally higher carbon compounds. A
thousand cubic feet of gas is calculated to
equal in heating capacity fifty-five pounds
of coal. The use of gas for domestic pur-
poses has been facilitated by the inventions
of Mr. Westinghouse, among which are a
device for preventing leaks and a pressure-
regulator. The gas is furnished to the con-
sumer on a yearly contract with a company
for supply at certain rates and costs, to
heat and light a house containing twelve
rooms for from $70 to $90 a year. With it,
every room may be kept at a temperature
not varying two degrees, regardless of the
condition of the outside temperature, or of
pressure on the mains. While the lecturer
admitted that the source of natural gas is
capable of exhaustion, he did not think
there was any imminent danger of such a
calamity.
Origin of the Second Growth in
Woods. The origin of the second growth
that springs up after a forest has been
cleared away, which is usually different in
kind from the previous growth, has given
rise to one of the problems that have never
been solved. Perhaps the most frequently
suggested explanation is that it springs up
from seeds that have lain dormant in the
ground for centuries ; but aside from its
being hard to conceive of seeds preserving
their vitality for so long a time under the
conditions to which they must be exposed,
this supposition does not account for the
