428
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
ment, and the action of that environment
on his posterity is changed in consequence.
The relative importance of physical feat-
ures varies from age to age according to the
state of knowledge and of material civiliza-
tion. The improvement of artificial light-
ing has rendered possible the existence of a
great community at St. Petersburg. The
discovery of the Cape route to India and of
the New World led to the fall of Venice.
The invention of the steam-engine and
the electric telegraph has rendered possible
the great size of modern states. It must,
however, be always borne in mind that the
course of history at a given moment, wheth-
er in politics, society, or any other sphere
of human activity, is the product not only
of environment but also of the momentum
acquired, in the past ; and, for that reason,
changes from what is established are not
made so rapidly as they would otherwise be
made.
Education and Work. Many persons
believe that under the present systems of
education, young people are acquiring a dis-
taste for manual labor, and that there is,
consequently, danger that the trade and ag-
ricultural occupations will be deserted by
all but the most inefficient classes of work-
men. Much of the experience of English
and American society is in favor of this
view, and the tendencies in France appear
to be in the same direction. As an offset
to what may be said in favor of it, the Lon-
don Spectator directs attention to the
fact that no dislike of work, even of the
roughest character, has appeared among two
of the best -educated races. The Scotch,
who have been taught for two hundred years,
and are now far more thoroughly trained
than English national school boys, show no
disposition to avoid labor, but are remarka-
ble for persistent and fairly contented in-
dustry. The Prussian peasants, who are
as educated as the English will be twenty
years hence, work exceedingly hard, and in
the country, where their holdings arc their
own, show none of the resentment at their
fate which is manifested in the towns in
the form of socialist aspirations. Gardeners,
who all over Great Britain are the best in-
structed of manual laborers, work, more es-
pecially when working for themselves, with
unusual diligence ; and it is matter of con-
stant observation that a laborer who hap-
pens by any accident to be a bit of a schol-
ar, can be depended upon when work press-
es and every man is required. The people
of Rome, who can read and write, are far
more diligent than the Neapolitans, who
can not ; and the best workmen in Italy are
those who have passed through the army,
and so obtained what is practically an edu-
cation. There seems to be no a priori rea-
son why it should be otherwise.
Anomalies in Hnman Teeth. Professor
Busch has described before the Physiologi-
cal Society of Berlin various anomalies in
human teeth. Among them are anomalies
in situation, as in case of the horizontal
position of a wisdom-tooth, which, pressing
against the third molar, produced inflam-
mation in it ; the projection of teeth through
the alveolar wall of the maxilla on the ante-
rior or posterior side ; exchanges of situa-
tion between certain teeth; and irregular-
ities in the number of teeth. Among anom-
alies in structure are enamel pearls, that
is, drops of enamel adhering to the roots,
and having no connection with the crown.
Anomalies of size are rare ; enlargements
affect the root more frequently than the
crown. Anomalies of the root are some-
times seen in curves, but more frequently as
variations in the number of roots. Such
anomalies are not frequent ; for, out of
eleven thousand teeth examined, only about
one hundred specimens had been found to
present them. Swellings of the teeth are
still more rare ; and no osseous coalescence
of the teeth had ever been observed.
Intelligence of Fish. Mr. W. August
Carter has been observing the habits and
methods of fishes, and has thereby been
led to assert that the more we learn about
them the more they shine out as an intelli-
gent, crafty, and ingenious race ; and he
is convinced that some fish, at any rate,
are capable of understanding and being un-
derstood by one another. He has seen a
shoal of carp approached while resting by
an individual from another part of the
pond ; when, on its arrival, the entire body
of fish, following the lead of the solitary
carp, migrated to the other side of the
