THE ECONOMIC DISTURBANCES SINCE 1873. 437
graph, hurried on board the ship, and the agent draws for the price
agreed upon, through some bank, with the shipping documents. In four
weeks, in the case of England, and a lesser time for countries inter-
mediate, the shipment arrives ; the manufacturer pays the bill, either
with his own money or his bankers; and, before another week is out, the
cotton and the jute are going through the factory ; the linseed has been
converted into oil, and the hides are in the tannery being transformed
into leather. What has happened in the case of East India produce
seems also likely to happen in the case of the great product of Aus-
tralia namely, wool which for many years has been shipped mainly
to London for sale and distribution. For with the increased facilities
and reduction in the cost of travel and transportation by the Suez
Canal route, the tendency in recent years has been to transfer the
market for this wool to the country of its growth ; as European Con-
tinental, and to some extent American, manufacturers are finding out
that by this new arrangement they can have their raw material de-
livered to them within two or three months of the time of purchase,
instead of three or four from the date of shipment to London, and at
the same time avoid, to a considerable extent, the profits and the
corners of middle-men and speculators. Under these circumstances
the day is probably not far distant when the whole wool-crop of Aus-
tralia, like the cotton-crop of the United States, will be sold before
shipment ; and another long-established course of trade, which has
brought buyers from all the world to London will be broken up, to the
temporary injury and loss of some, but to the greater advantage of
the many. And in anticipation of this change, the largest warehouses
in the world, some covering an area of five acres, have recently been
erected in Melbourne, Sydney, and other Australian cities.
Importations of East Indian produce are also no longer confined in
England and other countries to a special class of merchants ; and so
generally has this former large and special department of trade been
broken up and dispersed, that extensive retail grocers in the larger
cities of Europe and the United States are now reported as draw-
ing their supplies direct from native dealers in both China and
India.
Another curious and recent result of the Suez Canal construction,
operating in a quarter and upon an industry that could not well have
been anticipated, has been its effect on an important department of
Italian agriculture namely, the culture of rice. This cereal has for
many years been a staple crop of Italy, and a leading article of Italian
export the total export for the year 1881 having amounted to 83,598
tons, or 167,196,000 pounds. Since the year 1878, however, rice
grown in Burmah and other parts of the far East has been imported into
Italy and other countries of Southern Europe in such enormous and
continually increasing quantities, and at such rates, as to excite great
apprehensions among the growers of Italian rice, and largely diminish
