NEW CHAPTERS IN THE WARFARE OF SCIENCE. 453
the Epistle to the Ephesians.* Saint Augustine held the same view as
beyond controversy, f
During the middle ages this doctrine of the diabolical origin of
storms went on gathering strength. Bede had full faith in it, and nar-
rates various anecdotes in support of it. J Saint Thomas Aquinas gave
it his sanction, saying in his all-authoritative Summa: Rains and
winds, and whatsoever occurs by local impulse alone, can be caused
by demons. It is, he says, a dogma of faith that the demons
can produce wind, storms, and rain of fire from heaven. *
Albert the Great taught the same doctrine, and showed how a cer-
tain salve thrown into a spring produced whirlwinds. || The great
Franciscan the seraphic doctor Saint Bonaventura, whose services
to theology earned him one of the highest places in the Church, and
to whom Dante gave special honor in paradise, set upon this belief his
high authority. A The lives of the saints, and the chronicles of the
middle ages, were filled with it. Poetry and painting accepted the
idea and developed it. Dante wedded it to verse, Q and at Venice this
thought may still be seen embodied in one of the grand pictures of
Bordone : a ship-load of demons is seen approaching Venice in a storm,
threatening destruction to the city, but Saint Mark, Saint George, and
Saint Nicholas attack the vessel, and disperse the hellish crew.J
The popes again and again sanctioned this doctrine, and it was
amalgamated with various local superstitions, pious imaginations, and
interesting arguments, to strike the fancy of the people at large. A
strong argument in favor of a diabolical origin of the thunderbolt was
afforded by the eccentricities of its operation. These attracted espe-
cial attention in the middle ages, and the popular love of marvel gener-
alized isolated phenomena into rules. Thus, it was said that the light-
ning strikes the sword in the sheath, gold in the purse, the foot in the
shoe, leaving sheath, and purse, and shoe unharmed ; that it consumes
a human being internally without injuring the skin ; that it destroys
* Thus, in his Com. in Epist. ad Ephesios (iii, 6), commenting on the text, Our
battle is not with flesh and blood, he explains this as meaning the devils in the air ; and
adds : Nam et in alio loco de daemonibus quod in aere isto vagentur, Apostolus ait : In
quibus ambulastis aliquando juxta saeculum mundi istius, secundum principem potestatis
aeris spiritus, qui nunc operatur in Alios difBdentiae (Ephes. ii, 2). Haec autem omnium
doctorum opinio est, quod aer iste qui coelum et terram medius dividens, inane appellatur,
plenus sit contrariis fortitudinibus. See also his Com. in Isaiam, xiii, 50 (Migne,
Patr. Lat., xxiv, 477).
f- As to Augustine, see the De Civitate Dei, passim.
X See Bede, Hist. Eccles., i, 17; Vita Cuthberti, c. 17.
tt See Thomas Aquinas, Summa, pars I, qu. Ixxx, art. 2, cited by Maury, Legendes
Pieuses, 11. The second citation I owe to Rydberg, Magic of the Middle Ages, 73,
where the whole interesting passage is given at length.
I See Albertus Magnus, De Potentia Daemonum (cited by Maury, as above).
A See Bonaventura, Comp. Thcol. Veritat., ii, 26.
See Dante, Purgatorio, c. 5.
X See Maury, Legendes Pieuses, 1 8, note.
