NEW CHAPTERS IN THE WARFARE OF SCIENCE. 467
Germany, during the century following the Reformation, the great
Saxon jurist, Benedict Carpzov, distinguished himself by his skill in
demonstrating the reality of the crime from Scripture, and by his cru-
elty in detecting and punishing it by torture.
Typical as to the attitude of Scotch and English Protestants, was
the theory and practice of King James I, the crowned Solomon,
himself the author of a book on demonology. James had married
the Princess of Denmark, and the ship which bore her to the British
shores encountered tempests. Skillful use of unlimited torture soon
brought the causes to light. A Doctor Fian, while his legs were
crushed in the boots and wedges driven under his finger-nails, con-
fessed that several hundred witches had gone to sea in a sieve from
the port of Leith, and bad raised storms and tempests to drive back
the kings bride.* Still later, in the second half of the seventeenth
century, we see a typical example of the same superstition in England
in the case of Meric Casaubon, Doctor of Divinity and an ecclesiastic
in high position at Canterbury. He declared fully for the doctrine
that witches raise storms, citing the foremost ecclesiastical authorities. \
In America, the great weight of the elder Mather was thrown
on the same side.J But, in spite of all these great authorities, in
every land, and in spite of such summary punishments as those of
Loos and Bekker, scientific thought was developed ; and, at the end
of the seventeenth century, this vast growth of superstition began to
wither and droop. Bayle in France, Calef in New England, and
Thomasius in Germany, did much to create an intellectual and moral
atmosphere fatal to it. Torture being abolished, weather-makers
no longer confessed ; and the fundamental proofs in which the system
was rooted were evidently slipping away. Even the great theologian
* The best accounts of Jamess share in the extortion of these confessions may be
found in the collection of Curious Tracts published at Edinburgh in 1820. (See also
King Jamess own Demonologie, and Pitcairns Criminal Trials of Scotland, vol. i,
part ii, pp. 213-223.)
f See his Credulity and Incredulity in Things Natural, pp. 66, 6*7.
\ Thus, in his sermons (already cited) on The Voice of God in Stormy Winds (Bos-
ton, 1704), he says: When there are great Tempests, the Angels oftentimes have an
hand therein. . . . Yea, and sometimes, by Divine Permission, Evil Angels have a Hand
in such Storms and Tempests as are very hurtful to Men on the Earth. Yet, for the
most part, such Storms are sent by the Providence of God as a Sign of His Displeasure
for the Sins of Men, and sometimes as Prognosticks and terrible Warnings of Great
Judgments not far off. And thus from the height of his erudition he rebuke3 the timid
voice of scientific skepticism : There are some who would be esteemed the Wits of the
World, that ridicule those as Superstitious and Weak Persons, which look upon Dreadful
Tempests as Prodromous [sic] of other Judgments. Nevertheless, the most Learned and
Judicious Writers, not only of the Gentiles, but amongst Christians, have Embraced such
a Persuasion; their Sentiments therein being Confirmed by the Experience of many
Ages. For another curious turn given to this theory, with reference to sanitary sci-
ence, see Deodat Lawsons famous sermon at Salem, in 1692, on Christs Fidelity a
Shield against Satans Malignity (p. 21 of the second edition).
