482 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Rainbows, or the Lake of Dreams, or the Sea of Tranquillity, if
for no other reason than a curiosity to know what could have induced
men to give to these regions in the moon such captivating names ?
Or who would not desire to visit them if he could ? though no doubt
we should find them, like the Delectable Mountains in the Pil-
grims Progress, most charming when seen from afar.
The limited scale of our map, of course, rendered it impossible to
represent upon it more than a comparatively small number of the lunar
mountains that have received names. In selecting those to be put in
the map, I have endeavored to choose such as, on account of their size,
their situation, or some striking peculiarity, would be most likely to
attract the attention of a novice. The observer must not expect to
see them all at once, however. The lunar features change their ap-
pearance to a surprising extent, in accordance with the direction of
their illumination. Some great mountain-masses and ring-plains, or
craters, which present scenes of magnificence when the sun is rising or
setting upon them, disappear under a perpendicular light, such as they
receive at full moon. The great crater-plain, known as Maginus, num-
bered 10 in our map, is one of these. The broken mountain-wall sur-
rounding this vast depressed plain rises in some places to a height of
over fourteen thousand feet above the valley within, and the spectacle
of sunrise upon Maginus, seen with a powerful telescope, is a most im-
pressive sight, and even with a field-glass it is very interesting. Yet,
a few days later, Maginus vanishes, as if it had been swallowed up,
and as Beer and Madler have expressed it, the full moon knows no
Maginus. The still grander formation of mountain, plain, and crater,
called Clavius (11 in the map), disappears almost as completely as Ma-
ginus at full moon, yet, under the proper illumination, it presents a
splendid pageant of light and shadow. .
On the other hand, some of the lunar mountains shine vividly at
full moon, and can be well seen then, though, of course, only as light
spots, since at that time they cast no shadows. Menelaus (36 in the
map), Aristarchus (51), Proclus (30), Copernicus (46), and Kepler (52),
are among these shining mountains. Aristarchus is the most cele-
brated of them all, being the brightest point on the moon. It can
even be seen glimmering on the dark side of the moon that is to
say, when no light reaches it except that which is reflected from the
earth. With a large telescope, Aristarchus is so dazzlingly bright un-
der a high sun, that the eye is partly blinded in gazing at it. It con-
sists of a mountain-ring surrounding a circular valley, about twenty-
eight miles in diameter. The flanks of these mountains, especially on
their inner slopes, and the floor of the valley within, are very bright,
while a peak in the center of the valley, about as high as Storm King
Mountain on the Hudson, shines with piercing brilliancy. Sir William
Herschel mistook it for a volcano in action. It certainly is not an ac-
tive volcano, but just what makes it so dazzling no one knows. The ma-
