ASTRONOMY WITH AN OPERA-GLASS. 485
sometimes detected in its central parts. It deepens toward the middle.
Three quarters of its shore-line are bordered by high mountains, and
many isolated elevations and peaks are scattered over its surface. In
looking at these dried-up seas of the moon, one is forcibly reminded
of the undulating and in some places mountainous character of terres-
trial sea-bottoms as shown by soundings and the existence of small
islands in the deep sea, like the Bermudas, the Azores, and St. Helena.
The Sea of Serenity is divided nearly through the center by a narrow,
bright streak, apparently starting from the crater-mountain Menelaus
(36 in the map), but really taking its rise at Tycho far in the south.
This curious streak can be readily detected even with a small opera-
glass. Just what it is no one is prepared to say, and so the author of
the Moon Hoax was fairly entitled to take advantage of the ro-
mancers license, and declare that its edge throughout its whole
length of three hundred and forty miles is an acute angle of solid
quartz-crystal, brilliant as a piece of Derbyshire spar just brought
from the mine, and containing scarcely a fracture or a chasm from end
to end ! Along the southern shore, on either side of Menelaus, ex-
tends the high range of the Hsemus Mountains. South and southeast
of the Sea of Serenity are the Sea of Vapors (L)*, the Central Gulf
(M), and the Gulf of Heats (N). The observer will notice at full
moon three or four curious dark spots in the region occupied by these
flat expanses. On the north and northwest of the Sea of Serenity are
the Lake of Death (D), and the Lake of Dreams (E), chiefly remark-
able for their names.
The Sea of Showers (O) is a very interesting region, not only in
itself, but on account of its surroundings. Its level is very much
broken by low, winding ridges, and it is variegated by numerous light
streaks. At its western end it blends into the Marsh of Mists (I) and
the Marsh of Putrefaction (K). On its northeast border is the cele-
brated Sinus Iridum, or Bay of Rainbows (P), upon which stenog-
raphers have exhausted the adjectives of admiration. The bay is
semicircular in form, one hundred and thirty-five miles long and
eighty-four miles broad. Its surface is dark and level. At either end
a splendid cape extends into the Sea of Showers, the eastern one being
called Cape Heraclides, and the western Cape Laplace. They are
both crowned by high peaks. Along the whole shore of the bay runs
a chain of gigantic mountains forming the southern border of a wild
and lofty plateau, called the Sinus Iridum Highlands. Of course, a
telescope is required to see the details of this most magnificent of
all lunar landscapes, and yet much can be done with a good field-
glass. With such an instrument I have seen the capes at the ends of
the bay projecting boldly into the dark, level expanse surrounding
them, and the high lights of the bordering mountains sharply con-
* The letter L has accidentally been misplaced in the map. It should be on the
dark expanse below its present place.
