MANUAL TRAINING IN SCHOOL EDUCATION. 501
and aptitude for the real work of their life, and so educated as to be
able to apply to that work the results of scientific teaching and scien-
tific methods.
In organizing a scheme of technical teaching in connection with
our elementary schools, the difficulty has to be met of obtaining good
teachers and competent inspectors. The artisan, who is a skillful
workman and nothing more, may succeed in teaching the elements
of carpentry and joinery ; but he is not the kind of teacher needed.
It is of the utmost importance that the instructor should be a good
draughtsman, should have some knowledge of physical science, should
be an expert workman, and should have studied the art of teaching.
To obtain at first such ideal instructors would be impossible ; but
there is no reason why, gradually, they should not be trained. Two
processes suggest themselves. We might take a well-trained ele-
mentary teacher, having an aptitude for mechanical arts, and give
him a course of instruction in the use of tools, either in a technical
school or in an ordinary workshop ; or, we might take an intelligent
artisan, who had studied science and drawing in some of the excellent
evening classes which are now found in almost every town, and give
him a short course of lessons on method in relation to workshop in-
struction. Good teachers might be obtained by either of these pro-
cesses. Perhaps the latter is preferable, as it is most important that
the teacher who is to inspire confidence should be a good workman to
start with and thoroughly familiar with the practice of his trade. For
such intelligent and educated artisans there is, I hope, a future of
profitable employment. It would be well, however, that in all our
technical colleges opportunities should be afforded to teachers in
elementary schools of acquiring practice in the use of tools ; and
that special training - classes should be formed for artisans, in the
organization of workshops and in the best methods of workshop
teaching.
Nearly all educationists have pointed out the many advantages of
enabling children at an early age to realize the connection between
knowing and doing. Comenius has well said, Let those things that
have to be done be learned by doing them. Rousseau has pithily
expressed a similar idea in saying : Souvenez-vous quen toute chose
vos lecons doivent etre plus en actions quen discours ; car les enfants
oublient aisement ce quils ont dit et ce quon leur a dit, mais non pas
ce quils ont fait et ce quon leur a fait. (Remember that in every-
thing your lessons ought to be more in actions than in speech ; for
children easily forget what they have said and what has been said to
them, but not what they have done and what has been done to them.)
Locke, speaking of the education of a gentleman for in his day the
education of the poorer classes was scarcely thought of says, I
would have him learn a trade, a manual trade ; and Emerson, in
the choice words, Manual labor is the study of the external world,
