THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE FROM 1836 TO 1886. 507
putting dynamical geology on a firm basis of ascertained fact. The
heated interior has been shown almost with certainty to consist of a
rigid and solid mass, incandescent, but reduced to solidity under the
enormous pressure of superincumbent rocks and oceans. The age of
the earth has been approximately measured, at least by plausible
guess-work ; and the history of its component parts has been largely
reconstructed. Structural and stratigraphical geology have reached
a high pitch of accuracy. It is beginning to be possible, by conver-
gence of evidences, as the American geologists have shown, and as
Geikie has exemplified, to rewrite in part the history of continents
and oceans, and to realize each great land-mass as an organic whole,
gradually evolved in a definite direction and growing from age to age
by regular accretions. Where the old school saw cataclysms and
miracles, vast submergences and sudden elevations, the new school
sees slow development and substantial continuity throughout enormous
periods of similar activity.
It would be impossible to pass over in silence, in however brief a
resume, the special history of the glacial epoch theory a theory
referring indeed only to a single episode in the life of our planet, but
fraught with such immense consequences to plants and animals, and
to man in particular, that it rises into very high importance among the
scientific discoveries of our own era. Demonstration of the fact that
the recent period was preceded by a long reign of ice and snow, in
the northern and southern hemispheres alike, we owe mainly to the
fiery and magnetic genius of Agassiz ; and the proof that this glacial
period had many phases of hotter and colder minor spells has been
worked up in marvelous detail by James Geikie and other able coad-
jutors. Its theoretic explanation, its probable causes, and its alterna-
tion in the northern and southern hemispheres by turns, have been
adequately set forth by Croll in a profoundly learned and plausible
hypothesis. Upon the glacial epoch depend so many peculiarities in
the distribution of plant and animal forms at the present day that it
has come to assume a quite exceptional importance among late geo-
logical and biological theories. Standing at the very threshold of the
recent period, the great ice age forms the fixed date from which every-
thing in modern Europe and America begins it is the real flood which
stands to the true story of our continent and our race in the same
relation as the Noachian deluge stood to the imagined or traditional
world of our pre-scientific ancestors. Modern history begins with the
glacial epoch.
The science of life has been even more profoundly affected by the
evolutionary impulse than the concrete sciences of inorganic totals.
In 1837 biology as such hardly existed ; zoology and botany, its sepa-
rate components, were still almost wholly concerned with minute ques-
tions of classification ; vital force and other unimaginable meta-
physical entities were the sole explanations currently offered of all the
