THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE FROM 1836 TO 1886. 515
sis ; while the increasingly important study of meteors and comets has
brought us close to the very threshold of the great ultimate mystery
of star-genesis and world-forming. The extreme tenuity of the mass
of comets, the inconceivable rarity of the matter composing their
gaseous tails, the carious phenomena of the instantaneous reversal on
passing their perihelion, the proof that their light is partly reflected
and partly direct, the spectroscopic determination of their composition,
the discovery of the essentially planetary nature of meteor-streams,
and the recognition of their vast numbers swarming through space,
are among the most striking novelties of the last half-century in this
direction.
In sidereal astronomy, besides the mere mechanical increase of
mapping, the chief advances have been made in observations upon
double stars, spectroscopic analysis of fixed stars and of nebulae, and
consequent proof of the fact that truly irresolvable nebulae do really
exist, the gaseous raw material of future stars and solar systems. It
must be added that within the half -century the hypothetical ether has
amply vindicated its novel claim to take its place as a mysterious entity
side by side with matter and energy among the ultimate components
of the objective universe.
In geology, the chief theoretical advances have been made by the
recognition of the cosmical aspects of the earths history ; its relations
to nebula, sun, and meteor ; the importance of eccentricity and pre-
cession of the equinoxes, and the possible results of ancient changes
in its rates of motion, tides, and so forth. Dynamical geology has
made vast strides, especially in the investigation of volcanic phenom-
ena, mountain-building, and the birth and growth of islands and con-
tinents. The science of earth- sculpture has been developed from the
very beginning. Stratigraphical geology has been largely improved.
And in paleontology an immense number of the most striking and in-
teresting of fossil forms have been brought to light. Among them may
be specially mentioned those which have proved of critical importance
as evidences of the truth of organic evolution the toothed birds of the
Western American cretaceous deposits, the lizard-like bird or bird-
like feathered lizard of the Solenhofen slates, Marshs remarkable series
of ancestral horses, Copes beautiful reconstruction of the fossil pro-
genitors of existing camels. Monkeys certainly, anthropoid apes
clearly, man doubtfully, have been detected in the fossil state. India,
Australia, Canada, the United States have been explored and surveyed,
geologically and paleontologically ; and the exploitation of the far
West in particular has not only added immensely to our knowledge of
life in past times, but has also revolutionized our conceptions as to the
gradual growth and development of continental areas, and the occa-
sional vast scale of volcanic phenomena. The permanence of all great
continents and oceans is now a proved truth of geology. It has been
re-enforced and extended from a totally different point of view by Al-
