522 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of Sahaguns writing, about 1550. These metal-smiths were evi-
dently bound to secrecy in their art, for, in the Viceroy Mendozas
time, Lorenzana says that one of these workmen was imprisoned for
counterfeiting the Spanish coins, and, though he was promised pardon
if he would reveal the workshops of his people, his persistent silence
caused him to be put to death.
We find that chisels also are enumerated by Sahagun in the above
quotation, and there is no reason why we can not ascribe the three
bronze chisels that we have to the native metal-smiths to whom he
refers. We have, at any rate, no evidence, historic or archaeologic, by
which we might reasonably consider them as belonging to the period
before the conquest. Two of these bronze chisels are in the National
Museum at Washington, but, unfortunately for our present investiga-
tion, their origin is unknown, and no analysis of them has been made
to determine the relative percentage of copper and tin.
The remaining bronze chisel is in the Museum of Mexico, and is
described and figured in the annals of that institution, Vol. I, page
117. It should be noted that its form is very unlike either of the
two to which we have above referred, and that it has a percentage of
97*87 parts of copper and 2 - 13 of tin, which is precisely the same as
that of a bronze chisel found by Mr. J. II. Blake in Peru and
described in Wilsons Prehistoric Man, Vol. I, page 293. We
know not where, when, or how it was found, and if we doubt that it
was fashioned by the native metal-smiths who worked after the ad-
vent of the Spaniards, we might suppose it to have wandered thus far
from its Peruvian home, for greater distances, we know, did the cop-
per of Lake Superior travel in aboriginal barter.
But besides these there have also been found many other chisels,
and these as far as we know are all of copper. Dupaix describes sev-
eral which were plowed up in the neighborhood of the village of
Antequera in Oaxaca. They are composed, he says, of red copper
which we remember his editor, Lenoir, called native. Dr. Philipp
Valentini refers to another which, he says, is similar in form and
composition to those described by Dupaix. This was plowed up by
Senor Andrez Axnar Perez on his plantation near the river Zompan
in Tabasco, at a depth of nearly twelve inches. Unfortunately, none
of Dupaixs chisels can now be found, but the cut he gives shows
them to have been of the simplest form, and not unlike those in use
by our carpenters to-day. These, and that of Senor Perez, are uni-
form in shape and composition, while each of the three of bronze
presents a strikingly odd and distinct type. An analysis of their
composition would doubtless show also a varying percentage of cop-
per and tin, and we feel tempted, under the circumstances, to regard
those of pure copper, which are uniform, as indigenous, and the
bronze, which are odd, as importations from South America, or else
the product of post-Columbian skill.
