THE METAL ART OF ANCIENT MEXICO. 523
Thus we see that, excepting three chisels and four bronze bells, the
specimens are all of pure copper, and, whether or not this pure copper
is native, chemical experiments have not yet been able to determine.
The fact that drawn wire is catalogued with the bronze specimens as
Mexican antiquities bids us receive them with caution ; and in this
connection we must remember what Sahagun and Lorenzana have told
us, that the Mexicans after the conquest, like the Navajos to-day,
utilized some of the arts of the European, and worked largely and
skillfully in metals. We must remember, also, that there has never
been in Mexico, as in Peru and Wisconsin, a discovery of an ancient
mine, neither a crucible nor any kind of tool by which the metal was
extracted from the ore, yet investigations have been going on very
actively in Mexico for nearly a century and a half.
We have, then, nothing whatever, so far as archaeologic evidence
goes, to show that the Mexicans acquired and practiced the art of
smelting, refining, and alloying before the advent of the Spaniard.
Turning from this fact to an examination of the early historic rec-
ords, we learn that Cortes, Gomora, and Bernal Diaz are the only
original authorities whose statements imply a knowledge of smelting.
But the honesty and accuracy of these very writers have been ques-
tioned. Though founded, to be sure, upon a more or less substantial
basis of fact, their descriptions of Mexican civilization are palpably
colored and idealized. The natural features of the country refute
many of their statements, while others are characterized by gross dis-
crepancy. They have been regarded, therefore, for the most part, as
imaginary and delusive, and, since they are the main basis upon which
rests the popular idea of a high civilization in ancient Mexico, that
civilization has been thought fictitious in some of its most essential
features, and in general greatly overdrawn.
Examining first the accounts of the expeditions that touched upon
the shores of Yucatan and Central America prior to 1519, we find no
mention of any metals except pure copper and gold. But Cortes, on
the other hand, in one of his letters to the emperor, says that he saw
within the market-place of Mexico trinkets of gold and silver, of
lead, bronze, copper, and tin. I can not agree with many writers in
thinking that the gold which Cortes saw was the product of so en-
lightened and difficult an art as smelting. Though gold in the ore is
rich and plentiful in the Mexican country, the inhabitants could not
have been aware of any better method of obtaining it than by sifting
it from river sands. Notwithstanding his numerous observations
of marvelously wrought gold objects in Mexico, Bernal Diazs own
words should establish this fact. Montezuma, he says, informed them
that their gold was obtained from the province of Zacatula, where
the earth which contained it was washed in wooden vessels, and the
gold-dust sank to the bottom. It was also to be had, he says, in
Tustepec, where it was collected from the beds of rivers. Again,
