5 24 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
speaking of the expeditions sent out by Cortes in search of mines, he
says that Gonzalo de TTmbria, who went to Zacatula, reported that
there the natives washed gold out of the sand in small troughs.
If this were the only means employed, it is improbable that the
Spaniards saw it in all the instances and in the great quantity that
Cortez and Bernal Diaz describe ; and that their statements in this
regard are grossly exaggerated is evident from the fact that, with the
exception of a few small trinkets, not a relic of the beautiful things
of which they speak remains. Neither do the chronicles record a very
great amount actually gathered by the rapacious conqueror, yet all
the schemes which his mind could conceive must have been directed
to this one object, not for personal greed only, but to meet the expecta-
tions of the emperor, to whom, when he had feared that he was to
be deprived of his command, he had promised wealth and treasure.
Though torture of the most barbaric description was employed to
induce the natives to reveal the riches that they were supposed to hide,
no more were obtained ; and, in order that the Spanish king and those
about his court may afterward understand the absence of the treasure
in the kind and quantity which he had led them to expect, Cortes
cautiously wrote that it was all lost in that disastrous revolution which
first drove him from the city.
It is not to be supposed either that the half-civilized Aztec was
aware of those many complex chemical processes by which silver is
separated from the ore. If we are to credit him with this, we must
call him a great metallurgist indeed, skilled in an art known even now
only to a few, and which demands all the machinery and scientific
accomplishments of our modern times. We know to-day that Mexico
is richer in silver than any other country in the Avorld, yet the mention
of this metal in the records is noticeably infrequent, and it is especially
significant that it does not figure in the articles of tribute. Let us,
nevertheless, believe the exaggerating Gomora, and we find that all
the silver actually collected by the Spaniards was only five hundred
marks. These facts can not be reconciled with a knowledge of smelt-
ing. The little silver they may have had was doubtless only the native
metal which is to be found in Mexico, or that which was obtained like
the gold from the placer-washings.
Bronze, too, is in Cortess list of metals, and if we accept bronze
we must also accept tin, its necessary component. Though Cortes
tells us that he saw tin in the market-place of Mexico, we find him
shortly afterward deploring its absence when he desires to cast some
cannon. He does not ask the natives to show him whence the tin of
the market-place was obtained, but sends only his own men search-
ing in all directions until it was at last found in the form of coins
among the natives of Tasco. Then, inconsistent with his past conduct,
he does not rob the natives of this very coveted metal, though his
distress for it had reached its highest point, but he sends his Span-
