THE METAL ART OF ANCIENT MEXICO. 525
iards, unassisted by natives, with the necessary tools to bring him
samples of it. After this a sufficient quantity is procured, though it
cost him, he says, a work of much labor.
But, however much this may indicate the possession of tin among
the natives, we know to-day that there is none in Tasco ; and though,
perhaps, it may be found in Michoacan and Jalisco, the Mexicans have
not thought it worth their while to work it. Baron Humboldt, who
paid a visit to Tasco, had perhaps the best opportunities for the dis-
covery of a mine, but nowhere does he speak of finding any traces of
such ancient works. Though he must have known what Cortes had
said concerning Tasco, he tells us that there the natives obtained not
tin, but silver. This tin of Tasco, it should be noted, is not mentioned
by Bernal Diaz or Gomora, and this, with the tin seen on sale in the
Mexican market, both vague and barren of description as to how it
was obtained, are the only instances in the authorities upon which our
belief is based. Tin, strange to say, is not embraced in that well-
known list of tributes which were paid to Montezuma by the subordi-
nate tribes, neither can it claim the distinction accorded to copper and
gold to be figured in the ancient paintings. The axes figured therein,
we have heretofore seen, could scarcely have been an alloy of copper
and tin, for their shape corresponds to the axes in our museums, which
are of hammered pure copper.
Our belief, then, in what Cortes has said concerning this metal is
somewhat shaken, but additional reason for discrediting him will be
hereinafter presented when we come to consider the circumstances that
influenced his statements.
The fact that lead is also enumerated is enough to warn us to take
these statements cum grano salis. I know of no place in Mexico
where lead is worked to-day, though Humboldt tells us that in ]803
it was feebly mined in the extreme northeast. It is found to a limited
extent in the States of Oaxaca and Chihuahua, but it is associated with
silver; and, if the natives made use of this supply, which is extremely
doubtful, they must have possessed the scientific knowledge by means of
which the two metals are separated. Cortes is sustained in this state-
ment as to lead only by Gomora ; and he, while designedly reasserting
what his master and patron had already said about the metals of the
market-place, is careful, however, to add the important qualification
that lead was scarce. ,
The subordinate Cortes, on landing in Mexico, shrewdly saw in its
conquest an opportunity for his ambition. He feared that he might
in this be superseded by another should he await the forms of Spanish
law, so he contrived an election by which he was irregularly made a
captain-general, and then boldly undertook a military expedition with-
out a royal charter.
Thus there is hardly a doubt, and his letters plainly indicate it,
that his prime object in these reports was to so frame them as to se-
