534 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
quarto memoir of one hundred and nine pages and six plates, are very-
interesting.
But it is since this magnificent publication appeared that the author,
on the occasion of the opposition of Mars of 1881-82, was a witness of
some marvelous changes which are fully described in a memoir that
has not yet appeared, but which M. Schiaparelli has kindly sent me.
It appears from these observations, and from others which were made
between 1884 and 1886, that Mars is at this moment the theatre of
phenomena of stupendous grandeur which will be adequate in a few
years to impress profound changes in its aspect. The views taken by
M. Schiaparelli show that a number of the channels previously described
are doubling, or are being paralleled by similar ones having the same
dimensions and directions. The appearance on the new map of the
hemisphere is nearly the same, Dr. Terby, an eminent areographer, of
Louvain, suggests, as would be produced in the former one by cov-
ering it with a double-refracting crystal. To this phenomenon, which
has no analogy, M. Schiaparelli has given the name of the gemi-
nation of canals ; and he has prepared a full memoir respecting it,
which will shortly appear.
Although they were met at first with incredulity, these astonish-
ing discoveries have received and are receiving constant confirmation
from the observations of such men as Boeddicker and Burton in Ire-
land, M. Perrotin of the observatory at Nice, and his collaborators,
MM. Trepied, Thollon, and Gautier. Other observers, like Messrs.
Green, Knobel, and Denning, have not been so fortunate in verifying
his facts, but their researches, published in the memoirs of the London
Astronomical Society, and in the Monthly Notices, are full of inter-
est. It adds to the mystery that the gemination seems to be made
gradually, though rapidly, and with progressive accentuation. Thus,
the canal Nilus, at the junction of the eightieth meridian and parallel
20 north, is paralleled by another canal, which is very faintly marked
and hardly visible in the older map. In the new map the two canals
have a nearly equal intensity.
By careful comparison of Schroeters designs, made a century ago,
and Herschels earlier ones, M. Terby has discovered analogous modi-
fications on the Martial surface. Some of them are local enlargements
of some of the seas, like that called Kaiser, and other changes in the
details of configurations which had been supposed to be fixed. Of
similar character is the memoir of M. Van de Sand Baghuyzen, in the
Annals of the Observatory of Leyden, in which the author inter-
prets the designs of Schroeter and finds in them a trace of many of
M. Schiaparellis details. Pere Lamey has also made many observa-
tions of Mars, which have led him to some original conclusions worthy
of investigation. Translated for the Popular Science Monti hly from
La Nature.
