EDUCATIONAL ENDOWMENTS. 541
absolutely neglected. And, to crown all, it was found that even in
the classics no satisfactory work was done. Few of the pupils could
read even Latin with any ease, and none were ever asked to do so at
sight. It would have been useless.*
Certainly no such state of affairs can be found in any American
institution. But there are facts in plenty with the same bearing.
Dissociate a body of men from their fellow-citizens, set up an inde-
pendent caste by endowing it financially, and the consequences appear
even in a country where public opinion is as omnipotent as here. The
difficulty of forcing progressive action on our colleges is a sufficient
illustration. We live in an age of unparalleled passion, pulse, and
power an age with gigantic problems suddenly laid on it ; our civ-
ilization is chiefly industrial, and the railway, the factory, and labor
organizations are the largest elements of our social life. Would any
one believe a priori that under these circumstances our colleges would
be still haggling over the Greek and Latin question, and that only
one of them in the entire country should give instruction on railway
transportation, the most important subject now before the public, and
the one also on which there is such vast ignorance ? f This, however,
is only one instance of the disgusting narrowness of the professorial
intellect as stimulated by endowments. Everywhere we find a
total want of connection between the colleges especially those old
and rich and the life of the people. Go into a university library,
and, after listening to the complaints of the librarian about the paltry
sums at his disposal, you will find splendid and expensive editions of
Percys Reliques, Scotts Dryden, hundreds of volumes of pe-
dantic discussion about Shakespeare, and you will look in vain proba-
bly for the great newspapers which so faithfully reflect the nations
life ; and Bradstreets, The Railroad Gazette, and frequently even
The Century, Harpers, The Forum, and The Popular Science
Monthly will also be wanting. Recent American literature is treated
with similar disdain. The want of direct responsibility to the public
is felt in all directions. When a railway corporation discovers that
a man is incompetent, it discharges him ; a newspaper takes care not
to retain poor writers. But no incapacity is so great that a college
position, once gained, need be lost. Go through any of our great in-
stitutions, and you will find that year after year the same complaints
have been made by students regarding their instructors. These have
produced no effect, because the stimulus of duty not re-enforced by
interest is not sufficient. It is a disagreeable thing to discharge a man,
and it is not done when the authorities have no personal interest in the
matter. Thus college professorships in this country come to a pass
* I shall be suspected of heightening this picture. I can only refer to the report itself
for confirmation.
f Yale is the college referred to. Harvard has recently announced a series of lect-
ures dealing with railways.
