SKETCH OF PAUL GERVAIS. 553
paleontologists, the author showed that real cetaceans were not yet
known in the deposits anterior to the Miocene. To M. Gervais are
owing, in the study of fossil reptiles, some valuable observations on
the footprints of the large batrachians called cheirotherium in the Tri-
assic sandstones of Lodeve.
Most of M. Gervaiss publications were both zoological and pale-
ontological. Some were of a more general character. Among these
was the Medical Zoology ( Zoulogie Medicale ), which was pub-
lished conjointly by him and M. Van Beneden in 1850, and is remark-
able for the prominence given to the lower animals and to the theory
of parasitism which is developed in it ; and a natural history of the
mammalia ( Histoire Naturelle des Mammiferes ), 1855, in which
attention is given to the habits of animals, and to their relations to the
arts, commerce, and agriculture. This work, which is in two volumes,
abounds in original observations, the fruit of the personal researches
of the author, which have in many instances modified the views pre-
viously held by mammalogists. He was also the author of A Theory
of the Human Skeleton ( Theorie du squelette Humain ), 1856 ; of
the Metamorphosis of Organisms and Alternating Generations
( De la Metamorphose des Organisms et des Generations Alter-
nantes), 18G1; on the Antiquity of Man (De PAnciennete de
lHomme ), 1863 ; of Elements of the Natural Sciences ( Elements
des Sciences naturelle ), 1856 ; and of many notes, memoirs, and arti-
cles in the Dictionary of the Natural Sciences, Patria, A Million
Facts, The Jardin des Plantes, and La Nature. The wide range
of subjects covered in these books testifies to the extent of his knowl-
edge and the diversity of his talents. In a science prodigiously vast,
says M. Blanchard, he showed himself familiar with most of the
subjects, and was accounted among the most erudite. M. Gervais
was elected to the Academy of Sciences in January, 1864, and with
this he gained one of the great objects of his ambition. After work-
ing for nearly forty-five years, to the great profit and advantage of
science, he died, from an illness of several months duration, as poor as
he had been in the earlier days of his career.
Mr. J. G. Ellis has criticised, in the Educational Weekly, Dr. Wilsons
theory that a new American race is to be produced by the absorption of the In-
dian race with the white. Admitting, he reasons, that the white American race is
acquiring peculiar characteristics, and that these are not unlike those of the Indian,
may it not be the work of the American environment, rather than that of inter-
crossing with Indians, of which there is no sufficient evidence, but which is con-
tradicted by indisputable genealogies in some cases where the approach to like-
ness is apparent? Sir Charles Dilke asserted, in his Greater Britain, that the
white American race was growing like the red Indian. The assertion seemed
broad and strong, but something of the kind seems to be indicated in this dis-
cussion.
