556
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
prominent, that the processes on the bones
for the attachments of muscles were not so
well marked, that its muscular structure
was more delicate, that the skin was softer,
and finer, and freer from wrinkles, that the
nail was longer in proportion to its width
than that of man. Such would be the de-
scription of an average female thumb, as I
see thumbs belonging to the ladies of my
acquaintance.
Now, following Miss Gardener in the
offer which she makes, and according to
which by my ability to select rightly in
every instance I am to gain or lose my
case, I make this proposition to her :
I will agree to furnish twenty well-pre-
served thumbs, marked in cipher, if subjects
can be obtained for the experiment, Miss
Gardener or her twenty leading brain-
anatomists, etc., to divide the male from
the female thumbs, by applying any knowl-
edge they may possess on the subject.
Doubtless Miss Gardener and the twen-
ty leading brain-anatomists, etc., know a
male from a female thumb when they see
them, but I am quite sure that by judicious
selection, I should be able to confound their
judgment. I should take some of the male
thumbs from small, delicate men who had
never done any hard work, and who had
taken good care of their hands by wearing
gloves and availing themselves of the serv-
ices of a manicure, while I should select
some female thumbs from women whose
hands are hardened and enlarged by expos-
ure and toil, and to whom nail-brushes and
soap-and-water are rarities. I am quite
safe in saying that Miss Gardener and the
twenty leading brain-anatomists, etc.,
would find it impossible to select the ten
male from the ten female thumbs, and I am
equally certain that there is not an anato-
mist of the brain kind, or any other variety,
who could accomplish the feat.
That there are female brains that are
larger than male brains, of altogether supe-
rior development, and the possessors of
which have greater intellectual power than
is exhibited by some men, neither I nor any
any one else, so far as I know, has ever
denied. Miss Gardener can not be in igno-
rance of my views on this subject, for she
quotes my words average male and aver-
age female brain, and it is to the aver-
age female brain only that my description
applies. A fair proposition would be the
following, and, if Miss Gardener, from the
resources at her command the collec-
tions of the twenty leading brain-anato-
mists, etc. will supply the brains, I will
agree to stand or fall by the result. Weigh
one hundred male brains and then one hun-
dred female brains : if the average weight of
the male brains is not several ounces great-
er than that of the female brains, I lose my
case. The only condition I make is that I
shall be present when the brains are se-
lected and weighed.
It is scarcely necessary, however, to re-
peat an experiment that has been performed
by many anatomists in all parts of the civ-
ilized world. Thus, Welckers observations
show that the average male brain in Euro-
peans is a little over forty-nine ounces, and
the average female brain a little over forty-
four ounces, a difference of about five
ounces. The proportion existing between
the two is therefore as 100:90. Huschke
found the brains of adult man and woman
to weigh respectively 1,410 grammes and
1,272 grammes. His observations, there-
fore, coincide very exactly with those of
Welcker.
Calori not only found that the brain of
man is heavier than that of woman, but he
discovered the fact that the difference
exists no matter what may be the form of
the skull. Thus in men w ith brachycepha-
lic skulls, the average weight of the brain
was 1,805 grammes, while in brachycephalic
women it was only 1,150 grammes. In the
dolicocephali the average weight of the male
brain was 1,282 grammes, whereas that of
the female brain was 1,136 grammes.
Broca, in his paper Sur le volume et la
forme du cerveau, arranges from Wagners
elaborate table one which shows that this
difference exists for all ages from twenty-
one years to sixty and over. The results
are given in grammes in the following table :
In fact, all authorities, without excep-
tion, save Miss Gardener and the twenty
leading brain-anatomists, etc., agree that
the average European male brain is about
five ounces heavier than the average female
brain.
Another test that I am willing to abide
by is the following, relating to the other
characteristics that Miss Gardener quotes
as having been laid down by me :
Let her, from the stores at her command,
allow me to select from at least one hun-
dred specimens an average female brain,
and from a like number an average male
brain. I will agree to point out to a com-
petent brain-anatomist not one of the
twenty, however all the differences for
which I have ever contended. By that test
also I am willing to stand or fall.
I have never said, as Miss Gardener
charges, that the sex of an infant could be
determined by its brain, though Riidinger
declares that a typical point of difference be-
