560
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the world just as they present them-
selves. If there is anything a scientific
man labors to be exact in it is in the
description of what he has observed.
He knows that, if he is inaccurate here,
some one will go over his work and
discover and expose his errors, thus
destroying in a large measure the credit
ho might otherwise reap from his ar-
duous investigations. No ; there can be
no question that men of science give
the world pure facts as far as they are
able ; probably no men, not even the
clergy, work under so deep and con-
stant a sense of responsibility for the
exhibition of the truth without any ad-
mixture of fable.
The weaving of facts into theories
is, however, another matter, and here
undoubtedly a certain personal element
may come into play. When Darwins
theories were first broached, all the
world, nearly, cried out against them.
They were demolished a countless num-
ber of times, not only in theological
but in scientific periodicals. The world
was under the influence of the special-
creation hypothesis, and the facts and
reasonings of Darwin fell far short,
even in the minds of the most of those
who read his work, of shaking their
faith in the old system of thought. The
seed sown was not, however, trampled
out of existence, as it might have been
in an earlier age. It took lodgment
in some minds, and it was not long in
showing that it possessed a strong prin-
ciple of vitality. To-day evolution, in
a wider sense than Darwin himself was
at first prepared for, is the dominant
philosophy. No doubt it was to this
philosophy that the duke referred when
he hinted at the existence of a kind of
intellectual tyranny in the world of sci-
entific thought. It may be, of course,
that just as evolution was opposed in
the past on account of its novelty and
its disagreement with accepted theories,
so, now that it has gained a certain
prestige, it may receive the adhesion of
some who like to be on what appears
to be the stronger side, and who may
support it in the spirit of partisanship
rather than of conviction. How this is
to be avoided, while human nature re-
mains what it is, it is difficult to see.
Every school of thought that ever ex-
isted in the world has had, in addition
to its reasonable and convinced adher-
ents, other adherents, in whom the
spirit of sect and party has been much
stronger than the love of truth. But
while we may admit that the evolution
philosophy has not escaped, and is not
likely to escape, the fate of philosophies
in general in this respect, we may very
confidently assert that no one to-day
who is capable of making any original
investigations that might have a bear-
ing on the doctrine of evolution is in
the least likely to be unduly influenced
by any weight of authority on the
side of any particular theory. There
never was an age when, in matters sci-
entific and philosophical, there was so
complete a liberty of prophesying
as there is to-day. To talk, therefore,
of scientific orthodoxy, as some do,
with the intention of suggesting a par-
allel with theological orthodoxy, is al-
together unfair and misleading. There
are no courts for the trial of scientific
heresy. The only penalty any man in-
curs for putting forth inaccurate state-
ments of fact or inconclusive reasonings
is that, upon the exposure of his errors,
his scientific standing is more or less
compromised according to the gravity
of the case. No scientific worker can
be condemned by the mere ipse dixit
of any authority however distinguished :
the appeal to facts lies open to the
humblest citizen in the republic of sci-
ence. Here truth is Crcsar, and there
is no divided empire.
But, while Science does not set up
any unalterable code of opinion, while it
does not seek to withdraw any theory or
hypothesis whatsoever from the control
of verification, it has its own way of
looking at things, its own methods of
testing what is proposed for accept-
