562
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
be says in his address to Mrs. Fry, the
benevolent Quaker lady who interested
herself so deeply in the inmates of jails
and penitentiaries. He admired many
things about that amiable lady. I
like, he says
Your dove-like habits and your silent
preaching ;
But I donH like your Newgateory teaching.
Nugatory Tom thought it, and nuga-
tory, indeed, the great mass of such
teaching has been, as prison chaplains
would themselves confess. But if it
is the case that the energies of the
mind and of the moral nature are sadly
cramped and confined through imper-
fect physical development and abnormal
physical habit, what may we not hope
for if, by proper gymnastic exercise and
sound sanitary conditions, we are able
to remedy, to a great extent, these bodi-
ly defects ? The idea that body and mind
work together, and that it can not be
well with the one if it is ill with the
other, was a commonplace among the
ancient Greeks ; but for ages the truth
was lost sight of, and was indeed sup-
planted by the antagonist error that if
we would cultivate and develop the soul
we must oppress and dishonor the body.
We are now working back to the Greek
point of view ; and, with the exact
methods of modern science to aid us,
may be expected to turn whatever of
truth it contains to better use than they
did. The Greeks held, empirically, that
rhythm of sound and rhythm of motion
particularly simple rhythms free from
all bravura had a regularizing effect
upon the thoughts and a moderating
effect upon the passions. Now, this is
precisely what the average criminal na-
ture most needs. The criminal is es-
sentially a man who does not naturally
act in unison or harmony with his fel-
low-men he is prone to strike discord-
ant notes that is, to perform irregular
and lawless actions. This disposition
is probably due in part to distrust of
himself, arising from a secret conscious-
ness of deficiency. To such a man, a
well-directed course of bodily exercise
means, in the first place, the develop-
ment of his physical organs and facul-
ties ; in the second place, a certain sense
of power resulting therefrom ; thirdly,
a heightened self-respect and self-conn*
dence ; fourthly, a sense of the value
of method ; fifthly, a more regular flow
of thought to more definite objects ;
and, sixthly, a certain development of
the social instinct arising from a gen-
erally improved bodily and intellectual
condition.
It may be accepted as a general prin-
ciple that when a given result proves
very difficult if not impossible of attain-
ment we are trying to take too big a
step to get at it that is, we are over-
looking some intermediate stage or
stages that have to be passed through
before we can get at our objective point.
It is as if we wanted to get up- stairs all
at once, instead of proceeding step by
step. Well, in regard to criminals, we
have preached at them in the effort to
reach their spiritual nature ; we have
set the schoolmaster on them, in the
effort to rouse their dormant intel-
lectual faculties ; now, at length, after
abundant evidence as to how little either
chaplain or schoolmaster can effect, we
are trying what the drill-master can do
to mend their crooked bodies, to reform
their shambling gait, to fix the vacant
or wandering eye, to infuse life, vigor,
and snap into spiritless frames ; and
at last it seems as if we were on the right
track. After all. what did St. Paul tell
us long ago? First that which is natu-
ral (physical), then that which is
spiritual. 1 Well, without heeding him
any more than the ancient Greeks, who,
in this matter at least, were eo wise, we
have in the main been working, or try-
ing to work, on the spiritual, and leaving
the natural to shift for itself, even when
its defects have been most conspicuous,
and when, owing to these defects, the
spiritual has been almost non-existent.
It is time to go back on our tracks and
to see to it that we make things as
