LITERARY NOTICES.
5 6 3
right as we can in the natural region,
before we look for intellectual results
or the peaceable fruits of righteousness.
We seem already to see Science, the
despised Cinderella, as Huxley says,
scoring another triumph, and showing
that, even for moral reform, its meth-
ods are worth more than all other
modes of activity put together.
LITERARY NOTICES.
The Problem of Evil. An Introduction
to the Practical Sciences. By Dan-
iel Greenleaf Thompson, author of A
System of Psychology. London : Long-
mans, Green Co. 1887. Cloth. 8vo.
Pp. 281.
The Problem of Evil, though modest-
ly heralded by its author as An Introduc-
tion to the Practical Sciences, and not as-
suming to present a complete exposition of
ethical science, is in reality a noteworthy
contribution to that department of philo-
sophical inquiry. Aiming to clear the way
for a popular understanding of the scien-
entific method as applied to moral and so-
cial problems, Mr. Thompsons treatment
of his topic is less technical and systematic
than readers of A System of Psychology
would naturally be led to expect. The pres-
ent work, however, loses little, if anything,
in value to the philosophical student on this
account, while its more popular style, and
the practical nature of many of the ques-
tions herein discussed, will doubtless render
it more attractive to the general reader, and
introduce its author to many new acquaint-
ances among thinking people.
The question presented in the earlier
chapters of this book, and ably discussed in
all its various phases throughout the suc-
ceeding pages, is none other than the great
problem of all the theologies and moral
philosophies : How shall we interpret the
startling but undeniable fact of moral evil ?
How may we most wisely strive for its
abatement and cure?
After briefly and fairly stating the chief
theological explanations of evil those
which look to a supernatural source and
cause and expressing his dissent from
this method of approaching the subject, our
author proceeds to define moral evil as
pain caused by human volition (p. 17);
and to investigate briefly its causes and
offices in the human economy. Pain, he
concludes, is a universal concomitant of
mind, so far as we are able to make mind
a subject of science. As we are unable to
trace, scientifically, the origin of mind or
life, we are therefore baffled in our attempt
to disclose the ultimate origin of evil. The
practical problem, accordingly, to which we
should turn our attention is, How may we
seek for its elimination by the most effect-
ual means ? In other words, How may we
best strive for the advancement of human
happiness ?
Readers of A System of Psychology
will be prepared to find our author in ac-
cord with utilitarian theories of ethics. The
psychological and philosophical elements in-
volved in the problem of evil, however, are
assumed, or briefly sketched, rather than
presented in the form of a complete argu-
mentative exposition, in the present work
the philosophical foundations of this study
having been laid by the author in the work
before mentioned. From the standpoint of
a rational utilitarianism, he criticises with
great acuteness and force what he terms the
yEstho-Egoistic philosophy of Thomas
Hill Green, and other representatives of the
intuitional school. In the subjective feel-
ing or consciousness of self-satisfaction,
which expresses the summum bonum of in-
tuitional ethics, he discovers an ideal which
is essentially egoistic. His own interpreta-
tion of utilitarian ethics, on the other hand,
issues in an altruism which is widely re-
moved from the alleged selfishness of
the hedonistic philosophers. The Chief
Ideal Good being the existence of all in-
dividuals without pain, presentative or rep-
resentative, during this period of existence,
right conduct is that which tends toward
this ideal, and right volition is the will to
act according to its requirements (p. 71).
The four chief methods of reducing evil
are found to be 1. The Control of Material
Forces, through industrial effort and sci-
entific discovery and investigation ; 2. Se-
curity and Justice, through political action ;
3. Direct Altruistic Effort ; and, 4. The
Development of Individual Character,
through education and moral training. The
chief hindrances to this work are 1. The
