LITERARY NOTICES.
565
lower of sect or leader. In many respects
his conclusions agree with those of Mr. Her-
bert Spencer ; but he is no imitator of Mr.
Spencers style, and he docs not hesitate to
express a frank disagreement with his opin-
ions upon occasion as in the matter of
state education, which Mr. Thompson ad-
vocates, while Mr. Spencer condemns. A
multitude of the pressing problems of our
Bocial life are suggested and discussed in
this compact volume, with such frankness,
sincerity, ability, and good feeling, that we
can heartily commend it not only to the
professional scholar, but to all thoughtful
men and women. The interest which it
will awaken will doubtless bespeak far Mr.
Thompsons larger work A System of
Psychology a wider circle of readers
than it has hitherto had in this country.
The Factors of Organic Evolution. By
Herbert Spencer. New York : D. Ap-
pleton Co. Pp. 76.
The two parts of which this essay con-
sists were originally published in succes-
sive numbers of The Nineteenth Century,
and also of The Popular Science Monthly.
They are now given in a single volume,
together with some passages of considerable :
length which were omitted, for the sake of ;
brevity, from the magazine publication. Mr.
Spencer believes that though mental phe-
nomena of many kinds are explicable only
as resulting from the natural selection of j
favorable variations there are others, still
more numerous, which can not be explained
otherwise than as the results of the inherit-
ance of functionally-produced modifications.
Not only the conceptions we form of the
genesis and nature of our higher emotions
and moral intuitions, but our sociological
beliefs, are profoundly affected by the con-
clusions we draw on this point. If a na-
tion is modified en masse by transmission
of the effects produced on the natures of
its members by those modes of activity
which its institutions and circumstances in-
volve, then we must infer that such insti-
tutions and circumstances mold its members
far more rapidly and comprehensively than
they can do if the sole cause of adaptation
to them is the more frequent survival of
individuals who happen to have varied in
favorable ways. Considering the effects
which the acceptance of one or other of
these hypotheses must have on our views,
life, mind, morals, and politics, the question
which of them is true, Mr. Spencer adds,
demands, beyond all other questions what-
ever, the attention of scientific men.
The Ruling Princi?le of Method applied
to Education. By Antonio Rosmini
Serbati. Translated by Mrs. William
Grey. Boston : D. C. Heath Co. Pp.
363. Price, $1.50.
Rosmini proposed to apply to education
the principles which were independently
worked out by Froebel into the Kinder-
garten the principles, as the translator
describes them, on which Nature herself
works. He contemplated a complete trea-
tise on pedagogy, to be worked out in de-
partments corresponding with the several
stages of the unfolding and building up of
the pupils mind, having in view, however,
not only the child at school, but, to use the
words of Francesco Paoli, the adult and
the old, the whole race, in short, because
in the man, at every stage of life, there ia
something of the child ; there is a new de-
velopment going on within him, which re-
quires to be guided and assisted that it may
reach a successful issue, and the man learn
to educate himself. With this view, he
divided his subjects into periods computed
by the degrees of cognition which the hu-
man mind successively attains in its intel-
lectual development. The first of these pe-
riods begins at birth, and includes about six
weeks, during which no definite cognitions
can be assigned to the child, except that
primary and fundamental one of being ; the
second begins with the first smile and tears,
with the simple perception of things as sub-
sisting constituting its cognitions, to which
correspond the volitions, which have these
things as their object. The third period is
marked by the acquisition of speech, which
shows that the child has attained the power
of analysis and abstraction, with volitions
having sensible qualities as their object.
The fourth period shows itself in the apti-
tude to learn to read, and is characterized by
the exercise of the faculties of judgment and
comparison, and by the development of the
moral sense, which was already existing in
the germ. Thence are developed conscience,
synthetic cognitions, and the free use of the
