NOTES.
575
On examination of specimens of the stones
the author found their principal distinguish-
ing characteristic to be the presence of
spherical bubbles, rarely pear-shaped, or
having stringy portions showing how they
had moved, but with the ends always round-
ed, and presenting a cloudy appearance or
an arrangement in wavy groups. In natural
rubies the cavities are always angular or
crystalline in outline, and are usually filled
with liquid ; or, sometimes they are arranged
with the lines of growth, forming part of a
feather, as it is called by jewelers. In many
genuine rubies we find a silky structure
which appears under the microscope to be
a series of cuneiform or acicular crystals,
usually iridescent. No traces of these have
been found in the artificial specimens. The
stones are about equally hard and of nearly
equal specific gravity with genuine rubies.
Their color is good, but not so brilliant as
that of a very fine ruby. The syndicate of
diamonds and precious stones of Paris has
directed that all stones of this kind shall
be marked artificial, else they will be con-
sidered fraudulent, and sellers of them will
be dealt with accordingly.
NOTES.
The retiring President of the American
Association for the Advancement of Sci-
ence, who will give the presidential address
at the New York meeting, is Professor Ed-
ward S. Morse, of Salem, Massachusetts,
lie will review what American zoologists
have done to advance the doctrine of evolu-
tion. Professor S. P. Langley, of Wash-
ington, will enter upon the office of presi-
dent at this meeting. The vice-presidents,
who are to preside over the several sec-
tions, are : A. Mathematics and Astronomy,
William Ferrel, of Washington ; B. Phys-
ics, W. A. Anthony, of Ithaca, New York ;
C. Chemistry, Albert B. Prescott, of Ann
Arbor, Michigan; D. Mechanical Science,
Eckley B. Coxe, of Drifton, Pennsylvania ;
E. Geology and Geography, G K. Gilbert,
of Washington ; F. Biology, W. G. Farlow,
of Cambridge, Massachusetts ; H. Anthro-
pology, D. G. Brinton, of Media, Pennsyl-
vania ; J. Economic Science and Statistics,
Henry E. Alvord, of Amherst, Massachu-
setts.
The American Public Health Associa-
tion will hold its fifteenth annual meeting
this year at Memphis, Tennessee, November
8th to 1 1th. The topics to be considered
are: The Pollution of Water-Supplies;
The Disposal of Refuse Matter of Cities ;
The Disposal of Refuse Matter of Villages,
Summer Resorts, and Isolated Tenements ;
and Animal Diseases dangerous to Man.
The Indian Government has arranged a
scheme for the complete and systematic
botanical survey of India, for which pur-
pose the country has been divided into four
great districts, with a superintendent of sur-
vey in each. The flora of the Philippine Isl-
ands has been under study by Dr. Sebastian
Vidal, Director of the Botanical Garden at
Manila and $he commission for studying the
forest flora ; and the work is provided for,
for still another year at least, in the public
budget.
Sir Lyon Playfair, in opening a new
Industrial Institute at Bromley, England,
recently, said that hitherto the country had
prided itself upon the practical knowledge
of its artisans, but it had relied too entire-
ly upon that knowledge. The consequence
had been that the countries which nurtured
the intellects of the people had stepped in,
and with their superior mental education
had showed the world that the competition
of the day was not one of local advantages,
but a competition of intellect. England was
realizing her position now. and training her
sons by technical schools to compete intel-
lectually with the countries round her, from
whom she had learned her lesson.
Mr. George II. Blagrove, in a paper
on House Construction in Relation to
Health, suggests that great sanitary ad-
vantages might be gained if towns were
laid out with the streets in the diagonal
directions northeast and southwest, north-
west and southeast. Some of the suburban
towns near New York are laid out in this way,
and the sun shining into all the rooms
some time during every day in the year, and
nearly every day into all the windows the
effect is very cheering and salutary.
The fact is suggestive of the intensity
of the strain of city life, that, while from
1852 to 1808 the population of Chicago in-
creased 5 1 times and the death-rate 3 - V
times, the draths from nervous disorders
increased 2o*4 times.
Rats are accustomed to inhabit the
buildings at South Kensington while the
exhibitions are in progress. When the
exhibitions close, they become starved, and
leave the buildings in obviously great num-
bers. The rat population appears to have
been greater than ever during the recent
Colonial and Indian Exhibition, and they
appeared everywhere, even eagerly going
into the traps, which they avoided at other
times. At length they entered upon a
struggle for existence among themselves,
and kept it up till all the young and weaker
rats were devoured.
