578 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the United States Bureau of Labor* (1886) have assigned a promi-
nent place ; and which the Trades-Union Congress of England has
by resolution accepted as being, in the opinion of the workmen of
England, the most prominent cause, namely, over-production. In
a certain sense there can be no over-production of desirable products
so long as human wants for such products remain unsatisfied. But it
is in accordance with the most common of the worlds experiences,
that there is at times and places a production of most useful and
desirable things in excess of any demand at remunerative prices to
the producer. This happens, in some instances, through lack of prog-
ress or enterprise, and in others through what may be termed an ex-
cess of progress or enterprise. An example of the first is to be
found in the circumstance that in the days of Turgot, the French
Minister of Finance under Louis XVI, there were at times in certain
departments of France such abundant harvests that wheat was almost
unmarketable, while in other and not far-distant sections of the coun-
try there was such a lack of food that the inhabitants perished of hun-
ger ; and yet through the absence of facilities for transportation and
communication of intelligence, the influence of bad laws, and the moral
inertia of the people, there was no equalization of conditions.f An
example of the second, intensified to a degree never before experienced,
is to be found in the results of the improvements in production and
distribution which have been made especially effective within the last
quarter of a century. A given amount of labor, operating through
machinery, produces or distributes at least a third more product on the
average, in given time, than ever before. Note the natural tendency
amount of income or earnings available for their purchase in the home market. The de-
pression under which we have so long been suffering is undoubtedly of this nature.
British Commission, minority report.
* Machinery and the word is used in its largest and most comprehensive sense
has been most potent in bringing the mechanically-producing nations of the world to their
present industrial position, which position constitutes an epoch in their industrial develop-
ment. The rapid development and adaptation of machinery in all the activities belonging
to production and transportation have brought what is commonly called over-production ;
so that machinery and over-production are two causes so closely allied that it is difficult
to discuss the one without taking the other into consideration. . . . The direct results, so
far as the present period i3 concerned, of this wonderful and rapid extension of power-
machinery are, for the countries involved, over-production, or, to be more correct, bad or
injudicious production ; that is, that condition of production of things the value of which
depends upon immediate consumption, or consumption by that portion of the population
of the world already requiring the goods produced. Report of the United States Com-
missioner of Labor, 1886, pp. 88, 89.
\ This experience of France in the last quarter of the eighteenth century is repeating
itself at the present day in China. General Wilson, in his recent Study of China
(188V), states that over ten million people died from starvation about ten years ago
in the provinces of Shansi and Shensi alone, while abundance and plenty were prevailing
in other parts of the country. Every effort was made to send food into the stricken re-
gions ; but owing to the entire absence of river and canal navigation, as well as of rail-
roads, but few of the suffering multitudes could be reached.
