5 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
study of political economy or social sustenance must be, or should be,
to promote the easy and ample sustenance of all, and not of some at
the expense of others. Hence we desire that human helpfulness shall
be not only effective but mutual. One-sided helpfulness is one of
the chief evils for which we seek a remedy.
Yet we have to note carefully that the circumstance which makes
our mutual help most effective may make it one-sided. We want a
balance of mutual sustenance, while we help sustain one another, but
we also want amplitude. We want each to have a fair share, but it
may be that by some having more and some less than our estimate, or
any estimate of a fair share, all will have a larger share. We should
like it both fair and large. We can never have it either as fair or as
large as we should like it. Some will always get more help than they
give, and others give more than they get. And none will ever get as
much as he wants.
We all agree that a proper balance of human helpfulness is desira-
ble. We can not help agreeing that its amplitude is also desirable.
The point whereon we may differ is the extent to which balance should
be subordinated to amplitude, or amplitude to balance that is,
whether poverty with equality is better than wealth with inequality,
the term equality signifying a share of sustenance to each in pro-
portion to his services, be they much or little. So far as balance begets
amplitude, we shall all agree theoretically, and be led by our greed to
disagree practically. Each of us will always be so anxious to be sure
of his share, that he will be willing to get a little more than his share.
And in this we shall always be subject to deception by appearances,
as we are in all other matters. What seems to promise both abun-
dance and equality may in practice work both impoverishment and
inequality. Mastery of this deep and vital problem demands the ex-
ercise of every logical power at our command and the widest possible
scope of vision.
ORIGIN OF COMETS AND METEORS.
By EICHAED A. PEOCTOE.
THERE appeared in these pages not long since a valuable essay, by
M. Daubr6e, on the structure of meteorites, and a little later a
very interesting paper by Professor Newton, of Yale College, in which
the general question of the origin of meteors, meteorites, and comets
was discussed, without any definite conclusion being indicated, except
that there are objections against all the various opinions which have
been expressed by Schiaparelli, Tschermak, Meunier, Daubree, and
others, respecting this very difficult subject. I should be glad if per-
mission could be accorded to me to bring before the readers of a
magazine, so high in scientific standing as The Popular Science
