s 84 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
pounds sterling, or $1,250,000 per week, to the whole people of the
Kingdom, to be spent for other things.
The evidence is also conclusive that the ability of the population
of the world to consume is greater than ever before, and is rapidly in-
creasing. Indeed, such a conclusion is a corollary from the acknowl-
edged fact of increased production the end and object of all produc-
tion being consumption. Take, for example, the United States, with
its present population of sixty million a population that undoubt-
edly produces and consumes more per head than any other equal num-
ber of people on the face of the globe, and is producing and consum-
ing very much more than it did ten or even five years ago. The
business of exchanging the products or services, and of satisfying
thereby the wants of such a people is, therefore, necessarily immense,
and with the annual increase of population, and with consuming power
increasing in an even larger ratio, the volume of such business must
continue to increase. And what is true of the United States is true,
in a greater or less degree, of all the other nations of the globe. There
is, therefore, nothing inconsistent or mysterious in the maintenance or
increase in the volume of the worlds business contemporaneously
with a depression of trade in the sense of a reduction of profits
occasioned by an intense competition to dispose of commodities, which
have been produced under comparatively new conditions in excess of
a satisfactory remunerative demand in the worlds markets.
The popular sentiment which has instinctively attributed the re-
markable disturbance of trade within recent years to the more remark-
able changes which have taken place concurrently in the methods of
production and distribution has, therefore, not been mistaken. The
almost instinctive efforts of producers everywhere to arrest what they
consider bad trade by partially or wholly interrupting production
has not been inexpedient ; and the use of the word over-produc-
tion, stripped of its looseness of expression, and in the sense as defined
by the British Commission (and as heretofore shown), is not inappro-
priate in discussing the economic phenomena under consideration. It
would also seem as if much of the bewilderment that is still attendant
upon this subject, and the secret of the fruitlessness of most of the
elaborate inquiries that have been instituted concerning it, have been
due mainly to an inability to distinguish clearly between a causation
that is primary, all-sufficient, and which has acted in the nature of
unity, and causes which are in the nature of sequences or derivatives.
One striking illustration of this is to be found in the tendency of
many of the English writers and investigators to consider the immense
losses which British farming capital has experienced since 1873, as alone
sufficient to account for all the disturbances to which trade and indus-
try in the United Kingdom have been subjected during the same pe-
riod. That such losses have been extensive and disastrous without
precedent, is not to be questioned. Sir James Caird estimates this loss
