SLEEP AND ITS COUNTERFEITS. 597
in old methods, and entail losses of capital and displacement from
occupation on the part of individuals. And yet the world wonders,
and commissions of great states inquire without coming to definite
conclusions, why trade and industry in recent years have been univer-
sally and abnormally disturbed and depressed.
--
SLEEP AND ITS COUNTERFEITS.
Br A. de WATTEVILLE, M. D.
THE Frenchman, whose long trance or sleep attracted extraordi-
nary attention in the latter part of March and the beginning of
April, was commonly spoken of as the Soho sleeper ; but when we
speak of a man sleeping for several days or weeks consecutively, it
is obvious that we do not use the term in its ordinary sense. We all
know by experience what sleep is, and we can not conceive ourselves
as sleeping for an indefinite time. Yet it is difficult to draw a line be-
tween normal and abnormal sleep ; the physiological condition merges
by insensible degrees into all kinds of pathological states, known as
lethargy, trance, stupor, coma. Through the usual phenomena of
dreaming, we pass likewise into those of nightmare, somnambulism,
hypnotism, ecstasy, and the like. Yet it is important sharply to de-
fine typical instances of these conditions, so as to avoid hopeless con-
fusion in an already obscure field of scientific inquiry, and though we
may for the sake of convenience occasionally use the term sleep in the
wider sense, yet the distinction between the various states included
under it must be kept present to our minds.
From the immense number of strange phenomena observed at the
Salpetriere Hospital in Paris, where this subject of hypnotism, espe-
cially in hysterical patients, has been investigated with the greatest
care, and where I have had the opportunity of studying it, I shall
adduce only such instances as have a direct bearing upon the case of
the Soho sleeper.
It is often possible to distinguish between a somnambulistic, a
lethargic, and a cataleptic condition of the hypnotized hysterical sub-
ject ; and by appropriate manipulations (all based on the theory of
influencing the brain-centers by sensory impressions) to make the sub-
ject pass from one to another of these states. Supposing we have, by
intently staring or by passes, induced the lethargic state, we find
that the muscles and nerves of the subject are in a state of extreme
hyper-excitability. If we press through the skin with the finger, or a
pencil, upon a nerve-trunk, all the muscles supplied by that nerve are
instantly thrown into a state of violent contraction. This contraction,
strange to say, may, if unchecked, persist not only during the whole
of the period of lethargy, but may last for hours, or even days, after
