598 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the patient has awoke, and does not then relax even during the inter-
val of normal sleep. On the other hand, the rigidity immediately
gives way under the influence of gentle stroking of the skin over the
contracted muscles.
By catalepsy is meant a condition of suspended psychical manifes-
tations on the part of the subject, during which the limbs exhibit no
muscular or nervous hyper-excitability, but possess the singular prop-
erty, while remaining flexible, of preserving indefinitely any attitude
imparted to them ; hence the name of waxy flexibility given to
this condition by old writers. Unlike the rigid spasms of the lethargic
muscle, the plastic fixity of the cataleptic limb can not be relaxed by
friction over the skin. The aspect of the patient in the two condi-
tions, moreover, offers striking differences, the sleep-like immobility
of lethargy contrasting vividly with the petrified attitudes of cata-
lepsy. In both conditions, however, there often is the same absolute
insensibility even to the most painful stimuli. A most remarkable
phenomenon may be observed in some instances : by merely opening
one eye of the lethargic patient the corresponding side of the body
is cataleptized. And so in the same subject these two phases of the
hypnotic sleep may coexist side by side, with the fullest display of
their contrasted characteristics.
The third condition, that of somnambulism, may easily be brought
about by light pressure or rubbing on the top of the head. The
hysterical patient then passes into a state somewhat between the
lethargic and the cataleptic condition. The muscles have lost the
hyper-excitability of the former state, and do not possess the plastic
adaptability of the latter. Still they react abnormally to light exter-
nal stimuli ; if we very gently stroke or blow upon a limb, it becomes
somewhat rigid. We can not then relax it by a mere touch as we can
in lethargy, and, unlike catalepsy, it offers some resistance when we
attempt to move it into a different attitude. Insensibility to pain
may persist, but there often is in the somnambulistic phase a singular
exaltation of memory and of sensorial perception, which has caused it
to be called the lucid state, and which has been described by the
devotees of mesmeric delusions as second-sight. Our readers will
recognize in this description the ordinary magnetic or mesmeric
sleep into which not only hysterical, but many other individuals may
be more or less completely plunged by the usual passes of operators.
It is especially in the somnambulistic state that the astonishing
phenomena of suggestion are observed. By this we mean that the
patient in whom every spontaneity is in abeyance, who does not
sleep, and who yet does not move or think, can be so impressed
through some sensory channel as to enter upon some definite train of
ideas or movements. He is under the control of the experimenter,
whose will is his will, so to speak. He is a machine ready to go, but
unable to start of itself.
