SLEEP AND ITS COUNTERFEITS. 599
There are many different ways of imparting suggestions to a hypno-
tized subject ; and as, in the other phases of hypnotism, hysterical pa-
tients present the greatest variety of manifestations, when subjected
to suggestive influences. The most characteristic phenomena are those
known as muscular suggestions. If we analyze an emotional atti-
tude, such as that of sending kisses to a loved person, or that of threat-
ening an enemy with the fist and outstretched arm, we notice that the
whole frame takes part in the special action. The eyes dilate, the
muscles of the face move, and an appropriate play of the features ac-
companies the leading gesture. This collaboration of several parts of
the body in the production of a common effect depends upon the ex-
istence in our nervous system of certain mechanisms subservient to the
function of mimetic language or physical expression. Now if in the
hypnotized subject we throw a limb into such an expressive attitude,
we immediately see the usual concomitants of the movement follow
suit ; the trunk and other limbs fall into a harmonious posture, the
carriage of the head is modified likewise, and the expression assumed
by the face and eyes is so perfect as to equal or surpass the best efforts
of the most consummate actor. It is difficult for any one who has not
witnessed the spectacle to realize the perfection of mimicry reached
by the hypnotized hystero-epileptic. The cause of this phenomenon
is not far to seek : the impression conveyed by the nerves from the
part placed in the attitude has called into action the whole nervous
mechanism presiding over the movements generally associated with
this attitude. But this is not all. Duchesne has analyzed minutely the
anatomy of the expression of the human face, and by means of electric
currents localized in certain muscles or combinations of muscles, imi-
tated with great success the facial play indicative of the various emo-
tions and feelings of the mind. Now if in our subject we likewise
electrically stimulate certain muscles, and artificially produce an ex-
pression of anger, or terror, or love, or disdain, the corresponding
attitude is at once assumed by the neck, arms, and body generally.
Those of our readers who have access to the book will find remark-
able illustrations of these phenomena in Dr. Richers beautiful work,*
for the accuracy of which all those who have had the opportunity of
studying hypnotic manifestations in hystero-epileptics will be ready
to vouch.
Whole series of muscular actions may be initiated by appealing
to the so-called muscular sense by similar methods of suggestion.
Thus, if a hanging rope is placed in the hands of the patient, she be-
gins to climb with incredible energy and alacrity ; when placed on all-
fours, she runs in that position all over the room, regardless of knocks
and collisions. Or, if the movements of washing with invisible soap
be communicated to her hands, she will persist in the mimicry for an
indefinite time. It is sometimes difficult to check an action so started
* Etudes Cliniques sur la Grande HystSrie, second edition, p. 668.
