SLEEP AND ITS COUNTERFEITS. 603
distribution ; and along with them are usually found other spots, usu-
ally on the opposite side of the body, pressure upon which awakes
the patient. We have here an undoubted argument in favor of the
view according to which attacks of sleep in certain hystero-epilep-
tics are mere modifications of the typical convulsive and delirious
seizure.
The researches of Althaus have led him to formulate the axiom
that nervous diseases are not, as is commonly asserted, more fre-
quent, but on the contrary less numerous, in large towns than in the
country, and it is probable that their occurrence is powerfully influ-
enced by race. He adduces a table in which the percentages of
deaths from nervous diseases (as recorded in the Registrar-Generals
returns) for London, the southwestern counties, and Wales are 10*66,
11-20, 15-38, respectively. He has found that Wales exceeds all
English counties so strikingly in this respect that neither density of
population, nor climate, nor difference of occupation will account for
that circumstance. He is therefore inclined to attribute this differ-
ence to another circumstance, viz., the difference of race a conclu-
sion that is borne out in a certain measure by the undoubted greater
prevalence of hysteroid symptoms among the Latin, and perhaps also
the Slav and other Eastern races, as compared with those of Germanic
origin.
It is probably in considerations of this nature that we shall find an
answer to the question often asked in this country by those who do
not roundly attribute all or most of the symptoms of hystero-epilepsy
to shamming or exaggeration, How is it that such cases never come
to our notice ? Is it not because of those racial differences which
run deep in the nervous constitution of individuals ? At any rate the
presence of the Soho sleeper among us will, let us hope, modify the
somewhat insular skepticism still lurking among medical men on this
side of the Channel.
The subject of prolonged sleep and trance is intimately connected
with that of apparent death. Though there is no doubt that most of
the dreadful tales concerning the premature burial of persons supposed
to be dead have no foundation, save in the imagination of the public,
we have ample proof of the possibility of such mistakes occurring in
the absence of a careful examination of the body. Every one has
heard of the fatal tragedy in which the greatest anatomist of his time,
Vesalius, played such an unfortunate part. Being called upon, dur-
ing his stay in Spain, to perform the autopsy of a patient who had
died suddenly, he proceeded to open the body, when, to the horror of
the bystanders, at the second sweep of the knife unmistakable signs
of life were given !
It is difficult to imagine how in the case of patients subject to cata-
leptic seizures, and known by their friends to be so, periods of sus-
pended animation, however protracted, could ever lead to premature
