ORIGIN OF COMETS AND METEORS. 53
With a wide choice as to a starting-point, I take first the results of
M. Daubrees analysis of meteorites in regard to chemical composition
and physical structure ; and I combine the positive evidence he has
obtained with Professor Newtons argument very just and of great
negative weight that no theory can reasonably be accepted with re-
gard to meteorites which may not be extended in its general sense to
all orders of meteoric bodies.
M. Daubree tells us, then (nay, he shows by demonstrative experi-
mental evidence), that meteorites resemble so closely in composition
and structure volcanic products such as are only found deep below the
earths crust, that we may be assured they were formed under similar
conditions of temperature and pressure. He constructs masses of mat-
ter under such conditions which the most experienced student of me-
teorites could not distinguish from true meteoric masses ; and he points
out how the earth in her interior laboratories has constructed and pres-
ently ejected bodies which in like manner deceived the most experi-
enced, taking their place for a long time in museums as the Ovifak
meteorites.
M. Daubree very naturally draws the inference that meteorites
were actually formed under such conditions. But a mass formed as
such volcanic products are being now formed, deep beneath the crust
of the earth, could not possibly escape from such a birthplace except
by such energetic extrusion as a body like our earth, now or during the
ages recorded in the geologic strata, could not possibly have effected.
Hence, M. Daubree infers (again, quite naturally) that meteorites were
ejected from the interiors of stars.
Applying to this result the principle indicated by Professor
Newton, we see that it requires to be at once generalized and modi-
fied, for there are classes of meteoric bodies which can not possibly
be regarded as coming from any of those orbs which we call stars.
Among these may be specially mentioned, first, those orders of mete-
oric bodies which Stanislas Meunier and Tschermak have been led to
regard as ejected from the earth. Without for the moment attaching
any specific importance to this idea as involving a positive theory of
the origin of these meteors, it is certain that the evidence adduced by
Tschermak and Meunier, confirmed also by the mathematical inquiries
of Sir Robert Ball, definitely negatives the idea of an origin outside
the suns special domain. In like manner we must exclude those me-
teor-streams which, like the Leonides, the Perseids, and the Bielids,
travel in closed paths, indicating an origin within the solar system. I
have myself adduced evidence which is really demonstrative, and ad-
mitted (even by those who think there may be some escape from it)
to be for the present unanswerable, to show that these meteor-streams
can not have been captured as meteor-flights by the giant planets, as
Schiaparelli suggested. But, apart from this, I believe that no one
who considers the nature of these streams, or the character of the or-
