610 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
and General Assemblies of Pennsilvania and New Jersey, that all Per-
sons inhabiting in the said Provinces do put their Children seven
years to the publick School, or longer, if the Parents please.
2. That Schools be provided in all Towns and Cities, and Per-
sons of known honesty, skill, and understanding, be yearly chosen by
the Governour and General Assembly, to teach and instruct Boys and
Girls in all the most useful Arts and Sciences that they in their youth-
ful capacities may be capable to understand, as the learning to Read
and Write true English, Latine, and other useful Speeches and Lan-
guages, and fair Writing, Arithmatick, and Book-keeping ; and the
Boys to be taught and instructed in some Mystery or Trade, as the
making of Mathematical Instruments, Joynery, Turnery, the making
of Clocks and Watches, Weaving, Shoemaking, or any other useful
Trade or Mystery that the School is capable of teaching, and the
Girls to be taught and instructed in Spinning of Flax and Wool, and
Knitting of Gloves and Stockings, Sewing, and making of all sorts
of useful Needle- Work, and the making of Straw-Work, as Hats,
Baskets, c, or any other useful Art or Mystery that the School is
capable of teaching.
3. That the Scholars be kept in the Morning two hours at Read-
ing, Writing, Book-keeping, c, and the other two hours at work in
that Art, Mystery or Trade that he or she most delighteth in/ and
then let them have two hours to dine and for Recreation, and in the
afternoon two hours at Reading, Writing, fcc, and the other two
hours at work at their several Imployments.
4. The seventh day of the Week the Scholars may come to school
only in the fore-noon, and at a certain hour in the afternoon let a Meet-
ing be kept by the Schoolmasters and their Scholars, where after good
instruction and admonition is given by the Masters to the Scholars,
and thanks returned to the Lord for his Mercies and Blessings that
are daily received from him, then let a strict examination be made by
the Masters of the Conversation of the Scholars in the week past, and
let reproof, admonition, and correction be given to the Offendors,
according to the quantity and quality of their faults.
5. Let the like Meetings be kept by the School-Mistrisses, and
the Girls apart from the Boys. By strictly observing this Good Order,
our Children will be hindred of running into that Excess of Riot and
Wickedness that youth is incident to, and they will be a comfort to
their tender Parents.
G. Let one thousand Acres of Land be given and laid out in a good
place, to every publick School that shall be set up, and the Rent or
incom of it go towards the defraying of the charge of the School.
7. And to the end that the Children of poor People and the Chil-
dren of Indians may have the like good Learning with the Children of
Rich People, let them be maintained free of charge to their Parents,
out of the Profits of the school, arising by the Work of the Scholars
