618 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
as some economists have feared, the minute division of labor has a
narrowing and dwarfing effect on the laborers mind, then we might
expect semi-specialized woman to be the mental superior of man, un-
less otherwise dwarfed. For, although the metes and bounds of her
sphere are more rigid than bis are, within those bounds each woman
must as a rule cover the whole field, while he marks out for himself a
small and constantly decreasing stint, leaving the rest to others.
Much of her former work, to be sure, he has taken from her ; and the
moment he got it he began to divide it into specialties. But enough
still remains for nobody knows how many specialties. What keeps
these possible specialties fast bound in one ?
The family implies a home, the home a home-keeper. The family
system, plus monogamy, implies one woman to one home, and no more.
The appearance of two women at work in one home implies that one
of them has not yet been fitted into her normal place in the mono-
gamic family system, or has dropped out of it. She is filling a gap
in her own life by a service aimed to ease and anrplify the life of
another. In this way the home of the well-to-do may contain sev-
eral women, and in such cases they generally do divide and specialize
the work. So do the women who are filling interstices in their lives by
working in hotels and boarding-houses.
But taking the average woman, even in the most civilized commu-
nities, whatever of her hardest-worked female ancestors household
duties are still necessary to be done, and can not be done away from
home, she must do herself alone. She must also do whatever new
kinds of work the diversifying tastes of herself and family have called
into being. Has she any escape consistent with the maintenance of
the family system ?
Are we driven to this dilemma, that either the institution of the
family, which has done so much to ennoble the race, must go, or else
womans work must for all time be prescribed, like that of the slave,
while mans is elective ? Must the already excessive heredity of her
occupation and aptitudes be still further bred in and in ? If so, what
manner of person will she finally be ?
I confess myself unable to answer these questions to my own satis-
faction. Before attempting it let me call attention to the light they
throw on the nature of the science of political economy. It has been
called a mental science. It has been called a moral science. It has
been treated as a deductive science. It has even been treated as a
matter of mathematics. Yet here, at the very outset, we find half the
objects of its solicitude bound fast in the embrace of biological evolu-
tion. Their economic destiny is sealed before they are born. It is a
biological fact, and as such we must study it. It is a fact not wholly
psychological, nor wholly ethical, nor sociological, but physiological as
well. It comes as near as anything to being omni-biological.
It will serve us no good purpose to deceive ourselves in such mat-
