SOCIAL SUSTENANCE. 621
help it on. This may be done by future inventions of machinery, or
by the specialization of mans work to a point where much of it can
be done by women. The dream of European economists, that through
the conveyance of power by electricity the factory system is to give
way to home-industry, may be realized, and womans opportunities for
sharing in a great variety of masculine tasks enormously increased.
The public schools may some time be devoted more to sense and less
to nonsense. Even though she must follow two or three hundred years
behind man in her progress toward simplicity of dress, some of us may
live to see her devoting a portion of the time now lost in that way to
the cultivation, as an amateur if not otherwise, of some specialty hith-
erto monopolized by man. What she pursues as an amateur, her
daughter, inheriting the aptitude, may find it convenient to follow for
a livelihood.
Meantime, the calmness of our judgment will not be warped, though
we indulge in sad contemplation of the fate yet in store for the millions
of women who must be sacrificed to the good of the race, whose lives
must be narrowed, whose natures dwarfed, whose care-worn minds
cushed to insanity or suicide by the slowly-relaxing grip of an enslav-
ing biological heritage. We may partially console ourselves by say-
ing, as we did in the case of the negro, that she is born and bred to it,
and can not realize how much better freedom is than enchainment.
True as this may be in general, most of us do hear some complaint
from the enchained. We like to hear it, because we despise the human
being who has no aspiration to rise to higher things. The disagree-
able feature of it is, that in the deplorable lack of economic training
which woman shares with almost every man, she, like him, is disposed
to attribute her troubles to the conscious intrigue or innate meanness
of some class of human beings. It may be worth while to hint to her
that, however irresponsible she may be, man is not responsible for her
adoption of a style of dress which she would find very much in her
way if she undertook to engage in some of the labors that he is free to
follow. As to the willingness of her enchainment, that is a partial re-
lief to her, but it is an obstacle to those who would break the chains.
It is always harder to free a willing slave. But, when he has tasted
liberty, he is very apt to like it. His callousness does not excuse the
inactivity of those who have power to free him, whether or not they
are responsible for his bondage. Womans bondage is not to a per-
son, nor to a class, so much as it is to a race to an apparently neces-
sary, but let us hope transitory, condition of the highest development
of that race.
Turning with a sigh of relief to the economics of the sex which has
hitherto monopolized the attention of the science, we find specializa-
tion hindered here, too, by circumstances over which nobody has con-
trol, or even very much influence. A large class of men, a full half of
them in many countries, are in a case approaching that of woman.
