626 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ETHNOLOGICAL SKETCHES IN ANNAM AND
TONQUIN.
THE curious philosophical views of life which appear to be common
to the races of the Chinese stock, and the elaborate ceremonials
by which they are symbolized and emphasized, give a rare interest to
all that relates to the manners and customs of those peoples, whatever
may be their particular nationality. Nowhere are these features more
marked, or do they savor more of another world than ours, than in
Annam. We are indebted to certain French writers, whom military
and political events have given rare opportunities to observe, for some
fresh and original accounts of the inhabitants of this country, and of
their characteristic beliefs and usages. M. Henry M. dEstrey has
given, in the Revue Scientifique, descriptions of the principal cere-
monies prescribed in the rites to commemorate the most important
events in life, which are six in number, viz. : 1. Gea Ke, or the impo-
sition of a pin in the hair-dressing of a maiden on her reaching puberty ;
2. Gea Quan, or the imposition of the virile bonnet on the head of a
young man when he reaches adult age ; 3. Quan, or the feast in cele-
bration of obtaining a first employment ; 4. Hon, or the marriage
ceremonies ; 5. TaUg, or funeral ceremonies ; 6. Te, or the ceremony
of ancestral worship.
The first two ceremonies are celebrated by the relatives, in the
family. When a maiden has reached the age of nubility, or fifteen
years, the father and mother adorn the two altars erected to the ances-
tors of their respective families, invite the near relatives, and select,
as president of the ceremony, an aged lady, of high repute for virtue
and good sense. While the lights are burning among perfumes, two
masters of ceremonies, one at each end of the altar, call off the order
fixed by the rites. The father and mother then come up to the altars,
and say in a low tone, It is our duty to inform our ancestors that
our daughter is, according to the rites, marriageable from this day,
and that the age of fifteen years, which she has reached, gives her the
right to wear the pin. They then prostrate themselves four times,
and the other relatives follow, imitating them. Next, the maiden is
brought up to the altar, and the lady who presides over the ceremony,
or sometimes the mother herself, takes the pin from off the altar and
places it in the hair of the maiden, when, after having saluted the
altars four times, she takes her back into the house. At any time
after this the maiden may marry. The ceremony is followed by a
festival, which is attended by the participants.
The ceremony of the imposition of the virile bonnet upon the young
man who has reached the age of twenty years is performed with simi-
lar observances ; but the father or an old man takes the place of the
mother or aged lady in making the investiture.
