632 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
bers which the same kindred has counted in the past. At a designated
day, all the members of the family present themselves there to make
their sacrifices. The ceremonies are directed by the nearest or most
aged relative. The character of the offerings depends upon the tastes
the ancestors are supposed to have had while living. No pictures or
6tatues of the ancestors are erected to preserve their features ; only
the name is to be seen on the altar, inclosed in a little tabernacle and
written in large letters upon a tablet. The image of the ancestor is in
the Annamites heart, and is not represented materially by painting or
sculpture. It is not presumed that the souls of the ancestors are pres-
ent at the repast which is prepared for them ; but it is understood
that, in offering sacrifices to them, gratitude is expressed for the time
when the worshiper was the object of their constant solicitude, and
faithful recognition is given of the days when he was held upon their
knees, and the painful moment is recalled when they were forever
separated from their children. Filial piety is the motive of all the
acts of the Annamites life. Their feeling was thus described to M.
dEstrey by an Annamite : We have a desire to discharge the debt
that we owe to our parents ; to that tender mother who carried us in
her womb, who brought us forth in pain, nourished us with her milk,
and caressed us on her knees for years ; to that watchful father
who laboriously brought us up and constituted himself our first guide
in the labyrinth of the world. It is a common remark that every
service rendered ought to be recompensed. The benefaction by which
it is given us to enjoy life, to know what is, to raise ourselves through
the spectacle of the virtue of our parents, from the simple creature to
the most high what other can be compared to it ? It is for this rea-
son before every other one, to render ourselves worthy of our parents, to
make their name as illustrious as possible, that we try to obtain a rank
among men that shall do honor to our house, and in which we may
some day serve the great interests of humanity. We hope that in this
way the spirits of our parents may enjoy a peaceful happiness in con-
templating us from the celestial world.
M. Mahe de la Bourdonnais has given an account, also in the
Revue Scientifique, of tribes of people inhabiting portions of An-
nam, who, although considered savages by the Annamites them-
selves, are still possessed of a civilization which is of the greatest
interest.
Some of them pay tribute to the King of Siam, others to Annam,
while all are more or less under the control of certain prefects. A
chief, whom they regard as a father, acts as judge, punishes the
guilty, and vigilantly guards the observation of the ancient rites and
ceremonies. Much respect is shown to these patriarchs, and their peo-
ple aid them in building, labor in their fields, and yield implicit obe-
dience to them. The wives of the chiefs generally marry one of their
own rank, but this is not compulsory. If they marry beneath them,
