CORK, ITS MANUFACTURE AND PROPERTIES. 637
winds and insolations, has the additional advantage of expediting by
a year the time when the next crop of cork will be fit to gather in.
Before being put into the market, the bark has to be subjected to
the operations of steeping, scraping, sorting, and packing. The object
of the steeping, which is performed in large boilers of water, heated
by means of chips of the bark, is to swell the cork and increase its
elasticity, and it has the further effect of enabling curved pieces to be
made straight. Scraping, for the removal of the woody parts, is done
with iron scrapers, or with a machine in which the rotating chisels
make nine hundred turns in a minute. It involves a loss of twenty-
eight per cent of the crude bark, but is not so necessary when the
formation of the young cork has been protected in the manner that
we have described. In England, these two primary operations are re-
placed by a process of scorching and brushing the bark. The sorting
is done with reference to five degrees of thickness, after which the
bark is packed in bales containing about two hundred pounds each.
At the market it undergoes another testing for quality, in which there
is a wide range, and a corresponding diversity of prices. According
to M. Lamey, in his book on The Cork-Oak in Algeria, the bark
should never be gathered till it is seven eighths of an inch thick, and
that is preferred in commerce which is from one and an eighth to
one and a quarter inch thick. To produce such thickness, from six to
nine years of growth are needed.
The density of cork varies with its quality and age. Thin corks
are usually heavier than those of the same volume that have grown
more rapidly, and, in corks of the same class, the density increases
with the age. M. Brisson gives 0*240 as an average maximum, and
the ordinary density of a ten-years-old cork may be taken at 02.
With extreme lightness are associated other valuable qualities : that
of being a poor conductor of heat and sound ; impermeability to
liquids ; imperfect combustibility, and non-liability to decay, by reason
of which it is susceptible of very numerous applications in industry.
The most important use of the substance is for bottle-corks. The bark
which is intended to be used in this form is kept in a damp cellar.
When taken to the shop, it is cut by the first workman into strips, the
width of which corresponds with the length of the future cork. A
second workman cuts these strips into squares suited in size to its
diameter. The squares, strung, are plunged into boiling water to
make them swell out. They are then stored in a cool place, and kept
constantly moist by sprinkling, till they pass into the hands of the
cork-maker. He applies them in succession, giving them a rotary
motion, to the edge of a wide-bladed knife, drawing them at the same
time slowly along its length, and by skillful manipulation transforms
the square into a round cork. This is the method usually practiced in
France. Workmen in other countries handle the knife in different
manners. It is essential, to obtain a good and solid cork, to take care
VOL. XXXI. 41
