CORK, ITS MANUFACTURE AND PROPERTIES. 641
rigid. The latter substance can be compressed indefinitely in one
direction while it is left free to move and expand in other directions.
When tightly inclosed so that it can not yield, it can not be com-
pressed by any force that can be brought to bear upon it. In the
former case all the volume which is lost by the pressure in one direc-
tion is regained by the expansion in other directions, and the whole is
not changed ; in the latter case there is no room for the compensatory
expansion ; so when India-rubber is stretched, it gains in volume in
one direction at the expense of an equivalent loss in other directions.
Metals, when subjected to pressures which exceed their elastic lim-
its, so that they are permanently deformed, as in forging or wire-
drawing, remain practically unchanged in volume per unit of weight.
Cork behaves in a very different manner. If a cylinder of cork is
tightly inclosed in a tube in the same manner as the India-rubber
which refused to yield to any force, and pressure is applied to it, it is
readily and visibly compressed ; and when released it expands back to
its original volume. In this case a great change in the volume of the
material is easily effected.
When cork is subjected to alternate applications and relaxations of
pressure, it coincidently contracts and expands. It is this singular
property which gives it its value as a means of closing the mouths of
bottles. Its elasticity has not only a very considerable range, but
it is very persistent. The extent to which the better class of corks used
in bottling the effervescent wines will expand the instant they escape
from the bottles, is well known. As measured by Mr. Anderson, this
expansion amounts to an increase of seventy-five per cent in the vol-
ume, even after the corks have been kept under compression for ten
years. If the cork be steeped in hot water, the volume will continue
to increase till it becomes nearly three times that which the cork occu-
pied in the neck of the bottle. ,
When cork is subjected to pressure, either in one direction or from
every direction, a certain amount of permanent deformation or per-
manent set takes place very quickly. This property is common to all
solid elastic substances when strained beyond their limits of elasticity,
but with cork the limits are comparatively low ; thus, in chemists and
other shops, when a cork is too large to fit a bottle, the shopkeeper
gives it a few sharp bites, or squeezes it with pincers to beyond its
elastic limits, and so makes it permanently smaller. Besides the per-
manent set, there is a certain amount of what might be called sluggish
elasticity ; that is, cork on being released from pressure, springs back
a certain amount at once, but the complete recovery takes an appreci-
able time.
These peculiar and valuable properties of cork are easily explained
after examining its structure. The corky part of bark is composed of
closed cells exclusively, and this part is developed to a very unusual
degree in the cork-oak. A section of cork, taken in the horizontal
