654 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
found in considerable numbers near where the professor made the dis-
covery.
I will name a few of the interesting if not rare plants that I bave
collected here during the present season : Ilex monticola, Ilex mollis,
Gaylussacia ursina, Dyrhylleia cymosa, Parnassia asanfolia, and Hro-
sera rotundifolia. The little Iloustonia serpyllifolia grows on the
banks of all the mountain-streams, while H. elongifolia grows on the
drier hill-sides. Galax aphylla is interesting to me, on acccount of the
beautiful tints which its leaves put on during the winter months, which
make it one of the most enlivening features of the landscape during
that season. I might fill pages describing plants that occur here, that
would be most interesting objects of study to those who have never
visited this region ; but my principal object in writing this is to sug-
gest the query whether it is not probable that there are undiscovered
plants yet to be found in a part of the country which is so virgin and
has been so little explored as this.
SPEECHES AT THE RECENT TYNDALL BANQUET.
By Professors STOKES and TYNDALL, Sir LYON PLAYFAIE, the Earl of
DERBY, and Others.
AT the dinner given to Professor Tyndall in London, on the 29th
of June, the chairman, Professor Stokes, in proposing the health
of the guest of the evening, said : A social gathering like the present
is not an occasion on which it is desirable to enter into detail as to the
scientific labors of a man, however eminent. Yet the circumstances of
the present meeting seem to demand that I should say a few words on
some of Dr. Tyndalls researches. Some of his earliest scientific work
related to diamagnetism and magnecrystallic action, and in part of this
he was associated with the well-known German physicist, Knoblauch.
But I can not dwell on these now. And I will even dismiss with this
brief mention his researches on the properties of ice and his application
of them to the theory of glaciers and the observations which he made
in common with his friend and colleague Professor Huxley, whose
necessary absence from among us to-night we so much regret. If I be
not trespassing too much on the patience of those who listen to me, I
would wish to say a little more on that elaborate series of researches,
forming no less than six separate papers in the Philosophical Trans-
actions in which Dr. Tyndall investigated the relation of simple and
compound gases and of vapors to radiant heat, especially radiant heat
from sources at a moderate temperature. According to his researches,
while the main constituents of the earths atmosphere, nitrogen and
oxygen, are practically diathermous, at least with regard to radiations
which can traverse rock-salt, as we know that by far the greater part
