SPEECHES AT THE RECENT TYNDALL BANQUET. 655
of those that we have to deal with can, such is far from being the case
with other gases equally transparent with regard to light. Dr. Tyndall
found that as a rule the more complex the composition of a gas the
greater is its defect of diathermancy. To confine ourselves to the two
gases which occur in the atmosphere mixed with its main constituents
I allude of course to carbonic acid and to water in the gaseous state
of vapor he found that both, especially the latter, which likewise is
present in by far the larger quantity, are very distinctly defective in
diathermancy, and he concluded that the main part of the absorption
of solar heat in passing through the atmosphere, absorption as distin-
guished from scattering, is due to the watery vapor which it contains.
From this result he drew important inferences as to atmospheric tem-
perature and climatological conditions. Dr. TyndalPs researches on
the relation of gases to radiant heat came naturally before me dur-
ing my long tenure of office as one of the Secretaries of the Royal
Society ; and for my own part I may say that it seemed to me all
along that the results were established on so firm a basis, and the con-
clusions regarding the invisible radiations were so perfectly analogous
to what we know to be true regarding the visible ones, where the in-
vestigation is comparatively easy, that the work bore on it the stamp
of truth. The conclusions were not, however, accepted without op-
position. In the late Professor Magnus, Dr. Tyndall met a foeman
worthy of his steel ; a foeman, however, only in the sense of an in-
tellectual athlete ; for socially I doubt not they were the firmest
friends, and their friendship was even cemented by the fact that
they were both alike seeking after truth in a similar subject. But
truth only gains by opposition : its defenders are led to engage in
fresh researches, which end in strengthening its foundations. I think
that the validity of Dr. Tyndalls results is now generally admitted.
If some hesitation is still felt, it arises mainly, I think, from miscon-
ception ; from imagining that assertions which were meant to apply
only to heat-rays of such refrangibilities as to be absorbed by water
were meant to be affirmed of the invisible radiations generally which
lie beyond the extreme red. The time reminds me that I must only
very briefly refer to another investigation in which Dr. Tyndall has
more recently been engaged, and of which the interest is biological,
while the means of investigation are physical ; I allude, of course, to
the question of abiogenesis. Here, again, Dr. Tyndall was working
on contested ground, and the objections of opponents stimulated him
to fresh inquiries, which resulted in the continual strengthening of his
negative conclusions. In the course of his work he was led, for in-
stance, to the discovery of the great difference which exists between
the germs of microscopic creatures and the creatures themselves, in
relation to their power of resisting the destructive influence of a high
temperature. This discovery not only detected a source of error in
some experiments which had seemed to favor the hypothesis of abio-
