656 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
genesis, but threw important light on the conditions which must be
fulfilled in order to secure complete sterility. But original research is
not the only way in which a man can advance the cause of science.
All-important though it is, it nevertheless often happens that an origi-
nal investigation is too abstruse to be followed by more than a few
experts ; nor is it by any means necessarily the case that an eminent
investigator is equally successful in expounding to others, especially
to a mixed audience, the results at which he himself or other investi-
gators may have arrived. The general diffusion of science depends
largely on the clearness with which its leading principles and results
are expounded, whether by lectures or by treatises, in which, while
they are scientifically sound, popularity of style and general readable-
ness are not sacrificed to the dry exactness of scientific detail. Most
of us have had opportunities, whether at the Royal Institution, with
which the name of Tyndall has so long been connected, or elsewhere,
of being impressed with the singularly lucid style and graphic expres-
sion with which he expounded to his audience the salient points of the
scientific subject which he brought before them. Nor was it only in
clearness of verbal exposition that he excelled ; the manipulative skill
with which his original investigations were carried on served him in
good stead in his more popular expositions ; and by the aid of that
domestic sun, which even the murky atmosphere of a London win-
ter could not obscure, he was enabled in very many cases to exhibit
to the audience the actual results of experiments which had first been
carried out in the quiet of the laboratory. Nor is it our own country-
men alone who have had the benefit of Dr. Tyndalls lucidity of ex-
position. Our friends across the ocean have flocked to hear and have
appreciated the lectures which ho has there delivered as a free gift to
transatlantic science. But oral lectures, after all the lectures at least
of one individual can only reach a fraction of the community ; nor
do they admit of that pause for thought which the learner requires in
endeavoring to make himself master of a new subject. But the same
qualities of mind which enable a man to be a clear and interesting lect-
urer fit him also to be the author of eminently readable books ; and
for the general diffusion of science which is taking place we owe much
to the writings of Dr. Tyndall.
TROFESSOR TYNDALLs SPEECH.
Mr. President, my Lords, and Gentlemen : When the project
of a dinner was first mentioned to me by a very old and steadfast
friend of mine, who, to my regret and his, is not here to-night, had
any dream, or vision, of the assembly now before me risen on my
minds eye, I should have declined the risk of standing in my present
position ; for I should have doubted, as I still continue to doubt, my
ability to rise to the level of the occasion. Gratitude, however, is
possible to all men ; and I would offer you, sir, my grateful thanks for
