SPEECHES AT THE RECENT TYNDALL BANQUET. 659
multiply the chances of discovery, and widen the prospect of national
advancement. Thus early, you will see, I was alive to the importance
of technical education ; and I am no less alive to it now. You will
not, therefore, misunderstand me when I say that to keep technical
education from withering, and to preserve the applications of science
from decay, the roots of both of them must be well imbedded in the
soil of original investigation. And here let it be emphatically added,
that in such investigation practical results may enter as incidents, but
must never usurp the place of aims. The true son of science will pur-
sue his inquiries irrespective of practical considerations. He will ever
regard the acquisition and expansion of natural knowledge the un-
raveling of the complex web of Nature by the disciplined intellect of
man as his noblest end, and not as a means to any other end. And
what has been the upshot of science thus pursued ? Why, that the
investigator has over and over again tapped springs of practical power
which otherwise he would never have reached. Illustrations are here
manifold. I might point to the industries which affiliate themselves
with Faradays discovery of benzol, and with his discovery of the laws
of electrolysis. But I need not go further than the fact that in this
our day a noble and powerful profession has been called into existence
by his discovery of magneto-electricity. The electric lamps which
mildly illuminate our rooms, the foci which flood with light of solar
brilliancy our railway-stations and public halls, can all be traced back
to an ancestral spark so small as to be barely visible. With impatient
ardor Faraday refused to pause in his quest of principles to intensify
his spark. That work he deliberately left to others, confidently pre-
dicting that it would be accomplished. And, prompted by motives
both natural and laudable, but which had never the slightest influence
on Faraday, others have developed his spark into the splendors which
now shine in our midst.
It would be a handsome jubilee present, if it were a possible one,
to roll up the career of Faraday into portable form, and to offer it to
the Queen as the achievement of one of Her Majestys most devoted
subjects during her own reign. Faradays series of great discoveries,
however, began in 1831, which throws his work five or six years too
far back. During the rest of his fruitful life he was a loyal son of the
Victorian epoch. But, passing beyond the limitations of the indi-
vidual, what is science, as a whole, able to offer, on the golden wed-
ding of the Queen with her people ? A present of the principle of
gravitation a handing over to Her Majesty of the bit and bridle
whereby the compelling intellect of Newton brought the solar system
under the yoke of physical laws would surely be a handsome offer-
ing. I mention this case of known and conspicuous grandeur, in order
to fix the value of another generalization which the science of her
reign can proudly offer to the Queen. Quite fit to take rank with the
principle of gravitation more momentous if that be possible is that
