SOME HUMAN INSTINCTS. 66 7
another is in possession, the impulse to appropriate the thing often
turns into the impulse to harm him what is called envy, or jealousy,
ensues. In civilized life the impulse to own is usually checked by a
variety of considerations, and only passes over into action under cir-
cumstances legitimated by habit and common consent, an additional
example of the way in which one instinctive tendency may be inhibited
by others. A variety of the proprietary instinct is the impulse to form
collections of the same sort of thing. It differs much in individuals,
and shows in a striking way how instinct and habit interact. For,
although a collection of any given thing like postage-stamps need
not be begun by any given person, yet the chances are that if acci-
dentally it be begun by a person with the collecting instinct, it will
probably be continued. The chief interest of the objects, in the col-
lectors eyes, is that they are a collection, and that they are his.
Rivalry, to be sure, inflames this, as it does every other passion, yet
the objects of a collectors mania need not be necessarily such as are
generally in demand. Boys will collect anything that they see another
boy collect, from pieces of chalk and peach-pits up to books and photo-
graphs. Out of a hundred students whom I questioned, only four or
five had never collected anything. In The Nation for September 3,
1886, Professor G. S. Hall gives some account of a statistical research
on Boston school-boys, by Miss Wiltse, from which it appears that
only nineteen out of two hundred and twenty-nine had made no col-
lections.
The associationist psychology denies that there is any blind primi-
tive instinct to appropriate, and would explain all acquisitiveness, in
the first instance, as a desire to secure the pleasures which the ob-
jects possessed may yield ; and, secondly, as the association of the idea
of pleasantness with the holding of the thing, even though the pleasure
originally got by it was only gained through its expense or destruc-
tion. Thus the miser is shown to us as one who has transferred to the
gold by which he may buy the goods of this life all the emotions which
the goods themselves would yield ; and who thereafter loves the gold
for its own sake, preferring the means of pleasure to the pleasure itself.
There can be little doubt that much of this analysis a broader view
of the facts would have dispelled. The miser is an abstraction.
There are all kinds of misers. The common sort, the excessively
niggardly man, simply exhibits the psychological law that the potential
has often a far greater influence over our mind than the actual. A
man will not marry now, because to do so puts an end to his indefinite
potentialities of choice of a partner. He prefers the latter. He will
not use open fires or wear his good clothes, because the day may come
when he will have to use the furnace or dress in a worn-out coat,
and then where will he be ? For him, better the actual evil than
the fear of it ; and so it is with the common lot of misers. Better to
live poor now, with the power of living rich, than to live rich at the
