668 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
risk of losing the power. These men value their gold, not for its
own sake, but for its powers. Demonetize it, and see how quickly
they will get rid of it ! The associationist theory is, as regards them,
entirely at fault.
With other misers there combines itself with this preference of the
power over the act the far more instinctive element of the simple col-
lecting propensity. Every one collects money, and when a man of
petty ways is smitten with the collecting mania for this object he
necessarily becomes a miser. Here again the associationist psychology
is wholly at fault. The hoarding instinct prevails widely among ani-
mals as well as among men. Professor Silliman has thus described
one of the hoards of the California wood-rat, made in an empty stove
of an unoccupied house : I found the outside to be composed entirely
of spikes, all laid with symmetry, so as to present the points of the
nails outward. In the center of this mass was the nest, composed of
finely-divided fibers of hemp-packing. Interlaced with the spikes were
the following : about two dozen knives, forks, and spoons ; all the
butchers knives, three in number ; a large carving-knife, fork, and
steel ; several large plugs of tobacco, ... an old purse containing
some silver, matches, and tobacco ; nearly all the small tools from the
tool-closets, with several large augers, ... all of w T hich must have
been transported some distance, as they were originally stored in dif-
ferent parts of the house. . . . The outside casing of a silver watch
was disposed of in one part of the pile, the glass of the same watch in
another, and the works in still another. *
In every lunatic asylum we find the collecting instinct developing
itself in an equally absurd way. Certain patients will spend all their
time picking pins from the floor and hoarding them. Others collect
bits of thread, buttons, or rags, and prize them exceedingly. Now,
the miser par excellence of the popular imagination and of melo-
drama, the monster of squalor and misanthropy, is simply one of these
mentally deranged persons. His intellect may in many matters be
clear, but his instincts, especially that of ownership, are insane, and
their insanity has no more to do with the association of ideas than
w T ith the precession of the equinoxes. As a matter of fact his hoard-
ing usually is directed to money ; but it also includes almost anything
besides. Lately in a Massachusetts town there died a miser who prin-
cipally hoarded newspapers. These had ended by so filling all the
rooms of his good-sized house from floor to ceiling that his living
space was restricted to a few narrow channels between them. Even
as I write, the morning paper gives an account of the emptying of a
misers den in Boston by the City Board of Health. What the owner
hoarded is thus described : He gathered old newspapers, wrapping-
paper, incapacitated umbrellas, canes, pieces of common wire, cast-off
clothing, empty barrels, pieces of iron, old bones, battered tin-ware,
* Quoted in Lindsay, Mind in Lower Animals, vol. ii, p. 151.
