6 7 6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
away after contact had occurred. Now, if some animals are cleanly,
men may be so, and there can be no doubt that some kinds of matter
are natively repugnant, both to sight, touch, and smell excrementi-
tious and putrid things, blood, pus, entrails, and diseased tissues, for
example. It is true that the shrinking from contact with these things
may be inhibited very easily, as by a medical education ; and it is
equally true that the impulse to clean them away may be inhibited by
so slight an obstacle as the thought of the coldness of the ablution,
or the necessity of getting up to perform it. It is also true that an
impulse to cleanliness, habitually checked, will become obsolete fast
enough. But none of these facts prove the impulse never to have
been there.* It seems to be there in all cases ; and then to be par-
ticularly amenable to outside influences, the child having his own
degree of squeamishness about what he shall touch or eat, and later
being either hardened or made more fastidious still by the habits he
is forced to acquire and the examples among which he lives.
Examples get their hold on him in this way, that a particularly
evil-smelling or catarrhal or lousy comrade is rather offensive to him,
and that he sees the odiousness in another of an amount of dirt to
which he would have no spontaneous objection if it w r ere on his own
skin. That we dislike in others things xohich we tolerate in ourselves
is a law of our aesthetic nature about which there can be no doubt.
But as soon as generalization and reflection step in, this judging of
others leads to a new way of regarding ourselves. Who taught you
politeness? The impolite, is, I believe, a Chinese proverb. The
concept, dirty fellow, which we have formed, becomes one under
which we personally shrink from being classed ; and so we wash up,
and set ourselves right, at moments when our social self-consciousness
is awakened, in a manner toward which no strictly instinctive native
prompting exists. But the standard of cleanliness attained in this
way is not likely to go beyond the mutual tolerance for one another
of the members of the tribe, and hence may comport a good deal of
actual filth.
Modetsy, Shame. Whether there be an instinctive impulse to
hide certain parts of the body and certain acts, is perhaps even more
open to doubt than whether there be an instinct of cleanliness. An-
thropologists have denied it, and in the utter shamelessness of infancy
and of many savage tribes, have seemed to find a good basis for their
views. It must, however, be remembered that infancy proves nothing,
and that, as far as sexual modesty goes, the sexual impulse itself works
directly against it at times of excitement, and with reference to certain
people ; and that habits of immodesty contracted with those people,
* The insane symptom called mysophobia, or dread of foulness, which leads a
patient to wash his hands perhaps a hundred times a day, hardly seems explicable
without supposing a primitive impulse to clean ones self of which it is, as it were, the
convulsive exaggeration.
