SOME HUMAN INSTINCTS. 6j 7
may forever afterward inhibit any impulse to be modest toward them.
This would account for a great deal of actual immodesty, even if an
original modest impulse were there. On the other hand, the modest
impulse, if it do exist, must be admitted to have a singularly ill-defined
sphere of influence, both as regards the presences that call it forth, and
as regards the acts to which it leads. Ethnology shows it to have very
little backbone of its own, and to follow easily fashion and example.
Still, it is hard to see the ubiquity of some sort of tribute to shame,
however perverted as where female modesty consists in covering the
face alone, or immodesty in appearing before strangers unpainted
and to believe it to have no impulsive root whatever. Now, what
may the impulsive root be ? I believe that, for one thing, it is shy-
ness, the feeling of dread that unfamiliar persons, as explained above,
may inspire us withal. Such persons are the original stimuli to our
modesty.* But the actions of modesty are quite different from the
actions of shyness. They consist of the restraint of certain bodily
functions, and of the covering of certain parts ; and why do such par-
ticular actions necessarily ensue ? That there may be in the human
animal, as such, a blind and immediate automatic impulse to such
restraints and coverings in respect-inspiring presences, is a possibility
difficult of actual disproof. But it seems more likely, from the facts,
that the actions of modesty are suggested to us in a roundabout way ;
and that, even more than those of cleanliness, they arise from the ap-
plication in the second instance to ourselves of judgments primarily
passed upon our mates. It is not easy to believe that, even among the
nakedest savages, an unusual degree of cynicism and indecency in an
individual should not beget a certain degree of contempt, and cheapen
him in his neighbors eyes. Human nature is sufficiently homogeneous
for us to be sure that everywhere reserve must inspire some respect,
and that persons who suffer every liberty are persons whom others
disregard. Not to be like such people, then, would be one of the
first resolutions suggested by social self-consciousness to a child of
nature just emerging from the unreflective state. And the resolution
would probably acquire effective pungency for the first time when the
social self-consciousness was sharpened into a real fit of shyness by
some person being present whom it was important not to disgust or
displease. Public opinion would of course go on to build its positive
precepts upon this germ ; and, through a variety of examples and ex-
periences, the ritual of modesty would grow, until it reached the New
England pitch of sensitiveness and range, making us say stomach in-
stead of belly, limb instead of leg, retire instead of go to bed, and for-
bidding us to call a female dog by name.
* We often find modesty coming in only in the presence of foreigners, especially of
clothed Europeans. Only before these do the Indian women in Brazil cover themselves
with their girdle, only before these do the women on Timor conceal their bosom. In Aus-
tralia we find the same thing happening. (Th. Waitz, Anthropologic der Naturvolkcr,
vol. i, p. 358). The author gives bibliographical references, which I omit.
