60 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
them, (4) shows that certain of them are its necessary consequences,
would probably be right, even though it had not been yet shown that
among all other possible theories there is not one which is not directly
contradicted by some known facts. As, however, the general theory
of the ejection of all cometic and meteoric bodies from orbs suns of
all orders, giant planets, terrestrial planets, planetoids, and moons is
as strongly supported by such negative evidence as it is by direct
positive evidence, I venture to say that a case not easily shaken has
been made out in its favor. No one, so far as I know, has yet indi-
cated any objection against the theory in the generalized form in which
alone I have ever advanced it. Objections have been urged against
it in the form in which it has been supposed that I have maintained
it. It has been very clearly shown that meteors can not come to the
earth from the sun unless they strike the earth on their first course
out from the central orb ; it has been proved that a considerable pro-
portion of the meteoric and cometic systems known can not have had
their origin either in our sun or in any of his fellow-suns, the stars ;
it has been urged as effectively that the giant planets can not eject
comets or meteors ; and it has been shown clearly that our earth can
not, in any stage of which geology has traced the records, have ejected
bodies which could thenceforth travel in interplanetary space as meteors
or meteor-fligbts. But, in these objections against specific theories of
the possible origin of comets and meteors, we may find some of the
strongest, if not the very strongest, arguments for that general theory
to which each specific theory points, so soon as we notice that the
arguments supporting each specific theory are such as decline to be
limited to that theory alone.
In fine, as I suggested at the outset, if we apply to the several
specific theories of comets and meteors the general principles laid
down by Professor Newton, we find ourselves led irresistibly to that
general theory which I have sketched above, and presented with more
elaboration of detail elsewhere.
T
INFLUENCE OF SNOW-MASSES ON CLIMATE.
By M. A. J. WOE1KOFF.
HE masses of snow and ice known as glaciers, which are found
-a- upon high mountains, have been the object of many studies ; and
it is a matter to be wondered at that the same has not been the case
with the immense beds of snow that every winter cover parts of Eu-
rope, Asia, and America, to disappear in the following spring. It has
perhaps been thought that the latter have less influence upon climate
in general than upon other more special phenomena. But the observa-
tions that follow will tend to show that this influence exists and the
subject is one well worthy to be studied.
