680 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
nite comfort she stretches out her fore-legs to offer her teats to her
children, and moves her tail with delight when the little hungry mouths
tug and suck. . . .
But not merely the contact, the mere look of the offspring affords
endless delight, not only because the mother thinks that the child will
some day grow great and handsome and bring her many joys, but
because she has received from Nature an instinctive love for her chil-
dren. She does not herself know why she is so happy, and why the
look of the child and the care of it are so agreeable, any more than
the young man can give an account of why he loves a maiden, and is
so happy when she is near. Few mothers, in caring for their child,
think of the proper purpose of maternal love for the preservation of
the species. Such a thought may arise in the fathers mind ; seldom
in that of the mother. The latter feels only . . . that it is an ever-
lasting delight to hold the being which she has brought forth protect-
ingly in her arms, to dress it, to wash it, to rock it to sleep, or to still
its hunger.
So far the worthy Schneider, to whose words may be added this
remark, that the passionate devotion of a mother ill herself, perhaps
to a sick or dying child, is perhaps the most simply beautiful moral
spectacle that human life affords. Contemning every danger, triumph-
ing over every difficulty, outlasting all fatigue, womans love is here
invincibly superior to anything that man can show.
These are the most prominent of the tendencies which are worthy
of being called instinctive in the human species.* It will be observed
that no other mammal, not even the monkey, shows so large an array.
In a perfectly-rounded development, every one of these instincts would
* Some will, of course, find the list too large, others too small. With the boundaries
of instinct fading off into reflex action below, and acquired habit or suggested activity
above, it is likely that there will always be controversy about just what to include under
the class-name. Shall we add the propensity to walk along a curbstone, or any other nar-
row path, to the list of instincts ? Shall we subtract secretiveness, as due to shyness or
to fear ? Who knows ? Meanwhile our physiological method has this inestimable ad-
vantage, that such questions of limit have neither theoretical nor practical importance.
The facts once noted, it matters little how they are named. Most authors give a shorter
list than that in the text. The phrenologists add adhesiveness, inhabitiveness, love of
approbation, etc., etc., to their list of sentiments, which in the main agree with our
list of instincts. Fortlage, in his System der Psychologie, classes among the Trkbe
all the vegetative physiological functions. Santlus ( Zur Psychologie der Menschlichen
Triebe, Leipsic, 1864) says there are at bottom but three instincts, that of Being, that
of Function, and that of Life. The Instinct of Being he subdivides into animal,
embracing the activities of all the senses ; and psychical, embracing the acts of the intel-
lect and of the transempiric consciousness. The Instinct of Function he divides into
sexual, inclinational (friendship, attachment, honor) ; and moral (religion, philanthropy,
faith, truth, moral freedom, etc.). The Instinct of Life embraces conservation (nu-
trition, motion) ; sociability (imitation, juridical and ethical arrangements) ; and per-
sonal interest (love of independence and freedom, acquisitiveness, self-defense). Such a
muddled list as this shows how great are the advantages of the physiological analysis we
have used.
