CORRESP ONDENCE.
699
were so marked and so well known as to be
quite beyond further dispute.
The latest test reveals the somewhat
startling fact that these great race differ-
ences, even, are unproved assumptions, and
the Terra del Fuegan brain is now said to
possess proportions and characteristics that
in no way enable anatomists to distinguish
it from that of a Caucasian of the higher
races. Here is a revelation, indeed, as to
the state of anthropological knowledge !
Now all this is frankly stated and acknowl-
edged by the able brain anatomists who
have no axe to grind, and are anxious to fol-
low truth, even though it may confound their
own theories.
This latest discovery in anthropology
gives a pretty clear hint as to the accuracy
of the information to be had, not only as to
sex differences, but as to whether these sex
differences are greater the higher we go in
civilization.
Since the foundation itself is knocked
from under the theory, it looks as if the su-
perstructure also may possibly need to un-
dergo more or less repair at no distant day.
This is what I contend for. Not because I
pretend to be a brain anatomist, nor even a
thorough student of anthropology. I have
made no such claim ; but I have said, and
I now repeat, that those who are both of
these (and whose standing as such I do not
feel called upon to defend against Dr. Ham-
monds fine and noble scorn, more espe-
cially since one of these very men was re-
cently referred to by him as the leading
brain-anatomist in New York), who are
careful and honest brain students and anato-
mists, assure me that the present state of
knowledge can not justify any one in mak-
ing the sweeping statements made by Dr.
Hammond as to the numerous, striking,
easily to be detected sex differences in brain.
The doctor invites me, in a tone of tri-
umph (although I repeat this is not the
question, and no amount of rhetorical dust
can hide that fact), to find in all the rec-
ords a womans brain which weighs aa
much as Dr. Chalmerss (fifty-three ounces).
Then he asserts that no womans brain has
ever been weighed in all the world which,
if healthy, weighed over fifty-six ounces,
while Cuviers (whose brain, by-the-way, he
does not mention, was not a healthy one,
and that a part of its weight was due to
that sad fact), and Abercrombies weighed
more than fifty-six ounces, and Websters,
Lord Campbells, and Spurzhiems, came
within two or three ounces of weighing as
much.
Now, so far as I am able to learn from
books and from the profession, the brain of
no remarkable woman has ever yet been
weighed, to pit against those of these re-
markable men. The brain of a Sappho, a
George Eliot, or an Elizabeth Cady Stanton,
might possibly make as fair a show as those
of these gentlemen ; but, unfortunately, wo-
mans brain is, at the present time, labeled
to fit the tramps, hospital subjects, and un-
fortunates, whose brains have, so far, been
weighed and analyzed, and these are what
are held up aa the fair representative of
woman and her capabilities, as against the
Cuviers, Websters, and Byrons.
I assure Dr. Hammond that I am quot-
ing a gentleman of his profession, and a
friend of his, when I say this is wholly
unjust and absurd. It is simply no test at
all. But in this connection it is only fair to
state that, taking both sexes in this class of
brains hospital and unfortunates Weis-
bach found that in the frontal lobes, which
Dr. Hammond says is the intellectual part
of the brain,* the female brains were rela-
tively larger than the males. The per cent
being, males, 8786, and females, 8803 ;f
while Meynert reports the cerebellum in
this class of brains to be exactly alike in
the sexes 41-J- per cent each.
It is a significant fact that Welker and
the more recent Italian writers differ 100
grammes in their estimate of the weight of
Dantes brain. If this enormous variation
of estimate is possible in an individual brain,
it seems not wholly impossible that there
may be room for corrections in estimates
made on sex differences where it is only
claimed that these same 100 grammes exist
as an estimated sex difference covering many
cases, nations, and conditions, and contain-
ing brains of only the most ordinary women.
But the doctor says, Now let Miss
Gardener and the twenty leading brain anat-
omists, etc., search the records of anthro-
pology and their own immense collections
for the brain of a woman weighing as
much as the least of these Dr. Chalmers.
There is in Dr. E. C. Spitzkas collection
a female brain to meet even this unreason-
able requirement, and she was not a re-
markable woman either. Unimportant as
she was to the world, she not only met Dr.
Chalmers, but gave a point or two in the
matter of weight to Lord Campbell, Daniel
Webster, and Spurzheim. Her brain
weighed 54 ounces. Now I trust that
* I give these authorities, fully recognizing that
in this case it is against my point to do so. Munk
says, Intelligence is located everywhere in the
cerebral cortex, and nowhere in particular. I
wish to add, in corroboration of this view, says
Meynert, that no author of the present day would
be likely to insist on one special seat of memory,
for memory is the common property of all cortical
cells and fibers, which are able to receive and con-
duct external stimuli of all sorts. When Meynert
said No writer of the present day would be likely
to insist, etc., he did not know Dr. Hammond.
+ Pfleger insists on the relatively greater de-
velopment of the hemispheres in man as compared
with those of woman, the exact relation being as
795 to 787 on the scale of 1,000. Engel has shown
that this assigns the larger cerebellum to woman
during the prime of life. Meynerts Psychia-
try, p. 66.
