jo6
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Nicaragua, Salvador, and Guatemala. The
introductory chapter gives a general view
of Spain and civilization at the beginning
of the sixteenth century. The course of
discovery is then followed up, with accounts
of Columbus and his discoveries, the dis-
covery of Darien, the further explorations
of Columbus, the administration of the new
colonies, the discovery of the Pacific Ocean,
etc. ; then the stages of further colonization
and conquest, till the downfall of the Quiche
nation, whose capital is described, and of
the Cakchiqucls and Zutugils, in 1524 ; and
the volume closes with the account of the
revolt of the Cakchiquels, in 1524-25. The
publishers inform us that an Eastern agency
for Mr. Bancrofts works has been estab-
lished, under the direction of Mr. F. M.
Derby, at 149 Church Street, New York.
A IIistory of Modern Ecrope. By C. A.
Fyffe. Vol. II, from 1814 to 1848.
New York : Henry Holt Co. Pp. 513.
Price, $2.50.
A comparison of the condition and poli-
cies of the chief civilized nations as pictured
in this book, with the present aspect of Eu-
rope, will help to give a realizing conception
of the extent to which the world of politics
and government has moved during the last
forty years. We are slow to comprehend
how fast we are making history till some
survey of the recent past like this brings
vividly before us what has happened in our
own lifetime. The period whose events are
recorded in the present volume of Mr. Fyffes
history, may be described, as in its earlier
years, the period of reaction. It was the
aim of its statesmen to restore Europe to
the despotic regime which it endured before
the French Revolution. Nationalities were
cut up or combined, without a thought of
how their people would be affected, to suit
the ambitions and convenience of sovereigns
and ministers whose chief aim was to crush
out all life of freedom and enforce the as-
serted divine right of the few to govern and
tax the many. The achievement of Grecian
independence was a rude interruption to the
successful pursuit of this policy; the French
July Revolution of 1830 was a dangerous
break in it ; and the Revolutions of 1848
were the sign of its ultimate defeat, and of
the ushering in of the present era when con-
sideration of the desires and interests of the
people is becoming more and more the ac-
cepted theory of the governments. The four
leading features we have mentioned, in their
order, constitute the framework on which
Mr. Fyffe has wrought his history. The
story is told with brevity and clearness.
Principles of Education Practically Ap-
plied. By J. M. Greenwood. New
York : D. Appleton Co. Pp. 192.
Price, $1.
The author of this book is Superintend-
ent of Schools of Kansas City, Missouri.
His motive in preparing it has been to help
teachers to do better and more intelligent
work in the school-room. It assumes that
education is a science ; and that school-
teachers can understand the principles of
the science, and apply them accurately in
their daily work to the children under their
control. The object of the work through-
out is to impress upon the mind of the
teacher the question, How shall I teach
so as to have my pupils become self-reli-
ant, independent, manly men and womanly
women ? The foundation of the essay is
laid in a chapter insisting on the applica-
tion of the principles of psychology to the
work of teaching ; and this is to be made
in the study of the temperaments of the
children and the application of certain fixed
educational principles in such a way as to
secure an orderly and free development of
the faculties. The succeeding chapters are
of a more practical and concrete character,
and show how the objects aimed at may be
promoted in general school and class man-
agement, in methods of conducting recita-
tions, In questioning, and in teaching the
particular branches of reading, composition,
and language, penmanship, geography, his-
tory, and arithmetic. Another chapter is
devoted to Health and Hygiene ; and
studies of several typical boys are presented
in the concluding chapter.
Sociology. By John Bascom. New York :
G. P. Putnams Sons. Pp. 264. Price,
1.50.
This is not a treatise on sociology con-
veying a full and systematic discussion of
the subject, but rather a bundle of essays
on a number of- topics of a sociological
bearing. It passes familiar principles, and
principles to which the author can make no
