LITERARY NOTICES.
709
attempt will be made to include all portions
of the subject, so that the final results shall
form a complete discussion of the constitu-
tion and conditions of the stars, as revealed
by their spectra, so far as present scientific
methods permit. The investigations already
undertaken include a catalogue of the spec-
tra of all stars north of 24 of the sixth
magnitude and brighter, a more extensive
catalogue of spectra of stars brighter than
the eighth magnitude, and a detailed study
of the spectra of the bright stars. The re-
port describes the instruments which are
employed and the methods of observation,
and gives accounts, illustrated by a plate, of
the studies of five bright stars. The whole
field of studies is intended to comprise cata-
logues and classification of the spectra of
bright and faint stars, determinations of
the wave-lengths of the lines, comparisons
with terrestrial spectra, and an application
of the results to the measurement of the
approach and recession of the stars. Spe-
cial photographic investigations will also be
undertaken of the spectra of the banded
stars, and of the ends of the spectra of the
bright stars.
A Modern Zoroastrian. By Samuel Laing.
London : F. V. White Co. 1887. Pp.
265.
This book, like many others of late
years, is evidence of two facts : first, that
the traditional religion has lost its hold on
most scientifically educated minds ; and, sec-
ond, that such minds are not content with-
out some religion. In Mr. Laings view all
religions are working hypotheses, by which
successive ages and races of men try to
satisfy the aspirations and harmonize the
knowledge which in the course of evolution
have come to be for the time their spiritual
equipment. But when the environment
changes, when loftier views of morality pre-
vail, when knowledge is increased, and the
domain of science everywhere extends its
frontier, religions must change with it if
they are to remain good working, and not
become unworkable and unbelievable hy-
potheses. That Christianity has become
an unworkable hypothesis the author en-
deavors to show by the arguments that
others have used for that purpose. He
dwells particularly on such impossible doc-
trines as the Trinity, and also on the mira-
cles which form so important an element in
historical Christianity. He does not pro-
nounce miracles impossible, but thinks that,
as they are contrary to all we know of the
course of Nature, they can not be believed
without the most indubitable evidence of
their occurrence, and such evidence is not
forthcoming.
Moreover, Mr. Laing is troubled by the
existence of evil, and hence he is unable to
believe in the personality of the First Cause,
since an omnipotent personal Creator must,
in his opinion, be the cause of the evil as
well as the good. His view of the First
Cause is similar to Herbert Spencers ; but
he thinks it necessary that our religious doc-
trine should frankly recognize the existence
of evil as a fundamental constituent of the
universe proceeding, like good, from the
unknowable First Cause. The antithesis of
good and evil he seeks to identify with the
principle of polarity in the material world,
hoping thereby to bring it under a general
law of the whole universe. He devotes sev-
eral chapters to an account of this principle,
beginning, of course, with the magnet, and
then proceeding to the world of life and to
those of morals and politics. He treats the
antitheses of plant and animal, of male and
female, and of heredity and variation, as
examples of polarity, and regards the pro-
gressive and conservative tendencies in poli-
tics as another instance of the same princi-
ple. And, finally, the antithesis of good and
evil is brought under the same category, so
that in the authors view evil no less than
good is an essential element in the universe.
Such being the case, he says : Now of all
the religious hypotheses which remain work-
able in the present state of human knowl-
edge, that seems to me the best which
frankly recognizes the existence of this dual
law, or law of polarity, as the fundamental
condition of the universe, and, personifying
the good principle under the name of Or-
muzd, and the evil one under that of Ahri-
man, looks with earnest but silent and un-
spoken reverence on the great unknown
beyond, which may, in some way incompre-
hensible to mortals, reconcile the two oppo-
sites, and give the final victory to good. . . .
This, and this alone, seems to me to afford
a working hypothesis which is based on
