POPULAR MISCELLANY.
713
Laramie Group. Washington : Government Print-
ing-Office. Pp. 160, with Thirty-five Plates.
Rutgers Scientific School, New Brunswick, N. J.
Twenty-second Annual Report, for 18S6. Pp. 84.
Hermann, Gustav. The Graphical Statics of
Mechanism. New York : D. Van Nostrand. Pp.
153, with Plates.
Barrows, Charles M. Facts and Fictions of
Mental Healing. Boston : H. H. Carter Karrick.
Pp. 248.
Spencer, Theodore C. The Struggle for Re-
ligious and Political Liberty. New York: The
Truth-Seeker Company. Pp. 140. 75 cents.
Maverick National Bank Manual, July 1, 18S7.
Boston : Wright Potter Printing Company. Pp.
200.
Board of Education, City of New York. Forty-
fifth Annual Report. Pp. 271.
Atkinson, Edward. The Margin of Profits, how
it is now divided, etc. New York: G. P. Put-
nams Sons. Pp. 123. Paper, 40 cents; bound, 75
cents.
Johonnot, James. Ten Great Events in History.
New York : D. Appleton Co. Pp. 264. 63 cents.
Home Sanitation. A Manual for Housekeepers.
Boston : Ticknor Co. Pp. 80.
Gilman, Arthur. Gilmans Historical Readers.
No. 1. The Discoverv and Exploration of America,
Pp. 128. 36 cents. *No. 2. The Colonization of
America. Pp. 161). 43 cen*s. No. 3. The Making
of the American Nation. Pp.192. 60 cents. Chi-
cago : Interstate Publishing Company.
Bancroft Hubert Howe. History of the Pacific
States of North America, Vol. XXXI. Popular
Tribunals, Vol. I. San Francisco: The History
Company. Pp. 749. $5.
POPULAR MISCELLANY.
Natural History Studies in Boston.
The reports of the Museum, as given in the
Proceedings of the Boston Society of
Natural History, indicate that considerable
progress is being made in the cultivation of
a public interest in the objects of the soci-
ety. The purposes of the Teachers School
of Science were greatly aided by the lib-
eral action of the trustee of the Lowell fund
in defraying the expense of the lessons and
in granting the use of Huntington Hall, and
by the kindness of the volunteer agents in
distributing and receiving applications and
tickets. The superintendent of the public
schools also aided the work, and took no-
tice of it in his report. Fifteen lessons
were given during the winter of 1883-84,
including five on the Elements of Chemis-
try, by Professor Lewis M. Norton ; five
on Vegetable Physiology, by Professor
George I. Goodale ; and five on Chemical
Principles illustrated by Common Miner-
als, by Professor W. O. Crosby ; to all of
which 2,*798 tickets were given out, 2,295
of them to teachers. In the season of
1S84-S5, ten lessons in zoology were given
by the curator, mainly on a range of sub-
jects specially indicated by the courses of
instruction of the schools of Boston, for
which 837 tickets were distributed. These
were succeeded by a course of ten labora-
tory lessons in Elementary Mineralogy,
by Professor W. O. Crosby, which were at-
tended by seventy-five persons, occupying
the full capacity of the room. The Annis-
quam Laboratory has proved more useful,
and its instruction has been more highly
appreciated, than had been anticipated, and
a very decided revival in the number and
quality of the attendance is mentioned.
Reliance is placed on the study of natural
science in the public schools and in the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology for
assistance in keeping up the interest in this
enterprise. In arranging the plan of the
school, the director assumed that all per-
sons admitted would be capable of conduct-
ing their own work, whereas they very rare-
ly proved to be so ; and that all the students
would be able to realize that being taught
how to do ones own work was more valu-
able than the mere information gained. As
a rule, the ablest students acknowledged the
benefit of the mode of work, and, after a
short experience, expressed great satisfac-
tion and gratitude.
Aztec Ikonographic Writing. Ikono-
matic is a term which Dr. Brinton applies,
in distinction from ikonographic and alpha-
betic, to a kind of rebus-writing, in which a
figure or picture refers to the name of an
object, the sound of which is applied to the
name of some other object or idea. It is
exemplified in certain of the hieroglyphic
inscriptions of Egypt, and in some of the
heraldic devices of the middle ages. It
was freely used in the ancient Mexican
inscriptions, in which the suggestion of the
figure itself, the relative position of the
objects, and the colors used, all may have
had, and evidently often did have, pho-
netic significance. The Aztec writing also
contained determinatives, such in principle
as arc frequent in the Egyptian inscriptions,
and numerous ideograms. Sometimes the
ideogram was associated with the phonetic
symbol, and acted as a sort of determina-
tive to it. Besides employing it in proper
names, the Aztecs composed in the ikono-
