7 i8
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
over pain, there is in brutes a still greater
surplus ; if in humanity there be anything
like an equality between pleasure and pain,
there is in brutes a large preponderance of
pleasure ; if in humanity pain predominate,
then in brutes the proportion should be re-
versed.
Air in Dwellings and School-Rooms.
In the experiments of Professor Carnelly on
the air of dwellings and schools, and its re-
lations to disease, a distinct increase of im-
purities was detected in the air of the close
parts, as compared with the open spaces, of
such towns as Perth and Dundee. As be-
tween different classes of dwelling-houses,
one-, two-, and four-roomed dwellings, the
average length of life in the one-roomed
house was only twenty years, while in the
better-class houses it was forty years. Hence,
persons born and living in a one-roomed
house have a chance of living only half as
long as those born and living in a four-
roomed house. This depends naturally to a
considerable extent on other causes than
impure air-supply. The best results in the
relation of atmospheric purity to cubic space
were noticed when the allowance was one
thousand cubic feet for each person. The
result, owing to stagnation, was not so good
in larger rooms. Of sixty-eight school
rooms in Dundee, twenty-six were mechani-
cally ventilated, and the others were venti-
lated by means of windows. The advantage
was found to be decidedly on the side of
mechanical ventilation, which not only ma-
terially improves the quality of the air, but
also causes less reduction in its tempera-
ture. The air was less pure in boys schools
than in girls schools. Cleanliness of per-
son had a comparatively small influence on
the number of micro-organisms, but clean-
liness of dwelling-rooms and schools had a
most important effect. Hence, the air of
new school-rooms is distinctly better than
that of older buildings. The author sug-
gests that the evil said to be due to over-
pressure in schools is, in many cases, due to
imperfect ventilation.
IIow Lampreys build their Nests. In
a paper on Lampreys of Cayuga Lake,
read at the American Association, Messrs.
S. H Gage and S. E. Meek held that the
study of the specific characters of these
animals had convinced them of the specific
identity of the sea and Cayuga Lake lamprey,
and that the alleged specific differences are
but seasonal and individual variations. In
the spring, May and June, the lampreys as-
cend the largest of the streams flowing into
the lake for the purpose of spawning. They
build nests of stones in the bottom of the
stream, usually just above declivities where
the water breaks in ripples. In forming
the nests the stones are removed, forming a
circular or oval place, the diameter of which
is a little more than the length of the lam-
prey. In removing the stone the lamprey fas-
tens its suctorial mouth to the stones, wrig-
gling strongly until the stone is loose. It
then raises it free and floats down with the
current to the lower edge of the nest, where
the stone is dropped. In this way all of
the stones are removed for a depth of from
ten to twenty centimetres. As nearly all of
the stones are piled up at the lower edge of
the nest, that is the highest. The current
carries down into the nest fine gravel, part-
ly filling it. When the eggs are laid, the
sand is stirred up, and the eggs being heav-
ier than water sink with the sand and are
covered by it. Lampreys if placed in an
aquarium with other fishes will attach them-
selves to them and produce wounds.
Value of M. Pasteurs Hydrophobia In-
ocnlations. A committee appointed by the
British Local Government Board to inquire
into M. Pasteurs method of treatment of
hydrophobia made a report in June, 1887.
The committee consisted of Messrs. James
Paget, T. Lauder Brunton, George Fleming,
Joseph Lister, Richard Quain, Sir Henry
Roscoe, and J. Burdon - Sanderson men
whose judgments in the premises can be re-
lied upon if those of any men can. The
committee visited Paris ; made special ex-
aminations of ninety of M. Pasteurs earliest
cases who were within easy reach of the
capital ; and through its secretary, Mr. Vic-
tor Horsley, made careful experiments on
the effects of M. Pasteurs inoculations on
tlu lower animals. The conclusion of the
committee is expressed, after relating its
observations, in the words : From the evi-
dence of all these -facts, we think it certain
that the inoculations practiced by M. Pas-
teur on persons bitten by rabid animals have
prevented the occurrence of hydrophobia in
