INFLUENCE OF SNOW-MASSES ON CLIMATE. 65
frosts, and permit the safe continuance of navigation during tardy
winters.
In all countries where the snow forms deep masses in winter, the
rivers rise at the time of its melting ; the quantity of water pro-
duced hy the melting of snow and ice is so great, and the evapora-
tion is so little, as to produce much greater floods than ever can arise
from rains. This phenomenon is therefore of a character to affect some
of the sides of practical life ; yet the way in which it operates has
never been sufficiently well observed. The results of the thaw depend
upon its rapidity as well as upon the quantity of snow that may be
upon the ground when the frost breaks up. If the snow melts rapidly,
inundations may ensue, while the duration of the high water will be
too brief for it to be utilized for navigation ; and the contrary will
take place if the thaw is slow and gradual.
It is a popular saying in Russia that when there is little snow the
waters will be high, and there will be little water when much snow
falls. This kind of paradox is justified in the case of the smaller
rivers. When little snow falls in winter, the ground freezes to a
great depth. The first water that is spread over the surface also
freezes, and a crust of ice is formed, over which the water flows as
over a rock, without penetrating it. It therefore reaches the rivers
quickly and swells their waters. When, on the contrary, the snow is
abundant, it protects the ground in such a way that the thaw can
begin from below, and the formation of a crust of ice on the surface
is not possible. The melted snow penetrates the soil, and does not
reach the ravines and rivers till after some time that is, till after the
ground has been saturated. The Russian peasants call this ground-
water. Observation teaches that it proceeds from the forests rather
than from the fields, because the snow accumulates there to a greater
depth, and is less scattered by the winds than in open places.
The melting of snow from below was observed in 1884, at the
Agricultural Academy of Petrovsky, near Moscow. Observations
were made at the surface and at various depths down to two metres.
At seventy-five centimetres the temperature reached the freezing-point
on the 5th of March, and it rose to a greater height sooner from this
point than at fifty or at twenty-five centimetres. As similar conditions
have been observed at various points in the valley of the Volga, the
high waters of that river in 1884 did not rise above the mean, notwith-
standing the great depth of the snow ; but the sources of the stream
were so well supplied with water by the gradual melting of the snow
that navigation was unimpeded during the whole of the summer and
fall. The contrary took place in 1880, when a colder winter with less
snow was favorable to a rapid thaw ; the freshets were among the
highest that had been observed, but the water soon fell off, and from
August till October navigation everywhere above the mouth of the
Kama was precarious.
VOL. XXXI. 5
