WHAT IS EVOLUTION? 731
type, some cells advance to the dignity of brain-cells, whose function
is somehow connected with the generation or at least the manifestation
of thought, will, and emotion ; other cells descend to the position of
kidney-cells, whose sole function is the excretion of urine. But here,
also, the highest cells are successively higher, and the whole aggre-
gate is successively nobler and more complex. It is again a branch-
ing and rebranching in every direction, some going upward, some
downward, some horizontally, anywhere, everywhere, to increase the
complexity of relations internal and external, and therefore to elevate
the plane of the whole.
Lastly, the law of cyclical movement is also a law of ontogeny and
therefore of evolution. This law, however, is less fundamental than
the other two, and is, therefore, less conspicuous in the ontogenic than
in the phylogenic series. It is conspicuous only in the later stages of
ontogeny and in other higher kinds of evolution, such as social evolu-
tion. For example, in the ontogenic development of the body and
mind from childhood to manhood we have plainly successive culmina-
tions and declines of higher and higher functions. In bodily develop-
ment we have culminating first the nutritive functions, then the repro-
ductive and muscidar, and lastly the cerebral. In mental development
we have culmination first of the receptive and retentive faculties in
childhood, then of imaginative and aesthetic faculties in youth and
young manhood ; then of the reflective and elaborative faculties the
faculties of productive work in mature manhood ; and, finally, the
moral and religious sentiments in old age. The first gathers, and
stores materials ; the second vivifies and makes them plastic building
materials ; the third uses them in actual constructive work in build-
ing the temple of science and philosophy ; and the fourth dedicates
that temple only to noblest purposes.
Observe here, also, that when each group of faculties culminates
and declines it does not perish, but only becomes subordinate to the
next higher dominant group, and the whole psychical organism be-
comes not only higher and higher in its highest parts, but also more
and more complex in its structure and in the interaction of its corre-
lated parts.
Observe, again, the necessity laid upon us by this law the neces-
sity of continued evolution to the end. Childhood, beautiful child-
hood, can not remain it must quickly pass. If, with the decline of
its characteristic faculties, the next higher group characteristic of
youth do not increase and become dominant, then the glory of life is
already past and deterioration begins. Have we not all seen sad ex-
amples of this ? Youth, glorious youth, must also pass. If the next
higher group of reflective and elaborative faculties do not arise and
dominate, then progressive deterioration of character commences here
thenceforward the whole nature becomes coarse, as we so often see
in young men, or else shrivels and withers, as we so often see in young
