73 8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
to prove this. If we seem here to be contradicting something said in
another place, the apparent contradiction will be fully explained far-
ther on.
Thus far the true theory is capable of demonstration. Beyond this
point we either see it or seem to see it exemplified every day. We
hire a man to do a job of work which we have not time to do ourselves.
How often rightly and how often wrongly we do not know, but at any
rate quite often sincerely, we think to ourselves that with the same
training we could have done it better. In some cases we know we
could, as well as we know anything not fully tested ; and in some
cases we know it even by the successful result of a sufficiently thor-
ough test.
Adding all these demonstrable and reasonable cases together, we
are safe in saying that by far the larger portion of the worlds work
is done by those not most capable of doing it, either by means of their
own aptitudes or of the natural resources with which they are sur-
rounded. It remains to ask and answer the question, why this is so.
Why should it be the rule rather than the exception, that we must
leave to others work that we can do better than they ? Certainly there
can not be a more important economic question than this.
It is not compulsory that we shall be tedious, but it is compulsory
that we shall be somewhat analytical. We are considering the relation
of a man to a task. If we were asked to give a cold, intellectual opin-
ion as to whether a certain man should wed a certain woman, we should
have to inquire into the nature of the man and the nature of the woman.
So in this case we have to inquire into the peculiarities of human be-
ings on the one hand and of tasks on the other. If the analogy seems
trivial, it is worth while to remember that a mans devotion to his
chosen occupation has often caused an estrangement between him and
his wife.
Directing our attention first to the tasks, we find that they are not
all alike in importance. Humanity as a mass can better afford to have
some kinds of work bundled and slurred over than others. So can the
manager of an enterprise, and he is always looking out where best to
reduce his force, if he finds he must reduce it somewhere. He may
make a mistake in his choice of a victim, but he makes no mistake in
judging that the retention of good men in some positions is more
essential to his success than in others. It is not only more important
that those positions should all the time be filled, but it is more impor-
tant that they should be filled by men who will do their work rightly
and make no mistakes. The mistakes of the office-boy are not so dam-
aging as the mistakes of the head-clerk. The difference between a
good and a bad fireman is of more consequence to the factory than the
difference between a good and a bad journeyman. We can better
afford to have a worthless or a bad Congressman than a worthless or
a bad President. And so on, all the wav round.
