THE OLDEST NOBLE OF THEM ALL.
745
much older nobility than any that tbey had brought forward of one
that was present at the creation of the world. The crown-prince, inti-
mating that my mere assertion could not carry the day, invited me to
produce a living shoot of that old stock. I told him that I would do so
if I were given time, and he granted me as long an indulgence as I
desired. Some years had passed since my promise was made ; but now
I desired to fulfill it, and had come to this place to get the living
shoots of the oldest family on the earth. What I had asserted was
the simple truth. The ancestors of these shells have lived in the sea
ever since there was a sea, and now I shall take these living muscles
to the king and tell him that I have won the bet.
Let us look now at the little company which is collected here on a
stone, and whose individual members are found in the Mediterranean
Sea. The largest of the specimens on the right side of the drawing,
Fig. 1. Membeks op tde Oldest Family.
which has grown by a short stalk to a small coral-stem, represents a
smooth shell, of glassy clearness, and hard as glass. Linnaeus was ac-
quainted with it, and called it Terebratula vitrea, or the glassy tere-
bratula. Another much smaller kind, whose white, three-cornered
shells are neatly furrowed in the direction of their length, is sup-
posed to have a kind of resemblance which I have never been able to
find, with a snakes head, and is named in the classification 2erebratu-
lina caput serpentis. Two specimens can be seen in the drawing, one
in the right-hand lower corner of the stone, on the surface ; the other
on top near the middle, in profile. On the Sardinian coast this species
wears a yellowish-green coat, which consists of a slime sticking fast
to the shell with sand-grains. I thought at first that I had discovered
a new species, and would be able to perpetuate my name in the zoo-
logical registers till the end of science, by giving it to this creature,
when my zeal unluckily prompted me to take hold of the soft coat
with a pincers. The tool drew off the envelope and under it shone
the ivory-white shell. Besides these two species belonging to the
