STRANGE MEDICINES. 751
evidently felt it humiliating that a foreigner should have seen such a
relic of the days of ignorance.
The quaint old man whose loyal adherence to the customs of his
ancestors afforded me such an interesting illustration both of old Japan
and old Britain was a seller of curoyakie i. e., carbonized animals; in
other words, animals reduced to charcoal, and potted in small covered
jars of earthenware, to be sold as medicine for the sick and suffering.
Formerly all these animals were kept alive in the back premises, and
customers selected the creature for themselves, and stood by to see it
killed and burned on the spot, so that there could be no deception, and
no doubt as to the freshness of their charred medicine. Doubtless
some insensible foreign influence may account for the disappearance
of the menagerie of waiting victims and their cremation-ground ; now
the zoological back-yard has vanished, and only the strange chemists
shop remains, like a well-stored museum, wherein are ranged portions
of the dried carcasses of dogs and deer, foxes and badgers, rats and
mice, toads and frogs, tigers and elephants.
The rarer the animal, and the farther it has traveled, the more
precious apparently are its virtues. From the roof hung festoons of
gigantic snake-skins, which certainly were foreign importations from
some land where pythons flourish, Japan being happily exempt from
the presence of such beautiful monsters. I saw one very fine piece
of a skin, which, though badly dried and much shrunken, measured
twenty-six inches across, but it was only a fragment ten feet in length,
and was being gradually consumed, inch by inch, to lend mystic virtue
to compounds of many strange ingredients. I was told that the per-
fect skin must have measured very nearly fifty feet in length. I saw
another fragment twenty-two feet long and twelve inches wide ; this
also had evidently shrunk considerably in drying, and must, when in
life, have been a very fine specimen.
There were also some very fine deers horns (hartshorn in its pure
and simple form), a highly valued rhinoceros-horn, and ivory of
various animals. My companion was much tempted by a beautiful
piece of ivory about ten feet in length. I think it was the horn of
a narwhal, but the druggist would only sell it for its price as medicine,
namely, ten cents for fifty-eight grains, whence we inferred that the
druggists of Old Japan, like some nearer home, fully understand the
art of making a handsome profit on their sales. Some tigers claws
and teeth were also esteemed very precious, and some strips of tigers
skin and fragments of other skins and furs proved that these also held
a place in the pharmacopoeia of Old Japan, as they continue to do in
China (the source whence Japan derived many branches of learning,
besides the use of letters).
Unfortunately for the little lizards which dart about so joyously
in the sunlight, they too are classed among the popular remedies,
being considered an efficacious vermifuge ; so strings of their ghastly
