75 2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
little corpses are hung in festoons in many village shops, where I have
often looked wonderingly at them, marveling in what broth of abomi-
nable things they might reappear. So lizards and dried scorpions
(imported as medicine) also found a place in this strange druggists
shop an interior so wholly unlike anything I have ever seen else-
where, that the recollection of it remains vividly stamped on my
memory the multitude of earthenware jars containing the calcined
animals all neatly ranged on shelves, the general litter of oddities of
various sorts strongly resembling an old curiosity-shop, and, in the
midst of all, the eccentric old man, who might have passed for a
Japanese wizard rather than a grave physician. It was a strangely
vivid illustration of what must have been the general appearance of
the laboratory of the learned leeches of Britain in the days of our
forefathers.
Before glancing at these, however, it may be interesting to note
a few details of kindred medicine-lore in China, on which subject a
member of the French Catholic mission, writing from Mongolia, says :
May Heaven preserve us from falling ill here ! It is impossible to
conceive who can have devised remedies so horrible a9 those in use
in the Chinese pharmacopoeia ; such as drugs compounded of toads
paws, wolves eyes, vultures claws, human skin and fat, and other
medicaments still more horrible, of which I spare you the recital.
Never did witchs den contain a collection of similar horrors.
Mr. Mitford has told us how, also at Peking, he saw a Chinese
physician prescribe a decoction of three scorpions for a child struck
down with fever ; and Mr. Gill, in his River of Golden Sand, men-
tions having met a number of coolies laden with red deers horns, some
of them very fine twelve-tine antlers. They are only hunted when in
velvet, and from the horns in this state a medicine is made which is
one of the most highly prized in the Chinese pharmacopoeia.
With regard to the singular virtues supposed to attach to the
medicinal use of tiger, General Robert Warden tells me that on one
occasion when, in India, he was exhibiting some trophies of the chase,
some Chinamen who were present became much excited at the sight
of an unusually fine tiger-skin. They eagerly inquired whether it
would be possible to find the place where the carcass had been buried,
because, from the bones of tigers dug up three months after burial,
a decoction may be prepared which gives immense muscular power to
the fortunate man who swallows it !
I am indebted to the same informant for an interesting note on
the medicine folk-lore of India, namely, that while camping in the
jungle, one of his men came to entreat him to shoot a night-jar for his
benefit, because from the bright, prominent eyes of this bird of night
an ointment is prepared which gives great clearness of vision, and is
therefore highly prized.
Miss Bird, too, has recorded some very remarkable details on the
