760 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
For a hard tumor or swelling, goats flesh burned to ashes and
smudged on with water is found to be efficacious, as are also shavings
off the horn of a hart to disperse ill-humors and gatherings. Wood-
ashes seethed in resin, or goats horn burned and mingled with water,
or its dung dried and grated and mingled with lard, were all good
remedies for swellings.
For erysipelas, the prescriptions are numerous. A plaster of earth-
worms, or of bullocks dung, still warm is recommended ; but, better
still, For that ilk, take a swallows nest, break it away altogether,
and burn it, with its dung and all ; rub it to dust, mingle with vine-
gar, and smear therewith. For pain of jowl, burn a swallow to dust,
and mingle him with field-bees honey. Give the man that to eat fre-
quently.
To the value of every portion of a fox not even the fairy-lore of
Japan can bear higher testimony. The man who has disease of the
joints is advised to take a living fox and seethe him till the bones
alone be left, and then bathe repeatedly in this foxy essence. And
every year he shall prepare himself this support, and let him add oil
thereto, when he seetheth him. Wonderfully it healeth !
For sore of ears and dimness of eyes, a foxs gall mingled with oil
or with honey is recommended, and the fat of the foxs loin melted
and dropped in the ear also bringeth health. For oppressive, hard-
drawn breathing, a foxs lung sodden and put into sweetened wine
and administered, wonderfully healeth. A salve of foxs grease min-
gled with tar would heal all manner of sores, while his liver worked
cures quite as notable as those recorded in Japan. Shoes lined with
vixen-hide were recommended to those who suffered from foot-addle
i. e., gout.
Next in value to the fox ranks the hare, whose brain drunk in
wine wonderfully amendeth an indolent tendency to oversleep.
Its lung, bound on the 6ore, healeth both eyes and feet. The hares
gall, mingled with honey, brighteneth the eyes. The lung and liver,
mingled with myrrh and boiled in vinegar, cures giddiness. The sin-
ews swallowed raw are an antidote against bite of spiders ; and the
rennet administered in wine against that of serpents. The heart min-
gled with dust of frankincense heals various forms of disease, while
baldness is averted by smearing the head with oil in which have been
seethed portions of this poor little animal. Then the hair holdeth
on, and the salve compels that it shall grow.
If the gums of a child be frequently rubbed with a hares brain
sodden, then shall its teeth wax without sore. The milk of a she-
wolf was held equally efficacious, but more difficult to obtain !
Next in order of merit comes the he-goat, whose liver pounded
with vinegar is found valuable as a styptic, as is also his blood dried
and reduced to dust ; goats gall is a cosmetic which will remove all
unsightly spots and specks from off the face ; mingled with apple-
