STRANGE MEDICINES. 765
neighboring counties, he is to shut a large black spider in a box and
leave it to perish ; while in Flanders he is to imprison one in an empty
walnut-shell, and wear it round his neck. Even in sturdy New Eng-
land a lingering faith in the superstitions of the old mother-country
leads to the manufacture of pills of spiders web as a cure for ague,
and Longfellow tells of a popular cure for fever by wearing a spider
hung round ones neck in a nutshell. This was the approved remedy
of our British ancestors for fever and ague ; and I am told that in
Sussex the prescription of a live spider rolled up in butter is still con-
sidered good in cases of obstinate jaundice.
Many and horrible are the remedies for erysipelas. Thus, at Loch
Carron, in Ross-shire, we knew of a case in which the patient was in-
structed to cut off one half of the ear of a cat, and let the blood drip
on the inflamed surface.
It appears that the old superstition may even survive in such an
atmosphere of strong common sense as that of Pennsylvania, where
so recently as the year 1867, a case was reported in which a woman
was found to have administered three drops of a black cats blood to
a child as a remedy for croup. Her neighbors objected to her phar-
macy, and proved their superior wisdom by publicly accusing her of
witchcraft.
In Cornwall the shedding of blood is not required. The treatment
prescribed for the removal of whelks or small pimples from the
eyelids of children is simply to pass the tail of a black cat nine times
over the part affected.
Of the burial of a living cock on behalf of an epileptic patient, we
have had many instances in the north of Scotland in the present cent-
ury, but this savors rather of devil-propitiation and sacrifice than of
medicine-lore.
In Devonshire the approved treatment for scrofula at the present
day is to dry the hind-leg of a toad and wear it round the neck in a
silken bag, or else they cut off that part of the living reptile which
answers to the part affected by scrofula, and, having wrapped the
fragment in parchment, tie it round the neck of the sufferer. In cases
of rheumatism, a wise man of Devonshire will burn a toad to ashes,
and tie the dust in a bit of silk to be worn round the throat.
So recently as 1822, one of these quacks traveled through England
in his own gig. Each patient who consulted him was required to
bring him a fee of seven shillings and a live toad. He pocketed the
shillings and cut the hind-legs off the luckless toads, placing them in
small bags, which he solemnly hung round the neck of the sufferer,
who was required to wear this unfragrant appendage till the leg was
quite decayed !
For the same malady the same remedy was in the last century rec-
ommended by a beggar-wife to a girl at Gaddesden who had been a
sufferer from her infancy. It is stated that the cure was effected, and
