768 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
THE ECONOMIC DISTURBANCES SINCE 1873.
Br Hon. DAVID A. WELLS, LL. D., D. C. L.
IV.
DEPRESSION of prices lias, to a large extent, been accepted as a
prime cause of the economic disturbance which has pre-
vailed since 1873. Indeed, Mr. Robert Giff en, the well-known English
economist and officer of the British Board of Trade, in an article
contributed to the Contemporary Review, June, 1885, does not
hesitate to express the opinion that it is clearly unnecessary to assign
any other cause for the gloom of the last year or two ; and continu-
ing, he further says :
The point to which I would draw special attention is, that . . . the most dis-
astrous characteristic of the recent fall of prices has been the descent all round
to a lower range than that of which there had been any previous experience.
It is this peculiarity which more than anything else has aggravated the gloom
of merchants and capitalists during the last few years. Fluctuations of prices
they are used to. Merchants know that there is one range of prices in a time
of buoyancy and inflation, and quite another range of prices in times of discredit.
By the customary oscillations, the shrewder business people are enabled to make
large profits, but during the last few years the shrewder, as well as the less
shrewd, have been tried. Operations they ventured on when prices were falling
to the customary low level have failed disastrously, because of a further foil
which is altogether without precedent. The change is more like a revolution in
prices than anything which usually happens in an ordinary cycle of prosperity
and depression in trade.
Here, then, is a description of the extent of the recent fall in prices,
and its influence in producing and aggravating the gloom of mer-
chants and capitalists, by one well competent to appreciate and de-
scribe what has happened. The point of novelty and greatest signifi-
cance, however, in Mr. Giffens statement is, not that a depression of
prices has been productive of gloom and a depression of business for
no fact is better recognized by all economists and business men than
that on a falling market trade is always stagnant, and that nothing is
more productive of gloom to the industrial and mercantile community
owning or carrying stocks of merchandise than losses experienced or
anticipated through a fall in prices ; but that the recent fall in the
prices of the great staple commodities of the world has been in extent
and character without precedent in the worlds history.*
A further fact of the highest importance, and one that is not dis-
* Many who discuss this question, and whose opinions generally command deference,
appear scarcely to realize the enormous extent of the fall, and it is only by means of
very extensive statistics and of a comparison of various periods that a clear insight into
the details and a broad view of the whole can be gained. Augustus Sauerbeck Jour-
nal of the Statistical Society of London, September, 18SG.
