7 86 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Leap experienced a decline, comparing the highest market prices
in New York, in January, 1880 and 1885, respectively, of about 39 per
cent ; or, comparing the average of prices for New York and London
for the same years, about 30 per cent. The worlds production of lead
between the years 1880 and 1883 appears to have increased in nearly
the same ratio, or far in excess of the increase of the worlds population
within the same period. With an approaching exhaustion of a num-
ber of the heaviest lead-producing mines in the Rocky Mountains,
United States,* and a notable decline in the lead product of British ores
(50,328 tons in 1882 as compared with 37,687 tons in 1885), the price
of lead tends to increase. The decline in the price of lead, above noted,
occasioned the suspension or bankruptcy of many English lead-mining
companies, and during the year 1885 much distress from this cause
was reported as existing among English lead - miners. The following
is an example of another economic disturbance contingent on changes
in the production and price of lead : Formerly the domestic supply
in the United States of white-lead and of all paints, the basis of which
is oxide of lead, was derived almost exclusively from manufactories
situated upon the Atlantic seaboard ; but with the discovery and work-
ing of the so-called silver-lead mines of the States and Territories west
of the Mississippi, and the production of large quantities of lead as
a product residual, or secondary to silver, the inducements offered
for the manufacture of white-lead and lead-paints, through local re-
ductions in the price of the raw material and the saving of freights,
have been almost sufficient to destroy the former extensive white-lead
and paint business in the eastern sections of the United States, and
transfer it to the western.
Nickel, not many years ago, was a scarce metal of limited uses,
and .commanded comparatively high prices. Latterly the discovery of
new and cheaper sources of supply has tended to throw upon the
market an amount in excess of the worlds present average yearly con-
sumption estimated at between 800 and 900 tons and, as a conse-
quence, there has been over-production, and unsatisfactory prices to
dealers. There is, moreover, little prospect that prices in respect to this
metal will ever revive one mine in New Caledonia alone being esti-
mated as capable of producing two or three thousand tons annually, if
required ; while the discovery of richer and more abundant ore depos-
its than have ever before been known is reported as having resulted
from the construction of the Canadian Pacific Railroad.
Tik. The production and price experiences of this metal during
the last quarter of a century have been very curious. The worlds
consumption of tin from 1860-64 constantly tended to be in excess of
production, and prices rose from 87 (the lowest figure) in 18G4 to
159 (the highest) in 1872. In this latter year the mines of Austra-
lia began to produce very largely, and in a short time afforded a
Report of the United States Geological Survey, 1886.
