THE ECONOMIC DISTURBANCES SINCE 1873. 7 2 7
supply equal to one third of the worlds current consumption. Under
such circumstances the price of tin rapidly declined, and in October,
1878, touched 52 10s., the lowest price ever known in history ; a de-
cline of 66 per cent. For some years past, however, the product of
tin in Australia has been declining, that of the Straits increasing,
and that of England and other countries remaining nearly stationary.
But the consumption of tin throughout the world has gone on con-
tinually increasing, until now the surplus stock is being so rapidly
reduced, that unless new sources of supply are developed, famine rates
may again occur ; prices having advanced continuously from 52 10s.
in 1879 to 107 in June, 1887.
Tik Plates. Owing to a well-recognized tendency of consump-
tion to exceed production, tin plates in common with tin ruled at what
were termed famine prices in 1872, and for some years previous ;
the average price for coke plates being from 26s. to 27s. per ton.
Since 1872 the decline has been in excess of 50 per cent the quota-
tions for the first half of the year 1887 having been from 12s. Qd.
to 13s. per box. This remarkable and steady decline in the prices of
this commodity during the last fifteen years, is as clearly and cer-
tainly understood as in the case of tin, above noticed ; and is refer-
able to three causes : First, the reduction in the cost of the metal
tin. Second, to the revolution in the manufacture of iron, and the ex-
tensive substitution of steel (plates) in place of charcoal and puddled
iron plates. Third, to new processes of manufacture and tinning ; a
modern tin-plate mill turning out every twenty-four hours more than
double the product of old-fashioned mills, without any increase in
expenditure for motive power or labor. Supply and consumption
alike under such circumstances have increased to an enormous extent,
and the tin-plate trade, instead of being a minor industry of the world,
as was formerly and not remotely the case, has become one of great
magnitude. The decline in prices has, however, brought nothing of
prosperity to the British tin-plate manufacturing industry; as out of
an average of eighty-two works in existence during recent years in
South Wales, there have been no less than forty failures.*
Quicksilver. Excepting petroleum and quinine, the decline in
price of this metal seems to have been greater in recent years than
* An attempt on the part of Germany to break in upon the almost complete monopoly
of the manufacture of tin plates enjoyed by Great Britain, by imposing a heavy duty on
their importation, has been singularly unsuccessful ; domestic (German) production and
exports having diminished, and exports increased, as will appear from the following
table :
TEAR.
1885.
1878.
Production,
tons.
4,892
8,582
Imports,
tons.
5,798
5,307
Exports,
tons.
186
1,696
