THE SAVAGERY OF BOYHOOD. 799
cocious emotion is an unnatural state, produced by an unnatural and
therefore unhealthy development of the brain. Consider for a mo-
ment what the seat of the emotions the brain is. Like all the other
organs of the body, the brain grows from a few simple cells, and
reaches its fullness and complexity as the organ of mind after passing
through numerous simpler conditions. Like the other portions of the
wonderful machine in which each of us lives, moves, and has being,
the brain is subject to the all-embracing law of animal existence, which
declares the development of the individual to be an epitome of the
development of his race. By way of illustration, it is well to note
the well-established and now familiar fact that man in his prenatal
life goes through several stages, in which he may be successively
described as a moner, an ascidian, a fish, a reptile, and a mammal.
The entire series of forms through which he passes is so varied that
a description of his embryonic existence is almost an epitome of the
animal kingdom. And after the appearance in the world of the infant
poet or sculptor, he bears in his countenance the marks of his descent
from savage ancestors, whose low and ugly forehead, flat nose, and
cavernous nostrils are reproduced in his infantile lineaments.
The brain, being merely one of the bodily organs, shares in the
growth of the whole organism, and must consequently be weak and
undeveloped in its early stages. It becomes stronger only by slow
degrees, and in the healthy child it is, as we should expect when we
consider his ancestry, the mind of a savage. The civilized child, like
the adult savage, has no abstract ideas, and his words number only a
few hundreds. One of the writers quoted by Lubbock, in speaking
of the intellects of savages, says, A short conversation wearies them,
particularly if questions are asked that require efforts of thought or
memory. Such a description, as every teacher knows, is most applica-
ble to our own children, and illustrates how closely their mental state
approaches that of the savage. An extremely close observer, Mr.
Francis Galton, in reference to some of the lower tribes of Africans,
makes the striking remark that the motives of an adult barbarian are
very similar to those of a civilized child.
These facts being granted, it is most instructive to notice how our
every-day experience of childrens ways points to analogies to the
emotions of savages. How complete and how savage is that disregard
for filth against which the careful housewife has daily to struggle to
accomplish the shining morning face she sends away to school !
With what a barbarous gluttony does the boy gorge himself with
cake, like the Eskimo who forced his wife to stuff him with blubber
until he fell down unconscious !
Turn now from these unpleasant traits to that of cruelty, with which
we began this discussion. Cruelty seems to be a fundamental fact in the
nature of children ; but, when we recall the course and the law of mans
development, we find nothing depressing in the existence of this savage
