FETICH-FAITH IN WESTERN AFRICA. 801
FETICH-FAITH IN WESTEKN AFRICA.
By H. NIPPEEDEY.
WHILE I was living, in 1884, on the shore of the Kuilu-Niadi
River, a fetich-tree was shown me during a walk on the left
bank of the stream. It was a IlyphcBne-^lxn., the trunk of which was
bent down from a height of about sixteen feet till it touched the
ground. It had also grown in a circle around another tree of the same
species that stood straight in such a way as to form a crown around
it at a height of about ten feet. Within the circle inclosed by the
tree-stem lay an old, weathered elephant-tusk. I thought at first that
I would send a report of this curious phenomenon to Europe, but after-
ward concluded to make a more thorough study of fetiches and the
belief in them, and obtain a little clearer light on the subject. I was
greatly assisted in my efforts by Hiibbe-Schleidens excellent work on
Ethiopia, which I made my guide in my researches. I propose to
communicate in this paper what I have learned concerning the fetiches
of West Africa.
The word fetich is derived from the Portuguese, in which fei-
tigo means a witch. The use of the word is confined to the coast, and
its meaning is unknown to the negroes of the interior. Various ex-
pressions are in use on the lower Congo for example, Mkissi for
fetich ; Ngille-Ngille for the means by which magic power is given
to the fetich ; Mlungo is a doctor ; and Ndoshi are beings of a char-
acter similar to that of the were- wolves of European popular mythology.
It is much harder to exj)lain the nature of the fetich, for the negro
himself is not clear on that subject. I therefore fall back on my
authorities, Htibbe-Schleiden and Max Miiller. The former says that
fetichism is not a proper designation for a religion, for Judaism and
Christianity have their fetiches as well as the Nature-religions ; the
word should be used as analogous with a word-symbol or emblem,
as Max Miiller has shown. If we should say that the cross is the fetich
of Christianity, some persons would think we were guilty of blas-
phemy, but they would be only those who have no real conception of
what a fetich is. The phrase is really as far from blasphemy as sci-
ence is from idle chattering. The confusion of the emblem with the
thought represented, of the material with the spiritual, of the visible
with the invisible, is not religion, but superstition, whether it be the
worship of fetiches or of relics, idolatry or the adoration of saints.
Max Miiller says : We may fancy ourselves secure against the fetich-
worship of the poor negro, but there are few if any among us who
have not their fetich or idol, either in their church or their heart.
The negros religion is not belief in the power of the fetich, but belief
in the power of the spirit through which the fetich is of effect.
VOL. xxsi. 51
