8o2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
One important thought in particular is not peculiar to fetich-faith,
but is mixed with the religions of most people ; but the negro suffers
more than any other man from the fear of ghosts. In the foaming
water, in the dazzling lightning, in the murmuring wind, he sees the
working of self-existing spiritual beings. And why should we deprive
an anxious human heart of the comforting faith that a piece of hide or
a dried snake-head carefully wrapped up and worn about the body can
protect him ?
Every Congo negro carries a Mkissi upon himself ; and there may
be thousands of kinds of them that escape the eyes of the white man.
The Nganga, or medicine -man, is usually the fabricant of the fe-
tich, and whatever he finds good to impose upon his simple-minded,
credulous brethren for a high price, sewed up in cloth or leather or
inclosed in a goats horn, is doubly valuable in the eyes of its new pos-
sessor, because he believes that his Mkissi stands in a personal relation
to himself ; and he can not be induced to give it up to a white man
for any price. Among these amulets are dried snakes and lizards
heads, little pieces of skin, feathers of certain birds, and parts of known
poison-plants. The eye-teeth of leopards are an exceedingly valu-
able fetich on the Kroo coast, and it is easy to buy with them articles
of vastly more real value, like ivory rings, etc. The Kabinda negroes
wear a little brown shell, very much like our Linnaeus, on their necks.
The shells are sealed with wax, and are made, perhaps, vessels contain-
ing masric medicines. The larg-e snail-shells found in the Cassava or
Manioc fields on the Kuilu Niadi are also Mkissi, and are set in the
fields by the women who till them to protect their plantations. One
of the chiefs in the upper Kuilu Niadi, in Nkuangila, has a Mkissi
against the tornado: it is an antelope-horn. On the approach of a
storm the king calls his people together ; the horn is stuck in the
ground, and a dance is begun around it, which is kept up, in spite of
wind and rain, till the tornado is over. Every house in the village has
its Mkissi ; they are frequently put over the door or brought inside,
and then they protect the house from fire and robbery. These penates
of the negroes are sometimes figures very artistically cut in wood or
ivory, and show a certain degree of native skill and taste in the peo-
ple. But it is not the guardians of his house only that the negro thus
represents in material figures ; he also gives corporeal form to diseases,
like small-pox, syphilis, and fever. Every town has its war-fetich ;
and the principle of creation is represented in male and female Mkissi.
The ITt/phcene palm-tree on the Kuilu shows how the negro sees a
spirit at work in the wonders of Nature which he can not explain.
That tree was Mkissi to the whole village. Good medicines with
which the negroes are acquainted, or of which they experience the salu-
tary effects, are also called Mkissi. A negro called a dose of castor-
oil which I gave him, 3Pkissi mbote, or good medicine.
The white man mondela or mundele is regarded by tribes which
