HYGIENE AS A BASIS OF MORALS. 73
ticulars of which I refer those interested to Dr. Richardsons address,
as well as for plans for the warming and ventilation of the houses, and
for the safe and effectual sewering of the city ; also for most impor-
tant suggestions in regard to public laundries and the carrying on of
certain industries (dress-making, tailoring, etc.) in the homes among
the children of those engaged in such work. In connection with the
last-named point, the author cites an instance as having come under
his own observation, in which the half-made riding-habit, destined to
figure among the fashionable frequenters of Rotten Row, was made to
serve as a coverlet for the poor tailors child, stricken with malignant
scarlet fever an incident eminently likely to occur under our present
system, or want of system, of sanitation the dangers from public
laundries, as at present managed, being equally conspicuous.
It will be seen that no expense is to be spared in the building and
administration of the city of Ethica. Money is abundant in the fa-
vored country of its location ; the vast sums also which are expended
in other cities in the support of almshouses, penitentiaries, jails, and
other places of detention of incapables and criminals, are largely saved
to the public treasury. As a matter of economy merely these methods
would pay the best in the end, not only in the results which we have
especially in view, but in actual eagles, dollars, dimes, and cents. In
the State of Pennsylvania alone there are, in round numbers, five thou-
sand insane and five thousand feeble-minded persons, who constitute a
heavy buiden upon the community. Those who understand the true
nature of many of the causes of idiocy and insanity know that both
are, to a great degree, as strictly preventable as are small-pox and
diphtheria.
In that startling record of a criminal family the Jukes cover-
ing the history of several generations, it is estimated that a loss of over
a million and a quarter of dollars was caused by this single family, so
far as its members could be traced, without including the money ex-
pended for intoxicants, and without taking into account the entailment
of pauperism and crime, or the incurable disease, idiocy and insanity
growing out of these unwholesome lives all of which bring heavy
expense upon the public. But it is clearly shown in this history that
the perpetuation of criminal tendencies, as of other traits, depends on
the permanence of the enviro?iment and that a change of external con-
ditions may, in time, bring about a change in character. Do our laws,
our courts, our jails, our almshouses, our insane hospitals, our schools
and churches even, deal with the real questions presented in these stat-
istics? Is not an exact and scientific treatment of the subject of
morals, in its entire breadth and fullness, emphatically demanded ;
and will not the city of Ethica, when it shall arise, prove an economy
in every sense of that so-often falsely used word ?
But, in the pursuit of the twofold object for which Ethica is to be
founded, the intelligent co-operation of all its citizens will be essential
