AMERICAN ZOOLOGISTS AND EVOLUTION. 809
Catons experiment. The same writer* has also observed in the Ha-
waiian Islands the effects of reversion to a wild state of different kinds
of domestic animals which have from time to time been carried there.
Among other animals he was fortunate enough to observe the undoing
stages in the domestic turkey and the assumption of those features
which characterize the wild bird.
A great many facts illustrating the plainest features of natural se-
lection, protective coloring, mimicry, etc., have been recorded in our
journals from time to time. A brief allusion may be made to a few
of these.
Professor Samuel F. Clarke f notices a pronounced case of natural
selection, a case which must often occur in nature. He kept in large
glass jars masses of eggs of Amblystoma. As soon as these eggs be-
gan to hatch he found it difficult to provide the young with suitable
food, and yet they seemed to thrive. On examination, many of them
were seen to be engaged in nibbling the branchia of others, and as
they increased in size they were seen to swallow the weaker individu-
als bodily and hence grow with increased rapidity. Here, then, he
says, was a very interesting case of natural selection by survival of
the fittest, all the weaker individuals being destroyed and actually
aiding the stronger ones by serving them as food until they could pass
through their changes and escape to other regions where food was
more abundant. Professor B. G. Wilder has recorded a similar con-
dition of things in a species of spider where the young spiders within
the case inclosing the eggs were feeding on the weaker ones. Pro-
fessor Henry L. Osborn \ observes a curious case of mimicry at Beau-
fort in the coloring of a species of Ovulum which frequents a species
of Leptogorgia. The Ovulum was yellow in color on the yellow vari-
ety of this sea-fan, and purple when living on the purple variety. Dr.
R. E. C. Stearns # has made some interesting notes on protective col-
oring in Phrynosomm. Having collected these horned lizards (or
toads as they are commonly called) in Central California, he has no-
ticed that if the ground region they frequent is yellowish, the lizards
are without exception of that color ; if ashen-gray, then that color is
simulated, and this without exception. Further than this he is led
to believe that a sufficient number of living specimens will show a
similar protective factor in degree of development of the scale imbri-
cations, tubercles, so called, and horns or, in brief, in the sculpture
aspect as related to the surface texture of the ground which forms the
local habitat of these forms. Dr. A. S. Packard || has observed the
partiality of white butterflies for white flowers. He notices the Euro-
pean cabbage-butterfly, which is white, go directly to the white aster
and rarely visit the golden-rod ; while the yellow sulphur butterfly vis-
* American Naturalist, vol. xv, p. 955. f Ibid., vol. xii, p. 615.
\ Science, vol. vi, p. 9.
w American Naturalist, vol. xvii, p. 1077. [| Ibid., vol. xi, p. 243.
