THE LANGUAGE OF THE EMOTIONS. 821
mentary sensations, of vague emotions, and of blind appetitions. In
the myriapod it is the head or terminal segment that directs, sees, and
smells, but all the other segments also fulfill their appropriate func-
tions, and have their peculiar life in the midst of the collective life.
If we cut the animal into several parts, the different parts will con-
tinue to move and react under external excitations ; it is, therefore, im-
probable that the head should be the only part to possess sensibility
and appetite. When a wound is inflicted upon the animal, it is felt
in different degrees by all the segments, and the reaction is propa-
gated from segment to segment. With the superior animals, which
are a sort of very centralized states, the concentration of consciousness
into the head only obscures the rudiment of sensibility which is still
subsisting between the other parts.
For these reasons, we suppose a solidarity of the parts in the living
body which, mechanical without, is mental and social within. Hence
there can be no irritation of a part without its propagating itself by
contagion to all the other parts ; this is the germ of the diffused sen-
sation which is felt iu the whole body. Furthermore, this irritation
beino - always either favorable or unfavorable to the life of the whole
and of the parts, would be felt as rudimentary pain or pleasure that
is, as the germ of the diffused emotion. Finally, all the parts having
power to react and a tendency to their own conservation, the irritation
brings on a motive reaction of the whole body ; this is the germ of
the diffuse appetite, of the zest of life inherent in the whole. The
solidarity, in the association of living cells, then takes the triple form
of a solidarity of extension, of emotion, and of reaction. We could
summarize this mutual communication of the organs with the words
sympathy and synergy. We think we make a metaphor when we
say, I am suffering all over my body ; but we are only expressing
the exact truth : when a part of the organism is suffering, all the
other parts feel it by rebound, each according to its importance and
its degree of organization. The cry of alarm that issues from the
mouth is the translation to the ear of the alarm which is produced not
in the brain only, but out to the smallest parts of the organism ; it is
the cry of an entire people which finds its life threatened. Expression
is then a social phenomenon of sympathy and synergy, which is in-
terior to the organism before extending to neighboring organisms.
Thus, we think, is explained the association of similar sensations
with one another, and of sensations with emotions. Wundt has insist-
ed upon these two psychological laws, while he has perhaps limited
himself too much in establishing them. By virtue of the first law,
analogous sensations are associated together ; grave sounds have a re-
lationship with somber colors ; high tones with bright colors and
with white. The sharp sound of the trumpet, and bright yellow and
red, correspond. We say, w T ith reason, that there are shrill colors, also
that there are cold colors and warm. The reason of these existing
