8z6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
scorn and ridicule of our great novelist, be can boast of almost as
many aliases as the Frencb counts and other sporting gentlemen who
periodically return to journalistic fame under the ever-green beading
of The Great Turf Frauds. Besides his recognized literary Eng-
lish name of Stickleback, with its vulgar London variant Tittlebat, he
is also diversely known to the ingenuous youth of this kingdom as the
Banestickle, the Jack Bannel, the Harry Banning, the Sharpling, the
Ban tide, the Tanticle, the Hackle, the Sharpnails, the Stanstickle, the
Tommy Parsy, the Prickleback, the Barmy, and the Tinker ; all names
implying at once a certain amount of affectionate regard on the part
of his sponsors not uncombined with a due respect (the child of expe-
rience) for his remarkable offensive and defensive powers. A true
theory of tittlebats would have to account not only for the peculiari-
ties of bony structure which have secured the stickleback these his
many names, but also for the oddities of domestic arrangement which
I shall further unfold in the course of this article.
The common English stickleback, with whom I propose here chiefly
to deal, is a fresh-water fish, much discovered in ponds and small riv-
ers, and abundant everywhere in the neighborhood of London. Many
famous anglers, as Frank Buckland used to observe, were first en-
tered for the noble sport by fishing for stickleback in the Regents
Canal. The fishing is most frequently pursued in the following fashion :
You take a stick with a piece of thread tied to it, and a short bit of
worm fastened to the string by the middle without any hook or even
a bent pin to represent one. When the stickleback, who is naturally
a greedy feeder, approaches the worm, he quickly swallows it, and
you pull him up with a jerk before he has had time effectually to dis-
gorge his gulpecl-down mouthful. Expert anglers at this particular
task have even been known to jerk up two sticklebacks at a time, each
intent upon one end of the worm ; but this is a fine point of science
not to be imitated by the uninstructed tyro. The fish, when landed,
are consigned to pickle-bottles filled with water, and are commonly
sold to the proprietors of domestic aquariums for the small charge of
a penny a dozen. In this way, a working acquaintance with the habits
and manners and peculiarities
of the stickleback has been
generally diffused throughout
a large portion of the unsci-
entific British population.
Nevertheless, I hold it is a
Two-Spined Stickleback (Gasterosteus Uaaileatus.) l 11
theory of tittlebats falls in any
way below the dignity of a profound philosopher. On the contrary,
there are points in the psychology and physiology of the common stick-
leback which merit the close and undivided attention of the most ac-
complished naturalist.
