THE THEORY OF TITTLEBATS. 829
And now, I think, Ave are beginning to get a little nearer toward the
theory of tittlebats. For the male stickleback is a prodigious warrior,
and, when he meets a rival of his own kind, he engages with him at
once in deadly warfare. Their battles, says Mr. Darwin, are at times
desperate, for these puny combatants fasten tight on each other for
several seconds, tumbling over and over again, until their strength
appears utterly exhausted. Bold and pugnacious as they are, how-
ever, it is only my lords who thus fiercely contend with one another ;
their demure little mates remain always perfectly pacific, gentle, and
even-tempered. With the rough-tailed stickleback, the males while
fighting swim round and round one another, biting and endeavoring
to pierce each others mailed skin with their raised lateral spines
or lances. Small as they are, their bite is very severe, and inflicts a
deadly wound upon their antagonist ; and Mr. Noel Humphreys re-
marks that they use their lateral spines with fierce effect, so that he
has seen oue brave stickleback during a stout battle rip up his oppo-
nent from end to end, till the vanquished hero sank to the bottom and
died ingloriously.
It is during the moment of battle, and just before and after it, that
the colors of all fighting animals become invariably most intense. The
reason is plain : battle is joined during the mating-season, and before
the face of maidens and of dames ; and, as in human tournaments,
the ladies stand by to applaud the conquerors and to reward their
piowess. They are themselves the prize of the encounter they stimu-
late. Besides, the highest physical vigor and the highest excitement
bring out the greatest beauty both of men and animals. The angrier
you make a mandrill, the more vividly tinted are his cheeks and
callosities. The frilled lizards and flying-dragons glow with all the
brightest colors of the rainbow when you tease or annoy them. The
turkey-cock swells his crimson wattles and spreads his ruffled feathers
to the utmost at sight of a rival or a mischievous boy. There is a lit-
tle hot-tempered fish known as Betta pugnax, and kept as a sort of
domestic pet by the Siamese (much as the Christian English gentle-
man of forty or fifty years since kept fighting-cocks) to display its
prowess for the edification of the Mongolian intelligence. When in
a state of quiet, says Cantor, its didl colors present nothing remark-
able ; but if two be brought together, or if one sees its own image in
a looking-glass, the little creature becomes suddenly excited, the raised
fins and the whole body shine with metallic colors of dazzling beauty,
while the pi-ojected gill-membrane, waving like a black frill round the
throat, adds something of grotesqueness to the general appearance.
In this state, it makes repeated darts at its real or reflected antagonist.
But both, when taken out of each others sight, instantly become quiet.
The fighting-fishes, as the Siamese call them, are kept in globes like
gold-fish, and fed from time to time with the larvse of mosquitoes.
The Siamese are as wild after their combats as the Malays are for
