THE THEORY OF TITTLEBATS. 833
arranging the whole to his mind, and again and again adjusting it
until he was satisfied ; after which he hung or hovered over the sur-
face of the nest, his head close to the orifice, the body inclined upward
at an angle of about 45, fanning it with the pectoral fins, aided by
a side motion of the tail. This curious manoeuvre was apparently for
the purpose of ventilating the spawn ; at least by this means a current
of water was made to set in toward the nest, as was evident by the
agitation of particles of matter attached to it. This fanning, or ven-
tilation, was frequently repeated every day till the young were hatched ;
and sometimes the little fellow would dive head foremost into his nurs-
ery and bring out a mouthful of sand, which he would carry to some
distance and discharge with a puff. At the end of a month the young
ones were first perceived. The nest was built on the 28d of April ;
the young appeared on the 21st of May.
After the young are actually hatched, the fond parent only redoub-
les his delicate attentions. He never leaves the precincts of home
by day or night ; and he guards the nest with the utmost pertinacity,
allowing no stray intruder from any side to approach it. If a greedy
water-beetle or other enemy comes near the young, this exemplary
father runs full tilt at him with his armed spines, pounces upon him
broadside, and unceremoniously shoves or tumbles him over. If you
try to disturb him in an aquarium with a stick or pencil, he will charge
at it smartly, and strike it so hard that the blow can be distinctly felt
by the hand that holds it. Among the enemies he has to repel on
such occasions, I regret to say (for the honor of maternity I would
fain conceal the fact), are the mothers themselves of his little charges,
who wish to emulate Saturn and the common rabbit by making a din-
ner off their own flesh and blood. For a whole month, says Dr.
Gunther, he watches over his treasure, defending it stoutly against
all invaders, and especially against his own wives, who have a great
desire to get at the eggs. Those unnatural parents, indeed, make
such a dead set upon their young and the devoted father who guards
them, that, as Mr. Darwin cynically observes, it would be no small
relief to him if after depositing their eggs they were immediately de-
voured by some enemy, for he is forced incessantly to drive them from
the nest. Let us trust that the wedded stickleback himself never
indulges in such uxoricidal fancies.
The fry, when hatched, are at first so very minute and transparent
that you can with difficulty perceive them in the water of an aquarium,
and even so only by the gentle fluttering motion of their wee fins.
Their good papa continues, however, to perform the duties of a nurse
for them with profound vigilance, confining them at first to the meshes
of the nest, and, when they stray too far, gently leading them back
with unremitting kindness to the path of duty. By degrees, as their
knowledge of the world increases, he wisely allows them to indulge in
greater excursions, and hollows out for them a small basin in the sand
vol. xxxi. 53
