838 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
observed by competent naturalists in Cornwall and tbe Orkneys. This
salt-water descendant of the little river tittlebat grows, as might nat-
urally be expected, to a larger size in his more spacious environment,
and reaches the dimensions of an average trout. He never ascends
rivers, even to spawn, but weaves his nest of sea-weed or corralline
under some overhanging ledge, and guards his bright, amber-colored
eggs with the same jealous care as his fresh-water relations. His per-
sonal appearance is chiefly remarkable for the very elongated form
which procures him the name of adder, as well as for the prolonged
snout, not unlike a gar-fish, and the rows of shields that protect his side
with a perfect coat of sheeny sheet-armor. That admirable observer,
Mr. Richard Couch, of Mevagissey, to whom, with Mr. Jonathan
Couch, we owe most of our knowledge of marine fish-life, was the first
to watch his manner of nesting. He found that the marine stickleback
built its home in shallow water, where the bottom was thickly covered
with sea-wrack, and that it bound the materials together with an elas-
tic thread, resembling silk, which hardens by exposure to water, but
the mode of whose secretion has not yet been determined. Mr. Couch
visited one of the nests every day for three weeks, and saw the parent
stickleback invariably mounting guard over it with military precision.
When he ventured to disturb part of the materials, the fish immedi-
ately set about repairing the damage, by drawing together the sides
of the opening, so as to conceal once more the eggs which the too
curious naturalist had exposed to view. Stickleback will tolerate no
eaves-dropping intrusion into the sacred privacy of domestic life. So-
ciety journalism is quite unknown among them.
These few remarks complete in outline the theory of tittlebats
which I venture tentatively to suggest in substitution for Mr. Pick-
wicks lost and lamented essay. As its moral may not be immediately
apparent to the young, the gay, the giddy, and the thoughtless, I shall
not hesitate to append one in the undisguised form borrowed by mod-
ern ethical writers from iEsops fables. If any of my didactic reflec-
tions scattered through the text shall have induced only one serious
stickleback to abandon polygamy or to renounce cannibalism, I shall
feel that this article has not been written in vain. ComJdll Magazine.
Professor T. B. Stowell advocates the study of natural history in secondary
schools because of the adaptability of the subject to insure accuracy in percep-
tion, the use of a technical and exact vocabulary, ability to weigh evidence, and
the power to classify and generalize. The field is so large and grows so fast that
the experienced teacher finds his most difficult task in deciding what not to
teach. As in all other branches teachers are supposed to have had some special
preparation, so the same qualifications should be required in the teacher of nat-
ural history as in the teacher of language, and a corresponding proportion of
time should be given to science studies. With such instruction, says the
author, he will let results establish the claims of natural history in the cur-
riculum of secoudarv schools.
