SKETCH OF KARL WILHELM SCHEELE. 843
on black magnesia, or the binoxide of manganese, which M. Cleve
suggests may have been the most important that he made, he discov-
ered that the basis of the mineral was a new fundamental body, man-
ganese ; that it contained, as an impurity, a new earth, baryta, and
that when it was treated with muriatic acid another new substance
was evolved, chlorine. Further experiments with the last substance
revealed its bleaching qualities, which have been so extensively applied
in the arts. Finding that the presence of white arsenic helped the
solution of the oxide of manganese in acids, he experimented with that
body, and discovered the more important arsenical compounds. Scheele
discovered that phosphorus was the cause of cold-shortness in iron, and
showed that argillaceous earth was distinct from silicious earth, and
not an acid-worked modification of it, as had been supposed. He ex-
perimented with plumbago, and found that it was a kind of mineral
sulphur or carbon, composed of carbonic acid and a large quantity of
phlogiston, or, as we would express it, of carbon, and showed that it
was the insoluble substance that occurred in cast-iron, thus opening
the way to the further researches that have been made in the differ-
ences between iron, cast-iron, and steel, which, still under prosecution,
lie at the foundation of our greatest industries. Connected with this
investigation, on account of the resemblance of the minerals to graph-
ite, were his researches in molybdenum and in wolfram. The last
resulted in the discovery of the metal tungsten, for which the name
Scheelium has been proposed.
Very little was known of organic compounds in Scheeles time. It
is one of his great titles to merit that he first opened the way to the
rich field of the fruitful and enriching discoveries that distinguish the
medical and industrial chemistry of our day. The first in order of his
researches in this line is his memoir on Prussian-blue, which well illus-
trates the readiness with which, bringing his extraordinary penetration
to bear, he was able to arrive at the truth. In the course of his
research he obtained a colorless liquid, which he described as a
substance having a curious odor, but not disagreeable, with a taste
somewhat like that of sugar, which heated the mouth slightly and
provoked coughing. He little imagined that he had in his hands
one of the deadliest poisons known, prussic acid ; and we shudder
when we think how near it might have come to making an end of
him. His researches on the different species of alcohol, described in
1782, indicate that he obtained aldehyde, a substance which has since
been the starting-point for numerous important combinations, but of
which the discovery is attributed to Liebig, in 1835 ; he appears also
to have encountered chloral in his researches.
The preparations made in his shop led Scheele, in 1783, to the dis-
covery of glycerine, which was at first called Scheeles sweet prin-
ciple of oils. Boiling oxide of lead with water and oils, he obtained
a plaster which he called a kind of hard soap, and which was not
