8 4 8
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
more than one of expediency, the better
it will be in every respect. We can not
view the matter in the same light. VVe
are quite prepared to apply the test of
expediency ; but we hold that, if it can
be shown that there is a large class of
subjects which it is not expedient for
the State to touch, then it may be said
that there is ground which it is not
lawful for the State to enter. In ap-
plying the test of expediency, however,
we would apply it in the broadest sense.
We should be careful not to mistake a
good intention for a good tendency ;
nor should we ever consent to overlook
the probable effect of any given law
upon the character of the community.
We should claim to judge it not by its
immediate and direct effects only, but
by its remote and indirect ones as well,
ever keeping in view the principle that
the well-being of the community must
in the last resort depend on the per-
sonal qualities of the men and women
composing it. Let others aim, if they
will, at the protection of everybody
against everything, and the reducing to
a minimum the energy, caution, judg-
ment, and courage required for the con-
duct of life ; we shall join in no such
crusade. We believe that society pos-
sesses, and that individuals possess,
powers of adaptation to varying con-
tingencies which the protective spirit
in contemporary legislation is greatly
tending to obscure and overlay. We
want to see individual character more
and more brought into prominence as a
condition of success, and public opinion
developed and educated into a force
that can act for good independently of
legislative support. As things are go-
ing at present, it looks as if the com-
ing slavery, foretold by a great phi-
losopher, might be hastened beyond
the measure of his fears. It behooves
all who believe in individual liberty and
individual responsibility as conditions
of social well-being to raise their voices
against a tendency which certainly is
hostile to both.
TIIE AMERICAN- ASSOCIATION.
The thirty- sixth meeting of the
American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science, which was held in this
city in August, was well attended, and
made a good record of work. While it
was not marked by any papers of un-
usual brilliancy, or by the announce-
ment of any discoveries or theories of
startling import, the papers presented,
as a rule, bore evidence of careful, in-
telligent thought, and had their justifi-
cation either in embodying discussions
of public interest and utility, or as
being real contributions to some de-
partment of scientific research. That
the proportion of papers in which the
public is interested was liberal, is shown
by the fact that while the daily press
selected these for notice, carefully ex-
cluding all that w r as technical, they
gave fairly full reports, and such as
would be likely to impress their read-
ers that the Association was earnestly
engaged in the consideration of living
questions. Yet, besides these subjects,
the daily programmes of the meeting
were laden with topics and investiga-
tions in pure science, to which the sec-
tions equally gave attention.
The address of retiring President
Morse, which we publish, takes up the
question of what American zoologists
have done for evolution at the point
where the author had left it in his ad-
dress before the Biological Section of
the Association in 1876, and brings it
down to the present date. In the sec-
tional vice-presidential addresses, Dr.
Brinton reviewed the data for the
study of the prehistoric chronology of
North America ; Professor Alvord, in
the Economic Section, talked of the
way in which we are wasting the sub-
stance of our land in our agricultural
exports ; Professor Gilbert reviewed
the work of the International Con-
gress of Geologists, which, it appears,
is the fruit of a suggestion made at the
American Association in 1876 ; and
Professor W. A. Anthony spoke of the
