LITERARY NOTICES.
851
healthy men have proved that not even the
strongest of these can exceed in a day more
than two ounces that is, only four table-
spoonfuls without diminishing their capac-
ity for work. . . . Whoever does not die
before his time, and yet habitually drinks
more than two ounces of alcohol daily, will
very surely have to pay for it in pains far
harder to bear than those inflicted by pay-
ment in cash. The almost certainty that
those who indulge in even this quantity will
demand more, is the universal temperance
argument. The complaint of those who
apprehend that drunkenness is increasing is
answered by citations, century by century,
which show that as a whole the present is
decidedly the most temperate age in history.
As to remedies for the evils of drunken-
ness, the author has much faith in prohibi-
tion, and believes that local option is as
nearly sovereign as we are likely to attain.
Ten Great Events in History. Compiled
and arranged by James Johonnot. New
York : D. Appleton Co. 1887. Price,
63 cents.
This book is intended for young read-
ers ; and its object is not merely to teach
history, but also to cultivate certain noble
sentiments, such as patriotism and love of
liberty. The author holds that patriot-
ism, or love of country, is one of the tests
of nobility of character, and adds that
from the earliest times the sentiment of
patriotism has been aroused in the hearts
of men by the narrative of heroic deeds,
inspired by love of country and love of
liberty. This truth furnishes the key to
the arrangement and method of the present
work (preface). The historical examples
which the author has chosen are, in the
main, well adapted to his purpose. Some
of them, however, can hardly be called
struggles for liberty, however interesting
and important in other respects, such, for
instance, as the Crusades and the conquest
of India. The Crusades especially, though
having an interest of their own, and, consti-
tuting, in one sense, a great historical event,
are chiefly memorable as a stupendous ex-
ample of superstition and folly.
The most interesting portions of Mr.
Johonnots book are those describing
struggles for liberty in modern Europe and
in our own country. Of ancient events
only one is treated the victorious contest
of the Greeks against the Persians. Com-
ing down to modern times, considerable
space is given to the struggles of the Swiss
with the Austriaus and with Charles of
Burgundy; to the defense of Scotland by
Bruce and his men; and to the gallant and
successful fight of the Dutch and the Eng-
lish with the mighty power of Spain. An
account is given of the discovery of Ameri-
ca, and of the settlement of the Pilgrim
Fathers, and the work is fitly closed by a
brief sketch of some of the chief battles of
the Revolution.
The work is, as the author states on the
title-page, a compilation, and some parts of
it are quoted directly from other writers.
Some of the authors quoted from are infe-
rior in style to Mr. Johonnot himself, which
makes one wish that he had written the
whole work with his own pen. The book
will doubtless find a place for itself and fill
it usefully, notwithstanding the many rivals
with which it will have to contend.
Indiana : Department of Geology and
Natural History. Fifteenth Annual
Report. By Maurice Thompson, State
Geologist. Indianapolis. Pp. 359.
This is one of the most comprehensive
and compact reports of the whole series.
Besides presenting the record of the special
work done during the year by the depart-
ment, Mr. Thompson has sought, in a Com-
pendium of Geology and Mineralogy, by
which this is preceded, to give an outline
sketch of all that has been discovered and
reported upon by his own corps and by his
predecessors in office, so that the volume
might, in a certain degree, place the stu-
dent, who can not get the earlier reports,
in a situation fairly to understand the geol-
ogy of the State. In doing this, he has
made a treatise that is readable throughout
as well as scientifically acceptable. It is
claimed that the work of the department,
as a whole, has done more than all other
agencies combined to advertise the coal,
clay, iron, and building-stone of Indiana, and
to direct attention to the peculiar advan-
tages offered by their situation and quality.
The reports of the former incumbents of
the office, though long since exhausted, are
