LITERARY NOTICES.
853
besides being capable of practical use in
many ways, will be serviceable in the future
for the detection and measurement of what-
ever changes of levels may take place. The
tides have been made subjects of observa-
tion, and show peculiarities, particularly in
the bays, which indicate that much is yet to
be learned about them. The department of
Geological Surveys is largely occupied by
a close study, by Dr. N. L. Britton, of the
Archaean or Primitive Rocks of Northern
New Jersey, illustrated by sections and
colored maps, and of their minerals. The
Palasozoic Rocks of the Green Pond
Mountain Range are described by Mr. F.
J. H. Merrill ; the theory of the Triassic
rocks receives further discussion ; and the
Yellow Gravel of the region south of
the terminal moraine is the subject of a
special report. The department of Eco-
nomic Geology includes the reports of the
mines and a republication to meet frequent
calls for information, of a special report
made in 1876, on the greensand marls. An
account is given of the successful drain-
age of the Great Meadows on the Pequest,
in Warren County, and their conversion
into excellent farming-lands ; and a strong
presentment is made of the necessity of
draining the meadows of the upper Passaic.
Foorth Annual Report of the Bu;:eau of
Ethnology to the Director of the
Smithsonian Institution. J. W. Pow-
ell, Director. Washington : Govern-
ment Printing-Office. Pp. 532.
The work of the Bureau has been pros-
ecuted on the plan of employing scholars
trained in the special researches contem-
plated, to conduct the necessary investiga-
tions and present results for publication.
Attention has also been given to promoting
and guiding research on the part of collab-
orators not officially connected with the Bu-
reau, and results of value have been gained
in this way. The principal researches men-
tioned in the present report are mound ex-
plorations in West Tennessee and Arkan-
sas, under the direction of Dr. Cyrus Thom-
as ; explorations of cave and cliff dwellings
in the canons of New Mexico and Arizona ;
Mr. Cushinjrs Zufii researches ; Mr. Victor
Mindeleffs researches among the Moki ;
photographs of aboriginal ruins, by Mr. J.
K. nillers; work in linguistics, by Mr. J.
0. Dorsey ; Mrs. E. A. Smith, Dr. J. W.
Hoffmann, and Dr. Washington Matthews ;
and the compilation, in the office, of pa-
pers embodying the collected results of
field - work, in which many of the corre-
spondents of the Bureau have participated.
Several of these papers are given as ac-
companying papers to the report. They
are an elaborate treatise or Pictographs
of the North American Indians, by Gar-
rick Mallory, which is profusely illustrated ;
Pottery of the Ancient Pueblos, The
Ancient Pottery of the Mississippi Valley,
Origin and Development of Form and Or-
nament in Ceramic Art, all by William
H. Holmes ; and A Study of Pueblo Pot-
tery as Illustrative of Zufii Culture-Growth,
by F. H. Cushing. The illustrations to the
whole volume include eighty-three full-page
plates and five hundred and sixty-five fig-
ures in the text.
Proceedings of the American Society of
Microscopists. Ninth Annual Meeting.
Chautauqua, New York, August 10 to
13,1886. D. S.Kellicott, Secretary.
Buffalo, New York. Pp. 243.
This volume contains, besides the ac-
counts of the sessions, reports, and other
matters of regular recurrence, twenty-four
papers on subjects connected with micro-
scopic science and manipulation. Among
the papers of more general interest are the
annual address of the president, Thomas
J. Burrill, on Bacteria and Disease ; Mr.
R. H. Wards Remarks on Making Micro-
scopical Societies Successful, which are of
interest to every one concerned in such so-
cieties or contemplating the formation of
one ; Professor H. A. Webers Microscopi-
cal Examination of Butter and its Adulter-
ations ; Mr. Ernst Gundlachs Optical
Errors and Human Mistakes ; and Mr.
Charles E. Wests relation of his Forty
Years Acquaintance with the Microscope
and Microscopists.
Annual Report of the Board of Regents
of the Smithsoni a n Institution to July,
1885. Part I. Washington : Govern-
ment Printing-Office. Pp. 996.
Under the operation of an act of Con-
gress permitting the printing of the Smith-
sonian reports, like those of the heads of
departments, previous to presentation to
