LITER AB Y * NO TICES.
855
political history of the Dominion is divided,
for the purposes of the study, into three
important epochs : The era of the French
regime, from 160S to 1760 ; the period of
slow growth and accruing experience in tbe
working of representative institutions under
British rule, 1760 to 1840 ; and the period
of enlarged political liberties and respon-
sible government, 1840 to 1867. Since
1867, the various provinces, united as the
Dominion of Canada, have entered on a
fourth era, pregnant with promise.
Bulletin of the Scientific Association.
Peoria, Illinois. 1887. William H.
Park, Recording Secretary. Pp. 92.
According to the historical address of
Dr. J. T. Stewart, the Association was or-
ganized in 1875, as a summer school for the
study of the natural sciences, at which Pro.
fessors Weod, Hyatt, Wilder, and Comstock
lectured. Meetings were held monthly, ex-
cept in summer, for seven years, and after-
ward weekly. During the period of the so-
cietys existence, two hundred and two pa-
pers have been read, on a wide range of
subjects of scientific interest. The society
began with thirteen members, and now has
one hundred, while the average attendance
upon the meetings has increased from about
twelve to one hundred and five. The mu-
seum contains more than ten thousand speci-
mens, and the herbarium embraces the en-
tire flora of the Peoria section, and more,
and the records of visitors to the rooms
show that interest in the collections is grow-
ing fast among the public. Besides a num-
ber of papers having a broader scope in
discussion, the Bulletin contains articles
of more special interest on the geology, pa-
leontology, flora, climate, and coleoptera of
Peoria and its vicinity, a study of The
Lake as a Microcosm, and a memoir on
the Immigration of Animals and Plants.
TniRD Annual Report of the Commission-
ers of the State Reservation at Ni-
agara. Pp. 37.
The commissioners report the reserva.
lion nearly clear of obstructions, only two
of the old buildings yet remaining on the
premises, and one of them to be removed
shortly. Improvements have been made in
many of the appurtenances of the property,
for the convenience of visitors and greater
security. Plans were in preparation fcr
the restoration of the scenery of the shore
and islands. Some of the fruits of the work
of the commission are seen in the improved
government of the village of Niagara Falls.
A company having been formed to build a
railroad along the gorge of the river from
below the Falls to the Whirlpool, an act
has been secured protecting the reservation
against intrusion. The commissioners re-
gret that the whole debris, slope from the
Falls to the Whirlpool has not been included
within the reservation. The Falls were
visited during the excursion season by 187,-
7S1 persons coming in excursion trains, and
probably as many in regular trains. The
stay of the visitors is longer than in for-
mer years. The latest measurements give
the rate of recession along the whole con-
tour of the Horseshoe Fall since 1842 as
about two and four tenths feet per year.
The recession of the American Fall has
been slight. The heights above the level
of the water in the river are, American Fall,
one hundred and sixty-seven feet ; Horse-
shoe Fall, one hundred and fifty-eight feet.
It is estimated that more than one thousand
species of flowering plants and ferns are
native at the Falls or in their neighborhood.
Report of the Commissioner of Education
forthe Year 1884-85. By John Eaton.
Washington : Government Printing-Of-
fice. Pp. 848.
The present (the fifteenth) annual re-
port of Commissioner Eaton is the last of
the series prepared by him. The year has
afforded abundant evidence of the value at-
tached to the annual reports of the Bureau in
the demand for copies at home and abroad ;
and, in consideration of this fact, the Com-
missioner emphasizes the need of uniform-
ity in the general plan and nomenclature
of State and local reports, as a means of
facilitating analysis and comparative study.
Attention is called to several particulars in
respect to school attendance. The actual at-
tendance is undoubtedly increasing, but im-
provement in respect to regularity is not so
decided as could be wished. One of the
chief hindrances to the progress of our com-
mon schools is the multiplicity of school dis-
tricts and of independent local authorities.
. . . Wherever these petty school sovereign-
