864
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Dr. Orme Masson, of the University of
Melbourne, takes a hopeful view of the
prospects of chemistry in Australia. The
university expects soon to have well-equipped
laboratories for the practical instruction of
classes of medical students and for the ac-
commodation of specialists.
The military doctors account for the
prevalence of diseases of the heart in the
French army as arising from the fatiguing
duties imposed on recruits, at an age when,
generally, the development of the body is
not in harmony with that of the heart, but
either in advance of it or behind it. In the
latter case, there is hypertrophy of growth ;
in the former, insufficiency.
Mr. Goschen, British Chancellor of the
Exchequer, recently assured a deputation of
local university colleges that the subject of
further developing technical and scientific
education would receive the most serious
attention of the Government.
Mr. T. P. White, in a communication to
the Chemical Society, gives a decidedly nega-
tive answer to the question whether the
acids of canned fruits may not form poison-
ous salts with the tin. lie reports, as the
result of bis experiments, that tin is en-
tirely devoid of danger when taken inter-
nally in any form that might arise from
being in contact with fruits or vegetables.
He believes that the cases of accidental
poisoning attributed to tin were due to
solder or other impurities arsenic, copper,
or lead. Professor W. Mattieu Williams says
that there need be no lead in the solder
that it is only put in for cheapness sake, and
that tin makes a superior solder to any alloy.
Therefore, all danger may be obviated by
prohibiting the use of any other solder than
pure tin.
Professor Chetreul, on the 31st of
August, which was his one hundred and
second birthday, in perfect health, attend-
ed a meeting of the Agricultural Society
and made a pleasant speech, thanking his
colleagues for a bouquet which they had
presented to him.
The President has appointed Professor
G. Brown Goode to succeed Professor Baird,
deceased, as United States Commissioner of
Fish and Fisheries.
OBITUARY NOTES.
Alvan Clark, the famous telescope-
maker, died in Cambridge, Massachusetts,
August 19th, in the eighty-fourth year of
his age. He was born in 1804, was taught
in the public schools only ; having a taste
for painting and engraving, he became a
calico-engraver at Lowell and elsewhere ;
then worked as a portrait-painter for twen-
ty years ; took up the making of telescope-
lenses in 1846, and, without any other in-
struction than his own shop afforded, rose
to unquestioned pre-eminence in that pro-
fession. He was the maker of some of the
largest telescopes in the world, including
the McCormick telescope at Chicago, the
great instruments at Princeton and Wash-
ington, the telescope at Pulkowa, Russia,
and the Lick telescope, of California.
Spencer F. Baird, head of the Smithso-
nian Institution and of the United States
Fish Commission, died at Woods IIoll, Mas-
sachusetts, August 19th, in the sixty-fourth
year of his age. He began making a col-
lection of birds when fourteen years old,
and contributed papers to the Philadelphia
Academy of Sciences while still a youth ;
was graduated from Dickinson College when
seventeen ; studied medicine, but did not go
into practice ; became Professor of Natural
History in Dickinson College in 1845 ; pro-
jected a work with Agassiz, which was not
completed, on the fresh-water fishes of the
United States; was elected Assistant Secre-
tary of the Smithsonian Institution in 1850 ;
was promoted to the head of that institution
on the death of Professor Henry ; and was
appointed Commissioner of Fish and Fish-
eries in 1871. A list of his works and pub-
lished contributions in 1882 contained more
than one thousand titles.
M. Alfred Terquem, Professor of Phys-
ics at Lille, died in Paris, July 17th, in the
fifty-seventh year of his age. He was a
son of the eminent geologist, Terqucm, also
deceased.
August Friedrioh Pott, who is asso-
ciated by Professor Max Miiller, with Bopp
and Grimm, as the triumvirs who founded
the science of comparative philology, died
at Halle on the 5th of July, in his eighty-
fifth year. He was connected with the Uni-
versity of nalle during his entire active life,
and was the author of Etymologische For-
schungen and of works on the gypsies, on
personal names, and on numerals, of essays
on mythology, African languages, and gen-
eral grammar, and of other books and pa-
pers.
Sir Walter Elliot, of the Indian Civil
Service, who died recently in the eighty-fifth
year of his age, was distinguished for his
archaeological and numismatic researches,
and also for his contributions to zoology, a
large number of which appear in the names
of other naturalists, to whom he communi-
cated them. His Catalogue of the Species
of Mammalia found in the Southern Mah-
ratta Country was a list of the wild ani-
mals of the country, many of which were
discovered by him. The habits of the
larger animals were described from per-
sonal observation.
