84 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
PRAIRIE-FLOWERS OF EARLY SPRING.
By BYRON D. HALSTED, Sc. D.,
TROFESSOR OF BOTANY, IOWA AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE.
BOTANY has so changed, broadened, and deepened, within the
past twenty years, that it may seem like retrogression to talk of
flowers. The average botanist of to-day has gone so far beyond mere
blossoms, as such, in his study of minute anatomy or in his experi-
ments upon vegetable physiology, that he sometimes almost forgets
there are such things as sepals and petals. He must confine himself
to a single cell, or at most a group of cells ; a tissue, or possibly a
tissue system, or else his associates will speak of him as being so broad
that he must be shallow. The division of labor, in fact, has gone so
far that one person studies pollen for a lifetime, while another counts
that day lost in which he does not gain some new fact upon the end-
less subject of chlorophyl. There are hundreds of noted botanists
who pay no attention to flowering plants except as they are the hosts
of, and subject to destructive inroads from, the almost countless spe-
cies of cryptogamic plants belonging to the rusts, smuts, blights,
mildews, and molds.
It therefore requires much courage in this age of advanced botani-
cal thought to attempt to write upon a theme that is so broad as the
one selected. Spring floAvers bears the marks of wear, especially
in the hands of those who can do almost anything better than make
rhymes. The practical eye of the penetrating student of plant-life
has gone beyond the beauty in flowers, and finds a golden thread of
adaptation which the average spring poet has never dreamed of,
even in his highest flights after the soul of things. However, for the
genuine poets be it said that it was reserved for the immortal Goethe
to first comprehend the true morphology of seemingly so simple a
structure as a flower.
The season of flowers opened unusually early this year how much
more so than the average can only be told after observations have been
taken over a series of years. Ten years from now it is hoped that the
record will be so complete that, with watch in hand, the hour may be
given when a certain flower may be expected. There is doubtless a
floral clock for the year as there is one for the twenty-four hours of a
single day. Perhaps there has been a great Phyto-convention held
somewhere, and a majority, if not all, of the choice bloomers were in
attendance. Each was assigned its place in the calendar, and if the
petals do not unfold and fade away with the regularity of the un-
erring time-piece, it is no fault of the plant. Upon the surround-
ing circumstances, and not upon the plant, must rest any blame for
irregularity. To any one who has made a careful inspection of the
