PRAIRIE-FLOWERS OF EARLY SPRING. 85
thoroughness with which the pussy-willow prepares for the coming
spring, even before the first chill of autumn thrills the summer air, it
will be unnecessary to dwell upon this fact. Even in these October
days, when the leaves are chasing each other down the roadway,
driven by the cruel wind, there are bright promises of another spring-
time left behind upon the shrubs and trees. The foliage may fall, but
its work remains. Their long summer days of toil are not for naught.
Within the closely knit covering of the bud sit the germ of a future
branch with its leaves defined and its flowers planned. Those who see
only evidences of death and decay in the leaf-stripped tree are surface-
sighted. A plant is never more itself than when it is fully prepared
for a period of repose. It is now most independent and most highly
charged with what the physicist would call the energy of position.
The plants, therefore, that bloom early in the spring are not idlers
through the balance of the year ; they ripen their seed, or, in other
words, rear up a fine family of children. Each offspring, provided
with an outfit for the early struggles of life in the shape of starch, and
oil, and protoplasm, is invited to shift for itself. More than this, the
mother-plant, if it is the plan that she shall live on, spreads new leaves
to the sunshine, and the work of food-making goes on during every
day until a store of nourishment is packed away for use in the early
growth of the plant the following spring. As a rule, spring flowers
are made out of last years material, and, in this sense, are not as fresh
and new as those that come later in the season.
Over fifty pairs of anxious eyes were watching last spring for the
first flowers of the year, and it is safe to say that not many days elapsed
between the appearance of the first blooms of a species and the time
they were discovered. It was none other than the hepatica, or liver-
leaf, that first opened its delicate blossoms to the chill air. This was
on April 6th, and many days before the snow-banks had silently stolen
away. The fact that this little forerunner of warmer and better days
has been recently uprooted by botanists and transplanted in another
genus seems only to quicken its pulse and make it breathe the air of
April more freely. Hepatica acutiloba (DC), of my earlier botanical
days, has changed to Anemone acutiloba (Lawson). It by any other
binomial botanical title would bloom as early and smell as sweet. Its
twin sister has undergone a more violent treatment, and, instead of
Hepatica tribola (Chaix), it is settled among the wind-flowers as Anem-
one hepatica, where the immortal Linnaeus had placed it a century ago.
The fineness and even brittleness of the thread by which a species
is hung is well illustrated by these two hepaticas. Without con-
sidering how minute were the characteristics upon which the genus
Hepatica was founded by Dillenius, let us see in what the two Ameri-
can species differ. Dr. Gray, in his School and Fleld-Book, says :
Hepatica triloba (round-lobed hepatica), leaves, with three broad and
rounded lobes, appearing later than the flowers and lasting over win-
