A PROBABLE PTERIDOSPERM 3
Thus, although nothing conclusive can be stated about the
relationships of these vegetative and fertile plant parts, one is
easily led to believe that very likely they belonged together,
and that at least some species of Eremopteris were pterido-
spermous.
Description of New Material
Recent collections of Pennyslvanian plant compressions from
northern Pennsylvania have further emphasized the possible rela-
tionship of platyspermic seeds and Eremopteris foliage. The
material was collected in a strip mine about 4 km (2.5 miles)
northwest of English Center, Lycoming County, Pennsylvania.
The coal is thought to belong to the Allegheny Group and appears
to be one of the easternmost outliers of that group in Penn-
sylvania. Plant fossils occur in a finely bedded gray shale that
splits apart easily into thin sheets. Plant material is dehcately
preserved, ahhough no cuticle appears to be present. Specimens
are best examined submerged in xylene; photographs of the
material included in this paper were taken in that fashion.
Common fossils at this site include Sphenopteris obtusiloba
Brongniart and S. spinijormis Kidston, Neuropteris heterophylla
Brongniart. Lepidodendron obovatum Sternberg, Lepidostrobus
sp., and scattered Lepidocarpon megasporophylls.
Leaves of Eremopteris that closely resemble E. zamioides are
extremely abundant. We believe that most of the specimens col-
lected are entire leaves. They generally measure 14-20 cm in
length; at the base of the rachis there seems to be a sharp line
of abscission. Frequently, large numbers of these leaves are found
closely aggregated, and all are extremely similar in general size
and shape (Fig. 1). An alternative explanation of the abruptly
truncated leaflike structures would be to regard them as pinnae
of a much larger frond, the parts of which abscissed. Because most
of the lea\es found are the same size, and because it is difficult to
visualize a pinnately constructed frond with pinnae identical
throughout, we are inclined to regard these structures as entire
fronds.
Pinnae are alternate to subopposite; the base of the rachis is
generally naked, and lowest pinnae are smaller than the largest
ones, which occur about half the distance up the rachis (Fig. 2).
Largest pinnae may reach 5 cm in length. Pinnules are narrow
