6 POSTILLA
and incised; pinnae at the distal end of the frond may be entire
or occasional ones may have some incising. Venation is the open
dichotomous type characteristic of Eremopteris, with no apparent
midvein in the pinnules (Fig. 3).
Seeds found in close proximity to the Eremopteris foliage are
conspicuously flattened and bilateral, with two prominent distal
spines ( Figs. 4, 5 ) . They are quite unlike Samaropsis acuta seeds
and resemble somewhat the seeds called Ptilocarpus bicormitus
by Lesquereux (1879, PI. 85, fig. 51) and later (1880, p. 565)
Cardiocarpus hicornutus. This seed material, described by Les-
squereux as having coniferous affinities, originated in the shale
above coal in Coshocton, Ohio. In many respects these seeds
resemble the Lower Carboniferous genus Lyrasperma Long (1960)
from Scotland.
Shape of the new seeds is highly variable, perhaps partly due
to natural variation and partly to varying degrees of compression
during fossilization. Furthermore, these different shapes may
represent different ontogenetic stages. A central oval or elliptical
portion, possibly representing the outline of the inner testa, is
discernible on the compressed seeds. A flange, or wing, surrounds
this central body, as in many species of Samaropsis. This wing, of
course, could represent either a true flangelike extension of the
integument, or it may simply be the flattened sarcotesta after
compression. Proximally. the integument is extended into an
acuminate process, the end of which represents the point of
attachment. Length ranges from 10 to 15 mm, and width from
4 to 6 mm in the primary plane (not including the distance
between the flaring distal projections). In many specimens a con-
spicuous line runs axially along each of the flat faces. These lines
could represent vascular bundles, or they may reflect the fact
that the integument may be composed of two symmetrical halves
(as in Lyrasperma), with the lines on the flat faces representing
sutures.
Generally the seeds are in the form of thin, carbonaceous films,
but rarely a mcgaspore membrane is present. One such seed
(Fig. 6) had split along the major plane of symmetry exposing
the spore membrane.
Possible microsporangiate organs associated with the foliage and
seeds are similar to those decribed by Corsin (1928) for his
"Pteridozamites" material. They are always found detached, most
