A PROBABLE PTERIDOSPERM 13
grounds that the parts were not actually attached, we must justify
our presumption in presenting the reconstruction in this paper.
Certainly we are agreed that association in itself must be ap-
proached with caution. On the other hand, this is not the first
time that the conspicuous association of platyspermic seeds with
eremopterid foliage was noted. Reports by previous authors,
together with this one, add up to evidence that cannot be dis-
missed lightly.
There is considerable precedent for the attachment of seeds to
fernlike foliage in the Paleozoic. White's (1904) Wardia fertilis is
an example of flattened seeds attached to foliage similar to that
oi Adianiides. Emplectopteris triangularis (Halle, 1927) is another
example of platyspermic seeds borne on fernlike foliage, although
in that case, seeds were borne on laminar surfaces. There are
numerous other instances of seeds borne on foliage, but in most
of the other reports, the seeds were radially symmetrical.
If such a plant as that suggested in our reconstruction did
exist, what are its affinities? Platyspermic seeds are generally
thought to be conifer-related, but the structure of eremopterid
foliage is certainly far from a coniferophytic leaf morphology.
Actually, bilaterally symmetrical seeds are an early type, having
been reported by Long (1960) in the lower Carboniferous of
Scotland. The fragments of axes on which are borne the various
seeds with which Long worked are typically leafless, making it
tempting to suspect that in some seed plants, at least, the seeds
evolved before the appearance of leaves. If such is the case, it
would be impossible to categorize these Mississippian plants as
coniferophytes or pteridosperms. Eggert and Delevoryas (1960)
suggested that bilateral symmetry of seeds need not be a reflection
of natural affinities. Conostoma Williamson, a pteridosperm genus
based on seeds with generally radial symmetry includes one species
— C. plaiyspermum (Graham, 1934) — that is bilaterally flat-
tened. Thus, platyspermic samaropsid seeds need not be considered
uniquely coniferophytic. and their probable presence on eremop-
terid leaves need not be considered anomalous.
As work progresses on late Paleozoic and early Mesozoic
pteridosperms. one cannot help but be impressed with the tre-
mendous diversity of leaf types, seed structure, pollen-bearing
organs, and vegetative anatomy. It is becoming increasingly
obvious that the class Pteridospermopsida (or other nomenclatural
