INFORMATION FOR AUTHORS
STYLE
FORM
REVIEW The Publications Committee of the Peabody Museum of Natural
History reviews and approves manuscripts for publication. Papers
will be published in approximately the order in which they are
accepted; delays may result if manuscript or illustrations are not in
proper form. To facilitate review, the original and one carbon or
xerox copy of the typescript and figures should be submitted. The
author should keep a copy.
Authors of biological papers should follow the Style Manual for
Biological Journals, Second Edition (Amer. Inst. Biol. Sci.). Authors
of paleontological manuscripts may choose to follow the Sugges-
tions to Authors of the Reports of the U.S. Geological Survey,
Fifth Edition (U.S. Govt. Printing Office).
Maximum size is 80 printed pages including illustrations ( = about
100 manuscript pages including illustrations). Manuscripts must be
typewritten, with wide margins, on one side of good quality
81/2 X 11" paper. Double space everything. Do not underline any-
thing except genera and species. The editors reserve the right to
adjust style and form for conformity.
Should be precise and short. Title should include pertinent key
words which will facilitate computerized listings. Names of new
taxa are not to be given in the title.
The paper must begin with an abstract. Authors must submit com-
pleted BioAbstract forms; these can be obtained from the Postilla
editors in advance of submission of the manuscripts.
Follow the International Codes of Zoological and Botanical Nomen-
clature.
Must be planned for reduction to 4 x 61/2" (to allow for running
head and two-line caption). If illustration must go sideways on
page, reduction should be to 3-14 x 6%". All illustrations should be
called "Figures" and numbered in arable, with letters for parts
within one page. It is the author's responsibility to see that illustra-
tions are properly lettered and mounted. Captions should be typed
double-spaced on a separate page.
Should not be used, with rare exceptions. If unavoidable, type
double-spaced on a separate page.
Should be numbered in arable. Each must be typed on a separate
page. Horizontal rules should be drawn lightly in pencil; vertical
rules must not be used. Tables are expensive to set and correct;
cost may be lowered and errors prevented if author submits tables
typed with electric typewriter for photographic reproduction.
The style manuals mentioned above must be followed for form and
for abbreviations of periodicals. Double space.
Each author receives 50 free copies of his Postilla. Additional copies
may be ordered at cost by author when he returns galley proof.
Ail copies have covers.
PROOF Author receives galley proof and manuscript for checking printer's
errors, but extensive revision cannot be made on the galley proof.
Corrected galley proof and manuscript must be returned to editors
within seven days.
COPYRIGHT Any issue of Postilla will be copyrighted by Peabody Museum of
Natural History only if its author specifically requests it.
TITLE
ABSTRACT
OMENCLATURE
-LUSTRATIONS
FOOTNOTES
I TABLES
REFERENCES
U HOP'S COPIES
