2 POSTILLA
Introduction
In his efforts to reconstruct plant life of the past, the paleobotanist
is thwarted by the frequently fragmentary nature of plant remains
in the rocks. It becomes essential to piece together these fragments
into the proper whole by whatever valid means are available.
Simple association of fragmentary plant parts in the fossil record
cannot be used as definite proof that these parts were constituents
of the same living plant. Obviously, the only conclusive proof
involves organic connection or the demonstration that some
peculiar or unique structural feature, such as that of the epidermis,
is found in all the scattered parts. However, when associa-
tions occur with sufficient frequency, it is worth mentioning them
and suggesting what the whole plant might have looked hke if the
pieces belong together.
Seward (1917, p. 170) figured a specimen of Eremopteris
artemisaejolia (Sternberg) Schimper in close association with
which are compressions of seedlike bodies referred to as Sania-
ropsis acuta Kidson. This association was consistent enough for
Seward to feel that the seeds were part of the plant that is known
from these Eremopteris leaves. The seeds were flattened and
bilaterally symmetrical, with two small distal hornlike projections.
Later Corsin (1928) described leaves like those of Eremopteris
zamioides (Bertrand) Kidston from the Upper Westphalian of
northern France. Associated with these fronds were fructifications
that he assumed were part of the same plant that bore the leaves.
Seeds, much like those figured by Seward (1917), were frequent,
as were structures thought to be microsporangiate organs. These
presumed microsporangia have small, radiating appendages, and
look like small flowers. Parts of the foliage were also reported
to have attached to them small, ovulelike structures in two rows
along each pinna. These presumed ovulate structures, however,
are immature and do not resemble the dispersed seeds. Corsin
placed the entire assemblage into a new genus "Pteridozamites",
which he considered to be a pteridospermous plant.
Specimens of Carboniferous plants from Durham, England, in
the Paleobotanical Collections of the Peabody Museum of Nat-
ural History include some Eremopteris artemisaejolia. On the
same slabs, in close association with the leaf pieces, are bilaterally
flattened seeds like those of Samaropsis acuta figured by Seward.
