127
two electrons might be regarded as that of a sphere over the whole
surface of which the electrons circulate uniformly. The formula for
sin H
a
the diminishing-factor then becomes — , where (/is the radius
a
of the spherical surface in question and a the edge of the elemen-
tary cube, so that we must put for A :
sin H
A = 2 e-^ ■ 10 ~ 3 # a — - .
a
For the electrons of the binding rings we have only to attend to
the heat motion. Thus I replaced B by e~ aiH<i .
When we compare the righthand sides of the equations, that of the
first, viz. that for (111), is exceedingly large. When however
we compare the left hand sides, the terms containing B show that
in t tie equation for (111) this left hand side will become smaller
than the left hand sides of the other equations. This difficulty will
however not be met with, when « 2 is chosen so great, that the
terms with B may be neglected. This comes about to the same as
the ascribing of the decreasing of the line intensity with H\ observed
by Debije and Schkrrkr, only to the circulation of the two remain-
ing electrons about the nucleus. I calculated that for the radius
of the spherical surface over which as a mean these electrons may
be regarded to move, the value 0.075a had then to be chosen. This
is about thrice the radius of the BoHR-ring (one-quantum for each
electron) about the nucleus. This would not be an improbable value
of the radius of that sphere. Then however we must take cr at
least equal to 0,6 in order to find somewhat fitting solutions of the
2*V
equations. When we put « 2 = (r = mean deviation by the
(i 1
heat motion) r should thus become somewhat smaller than 0,2 a
and such a great deviation seems to be in contradiction with recent
conceptions on the specific heat of solid bodies, to which the elec-
trons contribute to a small degree only. We may lower the «-value
wanted by taking for the radius of the electronic sphere about the
nucleus 4 or 5 times instead of 3 times the radius of a ring of
one quantum; then however this radius becomes improbably large
and « a remains still too large. : )
l ) In my opinion Coster I.e. would also have met with these difficulties when
