Chemistry. — "T/te aluminates of sodium. Equilibriums in the
system Na 2 — Al i O z — #,<)". By Dr. F. Goudriaan. (Communi-
cated by Prof. J. Böeseken).
(Communicated at the meeting of April 23, 1920).
Introduction.
In a preceding paper 1 ) a survey was given of the equilibriums
that may arise at 30° in the system: Na 3 — ZnO— H„0. Among
other things the range of existence of the zincate of sodium and the
stability-relation between ZnO and zinehydroxide were determined
in this paper. In view of our still very slight and incomplete know-
ledge concerning the corresponding compounds of other metals, it
was now tried also to determine similar equilibriums of some of
these metals. The following will give a brief survey of the results
obtained in the system : Na,0— A1 2 0, — H„0.
Although the existence of aluminates has long been suspected and
in nature some even seem to occur in a crystallized state in some
minerals (e. g. the spinels), not a single exact datum regarding these
bodies is to be found in the literature. To be sure it is known that
also in elaborating the mineral bauxite by treating it with soda,
aluminium is fixed as an aluminate, but we are by no means
acquainted either with the composition or with the stability of these
compounds. It is true that several investigations have been made in
this direction, but in none of these the solid phases have been
isolated. The compositions that are therefore given to the aluminates
have been determined in a more or less indirect way and serious
objections may always be raised to the methods applied in doing so.
Therefore it is not wonderful that the results are often in serious
mutual contradiction. A short summary of the knowledge obtained
up till now about the aluminates, from which this will further
appear, is the following:
Cavazzi 2 ) first suspected the existence of these compounds and
ascribed to them formulae like: NaA10 2 on the ground of his obser-
vation that 1 gram-atom Al will dissolve in 1 gram-molecule NaOH.
1 ) Proceedings XXII, 179 (1919).
2 ) Gazz. chim. ital. 15, 205 (1885).
Proceedings Royal Acad. Amsterdam. Vol. XXIII.
