133
lead a current of CO, into the aluminate solution, the precipitate
is perceptibly more floccose and the particles are coarser than if
we cause it to arise by a prolonged exposure to the air.
Product y. A very remarkable and, so far as I know, in the
literature not yet described form of (he hydroxide, arose as follows:
The dessiccated particles of product «, which have quite the outward
aspect of a shrivelled up gellous mass, do not swell in pure water,
in concentrated NaOH-solutions they swell very rapidly. On being
shaken a long time with diluted NaOH-solutions, they not only
were found to give nos welling, but even to pass into a fine crystallized
product. This transition succeeds best if the concentration of the
lye is between 0,5 and 2,0 normal, while they are continually
shaken vigorously. It usually took a few months before the tran-
sition had taken place completely. It can best be watched micros-
copicallj 7 ; the original aspect : gelatinous, very irregularly formed
particles of various sizes, disappears in the long run and in their
place we observe : bar-shaped crystals very regular in shape and
size. No doubt we here have a crystallized phase : at a 600 fold
magnification the crystals could be distinctly observed. Their length
amounted to 8 — 20 n, their width ± 3 (i, they are faintly double-
refractive.
The remarkable phenomenon is especially that we have here a
direct transition from the gelatinous state into the crystalline state,
of which no examples have been stated with any certainty as yet.
Where we see that, dependent on the OH'-ions concentration, the
gelatinous mass of aluminiumhydroxide crystallizes or swells to
amorphous particles, this pleads very strongly in favour of the
gradual transition of the crystallized and the amorphous state of
matter. This has been suspected on the ground of various phenomena,
but the direct experimental proof is still wanting. The systematical
stud}- of the crystallization and swelling of such bodies as aluminium-
hydroxide may probably improve our insight into this transition
Anyhow the swelling of aluminiumhydroxide as a function of the
H* and OH '-ions concentration is remarkable and a further study
about this is in progress.
On using the product y, close attention should always be paid
that it no longer contains any gelatinous particles of product a,
as these possess a greater solubility in lyes, so that in this case we
should not measure the exact solubility of /. A microscopical control
of the form y was therefore applied with all following determinations.
Analysis of the product yielded: 34,35% H 3 - 65,52% AI.O,,
so corresponding with A1,0 3 . 3H,0 (after drying at 100 — 110).
