139
series of other curves relating to these continuously varying phases.
b. If we imagine the conversion of a into y to come about,
because primarily the a particles dissolve and y crystallizes from
this solution, then it is possible that these two processes take place
with very unequal rapidity. If the crystallization came about very
rapidly in proportion to the solution of «, the values situated between
curve I and curve III would be reached.
As we said before however, the crystallization takes place extremely
slowly, whereas the solution of the particles of product a happens
more rapidly. Therefore explanation b does not hold true and as
most probably it will not be easy to find a more plausible explanation,
I believe I may best interpret the experiment by accepting a continuous
transition between the solid phases that coexist on curves 1 and III
with the solutions. For curve III this solid phase is the crystallized
aluminiumhydroxide A1,0 3 . 3 H,0 as microscopical examination as
well as analysis of the rests prove. If we consider the rests of the
points situated on curve I (Nos. 1 — 11) it then appears that the lines
that unite solutions and accessory rests, do not display a mutual
point of intersection inside the triangle. The gelatinous phase that
coexists along curve I by the side of the solutions, must therefore \)e a
product of varying composition, rich in water and which besides
(see analysis) has absorbed a certain quantity of alkali. Of course
curve 1 is quite metastahle with regard to curve 111, but can be
determined very well owing to the slight rapidity of transition.
If we now survey the determinations performed with product £?,
it appears that they form curve II, which is situated between land
III (fig. II, curve BE) ; besides the particles swell strongly in the
more concentrated solutions, not appreciably in the diluted solutions.
In any case we must therefore consider the form ft as metastable
with regard to y; even though, in spite of numerous attempts I have
not succeeded in experimentally realizing the transition /?— ■ >y. Funda-
mentally product /? has nothing remarkable, it is but one of the
many forms between I and III, which forms are all metastable as
regards the crystallized hydroxide y. As to aspect, /? is already much
more like product y than «; this too pleads in favour of the
continuous transition of the forms into each other.
The equilibriums of At, 3 with NaOH-solutions of various
concentrations.
The determinations performed with the products rf, g and § dis-
tinctly indicate that at 30° AIJ\ is metastable as regards Al^0 3 . SHJJ.
The solutions in which product 'i was added as a solid phase, give
