Physics. — "Derivation of a formula for the temperature depend-
ence of the velocity constants in gas reactions from a special
image of the process." By Dr. J. Trksling. (Communicated
by Prof. H. A. Lorentz).
(Communicated in the meeting of March 27, 1920).
Using a definite image of the dissociation Boltzmann derived a
formula for the equilibrium constant in gas reactions. By means of
a similar image we only need a short calculation to find the tem-
perature dependence of the velocity constants in gas reactions.
As to the dissociation let us e.g. consider that of /, into 1 -\- I.
We have then the following image of the dissociation :
A iodine atom be a centre of force. It will act on a neighbouring-
atom only then when their distance lies between a and a -j- da.
We call a sphere with radius a the attraction sphere of the atom.
The action will be thus that at the passage of the layer da the
potential energy will decrease from to if> (if> being a negative
quantity). Pairs of atoms, the mutual distance of which is less than
a, will be regarded as 7, -molecules.
From the kinetic theory of gases we know the number n x of
simple atoms and the number n p of pairs, we may expect in the
gas viz:
n, = Ae~ hmc * du dv dw dx dy dz
rip = A*e- ,im(c "+ c " 2 )- 2h 'P du dv dw dx dy dz du' dv' dw'dx' dy' dz'
where
h =1 c 2 = u 2 4 v- + w* c' 1 = u" -f v" -f w'*.
A is defined by the total quantity of iodine.
Each pair the atoms of which lie in their mutual spheres of
attraction forms a molecule. Let us now arbitrarily choose in each
molecule one atom as the "first one" and the other as the "second
one". We then see that the number of molecules n 3 , the tirst atom
of which lies in an element dx dy dz du dv dw, while the second one
is situated in the element dx' dy' dz' du' dv' dw' , is given by the
half of n p *) viz:
x ) E.g. Jeans. The Dynamical Theory of Gases. 2"d Ed. pg. 92 s.q.q., pg. 211 s.q.q.
3 ) Prof. Lorentz called my attention to this factor '/a-
