148
(I") satisfus the well known thermo-dynamie relation
dlgK Q
dt ~RT*'
Hemptinne and Bekaert l ) have observed a velocity constant for
the reaction (C 3 H 8 ) 3 N + C.H.B, -» (C f H,) 4 NB,..
Here they found a dependence on the temperature which can
be represented by a formula as {III"), but not by one as (///').
The same holds for a reaction investigated by von Halban 2 ). Kküger 3 )
proceeds in a calculation as we did in the first part of this paper;
he thus finds temperature functions as in (/'),(/ƒ'),(/ƒ/'). His model
is therefore too limited. The purpose of this paper is to show how
this may easily be avoided by inventing a somewhat wider model.
Krüger however thought the idea absolutely to be rejected, that
for a combination a certain minimal velocity should be required 4 ).
Of course I do not pretend that in any case a formula as (11")
or [111") will hold. To be able to calculate a right formula, we
must of course know the mechanism and as, even for the most
simple dissociation, for that of hydrogen this is not the case, we
shall have to content ourselves with an image.
When van der Waals derives his equation of state considering
the molecules as perfectly elastic particles, he uses an image certainly
not corresponding with reality. But still Bohr is of opinion that ^b,
may be compared approximately with the radius of a ring. Just as
well as nobody will deny the quantitative insight given us by the
considerations of van der Waals, notwithstanding the special image,
I think that the above formulae when they shall have been suffi-
ciently tested by the experiment, will also give to some extent a
quantitative insight into this phenomenon.
The above considerations have of course no relation to the
theory of quanta. The specific heat corresponds to that with 6 degrees
of liberty.
Physical Laboratory, Delft.
l ) Hemptinne und Bekaert, Zeitschr. f. physik. Ghem. 28, 236 (1898)
») Hans von Halban ib. LXXVII 6. p. 731—733.
8 ) F. Krüger, Göttinger Nachrichten, 1908, pag 318 seq.
*) See further : K. F. Herzfeld, "Zur Theorie der Reaktionsgeschwindigkeiten"
Ann. der Phys. 59, p. 635.
