150
A condition for the calculation is, that the nature of the ions
and in general the constitution of the used compositions are known.
When this is not the case the method of investigation followed
by us may still give some indications. Before applying this method
to the investigation of the acid or alkalic properties of organic dyes,
we investigated a number of intermediate products. The investigation
was also extended over several more or less strongly coloured sub-
stances. It was found possible to take away the colour just before
the polarimetric measurements by means of norit or of bone-coal
without lessening the accuracy of the method. In other cases alcohol
was added sometimes. This changed somewhat the nature of the
medium, but several compositions that could not be investigated
owing to their weak solubility, could now be treated.
Most of the investigated compositions were obtained from Kahl-
baum at Adlershof (near Berlin). When this is not the case it will
be mentioned. As further different solutions were primarily coloured
we paid little attention to the intensity of the darkening caused
by the action of the hydroxylions on the glucose. The obtained
analysis numbers will be given here only partly, elsewhere completely.
The naphtyl- amines. The melting-point of the used «-naphtyl-amine
was 50°, that of the /?-naphtyl-amine 1J2°. Hydrochloric compounds
of these amines too were used. The experiment in an alkalic medium
taught that neither a- nor /?-naphtyl-amine bound an alkali, so that
they do not influence the decomposition of a glucose in alkalic
solution. In hydrochloric solution the amines in question behaved
approximately as monovalent bases.
Ortho-phtalic-acid Cinnamic-acid
— COOH M w _ 1 ftft /\ — CH=CH— COOH
— COOH MVV — Ibb ' I J M.W. 148
Ortho-coumaric-acid a-naphioic-acid
-OH COOH
-CH=CH— COOH
M.W. = 164
M.W. =172
u-oxynaph to ic-acid
OH
COOH
.W. = 188
The melting-point of the investigated ortho-phalic-acid was 200°,
