187
difference of these volumes will be intimately connected with the
dimensions of the molecule. Moreover, except with regard to the
attraction, a solid wali impenetrable for the particles is quite diffe-
rent from a fluid wall formed by the particles themselves.
Let us consider a very much diluted solution e. g. a solution of sugar
in water, the vapour phase of which does therefore not contain the
solved substance. The concentration x will then decrease in the
passage layer from a?, in the homogeneous solution to zero at the
vapour side. In the passage layer near the solid wall too the concen-
tration will change and in very different cases a similar change of
the concentration must occur as in the passage of fluid to vapour,
viz. from x x to zero in the layer next to the solid body. Now
it is important to consider what will happen to the pressure
;>, (in the direction of the surface layer) especially in the layer
next to the solid wall in which the concentration will be regarded
as zero, when the concentration within the solution is increased
from x x to a\ -\- dx x . Here therefore we have not to do with
the change in the total surface tension of the solution when
tact with the solid wall l(p x — p„) dh, but only with the change
of p 2 in the layer next to the wall. When the concentration is
increased by dx x , the potential of the solvent decreases. For when
we have the solution under the pressure of the saturated vapour,
the thermodynamic potential of the vapour decreases by Vd dp, when
dp is written for the decrease of the vapour pressure and vd for the
specific vapour volume. In the uppermost layer of the passage layer next
to the vapour the decrease of the thermodynamic potential is
Vddp t ' = Vddp, as here too dpj = dp. Also in the layer next to
the solid wall the thermodynamic potential will decrease by the
same amount. This decrease may be due for the greater part to
a decrease of /;>, in the immediate neighbourhood of this wall,
where just as in the vapour no dissolved matter is present, so
that a change of x can have no influence, as here x is zero.
This is a tempting supposition, as in this case vd dp would be equal
to vdp„ when v represents the specific fluid volume of the pure
solvent near the wall. However this may be, it is certain that p 3
will change at the wall when the concentration is altered.
Let us consider two glass vessels, both filled with the same diluted
solution of sugar in water of exactly the same concentration. The
vessels should be connected by a tube part of which is so narrow that
no sugar molecules can pass through it, as their distance from the
in con
