188
wall cannot not be great enough. This part therefore contains only
the outer layer of the passage layer. In this case the pressure /> 2
close to the wall and in the direction of the wall will be the same
everywhere both in the vessels and in the tube. Now when in the
vessel on the left the concentration is increased by an amount A*,,
then in every part of the left vessel as far as the narrowing of the
tube, the pressure along the wall will have diminished by an amount
A/; 3 ; the equilibrium is destroyed, in the narrow part we now have
a fall of pressure, which will cause a current of pure water through
the narrow part from right to left. By preventing the «olution in
the left vessel from occupying a greater volume, the equilibrium
will be established again by the displacement of some water. Owing
to this the pressure in the left vessel will increase everywhere in
all directions by the constant amount Ap 2 , so that the pressure
along the wall in this vessel will again become /; a , and the equili-
brium will be established again. This increase of pressure Ap 2 is
what is usually called the osmotic pressure, the over-pressure in the
left vessel. Now when in the right vessel no sugar is present, so
that in the left vessel there is already an osmotic pressure corre-
sponding to the small concentration as lt we may say, that the
decrease of the pressure p t along the wall caused by an increase
dx x of the concentration is equal to the increase of the osmotic
pressure due to the capillary action.
t? u a MR1\
brom the experiment we know that A» 2 = A# 15 where A»
v
has been written for the osmotic pressure. When Lp 2 represents the
MRT
change of pressure along the wall, we may write — A;; 2 = A#j.
v
In this last relation v is the volume of M x grams of pure solvent under
the pressure of the vessel. We may write for it : v' — #, ( -j- ) , where
v' is the volume occupied by M l (1 — x) grams of the first component
and by M, x grams of the second under the same pressure.
In the equation
vLp t = — MRT Lx x
the right hand side represents also the change of the thermodynamic
potential, when the concentration increases by A.r,, while the pres-
sure remains constant. The theory of van der Waals namely gives
for the value of this potential in the homogeneous solution
'dfixy
lxM=MRTlo 9 (l-x x ) + ( i Xi
ax.
