197
On the 10 th of February J 916 the larvae of N°. 1 (R) and N a .
3 (M) were sieved, and each group was divided into two halves of
an equal number of larvae. The same process was applied to N°. 2
(B.P.) on April 20, 1916.
The 6 groups of larvae were put in separate jars. To 3 of these
(half of each group) rusk was added ; the 3 other jars kept the old
food without rusk.
On April 20, 1916, i.e. 69 days after the above-mentioned
division, the pupae collected from the sub-groups of N u . 1 were
counted, and on July 8, 1916, i.e. 48 days after the division, the
pupae of the sub-groups of N°. 3. The group N ft . 2 had uot yet
yielded any pupae. The remaining living larvae were weighed on
a chemical balance. The result of this is shown in the following-
tabular statement.
Here too, the four conclusions drawn from the first experiment
(Table I) may be maintained unabated. That the addition of rusk
to meal is very effective is manifest, not only from the more
numerous pupation (30 % more), but also from the absolule weight
of the remaining larvae, which for M -j- R is nearly twice as great
as for M alone. The enormous difference in the mortality of the
larvae is also remarkable.
Until -now the rusks had always been added unbroken.
A special reason gave occasion to putting the question whether
rusk would operate as favourably if reduced to dust and mixed
with the bran. Indeed, from former experiments (not undertaken
for food purposes) the experience had been made that larvae fed
exclusively on pulverised rusk (rusk meal), do not grow, and many
die. The increase of the body weight of the larvae fed on rusk
alone amounted to 48 % i» 43 days with a mortality of the larvae
of 38 °/o> whereas the figures for the larvae fed on bran appeared
to be 117% with a mortality of only 1.5 %.
The food experiments were therefore continued with the following
modifications. The 118 larvae which remained on the 20 th of April
1916 of experiment N°. la. (cf. Table II, column 7), i.e. larvae fed
exclusively on bran, were again divided into two equal halves, each
of 59 larvae. With one of these halves the old way of feeding
(only bran) was kept up, the other half received bran -j- ruskmeal.
On the 8 th of July 1916 the larvae of both groups were removed
and weighed on a chemical balance. Pupae were not gathered from
these groups between April 20 and Juli 8. (Table III).
The result obtained was as follows.
