199
the pupation is 20 % higher, the mortality of the larvae is equal,
the weight of the remaining larvae is 38 milligrams per larva more.
This result could not be expected when at the outset it appeared
(cf. Table I) that to meal and bran without any addition, meal
was preferable; the addition of rusk shows the opposite, and this
with rather strongly telling figures. It is probably only the fat and
the albumin of the rusk that have operated so favourably.
Especially fat is only scantily found in bran and meal (± 1.6%),
whereas the rusk used contained 8.9 %•
Summarizing the results of these nutrition experiments, they may
be worded thus :
1. Exclusive meal food is preferable to exclusive bran food.
2. Rusk as additional food to meal as well as to bran always
has a very favourable influence on the growth and the quicker
development (pupation) of the larvae; this holds good for rusk in
an unbroken or a ground state alike.
3. The most favourable results (more pupae, and low mortality
and high weight of the larvae) were obtained by a mixed nutrition
of bran -J- rusk.
4. Ground rusk as exclusive food for larvae is perfectly unsuitable.
The mortality is considerable, the increase in weight small, the
pupation is stopped.
5. The addition of slices of peat to meal or bran has no influence
on the growth of the larvae, and is worthless as food. Peat seems
to have a directly or indirectly noxious effect ; the mortality is
abnormally high.
3. The number of moults.
In the literature (Bkehm p. 128; Frisch vol. Ill p. 1 ; Saling p.
2/8 ; Sturm p. 21/22) it is always stated, that the larva moults
four times, and that after the fourth moult the pupa appears.
Apparently this statement has never been controlled, for a simple
experiment would immediately have shown, that it is false.
A larva was put in each one of a series of numbered small pots
filled with fit food. The larvae were at most one or two days old,
and still white in colour.
At fixed times these pots were searched for moults. The first moults
are only to be found by carefully spreading out the food, and
examining it with a lens. Notwithstanding a close inspection they
sometimes escape notice, because they are often no longer intact, and
broken up into smaller fragments, so that they are no longer to be
recognized as moults.
