203
If tlie beetles need not be gathered dailj', a piece of rusk should
be laid under the patch. If no food is offered them in time, they
eat the pupae.
The pupae dishes were covered with a glass plate reaching beyond
the rim. In this way they may be piled up in the incubators, while
any escape of the beetles is precluded.
6. Gathering the Eggs.
The collecting of the eggs was a matter of no small importance
for the obtaining of a large posterity. The difficulties that were
expected, did not occur; the problem was solved in quite a satis-
factory manner. The beetles emerged in the pupae dishes are trans-
ferred to the beetleboxes in which the production of eggs is awaited.
The beetles were kept in tin boxes with smooth walls and pro-'
vided with a cover closing not too hermetically. The bottom of the
boxes is covered with a patch of black sateen, in which a few holes
have been cut to let the beetles through, which hide by preference
under "the patch. On the top of the sateen small pieces of a woolly
material are scattered. The choice of the quality of this material
(egg patches) on which the eggs are deposited, is very important.
On this point the beetles are very particular and will not at all,
or only in a small number, deposit their eggs if the stuff is not
woolly or thready enough, so that the S cannot attach the eggs on
it. If the stuff is too thready, the eggs are laid so deep in the tissue
that they are difficult to discover. Also Saling records this peculiar
habit of the beetles of depositing their eggs on a woolly material.
The egg patches had a size of about 1 or l l / t cm*. These small
patches are preferable, for various practical reasons, to those of
larger dimensions.
As food for the beetles, pieces of rusk were used, soaked with
a few drops of milk, or fresh cut pieces of potato. Of the latter the
beetles eat all but nothing; yet they greedily fall to them, probably
attracted by the humidity of the food.
The food is put under the sateen, in which the holes serve for
passages to reach the egg-patches, while the sateen, to some extent,
prevents the egg-patches from being defiled by the faeces of the
beetles. The egg-patches are transferred, with the eggs clinging to
them, into a jar in which beforehand a thin layer of food has been
brought for the coming young larvae.
In a temperature of 25° C. the hatching of the eggs takes about
8 or 10 days.
