208
with the larvae) profited by this addition, but, of course, not the
pupae that had been then collected already. Hence the pupae-mor-
tality of 1916/1917 is still very high and even higher than of
1915/1916. Now, the connection (alluded to above) that may exist
between the mortality figures of larvae and pupae appears from the
following. When one allows a number of counted larvae to pupate
in a glass jar, and after some time adds the pupae gathered -f-
the dead larvae + the remaining living larvae, the sum total is, as
a rule, smaller than the number of larvae with which the culture
was started. As an escaping of larvae from the glass jars does not
occur (we never found any larvae crawling about in the incubator
since the use of glass jars), the lacking larvae cannot but have been
eaten up. This eating-up most probably took place not in the larval
but in the pupal state, when the newly emerged bod} 7 is still soft.
The annihilation of these still soft pupae has then been executed in
a much more radical manner than in the larvae gnawed at, while
bj T the white colour the fragments of these pupae are much more
difficult to find back than the relatively bigger remains of the brown
larval bodies. This practically estimates the mortality figure of the
larvae too high, and that of the pupae too low. This circumstance
applies more specially to the year 1915/1916 than to 1916/1917,
because in the latter year, as has been mentioned, a part of the
larvae were already provided with slices of potato.
This expedient promoted the growth of the larvae and an earlier
pupation, and strongly diminished the mutilation of the pupae; in
consequence the figure of the larvae mortality (by the manner of
fixing this figure) had then to decrease.
Now although these influences have, no doubt, asserted themselves,
they were not of such a nature as to satisfactory account for the
great difference of the larvae mortality in these two years. Similar
great differences appear also between the cultures (of one series)
that have been exposed to equal exterior influences of food and
temperature, and disagree only in one point, viz. in the time when
the eggs were deposited, and in the number of these.
c. The mortality among the pupae.
The mortality among the pupae appears in the same way as among
the larvae, viz. by gnawing-off, and by an unknown cause by which
they dry up or, by way of rare exception, become black, and the
body remains soft.
Besides these pupae eaten at, also others are found, not dead but
wounded. The humour that has flowed from the wound is then
