213
merits and which fact should be particularly noted), both were pro-
vided with fresh food to keep the circumstances as equal as possi-
ble. Five days elapsed between two successive harvests; during all
the time of the experiment the jars remained in the incubator.
The result of the first 5 harvests is shown in the table on page 212.
As the table shows, the average deathrate in the jar without
slices was about 17 °/ higher than in the one with slices. The food
was renewed twice, viz. on April 12 and 21. In both cases the
food with slices had already become so crumbly that it had to be
removed. Under ordinary circumstances, the renewal of the food of
the other vessel (the one without slices) would not have been neces-
sary. As has been said already, this case occurred repeatedly in all
series experimented on. At the end of the 5 th harvest the larvae
were sieved and counted to verify all figures.
Jar A. Experiment III a. without slices)
Number of larvae the culture was started with . . . 1000
on the sieve were left .... 642 larvae
living -J- dead pupae gathered . . 321 ,,
dead larvae 37 ,,
total 1000
Jar B. (Experiment III a with slices).
Number of larvae the culture was started with . . . 1000
on the sieve were left .... 629 larvae
living -{- dead pupae gathered . . 343 „
dead larvae 28 ,,
total 1000
The subsequent series of harvests were dealt with as follows.
The slices of potato were added to those larvae that had never
enjoyed them, i. e. to the 642 larvae of jar A. The 629 larvae of
jar B, which had always had slices hitherto, had to do without
this addition.
The figures of the harvest of this series are given in the table
on the following page.
With the exception of the 1 st and the 6 th harvest the mortality
figure for the jar without slices was considerably higher again in
each successive harvest. That the 1 st harvest should be an exception
to it could not but be expected. The larvae had, indeed, in the former
harvest, profited from humid surroundings, and the after-effect of this
manifested itself in the next harvest in spite of the changed condition.
The 5 7 lower deathrate in the jar without slices does not therefore
