215
form an exception, but on the contrary, confirms the rule that the
addition of slices caused a strong regression of the death rate of the pupae.
The exception of the 6 th harvest had been brought about by the
circumstance that in consequence of the excessive humidity in the
jar with slices, the food had clotted and grown quite mouldy.
The wall of the jar was covered with big drops of water.
The 7 dead pupae gathered had not been gnawed at, indeed, but
were black. Here the too much of a good thing, had apparently
produced a reverse effect. The food of the jar under discussion had
to be renewed for that reason, and this was done in both vessels,
again for the sake of the uniformity of circumstances.
Notwithstanding these two exceptions the average mortality of the
9 harvests had fallen by 24 % for the jar with slices after all.
At the close of the 9 th harvest of the above trial series lllb, the
larvae were sieved and counted to verify the figures obtained, with
the following result :
Jar A. (Experiment lUb ivithout slices).
Number of larvae this series was started with . . . 629
On the sieve were left 398 larvae
Living -j- dead pupae gathered . . . 205
Dead larvae 26
Total 629
Jar B. (Experiment \\\b with slices).
Number of larvae this series was started with . . . 642
On the sieve were left 418 larvae
Living -f- dead pupae gathered . . . 209
Dead larvae 22
Totale . T ... 649
More individuals accounted for than there were at the outset 7
The verification of jar B shows an excess of 7 individuals.
How the error has arisen, is not known. As a rule such a veri-
fication shows a deficit, as the remains of a number of individuals
are not found back. The mistake, however, if it has been made by
inaccurate counting, cannot raise the deathrate, but rather lowers it,
so that one need not care about it any further. For the 3 rd harvest
series the slice-food was again reversed.
The 418 slice-larvae of Jar B no longer got any slices; the 398
of jar A, which had not had any slices in the 2 nd harvest series,
were provided witli them now. The result of this 3 rd series, with
a summary of the three series together is given on page 216
