250
eraction of an entering molecule with group X, then one could
immediately trace the influence on this reaction velocity of the
situation and of the nature of different groups in the benzene nucleus.
If e.g. a group X directs substituents to the para- and ortho-place,
it is to be expected that the rate of reaction mentioned above will
be the most modified by groups already present in the ortho- or
para-position and less by groups in the meta-position.
If on the other hand we had a group X directing to the meta
place, then the reverse would have to be expected if for the rest
the acting molecule and the circumstances are the same.
To this end we have in the first place selected the diazotisation
reaction, viz. the rate of reaction of the NH 2 group with HN0 2 ,
partly as the NH, group directs to para and ortho in a very pronounced
way, partly because HN0 2 will show a great similarity in its nature
with HNO„, the reagent examined most fully by Holleman and
his pupils.
In this case one will have to take into consideration that the
velocity of the diazotisation may also depend on the basicity of the
amine. For instance it is not at all out of the question that the
reaction exclusively takes place between the free amine and free
nitrous acid. Then this reaction will be the quickest with the weakest
bases because their salts are hydrolysed in the highest degree. Now
if the meta substituted amines are stronger bases than the para-
and ortho-substituted ones, then the first mentioned would show a
smaller rate of diazotisation than the last. As however the basicity
can be deduced from data independent of the rate of diazotisation,
its influence can be brought into account.
2. About the rate of diazotisation of different substituted amines
we meet with but a few investigations.
The first studies go back to the research of Hantzsch and Schumann 1 ).
They estimated after different periods the quantity of unchanged
nitrite by the reaction of Trommsdorf (with zinc iodide-amylum
solution). As will appear later on, this method is too liable to errors
to use it for determining the rates of diazotisation. Hantzsch operated
as follows :
He mixed at 0° 500 c.c. of a solution of the amine (7 6ü0 N. amine
hydrochloride + 1 / 590 N. HCI) with 500 c.c. l / i00 N. nitrite solution ;
after 30 minutes he made the first determination. 5 cylinders each
with 3 c.c. zinc iodide-amylum solution and 1 c.c. H,S0 4 were filled
i| Ber. 32, 1691 (1899).
