255
did not know examples from literature in which diazotisation in
this way proceeds quantitatively, we have subjected his experiments
to an examination. To this end we worked as follows :
100 cc. Vioo N sulphauilic acid sol. were poured into a beaker,
placed in melting ice. As a second liquid, a nitrite sol. was used,
containing Viooo grain-molecule NaN0 2 (controlled with KMn0 4 ) per
400 cc. Before the experiment was made both solutions were cooled
to 0° ; then they were mixed while being well stirred. After 90 minutes
(Tassilly finds 100 % amine inverted after 20 minutes already) we
coupled 5 cc. of this solution with 5 cc. of the Schaffer's salt
solution as used by him. Then as much strong HCI was poured
into the reaction vessel as was necessary to liberate the nitrous
acid from the nitrite and to bind the amine. After 20 minutes we
again took 5 cc. and coupled them with the same Schaffer's salt
solution (5 cc). After 12 hours the colour was compared with that
of experiment n°. 1 in the colorimeter (see next page); the colours
were related approximately as 30 : 100. So we may conclude that
the diazotisation when HC1 is absent, does not become complete.
It is evident that because of this, his conclusions sub 3 and 4,
based on his researches on sulphanilic acid have no great value.
We see from the preceding that from the researches made till
now, nothing can be deduced but that the diazotisation reaction
proceeds quickly and is bimolecular. In spite of the imperfections
of Tassilly's research, we thought we could follow his method if
only we took care :
1. that the diazotisations were executed under entirely equal
circumstances. To this end care was taken that at all times a con-
siderable excess of HCI, in every case the same, was present.
2. that when adding Schaffer's salt, a sufficient quantity of
alkali was present in order to stop the diazotisation with certainty.
3. that the determinations were accurately performed.
We attained this by making use of a simple colorimeter accord-
ing to Wolff, after having ascertained that the resulting azo dyes
complied with Beer's law in the dilutions used by us and that the
estimations were not disturbed by the presence of amine not yet
inverted. We proceeded as follows :
In a beaker, placed in melting ice 100 cc. 7io» N. amine hydro-
chloride were poured, containing at the same time 5 cc HCI (spec
gr. 1.19) per Liter, in order to prevent the formation of diazo amide
compounds and to set free HN0 2 . As the second liquid a nitrite
solution was taken, which contained 7 l0 oo gram. mol. NaNO in
400 cc (controlled with KMn0 4 ). Before the beginning of the experi-
