Chemistry. — "Catalysis" VIII. By Nil Ratan Dhar (with A. K.
Datta and D. N. Bhattacharya). (Ooramnnicated by Prof.
Erin st Cohen).
(Communicated at the meeting of September 25, 1920).
a. Reaction between silver nitrate and ferrous-ammonium sulphate.
I tried to determine the kinetics of the reaction between ferrous
ammonium sulphate and silver nitrate. The reaction seems to be
very rapid.
When N / b0 silver nitrate and N / 5l , ferrous ammonium sulphate are
mixed at 25°, a bimolecular velocity coefficient of 0.0007 is obtained,
but unfortunately this coefficient falls off as the chemical reaction
proceeds. Since the metallic silver formed reacts on the ferric salt
produced and we get an equilibrium of this nature
2 Ag + Fe 2 (S0 4 ), £ Ag,S0 4 + 2 FeS0 4
Ag + Fe (N0 3 ) 3 £ AgNO, + Fe (NO,),
(Fe++) (Ag+)
or r^— at equilibrium = 0-128
(cf. Noyes en Braun, Jour. Araer. Chem. Soc. 1912, 34, 1016) the
reaction between ferrous ammonium sulphate and silver nitrate is
rapid even at 0° and has a small value for its temperature coefficient.
The reaction is markedly accelerated by acids; nitric, sulphuric,
citric, tartaric, and acetic acids have been tried ; the greater the
concentration of hydrogen ions, the greater is the velocity. This
catalytic activity may be utilised in determining the concentration
of hydrogen ions.
Magnetic force has practically no effect on this reaction. It is
extremely sensitive to the influence of dirt etc.
Potassium nitrate appreciably retards the reaction, so do manganese
salts very markedly.
Carbonic acid markedly accelerates the reaction. Boric acid is
practically without anj r influence. So is phenol, which is probably
slightly retarding in its effect. Glucose markedly accelerates the
reaction. This is a case of induced reaction. A mixture of excess of
silver nitrate and very little of ferrous ammonium sulphate was
prepared and divided into equal parts, to one of which glucose was
20
Proceedings Royal Acad. Amsterdam. Vol XXIII.
