300
added, whilst (he other was left as it is; in a short time, more
silver was deposited in the tube containing glucose, though a neutral
solution of glucose cannot reduce silver nitrate. This is another case
of an induced reaction already studied. (Dhar, Trans. Chem. Soc.
1917, 111, 690).
Summary: a. The reaction between silver nitrate and ferrous
ammonium in dilute solutions is bi molecular. The reaction is very
rapid even at 0° and the temperature coefficient has a small value.
b. When the chemical change has proceeded up to a certain
extent, an equilibrium is set up:
Ag + Fe (N0 3 ) 3 £ AgNO, + Fe (N0 8 ),
c. Acids accelerate this change; in case of nitric, sulphuric, citric,
tartaric acetic acids, the greater the concentration of H" ions, the
greater is the acceleration. Carbonic acid markedly accelerates, whilst
boric acid and phenol are without action. Manganese sulphate and
potassium nitrate are retarders.
d. A neutral solution of glucose cannot reduce silver nitrate at
about 20°; the reaction between ferrous ammonium sulphate and
silver nitrate induces the chemical change between glucose and
silver nitrate.
b. Oxidation of sodium sulphite by atmospheric oxygen.
Luther (Zeit. phys. Chem. 1903, 45, 662) advanced the idea that
negative catalysis cannot take place in a reaction which is entirely
free from positive catalysts and the phenomenon is really due to
the destruction or otherwise rendering latent of these positive catalysts.
Titoff (ibid. 1903, 45, 641) as a result of his studies of the combined
effect of positive and negative eatalj-sors on the rate of oxidation of
sodium sulphite lends his support to Luther's theory. The effect of
negative catalysts on this reaction was first : studied by Bigelow (ibid.
1898, 26, 493), who found the oxidation of the salt in aqueous
solution to be greatly retarded by the presence of minute quantities
of benzaldehyde, iso-butyl alcohol, glycerol, phenol etc. Bigelow also
demonstrated that the effect of negative catalyst is not on the rate
of solution of oxygen, but on the rate of the reaction between the
sulphite and oxygen. A few years later Titoff substantiated Bigelow's
results and in addition studied the simultaneous effect produced by
copper sulphate, a powerful accelerator and manitol a strong retarder.
He found that these two substances do not exert any additive effect
but influence each other. Young (Jour. Amer. Chem. Soc. 1901,23,
119; 24, 1902, 297) found that small quantities of certain alkaloids
