309
and these reactions when investigated would show great sensitiveness
to light (Zeit. Phys. Chem. 1909, 67, J 29).
Cain and Nicoll (Jour. Chem. Soc. 1903, 83, 470) have proved
that the decomposition of the diazo salts has the value of about 5
for their temperature coefficients and it is well known that diazo
salts are sensitive to light.
Pendlebuky and Sf.ward (Proc. Roy. Soc. 1889, 95, 396) have
shown that the reaction between KC10 3 KI and HC1 has the temper-
ature coefficient of about 4 in the dark and I have found that the
reaction is very sensitive to light.
I have already shown (Trans. Chem. Soc. 1917, 111, 707) that
the oxidations of sodium formate by mercuric chloride and by iodine
has 4.05 for their temperature coefficient. These two reactions are
also very sensitive to light (Dhar, Proc. Akad. Wet. Amsterdam
1916, 24, 1324).
T have shown that light markedly accelerates the reaction between
iodine and oxalates and now I have tried to find out which part
of the spectrum is active in this reaction. For this I exposed five
small tubes containing a mixture of potassium oxalate and iodine
in a spectrum obtained from a carbon arc-light. It was found that
the iodine disappeared first in the tube held in the indigo portion
near the violet end of the spectrum. Then that of the tube held in
the blue region. The chemical change took place almost simultane-
ously in the tubes held in the green and violet portions of the
spectrum and the colour of the tube in the red end was the last
to disappear.
A mixture of mercuric chloride and potassium oxalate undergoes
the following change in sunlight:
2HgCl 2 + K,C s 4 = 2KC1 -f 2CO, -j- 2HgCl.
This decomposition can also be induced by lights obtained from a
carbon arc, quartz mercury vapour lamp, and an arc obtained by
passing alternating current in electrodes made of thorium and
zirconium oxides. I have repeatedly observed that in tropical sunlight,
a solution of ammonium cupric oxalate decomposes readily in glass
vessels with the separation of metallic copper and evolution of
carbon dioxide; but it was found impossible to bring forth this
change by light obtained from the carbon arc or the thorium and
zirconium oxides arc.
1 have found that uranium nitrate markedly accelerates the photo-
chemical decomposition of a mixture of mercuric chloride and potas-
sium oxalate, but chromates having the same yellow colour as the
