310
uranium sail exert a markedly negative effect. Mathews and Weeks
(Journ. Amer. Cliem. Soc. 1917, 39, 635) have shown that uranium
nitrate is also a positive catalyst in the photochemical oxidation of
sodium sulphite. Moreover, it is wellknown that uranium salts mark-
edly help the photochemical decomposition of organic acids (e.g.),
oxalic, formic, lactic etc. Hence it appears that a uranium salt is
a positive catalyst of great generality in photochemical reactions.
I have observed that manganese sulphate exerts a negative effect
in the photochemical decomposition of a mixture of mercuric chloride
and potassium oxalate. It has already been shown that manganese
salts act as a negative catalyst in the reactions between phosphorous
and chromic acids, formic and chromic acids, mercuric chloride and
sodium formate, iodine and sodium formate, silver nitrate and sodium
formate, silver nitrate and ferrousammonium sulphate, etc. So it
seems that a manganese salt is a negative catalyst for light and
dark reactions alike.
I have also observed the effects of the different parts of the
spectrum on several other photochemical reactions by passing ordinary
sunlight through different solutions and exposing the reacting sub-
stances to the filtered lights thus obtained and the results obtained
are summarised below:
(1) HgCl, + (NH 4 ), C,0 4 -*)'«, • , f , „ • , ,
v ' b s ' 4 '2 a 4 I b ne violet and ultra-violet more
(2) I, + (NH 4 ) 3 C 3 4 -> ) ' ,. „ , , . - ,
' s ' v 4^ 3 3 4 i active than the red and infra-red.
(3) FeCl, -f (NH 4 ) 2 (J 3 4 -» )
(4) Pyrogallol and Pyrogallate
+ 3 -
(5) Hydroquinone + 0, -» ( practically uniform acceleration in
(6) Cu 2 Cl„(ammoniacaloracid) [ different parts
+ 2 -»
(7) Decomposition ot H 3 S — *
(8) Quinine acid sulphate + ) Blue and violet slightly more active
H 2 O 3 7 -^ ) than the red.
^ ,r., ^ ■ t, ^ ^ ) Violet and ultra-violet more active
(9) KMnO, + H.C.O, -» j ^ ^
In a remarkable article Perrin (Annates de Physique 1919, t, XI, 1)
has enunciated the following hypothesis:
"All chemical reactions are provoked by light radiations. Their
velocities are determined by the intensity of the light radiations and
depend on temperature to such an extent as the light intensity
depends on temperature". By applying the idea of the emissive
power of perfectly black bodies and its relation to temperature,
