314
He has shown that the second reaction lias a temperature coefficient
less than unity (about 0.83) in presence of sodium sulphate and
sodium bisulphate (Zeit. Elektrochem. 1915, 21, 461).
As these results are rather peculiar, it was thought worth while
to re-investigate some of these cases.
A dilute solution of iodic acid was prepared and potassium iodide
added to this solution. The reaction is very rapid and it is practically
impossible to determine its temperature coefficient ; when the two
solutions are mixed at 0°, iodine immediately separates. The mixture
is divided into two parts, one of the two tubes is put into ice and
the other heated to boiling. Now the hot tube is cooled and brought
to the same temperature as the other and the colour of the two
tubes compared. Generally it is very difficult to find any difference
in the two tubes. Sometimes the heated seems more pale probably
due to the volatilisation of iodine when the tube is heated. Conse-
quently the temperature coefficient without any sulphate is practically
unity.
Similar experiments were made in presence of concentrated solu-
tions of sodium sulphate and magnesium sulphate. In presence of
these sulphates, a mixture of iodic acid and potassium iodide liberates
slightly less iodine at a high temperature than at ordinary temperat-
ures, hence a slight negative effect, of increase of temperature on
the velocity of the reaction between iodic acid and potassium iodide,
is observed.
On the other hand, potassium sulphate, potash alum, manganese
sulphate etc. are quite ineffective in changing the temperature coef-
ficient of the reaction between iodic acid and potassium iodide. The
behaviour of potassium sulphate is different from that of sodium
sulphate, since a saturated solution of sodium sulphate is richer in
S0 4 " ions than a saturated solution of potassium sulphate at the
same temperature. The temperature coefficient of the reaction between
iodic acid and potassium iodide in presence of the above sulphates
is practically unity.
Ammonium and zinc sulphates behave differently and in their
presence the temperature coefficient becomes greater than unity.
Marked difference is noticeable in the two tubes; the tube, which
is heated, contains much more free iodine than the tube kept at 0°.
The explanation of this behaviour is connected with the phenom-
enon of hydrolysis. The sulphates of sodium, magnesium etc. are
very slightly alkaline, since the basic portions in these salts are
stronger than the acid portion. At higher temperatures more OH'-
ions are produced, since temperature greatly increases the amount
