315
of hydrolysis, and these OH'-ions react on the iodine which is set
free re-forming iodide and iodate:
Hence at the higher temperatures, less iodine seems to be formed
from the mixture of iodic acid and potassium iodide in presence of
concentrated sodium or magnesium sulphate.
On the other hand, solutions of zinc and ammonium sulphates
produce H'-ions due to hydrolysis and these H'-ions are very active
in liberating iodine according to the following equation :
10', + 51' + 6H = 3 I 2 + 3 H,0.
Moreover, I have repeatedly observed that addition of acids pro-
duces more iodine, from a mixture of iodic acid and potassium
iodide, than in the absence of acids.
Hence the abnormal effect of temperature on the velocity of the
reaction between iodic acid and potassium iodide in presence of
sodium sulphate ascribed by Skrabal to complex formation, is really
due to secondary changes produced by the interaction of the products
of the hydrolysis on the reacting substances.
A similar explanation is applicable to the small temperature coef-
ficients obtained in the reaction between iodic acid and potassium
iodide in presence of sodium acetate, sodium phosphate and potas-
sium fluoride; because all these salts are alkaline due to hydrolysis.
The reaction between iodic acid and potassium iodide is extremely
rapid even at 0°. The reactions between KI and K 2 S 3 8 and KI
and H 2 2 have smaller velocities than that between HIO„ and KI.
These two reactions have temperature coefficients greater than unity.
Experiments were made on the effect of concentrated MgS0 4 solution
on the influence of temperature on the reactions between HI and
K 2 S 2 8 and HI and H 2 2 . Even in presence of MgS0 4 , these two
reactions have temperature coefficients greater than unity. The hot
tubes contain much more iodine than the cold ones.
In this connection, it is interesting to observe that the solubility
of iodine in KI or HI is greatly diminished by the presence of MgSO<.
HC1 does not produce an increase in the amount of iodine libe-
rated in the following cases:
(a) K 2 S a 8 + KI, (b) K s S,0 8 -f HI, (c) Ferric nitrate -f KI.
In the following cases, HC1 markedly increases the amount of iodine
(a) H s O, + KI, (b) H 2 0, + HI, (c) HI0 3 + KI, (d) HIO, + HI,
(e) H 2 Cr 2 7 + HI, (ƒ) K 3 Fe (CN). + KI, (</) HNO, + KI.
The last two inactions have temperature coefficients greater than
unity even in presence of HC1.
21
Proceedings Royal Acad. Amsterdam. Vol. XXIII.
