316
The displacement of iodine even in very dilute solutions of KI
by chlorine or by bromine is very rapid and almost instantaneous
even at 0°. The temperature coefficient is practically unity.
The liberation of iodine from KI,KMn0 4 and H 2 S0 4 is almost
instantaneous even at 0°. The temperature coefficient is practically unity.
The liberation of iodine from KI -j- KCIO, and H 2 S0 4 or HC1,
KI -\- KBrO -J- H 2 S0 4 or HC1 has a measurable velocity and temp-
erature has a marked influence on these reactions, but K10 3 -j-KI
-j- HCI or H 2 S0 4 liberates iodine at once and no effect of temperat-
ure could be detected.
The reactions between iodine and sodium thiosulphate, and iodine
and sulphite are extremely rapid even at 0°. There is hardly any
possibility of measuring the velocity of the reactions concerned.
In a foregoing paper (Jour. Chem. Soc. 1917, 111, 707) I have
shown that the oxidation of oxalic acid by chromic acid has the
temperature coefficient 1.95, but in presence of Na 2 S0 4 , MgS0 4 and
NaF, the temperature coefficient goes down to 1.63, 1.61 and 1.59
respectively. The explanation seems to me to be the same as in the
Skrabal reactions. The reaction between oxalic acid and chromic
acid is accelerated by H' ions. Sodium sulphate, sodium fluoride etc.
are hydrolysed to a much greater extent at a higher temperature
•than at the ordinary temperature and the OH' ions produced at
the high temperature neutralize the H" ions existing in the solution
and hence the actual velocity of the reaction does not rise so high
as it should have been if there were no increased hydrolysis and
consequent generation of OH' ions at these temperatures. In other
words, the effect of temperature is partly neutralized.
Exactly similar results were obtained by Harcourt and Esson
(Phil. Trans. 186 A, 1895, 817) in the reaction between HI and
H a O„. They obtained the value 1.4 for the temperature coefficient
of the above reaction in presence of NaHCO s , whilst in presence of
HCI, H 3 S0 4 etc., the temperature coefficient is 2.1 ; Harcourt and
Esson could not account for this discrepancy. The explanation is
the same as that of the Skrabal reaction. Sodium bicarbonate is
alkaline in aquoeus solution and it produces OH' ions in a greater
quantity' at higher temperatures than at ordinary temperatures and
these OH' ions react on the iodine which is produced, forming
iodide and iodate. Hence at the higher temperatures less iodine seems
to be formed. In other words, the effect of temperature is partly
neutralized and we get the small value (1.4) for the temperature
coefficient of the reaction between HI and H 2 0, in presence of
NaHCO,.
