317
On the other hand, Skrabal got the value 45 for the temperature
coefficient of the reaction 31, + 60H' = 51' -f 10', + 3H 2 0, in
presence of sodium carbonate and bicarbonate. Here the hydrolysis
of the salts produce OH' ions which are active in the change and
helps the effect of temperature. The increase of temperature increases
the hydrolysis and hence the OH' ions are also increased and the
velocity of the reaction is increased due to this effect in addition to
the usual effect of temperature increasing the velocity of the reaction.
In other words, the effect of temperature is intensified.
Hence the abnormally large effect of temperature is explained.
Summary :
a. A dilute solution of iodic acid and potassium iodide react very
rapidly even at 0°. The temperature coefficient cannot be exactly
determined and is probably equal to unity.
b. In presence of sodium and magnesium sulphates slightly less
iodine is liberated from iodic acid and potassium iodide at higher
than at lower temperatures. The explanation is that at higher temper-
atures more OH' ions are produced due to increased hydrolysis of
sodium or magnesium sulphate and these OH' ions react on the
iodine which is forming and thus regenerate iodide and iodate.
Hence in presence of Na,S0 4 , the temperature effect is partly
counter-acted.
c. Manganese sulphate, potassium sulphate, alum etc. have no
action, whilst in presence of ammonium and zinc sulphates, the
temperature coefficient of the reaction between iodic acid and
potassium iodide becomes greater than unity. Solutions of zinc and
ammonium sulphates produce more H' ions at higher temperatures
and these ions are very active in liberating iodine from iodic acid
and potassium iodide.
d. A similar explanation is applicable to the small temperature
coefficients obtained in the reactions between 1. iodic acid and
potassium iodide in presence of sodium acetate, sodium phosphate,
potassium fluoride etc., 2. chromic acid and oxalic acid in presence
of , sodium sulphate, magnesium sulphate, sodium fluoride etc.,
3. hydrogen peroxide and hydrogen iodide in presence of sodium
bicarbonate.
e. Abnormally large values of temperature coefficient for the
reaction 3I a -f 60H' = 51' -f 10', -f 3H 2 0, in presence of Na a C0 8
and NaHCOj, are also due to hydrolysis of the carbonates.
ƒ. The following reactions have measurable velocities and their
21*
