Physiology. — "On Fibrillation of the Heart". (First part). By
Dr. S. de Bokh. (Communicated by Prof. I. K. A. Wertheim
Salomonson).
(Communicated at the meeting of March 27, 1920).
I.
It had struck me as early as 1914 that a single induction-shock
applied to the ventricle repeatedly engenders fibrillation of this
chamber of the heart. I did not study this phenomenon any further,
since at that time I was studying I lie electrograms of the extra-
systoles and of the postcompensalory systoles.
When, however, I continued my alternation-experiments with the
bled frog's heart through extra stimulation, I noticed the above
phenomenon so frequently that I felt called upon to study the rela-
tions, under which this fibrillation took place, more closely. It now
appeared that fibrillation of the ventricle occurred after a single
induction shock only when this was applied directly after the close
of the refractory stage which always accompanies the systole imme-
diately preceding. This is clearly illustrated by the curves of tig. 1,
which were registered ') half an hour after the bleeding of a sus-
pended frog's heart. In the upper row of curves an induction shock
was given to the base of the ventricle at 1 a short time after the
close of the refractory stage.
Fibrillation of (lie ventricle was the result which manifested
itself in the string-curve by totally differing deflections, whose tempo
was very irregular. Similar results were achieved at 2, 6, and 8.
We notice that the post-undulatory pause, after fibrillation excited
in 6, may also be lacking (after 2). After 3 an extra systole is
interpolated by the extra-stimulus, a phenomenon that may occur
with a slow heart-beat, as has been first show/i by Trkndklenburg.
In this case the stimulus was administered at a much later period
of the ventricle (towards the close of the T-defleclion), so that a
fully co-ordinated extra-systole was the result. In the same way a
complete extrasystole is generated at 7, because here also the stimulus
l ) In this and the following registrations a non-polarizable electrode was placed
on the auricles and one on the apex of the ventricle. The tension of the string
was in all experiments such that 1 mV. yielded a deflection of I' j2 mm.
