324
lower registration the suspension-curve is slightly interfered with by
a momentary movement of the frog). Also through inspection I
noticed that the auricles continued beating during the fibrillation.
I also possess the registration of two more frog's hearts that kept
fibrillating after a stimulus. Here also the deflections of the string
were initially irregular and here also they became more regular
afterwards. In these registrations large and small deflections were
alternating and the auricles continued beating regularly.
Significance of the experimental results obtained for an
explanation of ventricular fibrillation.
Before accounting for ventricular fibrillation in a way different
from all previous interpretations, I will just summarize the main
result? of this investigation. It should be remembered that the ven-
tricle can only be made to fibrillate by an extra-stimulus if this
stimulus is applied directly after the close of the refractory stage.
Fibrillation never appears when the stimulus is given later with the
same force and at the same spot; if it is, it will result in an ordi-
nal 1 ) 7 extrasystole.
To these facts I attach great value. So the ventricle will begin
to fibrillate after an extra-stimulus only when its metabolic condition
is bad. This condition is still bad at the beginning of the excitable
period, because in so short an interval after the termination of the
preceding systole the ventricular muscle has not been able to recover
itself. From this bad metabolic condition of the ventricle it follows:
1. That the contractility of the ventricular muscle is bad. After
an extra-stimulus there is a brief small contraction. This brief e.itra-
confraction is accompanied by a brief refractory stage.
2. That ihe conductivity of the excitation through the ventricle
is slight.
These two circumstances are conclusive for the origin of the deli-
rium. These conditions are quite different when the stimulus is
applied at a later period. Then the metabolic condition is much
better, because after the preceding systole the ventricle has had
more time for recovery. Consequently the contractility and the con-
ductivity are much better; then the excitation passes rapidly through
the ventricle and a properly co-ordinated extra-systole results from
the stimulus.
In order to fully understand the origin of the delirium, we must
first consider the brief delirium, since in some of our experiments
the delirium was only of very short duration and consisted of 2 or
