325
3 deflections in the meclianogram and in the electrogram. This is
instanced in Fig. 1 (2 nd row of curves at 4). Here we see after the
electric stimulus 3 small deflections in the suspension-curve {a, b
and c) with which electric deflections correspond. Now what does
this mean? When looking at 2 or 3 deflections, we observe a phe-
nomenon formerly described by me as deformed ventricular systoles
and which is known in the literature by (lie name of ventricular
peristalsis. Similar deformed systoles also occur after digitalis poison-
ing 1 ). We illustrate this by a series of curves registered from a
frog's heart 25 minutes after a subcutaneous injection in the thigh
of 14 drops of digitalis dialysate (Fig. 4). The first ventricular curve
of the figure consists of two parts; first the suspension curve rises
up to a certain point and at the beginning of the dilatation line a
second rise begins. This form of the curve owes its origin to the
circumstance that first a part of the ventricular muscle begins to
contract; subsequently, owing to the bad metabolic condition the rest
of the muscle comes into action with a prolonged latent stage; this
causes a retarded contraction.
The electrogram registered at the same time fully confirms this
statement. The third ventricular curve of the figure presents a break
in the ascending branch and is, therefore, also deformed. Dining
these deformed ventricular systoles the whole muscle is indeed made
to contract, but in 2 or 3 tempos. The same is the case with the
brief delirium. Alter the extra stimulus which affects the ventricle
at a moment when the recovery of the muscle is still unsatisfactory,
part of the ventricle begins to contract. The proceeding "Erregung"
imparts contraction to the following portion only after a long lasting
latent stage, so that the "Erregung" passes through the ventricle in
two stages. The brief delirium, then, is nothing but a deformed
fractionated ex trasy stole.
Now upon this basis we can readily conceive the origin of the
longer fibrillation in our experiments. As set forth heretofore, the
refractory stage of' the contraction, generated at the outset of the
excitable period, is shortened. This shortening is of great moment
for the lengthening of the delirium. When the "Erregung", after
an extra-stimulus, has gone through the ventricle in stages, the time
of such a circulation is lengthened considerably. Now when the
excitation wave reaches the starting point again, it begins to contract
again, because the short refractory stage of the preceding contraction
has already come to a close. Again the "Erregung" proceeds through
i) Arch. Neêrl. de Physiologie. Tom. Ill, p. 69, 1918.
