327
the ventricle and again by jerks. Thus the excitation wave keeps on
circulating through the ventricle like an ignis fatuus, and fibrillation
is checked only when it strikes on a refractory region. Then
the post-undulatory pause sets in, which however may also be
absent. (Fig. 1 after 2 in the second row).
After an extra-systole, elicited later in the excitable period, the
excitalion-wave does not begin a second course, because then it is
checked by the refractory stage, which with this extra-systole is
of longer duration. The same relations exist with the normal rhythmic
systoles. If in this case the refractory stage were absent or much
shorter, the excitation-wave would always continue its course in the
closed muscular system of the ventricle, which would not be able
to pulsate rhythmically under the influence of the sinus-impulses.
According to my theory, therefore, fibrillation of the heart is
brought about by a non-coördinated contraction, not as Wintknberg
conceived this; viz. that sundry sources of contraction are function-
ating independently; according to my theory the various regions of
a ventricle contract successively and an "Erregung" being once
elicited may pass through a ventricle several times running; the
ventricular delirium consists of a string of fractionated ventricular
systoles. For fibrillation two conditions must be fulfilled at the
moment when it originates:
1. The refractory stage must be shortened.
2. The conductivity of the stimulus through the ventricle must
be insufficient. Both conditions are fulfilled in my experiments.
Directly after the close of the refractory stage the metabolic condition
of the ventricle is bad, contractility is slight, so the refractory stage,
accompanying a contraction, is short; moreover the conductivity
through the ventricle is insufficient.
Winterberg and Rotberger believed that the only essential con-
dition for the origin of fibrillation was a much shortened refract ion ary
stage. This is true if only conductivity is also bad. Only then will
the phenomenon come forth.
Now the question arises, why after digitalis poisoning of the
!) Incessant fibrillation may succeed when the "Erregung" after one circulation
always arrives at the starting point again at a moment when the recovery is still
insufficient. Thus the excitation-wave may be emprisoned in a ventricle and every
time renew its course. Especially when (as in Fig. 3) the delirium becomes regular;
then the chance of a spontaneous termination is little, as, when the excitation-wave
has gone through the ventricle some times in succession in the same way, this
may be repeated every time without the "-Erregung" being checked by a refractory
region.
