Physiology. — "On Fibrillation of the Heart. (Part. II). On the
Relation between Fibrillation of the Heart and "Gehaufte"
Extra-systoles' . By Dr. S. dk Bokr. (Communicated by Prof.
I. K. A. Wkrtheim Salomonson).
(Communicated at the meeting of March 27, 1920).
II.
It is remarkable that while clinicians already suspected a relation
between fibrillation and "gehaufte" extra-systoles, both abnormal
cardiac actions could be generated under precisely the same conditions
in the frog's heart. Such was the case in some of our experiments
when at - the close of the refractory stage of the ventricle we observed
a series of systoles of this chamber instead of fibrillation after the
application of an induction shock.
This phenomenon is illustrated in the three figures which we will
now describe :
In fig. 1 are shown the suspension curves and electrograms of a
bled frog's heart l ). At 1 on the summit of the negative 7 7 -deileetion
an induction shock is applied on the base of the ventricle. This
evokes an extra-contraction of the ventricle, which is represented in
the string-curve by a ventricular electrogram of which the /^-deflection
is broadened, and at the same time the magnitude of the negative
jT-deflection is increased. Previous investigations made by me went
to show that a broadening of the /^-deflection and a change of the
T-deflection in a negative sense resulted from a slowing of the
conduction of the excitation through the ventricle. In the experiment
before us, the reason why after the administration of the induction
shock the conduction of the excitation is slowed, is that the refractory
stage of the preceding systole had come to a close a short time
before. The metabolic condition of the ventricle was consequently
still bad. A second result from this bad metabolic condition is the
bad contractility of the ventricular muscle. The extra-systole
revealing itself after the stimulus, is small (as may be read from the
l ) In every figure the electrograms were taken by placing a non-polarizable
electrode at the apex and one on the auricles. The tension of the string was such
that the interpolation of 1 mV. caused a deflection of the string of iy 2 mm.
Time was registered in l / 6 seconds.
