333
electrogram as a sign of persisting basal negativity the heel of
Samojloff (marked by an h in the figure) cut into the retarded
apical negativity.
At 1 the base of the ventricle receives an induction shock a
little after the apex of the negative 7 7 -detleetion. Four connected
extra-systoles are evoked by it. From the accompanying ventricular
electrograms it is evident that the conduction of the excitation wave
through the ventricle is considerably slowed with each extrasystole.
We infer this from the marked broadening of the /^-deflections and
the considerable change of the T-defleelions in a negative sense.
The heel of Samojloff is clearly observable in each electrogram.
When at the same moment of the ventricular period the base of
the ventricle is again stimulated at 2, five connected extrasystoles
of the ventricle will appear. Again during each extrasystole a con-
siderable slowing of the conduction is conspicuous and may readily
be read from the electrograms. At 3, however, an extra-stimulus
touches the base of the ventricle much later, viz. a short time after
the 7 T -deflection. Now only one extrasystole of the ventricle appears.
During this extrasystole the rate at which the excitation wave is con-
ducted through the ventricle is very likely slower than during the
periodic ventricular systoles, but decidedly not so slow as with the
preceding "gehaufte" extrasy stoles ').
The /^-deflection is not nearly so broad as in the ventricular
electrograms of the -'gehaufte" extra-systoles.
We also see at a glance the far slower conduction of the excita-
tion wave during the "gehaufte" extrasystoles, for if we look at the R-
deflections of the electrograms, it strikes us that the ascending lines
are very clearly visible during the "gehaufte" systoles, while both
during the periodic ventricular systoles and during the extrasystole
at 3 they are reproduced by much thinner lines 2 ). This implies that
during the "gehaufte" extrasystoles the excitation wave is transmitted at
a much slower rate from the starting point through the base of
the ventricle than during the periodic ventricular systoles and the
extrasystole at 3. It is evident, therefore, that during the extra-
*) If we wish to compare the rate of the conduction of the excitation wave, it is
evident that we can compare the extrasystole at 3 only with the first systoles of the
"gehaufte'' ventricle-systoles, for only with them the stimulus starts from a definite
point i.e. the same point of the surface of the ventricle (viz. where the stimulant
electrode stands).
') In the electrograms of frogs' hearts it usually appears also, when the con-
duction of excitation has been slackened, that the descending line of the R-deflec-
tion is very steep or rather steep. In that case the ascending line of the K deflec-
tion is less steep.
22*
