334
systole at 3 the rate of the conduction of excitation wave is not nearly so
much diminished as with the first systole of the "gehaufte" ventri-
cular systoles. Besides, the duration of the electrogram of the extra-
systole at 3 is longer than that of the first electrograms of the
"gehaufte" extra-systoles. The quicker conduction as well as the
longer duration of the ventricle -electrogram, i.e. the longer duration
of the refractory stage, contribute to the fact that after the stimulus
at 3 only one extrasystole reveals itself. After the quicker conduc-
tion the excitation wave is checked by the longer refractory stage.
We see then that the same rule holds for the origin of "gehaufte" extra-
systoles and for that of ventricular fibrillation. When the stimulus
meets the ventricle directly after the close of the refractory stage,
the "gehaufte" extra-systoles can come forth. But when in a frog's
heart that exhibits "gehaufte" systoles after being given an electric
stimulus directly after the close of the refractory stage, the stimulus
is applied at a later time of the ventricle period at the same spot
and with the same force, one single extrasystole will appear.
It appears therefore that the "gehaufte" extrasystoles originate
only when the metabolic condition of the ventricle is bad, and con-
sequently the excitation wave is conducted slowly through the ventricle.
At the moment when the metabolic condition of the venrricle is bad,
a stimulus will also evolve a brief extrasystole with a brief refrac-
tory stage. The appearance of the "gehaufte" extrasystoles, there-
fore, is aided as well by the slow conduction of excitation as by
the short duration of the refractory stage. Then after the first
course through the ventricle which is of long duration, the excitation
wave can go round once more, because the starting point has become
excitable again at that moment. This may be repeated several times.
The conditions for the origin of the "gehaufte" extra-systoles are
therefore the same as for the origin of ventricular fibrillation. The
mechanism of the processes at work in the ventricular muscle during
fibrillation ami the "gehaufte" extrasystoles, displays only differences
in degree. In the case of both deviations from the normal rhythm
the conduction of excitation wave has largely slackened and the duration
of the refractory stage has decreased with its appearance. In the case
of delirium cordis the excitation wave passes through the ventricle so
slowly that every time different muscular areas of the ventricle are
made to contract, so that the excitation wave proceeds through the
ventricle slowly and by jerks. This leads to fractionated ventricular
systoles, which are linked together for the time of the delirium. During
the "gehaufte" extrasystoles, however, the refractory stage is also
shortened at the moment of its origin, but now the excitation spreads
