335
through the ventricle, slowly indeed, but undisturbed i. e. without
shocks. This produces co-ordinated contractions of the ventricular
muscle 1 ).
The relationship between cardiac fibrillation and "gehaufte" extra-
systoles may also appear from the fact that these forms are inter-
changeable: "gehaufte" extrasystoles may pass into ventricular
fibrillation and conversely ventricular fibrillation may pass into
"gehaufte" extrasystoles. I will confine myself here by reproducing
only an instance of the latter transition forms.
Fig. 4 gives the suspension curves and the electrograms of a
frog's heart after bleeding. At 1 an electric stimulus reaches the
ventricular base a little past the summit of the 7 -deflection. This
induces ventricular fibrillation, ending in an extra-systole. During
this fibrillation the auricles continue their pulsations regularly and
are delineated in the suspension-curve as slight elevations (marked
by the letter A). The appearance of an extrasystole at the termina-
tion of a fibrillation of the ventricle is a common phenomenon.
Anyhow my curves frequently bore this out.
After the preceding discussion this can be readily accounted for.
I also often observed that fibrillation ended in a strong rise of the
suspension-curve, which is illustrated in the curves of the first part
of this communication and in my paper in Pflügers' Archiv 2 ). This
marked rise at the end of the fibrillation curve points to a contrac-
tion of a rather large area of the heart muscles as the final phase
of fibrillation. Upon this the excitation will readily rebound. The
same explanation holds for the extrasystole with which fibrillation
often concludes. After the extrasystole a prolonged pause appears
and after this the normal rhythm ensues. I wish to draw attention
to one more particular. Between the fibrillation and the extrasystole
a small negative deflection occurs (indicated by an arrow).
It is impossible to say for sure how this deflection has originated.
It may be that after the fibrillation a retrograde excitation conduc-
tion has given rise to an auricular contraction, which at that moment
coincides in the suspension-curve with the extrasystole curve. Then
1 ) It stands to reason that in the case of this strongly retarded conduction of
the excitation every ventricular contraction of the "gehaufte" extrasystoles is no
of necessity a contraction of the whole ventricular muscle. No doubt partial
asystoles especially of the ventricular apex will occur during various "gehaufte"
extrasystoles. So much anyhow appears from the figures reproduced by me. Of
several "gehaufte" extrasystoles of these figures the negative T-deftections are
smaller than may be anticipated from the considerably retarded conduction. It is
most probably brought about by the partial apex-asystole.
2) Pflügers Archiv. Bd. 178. Seite 1.
