Physiology. — 'Factors lohich are of importance for the habit-
formation of birds. I. Visual sensations' '). By Miss Lucie W.
Schut. (Communicated by Prof. G. van Runberk.)
(Communicated at the meeting of June 26, 1920).
Introduction.
In 1918 ! ) Buijtenduk described experiments on habit-formation
in birds. He found that a siskin very soon learns to look for food
in a seed-box, where the food is hidden from sight by a flap. When
this box is placed amongst similar, but empty ones, the bird invariably
will go to the filled box, provided it is always kept in the same place
amongst the others. The habit formed in this way was not forgotten,
even after the bird having been taken for months to other surround-
ings, for on its return, placed in front of the same boxes, the bird at
once flew to its old box for food.
Control and corroboration of Buijtendijk's results.
I repeated the experiments made by Buijtenduk and arrived at
the same results as he did. The birds I selected for the experiments
were the siskin (Fringilla spinus, 3 specimens), the redcap (Fringilla
carduelis, 2 specimens), the paradise widow (Steganura paradisea, 2
specimens) and the Napoleon weaver (Pyromelana afra, 2 specimens).
It is surprising how rapidly all these birds, but above all thesiskin,
learned to push their heads under the flap of the food-box. The siskins
accomplished the task at the first trial, within fifteen minutes. The
others took a little longer, the experiment having to be repeated
regularly for a few days in succession. If, further, I replenished one
particular box, placed amongst four similar ones, from the very
beginning, as the rule was, the birds were equally quick in learning
to look for food in that special box and rarely tipped up the flaps
of the other boxes. Buijtenduk believes that the fixed place the
feeding-box takes amongst the others, is the ruling element in this case.
1 ) After experiments made in the physiological Laboratory of the University of
Amsterdam.
2 ) F. J. J. Buijtenduk. Proeven over gewoontevorming bij dieren. Amsterdam
1918.
