339
1 can corroborate this in principal. In a great number of expe-
riments taken with a siskin I endeavoured to remove every possible
mark which might have led the bird to the right box. To this
purpose I covered the frontside of the boxes, as also the bottom of
the cage in front of them with strips of cardboard, which were
constantly renewed. Husks of the eaten seed were carefully cleared
away each time and the flaps of the boxes were renewed each time,
in order that the bird might not be able to tell it by scratches it
might have made with its beak. In spite of these precautions, the
bird, once having learned that its food was placed in oue particular
box, rarely lifted the flap of another by mistake. As a positive
proof, in connection with the supposition that the birds were led by
other characteristics than the fixed place of the food box, I relate
the following experiment: When the siskin had duly learned to go
for its food to one particular box, I took a second cage, in all respects
similar to the one in which the experiments had been made. This cage
was perfectly new and the siskin had never been in it before.
To this cage I had four new foodboxes attached, exactly like the
four which up till that moment had been used for the experiments.
The siskin had never eaten from these boxes, nor had the}" ever
contained any seed. I now removed thesiskin forashort time, on different
days, from cage 1 to cage 2. No seed had been put into any of
the boxes in order to avoid that the bird should smell the seed behind the
flaps. It was evident that the bird felt strange in its new cage; it
flew about continually, coming up close to the food boxes, without
however lifting up any of the flaps. After it had quieted down a
little, the bird, though it certainly made more mistakes in its new
cage than in the usual experimental cage, nevertheless sometimes imme-
diately after leaving cage 1 for cage 2, flew to the right box and tipped
up the flap.
From this series of experiments I believe I am justified in forming
the conclusion that the place the food-box takes is undoubtedly of
great significance in the formation of habits. At the same time
however I thought it possible that other impressions contributed
to the result as well. 1 therefore decided to find out in how far it
was possible to train the birds by means of another factor of impressions.
Other factors which may assist in forming a habit.
I have endeavoured to eliminate the factor of place entirely from
the series of experiments, which I will now proceed to give. This
was done by filling a different box with food each time, and thus
