340
preventing the bird from becoming accustomed to a tixed spot for
its food-box (for this purpose I employed siskins exclusively). I
now however gave the food-box a visible mark, to distinguish it
from the empty ones.
1. First of all, I pasted black paper over the flap of the food
box, the remaining ones being of bright tin. In a few minutes
the bird had learned that the seed was behind the black flap. And
in an astonishing' short space of time a bird that has first been
trained to look for the seed box, according to its position, seems to
have forgotten this and it learns that the seed is behind the black
flap. By repeatedly hanging this in front of another box, the bird
is literally taught to fly after this black flap and exclusively or almost
so, to tip up this flap to look for its food 1 ).
2. In a second series of experiments the flap of the food-box
was pasted over with a bine paper. The flaps of the remaining
empty boxes were also pasted over with bine paper, with blue of
a different shade however. Tlie result was that in a relatively short
space of time the bird had learned again to go for its food to the
box with the flap pasted over with blue of a particular shade, dis-
tinguishing- it from the remaining flaps. The difference was scarcely
perceptible: in a series of experiments I used blue N°. 1186 of the
well-known coloured papers of Baumann for the empty boxes, and
N°. 1187 for the food box (food-colour) 2 ), this difference is barely
perceptible to the human eye. (1187 is the merest shade darker).
3. A series of controls was still taken with green papers of dif-
ferent shades. It appeared that, the siskin distinguished as food colour
N°. 985 from green N". 984, from Baumann's scale.
4. In a subsequent series of experiments I selected an extremely
small token of distinction for the food box. The flaps of all four
boxes were pasted over with white paper, but on the flap of the
food box a small round black disc was stuck in the centre.
Here again it was observed that it was comparatively easy by
hanging the flap with the black food-token before another box each
time, to teach the siskin, to look for its food exclusively behind
the flap with the black disc.
l ) In fact the bird had by no means forgotten the first learned token of locality.
1 will revert to this point in the exhaustive paper to be issued soon. For the rest,
experiments were frequently made with blank specimen, (empty boxes), to prevent
nse of smell interfering.
• s ) As is known, birds according to Hess do not see spectral colours further
than the line of demarcation between green and blue. The difference detected
must therefore be due to a difference in the shade.
