343
isomerides cannot be transformed directly into each other. A 0,1
normal solution of NaOH causes all the chlorine to be split-off
from the «-derivative within five hours at 0° C. ; the /^-derivative,
however, does not liberate its chlorine under the same circumstances.
The determinations of carbon, hydrogen, and chlorine (Car ins),
and those of the molecular weight, gave with both substances the
same results, all agreeing with the composition of a chlorotetracetyl-
Jructose: C t H,0{C t H t O t ) t CL
§ 2. In connection with the measurements of the isomeric a- and
fi-pentacetyl- 1 ), and tetracetyl-d-friictoses 2 ) formerly made by the
author, it appeared of interest to study these two isomerides also
from a crystallographical point of view, and to compare them with
each other, as well as with the derivatives mentioned above. Chiefly
with respect to the instability of the «-derivative, it was necessary,
therefore, to prepare both isomeric substances once more, and imme-
diately to measure the crystals eventually obtainable under favour-
able circumstances. This was possible to me by Mr. Bkaun's kind
assistance, who placed a quantity of the fi-tetracely l-deriv alive already
described at my disposal, as well as his notes about the method of
preparation of the chloro-derivatives. 1 wish to express to him also
here my sincere thanks for his interest and help.
The preparation, especially of the «-compound, must be carefully
supervised ; it is not so easy as it might perhaps appear to be.
More particularly, the tetracetyl-fructose used must be free from acid,
and the reagents applied may not contain moisture, nor may appre-
ciable changes of temperature occur during the reaction. It is desir-
able to work very rapidly: therefore, the evaporation of the solutions
must take place under a glass bell-jar connected with a drying
apparatus by blowing over the surfaces air carefully dried with
calciumchloride. The «-compound can best be recry stal li zed from
dry ether in the ice-box at 0° C, and in darkness, moisture being
carefully excluded. The same precautions should be taken in preparing
the /?-isomeride ; but the substance may be recrystallized in the usual
way at roomtemperature. Purification of the ^-compound can best
be done by recrystallizing it from boiling absolute alcohol ; to obtain
beautiful and measurable crystals, the substance is dissolved in pure
benzene, or in a mixture of chloroform and benzene, from which
it is deposited on slow evaporation in big, transparent, prismatic
l t F. M. Jaeger Proceed. R. Acad, of Sciences, Amsterdam, 20, 280, (1918).
2 ) F. M. Jaeger. Proceed. R. Acad, of Sciences, Amsterdam, 10, 563, (1908);
Zeits. f. Kryst. und Miner., 45, 539, (1908).
