344
crystals, possessing about the same refractive index as the remaining
mother-liquor, and, therefore, being almost invisible in it.
Preparation of x-Chloro-tetracetyl-d-Fructose.
30 Grams of freshly recrystallized and carefully dried (3 -tetr acetyl fructose are
dissolved in 90 ccm. dry chloroform in a glass bottle with ground stopper; the
solution is cooled to 0° C. by means of ice. Now first 7,5 grams of finely powdered,
dry Al 2 Cl 6 is added, and afterwards 19 grams of dry phosphoruspentachloride.
When all is at O 1 C, the vessel is removed from the ice bath, and the mixture
is left at room-temperature for 30 minutes, while it is stirred from time to time
and while an opportunity is given to the vapours of the hydrochloric acid formed
and to those of the chloroform to escape. Then the bottle is placed once more
into the ice, the contents of it, after being cooled rapidly, brought into a separating
funnel, and the liquor rapidly washed with a solution of sodium-bicarbonate cooled
with pieces of ice; finally it is again washed with some ice-water. The chloroform-
solution is subsequently dried by means of coarsely grained anhydrous CaCl^,
and the dry solution, after being filtered, rapidly evaporated in a wide crystallisa-
tion-dish by means of a strong current of dry air, under a glass bell connected
with drying apparatus. The very viscous mother liquor gets finally crystallized;
crusts of solid matter are deposited, which are put upon a hard filter, rapidly
sucked-off, the crystals pressed between sheets of filterpaper, and dissolved in dry
ether. In the ice-box colourless needles or thicker prisms were gradually deposited from
the solution, which, if suited for measurements, must be investigated immediately.
All necessary precautions being taken, the reaction yields about 60 — 65% of the
theoretical quantity.
Preparation of (3-chloro-tetracetyl-d-fructose. The preparation of this isomeride
occurs just in the same way as that of the «-derivative, only no
Al 2 Cl e being added to the solution. After the chloroform has
been evaporated, a small quantity of absolute alcohol is added,
by which immediately an aggregation of colourless needles is
formed, which is treated as described above and then repeat-
edly recrystallized from boiling absolute alcohol. Measurable
crystals are best obtained from benzene; the substance crystallizes
in short, thick prisms, the a-isomeride (from elher) in more tiny,
colourless needles. In both cases a yield of about the same
percentage may be obtained.
§ 3. «-Chlorotetracetyl-d-fructose (nipt. 83° C.)
crystallizes from dry ether at 0° C. in the shape of
small colourless and transparent needles, the end-faces
of which are often only rudimentarily developed.
They are rhombic, most probably bisphenoïdical, with
the parameters : a:b.c = 0,9759 : 1 : 0,3284.
Forms observed: a = \100\, narrow, but broader
than b = \0\0\, which form generally is present only ^
with a single, extremely narrow plane; /// = { 110 j, Fig. 1.
large and lustrous, commonly yielding multiple reflexes; cc-Chlorotetra-
r=|101j, giving sharp mirror-images. In the zone acetyl-d- fructose.
a
m
7fa
