383
5. Calculation of the Pressure- Effect.
a. It is seen that only eiren instances are dealt with in which X
is "sufficiently" great with respect to D. In the thus restricted category
two cases should, however, be distinguished:
I. The gas pressure is higher than 0,1 mm., and the discharge
takes place at comparatively low potential differences.
II. The gas pressure is lower than 0,1 mm., and the discharge
takes place at high potential differences. This category has been
treated by Stark, Wehnrlt and Frank, and will be left out of conside-
ration here. The pressure effects belonging to this are very slight,
and of opposite sign to those found under I.
When the gas pressure is higher than 0,1 mm., and the potential
of discharge is slight, both the positively and the negatively charged
particles may be considered to be at least partially loaded with matter.
Let us suppose for a moment that all the charged particles are in
this case-
Let us consider the conduction of electricity through a gas, that
contains only univalent ions, in a cube the sides of which are 1 cm.
long, the direction of the current being parallel to one of the sides.
When in this cube the direction of the electromotive force betaken
as #-axis of a system of coordinates, then with a potential difference
v between the end-planes, a positively charged particle undergoes
an acceleration expressed by the known equation of motion :
~dt*
(In this e is the charge, m r the mass of the positive ion). The
electric force acts undisturbed on the charged particle during a time
which elapses between two collisions. Be lp the mean free length
of path, and c p the mean velocity of the positive ion, this time is
on an average = r — — .
c p
By integration of the equation ot motion, taking the value of t
into account, summation of the components of velocity for all posi-
tively charged particles n, per volume unit, the formula
n, eVXp
2mp0p
is found l ) for the number of positive ions that passes per second
through the cross-section of the conductor.
Likewise follows from the theory of the conduction of electricity
through gases for the number of negative ions:
V - - = « V
l ) Gf. cq. G. JaGER. Theor. P-hys. IV. Samml. G. § 57, 61.
