384
«, eVl n
2m n c n
When on discharge every positive ion gives a x gas molecules,
and ever} 7 negative ion a, gas molecules, it is seen that at the
cathode per unit of time the number of gas molecules plus ions
will be diminished by :
n. eV X„ a. n, eV ). v a.
-~ ■—- £-i (4)
2ra„ c n 2m r c^
whereas at the anode a corresponding increase of gas molecules
will take place.
Hence it is seen that as was already stated in the author's thesis
for the doctorate, the differences of pressure must depend on the number,
mass, charge and mobility of the positive and the negative ions.
The supposition made here that only univalent ions would occur,
does not answer to reality. Many kinds of ions will be found side
by side, and at different places of the path of the current the con-
dition differs. The current conduction is very complicated in its
nature. We pointed this out already before *) in connection with the
destructive action of the discharge on the particles affected by it.
It is, therefore, to say the least of it, very hazardous to draw far
reaching conclusions from the measured pressure effects with regard
to the nature of the bearers of the electricity. It will always be
necessary to take also other methods into account, e.g. those which
have been followed with such fruitful results by J. J. Thomson,
J. Stark and others.
It is, however, possible to demonstrate, that, as regards the order
of magnitude of the calculated results, the view must be valid that
the mass-transportation by means of the electric current must be
chiefly responsible for the observed pressure effects.
Thus considered there can be no objection to taking a single
simplified case as a subject of further consideration, in which as
gas nitrogen may be chosen.
b. Let us assume that per unit of time an equal number of posi-
tive, univalent nitrogen-ions leave the capillary space on one side
as negative univalent nitrogen ions on the other side, and let us
suppose that on discharge per negative ion one gas-molecule is sup-
plied, whereas at the cathode two positive ions are required for this.
A gram-molecule of an ion (== 22400 ccm.) considered as gas
under normal conditions cedes 96540 coulombs on neutralisation.
A milh-ampere transports per second ccm. of gas under
1 H l 96540.1000 5
l ) L. Hamburger. Ghem. Weekblad 15, 932 (1918;.
