386
5. 760 . 400 . 200.2,3 . 10-4
AP= - 15 . 38090 . 8 . l ö=TT- = 335 ' 5 ""^ = '°' 29 mm ' '
This amount for Ap is considerably greater than the experimen-
tally found value (viz. about 0.08 1 mm.) with the substituted value
of p. That the calculation gives a result that deviates from the value
determined experimentally was only to be expected, seeing the
arbitrary character of the suppositions. When e.g. in the beginning
of $ 5 sub b we had changed our assumptions in that sense that
on discharge of the positive ions not 50 %> Dut 0I, ly 15 0/ less
molecules are formed, then on transition of the negative ions into
the "neutral" gas state, we should have found for the calculated
pressure effect a value of u.u87 mm., which practically would have
been in agreement with the empirically found value.
c. However even the supposition that, an equal number of negative
and of positive ions take part in the conveyance of the current, will
not correspond with reality. As will be shown presently, we should,
however, have arrived at similar results, when it had e.g. been
assumed that per positive ion an equal number of gas molecules
are formed on discharge as per negative ion, but that a much greater
part of the current-conveyance takes place by the negative ions
than by the positive ones ] ).
There is, indeed, a certain ground for the supposition that a
greater part of the current conveyance takes place through the
negative ions than through the positive ones.
In the paper cited by us (BoLTZMANN-Festschrift 1904) Stark already
used the formula V n = l,37 X. V p for air, when the positive and
the negative ions are "molecule-ions", in which formula V n and
V p are the different specific velocities of the negative and the posi-
tive ions. Also Ratner (Phil. Mag. (6) 32, 441, 1916) uses this
value for normal cases, pointing out, however, that on change of
the gas pressure and of the electric force, this quantity does not
remain constant. When we assume the value 1,3 for the ratio
V n
—, the current conveyance -takes place for 56,5 °/« through the
negative ions, and for 43,5 °/ through the positive ions
100 =43,5
.1,3 + 1
Among the circumstances described in this $ 5 under c we find
x ) It is further plausible that the too high result is owing to the fact that also
in the pressure region considered here for a great part free electrons will reach
the anode. This will be further discussed presently.
