388
forth inter alia in the next paragraph, formula 7 is therefore to be
preferred.
e. It should now also be pointed out that it follows from equation
7 that &p is proportional to the strength of the current, which as
was already stated by us (cf. Thesis for the doctorate) has also been
established experimentally for nitrogen.
It may, however, happen that with higher current densities there
appear other bearers, as e.g. is very probable for argon. It is to be
regretted that sufficient quantitative data are wanting about the
dependence of the pressure effect on the current density in this gas.
In general it may be said a priori that the pressure effect cannot
be a simple function of the gas pressure, because, as is known,
other bearers will occur for important variations of the pressure.
One and the same supposition will not always serve our purpose.
With very low pressures and with high potential differences electrons,
instead of charged atoms or molecules, can be discharged at the
electrodes to such an important degree, that the pressure effect even
reverses its sign (Stark, Wkhnklt and Frank loc. cit). In this sense
we have distinguished two categories on page 383.
As was already stated at the end of ยง 5 under a the preceding
calculations have, indeed, only been given to show that the difference
in properties of the positive and negative ions can actually give rise
to important pressure effects, which are of an entirely different order
of magnitude than those which should be considered as ensuing
directly from the electric wind. It is, therefore, necessary to point
out here, apart from the criticism given in the following paragraph,
that in general the phenomena met with, are very complicated,
especially for high gas pressures. We should, therefore, not be very
optimistic with regard to a satisfactory, mathematical treatment of
this subject.
6. Criticism; Modification of the Physical View.
Both equation 7 and equation 8 have been obtained by combi-
nation of equation 5 with equations of diffusion. We remind that
in ยง 5 under b it was given by way of supposition : "Let us think
the current cut out for a moment with given difference of pressure,
and all the ions re-combined to neutral molecules. Then the gas
must flow back through the capillary." After this the diffusion laws
are applied.
In reality, however, the measurements are made, while the current
has not been cut out.
Then exceedingly important processes take place in the capillary
