389
tube through which the gas flows. We are not justified in accepting
the diffusion formulae 6 or 3 there without reservation. On the
contrary. On similar grounds as before on another occasion we
rejected any thermodynamic calculation of electro-chemical gas-reac-
tions on principle, we cannot unconditionally accept the application
of the normal diffusion formulae here. For brevity we refer to the
part dealing with this point of the cited paper. 1 )
It seems, however, not devoid of interest, to demonstrate some
points also in a direct way.
We stated already that - — . 2,3.10 4 ccm. of univalent ions
P
are transported per mili-ampère.
When we substitute in this e.g. A = 435 mA ^ = 0,76 mm., it
would follow that also in the stationary state 96 ccm. (reduced to
room-temperature) of gas flowed per second from the capillary, though
the capacity of the whole capillary is only 0,2 ccm. ; moreover it
should be considered that the gas in the capillary possesses a very
high temperature, hence a very slight density. This is untenable.
Though from the fact that the pressure effect at the anode (for the
given value of /}) corresponds to an increase of pressure, we must
conclude that at the anode a considerable quantity of charged atoms
and molecules is discharged, we must certainly derive from the
just given numerical example that the conduction of electricity in
the luminous column takes place in a very important degree by
free electrons, which are charged partially
with matter (see figure) when entering the
spherical space A. Further divested of any
mathematical garment, the physical view
arrived at must really deviate from that
which led to the combination of equation
(5) with the diffusion-equations.
The application of the ordinary diffusion
laws referring to the reflux of gas through CD now appears to be
very questionable indeed. For the gas-molecules, which have partly
originated through the discharge of tons at the anode, and are going
to leave the space A for C, will for the greater part be scattered
and charged by the electrons rushing from CD, after which they are
again subjected to the electric field.
When it is finally assumed that for pressures ranging between
0,4 and 1 mm. no great variations in the bearers of the electricity
!) L. Hambukger. Chem. Weekblad 16, 664 (1919).
