390
take place, Ihe slight variability of Lp with the gas-pressure, which
has been observed in this region for different gases, becomes expli-
cable also in this way (cf. e.g. Diss. p. 92).
The increase of Lp with the current density is also easy to see.
For in the case that the nature of the bearers is not modified with
the current density — which may be assumed with a single excep-
tion (argon) for the region examined experimentally, the following
formula may be substituted for formula 5:
1 760
q—.A. .2,32.10-4 • (9)
a p
in which at constant gas pressure and not greatly varying tension
a is a constant whose value is many times the unit. Putting:
760
.2,32.10- 4 =è
ap
(9; becomes
g = b.A (10)
We can also say something further about the diffusion: Both
formula (1), and formula (2) show that the diffusion varies directly
with A/>. In connection with the electrical conditions it must also
be a function of variables of electric nature. The only motive force
for the diffusion is, however, Ay;; therefore the reflux must always
be proportional to it. Hence may be written:
q = hp.<p(w,y...) (11)
As soon as a few more ccm. of the greatly rarefied gas have
entered the anode space, the stationary state sets in.
Combination of (11) with (10) gives:
b . a . = A p . (p [as, y . . .)
or
Ap = A b.*f(x,y) (12)
through which the proportionality of A/; with A finds expression.
7. The Centres of Luminescense.
a. Making use of the obtained experimental measurements regarding
the intensity of light-emission of gases and mixtures of gases at
electrical discharges, we have devoted some attention in our Thesis
for the Doctorate to the consideration of the mechanism of electro-
luminescence. Also in connection with the pressure-effect studied more
fully here, we will consider some points somewhat more closely.
Let us first remind of this that the objective measurements of
intensity taught that the intensity of the emission of light of a gas
is in direct ratio to the supplied energy, if not on change of the
