393
state of the innumerable kinds of dislocated molecules corresponds
the enormous complexity of the molecular spectra.
This is of importance for the chemist. The fact in itself that the
determination of the chemical and optical properties is attributed
to the electrons of the "outer shell", shows clearly the great im-
portance for the chemist to know the laws that govern the optical
properties, because this must give him a clearer insight in the laws
controlling the chemical properties. But besides H. J. Prins x ) pointed
out already in 19J2 that the same factors that influence the chemi-
cal properties, influence the catalytical properties in an analogous
way. We think we are justified in concluding from this that the
outer electrons also determine the catalytical properties ~). Now it
is exceedingly remarkable that it appeared necessary for the expli-
cation of the catalytical phenomena to introduce the conception of
dislocated molecules, resp. atoms, (J. Böeseken) 8 ) long before the above
results had been established in optical region. Hence we meet with
a proof for the existence of dislocated states in two widely diver-
gent regions. It seems to us that this train of reasoning is of im-
portance for the further substantiation of the theory of catalysis, as
given above.
d. In connection with what precedes it is also necessary to devote
some attention to the law of displacement enunciated by W. Kossel
and A. Sommerfeld (Berichte der Deutsche phys. Ges. 21, 244, 1919),
which states that the spark spectrum of every element has the same
character as the arc-spectrum of the element which precedes it in
the periodic system. As early as 1916 W. Kossel (Ann. d. Phys.
(4) 49, 229, 1916) had found a connection between molecule-for-
mation and atomic structure, in which among others as basis the
assumption was accepted that the elements from every vertical row
of the periodic system are characterized by the same definite num-
ber of outmost electrons, which number, rising to the number of
8, is every time J more than that of the preceding' vertical row.
When through ionisation an electron is withdrawn from the atom,
it shifts with regard to its optical behaviour, which as we saw is
determined by the outmost electrons, to the preceding vertical row.
This view teaches us that also on complete ionisation the light-
emission is chiefly determined by the rest of the atom ion that
is left behind, and not by the return of the removed electron to the ion.
!) Thesis Delft 1912. Journ. f. prakt. Chem. 89 (1914).
2 ) Gf. also L. Hamburger. Chem. Weekblad 16 (1919).
A. E. Lacomblé, Zeitschr. f. phys. Chem. 93, 269 ('19).
s ) Cf. e.g. J. Böeseken, These Proceedings 1914.
