396
circura-continental shelf is the submarine prolongation of the pene-
plain above the sea-level ! ). The seaward growth of the shelf comes
to an end only as soon as the continent concerned will have been
eroded to about its base-level, i.e. has become a perfect peneplain.
Of the latter no instance can be pointed out, because the process
of shelf-formation is repeatedly (though with intervals of thousands
of years, we may nevertheless use this word geologically) modified
by relative movements of land and sea.
To get a clear insight into the influence of these movements on
shelf-formation, it will be convenient to apply the term gradation-
plane to the plane which comprises the combined peneplain and
shelf. The shelf is the submerged portion of the gradation-plane,
whereas the peneplain represents its emerged portion.
Now it is obvious that the mode of development of the shelf depends
on :
1. the mode of development of the entire gradation-plane;
2. the extent to which the gradation-plane has been submerged;
3. the position of the gradation-plane.
First of all the growth of the shelf keeps pace with that of the
entire gradation-plane, but besides this it also increases or decreases
according to a larger or smaller portion of the gradation-plane being
covered by the sea. Finally the area of the shelf also depends on
the position of the gradation-plane ; in case orogenetic movements
cause it to shift from its original position (gently sloping towards
the sea) to another, say, a more inclined one, the depth of the
water on the shelf will, during these movements, increase seaward
and the consequence will be that the sediments, which are transported
from the land towards the sea, will become incompetent to fill up
the entire available space; consequently the newly formed beds will
not reach the sea-level and very little sediment will be left to build
up these beds and thus to extend the shelf farther seaward.
The above-mentioned three conditions lead to the following con-
clusions:
1 st . Diastrophism will in the first instance, nearly always check
the outgrowth of the shelf, because it generally steepens the slope of
the existing surfaces both above and below the sea-level, consequently
also that of the gradation-plane. Initially it will give rise to
steep coasts with poorly developed deep-lying shelves or none at
l ) Chamberlin unites denudation of the land and the growth of the shelf into
one larger process called by him gradation.
T. C Chamberlin Diastrophism and the formative processes. II. Journal of
Geology XXL p. 528, 1913.
