397
all. Very often, however, diastrophism introduces a new cycle of
erosion, and consequently revives the process of denudation, resulting;
in the long run in intensified gradation and in growth of the con-
tinental shelf.
A lapse of time succeeding a period of strong diastrophism
will, for regions affected by this process, be characterized
by potent denudation, active sedimentation and a corresponding
strong development of the gradation-plane, consequently also of
the continental shelf.
2nd Negative movement of the coastline, i.e. uplift of the land
or loweiing of the sea-level will, as a direct consequence, narrow
the continental shelf, or cause it to disappear altogether, expanding
the emerged portion of the gradation-plane at the cost of the sub-
marine portion. But, on the other hand, such a movement will in-
vigorate the erosion by lowering the baselevel and will, there-
fore, in the long run promote the growth of the continental shelf
indirectly.
3 rd . Positive movement of the coastline, i.e. subsidence of the
land or rise of the sea-level, will eo ipso broaden the continental
shelf by expansion of the submerged portion of the gradation-plane
at the cost of the emerged portion, although in the long run its growth
will be slackened on account of the baselevel being raised. Even in
case, at the commencement of such a positive movement, the terres-
trial portion of the gradation-plane is little developed, or wanting,
circumstances are imaginable in which the shelf will grow to a
large extent. This will occur during a very slow but prolonged rise
of the sea-level. In this case the sea, even if the land should offer a
strong resistance, will be able to conquer a vast territory, to destroy
the land down to the plane of abrasion, and to incorporate the
latter with the shelf. A small island may be altogether truncated
and converted into a very shallow submarine bank, probably gently
inclining towards the side where the influx of the sea came from
i. e. from where the prevailing winds were blowing.
It stands to reason that, during a positive movement, the above
extension of the continental shelf will be more rapid and far-reaching
in case this movement has been preceded by a period of stability
of the land, in other words by a period of peneplanation. For in
that case the sea needs not gradually destroy and clear away
the land in order to form a plane of abrasion and to incorporate
it into the shelf; on the contrary, it finds a peneplain ready made,
i. e. a vast area of low land easy to invade and to convert into
a shelf.
26*
