398
•
This will hold all the more when (he period of stability is preceded
by one of diaslrophism, since in that case the processes of pene-
tration and sedimentation being invigorated, the shelf and the
adjacent peneplain will be strongly developed r ) the moment that
the transgression of the sea sets in, resulting in optimal conditions
for the extension of the continental shelf.
Whereas at present in regions, far removed from each other con-
spicuously large shelves occur, the question arises whether perhaps
such optimal conditions for the expansion of continental shelves
have existed in recent geological time.
This question will be answered here in the affirmative.
First of all the conditions for shelf-building are favourable now,
because the Pleistocene and the Holocene are periods in which the
processes of denudation and sedimentation (consequently also those
of gradation and shelf-growth) are very active *), owing to the
orogenetic movements in tertiary time, which are not yet abated in
our time. Besides this there is one more condition that has been
favourable to the extremely wide expansion of the present-day shelves.
It is that after the close of the pleistocene glacial period a large
part of the earth's surface has been invaded by the sea. This
transgression commenced, as appears from the above, at a moment
that the shelves and the adjoining peneplains had already been
strongly developed in consequence of the late-tertiary orogenetic
movements. The object of this paper is to demonstrate, for one of
the largest shelves of the earth, that it owes its origin to the optimal
conditions for shelf-formation, which appeared after the close of and
in consequence of the pleistocene glacial period.
Influence of the, pleistocene glacial period on the position of the sea-level.
What has been the influence of the glacial period on the general
position of the sea-level?
In the Pleistocene age (the so-called ice-age) the ice-caps of considerable
thickness and extent, which then covered a vast portion of the land
!) Isostatic upheavals of continents will, at least initially, also counteract the
seaward accretion of shelves. The plastic movement of the continents towards the
sea {continental creep, vide T. G. Chamberlin I.e. p. 585, 1913), on the other hand,
promotes the development of the shelves. These two factors will be neglected in
this paper, because their influence can only be negligibly small as compared with
other influences in the region to be discussed here, viz. the East Indian Archipelago.
2 ) Barrell in his interesting study on "Rhythms in denudation" considers the
present time as one in the history of our Earth, in which the rate of the continental
denudation process is very high. J. Barrell "Rhythms and the Measurements of
Geological Time". Bull, of the Geol. Soc. of America XXV1U, p. 775, 1917.
