399
in high latitudes in and about the polar regions, and to a smaller
degree also the large snowfields and glaciers in the mountains outside
these polar regions, must have abstracted large quantities of water
from the oceans. Owing to this the water in the oceans must in
the early pleistocene period have sunk relatively lo the land.
After the close of the ice-age i.e. al the end of the pleistocene
period, the ice-caps in the higher latitudes dwindled down to their
present state.
The melting of these ice-caps caused the water to return !o the oceans,
so that the latter have now almost regained the level they had before
the beginning of the pleistocene period. This implies that, from the end
of the pleistocene period up to the present day the sea-level along all
the coasts of tropical regions must have risen relatively lo the land.
Everywhere in the tropical regions the sea must, therefore, have
encroached upon the land, and where this land rose only slightly
above the sea-level, the horizontal extent of territory invaded by the
sea since the close of the pleistocene period must have been considerable.
Penck ') has given us a clear exposition of the influence of the
pleistocene ice-age (in other ice-ages the same must have taken place)
on the sea-level as early as 1882. Opinions may differ about the
degree of oscillation of the sealevel. Observant of some of the
accessory circumstances which render the problem more intricate,
calculations have been made by (Jroll a ) in 1875, by PuNCKinl882
and by Daly in 1910 and 1915. Penck in that year arrived at the
conclusion that in the pleistocene period the sea-level in tropical regions
must have been 100 in. 3 ) lower than at present. Afterwards, in 1894 4 )
accepting an average thickness of the ice-caps of 1000 m, he arrived
at the figure of 150 in., which figure had been mentioned also by
Von Drygalski in 1887. Daly 6 ), who also assumed that the maximal
l ) A. Penck "Schwankungen des Meerespiegels". Jalirb. der geogr. Ges. zu
München VII, 1882, p. 47. In the main Penck's statement seems to me undeniable.
It may be called a theory rather than an hypothesis.
8 ) J. Croll. Climate and time, Londen 1875.
3 ) Penck arrived at this figure (I.e. p. 67) on the supposition that in
the pleistocene age the phenomenon of glaciation was not restricted to one hemisphere
only, but affected both hemispheres simultaneously, a statement which we endorse
here. — In case in the pleistocene age the powerful glaciation had been restricted
to the northern hemisphere only, the position of the general sea-level would,
according to Penck, (I.e. p. 29) then have been at least 50. and at most 66V2 m -
lower than at present.
*) A. Penck. Morphologie der Erdoberflache II. p. 660, 1894.
6 ) R. A. Daly. Pleistocene glaciations and the coral reef problem. Amer. Journal
of Science XXX, p. 300, 1910 and The glacial-control theory of coral reefs. Proc.
of the Amer. Acad, of Arts and Sciences LI, p. 173, 1915.
