400
development of t lie ice-caps in (he pleistocene age was attained
simultaneously all over the earth, and that their average thickness
amounted to 1100 in., estimated that, since the close of the pleistocene
ice-age the sea-level lias been raised by an amount ranging between
23 and 129 m., most probably between 50 and 60 in.
Certain accessory factors render the problem more intricate, as
has been stated above. There are in fact still other phenomena that
may give rise to changes in the relative position between land and
sea and thus engender movements which either run parallel, or in
an opposite direction to the above-mentioned.
Among these phenomena the following have something to do
with the glacial period :
1. fluctuations of the sea-level, caused by the fact that, the more
the ice-caps grow, the more their attractive power upon the water
of the oceans will increase, while the same will decrease again on
the melting of the ice. This modifies the position of the sea-level all
over the earth, but this modification is of some consequence only in
the immediate neighbourhood of the ice-caps and there manifests
itself by a rise of the sea-level. The corresponding sinking of the
sea-level everywhere else on the earth, which will be most manifest
in the regions farthest removed from the glaciated areas, is not con-
siderable ; the assumption is admissible that, during the maximal
glaciation in the pleistocene age in the tropical seas, i. e. in the
East-Indian Archipelago, it amounted to 10 m. or about 5 fathoms
at most 1 ).
2. Fluctuations of the sea-level caused by the water being driven
back into the oceans by the ice. In the polar regions the water of
the sea is driven back from the coast over some distance by the
*) This figure we borrow from Daly's "Glacial Control Theory of Coral Reefs"
p. 174. Daly has derived it from calculations given in R. S. Woodward's "On
the Form and Position of the Sealevel". Bull. 48 of the U.S. Geol. Survey 1888.
Here, however, we do not find discussed (see note p, 78) the results obtained by
E. von Drygalski in "Die Geoidformation der Eiszeit". (Zeitsch. der Ges. für
Erdk. XXII p. 169, 1887). In this paper von Drygalsky brings back to due
dimensions the attractive influence on the sea-level of the ice-caps, accumulated in
the ice-age on continental landmasses, which influence had been overrated by
Penck. It deserves attention that all these calculations have been made more or
less based on the theory of Croll, who held that during the glacial period only
one of the hemispheres had been intensely glaciated, the other hardly or not at
all (J. Croll "Climate and Time" especially Chapt. 23 London 1875). It will be
useful to make new calculations of the influence of the attraction of land-ice on
the general form of the sea-level, based on the now generally accepted hypo-
thesis that during the ice-age the glaciers and ice-caps have been all over the
earth larger then now.
