403
variations of the extent of t he glaciated areas in and after the
pleistocene period, with certainty in tropical regions, especially in
those that have maintained their stability ever since the commence-
ment of the Pleistocene.
In the following pages we purpose to consider the relations be-
tween land and sea, the submarine topography and the distribution of
the coral-reefs in a portion of the East-Indian Archipelago, in con-
nection with the pleistocene ice-age.
The stable and the unstable part of the East-Indian Archipelago.
In the East-Indian Archipelago we distinguish two strongly con-
trasting portions, one with an exceptionally uniform and undisturbed
submarine topography and another with a strikingly complicated
submarine relief. Both areas are indicated on the accompanying
sketchmap (Fig. I). To the former belong the Sunda .Sea and the
Sahul Bank, to the latter all the other seas of the East-Indian
Archipelago.
It deserves notice that this contrast has already been observed by
W. Earle as early as 1845 l ). He termed the Sunda shelf the Great
Asiatic Bank and the Sahnlbank the Great Australian Bank. He
noticed the unvarying mean depth of the sea above those banks,
estimated by him at 30 fathoms and called attention to the fact that
the character of the land and the coasts surrounding these banks is
very similar and differs largely from that of the other regions in
the Indian Archipelago.
} ) W. Earle. On the Physical Structure and Arrangement of the islands of
the Indian Archipelago. Journ. Royal Geogr. Soc. XV. p. 358, 1845.
Earle says I.e. png. 359:
These banks, which extend from the continents of Asia and Australia, form very
remarkable features in the geography of this part of the world, and, as such, are
deserving of more attention than has hitherto been bestowed upon them, since
it will be found that all the countries lying upon these banks partake of the
character of the continents to which they are attached; while those which are
situated on the deep sea which separates them, are all of comparatively recent
volcanic formation, with the exception of a few small coral islands, which, in all
probability, are constructed upon the summits of submerged volcanoes. The depth
of water on these banks averages about 30 fathoms, deepening rapidly as the
edge is approached, and shoaling gradually towards the land. It will be seen that
the one I have termed the Great Asiatic Bank extends into the Archipelago from
the south-eastern extreme of Asia to a distance of nearly 1000 miles, in fact to
within 50 miles of Celebes, and 1 strongly suspect that it will be found to extend
to the south-western extremity of that island also ; but as there is a space of
nearly 30 miles across which no soundings have been carried, 1 have preferred
reducing the bank to the limits for which we have actual data.
