404
Verbeek, in his report on the Moluccas 1 ), was the first to contrast
these two tracts geologically. On the basis of somewhat different
geological conceptions the present author * J ) did the same in 1912.
Thus the latest geological history of the East-Indian Archipelago
teaches us that the two first-named shallow seas or shelves form
parts of larger tracts, which have recently, anyhow after the
Pliocene, maintained their stability and, putting it geologically, have
behaved "continentally", whereas all the others belong to unstable
portions or geosynclines, which were orogenetically active in the
same time.
It thus appears that in the East-Indian Archipelago adjoining
portions of the earth's crust have behaved very differently in recent
times; in the stable portions the consequences of the oscillations of the
sea-level in connection with the ice-age will be easily distinguishable
and unmodified; in the unstable or active portions these oscillations
must have occurred just as well, but their traces will be distinguishable
only where they have not been effaced or modified too much by
the influence of diastrophism, or in other words by the orogenetic
movements of the land. This is a very favourable circumstance, as
it enables us to test the theory concerned, in different ways.
How the Sunda Sea originated.
In the year 1916 the author briefly pointed out the probability
of a causal relation between the origin of the above-named remarkable
shallow seas of quiet submarine topography and constant depth,
and the pleistocene ice-periods '), and has put forward his view
that both the Sunda Sea, and the Sahul Bank originated from
the submersion of a low land by the rise of the sea-level in con-
sequence of the melting of the great ice-caps of the pleistocene
ice-age.
') R. D. M. Verbeek. Molukken verslag. Geol. verkenningstochten in het
oostelijke gedeelte van den Ned. O.-I. Archipel. Jaarb. v.h. Mijnwezen XXXVll.
p. 797, 1908.
2 ) G. A. F. Molengraaff. On recent crustal movements in the island of
Timor and their bearing on tbe geological history of the East-Indian Archipelago.
These Proceedings Vol. XV, 1, p. 232, 1912.
8 ) G. A. F. Molengraaff. The coral-reef problem and isostasy. These
Proceedings Vol. XIX. p. 612, 1916.
N. Wing Easton followed a similar line of reasoning when discussing the
origin of the tin-deposits in the Dutch East-Indies. Vide: "Het ontstaan der tinerts-
beddingen in lndië. Weekblad de Ingenieur, 12 Maart 1019.
