405
The name of Snnda Sea is proposed here for (he shallow sea between
Malacca, Sumatra and Java on the one side and Borneo on the other
side, which embraces the whole of the Java Sea and the southernmost
portion of the China Sea. At present no one collective name
used for these various seas, but geographically as well as genetically
they form one indivisible whole. Niermeyer ') applied the name of
Sunda Shelf') to the tloor of the shallow sea between Sumatra,
Java and Borneo, already in 1911. I agree with him, but I apply
the name to the entire shelf which has derived its origin from the
submersion of the majority of the peneplanized portions of the
Sunda Land . (to be defined later on).
The way in which the low land originated may be conceived as
follows :
Before the beginning of the pleistocene period, i.e. towards the
termination of the Pliocene, what we now call the Sunda Sea was
presumably taken up by rather low land, or by a group of islands.
We may imagine a partly developed peneplain, covered here and
there by a shallow sea ').
At the commencement of the pleistocene period the sea retreated
in consequence of the growth of the ice-caps and thus one continuous
tract of land was formed, the Sunda Land, uniting the present islands
of Sumatra, Borneo and Java. It was not a high land, but on an
average it stood at least 70 m. above the sealevel.
Jn the pleistocene age followed a period of prolonged erosion,
which had become particularly active by the lowering of the
base-level. Owing to this the pre-existing imperfect peneplain was
greatly enlarged and perfected. Only these areas, which offered
great resistance against erosion protruded as hills, so-called monad-
nocks, from the great plain. This large peneplain was bounded
on the south, the southwest and the west by the partly volcanic,
partly non-volcanic mountain-ranges of Java and Sumatra, on the
north and north-east by the granitic nucleus, the high sandstone-
tableland, and the mountain-ranges of Borneo. In this broad peneplain
probably all the water that flowed down from those two mountainous
regions in opposite directions, collected into a few large streams. One
of those streams must have flowed through the region where the present
*) J. P. Niermeyer. Barrière- riffen en atollen in den Oost-Indischen archipel.
Tijdschr. Kon. Ned. Aardr. Gen. 2. XXVIII p. 880, 1911.
8 ) Krümmel calls this bank the Borneo-Java shelf. Its extent is estimated by
him at 1.850 000 km 3 , the depth of the sea at 50—100 m. Vide O. Krümmel,
Hndb. der Ozeanographie I p. 113, 1907.
s ) This supposition is not in contradiction with the known geological data.
