406
Java Sea extends, and, while draining the peneplain towards east-
southeast, must have emptied into the most southern part of Strait
Macasser. It is probable, that the vast peneplain was drained towards
the north and north-north-east by another stream in the direction
of the China Sea.
The h y orographic basin of those two streams must have been very
large, viz. about 1.285.000 km 2 . So, when taking an annual rainfall
as great as occurs at present 1 ), viz. 2,7 metres, they must have
carried about 1156 cubic kilometres of water to the sea annually,
i.e. about double the amount discharged by the Mississippi (552 km")
in whose basin, which is much larger (3.225.400 km*), the rainfall
is much less considerable, averaging somewhat more than 52 era.
Presumably these streams, in spite of their little varying level,
will, on account of their large mass of water, have cut their beds
deep into the peneplain. Considering what lakes place in other rivers
in this respect, it will be safe to assume that the beds of those rivers
in their lower course, must have been at least 10 — 15 m. deep.
After the close of the glacial period the sea-level gradually began
to rise again as the ice-masses in the higher latitudes began to melt
down. Then all circumstances combined to bring about optimal
conditions for shelf-formation in Sunda Land. Diastrophism in tertiary
time had inaugurated a period of active erosion and consequently of
rapid development of the plane of gradation; the retreat of the sea
at the beginning of the ice-period had operated in the same way
through lowering of the base-level; inhibiting influences on shelf-
formation had not occurred in Sunda Land, which had remained
stable ever since the tertiary period; all this had co-operated to
give rise to a plane of gradation, chiefly as a peneplain, of extra-
ordinary dimensions. Vast tracts of land were now easily invaded
by the rising sea and converted into a shelf. The Sunda-peneplain
was overflowed, until the present average depth of 50 m. was reached.
Thus originated the present Sunda Sea and the Sunda shelf, the lar-
gest and one of the most remarkable shelves of the world.
The larger streams were drowned and dismembered, all their
tributaries becoming independent rivers, now flowing into the Sunda
Sea. Several of the monadnocks were surrounded by the sea and
converted into islands, as Bangka, Billiton, Singkep, the Karimata-
islands, the Karimun-djawa islands, Bawean, the Arends-islands,
Great- and Liltle-Saleinbouw, and numerous other small islands.
This is of course a much simplified conception of what has hap-
'i The volume of water discharged into the sea is taken to be '/a °f the total
rainfall in the river basin, which rough estimate is permissible in this instance.
