40?
pened in reality. The ice-age has not been one single cold period,
but a succession of colder glacial periods alternating with milder
interglacial periods. Consequently the ice-caps more than once have
grown to a large extent and have melted again. Thus we may sur-
mise that dining the first glacial period the Sunda-peneplain, which
probably already pre-existed in an imperfect slate, has recommenced
to develop, that it has been covered by the sea during the first
interglacial period, that during the second glacial time it was ren-
dered more perfect, that it was Hooded again during the second
interglacial lime and so on, until the last glacial period saw the
peneplain in such a state of perfection as is now illustrated by the
floor of the Sunda shelf-sea.
Many pecularities of the Sunda Sea and its surrounding coasts are
in keeping with this conception or are sufficiently explained by it.
However, before dwelling on these peculiarities the following two
questions must be answered :
1. how far did (he pleistocene Sunda Land extend? and 2. what
were its boundaries?
The Pleistocene Sunda Land.
There is one answer for these two questions: the Sunda Land
is that portion of the western half of the East- Indian Archipelago
which emerged from the sea during the maxima of glaciation in the
pleistocene age. We take this Sunda Land to have been covered
gradually by the sea to a depth of 72 in. from the last maximum
up to the present day.
The Sunda Land consisted of Java and Madura, Sumatra, Borneo
Malacca, and the present sea with its islands round these countries
to a depth of 40 fathoms (72 m.) as is represented on the map (Fig. 1).
All that has been said, however, applies only to that part of the
Sunda Land which has been stable or orogenetically inactive since
the Pleistocene. The present isobath of 40 fathoms during the last
maximum of glaciation in the pleistocene age, gives the ancient coast-
line for that part, In order to ascertain the extent of the stable conti-
nental part of the Sunda Land it is, therefore, required to know as well
the boundary between the land that has been orogenetically inactive
since the close of the Pliocene, and the land that has been active. On
the sketch-map this boundary has been indicated tentatively by an
interrupted line. What lies within this line is the stable part of
Sunda Land, to be called Sunda-iand proper.
To this stable Sunda Land belongs in the tirst place the entire
