408
Sunda Shelf, then also Borneo, probably with the exception of the
northern part, Malacca and the eastern coastal region of Sumatra,
and perhaps here and there a strip of the northern coast of Java
and Madura. All the land bordering on the Indian Ocean, which
belongs to the Malay geosyncline, does not belong to this Sunda
Land in the strict sense of the term. Evidently this region of tectonic
activity is the prolongation of the folds of the western portion of
the Birma-arc, still one of the regions of the earth where the oro-
genetic activity is very great. It is not possible to fix the precise
boundary between the stable and the unstable portion of the former
Sunda Land; very likely there is no firm line of demarcation, I am
inclined to class the volcanic regions, which are characterized by
rocks of the Atlantic type, such as the Muriah, the Lurus and the
Ringgit, under the stable region, because the Bawean-Islands with
their Atlantic rocks certainly belong to it and because the volcanoes
of the Malay geosyncline, like those of nearly all other geosyn-
clines on the earth, have yielded exclusively rocks of the Pacific
type. Doing so, however, the boundary-line between the stable and
the unstable region must inevitably be drawn in such a way that
the two regions encroach upon each other in Eastern Java. Perhaps
the two relations are represented accurately in this way. The Sibbalds
Bank, the Kalukalukuang Bank, the Laars Banks, the Bril, the Pater-
noster Islands and the Postiljon-Islands, now all coral-islands, and
perhaps also the Spermonde Shelf and part of South Celebes formed,
as I believe, in pleistocene time islands that belonged to the stable
Sunda Land.
Now, what peculiarities are known of the present Sunda Sea, its
islands and its shores?
The Present Sunda Sea.
a. General topography of the floor of the Sunda Sea and of the
adjacent shores.
The Sunda Sea has a strikingly uniform depth, averaging 40 — 45
in., seldom exceeding 50 m. The shallowest part is that where the
islands of Bangka and Billiton are situated. A depth of more than 20
fathoms is the exception there.
Excepting some gullies, larger depths than 28 fathoms (50 m.)
are found only in the farthest eastern part, where the depth gradu-
ally increases towards the much deeper Macassar Strait, and also in
the northern part towards the deeper basin of the China Sea and
finally in the neighbourhood of Sunda Strait. The most striking-
characteristic of the Sunda Shelf-sea, therefore, is its equal depth,
