412
which have been dismembered and drowned through the rise of the
sea-level, are clearly noticeable in the floor of the Sunda shelf-sea.
The exploitation of tin-ore on the island of Singkep has revealed
the existence of such drowned rivers (see Fig. 2). It has become
evident that the tin-ore deposited by the running water in the
deepest parts of the alluvium of the Dabo and other rivers, is
still found at a considerable distance fiom the shore, and that the
channels of the Dabo and of other rivers are traceable up to about
J 500 in. from the coast. In one of those rivers, the Djangkang, the
lowermost tin-bearing part of the fluviatile alluvium worked at
present lies at about 17 m. below the sea-level. The stream-deposits
at a distance of 1300 m. from the shore are about 10 m. thick,
while the sea above them has a depth of 7 m. The exploitation of
this so-called sea-tin near the island of Singkep has distinctly shown
the existence of the submarine prolongation of a number of river-
valleys.
This phenomenon can be readily accounted for when accepting
subsidence of land or rise of the sea-level. 1 consider the presumption
admissible, that also in the neighbourhood of other tin-islands in the
Sunda Sea, as e.g. near Banca and Billiton, the existence of similar
tin-deposits below the sea-level in the channels of drowned rivers
could be proved. Just as near the island of Singkep, the exploitation
of the sea-tin might probably prove to be of great economical
importance there as well.
The gullies of the sunken rivers need not always be found extended
into the sea, they may still be situated in the land, but then at such
a low level, that with the present base-level of denudation (the sea-
level)they could not possibly have been eroded so far by the water.
The exploitation of the stream-tin, in Banca as well as in Billiton,
has revealed the existence of such abnormally deep valleys. Verbeek ')
records several instances, of which I will mention the following:
In Banca, the pleistocene bed of the Krasak-river in the district
of Pangkalpinang, which is eroded at least 16 m. below the bed of
the present course; the ancient bed of the Pandji-river in the district
of Blinju, lying 9.25 m. below the present bed and not much less
below the sea-level; the ancient bed of the Liat-river in the district
of Sungeiliat, the lower course of which lies 13 — 19 m. below its
present bed and about as much below the sea-level;
in Billiton the ancient bed of the Sidjuk-river, which near mine
J ) R. D. M. Verbeek, Geol. Beschr. van Bangka en Billiton. Jaarb. van het
Mijnw. XXVI, p. 143—156, 1897.
