413
No. 30 is 6 — 11 in. deeper than the present bed; an affluent of the
Munsang in the district of Manggar, whose bed is filled up with
deposits down to a deph of 5 m.; several old river-gullies near
Manggar, in which the lowermost deposits, containing the tin-ore,
have been worked near mine No. 30, at a depth no less than
6 V, m. below the present sea-level.
In connection with the occurrence of these sunken and drowned
stream-tinore deposits some remarks may be added about the influence
of the surf on the unconsolidated freshwater-deposits during the rise
of the sea-level, i.e. the submersion of the Sunda-peneplain. Although
in that very shallow sea with hardly 'perceptible tides the action
of the surf will not have been able to alter considerably the con-
figuration of the sea-bottom, the incoherent bottom-deposits will
no doubt have been modified more or less. As to the tin-islands,
I believe that in the period of rise of the sea after the Pleistocene
as well as during the periods of slight fluctuations of the sea-level
in recent and subrecent times, both the stream-tinore deposits and
the eluvial tin-deposits may have been modified more or less by the
seawater, and especially as to the latter, may have been concentrated
during this process. Instances of such modified deposits are, in my
opinion, the tin-ore deposits which occur a little above the present
sea-level in the island of Singkep along the beach to the west of the
village of Dabo. They are, however, worked out now. (See fig. 2) *).
In the islands of Singkep, Billiton and Banca only comparatively
small rivers rising on the hills of the ancient Sunda Land are con-
cerned in the process just described. But we may reasonably expect
a9 well that the courses of the larger streams draining the Sunda Land,
which had cut their beds into the Sunda-peneplain, will not yet be
entirely obliterated, although they were partly silted up when that
plain was gradually submerged in consequence of the rise of the
sea-level. If so, it must be possible to reconstruct their former courses
from the isobathic lines in the present Sunda Sea.
However, the isobaths, as they are indicated on the charts, have
been calculated from a limited number of soundings, at the very least
rather more than a kilometer apart one from the other 2 ). Moreover,
*) A summary of discussions on the way in which tin-ore deposits originate and
on the part played in this process by the seawater, may be found in an article
which appeared when this paper was passing through the press, entitled : J. Rueb
"Ontstaan der alluviale tinerts afzettingen van Banka en Billiton". De Ingenieur
35e Jaarg. p. 21, 1920.
2 ) This holds good for these areas which have been fairly well explored bathy-
metrically, only few parts of the East Indian Archipelago being so well surveyed.
27*
