414
these soundings have been carried out on behalf of the navigation,
consequently with the object to discover and to map the shallow
parts rather than the deeper portions of the seas concerned.
Now when consulting the published charts ! ) and the original sheets
one can, indeed, gather from them something (though not much)
about the course of the larger rivers in the pleistocene Sunda-peneplain.
First of all it appears that in this peneplain the chief watershed
ran between the Bali Sea and the China Sea from Sumatra across
the present islands of Banca, Billiton, through Karimata-strait, and
further on across the Karimata-islands towards Borneo. It may
be called the Karimata-divide. Again, from the trace of the
isobath of 40 fathoms we conclude that from the China Sea a bay
(see Fig. 1) cut deep into the land between the islands of Great-
Natuna and Subi. At its entrance this bay is wide, but it narrows
towards the south and passes into a large stream, which, coming
from the south, empties itself into it. That main river flowed west
of the Tambelan-islands and closely past the Bad as- is land and can
be traced towards the south almost as far as Pedjantan-island.
This large river, which drained the whole Sunda-peneplain
north of the Karimata-divide, presumably received on the right
the Kapuwas and the Sambas as principal tributaries and on the
left the Musi and the Djambi, which, however, may have united
before they had reached the main stream. The submarine course of
the Kapuwas is feeblj' indicated by a gully which is the direct
prolongation of the Pungur-branch, while the ancient bed of the
Musi is represented straight along the north-west coast of Banca by a
gully with depths of 20 — 25 fathoms. On the existing charts the
Kapuwas gully cannot be traced beyond Datu-island, the Musi-gully
no farther than the meridian of the northern extremity of Banca,
so the data, borrowed from the charts, render it just probable that
the Kapuwas and the Musi did empty themselves into the main
stream in the way indicated on map N". 1. They do not afford
conclusive evidence 2 ).
1 ) The charts which hare been published, give only some of the soundings ; their
whole number is to be found on the original sheets which are kept in the depart-
ment of hydrography of the Navy.
1 take this opportunity of acknowledging my indebtedness to the Director of
that Department, Captain Phaff, for his kindness in granting me perusal of these
original sheets.
2 ) After this paper has been read Mr. H. M. van Weel, then commander of the
surveying-vessel Brak, has been able to compile another chart with lines of equal
depths from fresh data then available. From that map the powerful rivetsystem which
