415
It has not been ascertained as yet in what direction the Indragiri
and the Kam par reached the main stream; the only warrantable
conclusion from what we know of the present submarine topography,
is that from Singapore Strait a gully stretched eastward towards
the Victory and Barren Islands, which thence may be traced to
the main stream.
The water of the Siak- river and probably also part of the water
of the Kam par-river discharged itself through Malacca Strait, where
the isobath of 40 fathoms points to the presence of a deep bay
from the northwest, into which the rivers of a part of Malacca arid
North-Sumatra at that time emptied themselves.
At the coast of the Bali Sea the Sunda Land was similarly indented
to the north of the Kangean-islands by a deep bay. This bay received
a large river, of which the isobaths of 40 fathoms and, more upstream
those of 37 and 35 fathoms, enable ns to trace more or less the
course over a distance of about 350 km., from a point to the north
of the Karimun djawa-islands in eastern direction along Bawean
and then south-eastward to the East Bay mentioned before.
This large stream was formed by the, confluence of the rivers of
the portion of Sunda Land situated south of the Karimata-divide.
It may be presumed that on the left it received the waters of the
Kumai, the Sampit, the Katingan, the Kahajan, the Kapu was Mu rung,
and the Barito. A portion of the drowned Sampit-river, to a length
of 65 km., is distinctly indicated by the isobath of 10 fathoms. It
is likely that the Kahajan and the Kapu was Murung united not far
to the south of their present mouths and then discharged about 60 km.
lower down into the Barito. The Barito very likely flowed in the
Sunda peneplain in southern direction west of the Arends Islands
and Great Salembouw, and then discharged into the great East Bay.
Nothing more can be deduced from the existing charts about the
course of these drowned rivers.
It may be surmised that at some distance from the north coast
of the present island of Java also a large stream existed, which no
doubt must have been fed by many affluents taking their rise on
the mountainland of Java.
Finally the trace of a large river, which drained part of Sunda
Land in he direction of Strait Sunda, may be seen in a narrow,
deep trough, now from 30-40 fathoms below the sea-level, which is
strikingly similar to the part of a drowned river broadening towards
drained the portion of the former Sunda Land north of the Karimata-divide,
by the aid of' the isobathic curves, can be reconstructed with a tolerable degree
of accuracy.
