417
several rivers in Sumatra; they are presumably also of pleistocene
age and are due to the same causes as those of the rivers in Borneo,
but, since the mountainland of Sumatra does not belong to the stable
part of the Sunda Land, it may very well be that orogenelic move-
ments have contributed to the origin of these terraces as well.
The distribution of Coral-reefs and their mode of development ;
the Great Sunda barrier-reef.
The distribution of coral-reefs in the Sunda Sea strikes us as being
peculiar. First of all it is remarkable that in the Sunda Sea, which at
the first glance appears to be situated very favourably for the devel-
opment of corals, coral-reefs are poorly developed. Along the
coasts of Borneo as well as along those of Sumatra and Java coral-
reefs have developed so little that they are rarely marked on the
hydrographic maps. Off the coasts it is just the same; there coral-
reefs are equally rare. This is easy to understand if we consider that
at its origin the Sunda Sea, as described above, must have expanded
very rapidly, but that its depth, in the beginning, must have been
very small; moreover, its salt-content was slight and its silt-content
large, so that it cannot have afforded then favourable circumstances
for the rapid spreading of reef-building corals.
An exception is formed only by the extreme marginal regions
of the Sunda shelf-sea, where it borders on those seas, from
where the water came that overflowed the former Sunda-peneplain.
The marginal region I have in mind comprises first the archipelago
to which the Natuna-islands belong, where well-developed fringing:
reefs occur and also some detached coral-islands are found rising-
above the sea-level ; secondly the archipelago of the "Duizend-eilanden"
to the north-east of Strait Sunda, and lastly the Borneo Bank in the
extreme east of the Sunda Sea. Apparently the Sunda Sea, which was
originally very shallow and turbid, and rendered brackish by fresh
water, was gradually stocked with corals from those three sides
when it got deeper, clearer and Salter; this process is perhaps still
in progress.
Another question which claims our attention still more is the
following: did reefs exist along the shores of the pleistocene Sunda
Land, and if so, what became of them during the post-pleistocene
submersion of the land? Have the fringing-reefs perhaps developed
into reefs remote from the shore, into barrier-reefs, in the manner
expounded for the first time by Darwin in his classical work on
the origin of barrier-reefs and atolls? The shores here referred to,
