418
are marked on (lie map (Fig. 1) by the 40-fathom line in the China
Sea, in the Strait Sunda and towards the east between the coast of
Borneo and the southern part of Strait Macassar.
From the deeper isobaths e.g. those of 100 and 200 m., it appears
that from the coast of the former Sunda Land in pleistocene time a
large shelf extended into the southern portion of the China Sea. On
this shelf the depth of the sea increased very slowly and the sea-water
was probably muddy, large rivers from the Snnda Land carrying
their sediments into it, as may still be inferred from the character
of the present bottom-deposits. The conditions for the development of
shore-reefs, therefore, were unfavourable here. Hence one cannot be
surprised to find now-a-days reefs rising from the ancient coast-line
only here and there from a depth of 40 fathoms nearly up to the
level of the sea. Nevertheless, it is a striking fact, that the only coral
islands, now found in the South-China Sea, fairly follow the course
of the 40- fathoms contour line drawn on our map, i.e. the probable
coast-line of the submerged Sunda Land.
It is difficult to say whether or no along such a peculiar coast
as the upper part of Sunda Bay must have been, the conditions for
the forming of coral-reefs were favourable. As observed above, as
early as in the pleistocene period the Sunda Bay cut deep into Sunda
Land and was formed right to the south of the present Hoorn-islands and
Pajung-island intoadeep gully, which passed into a wide estuary of
a stream coming from the north east.
It is decidedly remarkable, though, that the area to the north-east
of Sunda Strait, formerly the upper part of the Sunda Bay, contrary
to all other parts of the Java Sea, abounds in true coral-reefs, which
rise clear of the land from a depth of 20 fathoms or more, up to
or near the level of the sea. Many of them, especially those rising
up from a low depth, are most likely young and were generated
by the union of small patches of corals, developed independently
on loose rocks, as has been shown by Sluitkr 1 ). In shallow water,
e.g. of a depth of 12 fathoms new coral islands even now continue
to grow up from the bottom. However, with regard to those islands
of the group of "Duizend-eilanden", which rise from a depth of 40
fathoms and more, as e.g. Pajung-island and others, I ascribe their
origin to upward growth of reefs that had already been developed
in the ancient Sunda Bay at the shore of the pleistocene Sunda Land
before its submersion.
] ) C. Ph. Sluiter. Einiges über die Entstehung der Korallenriffe in der Javasee
und Branntweinsbai, und über neue Korallenbildung bei Krakatau. Nat. Tijdschr.
voor Ned. Indië XLIX p. 365 et seq. 1889.
