422
large distances. In structure the atoll bears a close resemblance to
the composite atolls of the Maldive Archipelago, e.g. the Miladdum-
madu la-atoll l ), whose ring rising from the edge of the bank, which
lies about 20 — 25 fathoms below the sealevel, is interrupted in very
many places and also keeps below the sea-level over large distances.
Only the shape of this Miladdiimmadula-atoll is drawn-out more in
one direction than that of the Kalu Kalukuang atoll, the dimensions
of the former being 146 X 31 km., those of the latter 98 X 58 km.
2. The Postiljon- and the Paternoster-islands. The description
given of the Kalu Kalukuang-islands applies, in the main, also to
these islands. They consist of three submarine banks with a depth
varying from 17 to 40 fathoms. From the first bank, whose largest
dimensions are, 140 X 50 km. two groups of reef-structures rise
up to, or nearly up to the sea-level. They have chiefly grown up
from the edge of the bank and are arranged in the shape of a
ring and constitute the composite double-atoll of the Postiljon-
islands. This double-atoll is made up of the southwestern Sarasa-
atoll and the north-eastern Sabalana-atoll. Some of the reef-islands
of the first atoll are again disposed into a ringlike arrangement,
the Sapuka-faro. The north-eastern Sabalana-atoll is characterized,
westward as well as eastward, by a remarkable projection or
horn, towards the west the Bankawang-atollon, towards the east
the Sabalana-atollon. The southwestern Sarasa-atoll might be looked
upon as a very large faro or atollon, belonging to the entire Sabalana-
atoll, in which case the term double-atoll could be relinquished.
The second bank, that of the Paternoster-islands, covering 115 X^ 26
km., of similar depth to the other, also bears, especially on its edge,
which lies at a depth of about 40 fathoms, numerous coral-islands,
arranged in the form of a wreath, and drawn out in one direction.
Together they present a not typically developed atoll.
A little to the south of the Paternoster-islands lies a group of
coral-islands whose beautiful atoll-shape became known by the hydro-
graphical survey made by the surveying vessel Lombok in the year
1910. They form a nearly continuous ring consisting of three islets called
the Zandbuis-Banks, Maria Reigersbergen and Huzaar. The lagoon is
about 100 fathoms deep.
I presume that in the pleistocene age all these banks formed islands
that belonged to Sunda Land, but had already been separated from it
by subsidences in connection with the formation of the basins of
the Bali Sea and Macassar Strait. The formation of these deep seas
1 ) A. Agassiz. The coral reefs of the Maldives. Mem. Mus. Gomp. Zool.
Harvard College XXIX p. 83 and PI. 1—3, 1903.
