423
was indicative of the orogenetic movements that are still in opera-
tion in the eastern part of t he archipelago. It appears then, that
already before the commencement of the Pleistocene the unstable
East here encroached upon the stable West. Now, what is the history of
these islands, the Kahiknang-, the Paternoster- and the Postiljon-
islands? Initially they were raised at least 72 m. relatively to the
sea-level, just as the entire Sunda Land. It is not known, but it is
presumable that these islands, before the sea-level began to sink,
were protected against the destructive effect of the surf, by fringing?
reefs, and, accepting Daly's opinion expounded in his glacial-control
theory 1 ) we may conceive that in pleistocene time they were entirely
abraded by the breakers and converted into banks of shallow depth.
Daly believes that the abrasion and the truncation took place chiefly
during the maxima of glaciation, i.e. the periods of lowest sea-level,
through destruction by wave-action. It would appear to me that
the abrasion and I he truncation must have been especially
strong and progressing during the periods of transition from glacial
to interglacial, i.e. during periods of slow and prolonged rise of the
sea-level. At the beginning of every interglacial period the abrasion
and the truncation of t lie islands, which every time were penepla-
nized more intensely, was brought nearer to completion, so that at
last, at the conclusion of the Pleistocene, the islands were completely
truncated and were reduced to submarine banks, which consequent
on the final rise of the sea-level after the close of the glacial period,
were covered by the sea to a depth of more than 72 m. The coast-
reefs, which happened still to exist at the close of the Pleistocene
and the reef-structures which were generated here and there during
the last submersion, grew up gradually with the rising of the water
and were converted into atolls and atoll-like coral-islands, such as
are found at the present day.
3. The Sper monde Bank.
Accepting the Kalukuang-, the Paternoster-, and the Postiljon-
islands to have been portions of the Sunda Land, which have developed
into coral-islands, one is easily led to suppose the large shelf on the
west coast of South-Celebes, which bears the group of coral-islands
known as the Spermonde Archipelago, to have been likewise closely
related to the Sunda Land. The Borneo Bank and the Spermonde Bank
have many things in common; both are on an average 50 and at
x ) R. A. Daly. Pleistocene glaciation and the coral reef problem. Arner.
Journal of Science XXX p. 297, 1910; Origin of the coral reefs. Science
Conspectus I p. 120, 1911; The glacial-control theory of coral reefs. Proc. of the
Amer. Acad, of Arts and Sciences LI p. 157, 1915.
