424
most 75 ra. below the sea-level; on the edge of the Spermonde Bank
a barrier-reef has developed, which as to distinctness, is not inferior
to the Great Sunda Barrier-reef, while the Spermonde Shelf, like the
Borneo Bank is studded with a great number of reef-structures, which
occasionally reach the surface of the sea. The Spermonde Shelf termi-
nates abruptly at 4°J6' south latitude and the Spermonde Barrier-reef,
which can be traced, although with interruptions, towards the north
over a distance of 230 km., as a row of coral-islands, here gets
attached to the coast-reefs; more to the north the coast of Celebes
possesses only insignificant fringing-reefs.
It seems as if the history of the west-coast of South-Celebes in
recent geological time has been similar to that of Sunda Land,
contrary to the other parts of Celebes.
4. The Laars Banks and the atoll Bril.
The coral-islands, known as the Laars Banks and the atoll Bril,
situated in the channel connecting the Strait of Macassar with theFlores
Sea, warrant the assumption that this strait has become deeper in
post-pleistocene time. The Laars Banks constitute together a composite
atoll. The reef-structures form a ring with large gaps. They rest on
a base which lies more than 100 fathoms deep, but is for the rest
almost entirely unexplored. In the northern part the reefs have
grouped themselves into a separate ring or "faro", which atollon is
charted under the name of Laars-islands. The coral-islands of the
Laars Banks have presumably originated in the same way as
those of the Kalu Kalukuang Bank; it would seem then that formerly
the Laars Bank was located at the same depth as the Kalu Kalukuang-,
or the Paternoster-bank and like the latter belonged in the beginning
of the Pleistocene as an island to Sunda Land. After the Pleistocene,
however, the bank on which the Laars-atoll rested, subsided with
the deepening of the water that unites Strait Macassar with the Flores
Sea, and the coral-formations could only here and there, by upward
growth maintain their position at or near the surface of the sea.
The origin of the atoll Brill may be explained in the same way as
that of the Laars-atoll. I am also inclined to believe that the Zand-
buis-atoll and its lagoon with depths of more than 100 fathoms is
founded on a bank which has subsided as late as the post-pleistocene
time.
Oscillations of the sea-level in recent and subrecent time.
From the position of the terminal moraines and from other
peculiarities of the territories that have been evacuated at the final
