425
retreat of the pleistocene ice-caps, it has been possible to conclude
that this retreat did not proceed continuously, but was interrupted
by periods of stability and probably also of temporarily renewed
growth of the ice. In historical times the same thing took place ; the
glaciers of the Alps were from the Roman era down to the last
decades of the 16 th century smaller than at this day, subsequently
their area increased rapidly, and they generally remained more
strongly developed than is the case now until about 1850; after this
date they have almost continually decreased, but they are not by
far so small now as, say, in the year 1570. These facts concerning
the extension of the Alpine glaciers in historical times, points at least
to one very marked oscillation, viz. slight extension between =fc 50
A. D. and 1570; greater extension from 1570 to 1850 and once
more less extension after 1850, which decrease is still continuing
There is no reason for surmising that these fluctuations should not
have manifested themselves in a similar way on all glaciated areas
of the earth, and if this is the case they must have been reflected
by corresponding slight oscillations of the sea-level. It may be
accepted, therefore, that also at the coasts of the Sunda Sea
something of such oscillations will be visible. Indeed, from
some geologically well-known parts of the Sunda Sea phenomena
have been observed which point to a slightly higher sea-level in recent
geological time. Verbeek records that at the coasts of Billiton l ) and
on the surrounding islands here and there elevated coralreefs are found,
which, however, do not lie higher than I or 2 meters above high-
tide level, and are often covered by coral-débris and sea-sand. According
to Verbekk the same occurs on the island of Banca 2 ), while he
adds also for this island that he knows of no places where coral-
reefs are upheaved more than 1 or 2 meters above high-tide level.
The position of these coral-reefs (the sea-sand proves nothing, as it
may have been blown up by the wind there) proves that in
comparatively recent time a slight oscillation of the sea-level has taken
place, during which time the sea-level must have stood 2 meters, or
somewhat more, higher than now. Cornets de Groot 3 ) believes that
after the Tertiary the whole island of Billiton was uplifted some
meters, because sea-shells have been found there of late-pleistocene
a ) R. D. M. Verbeek. Geol. beschrijving van Bangka en Billiton. Jaarb van
het Mijnwezen XXVI, 1897 pg. 81.
*) R. D. M. Verbeek. I.e. pg. 62.
3 ) Corn, de Groot. Herinneringen aan Blitong. 's Gravenhage 1887, p. 200.
208 and especially p. 470-473.
