428
in late-pliocene time. The chart accompanying his paper gives his
idea of the distribution of land and sea at that time. On that map
also the courses of drowned rivers in that extensive late-pliocene
and early-quaternary land are indicated, derived by the author from
several of the isobaths in the present Java- and South-China Sea.
He imagines in pleistocene time a subsidence of the land and a
consequent transgression of the sea to have occurred beyond the
present coastline. During that time barrier-reefs originated by up-
growth of the coast-reefs along the late-pliocene and early-quaternary
coastline and also atolls arose, where small islands occurred. During
the post-pleistocene time van Es assumes upheaval of the land
and corresponding retreat of the sea. He conceives the upheaval,
just as the preceding subsidence, to have been irregular, and most
pronounced where previous earth-movements had been strongest.
The chief differences between his opinion and mine are:
1 st . in pleistocene lime van Es assumes subsidence of the land
relatively to the sea-level, where I assume upheaval, whereas during
the post-pleistocene time he admits upheaval where 1 assume sub-
sidence of the land relatively to the sea-level.
2 nd . van Es ascribes all shiftings of the coastline, the pre-pleisto-
cene as well as the pleistocene and the post-pleistocene to orogenetic
movements, whereas 1 claim the greater influence in pleistocene and
in post-pleistocene time for oscillations of the sea-level in connection
with the ice-age.
3 rd . van Es does not distinguish between the stable and the un-
stable portions of the East-Indian Archipelago, i.e. between the two
areas which, at any rate ever since the beginning of the Pleistocene,
have been stable or unstable, whereas it is my opinion that only
the great stability (which implies the total absence of earth-movements)
of the greater part of the ancient Sunda Land can account for the
remarkably uniform character of the present Sunda Sea and for the
distribution and the mode of development of the coral-reefs in that
part of the Archipelago.
II. BIOLOGICAL PART by Max Weber.
The theory of the subsidence of the Ocean-waters in the pleisto-
cene ice-period and its geological and hydrographical consequences,
so well expounded in the preceding pages by Professor Molengraaff,
also concerns in many ways the biological sciences, first of all the
faunistics and the zoo-geography of the Indo-Auslralian Archipelago,
to what extent also the phyto-geography, I am not competent to judge.
