431
by a comparative investigation of the Kapuwas and the Maliakkam.
Material for comparison could be procured by the fish-fauna, this
being best known.
In selecting our fish-material we had to shift critically, and to
make many restrictions. We had to exclude marine immigrants,
indeed all so-called anadromous and eatadromous fishes ; secondly all
fishes living in brackish water; only those species could be used for
which seawater is an insurmountable banier. For when at the close
of the ice-period, which for the sake of convenience we will con-
sider to have been a continuous period, the water resulting from
the melting ice and snow gradually raised the level of the oceans,
the seawater in the neighbourhood of the large river-mouths of
Borneo and Sumatra will have been of a brackish nature prior to
the present condition of the sea. At that time it was, then, possible
for fish that could stand brackish water, to migrate from one river
into another. That possibility disappeared only when the definitive
salinity was established permanently.
After this shifting our working-material consisted only of two
species of Notopterus, one Scleropages, 17 genera of Siluroids with
39 and 37 genera of Cyprinoids with 100 species, altogether 56
genera with 142 species.
The reliability of our results will increase with the extent of our
material. We will, therefore, lay stress on the full significance of
the number of J42 species. It appears from the fact that the number
of true freshwater fishes, in the restriction given above, which excludes
marine immigrants, amounts to only 60 species for the vast land-
complex that comprises the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and the
Danubian countries as far as the Black Sea.
We have tabulated below our material taken from the Kapuwas
and the Maliakkam, and have added those species that occur also in
the rivers flowing into the Java Sea at the South Coast of Borneo.
The table also contains those species that are found in East Sumatra,
in Java and in rivers of the Asiatic continent (Malacca and Siam).
From this we see that of the 142 species only 52 are common
to both rivers. Of the 90 remaining species 23 belong to the Maliakkam
and 67 to the Kapuwas. Of the 67 species that do not occur in the
Maliakkam 55 (82 %) are represented also in other rivers, viz. 75 */
in the rivers of East-Sumatra. Only 12 species (1,8 %) are restricted,
to the Kapuwas, or are known from neighbouring rivers, also flowing
into the South China Sea.
On the other hand the Maliakkam possesses 23 species which the
Kapuwas lacks. But of these 23 species 17 (74 °/ ) aie indigenous
