441
and oilbeds may ') occur alternately from the surface downward.
Broadly speaking the filling in such a geosyncline may be said
to begin, as a rule, with the deposition of marine sediments with
a monotonous microfauna, later and only when these sediments
have attained a considerable thickness, they are overlaid by deposits
of brackish-water, of fresh-water and perhaps by terrestrial) deposits
which will or will not alternate one with the other and possibly
also with marine deposits.
Experience has also taught that in such marginal geosynclines
during their long life folds may originate more or less parallel to
the shore-line of the continent and at some distance from the shore.
These folds may cause one or more rows of islands or a more or
less continuous strip of land to emerge from the sea. Not seldom in
such a case the folding process is attended with volcanic activity.
The result may be that the portion of the geosyncline immediately
bordering the continental shore, gets separated from the deeper ocean
by a row of islands or a more continuous strip of land consisting of
a system of one or more folded mountain-chains, which may even
shut the inner portion of the geosyncline off completely, thus con-
verting it perhaps into a freshwater lake for some time. It is evident
that then the materials for sedimentation will be transported to the
geosynclinal receptacle from two quarters, viz. from the continent
and from the strip of land or mountain-range newly emerged from
the sea, whereas prior to the folding the geosynclinal belt received
its sediments from one side only, viz. from the pre-existing continent.
In the case of violent volcanic action in the said strip of land,
volcanic material will perhaps from that moment play a prominent
part among the sediments which continue to accumulate in the
geosyncline.
Finally experience has also taught that the geosyncline, which
tends to get filled up completely, now that it has become narrower and
receives sediments from two sides, mostly undergoes itself gentle
folding. It is well known that this folding brings about a position
of the strata, which is of prime importance for the working of
oil-fields.
The outlines of the geological history of the largest and best known
oil-fields of the world are similar to those described just now.
Among the numerous instances only two, the oil-fields of Pennsyl-
] ) Particular stress must be laid on the word u may", because it is possible
that during the development of a geosyncline the conditions for the origin and
accumulation of coal, of petroleum or of both are never quite fulfilled ; in that
case the geosyncline will remain sterile.
