442
vania and those of Argentina, may be mentioned: in the Pennsylvanian
geosyncline, which has originated as a belt marginal to the then
North-American continent (the archaean Canadian shield built out
southward), the sedimentation, as well as the folding of the Appal-
achians (Appellachia), which separated the inner portion of thegeo-
syncline from the Ocean to the south-east, reached its maximum of
intensity in Pennsylvanian time, and closed in Permian time; the
oil-fields in the Andine portion of Argentina are marginal to the
ancient South-American continent, which, in geological structure,
exhibits striking similarity to South-Africa and the so-called Gon-
dwana-land. The sedimentation in that geosyncline occurred in
Jurassic and in Cretaceous time, while the folding which was attended
by intense volcanic activity and gave rise to the Andes, terminated
in Tertiary time. As a third instance the oil-fields of Venezuela may
be quoted. As soon as one considers this mode of development of
an oil-field to be the typical one, such a field must show the following
features (see fig. 1) :
1. a geosynclinal coastal belt G (fig. 1), being the depository of
the sediments in which the hydrocarbons originate. The position of
this belt will indicate in a rough way the original shore-line of
2. the continental area L, from which the terrigenous material
is derived, which gradually has been accumulated in the marginal
geosyncline. This area may also be called the ancient continental
area or the primary area of denudation, because it existed already
as a landmass before the geosyncline had originated.
3. the sea or ocean S, which, reckoning from the continent, lies
on the other side of the geosyncline.
In the geosynclinal belt one can distinguish :
a. The portion near the land G x consisting of sediments deposited
in a shallow sea or on a low land. These deposits consist preponderantly
of terrigenous materials (limestones are rare) and contain coal-, or
oil-beds or both. They are folded generally not very strongly during
the last period of the orogenetic phase, which terminated a long era
in the still longer life of the geosyncline.
b. The portion 6r 2 more remote from the land in which the
sediments, for a great part marls and limestones, were deposited
farther away from the shore of the continent than in the portion
G x . Generally this portion has been folded in a period of the oro-
genetic phase prior to the folding of the portion G 1 . In that case
the anticlinal parts of the folds had already emerged from the sea
as rows of islands or more or less continuous strips of land or may
be as lofty folded mountain-chains, whilst in G 1 the subsidence
