445
synclinal belt G is located, which has now been folded and converted
into land for the greater part. The belts G l and G a gradually pass
one into the other. The seaward strip (r s is richer in lime-
stones than G l} which lies more landward, as has been shown by
Rutten. In G, no, volcanic action has taken place. According to
Rutten the deposits in the Tertiary geosyncline of East-Borneo attain
a thickness of about 5500 m. and comprise (he entire Miocene,
perhaps even a part of the Oligocene, and the Pliocene. Beds of
lignite as well as beds of petroleum occur in this geosyncline.
Rutten, from the differences in facies of the deposits, and before
him Verbeek concluded that the N.S. -shoreline of Kutei existed already
in the Old-Miocene, and that at that time the Strait of Macassar had
already been formed as a more or less deep trough. The oil-field of East-
Borneo thus has been developed in a geosyncline, which lay between
Borneo, a part of Sunda Land being the denudation-area from which it
derived its sediments, and Macassar Strait being the adjoining oceanic
area. This conception is accepted only provisionally, and some stress
may be laid on the point that the geological position of Celebes relative
to this geosyncline and to the Strait of Maccassar is not explained by it.
II. Sumatra and Java.
The geosynclinal belt G, to which the present oil-tields are con-
fined (see map fig. 2) lies along the north-east and the eastcoast
of Sumatra and the north coast of Java, bordering the Java Sea, the
South China Sea and Malacca Strait. It is of Tertiary, Neogene age
and the belt G x , which contains petroleum and lignite in many
places, is now slightly folded and the major portion has become
land. Towards the ocean follows the adjoining belt G„ which had
already been folded and converted into a mountain-chain, whilst
subsidence still continued in the portion G 1 of the geosyncline, and
the process of sedimentation was still in progress there. The moan-
tains of Sumatra, which I will designate here by the collective name
of Barissan Mountains, represent one geanticline, and the row of the
Mentawei-islands and others west of Sumatra represent another
geanticline in these folded mountain-chains. More to th,e west follows
the sea S, in this case the Indian Ocean. In the belt 6r a intense and
prolonged volcanic activity has taken place in Sumatra as well as
in Java; this activity commenced as early as the Old-Miocene. In
the Miocene already volcanoes rose, presumably as a row of islands
above the sea-level, for from that time andesitic material is found
in the geosynclinal deposits of the belt G x . But, where has one to
look for the primary area of denudation L from which these geo-
29*
