446
synclinal troughs of Sumatra partly, and of Java entirely have derived
the non-volcanic material now found deposited in them?
Where, in other words, is to be found the continental area L, to
whose shores these geosynclines were marginal?
This continental area L lay to the north-eastward; it is the
neogene Sunda Land, the greater part of which had been overflowed
by the sea after the close of the ice-age. The part of Sunda Land
which is now submerged is indicated by the dotted area in
the sketch map Pig. 2, the contours of which have been derived from
the present isobath of 40 fathoms. The dotted portion, however,
does not represent its extent in Neogene time, but the largest extent
which it reached only in Pleistocene time.
It appears, thus, that the geosynclines in which the three large
oil-fields of the Dutch East-Indies, to wit those of Java, of Sumatra
and of Borneo, have originated, during their development were
marginal to one and the same continental area of denudation, the Sunda
Land. This marginal position is now only noticeable in the Kutei-
oilfield, of East-Borneo, because Borneo is the only portion of the
former neogene Sunda-continent which still emerges from the sea as
a small continental area. In order to understand the original relations
between the area of denudation and its marginal geosynclinal belts,
we must imagine the now overflowed portion of the neogene Sunda
Land, viz. the Java Sea and the South China Sea, to be united again
with Borneo, thus forming one continuous land. The assumption is
admissible that originally the geosynclinal deposits constituted an
entirety or almost entirely uninterrupted belt round the neogene
Sunda Land. This is not the case now in the oil-fields hitherto known.
The four oilbearing terranes, that of North-Sumatra, that ofDjambi-
Palembang, that of East-Java and that of East-Borneo are separated by
large intervals. In Central-Sumatra, in the gap between the first-
mentioned two territories, the geosynclinal deposits are present and
petroleum may also occur in them, but, if so, presumably only at a
great depth and overlaid by younger, posftertiary mostly volcanic
deposits of considerable thickness. The same probability holds for
the Lampong districts in the extreme south-east of Sumatra.
There is good reason to expect the occurrence of petroleum in
deposits of the neogene geosyncline along the north coast of Java
to the west of the peninsula of Japara, i.e. in the gap between
the East-Sumatra- and the East-Java-oilfields. Here, however, the
petroliferous strata will be overlaid, besides by more recent sediments
of unknown thickness, also by the sea to a depth of 50 metres at
the utmost.
