449
probable that the individual, of which the ovary will be described
here, is a mature woman. The preparation had several characteristics.
First of all, it had a great number of ingrowths of the germinal
epithelium, which covers the total organ as a single layer of cubic
cells. These ingrowths are small tubes with a cylindrical round
lumen, which is surrounded by a small number of bright, cubic cells.
The nuclei of the cells are lying almost in the centre of the
cells. All the cells have about the same appearance. Most of the
tubes are unbi furcated, only a few bifurcate. They generally do not
proceed radially (towards the centre of the ovary), but very often
they bend back under the germinal epithelium and proceed more
or less parallel to the surface. Consequently one sees many rings of
the epithelium under the germinal epithelium (transverse sections of
tubes) in the sections. They are lying in the tunica albuginea and
end, as far as I could see, blind. In the usual text-books of histology
and microscopic anatomy these ingrowths of the germinal epithe-
lium are not mentioned. But, in the text-books of veterinarian
histology or those of embryology the occurrence of similar ingrowths
in some animals and in human foetuses are mentioned. They are
called "Keimschlauche" or "invaginations épithéliales". 1 will describe
them here as "ingrowths of germinal epithelium", because a wrong-
idea of their genesis adheres to the name of "Keimschlauche".
In the second place the ovary showed a large number of cellular
cords within the stroma. These cords are elongated and surrounded
by a thin membrane of connective tissue and consist of very bright,
regularly arranged, cylindrical cells (see fig. la). If they had a lumen,
they would be exactly like glandular tubes. They have different
names in the literature. The most usual one is "Markstrange"
(cordons médullaires). Therefore, I will call them in future "medullar
cords." The third and most obvious characteristic of the examined
preparation is however the presence of a great number of abnormal
eggfollicles. In many places, one sees the eggcells lying in groups
and surrounded by a number of folliclecells, formed into, what is
generally called "eggnests". Besides these eggnests l ) in which I found
as many as 9 eggcells, there were also vesicles (folliculi vesiculosi)
with more than one eggcell. In those vesicles a large number of
cumuli oophori, instead of a single one, occur (see fig. J c and fig. 3).
The greatest number I found was five. But beside the eggcells,
which are lying in a real cumulus oophorus, one sometimes finds
rudimentary eggcells in the vesicle.
l ) Eggball and eggnest may be used alternatively.
