452
into the histogenesis of the ovary. The excellent researches of Cokrt
(Acad. Dissertation, Leiden 1898) and of von Winiwarter (Archives
de Biologie, Tome XVII, 1900) may be mentioned here. As not all
the embryological textbooks give the same representation of the
development, I follow the report, which Bühler gives in Hertwig's
Handbuch (1906).
The ovary develops like the testis, from a special part of the
posterior coelomic wall, in which the epithelium proliferates and
forms a ridge (the so-called Genital-leiste or genital ridge). The line
of demarcation between the epithelium of the ridge and the embry-
onic connective tissue is vague. The sexual cells become visible
afterwards in the epithelium. Generally the line of demarcation
between epithelium and mesenchyme becomes also clearer. It is
irregular. The epithelium penetrates actually with fringe-like ingrowths
into the mesenchyme. Those ingrowths are called "epithelial cords"
(Allen calls them sex-cords). Sexual cells occur in these epithelial
cords by the side of undifferentiated epithelium cells. An epithelial
proliferation arises from the cranial part of the genital ridge, growing
soon inwardly. Coert calls this mass the "reteblastem". When after-
wards the genital ridge is tied off more and more, a small body,
hanging on the posterior coelomic wall, originates (the undifferentiated
sexual gland). There, where it is still connected with the backwall
of the coelome, the "reteblastem" lies, from which a number of
cords arise, which grow into the direction of the pronephros, as well
as towards the centre of the sexual gland (rete cords). The sexual
gland consists of a cortical layer, which is nothing but the epithelium
of the genital ridge (Str. germinativum or epithelial layer) and an
inner mesenchyme mass (Str. medullare). The germinal cords penetrate
from the cortical layer into the Str. medullare. Sexual cells occur
in the so-called rete-cords and especially in the germinal cords.
From this stage of development differentiation occurs between the
development of the male and the female sexual gland.
The convoluted seminiferous tubules arise from the germinal cords,
during the development of the testis, the tubules of the rete testis
from the rete cords.
During the development of the ovary a thin layer of connective
tissue (primary tunica albuginea) is formed between the cortical and
the medullary layer. This tunica albuginea lets the epithelial cords
pass at many places. A lumen is found, specially in the rete cords,
less often in the germinal cords. The rete cords are also connected
with the duct of the pronephros. Processes of development occur
here, quite homologous to those, taking place in the testis. In the
