453
primary albnginea, germinal cords and rete-blastem, we have to see
the homologon of the testis an lage in man.
But in a female body, processes of development take place in the
cortical layer besides. Proliferation of the epithelium has taken place
here regularly, (in the mean time). The connective tissue of the
primary albnginea penetrates into the cortical layer and the cortical
epithelium penetrates in many places through the primary albnginea,
so that the line of demarcation between cortical layer and medullary
layer is again a very vague one. In consequence of the interweaving
of the cortical layer and the connective tissue, epithelial cords and
epithelial balls develop (not very distinct in man) from which
finally the primary follicles arise by further proliferation of the
connective tissue.
A complete epithelial layer remains finally at the surface of the
ovary (germinal epithelium). The germinal epithelium still forms in-
growths, but they contain very seldom primordial eggs. In any case,
they have nothing to do with the ovogenesis and with the eggtubes
of Pflüger. The name of "Keimschlauehe" is in my opinion less
desirable. I should prefer the neutral name of "invaginations épi-
théliales" (von Winiwarter). They generally disappear later on. The
germinal cords and the rete cords become rudimentary. The germinal
cords grow into epithelial cords, lying in the medullary layer.
Consequently they are generally called "medullary cords". A number
of tubules are left from the rete cords. They are lined with cubical
epithelium and lie in the hilus ovarii or even in the mesovarium.
Some medullary cords are still connected with the rete. The rete
itself may still be attached to the rests of the pronephros (epoophoron).
In the ovary described here (at least in the part I could examine)
I did not find rests of the rete, but the ingrowths of the germinal
epithelium and the medullary cords were present. With respect to
the ingrowths of the germinal epithelium, the following may be
said. They are probably a regular phenomenon in the ovaries of
human foetuses. After birth they generally seem to disappear soon.
A few communications on these ingrowths in infant ovaries are
not very clear (cf. Schottlaender. Archiv für mikrosk. Anatomie.
Bd. 41, 1893). They occur more frequently in young animals and
they are even regularly found in adult dogs. (Schmaltz). From a
figure in the book of Schmaltz we may conclude that they are
considerably larger in the dog's than in the human ovary, I de-
scribe here.
There is a great deal of literature on the medullary cords, which
von Winiwarter and Bühler cite principally. It is evident that they
