454
are observed by many investigators in all kinds of animals during
the development of the ovary. They generally break up into pri-
mary follicles before birth (Coekt, von Winiwarter). Then the un-
differentiated cells of the cords form the follicular epithelium for
the eggcells in the cords. If the medullary cords do not break up
into primary follicles before, they certainly do so shortly after birth.
B端hler could not find them in the rabbit a few days after birth,
though Coert and Winiwarter described them in the embryos of
this animal. As von Winiwarter found them even 6 weeks after
birth in the rabbit, it is evident, that we must take into conside-
ration large individual differences. They seem to appear very regu-
larly in the mature ovaries of carnivores and insectivores. Schmaltz
mentions them as a regular phenomenon in the dog's ovary and
less regular in the cat's.
Harz, B端hler, Paladino, van Winiwarter, Coert and Wichser
found them in human embryos. Rielander (1904) found them in a
girl of only a few weeks old. They consist of clear, protoplasmatic
ceils by a thin, structureless membrane. This agrees remarkably
well with what I saw, but is different from what Schmaltz saw in
the dog's ovary. The latter describes the cords as groups of granular
cells with round nuclei, which sometimes surround a small lumen.
In newly-born infants egg-cells occur besides (B端hler). Keibel and
Mall (Handbuch der Entwickelungsgeschichte d. Menschen 1911)
mention that the medullary cords are rather often found in the first
years of life, but only seldom in the ovary of adult women. B端hler
saw them in a girl of 2 years old, but not in older ovaries. The
preparation described here is interesting, because it contains very
clearly embryonic rests (ingrowths of germinal epithelium and
medullary cords). The appearance of these rests is not so rare that
it would justify this communication. I think, however, I can point
out a connection between the presence of the medullary cords and
the appearance of the numerous atypical vesicles.
While studying the sections of a medullary cord in the series
(fig. 4) one perceives that egg-cells still occur in the medullary cords
(cf. section 4 in fig. 4 and fig. 1/;), but one can see at the same
time that the medullary cord is able to swell at a certain spot and
is transformed there into a vesicle, in which often more than one
egg-cell occur.
It is obvious in the series that the medullary cord, after swelling
and developing into a vesicle, afterwards regains its former appear-
ance. This is an indication that the medullary cord of fig. 4 is
not one that is accidentally connected with a vesicle, but that the
