456
not possible that all the atypical vesicles arise from the medullary
cords but that also a great number originates in such egg-balls. I
said already before that egg-cells are found in the medullary cords
in embryos and also in newly-born infants. The fact that the medul-
lary cords and the egg-nests originate from the same epithelium,
explains this phenomenon sufficiently l ). But all the investigators
have found that those cords afterwards break up into primary follicles.
Schmaltz calls the eggcells, occurring in the medullary cords,
strayed (verirrte) elements and supposes that they are reduced after-
wards. In the case of dog, cat and other animals, in which the
medullary cords remain, Schmaltz does not mention the occurrence
of eggcells in those cords or their metamorphosis into vesicles.
The vesicle formation described before, I did not find mentioned
anywhere, not even in the text-books of pathological anatomy.
Probably Schottlaender (Archiv. f. mikrosk. Anatomie, 1893)
found the same thing in man, as described before, but he explains
them differently. There is only one text-book of histology (the anti-
quated book by Böhm and Davidoff) which, according to the
representation of Schottlaender, tells something more of the atypical
vesicles than the other text-books I consulted.
Schottlaender distinguishes "Eiballenfollikel" and "Schlaueh-
follikel". He calls the follicles, reproduced in fig. 2 and 3 eggball-
follicles and those reproduced in fig. \c and fig. 4 "Schlauchfollikel".
According to him the origin of eggballfollicles is due to the fact
that the eggballs are not broken up into primary follicles, owing to
insufficient development of the connective tissue.
He thinks that the "Schlauchfollikel" develop from the tubes of
Pflüger made free. (In his opinion the "Pfliigersche Schlauche" are
flattened and elongated eggballs). Undoubtedly Schottlaender has
seen in the human ovary vesicles, which were more or less modified
cords and he described about the same phenomenon I saw. In the
atypical follicles of fig. 4 and \c however, I cannot see tubes of
Pflüger, made free, partly because they do not occur in man
according to Bühler, Keibel and Mall) and partly, because the
investigation has taught us, that they are parts of epithelial strands,
which undoubtedlj r must be looked upon as medullary cords.
Like Schotteakndkr, I should prefer to distinguish two types of
atypical vesicles: viz. "ballfollicles" and "cordfollicles". Probably,
they both originate, owing to an insufficient an lage and develop-
!) It must nol be left unmentioned that van den Broek (1895) thinks there is
a connection between the medullary cords and the mesonephros and Giannelli
(1915) thinks they originate in the stroma ovarii.
