479
rate it is evident that a difference in reaction of the groundwater
yields quite another nutrient medium; by more calcium the decom-
posing effect of the acids is abolished. As is obvious, it is the roots
that undergo the deleterious influence of' additional calcium, which
is proved by the fact that the Oastanea vesca, when grafted upon
the oak, also thrives in calcium-richer soils.
However, although this influence of the reaction of the ground-
water is of great moment, it cannot be the only causative factor.
This is supported by the cases in which two kinds of soil exhibit
a similar reaction, and nevertheless possess distinctly differing vege-
tation with identical physical factors but non-identical calcium-content.
Cases in point are the inland-dunes, such as the Central-dunes of
Goeree on the one side and the sea-dunes on the other. In Goeree
Orchis morio, Scleranthus perennis and others shun the seadunes
(calcium-content from 2 to 3 °/,). They are however indigenous to
the Central-dunes (calcium-content 0,1 — 1 */ ). It is also supported
by the fact that lupin, which is mostly calcifuge, undergoes the
noxious influence of CaS0 4 -manure. In conclusion I, therefore,
point to the antagonism of the bivalent Ca-ions and the univalent
Potassium-, and Sodium-ions. Zoological researches by Loeb l ) and
afterwards botanical experiments by van Osterhout *) (e.g. with
plantroots) have shown that the salts of the univalent as well as
those of the bivalent metals, taken separately, have a toxic effect,
which, however, is neutralised by a definite concentration of the
others.
Their effect on the permeability of the protoplasm is such that in
Na-salts the permeability increases till death approaches; that in Ca-salts
alone it first decreases in order to increase again after a certain
minimum has been reached, till ultimately death sets in also, and
permeability is constant, exosmosis complete s ). On the other hand
solutions of Na-, and Ca-salts in a certain ratio (e.g. 95,24 NaCl
and 4,76 CaCl a ) in experiments with Laminaria ") do not affect the
normal permeability at all, and render normal growth possible, which
led van Osterhout (I.e.) to hypothetical speculations about the action
on the protoplasm, which cannot be gone into here.
It is a fact, however, that excess of either salt (in casu Ca) can
1 ) Loeb, Am. Jo urn. Physiology. Vol. 3. 1900.
2) W. J. v. Osterhout, Jahrb. f. Wiss. Botanik Bd. XL VI, 1908, On the
importance of physiologically balanced solutions for plants. Botan. Gazette 44. 1907.
3 ) Th. Weevers, Betrachtungen und Untersuchungen über die Nekrobiose und
die letale Ghloroformeinwirkung. Ree. des trav. bot. néerl. Vol. IX. 1912.
+ ) W. J. v. Osterhout, Antagonism and Permeability. Science Vol. XLV. 1917.
31*
