480
be toxic, as e.g. was shown by van Osterhout's soil-experiments.
Addition of CaCl,-solntions to the otherwise fairly favourable soil
was injurious to the cultivated plants; addition of KCl-solutions was
not. Van Ostkrhout interprets this by pointing out that through the
addition of Calcium the relation of the two metals departs more
and more from the optimal whereas it approximates the optimal
relation through the addition of Potassium.
Reverting to our broom we see that relative to the soil of the
Land van Diepenhorst the calcium-content of the soil of the Central-
dunes rises from 0.015 % t0 O.90°/ > ie. ± 60 times the original
value. On the contrary there is no appreciable total increment of
the potassium-, and the sodium-salt-content : in the Central-dunes
this was 0.08 %> in the Land van Diepenhorst 0.06 °/ -
The relation in the Western and Central-dunes has been largely
modified, so that the equilibrium for the true calcifuge plants, such
as Sarothamnus, has been disturbed. The view is favoured by the
fact that calcifuge- plants, such as Castanea vesca, can be cultivated
in calcium-rich soil, provided the soil is of itself potassium-rich 1 ),
or potassium is added to it, Schimper 3 ) maintained that calcium
inhibited the absorption of ironsalts, and that addition of ironsalt-
solution to calcium-rich soil removed the excited chlorosis. By others,
among whom Sidorink 8 ), this was however refuted and ascribed to
the alkalinity of the nutrient solution that had been used.
For Magnesium Loew 4 ) asserted that a certain ratio of Ca and
Mg is required for a satisfactory development, which, however, has
been negatived by Russian and American writers 5 ) on the science of
manuring.
With the method for soil-examination adopted by me I found in
both soils only traces of magnesium; I, therefore, refrain from giving
my opinion about this question, which may be solved through
subsequent experiments, which I purpose to perform with the Saro-
thamnus by cultivating it on calcium-richer soil to which various
salts will be added. This however is a time-consuming undertaking ;
for the time being experiments with water-cultures of buck-wheat
were indicative of' the great importance of the antagonism of the
salts of univalent and bivalent metals in the problem of calcifuge plants.
] ) Arnold Englkr, Ber. Schweizer. bot. Ges. 1901.
~) Schjmper, Pflanzengeograplrie. 1908.
3 ) Sidorin. Ergebn. Landw. Stat. Moskou 1916..
*) Loew. Bull. Agric. Coll. Tokyo 1902. Die Lehre vom Kalkfactor. Berlin 1914.
5 ) A. Dojarenko Jouid. f. experim. Landwirtschaft 1903. F. A. Watt Journ.
agr. research 1910.
