Physiology. — "On the Pharmacological Action of Isoamylhydro-
cuprein (eukupiri) and Isoctyl hydrocuprein (vazin)" By Prof.
R. Magnus and U. G. Bijlsma.
(Communicated at the meeting of April 23, 1920).
Of late years especially three compounds out of a series of hydro-
cnprein-derivatives, which had been examined by Mokoknkoth and
his pupils on their antiseptic action in vitro and in vivo, have been
applied in therapeutics. These researchers had namely discovered
that the alkylated hydrocuprein-derivatives were strong antiseptics
every member of this series having a specific affinity for certain
micro-organisms.
Thus ethylhydrocuprein counteracted especially pneumococci;
isoamylhydrocuprein antagonized diphleria bacilli, bacilli of malig-
nant edema and pyogenous cocci; isoctyl hydrocuprein neutralized
the effect of bacilli of malignant edema and pyogenous cocci still
more than isoamylhydrocuprein did (in vitro; in vivo they showed
little difference). These three substances were given the commercial
names, respectively of optochin, eukupin and vuziu.
As most commonly happens with the products of chemo-terapeu-
tic researches, also these three substances were applied to patients
oi- to men under suspicion of being infected, before pharmacological
examination had sufficiently established their effects upon the mam-
mal. Indeed, with respect to optochin inquiries were made later on,
but hardly anything was effected in this direction for eukupin and
vuzin. In order to meet this deficiency as far as possible, we have
examined pharmacologically the double-hydrochloric acid salts of the
latter two substances, which were put at our disposal through the
kindness of Prof. Morgenroth (Berlin). Before long these experiments
will be published 1 ) in extenso in another place; for the present we
are able to give a concise report of our results, in which eukupin
and vuzin stand for the double hydrochloric acid salts.
1. The pharmacological action of eukupin and vuzin (in the cases
examined) agrees for the most part with that of quinine.
2. Eukupinae bihydrochloridum is soluble in distilled water to
x ) For the bibliography we refer also to this detailed publication.
