482
5°/,, vuzinal bihydrochloridum to l°/ (5 ü / solutions are clear again,
concentrations between these values are turbid). In a physiological
common-salt solution, Ringer-, or Tyrode-solution, turbidity practically
exists in every concentration.
In serum eukupin-biHCI dissolves to I : 14000, vuzin-biHCl
to 1 : 20000. When the solutions in serum are made to foam, the
two substances are collected in a higher concentration in the foam
than in the liquid. The foaming is diminished by the addition of
much alkaloid-salt.
3. With subcutaneous injection the fatal dose for white mice per
kg. body-weight is for eukupin : 300 mgr. and for vuzin : 200 mgr.
So the toxicity of either substance, administered subcutaneously, is
for mice two- or three-times greater than that of quinine.
The subcutaneous fatal dose for cats per kg. body weight, amounts
to from 25 to 50 mgr. of eukupin, 200 mgr. of vuzin.
4. With slow intravenous injection the fatal dosage per kg. cat
varies with the concentration of the alkaloid salt: in a 1% solution
it amounts per kg. cat to about 13 mgr. of eukupin and about
15 mgr. of vuzin; in l°/ l)0 solution per kg. cat to 70 mgr. of eukupin
(in one experiment, in which vagi intact); and 40 — 120 mgr. of
vuzin (vagi intact or cut).
In the case of rabbits the intravenous fatal dosis of eukupin (in
I'/^-solution) seemed to vary with the Nn.-vagi being unimpaired
or cut through : it was per kg. rabbit with unimpaired vagi about
13 mgr, with vagi cut about 60 mgr. It appears from this that in the
rabbit eukupin acts upon the vagus-center.
5. After subcutaneous injection of eukupin and vuzin cats die
under a progressively increasing sopor. Large doses of eukupin cause
a marked fall of temperature.
6. Subcutaneous injection of concentrated solutions (5°/„) of the
two alkaloid-salts brings about local necrosis of the skin and the
subcutaneous connective tissue.
7. Cleansed sheep's blood-corpuscles suspended in Ringer's solution,
were hemolyzed through eukupin in a concentration of about 1 : 5000
through vuzin in a concentration of about 1 : 10000.
The number of red blood-corpuscles per mm ! plays some influence
upon the required concentration of the alkoloidsalts.
In the presence of serum the concentration of both substances,
required for hemolysis, is about 1 : 1000.
8. Eukupin and Vuzin in 1 7o" s °l ut i° n convert oxyhemoglobin
into a. brown colouring substance, which in an acid as well as in
an alkalin solution shows in the absorption-spectrum spectroscopically
