483
as well as speetrographically a line in orange, right to the left of
D, while the violet portion of the spectrum is shortened. The sub-
stance formed is decidedly not methemoglobin and not hematin.
9. On the frog's heart at the Stranb-cannnla enknpin acts with
Certainty deleterionsly in a concentration of 1:50.000 (in Ringer);
vnzin does so in a concentration of 1 : 150.000 (in Ringer). Either
substance, in concentrations of 1 : 10.000 and higher, produces a
standstill of the heart, enknpin a diastolic, vnzin a systolic standstill.
Serum, and red blood-corpuscles diminish the action of both sub-
stances on the frog's heart.
The cardiac muscle deprives the solutions of both substances.
The lesions to the frog's heart are little or not reversible.
JO. The isolated mammalian heart perfused after Langendorff is
brought to a systolic standstill by either substance in concentrations
of 1 : 10.000 in RiNGER's-solution.
A solution of the two salts in undiluted mammalian blood lessens
their activity.
The lesion to the heart cannot be restored by washing out with
Ringer's solution, very little with blood.
11. Eukupin causes the peripheral vessels of cold- and warm-
blooded animals, separated from the central nervous system, to
distend (smallest concentration 1:20.000); vuzin has under the same
conditions a constrictive influence (smallest concentration 1:10.000).
12. Eukupin and vuzin most often constrict the pneumonic
vessels; quinine and quinidin distend them (smallest concentration
about 1 : 20.000).
13. Eukupin and vuzin do not manifest a distinct action on the
coronary vessels in the rabbit's heart perfused withRiNGER's solution after
Langendorff. Eukupin widens the coronary vessels of the cat's heart
perfused with blood after Langendorff (vuzin not examined).
In the Starling-preparation (dog) modified after Dusser de Barenne
eukupin (1 : 90.000 in blood) caused a marked distension of the
coronary vessels, vuzin (1 : 60.000 in blood) a smaller.
14. Intravenous injection of eukupin and vuzin causes lowering
of the bloodpressure in cats and rabbits, in which process the
following factors play a part:
a. weakening of the heart-muscle;
b. distension of the coronary vessels (after eukupin stronger than
after vuzin);
c. distension of the peripheral vessels (permanent after eukupin,
transient after vuzin);
d. constriction of the bloodvessels of the lungs.
