484
The blood pressure regains entirely or partially the original height
through the following factors:
a. lessening of the concentration in the blood ;
b. increase of the output ;
c. constriction of the peripheral vessels after the initial distension
through vuzin.
15. Intravenous injection of vuzin lessens the action of intravenous
adrenalin-injection on the rise of the blood-pressure; ultimately these
injections do not yield any appreciable result.
16. Intravenous injection of vuzin lessens the effect of faradic
vagus-stimulation on the heart.
17. In the isolated cat's lung perfused with undiluted blood vuzin
causes constriction of the bronchi; eukupin, quinine and quinidin
cause distension of the bronchial tubes (concentrations about 1 : 20,000).
18. Eukupin, vuzin and quinine nearly always inhibit the action
of the isolated small intestine of the cat and the rabbit, they rarely
stimulate it. The effect of quinine can be washed out ; that of eukupin
and vuzin can not.
19. Eukupin, vuzin and quinine exerted in our experiments only an
inhibitory influence upon the isolated uterus of the cat and the rabbit.
Neither the quinine, nor the eukupin-action appeared to be reversible.
20. On application in 1 Yoi" s °l llt ' on f° r one minute to the rabbit's
cornea eukupin and vuzin produce a transient total anaesthesia.
J 7o- s °l"tions are very deleterious to the cornea.
21. When given in a 1 7oo* s °l l, ^ on > eukupin and vuzin bring
about an interruption of the conduction in the sensitive ischiadicus-
tibers of the frog (local application).
22. In a 1 7,-solution D °th salts cause a total interruption of the
conduction in the N. ischiadicus of the frog (local application). This
effect can be washed out in the case of either substance.
23. Eukupin and vuzin, injected intravenously in non-fatal dosis,
do not influence the centres of the spinal cord of rabbits.
24. Eukupin elicits stimulation of the vagus-center in rabbits;
vuzin does not affect the vagus-center in cats. (Compare NV 4).
25. On intravenous administration both alkaloid salts produce
stimulation of the respiratory center in cats and rabbits.
26. When the hindlegs of the frog in the Laewen-Trendelenburg
preparation are perfused with eukupin and vuzin in Ringer's solution
in small doses the result is increased lassitude, in larger doses
decreased excitability of the muscles. In this process indirect excita-
bility is influenced more than the direct. Quinine has a similar action.
The action of vuzin is strongest, that of eukupin is weaker, that of
