485
quinine is weakest. In the strongest concentrations the three salts
cause a total rigidity of the muscles. The action is only sparingly
reversible through washing with Ringer's solution, a little more after
•quinine than after the other substances.
27. In the normal rabbit vuzin, injected subcutaneously in doses
of 50 mgr. per k.g., causes a temporary fall of the temperature.
Eukupin, on the other hand in the same dosage has no effect on
the temperature of the normal rabbit.
28. After fever has been excited by injection of coliendotoxins -{-
killed bacterium coli, both substances, like quinine, in a dosis of 25
mgr. per k.g. lower the temperature in the rabbit.
29. After subcutaneous and intramuscular injection eukupin and
vuzin are resorbed only very slowly. Rests are found at the place
of injection even after four days.
Of an intravenous injection of vuzin, in almost fatal dosis, about
7, is still retained by the blood after 35 min., the rest is almost
entirely to be found again in heart, liver, kidneys, adrenals, brains,
spinal cord and muscles. After 24 hours only traces are to be found
in these organs. Also with this intravenous injection no vuzin was
found in the urine.
Thus it appears that vuzin is destroyed rapidly after intravenous
injection.
30. In detibrinated blood vuzin is distributed over bloodcorpuscles
and serum in such a way that in the corpuscles the concentration
is from 7.7 to 16.6 times as high as in the serum.
31. Various organs (heart, liver, muscles) in vitro largely detach
eukupin and vuzin from their solutions in Tyrode.
In vitro no abolition of the two salts by the named organs was
demonstrable.
32. After subcutaneous injection of doses that just failed to be
fatal neither of the alkaloids could be demonstrated in the urine of
the cat and the rabbit.
33. The growth of Micrococcus tetragenus in 1 °/« glucose-broth is
inhibited by eukupin in a concentration of about 1 : 150.000, by
vuzin in a concentration of 1 : 300.000 or 1 : 500.000.
34. The antiseptic action of solutions of the two alkaloid-salts
decreases largely after some days' standing.
35. Likewise the antiseptic action of the two substances decreases
largely through dissolving in a physiological common-salt solution.
36. The presence of red blood-corpuscles in the fluid culture
medium weakens the antiseptic influence of eukupin and of vuzin.
Pharmacogical Institute of the Utrecht University.
