Physiology. — "On Adsorption of Poisons by Constituents of the
Animal Body. II. The Adsorbent Power of Rabbit's Serum
for A tropin". By Prof. W. Storm van Leeuwen and J. Zkydner.
(Communicated by Prof. R. Magnus).
(Communicated at the meeting of June 26, J 920).
In previous publications Storm van Leeuwen ') and Eerland and
.Storm van Leeuwen 2 ) have demonstrated that in the serum and in
the tissues of various animals there are substances capable of
inactivating alkaloids. At the same time they were able to show,
that this inactivation is not brought about by chemical destruction, but
through a physical adsorption of the alkaloid by certain components
of the serum or by animal tissues. In these earlier publications it
has already been deemed probable, that inactivation of atropin by
rabbit's serum is not- brought about chiefly through a chemical
decomposition, but very likely also through a physical adsorption.
It has been our purpose in this paper to ascertain in how far this
supposition is true.
The natural resistance of rabbits to atropin has already frequently
been investigated experimentally.
Heckel 3 ) fed rabbits exclusively with solanea without mydriasis occurring in
these animals ; they remained quite healthy and procreated even a numerous offspring,
which finally would not eat anything but solanea. Neither in the urine, nor in the
faeces of tbe animals did he find atropin either by a chemical or a physical
method (instilling into the rabbit's eye). When the rabbits, fed in this way, were
killed and their flesh was given to cats and dogs, these animals did not present
any phenomena of atropin-poisoning. From this he concluded that the poison had
been decomposed in the blood of the rabbits.
Hekmann showed afterwards that the resistance of rabbits to atropin did not
depend upon an augmented excretion of the poison, because it appeared that after
ligation of the arteria renalis, the atropin-resistance of rabbits did not decrease.
l ) W. Storm van Leeuwen. Sur l'existence dans le corps des animaux de
substances fixant les alcaloides. Arch. Néerl. de Physiol. Tome 2 p. 650, 1918.
s ) L. Eerland and W. Storm van Leeuwen. On Adsorption of Poisons by
Constituents of the Animal Body. 1. The adsorbent power of serum and brain-
substance of Cocain. Proceedings Royal Acad. Vol. XXII, p. 831.
s ) Heckel. De l'influence des solanées vireuses en general et de la Belladonna
en particulier. CR. Acad, de Paris 80. 1875. p. 1608.
