489
1. the organs of the animal may not be sensitive to the poison.
(Straub *) demonstrated not long ago that to this the resistance of
the rat to strophanti!) is to be ascribed).
2. the poison may probably be destroyed chemically in the body.
3. the poison may be made inactive in the body of the animal
in another way.
The first supposition will hardly apply to the case under consi-
deration, because although the rabbit possesses a great power of
resistance to atropin, the organs of this animal are very sensitive
to this poison. It has been proved by Van Lidth de Jeude's') expe-
riments that the action of atropin upon the surviving small intestiu
of the rabbit is about ten times stronger than its action upon the
catgut. Besides, as already mentioned. Calmette showed that an
intracerebral injection of two mgr. of atropin into a rabbit induces
death instantly.
As appears from the inquiries by Fleischmann, Metzner and others,
the second supposition has come true. Rabbit's blood can decompose
atropin in vitro, but this decomposition proceeds comparatively slowly,
and consequently not on such a large scale as to enable us to
establish from it the rabbit's resistance to atropin, when this poison
is injected directly into the circulation.
These considerations tend to support the third supposition, and in
the experiments to be described now we have been able to demon-
strate the high adsorbent power of rabbit's serum for atropin ; still it
does not decompose it.
In order to demonstrate in these experiments the inhibitory influ-
ence of rabbit's serum, we needed an accurate method for a physi-
ological determination of the values of atropin-solutions. To this end
we adopted the method expounded by Storm van Leeuwen and van
den Broeke in a previous publication *). Their procedure was as
follows: a certain quantum of pilocarpin is added to a surviving
piece of catgut and hereafter the amount of atropin was determined
that is required to abolish almost entirely the contraction of the gut
generated by the pilocarpin. This method yields satisfactory results,
1 ) W. Straub. Ueber die Resistenz der Ratten gegen K-strophanten. Arch. f.
exp. Path, und Pharmak. Bd 84, p. 223, 1918.
2 ) v. Lidth de Jeude. Quantitatieve onderzoekingen over het antagonisme van
sulfas atropini tegenover hydrochloras pilocarpine salicylas physostigmiui en
hydrochlorasmuscarini op overlevende darmen van zoogdieren. Dissertatie Utrecht 1916.
3 ) Storm van Leeuwen and Van den Broeke. A quantitative inquiry into the
antagonism pilocarpin-atropin on the surviving cat-gut. Proceedings Royal Acad.
Vol. XXVIII, p. 1158.
