490
if some precautions are taken which are amply discussed in the
publication we have cited.
The following experiments were made according to this method.
To the liquid containing a surviving' gut (75 c.c. of Tyrode
solution) 0,1 mgr. of pilocarpin is added. After three minutes 0,0004
mgr. of atropin is added to the liquid. As may be seen from tig.
la this dosis of atropin is not sufficient to completely abolish the
contraction of 0,1 mgr. of pilocarpin. After the atropin and the
pilocarpin has been washed out, and the gut has been standing in
fresh Tyrode solution for half an hour again 0,1 mgr. of pilocarpin
is administered and three minutes afterwards 0,024 mgr. of atropin,
that is 60 times the quantity given in the previous experiment. This
atropin had been for 50 minutes in contact with fresh rabbit's serum.
It will be seen that this quantum of atropin is able to abolish
the action of pilocarpin; this dosis, then, has a stronger effect than
the preceding one (tig. 1/;).
In fig. \c first 0,1 mgr. of pilocarpin is given; after this 0,012
mgr. of atropin i.e. thirty times the quantum of the first experiment.
It is evident that this atropin-action agrees with that of fig. la
Here also the atropin had been previously in contact with rabbit's
serum; namely, 1 mgr. of atropin had been added to 5 c.c. of fresh
rabbit's serum. From these experiments it may therefore be concluded
that through the contact with rabbit's serum the action of the atropin
had been weakened to such an extent that less than one thirtieth
of the original action is left.
In fig. Id again 0,1 mgr. of pilocarpin is added to the gut, and
three minutes later again 0,016 mgr. of atropin is given. This atropin
has also previously been in contact with serum ; its action is stronger
than that of 0,0004 mgr. of atropin in fig. la. In fig. \e again 0,1
mgr. of pilocarpin is administered and then again the dose of 0,0004
mgr. of atropin, which had also been given in fig. la.
This experiment serves to show that the sensitivity of the gut has
not altered considerably; as will be seen the action of 0,0004 mgr.
of atropin is now a little stronger than in fig. la. From these
experiments we may therefore conclude that (see fig. Id) through
the contact of atropin with rabbit's serum its action is reduced to
one thirtieth, nay, almost to one fortieth.
Now, in order to prove that this adsorption of atropin by rabbit's
serum is not a chemical destruction, but most likely a physical
process, we proceeded as follows: the atropin-solution, which through
the contact with rabbit's serum had lost the greater part of its acti-
vity, was treated with hydrochloric acid and alcohol, as has been
