494
We did not deem it necessary to show that all the atropin is recovered, be«
cause — vide supra — most likely, already during the short contact of the
atropin with rabbit's serum a small part of the atropin has been destroyed
chemically. With our method we could not expect to find again all the atropin,
but what we could show was that the greater part of the atropin could be
reclaimed in active form.
This experiment also explains the phenomenon observed by Cloetta ') and
Schinz 2 ), viz. that they found in their chemical determinations more atropin than
could be demonstrated physiologically. Now, the chemical reaction (Vitali) consists
also in extracting with alcohol and chloroform. Schinz tried to explain it in this
way that the atropin-molecule was destroyed so far that it could no more react
biologically, but still gave the chemical reaction.
The investigation above described was repeated in several other
experiments, invariably with the same result.
In another experiment we ascertained whether some further know-
ledge could be obtained about the quantitative relations in the case
of adsorption of atropin by rabbit's serum. For this purpose (see
fig. 2a) first 0,1 mgr. of pilocarpin was given and after three mi-
nutes 0,0002 mgr. of atropin; this could neutralize the pilocarpin-
action almost entirely. In fig. 16 0,1 mgr. of pilocarpin is given
and subsequently 0,008 mgr. of atropin, which had previously been
in contact with rabbit's serum; ils action will be seen to be less
than that of 0,0002 mgr. of atropin, given before, so that apparently
through the serum the atropin-action had been reduced to 7<«- I"
fig. \c again 0,1 mgr. of pilocarpin is administered, then 0,0002
mgr. of atropin; this conld neutralize entirely the action of the
pilocarpin, from which it appears that the sensitivity of the gut to
atropin has certainly not diminished during the experiment. The
atropin given in fig. 2b was taken from a solution which contained
0.1 mgr. of atropin to 1 c.c. of fresh rabbit's serum.
In fig. 2d 0.05 mgr. of pilocarpin was given to another piece of
gut. Its action, as appears from the figure, could be almost entirely
abolished by 0,0002 mgr. of atropin. In fig. 2e 0,05 mgr. of pilo-
carpin was given and after this 0,008 mgr. of atropin; this atropin
had been taken from a solution which contained 1 mgr. of atropin
per c.c. of fresh rabbit's serum, i.e. 10 times the quantum of the
previous case. In fig. if again 0,0002 mgr. of atropin of the usual
aqueous solution was given. This experiment then tends to show
that also when a whole milligram of atropin is added to 1 c.c. of
rabbit's serum, the action of atropin is reduced to about l / 4t .
') Cloetta. Ueber Angewöhnung an Atropin. Arch, für exp. Path. 64, p. 432, 1911.
-) Schinz Zur angeborenen und erworbenen Atropin Resistenz des Kaninchens.
Arch, für exp. Path. 81 pg. 206. 1917.
