501
figure. Fig. 4c illustrates the experiment in which again 0.01 mgr.
of pilocarpin is given and afterwards 0.024 mgr. of atropin, i.e. 40
times as much as in the preceding experiment; this atropin, however,
has been in contact with rabbit's serum, and now it can distinctly
be observed that the action of the atropin is again reduced to less
than 740- ln hg- 4*/ 0.0015 mgr. of atropin is administered, i.e. much
less than in tig. 4c; this atropin has also been in contact with serum,
but in this case a little peptone (Witte) had been previously added
to it. It is manifest that now the atropin-action is not nearly reduced
to V<o> from winch it becomes evident that the addition of peptone partly
prevents the adsorption of atropin by rabbit's serum. That an existing
adsorption can be loosened by the peptone appears from fig. 4c,
where 0.005 mgr. of atropin has been added. This dosis is active,
at least much more active than 0,024 mgr. of atropin was in fig. 4c
and this dosis of 0.005 mgr. of atropin is taken from a solution, in
which the atropin had first been adsorbed by rabbit's serum, and
subsequently a drop of 5 % peptone-solution had been added. So
through the influence of peptone the existing adsorption had been
partly abolished. Fig. 4/ again tends to show that 0.0006 mgr. of
atropin is still active. This is a control-experiment.
Little is known as yet about the nature of the adsorbing substances
in rabbit-serum. Döblin and Fleischmann 1 ) found that the substance
cannot be heated above 60°, also that it can be refrigerated and
thawed again and even desiccated. It does not pass through a
chamberlandcandle. At the dialysis of the serum the albumin group
appeared to adsorb, the globulin group did not. When salting out
they found the same result.
We have endeavoured to learn more about the nature of this
substance; thus far with very little result. Plasma of rabbits as well
as serum seems to have a great adsorbing power; the blood-
corpuscles, when washed out and suspended in a physiological
salt-solution do not adsorb atropin. We also saw that although rabbit's
serum is very active, that of cats, men, horses, cows and goats is
little active. We happened to have the disposal of a quantum of
rabbit's serum, which had been reserved in Professor Van Calcar's
laboratory for nine years in a sealed up glass tube; this serum has
still a high adsorbent power for atropin.
Finally we also learnt from special experiments that lecithin does
not adsorb atropin, which accords with Storm van Leeuwen's result
with respect to pilocarpin and lecithin. It may very well be that
i) 1. c.
