Palaeontology. — "On the Occurrence of Halimeda in Old-
Miocene Coastreefs oj East- Borneo". By Dr. L. Rutten.
(Communicated at the meeting of April 23, 1920).
In arranging the collections of the Siboga-Expedition it appeared
how widely the calcareous alga Halimeda of the order of the Siphoneae
is spread on the coastreefs round the islands in the eastern part of
the East-Indian archipelago. This organism is found at the coast of
the Little-Sunda Islands, at several places of the coast of Celebes,
around the Aru- and Kei-islands and in the Ban da- A re hi pel ago 1 ).
In connection with this fact it is remarkable that up to this day
so little has become known of the occurrence of this alga, which
is so well adapted to fossilization, in the tertiary, littoral deposits of
the East-Indian Archipelago, which have so many features in common
with the present coast-reefs : as e.g the corals, the lithothamnia and
the foraminifera, which are the chief builders of recent reefs, are
also met with in the tertiary coast-limestones.
To my knowledge R. Schubert ') is the only writer who has
reported the occurrence of Halimeda in very young - probably
quaternary — limestones of North- and Central-Celebes.
Also out of the East-Indian Archipelago fossil-rests of Halimeda
have been found very rarely. Th. Fuchs 3 ) was the first to describe
unquestionable fossils from the Eocene of Greifenstein; the Halimeda,
whose "branchlets" were impressed in sandstone, so that only the
external form had been preserved, bore a great, habitual resemblance
to the alga still living. Slight morphological deviations led to the
establishment of a new species of fossils: H. Saportae.
In some limestones — "transition rocks between Miocene and
recent" — of Christmas Island, south of Java, also traces of Halimeda *)
were found.
!) E. S. Barton. The genus Halimeda. Monograph LX of the Siboga-Expedition,
1901.
s ) R. Schubert. Beitr. z. fossilen Foraminiferen fauna von Gelebes. Jahrb. K. K.
Geol. Reichsans. Wien. 62. 1912, p. 127 — 150.
8 ) Th. Fuchs. Ueber eine fossile Halimeda aus dem eocanen Sandstein von
Greifenstein. Sitz. Ber. Akad. der Wiss. Wien. Math. Natw. Cl. Abt. I. 103. 1894.
p. 200—204.
4 ) Ch. W. Andrews. A monograph of Christmas Island. 1900, p. 250. 275.
