Physiology. — "On the Effect of Tonic Labyrinthine and Cervical
Reflexes upon the Eye-muscles" . By Dr. A. de Kleyn (Com-
municated by Prof. R. Magnus).
(Communicated at the meeting of April 23, 1920).
Recent researches performed in our Institute have shown that in
various animals the tonus of the skeletal muscles varies, according
to fixed laws with the position of the head, and that the reflexes
which come into play here, may be divided into two groups: Tonic
labyrinthine reflexes, which appear when the position of the head
in space is changed, and tonic cervical reflexes which appear when
the position of the head relative to the trunk is changed. Our object
in this paper is to ascertain how far these reflexes can be demon-
strated as well for the eye-muscles.
I. Tonic labyrinth-reflexes acting on the eye-muscles.
Many times already tonic labyrinth-reflexes have been examined
in man and in various animals; they are the so-called compensatory
eye-positions.
Some years ago an extensive quantitative investigation in rabbits
was published in Pfliiger's Archiv *).
For further particulars we refer to this publication ; we wish to
lay stress once more on the following final results :
a. With every position of the head in space we note a corre-
sponding position of the eyes in the orbita.
b. If the head is brought from one position into another, the eyes
attain their new position in the orbita either by rotatory or by vertical
movements, or by both together; no data could be obtained for lateral
movements in the direction of the palpebral aperture.
Neither was Benjamins 2 ) more successful in his experiments with
fishes.
c. It is allowable to state generally that, if the head passes from
l ) J. v. d. Hoeve und A. de Kleyn. Tonische Labyrinthreflexe auf die Augen.
Pftügers Arcbiv. für die ges. Physiologic Bd. 169. S. 241. 1917.
3 ) G. E. Benjamins. Contribution a la Gonnaissance des Reflexes toniques des
muscles de l'oeil. Archives Néerlandaises. Tome II, 4e livraison, p. 536 (1918).
33
Proceedings Royal Acad. Amsterdam. Vol. XXIII.
