510
one position to another, the eye performs such movements to attain
its new position in the orbita that it, as it were, tries to retain its
spatial position. The curves in the above-mentioned publication show
witli how little success. To this we shall revert later on.
We still wish to insist emphatically that these tonic reflexes must
be distinguished from the transient eye-movements which appear
during or directly after the movement of the head. This distinction
is often more or less overlooked in the literature. The compensatory
eye-positions are determined by tonic reflexes and vary only with the
position of the head in space. The determined eye-position, therefore,
continues, until this position of the head in space is changed.
In all experiments on compensatory eye-movements due care should
also be taken that during the experiment the position of the head
relative to the trunk cannot change.
That in the above researches we really had to do with labyrinth-
reflexes could be readily proved, as they disappeared completely
after bilateral labyrinthine extirpation.
//. Tonic cervical reflexes acting on the eye-muscles.
Very little is known in the literature about tonic cervical reflexes
acting on the eye-muscles. Barany x ) is the only author who (in 1907)
published an investigation which warranted the assumption of such
reflexes. In experiments on rabbits, the head of the animal being
fixed and the trunk being moved relatively to the head, round
different axes, eye-movements were the result. The results, however,
varied and the reflectory eye-movements also appeared to depend
on the position of the head in space. Technical difficulties prevented
him from ascertaining experimentally whether cervical reflexes come
into play here.
On a priori grounds it seems to me improbable that true cervical
reflexes should fundamentally be varying according to the position
of the head in space.
The question, therefore, urges itself upon us whether in the case
of Barany's reflexes, we may have to do with a superposition of
cervical and labyrinth reflexes. The same cervical reflexes may very
well evoke different eye-movements, when these reflexes affect eyes
which, in consequence of* tonic labyrinth reflexes, take up another
position in the orbita when the position of the head in space is
altered.
') R. BanaNY. Augenbewegnngen durch Thoraxbewegungen ausgelöst. Gentralbl.
f. Physiol. Bd. XX.
