511
If, therefore, we wish to examine only the influence of tonic
cervical reflexes on the eye-muscles, it is necessary to do so in
animals without labyrinths, in which case the appearance of tonic
labyrinth reflexes is precluded.
A. Tonic cervical reflexes on the eyes in rabbits without labyrinths.
This experiment was carried out with 6 rabbits. After bilateral
extirpation of the labyrinth, by a method previously described in
Pflügek's Archiv l ), we waited some days, until the jerks
consequent on the operation had completely subsided. Subsequently
the head was fixed and the trunk was moved on various axes.
The eye-movements resulting from this process were carefully noted.
The examination was performed for various positions of the head
in space, and was to the following effect:
a. After bilateral extirpation of the labyrinth the position of the
head in space does not affect the nature of the tonic cervical reflexes:
in different positions we found invariably the same reflexes. (These
positions were: head with lower jaw down, with lower jaw up,
with muzzle down, with muzzle up and both lateral positions).
b. A special position of the eyes in the orbita answers to a special
position of the trunk relative to the head.
c. When the trunk is turned round various axes the eyes attain,
through various movements, their new position in the orbita in the
following ways :
1. When the trunk is turned round its dorso- ventral axis, by
movements in the direction of the palpebral aperture. The eye towards
which the trunk is moved, moves towards the nose, the other eye
towards the ear.
2. When the trunk is turned round its frontal axis, by rotations.
When the trunk is moved towards the skull, both eyes rotate with
the upper pole in the direction of the nose; when the trunk is moved
towards the lower jaw with the upper pole towards the ear.
3. When the trunk is turned on its long axis, by vertical move-
ments. The eye towards which the back of the animal is turned,
moves downwards, the other eye upwards.
As could be anticipated, it appeared that the same reflexes occur
when, instead of the trunk being moved relative to the head, the
head is moved relative to the trunk. Barany forgot this and was
consequently sent on the wrong course in drawing his conclusions.
To this we shall revert lower down.
i) Pflügers Archiv. Bd. 145, p, 549, 1912.
33*
