512
Now, when moving the head relative to the trunk the same phe-
nomena will be observed that appeared for the tonic labyrinth
reflexes, namely:
4. It may be generally stated that, when from a certain position
relative to the trunk the head is brought into another position, the
eye of animals deprived of their labyrinths will also perform such
movements to attain its new position in the orbita, as to make it
appear that it tries, as it were, to retain its position in space.
However, these cervical reflexes are much less pronounced than
the tonic labyrinth reflexes, previously described. Only cervical
reflexes seem to play a part exclusively for the movements in the
direction of the palpebral apertures.
As stated before, neither in our researches in conjunction with
v. d. Hoeve, nor in those made by Benjamins could the influence of
tonic labyrinth reflexes be demonstrated. It would seem, therefore,
that when the head is moved in a horizontal plane, the compen-
satory eye-positions in the rabbit can be evoked only by tonic
cervical reflexes.
B. Tonic cervical reflexes in the normal animal.
In the above lines we have already alluded to the possibility that
the cervical reflexes noted by BaKany with various positions of the
head of his laboratory animals, may find an explanation in a super-
position of tonic labyrinth-, and tonic cervical reflexes. On further
investigation this really proved to be the case. It would be irrelevant
to pass all these reflexes in review. One instance may serve for all:
Barany then found that with fixed head and rotation of the trunk
on its dorso-ventral axis the following phenomena could be observed :
when the animal is examined in normal position with the head in
horizontal position with the lower jaw down, the left eye will move
towards the nose in the direction of the palpebral apertures, and the right
eye towards the ear, as soon as the trunk is turned towards the left
eye. When the trunk is turned towards the right eye, this eye will
move towards the nose and the left eye towards the ear. If, how-
ever, similar movements of the trunk are performed, with the head
and the muzzle down, rotation of the trunk towards the left eye
will result in a movement of the left eye approximately upwards
(i.e. vertical to the palpebral aperture) and of the right eye approx-
imately downwards. The explanation is easy, as is shown by the
diagram in Fig. i. Fig. la represents the position of the left eye
