514
C. Influence oj severing the sensitive roots of N. cervicalis
\ and 2 on the tonic cervical reflexes on the eyes.
As stated heretofore, Barany supposed his reflexes to be cervical
reflexes, but difficulties with regard to the technique prevented him
from demonstrating this. These difficulties were known also in our
Institute. In experiments with cats and dogs previously published
by Magnus and Storm van Leeuwen ') the tonic cervical reflexes on
the skeletal muscles were eliminated by severing the sensitive roots
of the Nn cervicales J, 2, and 3. This could be readily done with
cats, but with rabbits it was extremely difficult. It is rather easy
to get at the roots of' cervicalis 1 by splitting the membrana atlanto-
occipitalis. By the help of suitable focal illumination the sensitive fibers
will be seen to run along freely, and with the aid of a hook they
can be easily pulled through. If, as will sometimes happen, the
operation causes hemorrhage from a vein somewhere about the
fibers, the operation should be discontinued, as in that case there is
no knowing' whether it has been fully accomplished. The sensitive
root of cervicalis 2 can be reached outside the spinal column ; the
section of this root is rather simple. The difficulties arise only with
the effort to sever the sensitive root of cervicalis 3. This must be
effected in the spinal column and in this process the hemorrhage is
often so profuse that the animal succumbs already during the opera-
tion. This was shown also by Magnus and Storm van Leeuwen's
researches, in which the researchers succeeded only twice in keeping
the animals alive after this operation.
We did not think it proper to sacrifice again a large number of
animals and first wished to study the cervical reflexes after severing
the sensitive roots of cervicalis 1 and 2. The experiments were
conducted in the following way : First bilateral extirpation of the
labyrinth in order to completely eliminate the tonic labyrinth reflexes.
After a few days the animals were examined closely for tonic cer-
vical reflexes. Only of those animals that showed distinctly the tonic
cervical reflexes on the eyes, the sensitive roots of C. 1 and 2 were
cut through. This was to the following effect.
In one animal the tonic cervical reflexes had quite disappeared
after the sensitive roots of Nn cervical. 1 and 2 had been cut through a ).
l ) R. Magnus und W. Storm v. Leeuwen. Die akuten und die dauernden Folgen
des Ausfalles der tonischen Hals- und Labyrinthreflexe. Pflügers Arch. 159. J 57. 1914.
s ) In one other animal the tonic reflexes could still be evoked in a small mea-
sure. After section it appeared that on either side of the N cervicalis 1 a fibril
was left behind.
