515
In two animals they still existed, though very much weakened.
Through section we ascertained the full accomplish men t of I he operation.
From this it follows that the reflex curve for the tonic cervical
reflexes runs mainly through the sensitive roots of Nn. cervicalis
1 and 2, but that in some rabbits also the n. cervicalis 3 still contains
centripetal fibers for these reflexes.
D. The reciprocal innervation of the eye-muscles attending
the tonic cervical re flexes.
Sherrington's researches ') have tended to show that contractions
of definite eye-muscles are attended with relaxation of the antago-
nists. Bartels ') was able to demonstrate the same for various
forms of nystagmus.
The tonic eye-reflexes seemed to us just the proper object to ascertain
this for these reflexes and to register it graphically.
Registration of the tonic labyrinth reflexes is very difficult, because
the head must continually be brought into another position in space.
With tonic cervical reflexes the matter is quite different: then the
head is firmly fixed and the movements are carried out with the
trunks.
Our procedure was as follows: tracheotomy was performed in
ether-narcosis, the carotids were ligated, the vagi cut. Then a prepa-
ration was made of the Mm. interims and externus of one eye, a
thread was fastened to the muscles at the place of insertion to the
bulbus; subsequently the muscles were severed from the bulbus.
After this the bulbus was extirpated together with the other eye-
muscles ; then the muscles were separately connected by the thread
over a pulley to a lever, which enabled us to register the contractions
on a Kymograph. The whole arrangement, as will be seen, was like
the one described by Bartels. During the experiment the ether-
narcosis was continued, or, what was more satisfactory, it was stopped
after the two cerebrum-hemispheres had been removed (thalamus-
animal after Magnus).
The graphical representation of such an experiment with a thala-
mus-animal is seen in Fig. 2. The upper line registers the con-
tractions of the M. rectus int.; the lower line of the M. rectus ext.
of the left eye.
1. We started from: Animal in ventral position, mouth-fissure
] ) Sherrington. Proceedings Royal Society 53, 407.
J ) Bartels. Graefe's Archiv. Mitteiiung I— IV. 76, 77, 78 and 80.
