519
From this we see that when the /tend is raised only 10° above
the horizontal, the position of the eye in space remains constant.
Then the eye deviates.
With a view to the difficulties attending photographing the lowering
and the raising of the head were carried out respectively only 70°
below and 60° above the horizontal.
In five other experiments the head was lowered to 90° and raised
to 80° and the rotatory movements were determined by the naked
eye with the aid of a protractor.
Our constant experience was now that the eye persists in its position
in space when the head is lowered 90° under the horizontal and when
it is raised 10° above the horizontal.
Now if we consider that in a normal posture of the rabbit, the
head is bent down about 35°, it will be seen that, in daily life, the
animal can bring the attitude of his head from this position in the
vertical plane between the rather wide limits (downwards about 55°
and upwards about 45°) into every other position, without any
alteration in the eye-position in space, consequently also without
any alteration of its field of vision.
This fact has also received BaranyV) attention. He burned a line
into the cornea and noted with the naked eye the position of this
line when the head was moved in a vertical plane. He believes the
reflexes to be exclusively labyrinth reflexes. Literally he says: "lch
bemerke, das wahrend dieser ganzen Bewegungen des Kopfes die
Stellung des Körpers unverandert horizontal belassen wurde. Das
Tier ist also rait dera Körper festgehalten. der Kopf aber wird frei
nach unten und oben bewegt, Wie wir spater horen werden, hanen
Veranderungen der Körperstellung eine Veranderung der Augen-
stellung zu Folge".
Further on a description is given of the movements, in which
also the "Körperstellung" is changed and the cervical reflexes, found
by Barany and alluded to above, are discussed.
This view of Barany rests upon an error. The gist of the matter
is not whether the "Körperstellung" remains constant, but whether
the posture of the body relative to the head remains the same. So
if the head of an animal is inclined to the front, cervical reflexes
are sure to ensue even when the trunk is fixed completely. This,
indeed, is easy to demonstrate, as we said before, by performing
the same movement of the head of rabbits without a labyrinth.
] ) R. BaBaNY. Nordisk Tidskrift for Oto-Rhino-Laryngologi. Bd. II. N°. 4. 1917,
p. 477.
