520
The constancy of the field of vision with different positions oj the
head is oioing to tonic labyrinth-, and cervical reflexes combined and
not to tonic labyrintli-rejlexes alone.
When the head is turned on the occipito-nasal axis, such combi-
nations of labyrinth-, and cervical reflexes will occur, whereas on
turning the head from the normal position on the dorso-ventral axis
only cervical reflexes appear.
SUMMARY.
1. In the rabbit the state of the tonus of the eye-muscles appears
to depend on the position of the head; the same has previously
been demonstrated for the skeletal muscles by Weiland.
2. The reflexes which control this tonicity can be divided into
two groups: tonic labyrinth reflexes and tonic cervical reflexes.
3. The tonic labyrinth reflexes can be examined separately by
bringing the head into various positions in space; it is required
that, throughout the experiment, the position of the head relative
to the trunk does not change.
4. The fixed laws governing the tonic labyrinth reflexes, were
published formerly in Pfüger's Archiv. (v. d. Hoeve and De Kleyn,
De Kleyn and Magnus).
5. The cervical reflexes can be examined separately by bringing
the trunk into various positions relative to the head or conversely
the head into various positions relative to the trunk. This experiment
can only be carried out with animals with both labyrinths extirpated,
so that tonic labyrinth reflexes are precluded.
6. For the isolated cervical reflexes the following conclusions were
arrived at :
a. To every position of' the trunk relative to the head belongs
a special position of the eyes in the orbita.
b. In the case of rotations of the trunk about various axes the
eyes reach their new position in the orbita through various move-
ments, namely :
«. through rolling movements when the trunk is turned on its
frontal axis. Movements of the trunk towards the skull will make
the eyes roll with the upper pole towards the nose; movement of
the trunk towards the lower jaw will make the eyes roll with the
upper pole towards the ear.
/?. When the trunk is turned on its long axis, through vertical
movements, in which process the eye towards which the back of
the animal is turned goes downwards, the other goes upwards.
