Physics. — "The General Relativity Theory and the Solar Spectrum" .
By Prof. W. H. Julius and Dr. P. H. van Cittert.
(Communicated at the meeting of May 29, 1920).
Of the three crucial inferences drawn by Einstein from the general
relativity theory, which should make it possible to decide whether
that theory conforms more closely than the old ideas to the results
of most subtile observation, two seem to have stood the test success-
fully. As to the third deduction — a systematic displacement of the
Fraunhofer lines towards the red — evidence is still wanting.
This uncertainty is not due to the smallness of the expected effect.
Displacements of Fraunhofer lines with respect to the corresponding
lines in the spectra of terrestrial sources have been measured in
abundance; they are similar in magnitude to the "gravitational shift"
required by the relativity theory, the latter shift averaging ten times
o
the unity (0,001 A) in which the measured displacements are gene-
rally expressed. But the simple law which, according to the theory,
should connect displacements with wave-lengths, does decidedly not
show itself in the direct results of observation; the difficulty, indeed,
lies in the fact that several other causes (such as motion in the line
of sight, pressure, anomalous dispersion) may co-operate, each capable
of producing displacements of the same order of magnitude.
One should, therefore, attempt to group and analyze the obser-
vational data in such a way, that all influences except the Einstein
effect are eliminated or accounted for. This can be done, at least up
to a certain point, because the said causes of displacement act
according to different laws.
Attempts have already been made to exclude the effect of pressure.
Schwarzschild 1 ), Evershed and Royds s ), St. John 8 ), Grebe and
Bachem 4 ) selected for the investigation lines of which it was known
that, in (he laboratory, they did not show any appreciable pressure
effect. The results obtained by these observers do not agree. Accord-
') K. Schwaezschild, Berl. Ber. 1914, S. 1201.
s ) Evershed and Royds, Kodaikanal Bull. 39, 1914.
3 ) St. John, Astroph. Journ. 46, 246, (1917); Mt. Wilson Contrib. N°. 138.
*) Grebe and Bachrm, Verb. d. D. Phys. Ges. 21, 454 (1919); Zeitschr. f.
Physik. 1, 51 f 1920).
