524
2. When the lines are classified according to intensity, then,
within each intensity class, the amounts of displacement are still
widely different from line to line; but if for each intensity class
the mean displacement is taken, those mean values appear to depend
on intensity according to a peculiar law, predicted on the basis of
the dispersion theory (these Proc. XIII, 10 (1910); Arch, néerl. Ill A,
tome IV, p. 59, 1917).
3. The amount of displacement of a Fraunhofer line depends on
the presence of closely neighbouring lines. A companion on the red
side reduces, a companion on the violet side augments the displace-
ment of a line towards the red, as if the components of close pairs
of lines repel each other.
The way in which these three characteristic properties of the
displacements of Fraunhofer lines may be deduced from the theory
of dispersion lines, has been indicated by one of us in some of the
above-mentioned publications (The Observatory 37, 252; Astroph.
Journ. 40, 1; 43, 43; Arch, néerl. Ill A, tome V, 116).
Recently we have once more rigorously inquired into the third
point, because it supplies what is probably the most convincing test
as to the correctness or otherwise of our interpretation of the solar
spectrum.
Fresh evidence in favour of the vieio that the distribution of the
light in Fraunhofer lines is governed by anomalous dispersion.
The assertion that neighbouring Fraunhofer lines might, by ano-
malous dispersion, influence each other to an appreciable degree has
been strongly opposed by Evershed, Larmor, and St. John. The
latter says a.o. "While anomalous refraction may produce sporadic
effects under occasionally favourable density gradients in the solar
atmosphere, the conclusion from investigations and observations at
this observatory is that, within the present limit of precision of
measurement, the positions of the Fraunhofer lines in the spectrum
of the solar disk are not systematically affected by anomalous
dispersion." x )
We 'are able to prove, on the contrary, that from certain obser-
vations made on Mount Wilson with excellent apparatus, much
experience, great care, and perfect impartiality, the existence of the
mutual influence in question may be derived with a probability of
about 500 to 1.
i) Gh. E. St. John, Astroph. Journ. 46, 250 (1917); Mt. Wilson Gontrib
N ü . 138, p. 2.
