525
The complete data on which this conclusion is based will be
published shortly. At present we only give a summary of the in-
vestigation, because the result tends to show the necessity of admit-
ting, when looking for evidence as to the Einstein effect, that in the
solar spectrum we are substantially dealing with dispersion lines.
Adequate material for inquiring into the possible influence of
neighbouring lines is to be found in W. S. Adams' measurements
of the displacements of 467 lines in the spectrum of the sun's limb
as compared with the spectrum of the centre of the disk. l ) But for
two or three exceptions these lines are, in the limb spectrum, shifted
towards the red with respect to their positions in the centre spectrum.
That in this phenomenon gravitation potential should play any
perceptible part, is of course excluded. Evkrshed has convincingly
shown that these displacements can neither be due to pressure,
whilst his alternative explanation based on the Doppler principle,
requiring a specific repulsive force exerted by the earth on the solar
gases 2 ), appears inacceptable. There is, therefore, sufficient cause to
seek another explanation of this class of line-shifts. We connect
these displacements with our hypothesis that Fraunhofer lines are
in the main dispersion bands, which, indeed, envelop the real ab-
sorption lines (which are extremely narrow) in a generally asym-
metrical way.
If this interpretation is correct, the above mutual influence of
neighbouring lines must appear, for the shape of the dispersion curve
in the environment of an absorption line is modified by the presence
of another absorption line. How that modification must influence
the degree of asymmetry of the dispersion line has been explained
in Astrophysical Journal 43, 50 — 53 (1916).
In order to select from Adams' list those lines for which, from
the point of view of the dispersion theory, an excess or a deficiency
of displacement towards the red is to be expected, we proceed as
follows.
The columns A and A' of his table are covered with strips of
paper, so that the choice cannot be influenced by a knowledge of
the observed displacements; then the environing region of each line
of the table is inspected on the atlases of Rowland and Higgs, in
order to ascertain whether the line may be presumed to have an
"effective" companion. Cases in which on either side of the line a
nearly equally effective companion is suspected, are of course omitted,
as the opposite influences would neutralize each other wholly or for
l ) W. S. Adams, Astroph. Journ. 31, 30 (1910); Mt. Wilson Contrib. N°. 43.
8 ) Evershed, Kodaikanal Bull. 39.
34
Proceedings Royal Acad. Amsterdam. Vol. XXI11.
