530
lines may have on the estimation óf their distance must be practically
identical in the two spectra: the exaggeration of the distance in the
o
limb spectrum would also be 0,003 A. A mutual influence depending
on errors of estimation will not appear iu the limb-centre differences.
The well-established fact that neighbouring lines are nevertheless
more distant in the spectrum of the limb than in the spectrum of
the centre must therefore be a real phenomenon.
The only way to explain this mutual repulsion of neighbouring
lines seems to be the one indicated by the dispersion theory owing
to which, moreover, the phenomenon was discovered. A powerful
support is thus given to our contention that Fraunhofer lines have
indeed to be considered as dispersion lines, enveloping the (much
weaker and narrower) real absorption lines in a generally asym-
metrical way.
The observational data, as ijet available contradict the inference that
the Fraunhofer lines should be displaced by gravitation.
We shall now refer to the displacements of' Fraunhofer lines in
the spectrum of the central parts of the solar disk with respect to
the corresponding lines in terrestrial arc spectra.
The laws of these displacements are less easily derived from direct
observations than those of the limb-centre displacements, because in
many cases the wave-lengths of the arc lines have not yet been
determined with sufficient precision. It has however been established
beyond doubt that here again the same peculiarities appear: great
variety in magnitude of the displacements; dependence on line-inten-
sity ; mutual influencing of the neighbouring lines 1 ). This agrees
with the conception of Fraunhofer lines as dispersion lines; indeed,
also the radiation coming from the centre of the disk has been
weakened by anomalous dispersion on its way through thick layers
of gas, and therefore shows dispersion lines in its spectrum. As a
rule these dispersion lines will cover the cores of the lines asym-
metrically. (The positions of the cores are determined by the solar
values of their proper frequencies).
As the radiation from the centre of the disk has in general travelled
along shorter paths through the refracting and scattering gaseous
') Albrecht, Astroph. Journ. 41, 333 (95); 44, 1 (1916). Royds, who
challenges Albrecht's conclusions, yet finds himself that 17 lines with companion
o
on the red side give a mean sun-arc displacement towards the red oi only 0,0082 A,
whereas 30 lines with a violet companion give a displacement towards the red
of 0,0079 A. (Kodaikanal Bull. 48).
