531
layers than has the light from the limb, the asymmetry of the centre
lines is smaller, as a rule, than the asymmetry of the limb lines;
the difference manifests itself in the limb-centre displacements.
Which are the greater displacements, those of the limb lines with
respect to the centre lines, or those of the centre lines with respect
to the positions of the solar proper frequencies?
Supposing the solar and terrestrial frequencies to be identical
(absence of Einstein effect), and exactly given by the positions of the
arc lines, the simple comparison of the average limb-centre displa-
cements with the average centre-arc displacements would teach ns
that there is not much difference in magnitude between the said
two categoi'ies of displacements. The second one gives a somewhat
smaller mean, as will be shown further on. The great inequality of
the displacements of different lines is also similar in both cases, and
points to a common origin and nature of the two phenomena 1 ).
Moreover, various considerations regarding the constitution of the
outer layers of the sun lend support to the inference, that the light
from the central parts of the disk has had on the average not quite
half as much opportunity to be refracted and scattered, as has the
light coming towards us from the marginal parts.
The deductions from the dispersion theory are therefore quite in
harmony with the observed displacements towards the red (both
limb-centre and centre-arc shifts), if the terrestrial arc lines really
give us with great approximation the solar values of the proper
frequencies.
The following table contains a summary of the observational
material we have used. The sun-arc displacements given in the
tables of Grebe and Bachem (Verb. d. D. Phys. Ges. 21, 454, J 919),
Evershed (Kodaikanal Bull. 36), Koyds (Kod. Bull. 38), Evershed
and Royds (Kod. Bull. 39), 446 values in all, most of which are
means derived from several observations, have been divided by us
into three groups according to wave-length, and for each group
o
(covering 800 A) the mean value dof the displacement has been taken.
These three values of (f are indicated by cross-blocks in the
diagram on page 527. The intermediate block-line shows the
general progression of the sun-arc displacements with wave-length;
it remains below the curve R of the limb-centre displacements, as
already remarked.
l ) It should be kept in mind 1. that with regard to the second category of
observed displacements the uncertainty about the positions of many arc lines cannot
be overlooked, and 2. that, according to the dispersion theory, a simple propor-
tionality of the two categories is not to be expected.
