Physiology. — "On Fibrillation of the Heart:' (Part III). " Ven-
tricular Fibrillation and "Gehqufte" Extrasystoles of the Ven-
tricle excited by the "Eriegung" consequent on an Artificial
Auricular Systole" By Dr. S. de Boer. (Communicated by
Prof. Wertheim Salomonson.)
(Communicated at the meeting of April 23, 1920).
III.
In the first Part I have described experiments with the bled frog's
heart in which ventricular fibrillation was excited through the ad-
ministration of a single inductionshock to the ventricle directly after
the conclusion of the refractory stage.
I have observed since, that a direct induction shock is unnecessary,
as fibrillation occurs also when excitation affects the ventricle directly
after the conclusion of the refractory stage. We can carry this into
effect by administering an induction shock to the auricles of the
bled frog's heart at the beginning of their excitable period. After
the auricular extrasystole thus excited, the excitation proceeds along
the atrio- ventricular paths to the ventricle. This excitation can reach
the ventricle directly after the close of the refractory stage, only
when the shock is administered to the auricle as soon as possible.
This is instanced by the following experiment. In fig. 1 the suspen-
sion curves of the ventricle ( V) and the auricles (A) of a frog's
heart are illustrated, 15 minutes after the bleeding. Between the
curves of la and \b two heart-periods have fallen out. At the
deflection of the signal in fig. la the auricles received an induction-
shock, a short time after the conclusion of the refractory stage.
Hereby an extrasystole of the auricles was generated. The excitation
then reaches the ventricles at the end of the diastole (i.e. at a moment
when the refractory stage of the ventricle has been concluded for
some time), so that a premature ventricular systole is the consequence.
Subsequently the auricles and the ventricle resume the ordinary
rhythm.
In fig. lb, on the contrary, the auricles were stimulated at 1. in
the beginning of the excitable period, by which an extrasystole of
the auricles is engendered. After this the excitation reaches the
