535
2 on the duration of the refractory stage of the ventricle.
Only when these relations are such that the excitation reaches
the ventricle directly after the conclusion of the refractory stage,
will the ventricle begin to tibrillate.
Usually the excitation reaches the ventricle after an auricular
extrasystole too late for a ventricular fibrillation . To make the
experiment succeed better one might lengthen the refractory stage
by poisons (digitalis, veratrin, etc.), through which the excitation
might reach the ventricle after an auricular extrasystole more
directly after conclusion of the refractory stage. However, as ap-
peared from my first communication, it is just after digitalis poisoning
that the lengthening of the refractory stage hinders the prolongation
of fibrillation.
We, therefore, abandon this artifice. I have now succeeded in
modifying the relations in the non-poisoned bled frog's heart in such
a way that the experiment succeeds better. It is well known that
the duration of the post-compensatory systole is longer than that of
the periodic systoles. This longer duration coincides with a longer
duration of the refractory stage, so that when in the commence-
ment of the post-compensatory systole I administer an induction
shock to the auricles as early as possible in the excitable period,
the experiment may meet with a better success. Thus through in-
direct stimulation I could indeed bring the ventricle to fibrillation
with greater ease. This is instanced in fig. 2. In fig. 2<7 the auricles
receive an induction-shock at the first detlection of the signal, which
causes on extrasystole of these chambers followed by a premature
ventricular systole. Now the stimulus is repeated after the next
auricular systole and this as early as possible in the excitable period.
An extrasystole of the auricles ensues.
The excitation conducted after this to the ventricle, makes the
ventricle tibrillate for some time, during which the auricular curve
displays some anomalies, caused no doubt by intercurrent retrogade
excitations running from the ventricle to the auricles to be occasion-
ally incited to an extrasystole. At the fourth deflection of the signal
the auricles are again stimulated during a post-compensatory systole,
but now the stimulus affects the auricles a little later than the preceding
time. Subsequently a brief fibrillation originates (we might also call
this two extrasy stoles — it is wise not to draw a sharp boundary
line between the two deviations).
The curves of fig. 2b were registered with an interval of some
heart-periods after those of fig. 2a. Here an induction shock affects
the auricles at the second deflection of the signal, but this time rather
