539
origin of sudden heart-death (according to Hering's conception, which
has been generally received, this death is caused by ventricular
fibrillation).
From my second communication it is evident that "gehaufte"
ventricular extra-systoles may arise after direct excitation of the
ventricle under conditions similar to those under which ventricular
fibrillation is generated. Now the question arises whether "gehaufte"
ventricular extra-systoles can also be brought about under the influ-
ence of an excitation that originates from the auricles and reaches
the ventricle directly after the conclusion of the refractory stage. In
the curves of fig. 4 this question meets with an affirmative answer,
they were taken with the string galvanometer i l / t hours after the
bleeding. A certain irregularity is exhibited by the tempo of the
ventricular systoles, because not all sinus-impulses were followed by
a ventricular systole. I placed a P where the P-deflections of the
electograms are visible in the curve. Now when measuring the
intervals between the various /''-deflections, we can easily realize
the ventricular rhythm.
Intervals between the P-de flections.
Time-units Time-units
P 1 — P' = 26 1 /, P A —P b = 26 s / 4
P*— P' = 26 3 / 4 P'—P' — i7>/ 4
P l —P* = 17V 4 P 6 —P 7 = 177„
It appears, then, that the duration of the sinusperiods amounts to
87 8 time-units, so that between P 1 and P\ P' and P s and between
P 4 and P 6 two P-deflections coincide every time with the ventri-
cular electrograms. Between P s and P 4 , P 5 and P\ P 6 and P 7 one
P-deflection coincides every time with the ventricular electrograms.
The P-R intervals lasted particularly long (on an average 7 /i
second).
The stimulating electrode was placed against the auricles not far
from the atrio-ventricular groove.
During this registration the auricles receive twice an opening
induction shock viz. at J and at 2. The moment at which the shock
is administered, is marked by the deflection of the signal, interpolated
in the primary circuit, upwards. The closing induction shocks were
turned aside. At 1 the auricles receive an opening induction shock
a little after the summit of the 7 7 -deflection (in consequence of intru-
ding current-loops the electrogram-curve shows a gap at the moment
