Physiology. — "On the Artificial Extra-pause of the Ventricle
of the Frog's Heart." By Dr. S. dv, Boer. (Communicated by
Prof. W. Einthoven).
(Communicated at the meeting of June 26, 1920).
Dastke and Langendorff were the first to show that sometimes
after applying an artificial stimulus to the auricles of the frog's heart,
a prolonged ventricular pause arises, which is not initiated by an
extrasystole of the ventricle. Engklmann was in position to corroborate
this experiment and to elucidate it. He pointed out that the experiment
succeeds only when the stimulus is given to the auricles at the
commencement of the ventricular systole, after which an extrasystole
of the auricles will ensue. After this the excitation proceeds to the
ventricle and reaches it before the close of the refractory stage, so
that no ventricular systole follows. Only after the compensatory
pause which succeeds the extrasystole of the auricles do the auricles
and the ventricles resume their normal rhythm. This experiment,
however, seldom succeeds. It is instanced in fig. 1. At 1 the auricles
were given an induction shock *) at the commencement of the ven-
tricular systole. After the auricular extrasystole evoked by this shock
the excitation reached the ventricle during the refractory stage, so
that no systole of this chamber arose.
Not before the end of the compensatory pause of' the auricles did
an auricular systole arise again, followed by a ventricular systole.
I have now been more successful in this experiment, by lengthen-
ing' the duration of the refractory stage of the ventricle. Then
the excitation after the artificial extras) stole of the auricles will
with greater certainty reach the ventricle still in the refractory
stage. This lengthening of the refractory stage of the ventricle may
be effected in different ways. First of all we know ever since
Langendorff wrote, that the duration of the postcompensatory sys-
tole has increased. 1 now found that during the postcompensatory
systole also the duration of the refractory stage has increased. It
') In all figures the closing of the primary circuit was indicated by a downward
deflection of the signal. At the opening of the primary circuit an upward deflection
of the signal was effected. In figs. 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 the closing stimuli were shut
off and consequently they did not reach the heart.
