544
in
ent of a ventricular systole. After the evoked extrasystole
of the auricles the excitation reached the ventricle after the refractory
stage, so that a premature ventricular systole ensued. When, how-
ever, at the next upward deflection of the signal the stimulus is
repeated at the commencement of the postcompensatory systole, the
excitation after the extra auricular systole thus evoked, readily
reaches the ventricle during the refractory stage. Now an extrapause
of the ventricle follows. In this way it is easy to repeat the ex-
periment during every following ventricular systole, which is broad-
ened every time. At last it is even unnecessary to stimulate the
auricles at the commencement of the ventricular systole, the last
stimulus being given about the middle of the ventricular systole
without diminishing the success of the experiment. This, indeed, is
easily understood, if we look more carefully at the ventricular
systoles of this artificial halved ventricular rhythm. We then observe
that after the compensatory pause the postcompensatory systole is
broader than the preceding ventricular systoles, and that every suc-
ceeding systole surpasses its predecessor in broadness. We see then
that the contractility of the ventricular muscle increases after every
lengthened ventricular pause. This restoration of the ventricular
muscle in the artificial halved rhythm involves an increase indura-
tion of the refractory stage from systole to systole. This is why
ultimately the stimulus can be administered to the auricles later in
the ventricular period, without interfering with the success of the
experiment. After the last stimulus the ventricle resumes again the
normal rhythm. l )
In the second place we can lengthen the refractory stage of the
ventricle by poisons, namely digitalis, veratrin, antiarin or barium-
chloride and, by doing so, ensure success of our experiment. The
curves of Fig. 2 refer to a frog's heart that had been poisoned
with bariumchloride. At every upward deflection of the signal the
auricles receive an opening induction shock at the commencement
of a ventricular systole. Every time there appears an extrasystole
of the auricles and every time after this the excitation reaches the
ventricle during the refractory stage, so that extrapauses of the ventricle
originate, which are not preceded by premature ventricular systoles *).
1 ) After poisoning with veratrin, digitalis, antiarin or barium-chloride, the halved
rhythm of the ventricle can persist after one or more extra-pauses of the ventricle,
without stimulating the heart any more. This also occurs after bleeding the non-
poisoned frog's heart. (See fig. 5).
-) In a later stage of this intoxication the ventricle maintains its pulsation in
the halved rhythm after such an artificial extrapause.
