545
I have now detected that artificial extrapauses of the ventricle
may be evoked in the frog's heart in quite another manner. Whereas
in the method described above, the prolongation of the refractory
stage of the ventricle was the decisive factor, the following method
is based on a principle unknown as yet in the physiology of the
heart: When we place the stimulating electrode in the auriculo-
ventricular groove, we can evoke under certain circumstances (pro-
longed refractory stage of the ventricle), by the administration of
an extra-stimulus towards the close of the diastole of the ventricle,
an extrapause of the ventricle, which is not preceded by an extra-
systole of this chamber.
In our experiments described above we had to give the extra-
stimulus at the beginning of the systole to obtain the desired result.
When the stimulus was given a little later a premature ventricular
systole succeeded the extrasystole of the auricles.
It is obvious, then, that when a stimulus at the end of the dias-
tole of the ventricle produces the same effect, it cannot be explained
in the same way. We shall therefore illustrate the latter experiment
by some curves. In fig. 3 we see a reproduction of the suspension
curves of a frog's heart after veratrin poisoning. (The heart was
left in situ and the circulation of the blood was left intact; some
drops of 1 9 /o sol. acetas veratrini, had been injected into the dorsal
lymphsac about 10 minutes before). At the first upward deflection
of the signal an opening induction shock was given. After this we
see an auricular systole represented in the suspension curve, which
is not followed by a systole of the ventricle. Just as in the experi-
ments described above, an extrapause of the, ventricle follows after
this auricular systole. At the next upward deflection the same expe-
riment was repeated in the upper row of curves with the same
result. Now when measuring the curve we find that the auricular
systole, which appeared a short time after each of the two stimuli,
follows after the commencement of the preceding auricular systole
with an interval of a sinus period. We, therefore applied the extra-
stimulus in the auriculo-ventricular groove a short time before the
commencement of a normal periodic auricular systole. At that moment
the ventricle was apparently still refractory, as there did not appear
an extrasystole of the ventricle. The auricles, however, respond to
the stimulus. The excitation now traverses the auricles from the
auriculo-ventricular boundary in the direction of the sinus venosus.
But simultaneously the periodic sinusimpulse traverses the auricles
in an opposite direction. The two excitations meet and rebound. At
that moment the auricular systole is accomplished under the influence
