550
direction. This excitation encounters in the auricles the periodic
sinusimpulse, so that both excitations are annihilated and no prema-
ture ventricular systole can follow. After the extrapause of the ven-
tricle, thus originating, the following systole of the ventricle is
extended and broadened. Now because this systole engenders a
prolonged refractory stage of the ventricle, the ventricle is caught
in the halved-rhythm 1 ). It is evident that the previously described
experiments succeed only when the extra stimulus affects the anri-
culoventricular groove at a special moment.
If that moment coincides with the moment at which the periodic sinus-
impulse enters the auricles, the experiment will succeed. Success will
even be achieved when the extra stimulus is applied somewhat later
or earlier. In tig. 4 e.g. at the second upward deflection of the signal,
it was applied shortly after the /^-deflection, therefore shortly after
the periodic impulse had entered the auricles from the sinus venosus.
I j l tig. 6 the experiment succeeded twice through extra stimuli
which were applied shortly before the /-"-deflection in the auricu-
loventricular groove. At the first upward deflection of the signal the
extra stimulus was applied on the peak of the negative 7-deflection,
i.e. still before the /^-deflection would be registered *). The excitation
then traverses the auricles in a retrograde direction and encounters
the periodic sinusimpulse in the vicinity of the sinus venosus. The
i^-deflection, which otherwise would have revealed itself directly
after the close of the 7 7 -deflection, does not appear now. The auri-
cular systole is somewhat premature in this case and may still just
be seen in the suspension curve in the last part of the ventricular
diastole. It is obvious that this auricular systole is chiefly owing to
the extra stimulus.
At the second upward deflection of the signal the stimulus was
applied a little before the peak of the 7-deflection. The result is similar
to that with the previous stimulus viz. an extrapause of the ventricle.
If the extra stimulus is applied much later or earlier than the
moment at which the sinus impulse enters the auricles, no extrapause
of the ventricle will follow. If later the extra stimulus will affect
the ventricle after the refractory stage and an extrasystole of the
ventricle will ensue, followed by a compensatory pause. This is
illustrated in fig. 3, in the lower curves at the second upward
deflection of the signal.
!) These transpositions of rhythm in the bled frog's heart will be discussed in
the following communication.
s ) In the electrogram-curve we see the P-deflections appear directly after the
close of the ^-deflections.
