Physiology. — "On Artificial and Spontaneous Changes of Rhythm
in the Bled Frog's Heart" . By Dr. S. de Boeh. (Communicated
by Prof. W. Einthoven).
(Communicated at the meeting of June 26, 1920).
When a frog's heart lias been deprived of blood and suspended,
the rhythm of the ventricle is sometimes reduced to a halved rhythm,
a phenomenon that may also be observed in the intact circulation
of the blood after poisoning with veratrin, digitalis, antiarin or
barinmchloride.
The cause lies in the fact that under these conditions the duration
of the refractory stage of the ventricle increases. This increase of
the duration of the refractory stage is to be ascribed to a disturbance
of the metabolic equipoise, so that at the commencement of eveiy
ventricular systole the ventricular muscle is not fully restored. What
is still left over of the refractory stage we call the residual refractory
stage. In every systole the periodic refractory stage is added to this,
as a result of the contraction of the ventricular muscle. Consequently
when the metabolic equipoise has been disturbed, the total refractory
stage consists of the two components mentioned just now. It is clear
that the disturbance of the metabolic equipoise after poisoning with
veratrin, digitalis, antiarin and barinmchloride is caused by a reinforced
energy of the ventricular muscle. After bleeding, however, this
anomaly arises from the inadequate anabolic processes.
As soon as the refractory stage lasts longer than a sinusperiod,
the normal rhythm of the ventricle passes into a halved rhythm.
(This may happen suddenly or more gradually along the path of
group-formation) l ).
Before the halved rhythm reveals itself spontaneously, we can
halve the rhythm of the ventricle artificially, as appears from the
following considerations:
,, the duration of the total refractory stage , , .
We call : ; — the relative
the duration of a sinusperiod
duration of the refractory stage.
l ) A more extensive discussion of this question has been given by me in Archives
Nêerl. de Physiologie tome I (1917) pp. 534-538.
