558
When considering - this fraction more carefully, we can say before-
hand in what way the normal rhythm can be changed into a halved
rhythm and the reverse, for if we take the relative duration of the
refractory stage larger than J, the ventricle will pulsate with half
the rhythm. If, on the contrary, we take it smaller than 1 the
ventricle will beat in the normal rhythm, in which every sinus-
impnlse is followed by a systole of the ventricle. We can make the
fraction greater than 1 by increasing the numerator or also by
lessening the denominator. Now in the case of a heart of which
the total refractory stage is lengthened and which still beats in the
normal rhythm, we can indeed prolong the total refractory stage so
much as to make it ontlast the sinnsperiod. So we can make the
fraction greater than 1, as we have only to evoke an enlarged
systole, whose refractory stage has been prolonged.
Now snch an enlarged systole is the postcompensatory systole.
When, therefore, we have lengthened the refractory stage of a ven-
tricle (through poisoning or through bleeding), we evoke an extra-
systole or extrapanse of the ventricle. After the compensatory pause
or extrapanse the next ventricular systole is enlarged, while its
refractory stage has been lengthened. Therefore, the subsequent
sinnsimpulse will be checked by this prolonged refractory stage;
again a prolonged pause ensues, and after this the next ventricular
systole is again enlarged and has a prolonged refractory stage with
all its consequences. Thus the ventricle is caught in the halved
rhythm by the enlarged and broadened postcompensatory systole l ).
An increase of the duration of the refractory stage, i.e. an increase
of the numerator of the above-mentioned fraction sufficed to bring-
about the ventricular halved rhythm.
Another method producing the same result, is heating the sinus
venosus, which will increase the frequency of the sinusimpulses and
consequently decrease the duration of the sinnsperiod. The denomi-
nator of the fraction is diminished. When the ventricle pulsates in
the halved rhythm, the relative duration of the refractory stage is
greater than 1. The fraction may then be made smaller by decreas-
ing the numerator or by increasing' the denominator.
The first may be effected by administering an extrastimulus to
the ventricle during the diastole. Then an extrasystole of the ventricle
originates, which lasts much shorter than the ventricular systole
from the ventricular halved rhythm. Therefore, the duration of its
l ) Not every post-compensatory systole is followed by a ventricular halved-rhythm.
This happens only when the refractory stage has been lengthened before by a
disturbance of the metabolic equipoise.
