Mathematics. — "On the Motion of a Fixed System". By Prof.
W. van dkr Woude. (Communicated by Prof. J. Cardinaal.)
(Communicated at the meeting of September 25, 1920).
$ 1. In the discussion of the motion of a plane system the atten-
tion is usually directed to the locus of the points which at a given
moment describe a point of inflexion of their paths and to the locus
of the lines which in their motion at that moment touch their enve-
lope at a cusp; these loci are indicated as the inflexional circle and
the cuspidal circle. The starting point is here the so-called formula
of Savary for the radius of curvature of the path of a point, reap,
for the radius of curvature of the envelope of a curve (or a straight
line) of the movable system.
Such a discussion of the singularities in the motion of a fixed
system in space is not very simple, the expressions for the curva-
ture and the tortuosity of the path of a point are such that they
do not invite further conclusions. As far as I know these singulari-
ties are only dealt with in the well known book of Schobnflies *) ;
he there draws attention to the remarkable relation between the
points A of the movable system and the points A' of fixed space
when to each point A the point A' is conjugated which is the
centre of the sphere of curvature of A in its path, and to the fact
that in the "inverse motion" A is the centre of the sphere of cur-
vature of A' in its path.
I wish to reach these results in an entirely different way ; I shall
make use of the so-called method of the movable system of axes
(t-riedre mobile), for the application of which to kinematics we can
refer to the text-book of Koenigs '). In the $$ 2, 3 I shall therefore
repeat a few well known formulae.
§ 2. By Tf{O x ,X Xi Y it Z x ) and T m (0,X, Y,Z) we understand
two equally orientated right angled systems of axes which move
relatively to each other. The velocity relative to Tf of a point
l ) Dr. A. Schoenflies : Geometrie der Bewegung in synthetischer Darstellung.
(Leipzig, Teubner, 1886).
*) G. Koenigs: Lecons de Cinématique (Paris, Hermann, 1897).
38
Proceedings Royal Acad. Amsterdam. Vol. XXIII.
