Zoology. — "On the larval development of Oxyuris equi (Schrank)" .
By J. E. W. Ihle and G. J. van Oordt. (Communicated by
Prof. Sluiter.)
(Communicated at the meeting of May 29, 1920).
The only treatise known to us ') on the larval development of
Oxyuris equi is the one by Railliet and Henry (1903). In this
article two different forms of larvae are described: 1. those, having
a length of about 5 — 10.5 mm. and 2. those measuring 5 — 6 mm.
The posterior extremity of the body differs in these two forms. In
the former the anus is situated rather far from the posterior extre-
mity, in the latter this distance is shorter. In neither forms gonads
are formed as yet.
On the ground of the above and also because the second form
occurs less often, Railliet and Henry are of the opinion that the
former represent female, the latter male larvae. In certain characters
(the presence of cuticular rings, of rectal glands and of rectal muscles)
they correspond to adult Oxyuris-specimens, in many others they
differ. Both larval and adult Oxyuris live free in the colon and
coecum of the horse. The larva found by the French authors "parait
être simplement une forme larvaire de V Oxyuris equi (Schrank), ou
mieux une forme immature, qu'une dernière mue doit amener a la
forme adulte" (Railliet et Henry 1903, p. 137). When the number
of moults of Oxyuris corresponds to that of many other Nematodes,
this is the fourth and latest moult, according to the investigations
of Seurat (1914).
In the material, collected by the commission, charged with the
Sclerostomiasis-inquiry in Holland, we found the larval forms,
described by Railliet and Henry in many specimens, taken from
different horses. In order to judge of the correctness of the opinion
of the French authors, holding that the imaginal Oxyuris originates
from this larval form by a last moult, we had to look for moulting
specimens in the first place. We succeeded in finding a good number
of such specimens, and so we could make out with certainty that
l ) Perroncito's article: "Sviluppo degli Oxyuridi", Giorn. Ace. Med. Torino.
Vol. 6, 1903, was not seen by us.
