605
of the anterior part of the body, ± 150 [i in the middle of the
body. So in the front part they are much thicker than more back-
ward at the level of the middle part of the body. Later on this
difference disappears: the straight truncated anterior extremity (fig. 3)
of the almost cylindrical body is then even somewhat thinner than
the middle part of the body, which has the appearance of the broken
point of a pin. The posterior part of the body is tapered, represent-
ing a sharp cuticular point in the male as well as in the female.
In the male specimens of two ditferent catches, in which a large
number of larval, moulting and adult Oxyuris occurs, this point has
a different length. In the one catch (No. 37) it is 230—300 p long,
in the other (No. 42) 320—340 ( i. In these catches the length of
the cnticular point of female larvae differs still more, however. In
catch No. 37 it amounts to 140—160 p, in catch No. 42 to 200—250 (t.
These differences in measurements we have also found in the
length of the moulting male and female specimens. The male moult-
ing larvae of catch No. 37 are 7.5 — 8 mm. long, those of No. 42
only 5.6—6.4 mm. The lengths of the female moulting specimens
are 10.25—11 mm. and 7.5 — 9 mm. respectively. The adult speci-
mens of these catches belong in the first case to the mastigodes-,
in the second to the curvula-type. Perhaps the measurements stated
support the opinion that Oxyuris equi (curvula) and Oxyuris masti-
godes are independent species.
As Railliet and Henry have remarked already, the male and the
female larvae are distinguished by the difference in shape of the
posterior end of the body. The distance of the anal opening from
the posterior extremity (the cnticular point included) is much longer
in the 9 than in the J. Figs. 1 and 2 explain this. The part of the
body, situated between the anal opening and the cnticular point
decreases strongly in thickness in the male, gradually in the female.
The shape of the cnticular point is the same, but in the <? this point
is somewhat longer than in the 2. For the measurements to compare
the following table (see page 606).
From this table it follows that the ratio between the lengths of
the part of body situated between the anterior extremity and the
anal opening and of that part situated between anal opening and
cuticular point remains about the same during the growth of the
larva and that in the $$ it is almost half of that in the 2^.
The cuticular rings of the larvae differ in breadth. In the anterior
part of the body they are broader than in the posterior part.
In the smallest larvae the breadth amounts to about 16 — 28 ^,
in the largest larvae, just before the moulting stage, to =b 60 ft
39
Proceedings Royal Acad. Amsterdam. Vol. XXIII.
