610
pore and anterior extremity is 2.45 mm., a vagina is not jet visible.
The moulted ivorm.
The moulted immature Oxyuris agrees in all respects with adult,
full-grown specimens and is at once distinguishable from the larval
form by the possession of a long stretched pharynx. Fig. 5 shows
us a moulted, but not yet full-grown specimen, having a length of
9.2 mm. (catch N n . 42). The hexagonal mouth-opening opens into
a small mouth-cavity. In this cavity three obtuse teeth are visible,
situated in the three sectors of the corpus pharyngis. Behind these
teeth lies a circle of very pointed bristles. In fig. 5 these three teeth
and the optical section of the bristle-circle are indicated. The corpus
pharyngis gradually passes over into the isthmus, which is much
narrower, this isthmus again into the bulbus, which is about equally
thick as the corpus. The pharyngeal lumen is much narrowed and
tri-radiate in transverse section, as is also the case in the larval
form. The posterior extremity of the bulbus also possesses three
valves protruding into the lumen of the intestine. An oesophagus in
Martini's sense is not visible. The pharynx of <? and ? shows no
differences.
The moult.
How does the pharynx of the form, just described, originate out
of that of the larva (fig. 3)? Numerous moulting specimens enabled us
to trace this and we could study the prolongation of the pharynx
in particular. Moulting specimens can be at once recognized by the
fact that beneath the old cuticle of which the rings are of a con-
siderable breadth (60 — 75 \t), the new cuticle with very narrow
rings (=t 12 fi) is visible.
In specimens, on the very first act of moulting, the larval pharynx
is still present without change. Then the part of the bulbus, lying
immediately behind the corpus lengthens markedly, and forms the
isthmus in this way. Originally the lateral cells lie to the left and
to the right of the bulbus. During the lengthening of the bulbus
they remain in their place. The corpus too lengthens a little, but not
so markedly as the bulbus; and so the lateral cells come to lie near
the transition of corpus and isthmus in moulted specimens (fig. 5).
We possess a preparation of a stage, in which the longitudinal
growth of the bulbus has just started, but where the corpus still
has the larval shape. The first anlage of the isthmus has been formed
already. So the corpus lengthens later than the bulbus, through the
outgrowth of which the isthmus is probably wholly formed. The
prolongation of the pharynx takes place quickly: the different stages,
mentioned above, occur in specimens of about the same size.
