620
only little under the melting-point of the substance, so that the velo-
city of crystallisation increases with falling temperature. Then the
velocity of the boundary surface must be smaller in the axis of the
tube than at the periphery, i.e. this surface becomes concave towards
the liquid. The form of the surface can, however, not remain
unchanged during the increase; as the velocity in normal direction
is smallest in the axis of the cylinder, and increases towards the
outside, the curvature will always increase, as is easy to understand,
and at last a hollow may even arise, which is shut off, and is then
filled up. At the same time the more rapid growth has proceeded
at the periphery, and the same thing is repeated. The growth will
further not be symmetrical round the axis. When through a slight
disturbance the substance grows somewhat more rapidly at a point
of the circumference than at the other points, the surface gets here
further from the places where the crystallisation takes chiefly place,
i.e. at points where the temperature is lower and the rate of solidi-
fication, therefore, greater. Consequently the growth in the considered
point takes place still more rapidly. Hence the condition is unstable.
A small accidental disturbance will have great influence on the form
of the boundary surface, hence on the process of the solidification.
In this case the solidification is a very irregular phenomenon, and
a theoretical treatment of the problem proposed on p. 619 is
impossible.
This is, however, entirely different when the temperature of the
surroundings, hence that of the tube, is chosen lower, so that the
velocity of solidification becomes smaller with decreasing temperature.
Then the normal velocity is greatest in the axis of the cylinder
where the highest temperature prevails. The surface of the solid phase
becomes, therefore, convex towards the liquid. This convex surface
now begins to move parallel to the axis, and in this it assumes a
very definite form. The normal velocity during this displacement is
greatest in the axis, and decreases towards the periphery. This decrease
must be such that in every point the velocity v has the value that
according to (2c) corresponds to the temperature 6 prevailing there.
There can, and will, arise a condition in which the boundary surface
moves uniformly and with constant form parallel to the axis. Every
disturbance in this condition will disappear again of its own accord.
It is also easy to convince oneself that everything around the axis
of the tube must be symmetrical. If this is not the case at a moment,
the growth and conduction of heat takes place in such a way that
the symmetry is restored.
Though in this way one can see that the differential equation (1)
