621
with the boundary conditions (2) perfectly determine the form of the
boundary surface of the phases on solidification in a tube, this
determination is attended by great mathematical difficulties. We shall,
therefore, suppose for simplification that the surface of the solid phase
is a plane at right angles to the axis of the tube '). The constant
velocity v, with which this plane moves, is determined according to
(2c) by the temperature 6 at this plane.
When there shall actually arise a condition in which the boundary
plane, preserving its shape, moves uniformly, the whole distribution
of temperature also in solid and liquid phase will have to move
with it with this velocity, in other words, the temperature will only
depend on the distance from the boundary surface. That a solution
of (1) and (2) with this property actually exists, will now be shown.
In the solid substance, where the matter is at rest, and the condition
round the axis is symmetrical, the differential equation (J) assumes
the form :
K
in which «,= — and i is a coordinate, which is measured along
the axis of the tube in the direction of the velocity v with which
the boundary surface moves, and r the distance from the axis.
On solidification contraction takes place. In consequence of this the
liquid moves in a direction opposite to that of the positive f-axis
with a constant velocity V, which in the densities (j x and p 2 of the
solid and the liquid phase can be expressed thus:
V z— v .
Accordingly the differential equation holding in the liquid, becomes:
be, id'6 l b ( t>o,\\ ,(?,-<», be,
When the temperature in the solid and the liquid phase is sup-
posed only to depend on the distances x x resp. a? a from the boun-
dary surface, the differential quotients according to time may be
expressed in those according to place :
Ö6 X üd x d& 2 d#,
-T— = v 3 — ; -— = — V-— (5)
dt d/Cj dt dx, '
Further:
l ) As in the cases that occur most frequently the velocity v depends only little
on the temperature, the boundary surface will generally be only little curved.
40
Proceedings Royal Acad. Amsterdam. Vol. XXIU.
