629
careful experiments of which we here record the results that bear
upon the question under consideration.
The piloearpin-action depends on the concentration of* the poison
in the Tyrode solution, and is not dependent on the absolute amount
of pilocarpin present in the solution.
The atropin-action per se (inhibitory etf'ect of small doses) depends
rather on the absolute quantum than on the concentration of the
poison in the solution. The concentration is decisive with large
atropin -doses (12,5 — 150 mgr. to 75 cc. of liquid).
According to v. Lidth de Jeude also the antagonism of atropin
hinges upon the absolute quantity, and not upon the concentration
of the poison in the solution.
Furthermore, v. Lidth de Jeude found, that generally the atropin
doses to be added, differed little with highly varying piloearpin-doses
and pilocarpin-concent rations.
The only relation, found by him between the values of the two
poisons, was that with a considerable rise of the pilocarpin-dosis
(100 times the initial dosis), the atropin-dosis increased but little
(3 — 5 times). Hereby the results published by Magnus in 1908 l )
were confirmed, as Magnus also found that with a rise of the pilo-
carpin dosis (up to 50 times), the atropin doses required for the
antagonism did not augment — anyhow less than ten times.
Although v. Lidth de Jeude's method suited his purpose very
well, it could not, as such, be utilized in cases concerning the physio-
logical determination of atropin-containing solutions, because large
individual differences occnr in the reactions of the guts of various
animals, nay, even in the reaction of different pieces of the gut of
the same animal. For this reason we have modified the method by
utilizing the familiar fact that the action of various poisons can be
abolished by removing the drug-containing solution and substituting
it by a fresh solution, so that the organ resumes its former con-
dition and will react again in the same way on a similar quantum
of poison. This enabled us to observe repeatedly the action of a
poison on the same strip of intestine. This was also Bakger and
Dale's 8 ) method when they examined the action of various poisons
upon the uterus. Neukirch 8 ) has demonstrated that the effect of pilo-
1 ) R. Magnus. Kann man den Angriffspunkt eines Giftes durch antagonistische
Giftversuche bestimmen? Pflügers Arch. B. 123. S. 99. 1908.
2 ) G. Barger and H. H. Dale. Chemical structure and sympathomimetic action
of amines. Journal of physiology. Vol. XVI. 1910, page 19.
3 ) P. Neukirch. Pflügers Arch. 147. 171. 1912. Physiologische Wertbestimmung
am Dünndarm. Pflügers Arch. 147. 151. 1912.
