632
in a vessel containing pilocarpin, after tins in a vessel witli pilo-
carpi!] -f- atropin, then again in pure Tyrode, and subsequently again
in pilocarpin, the second dosis of pilocarpin will act in the same
way as before, while this action can, just as the first time, again
be arrested by atropin in the same way. This experiment may be
repeated as often as six times, without interfering with the action
of pilocarpin or atropin. The experiment just described also proved
that, while the antagonism is being accomplished, only very little
atropin is adsorbed by the gut, because the experiment (pilocarpin-
action subsequently arrested by a minimal dosis of atropin) can be
repeated six times without the necessity of a fresh solution in the
vessel with pilocarpin -f- atropin. The fact that during the action of
atropin only very small quantities of it are absorbed by the gut,
renders it highly improbable that the atropin action should not
depend on the concentration, but on the absolute quantity, for this
would be possible only if during the antagonistic action the greater
part of the atropin were adsorbed from the solution by the gut,
whereas our experiments showed that the gut can take up only
very small quantities of atropin. To settle the question whether the
atropin-action depends on the absolute quantity or on the concen-
tration, a new series of experiments was undertaken, in which vessels
of 65 and of 1300 cc. were used, so that action of a certain dose
of atropin could be examined in various concentrations. The result
of one of these experiments was, for instance, the following : 0.01 mgr.
of atropin in 65 cc. Tyrode solution produced a stronger action than
0.15 mgr. of atropin in 1300 cc. of solution ; 0.03 mgr. of atropin
in 65 cc. of Tyrode had a greater effect than 0.45 mgr. in 1300 cc,
but as great an efiect as 0.6 mgr. of atropin in 1300 cc. of solution.
From these experiments, and others that had been conducted in
precisely the same way, we are, therefore, justified in concluding
that the atropin action, like the pilocarpin action is completely
dependent on the concentration and not on the absolute quantity of
the poison. This result differs from v. Lidth de Jküde's, which is
owing to the circumstance that our technique differs largely from
his. Van Lidth de Jeuue took a different piece of gut for every
experiment. Besides this, v. Lidth de Jeude's using very small
vessels (15 cc.) led to many errors, as in this case it is not possible
to fix a correct dosage — especially because the solution most often
foams considerably. In the third place the way in which v. Lidth
de Jeude administers the atropin and his index of the antagonistic
atropin-action differ from ours: Van Lidth de Jeude added to the
solution that contained the gut, first a definite quantity of pilocarpin
