634
little when the concentration rises. We were naturally led to sus-
pect that the small augmentation of the atropin-dosis, observed by
van Lidth de Jrudr with a rise of the pilocarpin-dosis, would take
place at the very beginning of the concentration-action-curve, i. e.
we suspected that with very small doses of pilocarpin, the increase
of the atropin doses would be relatively large when the piloearpin-
concentration increases, while in the higher pilocarpin-concentrations
the quantum of atropin necessary for the antagonism would be
the same.
In another series of experiments we have attempted to solve this
problem.
We used pieces of a cat's gut contained in vessels with 75 c.c.
of Tyi'ode solution. At the commencement of the experiment, several
times pilocarpin was added to these guts (and after this the pilo-
carpin was washed out again) till the sensitiveness of the gut to this
poison had become constant. This done, we ascertained how much
atropin had to be added to arrest the pilocarpin action almost com-
pletely after 3 minutes.
In this procedure the intensity of the "oscillatory movements"
was not regarded, but the pilocarpin-action was considered to be arrested,
when the base of the curve had nearly resumed its normal niveau again.
It became evident from these experiments that the quantum of
atropin necessary for arrest of the pilocarpin-action does not depend
on the quantity of the pilocarpin doses, but on the intensity of the
action incited by the pilocarpin, that is to say, when at one moment
in one and the same experiment a given dosis of pilocarpin exerts
a weak action and has a stronger effect at another moment, then
the quantum of atropin required in the tirst case will also be smaller
than the one required in the second. The same holds both for the
action of pilocarpin upon one and the same piece of gut, and upon
different pieces. So, if at a given moment the sensitivity of the gut
to pilocarpin, is such that 0.1 mgr. of pilocarpin produces a weak
action, the quantity of atropin, required to arrest this action, will
be equal to that, required to arrest the same weak pilocarpin-action
if at another moment it is elicited by a dosis of pilocarpin as small as
0.01 mgr. In all we have performed 33 experiments in this manner.
When arranging these experiments so as to place all the cases of a weak
pilocarpin action in one group, in another all the cases of a mode-
rately strong pilocarpin-action, and lastly all the cases of a sub-
inaximal pilocarpin-action (corresponding with the point c of the
concentration-action curve of fig. 2) in a third group, it appeared
that the average quantum of atropin required for the antagonism
