635
was for the three groups respectively 0.0005 mgr., 0.001 mgr., and
0.0014 mgr. This implies that when the intensity of the piloearpin-
action rises from a to c of the concent ration-action-curve, three
times as much atropin is wanted as before. The quantum of pilo-
carpi required for a definite intensity of action, did not modify
the quantum of atropin which would afterwards be necessary to
arrest the pilocarpin action.
Now that it had been demonstrated that in the zone a to c of the
concentration-action-curve the atropin-action depends on the intensity
of the pilocarpi n-action, we suspected that with still higher pilocarpin-
eoncentration, the atropin-dosis required for the antagonism, would
not increase any more.
If this were so our results would tally completely with those of
van Lidth de Jeude, notwithstanding the difference between his
criteria and ours. Contrary to our expectation, however, it appeared
that with a further rise of the pilocarpin-dosis, also the atropin-
dosis had to be largely augmented, anyhow if we stuck to our
criteria. So the latter result differs from that of van Lidth de Jeude,
which finds a satisfactory explanation in the different techniques.
In addition it is just with the high piloearpin-concentrations that
the difference between the criteria applied by van Lidth de Jeude
and by us comes much more to the front than in the previous
experiment. For after these very high piloearpin-concentrations the
interval of 3 minutes, after which the atropin-action was observed,
is too 'short. In the experiments with small amounts of pilocarpin
we observed that, if after 3 minutes the pilocarpin action was not
yet arrested by the atropin, the atropin action increases but little
with a longer interval, so that three minutes proved to be the proper
time after which the action of the atropin should be registered.
It is not so with the very high piloearpin-concentrations, here
it occurs repeatedly that after 3 minutes only a very insig-
nificant effect has been produced by the atropin, whereas after 4 or
5 minutes it is sometimes complete. Now, since with high piloearpin-
concentrations the space of 3 minutes is doubtlessly too short, and
with low pilocarpin doses it must not be made much longer (or the
chances are that the pilocarpin-action decreases spontaneously, so
that an atropin-action could be presumed where it did not really
exist) our method is not trustworthy in comparing the antagonistic
atropin-action of small and very large pilocarpin-quanta. This is why
we have not continued our inquiry in that direction and are only
able to record that with a strong increase of the pilocarpin dosis in
