639
may be repeated 5 or more times. When by stretching the remanent
magnetism has been destroyed, further stretching does not recall the
sound. Exactly the same phenomenon is observed during small torsions
after magnetisation of the wire and also during a short heating of
the wire e. g. by touching the wire with a Bunsen-flame, each time
during part of a second. The sound heard during stretching, torsion
or heating has quite the same character as that observed during the
magnetisation. We therefore conclude : the destruction of the remanent
magnetism in soft-iron by stretching, torsion or heating gives rise to
discontinuities analogous to those occurring during the magnetisation
or demagnetisation.
A strong circular magnetisation causes a superponed magnetisation
in longitudinal direction of the rod to take place without disconti-
nuities. For the above mentioned 1 mm. thick soft-iron wire a current
of 7 Amp. had to be sent through it to produce the circular mag-
netisation before the sound vanished. During such an experiment the
temperature of the wire is of course considerably higher and one
might feel inclined to ascribe the failing of the discontinuities to
the rise of temperature. However, immediately after the closing
of the current of 7 Amp. the sound vanishes in the case of longi-
tudinal magnetisation and immediately after the breaking of the
current it reappeared. In both cases the change of temperature must
be still small. These experiments therefore prove that it is the circular
magnetisation that prevents the discontinuities in the longitudinal
magnetisation taking place.
An annealed iron wire shows further by this sensitive method of
observation the following remarkable property. When the iron has
received its remanent magnetism in the above described way, this
may be destroyed under the characteristic iron sounds by bending
the part of the rod within the solenoid alternately to the right and
to the left. But when afterwards this bending is continued the
characteristic sound remains audible though somewhat weaker. Also
a freshly annealed wire that kas not been magnetised before, shows
this last phenomenon. This bending may be repeated indefinitely,
always the sound is heard with the same intensity. This experiment
seems to be a proof for the theory of Wkiss on the spontaneous
magnetisation of iron crystals. We may not consider the phenomenon
to be due to the presence of the terrestrial field; for a weak direct
current through the solenoid compensating or increasing the field in
the coil has no influence whatever. We might formulate an explanation
in the following way : by the bending the mutual positions of the
spontaneously magnetised crystals are changed and by reversing
4i* •
