641
solenoid, we heard during the exponential increase of the current at'ler
it was closed a very great number (not yet estimable numerically)
of claps within a short interval. At the end, when the current
had nearly reached its maximum value, some isolated discontinuous
magnetisation-changes were distinctly audible.
After that one single isolated discontinuity was thus observed, the
variation of the intensity of the tield by means of a current was
no longer used and we returned to the movable permanent magnet.
This time however the magnet was fixed to a support that was
adjustable by means of a micrometer-screw. In this way the distance
between the magnet and the nickel-steel rod which was to be
magnetised, could be changed very continuously by turning a small
handle. The magnet was fixed with the poles vertically above each
other at the same height as the solenoid surrounding the nickel-steel
rod, and at a distance from it of about 5 cm. By means of a second
magnet, a remanent magnetism was now given to the rod in such
a sense that it was decreased by the approach of the micrometrically
adjusted first magnet. By gradually changing the position of this first
magnet the intensity of the field could be changed very slowly in a
continuous way. In this way the discontinuous reversals of the
magnetism of, in our opinion, long crystal groups may be investigated
in greater detail and the discontinuities can be heard isolated.
With the arrangement described above the following phenomenon
was found. When the magnet was quickly brought 1 m.m. nearer
to the nickel-steel rod, of course the described claps were heard.
But also afterwards, when by keeping the magnet fixed in the new
position, the field was thus kept constant, we could distinctly hear
in the telephones still several discontinuous magnetisation changes.
The last discontinuities were heard sometimes 7 seconds after the
field had remained constant.
The great intensity, with which in nickel-steel the general pheno-
menon was detectable, enabled ns to investigate the discontinuities
in the magnetisation also galvanometrieally. To this end the solenoid
was connected directly (without amplifier) to a Siemens and Halske
galvanometer, system resistance 300 Ohm. With the external connection
of the instrument to the solenoid, it was not damped to such an
extend as is the case with the Grassot-tluxmeter, where the deflection
obtained by an induction-pulse, remains practically constant for minutes.
A slowly creeping back after an induction pulse could not be avoided.
Bur still, notwithstanding this insufficient damping, the ideal property of
the fluxmeter was approximately obtained, in which the galvanometer coil
always tries to take up such a position that the total flux through the
