Physics. — " Investigation by means of X-rays of the crystal-
structure of sodium-chlorate and sodium-bromate\ Communi-
cation N°. 5 from t he Laboratory of Physics and Physical
Chemistry of the Veterinary College at Utrecht. By N. H.
Koi.kmeijer, J. M. Bijvoet and A. Kakssen. (Communicated
on behalf of Prof. W. H. Keesom, Director of the Laboratory,
by Prof. Kamerlingh Onnes).
(Communicated at the meeting of May 29, 1920).
§ 1. Introduction. For biological science every deepening of our
insight into the nature of the chemical bindings of the element
carbon, so important for the organic world, will be of great value.
In connexion with the investigation of the structure of the modifications
of the element carbon itself this point has already been in discussion 1 ).
Also the close connexion between (lie atoms of the group CO,
that has been stated in calcite 3 ) forms an important datum for the
purpose. Therefore we originally intended to investigate the crystal-
structure of other carbon-compounds. Sodium-carbonate and sodium-
bydrocarbonate first came into consideration because of their
importance for animal life. Considering however that we could
expect to meet with great difficulties in these investigations especially
in the calculations as a consequence of the crystal-water resp. the
monoclinic crystal-system, we first investigated some substances with
analogous structure, for which these difficulties were not to be
expected. We chose sodium-chlorate and sodium-bromate both
crystallizing in the cubic system. We also hoped that these substances
might give us some indications on the remaining together of the
atoms of the acid-radical.
$ 2. Present knowledge on NaCIO, and NaBrO,. In P. Groth's
Chemical Crystallography, the crystalforms are described into which
NaC10 8 and NaBrO, can crystallize under different circumstances.
When crystallized from solutions in water these substances give at
') P. Debije and P. Schekrer, Phys. ZS. 19, (.1918) p. 476.
D. Coster, These Proceedings, 28, (1919) p. 391.
N. H. Kolkmeijer. Coram. N°. 4; These Proceedings, 28, (1920) p. 767.
2) W. H. and W. L. Bkagg, X-Rays and Crystal-Structure. London, 1918.
