645
roomtemperature cubic tetartoliedral forms. Both of the chlorate and
of the bromate two enantiomorphous forms occur. In connexion
with this phenomenon the crystals themselves show rotation of the
plane of polarisation for every direction of the rays, while the
solutions are non-active. The polar ternary axes are electric axes.
With regard to these properties we thought it desirable to determine
the structure of these crystals.
Beukenkamp *) investigated already this structure theoretically ; his
conclusions were however not continued by our investigations.
W. H. and W. L. Bragg ■) simply mention, that in the crystals
of sodium-chlorate the places of the sodium- and Cl-atoms differ
very little from those in sodium-chloride. From the following it will
be evident that on the whole we agree with this opinion.
Jaeger and Haga 3 ) took LAUE-photograms of NaC10 3 ; they did not
derive derails on the structure from them.
§ 3. The apparatus used. This was equal to that, described
in a preceding communication 4 ). This time the finely powdered
substance was divided as equally as possible by means of a little
collodion on a glass rod (diameter ± 0,1 mm.) in a layer less than
0,5 mm. The rod was fixed to the lid of the camera; by means
of this lid it could be turned about its length axis during the expo-
sure in order to avoid the scratches on the interference fringes
caused by greater crystal-particles, which hinders the determination
of the intensities 5 j. Because of the small depth of the layer the
correction for the thickness of the rod, given in Communication
N n . 2 8 ), was now much smaller than it was then. The glass core
of the rod gave no difficulties.
§ 4. Calculation of the crystal-structure. In the tables I and II
are to be found for the chlorate resp. the bromate in the columns
l ) Comp. J. Beckenkamp, Z. f. anorg. u. allg. Chemie, 110, (1920) p. 290.
') W. H. and W. L. Bragg, X-Rays and Crystal-Structure, London 1918. p. 173.
3 ) F. M. Jaeger. These Proceedings Vol. 17 (1915) p 1204.
4) A. J. Bijl and N. H. Kolkmeijer, These Proceedings 21 (1918) p. 408.
Communication N°. 1.
5 ) That these scratches touch the interference fringes has been explained I.e.
p. 407. This time some films taken without turning of the rod showed also inter-
secting scratches; this intersecting can be explained in the indicated way when
the height of the exposed part of the substance is taken into consideration. By
decrease of this height the intersections vanished.
6 ) A. J. Bijl and N. H. Kolkmeijer, These Proceedings, 21 (1918) p. 496,
Comm. N°. 1.
