652
error in the value of b for the bromate is about 0,01 of the cell-
edge, the accuracy of the other parameters is much smaller 1 ).
In the calculation of the intensities we have taken into consider-
ation besides the structure factor') only the number of planes and
the LoRENTZ-factor. We thus have neglected the absorption in the
rod, the temperature-factor and the polarisation-factor. This is allowed,
when only we compare the intensities of very close neighbouring
interference fringes.
Starting from the assumption that the X-rays are deflected for
the greater part by the electrons, we calculated the intensities under
the following simplifying assumptions.
Round the sodium point we place JO electrons (monovalent positive
ion) 8 ); the weakening of the cooperation by mutual interference is
neglected. Round the halogen particles we place in the cases A, B,
C, and D of the columns 3, 4, 5, and 6 of the tables III and IV
respectively 12, 18, 12, and JO electrons for the chlorate and 30, 36, 30,
and 28 electrons for the bromate, while again the same neglections
were made; in the same way for an oxygen particle resp. 10, 8,
6, and 2 electrons. All this is based upon the following suppositions:
in case A: pentavalent positive halogen-ions and bivalent negative
oxygen atoms ;
in case B: monovalent negative halogen-ions and oxygen-atoms ;
in case C: binding of oxygen in the halogenate-ion by 'a ring of
four circulating electrons, of which two are derived from the oxygen-
atom and two from the halogen-atom. The interference-effect by these
binding-electrons has been neglected ;
in case D: binding between halogen and oxygen, where the effect
due to the total outer electron rings, to which the binding electrons
belong, has been neglected.
From the tables III and IV we see that the agreement between
the calculated and observed intensities is good from which of these
suppositions we may start.
1 ) ^This must be ascribed to the fact that the displacements of the" Br-particles
can only be very small when their influence on the interference-result shall be
compensated by displacements of the other particles. This is the case to a much
less degree for the Gl-particle because of its low atomic number. Therefore we
cannot give a limit of the accuracy of the parameters either for this particle or
for the 0- and Na-particles.
8 ) In the calculation of the structure-factor we took into consideration, that for
planes with three unequal indices for the symmetry of these crystals this factor
depends on the succession of the indices. Gomp. W. H. and W. L. Bragg, l.c
p. 151.
») P. Debije and P. Scherrer, Phys. ZS. 19 (1918), p. 474.
