Physiology. — "On the adsorption of odorous molecules to the
surface of solids." By Prof. H. Zwaardemaker.
(Communicated at the meeting of February 22, 1920).
In the meeting of 24 May 1907 l ) I pointed out that in many
cases a prolonged and marked adsorption of odorous molecules to
solid bodies takes place, as soon as their surfaces have come into
contact with gases that are mixed with odori vectors 2 ). The simple
act of opening a bottle filled with valerianic acid suffices to cover
all the objects in a large room with valerianic acid molecules, so
that when rubbing their surfaces with a dry wad of cottonwool,
the latter is sure to give off a smell of valerianic acid. Even the water
in which glass objects are washed that were in such a room,
distinctly betrays the presence of odorous matter in a subsequent
spraying under overpressure of two atmospheres and when studying
the vapour electricity ensuing from it. 3 )
The occurrence of these adsorptions depends chiefly on the presence
of a condensation layer of air and watervapour on all surfaces. ")
Besides, there is a possibility of a direct adsorption to surfaces from
which this condensation layer has been purposely removed. Finally
adsorption may occur to electrically charged surfaces, which attract
particularly the particles of opposite sign that are present in the air.
We will call the various forms of adsorption to the surfaces of
solid bodies adsorptions of the 1 st , 2 nd and 3 rd sort.
Those of the first sort comprise nearly all common cases of ad-
sorption of odorivectors to solid surfaces.
Those of the second sort are very rare. Strictly speaking they
occur only on cleansed surfaces of amber, sulphur or paraffin, on
which the condensation layer may be missing, and which consequently
are excellent insulators for static electricitv.
1 ) Kon. Akad. v. Wetensch., Amsterdam, Proc. June 29 1907. This investigation
has afterwards been extended by J. Hermanides, see Onderz. Physiol. Lab. Utrecht
(5) 1909 X. bl. 23. Also H. Zwaardemakee in Tigerstedt's Hdb. der Physiol.
Method. Bd III, p. 49. G. van Dam, Arch. need, de Physiol, t. 1. p. 664, 1917,
A. Heyninx, Essai d'Olfactique physiologique, Bruxelles 1919, p. 82.
2 ) A. Heyninx, 1. c, p. 19.
3 ) H. Zwaardemaker, Arch. need, de Physiol, t. 1. p. 347. 1917.
±) Bunskn, Wiedemann's Annalen, Bd 24, p. 321, 1885.
