656
a very long time. Neither did pjridin attach itself to aluminium, to
which scatol again was largely adsorbed, although there was much
less of it in the air. Iso-amylacetate was adsorbed to iron and tin
only for a short time; scatol again for a long period, in spite of
the small difference in the partial density of the air. Porcelain, on
the contrary, attracts iso-amylacetate more than any other substance,
scatol least of all.
When, as was the case just now, the adsorption of the first sort
is ascribed entirely to the presence of the condensation-layer, the
duration of the adsorption will be a function 1. of the lowering of'
the surface-tension of water together with what had already been
dissolved in it; 2. of the solubility of the odorous matter in water;
3. of the thickness of the condensation-layer; 4. of the volatility of
the odorous matter from water.
The possibility of this differentiation proves the existence of a
specificity.
As said already, there are some solids without a condensation-
layer, or if they have any it seems to be so inappreciable that no
ions are available to conduct the electricity so that they may serve as
insulators for static electricity. For this purpose amber, paraffin
solidum and sulphur are used. These substances are not moistened
by water 1 ), for when tracing a channel in these substances by means
of a darning needle no water will appear in it. This is indeed the
case with a certain number of other odorous substances. With the
method previously described we were able to demonstrate that a
rather considerable number of odori vectors added to the air that
passes through a tube of amber, sulphur or paraffin, is adsorbed to
the inner surface of such a tube. To amber e.g. borneol scent is
retained 1 min., creosol 1 min., geraniol 8 min., vanillin 29 min.,
nitrobenzol 37 mm. Broadly speaking here also the different degree
of adsorption must depend on the difference in the lowering of the
surface tension of the solid surface.
In the case of the first sort as well as in that of the second the
odorous substance must at length be dissolved also in the lower
layers. In the first case it is the condensation-layer that is saturated
with odorous matter and finally imparts a small portion of the
dissolved substance to the sublayer. In that way the odorous matter
can be retained almost for ever and it appears that the adsorption
continues also after removal of the condensation layer. This phenomenon
x ) Vide : R. S. Wollows & F. Hatschek, Surface Tension and Surface Energy,.
2»d edition, London 1919, p. 89.
