677
The said experiments were executed by means of two very thin
muscovite-l&meU&e, about 0,22 m.m. thick, which were obtained by
cleavage from one and the same crystal, and which could be crossed
with respect to each other at arbitrarily variable angles tp. In all
cases, in which the angles / were varied between 0° and 60°, the
RöNTGENOgrams obtained appeared to be almost the complete super-
positions of the images of the composing thin lamellae. From this
result it became more and more probable, that the images formerly
obtained might finally appear to be also such superpositions. For the
purpose of investigating this more in detail, a negative was prepared
from the original image of a single lamella, as reproduced in Fig. 1 of
the Plate, and from this a number of equal diapositives were made
on pieces of photographic film. These film-diapositives were now
carefully piled-up at the angles rp with respect to each other, in the
same way as the lamellae in the mica-piles used formerly. The thus
obtained combination was carefully compared in transmitted light
with the original photos formerly obtained. Although some spots
of the primary images did not coincide completely with other spots,
also in these cases their mutual distances might be considered small
enough to give together the final impression of one spot of greater
intensity. If this be taken into account, the combined image is
really in its principal features analogous to the photographic image
of the mica-pile. However, there are certain deviations: some spots
were lacking in the last photographs, which were visible in the
film-image with rather great intensity; some spots were feebler than
in the film-image, and generally the relative intensities of the spots
were different from those in the image of the combined films.
Partially, these deviations could be easily explained by the influ-
ence of a selective absorption of some wave-lengths, as already stated
in former cases, when the rays of the tungsten-anticathode of the
Cool idge-tube pass through thicker layers of the crystalline medium.
With the aid of a muscovite-crystal of 2,35 m.m. thickness it was
possible, indeed, to prove that certain spots in the diffraction-image
obtained with it, — e.g. the spot in the middle of the first circular
row beneath the centre of Fig. 1 of the Plate, — were convin-
cingly less intense than the corresponding spots in the image
obtained with a 0,22 m.m. thick lamella of the same crystal ; and
exactly in those places also the spots were absent in the composed
image of a mica-pile of circa 3,5 m.m. thickness. By intentional
experiments, in which the time of exposure was regulated in such
a way, that the influence of solarisation-phenomena of the most
intensive spots was certainly excluded, it could be proved
44*
