Chemistry. — "On the Validity of the Law of Partition for the
Equilibrium between a Mixed-Crystal Phase and a Coexisting
Liquid". I. By Prof. A. Smits. (Communicated by Prof.
P. Zeeman).
(Communicated at the meeting of May 29, 1920).
Since 1911 I have more particularly been occupied in researches
which in connection with the theory of allotropy were undertaken
with a view to the study of the solid state.
These researches had led to views about the solid state which
are incompatible with the image given by Bragg in view of the
Röntgen-spectra found by him.
Mr. Scheffek and myself 1 ) have pointed out that when a grouping
of atoms is assumed in the lattice points of a crystal lattice, the
bindings being disregarded in accordance with the valence, there
arise great difficulties. On that occasion we gave a model solely
with a view to indicating the direction in which in our opinion
the solution should be sought, and it is clear that the question
whether this model it serviceable or not, leaves the objections ad-
vanced by us against Bragg's representation, entirely intact. Our
paper was written solely to set forth these objections. Our efforts
are only tentative as yet, and it seems to me that the Röntgen
investigation of the solid substance in its present state does not yet
enable us to get to know the real internal condition.
Nevertheless this investigation must be considered of the utmost
importance, and the hope may be cherished that continuing in this
direction one day the way will be found that leads to that which
interests us most, viz. to the manner in which the chemical action
in the solid substance is manifested.
The objections to Bragg's conception will be fully discussed and
snpplemented elsewhere; here I will, however, point out that it
might be said that the objections for a definite group of compounds,
viz. those that are built up of two elements and can split up into
ions, might be partly obviated, when it was assumed that this
dissociation in the solid state was a complete one.
It is clear that then for this group of substances as KC1 and
i) These Proc 19, 432 (1916).
