680
NaCI etc. (he difficulty with regard to the valence would disappear,
but then there would be no atoms, but ions, in the lattice points,
and a chemical binding would not occur. Accordingly, the
replacement of the atoms by ions in Bragg's image would already
be an important modification for the said substances in the right
direction.
Of late Debije 1 ) has published results that seem to prove that
this is really the case with LiF.
It is hardly necessary to observe that for all other compounds,
which are built up of more than two elements, and yield compound
ions, the valency must find expression, because also on complete
dissociation in the solid state this compound ion must be present as
a group. But also for a compound composed of two elements, as
Hgl,, the assumption of complete dissociation into ions cannot lead
to a solution, because this does not account for the existence of
internal equilibria.
I will, however, not continue this train of reasoning any further
here; it only served to call attention once more to the fact that
from a chemical point of view, the action of the valency in the
solid substance cannot be disregarded; hence it is clear that it is
desirable to find other methods which may teach us something about
the internal condition of the crystallized substance.
Some years ago I had already formed the plan to examine whether
Nernst's law of partition is valid for the coexistence of a mixed
crystal phase with a solution.
It is clear that Nernst's law of partition can only be valid for
this case, when the ordinary thermodynamic considerations, which
lead to this law in equilibria between a gas and a liquid phase or
between two liquid phases, may also be applied to the solid sub-
stance. This is the fundamental question !
Van 'tHoff 3 ), who was the first to point out in 1890 that there
are states which may be designated by the name of solid solutions,
embraced the opinion that the theory of diluted liquid solutions
might be applied to these states.
Bakhuis Roozeboom 3 ), who started his important experimental
researches on mixed crystals a year later, practically treated the
mixed crystals thermodynamically already in the same way as the
liquid solutions had been treated, and it might be said that the
ex fieri ment has justified this procedure, as the derived types were
!) Phys. Zeitschr. 19, 474 (1918).
«) Z. f. Physik, Chem. 5, 322 (1890).
3 ) Z. f. Physik. Chem. 8, 504 (1891).
