683
lowering of the point of solidification, and from that of the point of
transition on analysis of the coexisting phases and on measurement
of the thermal quantity Q.
Rothmund, who examined the system CBi\ — CCl t , has not succeeded
in determining .r, and x^ He could not
observe the range of solidification, and
only found the lowering of the point of
solidification proportional to the total-
concentration. Nor did he know the
value of Q, so that he could not test
formula (1).
On the occasion of his examination of
the system HgI,— HgBi\, Reinders 1 ) used
Rothmund's formula for the first time
applying it to the lowering of the trans-
ition point.
As Reinders's research was not ex-
pressly undertaken with a view to testing
Rothmund's formula, and as it was not
accurate enough for this either, it can only be concluded from this part
of his interesting treatise that probably Rothmund's formula will be
confirmed here, and that when it is assumed that here really a
definite conclnsion can be reached with regard to a molecular size,
it will lead to the result that the molecular size of mercury bromide
is the same in the two mixed crystal phases.
It follows from the foregoing' that there was still a large lacuna,
and that we were not at all able yet to say to what results the
application of the let us say, limiting laws, to the equilibria with
mixed crystals, lead.
And because it is the study of the diluted mixed crystals that will
be able in my opinion, to give us a deeper insight into the solid
state, I resolved to set on foot a most careful inquiry into the
question whether the law of partition also holds in case of coexistence
with mixed crystal phases.
It was to be foreseen that the investigation would be very difficult
and laborious, for reliable results can only be expected when the
mixed crystal is perfectly homogeneous, so that the internal concen-
tration is the same as that of the surface. In order to bring this
about it was necessary that the formation of the mixed crystals
should take place exceedingly slowly amidst vigorous stirring.
x ) Zeitschr. f. physik Chem. 32, 494 (1900).
