Physics. "Observations of the Temperature during Solidification" . By
Dr. H. C. Burger. (Communicated by Prof. H. A. Lorentz).
(Communicated at the meeting of June 26, 1920).
1. When in a supercooled liquid in a cylindrical tube, a seed
of the solid substance is inserted, the boundary plane of the solid
substance moves with uniform velocity. This velocity (linear velocity
of crystallisation) has been measured by many investigators as func-
tion of the temperature of the surroundings (thermostat), in which
the tube is placed. They have, however, not measured the temperature
prevailing during the solidification in the two phases and at their
boundary plane, though it is the measurement of this temperature
that is of great importance for the true insight into the process of
solidification. More than once the opinion has been expressed that
at the boundary plane solid-liquid the melting-point-temperature would
prevail 1 ), but no grounds were adduced in support of this statement.
As, however, appears from my observations this is not the case, at
least not for the substance examined by me.
The small quantity of substance, hence the small quantity of heat
which is generated, renders it necessary that the instrument with which
the temperature is measured, should have a very small heat capacity.
If this is not the case, the distribution of the temperature in the
substance is disturbed by the insertion of the instrument to such a
degree that the temperature that is observed, is by no means equal
to the temperature that would prevail at the same place, when this
was absent. Besides the measurement of the temperature must take
place with an instrument that possesses slight inertia, because the
temperature that is measured at a fixed point of the tube, rapidly
changes with the time. The temperature further should be registered,
because reading is impossible on account of the rapid variation.
Consequently a temperature measurement must be chosen which
is made by the aid of a thermo-element, which must have as small
a mass as possible. The current supplied by this thermo-element in
consequence of the rise of temperature in the tube, must be observed
with a galvanometer, which is sufficiently rapid to follow the process
!) W. Hergesell, Ann. d. Phys. u. Ghem , 15, 1882. p. 19.
G. Tammann, Kristallisieren und Schmelzen, 1903, p. 135.
45
Proceedings Royal Acad. Amsterdam. Vol. XXI 11.
