694
function of time, is also the distribution of temperature that prevails
at a definite moment as function of place in the axis of the tube.
This distribution of the temperature moves, as it were without
changing with uniform velocity along the thermo-element, and the
temperatures, existing simultaneously at the different points of the
tube, are successively observed.
In order to be able to derive the difference of temperature between
the joint and the water in the thermostat, from the deviation of the
galvanometer, the amount of the deviation corresponding with one
degree, must also be known. For this purpose a current has been
sent through the galvanometer circuit at the beginning and the end
of every observation by an electromotive force of known value
(2 X 10— 4 Volts) for some seconds. The deviation given by this
current has also been registered.
When the electromotive force of the thermo-element for one
degree of temperature difference is known, the temperature may be
derived by comparison of the deviations during the solidification and
that which the known electromotive force has caused. A determi-
nation of the electromotive force with thermo-sheet tin of the kind
out of which the thermo-elements used had been cut, had as result
that it amounted to 41.3 X 10~ fi Volts 1 ).
As in these observations rapid variations of the temperature must
be registered, the registering drum must rotate quickly. This being
difficult to achieve with a clock-work provided with a balance, the
balance was replaced by a flying-pinion. The objection to this way
of propulsion, however, is that the movement of the registering
drum is not uniform. For the determination of the temperature as
function of the time from the temperature curves obtained, it was
therefore necessary to place time signals on every curve. They
were obtained as follows: a resistance was placed in the circuit
of the Nernst lamp, which sends its light to the mirror of the gal-
vanometer, and then in the registering drum. The extremities of
the resistance were connected with a clock work, which every 10
sec. effected a contact between them momentarily. In consequence
of the diminished resistance the intensity of the lamp increased
every 10 sec. for a short time; hence the registered line shows
slightly thickened parts, which recur at intervals corresponding with
this period. This method has the advantage that there are no gaps
in the registered curve.
J ) This result is in perfect harmony with what others have found for unrolled
material.
