698
only to some tenths of degrees for the thickest and the thinnest
material. After this the measurements were carried out with thermo-
elements of 1.4 (i thickness. The temperature which these thin
elements indicate, differs so little from that which would be found
with an infinitely thin thermo-strip, that the remaining error may
be neglected by the side of the other errors.
2. We shall now proceed to a discussion of the results of the
measurements guided by the theory x ).
In order, however, to be able to apply the theory, and also to
be able to calculate the temperature that has been observed, a
number of quantities must be measured, which occur in the theory.
These quantities are:
1. The linear velocity of crystallisation of salol at different tempera-
tures of the thermostat and in tubes of different internal and externaf
dimensions;
2. The specific heat of the solid substance and of the liquid;
3. The melting-heat of salol;
4. The density of the solid substance and of the liquid ;
5. The thermal conductivity of the solid substance and of the
liquid ;*)
6. The interior and exterior radius of the tube.
The results of these measurements were the following:
1. The linear velocity of crystallisation was determined in three
different tubes, which have also been used for temperature observa-
tions. The temperature of the thermostat ranged between about 0°
to 29° C. Measurements of the velocity of crystallisation above a tem-
perature of from 22° to 29°, dependent on the thickness of the tube,
have no value. When we get too near the melting-point (42°), the
crystallisation proceeds irregularly, and the velocity of crystallisation
is not constant. It can be observed that the surface of the solid
phase, which is convex and smooth and has a definite form at
lower temperatures, becomes concave and irregular of form. Theory 3 )
is able to account for this fact.
The maximum velocity appeared to be 3.68 mm. a minute in-
dependent of the bore of the tube 4 ). This value refers to pure saloJ.
') Loc. cit.
2 ) I take great pleasure in expressing once more my hearty thanks to Miss A
M. Huffnagel for the trouble she has taken to measure these quantities.
3 ) Loc. cit.
4 ) The temperature of the thermostat at which this maximum occurred, does
depend on the dimensions of the tube.
