699
Impurities diminish the maximum velocity of crystallisation. Therefore
the substance has been recrystallized before it was used, till the
velocity of crystallisation no longer varied. 1 )
2. The determination of the specific heat took place in the usual
way in a calorimeter filled with water. The liquid salol had been
fused into a glass tube to prevent crystallisation of the supercooled
substance.
The values found were for solid substances and liquids resp.
c x — 0.35
c, = 0.37
3. In order to measure the heat of fusion, a tube filled with
melted supercooled salol was put in the calorimeter, and then left
till the temperature had become constant. By placing a particle of
the solid substance into the supercooled salol, crystallisation was
started. The heat of fusion followed from the rise of temperature
found. The former depends on the temperature, in this way that
the increase per degree is equal to the difference c x — c t = 0.02 of
the specific heats of the liquid and the solid phase. For the end in
view determination of the value of the heat of fusion at a tem-
perature not lying too far under the melting-point e.g. 16°, will
suffice.
As this temperature the heat of fusion is found to be:
(2 = 18.2 cal.
4. The density of the liquid was determined in the supercooled state
by means of a pycnometer, and amounted at room-temperature to:
(j t = 1.205
The ratio of the densities of solid and liquid phase was found
from the contraction on solidification in a cylindrical tube.
The density of the solid substance appeared to be:
Qt = 1.285.
5. The conductivity was measured in comparison with that of
glycerine. These relative measurements were carried out in the
following way.
l ) Great care should be taken not to heat the substance too much above its
melting-point, because a change takes place at higher temperature, which greatly
diminishes the velocity of crystallisation. This phenomenon can possibly explain
why Tammann has found a smaller value (3.46 m.m. per minute) for the maximum
velocity of crystallisation. When the substance which has been changed by too
great heating, is recrystallized several times with avoidance of temperatures
above 100°, the rate of crystallisation decreases. For the sufficiently purified sub-
stance the value of 3.68 m.m. a minute is always again found for the maximum
velocity of crystallisation.
