Astronomy. — "The Distance of the Dark Nebulae in Taurus".
By Dr. A. Pannekoek. (Communicated by Prof. J. C. Kapteyn).
(Communicated at the meeting of Sept. 25, 1920).
§ 1. Various investigations made in recent years, have demonstrated
ever more clearly (he existence of dark cosmic nebulae, that aborb
and weaken the light of the stars behind them. Between the luminous
patches and streams in the Galaxy, dark spots and cavities are seen,
which were originally considered as empty spacesinthestar-filled galactic
system. The improbability of these empty spaces extending as conic
tubes through Herschei/s lenticular star-system, with our sun as
vertex, constituted one of the main arguments for the conception of
the Galaxy as a ring of no great extension in depth. For a long-
time the possibility that they should originate by means of absorption
has played no part in the theories concerning the structure of the
universe.
It is through the photographs of Max Wolf and Barnard that we
first have become acquainted with numerous details scarcely allowing
of any other interpretation. Small dark spots are to be seen in the
midst of the luminous star clouds; long, dark, fantastically shaped
lanes intersect the luminous parts, and are evidently connected with
faintly luminous nebulae. Max Wolf has repeatedly pointed out the
existence of extensive absorbing nebulous masses, as one of the
main causes that determine the aspect of the Galaxy. The galactic
system is then to be considered as a mixture of dense starclouds,
luminous nebulae and dark nebulous masses.
In an investigation of some star-photographs in Aquila x ), comprising
the densest parts of a starcloud and also a black spot therein,
the author of the present article found that in the black spot the
densities of the stars from the 11 th to the 15 th magnitude were all
smaller in the same proportion, compared with the cloud besides it;
if the spot were caused by absorption, the absorbing substance should
therefore not lie in the far depths of the starcloud, but a great deal
nearer by, so that it was only accidentally projected against this
luminous background.
l ) A. Pannekoek. Investigation of a galactic cloud in Aquila. Proceedings R. A.
of S. Amsterdam, Vol. XXI, Nr. 10. (March 1919).
46
Proceedings Royal Acad. Amsterdam. Vol. XX 111.
