708
That objects of this kind do not present themselves in the Galaxy
alone, became evident from the investigations of Barnard, who
published a list of 182 mostly small, dark objects, l ) which, though
they were best discernible against the bright background of the
Galaxy, are yet to be found also outside it, and which here and
there are even directly visible by means of telescopes as intensely
black spots. The wide extension of this absorbing substance became
evident in yet another way, by an investigation of the general
distribution of the stars up to the 11 th magnitude*). It was found
here that around two places with a considerable deficiency of stars,
in Taurus and Ophiuchus, as around two centres of obscuration, there
are wide regions where the number of stars is below the normal.
As this investigation was carried out by means of averages over
extensive regions, it could only give a general image, which could
be equally well explained by a certain distribution of the stars in
space, as by the etfect of an absorption. But it became evident that
in the one kernel, in Taurus, the distribution of the density of the stars
to the 11 th magnitude was very irregular, and that the poorest
regions were precisely those, where, according to Barnard's catalogue,
a number of black objects have accumulated; this points to absorpt-
ion as the most likely explanation of the general distribution of
stars over the sky we had found.
We get a still clearer image of the irregularities in the star-
distribution in this Taurus-region by an investigation of Dyson and
Melotte 8 ) by means of the Franklin-Adams plates, which show the
stars up to magnitude 15,8. The counts proved that there are mainly
three regions of strongest obscuration, the irregular shapes of which
are visible on the adjoining chart: about 3 h 20 m -)- 30° (S.W. ot
S Persei), 4 h 30 m + 26° (between the Pleiades and /? Tauri) and
5 h 20 m -\- 25° (S.W. of £ Tauri). By comparing >the numbers of stars
of different sources, they come to the same conclusion, that these
absorbing nebulous masses must be situated relatively near to us.
"Thus, taking the area as a whole, we find the number of stars is
about one fifth of the normal number whether we go down to
magnitude 9"\0, ll m ,0 or 14"\0. This would seem to indicate, that
l ) E. E. Barnard, On the dark markings of the sky. Astrophysical Journal 49,
1. (Jan. 1919).
3 ) A. Pannekoek, On the distribution of the stars of the 11th magnitude.
Monthly Notices of R. A. S. 79, 333 (March 1919).
5 ) Sir F. W. Dyson and P. J. Melotte, The region of the sky between R.A.
3h and 5h 30 m and N. Dec. 20° to 35°. Monthly Notices of R. A. S. 80. 3
(Nov. 1919).
