45
ical reaction, which accompanies the diffusion process. Hence it
is useless to try and determine the order of a heterogeneous
reaction, from the velocity with which it proceeds.
d. The temperature coefficients of heterogeneous reactions are
small, (viz, about 1.2 for a 10° rise).
In this connection it is interesting to note that photo-chemical
reactions have small temperature coefficients (viz. about 1.1 for a
10° rise).
Now I shall discuss the results obtained in physiological proces-
ses with regard to the influence of temperature on them.
The relation between the temperature and the velocity of respir-
ation has been studied during the last few years both for plants
and animals. The principal object of these investigations has been
to find out whether respiration can be considered as a chemical
process.
From the researches of Clausen (Landwirt. Jahrbuch Bd. 19 1890),
Blackman (Annals of Botany 1905, 19, 288), Kuijper (Rec. Trav.
Bot. Néerl. 1910, 7, 131) Lehenbauer (Physilogieal researches N°. 5,
August 1914), Miss Leitsch (Annals of Botany January 1916), Miss
Saunders (private communication) and others we find that the
temperature coefficients of plant processes generally lie between 2
and 3 for a 10° rise of temperature.
Brown and Worley (Proc. Roy. Soc. 1912, 85 B, 546) have
shown that the temperature coefficient of the velocity of absorption
of water by different seeds is about 2 for a 10° rise. If the values
of the velocity coefficients are calculated from their results, we see
that they follow the uni molecular formula.
The researches of Veley and Waller (Proc. Roy. Soc. 1910,
82 B) show that the Ahkhenius formula can be applied to the
influence of temperature on the velocity of the action of drugs on
muscles.
Very large number of experiments have been made on the
influence of temperature upon metabolism both in cold-blooded and
in warm-blooded animals. But comparatively few of' them have been
made under standard conditions. In most cases animals have been
free to move about and even in cases where they have been tied,
muscular movements have not been prevented or muscular tone
abolished. In these conditions a fundamental difference has been
observed between the effects of temperature upon cold-blooded and
upon warm-blooded animals. In cold blooded-animals the respiratory
exchange almost always rises with increasing temperature, but
generally irregularly and to a very different degree in different animals.
