Astronomy. — "Further Remarks on the Dark Nebulae in Taurus".
By Dr. A. Pannekoek. (Communicated by Prof. J. C. Kapteyn).
(Communicated at the meeting of October 30, 1920).
§ 1. In a previous communication, assuming that the star-voids
in Taurus are caused by absorbing nebulae, we have determined the
distance of those nebulae at about 140 parsecs. The light-absorption of a
region with moderate absorption, for which data were available also
for the 12 th magnitude, proved to be 1 a 2 magnitudes; for the
darkest regions A and B the average must then amount to about
2 magnitudes, which is not in conflict with the logarithmic defect
for 15, ni 9; the blackest kernels therein have a far stronger absorption
still. The existence of such extensive regions (the dimensions of A
are 9° by 3°, that is to say 20 by 7 parsecs ; B is most irregular,
but about equal in area) of which the absorption is known, allows
us to draw some conclusions regarding the density and mass of these
gas-clouds.
We assume, therefore, the existence of such a gas-cloud in space,
the molecules of which absorb the light through scattering. Lord
Rayleigh in his investigations on the cause of the blue colour of
the sky, has deduced a formula for the absorption of the light through
a medium containing small particles in suspension in which the
suspended particles scatter the light to all sides '). Schuster pointed
out, in 1909, that the extinction of the light in our atmosphere is
to be attributed almost exclusively to such scattering, where the
molecules of air themselves play the part of scattering particles,
whilst the selective absorption constitutes but a minor factor*). As
the absorption in magnitudes is proportional to the density X thickness,
and therefore to the number of molecules the ray of light meets,
the density and mass of a cosmic gas-cloud can be determined
through comparison with the data of the atmospheric extinction.
Abbott gives for Mount Wilson in the zenith a transmission-coeffi-
cient 0.95, an absorption therefore of 0,056 magnitude, valid for a
column of air of 6 km., in height, and a density of 0,0013. If for
the thickness of the gas-cloud in Taurus (after the linear dimensions
l ) Philosophical Magazine, 1899, page 379.
! j Nature, 1909, page 97.
