46
In the case of bees Marie Parhon (Ann. des Sc. nat. Zoo. Sér.,
9, 9, 1 — 58) finds that the temperature in the cluster of bees inside
the hives shows a very striking constancy throughout the year.
In intact warm-blooded animals, a fall in the surrounding temp-
erature regularly causes an increase in the respiratory exchange
thanks to the mechanism of "Chemical heat regulation".
In all the experiments so far mentioned both on cold-blooded and
on warm-blooded animals we have to do with two distinct effects
of temperature, viz. one upon the central nervous system causing
variation in the innervation of different organs and especially of the
muscles and one upon the tissues themselves influencing the reaction
velocity of the metabolic processes.
In the warm-blooded animals the action of low temperature on
the skin produces reflexly innervation of the muscles resulting either
in movements or in increase of tone.
In the cold-blooded animals the processes in the central nervous
system . itself are probably acted upon, and increased muscular
activity is produced by increasing temperature except in the cluster
of bees which in the aggregate reacts against the temperature some-
what after the fashion of a warm-blooded animal.
When the influence of temperature on the metabolic process is
to be studied, the nervous influence must be excluded, and the
experiments must be made under standard conditions.
It has been found repeatedly both on man and on animals that
even a slight increase in body temperature over the normal produces
an increase in the standard metabolism.
It follows from the experiments of Krogh (Biochem. Zeit. 1914,
62, 266) and others that the velocity of catabolic reactions increases
in all animals with rising temperature up to a maximum at and
above which temperature has deleterious effect upon the organism.
The maximum temperature probably differs considerably for different
animals, but very few determinations have been made so far.
The more rigorously standard conditions are maintaind, the more
regular is the influence of temperature observed.
Chick and Martin (Journal of Physiol. 45, 40) find that the coag-
ulation of haemoglobin by heat has the temperature coefficient 13.8
for the elevation of 10°, whilst in the case of albumen it is higher.
In this connection it is interesting to note that Von Schroeder (Zeit.
Phys. Chem. 1903, 45, 75) has found that a solution of gelatine
has a viscosity of 13.76 at 21° C. and 1.42 at 31° C. i. e. about
10 times less with an elevation of 10°.
The results obtained by Chick and Martin show that the temper-
