Physics. — "The geodesic precession: a consequence of Einstein's
theory of gravitation." By Dr. A. D. Fokkkk. (Communicated
by Prof. H. A. Lokkntz).
(Communicated at. the meeting of October 30, 1920).
It is well known at present what parallel displacement or geodesic
translation means in non-euclidean space I ). And we know also that
a compass rigid, moving parallel to itself and completing a closed
circuit, in consequence of the curvature of space, will not regain
the same orientation which it had before: a certain rotation of
curvature will become apparent. Now it occurred to Schouten that
the earth's axis of rotation — provided the earth were a sphere —
should remain parallel to itself in the general geodesic sense during
the motion of the earth round the sun. Thus, after a year, we must
expect the earth's axis to point to a slightly different point of the
heavens according to the curvature of space produced by the sun's
gravitation. This affords an additional precession which superposes
itself on the precessions due to other causes known in astronomy 8 ).
The problem however is not so simple as it is put here. Though
it can be proved that the axis of rotation will remain parallel to
itself in the geodesic sense, yet in reality we have to consider the
dragging of the earth's axis along her four-dimensional helicoidal
track through time-space and not a circuital displacement in the
ecliptic at some definite instant. The problem should be put as one
of four-dimensional geometry ; it is a problem of mechanics, and
not a problem of three-dimensional geometry. If this be done properly,
then the result is that we are to expect a precession one and a
half times the precession foreseen by Schouten, viz. 0.019 of a
second of arc per annum "). This will be shown in the present paper.
The idea at the bottom of the argument is the following. Imagine
that in order to describe motions taking place in the neighbourhood
of the earth's centre we choose axes such that the time is always
x ) Levi Givita, Rendic. Gere. Mat. Palermo, 42, p. 1, 1917; Schouten, Direkte
Analysis zur n. Relativitatstheorie, Verhandelingen Kon. Akad. v. Wetensch. Amster-
dam, XII, no. 6, 1919; Weyl, Raum, Zeit, Materie, Berlin 1920, 3rd ed. ; Gf.
also an article of the present author in Proceedings Kon. Akad. v. Wetensch.
Amsterdam, 21, p. 505, 1918.
») Schouten, Proceedings Kon. Akad- v. Wetensch. Amsterdam, 21, p. 533, 1918;
with appendix by De Sitter.
s ) Gf. also a paper by Kbamers, Proc Amsterdam, September 1920.
