730
directed along the earth's four-dimensional track and that the origin
of space-axes falls along with the earth. Moreover, the original
directions of these space-axes at successive instants are to remain
parallel to themselves in the general, or natural sense. If our axes
of reference are chosen in this way, we may confidently expect the
equations of motion to assume a particularly simple form : in fact,
as a first approximation, when motions take place very near the
origin (i.e. within a domain the two-dimensional cross-sections of
which are small compared with the reciprocal of Riemann's measure
of curvature) then this region may be considered to be homoloidal,
that is, free particles are moving in straight lines under no force,
and a top spinning round its axis of symmetry will keep its axis
of rotation in a fixed direction relative to the axes of reference. As
the latter are carried along the axis of time parallel to themselves,
so it follows that the same is true for the axis of rotation. *)
If we proceed to the second approximation, we find that free
particles are subject first to forces which we know are the causes
of the tides due to the sun's action, and secondly, to forces depending
on the velocity of the particle in a manner which in a certain
respect resembles Coriolis' forces in a centrifugal field. The latter
were called by Poincaré "forces centrifuges composées". Accordingly
the new forces might be designed as compound tidal forces.
In order to obtain the second approximation, it is necessary to
specify our coordinates in greater detail. In every point-instant of
the axis of time we draw all geodesic lines which are perpendicular
to the time-track and we desire that these shall define space, three
of them being chosen as the axes of space. For convenience sake
the latter may be chosen perpendicular to each other.
It will be seen that this space cannot coincide with space as
defined by an observer who is at rest with the sun. The two spaces
of reference intersect in a surface, which, in each point-instant of
the earth's helicoidal track contains the direction in the ecliptic
perpendicular to the velocity and the direction perpendicular to the
x ) In much the same manner during the moon's motion, as a first approximation,
— apart from the sun's perturbing forces, which arise in the second approxi"
mation, — the plane of the orbit must keep its position unaltered relative to the
falling axes of reference. This results in a motion of the nodes equal to the motion
of these axes. De Sitter, proceeding in a totally different manner, arrived at a
nodal motion of l".9l per century, which is exactly the amount given above for
the precession. (Monthly Notices R. A. S. 77, p. 172, 1916). A comparison with
observation could only be made if the nodal motion, resulting from other causes
and computed with Newton's law of force, were known to one further decimal
place than it is at present. (De Sitter, I.e.).
