731
ecliptic. This involves a complication in comparing the relative
positions of the two sets of spatial axes of reference. In the case
of a planet moving in a circular orbit this difficulty is readily
overcome.
If then we compare the falling axes, before and after a year's
revolution, with axes (ixed to the sun and directed to fixed points
in the heavens, we find a precession to the amount stated above.
As pointed out by De Sitter the difficulty in testing the predicted
precession by a comparison with observation lies not so much in
the limits of accuracy of observation as in the fact that owing to
our ignorance of the true values of the earth's principal moments
of inertia we do not know with the precision required how much of
the observed precession is accounted for by the actions of sun and
moon according to Newton's law.
We now proceed to the analytical treatment of the problem.
The geodesic falling coordinates.
Consider some point-instant in an arbitrary field of gravitation,
where the potentials are denoted by g„b, {a, b =0, 1, 2, 3), a\ being
the time and x {1 ), scffl, #( 3 ' space-coordinates. In the usual way we
write the symbols of Christoffel:
, ab ) Vab
m
dgam dg bl)l dg ab '
d.v'> dx a dx m
where g cm are the algebraical complements of the g cm .
A vector V n is displaced parallel to itself over an interval dx m ,
if its components decrease during the displacement according to the
formula
Ibm \
Vl> da:'».
a \
In the point-instant considered : x n (a = 0,1, 2,3), choose a vector
of unit length having time-character A a :
S g al) A\A\ — \ %
and three other vectors of unit length, all perpendicular to the
former and to one another: A a } , A a 9 , A a t , such that
2 gabAVyA^^ — 1, and 2 g nb A a i A b j — if i jé j.
As in our argument the component of time and the components
of space will be treated in a different way, we shall establish the
rule that whenever a suffix is indicated by a Greek character, it
will not be liable to take the value 0.
We change variables by introducing the coordinates z' according
to the following formulae:
