47
ature coefficient of coagulation of proteins by water is an exceedingly
high one compared with effect of temperature on most chemical
reactions. In the majority of instances the reaction velocity is increased
about 1.1 times for 1° C. i. e. 2 to 3 times for a rise of temperature
of 10°. Even the biological processes of germination of seeds, respira-
tion of plants and growth of bacteria fall within this range.
On the other hand many reactions in which complex protein bodies
are concerned have been shown to possess high temperature coefficients
which are comparable with those obtained for heat coagulation. The
destruction of emulsin by heat has according to Tammann (Zeit.
Phys. Cliem. 1895) a temperature coefficient of about 7.14 for a 10°
rise between 60° and 70°. Bayi.iss (J 908) found the action of
trypsin to be hastened 5 — 3 times for some germs in accordance
with a logarithmic law. Ballnkv (1902) found the disinfection of
anthrax spores by steam to take place from 9 to 11 times more
quickly by raising the temperature 10° and the law of Arrhenius
is equally applicable to his results.
Chick and Martin (loc. cit) have shown that the disinfection of
vegetative forms of bacteria with phenol and other coal-tar derivatives
has a temperature coefficient of 8 to 10 for a 10° rise of temperature.
On the other hand the disinfection by Silver Nitrate and Mercuric
Chloride has a much lower coefficient and that is about 2.
The high temperature coefficient for the coagulation of egg albumen
has a counterpart in that for the velocity of destruction by hot
water of the haemolysins in vibriolysins, tetanolysin and goat serum.
Madsen and his collaborators found the influence of temperature to
be in accordance with the law of Arrhenius and the velocity of
this reaction to be doubled if the temperature were raised 1° C.
They also showed that the action of hot water upon some agglutinins
to be similarly influenced by temperature.
This marked influence of temperature is extremely useful for men
and animals. When a toxin enters the system, the temperature of
the body rises by two or three degrees and we get the phenomenon
of fever and the poison is destroyed about 10 or 20 times more
quickly at this fever temperature.
Hartridge (Jour, of Physiol. 1912, Vol. XL1V, 34) finds the temp-
erature coefficient for heat coagulation to be as great as 726 for a
10° rise for some protein matter. In this connection it is interesting
to note that the decomposition of sulphur trioxide by heat has 419
for its temperature coefficient for a 10° rise at about 30°.
Watson (Jour. Hygiene 1908, 8, 536) applying Ostwald's isolation
method to Miss Chick's results finds that in the disinfection of certain
