48
bacteria with phenol, the molecules (N) of phenol reacting with
those of the bacterial constituent are in the proportion of 5.5 to 1.
As regards the metallic salts the same law holds good for disinfec-
tion by silver nitrate and the molecules (iV) of silver nitrate reacting
with those of bacterial constituents are in the proportion of 1 : 1 .
In the case of Mercuric chloride, however, the above relation between
the concentration of disinfectant and the average velocity of disin-
fection is maintained only if the former is expressed in terms of
the corresponding concentration of mercuric ions. Under these cir-
cumstances, JV has the value 4.9 for anthrax spores and 3.8 for
paratyphosus. But the temperature coefficient of the disinfection by
phenol is very high, though the reaction is approximately hepta-
molecular. On the other hand, in the case of silver nitrate the
reaction is approximately bimolecula!' and the temperature coefficient
is small viz. 2 for a 10° rise. These results are contrary to our
experience in ordinary chemical reactions, where the greater the
order of a reaction the smaller is the coefficient of temperature.
Kanitz (Temperature und Lebensvorgange,, 1915), Snyder (Amer.
Jour, of Physiol. 22, 1908, 309), Cohen Stuart (Proc. K. Akad.
Wetensch. Amsterdam, 19J2, 20, 1270), Putter (Zeit. A Ilg. Physiol
1914, 16, 617) and others have tried to represent the influence of
temperature on physiological processes by the rule of van 't Hoff,
but it is not very important whether the temperature coefficient has
the value 2 or 3, the important point to establish is whether the
formula of Arrhenius (Zeit. Phys. Chem. 1889, 4, 226) or the formula
of Harcourt and Esson (Phil. Trans series A Vol. 186, 817 (1895),
Vol. 212, 187, (1912), which is applicable to ordinary chemical
reactions, is also applicable to physiological processes.
Beackman (Annals of Botany 1905, 19, 281) has accepted the
validity of the van 't Hoff rule and has found the value 2.1 between
9° and 19°. He has assumed that this value of the temperature
coefficient remains constant at higher temperatures; this assumption
is contrary to our experience in ordinary chemical reactions, the
temperature coefficient for a 10° rise becomes smaller as the temperature
rises. This falling off of the temperature coefficient with increase of
temperature is also expected from the Arrhenius formula. Evidently
the conclusions of Beackman would have been more correct had he
accepted the Arrhenius formula.
Looking at the whole problem from a broad point of view it
seems that temperature has two effects on vital processes: — (a) the
increase of the velocity of the chemical reaction involved in the
physiological changes, (b) the destruction of the living cells.
