49
At low temperatures the first effect is predominant since the harmful
effect does not begin to play its part.
Thus the problem for us is to investigate the effect of temperature
on vital processes at low temperatures that is, before the harmful
effect ou the living cells has begun and we shall probably see the
same quantitative laws which are applicable in the domain of ordinary
chemical reactions in vitro are also applicable to vital processes
taking place in nature.
Enzymes and colloids reign supreme in life processes and the
Brownian movement of these particles does away with the diffusion
layer characteristic of heterogeneous reactions and makes them analogous
to positively catalysed reactions taking place in homogeneous medium
and hence we expect to find the same laws governing both ordinary
chemical reactions and life processes, compare Dhar, Proc. Akad.
Wetensch. (1919).
In conclusion I suggest that it is desirable to study the problem
of acclimatization scientifically from the point of view of the influence
of temperature on life processes.
SUMMARY.
a. Physiological processes take place mostly in heterogeneous
medium. The Brownian movement of the colloidal particles present
in the reacting substances does away with the diffusion layer
characteristic of heterogeneous reactions and makes the physiological
reactions similar to positively catalysed reactions taking place in
homogeneous medium. Consequently the temperature coefficients of
physiological processes instead of being small (Viz. about 1.2) are
generally greater than 2 for a 10° rise.
b. The spontaneous destruction of certain toxins is highly influenced
by temperature and this fact is extremely useful to the human body
because in the phenomenon of fever the poison is killed very rapidly.
c. Before the destructive effect of temperature begins to set in,
the Arrhenius formula connecting temperature and velocity is generally
applicable to physiological processes.
Chemical Laboratory, Muir Central college,
Allahabad {India).
Proceedings Royal Acad Amsterdam. Vol. XXIII.
