529
One should be mindful both of objective and subjective errors in
this connection.
Let us imagine two lines, bright in the negative (dark in the
original spectrum), which, if standing isolated, would each of them
show symmetrical distribution of the light, but which are in fact
situated so near one another that they partially overlap ; then the
maxima of intensity will (as au objective effect) be at a smaller distance
from each other than the real centres of the lines. This would become
obvious when the intensity in the system is recorded by means of the
micro-photometer, supposing the real distance of the cores of the
lines to be known.
On the other hand one would be inclined to over-estimate the
distance between the maxima owing to the contrasts being weakened
in the intervening space. This is a subjective effect.
It is not easy to presume which of these two opposite influences
predominates 1 ). As this is a problem of high importance whenever the
exact distance between the components of close double lines has to
be determined, it is at present being made a subject of special
inquiry in the Utrecht physical laboratory.
But whatever may be the result of that investigation, it can easily
be shown that the mutual influence revealing itself in the above
mentioned observations published by Adams and Evershed and Royds,
is almost independent of the errors of estimation here considered,
and that the phenomenon cannot therefore be ascribed to such errors.
Indeed, let us suppose that in the spectrum of the sun's centre
the exaggeration of the distance between the components of a certain
pair of lines be due to an error of estimation.
o
The distance be e.g. 0,3 A, the apparent exaggeration caused by
o
this nearness 0,003 A.
Let us next consider the same pair in the spectrum of the sun's
limb. There both components are perhaps slightly shifted with respect
to their positions in the centre spectrum ; but their distance can
scarcely be altered thereby more than, say, 'L°/ of its original value
o
of 0,3 A. Consequently the influence which the proximity of the
1 ) St. John considers the latter influence the most important, and supposes it
to be the principal cause of the fact that in Rowland's wavelength tables the
distances between the components of narrow pairs of lines are greater than they
should be according to measurements made on Ml. Wilson. He therefore calls the
differences "systematic errors" in Rowland's wave-length determinations (Astroph.
Journ. 44, 16 and 265 (1916); Mt. Wilson Contrib. N°. 120 and 123). This opinion
was contested by one of us in a communication to the Amst. Akad. 25, 1245
(1917). Cf. also: Archives néerland. Ill A, Tome V, 122—126 (1918).
