61
force acting at this extremity, the execution of the required con-
struction would only increase the difficulty mentioned at the begin-
ning of this §.
Yet all the auxiliaries for a fit construction of the elastic link-
polygon of a beam on five or more points of support have been
provided, as will appear from the following.
13. Beam on more than four points of support.
Let the beam on n points of support A, B, C, . . . U, V, IV, be
given, and let it for the present be required to determine the descent
and the inclination at the last point of support W, when the beam
is successively charged at W by a unit force and a unit moment.
Then the experience gained in the preceding §§ leads to the expec-
tation that the quantities in question only depend upon the corre-
sponding ones for the beam A, B, C, . . . U, F, i. e. upon the descent
and the inclination which will appear at the last point of support
of the beam A, B, C, . . . U, V, when in V a unit force, resp. a
unit moment, acts.
Let us suppose these latter quantities, which may be indicated by
y H -'A, (Pn—z, f/n—2, f fn— 2, for a moment to be known, and let us attempt
to derive from them the y n —i, <Pn—i, ,y«-i, ( fn— 1 required. In deter-
mining each of these quantities we might again use the introduction
of different moments of transition M y above V.
For each moment of transition My it would be necessary to
determine the situation of the point W in two ways:
1. by the aid of the equations of equilibrium of the field V W
to the right, supposed to be free, by means of which a point W
is found ;
2. by means of an elastic link-polygon belonging to the beam
A, B, C, . . . U, V, W, which gives a point W.
If then the series of points IV and W should appear to be similar,
it would be possible to construct their double point, i.e. the extreme
point of the link-polygon determining the required quantities.
If the line of action described really causes y n -l, <pn—i, y>i—\,
<f n -\ to be found, we must accordingly attempt to determine the
corresponding quantities of the beam ABC ... D V on (n — 1) points
of support.
But this would be possible if under the same conditions of charge
the inclination and descent were known for the beam ABC...Uiï
on (n — 2) points of support.
On arguing further in this way, we are driven back to the beam
