85
or, — if the electronic dissociation of these salts is laken into
account, perhaps better by the relations :
2 \Co(C\0 4 \r = 2 \Co(C\0 4 \\' + 0\O: + 2 CO„
and \Co(C\C\) 2 \"^lCo" + 2 C\0 4 ".
§ 2. The photochemical reaction mentioned was, for the first time,
studied systematically in 1917 by Vrunkk *), under conditions of
experiment very widely differing from ours. This author studied
extremely dilute solutions of the salt, with concentrations ranging
from 0,01 to 0,0001 mol. per Liter, and experimented always
with very small volumes of the solution, — conditions made necessary
by the optical method followed by him in this investigation.
Nevertheless, the measurements were carried out with much care and
a precision as great as possible, yet the results obtained give the
impression that the reaction is in reality much more complicated
than the author himself seems to believe. For, on the one hand, he
thinks it probable with respect to the numbers obtained, that the
reaction is a bimolecular one, in agreement with the ionic equation
suggested above; but his absorption-measurements do not give any
numbers, which might be looked upon as true reaction-"constants",
and it can be easily seen, that they do not agree really either
with a mtmomoleeular or with a ó /'molecular process, so that it
were better to speak in this case of an accelerated bimolecular,
or of a retarded monomolecular reaction. By spectrophotometry
observation, he was, moreover, able to demonstrate, that the eme-
raldgreen solutions have two principal absorption-maxima, for
A = 4260 A. U., and for I = 6050 A. U. respectively; and he stated,
that the reaction goes on in darkness as well, light-radiation
therefore chiefly acting as an accelerator. The temperature-coefficient
of the dark reaction appeared to be rather great (4,56), but that of
the photoeatalysis, on the contrary, very small; finally an appre-
ciable BECQUEREL-effect through the total volume of liquid is mani-
fested, as soon as it is exposed to the light, which fact could be
demonstrated by means of measurements of the electromotive force
produced in mixed solutions of cobalto- and cobalti-s&lt with respect
to a normal calomel-e\ecivode, if the solutions are brought from
the dark into the neighbourhood of a source of light. VKaNEK
could state as disturbing factors: 1. the slight solubility of the
cobalto-oxalate formed in the solution of potassium-oxalate ; 2. the
retarding action exerted on the photocatalytic process by the potas-
sium-oxalate formed in the reaction, — which influence, however,
!) J. Vrének, Zeits. f. Elektrochem., 23, 336, (1917).
