86
appeared to diminish gradually with increasing concentration of the
catalyst ; and 3. the tendency of cobalto-oxalate to form supersa-
turated solutions '), instead of precipitating normally. Finally there
is again a disturbing effect, because of the subsequent photochemical
decomposition of the o.valate-ion and its transformation into a for-
mate-ion, which reaction, as Bekthki.ot and Gaudechon 3 ) had already
demonstrated formerly, occurs chiefly under the influence of rays of
small wave-lengths. All the different effects mentioned manifest their
special influence in a more or less sensible degree, and they prove
sufficiently, how very complicated indeed the whole mechanism of the
process is.
The author could, however, not find a catalysing action by
addition of acids, such as hydrochloric or sulphuric, under the
conditions of his experiments ! ).
§ 3. In contrast to those of Vrhnek, our experiments were
executed with much more concentrated solutions of the complex salt,
while, after many trials, finally the direct gravimetric determination
of the cobalto-oxalate generated was adopted as method of analysis;
the cobalto-salt was determined as metallic cobalt, after reduction in
a current of dry hydrogen. Even in the case of very concentrated
solutions, the error resulting from the solubility of the precipitate
in the solution containing potassium-ora/ate, appeared to be small
enough to neglect it in comparison with the other incertitudes of
the experiment: in the most unfavourable circumstances the deviations
caused by this factor did not surpass 1,5 %•
The dark green liquid was kept in a vessel of transparent quartz,
surrounded by a quartz-mantle of greater diameter; in the space
between the cylinders a current of water was continually passed,
which was kept at an almost constant temperature by means of a
metallic spiral-tube, placed in a thermostat; the temperature varied
in our experiments between 21° and 23° C. As source of light a
quartz-lamp (Heraeus) was used, which was placed always at ex-
actly the same distance (140 m.m.), and which sent its rays into
the solution not before its current had reached a constant and
always identical intensity, and also its radiating power had become
constant. All the conditions of the experiments were, for the rest,
in all cases as constant as possible; e.g,. the volume of the
solution was always the same, namely 50 ccm. Because also the
1 ) St. Deakin, M. Scott and B. D. Steele, Zeits. f. phvs. Chemie, 69, 126, (1909).
2 ) D. Berthelot and H. Gaudechon, Compt. rend, de l'Acad. d. Sc. Paris
152, 162, (1911).
3 ) J. VBaNEK, loco cit., p. 350.
