88
character. It might be expected that, also a true proportionality would
exist between the time of' exposure and the amount of decomposed
substance, if the initial concentrations were the same in all cases.
However, experience only partially confirms this conclusion; at least
we found, for instance, the following data in a series of experiments :
Temperature
in °C:
Time of Ex-
posure in
minutes:
Corr. Weight of
the Cobalti-Salt
in 50 ccm.:
Corr. Weight of
the metallic Co.
found:
Percentage
of the Salt
decomposed:
23°2
23.9
23.5
30'
45
60
0. 0803 Gr.
0.9017
0. 9902
0.0310 Gr.
0. 0357
0.0511
26. 4 o/
33.2
44.7
This divergence becomes somewhat intelligible if we remember
that the medium is continually changing chemically and physically
during the reaction; therefore, because it changes gradually as well
in absorptive power as in concentration of the cobalti-s&h or potas-
sium-oxalate, the action of the light in 60 minutes e.g., can not be
equivalent to twice the action in 30 minutes, etc. On the contrary,
there is rather a cause for astonishment at the fact that the results
of the first series of experiments were really so regular, while the
initial concentrations in these experiments differed so appreciably
from each other, and thus the same was true for the absorptive
power of the solutions used. It may be, that the slight increase of
the first four numbers mentioned above, finds its explanation also in
this particular circumstance.
$ 4. Afterwards the experiments described above were again
repeated, and now a specially purified salt, free from all cobalto-
o.valate was made use off. It was freshly prepared and immediately
used in the experiments, in which a lamp of somewhat smaller
intensity was applied as source of light. For the numbers obtained,
see the table on the following page.
From these measurements it appears that the speed of reaction is
relatively greater with the smaller, than it is with the greater con-
centrations; that also in the most favourable circumstances disturbing
influences seem to play a role, which have as a consequence some
uncertainties of the analysis; and that, at least with respect to the
last four numbers, the total decomposition may be supposed as in-
dependent of the original concentration. It must be remarked, that
