Chemistry. — "Colloidal Sulphurcompounds of Ruthenium". By
Prof. F. M. Jaeger and J. H. de Boer.
(Communicated in the meeting of May 29, J 920).
§ 1. It was for the first time during the process of recovering
ruthenium from residues, that we observed some phenomena
indicating the existence of colloidal .sw,//;/mr-compounds of that metal.
The properties of the colloidal solutions thus obtained, appeared to
be sufficiently interesting, to study the phenomena more in detail.
The results of this investigation are accordingly summarized in the
following paper.
If a solution of freshly prepared ammonium-sulphide be added to
a hot solution of some salt of tetravalent ruthenium l ), be it to the
sulphate : Ru (50 4 ) s , or to a complex salt ') like : Ru J v J (NH S )^ [ Br„
a brownish black precipitate of RuS, will be formed, which does
not manifest any especially remarkable properties. Totally different,
however, is the behaviour of these substances with respect to each
other, if the experiment is carried out at lower temperatures, e. g.
at 0° C. : under these circumstances a dark, greenish black precipi-
tate is formed, while a dark green colloidal solution appears at the
same time. This solution is very unstable: it rapidly becomes turbid,
depositing greenish black flakes of the same kind as the original
precipitate. For the green solution is nothing but a colloidal
solution of the original precipitate, produced by the addition of
ammonium-sulphide; it shows the TïNDALL-effect, and its dispersed
particles appear to carry a negative electric charge, as follows from
the electric cataphoresis of the solution. On being put into contact
with the air for some hours, the solution is completely flocculated,
and the supernatant liquid then shows only the yellow colour of
the ammonium-polysulphides. The green solution is much more stable,
if first strongly diluted with water; but even in these circum-
stances it appears to be flocculated completely after twenty-four
hours. Neither an addition of gum arabic, nor that of gelatine, can
increase the stability of the colloidal solution.
l ) U. Antony and A. Luchessi, Gazz. Chim. It. 28, (II), 139, (1898).
«) A. Werner, Ber. d.d. chem. Ges., 40, 2621, (1907).
