96
§ 2. If now the flocculated solution is quietly left standing during
a couple of days, its colour becomes gradually pale pink; and after
standing somewhat longer, finally a more or less intense reddish
violet solution is obtained, while at the bottom of the vessel a preci-
pitate of finely divided sulphur has accumulated. An analogous
phenomenon is observed, when one tries to subject the original, dark
green solution to dialysis: also in that case a pink solution is finally
obtained after the flocculation of the original green one. This new
red solution, into which the original green liquid is transformed,
also appears to be a colloidal solution : both the original and the
red liquid exhibit the TYNDALL-effect and on being examined with
the ultra-microscope they both show the characteristic structure and
the BROWNian motion of true colloidal solutions. The stability of the
red solution appears, however, to be much greater than that of the
dark green solution mentioned before.
Soon it became evident that for the change of the unstable green
solution into the much stabler red solution, the presence of the free
oxygen of the air is essential; that, in other words, an oxydation-
process goes on, in which the greenish black precipitate originally
formed is gradually dissolving under continuous absorption of oxygen,
while a red colloidal solution is formed by it. This chain of
events could be illustrated, leaving no doubt whatever about its
truth, by the following series of experiments :
a. Greenish black ruthenium- sulphide freshly precipitated at 0° C.
was first washed with icy-cold water, and subsequently dried
after washing it with absolute alcohol and ether. Immediately it
was mixed with water and shaken in a stoppered bottle; a suspen-
sion is formed of an originally bluish hue, the upper layer of which
is, however, already after one and a half hour converted into a
pale pink liquid. After a day the colour turns reddish violet, while
the quantity of the precipitate is gradually diminished, the longer
the contact of the different substances lasts. Simultaneously a slight
precipitate of sulphur is deposited on the bottom of the flask.
b. At 0° C. freshly precipitated greenish black sulphide, treated
as described above, was vigorously shaken with water, and a conti-
nuous current of pure air sucked through the liquid. Soon the
solution turns reddish violet; after some days the original precipitate
has completely disappeared, while some finely divided sulphur only
remains, which can be easily removed by filtering. This is one of
the best modes of preparing the red colloidal solutions.
c. On being exposed to the air for a long time, the dry greenish-
