98
extraction of the product by carbon disulphide at low temperatures.
The substance was, therefore, rapidly put into a small Erlenmrykk-
tlask, carbon bisulphide was poured upon it, the air driven out by
carbon dioxide, and the tlask shaken for some time at room-temperature.
This treatment was repeated several times, till no sulphur was any more
extracted; the carbon bisulphide was then washed out by a mixture of
dry alcohol and ether, the product finally washed with absolute ether
and carefully dried in an atmosphere of carbon dioxide. For the
purpose of analysis a weighed quantity was put into a Rose-
crucible, which in its turn was hung inside a nickel crucible, and
carefully roasted with access of the air; afterwards it was ignited
in a current of dry hydrogen. All the determinations were made by
means of a micro-balance.
Analysis: 12,33 m.Gr. of the greenish black sulphide gave 4,26
m.Gr. Ru; calculated for /^S' 6 : 34,69% Ru-, found: 34,55 % Ru.
Because in the oxydation of this sulphide, as will be demonstrated
below, there is formed a substance containing four atoms of sulphur,
while simultaneously sulphur is set free, this high content of sulphur
is perfectly in agreement with the whole chemical behaviour of the
greenish black sulphide '), which has the character of a ruthenium
persulphide.
$ 4. We must now first review the properties of the red-violet
solution, which is formed by oxydation of the green solution described
above. Its refractive index appeared to be practically identical with that
of pure water; moreover, besides the TYNDALL-effect and the BROWNian
movement, it manifests in a particularly beautiful way the phenomenon
of electric cataphoresis : the dispersed particles possess, in contra-
distinction to those of the green colloidal solution, a positive charge.
Although the solution is very stable, and may even be concentrated
on the water-bath without coagulation, it can be flocculated by
the addition of electrolytes, — be it only slowly. The pure solution
was mixed with a small quantity of solutions of NH^Cl, CaCI t ,
Fe^Clt, K,S0 4 and Na^HRO^ Already after a day some precipitate
was formed from each of these liquids, and the intensity of their
colour diminished. If more of the electrolytes be added, the precipitate
formed first again disappears, but after twenty-four hours a certain
quantity is again deposited. After a couple of days the colour of the
liquid has completely disappeared, and all of the dispersoid has been
flocculated. Most rapidly this takes place, when phosphate is added,
') It may be remarked here, moreover, that on heating this sulphide at the
open air at 120° C, also S0-> is formed ; the sulphur seems to be partially more
loosely bound than the remaining part of it.
