99
the electrostatic charge of the anions, therefore, being decisive here, —
a fact, which is in agreement with the stated positive charge of the
dispersed particles. Such experiments were also carried out with a
more concentrated solution, CaCl % being added to it. After one day
already there appeared a precipitate, the colour of the solution being-
violet ; after two days more precipitate was formed, while the colour
became bluish violet; after five days the colour was dark bluish
violet; after a fortnight it was similar and only a relatively small
amount of precipitate was formed. In no case the colloidal solution
was flocculated completely, it, therefore, appearing to be extremely
stable. This follows also from the behaviour of the liquid, while being
concentrated on the waterbath : even the last drops retain their bluish
violet coluur, and the amorphous reddish violet powder, which is conti-
nually deposited at the surface-border of the liquid, may be redissolved
immediately into a colloidal solution of the same kind as the original
liquid. This reversibility of the colloid corresponds also here with a
smaller sensitiveness to electrolytes. On complete evaporation a violet
and a grey powder are obtained; only the violet one is reversible. If
heated for some time, it turns grey, afterwards black, and then it
can no longer be dissolved. After being dried at 110° C. until the
weight has become constant, the powder is black and possesses a
metallic lustre.
Of this product the content of ruthenium was determined in the
way formerly described, and by the aid of the micro-balance.
Analysis: 17,23 mGr. of the powder contain 4,55 mGr. Ru. The
amount of sulphur was determined by volumetric analysis: a solution,
the rutheniumeontent of which was accurately known, was oxydized
by a solution of potassium-permanganate of known strength, and
the amount of sulphate afterwards estimated as BaS0 4 . Such solu-
tions were prepared from a known weight of the pure greenish
black sulphide by oxydation of its solution by means of an air current.
Analysis: A quantity of the solution containing 2,40 mGr. ruthe-
nium, gave 21,4 mGr. BaSO^ corresponding with 2,93 mGr. sulphur,
this being 32,18 %. Therefore 41,42% of o.c.ygen is present, cor-
responding with the formula: RuS 4 O lQ , which was afterwards con-
firmed by other tests.
Calculated for RuS t O l0 : Observed:
Ru: 26,16% 26,40 %
S: 32,82% 32,18
0: 41,02 % 41,42%
The oxydation of the solution to ruthenium sulphate and free sulphuric
acid can, therefore, be expressed by the equation :
7*
