100
RuS 4 O ]0 + 40 = Ru(S0 4 ) a -f 250,,
which was completely checked and confirmed by the deter-
mination of the oxygen liberated from the permanganate used and
absorbed by the substance, as well as by the quantitative measurement
of the amount of sulphuric acid formed. For this latter quantity is
equal to the total amount of acid found, minus the acid added for
the volumetric analysis, plus the quantity of acid used during the
titration with KMnO t .
Analysis: A quantity of the colloidal solution, containing 2,30
mGr. of ruthenium (= 0,0225 milli-mol. Ru) was titrated with 10
ccm. of a — normal solution of sulphuric acid and 4,9 ccm. KMn(J 4
of 0,09 normal, — if a normal solution be calculated as one con-
taining 0,4 mol p. Liter, equivalent to 0,09 mGr. atom p. ccm.
Therefore, totally 0,0882 mGr. 0, corresponding with 40 to 1 Ru
were used. As there are used at the same time 2,65 ccm. H i SO i
of the strength mentioned above in this reaction, 7,35 ccm. sulphuric
acid remain. As 38 ccm. of T oo normal NaO //-solution were
necessary in the subsequent titration, and for 7,35 ccm. H % S0 4
only 29,4 of this iVaO/Z-solution were necessary, it follows that
0,043 milli-mol. H^S0 4 are formed in the reaction by oxydation of
the sulphur. For every atom Ru there are thus formed 2 molecules
H^SOi, which data, with respect to the quantity of absorbed in
the process, demonstrate clearly the correctness of the equation just
mentioned.
§ 5. Thus, while the original greenish black sulphide appeared
to be RuS t , this is transformed by vigorous absorption of atmospheric
oxygen into the reddish violet compound #MaS' 4 O 10 , with simultaneous
splitting-off of free sulphur, according to the equation:
RuS, + 50, = RuS,O l0 -f 'IS,
while the compound formed is afterwards further oxydized by the
potassium permanganate according to the equation :
RuS t O 10 + 40 = Ru(SO t ) 2 + 1H t A .
The red colloid is, therefore, by no means to be considered as
the final oxydation-product of the greenish black sulphide, but it
represents an intermediate stage on the way leading finally to
ruthenium sulphate. This fact too could be confirmed by special reactions :
a. St long nitric acid oxydizes the red coloured solution at low
temperatures slowly, but on heating more rapidly, to a solution
which appears to contain free sulphuric acid.
b. A solution of potassium permanganate makes the colour of the
