101
colloidal solution and that of the permanganate rapidly disappear,
while in the liquid $04 -ion becomes demonstrable.
c. Addition of fiT,0 s and some diluted acid soon makes the colour
of the solution disappear, while sulphate is formed.
(/. The red-violet powder obtained by evaporation from the
solution, prepared by oxydation of the original green solution by
the air, no longer gives a reddish violet colloidal solution, after
being exposed to the air for three weeks; it gives a slightly greenish
solution of acid reaction, containing a perceptible amount of A$() 4 -ion.
These different reactions prove undoubtedly, that the violet RuS A O l0
is an intermediate product, which by further absorption of oxygen
is transformed into the sulphate: Ru{S0 4 ) 2 . The compound has the
composition of a normal rutheniumsalt of 'pyr v sulphurous acid : H,S,O s ,
and more particularly, of a pyrosulphite of tetrav sdent ruthenium.
In this way the pyrosulphite appears as an intermediate product
in the oxydation-process of rutlienium-persulphide to rutheninm-
sulphate; most remarkable in it is, moreover, the colloidal nature
of this intermediary ruthenium-pyrosulphite, the dispersed particles
of which bear at the same time an electrostatic charge of opposite
algebraic sign to those in the colloidal solution of the original
per sulphide.
Some other reactions of the colloidal pyrosulphite may be of
interest here:
a. The colloidal solution of the salt is rapidly decolourized by
strong sulphuric acid.
b. Hydrochloric acid, especially in higher concentrations and at
higher temperatures, has the same effect, while sulphuric acid is
formed simultaneously.
c. Sodium hydroxide (1 : 3) slowly decolourized the solution, but at
higher temperatures even a more dilute solution does this rapidly.
d. On addition of mercurous nitrate, the violet colour disappears
immediately ; a brown turbidity appears, and, after some hours, a
brownish black precipitate is formed, which is probably a sulphide
of mercury.
e. Ammonium sulphide does not give a precipitate, but makes
the colour disappear; sulphur dioxide, however, has no appre-
ciable effect.
ƒ. A solution of .silver nitrate turns the colour slowly into a brown
one, and a brownish black precipitate is gradually formed, which
is soluble in ammonia.
(/. On boiling the colloidal solution with sodium carbonate, the
colour is rapidly changed into a pale green one.
