106
gically a more homogeneous part, it is the. Saxon element of our
population, which distinguishes itself by a higher Index cephalicus.
A second group includes the provinces of Friesland, N. -Holland,
Utrecht, Gelderland and Z. -Hoi land, in which the Index cephalicus
is strikingly equivalent, with the exception of Zuid-Holland, in which
a relatively strong decline occurs. The average would be lower for
Gelderland too, if the population of the "Achterhoek" — with its
own Index of 81.1 — had been left out of consideration.
In the second group the Index cephalicus reaches its highest point
in 80.5; consequently the population of these provinces is a little
more long-headed than that of the north-eastern part of our country.
This is most evident in the province of Zuid-Holland, in which the
inhabitants have the smallest degree of round-headedness.
The part of our country meant here, is that one, in which the
Frisian element of our population predominates and which is charac-
teristically different from the Saxon element by a larger degree of
long-headedness.
The three southern provinces, which, according to my investi-
gations, as regards the pigmentation of the population, form a unity,
are not uniform as regards the Index cephalicus. The index reaches
its highest point, viz. 81.5 in N. -Brabant, from which it appears,
that here the most round-headed part of our population lives. Lim-
burg and Zeeland agree, with only a slight difference, and are
nearer to the proportion, occurring in the Western provinces. In
connection with the high degree of pigmentation these facts point
to the population being very mixed. However, this is easy to point
out for the province of Zeeland. While the Index cephalicus amounts
to 80.08 for the whole of the province, it falls to 79.9 with
respect to Walcheren. The population of the most western part of
Zeeland has a more long-headed type than the people living in the
eastern part. This phenomenon is not unique. In the provinces of
Noord- and Zuid-Holland the people, living in the villages on the
coast and on the edge of the dunes have a longer and narrower
head than the people living more inland.
About this fact, I said before, that the populations of Amsterdam
and Rotterdam were left out of account for the calculation of the
Index cephalicus of the provinces of Noord- and Zuid-Holland. I did
this on purpose, because the inhabitants of these towns have a
lower average index than the population living in the country. And
because the number of those citizens measured, does not form an
unimportant part of the whole population of the province, the value
of the provincial average would be intluenced too much by the
