Physics. — "Remark on the possible existence of binding rings in
diamond." Communication N°. 4 from the Laboratory of
Physics and Physical Chemistry of the Veterinary College at
Utrecht. By Dr. N. H. Kolkmeijer. (Communicated on behalf
of Prof. W. H. Keesom, Director of the Laboratory, by Prof.
H. Kamerlingh Onnes).
(Communicated at the meeting of January 31, 1920).
§ 1. Some years ago Debije and Scherrer 1 ) investigated, whether
the assumption of the existence of "binding rings" of 2 electrons each
between the carbon-' 'ions" in diamond, was in accordance with the
intensities of the beams of X-rays, reflected by some planes of the
lattice as calculated on Bragg's pattern.
For some time I have doubted however, whether the conclusion
of Debije and Scherrer, that the mentioned binding rings in diamond
do not exist, might be regarded as right. In their calculation
Debije and Scherrer use an approximating representation, treating
the two electrons of each binding ring as coinciding in their
mutual centre of mass. Now I found, that the introduction of this
simplification may be of great influence on the results obtained.
These considerations induced me to calculate the relative intensities
of the lines in the Roentgenogram obtained by the method of Debije
and Scherrer and that without neglecting the real positions of the
electrons in the binding rings. The comparison of these calculations
with the observed intensities might give the solution of the question,
whether these intensities are in agreement with the assumption of
the binding rings. Eventually it might also enable us to deduce the
radius of the binding rings. Proceeding in this way I found that
without making new assumptions the conclusion of Debije and
Scherrer must be accepted. At the same time however I got the
impression, that the observations at our disposition on diamond only
do not permit the drawing of a definite conclusion. This is evident,
as the reflection of the X-rays is effected not only by the eventual
binding electrons, but also by the electrons circulating about the
nucleus (and perhaps even more or less by the eventual electrons
J ) P. Debije and P. Scherrer, Physik. ZS. 19 (1918) p. 476.
