METHODS AND PROFIT OF TREE-PLANTING. 3
the supply of desirable timber, both pine and hard-wood, has materially
diminished within the last twenty-five years. As a natural conse-
quence, the price has everywhere advanced, and a further advance is
as natural and inevitable, unless effective measures are taken to check
the waste of our forests and to restore them to their proper dimen-
sions. The necessity of vigorous action in regard to this matter is
beginning to be felt. In the sparsely wooded districts of the "West
this is i^articularly true. The Legislatures and agricultural societies
of several of the States have already taken important action on the
subject. Laws have been enacted for the protection of the existing
forests from destruction by fires, and for encouraging the planting of
trees. The national Congress has also, within a few years, made
enactments both for the repression of timber-thieving on the public
lands and to encourage the planting of timber-trees.
The enactments of Congress for the purpose of encouraging tim-
ber-planting, while they have marked a step in the right direction,
have not been so effective as they might have been. This has resulted
in part through evasion of the laws by speculators, who have only made
a pretense of planting while their real object was to get possession of
land which they could sell at a profit for agricultural purposes, and in
part because the requisitions of the law were too onerous to be com-
plied with by settlers without capital. The latter was of course unin-
tentional. But this, as well as other defects of the timber-culture acts,
came as the natural result of our ignorance in this country of the whole
matter of tree-planting. We know enough to plant apple and peach
trees in orchards, and a row of maples or elms, occasionally, along the
road-side, for shade and ornament. But of the cultivation of trees on
the large scale, in masses, as they grow in the native forests, few
among us know anything. A planted forest is a thing almost unknown
here. The chances are that, among the members of Congress who
framed the timber-culture acts, not one had any practical knowledge
of the subject. The whole matter is new to us, and we have hardly
any experience for our guide. For our knowledge we must go abroad,
where the subject is treated with the greatest and most scientific atten-
tion, as we have lately shown (" Popular Science Monthly," July, 1881).
In France and Germany, and other European countries, one of the
principle bureaus of government is that having charge of the forests
and rivers. Its annual reports are looked for and read with interest,
as having important bearings upon the revenue as well as upon the
health of the people and the agricultural and commercial resources of
the country.
It is a happy thing for us that, as wo are waking up to the neces-
sity not only of checking the wasteful consumption of our existing
forests but of j^lanting new ones, we have the experience and careful
study of the subject by European nations to aid us. For, although
their physical conditions are in many respects different from our own,
