POPULAR MISCELLANY.
137
broods of the fly are produced in a year, the
first laying its eggs in April and Mar, the
second in August and September. The dam
age is done by the larva, which lies at the
sheathing base of the leaves first above the
roots, at or near the surface of the soil, and
absorbs the sap from the stalks. From the
larva, the insect passes into the pupa state,
in which it resembles a flaxseed, and re-
mains in it for the five winter months. The
pest flourishes best in rather warm and moist
seasons; and it has been noticed that the
years when it has been most abundant have
been characterized by weather answering to
that description. It is afflicted by several
parasites by which it is said that nine tenths
of every generation of the insects are de-
stroyed. The principal parasites are a chal-
cid fly that destroys the pupa, and a platy-
gaster, which lays its eggs in the egg. Pro-
fessor Packard recommends, as remedies for
the insect, late sowing of fall wheat, so that
the flies may be killed by frost before lay.
ing their eggs, high culture to give the plant
new vigor, the sowing of the most vigorous
and many-stooled varieties, and pasturing,
which destroys the " flaxseeds," but is " a
rather rude, uncertain remedy." Special
remedies like limeing, dusting, burning stub-
ble, etc., are not recommended, because they
are inferior to those just mentioned, and
are as likely to destroy the helpful para-
sites as the harmful flies. A comparison of
the periods when the flies have been most
abundant indicates that the plague has cul-
minating periods in the neighborhood of
twenty-five years apart.
Folk-Lore of the Mammoth. — Baron
Nordenskiold, in his " Voyage of the Vega,"
gives some interesting citations of the folk-
lore of the Siberian natives respecting the
mammoth, whose remains are very abundant
in the country. Evert Yssbrants Ides, a
Russian embassador in 1692, related that
the heathen Yakuts, Tunguses, and Osti-
aks, supposed that the mammoth always
lived in the earth and went about in it,
however hard the ground might be frozen,
and that it died when it came so far up that
it saw or smelled the air. J. B. Miiller, in
1720, added that the tusks were believed to
have formed the animal's horns, that they
were fastened above the eyes and were
movable, and that with them the animal
dug a way for itself through the mud ; when
it came to a sandy soil, the sand ran to-
gether so that the mammoth stuck fast and
perished. Miiller further stated that many
natives assured him that they themselves
had seen such animals in large grottoes in
the Ural Mountains. Klaproth says that
the Chinese at Kiakhta considered mammoth
ivory the tusks of the giant rat, tien-shu,
which is found only in the cold regions
along the coast of the Polar Sea, avoids the
light, and lives in dark holes in the interior
of the earth. Some of the literati believed
that the discovery of these immense earth-
rats might even explain the origin of earth-
quakes. The horns and crania of the rhi-
noceros, which were found along with the
remains of the mammoth, were believed to
have belonged to gigantic birds, concerning
which stories were related analogous to those
told of the roc in the " Arabian Nights."
Pieces of the horns were used to increase
the elasticity of bows, and were believed to
exert a beneficial effect on the arrow, and to
tend to make it hit the mark. Ermann and
Middledorf suppose that the finds of these
remains two thousand years ago gave occa-
sion to Herodotus's account of the Arimaspi
and the gold-guarding dragons. Certain
it is that during the middle ages such " grip-
claws" were preserved as of great value in
the treasuries and art collections of the time,
and that they gave rise to many a romantic
story in the folk-lore, both of the West and
the East. Even in our own century, Hedcn-
striim, in 1830, otherwise an intelligent
traveler, believed that the fossil rhinoceros-
horns were actual " grip-claws."
Water-Temperatnresat the Top and Bot-
tom of Lakes. — Professor William Ripley
Nichols has obtained, from the examination
of the relative temperatures of the surface
and the depths of fresh-water ponds near
Boston, Massachusetts, results that differ
from the views on this subject that are
commonly held and taught. In Fresh Pond
and Mystic Pond considerable difference
was shown to exist in the temperature at
the top and at the bottom, and the tempera-
ture appeared to decrease regularly from
top to bottom. Having compared his own
observations with those made in Swiss and
