138
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Scotch lakes, in winter as well as in sum-
mer, Professor Nichols is led to the conclu-
sion that " the watei of lakes and ponds is,
as a rule, before freezing, cooled to a temper-
ature much lower than 4° Cent. (39° Fahr.),
not simply at the surface, as generally
stated, but to a considerable depth. The
commonly received idea and the current
statements of the text-books of chemistry
and physics, are, therefore, misleading."
The temperature of the water at the bottom
of deep lakes is, moreover, not constant at
the point of greatest density, as is frequently
stated, but often lies appreciably above that
point. Professor Nichols is not satisfied
that we know sufficiently well the depth to
which the diurnal variations of temperature
extend under different circumstances. The
curves of temperature in Mystic Pond show
that there were several times when a few
successive days of warm or cold weather
produced an effect on the water, even at a
depth of seventy-five feet. The paper re-
cording these observations is supplemented
by a list of other publications and papers
bearing on the subject.
Sanitary Reports of British Schools. —
The "Lancet" about a year ago addressed
a series of questions to the managers of
English schools respecting their sanitary
provisions and the health of their pupils.
The answers which it has received indicate
that the subject is given considerably more
attention than it was a few years ago, and
that many of the managers sympathize with
the editor in the object of his inquiries —
that of ascertaining the conditions of the
best scholar-health. The first report made
by the journal summarizes the replies re-
ceived from thirty-nine schools, in relation
to the points of the character of the situa-
tion and buildings, and the climatic con-
ditions ; the amount of air-space per pupil
in the sleeping- and school-rooms ; general
state of health, cases of illness ; sanitary
arrangements as regards drainage, closets,
lavatories, bathing, towels, etc. ; provisions
for the isolation of contagious cases; and
provisions for medical inspection. No par-
ticular relation seems to be sho^vn between
the presumed healthful or unhealthful
character of the site, and the presence or
absence of disease. The sleeping-rooma
afford from 273 to 1,300 cubic feet of air
per individual ; if the schools were full, the
probable average allotment would be be-
tween 300 and 400 feet. The provision of
air in the school-rooms is " fairly ample."
The drainage is pronounced good in nearly
every school, and no cases of illness are
mentioned which could be traced to defect-
ive drainage. Lavatory arrangements are
well attended to, with provisions for hot,
cold, and swimming baths, and separate
towels, brushes, etc, for each boy. Eight
schools report that no cases of illness oc-
curred during the year, one never having oc-
casion to send for the doctor. The diseases
mentioned include ophthalmia in two schools,
pneumonia in two, " congestion of the
lungs " in two, peritonitis in one, rheumatic
fever and erythema nodosum in one, and
sore-throat in one. Measles occurred in fif-
teen schools (fifteen cases in one), scarlet
fever in twelve (fourteen cases with one
death in one school), varicella in two, mumps
in three (thirty cases in one school), Rotheln
in three, whooping-cough in two, and ty-
phoid fever in one. Many of the schools
have provision of some kind for the isola-
tion of pupils sick with contagious disease.
Only five schools have arrangements for
systematic medical inspection. The value
of these returns is modified by the fact that
the schools having the best sanitary ar-
rangements and showing the best condition
would naturally be the ones most ready to
report.
Recent Existence of the Mastodon. —
Professor CoUett's " Geological Report of
Indiana for 1880 " mentions some new facts
that seem to indicate that the mastodon
existed in our country at a more recent date
than is commonly supposed. In nearly all
the specimens that have been found, gener-
ally in places where the animal has been
mired, the skeletons are in a greater or less
state of decay. In a skeleton discovered a
few years ago, in Fountain County, the mar-
row of the larger bones was used by the
workmen to grease their boots, and the
place of the kidney-fat was occupied by
lumps of adipoccre. During the summer
of 1880 a mastodon was found in Iroquois
County, Illinois, that gave every evidence
of having lived among the same life and
