POPULAR MISCELLANY.
141
has given a list of 163 cases of traumatic
epilepsy, 64 per cent of which were cured
by trephining. Before Dr. Ferrier's ex-
periments this trephining would have had
to be done blindly. The knowledge gained
by Dr. Ferrier's researches has also been
useful in guiding to the spot where pus has
accumulated in case of abscesses in the
brain, and in indicating the site of tumors.
Considering how recently these discoveries
have been made, it in fact seems extraordi-
nary that they should have been already
productive of so much benefit. The opera-
tions on the animals are not painful after
the exposure of the brain has been accom-
plished, and that is done under anajsthetics,
nor does any pain follow the recovery from
anaesthetic influence. The effects of the
after-stimulations are simply the excitement
of the wonder and curiosity of the animals
at their involuntary motions. Probably a
single sportsman inflicts more pain in a
day's shooting than Dr. Ferrier has done in
the whole course of his researches.
A New IVatnral Hydrocarbon. — Profess-
or Henry Carvill Lewis has published a
description of a new substance resembling
dopplerite which has been found in a peat-
bog at Scranton, Pennsylvania. It is black,
jelly-like in consistency, and elastic to the
touch when first taken from the ground,
breaking with a conchoidal fracture, but be-
comes tougher and more elastic, like India-
rubber, immediately on exposure to the air.
Occasional seeds, having the characters of
the spores of one of the higher cryptogams,
occur in the substance, as well as in the sur-
rounding peaty matter. The composition
of the substance nearly corresponds with
the formula CioIIsaOic, differing from that
of dopplerite in the presence of much larger
proportions of hydrogen and oxygen. Pro-
fessor Lewis suggests that this product is,
perhaps, an intermediate product between
peat and coal, and proposes to combine it
with dopplerite under the generic name of
phytocoUitc (" plant- jelly ").
Parasites.— Professor Arnold Heller, of
Kiel, has recently published an interesting
work on parasites, with particular reference
to their import to men. It is only lately
that the true origin and character of para-
sites have been at all adequately understood.
Not very long ago they were supposed to be
formed out of the substances of the body ;
and in the condition of knowledge at the
time it was hard to account otherwise for
their presence in certain parts of the sys-
tem. They have also been supposed to be
received by inheritance ; and it has not been
fully proved that, in rare instances, this
may not be the case. It has, however, been
shown that, as a rule, they are introduced
into the system, either directly or through
germs taken in with the food, breathed in
the air, brought by unclean hands or with
unclean dishes, or blown in with the dust.
They are generally dependent on moisture
for their vitality, and, finding in the bodily
juices a fa voidable environment, may be-
come suddenly active after having been long
dormant in uncongenial situations. Most, if
not all of them, probably existed originally
in a free state, and have become wonted to
what is now an exclusive abode by gradual
adaptation in long time ; in such cases, they
seem to have lost some of the organs, such
as those of locomotion, which they origi-
nally possessed, but which have become of
no further use to them. Some of tlioni have
been made useful to man. The leech serves
a valuable purpose in the healing art ; the
cochineal aphis furnishes a valuable dye ;
the tape-worm of the snipe tickles the pal-
ate of the hunter and the epicure as " mac-
caroni-piatti " — flat maccaroni; and the
worms of fresh-water fishes are esteemed as
food in some parts of Italy. The ichneu-
mon flics and their tribe arc of inestimable
benefit in destroying the insect enemies to
vegetation ; and helpful moths have been
discovered which prey upon the moths and
other insects in the furs of rodents and the
feathers of birds. Among vegetable para-
sites, ergot is valuable in medicine, and the
mistletoe-berry is used in making bird-lime
and fly-paste. It has been suggested that
even intestinal worms may be good for
children by helping to consume the excess
of slime ; and Jordan, of Mayence, has set
forth that the animals that infest the skin
of man may be beneficial by forcing him to
look after the cleanliness of his person and
clothing, and his intestinal worms by mak-
ing him careful of his food. This view can
not, however, be justified, even when we ad-
