142
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
mit that parasites in many cases do no per-
ceptible harm. To these cases may be op-
posed the numerous instances in which they
have proved destructive to their hosts,
whether animals, birds, or men, often car-
rying off multitudes of creatures when they
become excessively abundant on a species ;
and in the most favorable cases they give
the host discomfort and inconvenience,
though their work may be overlooked in the
presence of his superior vigor. As a rule,
parasites belong to the lower orders of
animals — worms or insects. Sometimes an
arachnoid or a crustacean will join the com-
pany ; but a few small fishes are the only
creatures among the vertebrates that ever
assume that relation. The stories that have
been told of the existence of other inhabit-
ants in the system are either fables or have
originated in the accidental presence of sin-
gle individuals who were probably as much
astonished as their host at finding them-
selves in such a home.
The Repeating Melograph. — M. J. Car-
pentier exhibited, at the recent electrical
exhibition in Paris, an instrument called the
repeating melograph, by means of which, he
claimed, any piece or improvisation which
a composer may play on the key-board to
which it is attached is registered, and may
be repeated upon any other instrument
with which it may be connected. It, more-
over, secures the repetition, not of the
piece only, but of the style, even to the
false notes, of the player. Both processes,
the registering and the repeating of the
piece, are performed through the medium
of electric currents. In the former case the
keys of the instrument on which the piece
is played are connected with wires through
which a current is established when the key
is pressed down. This current sets in oper-
ation an apparatus, with tools answering to
the several keys, by means of which a per-
foration corresponding in character with
the musical value of the note is made in a
moving band of paper. The piece being
finished, the band is ready to serve in a
second execution of it. Electric communi-
cation is effected between the perforated
band and the second instrument; and a
current is formed, causing a corresponding
key to be sounded at each perforation of
the band as it passes the circuit in the pro-
cess of unrolling. M. Carpentier contem-
plates adjusting his instrument so that it
may also be made to print the piece in or-
dinary musical type.
Electric Units.— The International Con-
gress of Electricians at Paris unanimously
agreed upon a uniform standard of electric-
al units of measurements. It decided to
adopt the fundamental units, the centime-
tre, the gramme, the second (C. G. S.);
that the practical units, the ohm and the
volt, should be defined, as now, the ohm as
10^, and the volt as 10^ ; that the unit of
resistance (ohm) be represented by a col-
umn of mercury having a section of a square
millimetre at the freezing-point, and a
height to be determined experimentally by
the International Committee ; that the cur-
rent produced by a volt in an ohm be called
an ampere instead of a weber, the latter
name having been applied by Weber him-
self in Germany to a current of ten times
less force ; that the name of coulomb be
applied to the quantity of electricity defined
by the condition that an ampere gives a
coulomb a second, the former English we-
ber ; and that the name /a/-a</ be applied to
the capacity defined by the condition that a
coulomb in a farad gives a volt — which is
equivalent to the farad of the British Asso.
elation. The Carcel lamp was recommended
to be continued as the standard for the com-
parison of lights, pending the investigations
of an International Committee to ascertain
and fix upon the most practicable standard.
"Clonds of Seeds." — A correspondent
of " La Nature " describes a remarkable ap-
pearance of seeds in the air that was ob-
served in Guatemala during eight consecu-
tive days in February last. In the early
hours of the afternoon it was easy to per-
ceive at a certain distance from the ground
bodies resembling snow-flakes, which ap-
peared and disappeared instantaneously,
generally going in the same direction, but
which were visible only when they passed
between the sun and the observer. They
moved gracefully, with variegated colors,
falling and then rising out of sight, as snow-
flakes do when they melt in the air; at
other times they were carried along by the
