NOTES.
H3
wind. The populace thought that fire was
falling from the sun. More intelligent per-
sons believed that snow had been actually
formed in consequence of the cooling of the
atmosphere, some of which had fallen with-
out melting till it came in sight, and this
view was currently accepted. It was finally
shown, however, that the particles were float-
ing seeds, and every one was enabled to sat-
isfy himself of the fact by grasping a hand-
ful of them.
NOTES.
The tertiary lake-basin at Florissant, be-
tween South and Hayden Parks, Colorado,
furnishes one of the richest deposits of fossil
insects that have been found anywhere.
According to Mr. S. H. Scudder, who exam-
ined it in connection with the Hayden Sur-
vey, it has yielded in a single summer more
than double the number of specimens which
the famous localities at (Eningen, in Bava-
ria, furnished Heer in thirty years. The
(Eningen specimens are, however, as a rule,
better preserved, but a larger number of
satisfactory specimens are found at Floris-
sant than at Giningen. Sixteen species of
insects have been published, and, besides
these, a piano rbis-shell, eight species of
fishes, several birds' feathers, and a single
tolerably perfect sparrow. Also several
thousand specimens of thirty-seven species
of plants, have been found.
Professor Nordexskiold has had occa-
sion during his Arctic voyages to ask the
question, which must have often occurred to
many. What becomes of the " self-dead "
animals, or those that die a natural death ?
During his nine expeditions in regions where
animal life is abundant, he has found only
a very few remains of recent vertebrate
animals which could be proved to have died
a natural death. We have at present no
idea of what becomes of the bodies of such
animals, " and yet we have here a problem
of immense importance for the answerin"'
of a large number of questions concerning
the formation of fossiliferous strata. It is
strange, in any case, that on Spitzbergen it
is easier to find the vertebra3 of a gigantic
lizard of the Trias than bones of a self-dead
seal, walrus, or bird, and the same also
holds good of more southerly inhabited
lands."
Mr. A. S. Packard, Jr., has given, in a
contribution to the Boston Society of Nat-
ural History, the descriptions of twenty-two
new species of ichneumon, microgaster, tri-
cogramma, and other genera of parasites in-
festing North American butterflies, typical
specimens of most of which may be seen in
the collection of Mr. S. H. Scudder, and of
a few in the Harris collection of the muse-
um of the society.
Professor Otis T. Mason is not satisfied
with the existing classifications of the an-
thropological sciences, and has adopted a
classification of his own, as follows : 1. An-
thropogeny ; 2. Prehistoric Anthropology ;
3. Biological Anthropology ; 4. Psychologi-
cal Anthropology ; 5. Ethnology ; 6. Linguis-
tic Anthropology; 7. Industrial Anthropol-
ogy ; 8. Sociology proper ; 9. The Science
of Religion ; to which he adds a tenth class
of works on the instrumentalities of re-
search. In his bibliographical contributions
to the Smithsonian Report and the " Ameri-
can Naturalist," Professor Mason states that
a larger number of papers have been pub-
lished on prehistoric anthropology than on
any other branch of the science. He enu-
merates one hundred and forty-six memoirs
in this branch as published in 1879, and
twenty-eight as published in America alone
in 1880.
The deaths in the Peabody Buildings,
London, during sixteen years, have been at
the rate of sixteen and seven tenths per
thousand per annum, while the general
death-rate of the metropolis during the
same period has been twenty-three and
four tenths. The death-rate in the crowd-
ed districts surrounding the Peabody Build-
ings has been stated to be thirty or forty to
the thousand.
A COMMITTEE of the British Association
is investigating the question of the existence
of earth-tides, or of oscillations in the crust
of the earth similar to those which are pro-
duced in the ocean by the attraction of the
moon. A pendulum is so suspended that its
slightest motion turns a mirror, and causes
a perceptible movement in the spot of light
reflected by it upon a distant screen. The
pendulum is proved to be continually chang-
ing its position, for the reflected light is in
incessant motion, and so irregularly that it is
hardly possible to localize its mean position
on the screen within five or six inches. Mr.
W. Mattieu Williams has suggested that the
constant movements of the microscopic bub-
bles imprisoned within the cavities of gems
and minerals are due to the same cause.
The death is announced of the Rev. Dr.
Thomas R. Robinson, Director of the Ob-
servatory at Armagh, Ireland. He was
elected to the Royal Society in 1856, and
was one of the oldest Fellows on the list,
being nearly ninety when he died. His
latest contribution to science, " On the Con-
stants of the Cup Anemometer," was pub-
lished in the " Philosophical Transactions "
in 1880.
