144
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
M. P. Pl'iseux, remarking upon the ap-
parent relations between the activity of
vegetation and actinometric conditions, cites
in illustration the promptitude with which
plants mature during the summer of lands
which the snow hardly leaves. Phaneroga-
mous plants may be found at the height of
twelve thousand feet, ranunculuses on the
Schreckhorn, saxifrages on the Gravola, go-
ing through all the phases of their develop-
ment in the space of three months under a
mean temperature, according to ordinary
estimates, considerably inferior to that of
the polar regions. Doubtless these plants
find a compensation for the unfavorable
thermic conditions in the intensity of the
solar radiation at great altitudes, which is
increased by the reflections from the snow.
M. Gactier insists, in a number of
communications to the French Academy of
Sciences, that the venom of serpents con-
tains a toxic substance analogous to the
alkaloids and the ptomaines. The venom
of the Vaja tripudimis, of which a quarter
of a milligramme will kill a sparrow, may
bo boiled, filtered, and treated with alcohol,
without losing its activity. These proper-
ties indicate a relation with the alkaloids.
Not only the saliva of serpents, the salivas
of other animals — of the dog, the hare, even
of man — are capable of exhibiting delete-
rious properties. An extract from human
saliva furnishes an extremely poisonous
liquid, capable of killing a bird almost as
quickly as the venom of a serpent. Thus
the saliva of man, the dog, and the serpent,
all contain toxic alkaloids, and do not differ
essentially except in the higher or lower
degree of concentration of the poison ; and
it appears that animal as well as vegetable
tissues are capable of elaborating alkaloids.
M. G. Delaunat has been studying the
influence exercised by the greater or less in-
tensity of the nutritive phenomena in cases
of poisoning by sti'vchnine. Equal doses
of strychnine ■were given to two frogs, one
of which had been kept active for a half-
hour previously. The poison took effect
more ([uickly and more actively upon this
one than upon the one that had been quiet.
In another experiment, the poison operated
more slowly and more lightly upon a frog
that had been bled than upon the other one,
which had not been hurt. When one of the
frogs was bled after taking the poison, it
exhibited a tendency to return to the nor-
mal condition in measure as it lost blood.
M. Albert Gaudut has been elected to
fill the chair in the French Academy which
was made vacant by the death of M. Sainte-
Claire Deville, receiving forty votes to eight-
een cast for his competitor, M. Lanry, ge-
ologist. "La Nature" remarks that with
M. Gaudry a new science, paleontology, ob-
tains representation in the institute. "
Dr. K. von Fritsch, of Halle, maintains
that the causes of earthquakes are much
slighter than has been generally believed,
that they may be sought at a depth of not
more than ten or fourteen miles, and often
of less, and that rather feeble forces may
produce earthquakes which will be felt at
great distances. The hammer in Krupp's
factory, which weighs a thousand centners,
and falls from a height of ten feet, pro-
duces sensible concussions over a surface
five miles in diameter ; and a recent explo-
sion in a dynamite factory was felt at be-
tween twenty-five and thirty miles away.
Dr. Fritsch points out how earthquakes
might and must be produced by the increase
and decrease in volume of rocks under the
influence of physical and chemical forces,
by concussions, by the opening of crevices
in rocks, and by the subsidence of masses
of rocks due to these agencies.
Dr. S. Gibbon, medical officer for the
Holborn district, London, says in his latest
report that, whatever may be the cause,
there is no doubt that a Jew's life in Lon-
don is, on an average, worth twice as many
years as a Christian's. The Hebrews of the
metropolis are notoriously exempt from tu-
bercular and scrofulous taint. Pulmonary
consumption is very rare among them. The
medical officer of one of the Jewish schools
has remarked that their children do not die
in anything like the ?ame ratio as Christian
children. In High Street, Whitechapel, the
average death-rate on the north side, which
is occupied by Jews, is twenty per thousand,
while on the south side, which is occupied
by English and Irish Gentiles, it is forty-
three per thousand.
Mr. C. R. Ploweight, F. L. S., made
thirteen experiments last summer in inocu-
lating wheat-plants with the fungus of the
barberry-bush, and derived results adverse
to the theory that wheat-mildew is developed
from the fungus. One hundred and sev-
enty-six plants cf wheat were employed,
seventy-eight of which were inoculated with
the barberry- fungus, and ninety-eight un-
inoculatcd ones were kept for check plants.
Seventy-six per cent of the inoculated plants
developed the rust in about fifteen days, and
seventy per cent of the uninoculated plants
developed it also. Only one experiment of
the thirteen seemed to su])port the theory
of metamorphosis.
JIr. JIcybridge has been exhibiting some
remarkable rapid-process photographs in
Paris, one of which is said to have been
taken in one hundredth of a second. He
has obtained a series of six photographs
during the leap of a clown, which when i)ro-
jectcd on a screen by a zoctropc exhibit the
clown as in motion, with all his changes of
position.
