SPECULATIVE SCIENCE. 149
so on. All tills is certainly strange news to an author who has de-
voted several chapters of his book to the task of showing that the
great fundamental vice of the mechanical theory is the confusion of
concepts with things, and particularly of the connotations of the con-
cept mass with the complement of the properties of matter — who, in
a word, is guilty of the great oifense of expressing, in the precise terms
of the science of logic, what Professor Newcomb is staggering at with
a phrase borrowed from some elementary treatise on grammar !
And here I am tempted to do a little Gerundian jDreaching myself,
Professor Newcomb being, of course, my congregation of " familiars,"
Here is my sermon : Sombre sabio y admhxido, scattering supernal
wisdom, like hurling thunder-bolts, is a jjrerogative of the dwellers on
Olympus, not to be usurped by a drag-footed philosopher bellowing at
its base. Quod licet Jovi, non licet bovi. I do not mean to question
your general ruminant powers ; but you have delivered yourself of
some things " that have not been well digested," and had better be
chewed again. Let me see how I can help you. Listen: When we
speak of matter, we mean something which not only has weight, pro-
portional to its mass, but which has all manner of properties — optic,
thermic, electric, magnetic, chemical, and so on. Now, in the light of
modern science, all these " pi'operties " are regarded as modes of mo-
tion, if I may be permitted to use the expression of Professor Tyndall.
And when we strip matter (in thought, you understand) of all these
modes of motion, we have nothing left but inertia, which is but
another name for mass. This mass is not a concrete thing, but a con-
cept or a part of a concept ; it is, as you say, " an abstract noun like
length." And the trouble with the atomo-mechanical theorists is their
fancy that this abstraction is a thing in itself, something you could
look at if you had a telescope with sufficient magnifying power, or
which you could weigh and measure if you had a pair of scales or a
chemical reagent sufficiently delicate. They labor, as you see, under
a huge mistake, which, in charity, ought to be corrected. "Whenever
you find real matter, you have mass and the modes of motion in indis-
soluble synthesis and conjunction. But when this synthesis is broken
by the destructive analysis of the mechanical theorist who persists in
saying that things consist of matter and motion, you are bound to tell
hira that what he calls matter is not matter at all, but only something
which, by a curious law of our thought, we are bound to conceive or
imagine as a substratum of motion — the word svbstratum being a bar-
barous Latin term which in a rough way signifies what is supposed to
underlie motion. The term matter, as used by those deluded people
who think that all the facts of this world can be explained by a reso-
lution of them into matter and energy, or matter and motion, denotes
simply what the physicist Avho knows what he is talking about calls
m,ass.
And now, mind, what I have just told you is not some shallow con-
