150 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ceit hatched under my own time-tonsured pate, but genuine wisdom
which I have simply borrowed from an old, clear-headed fellow, who
lived and died a long while ago — Leonhard Euler. If you will read
his seventy-fourth letter to a German princess, written on the 11th day
of November, 1760, you will find it all set forth at great length. In
reading it you must bear in mind, though, that in Euler's time the im-
ponderables, as they were then called, were not so distinctly known or
believed to be modes of motion as they are now. And you must also
remember that he was writing to a princess who probably knew more
about madrigals and operatic airs than about scientific tei'ms, in conse-
quence whereof his exposition became a little diffuse. If, however,
you should reject old Euler's reasoning as " belonging to a past age of
thought," which, I see, is one of your favorite ways of getting rid of
irrefutable truths, I may refer you to a gentleman who is yet among
the living — Hei'mann Ilelmholtz. You will find Avhat he has to say on
the " matter in hand," on the third and fourth pages of his first essay,
" Ueber die Erhaltung der Kraft " (not included in the collection of
his essays).
"Now, hombre querido (I am still preaching), if after this you will
carefully read again the first twelve chapters of my book, you will
probably find that they are somewhat less absurd than you fancied they
were. But you will say, no doubt — in fact, you do say, though not
in so many words — ^that all this is mere speculative trash, in Avhich the
man of science has no concern. One of my reviewers in the New
York " Critic " — whom I at one time suspected, perhaps unjustly, from
certain peculiarities of his phraseology, and from the fact that, like
yourself, he sneers at me for having " wasted " two long chapters on
transcendental geometry, of having had oral confabulations with you,
in which the mouth of the speaker was not and could not be applied
to the ear of the listener — disposes of my discussion of the relation of
the mechanical theory to the laws of thought by the following oracu-
lar dictum (a travesty of a saying of Carlyle) : "A sound digestion has
little self -consciousness of the operations of the stomach; the sound
thinker gives himself little uneasiness respecting the laws of thought."
I can not stop, at this moment, to show you how and why a little
knowledge of the laws of thought is useful to the physicist and mathe-
matician. I shall come to that by-and-by, when I have considered
what you say about the kinetic theory of gases and space of an indefi-
nite number of dimensions. For the present I only want to tell you
how I ventured upon the audacity of intruding the theory of cognition
into the science of physics.
In Europe, as well as in this country, there are certain idle fellows
who, during the first half of the present century, for want of more
useful occupation, took to tracing the ramifications of forms of speech,
and finally got to digging for their roots. These absurd persons
abound chiefly in Germany, where, as you know, the people are always
