SPECULATIVE SCIENCE. 151
in the nebular regions, when they ought to be fighting and grubbing
on the solid ground below. In course of time these individuals, de-
spite the utter fatuity of their undertaking, persuaded themselves that
they were engaged in something important, and became noisy and pre-
sumptuous. At one time they even clamored for admission into the
ranks of the physicists and astronomers, on the ground that they had
discovered phonetic and other laws, which they claimed to be as im-
mutable as the laws of Kepler. Their application was, of course,
scornfully denied, for the reason that they were either no scientists at
all, or at best speculative scientists. Instead of submitting humbly
to this just decree of the physicists (it is a pity they had not my pres-
ent meekness before them as an example), these men grew wrathy and
tui'ned away with something like this objurgation : " Well, never mind,
the time is not far distant when you will come as suppliants to us."
And, thereupon, in sheer malice, having got well-nigh through with
the roots and bi'anches of words, they fell to attacking the history of
their meanings — of concepts, as they called them — pi'etending to make
legitimate employment of inductive methods, which they wholly mis-
apprehended, no doubt, and which, at any rate, were among the clear
prerogatives of the physicists. And now they pretend to have estab-
lished, inductively, a number of laws relating to the operations of the
intellect, which they again assert to be immutable, and, though con-
trolling acts of consciousness, to be wholly indej^endent of deliberate
intent or set purpose. They say, for instance, that there runs through-
out the history of speculative as well as of ordinary thinking an
almost irrepressible tendency to hypostasize concepts, or (as I have
called it, cribbing an outrageous barbarism from Professor ]]ain) to
reify them. I will try to explain to you what that means, as nearly as
possible in your o^vn words. When people make or find a new " ab-
stract noun," they instantly try to put it on a shelf or into a box, as
though it were a thing ; thus they reify it. In very early times they
did worse than that — they undertook to incase it in a smock-frock or
a pair of breeches. They personified it. There was a still earlier
period when, worst of all, men blasphemously and impiously deified
abstractions ; and it is said that this class of persons has not wholly
died out yet.
Now, the silly speculators I have just alluded to have already di-
vided the science they pretend to be cultivating into several branches,
to which, being word-mongers, they give all sorts of sesquipedalian
names, such as comparative linguistics, comparative psychology, com-
parative mythology, and so forth. To give you an idea of the temer-
ity of these pseudo-scientists, let me tell you that one of them. Professor
Max Miiller, of Oxford — who is, of course, a German — at one time
undertook to account for the monotheism of the Jewish race by a
peculiarity of Semitic speech. It is even whispered that he and others,
years ago, evolved the whole city of Troy, with all its houses and
