152 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
■walls, the heroes within it, Avith their wives and children, as well as
the Greek warriors and their ships, without it — everything, including
the Ti'ojan horse and what it contained — from a j^arcel of solar myths,
demonstrating to their own satisfaction that all these persons and
things were, at bottom, nothing more than " objectivations" of forms
and laws of speech. As was to be expected, this fine theory came to
grief when Schliemann appeared with a jiickaxe and spade. As usual,
the theory collapsed in the presence of the facts. Be that as it may,
there is one thing these scientific pretenders persist in asserting, in
spite of all their past discomfitures : that more than three fourths of
the controversies in theology and metaphysics have had their rise in
the ignorance of the fathers of the Church, and of mediaeval and
modern scholastics, of the results brought to light in these new-fangled
sciences. Unfortunately, when I was less old and wary than I am
now, I fell in with these " paradoxers," some of whom I knew to be
men of great learning, and believed to be persons of thorough earnest-
ness of purpose. To my astonishment I found two mathematicians
among them — Hermann Grassmann and Franz Woepcke. I had read
with some difiiculty, but, as I thought, with reasonable grasp of his
meaning, the " Ausdehnungslehre " (since supplemented by a new
treatise under nearly the same title, and a number of articles in
Crelle's and Borchardt's " Journal ") of Grassmann ; and I had at-
tempted to read some of the writings of Woepcke, though without
success, because he went far beyond my depth. But I got an impres-
sion that both had things to say — in mathematics, at least — that were
worth knowing ; and inferred that there must be sense and purpose
also in their linguistic endeavors. In this way I became interested,
and gradually caught the spirit of the comparative linguists and my-
thologists by contagion. And so it came to j^ass that, after a while, I
asked myself this question : " If the results of these sciences are avail-
able for the solution of the perplexities of the metaphysicians, why
may they not also throw some light on the nature of our perplexities
in physics?" So far as I could learn, no one had attempted an orderly
and systematic answer to this question, although (as is not unusual in
cases of this sort) there was a considerable amount of scattered mate-
rial ready to the hand of whomsoever should undertake the work.
Under these circumstances, I was fool-hardy enough to make an at-
tempt myself, the result being my poor little book. And now I con-
fess I am not a little mortified at being informed that I am a " learned
and able " idiot ; and I derive but scant comfort from the assurance
that my mental predicament may be accounted for on the theory of
contagion, and that the hypothesis of congenital imbecility may be
avoided.
But it is time to doff my Gerundian robes and to cease apostro-
phizing the familiars, for I have things to say which ought to be said
in all earnestness and sobriety. I am about to examine Professor
