SPECULATIVE SCIENCE. 153
Newcomb's animadversions on my chapters on the kinetic theory of
gases and transcendental geometry. On the former he expatiates as
follows :
For the benefit of the non-scientific reader we may say tliat there is no
theory of modern physics, the processes supposed by which are invisible to di-
rect vision, which is more thoroughly established than this. It explains with
the utmost simplicity and without introducing any but the best known prop-
erties of molecules, a great number of diverse plienomena, seemiugly incapable
of explanation in any other way. The only objection of the author which we
can completely understand is that the theory in question — i. e., the kinetic theory
of gases — seems to him incompatible with his own favorite doctrine that mole-
cules are inelastic. Should he have any hesitation in pitting his « j5Worndea
against so widely received a theory, it should relieve him to know that the sup-
posed antagonism arises only from his own misapprehension. 2^o elasticity is
assigned the molecules in the Tcinetic theory^ hut only an insuperable, repulsice
force which causes the molecules to repel each other xchcn they are brought suffi-
ciently near together. The reader who has any interest in following the author
in his attempt to show that Maxwell and his colaborers were guilty of a long
series of fallacies and errors in attempting to prove the theory in question, may
read the chapter, as an abstract is impossible.
So " no elasticity is assigned to the molecules in the kinetic the-
ory." Well, that is startling news indeed ! I hope it has been con-
veyed to Sir William Thomson, who at latest accounts was still en-
gaged in the arduous, but, as we are now informed by Professor
Newcomb, utterly useless study of vortex-rings, which he hopes to
make available as substitutes for elastic atoms or ultimate molectiles.
At the last meeting of the British Association Sir William Thomson
read a paper " On the Average Pressure due to the Impulse of Vortex-
Rings on a Solid," of which an abstract is published in " Xature "
for May 12, 1881 (vol. xxiv, pp. 47, 48). In this paj^er Sir William
says :
The pressure exerted by a gas composed of vortex-atoms is exactly the
same as is given by the ordinary kinetic theory, ichich regards the atoms as hard
elastic particles.
I do not deem it necessary to multiply quotations from the writings
of other scientific men in support of my statement that the kinetic
theory of gases can not dispense with the assumption of the elasticity
of ultimate molecules. No intelligent reader who has glanced at j^age
42 of my book can be in any doubt as to what is taught on the subject
by the founders and promoters of the theory in question. But I will
add one citation, because it is from a book to which I shall have occa-
sion to refer for another purpose. The most thorough mathematical
treatise on the kinetic theory of gases, indorsed as such by Clerk
Maxwell, is the well-known little book of Henry William Watson. It
is in the form of propositions ; and the very first words of the first
proposition are these :
