154 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
A very great number of smooth, elastic spheres, equal in every respect, are
in motion within a region of space of a given volume, and therefore occasionally
Impinge upon each other with various degrees of relative velocity, and in various
directions.
The italics in this j^assage, as well as in all past and future quota-
tions, are mine.
In justice to Professor Newcomb, however, we must look at his
entire sentence, which is this : " No elasticity is assigned to the mole-
cules in the kinetic theory, hut only an hisiiperable, repulsive force,
whicli causes the molecules to repel each other when they are brought
sufficiently near toyethery This information. Professor Newcomb
hopes, will " relieve me." I am indeed relieved ! What the learned
professor tells me in the last part of his sentence certainly simplifies
matters to the last degree. All that needs be assigned to the mole-
cules is an " insuperable repulsive force." Such a force is the greatest
convenience for the physicist that can possibly be devised ; it not only
effects a simple and satisfactory solution of the difficulties set forth in
my fourth and eighth chapters, but it enables us at once to get over
every other diificulty that may be suggested. It is singular that Sir
Isaac Newton did not understand this when he was distressed about
the mechanism of gravitation ; for, obviously, all that is required to
explain it is to assign to the molecules an attractive force. Sir Isaac's
ignorance is all the more remarkable because, coming to think of it, I
now recollect that the philosophy of whicli Professor Newcomb is the
able exponent was very clearly set forth, just fourteen years before
the appearance of Newton's " Principia," in a profound metaphysical
treatise published by one Jean-Baptiste Poquelin (otherwise called
Moliere) under the somewhat whimsical title " Le Malade Imaginaire."
Toward the close of that great work (which is in the form of dia-
logues), one of the interlocutors, Bachelierus, philosophizes as follows :
"Mihi a docto doctore
Domandatur causam ct rationem quare
Opium facit dormire.
A quoi respondeo
Quia est in eo
Yirtus dormitiva
Cujus est natura
Sensus assoupire."
Of course, we are not to be embarrassed by anything John Ber-
noulli has written about " insuperable forces " as mathematical or phys-
ical functions ; nor is it worth while to be disturbed by considerations
respecting the effect of their assumption upon the doctrine of the con-
servation of energy.
Professor Newcomb's indignation at my treatment of the kinetic
theory of gases is very great indeed. " There is no theory of modern
physics," he says, " the processes supposed by which are invisible to
