SPECULATIVE SCIENCE. 155
direct vision, which is more tborouglily established than this. It ex-
lylains with the utmost shrqylicity, and icithout introducing any hut the
hest-knoxon properties of molecules, a great number of diverse phenom-
ena seemingly incapahle of explanation in any other wayP Now, it
is a great pity that these glad tidings did not reach Professor Clerk
Maxwell before he was laid to rest in his early grave. They would
certainly have been a great comfort to him, and jjossibly might have
prolonged his life. For there is reason to suspect that in his latter
days he arrived at conclusions respecting the kinetic theory of gases
which bear a strange resemblance to my OAvn. Being, not a scientific
dogmatist, but an honest and candid investigator in search of truth, he
came to see with ever-increasing clearness that the difficulties of his
favorite theory beset not only its fundamental assumptions, but also
their inevitable consequences, especially in their bearings upon the
theory of heat. After the appearance of Watson's treatise akeady
adverted to, on the 26th day of July, 1877, he published in "Xature"
(vol. ivi, Xo. 404) a review of it, in which he considered the signifi-
cance of Mr. Watson's j^ropositions in connection with certain matters
discussed on pages 97, 99, and 127 of my book. And thereupon he
made this declaration ("Xature," vol. xvi, p. 24.5) :
The clear way in which Mr. TTatson has demonstrated tlicse propositions
leaves us no escape from the terrible generality of his results. Some of these, no
doubt, are very satisfactory to us in our present state of opinion about the con-
stitution of bodies, but there are others which are likely to startle us out of our
complacency, and -perliain ultimately to drive us out of all the hypotheses in
which hitherto we have found refuge into that state of consciotcs ignorance which
is the prelude to every real advance in hnoicledge.
I hope, by-the-way, that this last remark of the great scientist will
be pondered by those who complain that, after demolishing, as they
imagine, all current physical theories, I leave them in the midst of ruins,
and do not at once present them with a golden key for unlocking all
the mysteries of the universe, or, like Puck, in " Midsummer-Xight's
Dream," " put a [theoretical] girdle round about the earth in forty
minutes."
Before I leave this subject, I take the liberty of quoting another
passage from the same article, which Professor Xewcomb, if he knows
anything about the discussions to which the kinetic theory of gases
has given rise, Avill find instructive. Speaking of Boltzmann's attempt
to reconcile the elasticity of atoms with their rigidity by increasing
their co-efticients of elasticity ad infinitum, so as to make them practi-
cally rigid — a supposition also developed in an essay of Hugo Fritsch
in Kunigsbcrg, entitled "Stoss zweior Masscn unter der Yorausset-
zung ihrer Undurchdringlichkeit behandelt," which does not seem to
have fallen under Professor Maxwell's notice (and, I may add, a suj)-
position of which Professor Xewcomb's "insuperable force" may
