156 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
be a vague reminiscence) — Maxwell says ("Nature," vol, xvi, jjp.
245, 246):
But, before we accept tliis somewhat promising hypothesis, let us try to con-
struct a rigid-elastic body. It will not do to increase tJie co-efficients of elasticity
without limit till the tody tecomes 'practically rigid. For such a body, though
apparently rigid, is in reality capable of internal vibrations, and these of an
infinite variety of types, so that the body has an infinite number of degrees of
freedom.
The same objection applies to all atoms constructed of continuous, non-rigid
matter, such as the vortex-atoms of Thomson. Such atoms would soon convert
aU their energy of agitation into internal energy, and the specific heat of a sub-
stance composed of them would be infinite.
A truly rigid-elastic body is one whose encouuters with similar bodies take
place as if both were elastic, but which is not capable of being set into a state of
internal vibration. We must take a perfectly rigid body and endow it with the
power of repelling all other bodies, but only when they come within a very
short distance from its surface, but then so strongly that imder no circumstances
whatever can any body come into actual contact with it.
This appears to be the only constitution we can imagine for a rigid-elastic
body. And, now that we have got it, the best thing we can do is to get rid of
the rigid nucleus altogether, and substitute for it an atom of Boscovich — a math-
ematical point endowed with mass and with powers of acting at a distance on
other atoms.
But Boltzmann's molecules are not absolutely rigid. lie admits that they
vibrate after collisions, and that their vibrations are of several different types,
as the spectroscope tells us. But still he tries to make us believe that these
vibrations are of small importance as regards the principal part of the motion of
the molecules. He compares them to billiard-balls, which, when they strike
each other, vibrate for a short time, but soon give up the energy of their
vibration to the air, which can-ies far and wide the sound of the click of
the balls.
In like manner, the light emitted by the molecules shows that their internal
vibrations after each collision are quickly given up to the luminiferous ether.
If we were to suppose that at ordinary temperatures the collisions are not severe
enough to produce any internal vibrations, and that these occur only at temper-
atures like that of the electric spark, at which we can not make measurements
of specific heat, we might, perhai)S, reconcile the spectroscopic results with what
we know about specific heat.
But the fixed position of the bright lines of a gas shows that the vibrations are
isochronous, and therefore that the forces which they call into play vary directly
as the relative displacements, and, if this be the character of the forces, all iin-
pacts, however slight, will produce vibrations. Besides this, even at ordinary
temperatures, in certain gases, such as iodine gas and nitrous acid, absorption
bands exist, which indicate that the molecules are set into internal vibration by
the incident light. Tlie molecules, therefore, are capable, as Boltzmann points
out, of exchanging energy with the ether. But we can not force the ether into
the service of our theory so as to take from the molecules their energy of inter-
nal vibration, and give it back to them as energy of translation. It can not in
any way interfere with the ratio between these two kinds of energy which Boltz-
mann himself has established. All it can do is to take up its own due propor-
tion of energy according to the number of its degrees of freedom. "We leave it
