METHODS AjYD PROFIT OF TREE-PLANTING. 5
one year, whereas in the other, by biting and mangling one year's
shoot, mischief is done to at least three years' growth." But he has
quite understated the possible if not probable damage. At the Vienna
Exposition in 1873 there was a convention of forest managers from
most of the European countries, and an extensive exhibition of forest
products. Among these there were sections of trees taken from a for-
est property near Krainburg, and designed to illustrate the compara-
tive growth of trees when properly protected and cultivated and when
exposed to browsing animals. There were shown trees which in thirty
years had attained a height of only thirty inches, and others of the
same age which had grown near them, but protected from animals,
that were twenty-eight feet in height. The cubic contents of sixteen
hundred trees, exposed and protected, were measured, with this result :
in the unpastured woods, three thousand and fifty-six cubic feet ; in
the pastured woods, eleven. The annual increase of growth was found
to be as one hundred to one, or a loss of ninety-nine per cent, of pos-
sible results. Here certainly is food for study.
In many of the ancient forests of Europe there has come down, by
immemorial usage, the feudal right of the neighboring j^easants to
pasturage ; but so injurious is the exercise of this right felt to be
that the owners of the forests make it one of their chief endeavors to
extinguish this right, by jDurchase or otherwise, whenever they can.
Again, looking upon his trees as a crop, the planter will engage in
his work with a patient forecasting of the future. His success or fail-
ure does not depend upon what he may do, or fail to do, in a single
season or a single year. His trees will come to maturity only with the
lapse of generations. He may be planting in part for his grandchildren
rather than for himself, except so far as they are himself. The pine,
for example, is reckoned to come to maturity only after a growth of
one hundred and sixty years. All the more need, therefore, for the
adoption of a proper method, and that he should
" Learn to labor and to wait.''
The European managers of forests, in forming their plantations,
allow from one hundred and twenty to one hundred and sixty years as
the period of growth, or of rotation, as they call it. In laying out a
forest plantation they will divide the proposed tract into six or eight
sections, planting one every twenty years, and, when the whole is
planted, cutting and renewing a section every twenty years. Mean-
time there is a thinning process going on all the while, as the trees
grow and require more room for their proper development. By this
division of a forest into sections, they avoid the evil effects upon water-
supply, climate, etc., resulting from the sweeping off of large forests
at one time.
European foresters also insist strongly upon the importance of
drainage for the best growth of the forest. They urge that this is
