SPECULATIVE SCIENCE. 159
Asrain
Whatever we may say of the uiiUty of such investigations, one thing is cer-
tain — they are perfectly harmless. At the very worst they can do no more
injury to scientific conceptions tlian the careless author of an elementary algebra
will do his pupil by loading an hypothetical bakers wagon with more loaves of
bread than the baker could get into it. If Judge Stallo had taken up a book on
algebra, found a problem the answer to which required five thousand loaves
of bread to be carried by a single baker, and had devoted sixty-two pages to an
elaborate statistical and mechanical proof that no wagon could possibly hold
that number of loaves, his criticisms would have been as valuable and perti-
nent as those which he devotes to his imaginary school of pangeometry.
After reading these passages I am sorely perplexed. When Pro-
fessor Xewconib penned them he had before him my extracts (in a
note to page 211 of my book) from the Exeter address of Professor
Sylvester, embodying a reference to the speculations of Professor Clif-
ford, and another independent citation from Clifford's writings on page
213. And, being himself a writer on geometry of more than three
dimensions, he can hardly have been ignorant of the many other pan-
geometrical speculations respecting the necessity of assuming the ex-
istence of a fourth dimension for the purpose of explaining certain
optic and magnetic phenomena. There are mathematicians and j^hys-
icists in Europe — excellent mathematicians and physicists, too — who
maintain that space must have at least four dimensions, because with-
out it a reconciliation of Avogadro's law with the first proposition of
the atomo-raechanical theory is impossible. According to them, exj^eri-
ence shows that matter has not only extensiofi but also intension, which
directly evidences the actual existence of a fourth dimension in space.
Among those who advocate views like this is Professor Ernst ]\Iach, in
Prague. How, in the face of all this, Professor Xewcorab could have
the hardihood to assure his readers that no mathematician has ever
pretended that space has more than three dimensions, I am at a loss
to understand.
But it is not worth while to quarrel with him on this head ; for
his statement, that I devote sixty-two pages to the attempt at proving
that space has in fact hut three dimensions, is a pitiful misrepresen-
tation, akin to the statement that I am the defender of the propositions
of the atomo-mechanical theory. In my two chapters on transcendent-
al geometry there is not a page, not even a line, devoted to such an
undertaking. I discuss two main questions : first, whether or not it is
true, as Lobatschewsky, Riemann, and ITelmholtz assert, that space is
a real tiling, an object of direct sensation whose " properties," such as
the number of its dimensions and the form or degree of its inherent
curvature, are to be ascertained by observation and experiment — by
telescopic observation, for instance ; and, secondlj^ whether or not
the empirical possibility and character of several kinds of space can
be deduced a priori from the concept of an n-fold extended multiple.
