i6o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
or from the abstract conceiDt " quantity," using this term as compre-
hending both algebraic " quantities " and geometrical magnitudes. As
subsidiary to these questions I also discuss certain minor questions,
such as that of the representability of non-homaloidal forms of space ;
but upon the proof that there is actually no such thing as non-homa-
loidal or four-dimensional space I do not waste a syllable. In other
words (which Professor ISTewcomb may find more intelligible, perhaps) :
my first inquiry is, not whether any one has ever discovered a fourth
dimension or an inherent spatial crook by looking through a telescope,
but whether there would be any use or sense in trying to make such a
discovery by looking through a telescope, even if we could get a base-
line large enough to meet the requirements of Professor Helmholtz ;
and my second inquiry is, whether or not there is any world-jDroducing
potency in an algebraic formula or an " abstract noun."
Professor Newcomb claims that investigations respecting geometry
of more than three dimensions are at least harmless, and even useful,
inasmuch as " they have thrown a flood of light on the origin and
meaning of geometrical axioms." My answer to this is, that specula-
tions of this sort are harmless only so long as it is not pretended that
they can teach us anything respecting either empirical reality or em-
pirical possibility. And they can throw light on the origin and mean-
ing of geometrical axioms only by giving iis an insight into the nature
of the forms or modes in which the world of objective reality is or
may be rei)roduced in the intellect. But what shall we say, then,
about the grin at speculation in science which stares at us from the
very title of Professor Newcomb's article ? If he may throAv a flood
of light on the foundations of geometry, by speculating about sj^ace
of four dimensions, am I to be jeered at when I endeavor to direct a
feeble ray from the general theory of cognition on the same subject —
when I try to do methodically what he is doing at random, and with-
out the least suspicion that anything more is necessary for the accom-
plishment of his purpose than skill in the handling of an analytical
formula ? It may be that my undertaking has not been very success-
ful ; but in magnis voluisse sat est. And this leads me to say a few
words in answer to the intimation of Professor Newcomb and the
direct charge of my reviewer in "The Critic," that inquiries into the
forms and laws of thought are sheer impertinence, and of no conse-
quence to the physicist.
In the introductory part of his ni-ticle Professor Newcomb flings
at me the case of De Morgan's paradoxer Smith, who fancied that he
could prove the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter
to be exactly 3^, by getting somebody to admit that the ratio of the
circumference to the diameter is the same for all circles, and then tell-
ing him to draw 07^6 circle with the diameter 1 and circumference 3^.
Now, the intellectual plight of this paradoxer, who, besides assuming
the very thing to be proved, failed to see that his argument would
