SPECULATIVE SCIENCE. i6i
serve equally "well to establish any other ratio, and who never thought
of asking himself the question whether or not a diameter 1 and a cir-
cumference of were compatible — whether or not his postulates were
consistent with each other — is closely analogous to the mental pre-
dicament of certain scientific specialists who are constantly multiply-
ing forces, superable and insui:)erable, and all manner of entities, with
impossible or contradictory pro2:)erties, for the purpose of exj^laining
natural phenomena. When this is done with a proper insight into the
nature and use of such fictions — with the understanding that they are
mere devices for fixing ideas or colligating facts (to use Whewell's
expression) — it is well enough. But, in many cases, the specialists have
no such insight. They begin to treat the fictions here spoken of as
undoubted realities, whose existence no one can question without sub-
jecting himself to a Newcorabian fustigation. Take the case of the
ether, the hypothetical substratum of luminar undulations. It is
first mentioned simply as a fluid of the greatest tenuity, as wholly
inappreciable to the senses, and as offering no resistance to atoms or
celestial spheres. Thereupon, to meet the exigencies of the undulatory
theory, it is endowed with a co-efficient of elasticity thousands of times
greater than that of steel. Next, at the demand of some physicist or
chemist, Avho wants to incase his atoms or molecules in ethereal at-
mospheres or envelopes, it is made as soft and mobile as hydrogen gas.
First, it is looked upon as continuous ; then, to explain the dispersion
of light, it is made discontinuous, and "finite intervals" are interposed
between its atoms. I3ut now comes Clerk Maxwell, and shows that,
if the constitution of the ether Avere atomic, consequences would ensue
upsetting the whole theory of heat ; or Ilelmholtz and Sir William
Thomson, in order to be able to construct their vortex-atoms, require
it to be absolutely frictionless and incompressible, and therefore con-
tinuous ; and, accordingly, it is restored again to its ancient continuity,
no matter what may become of Cauchy's theory of chromatic disj^ersion
or Fresnel's theory of polarization. Originally there is but one ether ;
but presently Professor Xorton contends that the luminiferous ether
is not available for the purpose of explaining the phenomena of elec-
tricity and magnetism. He demands a second ether, filling the same
space with the first ; and his demand is complied with. In a short
time Mr. Hudson appears with the claim that even the phenomena
of light can not be accounted for on the supposition of a single
light-bearing ether ; and he must have tico luminiferous media, " each
possessed of equal and enormous self - repulsion or elasticity, and
both existing in equal quantities throughout space, whose vibrations
take place in perpendicular planes ; the two media being mutually in-
different, neither attracting nor repelling " — and, again, his request is
granted without further ceremony. To cap the climax, finally arrives
the pangeometer, and insists that back of and behind all these ethers
there is an independently real thing, an object of direct sensation,
TOL. XXI. — 11
