i62 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
space, which is probably flat, but which possibly may turn out to be
inherently crooked. And now, Avhen somebody shakes his head and
proposes to examine whether there is not something wrong with this
whole mode of philosophizing, which mistakes crutches for limbs, and
scaffolds for buildings, Professor Newcomb hurls a wooden thunder-
bolt at him, or a reviewer in the New York " Critic " reminds him
that " the sound thinker gives himself little uneasiness respecting the
laws of thought."
Now let us look for a moment at the atom. The physicist or
chemist gets it originally as an ancient heir-loom, handed down from
the times of Democritus or Lucretius. It is a solid body, with attach-
ments of hooks and loops. The modern scientist takes off the attach-
ments, and holds on to the main solid body, polishing it for his use.
So this body becomes round ; but in course of time appear the miner-
alogist and chemist with their morphological laws, such as the law of
Mitscherlich, with theories of polarity or valency, or what not ; and to
accommodate them it is proclaimed that the atom is a cube or a rhomb
or an octahedron, or whatever else will silence the most clamor. After
a while, Kroenig or Clausius declares that, in the interest of his kinetic
theory of gases, he must insist on the perfect sphericity of the atoms
or ultimate molecules ; and thenceforward (for a month at least) they
are spherical. But, at the expiration of the month, Maxwell j^oints to
certain anomalous facts which are supposed to be inconsistent with
atomic sphericity, and he suggests that it be modified so as to give the
atoms the form of oblate or prolate spheroids ; and, of course, his sug-
gestion is adopted. In a short time some physicist rushes out of his
laboratory or study, and announces that he has just obtained exj^eri-
mental results or arrived at theoretical conclusions requiring an utter
rejection, not only of the definite figure of the atom, but of its entire
bulk ; and forthwith it is subtilized into a mere center of force. But
now the physicist is reminded that force must have a substratum, and
that its indispensable correlate is inertia. At this juncture the pan-
geometer flits upon the scene, and offers the perplexed physicist his
fourth dimension in which to lodge both the extension and " inten-
sion " — i. e., mass — of the centers of force, assuring him that he may
have the mere punctuality of the atom in ordinary space, and behind
it, in space of four dimensions, any amount of bulk and Aveight. At
this stage of the pi'oceedings the physicist begins to look desperate ;
perhaps he is silently meditating the question, What is to become of
experimental research if the properties of things can vanish ad Uhitumy
and retire into the recesses of the pangeometrical regions ? And yet,
woe to him who ventures to suggest to the chemist that the origin of
the trouble is not in his retorts, but in the sincipital alembic through
which all his results are at last distilled, or to show the physicist that
there is no defect in the lenses of his microscope, but great want of
achromatism in those of his intellect ! lie speedily learns that the
