164 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Accordingly, Professor Thompson supiDlements the doctrines of the
" Conservation of Matter " and " Conservation of Energy " with the
new doctrine of the " Conservation of Electricity," which, indeed, is
the title prefixed to his communication.
There are, of course, thoughtful physicists (and their number is
increasing from day to day) who do not share the delusion that every
momentary device for sorting and grouping facts is to be hailed as a
new scientific revelation, and who do not dream of calling upon any
one to uncover his head before every passing conceit as though it were
an eternal truth. But, unfortunately, these men are not always in the
high places, and are averse to obtruding themselves in public as vindi-
cators of the authority of science.
I certainly cherish sentiments of the sincerest admiration and re-
spect for the high-minded and generally modest men who devote their
energies to the extension of the bounds of knowledge, and, in the in-
terest of thorough and effective work, shut themselves up in narrow
and dingy workshops from whose windows a wide survey of the scien-
tific horizon is difiicult or impossible. And I aj^preciate fully the im-
propriety of troubling and interrupting them wath idle and frivolous
criticisms and suggestions. I know that they are under the necessity
of arranging and combining their crude materials upon such principles
and hypotheses as they have at hand — that they can not make bricks
without straw. But when a scientific specialist appears as an intruder
in discussions for participation in which his habitual occupations have
tended, not to qualify, but to disqualify him ; and when, instead of
listening and saying Avhat he has to say respectfully, he turns to the
crowd and vociferates about "charlatans," "pretenders," and "para-
doxers," my thoughts involuntarily i-un into the words of an old Greek
which have been stored in my memory since my boyhood days :
Of 6e KE firj-r* av-bg voirf fiyr' d?J.ov clkovuv
'Ev dvp/iut (ia?.lT]-at, u6' avt* axpv^og avijp.
THE EYE-LIKE OKGAKS OF FISHES.
By Dr. ERNST KKAUSE.
^NLY a few biological studies can count on so general an interest
as those which concern the diversities in the sense-life of ani-
mals. We wonder at the stories of snails and mussels that have ears
in their feet, or on their backs, or in the folds of their mantles, or
which, like the Argus of mythology, have many eyes, or which have
eyes on all their limbs ; or of those creatures -which, like some fishes,
have organs of taste all over their skin ; or of animals on which have
been discovered nervous organs that do not seem to relate to any of
