THE EYE-LIKE ORGANS OF FISHES.
165
our recognized sensorial functions, but rather point to some sixth sense,
unknown to us. To this class belong the phenomena presented by a
group of bony fishes, living for the most part at extreme sea-depths,
classified in the three related families of the Scojiellds, Sternojjtychids,
and Stomiatids, which have lately received attention from naturalists.
They are generally small fishes, often only an inch or less in length,
and have on either side of their belly a row of bright spots, extending
from the snout to the tail, that might be said to look like a double row
of pearl-buttons fastened upon their skin-coat. Sometimes a third row
is found extending from the head to the anal fin ; and frequently single
spots, often of considerable size, are scattered over the head and gills
and over the sides of the fish. Several ichthyologists — among them B.
Rafinesque, of Palermo ; Delle Chiaje, of Naples ; Risso, of Nizza ; and
Cocco, of Messina — have had their attention drawn, since the first dec-
ade of the centujry, to specimens of those creatures that have occasionally
been washed ashore in storms ; and the more recent deep-sea investiga-
tions have made several allied forms known. The old ichthyologists ap-
parently never examined the spots very carefully, but simply described
them as silvery mottles or light points. Leuckart seems to have given
them the first critical examination in 18G4, in Chaullodus Slocmi, Sto-
mias hoo, and Scopelus Hur/iboldtii, and came to the opinion from it
that they might possibly be regarded as supplementary eyes. Ussow,
of Moscow, published a paper in 1879 on the structure of the so-called
eye-like spots in Chmdiodus, Stomias, Astronesthes, Gonostoma, and
Maurolicus, in which he expressed the conclusion that the spots in the
Fig. \.—Argtjropel€cus Jiemigymmis, twice the natural eizo.
three first-named genera were real organs of sight, but that the struct-
ure of those in the other genera was of a quite different nature, and
really glandular. In the same year Leydig published a work on the
Ghcmliodus Sloani, in which he admitted the similarity of the spots
of that species to eyes, but was disposed to regard them as transitional
organs rather than as real eyes, and referred to one of his observations
as indicating that they might have been luminous in life. Leydig has
more recently examined ten other species of the families Sternopty-
