i66 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
chidce and 8copelidce (from specimens preserved in spirit), and has con-
siderably advanced the solution of the question of the office of these
organs.
The organs in the SternojAychids and the Scopelids show essential
differences in structure, and a third type has been noticed in some
scopelids. Hence, Leydig has described three classes of organs, con-
sisting — 1. Of eye-like organs ; 2. Of organs of a glass-pearly appear-
ance ; and, 3. Of luminous organs. These three forms can be easily
distinguished with a glass. The organs of the first class resemble
brownish sacks filled with a gray matter ; those of the second class
brown-bordered, plate-shaped depressions, the ground and edges of
which are covered by a film with a metallic luster ; and those of the
third class, confined to the genus Scopelus, present themselves as larger
spots of a silvery luster, or a grayish pearl-color.
The eye-like organs — which we have already spoken of as arranged
in rows along both sides of the lower central line of the body — arc
also found on the head about the nose and eyes, on the lids and skin
of the gills, and, in the genus Chauliodus, in groups of much smaller
spots within the cavities of the mouth and gills. The number of the
spots, which hardly ever exceeds a hundred in the other genera, rises
in this genus to a thousand and more. Their outward appearance is
not quite the same in the different parts of the body, but passes from
the form of a round sack to that of a cylinder ; and some spots are of
the shape of a bell or an ampulla. In the genus Argyropelecxis (Fig. 1)
the organs are grouped. They consist of an integument of brown
Fig. 2. — Ichthyococcus ornatus, twice the ualural size.
pigment, which is coagulated from the thick skin and forms a ring-
fold, or gather, dividing the interior into a forward and hinder part.
Within this integument is a film of a bright metallic luster, which
either underlies the whole of it, or only forms a belt at the mouth,
and consists of iridescent threads or spangles lying in the thick skin.
The gray inner mass is divided into two sections, a larger hinder part
filling the sack, and a smaller forward part. The hinder part is always
spherical, the forward part cylindrical, and the two together form a
connected whole. To both parts appertains a radial striation pro-
ceeding from a frame-work that is continiied within from a membrane
inclosing the gray mass. The longitudinal section of the hinder part
of the organ superficially resembles the cross-section of an orange.
We have to deal here, however, not with a few pervading radiations,
but with a hollow cone of radiations meeting in the center, a certain
