190 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
government are finally represented by the sacred animal gods of the
ocean.
Let me give, as illustrations of the deistic conceptions of the Zunis,
without special reference to their rank in this governmental system of
the gods, the names and supposed attributes of a few of the principal
gods of Zuui mythology. Hdno ona icilona, or the "holder of the
roads of our lives," the supreme priest-god of Zuiii mythology, is sup-
posed to hold as in his hands the roads of the lives of his human sub-
jects, is believed to be able (to use the language of a Zuiii) to see (or
perceive) not only the visible actions of men, but their thoughts, their
prayers, their songs and ceremonials, to will through his lesser deities
whether a thing shall be or shall not be in the course of a human life.
I once asked a priest in Zuui, who was about to go forth on a hunt,
*' Do you think you will lay low a deer this day ? " and he said, " Ooth-
lat hdno ona xoilona'''' (as wills or says the holder of the roads of life).
Immediately below Hdno ona wilona are the gods Ahai in ta and
Itla Hsai U ma, the two great deities of the priesthood of the bow, an-
ciently known as TJa nam atclipi ah ho'' a, the beloved both who fell (for
the salvation of mankind). They are supposed to be twin children of
the sun, Hdno ona wilona — mortal, yet divine. They were the guiders
of mankind from the four great wombs of earth, the birth-place of the
human family, far eastward toward the middle of the world ; but,
on reaching the eastern portion of Arizona, in the great exodus of the
Pueblo races, they are supposed to have been changed by the will of
their grandfathers — four great demon-gods — into warriors, and ever
since have been the great gods of the order of the priesthood of the
bow, and the rulers of the mountain-passes, and enemies of the world.
Just so the young man, in modern Zuui life, who lives for years in
peaceful industrial pursuits, and all at once becomes chosen as a proper
person for membei'ship in the Order of the Bow, is induced to take
a scalp, and henceforth becomes a ruler of his people and his world, a
warrior and a member of that most powerful of priesthoods. These
two gods are supposed to have been the immediate ancestors of the
two lines of priests who are now their representatives, the high-priests
of the Order of the Bow ; from them, in one unbroken line, has been
breathed the breath of sa v:a nilda, or the medicine of war, from one
to the other of the members of their household, the a si chlan shi
we ni, or their children, the priests of the bow, just as has been in
the belief of the Roman Catholics the unbroken apostolic succession.
Through their wills over the Jcia sin a hal, or annual gods, with the
consent of Hdno ona tcilona, or the " holder of the roads of life,"
are the roads of man's life divided, or the light of his life cut off —
figurative expressions for death in the highly poetic language of the
Zuiiis. Prior to their creation war seems to have been a secondary
element in the existence of the Pueblo race ; such as it previously was,
however, it was represented by the great ancient god of war, the hero
