ZUNI SOCIAL, MYTHIC, AND RELIGIOUS SYSTEMS, 191
of hundreds of folk-lore stories, Atchl a la to sa, or " he of the knife-
feathered wings." He is supposed to carry ever about him his many-
colored bow, a ni ''to Ian, or the goddess of the rainbow, to walk upon
his swift arrow, ici lo lo a'te, turquoise-pointed god of lightning, and
to be guarded on the right and the left by his warriors, the mountain-
lion of the Xorth and the mountain-lion of the West.
Among other beings of ancient Zuni mythology we have the mar-
velous example of Oohe pololon, or "the god of the north wind,"
whose breath sends the cold winds from the north region and drives
the sands of the southwestern deserts, which have been stirred up by
the will of the gods of the mountain. Dark and gloomy, like the
clouds of the north-land home, ferocious with his shining teeth and
glaring pendant eyeballs, wild with his iron-gray halo of ever-waving
hair and beard, Oohe pololon is one of the most terrific of Zuiii demon-
gods. Then we have the gentle moon, mother of the women of men,
through whose will are born the children of women, the representative
in this system of deities of the Sheican okao, or seed-priestess, younger
sister of the priests of the temple ; and the sister of the moon, the
beautiful goddess of the ocean, through whose ministrations are
awakened the loves of the Zuni youth, and the good fortune of trade
is secured.
While those gods in Zuni mythology remaining unknown to rae
are legion, yet I might continue for hours to mention gods and their
attributes ; as for instance, *' he who carries the clouds from the ocean
of sunrise to the ocean of sunset and scatters them through the heav-
ens between " ; K^ice le le, or " he who infuses the roots of all trees
-^^nth the spirit of fire, and swings his torch in mid-air, and it forthwith
bursts into flames " ; Te sha minJi'ia, or " he who dwells in the canons
and cliffs of the mountains, ever echoing the cries of his children, men
and beasts of mortality."
Interesting among the hero-gods is the great priest of all religious
orders save that of the bow, PosJcai anJcHa. In the days of the new,
yet not until after men had begun their journey toward the east, he is
supposed to have appeared among the ancestors of the Zunis, the Taos,
the Coconinos, and the Moqui Indians, so poor and ill-clad as to have
been ridiculed by mankind. He it was who taught the fathers of the
Zunis their architecture and their arts, their agriculture and their system
of worship, by plume and painted stick ; but, driven to desperation
by the ingratitude of his children, he vanished beneath the world, never
to return to the abodes of men — yet he still sits in the city of the sun,
ever listening to the prayers of his ungrateful children.
Let me add one more example : that of Kia nis ti pi, or " the great
water-skate," who with his long legs measured the extent of the earth
as with a compass, and between the oceans of sunrise and sunset deter-
mined the center of the world as the home of the Zunis. He is repre-
sented by a peculiar figure, and this introduces us to a new depart-
