192 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ment of the subject — the conventional system of pictographs whereby
the Zuui sacred orders illustrate their mythological ideas. It is first
to a close study of the mythology and theogony of the Zuiiis, and
then to that of the conventional forms of art among these and kin-
dred peoples, that we are to look for the key to the mysterious and
unnumbered pictographs of the great Southwest.
Interesting for comparison with Eastern mythology is the study of
the i^hallic and the serpent symbolism as they occur in highly devel-
oped forms among the Zuiii Indians. Yet, again, interesting because
of the light that it throws upon the development of human religions
and mythologies is the study of the influence of environment, physical,
biologic, and sociologic, as exemplified by the religion and mythology
of the Zunis.
I regret most deeply that in the limited time allowed me to-day
I can not go into a discussion of these various questions, and into
a production of the hundreds of facts illustrative of them which I
have in my possession ; but that I have time only to add that, as
further illustrative of the connection between the Zuiii sociologic and
the Zuiii mythologic systems is the fact that no general names for
chiefs of all the departments — ecclesiastical, martial, and political —
are to be found in their language, nor is there a general name for their
god-priests, hero, demon, animal, elemental, celestial, or tutelar. Yet
the term awa mi tJila includes the political and martial chiefs in Zuni
government, just as does the name Tc'ia j)in a Jid i include their repre-
sentatives, the sacred water and j)rey-gods, of Zuni mythology.
ASTKONOMICAL PANICS.
By DANIEL KIKKWOOD.
WHEREVER science has not been cultivated, all new and start-
ling appearances in the sky are regarded as supernatural. But
a few years since a shower of meteoric stones fell in India, the fall
being attended by terrific explosions. The alarmed inhabitants of the
district believed these masses of rock to have been thrown by their
deities from the Himalaya Mountains, and with great veneration gath-
ered up the fragments to be kept as objects of religious worship. Nor
need we smile at this example of recent superstition. In the most
civilized countries of the ancient world such phenomena as the aurora
borealis, total eclipses, comets, and meteoric showers, were viewed as
miraculous displays of divine power, and generally as forerunners of
impending disasters. A brief account of some of the panics thus pro-
duced may not be without interest.
Ko one who has seen the more brilliant displays of the northern
