ASTRONOMICAL PANICS. 193
lights— the splendid coronal arch, the columns tinged with various
colors and moving in silent grandeur upon the midnight sky — can
wonder that in a superstitious age their appearance should have
excited the utmost consternation. Before the eighteenth century no
physical explanation of such displays had been suggested or even
thouo-ht of. The phenomena appeared suddenly and unexpectedly,
and could not be referred to natural causes then known. The excited
imao-ination saw armies mustering in the sky, brandishing their spears
and raising aloft in quick succession their bloody lances. A very brill-
iant aurora seen in England, in 1575, is described by a writer of that
period as a chasm formed in the northern sky, in which " were seen
a great many bright arches, out of which gradually issued spears, cit-
ies with towers, and men in battle array ; after that there were excur-
sions of rays in every direction, waves of clouds, and battles in which
some were fleeing, some pursuing, and others wheeling around in a
surprising manner." If panics of this nature have ceased, the fact is
due to the ever-advancing light of physical science.
One of the most noted eclipses in history is that recorded by He-
rodotus, and which occurred in the year 585 b. c. The panic j^roduced
by this eclipse put an end to the war between the Medes and the Lydi-
ans. A great battle was in progress, when, suddenly, day was turned
into night by a total eclipse. The contending armies, struck with
consternation, at once laid down their arms and hastened on both sides
to conclude a peace.
The Eclipse of Larissa. — Xenophon, in his "Anabasis," Book
III, chapter iv, relates how the excitement and alarm produced by a
total eclipse led to the surrender of a city. When the Persians ob-
tained the empire from the Medes, their king besieged the ancient city
of Larissa, but failed to capture it till, finally, the inhabitants, terror-
stricken by the darkness of a solar eclipse, lost all courage, and so the
city was taken.
A total eclipse of the sun was visible at many places in Europe on
May 1:2, ITOG. Professor Grant relates, in his "History of Physical
Astronomy," that in many parts of the city of Geneva i)ersons were
seen during the totality "prostrate on the ground and offering up
prayers, under the impression that the last day was come."
An ancient writer, in describing the great meteoric shower of the
year 1202, says : "The stars flew against one another like a scattering
swarm of locusts, to the right and left ; this phenomenon lasted until
daybreak ; people were thrown into consternation and cried to God,
the Most High, with confused clamor." Similar consternation and
alarm were exhibited during the great meteoric display of I0G6. An
historian of that time says, " Those who saw it were filled with such
great fear and dismay that they were astounded, imagining that they
were all dead men, and that tlie end of the world had come."
The terror and alarm produced among the colored people of the
VOL. XXI. 1.3
