ASTRONOMICAL PANICS. 195
not be very wonderful that it should reappear now after thirty-seven
years, instead of one hundred and seventy-five years. The velocity of
a body moving in the solar system depends simply on its distance from
the sun, and on the major axis of its orbit. If the velocity is reduced
by a resisting medium, there will be a reduction of the major axis, and
there is nothing whatever unreasonable in the supposition that, how-
ever weak the corona may be, its resistance would have a very great
effect upon the motion of a comet which rushes through it, so that I
should not be at all surprised if it should turn out that this comet of
1880 is the same as the comet of 1843 and that of 1668, and that its
revolution has been so much affected that possibly it may return in,
say, seventeen years."
These remarks of Mr. Marth were some time since quoted by Mr.
Proctor, and made the basis of an article which in unscientific circles
produced to some extent a most absurd sensation. Mi'. Proctoi*'s re-
marks on the subject have been misinterpreted as indicating the prob-
able destruction of life upon the earth about the close of the present
century. His language, however, though somewhat unguarded, ex-
pressed no such opinion.
The three comets named above approached nearer the sun than
any other known, except, perhaps, that of 1680. In fact, when nearest
the sun they actually grazed the solar atmosphere, or passed through
its outermost portions. Now, it is well known that the motion of a
planet or comet through a resisting medium continually lessens its
distance, and hence accelerates its velocity. Messrs. Marth and Proc-
tor assume that the passage of the comet of 1668 through the outer
portions of the sun's atmosphere reduced its previously long but un-
known period to one hundred and seventy-five years, so that its next
appearance was in 1843. The perihelion distance at that date was
still less ; the comet met with greater resistance, and the period was
shortened to thirty-seven years. The time of revolution would thus
be lessened at each successive return, and idtimately the comet would
plunge into the sun. Striking the solar surface with a velocity of
three hundred and fifty miles a second, the amount of heat produced
by the concussion and radiated to the earth might raise the tempera-
ture to such a degree as to destroy life upon our planet. Such are the
conjectures suggested in Mr. Proctor's paper. Let us briefly consider
them.
In the first place, the fact on which the theory of the supposed
catastrophe is based — viz., the identity of the three comets — is extreme-
ly doubtful. It is much more probable, in view of all the circum-
stances, that they are different bodies moving in similar orbits.
Again, the period of seventeen years, fixing the comet's next re-
turn, according to Mr. Marth, about 1897, was the merest conjecture,
not founded on any mathematical calculation whatever. It is true
that the passage of a comet through the sun's atmosphere would short-
