196 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
en its period at each return. The absorption of the comets of 1843 and
1880 by the sun's gaseous envelope, at some time in the distant future,
is therefore by no means improbable. Such results are not known to
have occurred in historic times ; but, if the sun is gradually contract-
ing — in other words, if its diameter was once considerably greater than
at present — any comet passing so near the center as that of 1880 would
have plunged so deeply into the sun's atmosphere as to be absorbed
into its mass. It is true, moreover, that, when the motion of a body is
arrested, such motion is converted into heat. If the earth were stopped
in its orbit, its fall upon the sun would produce an amount of heat
equal to that now radiated in ninety years. If the mass of the comet
be -g-f^ that of the earth, the heat jwoduced by the impact would
scai'cely be equal to that now radiated in seven days ; or, if the com-
etary mass be only equal to that of a globe one hundred miles in di-
ameter, and of the same density as the earth, the additional amount
of heat would be less than that now supplied in a single hour. It
may further be remarked that the collision would be as likely to occur
on the hemisphere turned away from the earth as on that turned
toward us.
But let us assume that the great southern comet of 1880 was in fact
a return of the comet of 1843, that its present period is about thirty-
seven years, and that in consequence of its passage through the outer-
most strata of the sun's atmosphere its period must be shortened more
and more until it falls upon the sun's surface. The solar atmosphere
is known to be very rare from the fact that matter thrown out by the
sun's eruptive force has been seen to ascend to a height of two hun-
dred thousand miles. The resistance which it would offer to the
comet's motion would therefore be slight, and in all jirobability sev-
eral centuries would elapse before the comet's course would be termi-
nated by its falling upon the sun. Instead, therefore, of a sudden
catastrophe, we should have a gradual dissolution of the comet ; por-
tions becoming absorbed by, or incorporated with, the solar atmos-
phere at each successive perihelion passage. The apprehension of
danger to the earth from a great and sudden increase of the sun's heat
is, therefore, without any reasonable foundation.
It is due to Mr. Proctor to say that he did not designate the year
1897, nor indeed any other, as that in which the comet would fall into
the sun, nor did he express the opinion that the collision would occur
at the comet's next return. lie merely remarks that, " if already the
comet experiences such resistance in passing through the corona when
at its nearest to the sun that its period undergoes a marked diminu-
tion, the effect must of necessity be increased at each return, and after
only a few, possibly one or two, circuits, the comet will be absorbed
by the sun." This statement, though perhaps incautiously expressed,
is very different from that attributed by unscientific readers to its
distinguished author.
