THE STEREOSCOPE : ITS THEORY.
199
Fig. 13.— Theory of Visual
Triangulation.
R C and L C, as the attention is successively" directed to different
points in the field of view. If accepted at all, it must be accepted
fully. If we suppose the semi-lenses removed, and that R and L
together represent a binocular camera, the diagram shows the exact
relation between this and an object to be
pictured, and the admirable mathematical dis-
cussion which Helmholtz gives subsequently
in full is strictly applicable. But, if the ob-
server's eyes be too near together, or the stereo-
graphic interval be too great, the relation
between the visual lines ceases to be the same
as that between the camera axes, and we no
longer have the conditions under which the
geometric discussion can be applied. It is but
due to Helmholtz to add that he closes with
the following remark : " These conditions are
not generally fulfilled for the photographic
proofs and the stereoscopes of commerce."
The same credit can not be given to the
writers of the ordinary text -books. This quali-
fication is of the last importance, for without it the theory is absurd,
the apparent position of the image determined by intersection of
visual lines being hehind the observer's Aeac?when optic divergence
is induced, and at an infijiite distance when they are parallel. But,
even when camera axes and visual lines bear the same relation among
themselves, the abnormal muscular condition necessitated in stereo-
scopic vision introduces a disturbing element. The theory is hence
not applicable at all to the stereoscope, but must be limited to the dis-
cussion of the binocular camera.
With a view to enabling persons with untrained eyes easily to per-
form many of the experiments through Avhich variation in appearance
of the binoci^ar image is produced by varying the conditions un-
der which the same stereograph is viewed, the writer has devised an
adjustable stereoscope (Fig. 14), which jDresents the additional very-
important advantage of rendering vision as nearly painless as it can
be with the ideal stereograph, even although the stereographic inter-
val on the one employed be so great as to produce only confusion, or
strain of the eyes, when the common form of stereoscope is used.
Instead of being fixed in position, the semi-lenses are lightly rested in
a pair of boxes, with openings in front and rear so as to transmit the
light. Attached to the partition between them are a pair of springs
against which the thin edges of the semi-lenses are pressed by ad-
justing-screws in contact with their thick bases. By turning these so
that the glasses are pressed as close as possible together, the light
which enters the eyes passes through the thicker part of each glass,
where the planes that may be supposed to touch the opposite curved
