202
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
must appear as an ellipse because viewed obliquely, the illusion is that
there is no obliquity of vision, but that a narrow cup is suspended di-
rectly in front ; while the pictures that are really in front of each sepa-
rate eye appear, without relief, out at the two sides.
If the attention be carefully directed successively to the foreground
and background when binocularly viewing a properly constructed out-
line stereograph, it will be found that perfectly distinct vision of the
whole picture at any given moment is not usually possible. The dis-
tance between corresi)ouding background points exceeds that between
similar foreground points. This excess we shall call the stereoscopic
displacement. If it be considerable, a pair of corresponding back-
ground points must be seen double, or imperfectly combined, when
the foreground is distinct. In transferring the attention, then, to the
background, slight associated contraction of the external rectus mus-
cles is necessary to secure perfect combination of corresponding points,
and this instantly suggests the idea of greater distance for these.
Thus, as the attention is given to different parts of the picture, the
tension in the muscles of the eyes is continually varying, and this is
one important element in determining our binocular perception of
solidity. Unless the attention be very carefully given to it, we are
apt to overlook the successive duplication in different parts of the field
of view. If the stereoscopic displacement be small, the perception of
such duplication may be quite impossible, while the appearance of
solidity, or of perspectiveness, as it has been called, remains distinct.
The stereograph, represented in Fig. 16, has been specially con-
structed to exhibit a variety of different stereoscopic displacements.
It may be viewed either with cross-vision, or with the aid of a card
placed edgwise upon the triple line at the middle, or by placing the
page in front of the serai-lenses of a stereoscope. Supposing the last
of these methods to be employed, there will be seen at the top of
the field of view a truncated cone, with a dot at the center of its
lower base, and a pair of projections from the circumference of the
-G>£^#
Fig. 16.— STEREOGRArH illustrating the Binocular Combination of Lines.
