THE STEREOSCOPE : ITS THEORY. 203
upper base. When the latter is made an object of attention, two
dots are seen on the lower base, which apparently broadens out
on the two sides ; but the moment the attention is concentrated upon
them, unless the observer is a little skilled in indirect vision, they
fuse into one, and four instead of two projections are seen at the
upper base, which in turn has broadened out. Indeed, very little
skill is needed to perceive the distinct duplication of the entire
upper base. At the middle of the field of view is an inclined black
parallelogram, on which no duplication of any part can be perceived,
except by a very steady gaze or by comparison with the black cir-
cles above and below ; and these in turn are made to appear at
different distances from the observer. The circular arc and straight
line, each marked a, combine into a distorted parabola, in which the
concavity is perfect at the middle, but at the top and bottom it breaks
into two separate lines. The resultant of the lines marked h is quite
as distinctly curved, but many persons will fail to notice any duplica-
tion at all; and this remark applies still more forcibly to the resultant c.
The group d forms a warped surface ; but, if the resultant line at its
right be fixedly examined, it will be seen as an oblique cross, the com-
bination being effected only by motion of the eyes. The group e pre-
sents still greater difficulties. The pair /' are nearly horizontal, and
are coalescent at the middle, but not combined at the extremities ;
each component hence appears no longer straight. The arrows at the
left point obliquely, some toward and some from the neighborhood of
the observer ; but, if the gaze be rigidly directed to the vertical rod on
which they are fixed, a pair of well-practiced eyes will perceive some
of them to have very mobile double heads. The circles x, y, and z
have a common axis, and are successively nearer to the observer ; x
and z are highly lustrous, and, when either is regarded separately, y is
by indirect vision seen slightly double.
The two halves of this stereograph are strikingly dissimilar, but the
principle which it illustrates enables us to secure stereoscopy with a
pair of absolutely similar figures by so adjusting these in position that
advantage may be taken of the almost spherical surface of the back of
each eye. The geometric explanation of this is unsuited to the present
article.* It may be sufficient to state that, if the two pictures be op-
positely inclined to the visual lines, instead of being directly across
these, the retinal images must be dissimilar, and tlie subjective combi-
nation of these must hence present the appearance of relief, which
may be varied at will by varying the inclination of the cards.
The theory of associated muscular action which has been illus-
trated, while undoubtedly true, is still not sufficient by itself to explain
all the phenomena of stereoscopy. The perception of distinct relief
is possible when the card is illuminated with the electric spark. No
motion of the eyes is attainable during so minute an interval. It is
* Sec "American Journal of Science" for April, 1882, p. 29'7, and May, 1882, p. 359.
