THE JEWS Ij^' EUROPE. 205
sounds that coalesce liarmoniouslj'. A well-trained ear may pick out
some of the overtones without the aid of resonators, and perceive in
the background a few duplicated sound-images ; but the great major-
ity of them are so faint that their presence can not be perceived apart
from each other, or from the fundamental to which they give character.
The rich combination of all stands out in strong musical relief, com-
pared with what each voice alone would yield, or with the sweet but
thin sound of a tuning-fork that sings forth the same fundamental pitch.
This principle relates to the combination of sensations, whatever
may be the cause of dissimilarity among the components of the group.
"We have not the data from which a binocular image can be graphic-
ally expressed as a curve, for the dissimilarity of the components is
not due to interference of waves of light. But the facts suggest kin-
ship between the modes of sensation in the two cases. The dissimilar
groups of light-images arouse sensations that are simultaneously con-
veyed to the brain, and the proper interpretation at once comes as the
product of past exjserience. All we can affirm is, that experience has
taught us to interpret retinal sensations which are slightly different in
the two eyes, as the signs of an external object possessing three dimen-
sions in space, when the images are produced uj^on parts of the con-
cave surfaces which bear to each other the relations that would be im-
posed by the presence of such an object if naturally viewed. Such
experience has been acquired by each of us individually, and probably
with exceeding rapidity in consequence of inherited tendencies. It is
therefore not necessary that the localization of what we see in the
stereoscope should be limited to cases of optic convergence, or the per-
ception of relief to those in which doul)le images can be distinguished.
Our discussion has led us from the domain of physics to the con-
fines of metaphysics. Explanations are at best only relative, and the
psychologist, the physiologist, and the physicist must join hands in
working out the problems of binocular vision. The progress made
during the last half-century invites the hope that much may yet be
accomplished before the next century brings us its morning greeting.
THE JEWS IX EUEOPE.
Br Dr. J. VON DuLLINGEK.
THE Academy celebrates to-day the birth of its royal head and
gracious protector. Such a festival is, first of all, devoted to
feelings the simplest, purest, and most elevating — love, reverence,
* Anniversary Address before the Academy of Sciences at Munich, delivered July
25, 1881. Translated by Mr. W. M. Salter.
