2o6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
gratitude. But it is also an occasion on which we are glad to think
of our sovereign as weighing and pondering the affairs of his people,
and the general condition of Germany ; and passing under review the
most imjiortant events of the time, carefully measuring their gravity.
And so our thoughts turn naturally to the most recent events, to the
serious problems, which are now pressing with so loud and urgent a
voice upon our attention.
Not the least of these is the Semitic question, which has been
agitating Germany for some years. The parties stand sharply over
against one another, and as, in the thirteenth century, the cry was
" Here Guelph, there Ghibelline," so now there soinids through the Ger-
man lands, " Here Semite and friend of the Semite, there anti-Semite,"
With no little astonishment have we perceived that the conflict rages
most violently just in the principal city of the empire, and even among
those belonging to the aristocracy of culture. And, although the
south of Germany is thus far much less involved in the agitation than
the north, the forces in motion there are not without influence in our
own vicinity. In our days, science may no longer, as was formerly
the case, keep aloof in self -contented attitude from the great mart of
life ; rather has it the strongest reasons for participating, Avith the
ripest results it has reached, in the solution of the problems of our
age and nation, and for allying itself, to the end of mutual advantage,
with all clarifying and quickening social forces.
So let one of the offerings presented by the Academy, on this the
natal day of its royal protector, be an attempt to show how these
things have come to be : how the knot, the manner of whose loosing
no one is now able to indicate, has gradually twisted itself ; and how
History, wise guide of life that she is, holds up to the new errors that
are threatening us the warning mirror of the errors of the past.
The fortunes of the Jewish people make, perhaps, the most im-
pressive drama in the history of the world.
The Greek tragedians dwell with predilection on the Hyhris, the
arrogant misuse of power, as the dark fate that draws men on to de-
struction. In the fortunes of this people we encounter, as it were, an
Ilybris made up of religious fanaticism, vulgar avarice, and instinctive
race-aversion. It was the result of that moral and intellectual infirm-
ity which, for many centuries, has affected the highest as well as the
lowest classes, and which still to some degree exists in wide circles,
although kept in bounds by custom, fear, and public opinion. This
infirmity was and is, in a word, a lack of the sense of justice.
We know well the powers that still to-day, in every possible form,
whether open or disguised, are constantly repeating this one thought :
"We alone are in possession of the full and saving truth, and therefore
everything must be conceded to, and everything permitted us, that is
necessary or serviceable in spreading and putting forward this truth."
Where this principle prevails, and it did prevail in the entire thousand
