THE JEWS IN EUROPE. 209
ties were members, and from which they did not wish to be separated.
The most learned and original of the older fathers, Origen, declared :
" They are and remain our brothers ; but they will only unite with us
when we, by our faith and our life, have stirred them to emulate our
example." Even Augustine frequently said : " In the hearts of Chris-
tians the confidence lives, and is expressed by them continually, that
the children of the present Jewish generation will some day melt into
one faith with the Christians." This view of the earliest Church dis-
appeared, however, when Christianity became the state religion, and
Roman heathenism en masse, with its hate and contempt for the Jews,
became converted, in part freely and in part through direct or indirect
compulsion, to Christianity. Soon the synods forbade eating with a
Jew ; and Ambrose, who, while still unbaptized, was elevated to the
bishopric of Milan, styled the burning of a synagogue in Rome by the
populace an act pleasing to God, and called the Emperor Maximus,
who desired its rebuilding, derisively a — Jew. There comes to be,
with infrequent exceptions, a more hostile strain in the writings of
Christians, and the name of brother vanishes ; their remaining without
the Church is explained no longer by ignorance, but by an ill-meant
obduracy on their part. The hope of a future reconciliation is, in-
deed, held ; but the reconciliation is placed as it were in the most
distant corner of the future, in the last days before the final catas-
trophe and the judgment of the world. It seemed as if the prospect
of living in community with Israel (when, moreover, according to the
Biblical doctrine, Israel would retake the ancestral primacy) was so
little to the taste of the Christians that they were anxious to restrict
so unwelcome and vexatious a condition to a few days or months.
The Christian emperors had changed nothing of importance in
their laws respecting the rights and liberties of the Jews until the
year 439, when Theodosius II excluded them from all public, even
municipal, offices. This law passed over into Justinian's Codex, and
regulated their status in Europe as well as in the Eastern Empire.
In the "West we encounter at the end of the sixth century the first
forced conversions in the Frankish Empire ; Avitus, in Clermont, and
the kings Chilperic and Dagobert set the precedent. It was followed
in the kingdom of the Spanish Visigoths on a large scale. There,
where the bishops ruled the state. King Sisibut in the year 612 allowed
the Jews only the choice of emigrating or being baptized. Many
chose the latter, but turned back after a time to Judaism ; and, as the
result, there began a series of violent measures to keep them in the
Church against their will, and to avenge their lapsing. This was in
accordance with a decree of the national synod of Toledo — a fatal de-
cree, which has cost more blood and tears than any law of heathen
antiquity, since it served as a norm for innumerable deeds in subse-
quent time.
In the Frankish Empire the ordinances of the Episcopal councils
VOL. XXI. — 14
