2 10 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
remained for a long time within the circle defined by the Emperor.
The Jews were forbidden marriage with Christians, the ownership and
sale of Christian slaves, and jurisdiction in court over Christians ; fur-
ther, Jews and Christians were not allowed to take a common meal,
and the employment of a Jewish physician was forbidden. Bitter hos-
tility against the Jewish people is breathed first in the Frankish Em-
pire in the writings of the Archbishops Agobard and Amolo, of Lyons,
about the year 848 ; the latter recommended Sisibut's action as one
acceptable to God, and worthy of imitation — a bad sign of what was
to come. However, these writings also indicate, first, that at that
time the charge of a usurious fleecing of the Christians by the Jews
was not yet brought forward ; and, further, that the Emperor, the offi-
cers of state, and even the agricultural population, were well-disposed
to the Jews, and that the state still protected them.
But with the end of the eleventh century a turn of things began,
which proved full of disaster to the Christians as well as to the Jews
and the pagans. The highest authority in the Western world had
announced the principle of the religious wars, and found the means to
foster them and continuously excite them anew. It had become an
expiatory and saving work to conquer non-Christian peoples, and to
plunder and destroy those who resisted ; hence, it was unavoidable
that the condition of the Israelitish people should take a much worse
shape than before ; and, although in general Europe was making
steady j^rogress in the formation of orderly civil governments, this
progress was of no advantage to the Jewish people ; rather did each
century, until the Reformation, bring an increase of their misery. For
the Israelite was in the eyes of the then existing Christians worse than
an unbeliever ; he was called in the official language of the Church
perfidus — i, e., a man who deserves neither truth nor confidence.
"Orcmus et pro perfidis Judais" stood in the Liturgy for Good Fri-
day, and all theologians and canonical writers of that time used the
expression. The Jew should be avoided like one afflicted with a
plague, even whose breath contaminates, or like a dangerous tempter,
whose words hide the poison of doubt and unbelief. The laity were
forbidden to speak even one word with him on the subject of religion.
When, therefore, the hosts of the Crusaders went out to war
against the Mohammedans in Asia, they began slaying the Jews at
home, and plundering their houses. And the kingdom of Jerusalem
began its existence by burning the Israelites who lived there, together
with their synagogues.
Those were acts of fanatical and untamed bands. For princes and
peoples, for priests and laymen, the utterances of the Popes and coun-
cils respecting the rights and duties of Christians to the Jews were
naturally accepted as giving the law. Before this, the Roman bishops
had not concerned themselves about the Jews ; their epistles and en-
actments during the first six centuries contain nothing about them, the
