THE JEWS IN EUROPE. 211
imperial laws appearing to have satisfied them. Gregory the Great
protected them unweariedly against the acts of violence common in
Southern Italy, and forbade forcing them into the Church. On the
other hand, he sought to procure their conversion by vouchsafing
privileges to them, and set up the doubtful principle, which was often
evoked later on when forcible conversions were attempted, viz., if the
Church does not win thereby those who have been bought over, it
certainly wins their children.
From that time on, for nearly three centuries, the Popes are silent
respecting the Jewish people. After the middle of the ninth century
the first considerable assumption of power on the part of the Papacy
took place under the Pseud-Isidore, Nicholas I, and his nearest succes-
sors. When Stephen VI (885-891) broke the long silence, a strong
hostile feeling had already taken the place of the earlier mildness in
Rome. The Pope wrote to the Archbishop of Narbonne, that " he
had been plunged into deadly anxiety by the news that the Jews,
those enemies of God, had become possessed there by royal permission
of property in land, and that Christians lived together with these
dogs, and even performed service for them, although, as a punishment
for the death of Christ, all the pledges and promises which God had
confirmed to them were canceled." With this the signal was given,
and the new path entered upon on which men now proceeded to ad-
vance. It is true that the Jews were not seldom successful in ob-
taining Papal letters of protection. The injunction not to force them
to baptism, or to rob or kill them, was often repeated ; but, while on
other occasions, even in matters of little consequence, banning, inter-
dicting, outlawing, and other drastic means were threatened and ap-
plied, these bulls for the protection of the Jews consisted of general
exhortations, and were of little use, because the penal sanction was
wanting. The kings and high nobility set everywhere the example of
lawlessly oppressing, abusing, and plundering the Jews, and we do not
find that the Popes called them to account for this, or took the part of
the oppressed against them. On the contrary, when Philip Augustus
robbed and banished the Jews of France, Coelestin III declared that the
king in doing this had shown his ardent zeal in the cause of God ; and
when any temporal ruler, who was also an official in the Church, in order
to be sure of his right to do so, asked for Papal authorization to drive
out the Jews from his dominion, it was readily granted him. The
declaration of Innocent III, that the whole people was condemned
by God, on account of its guilt, to perpetual slavery, became the
oft-cited Magna Charta for all those whe lusted after the gains and
possessions of the Jews ; in accordance with it rulers and peoples
acted. Nor could the impression it made be greatly diminished by
the circumstance that the Popes supported the letters, which they
from time to time gave for the protection of the Jews, by referring
to the prophecy about a remnant of the people that should remain
