212 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
over, in order to be converted in the last days. Such a remnant of the
Jews, it was thought, would be preserved, if not in Europe, at all
events in Asia.
The succeeding Popes held firmly to the principles and demands of
Innocent III. If the Jews built a new synagogue, it must be torn
down ; the only thing allowed was to repair the old ones. No Jew
could witness against a Christian ; the bishops were to insist, even
with the use of force, upon their wearing of the distinctive badges, the
hat or the yellow cloth. This law respecting badges was particularly
hard and cruel ; for, in the frequent uprisings and tumults in the cit-
ies, the Jews fell so much the easier into the hands of the infuriated
mob, which in this way recognized them at a glance ; and in traveling
they became the prey, without hope of rescue, of the robber-knights
and highwaymen, who naturally looked upon every Jew as an outlaw.
In Spain, permission was therefore given them to wear every kind of
clothing in traveling, but the permission was soon taken back.
Especially did Eugene lY, who annulled the humane concessions
made by Martin V, add to the sharpness of the ecclesiastical legisla-
tion, already pitiless enough, and the question was perforce raised
how, if all this was fully carried out, could these men maintain their
piteous existence at all.
Whatever ground the Popes had left untouched, was covered by
the councils of the different countries ; they forbade, for example,
that a Christian should let or sell a house to a Jew, or buy wine of
him. In addition to all this, came the oft-renewed orders to burn all
copies of the Talmud and its commentaries — i. e., by far the largest
part of the Jewish literature — on account of the passages hostile to
Christianity that were said to be found therein. And then came
again tortures, persecutions, and imprisonments in abundance. It
seemed as if the mighty of the earth had only stones instead of bread
for the afllicted people, and were disposed to give no answer to their
entreaties and inquiries, other than that which the ancestors of the
Jews once gave to the tyrant Herod, viz., when he asked what, then,
he should do for them, they replied, to hang himself.
The new theory of the slavery of the Jews was now adopted and
elaborated by the theologians and canonical writers. Thomas of
Aquinas, whose views pass as unimpeachable in the whole Church, de-
cided that the princes could dispose of the property of these men, who
were condemned to perpetual bondage, just as they would of their own
goods. A long series of writers on the canon law built upon the same
foundation the assertion that princes and lords could forcibly dispos-
sess the Jews of their sons and daughters, and cause them to be bap-
tized. That a baptized child of a Jew should not be alloAved to re-
main with its father was universally taught, and still is a demand of
the Church. The princes, in the mean time, had greedily adopted the
papal doctrine of the divinely ordained slavery of the Jews, and the
