THE JEWS IN EUROPE. 213
Emperor Frederick II based thereupon the claim that all Jews were
his property as the Emperor, according to the then prevailing logic,
that the master's rights over them had been transmitted from the old
Roman emperors to him as their successor. His son, Conrad IV, al-
ready used the expressions, " servants of our chamber," and the Schioa-
henspiegel * professed to know that " King Titus had given them over
to be the property of the imperial chamber." King Albrecht de-
manded from King Philip of Fi'ance that the French Jews be handed
over to him, and later the Jews themselves said, in a memorial to the
Council of Ratisbon, that " They belonged to the Emperor, in order
that he might preserve them from entire destruction at the hands of
the Christians, and keep them as a memorial of the sufferings of
Christ."
After the fourteenth century, this servitude to the exchequer came
to be understood and applied as a complete slavery : " You belong,"
says the Emperor Charles lY, in a document addressed to the Jews,
" to us and the empire with your lives and possessions ; we can order,
do, and act with these as we like and as seems good to us." In fact, the
Jews frequently went, like an article of merchandise, from one hand
into another ; the Emperor declared, now here, now there, that their
claims for the payment of debts were annulled, and caused a large
sura of money, generally thirty per cent, to be paid by the debtors
into his own treasury.
The i^rotection which emperor and empire were supposed to ac-
cord to the servants of the exchequer was often illusory, even when
they were granted special privileges ; as a matter of fact, they were
without civil rights. Only where self-interest dictated, not to allow
men in so many ways useful and jirofitable to utterly perish, did the
governments step in. Otherwise everybody's hand was against them,
from emperor down through all ranks of society to the very rabble.
Often protection was assured them only for a limited time, at the end
of which they were. as good as outlawed, unless they immediately
bought with large sums of money a renewal of the letter of protection.
They were used like sponges — allowed to completely fill themselves, in
order to be then as completely squeezed out. What happened in the
year 1390 deserves to be kept in the memory of Germans as a con-
stant warning. King, princes, nobles, and cities were, by reason of
long wars, all alike in debt ; then the example that had been already
given by France was copied. At the Imperial Diet held in Nurem-
berg, all money-claims by Jews were annulled, and, instead of paying
their rightful creditors the debtors paid in fifteen per cent of their in-
debtedness to the royal treasury ! In this way, for example, the Duke
of Bavaria, the Count of Oettingen, and the city of Ratisbon, each
won one hundred thousand gold florins.
If a prince ever showed a disposition to favor the Jews of his land
* The book containing the statute- and feudal-laws of South Germany. — Trax.slator.
