8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ground occupied by them would not diminish but rather increase the
cultivable area, and the forest growth would be a positive addition to
its productiveness.
But whatever the particular plan adopted, a prominent question
will be with every one, what trees to plant. The multitude offering
themselves for consideration is embarrassing. Our country is one of
such extent and such varied climate and soil that we have a tree vege-
tation embracing all the variety of the entire Eastern hemisphere.
Our Atlantic coast corresponds, in this respect, with that of China
and Japan, while our Pacific-coast region is like that of Western
Europe. At the International Exhibition at Philadelphia, in 1876,
the wood of nearly four hundred indigenous species of trees was
shown, whereas Great Britain has only twenty-nine ; France, thirty-
four ; and all Europe, leaving out Russia, only about fifty. The little
State of Connecticut, on the authority of Professor Brewer, has sixty
species of native trees. At the Philadelphia Exhibition there were
specimens of thirty-seven species of the oak, thirty-four of the pine
family, seventeen of spruce and fir, eleven of maples, besides many
others.
With such a variety of trees and so many conditions of climate
and soil, and the different objects which the planter may have in view,
no one can give an answer to the question what to plant, except in a
general way. Trees have their homes as well as men, where they
develop to the best. And, though they may often be transferred to
other regions and be made to form to themselves new homes, the
success of such a transfer can not be predicted with certainty. Ex-
periment alone can decide. But, for the general purposes of tree-
planting, and for those who are looking for definite and sure results,
the safe rule, and the only trustworthy one, is to follow Nature — to
plant the trees which she has already planted near us or in situations
like our own. From these we may wisely make a selection, according
to the objects we have mainly in view. If we want the speediest
growth of fuel or shelter, we shall choose the quick-growing trees. If
we purpose to grow valuable timber we shall make a different selec-
tion, or we may select for both results at the same time. Even in
those parts of the country most destitute of any considerable masses
of trees, the Western Plains, the treeless regions as they are called,
there are a goodly number of species showing themselves, if but
sparsely, and giving us hints as to what may be accomplished there
in tree-planting, if fires and the depredations of destructive animals
can be prevented. We have it, for example, on good authority, that
the following trees, among others, are natives of Nebraska, one of
the so-called treeless States : the buckeye, the red and the sugar ma-
ple, the box-elder, the honey locust, the white and green ash, two
species of elm, the hackberry, sycamore, black walnut, three species
of the hickory, seven species of oak, the iron- wood, two species of
