THE JEWS IX EUROPE. 215
of plotting to burn the great city with Greek fire. The great plague,
which in 1348 swept over and depopulated all Europe, could only, it
was easily known, proceed from the Jews. The fact that the sober
and temperately living people were much less affected by the plague
than the Christians, converted the bare suspicion into a certainty.
They had everywhere, in consequence of a great conspiracy, in which
the houses of lepers had also taken part, poisoned the springs and
wells, and even the rivers. In Zofingen it was pretended that actual
poison was found in one of the wells. On the rack some Jews and
lepers confessed to the deed. There hence burst forth a storm of
fanaticism, of bestial revenge and vulgar avarice, such as has never
before nor since been seen in Europe. The victims were counted in
single towns by thousands. Many anticipated the rage of the mob by
taking their own lives. To no purpose did Pope Clement YI declare
in two bulls that the Jews were innocent. Those who saved them-
selves by a swift flight found an asylum only in distant Lithuania.
Still, not merely on account of religion and the fictitious crime did
the popular hatred direct itself against the Jews ; there was in addi-
tion a thu'd motive, acting just as, if not more strongly. The Jews
loaned money on interest, they were usurers ; they carried on an in-
deed indispensable but none the less sinful business, and fleeced, so
the saying was, the Christians. The accusation was not untrue, and
yet unjust.
Popes and councils, supporting themselves upon an incorrect inter-
pretation of Luke vi, 35,* have since the end of the eighth century
with one voice and with a continually increasing rigor, condemned
and visited with ecclesiastical penalties all taking of interest, in what-
ever form, on loaned capital. In the early Church, only the clergy
were forbidden to take interest ; but, as the influence of the Papal
chair increased, the prohibition was extended to the laity also.
No distinction was made between interest and usury, but every
stipulation for or taking of the slightest amount over and above the
capital that had been loaned was forbidden by the Popes and councils,
a prohibition from which there could be (as Alexis III, in 1179, de-
clared) in no case a dispensation. To this Clement Y at the Coxmcil
of Yienna added the decision that it is heresy to assert that the taking
of interest is not a sin.
Unendurable fetters were thereby placed upon all commerce and
business ; and Pope Gregory IX declared even the money advances,
with interest stipulated, which maritime traffic requires, to be dam-
nable usury. The Church had thereby placed itself in contradiction
with the nature of things, with the indispensable requirements of
civil life and of general trade ; she might, indeed, prevent her own
members from taking interest, but she could not command or compel
* The revised translation reads, " and lend, never despairing," in place of the old
translation, "and lend, hoping for nothing again." — (Translator.)
