CHEMISTRY IN HIGH-SCHOOLS. 219
chemistry. But it is not all that is needed. Mental activity is the
important thing.
I will illustrate the plan which has proved best in my own experi-
ence, merely saying, first, that even where pupils have studied physics,
I have a preliminary drill to make sure the girls are quite clear about
the forms of matter, the properties of liquids and gases, attractive and
repulsive forces. I do not say a word to them about chemical attrac-
tion, because I wish them to study that out for themselves. Some-
times they have already learned by heart a definition from some book
on physics ; but, as Thomas Carlyle would say, " by the blessing of
Heaven they have generally forgotten it."
I think the best experiment to begin with is the evolution of oxy-
gen gas by heating the red oxide of mercury. This is not the easiest
or the most convenient way of obtaining oxygen, but it is much the
simplest process.* I do not usually tell my pupils anything — not
even what the substance is which they are to make ; but they know
I shall question them closely about what they have seen. When the
experiment is concluded — the gas tested with a glowing taper ; the
residue of mercury examined ; and a little of the red oxide put into
water and stirred, to show that it will aiot dissolve — I usually ask
questions about as follows :
" When the jar was lifted from the water to the shelf, why did
not the water fall out? Why did the water afterward sink in the
jar ? Did you see anything in the jar as the water fell ? Why do
you think there was anything in the upper part of the jar ? What
form of matter was it ? How do you know that it was not air ? How
was it like air? How was it unlike air ? Had it color or smell ? Did
it burn ? What was it burned ? Did the gas have anything to do
with the burning ? " f I then tell them the gas is called oxygen ; and
I write on my blackboard the name and symbol, with a list of the
properties which they have just discovered.
I then proceed to ask : " What remained in the ignition tube at
the close of the experiment ? What form of matter was it ? Did
you ever before see anything with that shiny luster ? What class of
bodies have it ? " Then I tell those who do not already know that it
is mercury, and I give the symbol, Hg.
I then say : " Where were the gas and the liquid when that red
powder was placed in the tube ? What became of the powder ? Did
it take any force to separate the gas and licjuid which you say formed
the powder? What was the force? What sort of a force is heat?
Do you suppose any force held the oxygen and mercury togeth-
er ? Do you know a general name given to forces which unite
* I always, of course, have ready a quantity previously otherwise made.
f I find that pupils will at first, of themselves, make the somewhat conventional dis-
tinction between " combustibles " and " supporters of combustion." For a while I let
this pass.
