2 20 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
bodies ? Name some kinds of attraction. Is this force cohesion ?
Why not ? Is it adhesion ? WTiy not ? " I finally tell them the force
is called chemical attraction, and I call on them to put into words a
clear definition of chemical attraction. As they do so, I simply criti-
cise the successive trials they make, until the definition is correct in
matter and form ; and then, after making them repeat it several times
in concert, I write it on the blackboard.
By similar questions, which I will not weary the reader by repeat-
ing, I make them draw from the same experiment facts and definitions
about elements, simple substances, compounds, oxides, decomposition,
etc., etc.
In my life, I have taught a great deal of Latin and English, but I
know no such language-lesson as is given when a class, under the fire
of a skillful teacher's criticism, slowly perfects a clear logical state-
ment, or definition, for which they have gained the material by using
their own senses and reason. My pupils keep note-books, and at every
lesson bring me, neatly written out, the substance of the previous lesson.
I have given above only a sample of the general tenor of questions.
Sometimes some misapprehension on the part of pupils makes me di-
verge widely to bring them back on the track,
I endeavor to make the subject as practical as possible by having
pupils study the chemistry of common operations. After the above
experiment, I usually introduce the subject of air by asking : " Why
did the taper at last fail to light again when dipped into the jar ?
What had become of the oxygen in the jar ? Did the remains of the
burned paper look like the remains when paper is burned in the air ? "
After this I take a bit of sodium and bum it in oxygen. I also
oxidize some in the air. I show, by testing, that the oxygen has dis-
appeared from the jar. I test the first oxide with red litmus, both be-
fore and after dissolving in water. I let the pupils taste a little of a
very dilute solution. I then ask questions about sodium just as I did
about oxygen and mercury. I ask what has become of the oxygen
and the sodium ; what unites them ; what the force is called ; draw
them on to classify the result of the union as a compound and an ox-
ide ; draw them on to note the properties of the compound. Then I
have them test the oxide formed in the air just as the other was
tested. I ask : " Is this a compound ? Do you think you know either
of its elements? Of which one are you sure? Do you think you
know the other element ? Why do you think it is oxygen ? Where
did the oxygen come from ? What other reason have you for thinking
the air contains oxygen ? "
I wait for further experiments before indorsing their partly formed
conclusion about oxygen in the air. We next make some study of
carbon by burning coal in oxygen. I have them test the result with
lime-water. We burn coal in a receiver of air, and test this result also.
I have some powdered charcoal heated in contact with the red oxide
