CHEMISTRY IN HIGH-SCHOOLS. 221
of mercury, and that result tested. Every particle of information
which observation can draw from these experiments is carefully elicited
by questions such as I have described.
At this point I usually inform them that the red oxide of mercury
is sometimes made by heating mercury a long time in contact with air.
They commonly by this time consider the evidence of oxygen in the
air pretty conclusive. I next lead them to think about the air we
breathe : whether it comes from our lungs unchanged ; to think of
some way of testing whether it contains free oxygen. I have them
test the breath with lime-water, discuss the effect of the union of car-
bon and oxygen, especially the heat.
In all this I tell them very little. I become greatly interested in
seeing how much I can get them to do for themselves. I simply try to
stimulate and get them on the right track. At this point I usually
ask them whether they think the air contains anything besides oxygen,
and set them to discussing ways of getting at the other element in air.
Devising experiments is a very important part of chemical train-
ing, and, where the pupil sees beforehand some question to settle, he
can be made to do it. By rousing him to think, criticising his crude
plan, and showing, or making him think of, its defects, it can be done.
Pupils will devise the well-known experiment of burning away oxygen
from air, but of course they must be told that phosphorus is the best
combustible for their purpose. By taking up the various requirements
of the experiment separately, they will suggest nearly everything.
But before the experiment is actually carried out, to prevent the
confusion which would arise from the vapor of phosphoric anhydride,
I have them make a little study of phosphorus. It is examined, burned
in oxygen, burned in air, the anhydride noted, its great aiEnity for wa-
ter, its behavior to litmus both before and after union with water, its
taste noted, etc. After this we use phosphorus to help us study the
composition of air. The girls note (approximately) the proportion of
oxygen to nitrogen.
AVe test the air for carbonic acid ; discuss the moisture in it, etc. ;
and then I have them make some study of water. To do this I first
put a bit of sodium in a very small cage of wire gauze, and thrust it
under a little water. The result is tested, and shown to be the same
compound they before knew. When they are satisfied that the oxy-
gen must come from the water, we collect hydrogen and examine it.
I have them also note the new method of decomposition. Then we
have the proof by synthesis, burning hydrogen and collecting a little
of the water.
As we proceed, my pupils begin to think ahead of questions, and
their perceptions grow sharper.*
* In final review, I employ the topical method of recitation, but this method is too
loose for investigation, which must be held down to accuracy, by well-considered ques-
tions, taking up one point at a time.
