22 2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
If, after this, we decompose water by a battery, the students will
at once recognize the process for themselves as decomposition ; and it
confirms their previous analysis of water. But, if I begin experiment,
ing by battery decomposition, they can not study out for themselves
the rationale of the process. Of course, the teacher can explain and
point out and make it understood, but they take it all pretty much
upon authority, and their minds are far less active and independent.
And so, of making oxygen at first with potassium chlorate. The
chlorate is a less simple substance than the red oxide of mercury ;
and the presence of the binoxide of manganese, with the catalysis,
complicates the process.
While directing this experimental study I do not tell them any of
the facts which come on testimony, unless, like the fact about the
making of the red oxide of mercury, it is a necessary step in some
chain of reasoning which they can make out mainly for themselves.
The precautions necessary in using such substances as sodium make
it unwise and imprudent to set careless young folks to handling them.
One accident would bring lasting disrepute on our chemical study.
Showy experiments are demoralizing, though they excite for the
time a sensational interest. But, when young folks really think for
themselves, they are so pleased with it that they can take the highest
interest in a very simple process. There is an experiment which I
learned from that capital book, " Eliot and Storer's Chemistry," which
illustrates a good many things I have said. It is designed to show the
great diifusibility of hydrogen. A tube, closed at one end with plas-
ter of Paris, is filled with hydrogen, and put in a tumbler of water for
a day or two. The water first rises in the tube, then sinks to the level
of that in the tumbler, in consequence of hydrogen escaping faster
than air comes in. When I first taught chemistry, my pupils took no
interest in this experiment. When I tried making them discuss the
changes, and discover for themselves the joroperty of hydrogen which
causes them (which they do with all ease), they find it more interesting
than the burning of phosphorus in oxygen. This experiment shows,
too, how genuine inductive teaching must necessarily be oral teaching,
for a text-book merely tells the philosophy of the changes, which is
precisely the thing the pupils ought not to be told.
When chemistry is taught inductively, the order in which the sub-
ject is presented becomes important. It is of the highest consequence
that the more dependent parts of the science should not be put for-
ward in the beginning. I do not think the order of our American
text-books so good as that of Stockhardt.
I will state, in a very few words, the order which seems to me best.
I usually make the pupil study, first, the individual properties of the
thirty chief elements, taking up no compounds but oxides and hydro-
gen acids. The pupil should test the oxides with red or blue litmus ;
note the acid or basic taste ; note which are insoluble in Avater. The
