A 2iEW THEORY OF THE SUN. 223
difference between hydrates and anhydrides should be clearly brought
out, and the part which hydrogen plays. After this survey, the pupil,
for himself, without prompting, divides the elements into their two
great classes.
Then, after some little study of sulphides and the other binary
compounds, the principal acids and bases should be shown in their
concentrated form. After this, a number of them should be combined
to form salts, and, in doing this, it should be brought out very clearly
{by, not/b?- the pupil) how the bases replace the hydrogen of the acid.
There should also be some general study of crystallization.
It would be easy to multiply suggestions, but it has been my pur-
pose in this brief paper simply to describe what I have tried, and give
only the results of experience.
A NEW TIIEOKY OF THE SUK
THE CONSERVATION OF SOLAR ENERGY.
By C. WILLIAM SIEMENS.
A PAPER was recently read by me before the Royal Society,
under the above title, which may be termed a first attempt to
open for the sun a creditor and debtor account, inasmuch as he has
hitherto been regarded only as the great almoner, pouring forth inces-
santly his boundless wealth of heat, without receiving any of it back.
Such a proposal touches the root of solar physics, and can not there-
fore be expected to pass without challenge — to meet which I gladly
embrace the opportunity, now offered to rae through the courtesy of
the editor of this review, of enlarging somewhat upon the first concise
statement of my views regarding this question.
Man has from the very earliest ages looked up with a feeling of
awe and Avonderment to our great luminary, to whom we owe not only
the light of day, but the genial warmth by which we live, by which
our hills are clad with verdure, our rivers flow, and without which
our life-sustaining food, both vegetable and animal, could not be pro-
duced.
When for our comfort and our use we resort to a fire either of
wood or coal, we know now by the light of modern science that we are
utilizing only solar rays that have been stored up by the aid of the
process of vegetation in our forests or in the forests of former geolog-
ical ages, when our coal-fields were the scenes of rank tropical growth.
The potency of the solar ray in this respect was recognized — even be-
fore science had discovered its true significance — by clear-sighted men
such as the late George Stephenson, who, when asked what in his opin-
