2 24 TEE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ion was the ultimate cause of the motion of his locomotive-engine, said
that he thought it went by " the bottled-up rays of the sun."
With the exception of our coal-fields and a few elementary com-
bustible sitbstances such as sulphur and what are called the precious
metals, which we find sparsely scattered about, our earth consists es-
sentially of combined matter. Thus our rivers, lakes, and oceans are
filled with oxidized hydrogen, the result of a most powerful combus-
tion ; and the crust of our earth is found to consist either of quartz (a
combination of the metal silicon with oxygen) or limestone (oxidized
calcium combined with oxidized carbon), or of other metals, such as
magnesium, aluminium, or iron, oxidized and combined in a similar
manner. Excepting, therefore, the few substances before enumerated,
we may look upon our earth, near its surface at any rate, as a huge
ball of cinder, which, if left to itself, would soon become intensely
cold, and devoid of life or animation of any kind.
It is true that a goodly store of heat still exists in the interior of
our earth, which, according to some geologists, is in a state of fusion,
and must certainly be in a highly heated condition ; but this internal
heat would be of no avail, owing to the slow rate of conduction, by
which alone, excepting volcanic action, it could be brought to us liv-
ing upon its surface.
An estimate of the amount of heat poured down annually upon the
surface of our earth may be formed from the fact that it exceeds a
million times the heat producible by all the coal raised, which may be
taken at 280,000,000 tons a year.
If, then, we depend upon solar radiation for our very existence from
day to day, it can not be said that we are only remotely interested in
solar i^hysics, and the question whether and how solar energy, com-
prising the rays of heat, of light, and the actinic rays, is likely to be
maintained, is one in which we have at least as great a reversionary
interest as we have in landed estate or other property.
If the amount of heat, or, more correctly speaking, of energy, sup-
plied annually to our earth is great as compared with terrestrial quan-
tities, that scattered abroad in all directions by the sun strikes us as
something almost beyond conception.
The amount of heat radiated from the sun has been approximately
computed by the aid of the pyrheliometer of Pouillet, and by the
actinometers of Herschel, at 18,000,000 heat-units from every square
foot of its surface per hour ; or, expressed popularly, if coal were con-
sumed on the surface of the sun in the most perfect manner, our total
annual production of 280,000,000 tons, being the estimated produce of
all the coal-mines of the earth, would suffice to keep up solar radiation
for only one forty-millionth part of a second ; or, if the earth were a
mass of coal, and could be supplied by contract to the solar furnace-
men, this supply would last them just thirty-six hours.
If the sun were surrounded by a solid sphere of a radius equal to
