A iV^TF THEORY OF THE SUX. 225
the mean distance of the sun from the earth (95,000,000 miles), the
whole of this prodigious amount of heat would be intercepted ; but
considering that the earth's aj^parent diameter as seen from the sun is
only seventeen seconds, the earth can intercept only the 2,250-millionth
part. Assuming that the other planetary bodies swell the amount of
intercepted heat to ten times this amount, there remains the important
fact that 111 ^0000 of ^^^ solar energy is radiated into space, and
apparently lost to the solar system, and only oggoijoooo utilized or in-
tercepted.
Notwithstanding this enormous loss of heat, solar temperature
has not diminished sensibly for centuries, if we neglect the periodic
changes, apparently connected with the appearance of sun-spots, that
have been observed by Lockyer and others, and the question forces
itself upon ns, how this great loss can be sustained without producing
an observable diminution of solar temperature, even within a human
life-time.
Among the ingenious hypotheses intended to account for a con-
tinuance of solar heat is that of shrinkaffe or gradual reduction of the
sun's volume, suggested by Helmholtz. It may, however, be argued
against this theory that the heat so produced would be liberated
throughout its mass, and would have to be brought to the surface by
conduction, aided perhaps by convection; but we know of no material
of sufficient conductivity to transmit anything approaching the amount
of heat lost by radiation.
Chemical action betAveen the constituent parts of the sun has also
been suggested ; but here again we are met by the difficulty that the
products of such combination would, ere this, have accumulated on the
surface, and would have formed a barrier against further action.
These difficulties led Sir William Thomson to the suggestion that
the cause of maintenance of solar temperature might be found in the
circumstance of meteorites, not falling upon the sim from great dis-
tances in space, as had been suggested by Mayer and Waterton, but
circulating with an acquired velocity within the planetary distances of
the sun, and he shows that each pound of matter so imported would
represent a large number of heat-units, without disturbing the plan-
etary equilibrium. But in considering more fully the enormous amount
of planetary matter that would be required for the maintenance of the
solar temperature, Sir William Thomson soon abandoned this hypoth-
esis for that of simple transfer of heat from the interior of a fluid sun
to the surface by means of convection-currents, which latter hypothesis
is at the present time supported by Professor Stokes and other leading
physicists.
This theory has certainly the advantage of accounting for the
greatest possible store of heat within the solar mass, because it sup-
poses the latter to consist in the main of a fluid heated to such a tem-
perature that, if it were relieved at any point of the confining pressure,
TOL. XXI. — 15
