METHODS AXD PROFIT OF TREE-PLAXTIXG. ii
when exposed to moisture, and was formerly much used by the In-
dians for canoes. It has been a favorite material for fence and gate
posts, and posts are now to be seen which have been in the ground
from fifty to a hundred years, and show hardly any signs of decay.
It promises to be a very valuable tree for railway-ties, and some of our
railway companies, especially in the "West, are planting it extensively
on this account. It is also an excellent wood for the uses of the cai*-
penter and the cabinet-maker. It resembles in color and texture the
chestnut, is easily worked, and takes a fine polish. The rapidity of its
growth in good soil is astonishing. A specimen from a tree which
grew in Nebraska, and shows but four annual layers of growth, meas-
ured nine and three quarters inches in circumference, and the growth
of the first two years was already turned to heart-wood. The tree is
easily propagated from seed, and will grow anywhere south of the
forty-second parallel. Specimens of it are to be found as far north as
the middle of Massachusetts, and along the sea-coast as far as Maine.
Wherever it can be established it will prove not only one of our most
beautiful but one of our most useful woods. There are two species
of catalpn, indigenous to the United States ; the Sjyeciosa, flowering
three weeks earlier than the other, a native of the South, is the hardier
of the two, and preferable for planting.
As showing how practical men regard the catalpa and the ailantus,
we may state that the Fort Scott and Gulf Railroad have made a con-
tract with Messrs. Douglas, of Waukegan, to plant for them in Kansas
several hundred acres of these trees. A Boston capitalist has also con-
tracted for the planting in the same way of five hundred and sixty
acres of prairie-land in Eastern Kansas. The plantation is to consist
of three hundred acres of the catalpa, two hundred acres of ailantus,
not less than twenty-seven hundred and twenty trees to the acre,
and sixty acres are to be held as an experimental ground to be
planted with several varieties of trees to be selected by Professor
Sargent. "What is even more noteworthy, the Iron Mountain Railroad
Company, whose road runs for hundreds of miles through a heavily
timbered country, have made a similar contract for planting near
Charleston, Missouri, one hundred acres of the catalpa as an experi-
ment. This they do because, Avhile they own some of the finest white-
oak timber on the continent, catalpa ties have stood on their road for
twelve years entirely unaffected by decay, and the demand for ties
and for posts of this wood far exceeds the present supply. It is esti-
mated that the new railroads built in the treeless States in 1879
required over ten million ties.
The Australian eucalyptus, or blue-gum, though an Australian tree,
makes itself at home in California. It is a tree of astonishingly rapid
growth, yet, like the ailantus and catalpa, it produces heavy, solid
wood. In a plantation of it in Alameda County, California, in seven
years from planting the trees were generally ten inches in diameter
