A ^Y^Tr THEORY OF THE SUX. 229
carries with it thither the solary fuel and material principle of life, and that the
vast ethereal spaces between us and tlie stars are for a sufficient repository for
this food of the sun and planets. . . . Thus, perhaps, may all things be originated
from ether."
If at the time of Xewton chemistry had been understood as it now
is, and if, moreovei', he had been armed with that most wonderful of
all modem scientific instruments, the spectroscope, the direct outcome
of his own prismatic analysis, there appears to be no doubt that the
author of the laws of gravitation would have so developed his thoughts
upon solar fuel that they would have taken the form rather of a sci-
entific discovery than of a mere speculation.
Our proof that interstellar space is filled with attenuated matter
does not rest, however, solely upon the uncertain ground of speculation.
We receive occasionally upon our earth celestial visitors termed meteor-
ites ; these are known to travel in loose masses round the sun in orbits
intersecting at certain points that of our earth. When in their tran-
sit they pass through the denser portion of our atmosphere they be-
come incandescent, and are popularly known as falling stars. In some
cases they are really deserving of that name, because they strike down
upon our earth, from the surface of which they have been picked up
and subjected to searching examination while still warm after their
exertion. Dr. Flight has only very recently communicated to the
Royal Society an analysis of the occluded gases of one of these mete-
orites as follows :
CO2 (Carbonic acid) 0-12
CO (Carbonic oxide) 31-S8
H (Hydrogen) 45-79
CH4 (Marsh-gas) 4-55
]Sr (Nitrogen) 17-66
100-00
It appears surprising that there was no aqueous vapor, considering
that there was much hydrogen and oxygen in combination with car-
bon ; but perhaps the vapor escaped observation, or was expelled to a
greater extent than the other gases by external heat when the meteor-
ite passed through our atmosphere. Opinions concur that the gases
found occluded in meteorites can not be supposed to have entered
into their composition during the very short period of traversing our
denser atmosphere ; but, if any doubt should exist on this head, it
ought to be set at rest by the fact that the gas principally occluded is
hydrogen, which is not contained in our atmosi)here in any appreciable
quantity.
Further proof of the fact that stellar space is filled -with gaseous
matter is furnished by spectrum analysis, and it appears from recent
investigation, by Dr. Huggins and others, that the nucleus of a comet
contains very much the same gases found occluded in meteorites, in-
