2 30 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
eluding " carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and probably oxygen," while,
according to the views set fortb by Dewar and Liveing, it also con-
tains nitrogenous compounds such as cyanogen.
Adversely to the assumption that interplanetary space is filled with
gases, it is urged that the presence of ordinary matter would cause
sensible retardation of jjlanetary motion, such as must have made itself
felt before this ; but, assuming that the matter filling sj^ace is an al-
most perfect fluid not limited by border surfaces, it can be shown on
purely mechanical grounds that the retardation by friction through
such an attenuated medium would be very slight indeed, even at plan-
etary velocities.
But it may be contended that, if the views here advocated regard-
ing the distribution of gases were true, the sun should draw to him-
self the bulk of the least diffusible, and therefore the heaviest gases,
such as carbonic acid, carbonic oxide, oxygen, and nitrogen, whereas
spectrum analysis has proved, on the contrary, a great pi-evalence of
hydrogen.
In explanation of this seeming anomaly, it can be shown, in the
first place, that the temperature of the svtn is so high that such com-
pound gases as carbonic acid and carbonic oxide could not exist within
him, their point of dissociation being very much below the solar tem-
perature. It has been contended, indeed, by Mr. Lockyer, that none
of the metalloids have any existence at these temperatures, although
as regards oxygen Dr. Draper asserts its existence in the solar photo-
sphere. There must be regions, however, outside that thermal limit,
where their existence would not be jeopardized by heat ; and here
great accumulation of the comparatively heavy gases that constitute
our atmosphere would probably take place, were it not for a certain
counterbalancing action.
I here approach a point of primary importance in my argument,
upon the proof of which my further conclusions must depend.
The sun completes one revolution on its axis in twenty-five days,
and its diameter being taken at 882,000 miles, it follows that the
tangential velocity amounts to 1'25 miles per second, or to what the
tangential velocity of our earth would be if it occupied five hours
instead of twenty-four in accomplishing one revolution. This high
rotative velocity of the sun must cause an equatorial rise of the solar
atmosphere, to which Mairan, in 1731, attribiited the appearance of
zodiacal light. Laplace rejected this explanation on the ground that
zodiacal light extended to a distance from the sun exceeding our own,
whereas the equatorial rise of the solar atmosphere due to its rotation
could not exceed nine twentieths of the distance of Mercury. But it
must be remembered that Laplace based his calculation upon the
generally accepted hypothesis of an empty stellar space (occupied
only by an imaginary ether), and it can be shown that the result of
solar rotation would be widely different, if supposed to take place
