A NEW THEORY OF THE SUN. 231
■within a medium of unbounded extension. In this case pressures
would be balanced all round, and the sun would act mechanically upon
the floating matter surrounding him in the manner of a fan, draAving
it toward himself upon the polar surfaces, and projecting it outward in
a continuous disk-like stream fi'om the equatorial surfaces.
By this fan action, hydrogen, hydrocarbons, and oxygen are sup-
posed to be drawn in enormous quantities toward the polar surfaces of
the sun ; during their gradual approach they pass from their condition
of extreme attenuation and intense cold to that of compression, accom-
panied with increase of temperature, until, on approaching the photo-
sphere, they burst into flame, giving rise to a great develoi3ment of
heat, and a temperature commensurate with their point of dissociation
at the solar density. The result of their combustion will be aqueous
vapor and carbonic acid, and these products of combustion, in yielding
to the influence of centrifugal force, will flow toward the solar equa-
tor, and be thence projected into space.
In view of the importance of this centrifugal action for the pur-
pose of ray theory, the following simple mathematical statement of the
problem may not be thought out of place : Let us consider the condi-
tion of two equal gaseous masses, at equal distances from the solar
center, the one in the direction of the equator, the other in that of
either of the poles. These two masses would be equally attracted
toward the sun, and balance one another as regards the force of gravi-
tation, but the former would be subject to another force, that of cen-
trifugal action, which, however small in amount as compared with the
enormous attraction of the sun, would destroy the balance, and deter-
mine a motion toward the sun as regards the mass opposite the polar
surface, and into space as regards the equatorial mass. The same ac-
tion would take effect upon the masses filling their places, and the
result must be a continuous current depending for its velocity upon
the rate of solar rotation. The equatorial current so produced, owing
to its mighty proportions, would flow outward into space, to a practi-
cally unlimited distance.
The next question for consideration is, TThat would become of
these products of combustion when thus returned into space ? Ap-
parently they would gradually change the condition of stellar material,
rendering it more and more neutral ; but I venture to suggest the pos-
sibility, nay, the probability, that solar radiation will, under these con-
ditions, step in to bring back the combined materials to a state of sep-
aration by dissociation carried into effect at the expense of that solar
energy which is now supposed to be irrevocably lost or dissipated into
space as the phrase goes.
According to the law of dissociation as developed by Bunsen and
Sainte-Claire Deville, the point of decomposition of different com-
pounds depends upon the temperature on the one hand, and upon the
pressure on the other. According to Sainte-Claire Deville, the disso-
