2 32 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ciation tension of aqueous vapor at atmospheric pressure and at 2,800°
C. is 0*5, that is to say one half of the vapor would exist as such, the
remaining half being found as a mechanical mixture of hydrogen and
oxygen ; but, with the pressure, the temperature of dissociation rises
and falls, as the temperature of saturated steam rises and falls with its
pressure. It is therefore conceivable that the solar photosphere may
be raised by combustion to a tempei'ature exceeding 2,800° C, whereas
dissociation may be effected in space at a lower temperature. This
temperature of 2,800" would be quite sufficient to account for the char-
acter and amount of solar radiation, if it is only borne in mind that
the luminous atmosphere may be a thousand miles in depth, and that
the flame of hydrogen and hydrocarbons, in the uppermost layers of
this zone, is transparent to the radiant energy produced in the layers
below, thus making the total radiation rather the sum of matter in
combustion than the effect of a very intensely heated surface,
Sainte-Claire Deville's investigations had reference only to heats
measured by means of pyrometers, but do not extend to the effects of
radiant heat. Dr. Tyndall has shown by his important researches that
vapor of water and other gaseous comjiounds intercept radiant heat in
a most remarkable degree, and there is other evidence to show that
radiant energy from a source of high intensity possesses a dissociating
power far surpassing the measurable temperature to which the com-
pound substance under its influence is raised. Thus carbonic acid and
water are dissociated in the leaf -cells of plants under the influence of
the direct solar ray at ordinary summer temperature, and experiments
in which I have been engaged for nearly three years * go to prove that
this dissociating action is obtained also under the radiant influence of
the electric arc, although it is scarcely perceptible if the energy is such
as can be produced by an inferior source of heat.
The point of dissociation of aqueous vapor and carbonic acid ad-
mits, however, of being determined by direct experiment. It engaged
my attention some years ago, but I have hesitated to publish the quali-
tative results I then obtained, in the hope of attaining to quantitative
proofs.
These experiments consisted in the employment of glass tubes fur-
nished with platinum electrodes, and tilled with aqueous vapor or with
carbonic acid in the usual manner, the latter being furnished with
caustic soda to regulate the vapor-pressure by heating. Upon immers-
ing one end of the tube charged with aqueous vapor in a refrigerating
mixture of ice and chloride of calcium, its temperature at that end was
reduced to —32° C, corresponding to a vapor-pressiire, according to
Regnault, of j^uiT of an atmosphere. "When so cooled no slow elec-
tric discharge took place on connecting the two electrodes with a small
* See " rroceedinfrs, Royal Society," vol. xxx, March 1, 1880 ; also a paper read before
Section A of the British Association, September 1, 18S1, and ordered to be printed in
the report.
