A 2iEW THEORY OF THE SUX. 233
induction-coil. I then exposed the end of the tube projecting out of
the freezing mixture, backed by white paper, to solar radiation (on a
clear summer's day) for several hours, when, upon again connecting up
to the inductorium, a discharge, apj^arently that of a hydrogen vacu-
um, was obtained. This experiment being repeated furnished unmis-
takable evidence, I thought, that aqueous vapor had been dissociated
by exposure to solar radiation. The carbonic-acid tubes gave, how-
ever, less unmistakable effects. Not satisfied with these qualitative
results, I made arrangements to collect the permanent gases so pro-
duced by means of a Sprengel pump, but was prevented by lack of
time from pursuing the inquiiy, which I propose, however, to resume
shortly, being of opinion that, independently of my present specula-
tion, the experiments may prove useful in extending our knowledge
regarding the laws of dissociation.
It should be here observed that, according to Professor Stokes, the
ultra-violet rays are in large measure absorbed in passing through
clear glass, and it follows from this discovery that only a small portion
of the chemical rays found their way through the tubes to accomplish
the work of dissociation. This circumstance being adverse to the ex-
periment only serves to increase the value of the effect observed, while
it appears to furnish additional proof of the fact, first enunciated by
Professor Draper, and corroborated by my own experiments on plants,
that the dissociating power of light is not confined to the ultra-violet
rays, but depends in the pi'ocess of vegetation chiefly upon the yellow
and red rays.
Assuming, for my present purpose, that dissociation of aqueotis
vapor was really effected in the experiment just described, and assum-
ing, further, that stellar space is filled with aqueous and other vapor of
a density not exceeding the -^-^jf^y part of our atmosphere, it seems rea-
sonable to suppose that its dissociation would be effected by solar radia-
tion, and that solar energy would thus be utilized. The conjoint pres-
ence of aqueous vapor, carbonic acid, and nitrogen would only serve
to facilitate their decomposition, in consequence of the simultaneous
formation of hydrocarbons and nitrogenous compounds by combination
of the nascent hydrogen and the nitrogen with carbon in a manner
analogous to what occurs in vegetation. It is not necessary to sup-
pose that all the energy radiated from the sun into space should be
intercepted, inasmuch as even a partial return of heat in the manner
described would serve to supplement solar radiation, the balance being
made up by absolute loss. To this loss of energy would have to be
added that consumed in sustaining the circulating current, which how-
ever, need not relatively be more than what is known to be lost on our
earth through the tidal action, and may be supposed to be compensated
as regards the time of solar rotation by gradual shrinkage.
By means of the fan-like action resulting from the rotation of the
sun, the vapors dissociated in space to-day would be drawn toward the
