234 TH^ POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
polar surfaces of the sun to-morrow, be heated by increase in density,
and would burst into flame at a point where both their density and
temperature had reached the necessary elevation to induce combustion,
each comj^lete cycle taking, however, years to be accomplished. The
resulting aqueous vapor, carbonic acid, and carbonic oxide would be
di'awn toward the equatorial regions, and be then again projected into
space by centrifugal force.
Space would, according to these views, be filled with gaseous com-
pounds in process of decomposition by solar radiant energy, and the
existence of these gases would furnish an explanation of the solar
absorption spectrum, in which the lines of some of the substances may
be entirely neutralized and lost to observation. As regards the heavy
metallic vapors revealed in the sun by the spectroscope, it is assumed
that these form a lower and denser solar atmosphere, not participating
in the fan-like action which is supposed to affect the light outer atmos-
phere only, in which hydrogen is the principal factor.
Such a dense metallic atmosphere could not participate in the fan
action affecting the lighter photosphere, because this is only feasible
on the supposition that the density of the inflowing current is, at
equal distances from the gravitating center, equal or nearly equal to
the outflowing current. It is true that the products of combustion of
hydrogen and hydrocarbon are denser than their constituents, but this
difference may be balanced by their superior temperature on leaving
the sun, whereas the metallic vapors would be unbalanced, and would
therefore obey the laws of gravitation, recalling them to the sun. On
the surface of contact between the two solar atmospheres, intermixt-
ure induced by friction must take place, however, giving rise to those
vortices and explosive effects within the zones of the sun, between the
equator and the polar surfaces, to which reference has already been
made in this article ; these may ajDpropriately be called the " stormy
regions " of the sun, which were first observed and commented upon
by Sir John Herschel. Some of the denser vapors would probably get
intermixed, be carried away mechanically by the lighter gases, and
give rise to that cosmic dust observed to fall upon our earth in not
inappreciable quantities, and generally assumed hitherto to be the
debris of broken meteorolites. Excessive intermixture between the
heat-producing atmosphere and the metallic vapors below appears to be
prevented by the existence of an intermediate neutral atmosphere, and
called the j^enumbra.
As the whole solar system moves through space at a pace estimated
at 150,000,000 miles annually (being about one fourth of the velocity
of the earth in its orbit), it appears possible that the condition of
the gaseous fuel supplying the sun may vary according to its state of
previous decomposition, in which other heavenly bodies may have
taken part, and whereby an interesting reflex action between our sun
and other heavenly bodies would be brought about. May it not be
