A Iii:W THEORY OF THE SUX. 235
owing to such differences in the quality of the fuel supplied that the
observed variations of the solar heat may arise ? — and may it not be
in consequence of such changes in the thermal condition of the photo-
sphere that the extraordinary convulsions revealed to us as sun-spots
occur ?
The views here advocated could not be thought acceptable unless
they furnished at any rate a consistent explanation of the still some-
what mysterious phenomena of the zodiacal light and of comets.
Regarding the former, we should be able to revert to Mairan's views,
the objection by Laplace being met by a continuous outward flow
from the solar equator. Luminosity would be attributable to particles
of dust emitting light reflected from the sun, or to phosphorescence.
But there is another cause for luminosity of these particles, which may
deserve serious consideration. Each particle would be electriiied by
gaseous friction in its acceleration, and its electric tension would be
vastly increased in its forcible removal, in the same way as the fine
dust of the desert has been observed by Dr. "Werner Siemens to be in
a state of high electrification on the apex of the Cheops Pyramid.
Could not the zodiacal light also be attributed to slow electric dis-
charffe backward from the dust towai'd the sun ? — and would not the
same cause account for a great difference of potential between the sun
and earth, which latter may be supposed to be washed by the solar
radial current ? May not the presence of the radial solar current also
furnish us with an explanation of the fact that hydrogen, while
abounding apparently in space, is practically absent in our atmosphere,
where aqueous vapor and carbonic acid, which would come to us
directly from the sun, take its place ? An action analogous to this,
though on a much smaller scale, may be set up also by terrestrial rota-
tion, giving rise to an electrical discharge from the outgoing equato-
rial stream to the polar regions, where the atmosi)here to be pierced by
the return flood is of least resistance. Thus the phenomenon of the
aurora boreal is or northern lights would find an easy explanation.
The effect of this continuous outpour of solar materials could not
be without very important influences as regards the geological con-
ditions of our earth. Geologists have long acknowledged the diffi-
culty of accounting for the amount of carbonic acid that must have
been in our atmosphere, at one time or another, in order to form with
lime those enormous beds of dolomite and limestone, of which the
crust of our earth is in great measure composed. It has been calcu-
lated that, if this carbonic acid had l)een at one and the same time in
our atmosphere, it would have caused an elastic pressure fifty times
that of our present atmosphere ; and, if we add the carbonic acid that
must have been absorbed in vegetation in order to form our coal-beds,
we should probably have to double that pressure. Animal life, of
which we find abundant traces in these "measures," could not have
existed under such conditions, and we are almost forced to the conclu-
