236 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
sion tliat the carbonic acid must have been derived from an external
source.
It appears to me that the theory here advocated furnishes a feasible
solution of this geological difficulty. Our earth being situated in the
outflowing current of the solar products of combustion, or, as it were,
in the solar chimney, would be fed from day to day with its quota of
carbonic acid, of which our local atmosphere would assimilate as much
as would be necessary to maintain it in a carbonic-acid vapor density
balancing that of the solar current ; we should thus receive our daily
supply of this important constituent (with the regularity of fresh rolls
for breakfast), which, according to an investigation by M. Reiset,
communicated to the French Academy of Sciences by M. Dumas on
the 6th of March last, amounts to the constant factor of one ten-
thousandth part of our atmosphere. The aqueous vapor in the air
would be similarly maintained as to its density, and its influx to, or
reflux from, our atmosphere would be determined by the surface tem-
perature of our earth.
It is also important to show how the phenomena of comets could
be harmonized with the views here advocated, and I venture to hope
that these occasional visitors will serve to furnish us with positive evi-
dence in my favor. Astronomical physicists tell us that the nucleus
of a comet consists of an aggregation of stones similar to meteorites;
Adopting this view, and assuming that the stones have absorbed in
stellar space gases to the amount of six times their volume, taken at
atmospheric pressure, what, it may be asked, wall be the effect of such
a divided mass advancing toward the sun at a velocity reaching in
perihelion the prodigious rate of 366 miles per second (as observed
in the comet of 1845), being twenty-three times our orbital rate of
motion ? It appears evident that the entry of such a mass into a com-
paratively dense atmosj^here must be accompanied by a rise of tem-
perature by frictional resistance, aided by attractive condensation.
At a certain point the increase of temperature must cause ignition,
and the heat thus produced must drive out the occluded gases, which
in an atmosphere 3,000 times less dense than that of our earth would
produce 6x3,000 =: 18,000 times the volume of the stones themselves.
These gases would issue forth in all directions, but would remain un-
observed except in that of motion, in which they would meet the
interplanetary atmosphere with the compound velocity, and form a
zone of intense combustion, such as Dr. Iluggins has lately observed
to surround the one side of the nucleus, evidently the side of forward
motion. The nucleus would thus emit original light, whereas the tail
may be supposed to consist of stellar dust rendered luminous by reflex
action produced by the light of the sun and comet combined, as fore-
shadowed already by Tyndall, Tait, and others, starting each from
different assumptions.
Although I can not pretend to an intimate acquaintance with the
