THE FUTURE OF MIND. 239
that my imaginary diagram bore a very close resemblance to the
corona observed in America on the occasion of the total eclipse of the
sun on the 11th of January, 1880.
Enough has been said, I think, to prove that the theory I have
ventured to put forwai'd is the result, at any rate, of considerable re-
flection ; and I may add that, since its first announcement, I have not
seen reason to reject any of the links of my chain of argument : these
I have here endeavored to strengthen only by additional facts and
explanations.
If these arguments can be proved to the entire satisfaction of those
best able to form a judgment, they would serve to justify the poet
Addison when he says :
" The unwearied sun from day to day
Does the Creator's power display,
And publishes to every land
The work of an Almighty Hand."
— Nineteenth Century.
THE FUTURE OF MIXD.-
Br PETER BEYCE, M. D.
BUT what does science testify as to the probable future of mind in
earthly life ? Have mind and body attained their supreme
development ? Is humanity a fixed entity, incapable of essential modi-
fications or improvement ? All the evidence goes to show that the
improvement of the human race is practically illimitable. This is true
both of mind and body, which, as has been shown, ^di\AX\CG jKiri passic,
and is made very evident by the fact that the pre-eminence of Euro-
peans over barbarous races, which is so manifest in their intellect, is
just as manifest in their anatomy and physiology. There is a diver-
sity of proofs of the advance of the physical man in modern times.
No one questions that the average duration of life is being steadily
prolonged. Besides a multitude of new arts and new sciences, all the
arts and sciences known to the ancients have been so wondrously de-
veloped as to seem like new creations of the modern man. Geology,
zoology, botany, chemistry, geography — physical and political — medi-
cine, painting, politics, theology, etc. — every department, in fact, of
human interest — have grown, as it were, into new and marvelous
revelations. But to suppose that these immense developments of art
and science can have resulted without corresponding improvements in
the human intellect, is to ignore very important biological principles.
* From a discourse on " Some of the riicnomcna of Mind," delivered before the
Medical Association of the State of Alabama, April 11, 1882, by Dr. Peter Bryce, Super-
intendent of the Alabama Insane Hospital, etc.
