240 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
As an advanced science imi^lies an advanced art — tlie progress of the
two being ever conditioned upon each other — so the great advances
of the sciences and arts imply a corresponding development of human
intelligence. The principle of action and reaction prevails in the
world of mind as in the world of matter, and while the human intel-
lect, by cogent applications of its powers, has established multitudi-
nous differentiations in things once inextricably intermingled, a cor-
responding differentiation and specialization of its own powers has
inevitably resulted. But specialization of functions being the direct
evidence of its greater perfection, it is incontrovertible that the mul-
tiiDlication of specialisations of knowledge by human inquiry has re-
sulted in impi'ovements of the powers of the human mind. The strain
now put on human power to keep pace with the advances already
made is an assurance that there will be in the future no lack of oc-
casion for continued mental development. All departments of hu-
man enterprise have in truth been already so marvelously developed
as to defy the complete grasp of any but specialists of more than ordi-
nary capacity. Croakers may find fault and stigmatize the advance
of the age as mainly material. !N^ever did carping criticism have
poorer ground for its averments. The material advance is fully
matched by the moral advance. Proofs of it are so multiplied as
scarcely to deserve enumeration. Liberty to think boldly and to give
free uttei'ance to honest convictions is fast becoming a sacred principle
of society. Liberty of person, and equal justice — irrespective of rank
and wealth — are now almost everywhere recognized as divinest prin-
cii:»les of government. The sick and the unfortunate, instead of being
left to die without aid or to pine through a miserable existence, are
now everywhere provided for at the expense of those whom fortune
has subjected to less severe trials. Sumptuary laws are now not only
knoMTi to be useless but their principle is condemned. Private war
has almost ceased to be waged ; and the duty of revenge, once sanc-
tioned by religion, has given place to the duty of forbearance and
forgiveness. The well-being of one's neighbor is now universally felt
to be the good fortune of one's self. Vast accumulations of wealth,
instead of being squandered in the purchase of places and i;seless
decorations for elevating one's self above his fellows, are now em-
ployed in educational, industrial, and eleemosynary foundations.
Kor is this true of individuals only. Governments, both monarch-
ical and republican, instead of employing their resources in w ar and
destruction, are now rivals in the most beneficent achievements for
prolonging and ennobling human life. Slavery has been abolished
in nearly every civilized country, and all forms of privileged oppres-
sion are rapidly meeting with the same condemnation. Li truth, such
has been the progress of morals and the general assimilation of the
principles of equity, that the most important functions of life and
society arc now accomplished without the intervention of government,
