12 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and sixty feet high. Wonderful stories are told, also, of the value of
the eucalyptus as a preventive of malaria, and in reclaiming swamps
by absorbing their moisture. But, whatever may or may not be true
of it in these respects, the rapidity of its growth and the quality
of its wood will commend its cultivation wherever it can be accli-
mated.
A good deal has been expected of the Scotch pine, and it has been
somewhat extensively imported for the purpose of planting. In Eu-
rope it has a great reputation for the durability of its wood, and for its
rapid growth on poor soils and in exposed situations. But time is seem-
ing to prove that this tree is not well adapted to our country. It grows
well for a while, and has a promising appearance while young ; but,
after attaining an age of from twelve to twenty years, it is apt to fail,
dying off suddenly, to the great disappointment of the planter. Its
most valuable use is as a nurse-tree in very exposed places, Avhcre it
will shelter other and better trees until they get established and are
able to take care of themselves.
But it is hardly worth while to go abroad for the Scotch pine when
we have at home such a tree as the pitch-pine (P. rigida). This tree
can be jjroduced from seed in this country in the open field with as
much certainty as a crop of corn. It has been grown for many years
in this way on the barren and wind-swept soil of Cape Cod, and its cul-
tivation has been entirely successful. Large plantations of it are to be
found there, and, for the production of fuel and as a nurse for more
valuable trees in such exposed and sterile situations, it has proved
worthy the attention of land-holders, as it can be planted at a cost of
from one to two dollars an acre.
But the white pine is the most valuable of the conifers for our
Northern States. No other is equal to it as a timber-tree. The one
drawback to its cultivation is the difficulty of producing it from seed
in the open field. It is a tender and delicate plant at its beginning.
It needs the care and shelter of the nursery. But a tree so noble when
fully grown, and so valuable for many purposes, is worthy of all needed
care when young, and Avill repay it abundantly. The tree-planter can
well afford to be at the expense of transplanting this tree from the
nursery. For timber, when fully grown, for shelter-belts on farms and
grounds, as well as for its fine appearance on the lawn as a single tree
or in clumps, our American white pine stands second to no other tree
in its claims upon the attention of the planter. The rapidity with
which it is being swept away by the lumberman's axe, together with
its great usefulness and desirability in the arts, and especially for build-
ing purposes, will give this tree for some time to come an increasing
economic value.
The European larch is quite worthy of cultivation, especially in
New England. Professor Sargent says, "There is no tree capable of
producing so large an amount of such valuable timber in so short a
