THE FUTURE OF MIXD. 241
giving promise of a gradual declension of the functions of the central
power before the more precise and equitable supervision of society-
constituted of individuals imbued with ever-present aspirations for
justice and advancement. Already this day of a new excellence has
dawned, and there are not a few indications that new crystallizations
of social forces are destined to supervene. The liberation of woman
from her ancient servitude and her rapid advance to every privilege
for which her powers adapt her, the emancipation of children from
the severe domestic tyrannies and cruelties to which they were time
out of mind subjected, are striking evidences of the ameliorations due
to general moral advance. Like the animal organism the social organ-
ism responds throughout its whole substance to any force brought to
bear upon it, and the influence of scientific methods of thought is
destined to exert upon society augmenting influences of the most per-
vading and salutary kinds. Truth and morality are inextricably inter-
mingled, and whatever aids in the discovery of truth is a potential
moral adjuvant. As, in Scripture, condemnation and the belief in lies
are everywhere conjoined, so moral advance is ever assured by devices
that accomplish the enlargement of the realm of truth. To carp at
scientific methods is to carp at truth, for scientific methods are only
severe procedures for the discovery of truth ; and there is, to my
mind, little doubt that in no great while the much-desired reconcilia-
tion of natural with revealed truth will be successfully achieved. I
find in late utterances of scientific men of the highest stamp much that
is in conformity with some of the prevalent teachings of religion.
Herbert Spencer is unquestionably the most perfect embodiment of
advanced scientific thought. While in special departments there are
many that go before him, in the power of co-ordinating the various
sciences and embodying their myriad diverse facts into a consistent
body of philosophy he goes far before all his contemporaries. His
writings, indeed, stand apart as a great mountain-range looming far
above the lesser heights. It would be easy, from Mr. Spencer's writ-
ings, to accumulate declarations that have wondrous congruity with
orthodox doctrine. The worship of humanity, Mr. Spencer declares,
can never take the place of the worship of God. He also aflirms, Avith
all our orthodox creeds, that precepts of right living do little or no
good unless the corresponding emotion can in some way be roused.
His standard of right conduct, scientifically deduced, is a perfect law
of righteousness which may not be debased below the mark of ])erfec-
tion, however unable men and women may be to fulfill its require-
ments.
In every aspect, therefore, the prospect of human advancement is
very cheering. Individually and collectively man is so steadily pro-
gressing to the achievement of the great problem of his life — perfect
conformity to the conditions of his being — that no mad enthusiasm is
needful to prompt the anticipation of a rapid advance to that condition
VOL. XXI. — 16
