242 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of things which the ancient seers foresaw and aspired toward, when
" they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into
pruning-hooks : nation shall not lift up the sword against nation,
neither shall they learn war any more."
But, while science is disclosing the methods of mind, and pre-
paring for it on earth a nobler and still more noble role, what are
its testimonies as to the duration of mind — its immortality ? Some
of the most devoted adherents of scientific methods have reached
conclusions which are unfavorable to mind's immortality. But it
is not surprising, in view of the novelty and marvelousness of many
lately demonstrated scientific truths, that even men of calm tem-
per should be led to attach undue importance to them — to claim for
them reaches and meanings which do not of right belong to them.
Close as may be the demonstrated union between mind and body, no
philosophy of organization and life satisfactorily accounts for the pres-
ence of mind. Mind is indeed unique, peculiar ; has its own laws, and
overleaps and undermines all mere material phenomena. The study
of mind is, therefore, incomplete unless subjectively pursued. The
mind must be questioned, must testify of itself, if we would arrive at
anything approaching just conclusions with reference to it. This is
indisputable from the fact that mind is that mysterious quality in us
by which we explore all material phenomena. It is only, therefore, by
due attention to mind's subjective contemplation that we gain the right
to reason ujion the phenomena of material things. A surveyor who
should go around determining boundaries, directions, and areas, with-
out having first put to severe tests his compass and chains, would be
acting not a whit more absurdly than they who leave out of the study
of material and mental phenomena a subjective study of mind. But,
if only by questioning mind about itself we can rightly understand its
nature, dare we, in conducting the inquiry, ignore a whole host of its
most prominent intuitions ? Surely not. But mind's testimony of
itself is, that there are in it indefeasible principles of individuality,
responsibility, and immortality. It would be strange, indeed, if this
noble, this intensely royal, thing, which disdains to be classed with any
material forces, however sublimated they may be, should be remanded
to the companionship and fate of the phenomenal, the sensual, the
perishing !
Happily for the theory of evolution, not all nor even the majority
of its advocates have given assent to such conclusions. Mr. Darwin
has ever conjoined with his marvelous disclosures of the relations of
organic facts a spirit of religious reverence. ^Mr. Herbert Spencer
avows that there are unseen, eternal verities which justify religion.
Lessing, David Strauss, and Professor Helmholtz, could not reconcile
themselves to the thought of a final destruction of the living race, and,
with it, all the fruits of all past generations. Others among them,
however, assume that, since mind is only known to us as a plienomenon
