THE FUTURE OF MIXD. 243
of organism, the death of the organism involves a discontinuance of
all its functions — thought, affection, and will, not excepted — and their
resolution into the more primitive forces from which they originally
sprang. But it is clearly a most unwarranted assumption that spiritual
individuality — the fundamental principle of which no one pretends to
apprehend — can not be prolonged or perpetuated, except under such
material circumstances as earth sujjplies. If it be recollected how
ignorant man is of the essences of matter and motion, and that there
are in mind or spirit qualities which can not be ranged with material
things, or with their almost infinitely subtile forces, we will readily see
that the assumption of no conscious life except under such circum-
stances as material things supply is most iinwarrantable.
Even the argument against immortality, based upon the relations
of mind to organism, when closely examined, loses much of its seem-
ing fitness. The persistence of force is, indeed, as much an axiom of
science as the indestructibility of matter. What appears to be cessa-
tion of force is simply its transformation into other forces. But mus-
cular movements provoked by volition are not actuated by mental
force. The mind, in voluntary motions, does not supply the force.
It only signals the nerve-centers that furnish the force. The centers
of motion, which have of late been demonstrated in the brain, do not
supply the force for the operation of the muscles, whose contractions
they specially control. The brain-centers are properly only intellect-
ual signal-centers — centers whence issue the volitions that liberate the
forces of the lower nerve-centers for contracting special muscles. Fatal
errors in reference to mind may easily grow from confounding nervous
force with mental force. It is impossible to form right conceptions of
mind so long as it is regarded as a mex-ely resultant force made up of
the organic forces which lead up to it. In any such conception there
is left out an important element which it is difficult explicitly to define,
but which may be forcibly suggested by a comparison. The beautiful
form — symmetry and proportions — of a noble tree may be regarded
apart from the organic materials and forces which underlie it. Thus
regarded it is, as it were, spiritual, and is capable of arousing concep-
tions of beauty and grandeur in the soul of the beholder. Mind, in
this view, instead of a mere force, becomes a symmetrical and living
expression of the relations of the myriad forces which have from the
very beginning entered into the life. It is, therefore, in one view, as
absolutely immaterial as the form and beauty of a tree. But in still
another aspect mind must be considered a higher and vastly more sub-
tile force than any physical forces Avith which we are acquainted, and
in its actions and methods of development is governed by laws pecul-
iarly its own. ^lind or mental force is, therefore, unique, and stands
apart as a grand exception to the general law of the correlation of
forces. But, as all the physical forces are persistent in some form or
other, it is eminently unreasonable to suppose that this peculiar force.
