246 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
projecting from a bulbous base (Fig. 3). The extremities of the
needles in other species are curved and turned over, as in Figs. 2 and
5, and in others they are one or two times branched ; while in the
genus Microsphceria the extremities of the appendages take the most
varied and most exquisite forms (Figs. 6, 7, 8, and 9).
The life and history of these little plants afford a large field for
studies and investigations, which are within the reach of every one
who has a good microscoj^e, and is not engaged on any other special
study. Such researches are, moreover, of great practical value. The
parasitic fungi are one of the great plagues of agriculture. They fix
themselves in hosts upon leaves and fruits, where they shut up the
stomata and prevent the action of air and light. The hope of discov-
ering a remedy for such evils is dependent on the study of theii* causes.
THE INTEODUCTION OF DOMESTIC AXIMALS.*
THE roving shepherd sows hastily a piece of land, which he leaves
after harvesting his crop, to do the same the next year with
another piece of land. But, when fruit-growing is combined vrith
agriculture, this unsettled shepherd-life becomes entirely changed.
The plantation of trees and vines must be inclosed, and taken care of
a long time before it will bring fruit. Hence arises the sense of a
settled home and of individual possession. Even the house of the
planter becomes a firmer structure ; the ground is more thoroughly
cultivated, so that a smaller territory suftices to support the family,
and individuals combine more and more into social communities. Man
thus becomes accustomed to a settled order of life, and to the relations
which form the foundation of lawful constitutions. Closely associated
with these changes in the mode of living is the introduction of domes-
tic animals.
In the early time, when the tribes of the Indo-European people
still formed one imdivided folk in its Asiatic home, the sheep and the
cow had already been tamed. This is proved in the case of the sheep
by the numerous varieties existing among them. The word daughter,
which means " the milker," and which is common to all the Indo-Eu-
ropean languages, bears witness to the early taming of the cow. Of
both these animals, man at first used only the milk, the flesh, and the
skin. Afterward the cow became man's assistant in agriculture. It
was not until a much later time that the horse took the place of the
cow, at first chiefly in traveling and in riding, afterward more and
more in agricultural operations. Here, however, arises the important
question, whether the people already possessed these tamed animals
* Translated from the German.
