THE INTRODUCTION OF DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 249
The goat, too, on account of its predilection for young trees, buds,
and sharp, aromatic herbs, can be kept in great numbers only in those
re^T^ions in which the iniuries inflicted bv them are of relatively little
importance. It therefore feels more at home in the rocky labyrinths
of the Grecian islands, Sicily, Sardinia, and Italy, than in the northern
regions. According to the census, Italy in 1863 possessed forty-one
million goats.
Of four-footed animals, Europe has received only one further ad-
dition — the cat. Unlike the dog, it was most probably not a primitive
companion of man, but is relatively a late gain. The taming of the
animal is a fruit of the religious customs of the Egyptians, who recog-
nized the worth of this mouse-destroyer, and permitted divine honors
to be paid to it. Its picture, therefoi-e, meets us beside other wonder-
ful figures upon numerous Egyptian monuments, and in the tombs
whole layers of cat-mummies are sometimes to be found.
The ancient Greeks were not acquainted with the cat, but the
mouse was certainly known to them from the earliest period — a fact
shown by the name which is common to all the Indo-European lan-
guages, and which signifies apparently "thief" — and they not seldom
suffered so severely under the j^lague of these pests that whole regions
were devastated and in consequence had to be abandoned. For the
destruction of the mice they used either the weasel or the marten,
which were tamed for this purpose. The weasel, especially, held just
the same place among them that the cat now holds among us, and it
passed in like manner into proverbs and fables. In Aristophanes, a
certain person is summoned to tell a story, and he begins his fable with
the words —
" There was once a mouse and a weasel."
That the cat was as little known as a domestic animal to the Ro-
mans as it was to the Greeks, is plainly shown by the story of the
country and the city mouse, as narrated by Horace, who lived in the
time of Augustus. There is certainly no question that if Horace had
known the cat he would have mentioned it in this passage, but no
mention of it is made. In the fourth century A. d., we find the cat
mentioned for the first time among the domestic animals, and it not
only spread abroad among all the European peoples, but was also
trans})lanted to Asia. If Ilehn's conjecture be correct, its general in-
troduction was occasioned by the irruption of the rat, which seems to
have entered Europe in company with the immigrants from Asia.
Among the Germans this animal M^as allotted to Freya, whose car-
riage was drawn by two cats. At the same time it was regarded as a
shrewd, magic-working animal, and it therefore played a leading part
in matters of witchcraft, during the middle ages, beside the owl and
the bat, in myths that grew ])lainly enough out of its sneaking move-
ment, its preference for the night, its dark fur, and its eyes, which
glow in the dark. Cats guarded secret treasures in mountains and
