250 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
caves, they lay at cross-roads, at night they carried on their operations
in ruined mills in the forest ; even witches and magicians assumed
their forms in order either to inj3ict injury ujjon others or to visit the
Blocksberg. The German fables of animals allot to the cat the jjrize
for wisdom and deception. When it becomes necessary to bring the
robber Reynard to court to make an end to all his evil deeds and the
complaints arising therefrom, and Brown, i. e. Bruin, the bear has
failed in the attempt, then it appears that only Harry, the cat, is able
to accomplish the task of delivering the artful message to the evil-
doer. Again, the cat does not lack certain desirable qualities. How
burdensome does the dog with its caresses often become, how unskill-
fully does he exert himself to please ; how gentle and amiable, on the
contrary, can the cat be, how pleasant its manner and motion ! Dur-
ing the middle ages, therefore, the cat served as a plaything for dis-
tinguished ladies, who nursed it on their laps and fed it with dainty
bits ; and at the present time, among many persons, the cat finds rec-
ognition and love : in Gottfried Mind it has found its Raphael, and
poets, like Tieck, Amadeus Hoffman, Lichtwer, and in recent times
Scheffel, have ennobled their thinking and striving ; who, for example,
does not hold in grateful remembrance the deep j^hilosophizing of the
cat Hidigeigei (in Scheffel's " Trompeter von Siikkingen ") on the
theme " Why do men kiss ? " Even Lessing's quaint nature could find
a source of enjoyment in this animal ; on his wi'iting-table lay his cat,
and no one can read without emotion how Lessing, when his favorite
had destroyed the manuscript of " Nathan," patiently and quietly
wrote the poem anew without depriving the author of the mischief of
its usual place. Notwithstanding this, for most men there is some-
thing demoniacal and weird about the animal, which withdraws it
from their sympathy ; hence Massius rightly says of it, " Complicated
by the favor of parties and by their hate, its character in history
wavers."
Among manifold other varieties of animals, birds have always ex-
cited in a marked degree the attention and the favor of man. Since
the primeval time hosts of songs have been sung to the lark, the stork,
the nightingale, and the swallow, and the speech of people greets them
in their flight with a thousand fond, familiar words. Kay, it is not too
much to assert that, without the birds, even the spring-time would be
sad, just as by their flight the winter becomes so much the more
gloomy and desolate. But that which most attracts us to birds is
their power of song and of flight. In ancient times favored men pre-
tended to understand their mysterious sounds, which were to them
the voice of Fate, since they seemed either to encourage by a cheer-
ful address or to warn by threatening tones. The flight especially
seemed to be supernatural and worthy of admiration, and there has
certainly been no lack of attempts to imitate it, as the myth of the
Greeks regarding Daedalus and Icarus shows. But it was precisely
