METHODS AXD PROFIT OF TREF-PLAXTIXG. 13
time as the European larch, in countries where its cultivation is pos-
sible." Its cultivation has been proved possible in a large part of our
country. In the East and West alike it has been planted with success,
and has shown itself to be superior to the American larch, or hack-
matack, as it is commonly called. It is especially adajited to poor
soils, and bleak, rocky situations — emphatically a tree to be planted on
waste and comparatively valueless lands. It belongs to the coniferous
family of trees, though not an evergreen. It grows to a height of
more than one hundred feet, and perhaps no tree combines more valu-
able qualities. In Europe is is especially esteemed for railway-ties.
It is the most durable wood known when alternately subjected to the
influence of air and water. Hence it is very valuable for piles for the
construction of docks and the support of buildings. Venice is largely
built upon piles made of this wood, and, though they have been ex-
posed to the elements for hundreds of years, in many cases they show
hardly any signs of decay. The European larch is more durable, as
well as stronger and tougher, than oak. For posts it is probably equal
to our red cedar. It is admirably adapted for the frames of buildings.
Grigor, an eminent English writer on forestry, says, " No tree is so
vahiable as the larch in its fertilizing effects, arising from the rich-
ness of the foliage which it sheds annually." The Messrs. Fay and
others have planted it extensively on Cape Cod and with great success.
It has been grown all the way from there to Northwestern Iowa, and
even beyond, and a village in Iowa bears the significant name " Larch-
mont."
An important practical question arises whether it is best to start a
plantation from the seed or from trees already grown from one to three
years — that is, of a size convenient for transplanting. With some kinds
of trees there is little difficulty in raising them from the seed sown
where they are to grow. But the preponderance of opinion both in
Europe and in this country favors planting the young trees. Though
so large and strong when fully grown, many trees are quite small and
tender at the beginning. The stately pine, that sends its lofty spire to
a height of one or even two hundred feet, is hardly visible for the first
two years of its life. It is very easily destroyed. It is most econom-
ically raised, therefore, in nurseries or seed-beds, where it can have the
needful protection and care. Transplanting, also, while in the nurs-
ery tends to give trees a furnishing of roots which prepares them to
make a more vigorous growth than when they spring from seed on the
forest-ground. It will in most cases probably be safer and cheaper
for the planter to procure his trees from the professional nursery-men
than to undertake himself to raise them from the seed. The European
larch and Scotch pine can be imported at a cost of not more than half
a cent apiece, all expenses paid. Messrs. Douglas & Sons, of Wauke-
gan, Illinois, and other nursery -men in this country, are now raising
them very largely and will furnish them at an equally cheap rate ;
