HYDRODYXAMICS AXD ELECTRICITY. 253
The question, " By what way and by whom was the peacock
brought into Italy ? " is shrouded in deep darkness ; and the supposi-
tion of Hehn, that it was brought thither directly from Phoenicia or
Carthage, stands upon doubtful testimony. It was, however, cordially
received and prized in that country, especially in the later times of
senseless luxury. The orator Hortensius, a contemporary of Cicero,
was the first to bring the peacock roasted upon the table, and, despite
the lack of palatableness in its flesh, his example seems to have been
extensively imitated.
From Italy the peacock found its way into the rest of Europe, and
became in Christian lands the subject of a double symbol. On one
side it was regarded as an emblem of immortality, for the story gained
credence that its flesh was incorruptible ; on the other hand, it served
as an exhortation to humility, according to the well-known proverb,
" The peacock has a brilliant coat of feathers, but do not look down
at its feet."
Reference was made, too, to its sneaking walk and its vicious char-
acter, especially in old age. But the knight gladly adorned his hel-
met with its feathers, and the custom at great banquets of bringing to
tlie table, amid the flourish of trumpets, a roasted peacock adorned
with its own feathers, and of taking a vow thereupon, lasted down to the
end of the middle ages. In more recent times, however, the bird, to-
gether with its flesh and its feathers, has fallen into discredit ; and it
is left to the Chinese mandarin to carry the peacock's feathers as a
siern of rank.
HYDRODYNAMICS AXD ELECTRICITY.
VISITORS at the recent Electrical Exi^osition in Paris were much
interested in an apparatus exhibited by Dr. C. A. Bjerknes, of
the University of Christiania, Norway, for the illustration of certain
properties in hydrodynamics analogous to some of the manifestations
of electricity and magnetism. Professor Bjerknes has been carrying
on his investigations in this line for nearly twenty years, having pub-
lished his first paper, " On the Internal Condition of an Incompress-
ible Fluid in which a Sphere of Variable Volume is moving," in 18G3,
and having followed it up with numerous other papers relating to
similar problems. The results of experiments in every case corre-
sponded with those which had previously been indicated to him by
mathematical calculations. The experiments had in view the study of
molecular movements by reproducing mechanically, but in the inverse
sense, as the results proved, the sim})le and fundamental electrical and
magnetic phenomena.
Pulsating and oscillating bodies are applied so as to produce vibra-
