HYDRODTXAMICS AXD ELECTRICITY. 255
pole. If, now, helving one of the drums mounted in the water, and
the other bekl in the hand, we bring them near each other while both
are dilating or both are contracting — that is, while both are in the
same phase of pulsation — attraction will take place between them.
The mounted di-um will assume the direction of approach toward the
one held in the hand, and of following it when it is removed ; but if
they are in opposite phases — if one is swelling while the other is con-
tracting — they will be repelled. Like poles attract, unlike ones repel.
The phenomena are the inverse of what are observed in ordinary elec-
ti'icity and magnetism, where unlike poles attract and like ones repel.
The pulsating drum in these experiments represents an isolated pole, a
conception which physicists have not hitherto regarded as possible.
Spheres of invariable volume, but adjusted so as to oscillate in either
an horizontal or vertical direction, maybe used instead of the pulsating
drums, when the phenomena assume a modified shape. The oscillators
used by Professor Bjerknes are mounted as in the figure (Fig. 1, 3),
where the sphere on the left is arranged so as to oscillate horizontally,
and the one on the right to oscillate vertically, the alternate move-
ments of oscillation being produced, like the pulsations of the drums,
by alternately forcing in and withdrawing the air. The opposite sides
of the sphere assume opposite phases, and the sphere acts like a mag-
net. If a sphere is brought near a pulsator, so that its oscillating
movement shall be toward the drum while that is dilating, attraction
takes place ; but, if it be turned in the opposite direction, so as to be
moving away from the drum while the same is swelling, repulsion will
be manifested.
If two oscillating spheres be brought near each other, attraction
takes place in case they are both moving to or from each other; repul-
sion, in case they are both moving in the same direction : and the
change can be effected at once, as before, by turning one of the spheres
around.
Professor Bjerknes has a considerable variety of apparatus for
modifying the aspects of the phenomena by changing the relative \'
situations of the bodies to each other, in all of which manifestations ./.''
of an inverse character to those of ordinary magnetism are developed.
If one of the spheres be mounted so as to be free to move about a
vertical axis, it is found that, when a second oscillating sphere is
brought near to it, the one that is free turns round its axis, and sets
itself so that both spheres shall be simultaneously approaching or re-
ceding from each other. Two oscillating spheres mounted at the ex-
tremities of an arm, with freedom to move, behave with respect to
another oscillating sphere exactly like a magnei: in tlie neighborhood
of another magnetic pole. These directive effects are believed by
Professor George Forbes to be perfectly new, both theoretically and
experimentally.
The phenomena of attraction and repulsion, described above, are
