THE CAUSE OF TUBERCULAR DISEASE. 259
animals, and, without exception, it was found that the injection of the
parasite into the animal system was followed by decided and, in most
cases, virulent tubercular disease.
In the cases thus far mentioned inoculation had been effected in
the abdomen. The place of inoculation was afterward changed to the
aqueous humor of the eye. Three rabbits received each a speck of
hacillus culture, derived originally from a human lung affected with
pneumonia. Eighty-nine days had been devoted to the culture of the
organism. The infected rabbits rapidly lost flesh, and after twenty-
five days were killed and examined. The lungs of every one of them
were found charged with tubercles. Of three other rabbits, one re-
ceived an injection of pure blood-serum in the aqueous humor of the
eye, while the other two were infected in a similar way, with the same
serum, containing bacilli, derived originally from a diseased lung, and
subjected to ninety-one days' cultivation. After twenty-eight days
the rabbits were killed. The one which had received an injection of
pure serum was found perfectly healthy, while the lungs of the two
others were found overspread with tubercles.
Other experiments are recorded in this admii-able essay, from which
the weightiest practical conclusions may be drawn. Koch determines
the limits of temperature between which the %Vihevc\Q-bacillus can
develop and multiply. The minimum temperature he finds to be 86°
Fahrenheit, and the maximum 104°. He concludes that, unlike the
hacillus anthracis of splenic fever, which can flourish freely outside
the animal body, in the temperate zone animal warmth is necessary for
the propagation of the newly discovered organism. In a vast number
of cases, Koch has examined the matter expectorated from the lungs
of persons affected with phthisis and found in it swarms of bacilli,
while in matter expectorated from the lungs of persons not thus
afflicted he has never found the organism. The expectorated matter
in the former cases was highly infective, nor did drying destroy its
virulence. Guinea-pigs infected with expectorated matter which had
been kept dry for two, four, and eight weeks respectively were smitten
with tubercular disease quite as virulent as that produced by fresh ex-
pectoration. Koch points to the grave danger of inhaling air in which
particles of the dried sputa of consumptive patients mingles with dust
of other kinds.
It would be mere impertinence on my part to draw the obvious
moral from these experiments. In no other conceivable way than that
pursued by Koch could the true character of the most destructive
malady by which humanity is now assailed be determined. And, hoAv-
ever noisy the fanaticism of the moment may be, the common sense of
Englishmen will not, in the long run, permit it to enact cruelty in the
name of tenderness, or to debar us from the light and leading of such
investigations as that Avhich is here so imperfectly described.
