z6o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
SKETCH OF CHAELES E. DAE WIN, LL.D.
ME. DAE WIN died at his home, Down House, near Orpington,
England, April 19th. He had been suffering for some time
from weakness of the heart, but continued to work till the last. He
was taken ill, after having enjoyed an apparent improvement, on the
day before his death, with pains in the chest, faintness, and nausea,
from which he never recovered.
Mr. Darwin inherited his scientific tastes from two successive gen-
erations of ancestors, and has transmitted them to some of his chil-
dren. His grandfather, Dr. Erasmus Darwin, was a distinguished
botanist, and was the author of a poem " The Botanic Garden," the
merits of which are decidedly more botanical than poetical, but which
has a place in English literature ; and of the " Zoonomia, or the Laws
of Organic Life," a work in which the theory of development was
plainly foreshadowed. His father, Dr. Eobert Waring Darwin, was
a Fellow of the Eoyal Society. His grandfather on the mother's side
was the celebrated Josiah Wedgwood, whose name is intimately asso-
ciated with the Wedgwood earthenware.
Chaeles Egbert Daewi^^ was born in Shrewsbury, England,
February 12, 1809, and received a preparatory education at the gram-
mar-school of that place, under the head-mastership of Dr. Samuel
Butler, author of one of the old standard text-books on geography,
and afterward Bishop of Litchfield and Coventry. He entered the
University of Edinburgh when sixteen years old, and two years later,
in 1827, went to Christ's College, Cambridge, whence he was gradu-
ated Bachelor of Arts four years afterward. The most that is known
definitely of his special pursuits at these institutions is that at Edin-
burgh he gave some attention to marine zoology, and read his first sci-
entific paper, " On the Movement of the Ova of Frustra " before the
Plinian Society, and that at Cambridge he was especially interested
in botany.
His Majesty's ships Adventure and Beagle had returned in 1830
from a four years' survey of the coasts of Patagonia and Terra del
Fuego. Captain Fitzroy, of the Beagle, had gained so much credit by
his efficiency as an oflScer and the value of the observations he re-
corded, that he easily obtained a commission to return to the South
American waters on another and more extensive exploring expedition.
Before going he made a public offer to give up a part of his own cabin
to any competent naturalist who would accompany him. Darwin saw
the notice, and at once offered his services without salary, on the condi-
tion that he should be given the disposition of his collections. He was
accepted, and thus obtained, when twenty-two years old, " what would
be considered a prize by any naturalist of double his age." The expe-
dition, with Darwin as one of its members, sailed on the 27th of Novem-
