SKETCH OF CHARLES R. DARWIN, LL. D. 261
ber, 1831, and was gone four years and ten months, during which time
it visited Brazil, Patagonia, Chili, Peru, the Galapagos and Society-
Islands, New Zealand, Australia, Mauritius, St. Helena, and the Cape
Verd Islands. The observations taken during this voyage and the pre-
vious expedition were published by Captains King and Fitzroy, their
commanders, in a voluminous report, to which Mr. Darwin contributed
a volume embodying " A Journal of Researches into the Geology and
Natural History of the Various Coiintries visited by his Majesty's
Ship Beagle, under the Command of Captain Fitzroy, from 1832 to
1836." Of this work Sir Charles Lyell wrote to the author, in Sep-
tember, 1838, before it was actually published: "I assure you my
father is quite enthusiastic about your journal, which he is reading,
and he agrees with me that it would have had a great sale if separately
published. The other day he told me that he wished to get a copy
bound the moment it was out, and send it as a present to Sir William
Hooker, who, more than any one, would be delighted with yours. He
was disappointed at hearing that it was to be fettered by the other
volumes, for, although he should equally buy it, he feared so many of
the public would be checked from doing so." The volume was pub-
lished separately in 1845. The ten years which followed Mr. Darwin's
return to England were mainly devoted by him to the publication of
the numerous and important results that had been obtained during the
voyage. He edited the treatises of Professor Owen, Mr. Waterhouse,
Mr. Gould, the Rev. J. Jenyns, and Mr. Bell, on the different groups
of vertebrate animals as " The Zoology of the Voyage of H. M. S,
Beagle " ; and he wrote three separate volumes embodying further
fruits of his observations than he had given in the " Report," " On the
Structure and Distribution of Coral Reefs" (1842) ; " Geologic Obser-
vations on Volcanic Islands " (1844) ; and " Geological Observations on
South America " (1846). Of the first three works, a reviewer of the
second edition in "Nature," in 1874, says : "The rising generation of
naturalists and geologists have not had, and most probably will never
have, such feelings of intellectual pleasure as fell to the lot of the
readers of Charles Darwin's book on ' Coral Reefs,' which was offered
to science more than thirty years ago. The recent researches into the
nature of the deposits of the deep-sea, and the discoveries of bathy-
metrical zones of water of very different temperatures, are certainly
full of vast interest, and will afford the data for the development of
many a theory ; but the clear exposition of facts, and the bold theory
which characterized the book on ' Coral Reefs,' came unexpectedly and
with overpowering force of conviction. The natural history of a zo-
ophyte was brought into connection with the grandest phenomena of
the globe — with the progressive subsidence of more or less submerged
mountains, and with the distribution of volcanic foci." And this re-
viewer adds that "even at this period of Darwin's life the importance
of the struggle for existence had been recognized by him, and had in-
