262 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
fluenced his thoughts. He remarks that he ' can understand the grada-
tion only as a prolonged struggle against unfavorable conditions.' "
The President of the Geological Society has said that, " looking at
the general mass of Mr. Darwin's results, I can not help considering
his voyage around the world as one of the most important events for
geology which has occm-red for many years." Professor John W.
Judd, noticing the works of this series in a group, said, in 1877, " Stu-
dents of Mr. Darwin's earlier geological writings must all have been
impressed by the powers of minute observation, the acumen in testing,
and the skill in grouping data, and the boldness and originality in
generalization which distinguished their author ; for these character-
istics are no less distinguished in the theory of coral reefs than in that
of natural selection " ; and " these ' Geological Observations ' are well
worthy to take their place in the long series of the author's contribu-
tions to the doctrine of descent side by side with those more widely
known works on different departments of zoology and botany which
have been published subsequently to the ' Origin of Species.' "
His most important work on zoology, "A Monograph of the Family
Cirripedia," was published by the Ray Society, 1851 to 1853. It gave
accurate determinations of every recognized species of the animals
known as barnacles and sea-acorns; andwas shortly afterward followed
by another monograph on the fossil species of the same family, which
was brought out by the Philosophical Society. All of these works —
each of which was, as the estimates we have quoted indicate, of the
first importance in itself, and each of which is a standard to this day —
were but as preliminaries to the culminating achievement of Mr. Dar-
win's life, the exposition of the doctrine of the origin of species and
development by natural selection, as given in the series of works on
" The Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection ; or, the Pres-
ervation of Favored Races in the Struggle for Life " (1859) ; " The
Variations of Plants and Animals under Domestication" (1867), and
"The Descent of Man and Selection in Relation to Sex" (1871) ; and
in the numerous special works in which he has made various particular
phenomena of animal and vegetable life illustrate and re-enforce his
great doctrine. The views expressed and defined in these works, al-
though, now that they have " come of age," they have sensibly and
profoundly affected the whole world of thought, were a surprise.
Scientific men received them hesitatingly or with incredulity ; those
who were not scientific with displeasure. Yet they M-ere not wholly
novel ; for Aristotle, Goethe, Mr. Darwin's grandfather, and others,
had suggested similar hypotheses, and Mr. Wallace had independently
reached conclusions very like those enunciated by Mr, Darwin. They
have had to make their way against the prepossessions of the minds
to whom they appealed, and against the prejudices which those pre-
possessions awakened when they were assailed.
Gradually the theory of descent gained acceptance among the
