SKETCH OF CHARLES R. DARWIN, LL.D. 263
scientific thinkers of England, with whom the proportion of those
ready to deny it grows less from year to year. In Germany it became,
in the course of ten years, more or less completely accepted by those
best qualified to judge, and was the occasion of the production of a
considerable literature of arguments and facts in its favor, without
encountering any very serious opposition. In France, the truth of the
theory was far less extensively admitted, and it continued to be, for
many years, the object of a vigorous and often bitter opposition, the
echoes of which have hardly yet died away. A prolonged discussion
took place in the French Academy of Sciences relative to the merits
of the author of the theory in 1870, when Mr. Darwin was nominated
to fill the vacancy in the zoological section caused by the death of M.
Purkinge. M. Milne-Edwards first spoke in his favor, saying that,
while he was himself absolutely opposed to evolutional doctrines, he
rendered homage to the value of the special works of Mr. Darwin,
especially to the theory of the formation of coral islands. M, Elie de
Beaumont added his testimony to the value of this theory, and re-
marked that Mr. Darwin had done good work which he had spoiled
by dangerous and unfounded speculations ; he should not be elected
until he had renounced them. M. Emile Blanchard was very severe
upon Mr. Darwin for an hour, styling him an " intelligent amateur " ;
and M. Elie de Beaumont interpolated that his work was the " froth
of science." M. de Quatrefages replied to M. Blanchard, saying that
there were two men included in Mr. Darwin, a naturalist observer and
a theoretical thinker : the naturalist is exact, sagacious, and patient ;
the thinker is original and penetrating, often just, sometimes too rash.
That the theory with Avhich his name is connected, that of natural
selection, has in it something seductive and plausible, is shown by
its having been worked out by such men as Darwin, Wallace, and
Xaudin, laboring independently and in different paths. If the ideas
and the works of Darwin are such as some of his opponents repre-
sent, how can they have obtained the support, in less than ten
years, of such men as Lyell, Hooker, Huxley, Karl Vogt, Lubbock,
Haeckel, Filippi, and Brandt himself, who has just been elected
correspondent in opposition to Mr. Darwin ? Then, having enu-
merated Mr. Darwin's works in geology, comprising seven real
contributions to the science, and in zoologv, his works on the origin
of species and variation, and particularly his investigations of the
strange variations in fowls, pigeons, and rabbits, M. de Quatrefages
summed up by saying : " Mr. Darwin is an eminent naturalist, who
wishes to remove from science the invocation of the first cause, and to
seek the explanation of the natural facts of the organic world in sec-
ondary causes, as was done long ago in geology, chemistry, and phys-
ics. But he goes no further ; and we ought not to judge Darwin by
the words of a few disciples who seem never to have read his works.
It would be unjust to make him responsible for the exaggerations and
