264 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
aberrations of those who take refuge under his name." M, Robin
made an argument which presents a singular appearance now, in view
of the hosts of minute but important facts which ]Mr. Darwin has
showered upon science since it was made, that, in respect of demon-
strable facts which he had introduced, there would be a hundred zool-
ogists who should have precedence over him. If from his publications
" we eliminate the views, neither the reality nor falseness of which is
demonstrable, and which are therefore not objects of science, there
remains to him a share of titles which is inferior to that represented
by the well-demonstrated scientific data introduced by M. Bischoff ;
there remain to him even fewer titles to our suffrages than to any of
the savants who are placed on an equality with him in our list of pres-
entations." Mr. Darwin was not elected. His name came before the
Academy again, on a nomination to be a foreign correspondent, in
1872, and received the same support and the same opposition as two
years before. He was rejected — receiving only fifteen votes, to thirty-
two cast for Mr. Loewen, of Stockholm. His time came at last to
receive the recognition of French men of science. He was elected a
corresponding foreign member in the zoological section in 1878, by a
vote of twenty-six to fourteen, after a rapid change in his favor, and
three years after having received a similar recognition from the Im-
perial Academy of Science of Vienna. On the occasion of his sixty-
ninth birthday, in 1877, he received, as a testimonial from Germany, an
elegant album, containing the photographs of one hundred and fifty-four
men of science in that country, addressed "To the Reformer of Nat-
ural History, Charles Darwin," and a similar album containing the
photographs of two hundred and seventeen distinguished professors
and lovers of science in the Netherlands, accompanied with an account
of the progress of opinion in that country with respect to evolution, as
a proof which, it expressed, " we are persuaded, can not but afford
you some satisfaction that the seeds by you so liberally strewed have
also fallen on fertile soil in the Netherlands." Mr. Darwin replied to
the latter testimonial modestly, acknowledging his obligations to pre-
vious observers of facts, and adding : " I suppose that every worker
at science occasionally feels depressed, and doubts whether what he has
published has been worth the labor which it has cost him ; but for the
remaining years of my life, whenever I want cheering, I will look at
the portraits of my distinguished co-workers in the field of science, and
remember their generous sympathy." In 1877 the University of Cam-
bridge, amid circumstances of great enthusiasm, conferred the degree
of LL. D. on him in a Latin oration, in which his work was neatly
summarized, and which closed, "Thou, also, who hast so learnedly
illustrated the laws of nature, be our doctor of laws." A subscrii^tion
was afterward inaugurated at Cambridge for the erection of a perma-
nent memorial of him, wliich it was agreed should be a picture, to
be painted by Mr. W. M. Richmond.
