SKETCH OF CHARLES R. DARWIN, LL.D. 265
Mr. Darwin's later works, besides those which we have already-
named, which are for the most part monographs embodying facts and
researches into the manner in which different functions of animals and
plants are developed, include "The Various Contrivances by which
Orchids are fertilized by Insects " (1862) ; " The Movements and Hab-
its of Climbing Plants " (18G5) ; " The Expression of the Emotions
in Man and Animals" (1872) ; "Insectivorous Plants" (1875) ; "The
Effects of Cross and Self Fertilization in the Vegetable Kingdom "
(1876) ; "The Different Forms of Flowers and Plants of the Same
Species" (1877); "The Power of Movement in Plants" (1881); "The
Formation of Vegetable Mould through the Action of "Worms, with
Observations on their Habits" (1882). All of these works have been
received with interest by the public, and have been fully noticed in
our pages. The works which have been called forth by the influence
of Mr. Darwin's writings are catalogued in a German pamphlet of
thirty-six octavo pages, containing the names of three hundred and
twelve authors.
Mr. Darwin was subject to frequent sudden attacks of illness which
laid him prostrate for days together. The periods of convalescence
were made useful for observations requiring almost constant atten-
tion ; and such observations, made in the sick-room, are referred to
in his " Climbing Plants." His tastes were almost wholly scientific.
For sculjDture or pottery, or even for drawing, except as an aid to bo-
tanical and zoological pursuits, he cared very little, his collection of
pictures being confined to a portrait of old Dr. Darwin and one of
Josiah "Wedgwood, hanging in his dining-room, and sketches of Sir
Joseph Hooker and Professor Huxley in his study.
Commenting on Mr. Darwin's methods of investigation and pres-
entation, " Nature " remarks in a review of one of his books, that, in
turning over its pages, " one is almost distracted from the intrinsic
interest of the facts and speculations by the sagacity with which the
research is carried on, and the skill with which the results are mar-
shaled for our information. It is peculiarly worthy of notice . . . how
the reader is allowed, in studying Mr. Darwin's pages, to foi'm his
own hypothesis in explanation of the facts, only to be compelled, in due
course, as the narrative proceeds, to admit that such hypotheses are
utterly untenable." Scientific candor is mentioned as one of his prom-
inent qualities by Mr. J. W. Judd, who says that, " like his teacher
and friend, the late Sir Charles Lyell, he never forgets in his discus-
sions to look at all sides of the questions before him, and to give the
fullest expression and weight, alike to the difiiculties which he him-
self detects, and to arguments which opponents may have advanced."
This quality is well illustrated in the successive editions of the " Ori-
gin of Species," where the author's changes or modifications of views
in particular points are frequently acknowledged and recorded.
