266
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
EDITOR'S TABLE.
CRARLES ROBERT DARWIN.
THE present year will be raemora-
blo in the history of science as
bringing to a close the labors of two
illustrious scientific thinkers — one, per-
haps, the most eminent man of science
in America, Dr. John William Draper,
and the other probably the most cele-
brated scientific man of the world at
the present time. Dr. Charles Robert
Darwin. Both men had accomplished
their work, the former dying at the age
of seventy-one, and the latter at the
age of seventy-three ; and it is remarka-
ble that both were among the most dis-
tinguished representatives of the same
school of progressive scientific thought.
Their names will be for ever associated
with that great revolution of ideas for
which all modern science has prepared,
but which has been accomplished only
withia the present generation. Both
men made large and important contri-
butions, by observation and experiment,
to the departments of science which
they resjiectively cultivated, but they
will be measured in future chiefly by
the bearing of their work upon the great
intellectual movement of the period.
Everybody knows what we mean in
speaking of the movement of thought
with which the names of Draper and
Darwin are identified ; and which we
have referred to as a revolution of
ideas already accomplished. One of its
leading aspects is the application of the
scientific method to the phenomena of
life in order to explain their changes
by natural causes. Mr. Darwin's name
has been so closely associated with this
extension of scientific method to cover
the origin of the diversities of living
beings upon earth that he has come to
be a representative of the idea; while
the term " Darwinism " has been vague-
ly employed to stand for the doctrine.
The twenty volumes of " The Popular
Science Monthly " bear uniform and
abundant record that " Darwinism "
has been generally accepted as true in
the world of science for the last ten
years. But there is a sharper test of
the change of opinion that has taken
place than any aflirmation regarding
the verdicts of scientific men. At its
earliest promulgation " Darwinism " was
denounced by the whole body of relig-
ious authorities as false and execrable.
There was never such unanimity in the
pulpit as was displayed in cursing the
new apostle of the doctrine of man's
descent from an ancestry of inferior
animals. The devil got a considerable
respite while the batteries were all be-
ing turned upon Darwin as the arch-
enemy and subverter of all religion.
But, as the movement of ideas went on
all the same, common sense began to
assert itself in various quarters, so that
there has latterly been more temper-
ateness of condemnation, and even a
readiness to accept the long-detested
doctrine as probably true, and by no
means so bad as it at first seemed. And,
now that Darwin is dead, there is a
universal burst of admiration for the
man, accompanied by abundant admis-
sions that his ideas are true ; and he is
laid in Westminster Abbey alongside of
Newton, while the most eminent preach-
ers of London agree in declaring that
there has been nothing in his teaching
that is not wholly consistent with the
soundest Christian belief. Canon Lid-
don, of St. Paul's, author of " The Di-
vinity of our Lord and Saviour Jesus
Christ," is reported to have said in a
sermon that "Mr. Darwin's theories
are not necessarily hostile to the fun-
damental truths of religion"; and
Canon Barry, author of "Orthodox
Commentaries on Portions of the Bi-
