290 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the study of the cells of growing plants. It becomes, then, a matter of
some interest to know something about these cells ; and, if the reader
can imagine himself for a little while looking through the lenses of
our microscope, it will be the purpose of this article to tell him some
little of what he may see while he studies the cells of plants.
"We may begin with the simplest form of plant-cells ; and so, for
our first experiment, let us examine a drop of brewer's yeast. Here
(Fig. 1) are the cells of the famous yeast-plant, the cells which are the
active agents wherever yeast is employed, w^hether in the beer-vat or
batter-crock. In both cases we find the
cells producing fermentation : desirable
in beer for the sake of the alcohol re-
sulting ; in bread, for the carbonic gas
set free in form of bubbles, which, per-
meating the dough, make it spongy and
light. But look at the shape of these
cells. Little oval bodies they are, some
almost round. Many are entirely iso-
lated, so that we see a single cell may
constitute the entire plant ; some are
linked together, as links in a chain.
Fig. 1.— Yi;AST-Ci:LLa. i i i
Ihe attachment here, however, is not
very intimate, when once the cells have attained their full size, for
then each cell readily and naturally parts company with its neigh-
bor — parent, I should rather say, for the cells, as they adhere together,
represent really so many successive generations, and illustrate for us
one method of cell -multiplication, namely, that which is effected
by budding. New cells are continually pushed out as buds on the
sides of cells already in existence. The buds grow, reach maturity
very rapidly, and in a very short time themselves give rise to new
buds and cells. These little yeast-cells, Avhich are not more than three
or four ten-thousandths of an inch in diameter at most, are about as
simple vegetable cells as we may find anywhere. Growing thus iso-
lated fi-om each other, hardly so much as jostling one another in life's
race, there seems no reason why such cells should not be perfectly
spherical, or why, so to speak, life's work should not, with them, result
in a well-rounded whole.
But the yeast -plant belongs low down in the scale of life, and its
simplicity of cell-structure corresponds well with its rank. For the
greatest variety of form among plant-cells we must look to higher
plants, though not to the highest. The Algce, in their marine forms
well known to every gatherer of " sea-moss," and in fresh-water forms
familiar to all microscopists, afford cells of almost every imaginable
shape, character, and color. Here, as with the yeast-plant, a single
cell ofttimes makes up the entire organism, but, while some cells are
simple, others branch and divide in all directions : some simulate the
