PLAXT-CELLS AXD THEIR COXTEXTS. 299
" Xo numbers have counted my tallies,
No tribes my liouse can fill ;
I sit by the shining fount of Life,
And pour the deluge still."
But there are some other plants Avhose cells exhibit the phenomenon of
living, moving protoplasm so much better than nettle-hairs or pump-
kin-hairs, that I can not forbear presenting, in concluding the present
article, the cells of one more plant. The plant we now select is a very
common one in most parts of our country, but on account of its simple
and retired habits of life is little known save to the botanist and
microscopist. An aquatic plant it is, finding a home in slow-running
streams, or shallow ponds whose sandy bottoms reflect the warm rays
of the summer sun. Totally immersed in water, however, and so far
independent of rains, our plant knows little distinction of spring and
summer, and grows on vigorously until the frosts of fall are heavy
enough to seal everything under a covering of ice. If during this long,
growing season we collect a sprig of Chara (for such is the name of the
plant), we shall find it made up of something like a stem bearing whorls
of leaves, or at least of what may pass for leaves. Let us now take
one of the newest and smallest of these leaves and place it under our
lens. A series of cells, you say. But through the thin wall of any
cell appears again a flowing stream. Not the pale, delicate thread of
silver we saw feeling its way around the cell-wall of the pumpkin-hair
or tomato-hair, but a very river it seems now as it rushes on, wave after
wave, up from the depths below across the field of vision and down
again, over and over, or round and round, in ceaseless rotation (Fig. IT).
Fig. 17.— Termin-al Ctix fuom a Pkond of Cuap.a (slightly magnified).
Now the current catches in its course this little particle, now that,
hurling each along, now up, now down, now over, now under, without
weariness, without hindrance, hour after hour, before us.
And now, as the stream goes on so grandly, think, for a moment,
what it is at which we gaze. AVe call it protoplasm, but it is the cur-
rent of life, the " physical basis of life " — the common bond which
binds in one the whole kingdom of organic things. Think, too, of the
antiquity of that stream, its lineage. The brook that " goes on for
ever " is as nothing to it, for here the stream has come flowing down
through ages which are to us as eternity, ever since life began on
earth. The mountains have been hoary with years, and have disap-
peared beneath the level of the all-producing sea, but this stream is
older than they. Continents have grown old, worn out, and been re-
