300 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
newed, rebuilt from the d'ebris of this same stream, and life has again
flooded the continents, but its origin is older than they.
But now that we have before us such a fine large stream, may we
not make further investigation, may we not know its mystery, the
hiding-place of its power ? We touch the cell with our needles, open
its wall to make minuter inspection ; but in an instant the charm
is broken, the mystic river forgets to flow, the tiny particles settle
into unbroken peace.
" The parent fountains sink away
And close their crystal veins ;
And where the glittering current flowed,
The dust alone remains."
We are permitted to look in and see how the work of life goes on,
but we can as yet go no further. We may explain. We may say it
is all the result of chemical forces, and doubtless chemical forces are
working there ; but such explanation demands an explanation. Does
chemical action renew itself ? Chemical action is one thing, chemical
action perpetuated and controlled by life is quite another. AVe may
say, life is the property of protoplasm, or we may reverse the state-
ment and say that protoplasm is that form of matter which manifests
the f>henomena of life, but that is as far as we can go. The streamlet
hemmed by the narrow walls of the cell of any plant is to us a bound-
ary. On one side the line, peace unbroken, eternal fixity, rest, of a
world whose chemical forces acted once and for ever ; on the other, the
vast procession of life begins, rises before lis, spreads away in variety,
activity, in beauty, in wonderf ulness, incomprehensible.
THE JEWS IN EUROPE.*
Bt Dr. J. VON BOLLINGER.
II.
A GLANCE at the changing fortunes of the Jews in France, Eng-
land, and Spain, brings clearly to light how their condition was
influenced by the hierarchy. In England as in Germany, the Jews were
the special property of the king, and were in part fostered as a valu-
able and profitable possession, and provided Avith privileges, and in
part, particularly under King John and Henry III, made the object of
merciless extortion. They enjoyed, indeed, also the royal protection,
which, however, in times of sudden attack by the populace, came al-
most always too late, and only sharpened the popular hatred to which
* Anniversary Address before the Academy of Sciences at Munich, delivered July
25, 18SL Translated by Mr. W. M. Salter.
