THE JEWS AA^ EUROPE.
301
they fell a prey. Hemy III, after forcibly assessing them several
times, took (in 1230) suddenly from them a third of their possessions ;
afterward, to get a loan, he mortgaged all the Jews of Great Britain
to Count Richard. The Jews begged, since their condition had be-
come unendurable, for permission to etnigrate ; but it was refused
them, since the king loved them all too dearly to let them go. Bish-
ops, as Grossetete, of Lincoln, demanded their banishment, and Ed-
ward I ordered it in 1290 ; and in this Avay robbed himself of a most
valuable instrument, by which j^i'evious kings had indirectly taxed
their subjects. On account of the general lack of regular and suffi-
cient income for the crown — a lack under which all states at that time
suffered — some persons must be found who would take the place of
those who had been banished. Such substitutes presented themselves
in the associations of the Caorsines and the Italian money-brokers.
Their way to England was paved by the Roman curia, which used
them as its collectors, though the most prominent of them became
bankrupt suddenly in 1345, and went off with debts unpaid. As usur-
ers and financial managers for the crown, they were hated no less than
the Jews.
Tn France the system of extortion practiced upon the Jews was
still more methodical and crafty. Philip Augustus began his reign at
the age of fifteen (1182) with the plundering and banishing of all Is-
raelites. The report that they put a Christian to death every year at
the time of their passover is said to have led him to this course, but the
debts left him by his father were the immediate occasion. In the year
1198 they were recalled. Louis VIII declared all their claims for in-
terest to be invalid, and ordered that the moneys due them should be
paid to their lords, the king and the barons. Louis IX, convinced
equally that all taking of interest was heinous sin, and that all the Jews
of the land were his slaves, compelled them several times to purchase
the privilege of remaining in the country ; and, when he thought that
he had extorted enough from them, banished them from his kingdom,
with confiscation of whatsoever they still possessed. "When the Jews
implored before the governor of Narbonne for the restoration of the
rights that had been taken away from them by the king, they com-
plained : " The Jews are robbed of their means, and yet compelled to
pay their debts ; while, on the other hand, those who owe them are
freed from the obligation to pay their Jewish creditors. They are
forbidden to loan money on interest, and yet are not allowed to earn a
living in any other way." The king's order was not completely car-
ried out. Many remained, others returned afterward from time to
time.
Louis's brother. Count Alphonse of Poictiers, made use of a j^ar-
ticularly shrewd procedure in his state, which was afterward imitated
in Germany. Under the pretext of expenditure for a crusade, he had
himself authorized by the Pope to appropriate to himself all interest
