302 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
that had been collected by the Jews ; and then the entire Jewish pop-
ulation, including women and children, was incarcerated. The j)oorer
ones were liberated after a while ; but the rich, with their wives, were
held in prison until they had completely satisfied the avarice of the
count and his officials. Philip the Fair did not fail to follow the ex-
ample of his grandfather, in a way that was even more thorough, and
brought more profit. He banished suddenly all Jews in the year 1306 ;
possessed himself of their entire propei'ty ; had their houses, syna-
gogues, schools, and even their burying-grounds, sold to the highest
bidders ; and compelled all their debtors to pay into his own treasury.
With the barons, who craved their share in the spoils, he came to an
agreement.
The drama closed at last in the year 1394 when Charles VI, on the
representation of his confessor, and at the request of his spouse, who
was under this man's influence, ordered the last expulsion of the Jews
from his kingdom, on the plea that many who had intercourse with
them had become lukewarm (tejndi) in their faith.
In Spain, under Mohammedan rule, the condition of the hunted
and afflicted people was more favorable than in any Christian land.
Although not fi'ee, the synagogue chose its own national judges or
kings to represent it before those in power. Their schools flourished
there ; they pursued especially the study of medicine with greater suc-
cess than the Christians. Also under the Christian kings in the twelfth
and thirteenth centuries they were still influential, serving the kings
as financial advisers, chancellors of the exchequer, as astronomers and
physicians. In Toledo alone there were some twelve thousand of
them ; their wealth permitted them to purchase at least the most in-
dispensable rights by the expenditure of money. In general, from the
time of the Arabian rule to the end of the thirteenth century, their con-
dition in Spain was more favorable than in any other European land.
Within the walls of their Jewish quarters {afjamas), they lived ac-
cording to their own law and statute. But the fourteenth century
brought evil in its train also to the Jews of the Peninsula. While
valuable and serviceable to the kings as farmers of the taxes and chan-
cellors of the exchequer, they were hated by the people. Now in one
city, and now in another, they were attacked, struck down, and their
synagogues burned. The most violent storm broke upon them in the
year 1391, and raged throughout the whole of Spain ; priests, like the
Archdeacon of Ecija, had kindled the conflagration by their sermons.
Many thousands were slain ; 200,000 saved themselves by baptism,
but after a few years it was found that 17,000 had relapsed into Juda-
ism. A himdred years later — 1492 — the royal edict appeared which
commanded the entire body of the Jews to emigrate, and leave their
possessions behind them. Since the Inquisition at the same time for-
bade selling food to the Jews, the majority were not able to emigrate,
if they wished, and so were compelled to be baptized. The most of
