THE JEWS IX EUROPE. 303
those who went out of the land — the numbers vary from 170,000 to
400,000 — perished by plague, famine, or shipwreck. The descendants
of the survivors, the Sephardim, found reception in Italy and in that
part of the Orient which was under Turkish dominion ; also for a short
time in Portugal, Spain, however, became filled with families of
mixed descent, and the contrasts of pure and impure blood, of old
Christians and neo-Christians, poisoned the whole social life.
The fate of the Jews was still worse in Portugal than in Spain.
For a long time their condition was better than in the rest of the Pen-
insula. The murderous storm of 1391 did not extend to them ; they
enjoyed some privileges, had property in land, and pursued agriculture
and wholesale businesses. But in the reign of King Manuel (1495),
otherwise praised as gentle and humane, they met with a deadly blow :
their children under fourteen years were snatched from them and bap-
tized ; they themselves could remain in the land only as they became
converted to the Church. Thus this kingdom also was filled with
those who feigned conversion and were forcibly baptized. The re-
sults were fearful. In the year 1506, in Lisbon, two thousand new
converts were put to death in three days, because one of the neo-Chris-
tians had ventured to doubt a supposed miracle. Soon after, the In-
quisition was introduced as the well-tried instrument for handing over
the property of the wealthy neo-Christians to the state treasury.
In the larger commercial cities of Italy, the existence of the Jews
was, comparatively speaking, endurable. Since the trade in money
was already in the hands of Christian bankers, they occupied them-
selves more here with mercantile business. They encountered no
risings of the mob, or massacres.
All these things become more comprehensible when we observe
that the historians of the time, in narrating the enormities that were
committed, give no sign of pity, and do not utter a word of indigna-
tion. Many times the clerical chroniclers even express their satisfac-
tion : for example, the Monk of Waverley writes in a triumphant tone
of the massacre, in London, at the coronation of Richai'd I, which was
perpetrated without any provocation on the part of the Jews, and closes
with the exclamation, " Blessed be the Lord, who has given up the
godless to their deserts ! " (" Annales Monast.," p. 24G). And yet they
do not fail to point out that avarice was a principal cause of these mis-
deeds ; that nobles and citizens who were in debt incited to them, in
order, by a single stroke, to become free of their (Jewish) creditors ;
for money was in truth the protecting as well as the destroying angel
of the Jews in those days. The unhappy ones must press their debtors,
always expecting that at the next moment they themselves would suffer
from the inevitable reaction against them.
Since the clergy declared the mere existence of the Jews among
the Christians to be an immeasurable danger, requiring the most care-
ful watching and isolating, we should expect that they would have
