304 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
labored conscientiously and with all tlieir powers to convert the Jews.
This did not happen, however. The men who were capacitated for
such a work were completely wanting until the beginning of the thir-
teenth century, and even after the rise of the mendicant orders, a part
of whose work was to institute missions among the Jews, there was
very seldom a theologian who could lay claim to the education indis-
pensable to this end. An interpretation of the prophetical books (of
the Old Testament), which could have made an imijression upon edu-
cated Jews, was beyond the powei's of that time. That great flood
of allegorical interpretations, which ruled the Biblical literature of the
Christians, appeared to Israelitish Biblical scholars the empty play of
an arbitrary and unbridled imagination. The early Church stood, in
general, much nearer to the Old Testament people and faith ; the great
alterations and new formations of the middle ages had immeasurably
widened the gap. The worship of images, which, according to the
Israelitish view, contradicted the Decalogue, the whole scheme of do-
minion and compulsion which had been organized by Hildebrand, the
religious wars with the system of indulgences — these were things that
made the conversion of a Jew uncommonly difficult ; and the pictorial
representations of the Trinity, that appeared in the latter part of the
middle age, must have seemed like a confirmation of the charges of
tritheism which they brought against the Christians. In many places,
indeed, the Jews were compelled to hear discourses aiming at their
conversion by the monks, but an effect opposite to what was intended
was unavoidably produced. It is told of the preacher-monk Vincenz
Ferrer, that his eloquence effected 30,000 conversions in Spain. But
these ostensible conversions took place in the midst of the horrors of
the slaughter of 1391 and of the ensuing occurrences, and the apostasy
that soon commenced of 17,000 new converts indicates how much the
conversions were worth.
If a Jew voluntarily became a Christian, he lost everything that
union with a people holding so firmly and faithfully together had
hitherto secured him, and by no means did he win the favor of the
Christians ; rather did his condition in most cases become worse. For
the Church met him with suspicion. In Rome, indeed, it was regarded
as a rule, to which there was hardly any exception, that a baptized Jew
would relapse. If he had means, it was made a duty for him to return
all the interest he had taken, a sum often in excess of his present \)oz-
sessions ; and in France it was even the custom to confiscate all his
goods, and indemnify the king or baron for his loss of a bondsman,
and of the income derived from him. Two laws of Charles YII de-
stroyed this custom ; but this very monarch took from the Jews, who
avoided exile by embracing Christianity, two thirds of their property
for himself ; and his contemporaries thought this a softening of the
severity of the old statutes. If the converted Jew was poor, he ex-
perienced the lack of the means of subsistence ; for he had not learned
