THE JEWS IX EUROPE. 307
with the charge of avarice and usurious money-lending, it is always
simply their religious belief that made the ground for charges against
them : they are continually accused of crime ; and the fact that they
did not recognize the Christian doctrines of the Trinity and Incarna-
tion was sufficient proof of their guilt. That they actually railed at
Christ and his mother before the ears of Christians was certainly very
rare, since they knew that a word of that sort sufficed to devote them,
and often also their families, to death. It could not occur to an Israel-
ite to wish to convert a Christian to his own faith. It is written in
the Talmud, " Proselytes are as dangerous for Judaism as ulcers on a
sound body." If one not a Jew had really a mind to become a convert
to Judaism, he must be told, "Do you not know that the Jews live in
sufferings and woes, that they are insulted and cast out, tormented and
put to the rack ? " At the same time, he was reminded of the oj^press-
iveness of the statutes, and of the privations and sacrifices to which
he would have to submit.
" The Christian brought the Jews to this pass," Shakespeare makes
his " Merchant of Venice " say, and history for thirteen hundred years
says the same. TVhen the Jews in Spain were threatened with de-
struction and banishment, a rabbi is reported to have said to the Chris-
tian : " We are at once a people blessed and laden with a curse. Now
you wish to destroy us, but you will not succeed, because we are
blessed. The time will come when you will exert yourselves to raise
us up, but in this you will not be successful, for we are cursed." If
this W'as actually uttered, it is not clear whether the reference was to
the Spanish Jews, the Sephardim, or the curse was conjectured to rest
on the whole people. A retrospect of nine centuries of ignominious
treatment and misery might easily have awakened such a thought.
But since the Reformation the lot of the Jews has been steadily grow-
ing more favorable, and to-day no rabbi can any longer have the sense
of a curse resting upon his race. The number of Jews now living on
the surface of the globe has been estimated to be very nearly twelve
million ; should the number be less, it is none the less certain that
they are more powerful than they ever were in past time, not except-
ing the period of their political independence. The official (Christian)
interpi-etation of the word of the prophets, current in the middle ages,
is thereby proved delusive ; according to it, the Jewish people were to
be reduced by continuous mistreatment and persecution to a very small
handful of survivors. But in spite of all the heavy blows dealt upon
this anvil, and of the numerous proselytes to Christianity and Moham-
medanism, they have not lost but rather steadily increased in numbers.
For a hundred years Israel has struggled for political emancipation,
and at last has won it in all European states ; only Russia, Spain,
and Portugal have not as yet granted it. It has also not been granted
them in the Mohammedan world. But in Europe the larger half of the
Jews find themselves in possession of all social and political rights.
