3o8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Israelites sit now in the parliaments and congresses. They are al-
lowed to be teachers in most of the universities, and the number of
Jewish young men who devote themselves to study increases with
every year. Important offices are already intrusted to Jews. Their
protective union, the judiciously managed " Israelitish Alliance," which
has its seat in Paris, aj^pears to be constantly winning greater influ-
ence. The facts of comparative statistical science are favorable to
them. In most countries, theirs is, relatively speaking, the smallest
number of judicial crimes, and they stand foremost among the poj)u-
lation in general prosperity and wealth, even in length of life and rate
of increase. The old virtues of temperance and continence, of well-
ordered and affectionate family life, of filial piety to parents, which
served so well in preserving this people from destruction in the troub-
lous times of the middle ages, have not yet vanished from among
them. Marriage unions with Christians and conversion are more com-
mon than formerly ; in Berlin alone several years ago, there were esti-
mated to be some two thousand proselytes.
It is true, however, that there are dark shadows to the picture ; the
better spokesmen of this people do not deny their serious faults; they
must allow that there is abundant occasion for sharply reproving
them : they only urge that the faults arrest attention more than the
virtues. The strongest charge and the principal reason for the popu-
lar hatred of them is the economical injury they inflict, and the manner
in which they take advantage of the peasantry in the Slavic and also in
some German countries, in connection with small bartering and money-
lending, which seem to be their favorite oceuj)ations. In the East,
particularly in Galicia, this injury is called even by a stronger word
— it is named devastation. The fault is undeniable ; our Israelitish
fellow-citizens lament it as much as we, but it would be unjust to make,
on account of race connection, the whole responsible for the conduct
of a fractional part, who are far removed and beyond control. The
same is true of the founding of sham companies (Griinderunwesen)
and the pernicious sjieculation in money, which is a fault common
to Christians and Israelites. As it was formerly alchemists, astrolo-
"gers, and searchers after hidden treasures, who took advantage of
the blind and eager credulity of the higher classes, so now Jewish
speculators do the same. In a similar way, the sins of the press of
the day are to be charged upon its circle of Christian readers as
well as upon the Jewish editors, who only follow the fashion in pan-
dering to, rather than trying to mold, the ojnnions and passions of the
people.
The great reform movement, that began with Mendelssohn in the
bosom of Judaism, has given it a new form in Germany, France, and
England. Those of the Jewish people who live in Slavic countries
remain for the most part untouched by this movement, and are still
bound to the Talmudic standards ; but in Western Europe the Israel-
