i6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
not be as profitable as the Scotch plantations. We have already sufii-
cient demonstration of this from actual experiment. We have some
plantations of trees, both in the East and in the West, which are of
sufficient age to furnish reliable data upon this subject. Mr. Budd, a
tree-grower of Iowa, and a careful observer, says : "A grove of ten
acres, thinned to six feet apart, contaming twelve thousand trees, at
twelve years were eight inches in diameter and thirty-four feet high,
the previous thinning paying all expenses of planting and cultivation.
Ten feet of the bodies of these trees were worth, for making bent-
stuff, etc., forty cents each, and the remaining top ten cents, making a
total of $6,000 as the profit of ten acres in twelve years, or a yearly
profit of $50 per acre." Similar reports come from other places in the
West.
But, turning from the rich lands of the West to the poor soils and
rough exposures of the East, we have sufficient examples of the profit-
ableness of tree-planting. One of the oldest in date, perhaps the
oldest examj)le of forest-planting in this country, is that of Mr. Zacha-
riah Allen, at Smithfield, Rhode Island. In 1820 a tract of land
forty acres in extent was bequeathed to him. Professor Sargent,
from whom we take the account, says : " It had been constantly used
as a pasture for nearly a hundred years previous to its coming into
Mr. Allen's hands, and was at that time entirely worn out. The situ-
ation was an elevated one, and completely exposed to the wind, the
forty acres occupying the summit of a high hill of granite formation.
The surface was marked with ledges, cropping out in projecting cliffs^
with intervals of loamy soil, covered with a scanty herbage, and sup-
plying nourishment to a few straggling white birches and the other
hardy plants which still too clearly mark our barren pastures. It was
found impossible to lease the land for pasturage, so exhausted had it
become. The owner consequently determined to try the experiment
of planting the whole, or that portion where the rock did not come to
the surface, with the seeds of forest-trees. The planting was done in
1820, and cost ยง45. Since then, for fifty-seven years, Mr. Allen has
kept a minute account of his expenditures and receipts in connection
with that field. He sets down the price of the land at fifteen dollars
an acre, that being what it was appraised at in the division of the es-
tate of the previous owner, though the taxes were for years less than
two dollars and a half yearly for the whole forty acres. Charging him-
self with the land and with interest on its valuation, and also on the
taxes paid for fifty-seven years, his debit account stood, at the close
of 1877, ยง3,804.83. His credit account at the same time, for wood,
posts, timber, etc., and 320 cords still uncut, stood 86,348.06, leaving
a profit of $2,543.2.3, or 6y^^ per cent on the investment for the whole
term, and the land greatly improved besides."
The experiments of Messrs. Fay and others at Lynn, and on the
barren sands of Cape Cod, where thousands of acres, valued at only
