THE JEWS IN EUROPE. 309
ites have given lap many of their traditional prejudices and customs,
and come nearer the Christians in manners and ways of thinking.
At the present time, Germany is the bearer and foster-father of the
spiritual life of Judaism, as in earlier times (and in the order stated)
■were Spain, Southern and Northern France, and then Holland. The
German Israelites lead those of the rest of the -world, because of the
language they use ; they alone, too, have a religious and theological
literature of their o-wn, to which their brethren in other countries
resort for instruction in spiritual things. And hence it may be justly
asserted that the influence of German ways- of thinking is stronger
than any other one thing among the Jews to-day, and it extends even
to North America.
Among civilized peoples with a distinctive moral and intellectual
life, the Jew residing in their midst thinks with the bulk of the nation.
The German Jew thinks about all questions of spiritual and social life
in an essentially German manner, which was far from being the case in
the preceding century ; and since our culture and civilization have
come out of Christianity and have a Christian coloring, the Jew, how-
ever disinclined he may be to Christian views, can not help thinking
and acting about many things, whether consciously or unconsciously,
in a Christian way. So, for example, in regard to marriage, which is
regarded by the Jews no longer from the Old Testament point of
view, but from the Christian. And the same may be said of the Brit-
ish and French Israelites ; they think and feel as the great nation
thinks and feels in whose midst they live.
Altogether too long has the false and detestable view ruled in the
world that we are called upon to avenge, generation after generation,
the sins and mistakes of the fathers upon their guiltless descendants.
It is a view which has covered Europe with a multitude of cruel and
shameful deeds, the thought of which causes us to shudder and avert
our faces. Woe to us and our posterity if such a law of revenge is
ever applied to the descendants of the Germans, Frenchmen, Spaniards,
and Englishmen of the middle ages ! But there is one thing which
the self-styled anti-Semitic agitation of to-day should not forget, viz.,
that hate and contempt are feelings bitter and of no comfort to him who
cherishes them, and painful and exasperating to those against whom
they are directed. A sad thing it is when (to use a Scriptural expression),
" Deep cal'.cth unto deep."
Rather let the saying of Sophocles's " Antigone " be and remain
o.ir motto :
" My nature leads to sharing love, not hate "
