310 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
POKCELAIX AND THE AET OF ITS PEODUCTIOX.
By CHAELES LAUTH,
adiilnistrator of toe national manttfactoky at sevres.
THE uses of porcelain have so multiplied, the employment of that
material has become so general, that few persons recollect the
time, not yet far back, when it was considered an object of luxury,
and only delf was within the reach of all. In this paper I shall con-
sider, first, the nature of porcelain and the history of its discovery ;
next, the principal points in its manufacture ; and, lastly, the different
methods of decorating it.
It is generally undei'stood that porcelain is, as a rule, the resultant
of the action of fire on a certain kind of clay. No one is likely to con-
found it with earthenware or delf. While those wares are soft, opaque,
and of impure colors, porcelain is always white, is perfectly clear, and
is harder than steel. The fundamental distinction between the three
wares is that earthenware is obtained by the simple action of fire on
common clays ; delfs are earthenwares more or less colored and glazed
with a leaden enamel, which is rendered opaque by tin ; while hard
porcelain is obtained from a white clay, kaolin, and is enameled with
feldspar.
Kaolin, a natural hydrated silicate of alumina, is absolutely refract-
ory and opaque ; it constitutes the resistant part of porcelain. Feld-
spars are silicates of alumina and potassa, fusible at a very high tem-
perature into a beautiful transparent glass. If, now, we mix a quantity
of feldspar with kaolin, cover the mixture with a layer of feldspar, and
heat the whole at a very high temperature, the feldspar will melt and
communicate to the opaque clay a clearness greater or less accoi'ding
to the quantity of it present, and to the sujierficial part of it that beau-
tiful glaze with which all are familiar. A part of the action in this
process is chemical, and consists in the production of a new crystalline
silicate formed by a combination of all the substances present. The
discovery of porcelain in China is traced back to a high antiquity.
The Chinese have certainly made it regularly for at least a thousand
years ; many authors fix the discovery at fifteen hundred or eight-
een hundred years ago, but no evidence exists to justify our going
further back than a thousand years. The first pieces that came to
Europe were probably brought by the Venetians at the end of the
thirteenth century, Charles VII, King of France, received a present
of Chinese porcelains, about the middle of the fifteenth century, from
the Sultan of Babylon; but it was not till the sixteenth century that the
importation of these Oriental products by Portuguese and Dutch mer-
chants assumed a real importance. The discovery of tender porcelain
was made in France toward the end of the seventeenth century, but
