PORCELAIN AND THE ART OF ITS PRODUCTION. 311
whether by Louis Poterat or by Reverend, at Paris or Rouen, is dis-
puted. This "ware has no relation with real porcelain ; it contains
neither kaolin nor feldspar, but is an artificial product, a kind of glass
made from a mixture composed essentially of sand, lime, potash, soda,
and a small quantity of marine marl. This mixture, made plastic by
the addition of manganese or other fluxes, is baked without glazing, and
is covered after baking with a glazing composed of silica, lead, potash,
and soda. The beauty of the material, its perfect glaze, and the
facility with which vitrifiable colors are fixed in it, make of tender
porcelain a ware exceptionally adapted to decoration.
The discovery of tender porcelain did not arrest the investigations
of men of science and potters, who saw very well that it had none of
the characters of the porcelain of China. A bed of kaolin was found
in Saxony in 1709, and Bottger set up at Meissen the first European
factory of hard porcelain. Fifty years later, in 1758, Guettard at
Alen9on, and afterward, in 1T69, Madame Darnet at Saint-Yeux, near
Limoges, discovered the French beds, and the industrial fabrication of
hard porcelain was begun in France in 1TT4. Tender jDorcelain gave
way quickly m the rivalry with hard porcelain. This was unfortunate,
in an artistic point of view, for the latter material is very unaccommo-
dating to the decorator. A more important object was, however, to
create for domestic economy an absolutely healthful industry, and
much is due to the illustrious Brongniart for having by his investiga-
tions put the manufacture of kaolinic porcelain on a firm scientific
foundation.
Natural kaolin is never a pure clay, but contains also sand, lande-
composed feldspar, etc., in variable quantities, and must first be jiurified.
For this purpose the mass is pounded, and the products are separated
one after another by successive levigations with water. The clay,
which is extremely slow in settling, is drawn off first, and may be ob-
tained almost pure ; the other deposits, composed of more or less feld-
spathic sands, are brayed in mills, and are destined to enter in their
turn into the preparation of the pastes. The nature of porcelain, its
physical and chemical properties, vary infinitely according to the pro-
portion of its two consituent elements (kaolin and feldspar), and as other
substances, lime, silicious sands, potsherds, etc., arc added, as is often
done. Every country and every factory has its composition, which is
adapted to the use to which the porcelain is destined, to the degree of
resistance that is to be demanded of it, and to the kind of decoration
it is to receive. Generally, porcelain is more solid as the proportion of
clay increases, and requires a higher temperature in baking ; if, on the
other hand, the proportion of feldspar is increased, it becomes more fu-
sible, may be baked at a lower temperature, and submits more readily
to decoration, but its plasticity and the possibility of working it easily
diminish rapidly. The mixture of the materials should be perfect ;
when this is the case, the mass will keep for a long time, and become
