312 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
more plastic as it grows older. The qualities required of a good paste
may be communicated by diluting it and stirring it with water and
decanting, or by prolonged beating and manipulation. By treading it
out or beating it we not only give it complete plasticity and homoge-
neity, but we also clear it of air-bubbles which would otherwise swell
out in baking and cause much damage.
The next thing is to give our ware the form which has been deter-
mined for it in a design previously made. This requires a knowledge
of the whole process of fabrication. It would be a mistake to suppose
that porcelain can be baked in any desired form. It becomes soft in
baking, and has to be supported ; and, as it is to be covered with a glass
that melts at the same moment, j)laces which need not be enameled
must be found for fixing the supports in every piece, unless we are
willing to risk having it spoiled. We may thus comprehend one of
the difficulties in the manufacture of jDorcelain, and one of the points
in which it differs most from delf.
Articles of porcelain may be shaped without molds or with them.
By the former method all the shapes are obtained that may be pro-
duced by turning. The clay is first shaped on the wheel by the hand
into a rough block of the general shape which the object is destined
to assume, and is then left to dry, slowly and with care, to keep it
from cracking. When it has been dried to a suitable degree of con-
sistency, it is put upon the wheel again and carefully worked into the
exact shape desired, with the moldings and ornaments called for by
the design, and by the aid of the most simple instruments.
Articles whose shape does not adapt them to manipulation on a
revolving wheel, such as objects of statuary and many lighter objects,
may be shaped by molding them. The mold is made of plaster of
Paris ; to it, when dry, is applied a layer of the porcelain paste, which
is pressed into it carefully and as evenly as possible ; the earth espouses
all the details of the sculpture, and, after a few moments, the plaster
having absorbed the water from the paste in contact with it, a shrink-
age takes place, thanks to which the proof detaches itself almost spon-
taneously. The operation is sure to be successful in the case of simple
forms whose outlines offer no impediment to taking them from the
molds. If, however, we purpose to obtain objects in relief, statuettes,
groups of figures, or sumptuous vases, the sculptural decorations of
which constitute their chief ornament, the process becomes more com-
plicated. In this case the molder has to divide his pattern into a
number of parts, the superficies of which must be determined by the
possibilities of taking off the molds ; then he must make as many
molds in plaster as he has parts of his model ; these molds will in
their turn serve for the reproduction of each of the parts, which have
afterward to be joined and cemented by the aid of the paste diluted
in water. After this the seams at the junction of the parts must be
rubbed away, and the whole work finished up by a restorer who must
