PORCELAIN AND THE ART OF ITS PRODUCTION 313
necessarily be an artist. I can not leave tliis part of my subject with-
out mentioning the property which porcelain has of shrinking when
baked. The shrinkage amounts to about ten or fifteen per cent.
A third method of shaping porcelains is by casting, which was dis-
covered at Tom-nay, 1784, and in which Brongniart has made numer-
ous improvements. Nothing is more simple than the manufacture of
a small object by this process. Thus, if we take a plaster mold of a
cup, and pour into it a quantity of barbotine, or porcelain-clay mixed
with water, the mold will absorb the water from the clay in contact
with it, forming a shell less liquid than the rest of the barbotine, and
which sticks to the plaster. When this shell has attained a suitable
thickness, the rest of the barbotine may be poured out : what remains
in the mold constitutes the cup. We leave it to dry, and in a little
while it wdl have gained consistency enough to be taken out of the
mold without being deformed. Ware thus made is extremely delicate ;
the slightest pressure with the fingers may destroy it. This process is
used at Sevres for large pieces, but special manipulations are required
for such work ; for the weight of the shell which should adhere to the
mold when the liquid is poured out, and which should be thicker and
heavier in proportion to the greater size of the vessel, is very apt to
cause it to separate from the plaster and fall. The least awkward-
ness might destroy the piece, and this should be avoided at any cost.
MM. Milet and Delacour have devised a method, which has been used
at Sevres since 1857, for avoiding such accidents by turning compressed
air asrainst the interior of the mold at the moment the barbotine is
poured out, to take the place of the liquid and hold the porcelain shell
against the plaster. M. Regnault has simplified this operation by ex-
hausting the air on the outside of the mold, which effects the same
purpose and is more convenient of execiition. The absence of seams,
the purity of the outlines, and the clearness of the surfaces obtained
by this process, make it one of inestimable value when we wish to get
an object of art, and lift it far above the process of molding. The de-
tails of the operation are very exacting, but none of them should be
neglected. Their importance may be realized by reflecting that a hid-
den fault in the interior of a large piece, a bubble of inclosed air, a
lack of homogeneity in the paste, or other flaw, is not perceptible till
after the baking, when the vessel has been decorated, and may perhaps
have become of very great value. The slightest defect in the casting
may destroy this value.
The objects, having been properly shaped and fitted, have next to
be transformed into porcelain by the action of fire, the function of
which is to combine the different elements of the paste and deter-
mine the fusion of the glazing. The baking is done twice. In the
first operation, when the temperature is relatively only moderately
high (1,800° to 2,1G0°), the earth is converted into what is called biscuit-
baked porcelain; it becomes very tough and sonorous, and extremely
