314 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
flexible ; in this condition it is submitted to the enameling process. That
operation is of the simplest character, and consists in a quick immer-
sion in water holding in suspension a feldspathic rock, which has pre-
viously been reduced to an impalpable powder. Yet it requires great
care, for the thickness of the enamel must be adapted to the piece; it
may be neither too great nor too little, under penalty of accidents ; it
must be as even as possible, with neither bulges nor thin places.
These qualities can not be obtained by dipping alone, so the object
has to be retouched with a brush. The next step is baking in the
sharp-fire, where the temperature of from 2,880° to 3,240°, at which
feldspar fuses, must be reached. A few facts will enable us to compre-
hend the steps and the difficulties of this operation. Porcelain-clay
can not be baked in direct contact with the flames, ashes, and smoke,
without being greatly altered. It must, then, for the biscuit-baking
as well as for the sharp-fire, be inclosed in protecting envelopes called
gazettes, or casettes — cases of as refractory clay as can be got, in which
the pieces are adjusted with great care on suitably arranged supports.
It must be remembered that porcelain is baked at the temperature at
which it becomes soft; the softening must then be anticipated at the
time of fitting the vessel in the casette, and all the parts of the object
must be supported so as to prevent any possible deformation. At the
same time the supports must be prevented from sticking to the piece;
and it is only by the aid of many kinds of artifices that the object can
be effected without the supports leaving visible marks of their having
been apj^lied.
The furnace is divided into two stories, the upper one of which is
the dome, or biscuit-baking compartment, and is warmed by the sur-
plus heat that escapes from the lower story and passes through the
vent-holes in its roof. The lower story, where the baking with the
shariD-fire is done, is called the laboratory, and is heated by a number
of fires placed along the circumference of the furnace, called alandiers.
The casettes filled with articles to be baked are arranged vertically and
as symmetrically as possible, and properly supported in the interior of
the laboratory; when the furnace is filled, the entrance is closed by a
double door of refractory materials, and the fires are kindled at the dif-
ferent alancliers. The temperature should be raised very slowly and
very regularly, in order to avoid unequal dilatations, which would
develop breaks in the objects. The heating is watched through little
openings left in the walls of the furnace for that purpose, through
which the color of the fire is observed. It may be seen to pass in suc-
cession from a dark red to orange, bright orange, and white. At the
white heat, which is reached in from twenty-four to sixty hours, ac-
cording to the kind of furnace and fire, the porcelain is near its baking-
point. Since no apparatus has yet been invented for ascertaining the
precise temperature within the furnace, the condition of affairs inside
has to be determined experimentally by means of trial-pieces, which are
