THE PHYSIOLOGY OF EXERCISE. 317
Improved processes of decoration have been devised by M. Sal-
vetat and M. Ebelmen, of ^vbich the manufactory of Sevres has pos-
session, and which, I believe, will permit the substitution for painting
of a lively and brilliant decoration, as distinct as that of delf, but
which will be as superior to that as the material to which it is applied
is more pi-ecious and delicate. Using these processes, the artists of
Sevres will be able to go beyond making commonplace copies of what
has been made in the East, and to create a genuine French school of
porcelain, restoring that material to the high rank which the artistic
delfs have nearly taken away from it.
I consider that the manufactory at Sevres, being a national estab-
lishment, supported by the country, ought to lay aside the character
of a factory, and become a school of ceramics, devoting itself to the
search for new j^rocesses, for original forms and decorations, to the
creation of workmen and artists who shall be masters in their business ;
and that it is its absolute duty to give to French industry the results
of its investigations. Thus might it become a most useful element in
the national industries, and a glory to France and the republic.
THE PHYSIOLOGY OF EXEKCISE.
By EMLE DU BOIS-EEYMOND.
ALTHOUGH the reputation of the Romans as a civilized people
has somewhat sunken of late, their army-life still awakens un-
bounded admiration. The Greeks called their army after the camp,
the Macedonians after its formation. To the neo-Latins the army is
armed power ; the Germans seem to regard it as a union of the war-
riors into a common host. The Romans, on the other hand, as Gibbon
has remarked, named their army fi-om exercise. The Greeks aimed at
the harmonious development of individuals, without any well-defined
purpose. Incessant methodical drill of the manhood, a field of Mars,
is essentially a Roman institution, for war was the natural condition
of the Roman commonwealth.
Overthrown by the barbarian hosts, the regular army disappeared
from the world's stage for a thousand years, and the greatest question
of controversy for mankind, whether Christian or of Islam, was how
once upon a time the quarrel of a clan over a pretty woman was de-
cided by single combat of knights before Ilium. With the revival of
ancient culture on the threshold of the new time, the drilling of troops
came again into its right. No one now doubts that, other things being
* An address at the anniversary of the Institute for Military Surgeons, Berlin, August
2, 1881.
