3i8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
equal, the better-schooled army prevails. Hardly any army deserves
better than the Prussian-German the name Exercitus. Before a meet-
ing of the physicians of that army it is not inappropriate to consider
exercise somewhat in its direct physiological aspect.
Boyish excesses have brought the Darwinian doctrine into such
bad repute in wide circles that I do not without consideration place
myself at its point of view. Yet, whatever view of the world one
may take, science, which desires to comprehend the world, will not be
prevented from at once representing the world comprehensively ; since
it, according to Herr Helmholtz's evident remark, must start out from
this presupposition unless it is contradicted at the outset. Only me-
chanical conception is science ; when supernaturalism comes in, science
ceases. As the jurist takes the law, without considering equity and
palliating circumstances, so the naturalist goes on to mechanical con-
clusions, without regarding venerable beliefs. It is not his office to
reconcile these beliefs with those conclusions.
More, the Cuvierian doctrine of repeated creations underlaid by
repeated cataclysms has lost all justification since Lyell showed that
goeological phenomena have proceeded without general cataclysms,
and Darwin has added that species change. Now we can more intel-
ligibly ascribe to the creating Almighty only the action of having
placed a first germ of life in previously inanimate nature. Is it not,
then, simpler and more worthy of that Almighty to conceive that he at
once endowed matter with the power of allowing the living to arise
out of itself under definite conditions, without new assistance ?
This was Leibnitz's view, and it may be said of it that even the
most cautious need not be afraid of it. According to this view, it is
the object of natural research to show how the living originated by
mechanical processes out of the inorganic, and how, out of this doubt-
less most simple life, the present organic nature has been mechanically
developed. If we could succeed in filling up the scheme of the theory
of descent with real contents, we should know how the series of living
beings has unfolded itself during unlimited time and through numer-
ous generations, according to certain norms which appear to us as
laws of organization. But with this the problem would be only half
solved.
Living beings are in themselves fitted to their purpose, and adapted
to the external conditions of their lives ; they were always so ; and,
while they transform themselves according to their surroundings, they
not merely adapt themselves to their new conditions, but they also
perfect themselves in our human conception. Thus, from this point
of view, organic nature appears not only as a machine, but also as a
self -improving machine.
This second half of the problem demands for its solution the proof
that the adaptive process has gone on mechanically, and the only not
wholly vague efi'ort t^ give this proof that has yet been made is the
