THE PHYSIOLOGY OF EXERCISE. 319
theory of selection. Unfortunately, however, this theory encounters
insuperable difficulties as soon as it tries to step from the free-sailing
air-balloon of probabilities upon the hard ground of realities. Nothing
is easier than to ridicule the doctrine of natural and sexual selection.
So much the more earnestly will the seeker for truth seize any means
that can contribute anything to the solution of the problem. Is it not
now a most promising coincidence that the higher beings exhibit in
exercise such a self-improving machinery as we have recognized in the
aggregate of life ?
From these remote distances of research, which are the peculiar
metaphysics of our time, come with me into a blacksmith's shop. The
lad who lifts the hammer for the first time to-day soon becomes tired
in spite of his splendid muscular foundation. He sweats ; and, when
he takes a horseshoe from the master's hands, he burns his fingers.
Two years later he can, without sweating, perform the trick illustrating
the mechanical theory of heat of pounding cold iron red-hot, and is not
afraid to touch the hot metal. What has happened ? First, the lad's
arms have increased in compass, their muscles in tension to the highest
capacity of contraction. If we could have weighed the muscles of bis
arms at the beginning of his apprenticeship, and could weigh them
now, we should find that they had grown heavier ; as also, according
to Edward Weber, the muscles of the right side of the body are
heavier than those of the left. The muscles are also the most perfect
power-machines — not only in that when active they make the most
complete use of the consumed matter ; not only in that, according to
Herr Heidenhain, their strength in particular instances increases with
the service demanded of them — but they are distinguished above all
machines made by man in that by frequent labor-service they become
stronger and more capable of enduring further labor. It does not
need to be proved that the effect of exercise on the muscles is imme-
diate and local, and not transmitted through the favorable influence of
bodily exertion on the general organism. Even the Greeks found fault
with the disproportionate degree to which boxers trained their arms
only, and runners their legs ; and our pugilists and ballet-dancers are
illustrations of the same. Under some circumstances the local results
of exercise may be destructive to the whole, as M'hcn the muscles of the
lieart suffer hypertrophy in consequence of excessive resistance in some
part of the circulation.
On the other hand, the surgeon knows only too well that the mus-
cles of a stiffened or sprained joint, or of one that has been confined
with bandages, become wasted, as do likewise muscles the nerves of
which have been cut or that have been otherwise disabled.
The part is known which the latter fact, falsely interpreted by the
older physiologists, played in the question of what was called the Ilal-
lerian muscular irritability, till John Reid — at a time when experi-
ments on living animals were not prohibited in England — showed
