320 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
that muscles deprived of their natural innervation could be kept lit
for work provided they were electrically excited at sufficiently brief
intervals ; an experiment which found an important application in
surgery and neuropathology.
Even in the midst of health unused muscles pine away, or become
pale and powerless, like the ear-muscles of most men. In general, the
redness of muscles is related to greater strength in consequence of fre-
quent exertions. Herr Ranvier showed that the red and pale muscles
occurred together in rabbits and rooks ; that they were distinguished
by their structure and by the time required for contraction without its
being possible to decide that one set worked more than the other, and
without any clew being given to the object of this disposition. Little
is known of the microscopic qualities of used and unused muscles. In
contrast with the muscles of fattening cattle, working cattle have
thicker primitive bundles and coarser sarcolemma, the latter determin-
ing the lesser nutritive value of the flesh. According to Herr Vir-
chow's terminology, nutritive stimulation has also taken place. In
muscles falling away through disuse, as the waste progresses a fatty
metamorphosis sets in, against which, as is well known, its ceaseless
activity does not protect the heart-muscle. Muscular contraction is
accompanied by chemical changes. The blood flows darker from tense
than from resting muscles ; they consume more oxygen and form more
carbonic acid. An acid permanently reddening litmus is set free in
them. Their watery constituents and the amount of substances soluble
in alcohol increase in them, while the amount of substances soluble in
water diminishes — probably because glycogen is consumed in the con-
traction. The albuminous constituents remain about the same, yet the
derivatives of albumen known as the flesh bases appear to be richer.
That to the last hard-working muscle, the heart, is for this reason a mine
of such bodies to the chemist ; and the flesh of a fox that had been
shot was found by Liebig to be ten times richer in creatine than that of
a captive fox. We are, unf ortiinately, still very far from understand-
ing the connection of these various processes and their relation to mus-
cular contraction, that is, to the interchange of isotropic and uniso-
tropic substances in the muscular fibers, and to the transformation of
mechanical, thermic, and electric forces. We only know that there is
involved an increase and modification of a process of change that was
already going on during rest, particularly of the oxidation of nitrogen-
ous substances, by which, in addition to mechanical labor-service, an
apparent surplus of heat is developed. Even the muscles at rest are a
seat of respiration and the development of heat in animal bodies. The
muscle acts very much like the reserve-locomotive that stands ready
for use on the switch, which is all the time burning a little fuel and
can be attached to a train or sent to help a disabled engine at any
instant, but which requires, in connection with the greater display of
force it is to make, a greater consumption of material and expenditure
