METHODS AND PROFIT OF TREE-PLANTING. 17
fifty cents apiece, and hardly worth that, have been planted with the
native pitch and white pine, the Scotch and Austrian pine, the Nor-
way -spruce, and the European larch, are equally convincing. Mr.
Fay planted in 1854, and in 1877 had one hundred and twenty-five
acres densely covered with trees. The larches had reached a height
of forty feet and a diameter of fourteen inches. Scotch pines, sown
as late as 1861, were thirty feet high and ten inches in diameter a foot
from the ground. Mr. Fay is abundantly satisfied with the results of
his experiments. Professor Sargent says, speaking of the plantations
made by Messrs. Fay and others : " When we consider the success
which has attended the experiments of these gentlemen in reclothing
their property with forest growths, under circumstances, too, as dis-
advantageous as it is possible for Massachusetts to offer, it must be
acknowledged that the attempt to rej^lant our unimproved lands is a'
perfectly feasible one; and the only wonder is that the inhabitants of
Essex and Barnstable Counties, with such examples before them, have
not already planted their worthless, worn-out lands with a crop which
would yield a larger profit than any they have produced since the first
clearing of the forest."
Taking the results of Mr. Fay's planting, and the average results
of the planting of the larches in the Highlands of Scotland, which are
nearly the same in like conditions. Professor Sargent finds that, on
ordinary soil, larches planted when about one foot high and three years
old, will in twenty years average twenty-two feet in height and seven
inches in diameter three feet from the ground ; and that in thirty
years they will be from thirty-five to forty feet high and twelve inches
in diameter; and, if thinned out, the remaining trees, at fifty years
from the time of planting, will reach from sixty to seventy feet in
height and at least twenty inches in diameter. On this basis he makes
the estimated profit on a plantation of ten acres of larch-trees, at the
end of fifty years, to be v52,282.75, or thirteen per cent per annum for
the whole time. The estimate is carefully made, as would be seen, if we
had space for the particulars ; but with a considerable discount from
the figures of Professor Sargent there is left, certainly, a reasonable
profit.
It is to be remembered also that trees are not exhausting crops, but
that they tend to enrich and improve the land on which they grow.
If this be taken into account, the estimate of possible and probable
profit from the planting of our many acres of wild, rocky, sandy, and
other poor and practically waste land, is to be counted only by mill-
ions of dollars, while the benefits that would accrue from extensive
tree-planting in the more equable distribution of rain and the flow of
our streams, in racteorologic influences upon health and comfort, and in
other ways, would be simply incalculable.
VOL. XXI. — 2
