THE PHYSIOLOGY OF EXERCISE. 321
of heat, Ludwig and Sadler showed on this point that, aside from
mechanical hindrances, the blood flows freer and richer through the
vessels of the working muscle. This is not only in the sense that new
combustible matter is introduced, but also in that the ashes are at
the same time swept away from the muscle-hearth ; since, according
to the discovery of Herr Johann Ranke, followed out by Hermann
Roeber, the acids formed by muscular activity depreciate the mechan-
ical and electrical capacity of the muscle, exhaust it chemically as we
are accustomed to say, without being able to conceive any other than
a chemical exhaustion of the muscle. Still less than of the chemical
mechanism of muscular contraction, have we a conception of what
takes place chemically in the strengthening of the muscle by exercise,
of how it becomes better fitted for work through a higher degree of
oxidation, and of why it falls away on the cessation of the changes
that take place in it in activity. It seems most natural to think
that these effects depend alone upon the increase and diminution
of the flow of blood during activity and during rest ; yet this of
itself only makes the case darker than if we had not ventured to
decide the question in such a way. Chemistry throws the manifold
varieties of muscle-flesh which our taste distinguishes with so much
refinement generally into one pot ; and the old statement, established
in knowledge, that English park-deer tastes flat, is stiil far from being
explained.
A subjective explanation is finally to be mentioned. The tired
muscle, as long as it is becoming stronger through exercise, gives pain
for several days when it is used and when it is pressed upon. Even
a muscle which has been once or oftener hardened, or thoroughly
trained, gives pain when it is again put to work after a long idleness,
as we soon learn when we begin a journey on foot or on horseback.
Whoever, after a long interruption in gymnastic exercises, feels no
more pain, will make no further progress. The muscles hurt after
epileptic spasms. Even if we attempt to ascribe the feeling of the
muscles to the nerves of the tendons, joints, and skin, and the Vater-
Pacini bodies, we still should not imagine that they bring on the
pains in tetanus and trichinosis. Notwithstanding Sach's labors, we
are not yet in the light concerning the pathic nerves that bring about
these pains. Wherever and however they do it, they also produce
muscular aches after exertions.
The improvement of the muscles by exercise, little as we know of
it, has been established from antiquity, and, being relatively more
familiar, the best case of improvement, is fitted to serve as an ex-
ample for similar processes in other tissues. Indeed, the question
now is, whether other tissues than the cross-striped muscles are by
frequent exercise of their office in the animal household made bet-
ter fitted for that office. After what has been said above, we can
with some justification add to this question the many times more
VOL. XXI. — 21
