322 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
easily answered one, whether other tissues diminish in consequence
of a failure to exercise them in their office.
A physiological proof that the smooth muscles are strengthened by
exercise is wanting. The adajDtation of the eye to near vision dimin-
ishes from childhood to age according to a regular law, notwithstand-
ing the constant exercise of the faculty ; but it does not follow from
this that Briicke's muscle does not gain strength, for its gain may be
more than compensated by the growing stiffness of the tissue and the
diminished elasticity of the crystalline lens. The fact that men see
imperfectly at close range what their occupation gives them little
occasion to regard, indicates that Briicke's muscle loses strength when
it is not used. The uterus has no occasion to be exercised, for it is
active only after long pauses, and gains a portion of new fibers every
time for that purpose. We know nothing of the movements of the
rauscle-maw of the bird, which forms a transition to the cross-striped
muscles. On the other hand, such pathological facts as the hyper-
trophy of the muscles of the bladder and the j^ylorus under circum-
stances of extraoi-dinary resistance leave no doubt that the smooth
muscles, like the cross-striped ones, are strengthened by labor. Thus
an empirical basis is given to Herr Rosenthal's supposition that the
immunity against cold conferred by cold-bathing dej^ends upon the
exercise of the smooth muscles of the skin and their vessels, which
are intrusted with the lowering of the co-efficient of cooling of the
body in the cold. Cold washing and bathing are the gymnastics of
the smooth muscles.
The young blacksmith, of whom we spoke a short time ago, had
gained another advantage from exercise besides greater strength in
the muscles of his arm : he ceased to burn his fingers. Every one
knows that the epidermis thickens on those parts of the skin that are
frequently subjected to pressure, rubbing, and the touching of hot
things and caustic fluids. Handling of tools, rowing, vaulting on the
rack and bars, produce a callus chiefly at the ends of the middle-hand
bones or in the palms ; glass-blowing produces callus on the inside of
the fingers. Recurrent blisters often result in callus. Under the
pressure of hard shoes the form of skin-thickening known as corns
takes the place of callus. Callus and corns have been histologically
investigated, yet we can not tell why the useful callus is formed here,
the painful corn there, to say nothing of our having a theory of the
processes. They fall in the category of what Ilerr Yirchow calls for-
mative stimulation of the cell-complex, and regards, like the nutritive
stimulation, as the result of a general and fundamental property of the
elementai-y organisms. An increased supply of matter, immediately
conditioned on an increased floAV of blood, also takes place here. Since
we can not well predicate a vis afronte, enlargement of the vessels re-
mains the only yet possible step toward an understanding, and with
this we reach a closed gate before which many other problems are
