THE PHYSIOLOGY OF EXERCISE. 323
already encamped, in the question how inflammation and vascular
paralysis are distinguished. Our case is also distinguished by the fact
that the skin, protected by callus like the practiced muscles, now af-
fords better service under similar circumstances. The callus, m par-
ticular cases, represents an improvement in the grasping organ. For-
mative stimulation also occurs in the muscles ; the contents of the
primitive bundle are moved to nucleation through local stimulation,
yet the advantageous stimulation by exercise seems to be almost en-
tirely, or chiefly, of a nutritive sort.
In like manner as the skin fortifies itself against the repeated touch
of hot bodies by means of local calluses, it adapts itself to the heat of
the sun through erythema and a change consequent upon it which is
accompanied with the development of pigment, although pigment
favors the absorption of the sunbeams. The fact is, perhaps, con-
nected with this, that it is advantageous to animals to have the side
that is turned toward the light of a dark color. Hence, as Moseley
observed on the Challenger, Echeneis remora has the belly dark, the
back light. Heat from artificial sources of a relatively lower temper-
ature, which is deficient in refrangible rays, has a remarkably differ-
ent effect from sunlight. Workers by the fire are pale. It is still to
be seen whether the electric light will take the place of the sunlight
in its effect on the skin as it does in the case of plants.
Horny structure becomes unfit for its purpose with insufficient
use. A remarkable example of this is the cessation of the growth of
the hoofs of horses and cattle on the soft turfs of the Falkland Islands,
mentioned by Darwin, On the other hand, the hoofs of horses harden
on dry, stony soils, as Xenophon teaches in his school for horsemen ;
and colts brought up on such soils need no protection.
The so-called rider's bones, the exercise-bones, which have not be-
come rarer since the introduction of the new armor and the modified
drill, but have moved from the left to the right, may be considered
as a kind of inner callus, the development of which affords a new ex-
emplification of the Osteo-blasten theory. These bones hardly bring
any advantage to their possessor, and can not be included among the
instances of self-improvement through exercise. It would be too far
fetched and groping in a too dark quarter for me to do more than
mention here that Ludwig Fick believes that the well-adapted form of
the joints may have been derived from exercises during the fetal pe-
riod and the earliest days of life. Is it not possible that the splendid
formation of the spongy bone-substance in the epiphyses, which was
discovered by Hermann Meyer, and further investigated by Julius
Wolff, depends on nutritive and formative stimulus in the direction of
the greatest pressure and strain ? The injurious effect of insufficient
use is shown in this region by the non-growth of the teeth of rodents
when they are fed on too soft food, or after the trigeminus has beon
cut.
