324 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The self -improvement of the series of connecting tissues by exer-
cise in other members, takes place in a more peculiar manner, rather
mechanical than chemical and physiological. The motions of the
joints are made easier by exercise ; and making stiff joints movable
is one of the most grateful objects of orthopedy. Herr Henke ex-
plains the unusual suppleness of the so-called India-rubber men as the
result of relaxation of the ligaments, a disappearance of edge-surfaces
of bone, and a diminished radius of curvature of the sliding surfaces,
but particularly of a prolongation of the flesh-fibers at the expense of
the tendons. Possibly an elastic tissue is formed in the ligaments of
their limbs. Whether such a tissue grows in the vocal cords after ex-
ercise in vibrating them is still uncertain.
To make our statement complete, the increased ease in labor —
bought, it is true, at the cost of greater danger of secondary bleedings
— of those who have borne many times, belongs here. We may also
regard as a self-improvement, although belonging to another region,
the relaxing after-birth, and the accompanying reflex action of the
breast upon the uterus.
The glands are another class of tissues the efiiciency of which is
raised by exercise. The sexual glands — the milk- glands and testicles
— are known to be capable of remaining at rest for years and even
for life, while their tissues are subject to a considerable diminution, as
is also normally the case with animals during the intervals between
the periods of heat. Inversely the sexual glands attain a wonderful
degree of production by means of alternations of rest and activity, as
is exemplified by stallions, milch-cows, sheep, and goats. If the breast-
glands are not kept exercised by sucking, the udder by milking, they
dry up and sink to rest till they are newly excited in sympathetic
action with the uterus. The same can not be immediately proved of
the fluids of secretory glands, but it is hardly doubtful that a digestive
vessel that is kept active by two meals a day, with its glandular attach-
ments, will dispose of a larger quantity of the various digestive fluids
than that of a penitent. The kidneys of the practiced beer-drinker give
passage to an incredible quantity of fluid. Finally, one who reads in
the sketches of the manners of the last century of the continual weep-
ing of the sentimental men and women of the time, will hardly be
able to restrain the presumption that their tear-glands were brought
up to the work by practice. We are as ignorant concerning the mech-
anism of the self-impi'ovement of the glands thi'ough exercise as con-
cerning the process of secretion in them. Since this process is different
in nearly every gland, according to what nerves are introduced — in
one the secreted matter increases ; in another becomes fatty ; in an-
other persists unchanged, but receives and gives out matter, or under-
goes changes in itself — the problem appears twice as intricate and the
information doubly scanty, so that at last we have to do again only
with an increased accession of matter and more frequent innervation.
