THE PHYSIOLOGY OF EXERCISE. 32,0
nervous system comes into consideration in most composite movements.
The sight, the sense of pressure, and the muscular sense, and finally
the mind, must be prepared to take in the position of the body at each
instant, so that the muscles may be in a proper state of adjustment ;
this is plainly shown in the exercises of fencing, playing billiards,
rope-dancing, vaulting on horses in motion, or leaping down a mountain-
slope. Thus not only the motor, but the sensor nervous system also,
and the mental functions, are capable of being exercised and need it ;
and the muscles again appear to acquire a deeper importance in gym-
nastics. "What is said here of the coarser bodily movements applies
equally to all skilled work, of the highest as well as of the lowest
kind. Although a Liszt, or a Rubinstein, without an iron muscularity
of arm, can not be thought of, and although, likewise, the movements
of Joachim's bow during a symphony may correspond to many kilo-
grammemetres, still their power as virtuosos resides in their central
nerve-system. The readiness of the turner, the machinist, the watch-
maker ; of the glass-blower and glass-polisher ; the skill of the anat-
omist and surgeon ; writing and drawing ; womanly labors like sewing
and knitting, crocheting and lace-making ; finally, the hardly consid-
ered yet more or less artful performances of daily life, dressing and
undressing, the use of the sponge, comb and brush, knife and fork —
what are they all at last but acquired concatenations of the actions of
ganglion cells which, after they have often run on in an appointed
course, now succeed each other in the same manner with qualified facil-
ity, catching into each other, pausing and resuming again, like the voices
in an artfully composed concert ? When Lessing asked whether Ra-
phael would have been any the less a great jDainter if he had been born
Tvathout hands, he perceived this truth. Is it necessary to add that
the same principle applies to all the movements as well as to those of
the hands ; that, for example, vocal culture rests upon no other one ?
Singers need not only flexible vocal cords, strong respiratory and
laryngeal muscles, ringing resonance of the air-passages — all these
would in themselves alone be of no more use to them than a Stradi-
varius violin to a wood-cutter — their talent has its root in the gray sub-
stance at the base of the fourth ventricle. Here also is concealed, but
awaiting a higher command, exercising its functions through the
hinder third of the left third convolution, the machinery of the speech
mechanism, as bulbar paralysis sadly teaches.
It is very remarkable in all these processes that the more any com-
posite movement is practiced, the more unconscious is the act of the
nervous system directing it, until at last the latter can not be distin-
guished from spontaneous nervous mechanisms like the involuntary re-
flex and by-movements. Erasmus Darwin remarked that, when any
one learns to turn, each movement of the hands seems at first to be
directed by the will, but that at last the action of the hands becomes
80 at one with the effect that the turner's will seems to reside in the
