.328 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
cuttino- of his knife — that is, that he unconsciously puts it in the right
position.
Practice further exhibits its influence upon the nervous system on
its purely sensory side, abstracted from all movement. It sharpens
and corrects the musical ear, and teaches it to perceive over-tones, in-
exact intervals, and slight dissonances. The local sense and the color
sense of the eye are improved by practice. It teaches the vronderful
arts of quick reading, of taking in fleeting phenomena like the vibra-
tions of the magnetic needle, of bringing the sight of the gun to bear
on the black of the target. It teaches to distinguish copies and all
kinds of subjective appearances, to comprehend at a glance micro-
scopic pictures that pass before the beginner in suj)erficial confusion,
in such a way that it is very hard to draw the line between exercise of
the sense and that exercise of the judgment over the impressions of
sense that is called visus eruditus. As exercise induces the discontinu-
ance of unused muscles, it also teaches us to neglect unused images,
such as the double images of the points of the picture outside of the
horopter ; or, in looking through an optical instrument, the impres-
sions made upon the unengaged eye. Yet no practice appears to break
through the law according to which the points of the retina in indi-
rect vision receive attention only transiently and with a certain effect.
Although it is hardened against bad smells, the nose of the chemist is
the rival of spectrum analysis in delicacy. It would be unjust to say
that the wine-connoisseurs of Bordeaux can discriminate concerning
the place of the growth of a vintage, while only its age is in question
with them. Not less susceptible of cultivation are the perceptions of
temperature, pressure, and locality. The last, especially, measured
according to the least distance at which two bodies, nearly in contact,
still separate, may be distinguished, become sharpened by practice in
the course of a few days — giving one of the arguments which oppose
a purely anatomical definition of the range of feeling.
As exercise refines the senses, neglect stupefies them, and that not
merely in consequence of the apathy of the organ. After destroying
the eyes and ears of new-born puppies, Herr Hermann Mimk observed
that what he had recognized as the visory and auditory spheres of the
brain borders were backward in development. According to Ilugue-
nin, blindness of many years' duration results in waste of the visory
spheres.
A CUEIOUS BURMESE TEIBE.
By LiEDTEN-iNT G. KEEITLEE,
OF CO^^'T SZECOEXYl's CENTRAL ASIAN EXPEDITION.
IN our journey from Sayang in Yunnan to Bharao in Burmah, we
became acquainted with a race of mountaineers who are called
Kacheen by the Burmese, but who call themselves Chingpos. They
