A CURIOUS BURMESE TRIBE. 329
are a small, delicate people, whose brightly-beaming eyes contrast
strongly with their reserved behavior. The faces of the men as well
as of the women can not be called unhandsome. The head is oval and
well-shaped, the eyes are horizontal, the nose is strong and straight,
the ruddy lips are finely cut, and the teeth are blackened with betel-
juice.
All the hard work among the Kacheen is done by the women and
girls, who are up in the morning at their household duties while the
men are still in bed.
The woman does not venture to raise her eyes when she speaks
with her husband or her employer. She has no concern about the
business or enterprises that he is engaged in, but considers everything
good and unquestionable that he orders ; and the subjection of the
women goes to the extent that the death of one is lamented as a
pecuniary loss, because the laboring force is diminished by it ; and a
family that has several daughters is for that reason considered rich.
The women are all the time at work, cutting down trees, splitting
wood and bringing it to the house, cutting roads through the thickets,
driving the cattle to pasture, cleaning the house, getting the meals,
and weaving cloth. The men perform no manual laboi-, or, at most,
will once in a while go out into the field and show the women in a
rough way how the tillage ought to be done. Their principal busi-
ness is to visit their neighbors, to drink sheru (a sweet drink made
from rice), and smoke opium. Only in case of pressing need will
they take their mules and their w^omen and go to Bhamo and get loads
of goods to take to China. Marriages among the lower classes are
mere business affairs, in which the dowry and physical strength of the
bride are the first considerations. Among the higher classes weddings
are regarded as important events, and are distinguished by particular
usages and ceremonies.
When a death occurs, the relatives make the sad event known to
their neighbors by firing guns. When the friends are gathered to-
gether, a part of the number go into the woods to prepare the cofiin,
while the others sacrifice to the household gods. The coffin is hewed
out, after sacrificing a hen, at the place where the tree is cut, and the
part where the head is to lie is blackened with coal. The corpse is
washed, dressed in new clothes and laid in the coffin, with a piece of
silver in its mouth to pay its ferriage over the river. The old clothes
of the deceased are laid, with a dish of rice, upon the grave, and rice
is scattered along the road on the way home. The mourners after-
ward assemble and celebrate the event with singing, dancing, and
drinking, as long as the sheru lasts.
Persons who die by the sword are wrapped in a straw mat and
buried as soon as possible, and the friends build a hut for the wander-
ing spirit of the slain. A similar custom prevails with regard to those
who die of sraall-pox, and to women who die in childbirth. In the
