33°
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
latter case, the Kacheen believe that the dead are changed into evil
spirits, and for that reason yoimg women have an indescribahle horror
of such a death.
It is evident from these facts that the religion of the Kacheen has
nothing in common with Buddhism. Their religion includes the belief
in a Supreme Being who has created everything, in a heaven and a
hell, and a future state of rewards and punishments ; but the views of
individuals do not give the slightest clew to a clear definition of their
faith. The mountaineers, however, all agree in a ciiUus, which con-
sists in giving honors to the so?called Nats, or tutelary genii. They
also believe that the spirits of murdered persons, under the name of
Munda, make the mountains unsafe, and that they take jjossession of
those persons over whom a similar fate is pending. The Kacheen have
an unwritten language, and a very primitive method of computing
time. Their year begins on the day when they begin to eat the newly
harvested rice, and ends on the day that a dish of fresh rice is again
gathered.
Slavery has existed among them from a considerable antiquity.
Boys and girls are stolen in Assam and sold to wealthy Kacheenese.
A young slave is worth about twenty dollars, a full-grown man only
about ten dollars. The lot of the slaves is not very hard, and their
children are regarded as more or less members of the family.
The food of the people consists of rice, beans, pork, and dried fish
imported from Burmah. The men eat separately from the women.
Their towns are composed of from three to ten houses, each of which
is surrounded by a stone-wall about six feet high. We were always
required to dismount before passing the wall, for the mountaineers have
religious scruples against allowing persons to ride on horseback into
their courts. The houses are light bamboo structures, without iron or
stone work. A north-and- south passage leads into the interior, which
strangers are allowed to enter only from the south. First we passed a
stable, whose fence was adorned with the horned skulls of buffaloes, and
the marshy floor of which yielded at every step. A few steps led to
the dwelling-house proper, which appeared to be divided into a western
and an eastern half. The western part consisted of a series of closed
rooms, the eastern half of three apartments open toward the long pas-
sage, in the middle and largest of which was built the hearth, where
a fire was constantly kept up.
The head of the house and his family live iu the inclosed rooms, the
domestics and slaves in the opposite rooms. The floors are of plank,
and kept clean, and the ceiling is identical Avith the smoke-blackened
roof. The whole house is built on piles. The few other domestic
buildings are grouped around the inclosure-walls, and are commonly
situated on the edge of the thick and gloomy forest.
The Kacheen call all their chiefs, who rule each over a small terri-
tory, Tsobwa. The Tsobwa receives yearly from his subjects as tithes
