PROBLEMS OF PROPERTY. 331
a large basket of rice and a quarter of the meat whenever a do-
mestic animal is slaughtered ; and he exacts a small toll from every
caravan that passes through his domain. His office is hereditary, as
is also that of his prime minister, who is called Pomein. The chief
himself administers justice; hut in important cases he calls a council,
which meets either around the lire in the house or in the open air.
These chiefs seem to be quite independent, and only indirectly under
the influence of the Chinese Government. The relations between the
Kacheen and the Burmese are of constant hostility, frequently break-
ing out in murderous outrages. The country of this people is a broad
strip of land extending from the Snowy Mountains of the north, be-
tween the valleys of the Tapeng and the Irrawaddy, to about the
twenty-fourth parallel of latitude.
PKOBLEMS OF PROPERTY.
By GEOEGE ILES.
THE problems of property form an interesting department of social
science. They involve questions as to the growth and distribu-
tion of wealth, the province of government with respect thereto, and
similar inquiries scarcely susceptible of treatment by formal scientific
methods. Still, the subject is one of sufficient importance to warrant
a brief sketch of it appearing in the magazine which was the first to
give the American public a scientific exposition of the principles of
sociology.
The institution of property is, in many quarters of the world, find-
ing active criticism. German and French socialism, Russian nihilism,
the Irish Land League, and weighty utterances by the leaders of thought
in Europe and America, all declare that the institution of property re-
quires reconsideration and reform. It is very commonplace, indeed, to
say that respect for the rights of property insures the chief stimulus to
industry, intelligence, and thrift ; yet, in the complexity of modem
life, the distribution of v\'ealth has become so unequal that discussion of
how justice may be feasibly and safely introduced into the laws and
customs affecting property is of urgent importance. The natural dif-
ferences among men in the way of aptitude and ability are always
wide enough to cause a variety in human fortunes sufficiently trying
to the less capable classes of mankind, were there at work no other
cause for disparity in worldly success. When, however, in addition
to having to accept the smaller reward in the smaller sphere, the man
of but moderate or little ability has to suffer the restrictions which
come from the artificial enactments of law and society, discontent
easily takes root in his heart and flourishes.
