332 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The spur to the accumulation of wealth is undoubtedly sharpened
by the power of bequeathing one's possessions to one's family and
friends ; yet it is this power of bequest, gradually increased through
the centuries to its present breadth, which furnishes the most difficult
part of the problem of property. Re-enforced in Great Britain by the
laws of entail and primogeniture, it has led to the concentration in the
hands of a few of a large proportion of the entire wealth of the coun-
try. The heirs of unearned lands, houses, and funds are without the
healthy natural spur to useful work which universal experience declares
necessity to furnish ; and subtile moral poison is distributed through
society when, as in Great Britain, long trains of bequest bestow the
choicest estates and social positions in the realm upon a few individ-
uals through the mere accident of birth. When merit and the means
of enjoyment are so often unrelated, as we see them in Great Britain,
there is valid ground for complaint and a plain source of envy on the part
of the millions apportioned to toil, while some have unearned luxury
and ease. Is it right that, because a man, centuries ago, was successful
in battle or a favorite of his king, or generations ago was engaged in
lucrative trade and thus gathered possessions together, his posterity
should be maintained for indefinite time by the working world ? And
is it right that his descendants should reap richer and richer rewards,
as years roll by, from the increase in value conferred upon their estates
as the surroimding population grows more numerous and advances in
intelligence and industry ? Why should books and inventions, which
are peculiarly the creations of a man, be so imperfectly protected, and
only confer rights tei'minable in a few years, when rights in ordinary
property are so nearly absolute? Such are the questions which are
being put to the political economists and legislators of to-day, and their
just and peaceful solution will demand a wisdom and forbearance
which we may be disappointed in expecting.
The most patent evils with which the institution of property is
commonly charged are those connected with land, and here it is that
the agitation for property reform has usually begun. The researches
of Sir Plenry Maine and M. Laveleye show that the primitive cul-
tivation of land was communal. Such still is the Russian mir and
Swiss Allmend. Under communal systems every child born upon
the land was guaranteed subsistence, and wide disparity in fortune be-
tween individual and individual was scarcely possible, so that pauper-
ism was unknown. How the communal systems gave birth to our
existing methods of individual possession INf. Laveleye tells in an in-
teresting way in his work on "Primitive Property." The practical
fact which concerns us is that, among civilized nations individual prop-
erty is established and is held to need reform. The change from com-
munal and clan ownership of land to the tenure of recent times has
been attended by a gradual divorce of the responsibility which for-
merly attached to land-owning ; if the responsibility now exists at all.
