PROBLEMS OF PROPERTY. 333
it does so as a moral feeling ^vhicll may be neglected "with no legal
penalty and often no social odium. The Duchess of Sutherland could
banish the occupants from the estates which their ancestors had tilled
for centuries, and convert the laud into pastures, yet legal resource
there was none. A sybarite Marquis of Hertford could live in Paris
for thirty years together, with an income of ninety thousand pounds,
and dismiss without a reply a deputation of his L'ish tenants petition-
ing for assistance in building a much-needed railway. Could the orig-
inal founders of the two families thus unworthily represented have
treated their retainers and tenantry thus haughtily and unjustly, and
not suffer for it ? I think not. The rules of propei'ty, devised with
a limited glance into future time, and with no expectation of the vast
strides in population and wealth which the world has made dm-ing the
past century, have had very awkward strains put upon them — strains
which they were not originally expected or intended to bear. The rise
of manufacturing towns and the drift of the rural population to the
cities have conferred upon land-owners an immense multiplication of
their fortunes, and made the incomes of many of them aggregate
sums far beyond the legitimate demand of mortal, and this to the
plain deprivation of the public.
Mark, too, the influence of the landlord in legislation. Note the
privilege which attends his claims even in America.
In Great Britain in 1692 the tax on land was one fifth of its annual
value, now it is about one fifth of that fi'action. Landlords have thus
grossly evaded their fair share of taxation. And note what horrid
suffering and violences, often unpardonable, have been necessary to give
Ireland such measure of land-reform as she enjoys to-day. The agita-
tion against primogeniture and entail grows constantly in force in Great
Britain, and the reform begun in Ireland and hastened there by differ-
ences in race and religion between landlords and tenants must of its
justice spread to the sister island in time.
The complaint against property has, I think, been unduly directed
against land, perhaps because land used to be the chief form of v^^ealth.
Real estate may present the most evident cases of abused privilege,
but the main social difficulty, it appears to me, is the undue accumu-
lation of wealth of any kind. The land of the world is certainly lim-
ited in quantity, but so are other forms of wealth : houses, mills, ma-
chinery, railways, and merchandise — all these, though vast in amount,
are something short of infinite ; and while land, as in America, is freely
exchangeable for these other things, no special harm attaches to undue
possession of it. And if it be said that these other things differ from
land in that they can be indefinitely increased in amount, such an in-
crease may be fairly compared with the settlement of barren territory
in old countries, or of virgin soil in new. The forms of wealth other
than land, while practically quite as limited in quantity, are quite as
necessary to human life, so that, in their arguments against excessive
