334 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
holding of land, political economists have perhaps paved the way for
a more radical discussion of the rights of property than they ever an-
ticipated.
No landlords have ever been more oppressive to a community, or
levied more odious exactions, than the merchants and speculators who
in the United States corner coal or pork, or the manufacturers who,
secure in a close, protected market, combine to extort from consumers
an exorbitant price for oil and chemicals. Canadian cotton-mills, which
before the rise in the tariff, effected in 1878, were paying about eight per
cent in dividends annually, since then have earned double and treble
such profits at the public expense. The broad question of jDroperty,
not the narrow one of land, is up for discussion, and it can not be dis-
missed with inadequate treatment. At the dawn of the present manu-
facturing era, in the days of Watt and Arkv»'right, about a century
ago, there was a hope widely prevalent that the conquered forces of
nature, acting through the ingenious machinery and processes so rap-
idly brought forth at that time, would greatly improve the lot of the
poor. That hope, so creditable to the hearts of the men who enter-
tained it, remains unfulfilled. The poor, it may be admitted, have
been improved in condition, but have they proportionately shared in
the enormous aggregate increase of national wealth ? The development
of the past century's manufacturing and trading industry in the exist-
ing moral and social circumstances has been attended by the constantly
growing contrast between colossal fortunes on the one hand and the
earning of a mere livelihood on the other. The masses toil as hard as
ever, for all the steam-engines, the railways, and complicated machinery
applied to every form of industry. The chief result, and certainly an
unsatisfactory one, is that the luxury of a few increases. Within re-
cent years palace-building has begun in America, and sums have been
lavished upon the homes of railroad and mining kings to an extent
equal to the making cheerful and wholesome whole quarters of cities
occupied by the squalid tenements of toilers. With industry highly
specialized, and becoming more and more so year by year ; with the
web of a credit competition continually increasing in complexity and
liability, leading to panics more severe with every recurrence, there is
manifest danger to property — danger, because these stresses of busi-
ness entail suffering beyond description among the working-classes,
and, under some sharp distress, they may make a savage and ill-con-
sidered attack on capital. Let Pittsburg and Baltimore justif}" the
assertion.
Popular discontent has in all ages been a dangerous thing, but how
much more so than ever now, when a numerical majority — that is, the
poor — control legislation, elect the executive, and levy taxes ! In the
last analysis the rights of property depend upon the popular will, and
the people can readily modify existing rights in what they may take
to be the general good. Fourier and Saint-Simon did not speak to
