PROBLEMS OF PROPERTY. 337
soil, and not scores of independent families with their personal inter-
ests and all the healthy influences of an independent, self-reliant
struggle. In manufactimng and trading, as well as in farming, the
strong large companies and houses are absorbing the weaker, and the
fortunate ones who head the movement tend to become proportionately
fewer as the process goes on. Every child now born into the world's
theatre finds most of the best seats taken, and a good many of the
second best. In all this I think there is danger, for which it is be-
coming necessary that preventives were thoughtfully sought.
"Without deliberately facing the problem of have and loaiit, there
has been for ages a lurking, unconscious impression abroad that the
differences in human fortunes are apt to injuriously widen — that the
verv poor have a moral claim upon the rich ; that somehow, if human
affairs were once to be placed on a basis of right, there would be none
very poor, and so roundabout justice has for long been calling itself
charity. The English poor-laws, dating from Elizabeth, which guar-
antee the natives of a parish support by the parish, is the most note-
worthy example of this. Perhaps the next most striking example is
our modern state education, which goes beyond the enforcing on a
parent of his child's education — as it enforces its provision of food,
clothes, and shelter — and, as it seems that these latter expenses are all
the parent can usually bear, the child of the poor man is sent to school
chiefly at the charge of the rich and well-to-do. The attempt at rec-
tifying, however crudely, somewhat of the current social injustice,
reconciles many to the measure who would otherwise oppose it on
the high grounds of liberty and the inviolable responsibility which
should remain with a parent — for why should bread not be given to
the children by the state as well as books ?
Besides public-school education, there have been many commend-
able attempts within recent years at reducing the glaring inequalities
of fortune so common and so undesirable. Public parks, libraries,
museums, picture-galleries, and hospitals have been established with
public funds for the popular good ; and wealthy men have given large
gifts to them, recognizing the responsibility of riches and doing some-
thing for the toilers who have brought their accumulations together.
Yet if we are to expect more of justice in the institution of property
as time goes on, we may expect to see the circle of charity recede as
opportunities for its exercise diminish.
Having briefly and very imperfectly stated some of the evils which
attend the present methods of distributing and accumulating property,
let us proceed to glance at the principal remedies suggested for their
correction. The formal proposals for the righting of the wrongs of
property have begun usually with land. In Great Britain not only re-
formers and philosophers, but parliamentary commissioners have again
and again pronounced against the laws and customs of primogeniture
and entail. These laws and customs are held to lead to unduly largo
vnr,. XXI. — 22
