338 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
estates — estates so vast as to be unwieldy in management, interj^osing
factors and stewards too often between landlord and tenant ; these
vast estates yield incomes culpably great and so enormous that their
recipients are often indifferent to improvements in farming in com-
parison with proprietors of small farms, and much land is wasted by
being held for mere sport. When the holder of an entailed estate
quarrels with his heir, the land suffers, that the personal property
W'hich may be freely bequeathed may be increased. Such quarrels, if
we are to follow the experience of common life, are usually due in part
to qualities in the heir which would make him less worthy of the
estate than some relative or kinsman to whom the holder might be-
queath it were he free to use his judgment.
Mr. Kinnear, who has written a most sensible book on the subject
of property in land, argues convincingly that the diffusion of property
rather than its aggregation is desirable, holding that nationally prop-
erty will be found to be accumulated more rapidly in the former case
than in the latter, while at the same time comfort and content will be
more common. He speaks from wide experience in Great Britain,
France, and the Channel Islands. Mr. Kinnear suggests that there be
limits placed to the amount bequeath able to an individual, so that very
large estates may become divided. In common with the majority of
competent observers, he prefers the French tenure of small parcels of
land to the British tenure of great estates, but he regards the French
compulsory division of the bulk of a property at a father's death
among his children as wrong : were the father free to will to whom
he pleased, the moral effect would be beneficial.
Children grow disobedient and unfilial when they know they can
not be set aside. And speaking of wills, the custom of making what
should be naturally one of the saddest events in life the occasion of
coming into a father's estate is severely commented uj^on by the sup-
porters of Russian and other communal systems of tenure. In the
Russian m^V, when a young man becomes of age, he enters into the
enjoyment of a share in the common estate, and the effects of this
difference are said to be observable in the stronger family feelings
which the Russian peasantry cherish in comparison with their West-
ern brethren.
The sad experience of King Lear and the painful presence of the
gaping heir are both avoided by those sensible men of wealth who are
their own executors to as great an extent as may consist with the
reserve of a personal competence.
The individual holding of land as in France, Germany, England,
and America, has been opposed by a great many thinkers and popular
leaders. The chief objection lodged against it has been that land,
being as absolutely necessary to human subsistence as air and water, it
should be as free from monopoly as these ; for as the accumulations of a
single holder go on there is risk of his being able to drive i^eople forth
