PROBLEMS OF PROPERTY. 339
where monopolists like himself do not exist, or, in conjunction with
other such monopolists, order people off the face of the earth !
The second objection made to the present nearly absolute holding
of real estate is that, particularly in America, and in Great Britain
dui'ing the past century, the growth of population, the advance of
manufacturing towns, and general progress in trade and commerce, have
had the effect of enormously enhancing the value of land, increasing
rents, without owners having given the community any equivalent
whatever. Now, this unearned increment, as it is called, has bestowed
upon some British noblemen and American land-owners many millions
of value confeiTed by the mass of the people. This evident injustice
is especially pressing in America, where there can be no doubt that, if
the tenure of land remains as it is, the value of land apart from the im-
provements which labor may effect upon it, will be multiplied greatly
within a century. Various remedies have been proposed to correct
the evil.
The nationalization of land as suggested by Mr. Herbert Spencer
has special reference to the United Kingdom. He would have the Gov-
ernment buy all the land from its owners at current market rates, and
let it on competition. Mr. Fawcett, in his criticism of this suggestion,-
estimates the value of British lands and houses, aj^art from mines and
railways, at £4,500,000,000. This enormous sum exceeds by six times
the British national debt, and the raising of so large a sum as a loan
in purchase would probably enhance the rate of interest one per cent
beyond its present rate, and beyond the present rate of return received
as rent. An annual deficit of £50,000,000 is calculated as the probable
result of carrying out the proposal. Besides the special value attach-
ing to individual possession, a value forming part of the current prices
of land would be abolished when nationalization took place, and purely
economic rents, minus the expense of an objectionable government
control, would form the revenue to be credited against the interest on
the purchase-money.
One of the leading pleas for nationalization of the land is the dep-
rivation suffered by those who own none ; but could not complaint
be directed with equal propriety against lessors by all other citizens
who would have to accept subleases ? The sole benefit that could be
hoped for from this scheme of nationalization would be the absorption
in coming time of the appreciation in value due to increased density
of population and other causes. This appreciation, if it takes place at
all in the generations of the near future, is not likely to be other than
moderate in the United Kingdom.
Mr. Henry George, of San Francisco, in his striking book, " Progress
and Poverty," advocates much more heroic treatment of the evil of
unearned increment. The constantly increasing tax of landlords, as
tenants multiply and advance in industry, he regards as the main rea-
son why a wedge seems to be dividing more and more widely the rich
