340 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and poor. In his distant State be has seen land taken up by specu-
lators and held untilled for years, that it might advance in value by
immigration — settlers by such action being far too widely scattered
for their private good or the general welfare of the State. Taking the
ground of natural right, and following Quesnay and others, Mr, George
declares that except in the imj)rovements due to labor no man can have
a valid title to any part of the earth's surface. He therefore proposes
a tax on real estate which shall be equal to its rental as unimproved
land. In defense of this virtual confiscation in its results, he declares
his opinion to be that his tax would render any other unnecessary, so
that, in exemption from duties and other government levies, property-
holders would receive a considerable palliative for the loss caused them
by his discovery of the invalidity of their titles. The owners of town
and city lots whereon buildings exist, and owners of improved farms,
would retain the whole value of buildings and improvements, so as to
be left with a large proportion of their former wealth. Objections
bristle on all sides against Mr, George's proposal. First, he takes no
note of the pretty general diffusion of real estate among the American
people, property which all except a few of the whole population regard
as real and substantial in a special sense. The confiscation of land, in
past years freely exchangeable for other property and not generally
held to-day by the enjoyers of very much unearned increment, would
be resented by the common sense of the people ; and the conscience
of the needy classes, once weakened as to the validity of the tenure of
one kind of property, might, under pressure of want in a commercial
panic, indiscriminately attack all.
Most of us feel that the millionaires have too much even for their
own good, yet any confiscation which might begin by depleting ple-
thoric purses might end by larceny from very slender ones ; and a
movement ostensibly begun on grounds of public justice might, by
additions of envy and the spirit of common theft, degenerate into
wholesale pillage. Besides, how could a government like that of the
United States be trusted with so vast and difficult a business as assess-
ing all the land within its borders at its value — that is, at its market
price, minus improvements ? But the injustice of unearned increment
in land remains with us still, and makes us wish that in America, on
original settlement, the leasing for long terms had been established
instead of absolute sale or gift by the Government ; and also directs
attention to the advisability of taxing the increase of value in land due
to advancing population, say to the extent of one half such increase,
in cases of depreciation just rebate being made. Some perception of
the evils which Mr. George has beheld and would endeavor to correct,
led a few years ago to the forming in Melbourne, Australia, of a land-
reform society, which intended to urge on the Government the plan
of leasing its lands instead of selling them to men who were reproduc-
ing in the colony some of the worst features of the English land-
