PROBLEMS OF PROPERTY. 341
tenure. In Java the Dutch Government leases plantations to a vast
extent, and the plan works well there.
In Germany, the agitation against the existing laws and privileges
of propeity has taken the form of socialism ; the schemes of thinkers
and closet-students have been popularized by press and platform until
now the Socialistic party sends a large representation to the Reichstag,
pressing measures upon the Government which a generation ago would
have been deemed revolutionary. Much heated discussion has recently
taken place in the national Legislature on the proposal that the Gov-
ernment should undertake the manufacture of tobacco ; and if the state
should manufacture tobacco acceptably and economically, why not
cotton and wool ? The beaucracy and strong paternal Government of
Germany perform so many functions left in England and the United
States to private enterprise, that the people in times of business de-
pression look to the Administration for measures of relief instead of
to their own efforts.
It seems to me that socialism is an evidence of the constantly rising
dislike among the masses to the main advantages of competition and
new business economies being enjoyed by the small class of capitalists.
How far state control may allowably be invoked as a remedy in fields
wherein individual exertions have been employed is a question warmly
debated. One school of thinkers, led by Spencer and Bastiat, hold to
laissez faire, and wish the operations of government confined to the
narrowest limits — the maintenance of order and the enforcing of con-
tracts — leaving individuals the utmost scope to think, express them-
selves, and act ; the opposite school, among whom as an able exponent
may be named Mr. Cairnes, hold that individuals, while following what
they believe to be their interests, may not conceive their interests truly
or in relations harmonizing with the general good, and that therefore
some general control by the community of the actions of its several
classes and members is most desirable for the correction of such prac-
tices and pursuits as are inimical to the whole body of the people,
though pleasant or profitable to a few. This is said by Mr. Cairnes
and others, not in advocacy of the general state direction of industry,
but only in qualification of the sweeping theory that individuals, each
doing his own work for its own reward, or seeking his pleasure in his
own way, unconsciously contributes to the highest well-being of the
community. Mr. Cairnes thinks the individual in society should be
like a musician, who, in playing his part, looks chiefly to his own score,
but occasionally glances at the central conductor so as to keep proper
time with his fellows.
State socialism is not a living question in Great Britain or America;
in Great Britain, however, the Government has notably added to its
functions of late years : it has absorbed the telegraph service and the
savings-banks into the post-ofllice, and there is some expectation that
the railways may also come under Government control. Mr. Brassey
