PROBLEMS OF PROPERTY. 343
ation, which is fast revolutionizing British retail trade, but which is
very slowly attacking the pressing problem of production. We can
only expect the conflict of capital and labor to cease when labor, by
thrift, has saved capital and participates in profits. To begin co-oper-
ative production, only picked men can be useful, for, in the present
condition of workingmen, there is not generally diffused the intelli-
gence and character necessary to selecting proper leaders and trusting
them.
The difiiculties of co-operation are the main difliculties attending
the reforms of property. No laws or methods tending to replace a
millionaii'e by ten men of a tenth his fortune may touch the question
of how extreme poverty among the masses is to cease. The elevation
of the poor chiefly depends xipon themselves, upon their intelligence,
their ascertaining the real conditions of life by a sensible plan of edu-
cation, and then fulfilling those conditions by hard work and self-re-
straint. Xo people that spend 0600,000,000 a year on drink can excite
much sincere pity for their poverty. Xo people who marry without
regard to their ability to maintain wives and children can look for
substantial aid from Legislatures. Leclair, the house-painter of Paris,
has demonstrated that honesty and forbearance are all that are needed,
under available direction, for workmen to appropriate the profits they
so heartily grudge their employers. Evidences abound that, when
the time comes that workmen are fit for co-operation, able men from
among their ranks will take their places at the head of manufacturing
associations, and therefore the deprivations which are suffered by the
present systems of employing labor await abolition with the develop-
ment of conscience and intelligence among the toilers.
The material gain achievable by directly interesting workmen in
the results of their labor must soon be expected to awaken among
both employers and employed a desire to test, on a large scale, the
partnership plan so eloquently advanced by Mr. Holyoake and others.
If the profits now appropriated by the heads of great companies and
firms are felt to be more than just, the moral condition which makes
the profits so great is one which it lies with the contributors them-
selves to lift and improve.
Formal methods of dealing with the problems of property may be
expected to do much less to equalize disparities of fortune than an im-
provement in social morality throughout all classes of the people.
The great monopolists derive much of the strength of their position
from a debased public sentiment, which condones their methods and
admires their success. Often the shippers who complain against the
tyranny of a great steamship or railroad line themselves practice rules
similar to those against which they cry out ; they take advantage of
scarcity — at times an artificially created scarcity — to extort extra prof-
its ; and, as a railroad monopoly makes its trafiic bear all it will, the
little monopolist, in the shape of manufacturer or trader, makes his
