344 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
customers pay him as m.uch as he can, when circumstances give him
the power of demanding unusual prices. An elevation in social mo-
rality would make conduct of this kind less common than it is, and
would inevitably have some influence in restraining the greed of great
monopolies. In America, with its limited past, wealth has an excess-
ive social power, its pursuit is the business of nearly all the strongest
intellects, and its marvelous growth in the country at large from year
to year constantly tends to make it a more and more decided object
of ambition. The ideal of a vast number of the people is wealth, and
scarcely any price is thought too great to pay for it. If any improve-
ment of this ideal is possible, it lies with teachers of morality and
right thinking to effect it. Whether on the school-rostrum or the plat-
form, in the pulpit or the editorial chair, or, above all, in the home, the
aim of life should be taught to lie rather in the development of heart
and conscience than in the accumulation of vast estates — more in the
growth of honor and manliness than in the gi'owth of those arts which
gather wealth but stunt and paralyze the faculties of true enjoyment.
The low idea of the subordination of life to the means of living is at
the root of m.ost of the problems of property. One of the chief im-
pulses in the pursuit of wealth is the desire of obtaining public admi-
ration and applause ; if these are intelligently awarded much will be
done to curb the unscrupulousness of those who gather together a
great deal more than they can enjoy, in some cases heaping up sums
far outbulking the accumulations of any previous age. And much
will be done toward making eflacient, in the prevention or punish-
ment of the abuses of great properties, such legislation as may be ap-
plicable.
THE ETHICS OF YIYISECTIOX.
By Dr. SAMUEL WILKS.
SINCE many writers opposed to the practice of experiments on ani-
mals have based theii' objections entirely on moral grounds, and
thus made the question of vivisection an ethical one, I have been
anxious to know what laws they have discovered for our guidance on
this vexed subject. They discourse on cruelty, on immorality, and on
the rights of animals ; but these expressions are so vague that they
fail to afford any basis for legal or public action, or, if there be any
attempt at definition, it is with the object of making these terms con-
form to a foregone conclusion on the very point under discussion.
Thus it is constantly asserted that physiologists feel at liberty to tort-
ure animals at their pleasure, without regard to the "higher dictates
of humanity" or to the "laws of morality." It is thus implied that
there exists among the public some jn-inciple of conduct toward the
