MONKEYS. 21
form, position, and function, the only absolute differences being that
the orang has nine wrist-bones, whereas man and the chimpanzee have
but eight ; and the chimpanzee has thirteen pairs of ribs, whereas
the orang, like man, has but twelve. "With these two exceptions, the
differences are those of shape, proportion, and direction only, though
the resulting differences in the external form and motions are very
considerable. The greatest of these are, that the feet of the anthro-
poid or man-like apes, as well as those of all monkeys, are formed like
hands, with large opposable thumbs fitted to grasp the branches of
trees, but unsuitable for erect walking, while the hands have weak
small thumbs but very long and powerful fingers, forming a hook
rather than a hand, adapted for climbing up trees and suspending the
whole weight from horizontal branches. The almost complete identity
of the skeleton, however, and the close similarity of the muscles and
of all the internal organs, have produced that striking and ludicrous
resemblance to man which every one recognizes in these higher apes
and, in a less degree, in the whole monkey tribe ; the face and feat-
ures, the motions, attitudes, and gestures being often a strange carica-
ture of humanity. Let us, then, examine a little more closely in what
the resemblance consists, and how far, and to what extent, these ani-
mals really differ from us.
Besides the face, which is often wonderfully human — although the
absence of any protuberant nose gives it often a curiously infantile
aspect — monkeys, and especially apes, resemble us most closely in the
hand and arm. The hand has well-formed fingers with nails, and the
skin of the palm is lined and furrowed like our own. The thumb is,
however, smaller and weaker than ours, and is not so much used in
taking hold of anything. The monkey's hand is, therefore, not so
well adapted as that of man for a variety of purposes, and can not be
applied with such precision in holding small objects, while it is un-
suitable for performing delicate operations such as tying a knot or
writing with a pen. A monkey does not take hold of a nut with its
forefinger and thumb as we do, but grasps it between the fingers and
the palm in a clumsy way, just as a baby does before it has acquired
the proper use of its hand. Two groups of monkeys — one in Africa
and one in South America — have no thumbs on their hands, and yet
they do not seem to be in any respect inferior to other kinds which
possess it. In most of the American monkeys the thumb bends in
the same direction as the fingers, and in none is it so perfectly opposed
to the fingers as oui* thumbs are ; and all these circumstances show
that the hand of the monkey is, both structurally and functionally, a
very different and very inferior organ to that of man, since it is not
applied to similar purposes, nor is it capable of being so applied.
"When we look at the feet of monkeys we find a still greater differ-
ence, for these have much larger and more opposable thumbs, and are,
therefore, more like our hands ; and this is the case with all monkeys,
