348 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
there are others who would not take their lives for pleasure. Past gen-
erations have approved of cock-fighting : there may be a future gen-
eration who will discountenance pigeon-shooting, and will regard that
age as barbarous which could witness without disgust the bleeding car-
casses of sheep hanging up in our most fashionable thoroughfares.
The spirit of the age and the feeling of society for the time seem to
determine what amount and kind of pain and suffering people will
allow to be inflicted on animals and what they Avill disallow. The very
valuable Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals does not
seem in its operations to offer a solution of the question. It would
seem that most of the examples of cruelty which the society publishes
are those where the public gain nothing by the act complained of, and
can therefore afford to prosecute. For exami:)le, I have heard " shame "
called on a carman who was endeavoring to make a horse draw a coal-
wagon along the slippery pavement of Bond Street ; and this exclama-
tion came from a gentleman who on turning round might have seen the
qiiails and larks closely caged for his table, and the dying and writhing
lobsters waiting to end their miseries in a pan of boiling water. It
would almost seem that the infliction of pain is allowable if approved
by the majority, and that it is not allowable and constitutes cruelty if
disapproved. In other words, cruelty depends upon the public estima-
tion of its utility or inutility. One is forced to arrive at this conclu-
sion, for the more one thinks over the rights of animals, or the ethical
question of our treatment of them, the less does it appear that any
considerations framed upon rights or morals have ever influenced man-
kind in its conduct. It is possible that some vague ideas respecting
man's duty to animals may be floating through different brains, but
those ideas have never become concrete.
It being admitted that man has a power, if not a right, over the
lives of the lower animals, the question arises, "Where should this right
be limited, and at what point should our animal instincts, appetites,
and wants be restricted? Utility or advantage seems to be the gauge
used by the majority of persons. The question, therefore, between
the anti-vivisectionists and their opponents appears to be a narrow one.
The former assert that the pain inflicted on animals is out of propor-
tion to the advantages obtained ; Lord Coleridge says as much in his
well-wrapped-up dictum. We, on the contrary, declare that the im-
portance of experiments can be shown to be overwhelming in compari-
son Avith the pain inflicted on animals for this and other objects. The
lofty phrase that "knowledge is unlawful knowledge if it is pursued by
means which are immoral " must be analyzed to understand its mean-
ing. As it is made applicable to vivisection, it is clear that " immo-
rality" means "giving pain to animals"; and his lordship's statement
would run, "All knowledge is unlawful if obtained by giving pain to
animals." Whence it follows that, as it is allowable to give pain to ani-
mals for various purposes, it is only unlawful to give pain when the pur-
