THE ETHICS OF VIVISECTION. 349
pose is knowledge. I see no other interpretation to put upon his words,
and thus he places himself entirely at one with the rest of the anti-vivi-
sectionists. These writers select out of foreign works all the horrible
pictures they can find, and most unfairly ignore all those important
experiments made by the aid of the most trifling operations under
chloroform, and which have proved to be of inestimable benefit to ani-
mals and men. Lord Coleridge, although protesting against the charge
of antagonism to science, unwittingly shows how profoundly he mis-
understands the methods of scientific men, and consequently falls into
the same error as his more ignorant friends. However little sympathy
he naay have with science, one would have thought that Whewell, ilill,
Jevons, and others had clearly demonstrated that the methods of science
can only be reached by accurate observation and well-devised experi-
ment. I am afraid, therefore, that scientists will scarcely consider that
man to be among their allies who believes their method is " to perform
a hundred thousand experiments in the hope that some new fact may
turn uj)." But this is only an example of the misleading nature of the
statements and expressions of the anti-vivisectionists. This very tenn
implies that their opponents are vivisectionists ; much in the same way
as, if a certain sect of vegetarians were to style themselves anti-sheep-
killers, all the rest of the world would be sheep-killers, and this oppro-
brious word would be emj^loyed toward any lady who was seen eating
a mutton-chop. The two cases are exactly analogous, for among the
thousands of medical and scientific men who see the advantages of
making experiments on animals there are scarcely twenty who would
be willing to undertake operations of so disagreeable a nature. Just
as the sheep-killers are those only who would protest against any laws
being made to prevent them eating animal food, so in like manner the
" vivisectionists " are those who maintain that legislation should not
prevent a few physiologists performing the experiments which they
judge necessary. What is asked by the vivisectionists is, that the
whole power of the law should not be brought to bear upon a handful
of accomplished men who are engaged in the service of science and
humanity. They do not object to laws being made to prohibit incom-
petent persons from experimenting.
The difference between a dozen anti-viviscctionists and a dozen
scientific men can not possibly turn upon a moral question such as dis-
like of cruelty ; and, therefore, if the one can look upon an animal
injured and bleeding with serenity and the other not, it would be ow-
ing, as the former party assert, to usage or habit. Let this be admit-
ted, the converse is also true, and it may be safely conjectured that
much of the opposition to experimentation is due to the unpleasant
picture which the subject presents to the imagination. The difference
between sensitiveness and compassion, or active benevolence, was long
ago pointed out by Coleridge ; but for this difference, Howard would
be justly called the most hard-hearted of men. A lady shrinks with
