352 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tion, for four and a lialf to five feet, holds unnumbered crystals; at
that depth they suddenly and abruptly cease. Abundant explorations
demonstrated that none were to be found any lower, and the daily
working came to recognize the fact as established. The mud below
that was saturated with the salts of soda, such as held by the water
of the lake, but no distinct crystals existed.
The crystals of borax, in the upper portion, were removed by
means of coffer-dams. Each dam consisted of a box, without top or
bottom, four feet square and six feet deep, made of thin boiler-iron,
suitably stiffened with surrounding bands of heavier iron. These
dams, suspended above the water, between large pontoons or floats,
were allowed to drop suddenly, whereupon their force of descent
drove the sharp lower edge down through the soft mud and into that
which was sufficiently firm and tenacious to resist the impact, and to
render thus the iron walls of each a true coffer-dam, from which the
entire contents could be easily removed.
The water was first pumped or bailed out, till it became too thick
to flow easily, and the remaining mud was lifted in tubs, in true min-
ing style, and thrown into large troughs, where, being subjected to
constant agitation in streams of the lake-water, it was washed away,
the borax being retained by its superior gravity.
No crystals were found until from twelve to fifteen inches in depth
of the most fluid mud had passed away. The mud then began to feel
" gritty," as the workmen expressed it, the " grit" consisting of multi-
tudes of most exquisitely perfect minute crystals of borax. These crys-
tals, like all those in the lake, were lying loose, detached from each
other, attached to nothing by the base, and consequently perfect at
both ends. It is not meant by this that every crystal was absolutely
complete in every angle, but that they all had the tendency to the
theoretical type, symmetrical at each end (a form which in artificial
crystallization we scarcely ever reach, except by accident), and that
many of them showed the type in full perfection, such as no model
could excel or equal.
With every descending inch through the mud their size increased;
the " grit " soon became " sand," in a few inches farther crystals were
very manifest to the eye, and shortly a " layer " was reached. It is
true that in some places no " layers " occurred, the crystals being scat-
tered at random through the mud. But in most instances when from
twenty-four to thirty inches of surface-mud had been removed, and
the crystals had attained a length of one fourth to one half an inch,
one or more " layers " would be found within the four feet square of
the coffer-dam. In these " layers " the crystals were so closely packed
as to have no mud intermingled with them; they were nearly as clean
as though recently washed in clear water, lying closely stowed and
loose, like pebbles on a beach. A " layer might be one to four inches
thick and two feet, more or less, in length, surrounded on all sides by
