BORAX IN AMERICA. 353
mud which held only scattered crystals without any such richness as
its enveloped pocket.
Going deeper, the crystals became constantly larger, though less
numerous, as the mud grew more dense, until a stratum was reached
which was designated "blue clay," In the mud immediately above
the blue clay, crystals from one to two inches long were very common,
though many of the smaller ones were still intermingled. Here a
change in the crystals showed itself, full as well marked as the change
in the bed in which they lay. The small crystals were not present ;
they had never been formed as in the mud above. Instead of them
lay imbedded scattered crystals, few in number, but of great size, and
having commonly a family look by which they could be recognized.
Few of them were as small as two inches in length, and not unfre-
quently those weighing a pound each were obtained, being perhaps
five to seven inches long, by two to four inches wide.
They lay imbedded in the clay, which was so firm that they could
be picked out singly, each leaving the sharp mold which it had formed
during its slow process of crystallization. They were all within a lit-
tle more than a foot of the surface of the blue clay, many explorations
showing that it was useless to seek for them at a greater depth.
Of the abundance of the crystals within the portion of the lake
occupied by them, a space of about forty acres, some idea may be
formed from the fact that nine hundred pounds have been gathered
from one dam, four feet square. And this by no means represents
their full amount, as all the smaller crystals were washed back again
into the lake in the process of their separation. At the same time it
was remarkably true that the yield was very uneven. In what was
known as " rich ground " barren spots constantly occurred, and often
almost the entire yield of a dam came from one side or one corner,
perhaps only a third or a fourth part of the full area.
The crystals thus obtained had a decidedly green color. The fig-
ure introduced is given for the purpose of conveying an idea of the
size which the green crystals sometimes attained. It is not an exag-
geration. I have seen many which weighed individually as much as
the one here delineated. Their proportions were very erratic, but
always conforming to the one type.
They were entirely free from the tenacious coating incident to the
tincal of other localities ; were readily and perfectly soluble in hot
water, and in the process of refining by solution and recrystallization
yielded their full weight of transparent borax of the finest quality,
less merely the weight of the mud which had been mechanically en-
tangled with them during their growth in a muddy menstruum. The
green color disappeared in the refining, not being found either in the
deposited mud or the new crystals.
We are prepared now to look at the origin of these salts as held in
solution or in crystalline form. If, in a basin of water, more or less
VOL. XXI. — 23
