358 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
utilize the borate of lime, in the form of ulexite, for the conversion
into borax of the carbonate of soda held in the water of Hachinhama.
The ulexite was brought by car-loads from the deserts east of the
Sierra Nevada to San Francisco, and thence to Clear Lake, and a great
increase in the borax yield of Hachinhama was the result. The proc-
ess adopted was to saturate, with the ulexite, the boiling lye from
the lixiviating tanks, before it had acquired sufficient strength to crys-
tallize on cooling. A double decomposition was thus accomplished,
resulting in a thick, milky-looking mixture which was an intensified
solution of borax, rendered turbid by the insoluble carbonate of lime,
this latter sj^eedily settling and leaving the clear borax-liquor for con-
centration and crystallization.
Practically, however, this solution was never pure, for here came
in again the same fact which had been demonstrated in the first work-
ings at Hachinhama, that the bulk of the liquid in which the action
took place had much to do with the chemical union accomplished. In
laboratory experiments the work was perfect, and a boiling-heat of
only a few minutes formed the full theoretical amount of borax
demanded ; yet, when dealing with large quantities, this proved im-
practicable. Although violent boiling was long continued, even for
hours, analysis of the lye showed that a certain proportion of the car-
bonate of soda still remained untouched by the boracic acid, and that,
too, when the ulexite employed was in excess of the amount which
careful analysis showed was suflScient to saturate the carbonate of
soda present. And this excess was a necessity, and the daily working
came to recognize it and to act accordingly, for, when the even theo-
retical quantity only was used, a much larger proportion of the soda
remained untouched.
The operations at Hachinhama continued vigorously till 1874, by
which time the enormous supply of borax brought into the market
from Nevada had reduced the price to so low a point that further pro-
duction became impossible. Hachinhama supplied all the American
borax made from the cessation of work at Borax Lake in 1868 till
1873 and the two localities afforded between 18G4 and 1874 all that
was ever made in California. The yield of Hachinhama, during the
last two years of its running, was something over 5,000 cases of 112
pounds each.
The immense stock crowding upon the market, which has reduced
the price of borax to very nearly one fourth of its former rate, is com-
monly called " California borax," but that is a misnomer, originating
in the fact that it has necessarily been shipped from San Francisco ; it
is exclusively a product of Nevada. It is, in its look, so unlike the
ordinary English borax, or that made at Hachinhama, that the con-
trast is very striking. Still it is practically the same, and has the
same working value.
A glance at the ma]) of the State of Nevada shows a large numl)er
