22 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
so that even those which have no thumbs on their hands, or have them
small and weak and parallel to the fingers, have always large and
well-formed thumbs on their feet. It was on account of this peculiar-
ity that the great French naturalist Cuvier named the whole group of
monkeys Quadrumana, or four-handed animals, because, besides the
two hands on their fore-limbs, they have also two hands in place of
feet on their hind-limbs. Modern naturalists have given up the use
of this term, because they say that the hind extremities of all monkeys
are really feet, only these feet are shaped like hands ; but this is a
point of anatomy, or rather of nomenclature, which we need not here
discuss.
Let us, however, before going further, inquire into the purpose and
use of this peculiarity, and we shall then see that it is simply an
adaptation to the mode of life of the animals which possess it. Monk-
eys, as a rule, live in trees, and are especially abundant in the great
tropical forests. They feed chiefly upon fruits, and occasionally eat
insects and birds'-eggs, as well as young birds, all of which they find
in the trees ; and, as they have no occasion to come down to the
ground, they travel from tree to tree by jumping or swinging, and
thus pass the greater part of their lives entirely among the leafy
branches of lofty trees. For such a mode of existence, they require
to be able to move with perfect ease upon large or small branches, and
to climb up rapidly from one bough to another. As they use their
hands for gathering fruit and catching insects or birds, they require
some means of holding on with their feet, otherwise they would be
liable to continual falls, and they are able to do this by means of their
long finger-like toes and large opposable thumbs, which grasp a branch
almost as securely as a bird grasps its perch. The true hands, on the
contrary, are used chiefly to climb with, and to swing the whole
weight of the body from one branch or one tree to another, and for
this purpose the fingers are very long and strong, and in many species
they are further strengthened by being partially joined together, as if
the skin of our fingers grew together as far as the knuckles. This
shows that the separate action of the fingers, which is so important to
us, is little required by monkeys, whose hand is really an organ for
climbing and seizing food, while their foot is required to support them
firmly in any position on the branches of trees, and for this purpose
it has become modified into a large and powerful grasping hand.
Another striking difference between monkeys and men is, that the
former never walk with ease in an erect posture, but always use their
arms in climbing or in walking on all-fours like most quadrupeds.
The monkeys that we see in the streets, dressed up and walking erect,
only do so after much drilling and teaching, just as dogs may be
taught to walk in the same way ; and the posture is almost as unnat-
ural to the one animal as it is to the other. The largest and most
man-like of the apes — the gorilla, chimpanzee, and orang-outang — also
