BORAX IX AMERICA. 359
of dotted spots, individually of no great extent, scattered over the
desert regions east of the Sierra Nevada. Most of them are without
designation, but a few are marked " Soda Flat," " Salt Marsh," etc.
They all have probably a common origin ; they are places which long
ago (how long we can not tell) were covered with water, since removed
by solar evaporation. Each consists of an extent of entirely flat sur-
face of dried mud, sometimes absolutely bare, sometimes covered with
saline deposits. It had been known for years that these deposits were
both what is there universally called "alkali" (carbonate of soda) and
salt. But it was not until 1871 that much attention was drawn to the
fact that several of them contained also deposits of borates, though
published mention had been made some time earlier that these existed
there.
The number of these "marshes," which are marked by borate
deposits, it is impossible to state, as so large an extent of that arid
region remains as yet very imperfectly known. A sketch of one,
however, gives the characteristics of all.
One of the largest is knowTi as the " Columbus Marsh." It is situ-
ated in Esmeralda County, about two hundred and fifty miles nearly
due east from San Francisco, and about one hundred and sixty miles
south of Wadsworth, on the Central Pacific Railroad. The portion
last abandoned by the water, and now covered by saline deposits, ex-
tends about ten miles from east to west, and three from north to south,
with an extension on the south into Fish Lake Valley, forming an arm
fifteen miles long by one to three miles wide. Kot all parts of this
extent are equally rich in salines, neither is the character of the de-
posits the same at different parts, though it must have formerly been
covered with one sheet of water, of presumably a uniform quality or
nearly so.
A space of several hundred acres in one part, for instance, is covered
with a crust of chloride and carbonate of soda, through which the foot
breaks at every step ; but the black mud beneath is filled to the depth
of six to twelve inches with borate of lime aggregated in nodules,
which, when broken open, show a beautiful pearly- white mass of satiny
luster. These are the ulexite, and are commonly called " cotton-bolls."
They can be picked out by hand like the kernel of a nut, separating
clean and clear.
Immediately adjoining the ground thus rich in ulexite is a wide
stretch barren of everything, except a little chloride and carbonate.
Just beyond this come five or six hundred acres, thickly covered with
borate of soda, so little contaminated with sand or anything else as to
crystallize out, by simple solution, eighty per cent of its weight in
pure borax. Over vast extents of this surface I have seen the crude
borax in its granular, semi-crystalline form lying from fifteen to twenty-
four inches in depth, while, at the distance of a quarter to half a mile,
the borate of lime was in similar abundance. The supply of borax
