3 6o THE P OP ULAR S GIENCE MONTHL Y.
thus indicated is manifestly sufficient to fill all demands, far into the
future years, and this refers only to that which is now on the surface ;
while the exi^erience gained at Hachinhama seems to show quite con-
clusively that, were all the present store removed, its place would be
refilled with a new crop drawn from the inexhaustible resources be-
neath.
To explain the manner in which these separate deposits have been
formed is not easy, though in relation to the two borates the following
suggestions may possibly be of some avail : If in a broad, shallow,
mud-bottomed lagoon, the sodium of which has already formed its
combinations with carbonic acid and chlorine, we imagine the process
of evaporation to continue until instead of water there remains merely
a muddy mass, so far viscid as to be unable to flow from one point to
another, and that into this mass boracic acid is forced from beneath in
jets, here and there, only in limited areas, and not extending beyond
them, and if we imagine, still further, that the supply of boron is not
sufficient to displace all the carbon and chlorine, we should have car-
bonate and chloride existing, intermingled with borate of soda, pre-
cisely as we in fact find them, and with a lime-mud we would have the
ulexite.
This may pcrhaj^s answer for the borates, but a much greater diffi-
culty is encountered when we propose to ourselves the question how
the carbonate and the chloride crystallized sej)arately. Over the chief
extent they are blended, as they would be left by the evaporation of a
lake which held them both in solution. Yet it is also true that, here
and there, in areas separated from each other by no elevations what-
ever, and which have evidently never been separated, but which must
have been parts of the same lake, vast beds of pure salt occur ; while,
perhaps, a quarter or half a mile away, carbonate of soda is lying in
equally great quantity. How can these masses have been thus placed ?
Their bulk demonstrates that in each case quite a considerable depth of
solution, even in its most concentrated form, was absolutely necessary.
They could not have existed in such juxtaposition and have retained
their chemical integrity.
Could the deposits have been formed at different times? There
is nothing to indicate it, nor is the difficulty made less by answering
this question in the affirmative. The chloride, in a blended solution,
would of course be the last to crystallize, yet there is nothing to
cause us to believe that over the carbonate-beds a mass of salt was
once formed and subsequently removed. Neither can the two salts be
crystallized in bulk, from a united solution, by any means with which
we are at present acquainted, and left in the state of separate purity,
in which coimtless thousands of tons are now lying on the deserts of
Nevada.
The question is as difficult as the one why the mud of Borax Lake
is filled with the green crystals, while that of Hachinhama has none.
