PROTOPLASM. 361
The points concerning the combinations and the crystallizations in the
Calif ornian localities, and in those also of Nevada, I can vouch for
personally. The facts are as set forth. I have mentioned nothing
which I have not myself seen. The questions which are left without
answer are certainly worth investigation.
PKOTOPLASM.
By FEAls^CES EMILY WHITE, M. D.*
AT the recent International Medical Congress, held in London,
upon which the attention and enthusiastic interest of the whole
medical world were for the time being centered, Professor Huxley,
in an address made to that assembly, used the term " medicine " to in-
clude " the great body of theoretical and practical knowledge which
has been accumulated by the labors of some eighty generations " —
that is, during the entire period since the dawn of scientific thought
in Europe. In justification of this bi'oad a2:)plication of the term, he
says, " It is so diflicult to think of medicine otherwise than as some-
thing which is necessarily connected with curative treatment, that we
are apt to forget that there must be and is such a thing as a pure
science of medicine — a pathology which has no more necessary sub-
servience to practical ends than has zoology or botany." In other
words, there is a science of disease and an art of healing, both of
which are included in the term " medicine," and, as all art is applied
science, it is easy to see where the study of the " healing art " should
begin.
Pathology is abnormal physiology, or, more broadly, biology, the
science of living matter; living matter being recognized by its innate
tendency to undergo certain changes of form and to manifest certain
physiological phenomena which are universally recognized as consti-
tuting organization and life. "When these changes of structure or of
function become injurious to the organism, or cease to promote its
general well-being, they are pathological, but the line of separation is
not a distinct one; it is impossible to say with exactness where physi-
ology ends and pathology begins.
It is evident, then, that the science of disease is a branch of the
general science of life; and the distinguished lecturer, in making so
wide an application of the term "medicine," no doubt intended to
assert that the science of biology rests upon the broad foundation of
the general physical sciences. The study of medicine, then, consists
primarily in the study of biology, including those abnormalities of
* Address delivered at the opening of the Thirty -second Annual Session of the
Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania.
