362 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
structure and perturbations of function to which living matter is
liable; and, secondarily, medicine deals with the applications of the
knowledge thus acquired for the checking of these perturbations and
the renewal of normal structures — in other words, for the relief of
suffering and the restoration and preservation of health.
The held of medicine is, then, a large one. As already intimated,
some knowledge of the various natural sciences is essential to its suc-
cessful study; not only by reason of the fact that living matter is sub-
ject to the same chemical and physical laws as non-living matter, but
also because of the intimacy of its relations to its physical environ-
ment, and of the constancy of the reactions between every organism
and its environment.
As a general introduction to the course of medical study now
opened in this college, it has therefore seemed appropriate to devote
an hour to a brief biography of Protoplasm, the universal life-substance
from which all organisms, whether vegetable or animal, originate, and
modifications of which constitute even the most complex tissues of the
highest animal forms.
Though so universally diffused, though the autobiography of pro-
toplasm has been written in the life of every plant and animal since
creation's dawn, it is still a hidden story in some of its earlier chapters.
Perhaps it is the very simplicity of its origin that balks us: we would
fain invoke some supernatural explanation of the growth-force and
the capacity for development which belong to this substance, as dis-
tinct from non-living matter, forgetting that all natural forces are
equally elusive and obscure. Why do certain kinds of matter always
crystallize in certain fixed and characteristic forms ? Why, on the
other hand, is protoplasm formless, but capable of endless develop-
ment and change ?
There are certain chemical and physical differences between crys-
tallizable and non-crystallizable substances which, if fully understood,
Avould no doubt furnish an answer to this question.
Protoplasm, a non-crystallizable substance, is both physically and
chemically of a highly complex composition not determined with ex-
actness, but known to consist mainly of hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen,
and carbon, variously combined in such proportions as to produce
representatives of three classes of chemical substances — the albumi-
noids, the starches, and the fats — the albuminous constituents largely
predominating in native undifferentiated pi'otoplasm.
With these compounds is associated a considerable though varying
proportion of water, as well as smaller quantities of saline and other
crystalline substances.
Of the molecular structure of living, active jDrotoplasm, nothing
definite is known ; it is, however, probable that the albuminoid matter
of its massive molecule is associated with a complex fat and with some
form of starch ; Avhile the water and the salts may be loosely combined
