364 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
contraction ; hence protoplasm may be said to be " contractile,^^ and
this is another of its so-called vital proj^erties.
Protoplasm also feeds upon nutritive material brought into contact
with its surface. This it does by flowing around the substance, what-
ever it may be, which serves for its food, thus inclosing it in a tem-
porary stomach improvised anew for each occasion, and becoming
gradually obliterated as the new material slowly dissolves and is ab-
sorbed, mingling and chemically combining with the already existing
protoplasm, and thenceforth forming a part of its substance. In other
words, certain kinds of dead matter called food are assimilated, con-
verted into living protoplasm by those processes of absorption and
chemical union which constitute nutrition in all living things. Hence,
protoplasm is " assimilative,^'' and this is another of its vital properties,
kside by side with this process of taking in new material and convert-
ing it into its own substance, tbere is also another process going on —
that of rejection of old, broken-down, effete matter which has not only
become useless to the living protoplasm, but would be injurious if
retained.
The life of protoplasm is thus seen to consist in a double series of
chemical changes, by one of which its substance is constantly renewed
and built up ; by the other, it as constantly breaks down, the products
of decomposition being gradually rejected from the living, ever-fluct-
uating mass, which thus becomes the theatre, the arena, of life.
What is the outcome of this constant play of chemical and phys-
ical forces — this incessant interchange of matter between the mass of
protoplasm and its environment ? In other words, what is tbe mean-
ing of the life thus manifested ? Its significance is this : TJie produc-
tion and manifestation of new and higher kinds of force than any
helonging to inanhnate, inorganic matter.
In the life of protoplasm we behold the dawning of voluntary mo-
tion — of those sjjontaneous movements especially characteristic of ani-
mals (though shown to a slight extent by plants as well), and exhibited
in the highest degree by man in the thousand muscular adaptations
displayed in his complex mechanism.
But the doctrine of the correlation of forces formulates the fact
that the amount of force in the universe of matter is constant and un-
varying ; that, as matter is indestructible, so the forces which it mani-
fests are persistent — never increasing, never diminishing. "Whence,
then, comes this new and higher kind of force called spontaneous mo-
tion ? It is a law of physics that, as elemental molecules aggregate
to form those which are more complex and massive, the force previ-
ously manifested by the simpler molecules becomes potential or latent,
as it was formerly expressed ; and that in the breaking down of these
more complex molecules, in their return to their former simple state,
this hidden force springs into activity again, not necessarily reappear-
ing, however, as the same kind of force ; there is not only a storing
