BR. G TINT HER ON THE STUDY OF FISHES. 387
to make the destroyer, Avith its victim, rise with increasing rapidity
toward the surface, which they reach dead or in a dying condition."
It was also shown that, as the same species and genera are found in
the most distant parts of the globe, the deep-sea fishes are not limited
in their range, and consequently, as is admitted on other grounds, that
the physical conditions of the ocean-depths must be much alike all the
world over. That the deep-sea fishes are not of a peculiar order, how-
ever peculiarly organized, but are for the most part modified forms of
surface-types, was another conclusion arrived at from the scattered
evidence available before dredging at great depths was systematically
practiced, and a conclusion that has since proved to be right. Never-
theless, it still remained to ascertain more precisely the bathymetrical
horizons in which the different kinds lived, and this has been to some
extent attained by observations made during the voyage of the Chal-
lenger ; but these can not be received without further critical examina-
tion, for, unfortunately, no precaution seems to have been taken to
keep the mouth of the dredge closed, and therefore it is probable, if
not in some cases certain, that fishes were occasionally entrapped while
the macliine was passing through the surface- water. On the other
hand, the majority of the examples taken in the dredge offer literally
internal evidence that they were inhabitants of the abysses, being so
organized as to be unable to live near the surface, and consequently
that they were captured at the greatest depth to which the dredge
reached, or nearly so.
The physical conditions of the deep sea, affecting the organization
and distribution of these fishes, are thus formulated by Di\ Giinther :
1. "Absence of Sunlight. — Probably the rays of the sun do not
penetrate to, and certainly do not extend beyond, a depth of two hun-
dred fathoms ; therefore, we may consider this to be the depth where
the deep-sea fauna commences. Absence of light is, of necessity, ac-
companied by modifications of the organs of vision, and by simplifica-
tion of colors.
2. " PnospnoREscExcE. — The absence of sunlight is in some measure
compensated for by the presence of phosphorescent light, produced by
many marine animals, and also by numerous deep-sea fishes.
3. "Depression and Equality op the Temperature. — At a
depth of five hundred fathoms the temperature of the water is already
as low as 40"^ Fahr., and perfectly independent of the temperature of
the surface-water ; and from the greatest depths upward to about
one thousand fathoms the temperature is uniformly but a few degrees
above the freezing-point. Tempei-ature, therefore, ceases to offer an
obstacle to the unlimited dispersal of deep-sea fishes.
4. " The Increased Pressure by the Water. — The pressure of
the atmosphere, on the level of the sea, amounts to fifteen pounds per
square inch of surface on the body of an animal ; but the pressure
amounts to a ton weight for every one thousand fathoms of depth.
