388 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
5. " With the Sunlight, Vegetable Life ceases in the Depths
OP THE Sea. — All deep-sea fishes are therefore carnivorous ; the most
voracious feeding frequently on their own offspring, and the toothless
kinds being nourished by the animalcules which live on the bottom, or
which, 'like a constant rain,' settle down from the upper strata toward
the bottom of the sea.
G. " The Perfect Quiet of the Water at Great Depths. —
The agitation of the water, caused by the disturbances of the air, does
not extend beyond the depth of a few fathoms ; below this surface-
stratum there is no other movement except the quiet flow of ocean-
currents, and near the bottom of the deep sea the water is probably in
a state of almost entire quiescence."
Now, the effect of these conditions on some part or parts of theii*
structure is such that all deej^-sea fishes are easily recognizable, with-
out positive evidence of their having been caught at a great depth,
and in many of them the most striking characteristics relate to the
pressure of the water they inhabit. Their bones and muscles are com-
paratively feebly developed ; the former " have a fibrous, fissured, and
cavernous texture, are light, with scai'cely any calcareous matter, so
that the point of a needle will readily penetrate them without break-
ing." They are loosely attached to each other — the vertebra? es-
pecially ; and, unless carefully handled, the body will almost certainly
fall to pieces. But that this is not the animal's normal condition we
may be well assured. It is due simply to the absence of the pressure
which keeps the whole organization compact ; for, as has just been
stated, most of these fishes are rapacious, and to indulge their enor-
mous voracity they must execute rapid and powerful movements, to
effect which their muscles must be as firm and their vertebra; as tautly
braced as in their surface-swimming relatives. Marvelous as this is,
it is far from being all that is marvelous in the structure of these
dwellers in the profundities. Besides modifications of their eyes, such
as are found in several other groups of animals, many of them are fur-
nished with " more or less numerous, round, shining, mother-of-pearl-
colored bodies imbedded in the skin," of which Dr. Giinther says :
" These so-called phosphorescent or luminous organs are cither large
bodies of an oval or irregularly elliptical shape placed on the head, in
the vicinity of the eye, or smaller round globular bodies arranged sym-
metrically in series along the sides of tlie body and tail, especially near
the abdominal profile, less frequently along the back. . . . The organs
of one kind consist of an anterior, biconvex, lens-like body, which is
transparent during life, simple or composed of rods ; and of a poste-
rior chamber, which is filled with a transparent fluid, and coated with
a dark membrane composed of hexaoonal cells or of rods arranged as
in a retina. ... In the other kind the organ shows throughout a
simple glandular structure, but apparently without an efferent duct.
Branches of the spinal nerves nui to each organ, and are distributed
