BR. CrtJNTHER OX THE STUDY OF FISHES. 389
over the retina-like membrane or the glandular follicles. The former
kind of organs are considered by some naturalists true organs of vis-
ion (accessory eyes), the function of the latter being left unexplained
by them."
There can hardly be a reasonable doubt that the functions of these
organs, of both kinds, have reference to the conditions of light under
which the animals live, but further than that judgment concerning
them must be suspended. Dr. Giinther briefly states three hypotheses
that have been broached as possible : 1. That both kinds are " acces-
sory eyes," to which the objection is offered that several fish having
well-developed and even large eyes, perfectly adapted for seeing in
the dark, are endowed with them, while in other deep-sea fishes, with-
out external eyes, they are absent. 2. That only the organs with a
lenticular body and a retina-like membrane behind it are visual, but
that the glandular organs are phosphorescent ; and more may be said
for this view than for any other, since the glandular organs are cer-
tainly luminous. 3. That all the organs are producers of light, in
which case it must proceed from the inner cavity and be emitted
through the lens-like body as through a bull's-eye lantern. It will be
hard to decide which of these suppositions is the right one, for it seems
impossible to reproduce in the animals and their environment on the
surface the conditions of an uninterrupted deep-sea life. [This sub-
ject was fully discussed by Dr. Ernest Krause in the last number of
" The Popular Science Monthly."]
The deep-sea fishes display few colors. Their bodies are generally
black or silvery, with a most brilliant sheen, which is preserved even
after years of immersion in spirits. A few are " picked out " with
bright scarlet, either on the fin-rays or the filaments attached to them.
These filaments, it may be said, are eminently characteristic of fishes
that inhabit still water, and the fact that many of the deep-sea forms
are adorned with them perfectly accords with the belief that the abys-
mal regions are quiet.
Another remarkable property of some of these creatures is the pos-
session of a stomach so capable of distention that it can hold a prey
of twice or thrice the bulk of its destroyer. Dr. Gtinther gives figures
of two or three fish with distended stomachs ; and Mr. Johnson, his
associate in this investigation, writes of a specimen which he procured
at Madeira :
" The man from whom I obtained it stated that he had a fish with
two heads, two mouths, four eyes, and a tail growing out of the middle
of the back, which had astonished the whole market ; and the fisher-
men, one and all, declared they had never met with anything like it
before. At first sight it really did appear to be the monster described;
but a short examination brought to light the fact that one fish had been
swallowed by another, and that the features of the former were seen
through the extensible skin of the latter. On extracting the fish that
