390 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
had been swallowed, it proved ... to have a diameter several times
exceeding that of its enemy, whose stomach it had distended to an
unnatural and painful degree." The action performed by the fish in
these cases is not, however, a real swallowing, but more like the similar
process executed by serpents.
The interest of Dr. Gilnther's book does not end with the account
of deep-sea fishes, but the chapters devoted to that subject and to classi-
fication illustrate the most striking discoveries that have been recently
made in ichthyology. Among the curiosities of fish-life that please
and amuse as well as instruct, is the story of the fighting-fish of Siam,
which, on seeing another of its species, or even its own image, in a mir-
ror, becomes suddenly excited, and of which, though it is dull in hue at
other times, " the raised fins and the whole body shine with metallic
colors of dazzling beauty, while the projected gill-membrane, waving
like a black frill round the throat, adds something of grotesqueness to
the general appearance." The Siamese are infatuated with the com-
bats of these fishes, staking on the results considerable sums, and some-
times their persons and families, while the license to exhibit fish-fights
is farmed, and brings in no small revenue to the royal treasury.
The peculiarity of the flounders, and other flat fishes, by which the
eyes, normally situated in the young, move around as the animal grows,
until they are both on the same side of the body, is well known, but
the manner in which the transposition is effected is still in question.
There is, moreover, no end to the wonders to be found in fishes' eyes.
Those of the genus Anable2)s, known in Demerara as " four eyes,"
have the iris horizontally divided by a black band, which almost justi-
fies their name; and as these fishes frequently swim with the head half
out of the water, it is presumed that the upper and lower portions of
the cornea are adapted for the different density of the media in which
they are respectively used. The " star-gazers " ( Uranosco2)iis), and
others, have eyes that can be raised or lowered at will; but the most
remarkable instance of mobility in these organs seems to exist in cer-
tain gobies of the genus Periophthalnms and its ally Boleophthalmus^
which might be called " oglers," as they have the power of thrusting
their eyeballs far out of the socket, and turning them as freely as a
chameleon rolls his. These fishes are also remarkable for another
faculty, toward which their versatile eyes must contribute not a little.
At low water they remain on the muddy flats, and hunt for their prey,
which consists of small crustaceans and other marine animals, mak-
ing rapid leaps by the aid of their fins and tails, which are strong;
and when their eyes are retracted they are protected by a membra-
nous lid.
Then the fishes that travel over land, the flying-fishes, with the
controversy as to whether they really fly or only seem to (with Dr.
Giinther denying the reality of the flight, and others afiirming it from
their personal observations), and the fish that build nests, like the
