THE DEVELOPMENT OF CITIES. 391
stickleback, and the fishing-frog, or angler, and the salmons and the
cod, and the herring, afford inviting objects of curious observation, or
scientific and economical study or speculation, concerning the later
results of which we have kept the readers of " The Popular Science
Monthly " informed. The last fish we notice is the eel, the manner of
the reproduction of which is yet a puzzle to naturalists. Dr. Giinther
says of it:
" Their mode of propagation is still unknown. So much only is
certain, that they do not spawn in fresh water, that many full-grown
individuals, but not all, descend rivers during the winter months, and
that some of them, at least, must spawn in brackish water or in deep
water in the sea ; for in the course of the summer young individ-
uals, from three to five inches long, ascend rivers in incredible num-
bers, overcoming all obstacles, ascending vertical walls or flood-gates,
entering every larger or smaller tributary, and making their way even
over terra firma to waters shut off from all communication with rivers.
Such immigrations have long been known by the name of ' eel-fairs.' The
majority of the eels which migrate to the sea appear to return to fresh
water, but not in a body, but irregularly, and throughout the warmer
part of the year. No naturalist has ever observed these fishes in the
act of spawning, or found mature ova ; and the organs of reproduc-
tion of individuals caught in fresh water are so little developed, and
so much alike, that the female organ can be distinguished from the
male only with the aid of a microscope."
THE DEYELOPMEK^T OF CITIES.
By M. BADOUEEAU.
THE rectangular system of laying out streets has the advantage of
extreme simplicity, and lends itself to a convenient adjustment
of the interior of the houses of a city ; but it is monotonous in the
extreme, and makes communication between one quarter of the town
and another very inconvenient ; for the passenger is compelled to go
along the two sides of a triangle to accomplish the distance repre-
sented by its hypotenuse. We have endeavored to solve the problem
of the best way of arranging the streets of cities by mathematical cal-
culations, but have found the task one leading to geometrical compli-
cations. We recommend the study to geometricians as an interesting
one, and content ourselves here with stating the conclusions we have
reached. We have examined the question in the two forms : By what
law can we arrange the streets so as to lose the least possible amount
of space, and still have the greatest possible length of roads ; and,
given a surface of which the shape and area are known, and the law of
