392 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the division of tlie population having been ascertained, how shall we
lay out the roads so as to make the different lines of communication,
particularly the most frequented ones, as short as possible? Four
plans ordinarily present themselves under which the ground selected
for our city to be built on may be laid out : the square, hexagonal, oc-
tagonal, and circular. Of these, the hexagonal type seems, according
to our mathematical calculations, the one which gives the greatest
length of streets and the greatest amount of habitable surface, with
the smallest consumption of space. As a rule, for cities the population
of which is homogeneous, the octagonal and hexagonal plans are much
preferable to the square in respect both to the utilization of the sur-
face and the facility of communications. Unfortunately, both plans
are liable to the objection that they give house-lots having acute an-
gles of sixty degrees in the hexagonal, and of forty-five degrees in the
octagonal plan. Practically the population finds it convenient to bear
toward the center of the city, and, the more it bears that way, the more
it is to its interest to do so. Consequently, the density of the popu-
lation diminishes from the center toward the circumference. Under
such conditions, the circular plan is very satisfactory. It has in effect
the double advantage of furnishing direct roads to the center of the
town, and of accommodating itself to giving to the houses in the out-
lying quarters the greater amount of space they require. For the
center of cities, where the population is compact and homogeneous,
where land is dear and communication is needed in every direction
alike, the hexagonal plan, with the reservation of a few places for
public monuments, is most convenient. This central part might be
surrounded by a boulevard, beyond which the circular type might bo
adopted with modifications so as to avoid cui-ved streets. The princi-
pal streets of each suburb might be directed toward the center of the
city, and each suburb might in itself be laid out more or less according
to the rectangular type. The transverse streets would, however,
spread farther apart as the distance from the center became greater ;
and main diagonal streets might be arranged to cross the whole city,
with few or only slight deviations. Beyond the suburbs, the principal
radial streets might be continued for a considerable distance farther,
but the transverse streets would nearly disappear. The accompanying
design has been drawn according to these principles. It is worthy of
remark that the sketch is more like the European cities that have
grown up by pi'ogressive additions than the American cities which
have been built on a so-called rational plan.
So far we have considered the question from an exclusively geomet-
rical point of view. We may continue our study by referring to the
influences which geographical, meteorological, commercial, and polit-
ical conditions have had in the laying out of cities. Certain directions
in the ways of communication are often imposed by the topographical
situation ; as, for example, when the town is crossed by a river or a
