SKETCH OF PROFESSOR S. S. HALDEMAX. 397
The teacher found the hoys out, and forbade their studying German
during school-hours, but allowed them to do so at recess and noon,
when he also took a part in the exercise.
In 182G Haldeman was taken to Harrisburg, to the classical school
of Dr. John ililler Keagy, a " great teacher," who, besides the clas-
sical languages, " knew Hebrew, German, and French. He had a taste
for the natural sciences, and in the absence of class-books he taught
orally in an excellent conversational style." He remained two years
at this school, and was then sent to Dickinson College, where his sci-
entific tastes were encouraged by Professor Rogers, afterward State
geologist. The stereotyped course of study of the college Avas not
consonant with his own views of how his faculties should be trained,
and he left the institution after two years, to take the superintendence
of his own studies. He became ostensibly engaged with his father in
conducting a saw-mill, but spent much of his time in field-studies, and
with his books, concerning which he wrote at the time : " I developed
a taste for rainy weather and impassable roads ; then I could remain
undisturbed in the perusal of my books, a supply of which I kept in a
back office, where I retired as soon as the sky looked threatening." In
1833-34 he attended the lectures of the medical department of the
University of Pennsylvania, but without any design of becoming a
physician. In 1835 he was married to Miss Mary A. Hough. Shortly
afterward he removed to duckies, Pennsylvania, to the house which
he occupied till the end of his life, and became a silent partner in the
iron business conducted by his brothers. Dr. Edwin and Paris Halde-
man. In connection with this biisiness be wrote two papers for " Sil-
liman's Journal," on " Smelting Iron with Anthracite Coal," and edited,
in 1855, a revision of Taylor's " Statistics of Coal." " In his residence
at Chickies," says Dr. D. G. Brinton, in his memorial before the Ameri-
can Philosophical Society, " books and cabinets accumulated under his
laborious hands, only to be scattered again and give place to others
when his insatiable appetite for knowledge led him into new fields of
investigation. For forty-five years he spent most of his time in bis
library, where, in his vigorous manhood, he worked sixteen hours a
day. For, though he accepted several professorships, and delivered a
number of courses of lectures, he did so with reluctance, preferring to
be master of his time, and to spend it in the quiet of home."
He received from Professor Rogers an appointment as assistant on
the Geological Survey of Xew Jersey in 1836, and of Pennsylvania in
1837. His field of work in Pennsylvania embraced that part of the
State lying between the Blue Mountain and the South Mountain, the
most important division, geologically, in the State. While engaged
upon it he discovered the fossil plant, ScoUthiis linearis, the most an-
cient organic remains found in Pennsylvania, on which he published a
monogi'aph in 18-iO. During this period he also recorded the obser-
vations, real discoveries, that the peregrine falcon makes its nest in
