398 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
rocks, as in Europe, and not in trees, as "Wilson and others had sup-
posed ; and that the American eagle is a fishing-eagle, robbing fish-
hawks when he can, diving himself after fish when he has to. He also
discovered and described a new species of trilobite in Pennsylvania,
which Professor Hall named after him.
Professor Haldeman's first publication was made in 1835, the year
of his marriage, and was a paper in the " Lancaster Journal," exposing
the falsity of the celebrated "Moon Hoax," published by Richard
Adams Locke in the New York *' Sun." He also published, in connec-
tion with his labors as a naturalist, a work on the " Fresh- Water Uni-
valve Mollusca of the United States," in nine parts, 1840 to 1866 ; three
numbers of a series of " Zoological Contributions " ; " Outlines of the
Zoology of Pennsylvania"; a sketch of the natural history and geology
of Lancaster County, Pennsylvania ; a monograph on the genus Lep-
toxis for a French work ; an article on the " Zoology of the Inverte-
brate Animals," for the American edition of the " Iconographic Ency-
clopcedia " ; and seventy-three papers which Professor Agassiz has
enumerated as having appeared in the scientific and philosophical jour-
nals and " Transactions " of the United States up to 1852.
"Dr. Ilaldeman," says Mr. C. H. Hart, "very early took a deep
interest in the languages of the North American Lidians, and, as an
aid to the study of ethnology, he now devoted his attention to the
study of language in general ; and doubtless it will be as a learned and
accurate philologist that his labors will be most remembered. His in-
vestigations in this most interesting study were not directed so much
to the origin and source of language as to rendering it facile of
acquirement and expression — his specialty being the notation of the
elementary sounds uttered by the human A^oice in speech ; thus reach-
ing the form of language, which is merely the peculiar method of
uniting thought with sound." The first result of these labors in this
department was the paper entitled " Some Points in Linguistic Eth-
nology, with Illustrations chiefly from the Aboriginal Languages of
North America," which was jDublished in the " Proceedings of the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences," in October, 1849. A
work on the "Elements of Latin Pronunciation," which was published
in 1851, and was warmly received, was an indirect result of studies
which he pursued with the object of finding a way to adapt the Latin
alphabet, while adhering strictly to its Latin signification, to the repre-
sentation of the sounds of the native Indian languages. From this
he was led on to pure linguistic studies, the fruits of which appeared
in his " Investigation of the Power of the Greek /3, by Means of Pho-
netic Laws" (1853), in a monograph "On the Relations between Chi-
nese and the Indo-Eurojiean Languages " (1856), and in his report to the
American Association for the Advancement of Science " On the Pres-
ent State of our Knowledge of Linguistic Ethnology." Having de-
livered some lectures on the " Mechanism of Speech " before the Smith-
