SKETCH OF PROFESSOR S. S. HALDEMAN. 399
sonian Institution, he entered the competition for a prize of one hundred
pounds offered by Sir Walter Trevelyan, President of the Phonetic
Society of Great Britain, for the best essay " On a Reform in the
Spelling of the English Language " ; to contain among other features
" an analysis of the system of articulate sounds, an exposition of those
occuri'ing in English, and an alphabetic notation, in which as few new
types as possible should be admitted." The result of this effort was
a work on " Analytic Orthography," which, even before it had been
revised in accordance with the suggestions of the donor of the prize,
was preferred to the essays of seventeen competitors, all learned Euro-
pean philologists, and which was published in 1860. Five years after-
ward appeared a work on " Affixes : in their Origin and Application
exhibiting the Etymologic Structure of English \yords," which was
pronounced, by a writer in the " Contemporary Review," " a collection
more rational, complete, and exhaustive of the component parts of our
language than we have had any good right to hope for within the
present century."
Professor Haldeman was one of the founders of the American
Philological Association, and was its first vice-president 1874-'76, and
its president 18T6-'TT. lie contributed many papers to its " Transac-
tions," the first of which, on the " German Vernacular of Pennsyl-
vania," was afterward extended, under the light of new studies, at the
request of the Philological Society of London, into "Pennsylvania
Dutch ; a Dialect of South German, with an Impression of English,"
Avhich was published in 1872. His last published philological work,
" Outlines of Etymology," had in view the teaching of this as other
sciences are taught, and appeared m 1877.
To this department of Professor Ilaldeman's activity belong his
labors in behalf of reform in the spelling of the English language, in
connection with which he presided at the International Convention on
the subject held in Philadelphia in July, 1876, when the Spelling Re-
form Association was organized, and he was made one of the vice-
presidents. Ilis address to the American Philological Association
at the close of his presidency in 1877 was devoted mainly to this
reform.
Of his attainments in philology. Prof essor March says : "Professor
Haldeman was in early life and by his mental constitution a scientist,
and he took hold of the facts of speech in that spirit. He had a deli-
cate ear and flexible organs of speech, and could pronounce with ease
the most unutterable scientific vocables. His scientific habit enabled
him to watch and describe the movements of the organs in producing
all sorts of sounds, and to give the physical processes or causes of the
changes in the sounds of words from age to age. He devoted much
study to these subjects, seeking living speakers of every nation and
tribe, and imitating and recording their peculiarities. He applied his
knowledge of the laws of letter-change to etymology — chiefly, so far
