400 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
as I know, to the derivation of English words and affixes. His text-
books on that subject are full of ingenious observation and careful
scientific deduction. He was also a great reader of old English books
in their early editions, and he treasured in his memory the curiosities
of spelling and pronunciation, the rhymes and puns and the like which
he found there. He busied himself also with the Pennsylvania Dutch,
as it is called, and traced it to its sources in Europe. He read largely
the German works on the science of language, but he was an independ-
ent observer, and more likely to be biased by his critical temper than
by absorption in any systems."
Professor Haldeman was actively interested in education, and occu-
pied professorial chairs during a large part of his life. He was chosen
Professor of Zoology in the Franklin Institute in 1842, and afterward
filled the positions of chemist and geologist to the Pennsylvania State
Agricultural Society in 1852 ; Professor of Natural History in the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania, 1850 to 1853 ; professor in the chair of the
same name in Delaware College, Newark, 1855 to 1858 ; and Professor
of Comparative Philology in the University of Pennsylvania from 1869
till his death. He regularly attended the meetings of the Pennsylva-
nia State Teachers' Association. Professor Haldeman had in great
part been induced to change his studies from zoology mainly to lin-
guistics by the failing condition of his eye-sight ; in a similar manner
an order to take exercise for his health became the occasion of his en-
gaging in the study of archfeology in 1875. He proceeded to carry
out an intention he had long entertained of digging for aboriginal rel-
ics in the Chickie^ Rock retreat, a shallow cave on his own property.
Here he obtained the interesting collection which he presented to the
American Philosophical Society, and vrhich he described in a mono-
graph " On the Contents of a Rock Retreat in Southeastern Pennsyl-
vania," iDublished by the society since his death, with fifteen large
quarto plates. He also published archroological papers in the " Smith-
sonian Report " for 1877, in the '' American Antiquarian " and " Ameri-
can Naturalist," and through the American Association.
He was a prolific and successful writer on a curious variety of sub-
jects, some of which appear incongruous with each other. The list of
his scientific publications prepared by his daughter, Mrs. Eliza Figgel-
mery, includes ten titles in conchology, twenty-three in entomology,
two on arachnidte, five on Crustacea, six on annelides and worms, seven
in geology and chemistry, thirty-three in philology, seven in archas-
ology, and twenty-nine miscellaneous publications. Outside of the
immediate circle of subjects with which his name is most prominently
associated, he published one or two works of literary criticism, an essay
on the " Tours of a Chess-Knight," showing how the knight can pass
over the whole chess-board, touching each square but once ; a collec-
tion of "Rhymes of the Poets," by Felix Ago, containing specimens
of false rhymes from one hundred and fourteen prominent writers ;
