SKETCH OF PROFESSOR S. S. HALDEMAN. 401
and two mock-heroic poems. He was a contributor to Johnson's " Cy-
elopredia " and an associate editor of the department of comparative
philology and linguistics in it ; and he left behind him in manuscript
two complete philological works ; one on " Word-Building," the other
on " English Prosody." The diversity of occupation of which this va-
ried bibliography affords evidence was in part a matter of principle with
him, for, says Dr. Brinton, "it was his taste and apparently also his
theory that a student should not be a specialist, but should devote his
mind to different branches, thus securing wider knowledge " ; and he
once said to Professor Barber, "I never pursue one branch of science
more than ten years, but lay it aside and go into new fields." That he
was able to acquit himself creditably in everything he undertook, we
have the word of Agassiz, who said of him, " That man Haldcman has
an idea behind every word he utters." Professor Le Conte has said
that " next to his valuable contributions in philology, the most impor-
tant work of Professor Haldeman was in the direction of descriptive
natural history. He was well versed in several branches of zoology,
and notably in conchology and entomology ; in both studies he per-
ceived latent possibilities of future philosophical development which
the then imperfect observations rendered impossible to do more than
dimly outline. . . . While his contributions in the two branches of
zoology above mentioned have contributed to their advance in this
country, what are to be especially admired are the zeal, the honesty of
expression, and the unselfishness with which he did everything he be-
lieved to be right, or to be his duty as the occasion dictated. . . . At
all times he was an industrious and intelligent laborer, a warm and
sympathetic friend, and a thoi'ough hater of pretense and empiri-
cism."
Professor Haldeman was born of Protestant parents, but, not satis-
fied with the theology that was preached around him, made a study of
the evidences of Christianity for himself, and ended by uniting with
the Roman Catholic Church, in whose faith he died.
His death took place suddenly on September 15, 1880, a few days
after his return from the Boston meeting of the American Association.
The immediate cause was heart-disease, following a period of consid-
erable fatigue.
VOL. XXI. — 26
