24 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The American monkeys, on the other hand, with the exception of
the marmosets, have four additional grinding-teeth (one in each jaw
on either side), and none of them have callosities or cheek-pouches.
They never have prominent snouts like the baboons ; their nostrils are
placed wide apart and open sideways on the face ; the tail, though
sometimes short, is never quite absent ; and the thumb bends the same
way as the fingers, is generally very short and weak, and is often quite
wanting. We thus see that these American monkeys differ in a great
number of characters from those of the Eastern hemisphere ; and they
have this further peculiarity, that many of them have prehensile or
grasping tails, which are never found in the monkeys of any other
country. This curious organ serves the purpose of a fifth hand. It
has so much muscular power that the animal can hang by it easily
with the tip curled round a branch, while it can also be used to pick
up small objects with almost as much ease and exactness as an ele-
phant's trunk. In those species which have it most perfectly formed
it is very long and powerful, and the end has the under-side covered
with bare skin, exactly resembling that of the finger or palm of the
hand, and apparently equally sensitive. One of the common kinds of
monkeys that accompany street organ-players has a prehensile tail, but
not of the most perfect kind ; since in this species the tail is entirely
clad with hair to the tip, and seems to be used chiefly to steady the
animal when sitting on a branch by being twisted round another
branch near it. The statement is often erroneously made that all
American monkeys have prehensile tails ; but the fact is that rather
less than half the known kinds have them so, the remainder having
this organ either short and bushy or long and slender, but entirely
without any power of grasping. All prehensile-tailed monkeys are
American, but all American monkeys are not prehensile-tailed.
By remembering these characters it is easy, with a little observa-
tion, to tell whether any strange monkey comes from America or from
the Old World. If it has bare seat-pads, or if when eating it fills its
mouth till its cheeks swell out like little bags, we may be sure it
comes from some part of Africa or Asia ; while, if it can curl up the
end of its tail so as to take hold of anything, it is certainly Ameri-
can. As all the tailed monkeys of the Old World have seat-pads (or
ischial callosities as they arc called in scientific language), and as all
the American monkeys have tails, but no seat-pads, this is the most
constant external character by which to distinguish them ; and, having
done so, we can look for the other peculiarities of the American monk-
eys, especially the distance apart of the nostrils and their lateral po-
sition.
The whole monkey-tribe is especially tropical, only a few kinds
being found in the warmer parts of the temperate zone. One inhabits
the Rock of Gibraltar, and there is one very like it in Japan, and these
are the two monkeys which live farthest from the equator. In the
