ENTERTAINING VARIETIES. 403
harmless pleasures and abstinence from injurious ones: Epicurus. — Self-improve-
ment : Hobbes. — An income of five thousand pounds : Richard Porson. — Suc-
cess : Bolingbroke. — The citizenship of an ilhistrious state : Sophocles. — Health,
books, and solitude : Zimmermann. — Health, wealth, and a liberal education :
D'Alembert. — Day-dreams for those who still hope ; resignation and a padded
easy-chair for those who know better : Schopenhauer. — Visions of glory before
the battle of life ; a comfortable lazaretto after the inevitable thrashing : Id. —
Virtue and resignation : Seneca. — Freedom from the tyranny of kings and vices :
J. J. Rousseau. — A good bank-account, a good cook, and a good digestion : Ed-
mond About. — Fortitude in adversity, moderation in prosperity : Anaxagoras. —
Peace : Buddha.
In an article on English Poetry the " Quarterly Review " declares that
the historic method shows " how the mind and spirit of the English people in
each age is reflected in the poetry of that age as it is nowhere else reflected";
and again, " how truly England's poetry has mirrored the historic condition of the
several ages which produced it." The " Quarterly " thus illustrates its theory:
" 'So English poet has more historic value than Chaucer, for none more faith-
fully reflects all the mingled influences that swayed his time. Though belonging
by birth to the middle class, Chaucer's sympathies, as those of Shakespeare and
of Walter Scott, were with the aristocrats. He soon became a gentleman and a
courtier, and saw life from that side." This looks much as if Chaucer's poetic
mirror was somewhat warped, and this is still further confirmed by what the
" Quarterly " says: *' Wide as was Chaucer's genial humanity, ho still looked at
life through the eyes of the weU-to-do, even of the aristocratic class with whom
he was so much associated. No one would guess from his poems that he lived
in what a modern historian has called ' a time of shame and sufi'ering, such as
England had never known; when her conquests were lost, her shores insulted,
her fleet sunk, her commerce destroyed, her people exhausted by the long and
costly wars with France, and by the ravages of pestilence.' None would guess
from his poems that his was the day when the black-death swept off half the
population of England, and svhen the peasant revolt threatened revolution."
The Age of Faith. — The credulity of the patristic era may be inferred
from the superstitions of the so-called philosophers of that age. Celsus, Lucan,
and Apuleius, then hailed as morning-stars of rationalism, would now bo in dan-
ger of a strait-jacket. The elder Pliny has been called the Roman Humboldt,
and his " Natural History " a thesaurus of universal knowledge. The value of
that treasury may be estimated by the following specimen-bricks: Among the
fercB natures of Africa he mentions a catoplus, "an animal found only in Elhio-
pia. All who behold the eyes of this beast fall dead on the spot. Luckily, the
creature has a heavy head, which is always weighed down to the earth. Were
it not for this circumstance it would prove the destruction of the human race.''''
" The bodies of whelks and oysters," the Roman Humboldt assures us, " are in-
creased in size and again diminished by the influence of the moon. Certain
accurate (!) observers have found out that the entrails of field-mice correspond
in number to the days of the moon's age." The flight of ravens, too, is influenced
by the changes of the lunar phases, though their observance of certain days may
be due to a religious sentiment. In the case of barn-yard fowls there is no room
for any such doubt. They are religious birds. By way of establishing this point
he thinks it suflicient to mention that chickens throw dust over their bodies in
the manner observed by the augurs in the week of purification. During the fort-
