404 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
night of the waning moon the actions of crows and starlings evince a sad disre-
gard of religious duties, but " burying black briony in the four corners of a field
will secure it against the ravages of the most impious bird." Need we wonder
that the Kiddles of that age could credit the miracles of St. Poly carp ?
T?ie Biter Mttcii. — " Intellectual presence of mind," says Lavater,
" favors the practice of dissimulation, as well as the art of repartee." This latter
gift seems to be a characteristic talent of the Semitic race. Al-Mansour, the
second Abbasside Caliph, was importuned to commute the sentence of a rebellious
governor of Morocco, on the ground that the followers of the rebel revered him
as a saint and a prophet. "That's no excuse," said the Caliph, "for, if he is
endowed with the gift of prescience, he must have foreseen that I am going to
hang him to-morrow."
During the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries the neglected fields of Noi'th-
ern Spain formed a humiliating contrast with the flourishing huertas of the
Moorish provinces ; yet Alfonso IV of Aragon tried to demonstrate the supe-
riority of his countrymen from this very difference. " In our country men handle
the sword and clowns the spade," he told the Moorish embassador ; " my cavaliers
are too proud to meddle with agriculture." "And yet sixty thousand of these
hidalgos have condesceuded to fertilize the fields of Xeres," observed the Morisco.
But, of all biters bitten, the most astonished was, perhaps, the Jesuit Gorres,
who insulted meek Moses Mendelssohn by the question, "how it came that in all
countries of Christendom the Hebrews were dreaded as cheats?" " Xo won-
der," replied the philosopher, with his blandest smile, " since you have aU been
so amazingly cheated by one of our people.'^''
American Stoch- Breeding is thus magnified by President Francis A.
Walker, writing in the "Princeton Review": "The trotting horse we have
created, certainly the naost useful variety of the equine species, and we have im-
proved that variety in a degree unprecedented in natural history. Two genera-
tions ago the trotting of a mile in two minutes forty seconds was so rare as to
give rise to a proverbial phrase indicating something extraordinary ; it is now a
common occurrence. ' But a few years ago,' wrote Professor Brewer, in 1876,
' the speed of a mile in 2-30 was unheard of; now, perhaps, five or six hundred
horses are known to have trotted a mile in that time.' The number is to-day,
perhaps, nearer one thousand than five hundred. Steadily onward have Ameri-
can horse-raisers pressed the limit of mile-si)eed, till, within the last three sea-
sons, the amazing figures 2-10 have been reached by one trotter and closely
approached by another."
About 1800 we began to import, in considerable numbers, the favorite
English cattle, the short-horn. The first American short-horn herd-book was
published in 1840. In 1873 a sale of short-horn cattle took place in Western
New York, at which a herd of 109 head were sold for a total sura of $382,000 —
one animal, a cow, bringing $40,600 ; another, a calf five months old, $27,000;
both for the English market. To-day Devons and short-horns are freely ex-
ported from New York and Boston to England, to improve the native stock.
The Society of Dilettanti was formed one hundred and fifty years ago,
by a number of gentlemen who had traveled in Italy and enjoyed its treasures
of antiquity and art, for social intercourse and testhetic improvement. English-
men most distinguished in politics and literature have been among its members.
Originally it was indispensable that a candidate for admission should have been
