EDITOR'S TABLE.
407
common and peculiar to many and di-
verse communities.
The enterprise was, moreover, whol-
ly new, nothing having been previously
done toward gathering the multitudinous
data necessary for studying what may
be called the natural history of human
societies. It was also desirable that the
work should at first be so effectually
done that it could be made popularly
available; and, in securing this object,
the magnitude of the effort expended
upon it by the editor and the compilers
simply represented so much labor saved
by the student of social questions. Its
preparation was not only an elaborate
process of condensation and simplifica-
tion, but it involved a selection of valu-
able data to be of permanent use in
subsequent social inductions and con-
structions. An incalculable amount
of material had to be overhauled to
find the pertinent facts. It was a win-
nowing of the bulky chaff of history
to separate its wheat. Science applied
to history gives us first of all a revalu-
ation of its materials. The great mass
of it must be left out as comparatively
worthless. As Professor J. R. Seeley
well remarks : " History is now a de-
partment of serious scientific investi-
gation. We study history now in the
hope of giving more precision, definite-
ness, and solidity to the principles of
political science." And it may be add-
ed that we are beginning to study his-
tory with a view of obtaining clearer,
truer, and broader ideas of the consti-
tution and development of human so-
ciety.
It is unnecessary here to expatiate
on the value of Spencer's method in
this undertaking, or the thoroughness
of its execution. The original plan,
though not technically completed, has
been carried out on a compreliensive
scale. Three great groups of human
communities have been treated, viz. :
1. Savage and Uncivilized Societies ; 2.
Civilized Societies, Extinct or Decayed ;
and, 3. Civilized Societies, Historic and
still Flourishing. Of these groups, rep-
resenting communities of every type and
grade, past and present, stationary and
progressive, the social constitution and
history of seventy-two distinct com-
munities are systematically described.
This is done in eight large folio
parts or separate treatises, in which the
facts are first brought into relation by
tabular arrangements, and then the au-
thorities for all the statements are given
in an appended form as extracts from
the works consulted. The simplifica-
tion is remarkable ; and the command
given over the immense details of the
whole subject is something quite in-
credible to those unacquainted with the
work.
We are therefore justified in say-
ing that Spencer's "Descriptive Soci-
ology" is nothing less than a cyclo-
paedia of social data, inexhaustible in
its wealth of instructive facts, lucid in
method, elaborately fortified in its au-
thorities, free from all hypothesis, and
furnishing in a very accessible form
the kind of knowledge most demanded
by the modern student of social affairs.
It would seem that such a work
ought to have been welcomed and lib-
erally sustained by a public-spirited age.
But it has been commercially a disas-
trous failure. The obvious reason is,
that there is but very little appreciation
of the need of such a work. Neither
our so-called " Schools of Political Sci-
ence" nor our so-called "Associations
for the Promotion of Social Science "
seem to have any idea of what science
means in relation to social phenomena.
The solitary cultivators of the science
are without backing by any parties, so-
cieties, or schools, and are left to their
unaided exertions. Mr. Spencer could
find no publisher to take the pecuniary
risk of his enterprise, and so he printed
his costly cyclopredia at his own ex-
pense. He contributed his talent and
his time, paid liis assistants and his
printer's bills, but he made a work that
was not wanted and would not sell, and
