4o8
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
he has had to take the penalty in very
serious losses. With Part 8, devoted to
French Sociology, he issues the follow-
ing notice of the cessation of the work :
With the issue of the eighth part, here-
with, the publication of the "Descriptive
Sociology " wiU be closed.
The collecting, classifying, and abstract-
ing of the materials contained in the parts
now completed was commenced in 18(57 ; and
the work, carried on at iirst by one compiler,
subsequently by two, and for some years by
three, has coutLnued down to the present
time.
On going through his accounts, Mr. Spen-
cer finds that during the fourteen years which
have elapsed since the imdertaking was com-
menced, the payments to compilers, added to
the costs of pnuting, etc., have amounted to
£4,425 15s. Id., while up to the present time
the returns (including those from America)
have been £1,054 12s. Id. — returns which,
when they have been increased by the amount
derived from the first sales of the part now
issued, vAW leave a deficit of about £3,250.
Even had there been shown considerable
appreciation of the work, it would still have
been out of the question to continue it in face
of the fact that, after the small sales which
immediately follow publication, the retm-ns,
so far from promising to repay expenses in
course of time, do not even yield five per cent
interest on the capital sunk.
Should the day ever come when the love
for the personalities of history is less and the
desire for its instructive facts greater, those
who occupy themselves in picking out the
gold from the dross will, perhaps, be able to
publish their results without inflicting on
themselves losses too grievous to be borne —
nay, may possibly receive some thanks for
their pains.
The personality of this announce-
ment makes some corrections here ap-
propriate. It has been often said that
the profits of Mr. Spencer's American
reprints have been greater than those
of the original English publications.
This is a mistake. Some of his books
sold better in this country at first, but
the English sales have had a steady in-
crease, so that the income from them
has been greater than from the Ameri-
can editions. In regard to the "De-
scriptive Sociology," although encour-
aged by his American friends to expect
fair returns from it here, the sales have
been so small that the publishers de-
clined to reproduce it after the third
number, and the work has been kept
in stock by the help of others and by
advances from Mr. Spencer himself.
The appearance of the above notice of
discontinuance has, moreover, been the
occasion of no little misrepresentation,
both in England and in this country.
In England it was rumored that Mr.
Spencer's losses from publication have
been so great as to compel him to go to
America to recruit his means by lectur-
ing ; and in this country the newspa-
pers have intimated that the failure of
his " French Sociology " has brought
him to actual want. These statements
are wholly groundless. Mr. Spencer
has never for a moment entertained the
idea of lecturing here, although offered
very liberal terms ; and, while he is not
a rich man, he is by no means in strait-
ened circumstances. He could, of course,
ill afford to lose sixteen thousand dol-
lars , besides many years of labor, on a
single publication, but it has certainly
not made him a bankrupt.
It must be added that Mr. Spencer
has never accepted a farthing from any
source contributed for his private or
personal benefit. When his "System
of Philosophy," which was not self-sus-
taining, was threatened with suspen-
sion, some funds were sent him from
this country to meet the expenses of
its continuance, but they were accepted
solely as a public trust, and to be applied
to an object recognized by all as of a
purely public nature.
ELECTRIC 8T0RA GE-BA TTERIES.
SixcE the first announcement of M.
Faure's improvement of the Plant6 sec-
ondary battery, speculation has been
rife as to the great number and kinds
of uses to which such batteries could
be applied; and, while much of it has
been only sober prediction, some of it
has been altogether fanciful. The re-
