EDITOR'S TABLE.
409
cent arrival of the steamship Labrador
with a number of these batteries on
board, which had been successfully used
during the passage in electric illumina-
tion, has revived both the interest and
the speculations about them in this
country, so that a few words on their
possibilities, and what has been so far
accomplished, may be here appropriate.
It is hardly necessary to say anything
regarding the construction of the Faure
cell, as it was fully described in the
August number of the " Monthly " of
last year, and has since received much
attention in the technical papers and by
the daily press.
That a thoroughly commercial stor-
age-battery has a wide field of useful-
ness before it there can be no question.
Of the many uses to which it could
be applied, one of the most important,
perhaps, is as an element in a system
of electric distribution for both light
and power purposes. "With a storage-
battery in each house, a smaller electric
producing plant in continuous opera-
tion could take the place of the larger
one required without it, and distribu-
tion could be readily accomplished with
one set of mains, as, by simply connect-
ing groups of battery-cells in the prop-
er way, arc and incandescent lamps, as
well as various pieces of machinery,
could be run quite independently of
each other.
The power that such a battery con-
fers of utilizing the results of work per-
formed at other times and places makes
it peculiarly weU adapted for use in
isolated electric plant, such as would
be suitable for suburban and country
houses. "Wind and water power are
both suitable for charging the battery,
but neitlier of them would commonly
be avaihible as direct agents in main-
taining a current. It is not at all im-
possible that we may yet see the farm-
ers using the power of the wind, which
costs nothing beyond interest on in-
vestment in a mill and repairs, to light
their houses, and obtain all the power
necessary for many of the operations
of the farm.
Such batteries would also have a
not unimportant use in the i)ropulsion
of cars on street and suburban rail-
ways, and it is quite within the bounds
of reasonable expectation to think that
they could in a good many cases dis-
place steam with advantage on ordinary
railways. The conditions requisite to
render this feasible are simply good
water-power facilities at sufficiently
frequent intervals along the line, or
such a proximity to coal-mines that the
electricity for the charging can be gen-
erated at the pit, and coal transporta-
tion, therefore, dispensed with. The
great advantages of a method of rail-
way propulsion which would dispense
with the fire, steam, and smoke of the
locomotive, are too obvious to need
specifying. Many other applications of
these batteries might be named, and the
sphere of their utility will doubtless con-
stantly enlarge with the progress of in-
dustry.
In order, however, for the storage-
battery to take its place as an impor-
tant element in the growing industrial
applications of electricity, it must reach
a considerably higher efficiency than it
appears to have yet attained. The re-
sults obtained in the experiments on the
Faure battery at the Conservatoire des
Arts-et-Meticrs, communicated to the
French Academy of Sciences in March
last, and which constitute the only trust-
worthy account yet given of the per-
formance of this battery, certainly leave
much to bo desired. The experiments
were conducted to determine — 1. The
mechanical labor expended in charging
the battery; 2. The quantity of elec-
tricity stored up during the charge; 3.
The quantity of electricity given out
during the charge ; and, 4. The elec-
trical work actually effected during the
discharge. They resulted in showing
that the battery returned forty per cent
of the total mechanical power spent in
charging it, and sixty per cent of the
