410
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
electrical work silent upon it. The lat-
ter result is alone to the point, as in the
former the efficiency of the dynamo-
machine enters as an element, as well
as that of the storage-battery. On this
showing the storage-battery does not
seem to have reached a commercial
stage, but that it will do so at no very
remote time there is every warrant for
believing, when we consider the large
amount of attention there is now being
given to the subject, and the rapidity
with which electric appliances are at
present passing out of the experimental
into the industrial stage.
LITERAKY NOTICES.
INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC SEUIES,
No. XLI.
Diseases of Memory: An Essay in the
Positive Psychology. By Th. Eibot,
author of " Ileredity : its Phenomena,
Laws, Causes, and Consequences,"
*' English Psychology," etc. Translated
from the French by William Hunting-
ton Smith. D. Appleton & Co. Pp.
209. Price, $1.50.
From both a scientific and a practical
point of view this monograph is among the
most interesting and valuable that have ap-
peared in the " International Series." It is
an able statement of the latest knowledge
on a subject which concerns almost every-
body. We can here only intimate the au-
thor's stand-point in the discussion.
Where are our thoughts when we are not
thinking them ? Xot a ten-thousandth part
of the great stock of mental acquisitions
which a man possesses is ever in con-
sciousness at any one time. And, of those
which in our waking states arc ever rapidly
emerging and disappearing, only a very .small
portion are obedient to the will — they exist
and are preserved independently of con-
sciousness, and they come and go, to a large
extent, by laws deeper than volition.
Where, then, is the great stock of our
ideas when we are not aware of them ? The
common, the pre-scientific answer is, they
are in the mind, which is an abstract spirit-
tial container, of which we only know that
it is an immaterial essence. This mind is
made up of faculties, and memory is one of
these faculties, in which the intellectual con-
tents are stored up until called for by volun-
tary thought. Hamilton speculated vaguely
about " mental latency," but where the men-
tal stock is kept was always regarded as
a great mystery — in fact, an insoluble mys-
tery which there was no use in working at,
because all the mind that concerns us is the
mind we know about. Mind was thus bound-
ed by consciousness, and memory, or the re-
call of ideas, was considered purely as a
matter of volition, while this faculty in all
men was looked upon as very much the
same thing. Dugald Stewart, for example,
says of the memory, " that original dispari-
ties among men, in this respect, are by no
means so immense as they seem to be at
first view, and that much is to be ascribed
to different habits of attention, and to dif-
ference of selection among the various ob-
jects and events presented to their curi-
osity."
Cut it is obvious enough that nothing
can be done with the problem of mental
disease under this view ; and, if we are to
inquire concerning "diseases of memory,"
the first thing is to ascertain what we have
to deal with that is capable of being dis-
eased. This, of course, is the corporeal
part of our nature, and it implies at once
that memory has its organic side. It is the
nervous part that registers and conserves
our psychical acquisitions, and accordingly
Professor Ribot begins his work by the
study of nei'vous structures, properties, and
activities, and with the consideration of
memory as a biological fact. Memory im-
plies three things : first, an impression, and
therefore an organism capable of receiving
impressions. The various senses bring, and
the nervous centers receive and record,
these impressions. The centers, moreover,
recombine, reassociate, and elaborate these
impressions in the most complex ways.
This implies, secondly, a conserving or re-
taining capacity of the nerve-centers, which
answers to the notion of mental storing.
Then there is, thirdly, the emergence of
these impressions in thought, or conscious
recollection. This deliverance in conscious-
ness is a result which we might call inci-
dental, and depends, of course, on the prior
conditions of impressibility and conscrva-
