LITERARY NOTICES.
411
tion, which are, therefore, of fundamental
importance. It is estimated that there are
a thousand million cells in the human brain,
all bound into a living unity by four or
five thousand million nerve-fibrils of amaz-
ing tenuity, and this is the grand mechan-
ism of registering, conserving, and elabo-
rating impressions and turning them out as
groups and fjystems of ideas. Conscious-
ness is merely a door through which a small
part of these cerebral elaborations emerge.
Mind grows as this organism grows ; its ca-
pacities are at bottom organic capacities,
and its diseases are breaks, failures, debili-
ties, and degenerations of the nervous sub.
stratum of all psychical operations.
Memory is therefore not the faculty of
an abstraction, but a phenomenon of nerv-
ous dynamics ; and it is dependent upon
the soundness, vigor, nutrition, and organic
perfection of the nervous structure. It is
not one thing, but our memories are innu-
merable. Investigating the problem from
the biological point of view, our author is
able to throw light on the many forms of fail-
ure to which the control of mental acquisi-
tions is subject. He is, in fact, prepared
to announce a law of the decay of memory,
which explains the order in which acquire-
ments disappear as the organ of thought
declines in force by age or from various
other causes. The import of the book is
therefore highly practical, for in proportion
as we have a correct understanding of the
subject shall we be saved from the conse-
quences of erroneous views. The subject
is far enough from being cleared up, but
this little book gives us more trustworthy
knowledge about it than can be found in
any preceding treatise upon it.
The Pkesent RELiciors Crisis. I5r A\:.
GCSTUS Blacvelt. G. p. Putnam's Sons.
Pp. 196. Price, -$1.
This is not at all a scientific book in the
usual sense, but it raises the question in a
very emphatic way that is fundamental to
all science, namely, the question of liberty
of thought. Whatever we may say in re-
gard to the alleged conflict between relig-
ion and science, of one thing there can not
be the slightest doubt : there is a radical
and a desperate conflict between theology
and liberty of thought. It is historic, and
it is contemporaneous ; and, if any doubt
its inveteracy, let them read Mr. Blauvelt's
book, which may be taken, in one of its
aspects, as but a new illustration of the old
experience in which religious bigotry is
arrayed against free and independent in-
quiry.
In his preface, Mr. Blauvelt remarks :
" When the author says that he was gradu-
ated from llutgers College, at New Bruns-
wick, New Jersey, and also from the Peter
Hertzog Theological Seminary connected
with the same institution, he has given a
sufficient guarantee that his original instruc-
tion in divinity was of the most hyper-or-
thodox description. Nor does he concede
that any alumnus of either Alma Mater
ever went forth who was, to begin with, a
more devout and implicit believer than he
was in both the essentials and the non-es-
sentials of the general orthodox theology,
and notably that of the Calvinistic order.
" It is needless to assure the reader that,
while he was a student at New Brunswick,
the author was most securely guarded
against all contamination from modern in-
fidelity. He docs not remember, for ex-
ample, that in those days he ever heard so
much as the mention of the name of Strauss.
At the same time, he does have an indis-
tinct recollection that, in a vague and gen-
eral way, he was taught at once to dread
and to abhor that modern theological mon-
strosity, namely, German rationalism."
It was not to be expected that an active-
minded man like Mr. Blauvelt, when he be-
gan to think for himself, would be content
to remain in the mental condition induced
by the theological seminary. Upon assum-
ing the function of a public religious teach-
er, he found the necessity of a more thor-
ough equipment for his work than his
theological instructors had provided, and
he therefore entered upon the systematic
study of the traditional theology, from the
point of view of modern criticism. The
spirit in which he engaged upon the work of
biblical and religious research is thus indi-
cated. He says that " the specific purpose
with which he originally took up these in-
vestigations was to vindicate the traditional
Protestant conceptions about the Bible and
religion against all the assaults of the mod-
ern unbelievers. But from the very outset
