412
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
he conceived the idea that, to make this
Tindication of any actual and permanent
service to those conceptions, it must itself
be actual ; it must itself be scientific, it must
itself be something decidedly more than
merely theological. In other words, what-
ever inherited conceptions, about either the
Bible or religion, he found he could not
establish by valid evidence and by legiti-
mate reasoning, he resolutely determined
that he would never make the effort to es-
tablish either by any such distortion of evi-
dence, or by any such illegitimate reasoning,
as he had fortunately come to discover to
be only too characteristic of the mediaeval
apologists."
Pursuing his biblical studies from this
independent point of view, Mr. Blauvelt, in
the spirit of the liberal scholarship of the
time, was led to the formation of opinions
widely differing from the orthodox tradi-
tions. The general results which he reached
are given with their proofs in the first eight
chapters of the little volume before us, the
subjects of which are : I. The Crisis ; II.
Dogmatic Theology; III. The Validity of
the Biblical Canon ; TV. The Inspiration of
the Bible; V. The Historical Character
of the Gospels; VI. The Religion of the
Bible; VII. Religion; VIII. The Religion
of Jesus. These chapters are full of infor-
mation in relation to the work of modern
criticism on biblical subjects, and they af-
ford an excellent introduction to the general
inquiry, for those who wish to know how
the register of theological liberality stands
at present.
But the sequel of honest and fearless
research proved to be in this case, what it
had always been before, repression of free
thought. In Chapter IX, Mr. Blauvelt gives
us some examples of the treatment extended
to religious men who have undertaken to
inquire for themselves. lie tells us that
"when, in 1835, Strauss published the ini-
tial volume of his first ' Life of Jesus,' he
was occupying the position of a theological
instructor at Tiibingen, with the most brill-
iant prospects before him, and beloved and
honored of all. But even before the ap-
pearance of the second volume he was sum-
marily ejected from his position. As the
imparalleled commotion created by his work
continued to increase, his own father turned
away from him in anger ; his early teachers
in divinity hastened to disavow all complic-
ity with his opinions, and ' as for the friends
and companions of my studies,' says Strauss
himself, 'these I had the mortification of
seeing exposed to so much suspicion and
annoyance for their merely rumored inti-
macy with me, that it became a point of
conscientious duty not to expose them to
still greater odium by any public memorial
of our friendship."
Again, " The faculty of the Theological
Seminary of St. Sulpice were once engaged
in preparing their annual examinations,
when a young candidate for the deaconship,
who had always been noted for his great
modesty and studious habits, asked leave to
submit a number of questions which per-
plexed his mind and seemed to depress his
religious spirit. Unless they were solved to
his satisfaction, he could not hope to enter
into holy orders. His earnestness aston-
ished and alarmed the entire faculty. They
refused at once to examine questions which
to them appeared novel or subversive, and,
justly fearing that a neophyte who on the
threshold of the priesthood was besieged
with such misgivings might become a cause
of strife in the Church, they withheld their
protection, and bade him depart from the
consecrated place. This inquisitive and
conscientious student was Joseph Ernest
Renan." How he subsequently succeeded
in passing with the highest honors his ex-
amination for University Professor of Phi-
losophy ; how he became Professor of He-
brew, Chaldaic, and Syriac Languages and
Literature in the oldest chair of the oldest
institution in the land ; and how he was
howled down by the clerical party so that
he could not be even heard on the day of
his inauguration ; and how this was fol-
lowed by a governmental decree suspending
his course of lectures indefinitely — is now
well-known matter of history.
When the volume entitled " Essays and
Reviews," containing some independent the-
ological thought, appeared in England, the
authorities were besieged to prosecute the
writers for heresy ; and there was one peti-
tion which is said to have contained the sig-
natures of not less than nine thousand clergy-
men of the Established Church, to promote
this end. Bishop Colcnso was subsequently
