LITERARY NOTICES.
413
hunted down for his heresies, and Professor
Robertson Smith has been very recently dis-
missed from the professorship of Hebrew,
in the Free College of Aberdeen, for the
same cause.
In further illustration of this religious
hostility to independent thought, it may be
stated that the author of the book before us
contributed in 1873, to "Scribner's Monthly,"
a series of papers entitled " Modern Skepti-
cism," which were simply a bold and forci-
ble statement of the present drifts of liberal
inquiry regarding theological matters. The
periodical was widely and vehemently de-
nounced for printing such discussions, and
there were public demands made for a new
editorship on penalty of the withdrawal of
patronage. Dr. Holland resisted the bigoted
crusade, and after a year or two another
paper was forwarded to him by Mr. Blau-
velt, in continuation of the argument. In
reply. Dr. Holland wrote : " Your last arti-
cle was received, and I have read it to-day.
At the conclusion of its perusal, I find my-
self called upon to make the most impor-
tant decision that has ever come to me for
its making, since I became an editor. I
must be frank with you. I believe you are
right. I should like to speak your words
to the world ; but, if I do speak these, it will
pretty certainly cost me my connection with
the magazine."
So much for freedom of religious
thought — American freedom of religious
thought — Protestant freedom of religious
thought, in the last quarter of the nine-
teenth century of Christianity ! Of course,
Mr. Blauvelt himself did not escape the
penalties of applying the scientific method
to theology. We do not notice the statement
in his volume, but if any one will turn to
" The Popular Science Monthly," for August,
1877, he will see that the reverend heretic
was stripped of his office, turned out of the
church, and branded as a " betrayer of his
Master." It was a little too late to burn
him, but is not that about as far as Chris-
tian toleration has yet " progressed " ? One
thing is evident : if Mr. Blauvelt had boen
a little more dishonest, had played fast and
loose with his conscience, and had not been
so anxious about the truth, he could have
spent all his days in pious comfort in the
bosom of the Church. Ever, and in the
nature of things, repression of thought is a
bid for hypocrisy.
Egyptian Obelisks. By Henry H. Gor-
RiNGE. Published by the Author, 32
Waverley Place, Xcw York. Pp. 1S7,
with 41 Plates.
The propriety of regarding as a great
achievement the removal of a noble object
of the oldest civilization from the place
where it has rested for ages, to adorn a
modern pleasure-ground among surround-
ings as different as possible from those
among which it has stood, has been criti-
cised by admirers of the antique. The fact
that the English, French, Germans, and Ital-
ians have also taken obelisks from Egypt
may show that they are not innocent, but
can not excuse us if the act is, as some be-
lieve, a kind of vandalism. The criticisms
can not, however, be applied justly to those
who removed the obelisk in Central Park,
for they did not take it fi'om before the
temple at Heliopolis, where Thothmes II set
it up, but from the place to wiiich others
before them had removed it from there.
The offense of removal, if it was an offense,
was committed by the Romans nineteen hun-
dred years ago ; and they may have been
guiltless of actual sin, for they probably
found the obelisk already thrown upon the
ground. Americans have been guilty of
no "despoilment," or removal from among
" antique surroundings " ; for the most
pi'ominent surroundings wliich Commander
Gorringc found about the obelisk at Alex-
andria " were a railway depot, a new apart-
ment-house, and an Arab fort," and it would
have inevitably been destroyed if he had
not taken it away. In other respects, a
feeling of disgust was aroused by the sur-
roundings, and " something more than cuii-
osity was needed to induce one to approach
near enough and remain long enough to ex-
amine and appreciate it." The removal of
the monument from such a situation as
Commander Gorringe describes to one that
is fully worthy of it, though un-Egyptian,
should be considered an act dcsci'ving as
much praise as the tact, ingenuity, and en-
gineering skill that were displayed in effect-
ing it with complete success. Readers of
the present work will find abundant oppor-
tunity to admire these qualities as displayed
