4H
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
by Commander Gorringe, for the difBculties
he had to meet, whether proceeding from
the tempers of men or the stolidity of nat-
ural forces, and the means by which he
overcame them, are clearly described and
illustrated in the interesting and often amus-
ing narrative that forms the first third of
the volume. The account of Commander
Gorringe's experiences in getting the great
stone afloat and across the ocean is supple-
mented by descriptions of the methods, also
illustrated, by which other obelisks have
been transported to Paris, London, and
Rome. The rest of the book is mainly his-
torical and archaeological. In it are in-
cluded a review of the " Archeeology of the
New York Obelisk," its symbolism, trans-
lations of the inscriptions on it, and its his-
tory ; a " a Record of all Egyptian Obe-
lisks," with photographs, and translations
of their inscriptions; and "notes on the
ancient methods of quarrying, transporting,
and erecting obelisks," including all that is
known on the subject. The final chapter,
arranged by Professor Persifer Frazer, de-
scribes the analyses of the materials and
metals found with the obelisk, and is illus-
trated by polariscopic sections of rocks.
The work thus combines a narrative of per-
sonal adventure and professional achieve-
ment, an exhaustive historical and archaeo-
logical account of Egyptian obeUsks, and the
results of scientific study, in a setting in
which no expense seems to have been spared
to make it worthy of the subject, and to
leave nothinsc wantin?.
EXPERIMESTAL RESEARCHES INTO THE PROP-
ERTIES AND Motions of FiriDS, with
TnEOREiiCAL Deductions therefrom.
By W. Ford Stanley. London: E. &
F. N. Spon. 1881. Pp. 538. Price,
ยง6.
Hating been engaged in an experiment-
al examination of the undulatory theory of
light, from which he was obliged to desist
on account of failing eye-sight, Mr. Stanley
took up this subject, he tells us, from the
interest awakened by the previous work,
and in the hope of making clear to his own
mind certain points left obscure by his pre-
vious investigations. It soon, however, ap-
peared to him that " there was yet an im-
mense amount of work to be done in re-
searches in the motions of fluids before
theoretical principles of the sciences of hy-
drodynamics and acoustics could be fixed
upon mechanical principles with any great
precision," and he consequently entered
upon the extended investigations set forth
in the present volume. Of the unsatisfac-
tory state of much of the work in this
branch of physics the author instances the
case of wave-motions on water. The true
procedure in this case is to determine the
maimer in which waves are produced on the
surface of water by the action of the wind,
and then, as a secondary consideration, to
investigate the action of gravity in bringing
the surface to equilibrium. The reverse of
this order, the author asserts, is usually fol-
lowed, the question being made .a case of
the oscillations of fluids through gravitation
only, and thus begged, as you have then to
assume the wave in existence, while its pro-
duction is the thing to be accounted for.
The first three chapters, the author
states, are speculative, and he puts them
forth simply as helping to a clearer concep-
tion of the nature of a fluid. In the fourth
chapter he develops a theory of rolling con-
tact of fluids moving upon static bodies ; and
in the fifth and sixth chapters he offers
principles of conic resistance in fluids which
give simple mechanical laws for the class of
motions known as vortices, eddies, and cy-
clones. The eighth chapter is devoted to
an exposition of the " principles of motive
resistance to the projection of free solids in
extensive fluids," and the ninth to the " dif-
fusion of flowing forces in fluids."
These nine chapters constitute the first
section of the work, the principles estab-
lished in which are applied to the elucidation
of the manifold phenomena of natural cur-
rents produced by the combined effects of
heat, gravitation, and the earth's rotation.
In the third and closing section of his work
Mr. Stanley takes up the subject of the for-
mation of waves upon the surface of water,
on which he reaches conclusions not mate-
rially different from those of M. Flangergues
and Mr. Scott Russell. A fourth section
upon sound-motions in fluids, which should
have made a part of the present treatise,
the author withholds from publication until
he has opportunity to go over the subject
again, with the help, which he anticipates
