MONKEYS. 25
tropics they become very abundant, and increase in numbers and va-
riety as we approach the equator, where the climate is hot, moist, and
equable, and where flowers, fruits, and insects are to be found through-
out the year. Africa has about fifty-five different kinds, Asia and its
islands about sixty, while America has one hundred and fourteen, or
almost exactly the same as Asia and Africa together. Australia and its
islands have no monkeys, nor has the great and luxuriant Island of New
Guinea, whose magnificent forests seem so well adapted for them.
We will now give a short account of the different kinds of monkeys
inhabiting each of the tropical continents.
Africa possesses two of the great man-like apes — the gorilla and
the chimpanzee, the former being the largest ape known, and the one
which, on the whole, perhaps most resembles man, though its counte-
nance is less human than that of the chimpanzee. Both are found in
West Africa, near the equator, but they also inhabit the interior
wherever there are great forests ; and Dr. Schweinf urth states that
the chimpanzee inhabits the country about the sources of the Shari
River, in 28° east longitude and 4° north latitude.
The long-tailed monkeys of Africa are very numerous and varied.
One group has no cheek-pouches and no thumb on the hand, and many
of these have long, soft fur of varied colors. The most numerous
group are the guenons, rather small, long-tailed monkeys, veiy active
and lively, and often having their faces curiously marked with white
or black, or ornamented with whiskers or other tufts of hair ; and
they all have large cheek-pouches and good-sized thumbs. Many of
them are called green monkeys, from the greenish-yellow tint of their
fur, and most of them are well-formed, pleasing animals. They are
found only in tropical Africa.
The baboons are larger, but less numerous. They resemble dogs
in the general form and the length of the face or snout, but they have
hands with well-developed thumbs on both the fore and hind limbs ;
and this, with something in the expression of the face, and their habit
of sitting up and using their hands in a very human fashion, at once
shows that they belong to the monkey-tribe. Many of them are very
ugly, and in their wild state they are the fiercest and most dangerous
of monkeys. Some have the tail very long, others of medium length,
while it is sometimes reduced to a mere stump, and all have large
cheek-pouches and bare seat-pads. They are found all over Africa,
from Egypt to the Cape of Good Hope ; while one species, called the
hamadryas, extends from Abyssinia across the Red Sea into Arabia,
and is the only baboon found out of Africa. This species was known
to the ancients, and it is often represented in Egyptian sculptures,
while mummies of it have been found in the catacombs. The largest
and most remarkable of all the baboons is the mandrill of West Af-
rica, whose swollen and hog-like face is ornamented with stripes of
vivid blue and scarlet. This animal has a tail scarcely two inches
