LITERARY NOTICES.
417
ment of that race-tendency which seeks in
nature for the proof of the existence of
God. In Nature, paganism found at first
many gods ; and our present monotheistic
idea (outside of Christianity) seems to be
the result of the gradual extinction of the
belief in diverse deities, by the process of
discovering a single force moving the uni-
verse of matter."
As Elemextary Treatise ox Electricity.
By James Clerk Maxwell. Edited by
William Garnett. Oxford : Clarendon
Press. 1881. Pp. 208. Price, $1.90.
The greater part of this work consists
of articles written by the late Professor
Maxwell some years before his death, with
a view to their ultimate publication as an
elementary text-book of the subject. Owing
to the labor involved in the editing of the
Cavendish papers, they were left in a very
incomplete state at the time of his death,
but the editor has endeavored to carry out
the original pui-pose, by supplementing them
with material taken from Professor Max-
well's larger work, "Electricity and Mag-
netism." The first two chapters arc de-
voted to an experimental demonstration of
the principal facts relating to electric charge
considered as a quantity capable of meas-
urement, and the third to electric work and
energy. In the fourth chapter the electric
field is considered, and Faraday's law of
lines of induction forms the subject of the
fifth. Some particular cases of electrifica-
tion are taken up in the sixth chapter, elec-
trical images in the seventh, and condensers
in the eighth. The various phenomena of
the current form the subject of the ninth
and tenth chapters, while the methods of
maintaining it are considered in the eleventh.
The twelfth chapter is devoted to the meas-
urement of electrical resistance, and the
thirteenth and last to electrical resistance of
substances.
The Mother's Gi-ide in the Management
AND Feeding of Infants. By John M.
Keating, M. D. Philadelphia: Henry
C. Lea's Son & Co. Pp. 118. Price,
$1.
The author has endeavored to supply a
want which he believes to be daily growing,
as the monthly nurses of the last generation,
whose knowledge gained by experience gave
VOL. XXI. — 27
them a place hardly secondary to that of the
doctor, arc passing aw.ay — the want of a
better understanding of the requirements
of a new-born babe. A necessity for arti-
ficial feeding has been developed; over-
luxurious and overheated dwellings have
raised the question of proper clothing ; and
the rapid advancement of science has taught
us the value of early treatment to eradicate
the tendency to inherited taint. For ex-
plaining these matters, the work considers
the requirements of the infant, first from
birth till the cutting of its first teeth, then
during the period of dentition, and finally
those of a child after its third j-ear.
Opium-Smoking in America and China. A
Study of its Prevalence and Effects, Im-
mediate and Remote, on the Individual
and the Nation. By H. H. Kane, M. D.
New York : G. P. Putnam's Sons. Pp.
156. Price, $1.
" That opium-smoking," says the author
of this work, "is a vice that imperatively
demands careful study at the hands of Amer-
icans is made manifest by the fact that the
practice, comparatively unknown among us
six years ago, is now indulged in by some
six thousand of our countrymen, male and
female, whose ranks are being daily re-
cruited ; . . . that large and small towns in
the West and large cities in the East abound
in places where this drug is sold and
smoked " ; and that in some of the States it
has been found necessary to enact repress-
ive laws on the subject. Dr. Kane has
made careful investigations of the methods
and effects of opium-smoking, by personal
experiment, by the observation of smokers
in the act and afterward, by correspond-
ence and communication with other similar
observers, and by the consultation of books
in which the subject is discussed, and com-
municates the results in this volume.
A Study of the Various Sources of Sugar :
Sugar-Cane, Sorghums, Sugar-Bect, Ma-
ple, Watcr-^Ielons, etc. By Lewis S.
Ware. Philadelphia: Henry Carey
Bdird & Co. Pp. 66. Price, 50 cents.
The author suggests that sugar, being
the largest single article of import into the
country, offers a greater field for usefulness
in the investigation and introduction and
development of a new industry than " any
