420
TRE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
timber-trees from twelve to sixteen inches
in diameter. Dr. F. B. Hougli stated that
a journal devoted to the interests of for-
estry would be begun soon, to be edited by
himself, and published by Kobei't Clarke &
Co., of Cincinnati. Committees were ap-
pointed to report on the importance of ex-
perimental forest stations ; to suggest a plan
for the prevention of the destruction of for-
ests by fire and cattle ; to report on the
importance and necessity of State commis-
sions of forestry ; on forest-culture, and on
forestry schools. The next meeting was
appointed to be held at Montreal, Canada,
August 21st and 22d of this year, two days
before the annual meeting of the American
Association for the Advancement of Science,
when reports from these committees are ex-
pected. One of the days of the convention
was styled " Arbor Day," and was devoted
to the planting of trees in the public squares
and Lincoln Park. A large number of the
trees were named in honor of public men
and distinguished citizens, etc. This, though
not of particular practical bearing, tends to
awaken interest in a cause that needs such
awakening sadly enough.
Sonnd-Shadows in Water. — Professor
John Le Conte has described in the "Amer-
ican Journal of Science " a course of inves-
tigations, which he has made with the as-
sistance of his son, on sound-shadows in
water. It is probably within the experience
of all that more or less perfect sound-shad-
ows are thro\\Ti by hills, buildings, piers,
and other obstacles, to the transmission of
aerial vibrations. Xevertheless, the bound-
aries of such shadows are so imperfectly
defined that they can hardly be compared,
except in a general way, with the shadows
of light. Many ordinary obstacles arc elas-
tic and give passage to a part of the sound,
as translucent bodies let a part of the light
through ; and waves arc liable to a diifrac-
tive divergence, which proceeds from the
secondary waves that originate at the bound-
aries of the obstacle and arc propagated
within the geometrical shadow. Lord Piay-
Icigh refers the difference in effect in the
case of sound as compared with light to
the difference in the proportion of the
wave-lengths of the two phenomena to the
size of the obstacle. An ordinary obstacle
bears an immense ratio to the length of a
wave of light, but does not bear a very
great ratio to the length of a sound-wave.
Hence it follows, from the mathematical
theory of undulations, that the waves of
sound bend around obstacles, and produce
more or less effect within the geometrical
shadow, while light-shadows have definite
boundaries, and are more sharply de-
fined. These views appear to be confirmed
by experiment; for the shadows cast by
acute sounds are more distinct than those
produced by grave sounds. It is also a sig-
nificant fact that sound-shadows seem to
be more perfect or more sharply defined in
water than in air. David Colladon found
this to be the case in 1826. Professor Le
Conte's son, under his direction, made some
experiments in this matter during the re-
moval of Rincon Eock at San Francisco, by
blasting with dynamite, in 187-4. The shock
produced in the water — which was felt at
the distance of three hundred feet as a short
concussion or click — was followed by a sec-
ond shock in the air, that was heard. When
the observer stood upon the top of a wooden
pile, the concussion seemed to come up
from the water along the cylinder of wood.
A soda-water bottle was let down near a
pile about forty feet from the explosive car-
tridge. Whenever it was left within the
geometrical shadow of the pile from the
cartridge, it was not hurt by the explosion ;
whenever it was placed outside of the shad-
ow it was shivered to atoms, and this wheth-
er it was filled with water or with air. In
other experiments stout glass tubes firmly
adjusted to a frame-work supporting them,
were let down horizontally so as to lie across
the piles. In every case the shock of the
explosion shivered the parts of the tube
that projected on either side of the posts,
and left the part within the shadow unin-
jured. Tlie boundaries between the broken
and the protected parts of the glass were
sharply defined. The same effects were pro-
duced when the tubes were put twelve feet
beyond the pile. Professor Le Conte ex-
plains these phenomena by endeavoring to
show that the sound-shadows arc more dis-
tinct in water than in air because the sound-
waves are shorter in that medium. The
character of the explosion also probably has
much to do with the nature of the effect : the
