P OP ULA R MIS CELL ANY.
421
sharp, sudden detonation of nitro-gljcerine
is calculated to generate shorter waves than
a more deliberate explosion. This view is
confirmed by the fact that, when an extreme-
ly disastrous explosion of nitro-glycerine
took place in San Francisco in 1S80, a vio-
lent concussion was felt in the University
buildings, three miles away, while no aerial
shock was felt at Professor Joseph Le
Conte's house, eight hundred and ninety feet
farther off, but within the geometrical shad-
ow of one of the buildings. The sound-wave
coming by the air was completely cut off
by the acoustical shadow cast by the inter-
vening structure. This would not have
been the result in the case of ordinary
sounds.
The Salmon-Disease. — Professor Huxley
recently read a paper before the Royal So-
ciety on the disease which prevails occasion-
ally among the salmon in North America
and Siberia, in which he reviewed the re-
sults of the commission that was appointed
in 1878, when the disease raged in the Sol-
way district, to investigate its nature. The
evidence taken before the commissioners
leaves no doubt that the malady is to be as-
signed to the diseases caused by parasitic
organisms, and that it is a contagious and in-
fectious disease of the same order as ring-
worm, the muscardine among silk-worms,
and the potato-disease, and is the work of
a minute fungus. In fact, the Saprolerjnia
which causes it is an organism closely allied
to the Peronospora, which is the cause of
the potato-disease. One distinction may be
marked between them, that the Peronospora
arc parasites depending altogether upon liv-
ing phnts for their support, while the Sa-
prolegnia are essentially saprophytes, that
13, they ordinarily derive their nourishment
from dead animal and vegetable matters,
and are only occasionally parasites upon
living organisms. The zoospores of these
plants, diffused through the water, germi-
nate and produce a mycelium similar to that
from which they started as soon as they
reach the healthy skin of a salmon. Pro-
fessor Huxley experimented in inoculatincr
the bodies of dead house-flies from the dis-
eased salmon-skin, and in a few hours saw
the bodies completely taken possession of
bv the white filaments of the funcrus ; it
was proved to him that the pathogenic *Sa-
prolegnia of the living salmon may become
an ordinary saprogenic Saprolegnia, and, joer
contra, that the latter may give rise to the
former. Hence the cause of salmon-disease
may exist in all waters in which dead in-
sects infested with the Saprolegnia are met
with. The Saprolegnia do not appear to be
found on decaying bodies in salt-water. We
must, therefore, " look for the origin of the
disease to the Saprolegnia which infest dead
organic bodies in fresh waters. Neither
pollution, drought, nor over-stocking, will
produce the disease if Saprolegnia are ab-
sent," although they may favor the condi-
tions on which its spread depends. Profess-
or Huxley also concludes that the chances of
infection for a healthy fish entering a river
are prodigiously increased by the existence
of diseased fish in that river, insomuch as
the bulk of Saprolegnia on a few diseased
fish vastly exceeds that which would exist
without them. Hence, " the careful extir-
pation of every diseased individual is the
treatment theoretically indicated ; though,
in practice, it may not be worth while to
adopt that treatment."
Catalo^ne of Scientific Periodicals. —
Dr. H. C. Bolton, of Trinity College, is pre-
paring for the press his long-delayed " Cata-
logue of Scientific Periodicals," which will
appear in the octavo series of the Smith-
sonian Institution. The catalogue is intend-
ed to embrace independent journals of pure
and applied science, published in all coun-
tries, from 1665 to 1880 ; so far as possible,
minute details will be given concerning
changes of title, sequence of series, editor-
ship, and date of publication. The arrange-
ment of titles will be strictly alphabetical,
but periodicals having different names at
different periods will be grouped together
under the heading of the first or earliest
title of the series, cross-references being
made in all cases. A peculiar feature of
the catalogue is presented in synoptical ta-
bles containing the dates of publication of
each volume of the periodicals named, ex-
hibited by a method slightly modified from
the plan originated by Professor James D.
Dana, and is described in his " System of
Mineralogy " (page 34, foot-note). Only a
limited number of the periodicals can be en-
