422
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tered in the synoptical tables, as preference
is given to those which were published dur-
ing a long series of years, or were issued
very irregularly. The publication of the
data contained in these tables was at one
time abandoned on account of supposed
typographical difficulties, but these have
been overcome. The catalogue does not
embrace transactions of learned societies,
these being found in the admirable " Cata-
logue of Scientific Serials," by Mr. S. H.
Scudder ; but it does embrace every branch
of applied science, including engineering,
architecture, chemical technology, geogra-
phy, ethnology, agriculture, horticulture, te-
legraphy, meteorology, etc. More than twen-
ty languages are represented in the work,
which it is hoped will be completed before
the close of the year.
Sionx Superstitions. — Mr. H. C. Yar-
row has communicated to the Anthropolog-
ical Society of Washington, D. C, some ob-
servations by Mr. William E. Everett, a
Government scout at Fort Custer, on some
superstitions of the live Indians. The Sioux
believe that when they die they go directly
to the " Great Spirit's Big Village," having
to cross a long divide, and perhaps fight the
spirits of their dead enemies on the way ;
for this reason they want their best horses
killed with them, and their arms put by
their side. Reaching their paradise, they
are received by their friends and relatives
and escorted to a fine lodge, where they
meet their wives and children that have
gone before ; all their war-horses that have
been killed in battle reappear before them ;
if they have been maimed in war, their miss-
ing members immediately return to them ;
if they have mutilated themselves greatly
for some friend or relative, that person
comes to them and embraces them, and
makes them large presents ; and they find
themselves encamped amid most delight-
ful surroundings. Their idea of sickness is
that a bad spirit of one of their enemies
has entered the sick person, and must be
driven out by noise ; and a great uproar is
made, while the invalid is made to inhale
the smoke of sweet grasses and herbs to
assist in the exorcism. Bad spirits arc be-
lieved to be sometimes sent back to earth
in the shape of some animal, and Indians
often fancy that they can talk to their friends
under such forms. Mr. Everett once saw
Sitting Bull making motions with his hands,
and talking to a large wolf, which apparent-
ly understood what he said, " for whenever
he would make the sign for ' Do you under-
stand ? ' the wolf would throw up his head
and howl." The chief told Mr. Everett that
he was making medicine to find where the
main herd of buffalo were, and whether it
would rain or snow before the hunters got
back ; and he said the wolf was the spirit
of a great hunter, and always gave him
warning whenever there was any danger
close at hand, and told him where the buf-
falo were to be found. He also repeated
some predictions the wolf had made to him,
which seem to have been afterward exactly
fulfilled. A remarkable superstition pre-
vails with relation to the white-tailed deer,
and is so strong that an Indian can seldom
be induced to shoot one of those animals.
They believe that the deer embodies the
spirit of a woman, who, if it is killed, will
appear before them and kill them, or make
their life a torture. Mr. Everett is ac-
quainted with several stories of Indians
who started out, in spite of the superstition,
to hunt the white-tailed deer and did not
return, but who were afterward found, by
their friends going out to search for them,
lying by the side of a dead deer strangled,
with the marks of a woman's hand on their
throat, and a woman's feet on the ground.
One grim story of this character, which he
repeats with its particulars, relates to six
young men who went out together and shot
six deer, and were found strangled, with
marks of fingers on their throats, and hor-
rified looks, as if they had seen something
awful. A curse was pi-onounced upon the
spot where the tragedy happened, by the
oldest man of the tribe, which was said by
the Indians to have been fulfilled to the
letter.
What areSnn-Spots? — Opinions respect-
ing the nature of the sun-spots vary widely.
Sccclii thought they were clefts filled with
metallic vapors ; Weber and KirchhoiT, that
they were clouds of smoke ; Reis, that they
were clouds of vaporized oxyhydrate of iron ;
and Fayc, ZilUner, Gautier, Spiller, and Spo-
rer, that they were a dross formed by a cc ol-
