P OP JJLAR MIS CELL ANY
423
ing of the sun's fiery matter. None of these
theories is fully satisfactory. The hypothe-
sis of clouds of smoke hardly agrees with
the immensely high temperature we have to
ascribe to every part of the sun's surface,
and the supposition of a dross would re-
quire a greater degree of cooling than could
possibly take place there. Ilerr Edmund
von Ludwighausen Wolff has advanced the
theory in " Kosmos " that the spots, instead
of being cooler, represent parts of the sun
that are vastly hotter than the rest of its
body ; that is, that they are regions in which
all the heat-movements have reached the in-
tensity of the ultra-violet and invisible rays ;
consequently, they appear dark. Herr Wolff
remarks that Secchi's observation that the
spots gave out not less but more heat than
the rest of the sun's surface, and Fraun-
hofer's that the forces that produce the
spectrum-lines appear to be more active in
the spots, and the fact that flashes of light
are frequently seen to spring up from the
midst of them, are contradictory to all pre-
viously received theories, but agree fully
with that which he proposes, and are clearly
explainable by it.
The Laws of Raia-fall.— Professor E.
Loomis has prepared, in aid of his studies of
the laws affecting the amount of rain-fall at
different places, a graduated table of the
average annual rain-fall at more than seven
hundred points. Of two hundred and four
stations at which the mean exceeds seventy-
five inches (rising from this amount to 41)2"-
45 inches at Chcrapunji, Assam), some are
elevated more than two thousand feet above
the sea, and nearly all are within one or two
hundred miles of elevated mountains. Rain
chiefly occurs when the wind from the ocean
is blowing toward the mountains, and the
extraordinary rain-fall at most of them is
probably due to the influence of the mount-
ains, by whicli the wind is deflected upward
to such height that a considerable part of
the contained vapor is condensed by the
cold of elevation. The cases in which the
rain-fall is excessively deficient are, on the
other hand, those of places in which nothing
exists that may cause an upward current of
air. Another cause of deficient rain-fall,
frequently exemplified, is the descent of a
current of air which has been forced up to
a great height and suffered condensation of
its vapor, after it has crossed the mountain,
by the influence of which it has been raised,
when its temperature rises and it becomes
dry. Such effects are produced by the
Rocky Mountains on the plains east of them
and by the Himalayas on the Desert of
Gobi ; and the operation of these two
causes will assist in explaining most of the
rainless districts of the globe. Other in-
fluences modifying the amount of rain-fall
are, the meeting of the northeast and south-
east trade-winds, which results in a great
rain-belt surrounding the globe ; the irreg-
ular barometric depressions of the middle
latitudes, indicating frequent storms ; prox-
imity to the ocean, especially when the pi'ev-
alent wind comes from the sea ; and the
projection of capes and headlands into the
ocean, which contribute to frequent rains.
Uniformity in the direction of the winds
throughout the year, such as prevails in
the trade-wind regions, obstruction of the
free movement of surface-winds by mount-
ains, remoteness from the ocean measured
in the direction from which the prevalent
wind proceeds, and high latitude, tend to
produce a dry climate. These principles do
not seem to be fully borne out by the phe-
nomena of rain on either side of the Alle-
ghany Mountains, but we have not yet sys-
tematic enough or careful enough observa-
tions to enable us to determine what is their
real influence. Mount Washington, in New
Ilampshire, exerts a marked influence. The
mean annual precipitation there is seventy-
seven inches, while in the surrounding dis-
tricts it is only forty inches.
Improved Sanitary Condition of Lon-
don, — The report of the English Registrar-
General for 1880 completes the fourth dec-
ade of reports since the weekly return of
that officer was first published. It shows
that the death-rate in London for the year
(taking the population of the metropolis as
given by the last census) was not more than
21 "5 per thousand inhabitants, than which
a lower death-rate has been returned in only
three of the last forty years. The decade
closing with ISSO was one of lower mor-
tality in London than any of the three de-
cennial periods for which trustworthy sta-
tistics are available, the rate having been
