424
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
22-4 for 1880, and having ranged from 23-7
to 24'9 in the three decades from 1841 to
1870, and averaged 23 '4 during the whole
period. The health of London, which was
practically stationary during the thirty years
ending with 1870, showed a marked im-
provement during the following ten years ;
and it may be estimated that at least 70,000
persons were living within registration in
London at the end of the ten years who
would have died had the mean death-rate of
the preceding thirty years been maintained.
Dividing the ten years into two periods of
live years, the death-rate appears to have
been considerably lower in the later than
in the earlier period. These facts afford
strong evidence of the efficacy of the sani-
tary efforts of late years in the face of the
increasing density of the population, which
has, of course, woi'ked against them. This
ascription of improvement to the effect of
sanitary measures is justified by the fact
that the most marked decrease in mortal-
ity is in that from zymotic diseases. The
average annual death-rate from fever fell
from 092 per 1,000 during the first three
decades of the forty years to 0-37 per 1,000
in 1871-80. The rate of Infant mortality
has not, however, diminished to a corre-
sponding proportion with the mortality from
other classes of diseases.
The Aqnarides, or Jnly Meteors. — M.
Cruls has communicated a notice of the
meteors which the earth meets between the
25th and 30th of July, called Aqtearides, be-
cause they appear to radiate from a point
near S Aquarii, of which regular observa-
tions have only recently been made under
favorable conditions. The possibility of the
earth meeting at a point in its orbit one or
more currents of asteroids is very admis-
sible. Each of these currents might be de-
fined by its proceeding from distinct centers
of emanation which may be determined by
the crossing of the trajectories ; but, to give
a character of certainty to the existence of
these centers, the determination should rest
upon the definition of an adequate number
of trajectories. If the existence of a con-
siderable number of radiant points should
be verified by continued observations, the
phenomena would lose the character which
a few trains isolated and distributed after
a certain manner in space would present,
and would assume that of an intricacy of
asteroidal cuiTcnts, compelling the admission
that the infinite multitude of corpuscles oc-
cupies an immense zone analogous to the
zodiacal light, and possibly having a certain
connection with it. M. Cruls believes with-
out doubt that the zodiacal light extends
beyond the orbit of the earth, at least in
certain directions ; while he was observing
the meteors in July, he saw the zodiacal
light at one o'clock in the morning distinct-
ly projected upon the zenith, and extending
toward the eastern horizon ; the earth was
at that moment within its limits. Three
astronomers and three pupils participated
in watching the meteors at Rio, from the
2oth to the 30th of July. They counted
2,710 meteors, and estimated that five per
cent of the whole number escaped observa-
tion. It was manifest to all the observers
that ninety per cent of all the paths of the
meteors intersected each other in the neigh-
borhood of Fomalhaut. The horary means
increased fast from the hours of evening till
those of morning, and exhibited a remarka-
ble incandescence near sunrise. This seems
to indicate that the swarms of meteors
move in an opposite direction to the earth ;
for in that case, the movement of the earth
at sunrise being directed toward that point
in the ecliptic which is on the meridian,
the meteors would then enter the atmos-
phere under more favorable conditions of
speed than at any other hour of the night.
Piseco Lakc-Tront and T Lake Falls. —
Piseco Lake, in the Adirondacks, formerly
the fishing-grounds of the once famous Pi-
seco Club, was noted in the earlier days of
its frequentation for the wonderful catches
of trout it afforded. According to the state-
ment of the Rev. Henry L. Ziegenf uss, in
"Forest and Stream," an average of less
than six men fishing from the club-house at
"Walton Lodge, for an average of less than
nine days annually, succeeded in capturing
in nine years — 1842 to 1850 — more than
three tons of trout. The largest trout ever
taken from the lake — which was called for
distinction the " Emperor " — was caught on
the 24th of June, 1842, and weighed twenty-
six pounds and eight ounces. Another fish
weighed twenty pounds and a quarter, and
