P OP ULAR MIS CELLAXY
427
this singular circumstance, a special form
of parasitism, which he calls reciprocal par-
asitism. It may, perhaps, be illustrated by
the case of the leaf of the maple, which is
frequently attacked at the end of the sum-
mer by an erysiphus, that occupies the lower
surface and fruits there. In the fall the
leaves change color and drop off, but the
spots occupied by the erysiphus remain
green, and so continue, a spot distinct from
all the rest of the leaf, for weeks. A simi-
lar reciprocation may take place between
the algoid and fungoid parts of the lichen.
A Mechanical Rock-Excavator. — By the
aid of perforators, worked by compressed
air, it has been possible to complete in a
few years works of subterranean excava-
tion like the tunnels of Mont Cenis and
Mont St. Gothard, which would formerly
have occupied several generations of miners.
Hand-drilling can be dispensed with when
such perforators are used, for the perforator
itself makes the hole destined to receive the
powder by which the rock is blown up, and
the mmer has nothing to do but to pick up
the pieces. A full solution of the mechan-
ical operation of boring is thus obtained,
and a self-acting ventilation of the shafts
and the removal of all noxious vapors are
secured at the same time. Till recently it
was not practicable to apply the perforators
in coal-mines charged with explosive gases,
for such mines had to be worked without
using powder. Two French engineers, MM.
Dubois and Fran5ois, have resolved this
difficulty by the construction of an appa-
ratus which they call a bossei/cusc, or, as we
might call it in English, a pioneer-drill. Its
principal feature is a kind of needle-wedge
which is made under the action of the per-
forator to enter the hole made by the drill
and break the rocks up by the force of
pressure, without throwing out the frag-
ments as powder does. This apparatus has
been used in several gas-infected mines in
the Belgian coal-basin, with a considerable
consequent dimiuutiou in the frequency of
Fic.2
FlG3. 1 TO 4.— .\PPLICATIOM OF THE PiONEER-NeEDLE TO EUEAK UP THE RoCK IN THE IIOLE
THAT HAS BEEN ALREADY MADE BY THE FoiL OF THE PeRFORATOK.
explosions. The powder, if that is used, is
introduced when the hole excavated by the
perforator has reached a depth of about
twenty-seven inches ; or, if the mine con-
tains explosive gases, the needle-wedge is
substituted for powder. This apparatus,
which is represented in the figures (1 to -1),
consists of two bars of iron, shaped like
segments of a circle, and touching by their
ends, the union of which constitutes a cylin-
der hollowed along its axis with a conical
hole. The section of the two segments is
of the same size as the drill-hole, so that
they fill it completely when inserted in it.
As soon as the drill-hole has been hollowed
to a sufficient depth, these two bars arc iu-
