THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
serted in it, and a conical steel needle-drill
is introduced into the central hole of the
metallic cylinder thus formed. The piston-
head of the perforator is then made to strike
upon the head of the needle, so as to drive
it in like a wedge and cause it to force the
two segments apart and split the rock. As
many holes may be made as are necessary
to break the rock up, and this depends much
upon its hardness. Fig. 5 represents a sec-
FiG. 5. — Section of a GlxLEnr uxder a Co.vi,-]\Ii\e, ixdicattno the Holes to be bored by
THE Perforator, so as to break up the Sterile Rock in Four Successive Operations.
tion of the chamber of a coal-mine, and in-
dicates the position of the holes that have
to be drilled to break up the rock in four
successive operations. The inventors of this
apparatus claim that rock can be broken up
with it in veins of the average thickness
almost as fast as with gunpowder.
Transmission of Vibrations. — The Trans-
actions of the Seismological Society of Ja-
pan contains an account of experiments by
Professor H. M. Paul, in Washington, D. C,
on the transmission of vibrations from rail-
road-trains through the ground. Cups con-
taining mercury were fixed at four stations,
at distances of from 0'29 to 0'93 of a mile
from the raih-oad, in which the amount of
disturbance caused by vibration was ascer-
tained by noticing the displacements of the
reflected image of the pole-star. The char-
acter of the effects varied according to the
distance of the station from the train, the
nature of the ground at the station, and the
kind of train, but they were distinct. At
one of the stations the communication of
vibrations, which were limited to a shallow
depth, appeared to be interrupted by the
intervention of a ravine. The effect of car-
riage-driving on a public road was also ob-
served, A hack carrying four persons and
drawn by two horses, about four hundred
feet away, caused a temporary shaking of
the mercury whenever a wheel struck a stone
or hollow; and a similar effect was pro-
duced while the carriage was crossing a
small wooden bridge at about five hundred
feet ; but no serious continuous disturbance
was perceived till the carriage approached
within two or three hundred feet of the in-
strument.
Tlic Systematic Position of the Brachi-
opoda. — In the " Jcnaischc Zeitschrift f iir
Naturwissenschaft," Jona, ISSl, Dr. Oscar
Ilcrtwig and Dr. Richard Ilcrtwig, the emi-
nent embryologists, recognize the work of
