26 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
long, while in size and strength it is not much inferior to the gorilla.
These large baboons go in bands, and are said to be a match for any
other animals in the African forests, and even to attack and drive
away the elephants from the districts they inhabit.
Turning now to Asia, we have first one of the best known of the
large man-like apes — the orang-outang, found only in the two large
islands, Borneo and Sumatra. The name is Malay, signifying " man
of the woods," and it should be pronounced orang-ootang, the accent
being on the first syllable of both words. It is a very curious circum-
stance that, whereas the gorilla and chimpanzee are both black, like
the negroes of the same country, the orang-outang is red or reddish-
brown, closely resembling the color of the Malays and Dyaks who live
in the Bornean forests. Though very large and powerful, it is a harm-
less creature, feeding on fruit, and never attacking an}^ other animal
except in self-defense. A full-grown male orang-outang is rather more
than four feet high, but with a body as large as that of a stout man,
and with enormously long and powerful arms.
Another group of true apes inhabit Asia and the larger Asiatic
islands, and are in some respects the most remarkable of the whole
family. These are the gibbons, or long-armed apes, which are gen-
erally of small size and of a gentle disposition, but j^ossessing the most
wonderful agility. In these creatures the arms are as long as the body
and legs together, and are so powerful that a gibbon will hang for
hours suspended from a branch, or swing to-and-fro, and then throw
itself a great distance through the air. The arms, in fact, completely
take the place of the legs for traveling. Instead of jumping from
bough to bough, and running on the branches, like other apes and
monkeys, the gibbons move along while hanging suspended in the air,
stretching their arms from bough to bough, and thus going hand over
hand as a very active sailor will climb along a rope. The strength of
their arms is, however, so prodigious, and their hold so sure, that they
often loose one hand before they have caught a bough with the other,
thus seeming almost to fly through the air by a series of swinging
leaps ; and they travel among the net-work of interlacing boughs a
hundred feet above the earth with as much ease and certainty as we
walk or run upon level ground, and with even greater speed. These
little animals scarcely ever come down to the ground of their own ac-
cord ; but, when obliged to do so, they run along almost erect, with
their long arms swinging round and round, as if trying to find some
tree or other object to climb upon. They are the only apes who nat-
urally walk without using their hands as well as their feet ; but this
does not make them more like men, for it is evident that the attitude
is not an easy one, and is only adopted because the arms are habitually
used to swing by, and are therefore naturally held upward instead of
downward, as they must be when walking on them.
The tailed monkeys of Asia consist of two groups, the first of which
