P OP ULAR MIS CELL ANY.
429
Edward S. Morse on the Brachiopoda as
follows. Having made certain compari-
sons, they say : " After these analyses, it is
self-evident that the braehiopods must be
distinguished from the moUusks, and that
the two represent perfectly different types
of development. It is the merit of Steen-
strup to have first recognized this, and in-
deed, as early as 1847, to have sought a
connection of the braehiopods with the an-
nelids. Independently of him, Morse has
pursued the same road, and one may say
decided the question by comparing, with
great ingenuity and to the minutest details,
the anatomy of the braehiopods with that
of the worms and the moUusks, and has in
this connection proved throughout their dif-
ference from the mollusks and agreement
with the annelids." Gegenbaur also assumed
the position of Steenstrup and Morse, and
remarks in the second edition of his " Grund-
zuge " that the braehiopods have little more
in common with the mollusks than the pos-
session of a shell quite different from the
housing integument of the latter, and form
a small and sharply distinguished division,
the origin of which may be traced back to
the stem of the worm and specially of the
chastopod,
Deatb of Professor William B. Rogers. —
Professor William B. Rogers, ex-President
of the Massachusetts Institute of Technol-
ogy and one of its founders, died very sud-
denly of apoplexy, ^lay oOth, during the
exercises of the graduating class of the in-
stitution, which he was attending. lie had
begun making an address, and was review-
ing what the institute had accomplished,
when he was attacked. He was taken from
the hall, and died in about twenty minutes.
Professor Rogers was bom in Philadelphia
in 1805, and was one of four brothers, all
of whom have distinguished themselves in
science. He succeeded his father. Dr. P. K.
Rogers, as Professor of Natural Philosophy
and Chemistry in William and Mary Col-
lege, in 1829, and was Professor of Natural
Philosophy and Geology in the University of
Virginia from 1833 to 1853. lie removed
to Boston, where he had since lived, in the
latter year. He was President of the Insti-
tute of Tcchnolo.::ty from 1802 to 1868, and
was President of the American Association
for the Advancement of Science in lS7o.
He was the author of works on the " Strength
of Materials " and the " Elements of Me-
chanical Philosophy," and of many scien-
tific papers. A portrait and sketch of Pro-
fessor Rogers were given in " The Popular
Science Monthly " for September, 187(3.
The Mysterious Volcano of Apo. — The
Governor of Davao, Mindanao, Philippine
Islands, recently ascended a remarkable vol-
cano called Apo. An expedition to the
mountain had often been contemplated be-
fore, but had been prevented, partly by the
unexplored and difficult character of the
country, pai'tly by the opposition offered by
the natives, who, though nominally Mo-
hammedans, believe that the summit of the
mountain is inhabited by a demon to whom .
they are accustomed to make offerings
when they think he is angry with them, or
when they wish him to allow them to collect
sulphur. The crater of the volcano was
found to be 9,970 feet above the sea, extinct,
and covered with vegetation within, although
the temperature of the air was but little
above the freezing-point. A wide chasm
on the southern slope of the mountain was
the seat of numerous solfataras, which, furi-
ously spitting out sulphurous vapors with a
fearful smell and I'oar, might well inspire
fear in the minds of an ignorant populace.
The Tagalaya stream, which rises on the
mountain, and in the I'ough bed of which
the ascent was made, brings down lumps of
sulphur. A sharp cold prevails in the crater
and on the mountain for three thousand
feet below it, but the lava and ashes still
radiate enough heat to be perceptible, and
make one warm who lies down upon them ;
and, perhaps, to keep up the vegetation
which manages to subsist there. Two petri-
fied tree-trunks, which were noticed during
the ascent, indicate that a very different
vegetation formei'ly existed there.
Eggs of Reptiles and Insects as Food. —
The eggs, even of animals which impress us
most unpleasantly, have their value as food,
and seem to be capable of inspiring a relish
in the palates of those who have learned to
cat them. The eggs of most of the species
of tortoises are excellent for eating, nutri-
tious, and agreeable to the taste ; and those
