43°
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of the green turtle are held in great esteem
wherever they are found. The mother-tur-
tles lay three times a year, depositing some-
times as many as a hundred eggs at a lay-
ing, and carefully covering them up with
sand, so that it requires an experienced
searcher to detect them. The Indians of
the Orinoco and Amazon obtain from these
eggs a kind of clear, svreet oil, which they
use instead of butter. About five thousand
eggs are required to fill one of their jars
with oil ; yet so abundantly are they depos-
ited that about five thousand jars are put
up yearly at the mouth of one of the riv-
ers; the harvest is estimated by the acre.
Young eggs are frequently found in the
bodies of slain turtles by hundreds, in all
stages of development, and generally con-
sisting entirely of yolk ; they are often pre-
served by drying, and are considered a great
luxury. Alligators' eggs are esteemed by
the natives of the regions where those rep-
tiles abound ; and Mr. Joseph, in his " His-
tory of Trinidad," says that he foimd the
eggs of the cayman very good. The female
alligator lays from one hundred and twenty
to one hundred and sixty eggs ; they are
about as large as the egg of a turkey and
have a rough shell filled with a thick albu-
men. One of the lizards, known as the
iguana, is capable of furnishing as many as
fourscore eggs, which when boiled are like
marrow. The larvae and nymphse of ants
are considered by many people a choice rel-
ish when spread upon bread and butter, and
are said to be excellent curried. In Siam
they are highly esteemed, and are so valu-
able as to be within the reach only of the
rich. In some parts of Africa, where ants
swarm, they are said to form at times a con-
siderable proportion of the food-supply.
They are used in some countries of Europe
for making formic acid, and are subject to
an import duty. The eggs of insects be-
longing to a group of aquatic beetles are
made in Mexico into a kind of bread or
cake called hautlc, which is eaten by the
people, and may be found in the markets.
They are got by means of bundles of reeds
or rushes, which are put in the water and
on which they are deposited by the insects.
Brantz Mayer, about forty years ago, noticed
men on the Lake of Tezcuco collecting the
eggs of flies which, he says, when cooked in
cakes were not different from fish-spawn,
having the same appearance and flavor.
" After the frogs of France and the birds'
nests of China, I fancy they would be con-
sidered delicacies, and I found they were
not disdained on the fashionable tables of
the capital." According to the report of
the Commissioner of Agriculture for 1870,
the larvae of a large fly which frequents
Mono Lake, in California, are dried and
pulverized and mixed with acorn-meal and
baked for bread, or with water and boiled
for soup.
Sanitary Inspection of Ilonscs. — Mr.
Lewis Angell, Sanitary Inspector of West
Ham in Essex, an outlying district of Lon-
don, says, in illustration of the prevalence
of sanitary defects even in the best houses,
and of the need of thorough inspection,
that in the civic palace of the Lord Mayor
of London, "three quarters of an inch of
floating fungi scurf was recently found on
the surface, and three eighths of an inch of
mud at the bottom of the cisterns, while a
bottle of water on his lordship's table con-
tained hundreds of nematoid worms." Of-
fensive mud and animal organisms were
also found in the cistern of the Athenaeum
Club, St. James. We habitually defy dis-
ease when we leave the dcors of our closets
open and the windows shut. The reverse
ought to be the practice. He believes that
sanitary science should be put on a par
with literary and mathematical studies in
the schools, and that public and official in-
spection should be provided for everywhere,
the expense in the care of new buildings to
be met by fees charged upon the owners
and builders, who expect to derive a profit
from them. He commends what has been
done in Chicago in the oificial inspection of
tenements, and the official supervision of
plumbing that has recently been adopted
in New York.
The Screw-Propellor. — The people of
Boulogne, France, have recently set up a
statue of Frederic Sauvage, to whom they
ascribe the invention of the screw-propeller.
He devised a means of propulsion by screws
in 1832, and offered it to the French Gov-
ernment. A commission reported upon it
that it might lie employed with advantage
