XOTES.
431
for small boats, but would be of no use for
large vessels. The English Government
tried to buy the invention exclusively for
England, but Sauvage refused to sell it on
such terms. It was applied to a steamer in
1841, after plans furnished by Sauvage, but
tlic builder and engineer of the vessel took
all the credit for it. After an experience
in the debtors' prison, and then spending
ยง16,000 in experiments during ten years,
Sauvage passed the last years of his unfort-
unate life in the Picpus asylum. The pri-
ority of his invention is disputed in behalf
of several Englishmen : of James Watt,
who proposed to use a gcrew in 1Y70; of
Edward Shorter, who patented a propeller
in 1800, and applied it two years after-
ward ; of Stevens, in the United States, who
tried to drive a boat by a screw in 1804 ; of
Trevithick, who invented a screw-propeller
in 1816; and of Samuel Brown, who used
one in 1827. F. Pottit Smith, to whom
more than any other person we owe the use
of this motor, never claimed to be its in-
ventor, but only that he placed it in the
dead-wood of the vessel. The " Revue Sci-
entifique " claims the credit of the invention
for Charles Dallery, who obtained a patent
for a screw-propeller and a tubular boiler
in 1803.
NOTES.
The fifth annual meeting of the Ameri-
can Society of Microscopists will be held at
Elmira, New York, Tuesday, August 15th,
and on the three following days. Liberal
arrangements have been made by the local
committee for entertainment. A meeting
of great interest is anticipated. A larger
list of papers than on any previous occasion
has been promised, and preparations have
been made for a full display of instruments,
accessories, and objects. Committee reports
are to be made " On Eye-pieces," " On Re-
vision of the Constitution," and " On the
Question of a Quarterly Journal." Members
intending to be present will please notify
Dr. Thaddeus S. UpdegrafF, secretary of the
local society, Elmira, New York ; members
intending to present papers or communica-
tions, to Professor D. S. Kellicott, secretary
of the association, 119 Fourteenth Street,
Buffalo, New York.
M. A. Blavier has endeavored to ac-
count for certain remarkable climatological
anomalies that have been recently observed
in France, by supposing that the Gulf
Stream was deflected from its regular
course. He observes that the sardines,
which, in their regular migrations, follow
exactly the course of the derivative current
of the Gulf Stream, called the Rennel, have
followed another route than their usual one
to the ocean ; also that a slight elevation of
temperature has been observed in Shetland ;
and that an accumulation of ice has been
noticed at the French station in Iceland.
M. DE Lacerda, of the Physiological Lab-
oratory of Rio Janeiro, recommends the
permanganate of potash as a sure antidote
for the bite of venomous snakes. To be
effective the solution of the salt should be
prepared at the moment of using it ; and in
order that it may always be on hand, he
recommends that packages be put up to be
carried by persons going into dangerous
spots, containing one tenth of a gramme of
the permanganate, and a ten-gramme bot-
tle. The solution should be injected with a
syringe.
From a statement made in the French
Academy of Sciences, by M. Gosselin, it ap-
pears that M. Collin, of Alfort, has found
that American trichinous meat contains al-
most exclusively dead trichina?, and is, there-
fore, not particularly dangerous.
Macgilli\'rat, in his narrative of the
voyage of H. M. S. Rattlesnake in 1852,
said that he had seen the skulls of children
at Cape York pressed into a conical shape
by the constant manipulation of their moth-
ers. Von Baer doubted the possibility of
such an effect being thus produced. Dr.
Miklucho ilaclay, however, saw the press-
ure actually applied by the mothers at Tor-
res Straits in 1880. He says that, during
the first weeks of the lives of the children,
the mothers were accustomed to spend
several hours each day in compressing the
heads of their children, for the express pur-
pose of giving them a conical shape. An-
other kind of deformity, in the heads of the
women, resulting from their habits in carry-
ing loads, was observed by Dr. Maclay in
New Guinea. The women hero were accus-
tomed to put whatever tliey had to carry
into bags, w^hich they supj^ortcd by bands
laid on their heads, a little behind the coro-
nal suture. This practice, pursued from
cliildhood, produced a saddle-shaped depres-
sion across the skull, which was sometimes
three or four millimetres deep.
Professor E. Desor, of Xeufchiltel,
Switzerland, geologist and anthropologist,
and a student of glaciers and glacial gcol-
og}-, died in llarch last. He lived several
years in the United States, and has left his
mark on American geology and marine
zoology.
