432
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The National Academy of Sciences con-
sists of ninety -five members and four hon-
orary members, ninety-nine in all. Thirty-
fom-live in the New England States : seven-
teen in Massachusetts, three in Rhode
Island, and fourteen in Connecticut. Thir-
ty-six live in the Middle States : fifteen in
New York, five in New Jersey, fourteen in
Pennsylvania, two in Maryland. Sixteen
live in the District of Columbia. Nine live
West : one in Ohio, one in Kentucky, one
in Illinois, two in Missouri, four in Califor-
nia. Three live abroad, all being New-Eng-
landcrs. One is unclassified as to residence.
None live South. Total, ninety-nine.
Forty-three represent the mathematical
sciences, as pure mathematics, astronomy,
geodesy, engineering, physics, etc. Twelve
represent chemistry ; sixteen represent the
geological sciences; twenty-four represent
the biological sciences ; four are unclassi-
fied. Total, ninety-nine.
M. Paul Bert has been elected a mem-
ber of the French Academy of Sciences, to
fill the vacancy in the department of medi-
cine and surgery caused by the death of M.
Bouillaud.
M. PiOT has made experiments, under
the direction of M. Laborde, to ascertain
the order in which the functions of the or-
ganized tissues cease in normal asphyxia,
lie insists that the exact moment of death
is very difficult to determine, and that we
can not fix the instant when the stoppage
of the heart and of respiration is definite.
The mechanical movements of inspiration
first cease to become apparent ; then the
beating of the heart becomes less frequent,
but continues ; the pupils of the eyes are di-
lated excessively, and the cornea becomes
insensible. These, however, are only ap-
parent signs of death, for dogs in which
such phenomena have appeared may still be
brought back to life by means of artificial
respiration.
M. DE Khotinsky, a Russian naval offi-
cer, has been endeavoring to improve the
lime-light so as to render it available for
general purposes. He proposes to supply
oxygen in a condensed form, and to burn
ordinary gas with it in his new lamp, in
which he has made a fresh adjustment of
the lime or magnesia.
M. Paul Bert, before the resignation of
the Gambetta ministry, had instructed M.
Dumas, permanent Secretary of the French
Academy of Sciences, to draw up a list of
scientific men who had died or received in-
juries while making experiments or re-
searches for the advancement of science,
with the view of awarding pensions to the
widows and families of those who had died,
and of giving substantial aid to those who
survived.
M. Campardou has made some new ob-
servations on the successful treatment of
apparently dead infants with baths at about
120°. In one case, an infant on which fric-
tion, inflation of the lungs, and other reme-
dies had been tried in vain, and which M.
Campardou regarded as lost, was put into
water of 113°, and revived in less than fif-
teen seconds. The same process was ap-
plied to an infant fifteen days old, which had
apparently died after a gradual decline.
M. Marey has succeeded in obtaining
photographs of birds and insects in the act
of flying. He introduces the " photograph-
ic revolver" into an apparatus having a
shape roughly like that of a gun, and, point-
ing it at the flying animal as if he were go-
ing to shoot it, he has obtained a series of
impressions each of which represents a stage
of the flight. The pose, which is naturally
only about --i^o-u of a second, has been pro-
longed to y^-u of a second with most satis-
factory results.
The French Academy of Sciences recent-
ly departed from its custom of giving memo-
rial honors only to members, to pay a trib-
ute of respect to M. Poitevin, deceased who
was one of the principal contributors to the
improvements in processes for multiplying
photographs by which the photographic has
been raised to be a real industrial art.
According to Libanius, the term " athe-
ists" was used as a common name for Chris-
tians by the cultivated Greeks of his iDcriod
— the fourth century.
Konig's great tonometer, the unique col-
lection of standard tuning-forks which was
shown at the Philadelphia Exhibition, is
still for sale, the project to buy it for the
University of Pennsylvania having fallen
through. " Nature " suggests that if it can
not be acquired for the South Kensington
collection, an effort be made to buy it for
either the Cavendish or the Clarendon Labo-
ratory.
M. C. Dechaeme has given an account of
hydrodynamic experiments in which he has
imitated the phenomena of electro-magnet-
ism and induction by means of liquid cur-
rents. M. Bjerkness, in his experiments
performed with vibrating and pulsating
bodies in still water, obtained analogous ef-
fects, but inverse, to those of electricity and
magnetism. M. Dccharme, using running
liciuids, found the analogies to be direct.
He produced sonorous vibrations of greater
or less pitch by turning currents of gas
upon mercury, and more or less grave vibra-
tions by directing currents of water upon a
solid body. The vibrations of the former
kind were carried beyond the highest, and
those of the latter kind below the lowest,
limit of perceptible sounds.
