THE PHYSIOLOGY OF EXERCISE. 435
lation, by exercise of the central nerve-system is signified, in the first
place, the making fluent certain molecular movements, partly through
regulation and suitable re-enforcement of the impulses producing them,
partly by the elimination of the obstacles originally opposing them.
It must not, however, be said with this, that the highly vascular gray
substance is not also nutritively stimulated by the activity incumbent
upon it. Every thing indicates that, without a proper degree of ac-
tivity, gray substance^wears away as muscle does. But every increase
in the fluency of definite forms of motion with a definitely enduring
course is a newly acceding moment, indicative of exercise of the cen-
tral nerve-system.
The more easy unfolding of a frequently repeated molecular move-
ment in the ganglion-cells may be represented under the figure of a
water-channel or a stone-slide, in which the path originally built
roughly is so worked out and polished by the continuous passage of
water, snow, and stones through it, that thenceforth water, snow, and
stones reach the bottom surely and quickl}', almost as soon as they
begin to fall upon the ways converging toward it. All machines are
improved with time through the wearing away of little roughnesses,
so that their course becomes a more or less evenly or periodically
varying one. Since they afterward become shackling through usage,
they have, it seems, an age of development, one of bloom, and one
of decay ; and Tiede speaks of his chronometer as of a living being
with a definite period of life. In order to bring nearer to comprehen-
sion the facilitating of the molecular movements in the ganglion-
cells, it will be well to remember that the tone of a violin becomes
softened by long use, as inversely India-rubber, that is not stretched
at intervals, becomes brittle. The instructiveness of this comparison
lies in its poverty. It shows us the utterly hopeless insufiiciency of
our knowledge in the face of such mysteries.
Herr Fechner has mentioned a particularly curious case of exercise
of the central nerve-system, which sets anew in a clear light the com-
paratively slight importance of exercise of the muscles. In the An-
doyer method of teaching to write, the pupil writes over with a pen
for twenty times in succession the identical letters that have been pre-
viously written with a pencil, and the hand returns with a swing from
the end of the line to its beginning, in order to write it over again
without a pause. Ernst Ileinrich Weber has observed in the case of
his children that the left hand learned to write some at the same time
with the right, but it wrote as in a looking-glass. We do not under-
stand how the right side of the brain gained by exercise without the
left hand moving during the exercise.
But equally whether we understand it or not, man is adapted to
self-improvement by means of exercise. It makes his muscles stronger
and more enduring ; his skin becomes fortified against all injury ;
through exercise his limbs become more flexible, his glands more
