436 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
productive. It fits his central nerve-system for the most complicated
functions ; it sharpens his senses, and by it his mind, reacting upon
itself, is enabled to augment its own elasticity and versatility. Return-
ing to our starting-point, we ask, Is not this one of the means, perhaps
the principal one, by which the collectivity of living existence becomes
a self -improving machine ? As to the crystal, the parts of like struct-
ure and properties composing it ; as to the whole organism, the ele-
mentary organisms whose life makes up its life,, so are related to the
whole of organic nature the single living existences, that is, the prop-
erties and functions of the whole are the sum of the functions and
properties of the individuals ; and if the individual living being is im-
proved by exercise, does not this also sufficiently explain the progress
of the aggregate ? Lucid as the supposition appears, on a nearer trial
it encounters serious difficulties.
First, only the most highly organized animals are amenable to ex-
ercise, or, what means the same thing, trainable. After the generally
distributed companions of man, the horse and the dog, the most teach-
able animal is the elephant. Chamisso found intercourse with the apes
on board the Rurik uncommonly instructive, " for," as Calderon says
of the ass, " they are almost men," and he made the profound remark
that they might be able to bring themselves up to the mark if they did
not lack the property which Newton held to be one with genius, stead-
fastness. Carnivores, with the exception of the cheetah {Felisjubata),
ruminants, and rodents, exhibit only moderate teachability ; yet Herr
Fritsch considered the draft-oxen at the Cape of Good Hope w'iser
than the horse, and in Brazil and Thibet sheep are trained to carry
loads. Among the birds, the higher ones are the parrots, starlings,
bullfinches, and canary-birds ; the falcon ranks with the cheetah in
teachableness. Chameleons, snakes, and carp are only moderately
teachable. The training of fleas is only apparent ; they always per-
form their tricks under a kind of compulsion. The immense host of
other creatures all around us show no more aptitude for training than
they do, for the reason that every animal within its own circle has no
need of instruction ; what we call instinct affords to animals, without
effort of the individual, more than any exercise can. AVhat practice
could teach birds to build warmer nests, to find the way south more
certainly, or bees to solve their geometrical, spiders their mechanical
problems ? Instinct and perfectibility complement each other as it
were in the ascending series of animals to a growing sum, so that,
the more instinct retreats before perfectibility, by so much does the
living being stand at a higher stage. Secondly, although the animals
we have named, and many others besides, are susceptible to exercise
and trainable, animals still do not of themselves exercise and perfect
themselves, but do so only Avhen man takes them to school. Therefore,
the animals around him appear less susceptible to training, the lower
the stagce at which he himself remains. Higher races of men would
