THE PHYSIOLOGY OF EXERCISE. 437
certainly have tamed the beautiful zebra and quagga ; the elephant,
brought by Hannibal over the Alps, fell back with Northern Africa
into wildness. Only nutritive and formative augmentation of advan-
tages which an animal may have acquired in the wild state could
come into consideration here, and these would have to be hereditary to
lead to perfection in a course of generations.
This seems, thirdly, not to come to pass. Xo matter for how many
generations man cuts off the tail and ears of dogs, tail and ears return
with each new brood. The mutilation which the Semitic races have
performed on their children for hundreds of ages, and which Islam has
imposed upon a great part of the population of the Old "World, is not
yet chronicled in nature. If,- now, artificial defects are not heredi-
tary, how may we venture to suppose that those artificially acquired
changes which appear as favorable results of exercise are conveyed
through Q^^ and seed to posterity ?
To this argument the following considerations are opposed: Al-
though deformities produced by exterior force are not inheritable,
we nevertheless see that incontestably internally acquired changes are
only too surely transmitted. Of this, the host of hereditary diseases
affords an example. Since cellular pathology has shown that the most
various heritable diseases of the tissues, the most malignant as well
as the most harmless forms, move within the limits of the once given
type, the difference appears exposed to light which sej^aratcs an artifi-
cial deformity from a retrogression caused by disease ; and it becomes
comprehensible why in tame rabbits, the tips of the ears of which may
have been idle for many generations, the ear-muscles disappear, and the
ears hang down limp ; and why the eye and visory substance of subter-
ranean and cave-inhabiting animals waste away. But, even if a deterio-
ration within the type of the species by lack of exercise becomes heredi-
tary, formations dependent on nutritive and formative stimulation,
which also remain necessarily within the type of the species, may like-
wise be transmitted. This apj)ears even to be the case with the in work-
ing of the central nerve-system in certain forms of emotion, of which
the growing wild of the at first confiding bird on a formerly uninhabited
island furnishes a classical example. Certainly animals in freedom do
not, like those under human training, become habituated to definite, fre-
quently repeated functions, yet hunger and love, hatred, cold, thirst, etc.,
drive them likewise to the frequent performance of certain acts. So^
finally, might the innate superiority called instinct {Kunsttrieb) have
been gradually developed through practice, and the more easily, as a
certain degree of pleasure is connected with the execution of series of
movements that have become familiar. If, then, instinct does all that
is necessary for the maintenance of the species, there is no more room
for further improvement or for development in new directions, and the
species remains at the stage it has reached as bees and spiders have done
ever since man has known them. "We may confidently assert that at
