438 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the farthest no other actions of the ganglion - cells in the nervous
system of these animals are possible than those which serve their par-
ticular, instinctive actions. As the artisans from Newcastle-on-Tyne,
at the Bureau of Emigration of New York, replied to the question
what kind of work they understood, " Packing files," so animals with
a perfected instinct purchase their superiority with a one-sidedness
which, because they can learn no more, makes them appear as if they
had never learned.
Susceptibility to exercise first enters into the animal world when
the maintenance of the individual and the species has been so assured,
through outer and inner circumstances, that the creature does not need
a further particularly one-sided development. We are, then, free to
conceive, with an appearance of justification, that the strength of the
muscles employed in flight and digging, the thickened epidermis on
the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet, the callus on the pre-
hensile tail and the buttocks of apes, the bone-prominences at the
attachments of the muscles, and many other similar things, depend
on the inherited consequences of nutritive and formative stimulation,
while the most diversified kinds of skill may be traced back to inher-
ited concatenations of actions of the ganglion-cells ; and this, whether
we consider the waves which flow along apparently in a purely mechan-
ical manner in the gymnotus fin, or in the thousand feet of the wood-
louse ; or the intelligent postm*e of the French pointer, which, un-
taught, and without ever having seen one before, points at the lizard
in the sub-tropical shrubbery as his ancestors pointed at the j^artridge
on the plain of St. Denis. With Mr. Herbert Spencer meeting me in
the same thought, which I believe, however, I have more sharply
grasped, I deduced on a former occasion how, in such transmissibility
of educationally derived aptitudes, possibly lies the reconciliation of
the great antitheses of the theory of knowledge — of the empirical and
the innate views.
Besides improvement by exercise, improvement by natural selection
should not be left out of the account, if we would understand the
adaptability of organic nature, for a threefold reason : First, there
are numerous adaptations — I mean only the so-called sympathetic col-
orings — for which natural selection, not exercise, seems to afford an
explanation. Secondly, plants, which are not less adaptable in their
way than animals, do not enjoy exercise. A few phenomena of plant-
life, reminding us of callus, and traceable back to nutritive and forma-
tive stimulation, belong rather to the region of healing and restora-
tion, which is at this point closely connected with exercise. Thirdly,
and finally, we require natural selection in order to explain the origin
of the adaptability to exercise itself.
Indeed, the usefulness of exercise in its most diversified forms is in
itself a deep problem. If we do not concede, as we can not scientific-
ally, that the adaptive quality originated otherwise than mechan-
