MONKEYS. 27
have no cheek-pouches, but always have very long tails. They are
true forest monkeys, very active, and of a shy disposition. The most
remarkable of these is the long-nosed monkey of Borneo, which is very
large, of a pale-brown color, and distinguished by possessing a long,
pointed, fleshy nose, totally unlike that of all other monkeys. Another
interesting species is the black and white entellus monkey of India,
called " Hanuman " by the Hindoos, and considered sacred by them.
These animals are petted and fed, and at some of the temples numbers
of them come every day for the food which the priests, as well as the
people, provide for them.
The next group of Eastern monkeys are the Macaques, which are
more like baboons, and often run upon the ground. They are more
bold and vicious than the others. All have cheek-pouches, and though
some have long tails, in others the tail is short, or reduced to a mere
stump. In some few this stump is so very short that there appears to
be no tail, as in the magot of North Africa and Gibraltar, and in an
allied species that inhabits Japan,
Americas^ JVIoxkets. — The monkeys which inhabit America form
three very distinct groups : 1. The Sapajous, which have prehensile or
grasping tails ; 2, The Sagouins, which have ordinary tails, either long
or short ; and, 3. The Marmosets, very small creatures, with sharp
claws, long tails, which are not prehensile, and a smaller number of
teeth than all other American monkeys. Each of these three groups
contains several sub-groups, or genera, which often differ remarkably
from each other, and from all the monkeys of the Old World.
We will begin with the howling monkeys, which are the largest
found in America, and are celebrated for the loud voice of the males.
Often in the great forests of the Amazon, or Orinoco, a tremendous
noise is heard in the night or early morning, as if a great assemblage
of wild beasts were all roaring and screaming together. The noise
may be heard for miles, and it is louder and more piercing than that of
any other animals, yet it is all produced by a single male howler sitting
on the branches of some lofty tree. They are enabled to make this
extraordinary noise by means of an organ that is possessed by no other
animal. The lower jaw is unusually deep, and this makes room for a
hollow bony vessel about the size of a large walnut, situated under the
root of the tongue, and having an opening into the windpipe by which
the animal can force air into it. This increases the power of its voice,
acting something like the hollow case of a violin, and producing those
marvelous rolling and reverberating sounds which caused the celebrated
traveler Waterton to declare that they were such as might have had
their origin in the infernal regions. The howlers are large and stout-
bodied monkeys with bearded faces, and very strong and powerfully
grasping tails. They inhabit the wildest forests ; they are very shy,
and are seldom taken captive, though they are less active than many
other American monkeys.
