440 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
viewed in its light, the number of possible arrangements in the ovum
and spermatozoon grows into immensity. If we could imagine the head
of a spermatozoon as large as the Great Eastern, and the space repre-
sented by it filled with a wheel-work as fine as that of the smallest
lady's watch, our figure would still be far from giving any kind of a
representation of the ultimate division of matter. It is thus clear
that the head of a spermatozoon affords space and opportunity for the
endlessly numerous arrangements and various motions on which the
innumerable types and properties, with which this apparently so simple
organism is charged, finally depend. It may then, at all events, be
conceived that parental dyscrasies communicate themselves through
the blood to the germs in the testicles and ovaries. But now let a
group of ganglion-cells in the brain, if we may speak thus, be played
upon to a certain molecule-dance-figure. The blood can not be changed
by that. Consequently, the threads of the plexus spertnaticus internus
must so work upon the semen-cells in the seminal canal, the egg-cells
in the after-growing Graafian pustules, that each act of exercise in the
course of growth leaves its mark on the e^^ or on the spermatozoon,
and that it is followed after years by the natural culmination of the
same molecule-dance-figure in the corresponding group of ganglion-
cells in the man or animal that has grown up out of that egg, or with
the aid of that spermatozoon. How the pAexus spermaticus internus,
the connection of which with the brain is only of the loosest character,
brings this to pass, can not be found out. The conditions are no more
favorable for the comprehension of the kinds of exercise resting upon
nutritive and formative stimulation.
As we have already pointed out, it appears that wc might, in order
to verify the transmission of acquired properties, invoke the example
of hereditary diseases, from which our ancestors were in all probabil-
ity free, which chiefly visit more highly developed manhood, and the
transmission of which consequently resembles the transmission of ac-
quired properties. Still, we may question whether the first epileptic
attack, the first migraine, followed injuries which came upon a sound
adult, or whether the foundation for them was not laid in the egg or
the spermatozoon out of which the first sufferer grew. There re-
mains, for the confirmation of this view — we will be honest — the trans-
mission of acquired peculiarities, an hypothesis drawn solely from the
facts illustrating it, yet quite obscure in itself, which receives only
doubtful light through Darwin's " pangenesis."
I believe now, gentlemen, that I have justified the expression with
which I introduced to you my intention to speak of exercise — that is,
that it deserved a place in the scientific order of the day ; yet I need
not say explicitly how far I am from entertaining the thought that I
have contributed anything essential to the fulfillment of that object. I
consider that I have succeeded no further than more sharply to define
the eventual phylogenetic office of exercise and the direction of the
