THE PHYSIOLOGY OF EXERCISE. 441
evidences to be supplied than is usually done in the presentations of
the Darwinian theory. In the immense field of research opened by
Darwin after the fall of the zoological-paleontological dogma, the cul-
tivation of which will employ the plowshares of many generations, we
have plainly indicated to us one point where the work is urgent. On
the other hand, a surer foundation might now be laid for the determi-
nation of one of the practical questions relating to exercise.
All are agreed as to the importance of bodily exercise for modern
civilized mankind. With the knightly tournaments of the middle
ages, in which, moreover, only an extremely small minority ever took
part, physical training has more and more declined. Jean Jacques
Rousseau, by his educational romance, gave the impulse to a move-
ment that was fast taken up, especially in Germany, and, borne
through the national and military struggles of the war of freedom, has
culminated in the German turning.
Physical exercise had been pursued by us in this form for half a
century when doubts were raised as to its fitness. To the German
turning was opposed a theoretically devised form of physical training,
the so-called Swedish movement, or gymnastics, the ground thought
of which was the limitation of the exercises to extremely simple,
although varied, motions. Since these movements were performed
against resistance, a methodical strengthening of all the individual
muscles was thought to result from them, and the true ideal of an
athletic muscular system to be reached.
Again, from another point of view do we hear the superior fitness
of the German turning doubted. The European nation which stands
foremost in physical accomplishments, and which attaches the highest
value to bodily vigor, the English, has till very recently known noth-
ing like the German turning. Separated more than ever from the
Continent during the French Revolution and the Empire, it was little
affected by the movement of which Rousseau was the pioneer. Jahn's
arguments, with their somewhat German-chauvinistic coloring, found
but little acceptance there. The English, however, had less use for
turning than the nations of the Continent. Thanks to the rural life of
the wealthy classes and the common training of the youth in public
institutions, a number of national games and contests (riding, rowing,
games of ball of various kinds) had been formed, which afforded a
superior empirical schooling in the various movements called forth in
them ; as the achievements of the English mountain-climber, who has
just put Chimborazo under his feet, sufficiently illustrate. The pas-
sionate interest felt through the length and breadth of Sir Charles
Dilke's " Greater Britain " in the annual contest between the dark-
blue Oxford and the light-blue Cambridge oarsmen on the Thames
can only be compared with the enthusiasm of the Greeks for their
national games of competition, and goads the youth to the most ear-
nest exertion.
