442 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Here we have the other extreme. The Kar' e^ox^v practical peo-
ple rejects our physical exercises as too theoretical for its taste. The
English at least did not understand at all, when, in answer to the
question what sports we played at, an effort was made to explain our
tool-gymnastics to them.
When we undertake to judge, in the light of our view into the
nature of physical exercise, between these three forms, the German
turning, the Swedish movement, and the English sport, the utter
worthlessness of the second form for the bodily imj^rovement of a
healthy youth manifests itself at once. We have found that physical
culture is not only exercise of the muscles, as it appears on a superficial
view to be, but is quite as much, yes, more, exercise of the gray sub-
stance of the central nerve-system. The physiological value of the
Swedish movement is expressed in the simple remark that it can
strengthen the muscles, but has not power to make composite move-
ments fluent. Now, in an extremely theoretical case, a physical train-
ing is thinkable, by which single muscles of a Caspar Hauser could be
cultivated by gymnastics to a lion-like strength without the victim of
such an experiment even learning to walk. The Swedish movement
is only good for the purposes of physicians, to keep up or restore
the efficiency of single groups of muscles.
Turning our attention to the relative worth of the German turning
and the English sport, the latter evidently responds more than the
former to the demands arising out of our physiological anatomy.
Were the end masterhood in running, jumping, climbing ; in dancing,
fencing, riding ; in swimming, rowing, or skating — then nothing could
be more advisable than to practice equally and directly the necessary
concatenations in the actions of the ganglion-cells, without pausing at
the not practically applicable preliminary and intermediate steps of
the German turning.
The German turning, however, offers not only the advantage of
furnishing to any number of youth, of every age and condition, op-
portunity for exercise with the smallest amount of external prepara-
tions, and independent of often unattainable external conditions ; it
not only implies the moral eai-nestness of an effort that proposes self-
improvement without immediate practical advantage as an ideal aim,
wherein the superiority of the intellectual training sought in the Ger-
man gymnasium may also be discerned ; but, furthermore, the ingen-
ious selection of German exercises, approved and refined through a
long experience, results incontcstably in a more equable perfecting of
the body than can be attained where, as in England, the individual,
following his own casually determined inclination, applies himself with
ambitious enthusiasm to rowing or riding, to ball-playing or mountain-
climbing. The youthful body, thoroughly trained after the German
method, enjoys the extraordinary advantage that, like a Avell-instructed
mathematician, it is provided with methods for every problem, with
