446 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Foremost among the evils which are thus presented to him are those
conditions of disease known as ansemia and cachexia. Strictly, these
are not diseases like diabetes, bronchitis, or defined affections having
a regular course, but they are states of diseased form, which by their
presence indicate a faulty nutrition at the period of life when good
nutrition is most required, and which can not long go on without
insuring the construction of an impaired bodily organization. The
blood is not being duly oxygenated, and food, therefore, though it
even be fair in quality or quantity, is not properly applied. The nerv-
ous system is imperfectly built up ; the skeleton is imperfectly built
up ; the muscular system is imperfectly built up and sustained. How
can the improvement which is called scholarship be turned to fitting
account in such recipients of it ? I watched recently the afternoon
working of a large class of scholars, and counted one third of them
under the most decisive influence of these conditions of disease. Of
the affected, there would not be, in the ordinary averaging of life,
twenty years of existence under the course that was being followed.
The one saving clause in their case was development by physical
training, and that was withheld. The one destroying clause in their
case was over mental work, without the physical training, and that
was assiduously and regularly supplied.
With or without the anoemia and cachexia, there is the constitu-
tional disease, struma or scrofula, present in these classes. The in-
stances of this kind, in varying degrees of intensity, are most numer-
ous. This condition, again, is a mal or bad nutrition. It, as much as
cachexia and anoemia, with which it is so often allied, is fostered by
the prevailing system of mental pressure.
With these two conditions before the eye, there is to be seen here
and there in the classes, of both sexes, but of the girls especially, the
specimen of the phthisical or consumptive subject. In a class of fifty
I pick out three thus doomed, if their circumstances be not changed,
six per cent, certainly a moderate proportion. The disease has not
positively developed, but the probability of its developing is all but
certain, unless it be checked by the one or only remedial or preventive
method — freedom from nervous exhaustion, combined with physical
exercise in open breathing-space. Such preventives are not supplied,
but undue nervous exhaustion and confinement are both supjilied, and
so the fatal disease is systematically fanned from latency into activity.
Spinal deformity and irregular construction of the skeleton is an-
other condition of disease, or actual disease, readily detectable in these
classes.
Miss Lofing, speaking of her experiences as to the girls which have
come under her notice, reports that they are, as a rule, very flat-chested,
that there is evidently much spinal distortion, and that lateral cur-
vature of the spine is common among them. Tliis, which is equally
true in respect to boys, is accounted for by Miss Lofing in terms which
