NATIONAL NECESSITIES AND EDUCATION. 447
show that the present school system does more than simply permit the
mischief that is progressing, it actually fosters it and promotes it.
Asked "to what the effects are chiefly ascribable," she replies: "A
part is ascribable to home neglects ; but the greater part of it is due
to excessive and prolonged constraints under the common-school con-
ditions : too long sitting on badly constructed seats ; but, with good
seats, they are kept in bad positions in long writing exei'cises. The
common bad position is, indeed, prescribed by the Government School
Inspectors. I have found that, to obtain the school grants, the chil-
dren are so constrained as to exclude the exercises that are needed for
their bodily development."
The present system is not only a violation of physiological but of
psychological law. The powers of receptivity of the minds of chil-
dren of different ages have been tested experimentally, with as much
care as physicists take when they are treating in their experiments on
the relationships of ordinary matter to force. Certain brains can take
in so much, and no more, according to age. The capacity grows with
cultivation and skillful teaching, no doubt, but it must be permitted
to grow. In the very young a lesson of a minute may be all-sufficient.
Later, of three minutes, five, ten, fifteen, and so on, to one hour, two,
or three. But to this there is a limit, and it is probable that, with the
best scholar of primary-school age, the powers of receptivity rarely
extend beyond a period of two hours and a half of du-ect teaching.
Teachers of various districts, and of different countries, have testified
in respect to this point, and while they have explained, from direct
observation, that the receptivity varies in different children according
to difference of temperament, physical health and build, as might very
well be expected, the receptivity at one time, in all children, ceases at
the end of three hours.
Proposed Reforms. — From these considerations let me now turn
to the reforms which we, who are urgent as to reform in the present
educational system, have in view. We reason that the existing sys-
tem is not a basis for the national necessities. We are of opinion
that in the future the education of a mental kind now being supplied
will be imperfect and doubtful, nay, it may be of dangerous use, un-
less it be so laid out with physical culture that a perfect or compara-
tively perfect health of body shall go with it and sustain it. We
urge that, as we must either educate health or disease, it is best to edu-
cate health.
The design we have in view, then, includes several heads, which
I may arrange in the following order :
Physical CrLxuRE of the Body. — We urge that education
should be so distinctly physical, that the body should be in no respect
less improved than the mind at the close of the educational career.
We follow, in this regard, the teaching of the Platonic philosophy, in
which the master insists that the symmetry of mind and body be cul-
