448 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tivated and maintained, without which there can not be beauty, there
can not be health. We urge that this is the only sure way of keep-
ing up a strong and vigorous and independent population, that shall
understand how to utilize the home resources of land and industry,
and keep the land and industry in the possession of our and theii*
descendants.
The system of education that is now being carried out seems to
us to promote in no way whatever this necessary intention. In the
" standards " we find no efiicient instruction of a technical kind that
even in the barest hypothetical style teaches the principles of useful
arts and appliances. Practical details of industries and of modes of
learning industrial occupations are thought to be of less importance
to the scholar than a knowledge of geography, construction of lan-
guage, physiology, and history. It is no wish of ours to ignore studies
of the kind above named, but wo consider that elementary instruction
in details of inventive and industrial pursuits holds a first place, and
that in a country like ours in which so much, in which, in truth,
almost everything, depends on individual perfection in some useful art,
such elementary instruction ought to have the place it deserves at
once and for good. We think, moreover, that the instruction should
not be purely theoretical. We contend that it should include element-
ary training in useful work of a practical kind. We do not see why
work-rooms should not be set up in schools, in which boys should be
taught the use of the lathe ; the beautiful art of wood-carving ; the
skill of the draughtsman ; the method of distinguishing metals, and
other simple experiments in chemistry ; the arts of swimming and rid-
ing ; the art of distinguishing colors and signs at a distance ; the prac-
tice of mensuration, and a number of other good and useful branches
of physical learning, which, whether the boy remain at home or whether
he emigrate to another country, will always be to him a direct assist-
ance, a means of earning his bread, and an insight and test of his par-
ticular ability or aptitude for the vocation by which his subsistence will
be most easily obtained.
Extending this princii)le of practical teaching to the female sex, we
would have the girls well trained, both theoretically and practically,
in those occupations which in the course of life fall more distinctly
under their exercise, management, or supervision. We know that in
the schools at present girls are taught sewing and a few other useful
industrial accomplishments. We would extend these instructions.
We would have the girls instructed in modeling ; in the art of color-
ing and painting on glass and porcelain ; in the various processes of
selecting, sorting, preserving, and preparing foods for the table ; in
the cleaning and ornamentation of drawing-room ornaments, and in
all the works pertaining to domestic life. The girls in our schools
would, as we believe, make more rapid progress in mere book-learning
if one half of the time now devoted to books were devoted to that
