NATIONAL NECESSITIES AND EDUCATION. 449
other branch of practical education which forms the greater part, in
practice, of the future of the womanly life. We consider that evi-
dence in proof of this belief has already been offered, and we suggest
that a girl trained in the manner now described would, in this coun-
try, or in any other country into which she might emigrate, be far
better fitted for the duties pertaining to any station she might hold,
than if she were simply dismissed from school primed with the stand-
ards, and standardless.
LiFE-LEAKXiNG Texdencies. — We contcud, secondly, that the ed-
ucation of the young of all classes, and of the poorest classes chiefly,
should be so framed as to lead to the inducement of making the acqui-
sition of knowledge a taste instead of a task, a pursuit instead of a
labor. We contend that if the present system is pursued — in which
children who are not by heredity born to mental occupation, and who
are not physically privileged to acquire information, are, by sheer
force, driven through the hard and fast lines, fenced out by the books
called standards, at a pace that shall make them complete their educa-
tion irresi^ectively of temperament, health, ability, before their thir-
teenth or fourteenth year — the pressure, amounting in every case to a
hardship, will merely have the effect of causing them to cease to learn
Avhen the pressure is taken off. We insist upon this, that the system
shall be so modified that there shall be no mental pressure at all, but
a mixture of mental and physical teaching which shall bring the mind
into desire for knowledge after it is freed from the necessities to ac-
quii'e it.
Aptitude for Productive Ability. — A third advancement upon
which we lay great stress is, that the educational system shall be of
a kind that shall render the body of fitting aptitude for productive
ability. We argue that, unless discrimination is used by the teacher
for detecting the natural or hereditary capabilities of the scholar, there
must be failure in result of the most serious kind ; failure that will
tell upon all the productive industries of the country, so that agricult-
ure, the various industrial arts, the various labors which call for mus-
cular skill, activity, and endurance, will be sacrificed, or largely reduced
in effective value. In insisting on this practice of developing produc-
tive ability, we are sustained by the belief that nothing could be lost
by the effort in the way of actual education. We are of opinion that
the time saved by the adoption of varying conditions of school-work
would prevent the injuries now incident to the fixed rules under which
the educational system is enforced, and in this view we are supported
by the opinions of the most practical teachers.
We maintain that courses of physical training such as we wish to
introduce would have a distinct formative effect in mental habits.
This is especially seen in the industrial and reformatory institutions
Avhere the same principles of mixed physical and mental training have
been adopted as prevail in the district half-time schools. A draft
VOL. XXI. — 29
