28 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Next come the spider-monkeys, so called from their slender bodies
and enormously long limbs and tail. In these monkeys the tail is so
long, strong, and perfect, that it completely takes the place of a fifth
hand. By twisting the end of it round a branch the animal can swing
freely in the air with complete safety; and this gives them a wonderful
power of climbing and passing from tree to tree, because the distance
they can stretch is that of the tail, body, and arm added together, and
these are all unusually long. They can also swing themselves through
the air for great distances, and are thus able to pass rapidly from tree
to tree without ever descending to the ground, just like the gibbons
in the Malayan forests. Although capable of feats of wonderful agility,
the spider-monkeys are usually slow and deliberate in their motions,
and have a timid, melancholy expression, very different from that of
most monkeys. Their hands are very long, but have only four fingers,
being adapted for hanging on to branches rather than for getting hold
of small objects. It is said that, when they have to cross a river the
trees on the opposite banks of which do not approach near enough for
a leap, several of them form a chain, one hanging by its tail from a
lofty overhanging branch and seizing hold of the tail of the one below
it, then gradually swinging themselves backward and forward till the
lower one is able to seize hold of a branch on the opposite side. He
then climbs up the tree, and^, when sufficiently high, the first one lets
go, and the swing either carries him across to a bough on the opposite
side or he climbs up over his companions.
Closely allied to the last are the woolly monkeys, which have an
equally well-developed prehensile tail, but better proportioned limbs,
and a thick, woolly fur of a uniform gray or brownish color. They
have well-formed fingers and thumbs, both on the hands and feet, and
are rather deliberate in their motions, and exceedingly tame and affec-
tionate in captivity. They are great eaters, and are usually very fat.
They are found only in the far interior of the Amazon Valley, and,
having a delicate constitution, seldom live long in Europe. These
monkeys are not so fond of swinging themselves about by their tails as
are the spider-monkeys, and offer more opportunities of observing how
completely this organ takes the place of a fifth hand. AVhen walking
about a house, or on the deck of a ship, the partially curled tail is car-
ried in an horizontal position on the ground, and the moment it touches
anything it twists round it and brings it forward, when, if eatable, it is
at once appropriated ; and when fastened up the animal will obtain any
food that may be out of reach of its hands with the greatest facility,
picking up small bits of biscuit, nuts, etc., much as an elephant does
with the tip of his trunk.
We now come to a group of monkeys whose prehensile tail is of a
less perfect character, since it is covered with hair to the tip, and is of
no use to pick up objects. It can, however, curl round a branch, and
serves to steady the animal while sitting or feeding, but is never used
