N'ATIOXAL NECESSITIES AND EDUCATION. 451
the children are not glad, but commonly cry at having to leave the
institution, to part with their playmates or their -workmates, and to go
home. As the physical and industrial exercises have been improved,
desertions have diminished and the outcomes bettered. From morn
until night bad thoughts are much excluded, and comparatively good
thoughts — thoughts of doing better for themselves by work and wages,
and by all honest and esteemed position — are generated and impressed.
The teacher can not look into the mind and see what effects, or whether
any, have been produced by his precepts. But the drill-master or the
work-master does see the valuable primary moral principles of atten-
tion, patience, self-restraint, prompt and exact obedience, in outward
and visible action. The general result is that the pupil gets interested
in what he does, and does it with a will."
"We are strongly of the opinion that by the introduction of phys-
ical training the end will be accomplished of reducing natural crime.
Lastly, we submit that, to insure the future happiness and serenity
of the people of the future, the children of the present should have
theu' mental and art training varied by making the subject of recre-
ation a scientific branch of study among all who are engaged in
educational work. In such advance, we should have the means for
recreation made the means for imperceptible instruction in bodily and
mental powers, so that, having never unduly severed them from the
tastes of the scholar, they shall be true resting-places, useful as well as
pleasing diversions from mental and physical labor.
I have now put forward our programme. It is framed on what we
conceive to be the basis of national necessities. A few concluding
paragraphs may be taken as proposed resolutions to explain the mode
in which we would carry out the reforms we have in view :
1. "We propose to lessen the tasks of a mental kind in all schools,
by the introduction of what is practically a half-time system. Believ-
ing that the brain of the child under fourteen years of age is suffi-
ciently charged, to be safely charged, when it has been subjected to
three hours work in book-teaching, we assume that this period per day
of such teaching is sufficient for all useful and safe advancement, that
the children would have more than they could learn, and would retain
more than they need retain on this plan. We propose at the same
time to make inspection into such book-learning less critical and less
severe, with an institution of inspection into physical capability as a
part of the inspection, in place of the part given up to book standards.
In connection with this department we propose that there should
be at stated times a physical inquiry, by competent authority, into
the health of every school and every scholar, and that as much special
encouragement and reward should be given to scholars who present
the best physique as to those who present proofs of superior attain-
ments in the standards.
We propose further that this great change shall be effected by
