452 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
utilizing the time thus taken from books in application to lessons of
play, exercise, or work that shall be useful in developing the body,
and in making it apt to attain proficiency in physical arts and sciences.
We would suggest that, in the school itself, the means for this phys-
ical instruction should be provided ; but we would not by any hard
and fast line hold by the school as the only place. If it were found
in any case that a scholar had the means, in his half-time, of following
any proper and profitable occupation without injury to himself, we
should let him follow it, by which plan, as we believe, the sting of the
comiHilsory clause in the education act would be most effectually
blunted.
2. We propose that, while the mind of the child shall not be sur-
charged with book-learning at a time when the body is in the most
critical stage of development either into a sound and helpful or into
an unsound and helpless body, there shall be made a provision in the
school itself, by which education shall be allowed to go on after the
usual prescribed time, in which it is presumed that the education is
completed.
3. We propose, in the introduction of physical education into
schools, that it should be at once of the simplest and best kind ; not a
system of one particular character, but one which should combine
everything that is useful in vai'ious systems, and which should interest
the scholar, while it develops his physical life. We agree with an
observation made by Mr. Charles Roberts, in a letter in which he
says :
I have examined with some care, from a physiological point of view, the
various systems of physical education, but I am not satisfied with any of them.
The military drill, in use in many schools, puts too great a strain on the lower
limbs, and too little on the arms and trunk, and, though tlie exercises are useful
for discipline, they are monotonous and wearisome to children, and may be in-
jurious, by inducing flat-foot and other deformities of the body. On the other
hand, the exercises in ordinary German gymnasiums are generally too severe for
children, and not sufficiently under the control of the non-medical teacher ;
their expense, moreover, places them beyond the reach of elementary schools.
The Swedish system, again, as taught in the board schools, lacks spirit and
energy, from the entire absence of apparatus, and therefore of motive, to at-
tempt or complete a definite object — a defect which Miss Chreiman's system has
removed to considerable extent, by the limited use of simple apparatus.
4. We propose that there should be introduced into the system
what may be shortly explained as systematic ti'aining of the senses, so
that the senses of sight, hearing, touch, and even smell, should be
brought up to the best standards of perfection. Such training, we
are of opinion, could be carried out by means of lessons and of simple
apparatus, and would, in the course of carrying it out, afford facility
for practically testing the capacity of every scholar, and his fitness or
unfitness for the after-duties he may be called upon to undertake. In
