ACOUSTIC ARCHITECTURE. 455
upon its acoustic qualities, and it will be shown, as would naturally be
expected, that the condition of the medium which conveys the sound
exercises a very considerable influence on the facility and accuracy
with which the sound is conveyed. In the second part is considered
the effect of the arrangement of the walls which inclose the audito-
rium, and of the materials of which these walls are composed. In the
third and last part there are discussed several minor points, attention
to which will aid in the securing of a building which shall be good
and not bad for sound. These three headings, it is believed, will cover
the whole ground.
It seems almost self-evident that the condition of the air, which is
the medium by which sound is conveyed from one part of an audito-
rium to another, will exercise a considerable effect upon its acoustic
properties. An experimental inquiry shows us that such is the case.
What peculiar condition of the air is it that affects the transmission of
sound ? Whether the air is hot or cold, wet or dry, whether it con-
tains a larger or smaller percentage of oxygen, nitrogen, or carbonic
acid, seems to have no effect on its acoustic properties. But whether
the air is quiet and mechanically homogeneous, or whether there are
mingled drausrhts of hot and cold air movinsc in various directions,
does seem to have a considerable effect. In other words, the motion
of the air within an auditorium does have a very perceptible effect on
its acoustic qualities.
Probably most readers have noticed, or in any event they have
seen recorded, instances in which sounds of very ordinary intensity
have been heard, and heard distinctly, at a very considerable distance
from the source. In particular, the author remembers an instance
which came to his notice one summer afternoon, while resting half-way
up the side of one of the hills near the Green Mountains. The hill
sloped gently to a meadow at the foot, and its sides curved somewhat
like the walls of an amphitheatre, of which the meadow was the floor.
Nearly a mile away, across the meadow, a man was mowing grass with
a mowing-machine drawn by horses. The day was slightly cloudy,
and from the mower, up the side of the hill to the observer, was mov-
ing a slight, hardly perceptible breeze. The air was optically very
clear, and appeared to be rather dry. The click of the mowing-ma-
chine was heard with wonderful distinctness, but the author was not a
little surprised when, the machine having stopped for the moment, the
" Go along ! " of the driver Avas plainly heard as he urged his horses
on. Not only were the words plainly intelligible, but the provincial
twang peculiar to the country-folk of that region was distinctly dis-
tinguishable. Here the human voice, raised probably very little
above the ordinary tone, and not at all above that of a preacher in
his pulpit or an actor on the stage, was distinctly heard, and with all
its peculiarities of quality, nearly a mile away.
Another instance is that mentioned by Sir John Ross in his account
