456 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of his voyage to the polar regions. He says, " I found no difficulty,
in that cold and quiet air, in conversing with a man a mile away." It
will be noticed that in both of these cases the air was mechanically homo-
geneous ; that is, there were no alternating currents of hot and cold air.
In striking contrast with these may be mentioned the condition of
the air as a vehicle for sound in the burned district of Boston, just after
the fire had swept over it. There were many places, where there was a
mixture of hot air, smoke, steam, and currents of cold air, in which the
shouts of two people hardly a hundred feet apart, although audible,
were so confused and indistinct as to make communication entirely
impossible, and this too in quiet parts quite remote from the scene of
conflagration. This effect was noticed when there were mingled cur-
rents of hot and cold air. That is, the air was mechanically heteroge-
neous. Humboldt speaks of the great difference in transmissive power
for sound of the tropical air during the day and at night, and attrib-
utes this difference to the homogeneous condition of the air at night
as compared to its heterogeneous condition in the day-time, due to
convection-currents rising from the heated sands.
A large number of instances might be cited, and we should find
that a clear homogeneous air transmits sounds readily, while an atmos-
phere broken by alternating convection-currents of warm and cold
air is a very poor vehicle for sound. The explanation of this is not
difficult. The original ray of sound, striking upon the first current of
air, is partially reflected and j)artially transmitted.
The loss of the reflected portion causes a decrease in the intensity
of sound. The transmitted portion, striking upon a second current, is
likewise divided, and its transmitted portion continues to be so divided
as many times as there are variations in the density of the air. Its
reflected portion, as well as that of all the succeeding reflections, in-
stead of being wholly lost, is interrupted in its backward course by
the first current of air, and reflected along the path of the primary
wave, but following it at an interval of time, depending upon the
thickness of the current of air. Each reflection being thus again and
again divided and reflected, we have, following close upon the primary
wave, a multitude of secondary waves, which, falling later and later
upon the ear, greatly mask the distinctness of the original sound, and
give rise to indistinctness and confusion.
It is evident, then, that in order to procure the proper propagation
of sound, one must do away with these air-currents. It must be re-
membered, however, that, when large numbers of people are crowded
into halls, the air within is usually subjected to very considerable dis-
turbances in order to obtain even indifferent ventilation. Registers,
sprinkled here and there over the floor, send up their currents of hot
and cold air. Opened windows or other cold-air ventilators send in
their currents of cold air. If these currents could be made visible to
the eye, as they can be detected by proper apparatus, we should see
