ACOUSTIC ARCHITECTURE. 457
that hot and cold currents do not readily mix, but till the whole audi-
torium with alternations, continually varying in temperature and there-
fore in density and relative motion.
The proper solution of the problem is to admit the air in large
volume, and at the proper temperature, at one side of the auditorium,
carry it bodily across the room in one large mass as nearly as may be
without break of homogeneity, and exhaust it at the other side. Or it
may be introduced through a perforated floor and rise to be exhausted
at the roof. This plan has been tried with success ; the air, being first
brought to the proper temj^erature in the basement, passes up through
myriads of gimlet-holes, and is exhausted at the ceiling by means of
numerous openings connected with a high chimney or other means of
producing an exhaust.
An example of the first method is shown in the Baltimore Academy
of Music, where the author was able to make some experiments to
determine how far acoustic properties were actually dependent upon
the condition of the aii*. The ventilation of the house is arranged as
follows : The whole supply of fresh air is admitted at the back of the
stage, is then warmed, then crosses the stage horizontally, passes
through the proscenium, and then, somewhat diagonally toward the
roof, across the auditorium, in one grand volume and with gentle mo-
tion, so as to almost entirely prevent the formation of minor air-cur-
rents. It is exhausted partially by an outlet in the roof, and partly
by numerous registers in the ceilings of the galleries. From this cen-
tral outlet and from the large flues of the registers, the air passes into
the ventilating tower over the great chandelier, which supplies, in its
heat, a part of the motive power of the circulation. It is further ex-
pelled from the tower by means of properly constructed ventilators.
The acoustic properties of this house are universally agreed to be very
superior.
The experiment made by tlie author consisted in stationing ob-
servers in various parts of the house while the performance was going
on, with directions to note, at intervals during the evening, the readi-
ness with which they could hear what was said on the stage. The ob-
servers were ignorant of the experiment to be tried. Observers A and
B were stationed in the first, and C and D in the second balcony, from
8 to 10 one evening, when Neilson was playing "Rosalind." At 8.50
the ventilators were closed, so as to interrupt the normal circulation
of air ; and tlie doors into the lobbies, and thence into the street, were
thrown open, that counter-currents might be established. At 9.20 the
doors were closed, and the ventilators set right. The testimony of the
observers was :
A (first balcony). — 8 to nearly 9, good ; for about half an hour,
bad ; afterward much better.
B (first balcony).— 8 to 9, good ; 9 to 9.30, bad ; 9.30 to 10, good.
Strong current of air felt from door a little before 9.
