458 TEE POPULAR SCIENCE MONT ELY.
C (second balcony).— 8 to 8.50, good ; 8.50 to 9.20, bad ; 9.20 to
10, good.
D (second balcony).— 8 to about 9, good ; 9 to 9.20, bad ; 9.20 to
10, good.
An examination of the foregoing data can leave very little doubt
that the condition of the air within an auditorium exercises a very
considerable influence upon the facility and accuracy with which sound
is conveyed.
The Academy of Music, in Baltimore, is an example of how a de-
sirable condition of the air may be obtained. It must not be supposed,
however, that acoustic success depends entirely upon the condition of
the air. In fact, the condition of the air is a matter quite secondary
to that which next comes up for discussion — the material and arrange-
ment of the walls.
It is not uncommon to find churches or halls built nearly square,
with a speaker's desk at one end, and a bare wall of stone covered with
plaster opposite. If one goes into such a room when it is empty and
speaks from the desk, he notices a loud and disagreeable reverberation
following each syllable, which, if the room be large enough, comes
back to him as a distinct echo. When the room is filled with people,
this resonance or echo will considerably decrease ; but, in such a room
as we have described, it will not by any means disappear.
If now we choose a similar room, but with walls sheathed up with
thin boarding or a thin layer of plaster laid on to light laths and
having a free air-space behind, we shall, in all probability, find that,
when this room is filled with people, the echo or reverberation will
have almost if not quite disappeared. This is a comparison that the
author has often made, and it gives the cue to the whole art of choos-
ing the materials of which the walls are to be built. They must be
built of such material and arranged in such way that they shall absorb
and not reflect sound-waves falling upon them.
"When the speaker utters his first syllable, the sound goes out in
straight lines from his mouth to all parts of the house. So much of it
as goes directly to the ears of the audience is effective, but all the
other rays of sound ought to be as completely as possible absorbed
and destroyed, else they will be reflected from the walls and ceiling
back to the audience ; and, arriving at their ears somewhat later than
the direct sound, Avill give rise to the confusion or echo whose ap-
parent effect is to bridge each syllable of the speaker over into the
next, and so cause apparent indistinctness of articulation.
The presence of an audience in a room causes the absorption of
such words as would otherwise be reflected from the floor, and thence
to the walls, and so back and forth. But it is out of the question to
cover the walls and ceiling with an audience. The absorption of the
sound is, however, sometimes effected by draping heavily with cloths ;
but it has been found by experiment that there are other materials,
