460 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
While a plain blank wall opposite the speaker will throw back a strong
reverberation, if this wall be broken up by recesses, or spaced with
pilasters, or if a gallery be extended across it, the reverberation will
be much less.
The lining of the walls should, if possible, be placed at a consid-
erable distance from the main wall, and supported by it so as to allow
as free vibration as possible. Thus when other considerations require
that the walls of a building shall be of stone or brick, the acoustic
qualities may be recovered by lining up with thin pine, corrugated
iron, or a thin coating of plaster on light laths, and suspending this
lining as lightly as possible and at a considerable distance from the
solid wall. The arrangement of walls in panels is a very advanta-
geous one, as each panel may be so constructed as to be easily set in
vibration. Perhaps the ideal arrangement would be an auditorium
with brick walls, within which is a shell made up of thin wooden
panels, and placed at such a distance from the solid walls that the i^as-
sage-ways to the entrances on the floor and various galleries may be
placed between.
In this connection it becomes necessary to discuss the proper shape
to be given to an auditorium. A good way to arrive at this is to con-
sider first an audience in the open air on a calm day. The open air
on a quiet day, when the atmosphere is not disturbed by convection-
currents, is probably the best possible place for speaking to a large
number of people. Wesley is said to have preached successfully to
twenty thousand people gathered together in a natural amphitheatre
formed by the hills, and on a day when the atmosphere was at rest.
Let us take a small platform arranged for an open-air speaker, and
notice how an audience will form itself about it. If the audience is
large and each person anxious to hear, wc shall find that the outline
of the crowd will be that of a section cut through an egs,, with the
speaker placed at the focus of the smaller end. As in an auditorium
we trust to the natural diffusion of sound to absorb the stray rays, we
should evidently adopt this same ovate section for the outline of the
floor.
But, when we come to consider further that it is desirable to place
each member of the audience so that he can see the speaker, and so
that the speaker's voice may come directly to him, we see that we con-
form still further to the egg-shape, for, in order that we may do this,
the floor must curve upward as it recedes from the speaker, and the
galleries form only a continuation of this curve. To that we may say
that the proper shape of an auditorium is in general that of an egg-
shell, the speaker being at the focus of the smaller end and the audi-
ence being seated over the lower half, while the upper half forms the
vaulted roof. Like an egg-shell, we have seen that the walls should be
thin and capable of absorbing, as fully as possible, all the stray rays
of sound. AVhilc the egg-shape is the ideal, other considerations fre-
