ACOUSTIC ARCHITECTURE. 461
quently require considerable departures, but it will generally be found
that rooms constructed on tliis plan, if the materials of the walls and
the condition of the contained air be secured, are acoustically good.
The Greek and Roman amphitheatres, having the audiences ar-
ranged in semicircles, each circle rising above the one in fi'ont of it,
and having the auditorium either open at the top or covered with
awnings so that the waste sound might easily escape at the top or be
absorbed by the audience around the sides, were crude approaches to
this plan. The modern theatres, in which the floor slopes upward as it
recedes from the stage, and in which the balconies are placed one above
the other and are of horseshoe form, conform still more closely to it.
Other considerations frequently demand that music-halls and
churches shall be square or oblong in shape, and it must not be sup-
posed that acoustic success can not here be obtained. But, in these
forms, great care must be taken to avoid large reflecting surfaces, and,
by means of paneling or other devices, to absorb fully the waste
sound,
"We have now examined the two important features on which acous-
tic success depends. The atmosphere must be in such condition as to
best allow the natural diffusion of sound ; and, further, the walls must
be of such material, and so arranged, as to absorb as fully as possible
the waste sound. It now remains for us to look at some of the minor
points which contribute to acoustic success.
There is one danger to which buildings having a vaulted roof are
peculiarly liable, and that is, that the roof, if constructed of proper
curvature and of non-absorbing material, is apt to act as a great con-
cave mirror to gather up waste rays of sound and reflect them back to
a focus somewhere in the audience, and so produces a loud and dis-
agreeable echo. The architect can not exercise too great care in se-
lecting absorbing materials, and in so arranging them as to prevent
this possibility. A change in curvature, or breaking by transverse
arches, will often do this. This focus would be a small area in case of
a dome ; but, in case of an arched roof running from front to rear, it
would be a straight line.
It often happens that churches constructed without regard to acous-
tic principles are found, when com])leted, to possess this fault in a strik-
ing degree. The only complete remedy in such cases is to entirely
replace the ceiling. It may, however, often be largely alleviated by
placing the pulpit in a different position, as near one comer or against
the wall half-way down one side. Sometimes the fault may be largely
remedied by using a reflector to throw the sound out toward the audi-
ence and prevent its going up toward the roof.
Reflectors, or sounding-boards, should be used only with judicious
care. Their object is not, like a concave mirror, to gather the rays of
sound and throw them out to a focus in the audience. When so con-
structed they have been found to do more hanm than good, esi3ecially
