462 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
when the focus is so distant that a strong echo is returned from the
opj)osite wall. Their object is rather to control such rays of sound as
would otherwise go up to the roof and be retained as a disagreeable
echo. A perfectly flat surface placed over the pulpit and not too far
from the speaker's head, will often do this ; but it is better to have the
wall back of the pulpit gradually curve forward until it completely
overhangs the speaker's head. The speaker must be near to this wall,
so that the direct and reflected sounds may be as nearly as possible
identical.
There is a belief, prevalent among some architects, that a hall, in
order to be acoustically good, must have its length, breadth, and height
in harmonic proportion. There seems to be no good foundation for
this belief, and the author, after careful experimental inquiry, has
failed to find that this is the case.
It frequently happens that, in a building in which there is consid-
erable resonance, the speaker, by timing his syllables so that the reso-
nance of one shall have disappeared before the next is uttered, may
make himself understood to a large audience with comparative ease.
This is recognized by most public speakers, and it is not uncommon
to hear them speak of the "key-note" of any particular hall.
The act of striking the " key-note " consists not so much in pitch-
ing the voice at any particular key as in carefully timing the rate at
which the syllables succeed each other.
PEOGKESS OF THE GERM THEOEY OF DISEASE.*
By JOHN TYNDALL, F.R.S., LL.D. (M. D., TUBINGEN).
THE virtual triumph of the antisejitic system of surgery, based as
that system is on the recognition of living contagia as the agents
of putrefaction, is of good augury as regards the receptivity of the
public mind to new views respecting the nature of contagia generally.
To the credit of English surgeons it stands recorded that, guided
by their j^ractical sagacity, they had adopted in their hospitals meas-
ures of amelioration Avhich reduced, almost to a minimum, the rate of
mortality arising from the "mortification " of wounds. They had dis-
covered the evils incident to " dirt " ; and, by keeping dirt far away
from them, they had saved innumerable lives, which would undoubt-
edly have succumbed under conditions prevalent in many of the hos-
pitals of Continental Europe.
In thus acting, English surgeons were, for the most part, " wiser
than they knew." Their knowledge, however momentous in its prac-
* Introductory Xote reprinteil from Professor Tyndall's " Essays on tlic Floating Mat-
ter of the Air, in Relation to Putrefaction and Infection."
