MONKEYS. 31
and are more sluggish in their movements than true monkeys, most
of them being of nocturnal or crepuscular habits. They feed largely
on insects, eating also fruits and the eggs or young of birds.
The most curious species are — the slow lemurs of South India,
small tailless nocturnal animals, somewhat resembling sloths in appear-
ance, and almost as deliberate in their movements, except when in the
act of seizing their insect prey ; the tarsier, or specter-lemur, of the
Malay Islands, a small long-tailed nocturnal lemur, remarkable for the
curious development of the hind-feet, which have two of the toes very
short and with sharp claws, while the others have nails, the third toe
being exceedingly long and slender, though the thumb is very large,
giving the feet a very irregular and ovtre appearance ; and, lastly, the
aye-aye of Madagascar, the most remarkable of all. This animal has
very large ears and a squirrel-like tail, with long, spreading hair. It
has large curved incisor teeth, which add to its squirrel-like appear-
ance and caused the early naturalists to class it among the rodents.
But its most remarkable character is found in its fore-feet or hands,
the fingers of which are all very long and armed with sharp, curved
claws, but one of them, the second, is wonderfully slender, being not
half the thickness of the others. This curious combination of charac-
ters shows that the aye-aye is a very specialized form — that is, one
whose organization has been slowly modified to fit it for a peculiar
mode of life. From information received from its native country, and
from a profound study of its organization, Professor Owen believes
that it is adapted for the one purpose of feeding on small, wood-boring
insects. Its large feet and sharp claws enable it to cling firmly to the
branches of trees in almost any position ; by means of its large, deli-
cate ears it listens for the sound of the insect gnawing within the
branch, and is thus able to fix its exact position ; with its powerful
curved gnawing teeth it rapidly cuts away the bark and wood till it
exposes the burrow of the insect, most probably the soft larva of some
beetle, and then comes into play the extraordinary long wire-like
finger, which enters the small cylindrical burrow, and with the sharp
bent claw hooks out the grub. Here we have a most complex adapta-
tion of different parts and organs all converging to one special end,
that end being the same as is reached by a group of birds, the wood-
peckers, in a different way ; and it is a most interesting fact that,
although woodpeckers abound in all the great continents, and are
especially common in the tropical forests of Asia, Africa, and America,
they are quite absent from Madagascar. "Ws may therefore consider
that the aye-aye really occupies the same place in nature in the forests
of this tropical island as do the woodpeckers in other parts of the
world.
Distribution, Affinities, ant) Zoological Rank of Monkeys.
— Having thus sketched an outline of the monkey-tribe as regards
their more prominent external characters and habits, we must say a
