ABOUT ELEPHAXTS. 485
tions exist when the ratio of brain to body is examined in different
animals. Thus in man, as is the case with lower animals, the ratio
diminishes with increasing weight and height. In lean persons the
ratio is often as 1 : 22 to 27, and in stout persons as 1 : 50 to 100. In
the Greenland whale the ratio is given as 1 to 3,000 ; in the ox as 1
to 160 ; in the horse as 1 to 400 ; in the dog as 1 to 305 ; in the ele-
phant as 1 to 500 ; in the chimpanzee as 1 to 50 ; and in man as 1
to 36.
The absolute weight of brain in an elephant which was seven and
a half feet high, and eight and a half feet in length from forehead to
tail, was nine pounds. The brain of an Indian elephant was found to
weigh ten pounds ; and Sir Astley Cooper gives the weight of the
brain of another specimen as eight pounds, one ounce, and two grains ;
while that of an African elephant seventeen years old was found by
Perrault to weigh nine pounds.
The muscular system of the elephant necessarily partakes of the
massive character adapted for the work of moving and transporting
the huge frame. But the anatomy of the "proboscis" or "trunk"
constitutes in itself a special topic of interest, and one, moreover, which
gives to the proboscidian race one of its most notable characteristics.
The " trunk " is, of course, the elongated nose of the elephant. It is
perforated by the nostrils which open at its tip, and above the aper-
tures is a curious finger-like process, which, when opposed to a small
projection somewhat resembling a thumb in function, constitutes a
veritable hand, and is utilized by the animal in almost every detail of
its life. With the exception of the snout of the tapirs, the trunk of
the elephant has not even a distant parallel in the animal series. Its
muscles form two sets of fibers, one set of which compressing its sub-
stance also extends its length, while the second set shortens the organ
and enables it to bend freely in any direction. "When we add to the
possession of this extreme muscularity a high degree of sensitiveness,
the proboscis of these animals may be regarded in the light of one of
the most useful as well as most interesting features of their organiza-
tion. Its use is not limited to the prehension of food (Fig. 2, 1, 2),
however, or even to the additional function of an organ of touch. Oc-
casionally, water is drawn up into the trunk, and is then squirted over
the body as from a flexible hose (Fig. 2, s), thus serving as a kind of
shower-bath apparatus ; and stories have been recorded wherein such
a use of the proboscis has played a prominent part in the act of ele-
phantine revenge on some over-lDold or offending human.
The teeth of the elephantine race form a highly characteristic feat-
ure of their anatomy. In the mouth of a higher quadruped, such as
man, the bat, or ape, no less thnn four kinds of teeth are represented.
These are the front teeth, or incisors, the " eye-teeth," or canines, the
premolars, and the molars, or "grinders."
In the elephants, only two kinds of teeth are represented, these be-
