486 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ing the incisors, or front teeth, and the molars, or grinders ; while the
front teeth themselves only exist in the upper jaw. The incisors grow
from " permanent pulps," and hence they increase during the whole
life of the animal, or nearly so. A large pair of tusks may weigh from
one hundi-ed and fifty to two hundred pounds, and as regards struct-
Fig. 2.— Vakious Uses op the Proboscis.
ure they are found to consist of dentine, or " ivory," and of " cement *' ;
while the enamel, which forms such a characteristic feature of ordi-
nary teeth, may or may not be re^jresented. The tusks vary, according
to Darwin, " in the different species or races according to sex, nearly
as do the horns of ruminants. In India and Malacca, the males alone
are provided with well-developed tusks. The elephant of Ceylon,"
adds Mr. Darwin, " is considered by most naturalists as a distinct race ;
there, ' not one in a hundred is found with tusks, the few that possess
them being exclusively males.' The African elephant is undoubtedly
distinct, and the female has large, well-developed tusks, though not so
large as those of the male." The molars, or grinding-teeth, exhibit an
equally curious structure. In the life-time of an elephant twenty-four
molar teeth are developed in all, six on each side of each jaw. But,
at any one time in the life of the animal, not more than two of these
teeth are to be seen in each side of the jaw. A curious succession of
these molars takes place in the elephants, for they are found to move
from behind forward, the teeth in use being gradually ousted from
their place by their successors as the former are worn away. Thus
the whole set of molars in due time moves forward in the jaw and
each successive tooth is, as a rule, larger than its predecessor. In
structure, the molars of the elephant are highly peculiar, each exhibit-
ing the appearance rather of a compound than of a single tooth. Each
tooth is built up of a series of plates set perpendicularly in the tooth,
and consisting of ivory, or " dentine," covered by enamel, while " ce-
ment" fills up the interspaces between the plates. As the tooth wears
in its work, the enamel comes to project above the surface of the tooth,
