ABOUT ELEPHANTS. 487
and a characteristic pattern is thus developod on the surface of the
molars of each species of living elephant. Thus, in the Indian ele-
phant, the molars exhibit a series of cross-ridges, which are more nu-
merous than those of the African species, \rhile in the latter form the
enamel plates form a distinctly lozenge-shaped pattern. It sometimes
happens that in elephants kept in captivity the succession of the teeth
is disarranged, from the fact that the molars are not worn away fast
enough, and the succeeding teeth are displaced, thereby causing de-
formity of the jaws.
The elephants were included in the older systems of classification
in a somewhat heterogeneous group of quadrupeds named the Pachy-
dermata. That this order — now abolished and divided to form several
new groups — was motley enough in its representation is readily seen,
when we discover that the rhinoceroses, hippopotami, and other forms
were included within its limits along with the elephants themselves.
The technical name " Pachydermata " related to the thick skin which
invests the bodies of the animals just mentioned, and in the elephants
this characteristic is, of course, extremely well represented. The thick
skin hangs in folds on the body, while the typical hair-covering which,
by natural right, all quadrupeds possess, is but sparsely developed. It
would seem, however, that the young elephant possesses a much more
profuse covering of hairs than the adult. Such a statement is consist-
ent with the general biological law which holds that the young form
exhibits the primitive characters of the race more typically than the
adult. In this view of matters the young elephant is nearer the type
of its ancestors than the adult ; and in the young whales the same
remark holds good ; since the youthful cetaceans may possess a sparse
covering of hairs, such as the adults do not exhibit.
Speaking of the comparative hairlessness of the elephant and rhi-
noceros, Mr. Darwin remarks that, "as certain extinct species (e. g.,
mammoth) which formerly lived under an Arctic climate, were covered
with hair, it would almost appear as if the existing species of both
genera had lost their hairy covering from exposure to heat. This
appears the more probable, as the elephants in India which live on
elevated and cool districts are more hairy than those on the lowlands."
The social history and psychology of the elephant race form of
themselves topics wide enough to fill a volume. From the earliest
times, these animals have been enlisted by man in the service of war,
or as beasts of burden, as aids in the chase, or even in the brutal and
demoralizing sports of the ancient arena. The value of ivory in the
earliest ages must have given rise to elephant-hunting as a source of
gain and profit ; and the inroads of man upon the species have natu-
rally caused not merely a limitation in the numbers of these animals,
but have likewise served to modify, in a very marked fashion, their
geographical distribution. But the utility of these great animals to
man depends as much upon their docility and tractable nature as
