ABOUT ELEPHANTS. 489
elephant," says Darwin, " is very faithful to his driver or keeper, and
probably considers him as the leader of the herd. Dr. Hooker informs
me that an elephant which ho was riding in India became so deeply
bogged that he remained stuck fast until the next day, when he was
extricated by men with ropes. Under such circumstances elephants
will seize with their trunks anj- object, dead or alive, to place under
their knees to prevent their sinking deeper in the mud; and the driver
was dreadfully afraid lest the animal should have seized Dr. Hooker
and crushed him to death. But the driver himself, as Dr. Hooker was
assured, ran no risk. This forbearance, under an emergency so dread-
ful for a heavy animal, is a wonderful proof of noble fidelity." Swain-
son gives a deseri^jtion of the sagacity of an elephant under such cir-
cumstances which is worth quoting in the present instance : " The
cylindrical form of an elephant's leg — which is nearly of equal thick-
ness — causes the animal to sink very deep in heavy ground, especially
in the muddy banks of small rivers. When thus situated, the animal
will endeavor to lie on his side, so as to avoid sinking deeper, and,
for this purpose, will avail himself of every means to obtain relief.
The usual mode of extricating him is much the same as when he is
pitted ; that is, by supplying him liberally with straw, boughs, grass,
etc. ; these materials being thrown to the distressed animal, he forces
them down with his trunk, till they are lodged under his fore-feet in
sufficient quantity to resist his pressure. Having thus formed a suffi-
cient basis for exertion, the sagacious animal next proceeds to thrust
other bundles under his belly, and as far back under his flanks as he
can reacli ; when such a basis is formed as may be, in his mind, proper
to proceed upon, he throws his whole weight forward, and gets his hind-
feet gradually upon the straw, etc. Being once confirmed on a solid
footing, he will next place the succeeding bundles before him, pressing
them well with his trunk, so as to form a causeway by Avhich to reach
the firm ground. ... He will not bear any weight, definitely, until, by
trial both with his trunk and the next foot that is to be planted, he
has completely satisfied himself of the firmness of the ground he is to
tread upon. . . . The anxiety of the animal when bemired forms a
strong contrast with the pleasure he so strongly evinces on arriving at
terra firmay Such an account becomes extremely interesting, as con-
vincing us that much, if not all, of the sagacity which is called forth by
such circumstances must be inherent and original, as opposed to tliat
gained by experience. It can not be supposed that the accident de-
scribed can form such a frequent experience of elephant-existence in
a wild state as to constitute a certain basis for acquired knowledge of
what to do in the exigency. On the contrary, it seems more reason-
able to suppose that the inherent and intuitive sagacity of the animal
is simply called forth by the threatened danger, and that such an
exigency brings into play mental acts analogous to those whereby,
through mechanical and similar contrivances to those employed by the
