490 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
elephant, man might rescue himself or his property from immersion in
the swamps.
The memory of elephants is of a highly remarkable nature, both as
to its duration and in its operation as enabling the animal to recognize
friends and foes. I am fortunate in being able to place on record an
instance of elephant memory of a very interesting kind, and one which
serves to show in a highly typical manner the remembrance by these
animals of kindness, and also of the reverse treatment. In 1874
Wombwell's menagerie visited Tenbury, in Gloucestershire, and on
that occasion the female elephant, " Lizzie " by name, drank a large
quantity of cold water when heated after a long walk — the animal, as
a consequence, being attacked with severe internal spasms. A local
chemist, a Mr. Turley, being called in as medical adviser, succeeded
in relieving the elephant's pain, the treatment including the application
of a very large blister to the side. The menagerie in due course went
its way ; but, in May, 1879, it again visited Tenbury, and, as Mr. Tur-
ley stood at his shop-door watching the zoological procession pass down
the street, the elephant stepped out of the ranks, crossed from one side
of the street to the other, and, having advanced to Mr. Turley, placed
her trunk round his hand and held it firmly, at the same time making,
as Mr. Turley informs me, a peculiar grunting noise, as if by way of
Avelcome. Thus it was clear that, after an interval of five years, " Liz-
zie " had recognized an old friend in Mr. Turley, and that, moreover,
she remembered him with a sense of gratitude for his successful en-
deavors to relieve the pain from which she had suffered. At night
Mr. Turley visited the menagerie, when the elephant again made every
demonstration of joy, and embraced him with her trunk. She drew
Mr. Turley's attention particularly to the side whereon the blister had
been applied, thus showing that all the circumstances of five years
previous were fresh in her memory. Observing that in 1881 the me-
nagerie had again visited Tenbury, I wrote to Mr. Turley, inquiring if
" Lizzie " had again recognized her old friend. That gentleman re-
plied, his letter bearing date May, 1881, that she had again recognized
him, beginning to " trumpet " whenever slie beheld Mr. Turley among
the spectators in the menagerie. On his speaking to his patient, she
placed her trunk round his legs and lifted him from the ground, but
in the gentlest manner possible. On Mr. Turley proceeding to exam-
ine one of her hind-legs, which had been under treatment, the elephant
kept holding one of her fore-legs toward him in such a fashion as to
draw his attention to the limb. As Mr. Turley, hoAvever, had had no
concern with the fore-leg, he was puzzled to account for the animal's
movement ; but the keeper explained that the fore-leg in question had
been treated by a veterinary surgeon for an injury, and that the latter
had used his lancet to afford relief. The elephant was irritated by
the operation, and expressed her resentment on again seeing the veter-
inary practitioner by striking at him with her trunk. The act of call-
