ABOUT ELEPHANTS. 491
ing Mr. Turley's attention to tlie fore-leg was simply an expression of
admiration for the gentler treatment to which he had subjected his
patient ; the quieter medical treatment contrasting apparently with
the rougher surgical measure to which the fore-leg had been subjected.
It is thus clear not merely that the elephantine nature is endowed with
an active memory, but that a lively sense of gratitude for past kindness
is also represented in the list of mental attributes of this giant race.
A parallel instance of elephant memory is afforded by the case of
an elephant which, having broken loose from the stables on a stormy
night, escaped into the jungles. Four years thereafter, when a drove
of wild elephants was captured in the " keddah," or inclosure, the
keeper of the lost elephant went to inspect the new arrivals, and
climbed on the railings of the "keddah " to obtain a satisfactory view
of the captured animals. Having fancied that among the animals he
recognized the escaped elephant — an idea ridiculed by his comrades —
he called his lost charge by name. The animal at once came close to
the barrier, and, on the keejDer proceeding into the inclosure and com-
manding it to lie down, the elephant obeyed, and the man led his for-
mer charge triumphantly forth from among its wild companions. But
the memory of kindnesses is ecpialed in the elephant by that which
recalls acts of injury to remembrance. The well-known story of the
Indian elephant which, on being pricked by a native tailor near whose
stall it had wandered, returned and deluged the man with a shower-
bath of dirty water, finds many parallels in the history of elephant
character. An elephant, which was kept at Versailles by Louis XIY,
was in the habit of revenging himself for affronts and injuries. A man
who, feigning to throAV something into his mouth, disappointed him,
was beaten to the ground with the trunk and trampled upon. On a
painter desiring to sketch this elephant with trunk erect and mouth
open, his servant was instructed to feed the elephant for the purpose
of inducing the animal to assume the desired attitude. But, the sup-
ply of food falling short and elephantine chagrin being aroused, the
elephant, drawing up water into his trunk, coolly showered it down
upon the unfortunate painter and his sketch, drenching the one, and
rendering the other useless.
The pugnacity of the elephant is very great, and the determination
with which contests are carried on between these animals is highly
remarkable. Mr. Darwin, on the authority of the late Dr. Falconer,
tells us that the Indian species fights in varied fashions, determined
by the position and curvature of his tusks. "When they are directed
forward and upward, he is able to fling a tiger to a great distance — it
is said to even thirty feet ; when they are short and turned do^vnward,
he endeavors suddenly to pin the tiger to the ground, and, in conse-
quence, is dangerous to the rider, who is liable to be jerked off the
howdah " — for it is on
"Elepliants endorsed with towers,"
