492 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
as Milton has it, that the great carniyore of India is hunted. A most
remarkable trait of elephant existence, and one which parallels the
proverbial " red rag " and bovine fury, is the apparent animosity of
the race to white color. Sir Samuel Baker says that both the African
elephant and the rhinoceros attack gray or white horses with fury.
The explanation of such traits of character probably lies hidden in
that philosophy of color in relation to sex and animal development
which the reseaches of Darwin and others have so far unraveled.
As a final observation regarding the psychology of the elephant,
Mr. Darwin's statements concerning the " weeping " of these animals
may be qixoted. Remarking that the Indian species is known to weep,
Mr. Darwin quotes Sir Emerson Tennent, who says that some "lay
motionless on the ground, with no other indication of suifering than
the tears which suffused their eyes and flowed incessantly." Another
elephant, " when overpowered and made fast," exhibited gi-eat grief ;
" his violence sank to utter prostration, and he lay on the ground,
uttering choking cries, with tears trickling down his cheeks." " In
the Zoological Gardens," says Darwin, " the keeper of the Indian ele-
phants positively asserts that he has several times seen tears rolling
down the face of the old female, when distressed by the removal of
the young one." Mr. Darwin also makes the interesting observation
that, when the Indian elephant " trumpets," the orbicular muscles of
the eyes contract, while in the " trumpeting " of the African species
these muscles do not act. Hence, as Mr. Darwin believes that in man
the violent contraction of the muscles round the eyes is connected
with the flow of tears, it would seem by analogy to be a legitimate
inference that the Indian elephant has attained a higher stage in the
expression of its emotions than its African neighbor.
The social history of the elephants includes several somewhat
melancholy incidents connected with the dispatch of these animals,
rendered necessary from their dangerous condition. The best known
of these incidents is that connected with the death of Chunee, the
Exeter Change elephant, reported in the " Times " for March 2, 1826.
The account of the death of Chunee is as follows :
The elephant was a male, and bad been an inraate of tbo Exeter Change
Menagerie for seventeen years. lie was brought from Bombay, where be was
caught when quite young, and was supposed to be about five years old when
purchased by Mr. Cross ; consequently his present age is twenty-two. The
effect of his unavoidable seclusion had displayed itself in strong symptoms of
irritability during a certain season from the first, and these symptoms had been
observed to become stronger during each succeeding year as it advanced toward
maturity. The animal was altogether kept at this season very low, and also
plentifully physicked, for which latter purpose no less than one hundred-weight
of salts was frequently given to him at a time. Notwithstanding the>e precau-
tions, the animal within the last few days had shown strong proofs of irritability,
refusing the caress of liis keepers and attempting to strike at them with his
trunk on their approaching him, also at times rolling himself about his den and
