496 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Essex gives a length of nine feet ten inches along the outer curve, and
two feet five inches in circumference at the thickest part. Another
specimen weighed one hundred and sixty pounds ; and a dredged
specimen taken off Dungeness was eleven feet long. The mammoth's
tusks have long formed articles of commerce and barter in Siberia ;
the ivory, as Professor Owen remarks, being "so little altered as to
be fit for the purposes of manufacture." The mammoth's extensive
range forms not the least noteworthy point in its history. It certainly
roamed farther abroad, so far as we know, than any other elephantine
form. Its remains occur in Britain and in Europe generally ; they
have been found on the Mediterranean coast and in Siberia ; and they
are met with in North America as well. In Scotland and in Ireland
the mammoth was apparently less plentiful, but its remains occur in
these countries, where, indeed, no other elephantine remains are found.
It may be added that the molar teeth of the mammoth are by no
means unlike those of the Indian elej^hant in the arrangement and pat-
tern of its enamel plates.
Another extinct elephant, equally famous with the mammoth, was
the Mastodon — a name given to these animals in allusion to the nipple-
like projections seen on the surface of the molar teeth. Their remains
occur in Europe, Asia, and in North and South America. In the mo-
rasses of Ohio and Kentucky, for example, whole skeletons of these
interesting elephants have been discovered. The length of the mas-
todon in some cases exceeded sixteen feet ; and the tusks have been
found to measure twelve feet in length. Over a dozen species of mas-
todons have been described, but they agree in certain important char-
actei's which serve to distinguish them from other elephants. Thus,
the roughened teeth appear to have been adapted for bruising coarse
herbs and leaves — indeed, associated with mastodon remains in America
collections of leaves have been found occupying the situation in which
the stomach of the animal would have been situated, and thus indicat-
ing the dietary of these extinct giants. Furthermore, a most impor-
tant difference between the mastodons and other elephants is found in
the fact that these animals possessed two tusks springing from the
lower jaw, in addition to the tusks with which, as in ordinary ele-
phants, the upper jaw was provided. But it would seem that these
lower tusks never attained a large size, while it is probable that they
fell out when the animal attained the adult period of its existence.
More extraordinary still, in respect of its variations from the ordi-
nary structure of the elephants, was the Dinotherimn (Fig. 4), the
fossil remains of which occur in Europe and in India. The skull of
a dinothcrium has been found to measure four feet in length, while
a thigh-bone was five feet three inches long. Thus, in so far as size
is concerned, the dinotherium may claim a foremost place among its
elephantine cousins. But various circumstances seem to suggest that
the latter animal departed from the elephant type in certain important
