32 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
few words on their general relations as a distinct order of mammalia.
No other group, so extensive and so varied as this, is so exclusively
tropical in its distribution, a circumstance no doubt due to the fact
that monkeys depend so largely on fruit and insects for their subsist-
ence, A very few species extend into the warmer parts of the tem-
perate zones, their extreme limits in the northern hemisphere being
Gibraltar, the western Himalayas at eleven thousand feet elevation.
East Thibet, and Japan. In America they are found in Mexico, but
do not appear to pass beyond the tropic. In the southern hemisphere
they are limited by the extent of the forests in South Brazil, Avhich
reach about 30° south latitude. In the East, owing to their entire
absence from Australia, they do not reach the tropic ; but in Africa
some baboons range to the southern extremity of the continent.
But this extreme restriction of the order to almost tropical lands is
only recent. Directly we go back to the Pliocene period of geology,
we find the remains of monkeys in France, and even in England. In
the eai'lier Miocene several kinds, some of large size, lived in France,
Germany, and Greece, all more or less closely allied to living forms of
Asia and Africa. About the same period monkeys of the South
American type inhabited the United States. In the remote Eocene
period the same temperate lands were inhabited by lemurs in the East,
and by curious animals believed to be intermediate between lemurs
and marmosets in the West. We know from a variety of other evi-
dence that throughout these vast periods a mild and almost sub-trop-
ical climate extended over all Central Eui'ope and parts of North
America, while one of a temperate character prevailed as far north as
the Arctic Circle. The monkey-tribe then enjoyed a far greater range
over the earth, and perhaps filled a more important place in Nature
than it does now. Its restriction to the comparatively narrow limits
of the tropics is no doubt mainly due to the great alteration of climate
which occurred at the close of the Tertiary period, but it may have
been aided by the continuous development of varied forms of mam-
malian life better fitted for the contrasted seasons and deciduous vege-
tation of the north temperate regions. The more extensive area
formerly inhabited by the monkey-tribe would have favored their
development into a number of divergent forms, in distant regions and
adapted to distinct modes of life. As these retreated southward and
became concentrated in a more limited area, such as were able to
maintain themselves became mingled together as we now find them,
the ancient and lowly marmosets and lemurs subsisting side by side
with the more recent and more highly developed howlers and anthro-
poid apes.
Throughout the long ages of the Tertiary period monkeys must
have been very abundant and very varied, yet it is but rarely that
their fossil remains are found. This, however, is not difficult to ex-
plain. The deposits in which mammalian remains most abound are
