ABOUT ELEPHANTS. 497
particulars, while some authorities have been even found to suggest
that it represents a connecting link between the elephants and the sea-
cow or manatee order {Sirenia). The tusks of dinotherium spring
from the lower jaw (Fig. 4) ; and instead of being curved forward
and upward, they bend abruptly downward and backward. The use
of these tusks is extremely difficult to determine, but it has been sug-
gested that the dinotherium was an aquatic animal, living in shallow
waters, and that these huge teeth may have enabled it to root up the
plants on Avhich it fed, or have enabled it to climb, as does the living
walrus, from the sea on to the river-banks.
Fig. 4. — Restoration of Dinotherium.
In addition to these latter elephants, which are essentially distinct
from the living species, certain extinct forms may be mentioned
which, in their essential characteristics, resembled existing proboscid-
ians more or less closely. Thus, we know that elephants closely
related to the Indian species existed in Asia in Miocene times, the
remains of at least six species being obtained from Indian deposits of
that age ; and we also know that Euro])e boasted of elephants in that
period of geology known as the " Pliocene " ; for in the deposits of
France and Italy, as well as in the formations of that age in Britain,
elephant remains occur. Later in point of time come the curious
"pygmy elephants" of Malta, whose remains exist in that island, and
whereof one [Elephas 3Ielitensi>i) attained the size of a donkey, while
another [Elephas Falconeri) was smaller still, and averaged two and
a half or three feet in height.
The geological order and the succession in time of these various
elephants is important to trace ; for the unraveling of so much of the
past history of the elephants as is known to us depends upon the
knowledge of their succession and of the periods of their appearance
and extinction. If we tabulate the rocks wherewith the past of the
elephants is concerned, we may render their arrangement clear thus :
Tertiary Rocks I pliocene,
including ^1 Miocene,
(^ Eocene,
TOL. XXI. — 32
(^ ( Recent (Soils, etc.).
Quaternary, -j p^g^.p^ocene (Ice Age).
