498 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Thus the oldest and lowest of the Tertiary rocks — which are them-
selves collectively the most recently formed — is the " Eocene," and
the succeeding " Miocene," " Pliocene," and " Quaternary," are given
in their due order ; the latter formations bringing us to the soils and
surface accumulations of our own day. The " Ice Age," or " Glacial
Epoch," we may also note, occurred during the Post-Pliocene period,
as shown above.
Turning now to the past history of the elephants, we find the first
chapter of that biography to open in the " Miocene " age. The earlier
or " Eocene " period contains no elephant fossils, and it may have been
that in this Eocene age, which beheld the first beginnings of nearly
all the existing quadruped races, the evolution of the elephant stock
from its ancestry was taking place. Leaving for the present the con-
sideration of the probable root of the elephantine tree, we thus dis-
cover in the Miocene period the first beginnings of elephant existence.
In this period the mastodons roamed over Europe and India, while in
this age also the dinotheriums, with their great lower tusks, made
their first appearance on the stage of time. As the geological scries
progressed, and as the Pliocene age succeeded the Miocene times, we
discover the elephants in increasing numbers. The Miocene, with its
relatively few elephantine forms, contrasts forcibly with the increase
of those animals in the succeeding age. Europe and India harboi' its
Pliocene elephants, as we have seen ; while both Europe and America
in this latter age possessed the mastodons. The Post-Pliocene period,
however, dawns in turn, to find the mastodons still existent in North
America, but unknown in Europe ; while the mammoth now appears
as a representative form, along with survivals of the European ele-
phants of the Pliocene time. The "pygmy elephants" of Malta also
belong to the Post-Pliocene age.
Thus we discover that a distinct succession of types of elephantine
forms has taken place on the earth's surface, beginning with elephants
which, like the dinotherium and mastodon, differ from existent spe-
cies, and ending with elephants which, like the mammoth or the Eu-
ropean elephants of the Pliocene, more or less closely resembled the
quadruped giants of to-day. It becomes interesting further to trace
out the later histoi-y of the race before the bearings of these facts on
the origin of the elephant race are discussed. The mammoth, for ex-
ample, certainly survived the " ice-age," to the irruption of which was
probably due the extinction of the other elephantine forms. We know
of this survival because its remains occur in " recent " or " post-gla-
cial" deposits. We are also certain that early man must have beheld
the mammoth as a living, breathing reality, for its remains have
been found associated with the rude implements of early men, and a
rough portrait of the great red-haired elephant has been discovered,
scratched on one of its tusks — a rude but unquestionable tribute of
early art to the science of zoology. Its woolly hair, protecting it against
