500 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and their neighbors. If this supposition be permissible, then a further
stage still awaits our intellectual journey in the search after the origin
of the elephant races. In the Eocene rocks of North America occur
the fossil remains of some extinct quadrupeds, of which the Dinoceras
is the best-known form. These animals unite in a singular fashion the
characters of elephants and ordinary " hoofed " quadrupeds, AVhile
they possessed horns, they also developed tusks from the eye-teeth ;
and, from a survey of their complete organization, Professor Marsh
tells us that the position of these unique quadrupeds is intermediate
between the elephants themselves and the great order to which the
hoofed quadrupeds belong. Dinoceras and its neighbors precede the
dinotherium and mastodon in time, and this fact alone is important
as bearing on the assumed relationship of these forms.
It may thus at present be assumed with safety that the evolution
of the elephants has taken place from some ancient Eocene quadruped
stock, represented by the Dinoceras group, which belongs to no one
groiq:) of living quadrupeds, but is intermediate in its nature, as we
have already observed. From some such stock, then, we may figure
the dinotherium and mastodon races to have been in due time evolved.
The New World, in this light, must have been the birthplace of the
elephant hosts ; for the Dinoceras and its neighbors are of North
American origin ; migration to the Old World having taken place by
continuous land-surface then existent, and the further evolution of the
living species and their fossil neighbors having occurred in the Eastern
hemisphere. Thus, once again we arrive at the existing races of ele-
phants. These are simply the survivals of an ancient line of quadru-
peds, whose history is simply that of every other living being — animal
or plant — a history which, like the unfolding of a flower, leads us from
form to form, along pathways of variation and change, and which, at
last, as the ages are born and die, evolves, from the buried and forgot-
ten races of past monsters, the no less curious and unwieldy quadruped
giants of to-day. — Belgravia.
THE CHEMISTEY OF SUGAR.
By Professor HAEVEY W. WILEY.
THE annual consumption of sugar by the people of the United
States amounts to more than forty pounds ^)f?' crqntum. This
gives as a total the enormous quantity of two billion pounds per
annum. The cost of this commodity may be safely placed at eight
cents a pound. The total value of the sugar consumed each year,
therefore, is one hundred and sixty million dollars. Sugar is a theme
of general and pecuniary interest, which is a sufficient excuse for an
article on its chemistry.
