THE CHEMISTRY OF SUGAR. 501
Sugar is a general name applied to a class of bodies composed of
carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen, having a more or less sweet taste, and
exercising a rotatory power on the plane of polarized light.
In chemical composition the sugars may be regarded as a combina-
tion of water with carbon, and they belong therefore to that class of
bodies which are known as carbo-hydrates. Starch, wood-fiber, and
various sorts of gums are bodies nearly allied in chemical composition
to sugar.
Sugar is chiefly a product of vegetable growth, and is found in
some part or other of a large number of substances.
Sometimes it is found in the root, as in the beet and sweet-potato.
Again, it occurs in the fruit, as in the grape and water-melon. At
other times it is stored in the juices of the plant, as in the maple-tree
and the sugar-cane.
In whatever position it occurs, it is always diluted with water, and
mixed with various gums and albuminous bodies peculiar to the plant
containing it.
The manufacture and refining of sugar consist in separating it
from these impurities, and evaporating the water until the crystalliz-
ing point is reached, or a sirup is produced.
I have said that sugar is of vegetable origin. This must be con-
strued to mean the sugars of commerce and common consumption.
The animal organism possesses a glycogenic function in common with
plants.
The amount of sugar, however, produced by the animal organism,
with the exception of that from the milk-glands, is inconsiderable in
a state of health. In certain forms of disease, however, as in diabetes
mellitus, the amount of sugar produced in the body may be immensely
increased.
Sugar may also be made by chemical means from the bodies
already mentioned, such as starch, cellulose, gum, etc.
In this sketch I will mention only the more important sugars. For
the purposes of a popular classification the sugars may be arranged as
follows :
1. Cane-sugar, or sucrose.
2. Grape-sugar, or glucose.
?u Milk-sugar, or lactose.
4. Starch-sugar, or amylose.
Cane-sugar, in a commercial sense, is by far the most important of
these bodies.
It has never been formed by chemical synthesis, and the chief
sources from which it is derived are the sugar-cane, the sugar-beet,
and the sugar-maple. "When pure it is a white crystalline body easily
soluble in water and having an intensely sweet taste. The molecule
of cane-sugar consists of forty-five atoms, distributed as follows, viz.,
twelve atoms of carbon, twenty-two of hydrogen, and eleven of oxy-
