502 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
gen. By the hundred this is equal to 42'11 per cent of carbon ; 51 '46
per cent oxygen, and 6'43 per cent hydrogen. Its expression by sym-
bols is C,„H„„Ojj, The amounts of carbon and hydrogen in cane-sugar
are determined by igniting it with oxide of copper or other substance
rich in oxygen. By this process the carbon is converted into carbon
dioxide (carbonic acid), and the hydrogen into water, each of which
substances is easily collected and weighed.
Indeed, this process is used for estimating carbon and hydrogen
in all sugars. The oxygen is usually estimated by difference.
It has thus been shown that oxygen and hydrogen exist in sugar in
the exact proportions necessary to form water. A materialistic defini-
tion of sugar would be forty jiarts of fine charcoal mixed with fifty-
eight parts of pure M'ater. Yet charcoal and water mixed in the above
proportions are far from being sweet ; a good illustration of the differ-
ence between chemical union and mechanical mixture. Pure cane-
sugar, when left to itself, has no tendency to change. When diluted
with water, however, and brought in contact with a nitrogenous body
it undergoes fermentation, and yields at first alcohol, carbonic dioxide,
and other products, as will be shown subsequently.
Pure cane-sugar has the power of twisting the plane of polarized
light to the right. For the purple ray or transition tint this torsion
amounts to 73*8°, and for the monochromatic sodium-flame to G6*67°.
These numbers represent its specific rotatory imxcer.
I will give an explanation of what these terms and numbers signify
further on. From this property the chemist is able to determine the
amount of pure sugar in any sample submitted to him for examination,
and containing no other optically active body. For, if, using the
sodium-flame, he should find the rotation to be 33"34°, he would know
at once that the sample contained only fifty per cent of sugar, and so
on for other numbers. "When cane-sugar is heated with an acid, or
for a long time to a high temperature without one, it suffers a peculiar
change which is called inversion. Inverted sugar has almost lost its
power of crystallization, and has changed its deportment toward po-
larized light. It consists now of two distinct kinds of sugar, one of
which turns the plane of polarized light to the left and is called
Icevulose, while the other turns it to the right and is called dextrose.
At ordinary temperatures, however, the Inevo-rotatory power of in-
verted sugar is much greater than the other. This preponderance of
laevo-rotatory power increases as the temperature falls, and diminishes
as it rises. At 88° Cent., these two powers are equal, and the sugar
exerts no influence whatever on polarized light.
These twin constituents of inverted sugar can be separntod with
lime, which forms with the loevulose a compound less soluble than with
the dextrose, and from which the latter is separated by pressure. The
lime compound is then decomposed by oxalic acid and the la?vulosc
set free.
