THE CHEMISTRY OF SUGAR. 505
again, and tlae angle through which it has been moved is read on a
divided circle and vernier.
Since the rotation is less for the sodium-ray than for the transition
tint, the two are distinguished by different symbols. For the former
the symbol [ajo is used, and for the latter [a] or [a]j. The one-color
saccharimeter is especially to be recommended for those who may be
subject to any degree of color-blindness. A discussion of the optical
principles involved in circular polarization would be out of place here.
Fermentation is a peculiar decomposition which sugars suffer un-
der the influence of a nitrogeneous germ called the " ferment."
Cane-sugar, under the influence of a mucous sporule, undergoes
" mucous fermentation," and is converted into a gum and a kind of
sugar called "mannite." Xeither acid nor alcohol is produced by this
process.
Lactic fermentation takes place under the influence of an organ-
ism called ^e;^^c^7a;w^ (7/ai<ci<;/2. The chief product of this fermenta-
tive is lactic acid. In the case of a dextrose it may be represented by
the following equation :
Dextrose. Laotic Acid.
CeH.A-2C3HA.
Milk-sugar undergoes this fermentation most readily, first absorb-
ing a molecule of water and then breaking up into four molecules of
lactic acid. If the process is allowed to go on, the lactic acid will
break up into butyi'ic acid, carbonic dioxide, and hydrogen. If the
Torula aceti take the place of the germ named above, cane-sugar
especially will yield acetic instead of lactic acid.
The vinous is by far the most important of the fermentations to
which sugars are subjected.
Ordinary yeast is the nitrogenous body which seems best suited to
develop this change.
Cane-sugar, before undergoing vinous fermentation, absorbs a mol-
ecule of water and is changed by an active principle of the yeast into
invert-sugar. The chief products of vinous fermentation are alcohol
and carbonic dioxide. Less important products are succinic acid,
glycerine, cellulose, and fat.
All the sugar, with the exception of about four per cent., is con-
verted into the two products first named. By an equation, the process
may be represented as follows :
Sucrose. Water. Alcohol. Carbonic dioxide.
CA,0„ + II,0=4CJI,0 + 4CO,.
The peculiar fungus which is most active in the vinous fermenta-
tion is saccharomyces cerevisia2 ^ but there is much about the i:)rocess
which is yet obscure.
In the conversion of starch into sugar by diastase or acids, and the
conversion of sugar into alcohol by fermentation, we have the ratio-
nale of that vast industry carried on by distillers and brewers. If the
