TRANSCENDENTAL GEOMETRY. 507
TEAIn^SCEXDEXTAL GEOMETET.
By ALFEED C. LAKE.
TRAXSCENDEXTAL geometry is the geometry of solids and sur-
faces in n-dimensional or in curved space. Exactly what surfaces
and what solids is a hard question to answer, and the answer is still
harder to understand. Let us, then, first find out in what way or ways
the science of transcendental geometry arose.
Descartes invented a method of applying algebra to geometry by
the well-known Cartesian co-ordinates. As you remember, a point in
a plane is determined by two co-ordinates,.'?; and y, for example; a
point in space by three, x, y, and z. Xow, the question is not unnatu-
ral, " What would x, y, z, v, determine ? " The natural answer is, " A
point in space of four dimensions."
Moreover, we see that, although we have no experience of space of
four dimensions, we could form equations between four variables, and
transform and combine them as we do in analytic geometry of three
dimensions. By adopting a code of interpretation as like to our ordi-
nary code as circumstances would jiermit, wc could inter^^ret the rela-
tions of our equations as geometrical relations.
But, as the idea of a fourth dimension to space is almost if not
quite inconceivable, let us endeavor to render it less so if possible.
Imagine a man deprived of everything but vision, in the way of sen-
sible experience. The world to him would be two dimensional. If,
then, he were taken out to drive, he would see continual changes in his
plane of vision, but he would ascribe them merely to the effects of
time. For example, were he to go through a covered bridge, his sensa-
tions might be as follows : A small dark spot, gradually enlarging till
it covers the field of vision ; then a small bright spot in the middle of
it, which w^ould similarly enlarge.
Xow, suppose our universe sliced in two by a plane which moved
along through it. Suppose sentient beings inhabited this plane. They
would perceive at once two dimensions of our universe and the third as
a succession in time. So we might suppose ourselves conscious of
three dimensions of our universe, and of the fourth as the succession
of things in time. Thus we might consider time as a dimension. It
is so considered in the mechanical curves of position. Yet we should
then have to bring in time relative to time.
"SYe wnll illustrate still further by considering the theory
of knots. It is evident that, so long as the line represented
in the adjoined figure is kept in the plane, the knot or kink
can not be got out of it. But, by turning the loop up, it
can be removed at once.
The annexed knot — the type of all knots in ordinary space— can
