5o8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
not be undone without severing the ends. In four-dimensional space it
could. By this means Zollner interpreted some of the knot-untying
performances of Slade, the American spiritualist. Let
us, for example, interpret these facts, using time as
fourth dimension, bringing in, of course, time relative
to time. If time were a fourth dimension, parts of the
state of things at different instants might be visible to-
gether. Thus we could have A, C, B, after being tied,
joined to A, D, B, and then A, C, B, before being tied.
But we must remember, in passing on, that algebraic equations are
capable of other than geometrical interpretations, and that their rela-
tions by themselves prove nothing in regard to real or possible relations
between external facts. Moreover, the algebraic theory of dimen-
sionality will be interpreted fully by nothing less than a space of infi-
nite dimensionality.
We come now to the most difficult branch of the subject, that of
curved surfaces and of curved space. The curvature of a plane curve at
any point is the limit of the ratio of the length of the curve to the differ-
ence in direction of the initial and terminal tangents. Its differential
expression is D^s or [trrfiTTlo^r '^'^ S^t the curvature of a curved
surface at any point, we slice it up by planes normal to it at that
point. On each of these planes it will describe a curve. These
curves will have different curvatures at the original point. The
reciprocal of the product of the greatest and least of these is called
by Gauss the measure of curvature. This name he also applied to
an analogous function of the co-ordinates of a point in space. The
expression, for a plane curve, of the curvature is the reciprocal of
the radius of the circle of closest possible contact at the point investi-
gated. Hence, some have argued that transcendental geometry was
inconsistent, in that it talked about the curvature of a space where
there were not Euclidean straight lines, hence no radii, and nothing to
refer the curvature to. This argument is open to other answers, but
it is enough to say that the measure of curvature has no necessary
connection with radii.
To return, the condition that a rigid figure can be moved about on
a surface without changing its shape, or that a rigid body can be simi-
larly moved in space, is that the measure of curvature of the surface
or space is constant in value. Some one might say that, if a body is
rigid, no motion can change its shape. This, however, is not true of the
mathematically rigid body except under the above conditions, taking
the most general definition of a rigid body.
It is assumed in Euclid that motion of a figure does not alter it.
That is, if an angle, A B C, is equal to an angle B C D, it will be
equal to it however it is as a whole moved or rotated. This is an
assumption that the measure of curvature of the plane or space is
constant. Moreover, if we assume it constantly equal to naught, the
