MONKEYS. 33
those formed in lakes or in caverns. In the former the bodies of large
numbers of terrestrial animals were annually deposited, owing to their
having been caught by floods in the tributary streams, swallowed up
iu marginal bogs or quicksands, or drowned by the giving way of ice.
Caverns were the haunts of hyenas, tigers, bears, and other beasts of
prey, which dragged into them the bodies of their victims, and left
many of their bones to become imbedded in stalagmite or in the mud-
dy deposit left by floods, while herbivorous animals were often carried
into them by these floods, or by falling down the swallow-holes which
often open into caverns from above. But, owing to their arboreal
habits, monkeys were to a great extent freed from all these dangers.
Whether devoured by beasts or birds of prey, or dying a natural death,
their bones would usually be left on dry land, where they would
slowly decay under atmospheric influences. Only under very excep-
tional circumstances would they become imbedded in aqueous de-
posits ; and, instead of being surprised at their rarity, we should rather
wonder that so many have been discovered in a fossil state.
Monkeys, as a whole, form a very isolated group, having no near
relations to any other mammalia. This is undoubtedly an indication
of great antiquity. The peculiar type which has since reached so high
a development must have branched off the great mammalian stock at
a very remote epoch, certainly far back in the Secondary period, since
in the Eocene we find lemurs and lemurine monkeys already special-
ized. At this remoter period they were probably not sej^arable from
the insectivora, or (perhaps) from the ancestral marsupials. Even now
we have one living form, the curious Galeopithecus, or flying lemur,
which has only recently been separated from the lemurs, with which
it was formerly united, to be classed as one of the insectivora ; and it
is only among the ojiossums and some other marsupials that we again
find hand-like feet with opposable thumbs, which are such a curious
and constant feature of the monkey-tribe.
This relationship to the lowest of the mammalian tribes seems in-
consistent with the place usually accorded to these animals at the head
of the entire mammalian scries, and opens up the question whether
this is a real sujoeriority or whether it depends merely on the obvious
relationship to ourselves. If we could suppose a being gifted with
high intelligence, but with a form totally unlike that of man, to have
visited the earth before man existed in order to study the various
forms of animal life that were found there, we can hardly think he
would have placed the monkey-tribe so high as we do. He would ob-
serve that their whole organization was specially adapted to an arbo-
real life, and this 8j)ecialization would be rather against their claiming
the first rank among terrestrial creatures. Neither in size, nor
strength, nor beauty, would they compare with many other forms,
while in intelligence they would not surpass, even if they equaled, the
horse or the beaver. The carnivora, as a whole, would certainly be
VOL. XXI. — 3
