TRANSCENDENTAL GEOMETRY. 509
so-called geometrical axioms that two straight lines can not inclose a
surface, etc., are true. For example, a spherical surface has a con-
stant measure of curvature not equal to zero, and positive. Since the
shortest distance between two points is a straight line, let us, extend-
ing the analogy, call the shortest distance between two points of a
spherical surface, lying icholly in that surface, a straight line of that
surface. Now, as the measure of curvature of a spherical surface is
constant, we can slide a figure about over the surface without altering
it, as is evident at once. On a sphere, however, more than one per-
pendicular can be drawn on the surface from a point to a straight line,
and two straight lines can inclose a surface.
In a surface whose curvature is negative, an infinite number of
straight lines of the surface can be drawn through a given point which
will never meet a given straight line. Such a surface would be like a
spool. Some of its sections would be concave and others conrex to
the same point. "We have analogous results in what is called curved
space. These results were first suggested by Riemann, who was a
pupil of Gauss.
For this mathematical treatment all that is needed is, first, algebra
and the differential calculus; secondly, a method of interpreting them
geometrically. We have found a code of interpretation for some
algebraic equations which give geometrical results, and we apply it so
far as we can to all.
So far the mathematicians might have gone without let or hin-
drance, and there some of them, as Boole and Grassman, stojjped.
But others thought they had settled whether the geometrical axioms
were a j^fiori truths or not. We have just worked out a system of
geometry, said they, which is not, as we think, impossible, where these
axioms do not hold. Therefore these axioms are the results of an ex-
perience of things as they are. If we had had a different order of
things, as is possible, these axioms would not have been true nor
thought of. I shall, however, try to prove that, although not thought
of, they are true.
The geometrical axioms express relations; relations between what ?
Geom.etry is a branch of mathematics. Therefore the geometrical
axioms express mathematical relations. What, then, is mathematics,
and with what does it deal?
Mathematics, in its widest sense, I will define as the science which
treats of logical — that is necessary — relations. Between outside things
there are no necessary relations. The relation of cause and effect is
sometimes called necessary ; but, if so, it is not usually handled math-
ematically. The relations must, then, be of mental things.
They are not relations between images or imaginations of outside
things, for two reasons : First, the relations between imaginations can
be no more necessary than the things they image ; second, the im-
aginations of men's minds are different. One may imagine a line as a
