510 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
chalk-line on a blackboard ; another, as the edge of a knife ; I myself,
as the boundary between crystal faces.
However, in all our minds there is something the same in each. It
is the concept or idea. And it is of concepts and ideas that mathemat-
ics treats.
Here Mill seems to make a mistake. He says, " The points, lines,
circles, and squares which any one has in his mind are simply copies
of the points, lines, circles, and squares which he has known in his
experience." To his mind, then, the function of thought, when we
think of circles, is to reproduce some original sensation more or less
vividl3^ This, however, is what I call imagination ; and we have tried
to prove that imaginations were not the objects of mathematical treat-
ment. Helmholtz acknowledges this when he says that the axioms of
geometry, taken by themselves out of all connection with mechanical
propositions, represent no relations of real things.
We Avill notice certain other facts about concepts and words, in
connection with their mathematical relations. The first is the per-
sistence of concepts. By this I mean that an idea once formed, by
whatever means, experimental or otherwise, does not depend upon the
continual recurrence of the same experience for its continued existence.
That is, having once formed an idea of a baby hippopotamus, by
having seen one in Barnum's Great Show, I have that idea, which is
called into use on various other occasions — such as hearing of it in the
newspapers. It is not at all necessary that I should renew the experi-
ence every time Barnum comes around. It is, of course, true that a
concept may be disused, but its use may be made common as well by
unlike as by like experiences.
However, on closer inspection of the hippopotamus, my conception
may be new. This leads us to our other all-important distinction and
division. Every name has a denotation and a connotation. Its de-
notation is usually of things, its connotation is conceptual. Some
words, proper names especially, correspond to things, the ideas attached
to which vary according to the varying aspect of the thing. Other
words, however, correspond to ideas ; these words are applied or not
to things according as there are experiences coming under the concept
to which they are attached.
This distinction between words with fixed denotation and varying
connotation and words of fixed connotation and varying denotation is
quite important, as we shall see. Let us first, however, return to our
hippopotamus. This is a word for me of at least partially fixed deno-
tation ; it must include the animal that I saw ; it must not include
an ordinary pig. The connotation would be almost indefinite. This
word has, then, a fixed denotation varying connotation, approximately.
On the other hand, take the name, rigid body. This is a name with
a denotation varying down to zero, perhaps, but its connotation is
changeless.
