TRANSCENDENTAL GEOMETRY. 511
Thus we see that mathematics may be defined as the science of the
relations of concepts. Its vocabulary, too, must be one of fixed con-
notation. That is why symbols are so useful ; their connotation does
not vary unconsciously.
Benjamin Peirce defines mathematics as the science that draws
necessai'y conclusions. 3Iill says, " The problem is — given a function,
what function is it of some other function ? " It is obvious that nec-
essary conclusions can be drawn only so far as there are relations
fixed whence to draw them ; the function must be given before we
find its relations with other functions.
Now, I wish to insist, as strongly as I can, that any set of concepts
become fit for viathematical handling as soon as thci?' relations are
unfolded, and this is what I have so far proved. If you ask, " Whence
these concepts ?" my answer is, " From exj^erience." From it comes
the " element of intuition " that Stallo says is an element in every geo-
metrical axiom. Space itself is but a product of experience. If a
man could only hear or taste, would he have our concept of space ? I
trow not.
Let us now, after this long digression, return to our transcendental-
ists. Euclidean geometry and non-Euclidean alike are mathematical.
Verbally they come to different conclusions, but neither conclusion
affects facts. The difference is here, it seems to me. Transcendental
geometry is the offspring of analytic, though some have tried to treat
it otherwise. The relations that it handles are at first algebraic rela-
tions that may apply to anything. Then applying the geometric no-
menclature to algebraic expression, calling expressions of the first
degree linear, etc., it interprets these results geometrically. Its defini-
tions, thus, are different from those of Euclid ; the ideas connoted by
its vocabulary are different ; its concepts are not the same. It is not
wonderful, then, that it gets a broader field of relations.
We decide, then, that from their respective definitions the Euclid-
ean and the transcendental geometry are true. And this is, perhaps,
the most important point to settle, for the transcendentalists have said
that, although the geometrical definitions were true, the axioms need
not be. "We, however, say that the axioms, or what you will, of par-
allelism, etc., arc part of the connotation of the words defined, and are
simultaneously given. Of course, some experience is necessaiy to
make us form any concepts.
The question now to be answered is, then, Which are the best defi-
nitions? But it must be remembered that, as long as we are dealing
with mathematics, we are never dealing with real things. Thus Ilelra-
holtz is wrong in saying that by adding any mechanical axioms or
principles we can obtain an empirical science out of geometry, if the
science thus obtained is purely mathematical.
Mathematical concepts can have two virtues in varying degrees,
namely, simplicity and resemblance to, or rather correspondence with,
