5i6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Mj plate was brought on to the lawn, and on it were the remains
of the fowls ; and the dog was carried out with all care to enjoy his
meal on the grass. Poor old thing ! His tail wagged with a steady
flap, his eyes glistened softly, his neck was outstretched, and his nose
was agitated with a delicate twitching till he was placed beside his
repast. Then he fell-to, and with admirable judgment selected the
most meaty morsels to commence with.
It was lucky that he had finished two pinions, for " the Philistines
were upon him." A pea-hen close by heard the crunching. She lis-
tened. Curiosity seized her, and she looked at the eater, first with
one eye, then with the other. (That was mere coquetry, as it gave
her an opportunity of showing off the graceful movements of her
neck.) She approached a few steps with stagy dignity ; she saw there
was food, and the bird of Juno, forgetting her state, ran with an un-
gainly and slop-slap step toward the jjlate.
The bird was large and powerful, and the dog was small and an
invalid. He therefore secured the best advantages that the circum-
stances afforded, and sneaked off on three legs with a drumstick.
" Gristle ? " quoth the pea-hen ; " excellent ! Tendon ? better
still." — Gaup, gaup. — "A small bone? 'twill do me no harm." Down
it went. — " A little picking ? " — peck, peck.
" Thou cannibal ! " thought I, " those are the remains of thy com-
panions of the farm-yard. That fly is not so unnatural, after all. I
will let it go."
My resolution was short-lived. Two hours ago there were but a
spider and a fly and a piece of paper in the glass jar. Now my friend
the spider was evidently getting hungry, and he was exerting himself.
Two strong cords were drawn from the paper to the bottom of the
jar, and Esau meant business. His spinnerets were turgid, his aspect
was determined, and steadily and slowly he commenced to make a
web. Now and then the fly took a walk and broke through a strand
or two. They stuck to his legs, and annoyed him. AVith a little
difficulty the films were got rid of, but consternation began to seize
the fly's mind, and he resolved to move from the scene of operations.
He took up his quarters on the muslin which covered the neck of the
jar.
Next morning the fly's head hung like a Bulgarian atrocity in the
web, his body lay at the mouth of the spider's den. During the night
Esau had made a cavern of cobweb.
It is the duty of the historian to adhere to the truth, even if it
casts a slur on his favorite theories, and blasts his reputation as an
observer.
Esau was not a male : he was a lady.
One day, while feeding the beast, I noticed that the den in the
corner had been extended into a passage with two openings, and in
the passage wall was a spot thicker and more opaque than the rest of
