MY SPIDER. 517
the building. This I surmised was a deposit of eggs, and I afterward
found that I was right.
Still, I had named the animal ; and, on the principle of the parson
who insisted on christening the little girl John, I adhered to the origi-
nal appellation. Hitherto the spider had discovered none of the at-
tributes proverbial to her sex, and I did not feel justified in naming
her Lucy or Maria.
There were warm days that year, when the air smelled of clover,
and flies came out plentifully, and Esau was fed on all available insects
that had wings. The house-fly was her sta^^le food, although she re-
garded small moths as delicacies, and thought midges and small gnats
were toothsome articles of diet ; but her soul loathed blue-bottles.
They were to her what caviare and absinthe are to the uneducated.
If a blue-bottle was put into her net she bound it down with many
strands of cobweb, and killed it, and, before the animal had ceased to
quiver, cast it from her web with evident repugnance. Beetles she
did not care for, as they broke her web ; but money-spinners she tol-
erated. Daddy-long-legs fell an easy prey to her, although she did
not relish them. That I know, because she never took their carcasses
to her cave.
By way of a treat I once offered her a small earth-worm. It wrig-
gled and writhed, lengthened itself and shortened itself, assumed the
shape of a corkscrew,* and tied itself up into knots. Esau sought
refuge in her house, and stuck her head out to watch these strange
mana?uvres. At first, she was as still as possible ; then there was an
oscillatory movement of the palpi. She generally did that when she
was getting up her pluck. Then she made a rapid rush to Avithin an
inch of the worm, and reconnoitred again. She was not satisfied, and
retired a second time to think the matter out. The worm, in the
mean time, either got tired of struggling, or else philosophically arrived
at the conclusion that he could make himself as comfortable in a cob-
web as in any other place. The period of rest Avas fatal. Esau darted
on her prey and stuck her mandibles into him. Vainly did the worm
try to charm the enemy by tickling her with the end of his tail. Esau
held on like a vice. The worm tried to encircle her body with furtive
gyrations. Esau had no inclination to play at Laocoon, and eluded
the strategy of his prey. That worm gave in.
I began to get tired of my pet. She was getting fat ; and the
fatter she grew the more ferocious she became. I sought another
spider, and found one smaller than the one I possessed. To my mind
it was of the same species, but from its size I imagined it was a male.
" I will be the historian of the loves of spiders," I said. " Their do-
mestic happiness shall be a moral to mankind. Two spiders together
will give me an opportunity of making fresh observations."
I was not disappointed, but my researches gave a result that I had
not anticipated.
