MY SPIDER.
519
spider of ancient lineage, who did valiant battle in his ancestral cob-
webs against predatory wasps. Perhaps he had won Esau's young
affections, and become master of her charms. Perhaps it was some
errant knight, who had vowed the extermination of the whole race of
parasites which infest the spider's body. Perhaps it was some wealthy
spider, who owned vast demesnes of netting, which extended over
many a rafter, and offered hunting-ground for many a retainer. Per-
hips her spouse was remarkable for his personal beauty, and had car-
ried off her heart by his comeliness. I know that no spider base-bom
could have been the father of her offspring. Her behavior to Uriah
Heep forbids so gross a surmisal.
Then, how was it that she was alone on the hat-peg ? The aristo-
crat might have spurned her from his home from the prospect of a
more advantageous alliance. The enthusiast might have doubted her
intensity, and so deserted her. Dives might have been jealous, and
have procured an act of separation ; Adonis probably spirited away by
some light of love.
Her history is open to conjecture alone. The fact remains, that
she laid eggs, and they were hatched.
If ray memory be not deceived, the small spiders appeared a fort-
night or three weeks after I first noticed the eggs. When first born,
they were small, yellowy-white, and indefinite, like cheese-mites — just
what one would imagine spider-babydom to be. They moved at a
pace almost imperceptible from its slowness, and their gait was weak
and vacillating. As well as I could make out with the naked eye,
they were constantly tumbling on their sides for the first few days.
They seemed to meet with obstacles which are not apparent to our
gross vision.
I thought the sun would be grateful to them, and their jar was
placed on the window-sill. Either the warmth suited them, or baby
spiders gain strength rapidly; for, before three days were over, Esau's
offspring became marvels of agility. When they were at one end of
the piece of paper, urgent business called them to the opposite ex-
tremity of the cone, and they ran as fast as their small legs could
carry them. If they were on the floor of their home, urgent reasons
induced them to promenade the ceiling. Occasionally one little chap
would take a long journey around the floor of the jar, while another
would start off on a commission of inquiry, and investigate the con-
struction of the cobweb with the minutest care. A third would mount
its mother's back, and crawl over hsr out of sheer curiosity. No pair
of them ever seemed to do the same thing at the same time, I never
saw them feed ; but during the next week or two they increased in
size and strength. Esau contemplated them with pleasure ; her char-
acter was softened. Dozens of flies were put into the jar, but few
wore killed. Some became entangled and died in the toils, but the
majority occupied the top of the jar, and especially affected the mus-
