520 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
lin doorway, which was moistened for their delectation w^ith sugar and
water.
The time for my summer holidays arrived, and I started for the
south, leaving Esau to look after the house.
The friendship I had struck up with spiders certainly increased
the pleasure of my trip. I found my friends in numbers everywhere
I went. They were on the shady side of dock-leaves. They floated
in the air and settled on my hat, and were carried off by the next
breath of breeze. I found their webs in profusion between the
branches of a monkey-tree in the garden ; and in the corn-fields
myriads of these small creatures trapped flies that were almost micro-
scopic. On the sandy slopes of the sea-shore, cobwebs were among
the gorse-bushes. The diadem spiders in the rose-trees vied with
each other in the regularity of their nets, and every barn was rich in
arachnean architecture. I had heard of water-spiders, and I hunted
for them assiduously in every pool and stream in the neighborhood,
but with no success. I found no water-spiders, but I became the pos-
sessor of many inhabitants of the ponds.
Three weeks passed too quickly, and I had to return to my work
and to Esau. Alas ! what a lamentable sight met my eyes ! Esau
was dead, and her children were certainly fatter than when I left. I
could arrive at but one conclusion. The dauntless adventuress who
had gloried in murder and fratricide had become the victim of mis-
placed love. Those little wretches whom she had brought into the
world, and cared for and nurtured, had turned upon her and slain
her and sucked her life-blood. Ah, poor mother, thy antecedents
might not have been good ! Possibly thou mightest have dined off
thy husband or thy paramour — certainly thou hast waged unnatural
though valiant war against thy kind ; still, that was no reason why
thou shouldst have been sacrificed by thy offspring in the bloom of
thy maturity. — Gentleman's Magazine.
SUDDEN WHITENING OF THE HAIR.
WITH so many professors of the art of rejuvenation proclaiming
their readiness to turn old faces into new ones, smooth out
wrinkles, obliterate crow's-feet, and restore the hair to its original
abundance and color, the putting of young heads upon old shoulders
should be easy enough ; but the proverbial impossibility of putting
old heads upon young shoulders still seems to hold, although the feat
has sometimes been accomplished by Nature herself. Sorrow, not
Time, frosted the bright tresses of Mary Stuart and Marie- Antoinette ;
and theirs were not the only queenly heads that have been prematurely
