34 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
held to surpass them in the exquisite perfection of their physical struct-
ure, while the flexible trunk of the elephant, combined with his vast
strength and admirable sagacity, would probably gain for him the first
rank in the animal creation.
But if this would have been a true estimate, the mere fact that the
ape is our nearest relation does not necessarily oblige us to come to any
other conclusion. Man is undoubtedly the most perfect of all animals,
but he is so solely in respect of characters in which he differs from all
the monkey-tribe — the easily erect posture, the perfect freedom of the
hands from all part in locomotion, the large size and complete opposa-
bility of the thumb, and the well-developed brain, which enables him
fully to utilize these combined physical advantages. The monkeys
have none of these, and without them the amount of resemblance they
have to us is no advantage, and confers no rank. We are biased by
the too exclusive consideration of the man-like ajDes. If these did not
exist, the remaining monkeys could not be thereby deteriorated as to
their organization or lowered in their zoological position ; but it is
doubtful if we should then class them so high as we now do. We
might then dwell more on their resemblances to lower types — to ro-
dents, to insectivora, and to marsupials, and should hardly rank the
hideous baboon above the graceful leopard or stately stag. The true
conclusion appears to be, that the combination of external characters
and internal structure which exists in the monkeys is that which, when
greatly improved, refined, and beautified, was best calculated to become
the perfect instrument of the human intellect, and to aid in the devel-
opment of man's higher nature ; while, on the other hand, in the rude,
inharmonious, and undeveloped state which it has reached in the quad-
rumana, it is by no means worthy of the highest place, or can be held
to exhibit the most perfect development of existing animal life. — Con-
temporary Review.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE SENSES.
By EOBEKT W. LOVETT.
IN the fifth century before Christ, Democritus declared that the
senses of sight, hearing, smell, and taste were merely modifications
of the sense of touch. Aristotle ridiculed his theory, and so, stamped
with his disapproval, it lay untouched for two thousand years, until
Telesius, an Italian of the sixteenth century, revived it.
Strange to say, all that modern science has accomplished in embry-
ology and zoology tends to confirm this theory of Democritus, that
these four senses are only specializations of the universal sense — the
sense of touch. In the embryo of all animals the organs of these four
senses first appear as infoldings of the outer germinal layer, the ecto-
