SUDDEN WHITENING OF THE HAIR. 521
whitened by care and anxiety. While Hanover was waging an un-
equal contest with Prussia, a lady in attendance upon the consort of
the brave, blind king, wrote thus of her royal mistress : "In the last
two months her hair has grown quite gray, I may say white. Four
months since one could scarcely discern a gray hair ; now I can hardly
see a dark one."
A similar change has often taken place in the course of a single
night. One of the witnesses in the Tichborne case deposed that, the
night after hearing of his father's death, he dreamed he saw him
killed before his eyes, and found, on aAvaking, that his hair had turned
quite white. An old man with snow-white hair said to Dr. Moreau :
" My hair was as white as you see it now, long before I had grown
old. Grief and despair at the loss of a tenderly loved wife whitened
ray locks in a single night when I was not thirty years of age. Judge,
then, of the force of my sufferings." His white hairs brought no such
recompense with them as happened in the instance of the gay gallant
who had the hardihood to hold a love-tryst in the palace grounds of
the King of Spain. Betrayed by the barking of an unsympathetic
hound, the telling of the old, old story was interrupted by th§ appear-
ance of the king's guard. The scared damsel was allowed to depart
unchallenged ; but her lover was held captive, to answer his offense.
Love-making under the shadow of the royal palace was a capital
crime ; and so overwhelmed with horror at the idea of losing his head
for following the promptings of his heart was the rash wooer, that,
before the sun rose, his hair had turned quite gray. This being told
King Ferdinand, he pardoned the offender, thinking he was sufficiently
punished.
When the p]mperor Leopold was about to make his grand entry
into Vienna, the old sexton of St. Joseph's Cathedral was much
troubled in his mind. Upon such occasions it had been his custom
to take his stand on the pinnacle of the tower and wave a flag as the
imperial pageant passed by ; but he felt that age had so weakened
his nerve that be dared not again attempt the perilous performance.
After thinking the matter over, he came to the conclusion that he
must find a substitute ; and knowing his pretty daughter had plenty
of stalwart suitors, the old fellow publicly announced that the man
who could take his place successfully should be his son-in-law. To
his intense disgust, the offer was at once accepted by Gabriel Peters-
heim, his special aversion, and the special favorite of the girl, who
saw not with her father's eyes. On the appointed day Vienna opened
its gates to the new-made emperor ; but it was evening, or near upon
evening, when the young flag-bearer welcomed the procession from St.
Joseph's Tower. His task performed, Gabriel would have descended
from the airy height, but found his way barred. Two wretches had
done the treacherous sexton's bidding, and closed the trap-door of the
upper stairway, leaving the brave youth to choose between precipi-
