522 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tating himself on the pavement below, or clinging the cold night
through to the slender spire, with but ten inches of foothold. He
chose possible life to certain death ; but, when rescue came with the
morning, his eyes were sunken and dim, his cheeks yellow and
wrinkled, his curly locks as white as snow. Gabriel Petersheim had
won his bride at a fearful cost.
Believing a fortune might be easily won in the oil-country, a
young Bostonian went there to enrich himself. One stormy night a
glare in the sky told him that an oil-tank was on fire a few miles off ;
and knowing that, after a time, the oil would boil up and flow over
the side of the tank, he made for a hill to witness the spectacle.
" She's coming ! " a man shouted. There was a rumbling sound, and
then the burning oil shot up from the tank, boiled over its sides, and
floated down the creek, destroying everything in its way, and setting
fire to a second tank. Curiosity getting the better of discretion, he
ran to the ground in the rear of the tanks, to get a better view, and,
in trying to avoid a pool of burning oil, fell into a mud-hole, and stuck
fast therein. Struggling till he could struggle no longer, he lay back
exhausted, watching the billows of smoke surging upward and floating
away into space. Suddenly his ears were startled by the sound of
cannon-firing ; a column of flame and smoke shot up from one of the
tanks, and he was stricken almost senseless with the knowledge that
the " pipe-line men " were cannonading the first tank, to draw off the
oil, and so prevent another overflow. He tried to shout, but the
words would not come. A little stream of burning oil ran slowly
but surely toward him. He watched it creeping on until it was
almost upon him ; then in a moment all was dark. When he came
back to consciousness he found himself in his own room, surrounded
by " the boys," who had seen him just in time to save him. It was a
weary while before he was himself again, and then he was inclined to
doubt if he was himself, for his once dark hair was perfectly white.
Instances have not been wanting of the hair being deprived of its
color in a few minutes. The home-coming of the King of Naples
after the Congress of Laybach was celebrated with much public
rejoicing. To do the occasion honor, the manager of the San Carlo
Theatre produced a grand mythological pageant, in which an after-
ward well-known opera-singer made his debut in the character of
Jupiter. The stage-thunder rolled, the stage-lightning flashed, as the
Olympian monarch descended on his cloud-supported throne. Sud-
denly screams of horror rang through the house ; the queen fainted,
and all was uproar and consternation, until the voice of the king was
heard above the din, crying, "If any one shouts or screams again,
ril have that person shot ! " Something had gone wrong with the
machinery before the clouds had descended ten feet, and Jupiter had
fallen through. Fortunately, a strong iron wire or rope caught his
cloak, and, uncoiling with his weight, let him down by degrees. But
