HOW PLANTS RESIST DECAY. 525
destroyed the outer skin, even if only for a very small space, decay
begins at the wound, and spreads till it destroys the branch, unless
warmer weather quickens growth in the weakened plant, when the
process comes to a stop.
The most common protective armor of the higher and woody plants
is the cork-bark. The corky substance is of itself extraordinarily
tough, and even when dead is only very slowly destroyed by molds.
Tree-barks also appear generally to contain chemical substances that
operate as poisons upon the lower organisms. The most commonly
diffused of such substances are tannin and other coloring-matters
allied to it. Many barks also contain strong bitter matters and alka-
loids, like salicin, pinipicrin, quercitrin, asculin, chinin, aricin, strych-
nin, berbei'in, etc. The most persistent waxes also reside in the bark,
and ethereal oils in individual cases, as in the laurels. The general
diffusion of these substances in the bark is the more remarkable be-
cause they are rarely found in the wood or the annual leaves.
The subterranean parts of plants need the same protection as the
stem. Swamp-plants in particular, which grow in a soil always under-
going decomposition, would fall a prey to decay very quickly without
some especial defense. All plants whose organization does not insure
them against the action of swamp-soil, perish alike, even under expos-
ure in the winter, at any other time than during the growing season.
The under-ground parts of plants growing in such soils are protected
in part by the hard epidermis, partly by coloring-matter, as in the
alder, comarum, and sanguisorba; or by bitter constituents, as in men-
yanthes ; or by ethereal and aromatic substances, as in valerian and
acorus ; or by acrid matter, as in frangula and the Hcmimcidacece. An-
tiseptic substances, such as tannin, saponin, and phloridzin, are also
found in the underground organs of plants tliat do not grow in swamps,
and the strong essences of the rhizoma of ferns and of the punica-root
belong to the same class.
Evergreen leaves, besides requiring means of defense against the
lower organisms, need protection against the higher animals, which
would consume them during the winter if they were quite accessible
and enjoyable. Ulex and Ruscus, therefore, have thorny limbs, smi-
lax and the evergreen brambles and roses have spines on their leaf-
nerves, juniper and the holly-leaved plants have thorny leaves. The
foliage of yew, arbor-vitse, ledum, rhododendron, oleander, and lauro-
cerasus is poisonous ; and the palatableness of the leaves of pine and
spruce, of laurel, ivy, and box, is at least very limited. Only the com-
mon underwood, consisting mostly of plants of the heath family, which
are to a great extent covered during winter by leaves and snow, con-
tain food for animals in their leaves and twigs. These leaves are like-
wise defended against rots by the poison in the poisonous kinds, by
the hard, bright epidermis in the hollies, and presumably by chemical
qualities ; the heaths contain a coloring-matter.
