526 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Among the fruits, the juicy ones are designed to be eaten by ani-
mals, which are to serve as the medium for scattering their seeds. It
is, therefore, of advantage to the plant to have its fruit valuable to
some animal. The fall season affords an excessive abundance of fruits,
but the best and most palatable ones are exposed to speedy destruction.
It is, therefore, an advantage to animals, especially to bii'ds, and to the
plants likewise, if a few fruits have keeping qualities, that is, are able
to resist decay, even if it be partly at the expense of their pleasant
taste. This is the case, for example, with the berries of juniper, yew,
holly, viburnum, and cowberry, whose persistence appears to depend
partly on a hard epidermis, partly on chemical qualities ; on an ethereal
oil in the juniper-berry, apparently on benzoic acid in the cowberry.
Ivy-berries do not ripen till winter.
Seeds are protected by their hard casings or by chemical substances.
The poison contained in seeds may in part answer the purpose of
preventing their being consumed by animals ; but many seeds, as for
instance the aromatic seeds of the umbelliferae and other plants, con-
tain not poisonous but antiseptic substances. The fatty oil, which is
so abundantly present in seeds, is perhaps as valuable as a means
of protection as for food. The oil as well as the shell of the seed
prevents the entrance of water at low temperatures ; and, unless
water is present, the dry seed can not be attacked by the germs of
decay.
If we survey the vegetable products that afford active chemical
agents, we shall find that they are predominantly the bark, roots, and
seeds. The coloring-matters, the bitter products, the alkaloids, and
the poisonous substances are for the most part obtained from these
organs. The leaves which afford such powerful matters are generally
evergreen. Indeed, there are poisonous plants (among the nightshades,
Aracece, and Personatcti) and certain poisonous bushes (dogbanes and
cashews) which are protected by this quality against the teeth of ani-
mals. The ethereal oils serve further in many plants, as among the
labiates, the rues, the myrtles, and some geraniums, for protection
against the heat of the sun, the reduction of temperature produced by
the evaporation of the oils compensating in some degree for the insuf-
ficiency of the water which the plants are able to draw from the soil.
Aside from these particular cases, however, chemically differentiated
substances do not occur abundantly in the leaves or the wood of sum-
mer-green plants. Yet a protection of the wood against the germs of
decay is evidently not at all superfluous. Wounds are often made
upon trees by mechanical injuries, dying limbs, etc., from which decay
may penetrate to the interior of the tree. Hence, we quite often find
the wood rotten in the interior of a living tree. It is, therefore, also
an advantage if the wood is defended against the attacks of rot by its
finer texture, by gums, or by antiseptic substances like camphor, quas-
sine, berberin, or columbin.
