528 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the rocky walls bearing in tlieir clefts the eternal ice which glitters
and sparkles in the clear sunlight like a gigantic diamond. Similar in
structure, but made more imposing by the fact that the steep precipices
are planted directly on the untilled plain of the Tarim basin, without
any notable intermediate slopes, rises the extreme chain of the Kuen-
lun system as the northern boundary of the Thibetan highland. The
western boundary is formed by the chain of the Karakorum, with its
Triassic and Carboniferous formations, and the furrowed Pamir plain ;
and the eastern boundary by the curved declivities of the Himalaya
system itself, descending with a somewhat more gentle slope toward
China. Penetrated by numerous streams which, as a whole, main-
tain a north and south course, the intervening mountain-regions
present formidable impediments to communication. The traveler is
overlooked from all directions by icy mountain-peaks that rise to an
average height of at least twenty thousand feet. The high table-land
itself presents a sad aspect. The enormous height and the cliraatal
conditions dependent upon it restrict vegetation within a narrow limit.
No trees are found there, or cultivated fields, no flowers or fruits ; and
the green spots on which the stunted lavender maintains a precarious
existence may be counted among the broad basins tilled with gravel
and pebbles. The winds bring no moisture. The sparse snow-falls
of the year are not enough to impart productivity to the earth, and
the plateau is nearly destitute of animal and plant life.
The Thibetan settlements are almost entirely situated in the valleys
of the larger rivers, which the relatively lower situation, the higher
degree of moisture in the atmosphere, and the possibility of irrigation
enable the inhabitants to bring to a measure of tillability. A certain
degree of fertility of the soil of the capital can not be denied. Two
principal rivers have their sources at a nodal point in the Himalayas,
whence they cross the more southern country and India from left to
right. They are the Indus in the west and the Sampo in the east.
The course of the Indus is well known and marked, but all that has
been ascertained of the Sampo is that it maintains a nearly easterly
course to southeast of Lassa, after which it is still in doubt whether
it becomes the Brahmapootra or the Irrawaddy.
The climate is very severe. The temperature in winter often falls
to from 13° to 22° below zero ; all the rivers and lakes are covered
with ice as early as November, and even in April the sun has not
acquired vivifying force enough to melt their crystal surfaces.
No European is allowed to pass over the southern boundary of
this country. The East Indian Government has made several at-
tempts to gather information about it, but has been baffled. Colonel
Montgomery, a few years ago, conceived the idea of instructing young
Indian Buddhists in geography, and sending them to Thibet in the
guise of natives. Carrying only indispensable instruments with them,
they have been exploring the plateau since 1865, and have till recently
