THE TOPMOST COUNTRY OF THE EARTH. 529
returned regularly to India with valuable information. The suspicion
of the Thibetans was, however, at last aroused, and a pundit sent in
1879 was not allowed to reach Lassa, but, some of his words having
been overheard and his mission divined, he was compelled to flee, leav-
ing most of his baggage behind him. An imperfect map of the coun-
try was made in the beginning of the eighteenth century, by order of
the Emperor of China, with the aid of the Roman Catholic mission-
aries, but its data rest uj^on report rather than upon the results of
actual observation. It has been, however, the foundation on which all
our maps of the region have had to rest.
The Thibetan legend of the origin of the people is that, in the
beginning, only one man and his three sons lived on the table-land.
They had no houses or tents, but led a migratory life, without being
troubled with the cares of existence, for the land was not then desert,
or poor, or cold. Trees were growing which afforded choice fruits,
rice flourished without man having to labor to raise it, and the tea-
plant thrived in the fields that Buddha afterward changed into stony
places. Thibet was then all the more a fortunate, rich land, because
these four men, then the only living creatures in the world, knew
nothing of war and contention, but lived in unity and peace. At last
the father suddenly died. Each of his sons wanted his body, to dis-
pose of it in his own way. This was the first dispute. The corpse
lay for some days on a large rock, and the sons avoided one another.
At last the eldest son made a proposition : " Why should we be
alienated because a misfortune has happened to us all in common?
Let us be agreed, and divide the body." They all accepted the
proposition. The corpse was divided into three parts, and each son
took a part. The eldest son got the head. He went away toward the
east, and became the father of the Chinese, who excel in craft and
have great skill in trade. The second son was satisfied with his dead
father's limbs. He also left his home and settled where the great
Desert of Gobi gives his posterity, the Mongols, plenty of room ;
their characteristic is restlessness. The youngest son received the
breast and bowels. He remained in Thibet, and from him are de-
scended the Thibetan people, who are distinguished in ordinary inter-
course by good nature, openness, and cordiality, in war by courage and
enthusiasm.
The knowledge that Ptolemy had of the country consisted of ob-
scure sketches which were closely connected with stories of the Chinese
capital. Herodotus tells something of the wealth of the land in gold.
lie says that the gold was found by ants and collected by them into
large heaps which were guarded by grifiins ; and he also tells that a
number of Hindoos once got into the country at night when the
guardians were asleep, gathered up as much gold as they could carry
away on their shoulders, and went back to their homes rich.
The expedition of Count Szechcnyi, to which I was attached as a
TOL. XXI. — 34
