530 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
geographer, was permitted, a little more than a year ago (in 1880), to
add a little to our geographical knowledge of the eastern part of the
Thibetan highland, particularly of the table of Chung-yen, where no
European had ever before penetrated. The priests used every means
in their power to prevent our carrying out our project of going to
Lassa ; and, when they at last came out against us with a thousand
soldiers, we were compelled to leave the main road and force our way
to the south.
The Thibetans belong to the great Mongolian race, but they are
distinguished in many respects, and to their advantage, from their con-
geners, the Mongols proper and the Chinese. The external character-
istics which they have more or less in common with them are the
small black eyes, the prominent cheek-bones, the flattened nose, large
mouth, and thin lips. They are, like all mountaineers, stout and strong.
When I saw Thibetans for the first time at Ta-tsien-lu, I was prepos-
sessed with them. They had come down out of the high mountains
and wild clefts expressly to see us Europeans. The contrast between
them and the Chinese was made clear not only by their imposing ap-
pearance, but also by their earnest quietude and the grave demeanor
they maintained in the midst of the crowd of shrieking and boisterous
Chinese townsmen. These robust, muscular figures, with weather-
browned, wrinkled, thin, earnest faces, were the people called " wild "
by the Chinese ; and their black, deep-set eyes, framed in a tangled
forest of straggling hair, glowed with the fierce fire of religious fanati-
cism.
The men are always armed, if not with a Chinese matchlock, with
the sword of theii* country, a weapon often of marvelous workmanship,
having the hilt adorned with turquoises and the sheath richly chased.
Every one wears on his breast, as an amulet against evil spirits, a cas-
ket of gold, silver, or copper, containing various forms of incantation.
The women and girls, with their two braids of raven hair, their bright-
ly colored, chubby cheeks, their ample drapery, and their precious or-
naments of metal and jewels, drive their pimy Chinese rivals quite out
of the field of comparison. Variety rules in the Thibetan dress, par-
ticularly in the arrangement of the women's hair. Sometimes it is
worn in two braids, sometimes re-enforced with great structures of
yak-hair ; always, if the wearer is able, adorned with jewels, silver or-
naments, or strings of coins. The women's faces are never clean, but
the custom prevails of soiling them purposely.
Their dwellings are situated, either scattered or in little hamlets,
wherever tillable soil can be found. Their houses rather resemble de-
fensive towers than residences : they are made of drift-stones, of one
story or more, and are expected to accommodate the domestic animals
as well as the family ; and, if the house is of one story only, the ar-
rangement is apt to be rather promiscuous. The separation is more
effective if the house has an additional story ; but in the houses of
