THE TOPMOST COUNTRY OF THE EARTH 531
the better class the only means provided for the family to reach the
upper stories are split trunks of trees, with notches for steps cut in the
round side. The rooms are dark and gloomy, well ventilated through
the half-stopped chinks in the walls, with a fire in the middle of the
floor, and light bunks or the floor itself for beds, but innocent of any
other furniture except a low table and two or three skin mats ; chairs
and benches are known only by hearsay. The only roof is a flat plat-
form over the rooms, on which the crops are spread in dry weather
and the inhabitants sun themselves in the winter, and where a shrine
of Buddha is often erected. The nomadic, cattle-raising Thibetans
live in tents, which they weave from the hair of their domestic ani-
mals.
The Thibetans are pleasantly disposed, and intercourse with them
would be cordial and agreeable were not the free development of their
natural traits restricted by the pressure of their religion. Frank and
hearty in word and deed and in everything that is not connected with
religion, generous in intercourse and in trade with the crafty Chinese,
they always come out second best when they have dealings with them.
They are brave soldiers and feared as such, but are never cruel. The
men are fond of gymnastic exercises, and try their strength to-
gether at every opportunity. They are excellent pedestrians and
horsemen, and are extravagantly proud if they can boast of having
the best horse in the place. As porters they have wonderful powers
of endurance. \Yhile we EurojDeans, suffering in the thin air of an
elevation of seventeen thousand feet, had to stop often to recover our
breaths, I could not but envy our Thibetan bearers, who kept on up
the heights with their heavy loads, as often as not singing. Their
social intercourse is marked by sharp, sprightly Avit and humor ; but
some of the upper classes ape the artificial courtly manners of the
Chinese.
The principal food of the country is called jamha. To make it a
quantity of powdered tea is cooked for several hours, after which it is
poured into a chum, when salt and butter are added, and the whole is
stirred till a complete mixture is effected. The broth is then divided
among the hungry ones, each of whom gets his share in a wooden
bowl, after which a sack of roasted barley-meal is brought out. Every
one takes a handful of meal from the sack, puts it into the tea and
mixes the mass into a shapely lump, and swallows his dough with a
keen appetite. I have seen a Thibetan devour thirty-two of these
lumps in an hour. The preparation of this meal makes it possible for
each Thibetan to have his hands washed twice a day. After the meal
is over, the wooden bowls are licked clean with the tongue, and worn
on the breast next to the skin as something precious.
Polyandry is practiced, not on account of any lack of women, for
there is no such lack, but as a measure of economy. When the eldest
son marries, his wife becomes also the wife of all his brothers. The
