532 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
custom does not lead to so many difficulties as it might be supposed it
would, and the chief troubles arising out of it concern the fatherhood
of the children. The housewife occupies rather a commanding than
a subordinate position.
Three ways of burying the dead prevail. The poor sink their
dead in one of the mountain-streams ; those of a better class hang
the bodies upon a tree, where they are consumed by birds, and the
bones are afterward thrown into the river ; the rich cut the bodies up
into small pieces, pound the bones and mix them with jamha, and
then carry the remains to the mountains, where they are left for
the birds. These are old customs, and have no connection with
religion.
Buddhism was introduced in the seventh century, and soon became
the national religion. The present line of Dalai Lamas is in succession
to the reformer Tsong-Kaba, who flourished in the fourteenth century,
and denounced the corruptions into which the religion had fallen. The
branch of the church which it represents is called the yellow sect, in
distinction from the red sect of followers of the old dynasty, which
prevails in the principalities of the southern Himalaya range. A dy-
nasty of lamas, the Teshu lamas, founded by another reformer in the
fifteenth century, i*esides at Teshulumbo, near Shigatze, and is on the
best of terms with the Dalai Lamas. The lamas are believed only to
change form when they die, their identity passing to some child. So,
on the demise of the Dalai Lama, the new lama is sought out in ways
that are known to the priests, and is always found in some obscure
family, thus leaving people of any influence always free from gov-
ernmental care and influence. He is carefully brought up, so as to be
always as a child, and under the entire control of the priests, who re-
ceive their reward in the power they exercise, and in the rich gifts
that are brought by the pilgrims who come from all Buddhist coun-
tries to seek the Dalai Lama's blessing. Besides the two orthodox
chiefs, there exist in Thibet and Mongolia one hundred and three
Kutuktus, or heads of cloisters, to whom an immortality similar to
that of the Grand Lamas is ascribed.
The priests, by virtue of their ownership of all the land in the
country, exercise a despotic power over the people, who can hold only
as their tenants, and keep them under complete spiritual control. They
are thus enabled to keep the country isolated, and to defy the Chinese
Government, while they are willing and even anxious to enjoy its pro-
tection.
