THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE SENSES.
35
derm, from which the outer skin also develops. At an early stage
they are all simple pockets in the outer covering. If the history of
the embryo is to be taken as the miniature of the history of the race —
that is, if the individual in its development follows the same course
that the race has followed, and it seems reasonable to suppose that
this is the case — it is easy to see the importance of this evidence.
In the animal kingdom the sense of touch is universal; it is even
found in those lowest animals, the protozoa, which are only masses of
simple protoplasm. But, if this animal with its one sense is to become
higher, there must be a division of labor ; there is too much work for
one sense to do properly, and by a quantitative modification this primi-
tive sense is to become qualitatively different in parts, and this quali-
tative difference is the difference which we notice between the sense
of touch and the other senses of the higher animals; it has come about
by an accumulation of the sense of touch.
The waves of air which fall on the body of this protozoan as heat
are capable of a higher rendering, they will signify more than heat to
the proper organ for perceiving them, they will give the sensations of
light and colors. The simplest eyes are merely pigment-spots in the
skin, they merely distinguish heat from cold and light from darkness ;
but later, by the formation of a lens and sensitive membrane, the ex-
ternal world is revealed in all its variety.
The eye is first found in the sea-anemone, where it is merely one
of these pigment spots. But all that the most complete eye can give
to us is a field of gradated colors. In itself this field of colors conveys
no information to us. It must be explained before it can be of any
practical use to us, and this necessary explanation can only be furnished
by our sense of touch. That is, distance, magnitude, and shape are
not directly perceived by the eye, but are suggested by certain object-
ive gradations of color which have been associated with them in our
past experience. Thus, sight appears as entirely dependent upon touch
for its usefulness. This theory was first advanced by Bishop Berke-
ley in his famous " Essay toward a New Theory of Vision," and was
afterward confirmed in a very wonderful way by some experiments
made by Dr. Cheseldcn, of London. A young man had been blind from
his birth on account of cataracts. These were removed by Dr. Ches-
eldcn, and he suddenly received his s'ght. At first he could perceive
no such thing as distance or form. Only by repeatedly touching ob-
jects could he bring himself to realize that certain experiences of touch
were always associated with certain gradations of color. Gradually
he connected the sensations of sight with the sensations of touch, and
in time became as insensible as we are to their true relation.
The ear first appears, in the jelly-fish, as a pocket in the outer skin.
In this simple condition it serves as a general indicator of violent air-
motion. But as the animal becomes higher there is a demand for a
nicer perception of sound, and this pocket is closed and finally is pro-
