SKETCH OF BAROy ADOLF ERIC NORDENSKIOLD. 535
unlimited freedom, the teachers showing no inclination to meddle
much with the occupations of their pupils. He entered the University
of Helsingfors in 1849, and devoted himself chiefly to the study of
chemistry, natural history, mathematics, physics, and particularly
mineralogy and geology. Having passed his candidate examination
in 1853, he accompanied his father on a mineralogical tour to the
Ural. In this expedition, according to Professor Fries, of Upsala,
was unconsciously laid in him the beginning out of which his later
expeditions grew. " It was an instance of the old eagle teaching the
young one to fly." After his return from this excursion, Nordenskiold
continued to prosecute his chemical and mineralogical studies with zeal.
The subject of his dissertation for the licentiate, " On the Crystalline
Forms of Graphite and Chondrodite," which was delivered on the 28th
of February, 1855, bore relation to them. During the following sum-
mer he was engaged upon a description of minerals found in Finland,
which was published in the fall. Various short papers on mineralogy
and molecular chemistiy were published in the " Transactions of the
Finnish Scientific Society," and a paper on " The Mollusca of Finland "
was published by Nordenskiold, along with Dr. E. Nylander, in 1856,
in response to a prize question proposed by one of the faculty of the
university. While these studies were being j^rosecuted, young Xor-
denskiuld had been appointed salaried curator of the mathematico-
physical faculty, and had obtained a post at the mining office as min-
ing engineer extraordinary, with inconsiderable pay, and an express
understanding that no service would be required from him in return.
He lost these positions in consequence of having been present at a
festival where too much freedom was given to the expression of polit-
ical feelings, and spent a few months abroad, working a part of the
time at Rore's laboratory in Berlin at researches in mineral analysis.
Returning to Finland, he secured a stipend for a line of study through
Europe in 1857 ; but at the " Promotion Festival " in that year, where
he was to take his master's and doctor's degrees, more liberal views
were aired, which Von Berg, the governor of the Duchy, considered
treasonable, and Xordenskiold left Finland again, this time not to re-
turn as a fixed resident. The displeasure of the Government against
him was not, however, of long continuance, for ho has been welcome
in Finland since 18G2, and he might have been appointed Professor of
Mineralogy in the University of Helsingfors, had he been willing to
agree to give up politics. He became naturalized in Sweden, and soon
rose to eminence in public life and in science. ,
The Arctic voyages of Baron Nordenskiold began in 1858, when
he took part in the Swedish expedition to Spitzbergen under Torell,
the chief of the Swedish Geological Survey. On his return, he was
appointed successor to Mosander in the Riks Museum at Stockholm,
where he immediately went to work, partly at the arrangement of the
museum, partly at the scientific researches which formed the subjects
