SKETCH OF BjiRON ADOLF ERIC NORDENSKIOLD. 537
" An excursion of some length was made into the wilderness of ice,
everywhere full of bottomless clefts, which occupies the interior of
Greenland, and which, if I except unimportant wanderings along the
edge, and an inconsiderable attempt in the same direction in the year
1728, by the Dane Dalager, was now, for the first time, trodden by
human foot. I had here an opportunity of clearing up the nature of
a formation which, during one of the latest geological ages, covered
a great part of the civilized countries of Europe, and which, though
it has given occasion to an exceedingly comprehensive literature in all
cultivated languages, had never before been examined by any geolo-
gist."
Another expedition, of two vessels, was fitted up in 1872, with the
design of attempting to reach the pole with reindeers, to which Lieu-
tenant Palander, the companion of his last voyage, was for the first
time attached. The ice was unusually unfavorable, and the winter
was spent in Mussel Bay, on the north of West Spitzbergen. Here
attention was first called to the presence of dust of cosmic origin con-
taining nickel-iron, the agency of which as a possible factor in build-
ing up the earth's crust is discussed with considerable fullness in the
" Voyage of the Vega " ; more complete researches on the aurora
and its spectrum were carried on ; investigations were made on the
development of alg?e during the winter night of four months ; numer-
ous new contributions to a knowledge of polar countries during former
geological epochs were discovered ; and a complete series of meteoro-
logical and magnetic observations was made in the most northerly
latitude where such observations had up to this time been carried on.
With this expedition Nordenskiold's efforts to reach the pole ceased.
He had become convinced by his repeated voyages that there was no
open sea at the pole ; and he had his attention drawn to the " more
practical problem, which had interested the foremost commercial states
and the most daring navigators for three hundred years, and geogra-
phers for thousands of years " — that of forcing a northeast passage to
China and Japan, and the circumnavigation of the Old World.
In 1875 he succeeded, with the Avalrus-hunting sloop Proeven, in
sailing over the Kara Sea as far as to the mouth of the Yenisei, whence
he put himself in communication with the river-steamers to Yeniseisk ;
and whence he returned by land, while his companions came back by
sea to Europe. By this voyage, he says, " I was the first person who
succeeded in penetrating from the Atlantic Ocean in a vessel to the
mouths of the great Siberian rivers. One of the objects Avhich the
old northeast voyagers had aimed at was at last accomplished, and
that in a way that promised to be of immense practical importance for
the whole of Siberia. The voyage was also regarded in that light by
leading men of the great empire of the East, and our return journey
from Yeniseisk by Krasnojarsk, Tomsk, Omsk, Yekaterinburg, Nizh-
nee-Novgorod, Moscow, and St. Petersburg became, therefore, a jour-
