538 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ney from fete to fete. But a number of voices were simultaneously
raised, which asserted that the success of the Proeven depended on an
accidental combination of fortunate circumstances which would not
soon occur again. In order to show that this was not the case, and
that I might myself bring the first goods by sea to Siberia, I under-
took my second voyage to the Yenisei in 1876, in which I penetrated
with the steamer Ymer, not only to the mouth of the river, but also
up the river to Yakovieva in 71° north latitude. Hence I returned
the same year by sea to Europe."
Between these two voyages. Baron Nordenskiold found time to
visit our International Exhibition at Philadelphia, in connection with
which his name is recorded as one of the judges in the group of pot-
tery, glass, artificial stone, etc., and as an exhibitor of maps. "And it
may deserve to be mentioned," he says, " that, leaving New York on
the 1st of July by one of the ordinary steamers, and going on board
my own vessel in Norway, I reached the mouth of the Yenisei on the
15th of August — that is to say, in forty-six days."
The voyages of the Proeven and the Ymer led to several purely
commercial voyages to the Yenisei and the Obi. After his return from
the second voyage, he became fully satisfied, in the light of his own
experience and of the old explorations of the north coast of Asia, that
the open navigable water, which for two years in succession had car-
ried him across the Kara Sea, formerly of so bad repute, to the mouth
of the Yenisei, extended in all probability as far as Behring Strait,
and that a circumnavigation of the Old World was thus within the
bounds of possibility.
He conceived the idea of a new voyage, the purpose of which was
to pass through the whole extent of the Ai'ctic Ocean to Behring
Strait, and thence around the continent back to Stockholm. He so-
licited an audience with the king, the scientific men, and Ai'ctic voy-
agers of the country. It was given him on the 27th of January, 1877,
and he came to it fully prepared with a statement of his purposes and
his reasons for considering them feasible. Besides "the world-histori-
cal navigation problem," which would be solved by the siaccess of the
enterprise, he suggested that " extensive contributions of immense im-
portance ought also to be obtainable regarding the geography, hydrog-
raphy, zoology, and botany of the Siberian polar sea ; and beyond
Behring Strait the expedition will meet with other countries having
a more luxuriant and varied nature, where other questions which per-
haps concern us less, but on that account are not of less importance
for science as a whole, will claim the attention of the observer and yield
him a rich reward for his labor and pains."
He received the encouragement and aid be asked for, and was able
to sail in July, 1878, on a new expedition, the complete success of
which is a matter of history, and the ultimate results of which, in the
opening of new branches and lines of trade, and the bringing to pos-
