SKETCH OF BARON ADOLF ERIC NORDENSKIOLD. 539
sible productiveness of an immense region hitherto supposed to be
consigned to the dominion of ice, can not as yet be adequately esti-
mated.
The vahie of his work was appreciated by the people with whom
he came in contact during the course of the voyage. On the arrival
of the expedition of 1875 at the Lena, the Dolgans at that remote
spot on the border of the tundra, " when they understood clearly that
we had come to them not as brandy-sellers or fish-buyers from the
south, but from the north, from the ocean, went into complete ec-
stasies .... At Dudino, also, the priests living there held a thanks-
giving service for our happy arrival thither," The voyage home,
around the Pacific coast and by the Indian Ocean and Suez Canal,
was marked by a series of festivities given at every point where the
Vega touched. At Yeddo the navigators were greeted with deputa-
tions, bearing addresses of welcome and invitations, and were given
a lunch with the Mikado, and a special audience with his Majesty.
Similar scenes were repeated, with such variations as circumstances
made appropriate, at Hong-Kong, Cairo, Naples, Lisbon, Paris, Copen-
hagen, and Stockholm. At Naples, the expedition was welcomed
back to Europe by the representative of King Oscar of Sweden, who
also conferred Swedish decorations on Baron Nordenskiold and Lieu-
tenant Palander ; an Italian ofiicer came down from Turin commis-
sioned by the Government, and bearing the welcomes of several munici-
palities and scientific societies, with Italian orders for the men of the
Vega. At Lisbon, in addition to the usual audiences and receptions,
the Portuguese Chamber of Deputies voted a welcome and a congratu-
latory address. Circumstances prevented the public demonstrations
which had been arranged for in England from being held, but the
visit of Nordcnskiold and Palander to London was made pleasant by
the hospitality of the most distinguished scientific men of the king-
dom. At Paris a public reception was given by the Geographical
Society; the commanders' and ofiicers' insignia of the Legion of Honor
were conferred by the Minister of Education, at a meeting of the
delegates of twenty-eight learned societies held in the Sorbonne ; a wel-
come was given by the Institute followed by a festive reception by
the Municipal Council ; numerous dinners were eaten, and medals
were liberally distributed. Invitations to Holland and Belgium had
to be declined " from want of time and strength to take part in more
festivities." The entrance to Stockholm was made through a thick
fleet of excursion-steamers gayly decorated, and under a brilliant illu-
mination of the city ; and, after the first enthusiastic welcomes, "/^^e
followed f^te for several weeks." Writing of this expedition, Dr.
Karl Miiller says, in " Die iSatur," that *' among the most recent
voyages none has been so splendidly planned, none undertaken
with such noble means and pursued with such eminent scientific suc-
cess as the circumnavigation of Europe and Asia by Nordcnskiold
