540 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and his companions." Of the series of voyages to Spitzbergen, " Na-
ture" says: "These expeditions were not undertaken for the mere
purpose of creating a sensation by the foolhardy feat of attempting
to reach the pole at all hazards. Geographical discovery certainly
formed a part of the programme of all the expeditions in which Nor-
denskiold has been engaged ; " and it contrasts the results — of the first
importance, and obtained with a modest expenditure — strongly with
those of '' the expensive and elaborately equipped expedition in the
Alert and Discovery." Speaking in 1879, while the last expedition
was still in progress, " Nature " said, " Comparatively young as Pro-
fessor Nordenskiold is, he has done an amount of woi'k rarely accom-
plished even in a long life-time." And in February of this year, re-
viewing his whole work, it said : " Thus no one man has done half so
much as Baron Nordenskiold for a scientific exploration of the Arctic
regions. The most striking characteristics of his various expeditions
have been the small expense at which they were conducted, their mod-
est but carefully considered equipment, the clear and scientific meth-
ods on which they were planned, and the wealth and high value of the
results obtained." Baron Nordenskiold is now preparing for another
expedition.
Baron Nordenskiold represented the capital of Sweden in the Diet
from 18G9 to 1871, and was instrumental in bringing about some im-
portant legislative measures for the promotion of science.
Personally, Baron Nordenskiold is a genial man. His modesty
and aversion to public display, which are well known and recognized,
are quite remarkable in his " Voyage of the Vega," where he shuts his
personality wholly out of sight, and devotes his attention, with an ex-
clusiveness which is rare among travelers, to the account of what he
observed and learned. Yet he loses no occasion to introduce his com-
panions and their labors, and to give them full credit. So complete is
his sinking of himself that it has been impossible to find anything in
that work with which to illustrate his personality for the purposes of
this sketch.
