EDITOR'S TABLE.
545
The predominance of pngilism and
athletic sports, which depend upon
'• muscle," have favored the idea that
the chief influence and henefit of exer-
cise is upon the muscular system ; but
Professor Eeymond shows that this is
an error. An important effect is, of
course, produced in the development
of the muscles, which is very fully and
interestingly traced out ; hut by far
the most important and valuable influ-
ence of physical exercise is shown to
be upon the nervous centers. "It is
easy to show the error of the common
view, and demonstrate that such bodily
exercises as gymnastics, fencing, swim-
ming, riding, dancing, and skating are
much more exercises of the central
nervous system, of the brain and spinal
marrow. Every action of our body as
a motive apparatus depends not less but
more upon the proper co-operation of
the muscles than upon the force of their
contraction. In order to execute a
composite motion, like a leap, the mus-
cles must begin to work in the proper
order, and the energy of each one of
them must increase, halt, and diminish,
according to a certain law, so that the
result shall be the proper position of
the limbs, and the proper velocity of
the center of gravity in the proper di-
rection."
But when it is established that the
central nervous system is not only
amenable to the law of exercise, but is
the chief object of its influence, we then
begin to see how the highest mental
effects are involved in the question.
Improvement by means of exercise and
deterioration from non-exercise apply
to the gray matter of the brain as well
as to the muscles. From this point of
view, which is that of the philosophy
of human educability, the subject has a
comprehensive interest, and we hope onr
readers will recognize that, in furnish-
ing them articles that imply some effort
in their mastery, we are conforming to
the only law by which real mental im-
provement can be secured.
VOL. XXI. — S5
MORE SIGXS OF THE TIMES.
That there has been going forward
within the last few years a rapid lib-
eralization of public opinion on the
subjects that are in issue between sci-
ence and theology, everybody now ad-
mits; and, having done what little we
could to promote this salutary result,
we are naturally interested in all the
striking indications of the growth of
toleration in quarters where it has been
previously but little looked for. We
called attention a few months ago to
the significance of a declaration made
by an eminent English doctor of divin-
ity that the appreciation of Herbert
Spencer's system of philosophy is '• an
education to an age," and we have
now to take note of another liberal
concession of perhaps greater interest.
The Victoria Institute, a vigorous
English society of nearly a thousand
members, consisting chiefly of lords,
bishops, and clergjnuen, was founded a
few years ago for the broad purpose of
reconciling orthodox Christianity with
the revelations of science. It is a kind
of British standing committee on the
relations of science and theology, the
duty of which is to consider and report
on all the alleged cases of their con-
flict.
It has been long expected that the
Institute would take up the question ot
the religious relations of Spencer's phi-
losophy, and that has now been done.
The last report of its proceedings, just
published, contains an elaborate paper,
attacking this system and claiming to
demolish it, which was written by the
Rev. AV. D. Ground, and its reading was
followed by an unusually full discussion
of the subject by tlie members of the
Institute. We have no room to repro-
duce at length either the essay or the
comments that were made upon it; but
there are certain features of both to
which it seems desirable to call atten-
tion, because we here get weighty the-
ological confirmation of positions that
