546
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
have long been maintained in the Popu-
lar Science Monthly."
"We have heard a great deal of Mr.
Spencer's materialism. The charge has
become stereotyped. It is said that
this is a materialistic age; that life
is materialistic ; that science is mate-
rialistic, and that Spencer is the arch-
materialist who works the doctrine up
into a philosophy for universal gratifi-
cation. We have always denied the
truth of this accusation, and held that
it has been made either in ignorance
or dishonesty. We have maintained
not only that Spencer is explicitly
opposed to materialism, but that he
has written witli great power against
it. And we have, moreover, main-
tained that, in the future emergencies
of theological thought which are sure
to result from the further progress of
science, the value of Spencer's anti-
materialistic logic will be better appre-
ciated. All this has been regarded as
sufBciently amusing, but how is it now
with the experts of the Victoria Insti-
tute? The Eev. Mr. Ground says:
" The existence and the immateriality
of mind is a cardinal doctrine of Mr.
Spencer's philosophy. It is one of the
last and most certain deliverances of
his philosophy that mind and matter
both exist, and that between these two
there is a chasm which no effort of ours
enables us to cross. He exhausts the
resources of language to declare that
this is the one fact which transcends
in absolute certainty every other fact.
Somehow, this seems to have escaped
the notice of many who have criticised
his writings, and he is commonly be-
lieved to uphold something like mate-
rialism. Greater error, however, there
can hardly be. Materialism has never
before had such a powerful and uncom-
promising opponent, and it is hardly
probable that it can ever again make
head against his attacks. Tlie doctrine
of tlie absolute immateriality of mind
is a structural part of his philosophy,
and one which is simply invaluable to
those who see the spiritual aspect of
things."
In the discussion which followed
the reading of the paper, there was
not a word of protest against this state-
ment. Various things were objected
to, but this avowal, so directly in the
teeth of current prejudice, provoked
not the slightest criticism. It was, in
fact, indorsed by the unanimous ap-
proval of Mr. Ground's argument,
which was based upon the idea that
Spencer is not a materialist, and de-
rived its whole force from this assump-
tion. Mr. Ground makes numerous
citations from Spencer which incon-
testably prove his position ; and this
portion of his argument may be fairly
put against the whole mass of criticism
which aims to convict Spencer of mate-
terialism.
But there was one part of Mr.
Ground's essay for which the society
was not prepared : his estimate of the
character of Spencer's work startled
his audience. He began by saying:
"The system of philosophy associated
with the name of Herbert Spencer has
now been nearly twenty years before
the philosophical world, and it has
slowly made its way until it has won a
place in the first rank of such produc-
tions. AVhatever we may think of it,
it is not easy to withhold our intellect-
ual homage. It is the last and proba-
bly the greatest attempt ever made to
present a true philosophy of the kos-
mos; it is imbued with the modern
scientific spirit ; it claims to be strictly
in accord with scientific principles; it
displays a breadth of generalization
and a wealth of energy such as we find
only in the greatest works of all time;
and it is by many believed to be one of
the worthiest triumphs ever achieved
by the unaided intellect of man. It is
never easy to estimate justly any con-
temporary work — we stand too near it
to see its true proportions — but it
seems to not a few that Mr. Spencer
may fairly claim a place iu the front
