36 TEE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
vided with a complicated acoustic apparatus, in the same way that the
eye is provided with a lens, which renders into terms of noise and mu-
sic those air-waves which to the rest of the skin are imperceptible.
But a sound conveys no more information in itself than does the
field of colors presented by the eye ; only when we can tell from what
it comes, and what consequences have been connected with it in our
past experience, does it have any practical meaning to us. And, again,
this explanation can only be furnished by our sense of touch, or by our
sense of sight, which, as we have seen, is entirely dependent upon our
sense of touch.
The senses of smell and taste should properly be resolved into one
sense, for they are probably only late modifications of the same prop-
erty of the mucous membrane lining the mouth and nose. This mem-
brane is only an invading growth of the skin surrounding the mouth,
so, morphologically, this sense is the same as the two just examined.
The sense of smell is undoubtedly present in some insects, as, for in-
stance, in the burying beetles, and may perhaps be found lower.
In man this double sense is undoubtedly retrogressive, and probably
reaches its highest develoj^ment in some of the lower mammalia.
With us it is at best only a source of transitory pleasure, and seems in
no way to contribute to our higher mental development.
But the senses of sight and hearing are very different in this re-
spect. If Darwin is right, they have played a most important part in
the evolution of the past as the instruments of sexual selection. And,
in the future development of our race, it seems as if their perfection
would be reached only with the perfection of the human mind. For
if the impulse to development is given from without by the environ-
ment, these organs must be continually improved so as to perceive the
nicer and nicer distinctions in the environment which will be the
means of elevating the mind. If the impulse to development is given
from within the mind, these sense-organs must be developed more
highly in order to provide the enlarging mind with the continually
nicer perception which it will require.
Man's mind develops, not his body. "With the exception of these
two sense-organs, his body has been nearly stationary for thousands of
years, but these two organs respond to comparatively little change.
The ear of the savage differs from the ear of the civilized man more
than the two men differ in any other respect.
Touch, smell, and taste seem as complete as they need be for any
conceivable human being, but that the eye is yet incomplete is very
strikingly shown by the so-called actinic rays of the solar spectrum.
In this spectrum there are rays beyond the violet which have an action
on certain chemical substances much like the action of the blue and
violet rays. But to the human eye these rays are absolutely invisible.
The perception of this unknown color seems but a short step in the
development of the eye.
