EDITOR'S TABLE.
5+7
rank of the intellect of the worUl. His
greatness in this respect must iu justice
be conceded."
Mr. Ground in closing? re-affirmed
his high opinion of the import of Spen-
cer's work as follows ; " We may, how-
ever, allow that, if only he will keep
within his proper limits, very much of
what he has written will stand in lines
of unfading truth and beauty, and he will
have the honor of lifting the human
intellect to a higher plane of thought
and life. He is so great and many-
sided, and he has contributed such a
vast amount of intellectual force, that
no one who reverences the mind of
man as one of the greatest handiworks
of God can honestly refuse him hom-
age. He stands before us of the build
of the giants, perhaps of the immor-
tals, and his natui-e is not yet made up
so as to show us what will he his ulti-
mate place — whether amid those who
shed kindly benefactions on the race,
or those who like evil angels leave be-
hind them a heritage of negation, unbe-
lief, and despair."
Such talk was not at all palatable to
the members of the Victoria Institute,
who could not recognize much great-
ness in a man whom they had just
seen so effectually "crushed." The
chairman led by observing, "' I would
rather not have seen so very much ad-
miration for Mr. Herbert Spencer com-
bined with the reasoning of the paper,
which proves so successfully that if
this 'writer' is indeed a 'gia t,' he is
but a giant stuffed with straw." The
Rev. Dr. Irons remarked, " I concur
fully with the chairman in saying that
the estimate formed of Mr. Herbert
Spencer was somewhat exaggerated, and ;
yet I have to acknowledge the great ad-
miration I entertain of Spencer's style
and acutcness and power of analysis,
and I do not think we gain anything
by depreciating our opiionents." Others
followed in a simil.ir strain, and only
Professor Griffiths accei)ted the esti-
mate of Spencer, and took exception to
the general argument of the essay. In
reviewing and closing the discussion,
Mr. Ground admitted that he might have
been over-impressed by Spencer's gen-
ius, but that it was very easy to commit
the opposite mistake. He said : " I feel
sure, however, that some in this Insti-
tute greatly underrate Mr. Spencer — a
mistake which in my judgment would,
if not corrected, bring disastrous conse-
quences, but it is possible that I may
have gone to the opposite extreme. In
reading his philosophy, I am distinctly
conscious that vaster thoughts are be-
fore me than when reading Shakespeare.
Shakespeare one can take up any time
as the companion of an idle hour, and
the amount of mental stimulation he
gives is relatively trifling. Not so is it
with Spencer. It is only when the eye
is keenest, the will strongest, the nerv-
ous force most abundant, that you can
be sure of following him. The first
(Shakespeare) carries you through the
gentle undulations of an English coun-
ty, and his highest elevations are hard-
ly so much as Snowdon or Helvellyn,
but Spencer carries you up the aw^ful
Alpine ranges, where the spaces of
thought over which the eye roves are
incomparably vaster, and where the
exertion demanded is far greater.
Spencer has a certain Miltonic grand-
eur. I could name places in his phi-
losophy where views are given us of
creation, in which, if we add tbe spir-
itual conceptions of which I spoke,
the idea presented rises, to my mind,
in extent, sublimity, and overpowering
greatness above everything I have yet
met with in all uninspired literature.
To grasp his system is like standing in
the Sistine Cliapel and bearing tbe full
weight of tlie conceptions of Michael
Angelo. "Wliile tliis fact explains the
fascination that Spencer exerts over
many, it also shows us the gi-eat dan-
ger either cf letting his system con-
tinue, as it no donbt is, the reigning
philosophy of the world, or of depre-
ciating it below its just value."
