548
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
THE SLOW PROGRESS OF IDEAS.
Ix his recent excellent report to
Columbia College, Dr. Barnard says, in
discussing the policy of universities,
"ITewton stands perhaps without a
peer in the scientific annals of all time,
yet the astronomy of Ptolemy continued
to be taught in Newton's own univer-
sity of Cambridge for a century after
the publication of the ' Principia ' had
created astronomical science anew."
Tiiis is an excellent illustration of the
power of habit and tradition in educa-
tion. In further discussing "Educa-
tion as a Science" in the same report.
President Barnard quotes the following
statement of the Piev. Mr. Quick, tlie
Cambridge lecturer, on the history and
philosophy of teaching : " I take it that
Jacotot taught more emphatically than
any one three great pedagogic truths :
first, that a good teacher exercises the
searching rather than the receiving fac-
ulties of the learner's mind ; second,
that all fresh knowledge should be con-
nected with what the learner knew
before; and, third, that a thorough
knowledge of anything is an almost in-
exhaustible source of power. However,
if his principles were right, there must
have been some grave defect in the ap-
plication of them, or his system, which
at first met with immense success, would
not so speedily have lost its ground."
To this President Barnard adds, " The
grave defect in the application consisted
obviously in Ijis pushing the first prin-
ciple to an extravagant and unreasonable
excess, and in leaving the pupil too en-
tirely helpless."
"We suspect that the reason wliy
those golden truths of Jacotot have
not been more generally accepted and
practiced, and why his system perished
with him, was deeper than is here indi-
cated. Badly applied they no doubt
were, but it is more significant that they
were prematurely thoroughgoing, and
involved the cutting up of an old system,
root and branch. If it took a hundred
years for the magnates of Cambridge
University to recognize the demon-
strated truths of the " Principia," how
much longer will it take to introduce
something like a law of gravitation into
education ? It is hurrying things if a
great new principle gets well accepted
in a century and intelligently applied in
another century, and Jacotot's experi-
ment is but half a century old. Science
is making progress, but it moves pre-
cious slow in old educational establish-
ments. Loading the memory with
Greek and Latin seems still to be the
leading business of Columbia College ;
while Dr. Barnard tells us that '' zo-
ology, botany, physiology, and biology
are all unrepresented in our scheme of
instruction." As a further illustration
of the slowness of collegiate improve-
ment and reform, it may be mentioned
that, while Columbia College has a
strong corps of teachers for drilling in
the dead languages, it has no adequate
provision for discipline in the correct
and elegant use of the living language
in which the intellectual life-work of
all the students is to be carried on.
Dr. Barnard laments that there is no
sufficient provision " to practice the
learner in the proper use of language,"
and urges the Board of Trustees to re-
pair this and the other omissions re-
ferred to. From all of which we infer
that, although knowledge goes slow,
Columbia College goes slower.
Dr. Barnard desires to have the
ladies patronize his institution, but they
may well reply : " Not yet, dear doc-
tor; you are too far behind the age.
We appreciate ihe honor, and the so-
ciety of the gentlemen would not be
unpleasant ; but it is a very important
question whether the culture you are
jirepared to give us is the best calcu-
lated to qualify us for that sphere of
life to which most of us are destined.
"We have all read that Agesilaus, King
of Sparta, upon being asked what
things he thought ino5t proper for girls
to learn, answered, ' Those which they
