EDITOR'S TABLE.
549
ought to practice wlien they come to be
women.' Does your education answer
to that test ? Is a college in wliich
physiology and biology are unrepre-
sented, and which offers no instruction
iu anthropology — the science of human
nature — the proper place to educate
young women for the duties of mother-
hood, the nurture of children, and the
intelligent practical administration of
home affairs ? We can not see that you
have what we most want, and we are
afraid if we came you would so fill our
heads with everything we don't want
that we should be worse off than if we
■were not educated at all. Go on with
the excellent work of modernizing your
curriculum, and, when you have made
it to better represent the present state
of knowledge, it will be time to talk to
us about buying it."
This is encouraging. TTe had sup-
posed that the ladies were crazy to get
into the college anyhow, without the
slightest regard to what they found
there — in fact, wanted to get in merely
because they had been kept out ; ac-
cordingly, as this is not so, we rejoice.
COLLEGE GOVERXMEXT.
"We last year had the pleasure of
commending the new departure of Am-
herst College in the matter of govern-
ment. It consisted in an open repu-
diation of the old and still prevailing
system of paternal control which so
naturally engenders conflict and pro-
motes excesses on the part of the stu-
dents. As we before remarked, young
men can only be educated in manhood
by being i)racticed in its liberty and
responsibility. The home government
of childhood and early youth is neces-
sarily paternal, watchful, care-taking,
often too i.nuch so for the development
of self-reliant character; but when boys
become young men they have the right
to substitute self-restraint for external
restraint as the governing law of con-
duct. And especially when they go to
college, where the scheme of studies as-
sumes mental maturity, where the new
social forces are so active, and the new
temptations so strong, they should be
thrown upon their honor, and pledged
to self-control at the outset and with-
out reserve. It is gratifying to observe
that the second year's experience at
Amherst proves the practicability and
the superiority of the self-governing
method. A correspondent of the " New
York Evening Post " remarks:
It has been a year of unusually satisfoc-
tory progress. Professor W. S. Tyler, who
was graduated in 1S30, and has been con-
nected with the college ever since, says that
it has been the most healthy and satisfactoiy
year for the college that he has ever known,
^lore and better work has been done in the
studies, and there has never been a year of
such perfect discipUne. It is the new sys-
tem of government, now at the end of its
second year of practical working, which is
given the credit of the improvement. In
brief, the system is this : The relation of fac-
ulty and students is regarded as that of two
parties to a contract. The student wishes to
study, and contracts to follow the rules of the
college. The faculty contract to give the
instruction. If a student breaks his contract
by disorderly conduct or by committing any
of the irregular acts so common in colleges
against public peace, he is held to have bro-
ken his contract, and ipso facto his connec-
tion with the college ceases. He has broken
his word, and a rupture of the contract by
one party releases the other. No vote of ex-
pulsion is passed. There is no "n-riting home
to parents. Ko member of the faculty is ex-
pected to act the spy. The single act of the
student settles the whole thing. All this is
now perfectly understood. When the system
was introduced its first enforcement was par-
ticularly severe, and the students did not fully
comprehend the situation. For that onco
only, after a full reparation for the wrong, the
offenders were restored to their standing, and
there has been no relaxation of the rule since.
It was believed that the past year would be
particularly trying, because the novelty would
be worn off, and the permanent value of
President Seelye's theory would be tested.
Besides this change, there came with it a
total abolition of the old ranking system, and
so the test this year has been particularly se-
vere. It is of high interest, therefore, that
every one of the faculty, and, so far aa is
