550
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
known, every one of the students, is heartily
in favor of the new system. Not a single
disorder has occurred in college dm-ing the
year. Even the freshmen, to burn their
celebration bonfire, did not steal any one's
fence, nor tear down any one's barn, but
bought their materials and had an honest fire
on the camjjus. A spirit of manliness and
self-reliance has become prevalent to a degree
which was utterly unknown when the stu-
dents were under the parental system, and
were inclined to regard the faculty as their
natui'al enemies. About a fortnight ago the
faculty made a thorough investigation into
the scholarship in all departments, in order
to compare the efficiency of the course now
with what it was under the old method of
discipline and working. It was found that
the new way is better than the old by far, and
that the scholarship of the students is better
than formerly. This is not attributed to any
higher average in the general ability of the
young men, but solely to the stimulus which
comes from the college atmosphere.
LITERARY NOTICES.
INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC SEKIES,
NO. XLII.
Ants, Cees, and Wasps. A Record of Ob-
servations on the Habits of the Social
Ilymenoptera. With Illustrations and
Colored Plates. By Sir John Ludbock,
Bart., M. P., F. R. S., etc. D. Applctou
& Co. Pp. 448, Price, $2.
When, some ten years ago, the author of
this work was solicited to contribute a vol-
ume to the " International Scientific Series,"
he cordially consented, on the condition that
he might take his time. Nothing could
be more reasonable, for Sir John is a very
busy man, and occupied by many duties.
But, now that his book has appeared, the
surprise is that he should have done it so
quickly. The most expeditious way of pro-
ducing a book is, of course, with the scis-
sors ; the next is with the pen, where the
work is spun from the fancy ; but the slow-
est method is whore the author strikes into
original inquiry, which involves long-contin-
ued observation and experiment before he
can bring the subject into shape for literary
presentation. It is in this sense that Sir
John Lubbock has made the present work.
IIow it has originated, and what is its ob-
ject, arc thus stated in the preface : " This
volume contains the record of various ex-
periments made with ants, bees, and wasps,
during the past ten years. Other occupa-
tions, and many interruptions, political and
professional, have prevented me from mak-
ing them as full and complete as I had
hoped. My parliamentary duties in par-
ticular have absorbed most of my time just
at the season of year when these insects can
be most profitably studied. I have, there-
fore, whenever it seemed necessary, careful-
ly recorded the month during which the
observations were made, for the instincts
and behavior of ants, bees, and wasps are
by no means the same throughout the year.
My object has been, not so much to describe
the usual habits of these insects, as to test
their mental conditions and powers of sense.'
The work has, therefore, a twofold inter-
est. In the first place, it is a contribu-
tion to comparative psychology; a subject
which requires much more cautious and dis-
criminating study than it has formerly re-
ceived. The insects to which Sir John Lub-
bock has devoted himself exhibit remark-
able mental traits, but it is by no means
so easy a thing to interpret thcra rightly.
Much, of course, was critically and accu-
rately known of their habits and characters
before our author took up the Inquiry, as
his copious bibliography and numerous cita-
tions show ; but there was also so much
loose and exaggerated statement in the pop-
ular natural history of these creatures, and
so much serious deficiency in their scientific
study, that a close and systematic re-exam-
ination of the phenomena was necessary.
Sir John devised various ingenious methods
of dealing with his insects, and by taking
the ample time necessary to educate him-
self in their manipulation, and in getting
familiarly acquainted with their ways, he
has been enabled to qualify many previous
opinions respecting their intelligence, and
very much to extend our accurate knowledge
upon the subject.
But while the problems which Sir John
Lubbock had here to solve were those of
comparative psychology, they have another
interesting aspect. The insects being gre-
garious and eminently social, all their men-
tal manifestations were in social relation, so
that the inquiry ran inevitably into compar-
ative sociology. It is this fact which gives
