LITERARY NOTICES.
551
the highest interest to the research. It is
of no little importance to find out how much
these tiny creatures know which are capable
of elaborating such curious and extensive
social arrangements. Are they really next to
man in the scale of intelligence ? Sir John
Lubbock seems to have arrived at this con-
clusion, but he opens his introductory chap-
ter thus : " The anthropoid apes no doubt
approach nearer to man in bodily structure
than to any other animals ; but when we
consider the habits of ants, their social
organization, their large communities, and
elaborate habitations ; their roadways, their
possession of domestic animals, and even,
in some cases, of slaves, it must be admit-
ted that they have a fair claim to rank next
to man in the scale of intelligence.''
We have no space either to explain Sir
John's interesting method of procedure
in these researches, nor to intimate his re-
sults. But we may say that the author has
thoroughly caught the spirit of his country
neighbor, Mr. Darwin, and that his book is
quite of the Darwinian order, evincing the
most minute, painstaking, and patient ob-
servation, and reasoning no further or faster
than the facts will warrant.
Capital an'd Population : A Studt of the
Economic Effect.s of their Relations
TO Each Other. By Frederick B. Haw-
let. New York : D. Appleton & Co.
Pp. 267.
The author confesses his position, as
exemplified in his treatise, to be a peculiar
one. While considering himself a disciple
of what is called the English and orthodox
school in political economy, he has arrived
at results which are in many instances dia-
metrically opposed to those of that school ;
especially on the subjects of free trade and
taxation. On the other hand, his reasoning
presupposes the falsity of most of the ar-
guments heretofore advanced in support of
the very conclusions he upholds. These
singular results are obtained by his taking
up the reasonings of Mill and Ricardo, and
others of their school, and carrying them
out on their lines beyond the limits where
they stopped, and by taking up and giving
importance to factors that were unconsid-
ered or overlooked by them. Having point-
ed out an important variation in the defini-
tion of capital as given by Ricardo and Mill,
he makes the deduction that over-accumula-
tion, or the increase of capital beyond the
needs of jiopulation, is not only possible, but
of frequent and periodic occurrence in all
civilized nations ; that there is, in fiict, a
tendency to it. He then undertakes to show
that proportional and real wages vary in-
versely instead of together, as has hereto-
fore been assumed, and that it is not a high
rate of proportional wages, but of real wages,
that is a stimulus to population. He fur-
ther reaches conclusions opposed to free
trade and in favor of the protective policy ;
that manufactures are more advantageous as
a national pursuit than agriculture, and com-
merce is more advantageous than either ;
and finds a basis for a positive decision in
favor of bi-metallism.
John Stuart Mill. A Criticism, with Per-
sonal Recollections. By Alexander
Bain, LL. D. Henry Ilolt & Co. Pp.
201. Price, $1.25.
This volume is precisely what was need-
ed to supplement Mill's "Autobiography."
While, on the one hand, that work is inval-
uable as a disclosure of personality, and as
an interpreter of mental experience, such
as none but the author himself could give,
on the other hand it is full of the neces-
sary bias and the limitations of an auto-
representation, and contains defects and
omissions which only another mind could
supply. Dr. Bain was pre-eminently the
man to add this counterpart to Mill's own
sketch of his life. He knew the man inti-
mately, was himself an independent student
of the whole range of questions to which
Mill devoted himself, while the two men
were in such sympathy that Mr. Mill in-
trusted to Professor Bain the revision of
the proof-sheets of the "Logic," his great-
est and most important work. With such
a preparation. Professor Bain could not fail
to give us a most interesting sketch, and
which is at the same time a critical estimate
of Mill's publications. Much light is thrown
on the circumstances of the production of
each work — how the author Avas led to the
subject, how his views were modified or ex-
panded, and how he was influenced by the
leading contemporary minds of his time.
There is an interesting analy.sis of Mill's
relation to Comte, and a still more inter-
