552
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
esting statement of his relations with Mrs.
John Taylor, whom, after twenty years' ac-
quaintance as a married woman, after the
death of her husband, Mill married. There
is a critical examination of his extravagant
claims in regard to the talent of this lady,
and also of Mill's attitude toward the
" woman question " generally.
There are various important points, on
which Dr. Bain disagrees with Mill, which
we should like to have seen further eluci-
dated, and to a consideration of some of
these we may return in future. But the
points of objection are generally well taken.
We are gratified to observe that Dr. Bain
holds exactly the opinion which we have
maintained in regard to Mill's celebrated
" University Address " on education. As
the questions involved are of permanent in-
terest, it may be well to quote what Bain
says about this performance of Mill :
The St. Andrews address was a very length-
ened performaiice ; its delivery lasted three
hours. It aimed at a complete survey of the
higher education. Its absolute value is con-
giderable ; but, in relation to the time, place,
and circumstances, I consider it to have been a
mistake. Mill had taken it into his head that
the Greek and Roman classics had been too
hardly pressed by the votaries of science, and
were in some danger of being excluded from
the higher teaching; andhe occupies nearly
half of the address in vindicating their impor-
tance. The second half is a vigorous enforce-
ment of the claims of science.
The performance was a failure, in my opin
ion, for this simple reason, that he had no con-
ception of the limits of a universit}- curriculum.
The Scotch universities have been distiuguishcd
for the amount of study comprised in their arts
degree. Mill would have them keep up the
classics intact, and even raise their standard;
he would also include a complete course of the
primary sciences— mathematics, physics, chem-
istry, physiology, logic, and psychology — to
which he would add political economy, juris-
prudence, and international law. Now at pres-
ent the obliu'atory sciences are mathematics,
natural philosophy, logic, and moral pliiloso-
phy. If he had consulted me on this occasion,
I should have endeavored to impress upon him
the limits of onr possible curriculum, and should
have asked him to arbitrate between the claims
of literature and science, so as to make tlie very
most of our time and means. He would tlien
have had to balance Latin and Greek against
chemistry, physiology, and jurisprudence ; for
it is quite certain that both these languaircs
would have to be dropped absolutely, to admit
his extended science course. In that ca^e he
would have been more careful in his statements
as to the Greek and Latin languages. lie would
not have put these languages as synonymous
■with "Hterature"; and he would have made
much more allowance for translations and ex-
positions through the modern languages. He
would have found that at the present day we
have other methods of correcting the tendency
to mistake words for things than learning any
two or three additional languages. He would
not have assumed that our pupils are made all
'•to think iu Greek"; nor would he have con-
sidered it impossible to get at the sources of
Greek and Koman history without studying the
languages. If he had a real opponent, he would
not have given the authority of his name to the
assertion that grammar is "elementary logic."
His mode of speaking of the style of the ancient
writers, to my mind at least, is greatly exagger-
ated. "Look at an oration of Demosthenes;
there is nothing in it which calls attention to
itself as style at all ... . The Athenians do not
cry out, What a splendid speaker, but, Let us
march against Philip." He also gives way to the
common remark that the teaching of Latin and
Greek could be so much improved as to make it
an inconsiderable draft upon a pupil's energies.
On this point he had no experience to go npon
but his own, and that did not Bupport his posi-
tion.
In the scientific departments he carries out
strictly the Comte hierarchy of the fundamental
sciences, and, in this respect, the address was
valuable as against the mischievous practice of
culling onta science from the middle of the se-
ries, say chemistry, and prescribing it by itself
to the exclusion of its forerunners in the hier-
archy. While he speaks fairly and well on the
mathematical and physical sciences, his remarks
on the moral and political display, as usual, the
master's hand. He next goes on to talk of free
thought, on which he maintains a somewhat
impracticable ideal for our uv.iversities. From
science he proceeds to art, and enforces a favor-
ite theme — the subservience of poetry to virtue
and morality. One feels that on this topic a
little more discrimination was necessary ; art
being a very wide word. His conclusion was a
double entendre : "I do not attempt to instigate
you by the prospect of direct rewards, either
earthly or heavenly ; the less we think about
being rewarded in either way, the better for
us."
In the reception given to the address, he was
most struck with the vocilerous applause of the
divinity students at the free-thought passage.
He was privately thanked by others among the
hearers for this part.
The Mf.dic.4L Adviser in Life Assurance.
By Edwapd IIe.nrv Sievekixg, M. D.
Philadelphia : P. Blakiston, Son & Co.
Pp. 206. Price, *2.
The author's object is to fi.'rnish the
reader with information which, if it is to be
found at all in the ordinary works of medi-
cine, is so scattered as not to be readily
