LITERARY XOTICES.
555
of amoebae, and the opening directions for
obtaining them will give a good idea of the
clearness, directness, and simplicity with
■which the whole work is written :
Amoebae are frequently to be ronnd in abun-
dance in the superficial ooze wbicti forms a thin
layer upon the bottom of nearly every quiet
body of fresh water. T be ooze may be collected
from a pond, stream, or ditch, by gently and
slowly skimming the bottom with a tin dipper
fastened to a lon^ handle. In gathering the
ooze be careful to barely skim the surface, and
to avoid disturbing the black mud which usually
occurs just below the ooze.
Transfer the material thus gathered to a col-
lecting - bottle, and gather ooze from several
bodies of water, preserving each specimen in a
separate bottle, for amcebte may be abundant in
one locality and almost absent in another. Pour
the ooze into shallow dishes, such as soup-
plates or bakin2-dishe.=i, jjutting enough into
each dish to form a layer about an eighth of an
inch deep over the bottom.
Place the dishes near the window, where
they will be well lighted without exposure to
the direct rays of the sun ; fill them with fresh
water, and allow them to stand undisturbed for
two or three days, in order to allow the amoebte
to creep out of the ooze and accumulate at its
surface.
If a permanent supply of amcebte is desired,
each dish may be converted into a small aqua-
rium by the addition of a few float:ng water-
plants, such as " duck-weed,'' and when covered
with a pane of glass, to exclude dust and pre-
vent excessive evaporation, may be kept in
ETOod order for several months by simply replac-
ing with fresh water the loss by evaporation.
In a day or two a thin brownish-yellow film
■will usually be visible over the whole or parts of
the surface of the ooze; and portions of this
film, almost entirely made up of microscopic
organisms which have crept to the surface, may
now be examined for amoebsc, in the following
manner.
It only remains to add that this work is
published at a very low price. Considering
its cost and elegance, we hardly know of
another so cheap a book. And, considering
that there is no other book at all like it to
serve the purposes of introductory study in
its field, it ought to be in wide demand by
the students of natural history.
Essays on the Floating Matter of the
Aiu, IN Relation to Putrefaction and
Infection. With Illustrations. By
John Tyndall, F. R. S., M. D. D. Ap-
pleton & Co. Pp. 338. Price, $1.50.
Some of the researches contained in this
book have appeared in the pages of " The
Popular Science Monthly," and nothing,
therefore, need bo said to our readers tha*
is merely commendatory of their interest.
The volume is the result of extended re-
searches into one of the obscurest of sub-
jects — the nature, conditions, and influence
of the invisible microscopic life of the at-
mosphere. Any inquiry into the dust and
floating contents of the air, if thoroughly
pursued, leads to the more subtile question
of infinitesimal forms of life and their
germs as floating elements of the breathing
medium. Profound problems are here en-
countered : Are these germs spontaneously
originated, or are they subject to the laws
of propagation which govern all other grades
of life ? Again, are these germs the seeds
of disease which affect the higher forms of
life, and thus become of the highest mo-
ment to the physician and the hygienist ?
The import of the subject has been dis-
closed only within the last few years, and
depends upon the perfection of the micro-
scope, and the most refined researches into
the nature and effects of fermentation and
putrefaction. Many able men in different
countries have been working, with intense
assiduity, over different branches of this
momentous inquiry ; but it was on many
accounts fortunate that Professor Tj-ndall,
about a dozen years ago, saw its importance,
and brought all his resources to bear upon its
s_vstematic investigation. That he has thrown
much more light upon the subject by his skill-
ful and extensive experiments, and that he
has made very important contributions to the
establishment of the germ theory of disease,
will not be questioned. But in still another
respect it is fortunate that he identified him-
self with its elucidation. By his rare power
of exposition, and his wonderful clearness of
statement, he has done more, perhaps, than
all other writers to impress the medical pro-
fession and the public both with the vital
importance of the subject and the advance
that has been made in the establishment of
its fundamental principles. His present
book embodies the main results of hisorigi-
nal work, and, what is more, it presents
them in so lucid and inviting a form that
all classes of readers will be equally pleased
and instructed by his views.
There is, perhaps, in the whole field of
science no illustration more striking than
is here afforded of the fruitful practical
