556
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
application of investigations undertaken
for the simple purpose of the extension of
knowledge, with no perception of its ulti-
mate utilities. While one division of labor-
ers, spurred by the urgent necessities of
observers, spent their energies in bringing
the microscope up to its highest power, an-
other division was equally absorbed in find-
ing out what could be known of the newly
revealed world of microscopic life. The
stimulus of the love of discovery was suffi-
cient to insure the successful progress of
both. But now we begin to see the benefi-
cent ripening of their results as they could
not see it. As a legitimate issue of those
labors, we have arrived at views of the nat-
ure and propagation of diseases that will
make an epoch in the advance of medical
and hygienic science. We print, in the
present Monthly, the Introductory Note to
Professor Tyndall's volume, which is very
instructive in regard to the present position
and future influence of the " Germ Theory
of Disease."
A Dictionary of Music axd Musicians
(a. d. 1450-1S81). Dy Eminent Writ-
ers, English and Foreign. Edited by
George Grove, D. C. L. Tart XIV.
London and New York: Macmillan &
Co. Tp. 128. Price, §1.
The present number includes the titles
from Eichtcr to Sehorbcrlechner. The plan
and execution of the work arc commend-
able. The information is given in well-writ-
ten and easily readable articles, the length
of which is adapted to the character and
importance of the subject. Biographies of
eminent composers, performers, instrument-
makers, and other musical persons, predom-
inate in the present number, ranging from
few-line notices of little distinguished in-
strumentalists to the sixteen-page article that
is given to a distinguished composer like
Rossini. Besides these, the number before
us has paragraphs, within a few pages, on
such subjects as " Eidotto," the opera of
Rienzi, " Rigadoon," with a musical passage
to show what it is, the opera of Rinaldo,
" Rinforzando," " Ripieno," " Ritardando "
and its synonyms, " Ritomcllo " with oth-
er musical illustrations, etc. We mention
these heads to give only an inadequate idea
of the abundance and variety of the mate-
rial with which the work deals.
Our Homes. By IIenrt Hartshorne, A. M.,
M. D. Philadelphia : P. Blakiston, Son
& Co. Pp. 150. Price, 50 cents,
A VOLUME in the series of " American
Health Primers," edited by Dr. W. W. Keen.
It is a practical, pleasant-reading treatise
on house-building, house management, and
house sanitation, considering the subject
under the heads of situation, construction,
light, warmth, ventilation, water-supply,
drainage, disinfection, population (the rela-
tions of density of population to health),
and working-men's homes.
The Wine Question in the Light of the
Nett Dispensation. By John Ellis,
M. D. New York : Published by the
author. Pp. 228.
The controversy respecting the use of
fermented or unfermented wine in the com-
munion service is considered here in the
light of the teaching of the Swedenborgian
Church, with citations from authorities and
opinions outside of that church, all going to
sustain the presumption that unfermented
wine is the kind to be used.
The Rhymester ; or, the Rules of Rhyme.
A Guide to English Versification. By
the late Tom Hood. Edited, with Addi-
tions, by Arthur Penn. New York : D.
Appleton & Co. Pp. 208. Price, §1.
The author believes that verse-making
— not trying to write poetry — is of use as an
exercise for fixing accurate pronunciation ;
and that, if done at all, it should be well
done. He accordingly gives here the rules
for doing it well. Many changes have been
made by the American editor, of which the
more material ones are marked, and chap-
ters have been added on the sonnet, the ron-
deau, and the ballade, and on the other fixed
forms of verse.
The Books of All Time. A Guide for the
Purchase of Books. Compiled by F.
Leyfoldt and Lynds E. Jones. New
York : F. Leypoldt. Pp. 80.
A list of approved books is given, with
the prices of the best or most popular edi-
tions ; and to each title are attached bits
of criticism which throw some light on the
characteristics of the author. The list, as a
whole, is a good one and deserves approval,
but would have been better for a little closer
pruning away of mediocre books.
