LITERARY NOTICES.
557
A Reading Diary of Modern Fiction.
Containing a Representative List of the
Novels of the Nineteenth Centurv, pre-
ceded by Suggestive Remarks on Novels
and Novel-reading. New York : F. Ley-
poldt. Pp. 150.
The main object of this work is stated
to be " to present a survey of all that is
considered worth reading in the domain of
modern fiction, and thus to make easy a
daily record of what has been read and
what to read next, with a view to compar-
ing notes and a mutual exchange of recom-
mendations among congenial friends." For
this purpose a column in each page is given
of " Books worth Reading," and is followed
by blank columns for estimating merit, and
recording other books that may be suggest-
ed. Our remark is, that the catalogue is too
full. We should not like any one for whose
mental cultivation we cared to become ac-
quainted with so many novels. If the list
were only one tenth as large, it would be
many times more valuable.
The Practice of Commercial Organic
Analysis. By Alfred II. Allen, F. I. C,
F. C. S., Lecturer on Chemistry and
Public Analyst. Volume II, Hydro-car-
bons, Fixed Oils and Fats, Sugars, Starch,
Alkaloids, and Organic Bases, etc. Phil-
adelphia : Presley Blakiston. 1882. 8vo.
Pp. 561. Price, ^5.
To those chemists who are already the
fortunate possessors of the first volume of
Mr. Allen's work, it will be good news to
know that the second volume has at last
been issued, for its appearance has been
awaited with some impatience. In the for-
mer volume we had a full description of the
alcohols, with the acids and ethers derived
from them ; also the phenols, carbolic, sali-
cylic, and benzoic acids, as well as all the
cyanogen bodies. The present volume, which
is much larger than the former, contains
the new methods of analysis of many arti-
cles of present interest. The analytical
chemist will probably turn first to the chap-
ter on glucose and grape-sugar, for on these
subjects reliable and practicable information
is meager. Here, for the first time, we be-
lieve, methods for estimating maltose are
given, and attention is called to the error
which it causes when Fehling's solution is
employed for the estimation of dextrose in
commercial glucose. The method of de-
termining dextrose, maltose, and dextrine in
the same solution from the rotatory and re-
ducing power, in connection with the spe-
cific gravity of the solution, is clearly and
concisely given.
Next in interest to glucose is the analy-
sis of butter, and, although the chemist has
not yet attained perfection in this, we find
here the best methods known at present for
detecting oleomargarine. The last chapter,
a lengthy one, is devoted to aniline deriva-
tives, the assay of aniline dyes, the identifi-
cation of coal-tar colors, and the recognition
of dyes on tissues.
We bespeak for the book the most fa-
vorable attention, because it is the only com-
plete work on this subject in the English
language, because it is new and up to the
times, and because its author is well known
as a practical analyst. The work is indis-
pensable to the laboratory.
Currency ; on, The Fundamental Princi-
ples OF Monetary Science postulated,
explained, and applied. By Hugh
BowLBY WiLLSON. Ncw York : G. P.
Putnam's Sons. Pp. 309. Price, $1.50.
The author contemplated, when he be-
gan, many years ago, his investigations on
the subject of this work, writing a synopsis
of the theories and practices of ancient and
modern nations in respect to their curren-
cies, but soon discovered that he would not
have time to perform the task. The pres-
ent work, the scope of which is more limit-
ed, has grown out of a series of postulates
which he published in ISTa-'VG, in a London
journal, for the purpose of directing atten-
tion to the desirability of embodying the
ascertained and generally accepted princi-
ples of monetary science in a few " simple
if not self-evident" propositions. Professor
Bonamy Price, of Oxford, wrote him a note
of thanks for his letter, saying, " It is ex-
ceedingly good, and I rejoice over it much,
especially the postulates and principles."
Much space is devoted to attacking the
" prejudices and ignorance " which uphold
the present systems of issuing and supply-
ing paper money, they containing much that
is regarded as at variance with scientific
principles. The plan of delegating the issue
of paper money to banking corporations
other than the government is assailed ; and
