55^
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the result of the author's deductions " has
been the evolvement of a purely automatic
method of supplying both coined and paper
money," with supply and demand as the
only motive power to be used in keeping the
automatoa in motion. In opposition to the
" mercantile theory," which seeks to accu-
mulate the largest stores of the precious
metals in a country, a plan is contended for
which leaves those metals " free to the dis-
tribution of the natural forces of industry
and trade."
History of the Watee-Scpply of the
World. Arranged in a Comprehensive
Form from Eminent Authorities. By
Thomas J. Bell, Assistant Superintend-
ent of the Cincinnati Water-Works.
Cincinnati : Peter G. Thomson. Pp.
134. Price (paper), 50 cents.
The original intention of this work was
to arrange a compilation of general and lo-
cal information on the subject of water-
supply in all of its bearings, with special
reference to Cincinnati, and to the project
for a new supply for that city. As the
work progressed, its scope became broader,
and the plan assumed a more comprehen-
sive form. The work contains a descrip-
tion of the various methods of water-supply,
and discusses the pollution and purification
of water, sanitary effects, and analyses of
potable waters ; and, further, considers
other topics having special reference to
Cincinnati, the Ohio Biver, and the proposed
water-supply of the city.
A CojrrEXDiocs Dictioxart of the French
Language. Adapted from the Diction-
aries of Professor Alfred Edwall. By
GcsTATE Massox. Ncw York : Macmil-
lan & Co. Pp. 41G. Price, $1.
A MOST excellent dictionary for daily use.
The compiler has endeavored especially to
realize the quAlities of accuracy and com-
pleteness, and to keep equally distant from
exaggerated concision and overabundance
of detail. The letter-press is clear, yet com-
pact. The matter is arranged in four col-
umns to the page, the words are printed in
bold-face type to catch the eye readily, and
the definitions are satisfactorily full. Par-
ticular attention has been paid to etymolo-
gies in the French-English part. A supple-
ment, giving the principal diverging dcriva-
I tives or doublets in the language (showing
I how words have varied from the Latin roots
and from the congeners in other Romance
languages) is of much use and interest to
students. The Chronological Tables of the
History of French Literature from the ear-
liest period to the present day, of chronicles
and memoirs, and the other literary informa-
tion with which the work is introduced, will
be welcome to many who would otherwise
find it difficult to obtain, from the numer-
ous sources from which it would have to be
drawn, the information which they convey.
HoTT THE Great Prevailing Winds and
Ocean-Currents are produced, and
how they affect the temperature
and Dimensity OF Lands and Seas. By
C. A. M. Taber. Boston : A. Williams
& Co. Pp. 82. Price, 40 cents.
The author states as a reason for this
publication that, after many years of experi-
ence on the oceans, he has found that the
generally accepted theories of the causes of
the great winds and currents were not in
harmony with the world-wide operations of
nature, but were rather adapted to certain
areas of oceans and continents than applica-
ble to larger portions of the globe, " where
the great movements of the atmosphere and
ocean are not concordant with the general-
ly accepted explanations." He reviews the
theories of Hadley, Maury, Adhemar, Croll,
Geikie, and other authors who have written
upon the subject, shows wherein he regards
them as deficient, and elaborates his own
theory, in w hich a depression of sea-level on
the western, and elevation on the eastern
sides of the ocean, by the force of the west
winds, and an independent circulation of
waters around the poles, form important
parts.
Primary Helps : Being No. 1 of a New
Series of Kindergarten Manuals. By
AV. N. Hailmann, a. il., editor of " The
Kindergarten Messenger and the Ncw
Education." Syracuse, New Yoik : C.
W. Bardeen. Pp. 29, with Fifteen
Plates. Price, Vo cents.
Professor Hailmann is an enthusiastic
Kindergartner, a practical teacher, and a
member of the Board of Education of De-
troit, Michigan. It has been his aim for
years to bring those encaged in the Kinder-
I garten work into harmony, and especially to
