THE STEREOSCOPE : ITS HISTORY. 37
But hoTV different from the others, both in character and history,
is the sense of touch ! Having with them a common origin, like them
it is resident in the outer skin, but it is active alike all over the body ;
the touch of the finger-tips may be more delicate than that of the
palms, but it is only a quantitative difference. The sense of touch is
the fundamental sense. All the other senses have to render their data
into its terms before they can be understood by the mind. Animals
can live without sight, hearing, taste, or smell, but the presence of the
sense of touch seems a necessary condition of animal existence. The
other senses are means of self-preservation ; the sense of touch is the
manifestation of an animal's existence.
The senses, then, all oi-iginate from the outer covering ; this cov-
ering has from the beginning a special sensation from the resistance
to external pressure ; this property it retains throughout the animal
kingdom. The other sense-organs appear as specialized parts of this
universal sense-organ ; morphologically they are only parts of the skin,
rendered more sensitive than the normal skin.
All the evidence seems to point one way, to the conclusion that the
other senses are all modifications of the sense of touch. That such is
probably the fact seems to be generally admitted. What I have tried
to show is our ground for that conclusion, and that what was with
Democritus a random speculation is with us fast assuming the nature
of a scientific truth.
THE STEKEOSCOPE: ITS HISTORY.*
By w. le conte ste\':ens.
THAT a near object of small dimensions presents an aspect slightly
different to each one of a pair of eyes directed upon it, has been
known for more than two thousand years ; but no application of this
knowledge was ever made until some time after the beginning of the
present century. The analysis of binocular vision is one of the prod-
ucts of modern investigation, and the stereoscope is its direct outcome.
That vision with two eyes is greatly preferable to what the ancients
accorded to Polyphemus is fully appreciated by every one who pos-
sesses a pair of healthy visual organs and a stereoscope, but who at
any time has been so unfortunate as to suffer a temporary injury that
reduces him for a few days to the condition of the classic monocular
giant. Familiar as he may be with the truth that the perspective
effect of a fine painting is better appreciated when one eye is closed,
* Expanded from an address before the Photographic Section of the American Insti-
tute, delivered March 7, 1882.
