LITERARY NOTICES.
559
establish a connection between the Kinder-
garten and the public schools. The present
book is the first fruits of his efforts in this
direction, and aims to make the principles
of Froebel applicable to primary schools.
Report on the Geology of the Hexrt
MociTTAixs. By G. K. Gilbert. Wash-
ington : Government Printing - Office.
Pp. no, with full-page Engravings and
Photographs.
The author expresses a considerable de-
gree of satisfaction at the manner in which
his work in the survey of these mountains
has been accomplished. He had his own
way in conducting it, and pursued it under
circumstances of exceptional advantage,
with the result that, he says, " so thorough
was the display [of the formations], and
so satisfactory the examination, that, in
preparing my report, I have felt less
than ever before the desire to revisit the
field and prove my conclusions by more ex-
tended observation." The Henry Mount-
ains are not a range, and have no trend, but
are simply a group of five individual mount-
ains, separated by low passes, and without
discernible system of arrangement, situated
in Southern Utah, on the right bank of the
Colorado River of the West, and between
its tributaries, the Fremont and the Esca-
Icnte. The highest peaks rise about 5,000
feet above the plateau at their base, and
11,000 feet above the level of the ocean.
At the time of their discovery by Professor
Powell they were in the center of the largest
unexplored district in the United States ; and
they are in a desert country that has hardly
any economic value.
A BinLiOGR\rnY of Fossil Insects. By
S.^MfEL II. SCCDDER. Pp. 48.
This work forms one of the series of the
" Catalogue of the Library of Harvard Uni-
versity," and is one of the first formal at-
tempts to collect separately the titles of
papers on fossil insects. It shows the re-
sults of great labor, for it gives not only the
titles of books and papers on the subject,
but also a very large number of references
to works and essay.s in which fossil insects
are only referred to, or form one among
other topics of equal prominence, which
are touched upon in the course of a chapter,
essay, or book, and in all the principal lan-
guages of science. Except when otherwise
stated, all the papers quoted have been ex-
amined by the author personally.
Tables for the Determination, Descrip-
tion, AND Classification of Minicrals.
By James C. Foye, Ph. D., Professor in
Lawrence University. Chicago : Jansen,
McClurg & Co. Pp. 85. Price, $1.
The object of this work is to furnish
tables by means of which students may,
with as few easy tests as possible, learn to
determine and classify minerals found in
the United States, and become familiar with
their principal characteristics. Two tables
serve for the determination of species ; a
third gives the crystalline structure and
other distinctive characteristics of each
species ; a fourth classifies the species ac-
cording to " Dana's Mineralogy " ; and a
fifth classifies by basic elements and ores.
The appendix gives the distinctions between
some of the closely allied species and varie-
ties. A great deal of information is com-
pressed into a small space.
PUBLICATIONS RECERTiD.
The Little Monntains Ea=t of the Catskills.
By W. M. Davis. Pp. 33. Witli Plate.
Scientific Proceedings of the Oliio ^foelianics''
Institute. Vol. I. No. 2. Cincinuati, May, 1882.
Pp. 50.
Clinical Contributions to Electrical Thera-
peutics. By Komaiue J. Curtiss, 31. D. Joliet,
Illinois. Pp. 52.
Quarterly Report of the Bnrenu of Stnti=tics
for Three Mouths enaeil March 31, 1882. Wash-
ington: Government Priniiiig-Uffice. Pp. 06.
Note on the .\urora of April 16-lT, 1882. By
n. CaiTill Lewis. Pp. 9. Illustrated.
Proceedings of the National Association for
the Protection of the Insane and the Prevention
of Insanity. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons.
1882. Pp. 55.
Missouri Historical Society. Publication No.
fi. .\rcha;oIogy of Missouri. By F. 11. Ililder.
St. Louis, Missouri. Pp. 17.
A New Theory of the Suapenpion System,
with Stlfleuing Truss. By A. Jay DuBois, Ph.D.
Pp. 43.
Indian Langnaees of the Pacific States and
Territories, and of the Pueblos of New Mexico.
By Albert 9. Gatschet. New York: A. S. Barnes
& Co. 18S2. Pp. 10.
Preventing Disease. By J. R. Black, M. D.
NrwarU, Ohio. Pp. 17.
Charles Robert Darwin. Bv Joseph F.. Tames.
Read before the Cincinnati Society of Natural
History, May 2, 1882. Pp. 7.
.\ Bill regulating Rites of Postasre. Boston :
Alfred Mudge & Son, Printers. 18S2. Pp. 9.
The Student's Guide in (iuantiiative Analy-
sis. Bv H. Carrincrton Bolton, Ph. D. lllnstrat-
cl. New York: John Wiley & Sons. 1882. Pp.
127. $1.50.
