POPTTLAR MISCELLANY.
561
three of his so-called half-prisms, of such
size as to take a beam two and one quarter
inches in diameter, and is nearly six feet
long. The whole cost of the telescope and
spectroscope was $26,000, which was pro-
vided by the generosity of Robert Bonner,
R. L. Stuart, and other friends of science
and the college. The observatory itself, of
which the corner-stone was laid sixteen
years ago, has been newly fitted up for its
occupant. A gas-engine furnishes the power
for moving the dome and working the shut-
ters, and it also drives an Edison dynamo
electric machine which provides a powerful
current to be used for lighting purposes, or
to supply the spectra of gases and metals to
be compared with the spectra of the stars.
American Archjeological Researches. —
The third annual report of the Archaeological
Institute of America reviews the work that
has been pursued by the agents of the in-
stitute in archaeological explorations in New
Mexico and Mexico, and in the excavations
at the ancient Greek city of Assos, and In-
cludes the first report of the committee on
the American school of classical studies at
Athens. Mr. Bandelier, who had been ex-
ploring in New Mexico in the service of the
institute, spent some time in Mexico, first
at Cholula, where he studied the history of
the city and the manners and customs, the
habits and superstitions, and the domestic
architecture of the present native Indian
inhabitants. He inquired into the origin
and character of the ancient Mexican deity
Quetzal-Chohuatl, and the significance of
the myth attached to his name, and made a
study of the great pyramid of Cholula. The
latter, he declares, is not entitled to be called
a pyramid, but is only a huge mound, some
two hundred feet high, which originally
covered an area of about sixty acres, and
now presents the appearance of three dis-
tinct terraces, surrounding and supporting
a conical hill, very wide, and much over-
grown with shrubbery. It is constructed
of materials precisely similar to those which
make up the plain on which it stands, and
appears not to have been all erected at one
time, but to be the accumulation of suc-
cessive periods of labor. Mr. Bandelier
believes that the structure was designed
to hold immense communal buildings, like
VOL. XXI. — 36
those at Pecos, in New Mexico, but in size
approaching the great edifices at Palenque
and Uxmal, and all built around a vast
court, in the center of which stood an enor-
mous " worship-mound,"' and that it was
built by the Toltecs, or Mayas. Mr. Bande-
lier also visited Mitla, where he secured ac-
curate plans and measurements of the most
important buildings, thirty-nine in number.
The so-called palaces are not greatly differ-
ent from the pueblos of New Mexico, and
are described as built and ornamented with-
out any knowledge of mechanical contriv-
ances, dark and imperfectly ventilated, and
only a " barbaric effort of a barbarous peo-
ple." His conclusion, drawn from the shape
and size of the single apartments, is that
they were not intended for every-day abodes,
but only as shelters at night and in bad
weather, and retreats for the women and
children during a hostile attack — communal
structures, differing from the similar con-
structions of other Indian tribes " only in
so far as the exigencies of a different cli-
mate or of varying resources demanded." M.
Louis H. Ayme, United States consul at
Merida, has entered into a contract to ex-
plore, as agent of the institute, such places
in Yucatan as have not recently been ex-
amined by Dr. Le Plongeon or M. Charnay.
The ruins of Yucatan have suffered great
destruction during the forty years since
they were visited by Stephens.
The American Association. — The thirty-
first annual meeting of the American Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science will
be held at Montreal, beginning August 23d,
under the presidency of Principal J- W.
Dawson, LL. D., F. R. S., of McGill Univer-
sity. The headquarters of the association
■ will be at McGill University, where mem-
bers will register as soon as possible after
their arrival. The hotel headquarters will
be at the Windsor Hotel. The offices of the
local committee and of the permanent sec-
retary will be at the university. The gen-
eral sessions and the meetings of the sec-
tions and committees will all be held in the
university buildings. The permanent sec-
retary. Professor F. W. Putnam, may be
addressed at Salem, Massachusetts, till Au-
gust 17th, after which his address will be at
the Windsor Hotel, Montreal, Canada.,
