562
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The British Association. — The fifty-sec-
ond meeting of the British Association will
be held at Southampton, beginning August
23d, when the chair will be resigned by Sir
John Lubbock and assumed by Dr. C. W.
Siemens, F. R. S., president-elect, with the
usual address appropriate to the occasion.
The addresses at the evening general meet-
ings will be, " On the Tides," by Sir Will-
iam Thomson, F. R. S., August 25th, and
on " Pelagic Life," by Professor H. N.
Moseley, August 28th. The presidents of
the sections will be : A, Mathematical and
Physical Science, Lord Rayleigh ; B, Chemi-
cal Science, Professor D. Liveing ; C, Geol-
ogy, R. Etheridge, F. R. S. ; D, Biolocjy,
Professor A. Gamgee, with Professors Gam-
gee, M. A. Lawson, and W. Boyd Dawkins
as presidents in the Departments of Anat-
omy and Physiology, Zoology and Botany,
and Anthropology ; E, Geography, Sir R.
Temple, Bart. ; F, Economical Science and
Statistics, the Right Hon. G. Sclater-Booth ;
and G, Mechanical Science, John Fowler,
F. G. S. Excursions to places of interest
in the neighborhood of Southampton will
be made on the afternoon of Saturday, Au-
gust 26th, and on Thursday, August Slst.
Forests and Climate.— Dr. J. M. Anders,
in the " American Naturalist," has carefully
examined the influence of forests upon cli-
mate and rain-fall. The principal influence
exerted by woods upon climate is as wind-
breaks, in which capacity the service they
render is familiar enough. The experiment
has been tried extensively in France of
planting trees in belts one hundred metres
apart, with marked benefit to the climate.
Forests may slightly promote the condensa-
tion of moisture by inducing an upward
movement of the air, as mountains are
known to do on an extensive scale ; but
their action in this respect, on account of
their low height, is not important enough
to be made account of. Woods play a more
important part in furnishing the air with
moisture by transpiration of water through
their leaves. It is computed from experi-
mental tests that they give off in this way
twelve times as much water as is evaporated
directly from the soil on which they stand,
twice as much as goes up from a free soil,
and more than is emitted from an equal
body of water. They are able to do this,
and keep it up, because they are at all times
supplied with an abundant store of moist-
ure for transpiration. This is given them
partly by the power which their roots have
to attract moisture from every direction ;
partly by the retention of the rain-fall in
their net-work ; " and partly by the property
possessed by vegetable mold of absorbing
moisture and holding it. This power of
evaporation is shared by the humbler vege-
tation, and it operates nearly constantly,
even during long droughts. Climate is also
materially affected by this quality, for moist
air during winter tends to moderate extreme
cold and during summer produces a refresh-
ing coolness. Now, since it is established
that forests moisten the air over, in, and to
some extent around themselves, "may we
not be pardoned for concluding that warm
currents sweeping over a country and strik-
ing the cool moist air in and above the for-
ests, and mingling with it, would have a
portion, at least, of the contained moisture
condensed into gentle showers, extending
their beneficent influence to neighboring
fields ? Again, let some stray current come
along, of a lower temperature than the air
of the forest, and the moist air of the for-
est would readily be condensed, since it is a
well-known fact that a moist air discharges
its vapor more readily in the form of rain
than a drier atmosphere. We have now
seen how trees can cause local rains ; it will
also be observed that the rain is formed
chiefly above the forest, though it may be
through the influence of winds that it falls
to the earth for some distance around. By
increasing the frequency of light rains, for-
ests tend to obviate drought, which is of
ultimate importance to the farmer's crops
and vegetation in general. It will be seen
that all our deductions have been drawn
largely from the known facts from observa-
tions." Forests also produce abundant dews,
an office not to be despised, for heavy dews
are often very refreshing to vegetation.
Atmospheric Prcssnrc and the Sea-Lev-
el. — One of the most interesting phenom-
ena of the recent winter in Europe was a
remarkable depression of the level of the
Mediterranean Sea under the influence of
the high barometric pressures of December
