586 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
materially reduced if the resistance of these latter can be increased ;
while any improvements affecting the number of lamps per horse-
power diminishes both the interest account by reducing the jalant and
the actual cost of production.
How far coal-gas can go in a reduction of the cost of production it
is difficult to say, but I think the lower limit may safely be taken at
the point at which the sale of residuals pays for the coal. Both of
these items — cost of coal and prices of residuals — are practically be-
yond the control of a gas company. The coal is already purchased in
the open market at the lowest figures at which it can be obtained, and
the market for residuals depends chiefly upon the develoj)ment of
chemical industries, which can hardly be hastened by the action of a
gas company. This market is a steadily growing one, and it is not
impossible that the residuals will in time pay for the coal, though it is
hardly probable. The items of labor and distribution can not probably
undergo any considerable reduction. The limit, then, below which it
does not appear that there is any probability of coal-gas falling in this
country is 4G cents per 1,000, which is a figure that may be reached
by electricity without assuming anything less probable than the above
supposition respecting gas. It is only necessary to get ten lamps j^er
horse-power, and produce the latter with three pounds of coal an hour,
to bring the cost down to 47 cents, exclusive of the lamps.
As a present competitor, however, what is known as water-gas —
gas produced by the decomposition of steam in the presence of coal or
oil — appears to be the more formidable. This mode of gas-manufact-
ure has the advantage of coal-gas in a lessened cost of the producing
plant, a smaller labor account, and a decreased depreciation of the
generating apparatus. Its successful competition with coal-gas ulti-
mately depends upon what the latter can make of its residuals, as there
is no offset of this kind in its case, but with present conditions it can
go below it. The j^roducing portion of the plant costs but little more
than half that for coal-gas, while the labor is about a third, and depre-
ciation but slightly more than this. A sixteen-candle gas will require
three gallons of oil per 1,000 feet, and can be made with oil at 5 cents
a gallon and coal at $4.50 a ton, at an expenditure of 28 cents per
1,000 feet for materials. The total cost will not exceed GO cents.
Such, then, appears to be the relation of these two agents on the
basis of illumination solely, but it must not bo forgotten that the
amount of light which each plant can furnish does not represent the
actual relative capacity of the two. The electric i-)lant can be run
not only four hours a day for light, but any further number of hours
for power, without any increase of the machines. The gas-plant, on
the other hand, would have to be increased, to furnish both power and
light. That this advantage of electricity is liable to be a very impor-
tant one will hardly be questioned, when the extent of the field open
to electro-motors is borne in mind.
