LONGEVITY. 587
On these figures the cost of electricity is near enough to that of gas
to enable it to offer a very substantial competition, and one which may
be expected to grow stronger with increased experience and future
improvements. That under the stimulus of this competition con-
siderable improvement will be made in lighting by gas seems very
probable. Already it has been shown that in the matter of burners
there is a Avide field for invention, and that the results now usually
obtained are much under what are possible. With the high-power
burners of Siemens, the illumination obtained from sixteen-candle
gas has been more than doubled, and in others it has been carried up
to from five to five and a half caudles per foot. How suitable burn-
ers yielding such a great increase of light will be for the general pui*-
poses of lighting, and whether they can with advantage displace the
simple flat tip, remains to be seen, but the present indications are that
it is chiefly through the use of improved burners that gas must en-
deavor to resist the assaults of the incandescent light. Competition
on the basis of a gas of higher illuminating power simply, without a
resort to improved burners, does not seem very promising. The re-
cently published report of the sub-commission appointed to test the
incandescent lamps at the Paris Exhibition, of which Mr. Crookes was
a member, shows that a thirty-two-candle lamp can be maintained with
an increase of from 28 to 37 per cent of the power required to sustain
one of sixteen candles, while with gas such an increase of illumination
will require an additional expense of fully .50 per cent of the cost of
one of the lower candle-power. This is so with the Lowe gas, with
which three gallons of oil are sufficient to give sixteen candles, but
six are required for thirty-two, and it is not probable that coal-gas can
be enriched any cheaper. Whether tlie limit to progress in gas-light-
ing — both in the matter of improvement of manufacture and burners
— is sufficiently far off to give gas unquestioned j)ossession of the field
of lighting or not, the result can alone determine. But, if the figures
presented in this paper can be at all relied upon, they show that gas-
manufacturers and those interested in gas property will do well not to
underrate the strength in their own domain of this rising industrial
power.
lo:n'gevity.
By FELIX L. OSWALD, M. D.
DURING his last expedition to Central Asia, Professor Vambery
managed to interview the Emir of Samarcand — a sort of Mo-
hammedan prince-cardinal and primate of the Eastern Sunnites. As
Imam of the local lyceura the Elmir appeared to take a natural interest
in the progress of European science, but, when his guest expatiated on
