588 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the material prosperity of the "Western Giaours, he interrupted him
with a less expected question.
" The happiest people on earth, you call them ? What age do
they generally attain to ? " Vambery seems to have returned an eva-
sive reply, though he admits that the query was not altogether irrele-
vant, at least from the stand-point of an Oriental who values existence
for its own sake. But, even in the less unpretending West, longevity
is not a bad criterion of happiness. Misfortune kills ; Nature takes
care to shorten a life of misery — for I'easons of her own, too, for, in a
somewhat recondite (but here essential) sense, the survival of the hap-
piest is also the survival of the fittest. The progress of knowledge
tends to circumscribe the realm of accident, and with it the belief in
the existence of unmerited evils. In si^ite of prenatal influences and
unprecalculable mishaps, the management of the individual is the
most important factor in the sum total of weal or woe. If we could
see ourselves as Omniscience sees us, we would probably recognize our
worst troubles as the work of our own hands, and we thus recognize
them now with sufficient clearness to be half ashamed of them. Most
men nowadays dislike to confess their bad luck. We have ceased to
ascribe diseases to the malice of capricious demons, and even in Spain
the commander of a beaten army would hesitate to plead astrological
excuses. Polycrates held that a plucky man can bias the stars, and
the popular M'orship of success may be founded on an instinctive per-
ception of a similar truth. Sultan Achmed went too far in his habit
of strangling his defeated pashas, but the world in general agrees
with him that there must be something wrong about a generally un-
successful man. After two or three decided defeats the partisans of a
popular leader will give him up for lost, and after a sei'ies of disasters
the damaged man himself generally begins to share their opinion and
loses heart, or, as the ancients expressed it, admits the decree of fate —
i. e., his own inability to prevail in the struggle for existence ; and it
is curious how swiftly a physical collapse often follows upon such a
giving way of the moral supports. The storms of every political,
social, and financial crisis extinguish hundreds of life flames ; lost
hope is a fatal (though a silent and sometimes an unconfesscd and un-
suspected) disease. Good luck, on the other hand, tends to prolong
life ; the longevity of pensioners and sinecurists is almost proverbial,
and there are men who continue to live in defiance of all biological
probabilities, merely because existence somehow or other has become
desirable, as a liberal supply of external oxygen will nourish a lamp
in default of the inner oil. At the beginning of the Franco-Prussian
War, King William and his chancellor and staff-officers were already
gray-headed veterans, and it is no accident that they are all alive yet ;
while nearly all the ministers and marshals of the exploded empire
have followed their leader — " weary of life and tired of buttoning and
unbuttoning," as a captain of H. M. S. explained his suicide.
