38 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
he is never willing to keep it thus inactive any longer than necessary ;
and, if such a hint is gently suggested, he is prompt to answer it by
some prosaic contrast between the artist's clever illusion and the neces-
sities of life in a wide-awake world. Lord Bacon says : " We see more
exquisitely with one eye than with both, because the vital spirits thus
unite themselves the more, and become the stronger ; for we may find
by looking in a glass whilst we shut one eye that the piipil of the other
dilates." But even the cogent logic of Lord Bacon would scarcely
reconcile many of us to the adoption of strictly Cyclopean customs in
the enjoyment of vision.
In response to the question, " What is the use of having two eyes ? "
the answer has been given, " To have one left if the other is hurt."
Much as we may admire the sagacious foresight of this youthful physi-
ologist, it will not be found sufficient to rest contented with his ulti-
matum. He had evidently not tried his skill to find how unexpectedly
he would miss the inkstand while endeavoring to dip his pen into it
at arm's length, with one eye closed. He had not thought of holding
his finger a few inches in front of his face to find what part of the
wall it would hide from each eye in succession, or how differently it
would look when regarded from those two points of view separately,
how much thicker it would appear when both eyes were open, how read-
ily he could examine three sides of it at once, how much more defi-
nitely he could judge its distance, in a word how much more compre-
hensive was the information given by two eyes if used at the same
moment. Assuming that he knows exactly how to account for the
inversion of the retinal image and the erect appearance of the object
there pictured, how our visual perceptions are only signs of what we
momentarily feel on the retina, signs that generally represent the real-
ities with a fair degree of accuracy, but may sometimes represent
almost anything else on demand, how, if the eyes be healthy, we have
no consciousness of possessing any retina at all, but instantly and un-
consciously refer every retinal sensation to some external body whose
existence we are obliged to assume, unless there be special arguments
to convince us to the contrary — granting all this, our young physiolo-
gist has not thought of inquiring how it is that, although two retinal
images are produced, we see but a single object, and this despite the
fact that, like photographs of the same body simultaneously taken
from different stand-points, these two images are necessarily dissimilar.
This question, and especially its latter part, is much more easily
asked than answered with fullness, clearness, and certainty. There is
no antecedent reason why two separate retinal images should not pro-
duce the impression of two separate bodies. That they may do so
must have come within the experience of every one. A few glasses of
champagne are often enough to convince the most skeptical. Without
resorting, however, to agencies that produce involuntary though tem-
porary loss of muscular control of the eyes, it is only necessary to
