590 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
duration of life is ten years less than among the equally intemperate
but less misgoverned natives of Northern Germany, and almost twenty
years less than in the equally despotic but less poison-cursed territo-
ries of the Shah.
Historically, too, the lowest ebb of human happiness coincides -with
that of human longevity. The ancient Greeks outlived us by about
thirty years, but even our northern Russians would outlive the nations
of the Christian middle ages, when common sense was a capital crime,
the suppression of all natural instincts the chief aim of education, and
the invention of new instruments of torture the only flourishing branch
of industry. The Western pessimists dislike to confess the main object
of their religion ; but their first exemplar, Buddha Nepaulensis, did not
hesitate to define it as the mortification of all earthly desires — in other
words, the shortening of life by all possible means, excepting the resort
to the summary and, therefore, more desirable methods of direct suicide.
The depreciation of Nature, which formed the constant theme of the
orthodox preachers, may have had something to do with the unparal-
leled destructiveness of mediteval epidemics ; if life was a curse and
death the highest gain, the converts of such dogmas must have yielded
to Siva with Hindoo-like apathy, while, on the other hand, it is a
well-established fact that the mere determination to live has often
turned the scales in the crisis of an apparently hopeless disease. Dur-
ing the Grecian Revolution of 1821, Edward Trelawney survived a load
of buckshot because he " felt that he had no right to die," and mothers
with a houseful of sick children have frequently resisted the virus of
a contagious fever. Mahmed Kasim, the first Arabian conqueror of
Hindostan, was infected with the pest by the messenger of a rajah
who had adopted that method of freeing his country from the invad-
ers, and, in spite of all remedies, a number of Mahmed's companions
died before the end of the week. But Mahmed himself " conquered
the disease as he had conquered the rajahs " — ^recovered by sheer will-
force, and continued the campaign on the seventh day after the arrival
of the plague-bearer.
In the century of Trajan, the Thcssalian mountaineers were the
macrobiotes, the long-livers, par excellence, of the Roman Empire ;
the natives of Asia Minor, with her over-populated islands and luxu-
rious cities, the most short-lived. Time has since -oTOUght strange
changes in the land of the Ephesians ; the Avealthy cities have disap-
peared, and, with the single exception of her North-Persian neighbors,
the Levanters are now the longest-lived race on earth. Next come
the Turks, Greeks, Arabs, Hindoos, and southern Russians ; next to
these, and long before any West Europeans, the present inhabitants
of the United States, for the advantages of a golden age like ours
more than counteract such things as pork-fritters and strawberry-short-
cakes. Among the separate States, North Carolina and Vermont hold
the highest rank ; Louisiana and New Jersey the lowest, topographi-
