LONGEVITY. 593
of the cockpit, by the pickle-diet, the unnatural motion, and the foul-
weather misery ; and, from a sanitary stand-point, the sea-air itself is
hardly preferable to mountain and woodland air. The eozoon may
have been a marine product, but our Pliocene ancestor was probably a
forest creature.
" For what length of time would you undertake to warrant the
health of a seaman ? " Varnhagen asked a Dutch marine doctor. " That
depends on the length of his furlough," replied the frank Hollander,
and it will require centuries of reform to redeem our cities from the
odium of a similar reproach. In victuals and vitality towns consume
the hoarded stores of the country, and only the garden-suburbs of a
few North American cities are hygieuically self-supporting. Per-
manent in-door work is slow suicide, and between the various shop-
trades and sedentary occupations the difference in this respect is only
one of degree. Factories stand at the bottom of the scale, and the
dust and vapor generating ones below zero ; the weaver's chances to
reach the average age of his species have to be expressed by a nega-
tive quantity. In France, where the tabulation of comparative statis-
tics is carried further than anywhere else, the healthfulness of the
princii^al town trades has been ascertained to decrease in the following-
order : House-building, huckstering, hot-bed gardening (florists), car-
penter and brick-mason trades, street-paving, street-cleaning, sewer-
cleaning, blacksmiths, artisan-smiths (silver, copper, and tin concerns),
shoemaking, paper-making, glass-blowing, tailor, butcher, house-
painter, baker, cook, stone-masons and lapidaries, operatives of paint
and lead factories, weavers, steel-grinders — the wide difference be-
tween brick and stone masons being due to the lung-infesting dust of
lapidary work, which, though an out-door occupation, is nearly as un-
healthy as steel-grinding. Lead-paint makers have to alternate their
work with jobs in the tin-shop, and, after all, can rarely stand it for
more than fifteen years ; needle-grinders generally succumb after
twelve or fourteen years. The human lungs seem able to eliminate
the impurities breathed by street and sewer cleaners, for, in London
as well as in Paris and Marseilles, the followers of both trades rank
high among the long-lived classes. Hucksters somehow manage to
outlive city gardeners as well as shopkeepers ; among the Hecubas of
the Paris market-hall, not less than two hundred and eighteen had
passed their threescore and tenth year.
Preaching, and, strange to say, pettifogging, are the healthiest of
all the learned professions ; their lung-exercise may have something
to do with it, for lecturing-teachers outlive the " silent " teachers
(dancing-masters, etc.). Physicians die early ; Nature revenges her-
self upon her leagued adversaries, for druggists and barbers (in many
parts of Europe synonymous with village quacks) are likewise short-
lived ; but sextons reach a good old age : there must be a mistake
about the supposed danger of grave-yard effluvia.
VOL. XXI. — 38
