594 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Art still increases the value of huraan life, but not its length ; the
greatest modern masters of tune and color died in their prime, like the
greatest poets ; inspiration, in all its forms, would seem to be a flame
that consumes the human clay more quickly than the fire of afiliction
— if the extreme longevity of so many of the ancient masters did not
suggest a different explanation, namely, that the revelations of Nature
and the tendencies of established dogmas have ceased to harmonize,
and that the lovers of truth have nowadays to cross a Pontus where
they must prevail against a whole sea of adverse currents, or Leander-
like perish.
In the course of the last sixty or seventy years the average dura-
tion of human life has undoubtedly increased in all civilized countries,
but it is not less certain that the gain of a few decades does not yet
begin to offset the loss of centuries ; we have saved ourselves from
the abyss of mediiBval unnaturalism, but we are still far from having
recovered the ancient heights of vitality; the after-effects of the Bud-
dha-poison still cramp our limbs and sadly retard our upward progress ;
but the tide has turned, and the main currents of the age have ceased
to set deathward.
According to the demonstrations of the naturalist Camper, the
normal average of our life-term should be at least ninety years. His
arguments are both biological and historical, and would agree with
the scriptural records, if, as Schleiermacher suggests, the Genesis-years
were seasons, of about ninety days. The " years " of the patriarchs
were certainly not months, for men who saw theii* children and chil-
dren's children must have lived longer than thirty years The biolog-
ical argument that in a state of nature the life of a mammal relates
to the period of its growth as 6-8 to 1, would give us an average of
90-160 ; the southern Arab is full-grown with sixteen years, the north-
ern Caucasian hardly before twenty. Hundreds of ancient statesmen
and philosophers outlived their threescore and ten by a full decade,
though we need not doubt that then, as now, metaphysics and politics
were not specially conducive to longevity, nor that even by that time
vices had shortened the natural average by several decades.
But there is another a priori argument which, from all but an
ultra-pessimistic stand-point, seems almost self-sufficient in its conclu-
siveness. The whereabouts of new planets have been discovered by
an inductive process based upon the observation of otherwise unac-
countable disturbances in the orbits of other stars, and Campers theory
alone would account for an otherwise inexplicable contradiction in the
economy of human life. Man's life is too short for the attainment of
its highest purposes. Our season ends before its seed has time to yield
a harvest ; before a brave day's work is half done we are overtaken
by the night, when no man can work. As the world is constituted, it
takes a certain number of years for a new industry to take root and
yield its first fruits ; it requires a certain period for a new opinion to
