598 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
cheval-de-frlse of sharj) spikes toward any animal that may present
itself as an enemy. Another peculiarity is the power possessed by
these creatures of rolling themselves into a round ball, by placing the
head on the breast, drawing up the legs, and curling the body firmly
round the members. By this posture the hedgehogs render themselves
invulnerable to almost any animal that may attack them. . . . When
in this curious attitude, the hedgehog can not be unrolled by main
force, as long as any life remains in the body, for there is an enor-
mously developed muscle, with a very thick margin, which spi'eads over
the back and round the sides, and which, when contracted, holds the
creature in so firm an embrace that it will be torn in pieces rather than
yield its point."
The spines of this animal are about an inch long, and naturally lie
flat on the back, directed toward the tail. But by a peculiar arrange-
ment they are erected when the owner coils himself. In shape the
spine " is not unlike a large pin, being sharply pointed at one ex-
tremity, and furnished at the other with a round, bead-like head, and
rather abruptly bent near the head. If the skin be removed from the
hedgehog, the quills are seen to be pinned, as it were, through the
skin, being retained by their round heads, which are acted ujjon by
the peculiar muscle which has already been mentioned.
" Protected by this defense, the hedgehog is enabled to throw
itself from considerable heights, to curl itself into a ball as it descends,
and to reach the ground without suffering any harm from its fall. A
hedgehog has been seen repeatedly to throw itself from a wall some
twelve or fourteen feet in height, and to fall upon the hard ground
without appearing to be even inconvenienced by its tumble. On reach-
ing the ground, it would unroll itself and trot off with perfect uncon-
cern."
The quills upon the " fretful porcupine " are several inches in
length. The absurd belief that this animal could throw its quills at
an enemy, after the fashion of a lance, arose from the following facts :
" Their hold on the skin is very slight, so that, when they have been
struck into a foe, they remain fixed in the wound, and, unless imme-
diately removed, work sad woe to the sufferer. For the quill is so
constructed that it gradually bores its way into the flesh, burrowing
deeper at every movement, and sometimes even causing the death of
the wounded creature. In Africa and India leopards and tigers have
frequently been killed in whose flesh were pieces of porcupine-quills,
that had penetrated deeply into the body, and had even caused sup-
puration to take place. In one instance a tiger was found to have his
paws, ears, and head filled with the spines of a porcupine which he had
vainly been endeavoring to kill. ... If irritated or wounded, the
porcupine becomes at once a very unpleasant antagonist, as it spreads
out its bristles widely, and rapidly backs upon its opponent."
Many small creatures are undoubtedly protected by offensive fluids
