AJSrniAL SELF-DEFENSE. 603
mimic poisonous species. And this mimicry is found even among
birds.
Active defense implies such organs and methods of defense as are
under control of the animal's will, or matters of conscious action. We
shall here find much greater variety.
The homes of animals — nests, houses, burrows, etc. — are j^rotection
from the storm and for the young as well as from foes. This is a
most interesting and extended field, and requires separate treatment.
But many small creatures build individual shells or cases wholly for
defense against enemies. These are frequently carried about with the
creature, as armor, wherever it goes. A familiar example, found in
any brooklet, is seen in the case of the young caddis-fly. To hide and
protect itself from the ever-hungry fishes, the larva of this insect in-
closes its body in a tube formed by gluing together bits of wood,
shells, sand, and all sorts of matter that
may be found at the bottom of a stream.
This case has a silken lining, and out of
the end the larva protrudes its head and
legs for locomotion, or wholly withdraws
out of sight and danger. Other water larvaa
reside within a bit of hollow straw or plant- Fig. s.-caddis-Wokm, with its
Case.
stem. A similar habit characterizes a group
of sea-worms, to which belongs the Serpida. Thin tubes may be formed
of a limy secretion, or built by cementing sand, shells, etc. One of
the tentacles of the Serpula is terminated by an expansion which, when
the worm withdraws into its case, serves as a stopper (operculum) to
securely close the opening (see Monthly, February, 1882, page 452,
Fig. 4). The silk 2'>y'P(i-cases of the moths are very wonderful, even
if very common, examples of artificial covering.
The singular hermit-crabs are obliged, on account of their lack of
a hard epidermis, to inhabit some empty mollusk-shell. And they arc
exactly fitted for that sort of life : the tail-fin is changed into hooks
for holding the shell ; some of the legs are strong levers for dragging
its heavy house ; and one of its claws is disproportionately large, in
order to close the opening of the shell.
Keen setises combined with sioiftness of locomotion are the chief
reliance of birds and mammals. The rabbit is a fair example. Inno-
cent and timid, entirely without weapons, it is always on the alert.
With its large eyes, ears sensitive to the slightest sound, and a delicate
sense of smell, it is as difficult to surprise as it is to " catch a wea-
sel asleep." Every deer-stalker knows he must approach his game on
the side opposite the wind. Most mammals, especially the herbivor-
ous, scent danger, and flee away. Many of them use their natural
weapons only when brought to bay, and in despair. This is true, in-
deed, of many carnivorous beasts when they are not bold with hunger.
Birds rely, for warning of foes, more exclusively upon their eyes.
