6o^ THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Excepting from man, the birds and beasts of prey have little to
fear. Their offensive weapons are terribly effective. And, besides
teeth and claws, the lion and tiger can strike such bloios with their
paws as will kill a buffalo at a stroke. The cud-chewing mammals
have horns which may, with even the most timid, be efficient as a des-
perate resort. These are of various kinds as regards form, structure,
growth, and duration. The principal kinds are represented by those
of the deer, giraffe, antelope, and ox. The efficiency of these natural
weapons is greater than would be imagined from a knowledge simply of
our domestic animals. The water-buffalo of India (to quote from Wood)
" is a most fierce and dangerous animal, savage to a marvelous degree,
and not hesitating to charge any animal that may arouse its ready ire.
An angry buffalo has been known to attack a tolerably sized elephant,
and, by a vigorous charge in the ribs, to prostrate its huge foe. Even
the tiger is found to quail before the buffalo, and displays the greatest
uneasiness in its presence." Of the gaur. Wood says, " These herds
... in their own domains bear supreme rule, neither tiger, rhinoceros,
nor elephant daring to attack them." Some antelopes are on occasion
quite a match for the lion.
The horn of the rhinoceros is very different from those of the ru-
minants. Its peculiar situation on the nose makes it a very ugly and
efficient weapon. It is placed on the middle of an arch of bone, the
latter being free at one end so as to give elasticity. Many animals,
particularly the horse tribe, make excellent use of the feet. Of the use
of the hind-feet, the mule is a striking but somewhat threadbare illus-
tration. The elk and related animals strike with the fore-feet, and
are able to cope with a dog or wolf.
The ostrich and the secretary-bird also kicl:; and the latter, as is
also true of many birds, gives heavy blows with its wing.
The kangaroo uses his hind-feet less to kick than to cut and dis-
emhoicel his antagonist. The bear employs much the same tactics. He
hugs and crushes his antagonist with his fore-legs, and strikes and tears
with either foot.
The elephant uses his great weight to literally crush his foe. But
his weapon is his elongated nose.
Another example of the nose used as a weapon is found in the
sword-fish. Here the bones of the skull are produced to form a thick
beak, or sword, which points forward directly in a line with the body.
With this lance, five or six feet long, the fish is able to pierce even
through a ship's bottom. The British Museum is said to contain a
sword imbedded in the planking of a ship. Accounts have been given
of the sword-fish attacking and even killing the whale.
The saw-fish, a sort of shark, has a similar beak, not sharp pointed,
however, but blunt and armed with teeth on either edge. It can be
used as a lance, and has been deeply driven into a ship's timbers. It
is used mainly for striking, and, if the animal attacked is moving, the
