AN'IMAL SELF-DEFENSE.
605
effect is a saw-cut. It then acts as a veritable saio. But it seems ab-
surd for an animal to carry teeth on the outside of his nose.
With another shark the tail is a -weapon, as it is with the whale
also. The tail of the thrasher is extremely large, and can deal severe
blows. The thrashers have been known to attack the whale when the
latter is at the surface. It is conjectured that the thrashers and the
6 word-fish form a conspiracy against the whale, and, while the latter
prevent the whale from diving, the former leap out of the water and
bring their huge tails down on the naked back of the whale with a tre-
mendous slap that can be heard a long way. Probably the whale is
more frightened than hurt.
Some rays or skates have the tail long and whip-like. It is covered
with sharp spines, and forms an effective instrument for either strik-
ing or grasping. These spines produce severe inflammation, and are
greatly dreaded by fishermen. The larger ones are much used by sav-
ages for edging weapons. It is sujjposed that the whip-ray seizes an
enemy, or its prey, with its tail, and kills it by the cutting spines on
its tail,, and by pressing it against the barbed spine situated on its back.
These S2nnes are commonly used as spear or arrow heads by the sav-
ages of the South Sea.
Some small creatures have forceps or jaws as weapons. Those of
the lobster are modified feet, while those of the beetle are mouth-parts.
The most elaborate organs of defense are found in the lower forms
of life. And at near the lowest point in the animal scale we find an
apparatus exceedingly complex and efiicient. This is the "nettling-
threads," "lasso-cells," or oiida', which give the hydra, jelly-fish, and
Fig. 9.— Lasso-Cell, containing Barbed Filajient. (After Qosse.)
polyps their power of stinging. They are also possessed by the cri-
noids, some naked sea-snails, and some sea-worms. Like many other
weapons, they are used to subdue prey as well as to repel enemies.
These creatures are soft and delicate, and would seem to be tlie easiest
food for other animals. The cnidm are probably their only defense,
but they seem quite sufficient. A chapter would be required to give a
full description of these wonderful weapons. The instrument consists
of a hollow filament, coiled in a sac, the whole of microscopic size.
The sacs are commonly on the surface of the tentacles and other free
surfaces of the body. In some species they are collected in thread-
