6o6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
like magazines which are shot out of the body-walls. Upon irritation
this hollow thread is thrown out of the sac to a great length, by ever-
sion. It is turned inside out, and then exposes a barbed surface. They
penetrate the soft tissues of the animal attacked, and convey a poison
fatal to small animals. Any bather who has ever been stung by a
jelly-fish can give a satisfactory account of the effect of these weap-
ons. There is no doubt that a man would be completely and quickly
paralyzed if entangled, in a nude state, among the tentacles of the
larger jelly-fishes.
The stings of insects are more familiar, but still very wonderful.
In the sting of the honey-bee " we see an apparatus beautifully con-
trived to enter the flesh of an enemy ; two spears finely pointed, sharp-
edged, and saw-toothed, adapted for piercing, cutting, and tearing ;
the reversed direction of the teeth gives the weapon a hold on the
flesh, and prevents it from being readily drawn out. Here is an elab-
orate store of power for the jactation of the javelins, in the numerous
/ /
Fig. 10.— Barbed Case of Everted Kettling-Thread. (After Gosse.')
muscular bands ; here is a provision made for the precision of the im-
pulse ; and, finally, here is a polished sheath for the recej^tion of the
weapons and their preservation when not in actual use. All this is
perfect ; but something still was wanting to render the weapons effect-
ive, and that something your experience has proved to be supplied."
This is the poison, which has also a complex apparatus for its secretion
and ejection. This sting is a modified ovipositor, and possessed only
by the females, or neuters, which are undeveloped females. The male
insect is always a mild and inoffensive creature.
Scorpion-stings are similar to those of insects in position and use,
but are unlike in origin and development.
The x>oison-fangs of venomous snakes are modified teeth. They
are so attached that when not in use they lie in a fold in the upper
jaw. The poisonous snakes have broad heads, on account of the mus-
cles which control the fangs and the large glands which secrete the
venom. The latter is a sort of saliva, probably charged with ferment-
ing organisms, which are harmless in the food-canal, but which in the
blood multiply with amazing rapidity. The poison is conveyed to the
wound by a groove in the side of the fang.
The fangs of spiders represent the antennte of insects. They are
tubular, for conveying venom, and jointed. The point or terminal
joint when not in use shuts into the basal joint, like the blade of a
