A^''nfAL SELF-DEFENSE.
Soy
pocket-knife into its handle. The fangs of tlie scorpion are modified
feet.
Certain fishes have the power of storing a large quantity of elec-
tricUij, which is used at will to paralyze and kill prey or enemies.
The electric eel can kill small fishes at a distance, it is said, of fifteen
feet ; and they sometimes kill the horses which are driven into the
pools for the purpose of exhausting and capturing the eels. The elec-
tricity is stored in a peculiar tissue of large cells or tubes which act
like a battery of so many Leyden-jars. Apparently nervous force is
here converted into electricity. After giving several shocks, the creat-
ure is exhausted for a time.
Besides those creatures which are passively offensive by their odors,
there are others which can at will e^jyel
fluids to offend and deter enemies. The
skunk need only be named, and the j^oint
will be fairly grasped by the reader.
Some reptiles have the jjower to expel
an offensive fluid from glands in the
skin. The toad and salamander are ex-
amples. This fluid is acrid and biting,
and intensely irritating to delicate skin,
as the mucous membrane of the mouth
or eye. The abundance of this viscid
yellow fluid in the salamander probably
led to the ancient notion that this little
ampliibian could withstand and extin-
guish fire. The water-beetle {Di/fiscKs)
also expels a nauseating fluid.
It is very curious to find how some
weak and lowly creatures succeed in
frightening away their powerful foes.
They assume a virtue which they do not J"'"- "— The Tokpedo. with its elec-
•' •' _ TRICAL Al'PAUATCS DI^PLAYED. b,
possess. " The attltitdes of some insects
may also protect them, as the habit of
turning up the tail, by the harmless rove-
beetles, no doubt leads other animals,
besides children, to the belief that they can sting. The curious atti-
tude assumed by sphinx caterpillars is probably a safeguard, as well as
the blood-red tentacles which can suddenly be thrown out from the
neck by the caterpillars of all the true swallow-tailed butterflies."
Many creatures produce sounds for the same purpose. The cat
spits. Snakes hiss. The porcupine rattles his quills. "Even the pre-
liminary rustle of the quills with which a porcupine generally prepares
every attack is sufficient to make an ordinary horse flee in terror."
Perhaps the sounds produced by certain naked sea-snails are in some
decree for defense.
branchiiv; c. brain ; e, electric organ ;
(J. cranium ; me. spinal cord ; w, nerves
to the ))ectoral fins ; nl, nerri Interalex ;
np. brandies of the pneumoL'astric
nerves going to the electric organ ;
0, eye.
