6o8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Various lizards abash their enemies by expansion, protrusion, or
erection of appendages. The iguana has a bag beneath the neck which
it puffs up. The frilled lizard of Australia has a sort of Elizabethan
collar about its neck which it can suddenly expand, to astonish and put
to flight the approaching enemy. And the basilisk of South America
has fin-like appendages upon its back and tail which it can erect if
annoyed. The chameleon inflates his body with air, that he may ap-
pear to be a much bigger creature than he really is. From this sprang
the belief that the chameleon lived on aii*.
'The 2)hos2)horescence oi animals is a subject not yet fully explained.
But without doubt it is partly defensive.
One of the most queer and ludicrous methods of protection is geen
in the bombardier beetles. In description of this, listen to Pouchet :
" They alarm their enemies by means of real artillery. These coleop-
tera when threatened suddenly expel from their intestines a whitish
acid vapor, the explosion of which as it issues produces a certain sound,
a slight detonation, which carries disorder among the aggressors. This
explosion may even be repeated a certain number of times. Hence,
when one of these insects is pursued by an enemy, it fires off its artil-
lery anew. The instinct of defense is so inherent in the tribe of bom-
bardiers that, at the sound of a cannon-shot from one of them, all the
others fire at the same time ;, there is a running fire along the whole
line. The sound produced by these coleoptera is intense enough to
startle those who do not know the rwse."
Truthfulness is not an inherent virtue of animal character. Many
are the tricks, deceits, and devices by which they selfishly seek advan-
tage. A common artifice is that of feigning death in order to escape
the reality. " Playing 'possum " is a dodge not confined to those higher
animals to which we in our condescension grant the possession of a
degree of intelligence. The larva of the dytiscus, knowing the prefer-
ence of fishes for living actiA^e prey, when seized immediately becomes
flaccid and limp. The fish, supposing he has seized only a carcass,
drops it in disgust, and the dytiscus makes the most of his opportu-
nity. When the insect becomes a hard-skinned beetle, it, of course,
loses this power, and then employs a disgusting fluid, as before men-
tioned.
Every collector of insects becomes familiar with species which have
the habit of quietly dropping from the plants on which they feed to
the ground, upon the least alarm.
Hunters are familiar with many wiles by which pursued animals
endeavor to elude their pursuers and throw than off the scent. The
fox has the habit of doubling on his track, of walking fences, and go-
ing into water. Wood thus describes the habit of a South African
antelope, the duyker-bok : " If the sportsman should happen to over-
take this buck, it will lie still, watching him attentively, and will not
move until it is aware that it is observed. It will then jump up and-
