6io THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
adventure. There are other lizards which have a similar power, though
in less degree. The American glass-snake, so called, is one.
Semper describes certain snails of the Philippine Islands which do
the same thing : " Every species {Helicarion) that I jiersonally exam-
ined i^ossessed the singular property ... of shedding their tails
when they are seized somewhat roughly, at a little way behind the
shell. This they do by whisking the tail up and down with extraordi-
nary rapidity, almost convulsively, till it drops off ; if the creature is
held by the tail it immediately falls to the ground, where it easily hides
among the leaves. . . . These snails at first constantly escaped me and
my collectors in this way, and not unfrequently we had nothing but
the tail left in our hand."
BEAZILIA:j>r DIAMONDS AXD THEIR ORIGm.
Br M. n. GOECEIX.
THE discovery of the diamond-beds of the Cape of Good Hojje,
with the extraordinary abundance of their yield, seems to have
caused it to be forgotten that the empire of Brazil only a few years
ago had the monopoly of that precious stone, as it still has of the finest
crystals. Hopes have been entertained that the examination of the
green serpentine, in which the Cape diamonds are scattered, would per-
mit a determination of its origin and its primitive bed. No doubt,
however, now exists that the magnificent crystals incased in that rock
were already in existence when in its upward course from the dej^ths
of the earth it brought them along with it and left them where they
are now found. Unless, then, new discoveries are made at the Cape,
of beds of a different nature, it will be necessary to look to Brazil for
the solution of the question of the primitive bed, the origin and the
mode of formation of the diamond — a triple problem which appears,
down to the present time, to exist as a challenge to all who are occu-
pied with geology and mineralogy.
The diamond has been and still is mined at numerous points in
Brazil, which ai'e situated chiefly in the provinces of Bahia, Goyaz,
Matto Grosso, Parana, and Minas Geraes. Except in the last province
and in that of Bahia, they give occasion only to the labors of isolated
diamond-workers, the garimperos of Brazil, who wash the sands of
the streams in large wooden bowls. The principal diggings in Minas
Geraes are gi-ouped around the city of Diamantina, which is situated
almost on the meridian of Rio Janeiro, about five hundred miles from
the coast. A few other districts also furnish small quantities of dia-
monds. We shall consider especially the diamond-beds of Diamanti-
na ; and we need not then speak of the others, for they are all so
