6i4 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
cupy — for most of them have been worked — the beds of all the water-
courses, but they were also placed in beds on the table-lands and in the
gorges of the mountains, at levels which the waters never reach in our
day, even in times of freshet. They have a peculiar aj^pearance, that
never deceives the eye of the experienced miner. At first sight, they
resemble the gravels of our rivers. They are formed of rounded peb-
bles of various colors, and are composed of numerous species of min-
erals, of which I, still only at the beginning of my studies of the sub-
ject, have already recognized more than thirty. Of these, quartz, the
oxides of titanium, titanic iron, tourmalines, phosphates, fibrolite, octa-
hedric oligist iron, and magnetite, which are well known to the miners
and distinguished by them under various fanciful names, are the true
satellites of the diamond, its veritable train, and are with rare excep-
tions sure to be found with it at Diamantina, They have so intimate
a connection with it, in fact, that we are justified in believing that the
same formations include the primitive beds both of these minerals and
of the diamond. The form of the specimens leaves no doubt as to the
causes to which they owe it. They have been brought down by the
waters and worn round by friction. They can not, however, have been
turned into spherical balls by a simple transport of a few hundred
yards. The diamond itself, the hardest of all bodies, has not escaped
this action ; and fragments of it are found from which every trace of
crystallization has disappeared, and which are as round as marbles.
Not the sands of the large streams alone, but also those of the smallest
brooks, even those near their sources, present the same characteristics.
The stones must, then, owe their shapes to the polishings which they
have suffered by being held in the windings of the rocks and rolled
around them by the eddies of the waters. "While they have been thus
polished off, they have produced an analogous phenomenon on the bot-
toms of the rivers, where they have caused the wearing out of those
circular holes — the "giants' pots," the caldeiroes of the diamond-hunt-
ers, with which the beds of the streams of Diamantiua are pock-marked.
The sands in these holes are naturally richer than the other sands ; for
the lighter elements are carried away by the water, and more fragile
substances than the diamond are ground to powder in them. For a
hundred and fifty years the miners have considered it a piece of great
good fortune to discover one of these caldeiroes ; but new ones are now
very seldom found. A few hundred yards above the bridge- of the
Diamantina road over the Jequitinhonha, the course of the water is
barred by enormous blocks of diorltc, between which the current has
excavated subterranean passages. The river having been partly turned
from its course, one may now go into one of these grottoes, which is
occupied by a cascalho of extraordinary richness. The sides of the rock
are as polished as the best-worked marble ; the light of the torches is
reflected as from a glass ; and the visitor perceives at every instant cy-
lindrical holes as regularly formed as if some skillful potter had shaped
