BRAZILIAN DIAMONDS AND THEIR ORIGIN. 615
them on his wheel. The discovery of some of these caldeiroes after
expensive labors, some thirty years ago, afforded sufficient return to
enrich the families of the two partners who worked them. An eye-
witness to the fact relates that in one of the holes imder the diorite
arch, when the superficial layer of sterile sand was removed, a clear
mass of the precious stones was revealed, and the discoverers were
able on the spot to fill their pockets with diamonds. In the Ribeirao
do Inferno, a single caldeiroe of a few cubic metres' capacity fur-
nished nearly 8,000 carats of diamonds. Such fortunes, however, are
extremely rare, and can not be counted on in the regular mining.
It is easy to comprehend how powerful must have been the action
of the erosion above described, the duration of which is measured by
many millions of years, but is quite outside of our chronology. The
greater part of the ravine through which the Jequitinhonha flows, as
well as the whole groundwork of the hydrographic system of the
region, is doubtless due to phenomena of uj^heaval, the directions
of which oscillate around a north-and-south axis. The tributaries of
that river have cut out channels for themselves which are now deep,
close caSons, with sharply cut, precipitous walls.
The almost horizontal disposition of the sandstone strata, and of
the conglomerates, which form the banks of the rivers, and the terraces
which indicate the successive levels occupied by the river-bottoms,
leave no doubt of the correctness of this assertion. At first, conse-
quently, the bottoms of the streams were almost at the level of the
surface ; the rivers overflowed their banks after light rains, and their
diamond-bearing sands were spread over the table-lands and in the
mountain-gorges. As the beds of the rivers were worn down deeper
in the rock, overflows became more rare, and the sands were carried to
only small distances from the banks. Finally, after a certain period,
inundations became impossible, and the sand was deposited in the
caldeiroes, the caves, and subterranean channels which the river wore
out in the rocks over which it flowed. This epoch may be referred to
the period which preceded our own, and which is characterized in
Europe by the stone implements of human origin and use, specimens
of which have been found in the diamond-bearing land.
Then, either by a rising of the coast, or, as is less probable, by a
subsidence of the central plateau of Minas Geraes, the fall of the
streams diminished, and, instead of continuing to excavate their beds,
they began to fill them with the diamondless, shifting deposits, the
formation of which is continued into our day. The sands of the
table-lands and the banks of the rivers are much less rich than those
of the streams ; and in any case the diamonds have to be separated,
by methodical washings, from the foreign substances with which they
are mixed. Very rarely a simple sifting with the fingers suffices to
extract the jewel. In 1824 a region was discovered in the lower part
of the table-land of Diamantina where the diamonds were scattered
