BRAZILIAN- DIAMONDS AND THEIR ORIGIN. 617
ing diamonds, except that with which they make them disappear if the
vigilance of the superintendent is relaxed for an instant. I can not
describe all the artifices employed, but I should remark that, since the
works have become free, fraud has greatly diminished. Under the old
rule it overtook half the diamonds in the gravels.
Difficulties of another kind are presented when the precious grav-
els are situated in the beds of the rivers. Since the channels have
been deeply cut in the rock, and are bordered by steep cliffs, it is im-
possible to construct lateral sluices for turning the water away from
them, except at an expense which even the magnificent return that is
anticipated will not justify. A quicker and more simple process has
been devised. The river is dammed, and a flume is made of planks to
carry the water from the dam to some three or four hundred yards
below. The intervening space between the dam and the end of the
flume, in which the precious gravels of the caldeiroes are suj^posed
to be situated, is thus left free from running water, while the water
which stands upon it and that which reaches it by infiltration are
removed by pumps worked by water-wheels. The work must be done
quickly when this system is employed, for there is no time to lose.
The river is generally docile enough during the diy season, from May
to October ; but, if only a slight storm comes on, it is transformed at
once into a torrent that nothing can resist, and which carries off dams,
wheels, and viaduct. This is what happens, as a rule, fifty times out
of a hundred. I know of diamond-seekers who have recommenced for
three or four years in succession the same works, to have them every
time destroyed under their eyes by sudden freshets. Then a fortunate
season has amply recompensed them for all that they had lost. Others
have just had time to work for a few days in the rich beds, a few cubic
yards of which have yielded them hundreds of carats of diamonds ;
but how many have exhausted all their resources without reaching
this promised land ! Xevertheless, no machines, or barrows, or inclined
planes are employed, notwithstanding the enonnous force furnished
by the fall of water in the race is at the disposal of the operator ;
only picks, shovels, levers to raise the rocks, and, for means of trans-
portation, laborers, who carry on their heads large wooden troughs,
which others fill with sand and stones. Nothing can be more pictur-
esque than these great trenches, where crowds of negroes are moving
about like ants in an ant-hill, running in gangs to receive their loads,
and carrying them away in groups, while they intone songs, which are
almost always in the language of the African coast. The excavation
becomes deeper and more sinuous ; groups of men, like clusters of
bees, hang, by the aid of the most primitive of ladders, to the rock-
walls, and the work goes on with a feverish ardor. From time to time,
the overseers probe the sand witli long iron rods. Great is the rejoic-
ing when the existence of the diamond-bearing cascalho beneath the
sterile sands is revealed by a peculiar sound which all the miners know.
