6i8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
As great, also, is tlie disappointment -when, as often happens, the probe
strikes the rock without meeting the diamonds — they having been al-
ready taken away by the miners of the previous century, all traces of
whose former presence have been destroyed by the river. This is an-
other risk that the diamond-seekers have to run.
These gravel-beds are not the only treasure-bearers in the diamond-
yielding region. The mineral elements of which they are composed
have been washed by the waters fx-om more ancient rocks. Now, what
are these rocks ? Do they still exist, or have they been wholly de-
stroyed ? To answer these questions, I have carefully endeavored to
determine the group of minerals which I have called the satellites of
the diamond, persuaded that, wherever their primitive bed should be
found, there would also be met that of the diamond. Xow, all around
the city of Diamantina, and for more than twenty miles west of it, the
dominant rocks are quartzites with green mica, and beds of schists of
the same nature and the same age as those of the auriferous forma-
tions. They are traversed by numerous veins of quartz containing
oxides of iron, titanium, and tourmalines, the satellites of the diamond
in the river-gravels. The origin of the latter is evidently due to the
destruction of these rocks by the action of the waters ; and we may,
therefore, conclude that they ought to contain the primitive bed of the
diamond.
The study of the geographical distribution of the diamond-bearing
streams leads us to the same conclusion. All the streams, the sands of
which have been found to be richest in diamonds, depart from this
zone.
These deductions are confirmed also by the two facts of the dis-
covery of the diamond in place in the sandstones with green mica,
two hundred miles from Diamantina, and the discovery of clay-beds,
formed from the decomposition of the schists intercalated in the quartz-
ites, twenty miles west of the same city, where rise two rivers, the Kio
Pardo and the Caethe Mirim, celebrated in the annals of the miners
for their richness. The idea that the Brazilian diamonds were found
only in alluvial deposits was so firmly rooted that at first no one at-
tached importance to these discoveries. I was myself incredulous
respecting them till I was able to verify with my own eyes the exist-
ence of the diamond in the rocks in place. I distinguished three for-
mations : one white, with considerable quantities of crystals of quartz ;
a second gray, composed almost entirely of oxide of iron ; the third,
the strongest, of mottled clay, with considerable quantities of the
same crystals, of rutile and oligist iron, which I have already pointed
out as occurring in the river-gravels. All the formations arc strongly
inclined toward the east, and are intercalated with micaceous quartz-
ites, the turns of which they follow ; and were, therefore, formed at
the same time with them in remote geological epochs, which, in con-
sequence of the total absence of fossil remains, can not be precisely
