BRAZILIAN DIAMOXDS AXD THEIR RIG IX. 619
identified. A comparison of tliem with other strata of the Sao Fran-
cisco Valley, which are characterized by the f»resence of palaeozoic
corals, permits me to aifirm that they certainly ascend as far back as
the Silurian period. Other travelers, previously to myself, have men-
tioned this formation, and my friend the geologist Dorville-Derby,
who supports my view, has carefully described it. The washing of
these clays is performed in the same manner as that of the gravels,
and I have myself extracted diamonds from them. In the washing,
the minerals which we found rolled and rounded in the river-sands,
and presenting an entu-ely different aspect, came out in perfect crys-
tals, without a trace of wearing. They are the same satellites of the
diamond, but still in their primitive bed. The diamonds also of Sao
Joao da Chapada are characteristic : like the crystals of oxide of
iron, their angles are whole ; their wrinkled faces and their uniform
color have suffered no modification by friction. Should not the same
conclusion be adopted for the diamond, and may we not assume that it
also is here found where it was formed ? It is true that I have not
found diamonds actually in the little veins of quartz that traverse these
beds, nor in the schists, the decomj)Osition of which has produced the
diamond-bearing clays with these same crystals of oligist iron and
rutile. But hardly one diamond exists to a million crystals of oligist
iron ; more than thirty thousand pounds of clay have furnished only
ten little diamonds weighing about a carat. It would have been a
rare chance to perceive, even with a strong glass, one of these stones,
no larger than the head of a pin, in the midst of an enormous mass of
sterile substances. Objections may indeed be made to the views which
I have presented. The formations in which the diamond is found
have not always been in the condition in which we now see them.
They are not eruptive rocks, that have come already formed from the
center of the earth, but have originated from the destruction of more
ancient formations, and have undergone metamorphic action under
the influence of which new crystalline elements have been formed
within them, and they have assumed the aspect they nosv present.
Why, it may be asked, may not the diamond also have been derived
from these primitive formations ? And then the problem, instead of
having been resolved, is only put back another step.
I may reply to this by asking if the processes of trituration effect-
ive enough to reduce crystals of feldspar and quartz to mud and sand
would not also have modified the diamonds by smoothing their angles
and wearing away their surface ; especially, since we have seen that
much lighter rubbings have been enough to produce such effects in
the streams ? I could likewise answer other objections that my mind
suggests ; and I believe I have shown that tlie diamond of the allu-
vial formations of Diamantina comes, like the iron and titanic oxides,
the tourmalines and the phosphates, its faithful companions, from the
destruction of the quartz-veins intercalated into the palaeozoic rocks of
