AN AMERICAN MANUAL TRAINING-SCHOOL. 623
unskilled gardener treats liis plants. He puts them by a window, and
pours over them a flood of light and life-giving rays. Instinctively
they turn out toward the source of their strength. They put forth
their leaves and budding promises, and, as we look at them from the
outside, we mark their flourishing aspect and rejoice. But, if we
look at the other side, we shall find them neglected, deficient, and de-
formed. What they want is more light — light on the other side.
Were the sun always in the east, our trees would all grow like those
on the edge of the forest, one-sided.
So in education, we must open new windows, or rather we must
level with the ground all artificial barriers and let every luminous
characteristic of modern life shine in upon our school-rooms. We
must jjay less heed to what the world was two or three hundred years
ago, and regard with greater respect what the world is to-day.
The Arts of Expeessiox. — Dr. Youmans recently said (" Popular
Science Monthly," May, 1882) : " The human mind is no longer to be
cultivated merely by the forms or arts of expression. The husks and
shells of expression have had sufficient attention ; we have now to
deal with the living kernel of truth. . . . Under the old ideal of cult-
ure, a man may still be grossly ignorant of the things most interest-
ing and now most important to know. . . . Modern knowledge is the
highest and most perfected form of knowledge, and it is no longer
possible to maintain that it is not also the best knowledge for that
cultivation of mind and character which is the proper (i. e., the high-
est) object of education."
I desire, for a moment, to direct your attention to the arts of ex-
pression. Next in rank to the ability to think deeply and clearly is
the power of giving clear and full expression to our thoughts. This
last can be done in various ways. As this brings me squarely upon a
subject I wish to impress strongly upon you, I will illustrate it by a
somewhat elaborate example :
A gentleman recently called upon me for my opinion concerning
a certain automatic brake for freight-cars. The device Avas new to
me, but it lay pretty clearly defined in the mind of my visitor. It
was not original with him, but for the purposes of my illustration it
might have been. Before I could pass judgment, the device must lie
as clearly in my mind as, perhaps more clearly than, it did in his ; so
he set out to express his thought. He was what we call well educated,
being a graduate of the oldest university in the land, and was well
versed in the conventionalities of spoken and written languages. Ac-
cordingly, he proceeded to utter a succession of sounds, Ilis lips
opened and shut with great rapidity, and without intermission a series
of sounds fell upon my ears. The sounds I heard were quite familiar
to me, as I had been listening to them in one order and another for
over forty years, and, as they had always been associated in my mind
with certain concrete things and the relations of such things to each
