624 TEE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTELY.
other, certain thoughts about those things began to take shape in my
mind.
Of course, the sounds I heard had not the smallest likeness to the
things called up by them in my mind. To an Italian peasant, or to
Archimedes of Syracuse, they would have been as unintelligible as
the chattering of a magpie. They were purely arbitrary or conven-
tional ; yet, much of our education had been devoted to their mastery.
Nevertheless, as a means for expressing thought, they were, in the
present case, quite inadequate. The ideas aroused in my mind were
confused and fragmentary, and altogether unsatisfactory. The images
lacked precision. Had my friend resorted to writing a description of
the invention, in either English, French, German, Latin, or Greek,
using in every case a set of purely conventional symbols (to represent
the other set of conventional sounds), which we had both spent years
in getting some knowledge of, he would have succeeded little better.
Whether speaking or writing, mucb of his thought he could not clothe
in words. He, therefore, abandoned the wholly conventional, or ver-
bal, art of expression and turned to the pictorial.
But, here he soon confessed that his education was deficient. He
had never studied the art of representing objects having three dimen-
sions on a surface having but two, and hence he was ignorant of the
methods he ought to adopt to express by drawings the objects he
was thinking of. However, I caught more of his meaning from some
crude attempts at sketching than I had from all his talk. A few lines
were luminous with meaning ; yet, they left far too much for me to
supply by my imagination ; hence, my visitor withdrew and sent me
a full set of what we called " working drawings," made by the in-
ventor, who was a draughtsman.
These drawings, though a soil of ocular resemblance to the things
signified, were still half conventional, and required, on my part, a
certain amount of training to enable me fully to understand them ;
this, fortunately, I had received, and, through the art of expression
embodied in them, I gained a tolerably clear idea of the thought of
the inventor. With scarce a written or spoken word, they expressed
that thought far more clearly and fully than any merely verbal de-
scription could do ; they showed the relations of parts which were
beyond the reach of words.
But my friend was not content to stop there. The drawings had
been but partially intelligible to him with their "plans, elevations, and
sections," and, judging me by himself, he believed that a third art of
expression would outvalue both the others ; he, therefore, invited me
to call at a shop and examine a specimen of the device itself, produced
by a skilled mechanic. The real article, whicb is the mechanic's art
of expression, proved to be an improvement even upon the thought of
the inventor. The latter had not been a mechanic, and he had made
the sort of mistakes that draughtsmen, Avho arc not something of
