AJV AMEBIC A jV MANUAL TRAININGS CHOOL. 625
mechanics, always make. Certain parts it had been practically im-
possible to construct, as they involved shapes that conld not be molded
by ordinary means. A nnt had been placed where it was next to im-
possible to turn it ; and certain parts which were to be of cast-iron
had been given such dimensions that the castings would have snapped
in pieces while cooling. These errors had been corrected by the
mechanic, and the perfected thought lay fully expressed before me.
In this illustration we have three greatly different methods of ex-
pressing essentially the same thought. Each constitutes a distinct
language, and each is absolutely essential to modei'n civilization.
You will note how a crude thought often takes practical shape in
the hands of the draughtsman and the mechanic. "Drawing," says
Professor Silvanus P. Thompson, " is the very soul of true technical
education, and of exact and intelligent workmanship." Those who
have tested this can tell how many marvels of ingenuity, as lovely as
chateaux en Espagne, have vanished in the presence of "plans and ele-
vations " ; and how many beautifully drawn designs have been merci-
lessly condemned as impracticable by judges versed in the laws of con-
struction and the strength of materials.
Much more could be said upon the arts of expression, their relative
importance and proper cultivation. You will readily think, as did
Lessing in his Laocoon, of poetry, painting, and sculpture. You will
recall how lofty thoughts have in all ages found expression in archi-
tectural forms, and yet, throughout all the history of architecture, the
laws of mechanics as then understood and the properties of the ma-
terials used have determined the different styles. In our own age we
are trying to express ourselves in iron and steel, and to cast off the
fetters of an age of marble and granite.
In a recent address Mr. Charles H. Ilam, of Chicago, said that, by
putting thought into seventy-five cents' worth of ore, it is converted
into pallet-arbors worth 82,-500,000. He continues : " Skilled labor is
embodied thought — thought that houses, feeds, and clothes mankind.
The nation that applies to labor the most thought, the most intelli-
gence (i. e., that best expresses its thought in concrete form), will rise
highest in the scale of civilization, will gain most in wealth, will most
surely survive the shocks of time, will live the longest in history."
But some one will say, as to methods of expression : "One art is
enough for me ; make me master of one, and I will care for no second."
I answer, you are thinking of an impossibility. If a mechanic is only
a mechanic, he is never a master, even of his own art. He is crippled
at every turn ; in expressing himself, ho is limited to what he can make.
He is without that powerful ally, drawing, the short-hand of the im-
agination, and in the presence of thoughts that baffle concrete expres-
sion he is dumb. Valuable machines even are sometimes purely im-
aginary. Clerk Maxwell, in his "Theory of Heat," says : "For the
purposes of scientific illustration we shall describe the working of an
TOL. XXI. — 40
