626 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
engine of a species entirely imaginary — one -which it is impossible to
construct but very easy to understand," referring to Camot's engine.
In like manner, if one would command confidence as a draughtsman he
must be a mechanic as well. And, finally, if I am a student of words
alone, and if I go not beyond my dictionaries, I shall never guess their
meaning. A large proportion of our emphatic words are technical ;
they belonged originally to some craft, and none but a craftsman
knows their exact meaning. President Eliot, of Harvard, once said
that the highest education was that which gave one the fullest and
most accurate use of his mother-tongue. I would modify the state-
ment, and claim that the highest and most liberal education is that
which, besides cultivating most fully the powers of thought, gives one
full command of all the arts of expression.
I need not remark that many, perhaps most thoughts, do not ad-
mit of concrete nor even of pictorial expression, as, for example, all
abstractions ; hence they suffer seriously from want of clearness. If
you have a clear thought on abstract matters you can never be sure
you have expressed it clearly.
Before we devote ourselves exclusively to the arts of expression,
we must cultivate all the faculties and encourage the growth of thoughts
worthy of expression. The thought must precede its expression by
any method, and in the cultivation of the thinking mind the concrete
should precede the abstract. Give children clear and accurate thoughts
of real things, of the material world we live in, of real plants and ani-
mals, of the laws of materials, of qualities and then of quantities, be-
fore you venture on the field of abstractions. Before you cultivate
the high arts, make sure of the low ones ; without them as a founda-
tion no superstructure of fine art can stand overnight. As Emerson
says (in " Man, the Reformer ") : " "We must have a basis for our
higher accomplishments, our delicate entertainments of poetry and
philosophy, in the work of our hands. We must have an antagonism
in the tough world for all the variety of our spiritual faculties, or they
will not he horn?''
A habit of clear thinking once formed will never leave us, however
abstract our investigations become ; while a habit of stopping short
with ill-defined results, of resting content with obscure and half-grown
mental images, a mental attitude of foggincss, has a stultifying effect
which seriously dwarfs the mind. This is a most important subject,
but I have place for but a few words of exhortation. Give children
clear thoughts, and begin with the concrete. "When the mind is too
weary or too sick to clear up obscurities, it is time to seek rest and rec-
reation and fresh air. Beware of straining the powers of attention by
too much schooling ; beware of overtaxing the mind by too many and
too difficult subjects, and especially beware of poisoning the blood and
debilitating the brain by bad air. The fruit of any and all these evils
is mental as well as physical decrepitude.
