THE STEREOSCOPE : ITS HISTORY.
43
now classic paper on the " Physiology of Vision." Let the reader im-
agine, or actually put on the page before him, some small solid body,
such as a cone, with a few lines drawn from its vertex to the base. If
it be of glass, so much the better ; an ink-dot can then be marked at
the center of the base, and the lines scratched upon the sides can
easily be blackened. Close the left eye ; the cone appears to the right
eye like Fig. 1, B. Without moving the head, look with the left eye
alone ; the appearance is like Fig. 1, L. If each eye were in succes-
sion transformed for a moment into an electric light, the shadows
projected upon the paper would be those given in the figure, but with
a common base. Opening both eyes, the perception of the height of
the cone is far more distinct than when either is closed. Let us now
quote "Wheatstone's own words : " It being thus established that the
mind perceives an object of three dimensions by means of the two dis-
similar pictures projected by it on the two retinoB, the following ques-
tion occurs : What would be the visual effect of simultaneously pre-
senting to each eye, instead of the object itself, its projection on a
plane surface as it appears to that eye ? To pursue this inquiry, it is
necessary that means should be contrived to make the two pictures,
which must necessarily occupy different places, fall on similar parts of
both retinre. Under the ordinary circumstances of vision, the object
is seen at the concourse of the optic axes (visual lines *), and its im-
ages consequently are projected on similar parts of the two retinse ;
but it is also evident that two exactly similar objects may be made to
fall on similar parts of the two retin?e, if they are placed one in tlie
direction of each optic axis, at equal distances before or beyond their
intersection."
Fig. 4.— Wheatstone's Stereoscope (Perspective View), 1838.
To follow out to the letter the instructions suggested in Wheat-
stone's last sentence, transfer Fig. 1 to glass. This can be easily done.
Upon an oblong plate of window-glass put a few drops of clear var-
nish ; let it spread thinly over the surface and become thoroughly dry.
* In Wheatstone's time the visual lines were supposed to be optic axes. That this ia
not quite so has since been proved by Ilelmholtz.
