AN AMERICAN- MANUAL TRAINING-SCHOOL. 627
The Aims of Educatiox. — But to return. I claim for these forms
of expression, which I have taken pains to distinguish, more nearly-
equal care and consideration in the elementary education of every
child. Teach language and literature and mathematics with a view to
make each child a master of the art of verbal expression. Teach me-
chanical and free drawing, with the conventions of shade and color,
and aim at a mastery of the art of pictorial expression. And, lastly,
teach the cunning fingers the wonderful power and use of tools, and
aim at nothing less than a mastery of the fundamental mechanical
processes. To do all these things while the mind is gaining strength
and clearness, and material for thought, is the function of a manual
training-school.
Prejudices to be overcome. — The traditions are heavily against
us, but the traditions of the fathers must yield to the new dispensa-
tion. As was to have been expected, the strongest prejudices against
this reform exist in old educational centers.
As President Walker, of the New York Board of Education, frankly
admitted at the laying of the corner-stone of Professor Felix Adler's
splendid institution, " The Woi-kingman's School and Free Kinder-
garten," the methods and aims proposed by the advocates of manual
training-schools are a criticism upon the methods and aims of the es-
tablished system, and nothing is more natural than for it to resent the
criticism and discourage reform.
Ko man has done more — nay, no man has done as much — to intro-
duce the manual feature into American education as Professor John
D. Runklo, of Boston, and yet the School of Mechanic Arts established
by him in connection with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
has, after an existence of several years, been apparently almost frozen
out in the biting atmosphere of that highly aesthetic city. I doubt if
one could find on American soil a more unpromising field for a manual
training-school than beneath the lofty elms of Cambridge and New
Haven.
Luxuries in Education. — There are luxuries in education, as in
food and dress and equipage, and in wealthy communities the luxuries
command the chief attention. At the English Universities of Oxford
and Cambridge, a large proportion of the students expect to be gentle-
men of leisure. The idea of giving heed to the demands of skilled
labor, of preparing for lives of activity and usefulness — the idea of
earning one's daily bread and of supporting one's family — scarcely
enter their heads. Either they inherit livings, or they seek to get
livings through the Church, or they enter the army with commissions
purchased by kind friends who wish to get them out of the way, or
they go into law or politics. It is no wonder that such men devote
themselves largely to the luxuries of education — Greek, astronomy,
philology, higher mathematics, Latin hexameters, Italian — in a word,
to "polite" learning. In such an atmosphere as that how incongruous
