AN- AMERICAN MANUAL TRAINING-SCHOOL. 629
No one of tbe French plans exactly suits me. I prefer to incorpo-
rate manual vn\.\ intellectual education, and include both under the
name school. "We do not have what you call school in the morning
and shop in the afternoon ; nor do we spend the forenoons with tools,
and devote a few evening hours to study and recitation.
The Manual Training-School of St. Louis differs from all other
technical schools with which I am acquainted. It much resembles the
Boston School of Mechanic Arts, though it differs from it in admitting
boys at fourteen instead of fifteen years of age ; in having a three
years' course instead of two, and in having a full and independent
equipment of study and recitation rooms, as well as shops. I gladly
avail myself of this occasion to publicly acknowledge our indebtedness
to the able reports and papers published by ex-President Runkle on
the Russian system of tool-instruction and the organization and work
of his school.
Prospectus of the ScnooL. — A prospectus of our school has just
been issued, giving in detail our course of study, and the methods of
tool-instruction. I shall be happy to give a copy to every one who is
sufficiently interested to ask for it. To those who do not care for the
details, I will say that our course of study runs through three years, in
five parallel lines :
1. A course in pure mathematics.
2. A course in science and applied mathematics.
3. A course in language and literature.
4. A course in penmanship and drawing.
5. A course in tool-work in woods and metals.
Our school is not managed on the assumption that all the boys who
go through it will become mechanics, or that they will be manufac-
turers. Our graduates will doubtless be found in all the professions.
AVe strive to help them find their true callings, and we prejudice them
against none. I have no sort of doubt, however, that the grand result
will be that many who otherwise would eke out a scanty subsistence
as clerks, book-keepers, salesmen, poor lawyers, murderous doctors,
whining preachers, abandoned penny-a-liners, or hardened school-keep-
ers, will be led, through the instrumentality of our school, to positions
of honor and comfort as mechanics, engineers, or manufacturers.
No Articles made for Sale. — For the purpose of discountenanc-
ing certain grave popular fallacies in this country, I will add a word,
even at the risk of repeating what I have said elsewhere, as to our plan
of shop management. We do not manufacture articles for sale, nor do
we pretend to fully teach particular trades.
A shop which manufactures for the market, and expects a revenue
from the sale of its products, is necessarily confined to salable work,
and a systematic and progressive series of exercises is practically im-
possible. If the shop is managed in the interest of tbe student, he is
allowed to leave a step or a process the moment he has fairly learned
