630 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
it ; if it is managed with a view to au income (and the school >vill be
counted a failure if its income is wanting), the boys will be kept at
what they can do best, and new lessons will be few and far between.
In such a shop the pupils will suffer too much the evils of a modern
apprenticeship.
" The common apprentice is a drudge set to execute all kinds of
miscellaneous jobs. There is no systematic gradation in the difficulty
of the exercises given him ; more than half his hours are purely wasted,
and the other half are spent on work unsuited to his capacity. What
wonder that four, five, or six years make of him a bad, unintelligent,
unskillful machine !" (Professor Silvanus Thompson).
A very bright boy of seventeen years had expected last fall to en-
ter a pattern-shop in St. Louis as an apprentice, but was disappointed,
there being no vacancy in the number of apprentices allowed. He
therefore came to the Manual Training-School, and during the year
made excellent progress, not only in carpentry and wood-turning, but
in drawing, mathematics, and physics. When he showed me some of
his handiwork at the end of the year, I asked him if he would have
made equal progress as an apprentice. "No," said he, "I should
have spent most of the first year sweeping out offices and running
errands."
(Since the above was written, a gentleman told me of his father's
experience Avhen learning the trade of a tanner in Philadelphia, many
years ago. He lived in the family of his employer, and during the
first six months he tended the hahy.)
SELF-suppoRTijfG ScHooLs. — I fancy there is no more pernicious
fallacy than this of making a school self-supporting by manufacturing
for the market. Suppose you attempt to maintain one of these i:)opu-
lar humbugs, a commercial college, on that theory, or to run a full
medical school without endowment on the self-supporting plan (the
students would probably write prescriptions cheap, and cut off legs for
half price) ; or to manage a public school of oratory and English com-
position on the strength of an income derived from contributions to
newspapers and magazines, and from orations made and delivered to
order. Nothing could be more absurd, and yet the cases are closely
parallel. No ; do not be beguiled by the seductive promise of an in-
come from the shop. Admit from the first the well-established fact
that a good school for thorough education on whatever subject costs
money, both for its foundation and its support.
Closely connected is the matter of teaching particular trades, to
which the lads shall be strictly confined. Such a course may work well
in monarchies, where the grooA'e in which one is to run is cut out for
him before he is born ; but it is unsuited to the soil and atmosphere of
America. A single trade is educationally very narrow, while their
number is legion. " The arts are few, the trades are many," says Mr.
Runkle. The arts underlie all trades; therefore let us teach them as
