^.V AMEBIC AX 2IAXUAL TRAIXIXG-SCHOOL. 633
are practical men and women, and you wish now to sit down and
count the cost.
We set out in St. Louis to have the best of everything. We
bought the best tools and put in the best furniture. We have plenty
of room and light and pure air. We aim to have good teachers and
all necessary appliances. Our capacity is about two hundred and
forty boys, in three classes of one hundred, eighty, and sixty, in the
first-year, second-year, and third-year class respectively.
Our building, complete, cost about $33,000
Our tools and school-furniture 16,000
If we add the cost of the lot (150 x 106^ feet) 14,400
TTe have, as the total cost of our plant $63,400
Where land is c^eap, and less or lighter machinery is used, less
money would suffice, but let no one deceive himself by supposing that
the reform proposed is to be at once a money-saving one. Such a
school costs money, but it is a grand investment. Said one of our
benefactors to me not ten days ago, " I feel better satisfied with
the money I have put into the Manual Training-School than with any
other money I have invested in St. Louis."
As to the cost of construction, the shop is about as expensive per
hour as the recitation and drawing rooms. Good mechanics, fairly
educated, who are at the same time endowed with the divine gift of
teaching, are rare. We have a first-class machinist and an expert
blacksmitli, and pay each twelve hundred dollars per year. The size
of our divisions is generally limited to twenty members — in drawing
we shall occasionally " double up."
Incidentals — wood, iron, paper, etc. — and the wear and tear of
tools amounted last year to about ten dollars per head. The total
cost of supplies and instructions and all incidentals, next year, is esti-
mated to be seventy-five dollars per pupil.
How then, say you, can this costly reform be accomplished ? The
public schools have no funds to spare ; salaries are still too low, and
the demand for extensions outruns the supply. As Colonel Jacobson,
of Chicago, has said: " The alternative before you is more and better
education, at great expense, or a still greater amount of money wasted
on soldiers and policemen, destruction of property, and stoppage of
social machinery. The money which the training woukl cost will be
spent in any event. It would have been money in the pocket of Pitts-
burg if she could have caught her rioters of July, 1877, at an early
period of their career, and trained them, at any expense, just a little
beyond the point at which men are likely to burn things promiscuously.
It is wiser and better and cheaper to spend our money in training good
citizens than in shooting bad ones."
How TO GO TO Work. — There are two wa^-s of going to work :
1. Cut down somewhat, if necessary, the cm'riculum of higher
