634 ^^^ POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
stvidiea, and incorporate a manual department with your high-school.
The investment will pay, and the means of further gi'owth will soon
be found.
2. Mature your plans and lay them before your wealthy, public-
spirited men. Almost for the first time in America we are harvesting
a splendid crop of millionaires. They abound in every city. They
know that boundless wealth left to sons and heirs is often a curse,
rarely a blessing, and they would fain put it to the noblest uses. In
England such wealth would naturally go to the establishment of noble
families, or the purchase of grand estates which should be transmitted
unimpaired to the oldest sons through successive generations.
Our American peerage shall consist of those who devote the gains
of an honorable career to the establishment of institutions for the bet-
ter education of generations that shall come after them. Let others
follow the example of Cornell, Vanderbilt, and Cooper, of New York ;
Stevens, of Hoboken ; Girard, of Philadelphia ; Johns Hopkins, of
Baltimore ; Case, of Cleveland ; Rose, of Terre Haute ; the Commer-
cial Club, of Chicago ; and those whom I could name in St. Louis.
A NOTE ON " TIIOUGHT-EEADING."
By nOEATIO DONKIN.
AN article on this subject in the " Nineteenth Century " for June
contains conclusions so inadequately supported by trustworthy
facts that a few words of comment seem to be called for. The matter
in question has attained a somewhat undue prominence of late ; but if
it is as simple and intelligible as it appears to be to most who have
investigated it with care, and with minds free from mystical bias, any
aid toward the extinction of what must then be regarded as an ignis
fatims of pseudo-science carries with it its own justification.
The position of the writers of the article seems to be that it is pos-
sible for one person to divine the thoughts of another in the absence
of any hnoxcn means of communication. This inference is based
mainly on a series of statements of cases where several children of a
certain family, as well as a servant-girl in the same family, were pro-
fessedly able to tell words and objects thought of in their absence,
without contact with or sign from those who knew what they were
required to do.
It may be taken as proved that the explanation of muscxdar indi-
cation amply covers all cases where, as in the well-known drawing-
room game of " AVilling," there is actual contact between the person
who guides and the person guided. It is difticult, indeed, for the
guider, who is intent on the success of the experiment, to avoid giving
