A NOTE ON '' thought-reading:' 635
hints by pressure, alteration of speed, and otherwise, to the guided
one, who is, as a rule, only too ready to quickly interpret them. The
same explanation would apply to cases where the person who is
" willed " to find something hidden during his or her absence is in no
contact with any of the " willing " party, but who often succeeds in
discovering the desired object by studying the unconscious indica-
tions given by the faces of the expectant circle. All this is, in fact,
nearly admitted by the writers we quote, though their denial of Mr.
Stuart Cumberland's own explanation of his performances in this line
is perhaps as unwarrantable as the " further inquiry " that they sug-
gest.
The remarks in this paper will, therefore, be confined to the
alleged results obtained where there was no actual contact. It will
be at once admitted with the Avriters of the article that common
sense demands that every known mode of explanation of facts should
be exhausted before the possibility of an unknown mode is considered.
This is an all-important admission, obvious as it seems to be. It is
required by the method of common sense, which is no less the method
of science ; all true explanation consisting in a procedure from the
known to the unknown.
In the next place, it is equally obvious that in all scientific in-
quiries the good faith of individuals concerned should form no part
of the data on which the conclusion is to rest. A person merits cre-
dence in proportion as the facts he alleges can be demonstrated or
reproduced, and to the jealous care he shows in avoiding fallacy.
But we can never, as our authors say, call on Science to put deception
out of court by a belief in any one's integrity. Half of the evidence
which has propped up the spiritualistic craze is based on the results
obtained through mediums of " unblemished character " in private
families, whose virtuous reputation has been largely sustained by the
fact that they did not take money for their trouble ; no regard being
paid to innumerable other motives and tendencies to deception.
This being admitted, the cases before us in the paper alluded to
can be easily dealt with. They differ in no way from the ordinary
platform performances of the little " clairvoyantes " who from time to
time have amused us both in the name of Second-Sight and in that
of the humbler and honcster one of Conjuring. It is well known that
a very simple code of signals will suffice to produce results much
more startling than those we are discussing. The first word or letter,
for instance, of the question asked of the "sensitive" medium may
denote the category to which the object fixed upon belongs. The
second and third, and so on, serve to specialize it further, and by a
series of questions and remarks it is easy to understand that any
amount of information may be conveyed. "When the clairvoyante
is not blindfolded, other means of communication, of course, are pos-
sible, and in any case auditory signs other than words could be
