6^6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
agreed upon quite unsusjiected by the audience to be amused or
deceived.
We have, therefore, an intelligible and admitted explanation
which fully serves to cover all the facts in question. Such things are
constantly done by collusion — it is a vera causa. It would be illog-
ical to substitute for this a perfectly gratuitous hypothesis and an
unknown agency. This is especially true in the case of such a set of
phenomena as we are now considering. The j)ossibility of thought-
reading, as alleged by the writers of the paper, is so far beyond, or
rather contrary to, universal experience that some use might fairly be
made of the a priori argument, although the case need in no way
rest on such a method. It may be said in passing that thei'e is an
enormous ^9r^m« facie objection to the truth of the proposition that
such divination is possible : the assumption and conviction of the con-
trary, based on immemorial experience, being, as it were, one of the
suppressed major premises of all social intercourse.
On this argument, however, we would not depend unduly. The
case against the genuineness of the asserted phenomena seems strong
enough without it.
The children in question were 7^ot blindfolded.
In most of the experiments there is no mention made of silence
being preserved. On the contrary, we may infer that no such rule was
made ; as the children must have been corrected when their guesses
were wrong, as they often were.
On the hypothesis of collusion, it must further be noted that, in
order to minimize the difficulty of the code of signals, and simplify
the performance as much as possible, the child was previously in-
formed of the nature of the object selected — e. g., whether it was a
card or a name. The first guess, then, would give an opportunity for
the conveyance of perhaps even the final hint contained in the correc-
tion offered.
The mistake made by the servant in guessing the name *"Enry"
for " Emily " is obviously significant, and an excellent example of an
"undesigned coincidence." Surely it must lead almost every plain
mind to the irresistible conclusion that a mistaken whisper or facial
gesture played some part in the phenomenon. This remark applies as
well to the errors made by the children in the case of words alike in
sound.
The theory of collusion is, moreover, strongly coimtenanced by the
fact of the mediums being children, who are always ready to join in
any game of deception ; and by the association with them of the
servant-girl — a valuable fact, putting out of court the assumption of
any inherited special quality peculiar to the family, as an explanation,
possibly plausible to some minds, of the alleged marvels.
It will probably, however, be readily alloAved, with the authors of
the article, that the experiments made in the presence of the members
