THE PHYSICIAN OF THE FUTURE. 6^,7
of the family are scientifically iintrustwortby. They may, therefore,
be practically ignored. Yet we infer from the ^^aper that most of the
experiments were made under these conditions ; and we read that the
presence of the father " seemed decidedly to increase the percentage
of successes."
The authors, indeed, say, "Though generally the object selected
was shown to the members of the family present in the room, we were
sometimes entirely alone." From the only rational point of view, that
of scientific skepticism, and therefore with total disregard of the per-
sonal factor, this consideration seems in no way to invalidate the line
of comment here taken. It is not clear to how many of the three
observers the pronoun " we " in the above i:)assage refers ; but, at any
rate, we miss entirely in the paper any specific quotation of results
obtained in this latter set of circumstances.
But, even if this evidence had been forthcoming, no mere ijyse dixit
on such a matter could for one moment be admitted. Reason would
require us to entertain the great probability of mental bias in some at
least of the observers, or to discredit the accuracy of their memory,
rather than to allow that anything has been adduced in this account
of what, to say the least, must be called superficially conducted experi-
ments, to Avarrant a recognition of any novelty, or, by consequence, to
stand in need of explanation by a theory of "brain-waves." — Nine-
teenth Century.
THE PHYSICIAX OF THE FUTUEE.-
Br Professor GEOEGE II. PEEKINS.
ACIIAXGE in the theory of disease, which long since began, but
is not yet completed, must profoundly affect the work of the phy-
sician of the future. Disease was formerly believed to be a something
which had a sort of independent existence, and which went about over
the earth seeking whom it might assail. When this something had
entered the body of a man it created confusion in his internal economy,
and order could not be restored until the intruder was driven out.
Accordingly, remedies none of the gentlest were vigorously ap])lied
until the disease was scared away or the patient died. It is strange
how universal among men this belief in a possession, an entrance of
something into the body causing disease, has been.
This savage idea was long perpetuated among civilized people, and
remedies were used which were hardly less absurd than the leapings,
bowlings, and rattle-shakings of an Indian medicine-man. The change
* An Address delivered at the openiii;: of the Tvrenty-ninth Annual Course of Lect-
ures in the Medical Department of the University of Vermont.
