638 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
has come very gradually. At first the student of medicine enlarged
his field of study, from disease and its phenomena, until it included the
structure and action of tissues and organs in health. Physiology and
anatomy, of little importance in the old science of medicine, began to
have recognized value. After this it was found that organs did not
always become disordered because of assaults from within the body,
but that they were affected by external influences.
It was found that the organs must not only preserve equilibrium
w^ithin the body, but that there must also be equilibrium between the
body and its externals. It was discovered that in every organ there
were forces that built up and forces that pulled down, and that out-
side of it there were also conservative and destructive forces, and it
became obvious that, unless these acted so as to preserve equilibrium,
disease, and finally death, must ensue. Thus the art of healing and
the science of medicine are now very far from being as simple as they
were a century ago, and every year adds to their complexity. The
physician of to-day must have full knowledge of man as man, of anat-
omy and physiology, as a necessary foundation upon which his further
studies must rest.
Physiology especially has developed during the last fifty years, so
that it has almost become a science by itself, but it still remains a part
of the wider science of biology. Here again we see a difference be-
tween the studies of the ancient and modern physician. To-day, and
still more in the near future, the physician must extend his studies be-
yond man, and the reason is plain. Man, with whom alone the physician
formerly supposed himself concerned, is but an isolated being discon-
nected from the rest of nature. Nature tolerates no such isolation.
No living being, even the simplest, exists, or can exist, independently
of other beings. It affects them and is affected by them, and what is
true of the simplest is yet more true of the more complex and most of
all of man. Nature is one, and all her creatures are parts of the whole.
For this reason man can not be fully known merely as man, he must
also be known as a part of the animal kingdom. No one can well un-
derstand human anatomy or physiology who knows nothing of that of
the lower animals. Comparative anatomy and physiology have thrown
very much light upon many obscure problems to which the study of
man gave rise. Therefore, I would most earnestly urge upon all med-
ical men the study of biology. It may be replied that the courses of
study are now crowded, but it is certain that the successful physician
of the future must know something of nature as a whole. Already
many of our most important theories as to disease — the structure of
organs, cell-growth, cell-life, and many more — have come to medicine
from biology. In an address before the International Medical Con-
gress held in London in August, 1881, Professor Huxley remarks that
"the search for the explanation of diseased states in modified cell-life,
the discovery of the important part played by parasitic organisms in
