44
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Copy the picture, of exact size, by scratching through the varnish, and
then blacken the lines with ink. Hold the transparent plate at the
distance of a foot from your eyes, and through it look at a point about
five feet away. Very little motion of the plate is needed to get this
point exactly aligned with each of the dots within the circles by look-
ing with each eye in succession. Look at the point now with both
eyes, and you will see, suspended in the air, probably just beyond the
plate, apparently a solid cone of glass pointing toward you, the very
facsimile of our glass cone from which the pictures were taken.
Copy the picture also on paper or card-board, of exact size, but with
the part marked M transferred to the left, and that marked L to the
right. Hold up the point of a pencil about half-way between your
eyes and the card. In a moment the proper position is found, where it
is aligned with M for the right eye and with L for the left. Open both
eyes and converge them upon the pencil-point. A little cone pointing
toward you is suspended in the air just beyond the pencil, which may
now be withdrawn. Move your head from side to side : the cone
moves with you. It is brilliantly lustrous, sharp in outline, and much
smaller than that previously seen. Two companion circles, one on each
side, are left behind on the card, and are larger than the base of the
suspended cone, but a little smaller than the circles originally were.
Their appearance is due to images of M and L which fall upon retinal
parts that in normal vision could not be simultaneously impressed by
Fia. 5.— TuE First Landscape Stekeogkaph.
an external single body. The sensations produced by them are hence
not suggestive of singleness, and each is therefore referred separately
outward in the direction from which the rays producing them have
come. Such side-images are perceived also when the glass plate is
employed. Try the same experiment now with the picture on the
page ; the miniature cone leaps off the paper into the air, but this time
it is hollow, for its vertex is pointed to the place from which it seems
to have sprung.
