640 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
or cess-pool, so long as men prefer swallowing drugs to abstaining from
favorite articles of food, or regulating personal habits, so long must
the medical advisers of a community find their best efforts to advance
sound sanitary science thwarted. It will be a long and tedious task —
this of educating out of the popular mind this strange passion for dos-
ing ; but herein lies one of the most important tasks of the physician
of the future. If he does his work well, he must be strong enough
and determined enough to stem a jDOwerful current of deeply rooted
prejudice and self-indulgent unreasonableness ; but, if he and his fel-
lows only persevere, they will do incalculable good. So difficult is this
work that many shrink from it. They admit the importance of fresh
air in hospitals, nay, they demand it, but in their private practice they
say little about ventilation. They are careful that their prescriptions
shall be properly compounded and regularly taken, but they are much
less careful about the diet of their patients. They treat zymotic dis-
eases, but do not enforce such sanitary regulations as they know to be
necessary. I do not say that all are open to this charge — not all, but
some — and there should be none. With all earnestness would I plead
that the people be taught how to live, and I would urge this not only
for the sake of the people, but for that of the doctors as well. It is
evident that their success as healers of disease must be far greater
if theii' patients observe hygienic laws than if they do not. The in-
structions of the doctor, weighty enough when given to one stricken
with grave disease, may often fall unheeded upon the listless ears of a
well i^erson. Sick people are usually more eager to get well than well
people to avoid sickness ; and yet, even though the labor seem well-nigh
useless, the welfare of the race demands that the principles of hygiene
be made known, and the task of doing this naturally rests upon those
who have undertaken to be the medical advisers of the community.
It may be that the people will learn to care very much for those laws
upon the observance of which good health depends, with discouraging
slowness, but the good work once begun must go on with increasing
power and influence. We may take heart as we see what has already
been done in this direction, for a great deal of very important knowl-
edge has already b?cn received by the people — knowledge of the
necessity for fresh air and sunshine, of cleanliness of person and of
premises, of proper food, clothing, and exercise, of the laws of hered-
ity and how hereditary tendencies to disease may be overcome. If
we compare the sanitary condition of the homes and the villages of
our ancestors not more than a century ago, with that which we may
now find, we shall, I think, be led to hope very much for the future.
It may still be true, as an eminent medical writer not long since de-
clared it to be, that "men in general behave in relation to the laws
which govern human evolution very miTch as primeval savages be-
haved in relation to the laws of physical nature — are content with
superstition where they should strive to get knowledge, and put up
