THE PHYSICIAN OF THE FUTURE. 643
persistently. Anatomists and physiologists, as they study the body,
may be so engrossed in the object of their investigations that they
forget that it is not the whole of man. They may forget that this
dead body "which they study does not offer any explanation of the
deepest and most conspicuous phenomena of human life and experi-
ence. The cadaver on the dissecting-table is not a man. Neither the
anatomist's scalpel nor the histologist's microscope can ever discover
what it was in that body which made it a man, distinct from other
men.
The lips, tongue, vocal cords, are all there, but it was hi/ these, not
from them, that came the words of love or hate, entreaty or com-
mand, which the man spake during his life. The brain is there, it is
or was the organ of the mind, but the thought — where is that ? Evi-
dently we have not here all that made this man a man, and we must
see more than the body if we are to know man ; we must see that in
that body there was an essence — a something which we can not define,
but which is as real as if most definite, and that this something, this
soul, is far more important than any other part of man. When he
stands over his dissecting-table, the anatomist may think of man as
only an aggregation of organs and tissues, and these of differently
arranged and modified cells ; but when he sends his thought into the
recesses of his own heart, when he calls before him the experiences of
his inmost life, when he looks around him and sees men — their activi-
ties, struggles, defeats, triumphs, courage, even their meanness and
knavery, and still more when he knows of their thoughts of the here-
after, their longings for something better and higher than this world
can afford them — when, in short, he stands face to face with the phe-
nomena of human life in its varied phases, is he not compelled to believe
that it all must have some other source than the molecular and chem-
ical forces which he finds in the body?
It is in this fact — in the existence of a soul in man — that the physi-
cian of the future must rest his hope of success. That man has in
himself capacity for growth, that progress is and always must be pos-
sible to him — these are truths that must sustain the sanitary reformer
in the midst of greatest discouragement. If it be true that man may
live not only for the present, but as well for the future ; if he can be
made to see that he may not only make his present life better and
nobler, but that in doing this he is affecting his future life ; if he can
be brought to understand that what he is in this life must necessarily
determine largely what he is to be in the life beyond the grave ; that,
though the body is not the soul, yet, as the medium by which the soul
manifests itself, its condition affects the soul — will he not be ready to
listen to the teachings of any who can help him to a better physical
and so to a better spiritual life ? Only as the physician holds before
his mind the whole of man can he reach the full development of his
own life ; only thus can he raise man to that height of sanitary well-
