644 ^^^ POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
being to which he should seek to raise him. In the address to which
reference has ah'eady been made, Professor Huxley says : " A scorner
of physic once said that Nature and disease may be compared to two
men fighting, the doctor to a blind man with a club who strikes into
the mtlee, sometimes hitting the disease and sometimes hitting Nat-
ure. The matter is not mended if you suppose the blind man's hear-
ing to be so acute that he can register every stage of the straggle, and
pretty clearly predict how it will end. He had better not meddle at
all till his eyes are opened." This predicament of the blind man is
probably not unfamiliar to every doctor, for at best human skill and
knowledge often reach their limit before the disease does, but cer-
tainly every physician should be ready to exert himself to the full
extent of his power to open his eyes as far as possible, to be as little
blind and as seldom as may be. And as a blind man may be able to
prevent a conflict which, once begun, he can not control, so the doctor
may have sufficient knowledge to prevent disease which he can not
heal. He may often be more certain of his position as a j)reventer
than as a healer of sickness.
Although man stands at the head of creation, it does not neces-
sarily follow that he has reached his highest possible position. It
seems entirely reasonable to believe that a more thorough dissemina-
tion of sanitary knowledge and its more complete aiDplication in com-
mon, every-day life would develop a race of men longer-lived, more
vigorous, hapjDier, and better than any yet seen. It may be too late
to do very much with this generation, but may there not be hope for
the next, and the next after that ? What might not a few generations
of right living, right feeling, right thinking men do for the race ?
Here, then, are opportunities within the grasp of the physician of the
future such as await no one else — opportunities for useful, helj^ful
work such as never before inspired the mind or stirred the heart of
the professional student ; such a privilege of effectually aiding in the
advancement of the human race, of making it nobler and better.
Such opportunities well used must bring upon those to whom they
are given a glorious benediction.
It should not escape the notice of the jihysician that this golden
future will not inevitably be his to whom by right it belongs. By
right, if he seizes it and liolds it ; but, if he does not, it must slip from
him, as it should. Already many of the leaders in sanitary movements
are not from among medical men. These, many of them, fail to appre-
ciate their privilege ; they do not see what is before them, but are so
busily engaged in search of some pill or potion which may or which
may not cure some disease, that they can not see the treasure which
lies just within reach. The whole work of medicine is important,
and the search after remedies should not be abandoned as useless,
neither should it take the place of greater and more important labors.
It is a noble thing to give time and strength to the discovery of means
