TRIALS BY FIRE AXD FIRE-JUGGLERS. 645
which may be used to heal disease or alleviate pain, but it is a far
grander and nobler task to teach the people how to live so that dis-
ease and pain will not come upon them.
TEIALS BY FIEE AXD FIRE-JUGGLERS.
By M. a. De KOCHAS.
IN his very interesting lecture on witches, Dr. Regnard has men-
tioned that insensibility to suffering was, in the middle ages, con-
sidered evidence of diabolical relations. By a singular contradiction
of the human mind, this same insensibility was also under certain
circumstances attributed to divine intervention ; and that which, in
one case, brought death upon the accused, was good for his acquittal
in another case.
Trial by fire, by means of which Heaven was appealed to for proof
of innocence, appears to have originated in India. The Vedas men-
tion it, and travelers still find it in use in all the East. The Greeks
also were acquainted with it. " A\"e are ready to hold red-hot iron
and walk through flames to prove our innocence ! " exclaimed the
Thebans in the " Antigone " of Sophocles, who were accused of hav-
ing abetted in the theft of the body of I^olynice.
The first authentic trial of this kind recorded among Christians is
related by Gregory of Tours, in the case of Saint Sulpicius, Bishop of
Autun. This saint, who lived in the fourth century, was made a
bishop, although he was married. His wife could not make up her
mind to leave him, but resolved to live with him under a vow of
chastity taken according to the laws of the Church. Having learned
that the faithful accused them of not observing their vow, the woman
had fire brought to her publicly on Christmas-day, and, having held it
in her dress for nearly an hour, gave it to the bishop, saying to him,
" Take this fire, which will not burn you, so that they may see that
the fire of lust has no more effect upon us than these coals have upon
our clothes."
Saint Brice, Bishop of Tours, made use of a similar trial to prove
his innocence of a crime that was imputed to him. The chronicles,
beginning from this epoch, have preserved numerous examples of
these trials. They were employed, not only to discover heretics, but
also to distinguish genuine relics from false ones. The Council of
Saragossa, in 592, ordered that only those relics which the fire had
respected should be venerated. The multiplication of these trials in
Gaul was probably due to the influence of the conquering race, with
whom the custom seems to have been established from time immemo-
rial. In an addition to the Salic law made by Kings Childebert and
