646 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Clotaire, in 593, was a clause that a man, accused of theft, should be
adjudged guilty of it if he was burned in the trial by fire. In 630
King Dagobert, in reforming the laws of the Bavarians, the Ale-
mans, and the Ripuarians, according to Christian ideas, continued
in effect the law of the Ripuarians providing that, if any one was cited
before a court to answer for an offense by his servant, he should be
adjudged guilty if the hand of his servant was hurt by the fire. In
819 Louis le Debonnaire ordained that a servant, who was burned in
the trial by boiling water, should be put to death. Hincmar relates
that Queen Thietberge, wife of King Lothair, when accused of a hor-
rible offense, proved her innocence by a man who underwent for
her in 860 the trial by boiling water without being scalded. In 876,
Louis, second son of Louis the German, established his rights over
Germany, which his uncle, Charles the Bald, contested, by means of
thirty men, ten of whom suffered the trial by cold water, ten that of
hot water, and ten that of red-hot iron. Charles the Bald, not willing
to give up to these proofs, marched against his nephew at the head
of an army, and was thoroughly beaten. It would be superfluous to
multiply examples of this kind, which became more and more numer-
ous till the end of the eleventh century, when the trials were formally
condemned by Popes Stephen V, Cclestine III, Innocent III, and
Ilonorius III.
We pass on to the description of the general course of proceeding :
Trial by hot water was made simply by plunging the arm into a boiler
full of boiling water, to take out from it a ring, or a nail, or a stone",
which had been suspended in it. In some causes the hand was put
in to the wrist, in others to the elbow. It is even said, in the formulas
of Saint Dunstan, that the stone was sometimes concealed under an
ell-deep of hot water. Commoners made the trial for themselves,
while people of quality hired others to make them. Those who were
burned were declared guilty, and those who escaped were considered
innocent.
The trial with hot iron, called judgment by fire, was made in dif-
ferent ways. Sometimes one red-hot iron was taken hold of — or
perhaps several in succession — and was carried to a considerable dis-
tance. The iron Avas generally shaped like a plowshare, and was,
therefore, called Vomer. A second way was to walk \\\)o\\ red-hot
irons with the legs bare to the knee. Six, nine, or twelve irons were
made ready for the trial, according to the magnitude of the imputed
offense. In Denmai'k a kind of red-hot iron glove, reaching to the
elbow, was used.
The trials were made in the presence of priests delegated by the
bishop, and of secular officers of justice. Those who submitted to
them were obliged first to wash their hands, arms, or feet, with fresh
water, to remove any advantages they might have obtained from rub-
bing their limbs with some substance that could deaden the action of
