650 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
kind of shield against the heat. Then, pretending to take new tow
with the left hand, they introduce into the mouth the parcel of in-
flamed tinder, on which they immediately place dry tow by biting into
the right handful. Combustion is excited by blowing with the throat,
and the current of air protects the lips from burning.
I have repeated the experiment of a pretended boiling described in
the " Philosophumena," using oil instead of liquid pitch. It produced
a complete illusion. The oil boiled in large bubbles, throwing up to
the surface a white foam, without its being necessary to raise the tem-
perature to more than 86°.
I have not tried either of the processes for producing insensibility
described above, nor those which are given by Albertus Magnus and
other sorcerers of the middle ages, as follows :
" 1. Take mallows-juice, powdered i^sillium-seed, and lime ; mix
the whole with the white of an egg and horse-radish-juice. Rub the
hands with the mixture and let them dry ; then rub them again, and
you will be able to handle fire.
" 2. Dissolve quicklime in bean-water, then mix in ]Mcssina earth,
to "which add a little mallows and bird-lime ; rub yourself with it and
let it dry.
" 3. Rub your hands "with strong vinegar in which you have dis-
solved vitriol, and add plantain-juice."
It was probably by the aid of similar recipes that the priestesses
of Diana Parasya, in Cappadocia, according to Strabo, -were able to
"walk barefooted over burning coals ; and the Plirpi, according to Pliny,
procured exemption from military service by renewing the same mira-
cle annually in the Temple of Apollo, on Mount Soracte. In our own
time the Arabian sect of the Aissaouas perform feats quite as astonish-
ing as those we have mentioned. The subject might afford entertaining
studies to those who are interested in finding natural ways of account-
ing for facts which have been regarded as prodigies. — Itevue Scien-
tifique.
ELECTROMAXIA.
By W. MATTIEU WILLIAMS.
A HISTORY of electricity, in order to be complete, must include
two distinct and very different subjects : the history of elec-
trical science, and a history of electrical exaggerations and delusions.
The progress of the first has been followed by a crop of the second
from the time when Kleist, Muschenbroek, and Cuneus endeavored to
bottle the supposed fluid, and in the course of these attempts stumbled
upon the " Lcyden-jar."
Dr. Lieberkuhn, of Berlin, describes the startling results which he
