THE STEREOSCOPE : ITS HIS TOBY. 45
These experiments are delightfully surprising when successfully
accomplished for the first time. They are well worth the trifling pre-
liminary trouble which they entail. But even this can be in great
measure avoided by having a photograph of the picture taken on glass.
If you will previously approach the polite photographer in your most
charmingly courteous and irresistible style, enable him to perceive the
glittering phantom cone reversed in mid-air, invite him to grasp it
and give to this " airy nothing a local habitation arid a name," and
convince him that, if not illusive, it is even more elusive than the
merry sunbeam which his camera alone can catch in all its beauty, he
will at once be lost in admiration of your magic skill and singular sa-
gacity, and instantly find it impossible to avoid preparing the wonder-
working photograph on glass. This he will smilingly present to you
in the most enthusiastic and complimentary manner, with evident
gratitude for the favor you have bestowed, and the good taste you
have exhibited in selecting him as the recijiient of your discriminating
and exclusive confidence.
The presence of the uncombined images at the sides of the bi-
nocular picture, as it stands out in solid relief, is apt to be confusing,
because their effect is partially to distract the attention. In Wheat-
stone's first experiments, he avoided them by looking through tubes,
or into a box. In any case, the methods of stereoscopy just de-
scribed, although by far the most useful in studying the principles of
binocular vision, are not usually acquired until after a few trials.
When they are once mastered, it becomes easy to discard pencils and
other points of fixation, and the voluntary muscular control of the
eyes is sufiicient for all cases. "Wheatstone gave to the world a new
revelation in both the science and the art of perspective, when, in
1838, he devised his reflecting stereoscope for the purpose of remov-
ing the difiiculties involved in stereoscopy by direct vision. Figs. 2
and 3 are exact reproductions of his draAvings, representing the front
view and ground-plan of his original stereoscope ; and, in describing
them, we can not do better than again to give his own words : "A A'
are two plane mirrors, about four inches square, inserted in frames,
and so adjusted that their backs form an angle of 90° with each other;
these mirrors are fixed by their common edge against an ujmght, B,
or against the middle line of a vertical board, cut away in such manner
as to allow the eyes to be placed before the two mirrors. C C are two
sliding boards, to which are attached the upright boards D D', which
may thus be removed to different distances from the mirrors. To
facilitate this adjustment I employ a right- and a left-handed wooden
screw, r I ; the two ends of this compound-screw pass through the
nuts e e', which are fixed to the lower parts of the upright boards D D',
80 that, by turning the screw-pin 79 one way, the two boards Avill ap-
proach, and, by turning it the other way, they will recede from each
Other ; one always preserving the same distance as the other from the
