ELECT R OMAN I A. 6 5 3
London and Birmingham Railway Station, displaying a first-class pas-
senger with a box-seat on the roof of the carriage, and followed by an
account of the trip to Boxmoor, the first installment of the London
and Northwestern Railway. It tells us that, "the time of starting
having arrived, the doors of the carriages are closed, and, by the assist-
ance of the conductors, the train is moved on a short distance toward
the first bridge, where it is met by an engine, which conducts it up
the inclined plane as far as Chalk Farm. Between the canal and this
spot stands the station-house for the engines ; here, also, are fixed the
engines which are to be employed in drawing the carriages up the
inclined plane from Euston Square, by a rope upward of a mile in
length, the cost of which was uj^ward of £400." After describing
the next change of engines, in the same matter-of-course way as the
changing of stage-coach horses, the narrative i^roceeds to say that
" entering the tunnel from broad daylight to perfect darkness has an
exceedingly novel effect."
I make these parallel quotations for the benefit of those who imag-
ine that electricity is making such vastly greater strides than other
sources of powei*. I well remember making this journey to Boxmoor,
and four or five years later traveling on a circular electro-magnetic
railway. Comparing that electric railway with those now exhibiting,
and comparing the Boxmoor trip with the present work of the London
and Northwestern Railway, I have no hesitation in affirming that the
rate of progress in electro-locomotion during the last forty years has
been far smaller than that of steam.
The leading fallacy which is urging the electro-maniacs of the
present time to their ruinous investments is the idea that electro-mo-
tors are novelties, and that electric-lighting is in its infancy ; while
gas-lighting is regarded as an old or mature middle-aged business,
and therefore we are to expect a marvelous growth of the infant and
no further progress of the adult. These excited speculators do not
appear to be aware of the fact that electric-lighting is older than
gas-lighting ; that Sir Humphry Davy exhibited the electric light in
Albemarle Street, while Loudon was still dimly lighted by oil-lamps,
and long before gas-lighting was attempted anywhere. The lamp
used by Sir Humphry Davy at the Royal Institution, at the begin-
ning of the present century, was an arrangement of two carbon pen-
cils, between which was formed the " electric arc " by the intensely
vivid incandescence and combustion of the particles of carbon passing
between the solid carbon electrodes. The light exhibited by Davy
was incomparably more brilliant than anything that has been lately
shown either in London, or Paris, or at Sydenham. His arc was four
inches in lengthy the carbon pencils were four inches apart, and a broad,
dazzling arch of light bridged the whole space between. The modern
arc-lights are but pygmies, mere specs, compared with this, a leap of one
eighth or one quarter inch constituting their maximum achievement.
