654 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Comparing the actual progress of gas and electric lighting, the gas
has achieved by far the greater strides ; and this is the case even when
we compare very recent progress. The improvements connected with
gas-making have been steadily progressive ; scarcely a year has passed
from the date of Murdoch's efforts to the present time, without some
or many decided steps having been made. The progress of electric-
lighting has been a series of spasmodic leaps, backward as well as for-
ward. As an example of stepping backward, I may refer to what the
newspapers have described as the " discoveries " of Mr. Edison, or the
use of an incandescent wire, or stick, or sheet of platinum, or platino-
iridium ; or a thread of carbon, of which the " Swan " and other mod-
ern lights are rival modifications.
As far back as 1846 I was engaged in making apparatus and ex-
periments for the purpose of turning to practical account "King's
patent electric light," the actual inventor of which was a young Amer-
ican, named Starr, who died in 1847, when about twenty-five years of
age, a victim of overwork and disappointment in his efforts to perfect
this invention and a magneto-electric machine, intended to supply the
power in accordance with some of the " latest improvements " of 1881
and 1882. I had a share in this venture, and was very enthusiastic
until after I had become practically acquainted with the siibject. We
had no difficulty in obtaining a splendid and perfectly steady light,
better than any that are shown at the Crystal Palace. We used plat-
inum, and alloys of platinum and iridium, abandoned them as Edison
did more than thirty years latei', and then tried a multitude of forms
of carbon, including that which constitutes the last "discovery" of
Mr. Edison, viz., burned cane. Starr tried this on theoretical grounds,
because cane being coated with silica, he predicted that by charring it
we should obtain a more compact stick or thread, as the fusion of the
silica would hold the carbon-particles together. lie finally abandoned
this and all the rest in favor of the hard deposit of carbon which
lines the inside of gas-retorts, some specimens of which we foimd to
be so hard that we required a lapidary's wheel to cut them into the
thin sticks.
Our final wick was a piece of this of square section, and about one
eighth of an inch across each way. It was mounted between two
forceps — one holding each end, and thus leaving a clear half-inch be-
tween. The forceps were soldered to platinum wires, one of which
passed upward through the top of the barometer-tube, expanded into
a lamp-glass at its upper part. This wire was sealed to the glass as it
passed through. The lower wire passed down the middle of the tube.
The tube was filled with mercury and inverted over a cup of mercur}\
Being thirty inches long up to the bottom of the expanded portion, or
lamp-globe, the mercury fell below this and left a Torricellian vacuum
there. One pole of the battery, or dynamo-machine, was connected
with the mercury in the cup, and the other with the upper wire. The
