ANTHROPOID MYTHOLOGY. 655
stick of carbon glowed bi'illiantly, and with perfect steadiness. I sub-
sequently exhibited this apparatus in the Town-Hall of Birmingham,
and many times at the Midland Institute, The only scientific difliculty
connected with this arrangement was that due to a slight volatilization
of the carbon, and 'its deposition as a brown film upon the lamp-glass ;
but this difficulty is not insuperable. — Knoxdedge.
ANTHEOPOID MYTHOLOGY.
By Dr. B. PLACZEK.
SHAKESPEARE in one place calls sleep the " ape of death," and
thereby gives living expression to an idea which men have at all
times entertained of their "nearest relative." As sleep to death, so
according to the vulgar view is the ape related to man. Sleep is not
quite death, and is no longer conscious life, but is something between
the two ; and man learns to regard it as a counterfeit of death. We
may say, in general, that wherever men have come into close contact
with monkeys they have acquired the same impression of them, that
they are a caricature of man, and the idea that they are a not-yet man or
a no-longer man, a human likeness of a more primitive design or one
that has suffered deformity. All of the more ancient conceptions of
the relations between men and apes thus waver between variation and
degeneration. The shape which the idea of a community of the two
principal families of primates has taken, among the partisans of cre-
ation as well as of transformism, can be followed, from divination to
empiricism, from superstition to scientific description, and it is not
strange that among all the theories of the doctrine of development
the so-called " monkey theory " has spread most rapidly and widely.
Besides the myths and legends in which the face of an ape now and
then appears— fables, the fundamental idea of which carried out by
skillful and careful minds assumes a scientific value — we meet, among
the more ancient peoples who made the anthropoid apes the subjects of
scientific disputes or invested them with religious or ritual interest, far
more important expressions of a supposed relationship of those creat-
ures with man.
The most ancient literature of the Hebrews is eminently a rich and
inexhaustible treasury of observations of nature and inquiries into it.
We, shall first concern ourselves with these, and then draw from
Arabian, Egyptian, Indian, ancient Mexican, and other stores, their
ape-lore so far as it is of scientific interest and approaches the present
conceptions of the nature of apes. Of the joint triennial voyages of
the Israelite and Phoenician fleets to Africa, 1 Kings x, 22, says :
" For the king had at sea a navy of Tarshish with the navy of Ilirara ;
