656 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
once in three years came the navy of Tarshish, bringing gold and silver,
and ivory, and apes, and peacocks." This is repeated in 2 Chronicles
ix, 21. The joint expeditions to Ophir referred to in 1 Kings ix, 27,
28, X and xi, and in 2 Chronicles ix, 10, were probably of the same
kind. The name of Tarshish (Tartessus in Spain), the most important
trading-point of the Phoenicians, had probably come into application
to designate all large merchant-vessels designed for long sea-voyages,
in whatever direction they might be accustomed to sail. The Hebrew
names for apes, Jcojim (singular Jcof), and peacocks, tuMjlm, undoubt-
edly point to an Indian derivation. For kof, ape, is in Sanski'it Jcqfi,
" the nimble," and tukij corresponds with the Malabar togai. The
apes which the sailors of those times brought back from their distant
journeys were probably Asiatic, even if the possibility is not excluded
that the Israelite-Phoenician ships occasionally touched the African
coasts and brought monkeys thence. That different kinds of monkeys
were kept by the ancient Hebrews as pets, and were also trained for
employment in household tasks, appears in numerous places in the
post-Biblical literature. Four kinds of monkeys were particularly men-
tioned : Jcof, the ape in general, where it alone is named ; when it
appears at the same time with others it perhai:»s refers to the Indian
Hanuman {Semnojnthecus entellus) / Mpxid or kipupli (regarded by
some commentators as an abbreviation of cercopithecus), a tailed ape
or baboon ; Adne-Jiasadeh, or Ahne-hasadeh, or Adam-hasadeh (ac-
cording to Bochart), or Bar-nash-ditur, corresponding with the orang-
outang or the anthropoid apes ; and Delpliih. Everywhere is a rela-
tionship of the ape with man suggested, and in the ritual casuistics
the ape is regarded as a kind of man, and so considered in view of the
religious law. At the sight of an ape or a monkey, the benediction
was uttered, " Praised be he who changes his creatures ! " — an allusion
to the belief which was found among many ancient people, especially
among the Arabs, that the ape was a degenerated form of man, or that
the latter took on the outward appearance of the ape in consequence
of moral degeneration (Talmud, B. Berachoth, 58 b.). But since the
ape to which the benediction applies is placed in the same category
with a negro, albino, or dwarf, the idea appears to underlie it that the
variation is an inborn one. The former acceptation is supported in
Berachoth 57 b., " To see an ape or a monkey in a dream is a bad
sign " ; and in Bereschit Rabba C, 23, " In the time of Enoch men
were changed into apes." Rabbi Jose taught that the corpse of an
Adne-hasadeh was unclean in the tent the same as that of a man, while
the laws in the case of the bodies of beasts were quite different. Im-
mediately afterward the same Rabbi Jose expresses the opinion that
the ape (Jiof) must be regarded as an undomcsticable or hardly domes-
ticable animal. According to him, the Adne-hasadeh stands much
nearer to man than the common ape or than any other tailed species
of ape. It appears from Joma 29 b and Menachot 100 b, that the ape
