AXTHROPOID MYTHOLOGY. 657
was employed in household tasks : " If tlie show-bread is not arranged
according to the directions upon the holy tables in the temple at Jeru-
salem, it is just as though an ape had done it." According to Idajim,
1, 5, the ape could be employed in connection with certain religious
ablutions ; but the Rabbi Jose, named above, denies him this property.
Baba Kama speaks of apes being trained to keep the house clear of
vermin ; and it is well known that they will eat the smaller animals,
such as young birds, mice, bugs, and caterpillars, as dainties.
Of the tricks of apes, Baba Kama tells of one of the animals that
stole dye-stuff and colored wool Avith it. Nedarim mentions one that
ran away and was found in a cave along with the treasures that it had
collected there. Duvaucel, Brehra, and others, say that Indian apes
steal and conceal gold, precious stones, and other bright things.
The palatableness of the milk and blood of bipeds is sjjoken of by
several Talmudic authors, and the question is suggested why, if only
men are meant, the term biped should be exceptionally used. The
glossater, A. ben David, adds the remark, " such as man " ; while Jiz-
chaki says, " Only man is meant here." The erect anthropoids may,
however, also have been in the thought of the vrriters. In exposition
of Leviticus xi, 27, "And whatsoever goeth upon his paws, among
all manner of beasts that go on all four," it is remarked in the Sifra,
51, " By these are meant the ape {Jcof), the Kqnid, and Adne-
hasadehy A. ben David says in this connection : " While the ape
resembles man in form, and has fingers on his hands and toes on his
feet like men, he is nevertheless ranked among the other animals as
unclean." In Jebamot, it is said that a deformity of a man's foot by
which the toes are bent under the sole so that he has to walk on the
back of his foot, renders him unfit for the performance of certain cere-
monies. In Moed Katon is an allusion to a funeral orator, named
Bar Kipupli (son of an ape or ape-man), who had a deformity of this
kind, and probably received his nickname in consequence of it. Robert
Ilartmann says that the chimpanzee and orang-outang go on all-fours,
bending their fingers into the hollow of their hands, and sotting the
calloused back of their hands on the ground ; and this explains why
the gait of crippled persons was called ape-like, and why the orator
was called Bar Kipuph. Sometimes we meet the cxi^ression, " like the
act of an ape," a bare imitation.
The fables of the Abne, Adne, or Adone-Juisadeh, have assumed
very strange forms. While the Talmudic and Midraist representations
of this being distinctly point to an anthropoid ape, the name of which
may appear in Job v, 23— "For thou shalt be in league with the
stones of the field ; and the beasts of the field shall be at peace wnth
thee " — where the word in the original translated stones is believed
by some to refer more properly to this animal — the interpreters and
glossaters, following the fashion of the grotesque fables of great apes,
have made a formidable monster of it. Kilajim describes it as the
VOL. sxi. — 12
