658 THE POPULAR SCIEN'CE MONTHLY.
Bar-nash-ditur (man of the mountain), which can live only through
the umbilical cord, and dies if it is broken. Maimonides says the
Adone-hasadeh are animals resembling men. Travelers wrote of the
animal that it talked much and intelligently, even with a human ai*-
ticulation. In Arabic it is called alnanas, which Buxdorf translated
vdvog, nanos, dwarf (in Talmudic nemos means shut). Clearness is
lent to the supposition that these accounts referred to apes by the fact
that E. Tison, in 1698, methodically dissected a female chimpanzee
from Angola in Africa, and called it a pygmy, comparing it with the
accounts of the ancients respecting alleged dwarf races in Ethiopia,
which races, however, modern ethnologists recognize in several real
living tribes of diminutive size. Simson asserts in a note to Kilajim,
8, 5, that he had heard that the Abne-hasadeh was the animal Jodica,
through a bone of which, according to Talmud Synhedrin 65, a, b, the
wizards mentioned in Leviticus xix, 31, and xx, 6, and in Deuteron-
omy xviii, 11, placing them in their mouths, were able to prophesy ;
" and how a great cord rises out of a root in the ground on which the
Jodua grows like a squash or melon ; his face, body, and limbs are like
those of a man, but the navel is joined to the cord that rises out of the
earth-root. Iv o being dare venture within reach of the cord, for fear of
being destroyed, and the animal devastates everything within the circle
which the cord describes. No man can approach it with safety ; and,
if any one wishes to overcome it, he must endeavor to lay hold of the
cord and break it, or shoot through it from a distance with an an-ow,
when the animal dies." We apparently have to deal here with a con-
glomeration of fables of different times and places. There are, first,
exaggerations in the sketches of the great anthropoid apes, from Ilanno
in his X)eriplus to the fanciful Du Chaillu, not to speak of the fabu-
lous impossible accounts that appear in Pliny, iElian, and other an-
cient writers. The Adne-hasadeh, or Jodua, except as to the navel-
cord, corresponds well with the authentic accounts of the gorilla as
we find them in the works of Brehm, Dr. Franquet, R. Burton, Lenz,
Giirsfeld, and Koppenfels. By means of the navel-cord we may rec-
ognize in the Adne-hasadeh a ])lant-animal, a kind of Horanetz, of
the fable of which Lewysohn, in his "Biology," introduces the follow-
ing account : " In this steppe or desert (Lesser and Great Tartary) is
found the Boranetz, or Bornitch, as some call it, a fruit as large as a
melon, having the form of a sheep (whence it gets the name of Boran,
Russian for slicej-i), with a head, feet, and snout, and, what is remark-
able, this fruit has on the outside a skin covered with white, bright,
and very finely tinted hair, firm as silk. These skins are valued very
highly by the Tartars and Russians. This Boranetz grows on a bush
three feet high, which implants itself in the navel of the sheep. The
fruit turns, like a summer flower, as if it would incline itself toward the
plants near it. They tell of it, that if the grass and plants around it
dry up, the fruit perishes for want of food and support ; and the same
