ANTHROPOID MYTHOLOGY, 659
happens if the surrounding vegetation is cut and taken a^ray green.
They say also that M'olves are very fond of the Boranetz, and that it
has within meat, blood, and bones." The Adne-hasadeh has, how-
ever, none of the lamb-like character of the Boranetz, but, on the con-
trary, a spirit averse to restraint.
I believe a slight etymological rectification will give us a clew to
the conception out of which this fable has grown. For tahnr, navel,
substitute tahaat, fundament, and from the cord connecting the navel
with a root in the ground we are led to the tail, by which the animal
hangs itself to a limb or a projecting root. The accounts of the fe-
rocity of the Adne-hasadeh need not be rejected as silly and monstrous
when we recollect how mischievous and destructive some apes are, as,
for instance, the Cynocephcdus sphyn.r, which may have stood for the
original Adne-hasadeh, and which carries desolation into fields and
gardens.
An important part is also assigned to apes in legends and parables.
" When Koah was about to lay out his vineyard, Satan came up and
asked him, ' Would you like to have me with you at the planting and
the wine-making ? ' 'I am digging,' said Noah, evasively. What did
Satan do ? He brought up a lamb, a lion, a hog, and an ape, and killed
them all in the vineyard till it was soaked with their blood. Thus it
happens that man is soft and mild as a lamb after the first draughts ;
that he feels as brave and strong as a lion when he has drunken as
much as agrees with him ; then, when he has drunk more than enough,
he becomes like a hog, disagreeable and boisterous ; and, finally, when
quite drunk, staggers and tumbles around, and makes faces, like a
monkey." Perhaps the expression " to get as tipsy as a monkey " is
derived from this. Synhedrin relates of the time of the confusion of
tongues : "At the building of the tower of Babel men divided into
three parties. One party said, ' We will go up to heaven and settle
there ' ; the second party said, 'We will pray to our gods up there' ;
and the third party said, ' We will go up and make war.' The last
were changed into apes and devils."
Seven vanities, says the " Kohelet," correspond with the seven
phases of the life of man. When he comes into the world, everything
kisses and embraces him ; from two to three years old, he is like a pig,
dirty, rooting everywhere, putting everything into his mouth ; at ten
years old he is jumping and capering about like a goat ; at twenty,
he is a horse, vain, enthusiastic, eager, looking around for a wife ; when
he takes a wife, he becomes an ass, bears burdens, and if he has
children he is harassed like a dog to support them ; and, Avhen old, he
becomes capricious and irritable, like an ape." A later writer, Salome
Ibn Verga, toward the end of the fifteenth centurj'-, describes the
course of all things and beings as follows : " The coral forms the tran-
sition between the mineral and the vegetable kingdom, the sponge be-
tween the vegetable and the animal, and the ape is the intermediate
