66o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
member between the animal and the man." Jalkut Reubeni remarks,
" The ape veils itself before man as man does in the presence of the
Shekinah." We recognize in this view the law brought into vogue by-
Leibnitz, and extended by Bonnet, of the continuous graded ascent of
created beings. Finally, it is proper to state here that, according to
the agadistic view, the primitive man as well as the ape, for the most
part, lived only on vegetable food. "Flesh-eating was forbidden to
Adam as well as to all his posterity till the time of Noah," say Le-
kachtob, Synhedrin, Jalkut Chadash, and Sefer Chassidim.
While the references to apes in the ancient writings of the
Hebrews are generally of a matter-of-fact character, the stories and
delineations by the ancient Arabians have, as a rule, a romantic
stamp. The ape-men Nesnas, which Maimonides believes to mean the
Adne-hasadeh, play a conspicuous part in the Arabian travelers' sto-
ries, their romances, and their theology. I may state here that the ape
is called in modern Arabic Nesnas or Nasnas. A Mohammedan tradi-
tion runs : Ibn Abbas said : " Men (Nas) have perished and the Nes-
nas are left." He was asked, "What are Nesnas?" and he replied,
" Creatures which are like men and are still not men." Al-Gauhari
defines the Nesnas as " creatures that hop on one leg." The Nesnas
are very fully described by Al-Kazrwini as animals of a half-human
figure which serve the people as food. They have half a body, half a
head, a hand, and a leg, as if they were men split in two. This idea is,
I believe, only the too literal and hyperbolical carrying out of the
description of an ape as half a man. Wiistenfeld translates Nesnas by
" one-legged creature," and deduces from citations which he makes,
that God changed men into Nesnas as a punishment. The Koran, Su-
rah ii, says : "You know what happened to those among you who pro-
faned the Sabbath. We said to them, be apes and be excluded from
human society, in order that they might be an example for the present
and the future, and a warning to the pious." The Nesnas were said to
be Shemites, and descended from Shem's son Ilasim ; to speak Arabic,
and to have Arabic personal names Ibn Ajjas, in his cosmogra}»hy,
describes the Nesnas as creatures with one eye, one ear, and one leg.
Majudi gives a similar description and adds, that they rise out of the
sea. The Nesnas killed such men as they could catch.
According to another view, the Nesnas were identical with Gog and
Magog. Arabian historians speak of an invasion by a pygmy people
called Nesnas into Southern Arabia — a tradition which is referred by
Fresnel to the irruption of the Roman legions. The question is raised
in the casuistics of Mohammedan ritual, whether it is riglit to eat the
flesh of the Nesnas. As a rule such food is absolutely forbidden. Al
Tabbarii permits it, because aquatic animals are generally not for-
bidden. Wahrmund defines the Nesnas as a " large ape, an orang-
outang, a chimpanzee ; a one-armed and one-legged satyr that hops
fast." Muhis-al-Muhis of Albustani says : " It is related in tradition
