THE CHINESE: THEIR MANNERS AND CUSTOMS. 683
unity and affection. The ladies, too, in China as "svell as elsewhere,
indulge in a little fashionable crying on the occasion, and so the rela-
tives of the bride spend the morning with her, weeping over her im-
pending departure, or, more probably, their own spinsterhood. They
do not, however, forget to bring some contributions for her trousseau.
In the evening comes the bridegroom with a whole army of his friends,
a procession of lanterns, a long red cloth or silk tapestry embroidered
with a figure of the dragon, borne on a pole between two men, and a
large red sedan covered with carving and gilding, and perfectly close.
In this the bride is packed up securely out of sight, and the whole
procession, preceded by a band of music and the dragon and closing
with the bride's bandboxes, starts for home. On arrival she is lifted
over the threshold, on which a pan of charcoal is burning, probably in
order to prevent her bringing any evil influence in with her. She then
performs the Jcotou to her husband's father and mother, worships the
ancestral tablets of her new family, and offers prepared betel-nut to
the assembled guests. Up to this time she has been veiled, but she
now retires to her chamber, where she is unveiled by her husband ;
she then returns, again performs obeisance to the assembled guests,
and partakes of food in company with her husband ; at this meal two
cups of wine, one sweetened, the other with bitter herbs infused in it,
are drunk together by the newly married pan-, to symbolize that hence-
forth they must share together life's sweets and bitters. The bride
then retires, escorted by the matrons present, some one of whom re-
cites a charm over her, and arranges the marriage-couch. The next
morning the gods of the household and the hearth are worshiped, and
the six following days are devoted to formal receptions at home of
different members of the two families or equally formal visits paid to
the family of the bride. During the whole of this period she still
travels in her red-and-gold sedan, and is still escorted by her band of
music and dragon.
Such are the ceremonies with which the chief or number one wife
is espoused, and of this rank there can be but one. Taste and depth
of pocket give the only limit to the number of subsidiary "wives that
may be taken. These are married with far less ceremony than the
first, are often from a different class of society, being literally pur-
chased, and act to a certain extent as servants or attendants to the
chief wife. They are, however, legal wives, with recognized rights
and position ; their children are legitimate, and inherit in equal shares
with those of the first wife. Indeed, this last is considered as the
mother of the whole family, and the children are bound to display
toward her more reverence than even toward their natural parent.
But even in the Flowery Land, people sometimes find that the bit-
ter predominates over the sweet in the cups of alliance, and that the
geese borne in the marriage procession are emblematical of something
else besides domestic affection. In a word, they occasionally want to
