684 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
be unmarried. And really they have made a very fair provision for
enablino- themselves to loose the knot. Not only do they admit such
grounds of divorce as would satisfy Sir Cresswell Cresswell, but they
add to them inveterate infirmity, disrespect to the husband's parents,
thieving, and, most comprehensive class of all, ill-temper and talka-
tiveness. However, if the husband has acquired property since his
marriage, if the wife has no parental home to which she may return,
or if she has mourned for her husband's parents, divorce can not take
place. It is one of the many exemplifications of the Chinese maxim
that the laws should be severe, but tempered with mercy in their ad-
ministration.
There is, however, another dissolution of marriage over which law
has no power — that which is effected by the hand of death. The
widow is not forbidden to remarry, but by so doing she loses many
privileges, and her conduct is considered somewhat light and irregu-
lar. Nature, however, will occasionally speak louder than fashion,
and it may be worth while to repeat the tale told by Chwangtsze, the
great Chinese philosopher.
A Chinaman died soon after his marriage with a young and lovely
woman. As he was dying, the wife was loud in her protestations of
grief, and her determination not to marry again. The husband was
not unreasonable ; he only asked that if she did take another spouse
she would wait till the earth upon his grave was dry. He died and
was buried ; and m.any a young and handsome bachelor of the prov-
ince of Shantung was present at his funeral. She listened to no
suitor, for woman's heart is tender, and she could not so soon forget
the lost one. Daily she stole to his grave. She wept, but no tear
fell upon the soil, she took good care of that. At last, after a few
days, Chwangtsze happened to pass, and saw her fanning, not herself,
but the damp earth. He asked the reason. She told him of her hus-
band's last request, and begged him to assist her. She offered him a
fan to assist her, and there they sat to fan away the moisture : the
grave was so long a-drying !
Poor Chwang ! He was not much more lucky h.imsclf. He did
not take the widow, but neither did he take warning. The geese
were carried for him, and were very typical of JilmseJf. He had
nothing to do for it at last but to quit political life, in which he had
gained some distinction, and turn philosopher. But we will have "no
more scandal about Queen Elizabeth," lest rosy English checks should
take the part of China's golden lilies, as we have known widows at
home almost in as great a hurry as those of the province of Shantung.
But even to the poor Chinaman death must come at last, even
though there is no paper in Canton, so far as we know, to furnish a
notice of his life and death, and to publish an abstract of his will, as
is the case in more civilized countries. To him it comes armed with
few terrors, so long as he leaves behind him male offspring to make
