THE CHIXESE: THEIR MANJS^ERS AA^D CUSTOMS. 685
the prescribed offerings at his tomb. "We have stood by many a
Chinese death-bed, and though the dying man might " prattle o' green
fields," and fancy himself once more surrounded by his friends amid
the peach-groves of Hiang Shan, while his frail body was tossing on
the stormy waves of the Indian Ocean, yet there was no sign of dread
with regard to the future that awaited him. But there, far out at
sea, there was no opportunity for witnessing the ritual of death But
one brief hour after the eye has glazed, and the jaw has fallen, the
canvas-shrouded and shotted corpse takes its last plunge into the
blue ocean depths, without a prayer, without a rite save the few cash
sprinkled by his remaining comrades over his watery tomb.
On shore a very different spectacle is presented. As the last hour
draws near, the relatives wander round the house with cries, the gong
is incessantly beaten, and packet after packet of fire-crackers gives
out its short, sharp series of detonations, sounding like irregular
platoon-firing, to frighten away the evil spirits supposed to be watch-
ing round the house to seize the departing soul ; while, within, upon
the filming eye the smoke of the ever-burning incense mingles with
death's gray shadow. The eye has closed, the spirit has departed, and
now every door and window is flung wide oj^en, and the " keen " rises
wildly to recall the wandering guest to its deserted tenement. And
now the death is announced to all the relatives ; the door is hung with
white drapery, and down each lintel hangs a scroll of white, on which
appear funereal inscriptions in blue. Large blue-and-white lanterns
are hung on either side of the entrance, and probably a bamboo
portico, thatched with matting, is erected to preserve lanterns, inscrip-
tions, and garlands from the weather. Should it be a parent who has
passed away, two figures of the stork, the emblem of longevity, appear
amid the decorations. The relatives of the deceased, robed in white,
and with white cloths bound about their heads, now go in procession
to the nearest spring or river ; before them is supported the nearest
heir of the deceased, wearing a white veil, showing signs of the deep-
est affliction, and bearing in his hand a bowl in which are two copper
coins, whose united value is about half a farthing. This company,
uttering the most dismal howls, and having in its train musicians
whose performances are scarcely less doleful, has gone to purchase
water to wash the dead. This ceremony having been performed, the
body is dressed as in life, and placed in its cofiin, which has previously
been half-filled with quicklime. The lid is then put on, and cemented
down, the whole of it being afterward highly polished, and the name
of the deceased inscribed upon it.
The cofiin, it may be as well to remark, is not a slight shell like
those in use among us, but is either a hollowed tree or made in the
form of one — the sides being rounded, and five or six inches in thick-
ness. They are formed of very hard and costly woods, reaching oc-
casionally the price of five hundred pounds. A handsome cofiin is
