SKETCH OF THOMAS SAT. 689
In 1816 he projected a work on American entomology, and in
the next year six plates and the accompanying text were printed,
but, from a lack of proper pecuniary support, the project for the
time fell through, and the work was not properly published until a
later date. In 1817 William Maclure and several other men of influ-
ence and property joined the academy, and through their efforts the
" Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia " was
started, and Say began his long list of contributions to knowledge.
Xo complete list of his papers has been published, but the number
aggregates nearly one hundred.
In 1818 Say, in company with "William Maclure, George Ord, and
Titian R. Peale, visited Georgia and Florida on a collecting expedition,
and in the next year Say received an appointment as naturalist on
Long's expedition to the Rocky Mountains, with Peale as an assistant.
Peale is now the only survivor of either expedition, and at a ripe old
age continues his scientific labors. The writer has heard many an
anecdote of these trips from him. Long's expedition left Pittsburg,
Pennsylvania, in May, on a steamboat built for the purpose, and pro-
ceeded as far as Council Bluffs, Iowa, where they spent the winter.
During the next year they went to the Rocky Mountains, and, return-
ing by another route, broke up at Cape Girardeau, Missouri, in No-
vember. Say appears to have been unfortunate on this expedition.
At one time he was in charge of a party of five, making a trip on foot,
when the j^ack-horse broke loose, and they lost both horse and bag-
gage. Later, in charge of another party, he fell in with a number of
Kansas Indians, and again lost horses, baggage, and camp equipments.
The narrative of Long's expedition was published in two octavo vol-
umes and folio atlas (Philadelphia, 1823), and some of Say's descrip-
tions of the animals and "animal remains found in a concrete state"
were given in foot-notes scattered through both volumes.
After the disruption of the l)arty, Say, in company with one or
two others, went to Xew Orleans, and soon returned to Philadelphia. . .,
His next trip was with Long's second expedition, which explored \i^
the sources of the Mississippi River ; but, with the exception of this^?'*^;" 1
and one or two minor expeditions, the next few years were spent in/' \)'^^
Philadelphia. V H.'
In 1825 Say left his native city, never to return. William Maclure,
who was a man of wealth and refinement, but considerably eccentric
withal, had an idea that the " community system " was the true way
of living, and, unlike some other dreamers, he proceeded to put his
plans into execution. A large tract of land was purchased at New
Harmony, Indiana, and there the community was started. Numbers
of people, among them Thomas Say, Gerard Troost, and C. A. Lesueur,
influenced by the arguments of the projectors and the glowing accounts
of the happy life to be led by a people possessing all things in common
and working for a common good, removed themselves and theirs to
vol.. XXI. — 4t
