690 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
this modem Utopia. The community, however, did not prosper ; in-
ternal dissensions, as might have been expected, sprang up, and the
aid of the courts was invoked. Maclure, utterly disgusted, went to
Mexico, and left Say at New Harmony as his agent, to attend to the
settling of the affairs of the community. This was not an agreeable
task, but, without other means of support, Say was obliged to accept,
and continued in this position until his death. This stay at New Har-
mony was not a period of scientific idleness on the part of Say, as the
numerous contributions which proceeded from his pen attest.
At his death his collections and library came into the possession of
the Philadelphia Academy. The insects were submitted to another
entomologist for arrangement, but through an unpardonable neglect
were allowed to go to complete ruin before their return to the academy,
and the types of hundreds of species were thus irrevocably lost. The
remainder of his types are principally the property of the Philadelphia
Academy, where they are as religiously preserved with his own labels
as are those of Linne and Fabricius in London, or of Herbst in Berlin.
The number of new species which Say described has probably never
been exceeded, except in the cases of those two exceedingly careless
workers, John Edward Gray and Francis Walker, of the British Mu-
seum. There is this in Say's favor, which can not be said of the two
just mentioned, that his descriptions are, almost without exception,
easily recognized, and almost every form which he described is now
well known. Working as he did without books, and without that
traditional knowledge which obtains among the Continental workers,
it was unavoidable that he should redescribe forms which were known
before ; but, owing to the clear insight he possessed, and the dis-
crimination he exercised in selecting the important features of the
form before him, his work has never caused that confusion in syn-
onymy which many in much more favorable circumstances have pro-
duced.
Say's work was almost wholly the scientific description of the
forms which came under his eye, and there is scarcely anything in his
writings concerning the habits of animals, or which appeals in the
slightest to the popular taste, and his language frequently is not of
chaste and classic character. An extract from his "American Ento-
mology" will illustrate this : "During the progress of Major Long's
expedition up the Missouri, that enterprising and excellent officer in-
trusted me with the direction of a small party of thirteen persons,
destined to explore the country on the south side of that extended
river. After encountering many obstacles and privations, Avhich it is
unnecessary to enumerate, the party arrived at the village of the
Konza Indians, hungry, fatigued, and out of health. Commiserating
our situation, these sons of nature, although suffering under the injus-
tice of white people, received lis with their characteristic hospitality,
and ameliorated our condition by the luxuries of repletion and repose.
