EXTERTAIXIXG VARIETIES. 693
the names of the booksellers in whose shops he used to lounge. Martial refers
a shabby fellow called Lupercus (who wanted to borrow his epigrams) to his
bookseller Atrectus. He tells him the shop is " opposite the forum of Caesar,
and placards are posted outside giving the names of poets," endently as is the
custom of booksellers to this day. The price of the volume — the first book of his
epigrams — he says is five denarii, equivalent to three shillings and sixpence ster-
ling. Now, this first book contains one hundred and nineteen epigrams, or over
seven hundred verses. It appears elsewhere that cheaper copies were provided.
Martial refers to copies well rubbed with pumice and adorned with purple. The
cheaper copies could be had at half that price, but tliis was in the best style.
So that if we compare the price with the published price in Eugland of " Maud,"
or any of the original small volumes of Tennyson's poems, which were issued at
five or six shillings, the Roman publisher does not seem to be much dearer than
the English one.
The first evidence on record of an aufhors right of copy is in the case
of '"Paradise Lost." This transaction is usually misrepresented. The bargain
Avas that Simmons was to pay £5 cash, £5 more when thirteen hundred copies
were sold, and £5 each for the second and third editions. It took seven years
to sell the first thirteen hundred copies, and in 16S0 Milton's widow sold her
interest for £8 more.
In reference to his conversion, Sir Charles Li/cll snjs: "The question
of the origin of species gave me much to think of, and you may well believe that
it cost rae a struggle to renounce my old creed. One of Darwin's reviewers put
the alternative strongly by asking ' whether we are to believe that man is modi-
fied mud or modified monkey.' The mud is a great come-down from the 'arch-
angel ruined.' Even in ten years I expect, if I live, to hear of great progress
in regard to ' fossil man.' "
Broderip says that, in spite of all the dogs and cats which float down
the Thames, none of their remains bave been found in recent excavations in the
Thames deposits.
An Earthly Paradise. — Unless the Garden of Eden was planted in the
very happiest latitude, the work of the gods seems for once to have been ex-
celled by the achievement of a mortal. Toward the end of the tenth century,
Abderrahman III, the Caliph of Cordova, conceived the idea of turning a whole
mountain-range into a pleasure-park. On the heights of the Sierra de Peflas he
built the famous Ilischam Russava, the summer-castle, Avith a pedestal of mas-
sive terraces girt with lakes and artificial cascades. The western slope of the
Sierra, according to Ibn Caldir, an area of forty square leagues, was planted with
all the trees known to the Arabian botanists — palms, laurels, chestnuts, oaks,
and mountain-firs — all ranged in groves at different altitudes, according to the
higher or lower latitude of their natural habitats. Ship-loads of foreign plants
were landed at the harbor of Alicante, and the transport of these botanic cargoes
is said to have employed sixty caravans for more than four years. " Not Shiraz,
nor Araby the Blest, had such a wealth of odoriferous shrubs," says the his-
torian ; roses trained into trees, copses of lilac and jasmine-bushes loaded tlie
air with perfume, and the Cordova gardeners seem to have known a method for
ripening winter crops without hot-houses, for the orchards of the lower slopes
furnished a perennial supply of fresh fruit. On the upper levels the Caliph had
his game-preserves in vast plantations of pinaletes, a sort of Alpine fir that
formed almost impenetrable thickets, while the highest crest of the Sierra was
