694 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
laid out in pleasure-walks, mountain-meadows alternating witli groups of cedar-
trees and rocky altamiras or lookout-places. Special buildings had been pro-
vided for the acclimatization, or rather localization, of whole colonies of singing-
birds, which were bred in-doors for a number of years till they were tame
enough to be trusted at large. From the summer-palace, at an elevation of
three thousand feet over the level of the Guadalquivir, an avenue led down to
the east gate of Cordova by such nice gradations that the road-bed seemed to bo
a perfect level, and from various directions shady trails, apparently artless, but
equally Avell graded, wound up to the summit of the mouutain-range, where the
Caliph had an astronomical observatory.
Landgrave Wilhehu of Hesse-Cassel built his mountain-palace on the pro-
ceeds of six thousand of his faithful subjects, sold to England at sixty-five pounds
apiece, but Abderrahman III had no need of killing his fowls to get their eggs.
During the reign of the first three caliphs, Cordova was, next to Bagdad, the
richest city of the world ; the valley of the Guadalquivir contained thirty-six
towns and eighteen hundred prosperous villages, and the contemporary his-
torians of the West vie in extolling the beauty and luxuriance of tlie Boscdl, the
orchard-region that surrounded the Moorish capital with a wreath of evergreen
gardens.
The Sierra de Peiias is now a naked rock, Cordova a labyrinth of ruins, in-
fested with pigs and begging friars, and the observatory of the impious Uni-
tarians has been turned into a shrine of San Isidro. The Boscal has become a
sandy desert, but on the south side of the river there are still some good bottom-
lands, and the thrice-blessed cherry-trees of the orthodox peasants continue to
yield an excellent kind of brandy.
Starting a New Religion. — Professor Seeley remarks, in his new book on
" Natural Eeligion " : " It is said that the theophilanthropist Larevellere-Lepeaux
once confided to Talleyrand his disappointment at the ill-success of his attempt
to bring into vogue a sort of improved Christianity, a benevolent rationalism
which he had invented to meet the wants of a skeptical age. ' His propaganda
made no way,' he said. 'What was he to do?' he asked. The ex-bishop
politely condoled with him, feared it was indeed a difiicult task to found a new
religion, more difficult than could be imagined — so difficult that he hardly knew
what to advise. ' Still ' — so he went on after a moment's reflection — ' there is
one plan which you might at least try: I sliould recommend you to he crucified
and rise again on the third day ! ' "
Seeley on Theological Differences. — "Why should we be so willful as to
forget that the error of monstrously overestimating doctrinal differences has
been all along the plague of theology? There can be no greater mistake than to
measure the real importance of a dispute by the excitement of the disputants.
It has often been remarked of theological controversies that they are never con-
ducted more bitterly than when the difference between the rival doctrines is
very small. This is nearly correct, but not quite. If you want to see the true
white heat of controversial passion, if you want to see men fling away the very
thought of reconciliation and close in internecine conflict, you should look at
controversialists who do not differ at all, but who have adoptt-d different words
to express the same opinion."
Origin of the Aral) Ilorse. — Letter of the Emir Abd-el-Kader, from
"The Horses of the Sahara," by General E. Dumas, 1857:
" Pi-aise be to the one God !
