696
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
EDITOR'S TABLE.
WEALTHY SCIENTIFIC INVESTIGA TORS.
THE appearance of Sir John Lub-
bock's remarkable book on " Ants
and Bees" Las awakened some inter-
esting discussion as to why there are
not more such authors, and why, espe-
cially, we have no representatives of
the class in this country. Sir John
Lubbock is a man of wealth, who could,
if he pleased, " enjoy " his liberal
means — that is, spend his time in dig-
nified idleness or elegant amusement;
but he finds his pleasure, on the con-
trary, in all kinds of hard work, and,
although he takes abundant relaxation,
he never wastes an hour. The " Scien-
tific American " remarks that ve have
a wealthy, idle class of men, who have
no need to labor with baud or head,
and who are free from every care.
But, impelled by fashion, hundreds of
such young men are to-day scouring the
Adirondacks, or shooting the rapids of
the St. Lawrence, and boring themselves
to death in quest of amusement, because
" it is quite the thing, you know."
Here is the material from which natu-
ralists a -d independent investigators of
nature ought to be recruited in this
country.
To such men Sir John Lubbock has
set a noble example. Something — much,
indeed, is to be first of all allowed to
genius, but more is to be allowed to a
dominant purpose, and the unremitting
assiduity wliich is pleasurable when
there is a cultivated interest in the sub-
ject. There is an all-sided activity in
this case wliich is quite remarkable.
To begin with. Sir John Lubbock is by
profession a banker, and so thoroughly
a man of business as to be not only a
successful money-maker, but a leading
reformer of the English banking sys-
tem, llis important work in this direc- ,
tion is thus well summed up in the
" Whitehall Eeview " :
He has made two great landmarks in the
history of banking ^Yhich -will always be
associated with Ms name. One of these is
the bank holiday ; the other, the institution
of the clearing-house of country banks, by
wliich the benefits long known in the city
of London were extended to all parts of the
country. All tlie honors that the banking
world could confer upon him have been lib-
erally bestowed. lie is the president of the
Institute of Bankers, with its two thoiisand
members, and holds the peculiar and remark-
able position of honorary secretary of the
London Association of Bankers. He is thus
the medium between the banks and the Gov-
ernment, and the chosen ex^'onent of the
views of bankers in relation to Government.
Then, he has instituted a system of examina-
tion for bankei-s' clerks corresponding to the
civil-service examinations. Sir John was a
member of the International Coinage Com-
mittee appointed by Government, and he is
the author of a great variety of papers in
financial literature.
And yet all this is but tiie subordi-
nate and incidental part of Sir John
Lubbock's work, lie is pre-eminently
a scientific investigator, and it is as
such that he will be chiefly known in
the future. A sagacious, patient, plod-
ding observer of minute phenomena,
he is at the same time a comprehensive
original thinker, and had made a world-
Avide reputation by his researches into
prehistoric archaeology before he en-
tered upon the systematic study of the
social hymenoptera, the results of
which are but just published.
If, now, we press the question why
there are not more such men, particu-
larly in this country, in tiie ranks of
science, and heli)ing forward its work,
it will be an evasion to answer that it
is for lack of native capacity or the
talent for such labor. "We have plenty
of this good mind running to waste
