THE STEREOSCOPE : ITS HISTORY. 47
and about sound-waves before tbe telephone came into existence. To
him distinctly belongs the credit of objectively demonstrating the
essential features of binocular vision, with the first instrument act-
ually consti'ucted in accordance with principles which possibly others
might have applied, if they had possessed equal clearness of concep-
tion and fertility of invention. So slight was the general appreciation
of the fact that the two retinal images in binocular vision are dissimi-
lar, that Wheatstone made this discovery independently, and then
added the application which others had failed to make, but without
the knowledge that any one had preceded him in even forming the
conception. The originality of his discovery is not affected by the
unemphatic statements afterward found to have been recorded by
those who pi'eceded him in thought but not in act.
One of these predecessors was Mr. James Elliot, of Edinburgh,
who, "previous to or during the year 1834, had resolved to construct
an instrument for uniting two dissimilar pictures." By delay he lost
the golden opportunity, which, without envy or knowledge of his ex-
istence, was snatched away from him by Wheatstone. Not until 1839
did Elliot construct the instrument which he had contemplated. It
was simply a wooden box, open at the extremities, so that a pair of
conjugate pictures on glass could be placed at one end, and all light
except that which was transmitted through them could be excluded
from the eyes placed at the other end. He was not aware of Wheat-
stone's invention, which indeed did not become generally known for a
Fig. 7.— Brewster's Stereoscoi'E, 1849.
number of years after its completion, because not adapted for general
use, and because no other means than free-hand drawing existed for
the accurate preparation of the conjugate pictures. Those employed
by Wheatstone were outlines of various geometric solids. Elliot's
first stereograph was a landscape, represented in Fig. 5, which is a
