EDITOR'S TABLE.
697
that might do invaluable service in
the extension and diffusion of scien-
tific knowledge. The difficulty is a
lack of sufficient interest in such things
to resist other solicitations. We do
not begin early enough with the study
of science to form deep, persistent con-
trolling impressions. Other subjects
get the start, and the loss of ground
can not be subsequently recovered. Sir
John Lubbock recognizes that this is a
great deficiency of education in Eng-
land, and he has again and again brought
forward measures in Parliament for
extending and rationalizing scientific
study in the primary schools, so as to
lay a better foundation for this mental
pursuit in later life. We suffer sorely
from the same neglect. Our primary-
school science is not genuine; it is
book-science, and awakens no feeling
or enthusiasm for the study of natural
things. Our rich young men, however
nominally educated, have never serious-
ly taken bold of the study of nature,
and, of course, care nothing about it.
Intellectual ambition, therefore — and
we have plenty of that — takes other di-
rections. Two unregulated and over-
whelming passions in this country stifle
the growth of science: the intense and
absorbing passion for wealtli, and the
universal infatuation for polities. These
are great national diseases, not peculiar
to America, but malignant in America,
and the state of mind they engender
makes the systematic cultivation of
scientific thought next to impossible.
Ilence our education issues in money-
making and politics as exclusive pas-
sions, with no cherished intellectual
interests to counteract and restrain
them. When our early scientific edu-
cation becomes more perfected and
better organized, so that a strong inter-
est in the study of nature shall be en-
kindled in the minds of the young, we
may then hope that American young
men of affluence will be more inclined
to seek their gratification in some of
the varied and inexhaustible pursuits
of scientific knowledge. As tlie'- Sci-
entific American " truly remarks :
We have men of brains, of leisure, and of
means, seeking in vain for some new way of
getting rid of the most valuable thing on
earth — time. But they arc of no use to us
or to science ; kt them finish their days as
they have begun, let them Usten to a few
law lectures that they do not understand, or
join some political party and set up for states-
men if they have money enough to buy an
otfiee. But shall this thing go on for ever?
Is it not possible to cut otf, in part at least,
the source of supply by turning it to other
channels ? Many of these young men who
have now no thought beyond the morrow,
no higher ambition than to color a meer-
schaum, were boys once — real, genuine, in-
quisitive boys. Then their powers of obser-
vation were capable of cultivation, then a
love of nature could have been implanted in
their souls, and life would have been bright-
ened by an object, and one worthy of a life-
long pursuit. When teachers cease to hold
up as models those great men who, like Lin-
coln and Garfield, have risen from poverty
and obscurity to the presidencj", and point
with pride to the boys who, in spite of
wealth and luxury, have had the courage and
perseverance to do a noble act by devoting
their time, money, and talents (for some rich
boys have genius as well as poor ones) to the
study of nature, when teachers begin to have
common sense, we may hope to see some of
this valuable material rescued from its pres-
ent doivmvard course. Eicli men are not all
fools, and there are some who would take
pride in a son who, although he might not
be a Leidy or a Lubbock, a Dar-(\-in or a
Dawson, should be able to associate on terms
of scientific equality with men of that class.
BEECEER Oy THEOLOGY AXD EVOLU-
TION.
The first article in the "N'orth
American Review "for x\ugust — an ex-
cellent number — is by Henry Ward
Beecher, on "The Progress of Thought
in the Church." It is an independent,
a powerful, and a most significant dis-
cussion, Avliich we recommend every-
body to read. We shall not attempt to
make any statement of the argument,
and only call attention to the large
and hearty recognition of science as an
agency for the purification of religion.
