698
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The progress of thought in the Churcli
is forcibly shown to be a result of the
progress of science outside the Church.
The distinction between religion and
theology is not new, but Mr. Beecher
shows that it is wide and deep, and
that religion must unload theology or
sink witli it. The doctrine of evolution
is not only broadly accepted, but its
coming is hailed as the greatest event
of modern religious progress. It is des-
tined to do what nothing else could so
effectually do to sweep out of the way
and into oblivion the great body of old
orthodox theological dogma, by which
the human mind has been perverted and
enslaved for ages. We quote two or
three passages, which will illustrate the
positions taken by Mr. Beeelier. After
a brief but vivid statement of the work-
ing of the law of evolution upward
through the various spheres of natural
phenomena, until man and his higher
development are reached, Mr. Beecher
says:
At this point there is a halt. It is perhaps
the most revolutionary tenet ever advanced.
It will be to theology what Newton's discov-
eries were to the old astronomy. The repug-
nance that men feel at descending along such
a road, and with such an ancestry, would
foam and subside in a short time. It is not
the retrospect, hut the prospect, which gives
such almost universal hesitation to the mind
and imagination of mere scientific moralists.
Its admission would be fatal to the theoiy of
a plenary and verbal inspiration of the Bible
still held by some. The first two chapters
of Genesis have been a sword in the hands
of theologues of old with which to fight
the discoveries of modern astronomy. Next
they were sharpened against the advent of
geology. In both conflicts God prevailed
and the truth was \nctorious. Now again,
but upon a more tremendous issue, theology
resists evolution. It is an honest resistance.
To admit the truth of evolution is to yield up
th.e reigning theology ; it is to change the
whole notion of man's origin, his nature, the
problem of human life, the philosophy of
morality, the theory of sin, the structure of
moral government as taught in the dominant
theologies of the Christian world, tlie fall of
man in Adam, the doctrine of original sin,
tlic nature of sin, and the method of atoning
for it. The decrees of God as set forth in the
confession of faith, and the machinery sup-
posed to be set at work for man's redemption,
the very nature and disposition of God — as
taught in the falsely called Pauline but really
Augustinian tlieology, popularly known as
Calvinistic — must give way.
The dread of Darwinian views is sincere ;
yet a secret fear prevails that they may be
true. But have men considered what a relief
they will be from some of the most disgrace-
ful tenets of theology ? Are they content to
guard and defend a terrific scheme which ^
sullies the honor, the justice, and the love of
God against a movement that will cleanse the
abomination and vindicate the ways of God
to m;m ? Even if the great truth of evohition
led to unbelief, it could not be so bad as that
impious and malignant representation of God
and his government which underlies aU me-
diaaval and most of modern theology. W'e
shall quote from the Presbyterian Confession
of Faith the account given by the Church of
the origin of man and of his moral govern-
ment, in the light of which the scientific ac-
count of tlie origin of man and tlie nature
of sin is as health to sickness, as life to death.
Instead of dreading the prevalence of the sci-
entific doctrine. Christian men should rush
toward it with open arms and exultation as a
release from the hideous nightmare of ages.
The tendency of recent scientific re-
searches and disclosures respecting the mind
of man and his origin and nature will be liar
more pronoxuiced upon the theories of the-
ology than upon the itisiitutiohs of religion.
Christian churches are legitimate organiza-
tions for the development of religious emo-
tion and for the application of truth to our
daily life. Those churches which are organ-
ized for devotion will be less disturbed than
academical churches which have hitherto
aimed only to expound and defend a creed.
But chm'chcs wliosc genius it is to develop
religious thought, as distinguished from re-
ligious emotion, will gradually change, and
the devotional element will take the place
largely of the theologic, and the ethical the
place of the philosophical.
"When the creeds of the past era have
passed away, we shall enter upon the creeds
of a new era. These will diflfer not alone in
their contents from former doctrinal stand-
ards, but they will dilfer in the very genius
and method of construction. Our reigning
creeds begin with God, witli moral govern-
ment, with the scheme of the universe, with
the great, invisible realm beyond. These
are the weakest places in a creed, because
the matters they contain are least within tho
