LITERARY XOTICES.
699
reach of human reason, and because the al-
leged revelations from God upon them are
the most scanty and uncertain. The creeds
of the future will begin where the old ones
ended : upon the nature of man, his condi-
tion on earth, liis Bocial duties and civil obli-
gations, the development of his reason, his
spiritual nature, its range, possibilities, edu-
cation — the doctrine of the human reason, of
the emotions, of the will — man as an iudi-
\'idual, man social and collective ; and, from
a sound knowledge of the nature of mind,
developed within the scope of our experience
and observation, we shall deduce conceptions
of the great mind — the God idealized from
our best ascertainments — in the sphere with-
in which our faculties were created to act
with certainty of knowledge. Our creeds
will ascend from the known to the unknown,
which is the true law and method of acquir-
ing knowledge. Hitherto they have expend-
ed their chief force upon that which is but
dimly knoi«-n.
THE DAR WIN MEMORIAL.
A MOVEMENT has been started in
EDgland to get up some kind of a me-
morial in honor of Mr. Cliarles Darwin.
The English Executive Committee has
requested tlie following American gen-
tlemen to co-operate with them in pro-
moting the object: Asa Gray, chair-
man ; Spencer F. Baird, James D. Dana,
(yharles W. Eliot, D. C. Gilman, James
Hall, Joseph Le Conte, Joseph Leidy,
O. C. Marsh, S. Weir Mitchell, Simon
Xewcomb, Charles Eliot Norton, Fran-
cis A. Walker, Theodore D. Woolsey ;
Alexander Agassiz, Treasurer. Sub-
scriptions may be sent to Alexander
Agasiiz, Cambridge, Massachusetts,
who will acknowledge the same and
forward them to the Treasurer of the
English Executive Committee of the
Darwin Memorial.
The American committee, in their
circular, without date, say that the form
which the memorial is to take has not
yet been decided ; it will probably in-
clude an endowment for a scholarship
to carry on biological research. Noth-
ing could be more appropriate to the
character of the man whose memory is
to be honored than thus to link his
name with the progress of knowledge
in the field which he has done so much
to make his own. But the " Athe-
nfcum " announces that the memorial
will take the customary form of a mar-
ble statue, and that the trustees of the
British Museum will be asked to place
it in the large hall of the museum at
South Kensington. The English sub-
scriptions are reported as amounting
to $12,500. The United Kingdom will
probably be able without help to pay
for a marble statue ; and would it not
be well for the American committee to
entertain the idea of doing something
independently in this country ? The en-
dowment for a biological scholarship, if
abandoned in England, might well be
taken up here.
LITERARY NOTICES.
A Geographical Reader. Compiled and
arranged by James Johonnot, author of
" Country School-Houses." New York :
D. Appleton k Co. Pp. 416. Price,
81.25.
The compiler bcHeves that it is no dis-
advantage for the reading-lessons given to
the pupil in school to be primarily directed
to some subject of thought. " If the food
is also palatable as well as nutritious," the
pupil becomes interested and his mind en-
gaged with the substance of the lesson, and
he will gain all the advantages that other-
wise cost so much labor, without direct and
conscious effort. The reading exercises
should also bo adapted to the condition of
the pupil's mind at each period of growth,
and should constitute appropriate models of
style, leading in the direction of literary ex-
cellence. Hence is suggested the propriety
of introducing lessons bearing on some topic
of study which the pupil is pursuing at the
same time. Text-books give, necessarily, the
bare outlines. The reading-books might
help to fill up the outlines with details,
giving fuller descriptions of the most inter-
esting features, and the stories which the
children love so well. When these supple-
mentary elements are chosen from classic
authors, we have what we might call an
