THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ideal reading-book on the subject in hand.
The present work is an attempt to apply
these principles to geographical topics. The
order of the topics is the same as is found
in any well-arranged test-book on the sub-
ject ; and the articles are from writers of ac-
knowledged excellence. We have in twenty
chapters selections on the several varieties
of natural features and scenery, on the sur-
face of the eartli, volcanic and meteorolog-
ical phenomena, natural curiosities, wild
animals, national characteristics, peculiar
customs, regions, and people, cities, ancient
works and ruins, and modern works, etc.,
given in the form of essays, popular descrip-
tions, narratives of travel, scientific ac-
counts, and poems, by a list of writers em-
bracing the names of European and Ameri-
can authors who have become distinguished
in various fields of literature and science.
The Science of Ethics. By Leslie Ste-
phen. New York : G. P. Tutuara's Sons.
Pp. 462. Price, 8^-
The author of this book has his own
views of morality, and, although he does not
profess to have made any great revolution
in the science, he has still made a book
which is woi'thy of careful consideration. It
is an unusually spirited and attractive vol-
mne on what is commonly regarded as the
dullest of subjects.
Mr. Stephen began as an orthodox utili-
tarian in morals, and avows that the Gama-
liel at whose feet he sat was John Stuart
Mill. This, however, he regards as an im-
mature proceeding, in which he merely joined
other thoughtful lads in deferring to one
whoso authority was decisive. At a later
period his mind was much stirred by the
appearance of Darwin's " Origin of Spe-
cies." He acknowledges great indebted-
ness to Darwin's writings, but so far as
ethical proljlems are concerned he came at
length to think that the Darwinian resources
were unsatisfactory, and that a deeper view
was necessary — this conviction being due
to the influence of Herbert Spencer's writ-
ings. After an historical examination of the
English moralists of the eighteenth century,
Mr. Stephen read the " Methods of Ethics,"
by Henry Sedgwick, and, although admiring
the work, he found himself differing from it
at so many points that he resolved to publish
systematically upon the subject himself.
Mr. Stephen regards the relation of evolu-
tion to ethics as its critical point, while Mr.
Sedgwick belittled it, and thus left a great
deal to be done in clearing up the in-
quiry.
Of his attempt Mr. Stephen says : " At
times I have been startled at my own impu-
dence when virtually sitting in judgment
upon all the deepest and acutest thinlcers
since the days of Plato. But I easily com-
fort myself by remembering that the evolu-
tion of thought is furthered by the efforts of
the weak as well as of the strongest ; and
that, if giants have laid the foundations, even
dwarfs may add something to the super-
structure of the great edifice of science. So
far as my reading has gone, I have found
only two kinds of speculation which are ab-
solutely useless — that of the hopelessly stu-
pid and that of the hopelessly insincere.
The fool who does not know his own folly
may be doing nothing, and the philosopher
who is trying to darken knowledge may be
doing worse than nothing, but every sincere
attempt to grapple with real difficulties
made by a man not utterly incompetent has
its value. I claim to come within that
description, though I claim nothing more.
And I have the satisfaction — not a very edi-
fying one, it may be said, for a professed
moralist — to reflect that if my book docs no
good to anybody else, it has provided me
with an innocent occupation for a longer
time than I quite like to remember ; while
I hope that there is nothing in it — if I may
apply to myself what a discerning critic has
said of Dr. Watts's sermons — " calculated to
call a blush to the cheek of modesty.''
MoDEKN Applications of Electricity. By
E. HospiTALiER. Translated and en-
larged by JiLius ^Iaiek. New York:
D. Applcton k. Co. U^S2. Pp. 456.
Price, §4.50.
In the present state of public interest in
the applications of electricity, any author
who succeeds in presenting the subject in a
popular manner may expect a favorable re-
ception, and we doubt not such will be ac-
corded to this latest addition to works of
this character. M. Ilospitalier's exposition
is clear and concise, and popular enough in
form to be interesting and intelligible to a
wide circle of readers. The work consists
