LITERARY NOTICES.
703
of scientific terms and their definitions which
should rather have been applied to the com-
munication in really plain language of the
facts which the words indicate. The mat-
ter is above the comprehension of the kind
of children for whom the style seems to
be intended, aud the style is not adapted to
the tastes of larger ones. The illustrations
are excellent.
The Gospel of Law. A Series of Dis-
courses UPON FCXDAXIENTAL ChURCH
Doctrines. Bv S. J. Stewart. Boston :
George H. Ellis. Pp. 326. Price, 81.25.
The author is pastor of the Independent
Congregational Society of Bangor, Maine.
The substance of the volume was originally
delivered as a series of regular Sunday dis-
courses before his people. The principal
motive of the book is stated to be "to ap-
ply the facts of science to inherited doc-
trines, and then to give a positive basis of
belief aud conduct in consistency with these
facts, to interpret the results of the best au-
thorities, and to bring them into a practical
form and conclusion." The author appar-
ently belongs to the advanced rank of "free
religious " thinkers. He denies the super-
natural character and authority of the
" Church of tradition," and of its gospel,
and would substitute for the latter a " gos-
pel of law," the fundamental principle of
which is that every effect is the natural
product of some natural cause.
Manual of Object-Teaching, with Illus-
trative Lessons in Methods and the
Science of Education. By N. A. Cal-
kins. New York: Harper k. Brothers.
Pp. 469. Price, $1.25.
The author of this book is and has long
been one of the Superintendents of the
Public Schools of the city of Xew York,
and the supervision of object-lesson studies
falls within his department. Ills writings
upon that subject have, therefore, a broad
basis of experience, involving the trial of
methods and the improvement and exten-
sion of the objective system. Mr. Calkins
published, some years ago, the " Primary
Object Lessons," which has been well re-
ceived and generally adopted. The new
work now issued — the "Manual" — extends
over a broader field, and embraces subjects
and methods for more advanced teaching
than those presented in the author's earlier
work. It is, therefore, not a substitute for
that book, nor a revision of it, but an en-
tirely new treatise, with a great variety of
appropriate topics, materials, and sugges-
tions to aid teachers in oral instruction. In
this line Mr. Calkins's books are authorities
at the present time.
Hints and Remedies for the Treatment of
Common xVccidents and Diseases ; and
Rules of Simple Hygiene. In Two
Parts, complete. Compiled by Dawson
W. Turner, D. C. L., late Head-master
of the Royal Institution School, Liver-
pool ; sometime Student of Westminster
Hospital aud of Charing Cross Hospital.
Revised, corrected, and enlarged by
Twelve Eminent Medical 3Icn belonging
to Different Hospitals in London, and by
one Right Reverend Bisliop of the Estab-
lished Church, formerly Surgeon to one
of the London Hospitals, and F. R. C. S.
With numerous Additions, from the
eighth English edition. S'ew York :
Macmillan & Co. Pp. 106. Price, 50
cents.
A BOOK so well backed and braced by
authorities as this may seem to need no
commendation from us ; but a careful ex-
amination of it has shown that it is a most
practical, judicious, carefully considered di-
gest of hygienic rules and hints about health
which is well calculated to be useful to
everybody.
Good Cheer. A ilonthly Paper devoted to
Home Science aud the Interests of the
Family generally. Greenfield, Massa-
chusetts : Good Cheer Publishing Com-
pany. Pp. 10. DO cents a year.
This new venture in the literary field is
bright, varied, and spicy, and the best news-
paper bargain for the family now a-going
at fifty cents. There is a practical turn
about it that is promising, and its scientific
side will probably improve with time. The
mechanical style of its title, however, seems
open to criticism. An artist has been let
loose upon it, and the consequence is ob-
scurity. A title, of all things, should be
clear, and not so buried up in artistic beauty
that we have to spend time digging out
what it means. Give us clear, plain, sharp
lettering that tells its whole story at the first
glance, and let the artist revel in the adver-
tisements.
