704
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
Copyright in Books : An Inquiry into the
Origin and an Account of" the Present
State of the Law in Canada. A Lecture
delivered before the Law School of Bish-
op's College at Sherbrooke. By S. E.
Daavson. Montreal: Dawson Brothers.
Pp. 40, with Appendix.
This is a very instructive address, by
one who is well up in copyright erudition.
The account of the origin of copyright is
particularly excellent, while the exposition
of the present state of copyright law and
practice in Canada, and how the policy of
the home Government has borne upon the
British Provinces, will be of interest to all
who ai'e concerned about this subject.
It is curious to note how the first insti-
tution which was invested with the control
of publication iu England, by which authors'
rights in their books were protected, was
established as a means of maintaining relig-
ious orthodoxy. The Stationers' Company,
which, like all the other ancient trading
guilds, had existed from the middle ages, re-
ceived a chartered extension of its powers
" to search out and destroy " books printed
in contravention of the company's monopoly,
" or against faith and sound doctrine." On
this point Mr. Dawson obsei'ves :
Ko record exists of authors' rights having
been claimed for more than one hundred years
after the inventioD of printing. There was no
restriction in printing books, any more than
there had been in copying manuscript books.
Every printer printed what he chose, without lei
or hiiidrnuce from any person. At the end of
that period, however, the enormous power of
the press became manifest. The stir of thought
which produced the R.fonnatiou liad been
caused, and was kept up. b.y the art of printing;
and when Philip and Mary came to the throne of
England they set themselves to stem the tide of
innovation. For that purpose they incorporated
the Stationers" Coinpany by royal charter for
licensing and regulating the printing and sale of
books, and they vested in this company a mo-
nopoly of multiplying copies. The preamble to
the charter sets f(jrth its object. It reads :
'"Know yo, that we, considering and mani-
festly perceiving that several seditious heretical
book^, both in verse nnd prose, are daily pub-
lished, stamped and printed, by divers scanda-
lous, schismatical, and heretical persons, not
only exciting our subjects and liege-men to sedi-
tion and disobedience against us, our crown,
and dignity, but also to the renewal and propa-
gating very great and detestable heresies atrainst
the faith and sound Catholic doctrine of Holy
Mother the Church, and being willing to provide
a remedy in this case," etc.
A Practical Treatise on Diseases of the
Skin. By Louis A. Duhring, M. D.,
Professor of Diseases of the Skin in the
Hospital of the University of Pennsyl-
vania ; Dermatologist to the Philadel-
phia Hospital ; Consulting Physician to
the DispensaiT for Skin Diseases, Phila-
delphia ; Author of the " Atlas of Skin
Diseases," etc. Third edition, revised
and enlarged. J. B. Lippiacott & Co.
Pp. 684. Price, ยง6.
A THIRD edition of this excellent work
having been called for, the approbation of
the profession must be taken as determin-
ing it to rank as one of the standards of
medical literature. The plan of the work
is that of a practical treatise, which, while
making no pretension to being exhaustive,
yet comprises sufficient to afford a clear in-
sight into the elements of dermatology, and
a knowledge of the important facts in con-
nection with each disease treated of. The
progress of dermatological science, in both
its physiological and pathological aspects,
has been very rapid in recent years, which
makes indispensable the frecjuent revision
of works on skin-diseases. The second
edition of this work was accordingly care-
fully rewritten and much extended. The
third edition has also been critically revised,
and brought sharply up to date. The chap-
ter on the anatomy and physiology of the
skin has been rewritten and elaborated,
this change being demanded by the recent
studies in microscopic anatomy. The book
as a whole has also been considerably en-
larged. Numerous additions in the way of
cases illustrating rare forms of disease, new
and important observations, personal expe-
rience, and therapeutical information, ^^ill
be found upon almost every page.
Errors in the Use of Esglish. By the
late William B. Hodgson, LL.D., Fel-
low of the College of Preceptors and
Professor of Political Economy in the
L'niversity of Edinburgh. American re-
vised edition. Pp. 246. Price, ยง1.50.
There are few things to be done in this
world that can not be overdone, and among
the things that can be studied out of all
proportion to their importance arc the ex-
quisite niceties and transcendental refine-
ments of language. The danger of excess
here is, however, because a high standard
of excellence is justly demanded. Dr. Ilodg-
