LITERARY NOTICES.
705
son's book recognizes the need of adopting
such a standard in the study of English ;
and, what is more important, it adopts the
right plan to secure this as a practicable
thing. The author's principle is that exam-
ple is better than precept, and instead of
working up a lot of rules to be learned and
applied, his book consists of examples of
the erroneous use of language, from many
and reputable sources. He points out errors,
faults, and blunders in composition, but he
shows that all writers — even the best — have
their lapses. The book is very interesting
and teaches in the best manner by concrete
illustrations of the errors to be avoided.
Dr. Hodgson was a man of fine literary
taste, very widely read, and methodical in
his observations ; he has accordingly en-
riched his book with a host of examples of
incorrect language, commonly overlooked,
which will be of invaluable service to the
critical students of English.
Mrs. Hodgson appends the following note
to the preface : " The materials of this little
volume were selected by my husband from
his notes of many years' extensive and va-
ried reading, and they were arranged for
publication in their present form before his
death. In now conducting the book through
the press I have had the assistance of kind
friends to whom his memory is dear. But,
deprived of his own revisal, there may be
errors and imperfections that have escaped
our notice, and for such I must ask the
reader's considerate indulgence."
This incompleteness or lack of finish in
the volume on the part of the author made
desirable a critical revision of the Ameri-
can edition; this has been done by Mr.
Francis A. Teall, with excellent judgment
and discrimination.
American College Directohy axd Uni-
versal Catalogue. Published by C. H.
Evans & Co., Managers of the American
Teachers' Bureau, St. Louis. Pp. 168.
Price, SI.
The Directory contains descriptions of
more than 3,600 institutions of every kind,
from the Kindergarten to the university,
throughout the United States, with lists of
State, city, and county school-officers and
educational periodicals ; a synopsis of the
public-school system ; a sketch of educa-
tion in foreign countries ; and much other
VOL. XXI. — 45
valuable matter. The present volume is
the fourth in annual series ; it has been pre-
pared under such advantages as it is be-
lieved make it more full and accurate than
its predecessors, and is enriched with four
new departments — those of " College Y. M.
C. A.," city superintendents, county super-
intendents, and the foreign department,
which embraces the comparative statistics
of elementary education in fifty different
countries.
What is Bright's Disease ? Its Ccua-
BiLiiY. By Seth Pancoast, M. D. With
Illustrations. Philadelphia : Published
bv the author, 917 Arch Street. Pp.
152. Price, §1.
The author maintains that the view of
Bright's disease as a local disease and its
treatment under that view are mistaken. He
advances the idea that the primary cause of
the disease lies in the organic nervous sys-
tem, which controls the nutrition and growth
of the entire organism, as well as the elimina-
tion of the products of disintegration ; that
it may exist for many months, if not years,
before albumen is detected in the urine ;
and that then other organs are involved, not
from sympathy with the kidneys, but from
innervation of the nervo-vital energy. He
has found it curable when treated in the
light of his theory, provided the disorgani-
zation has not proceeded too far.
Kaxt's Critique of Ppee Reason : A
Critical Exposition. By George S.
Morris, Ph. D., Professor in the Uni-
versity of Michigan. Chicago : S. C.
Griggs & Co. Pp. 272. Price, $1.25.
The present volume is the first of a se-
ries of " German Philosophical Classics for
English Readers and Students," to be issued
by the publishers under the general edito-
rial supervision of Professor Morris, each
volume of which will be devoted to the crit-
ical exposition of some one masterpiece of
German philosophical thought. The editors
will seek in each case to furnish a clear and
attractive statement of the special substance
and purport of the original author's argu-
ment, with interpretations and elucidations
in the light of the historic and acknowledged
results of philosophic inquiry, and independ-
ent estimates of the merits and deficiencies
of his work, and they will have especial rcf-
