7o6
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
erence to its relations with British specula-
tion. Besides the general editor, several
eminent scholars and teachers have been
invited to prepare particular volumes of the
series. The prominence of Kant among
modern philosophers and the general merits
of his work make it eminently fitting that
he be given the first place in the series. His
thoughts certainly deserve and need to be
set forth in a shape in which they may be
accessible and intelligible to the average of
thinking readers. Professor Morris has un-
dertaken this task in the face, he acknowl-
edges, of considerable difficulties, among
which are that "Kant's work marks and
conspicuously illustrates a stadium of tran-
sition in the history of modern thought,"
that " it is far more eminently the story of
a process of inquiry and demonstration than
a didactic exposition of finished results,"
and that "Kant's intellectual attitude, in
some of its most essential aspects, remains,
to the end, thoroughly confused."
The Psychologt of the Salem Witch-
craft OF 1692, AND ITS Practical Ap-
plication TO OUR OWN Time. By George
M. Beard, A. M., M. D. New York : G.
P. Putnam's Sons. Pp. 112. Price, $1.
Dr. Beard's essay has less immediate
bearing on the Salem witchcraft than on
the case of a murderer who was recently
executed at Washington. The witchcraft
excitement of 1692 is used as a pivot on
which to hang a plea in behalf of the mur-
derer. The people of New England were
under a delusion when they tried and hung
the Salem witches ; so, it is argued, we have
been under a terrible delusion in trying and
hanging the murderer of our President.
Geological Sketches at Hojie and Abroad.
By Archibald Geikie, LL. D., F. R. S.
New York : Macmillan & Co. Pp. 335.
Price, $1.75.
Professor Geikie is a very sound geolo-
gist, but we are inclined to think he is more
at home in the work of exploration than in
that of essay-writing. The papers of this
collection are all good and solid, and will
interest those already instructed in its line
of topics, but they have not a large share
of the quality which will attract general
readers.
Unscientific Treatment of the Insane.
— In his paper on " Insanity in its Relations
to the Medical Profession and Lunatic Uos-
pitals," Dr. Nathan Allen points out several
serious defects in the management of our
hospitals for the insane. The first of his
objections is to the separation of the ex-
perts from the medical profession and the
placing of the study of insanity and the
care of the insane so exclusively in their
hands. A second fault is in the erection of
so large and expensive buildings, by which
a multitude of difficulties, avoidable in the
multiplication of smaller establishments, are
encountered. The system itself, moreover, is
wrong, in that it aggregates such large masses
of diseased persons ; and it violates sanitary
laws by bringing the diseased in contact
with each other, to infect each other with
the most infectious of all disorders — those
of the mind. A fifth objection is that the
magnitude of the congregations precludes the
employment of the highest order of sanitary
agencies for the health and improvement of
the patients. Finally, it is objected that
the present system tends directly to confine
the knowledge and treatment of insanity
to a few individuals. Add to this that no
plans are devised or means employed to
prevent insanity, and we have abundant
reason. Dr. Allen thinks, to revise our sys-
tem.
PUBLICATIONS RECEIVED.
The Prehistoric Arrhitecture of America. By
Strphen D. Peet. Pepriut from the " American
Antiquarian." Pp. 16.
The Prevention of Yellow Fever. By Pro-
fessor Stanford E. Chaillc, M. ]). New Orleans:
L. Graham & Sou, Printers. 1882. Pp. 22.
The rulture and Manacemcntof onr Forests.
By n. W. S. Cleveland. i^prini;fie]d, 111.: H. W.
KokUer, printer. 1S82. Pp. l(i.
Tenth Census of the United States. Forestry
Bulletins Nos. 1 to 16. With Special Reference
to the Lumber Industry. December, 1881.
The Fiftv-eichth Annual Report of 'he Ofll-
cers of the Retreat for the Insane of Hartford,
Connecticut. Hartford. 1882. Pp. 35.
Consumption: Its C.inses. Prevention, and
Hy£rienic MaM:ii.'enient. By W H. Smith, M.D,
PlirD. St. Clair, Michigan. Pp. 11.
Report on Surgery. By W. O. Roberts. M. D.
Reprint from the " American Practitioner," Lou-
isville. 1882. Pp. 16.
Socialism and Christianity. Bv H. Cheronng.
Printed by the Author. New York. 18S2. Pp.
42. 15 cents.
Account of Field Experiments wiih Ferti-
lizers. By Professor W. O. Atwater. From the
Report of the Connecticut Board of Agricuhnre.
1881. Pp.23.
