7o8
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Then the clover that had been thrown away
attracted their attention, and they ate greed-
ily even of that which was musty. A small
extemporized silo was tentatively made, in
the natural ground where it was well
drained, without walling, and was filled
with green clover. The ensilage came out
in perfect condition and entirely palatable.
The result of the last experiment shows
how persons living where the subsoil is very
compact might make a silo with either very
light walls or with none at all.
How Oolite may be formed. — Mr. F.
W. Putnam, in giving an account of a visit
he made some months ago to the Mammoth
Cave, remarks that in one of the newly
discovered chambers he noticed that many
fragments of stalactites and small pieces
from the walls of the cave, which had fallen
into a little pool, were worn round and
smooth by constant attrition, occasioned by
the dropping of water from the high ceiling
of the chamber. Should the water cease
to drip in this place, as it probably will,
and that in the pool evaporate, leaving the
lime to crystallize about these small peb-
bles, a conglomerate would be formed which
would have some resemblance to oolitic
limestone, pebbles of which occurred in the
pool, probably derived from fragments de-
tached from the walls of the chamber.
Calling attention to the formation of " cave
pearls," which he had found in Grand
Avenue Cave some years ago, he remarked
that should such a mass of small pearl-like
lime-concretions as were found in the last-
named cave ever be cemented together, the
resemblance to oolite would be very marked.
While he did not wish to be understood as
stating that the oolitic limestone was formed
in this way, he could not help thinking that
a rock of similar appearance might be lo-
cally so produced under the conditions he
had observed.
Lead in Food and the Industrial Arts. —
M. Armand Gauticr has recently published
a memorandum on the dangers arising from
the use of lead in food-vessels and in vari-
ous arts, and on the means of counteracting
them. He shows that lead may be detected
in preserved vegetables, fish, lobsters, meats,
in drinking-water, and water artificially
charged with carbonic acid, in acid foods
and drinks preserved in glass vessels, in tin
dishes, in the coverings of our walls and
furniture, in the leather of our boots, in our
dishes, and in our glazed table-cloths. He
gives a simple and practical test for the
presence of lead in solder or tinned or
solid metal, and for estimating the propor-
tion of the poison that may be there. It
consists in turning on two drops of acetic
acid upon the surface of the metallic ob-
ject, allowing it to evaporate in the air, then
touching with a solution of chromate of
potash, letting dry, and washing with water.
The yellow chromate of lead, thus obtained,
adheres to the metal, and docs not change
color for several days, so that the spot can
be kept in evidence. When a tin thus
treated shows a yellow spot it should be re-
jected; if it is used in a food-can the con-
tents should be regarded as suspicious, even
if the soldering has all been done on the
outside, as the latest regulations require.
The general use of food preparations done
up in metallic boxes that are soldered with
an alloy of lead necessaiily results in the
introduction of a little lead into the econ-
omy, and, according to M. Gautier, the
proportions of lead thus absorbed, gener-
ally very weak with vegetables, arc much
stronger in foods rich with fats, and espe-
cially in fish preserved in oil ; the oils that
surround the fish are still more strongly
charged with it ; and preserved meats con-
tain it in widely varying proportions. The
lead appears to exist in vegetables in tho
shape of an albuminate soluble in the acids
of the stomach, in fat-substances as an
oleate and a palminate dissolved in the fats,
and absorbable with them when they un-
dergo emulsion in the digestive tube. The
use of lead in a multitude of arts and
trades, too numerous to be named here,
leads to more perceptible and extensive
poisoning than the minute quantities of the
metal that reach us through our foods and
food-vessels, the importance of which ia
indicated by the admission of an average
number of seven hundred workmen suffer-
ing from it to the hospitals of Paris every
year. The compounds of lead with which
these workmen come in contact are absorbed
by the skin, the mouth, the nostrils, and in
breathing. To workmen exposed to such
