48
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
little smaller than that constructed by him. In the background of
each i^icture is the moon, the stereographic interval between them be-
ing two and a half inches, which is about the average distance between
the pupils of a pair of eyes. Next comes a cross, and in the fore-
ground is the withered branch of a tree. In the picture on the right
it is seen that the branch is nearly aligned with the cross, which is
projected against the sky on one side of the moon ; in that on the
left one limb of the cross is projected against the moon, while the
branch is wholly on the right of both. If the reader will place one
edge of a card on the line between the two pictures, while the other
edge touches his nose and forehead, he will perceive but a single pict-
ure, in which the branch, cross, and moon are successively farther
away, the two former standing out in clear relief. By a little attention,
moreover, he will see two phantom-cards, one on each side of the
combined picture, and between the two his Cyclopean eye is regarding
the landscape before him.
At the exhibition of Wheatstone's reflecting stereoscoj^e, and the
reading of his paper before the British Association at Newcastle, in
August, 1838, one of the most interested auditors present was Sir
David Brewster, who remarked on its important bearing upon the
Fig. 8.— Modified Brewster Stereoscope.
theory of single vision to which he himself had given much attention.
In his subsequent investigations he devised two important instruments
which, with others of less value, were described in papers published
in 1849. These were the binocular camera and the lenticular stereo-
scope. During the following year they were exhibited in Paris ; and
here it was that stereoscopy first became the delight of the people^
after having been confined for a dozen years to the laboratory of the
physicist.
The binocular camera needs but little description. Every one is
familiar with the instrument, first devised in its simplest form by Bap-
