POPULAR MISCELLANY.
709
danger M. Gautier advises avoidance of
everything that can raise a dust of leaden
compounds, of all unnecessary direct contact
with lead and its preparations, scrupulous
care for the cleanliness of person, clothing,
tools, face, and mouth, and observaqce of
general hygienic rules and temperance.
Disadvantages and Advantages of Bac-
teria. — In a paper on " Bacteria in Healthy
Individuals," Surgeon George M. Sternberg,
of the United States Army, considers the
question, which many have been ready to
ask, If bacteria are such terrible things,
how is it possible that we can exist upon
the earth, surrounded and infested as we
are by them ? " Certainly," says Surgeon
Sternberg, "there would be an end to all
animal life, or rather there would never
have been a beginning, if living animals had
no greater resisting power to the attacks of
these parasites, which by numbers and rapid
development make up for their minute size,
than has dead animal matter." The obvi-
ous answer to the question, that living ani-
mals have the required superior resisting
power, is supported by Pasteur's researches,
which show that it depends very much upon
certain well-defined circumstances whether
the same bacterium is a harmless parasite
and commensal of man and animals, or an
active agent promoting disease and decay.
" Nature," says Dr. Sternberg, " has placed
in the living tissues of animals a resisting
power against the encroachments of bacte-
rial organisms invading and surrounding
them, which is sufficient for ordinary emer-
gencies. But when the vital resistance of
the tissues is reduced, on the one hand, by
wasting sickness, profuse discharges, etc.,
or, on the other hand, the vital activity of
the invading parasitic organism is increased,
the balance of power rests with the infini-
tesimal but potent micrococcus. . . . Exper-
iment has demonstrated that, by some un-
known mechanism, the ordinary bacteria
of putrefaction, and, under certain circum-
stances, even pathogenic organisms, may be
introduced directly into the circulation with-
out the production of evil consequences, and
that after a short interval microscopical ex-
amination docs not reveal their presence in
the biood." There is compensation for the
damage wrought by bacteria, which is de-
scribed by Dr. Sternberg with some exaggera-
tion, and hardly suflScient consideration of
the power of the normal chemical forces of
nature, in these words : " On the other hand,
but for the power of these little giants to
pull to pieces dead animal matter, we should
have dead bodies piled up on all sides of
us in as perfect a state of preservation as
canned lobster or pickled tongue, and there
being no return to the soil of the materials
composing these bodies, our sequoias and
oaks would dwindle to lichens and mosses,
and finally all vegetation would disappear,
and the surface of the earth would be a bar-
ren and desolate wilderness, covered only
with the inanimate forms of successive gen-
erations of plants and animals."
Variable Stars. — Professor A. Ritter at-
tempts, in his recent work on the "Appli-
cation of the Mechanical Theory of Heat
to Cosmological Problems," to explain the
origin and nature of variable stars by sup-
posing that, stable as they appear to our
limited vision, the planetary systems are
subject to ceaseless recurring changes, in
the course of which they go through all the
phases of cosmical evolution. The speed
of the revolutions of the several members
of the systems being constantly retarded by
the resistance of the ether, they eventually
yield to the attraction of the central body
and fall into it. The concussion generates
heat enough to resolve the whole mass into
a vapor or gas which diffuses itself through
space till its surplus heat is so dissipated
that the attractive force is able to overcome
its power of expansion, when the vapors
begin to contract, and consequently to de-
velop heat anew. The internal heat of the
contracting body at last becomes strong
enough to overcome the force of gravita-
tion, and a new expansion begins. The
gaseous sphere is thus subjected to a move-
ment of rhythmical pulsation, the tempera-
ture increasing with the contractions and
diminishing with the expansions, and will
appear from a distance, if the variations in
temperature reach a certain degree, alter-
nately bright and dark, or as a variable
star. The duration of the pulsations will
vary according to the size of the body, and
the period will bear a certain relation to its
density ; so that we may deduce one of the
