710
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
elements from the others. When our sun
filled the orbit of Neptune, it probably ap-
peared to the inhabitants of other worlds
as a variable star, with a period of three
hundred and forty years. The appearance
of change is confined to the youth of a
star ; for when it has become so dense that
the variations bear only a minute ratio to
the absolute brightness of the body, they
cease to be noticed. The gradual and
seemingly permanent disappearance of stars
that have suddenly shone out is accounted
for by supposing their periods of change to
be immensely long. As hundreds of years
must have elapsed after our sun first shone
out before the gaseous particles began to
move back toward the center, so, if the
concussion is vastly more violent than that
which produced the sun, thousands of years
must pass before a concentration can begin.
The origin of the apparently constant neb-
ulae may be thus accounted for, and their
irregularities of shape may have arisen
from different accidents of the concussion ;
but changes of magnitude have been ob-
served even in these bodies. The origin of
new stars that remain may be explained by
supposing that the concussion was less vio-
lent — strong enough to produce a great
brightness, but not strong enough to cause
immense expansion. Professor Kitter claims
that spectroscopical observations of the
"newer stars" are in harmony with his
theory.
A newly discOTcred Jewish Tribe. —
Mr. Ilenry Samuel Morals has published a
short account of the Daggatouns, a tribe of
Jewish origin in the Desert of Sahara, re-
cently brought into notice in the narrative
of the Rabbi Mordccai Aby Serour, of Akka,
Morocco. The rabbi's account is incomplete,
but we may learn from it that the people
mentioned, who are scattered among the
orthodox Tuaricks in the desert, " have
skins perfectly white, are very handsome,
much handsomer than the finest-looking
Jews of Africa," and that not one of them
is black. They are distinguished by the
Tuaricks as Jews that have changed their
belief, and seem to occupy a low social po-
sition among the tribes. The change in be-
lief seems rather to have been a loss of be-
lief, for it is remarked respecting the exer-
cise of their religion that they never utter a
prayer, and have no regular form of public
worship, but simply invoke the name of Mo-
hammed. To questions on the subject they
emphatically answered that they did not
know the Koran, and that, having descended
from the Jews, and not resembling in any
manner the other tribes, they could not have
exactly the same religion. " Notwithstand-
ing this," they continued, " even if we ac-
cepted their practices, they would not cease
calling us converted."
Tbc Eucalyptus in California. — Mr. Rob-
ert E. C. Stearns, Ph. D., communicated to
the American Forestry Association, at its
recent meeting, a number of facts respect-
ing the cultivation of the eucalyptus in Cal-
ifornia, and the probable value of the tree.
About six million eucalyptus-trees have
been planted in the State during the last
ten years, and several million trees of other
kinds. A large proportion of the number
have been planted in the streets and yards
of cities, and for ornament in country
estates, till, in the absence of deciduous
trees, " the vistas afforded by the streets
are somber and monotonous through gen-
eral sameness of form and tone of color.''
The eucalyptus is a greedy monopolist, and,
when planted in a small yard, takes all
there is of it, killing out the shrubs. These
objectionable facts, however, are not faults
of the tree per se, but are only effects of in-
judicious planting, remediable by remand-
ing the eucalyptus to its proper place, and
by interspersing it with native and decidu-
ous trees, for the salce of variety in tlie
appearance. The globulus species of euca-
lyptus is the one most planted, but it is
probably of less value for most purposes,
aside from the fact of its rapid growth, than
its harder-wooded congeners. This species,
also, " which seems generally to thrive with-
in the influence of the coast climate, where
the saline quality of the coast atmosphere
neutralizes the occasionally too low tem-
perature of the winter months, often fails
in the interior. 2S° Fahr. is about the tem-
perature limit as to cold." Touching the
value of the eucalyptus for lumber, based
upon the product of California-grown trees,
" but little can be said. The time has not
arrived to determine that question. The
