POPULAR MISCELLANY.
713
voted exclusively to mental disorders. The
subject ii sometimes introduced under the
head of theory and practice of medicine,
but is more often remanded to the lectures
on medical jurisprudence ; and hardly ever
is a book on this subject included among
the standard works of study and reference
proposed for students.
The Albert Medal.— The Albert Medal
of the British Society of Arts has been
awarded, beginning in 1864, to Sir Rowland
Hill, for postal reforms ; to Napoleon III,
for his promotion of art ; to Professor Fara-
day, for discoveries in electricity, magnet-
ism, and chemistry ; to Mr. W. Fothergill
Cook and Professor Wheatstone, for estab-
lishing the first electric telegraph ; to Mr.
Joseph Whitworth, for his instruments of
measurement and uniform standards; to
Baron von Liebig, for chemical and other
researches ; to Ferdinand de Lesseps, on
account of the Suez Canal ; to Mr. Henry
Cole, C. B., for activity in international ex-
hibitions and the South Kensington Mu-
seum ; to Mr. Bessemer, for developing the
manufacture of steel; to M. Chevreul, for
chemical researches ; to C. W. Siemens, for
a variety of researches ; to Michael Cheva-
lier, for general economical activity ; to Sir
George B. Airy, for researches in nautical
astronomy and magnetism, etc. ; to M. Du-
mas, for chemical researches ; to Sir Will-
iam Armstrong, for distinguished engineer-
ing work and development of mechanical
power; to Sir William Thomson, for electri-
cal researches and the development of ocean-
cables ; to J. P. Joule, for establishing the
relations between heat, light, and electrici-
ty; and to A. W. Iloffmann, of Berlin, for
investigation.'? in organic chemistry and
bis promotion of chemical education and
research in England. The award of the
medal for 1881 was to be made in May.
Tree meteorology. — Mr. Robert E. C.
Steams, Ph. D., at the close of a paper on
the estimation of the annual growths of
certain trees in California, suggests the pos-
sibility of making valuable investigations
into the periodicity of climates and the di-
rection and effects of prevailing winds by
the systematic study of the year-rings of
trees. " Wc might," he says, " find so
close a parallelism between rings of maxi-
mum thickness and seasons of maximum
rain-fall, that we should be justified in re-
garding this parallelism as something more
than a series of coincidences merely, by
finding these coincidences so persistent as
to prove a correlation ; and we could, per-
haps, base our weather prognostications on
something more than a guess, and leam
whether or not there is a periodicity or cy-
clical term of wet and dry years, having the
data before us according to the trees se-
lected and examined — reaching back with
the pines from seventy-five to one hundred
and fifty years, with the redwoods from five
hundred to seven hundred years, and with
the sequoias of the Sierra from twelve to
fourteen centuries, to say nothing of the
testimony of other trees, the madronas and
oaks especially. Differences in the diame-
ters of trees," Dr. Stearns adds, " may be
traced, perhaps, to a difference in the
amount of heat and light which one side of
a tree receives as compared with the other ;
to the influence of prevailing winds accord-
ing to the station, position, or exposure, or
to local or general magnetic influences — lo-
cal as peculiar to small areas, or general as
pertaining to larger or extensive regions.
An accumulation of data might show a
marked and constant character in the rela-
tion of diameters to such factors of the en-
vironment ; and also a marked character in
the diameters of one region, as a whole,
when compared with another region, where
modified or different climatic conditions
exist."
Habits of Wood-Dncks. — The experi-
ments of Mr. George Irvin, of Mayville,
New York, upon the capacity for domesti-
cation of different species of wild ducks,
gave him the means of gaining much knowl-
edge of the habits of the wood-ducks,
which, although they would not be domes-
ticated, bred freely within the inclosure in
which he confined them. They generally
begin to nest about the middle of April,
and always choose trees with suitable holes
and hollows in which to build, preferring
for this purpose rather high elevations, and
lay from nine to fourteen eggs, of a yellow-
ish-white color, the period of incubation of
which is four weeks. When the young
