7H
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
birds, twenty-four hours after being hatcLed,
are ready to descend from their nests,
whether low or high, the old bii'd comes to
the mouth of the hole and takes for about
a half-hour a careful survey of the sur-
roundings, to ascertain, as it were, that no
intruder is near, and then utters a low call.
The ducklings seem to understand the sig-
nificance of the call and quickly make their
appearance in front of the hole, which often
extends to a depth of from six to ten feet.
By means of their toe-nails, which are
hooked nearly as much as those of birds of
prey, and sharp as the point of a needle,
they easily manage to climb up on the in-
side of the deep holes, at the entrance of
which they remain a few minutes huddled
together about the old bird. After this, the
mother again descends to the ground near
the tree, and calls upon her young brood,
which now drop, one by one, from their airy
perch, without any apparent hesitation ; for
their bodies are already so thickly covered
with down that they seem to fall like leaves
to the ground. When the last duckling has
accomplished its fall, the brood gather again
about the old bird and are led by her to the
nearest water, which is seldom far away,
ard is generally convenient to shelters and
hiding-places.
The Foot, and how it should be treated.
— The human foot is an instrument admi-
rably adapted to all the various uses it has
to serve, which fashion has done its best to
spoil by improper treatment. The bones of
the instep are so adjusted as to form an ar-
rangement which combines in exquisite per-
fection the resistance of the arch with as
much elasticity as enables it to bear safely
the prodigious strain to which it is sub-
jected. The whole frame of the foot is
kept in position and made capable of its
proper range of movement by means of
muscles and tendons, constituting a living
and sensitive bandage, increasing or relax-
ing its pull or pressure in the most exact
obedience to our will. In a sound, free
foot, each part of the machinery is in con-
stant readiness to bring it into the required
position, whether to lift the body, to bound,
or to sustain the shoclc of the whole weight
in coming down again, or to perform any
other of a number of complications of
movement. How perfectly the foot is
adapted for these purposes, and is protected
against too great pressure and sudden shock,
is shown by the fact that such violent ac-
tions as leaping, or the being burdened
with a weight twice or thrice that of the
wliole body, cause no uneasiness to a sound
foot ; the injury, if any, resulting from
such exertions being usually felt elsewhere.
The skin, very thin and delicate on the up-
per part of the foot, is thick and tough,
though soft and pliable, on the sole. Be-
neath it is a layer of fat, strengthened by
strong fibers crossing it and binding it to
the muscles and ligaments. The sole can
endure great pressure and even violent
shocks, but is at the same time curiously
sensitive, especially to the touch. It is very
easily tickled. This property serves a very
important purpose in walking, for the press-
ure upon the ground stimulates the mus-
cles of the foot to their required activity,
without any effort of the will, and indeed
witliout our being conscious of the opera-
tion. This spontaneous alertness of the
muscles, on which the energy and grace of
movement depend, can be secured only by
their being kept uncramped, free, and well
exercised. How much the shoemaker's
shoes, cramping the foot, jamming the toes
upon each other, distorting the shape of the
organ, and lifting the heel up so that the
weight of the body is thrown upon the toes,
prevent this, needs no elaboration. The les-
son of these observations is that the shoe
should give plenty of room all around to the
foot, that the sole should be thinnest and
narrowest at the " waist," where elasticity
is wanted, broad and thick at the tread,
where protection is most required, and that
no one should be ashamed of the size of
his foot. " A well-formed large one is a
far plcasanter sight than the smallest one
distorted."
A Lion-Tamer's Method. — A curious his-
tory, and one that sheds many gleams of
light upon the character of beasts in the
menagerie, is that of Ilcnri Martin, the lion-
tamer, who died, ninety years old, quietly at
his home, " among his collections of butter-
flies and his books of botany." Martin, ac-
cording to his own letters, began to cultivate
his gift of control over animals in the days
