POPULAR MISCELLANY.
■15
when he was connected with a circus, by ac-
quiring an extraordinary power over horses,
which he taught every trick known to the
profession, and some which have hardly
been exactly paralleled. From this he went
on to taming wild beasts ; and, soon after he
had started business as part proprietor of a
menagerie, he had labored eight months in
training a royal tiger, and had taught a
spotted hyena to pick up his gloves. He
was never seen with a whip in his hand ;
but he crossed his arms, and gave his ani-
mals the word of command to leap on and
off his shoulders ; and he considered his
method intinitely superior to that of the
tamers who go through their business chief-
ly by the terrorism of a heavy whip and a
revolver. Their beasts obey them, but, he
said, " they are not tamed as mine were, and,
when one of them rebels, you can judge the
tragic result from the tragical end of Lu-
cas." One day, Martin told his wife that
he anticipated trouble with his lion Cobourg,
who was then in a dangerous state of ex-
citement. She begged him to put off the
performance, but he said : " No ; for, if I
should do it once, I should have to do it
every time the animals have caprices." The
next night his forebodings were fulfilled.
Instead of performing his part properly,
Cobourg crouched low and dug his talons
into the stage, and his eyes flared. Martin
had no weapon at command except a dagger
in his belt — " I have said, never a whip."
Instead of obeying orders, the lion leaped
at Martin, and a combat occurred, in the
course of which the lion took Martin up in
his mouth and shook him in the air. Mar-
tin struck the animal over the nose for a
second time, and then, feeling his strength
exhausted, gave himself up for lost, and
turned his back to the beast, so that at the
next spring it might attack the back of his
neck, and so " make an end of the busi-
ness. . . . But two seconds passed, two sec-
onds that seemed to me an eternity. I
turned around ; the lion's mood had changed.
He looked at the audience, he looked at me.
I gave him the sign to go. He went away
as if nothing had happened." It was four-
teen weeks before Martin could perform
again, but then the lion worked well as usu-
al, and continued to do so for four years
without any more caprices. In taming one
of his tigers, Martin began by taking the
brute's attention off the door of the cage,
and then, armed with a dagger, went rapid-
ly into the cage and stood looking at the
tiger, which for some minutes lay motion-
less, staring at him. Then, feeling a shiv-
er, and knowing that if the tiger saw it all
would be over with him, he went swiftly out.
At the end of a fortnight he went again into
the cage, and this time staid there half an
hour. A third time he paid the tiger a visit
of three quarters of an hour. " The fourth
time the tiger, trembling at first, lay dov\-n
before the pygmy who braved it." To tame
a hyena, Martin wrapped his legs and arms
with cords, and protected his head with
handkerchiefs, and then, walking into the
cage, went straight to the animal and of-
fered it his fore-arm. The hyena bit it, and
the tamer, looking steadily in its eyes, stood
motionless. The next day he repeated the
experiment, substituting a leg for an arm ;
"and all the time Martin's black pupils
were flashing into the gray eye of the hy-
ena. The beast gave up, cringed, and smelled
the feet of the master." Martin tamed his
subjects by his personal influence alone;
and Charles Nodicr once said of him : " At
the head of an army Martin might have
been a Bonaparte. Chance has made a man
of genius a director of a menagerie."
A UIcroTinglan (Frank) Grave-Tard. —
M. Georges Lecocq has described some
articles which he has recovered from a
cemetery of the Merovingian period at Cau-
laincourt, France. He opened 186 graves,
and found in them 15G coffins of wood,
30 of stone, and 464 articles of glass,
iron, bronze, ivory, coins, beads, flints, etc.
The graves were generally well aligned and
directed from cast to west. The stone
coffins were made, some from a single block,
more from two or three blocks, and were
wider at the head than at the foot. The
covers were flat or tectiform, and always
composed of two or three slabs. These
sarcophagi all contained wooden coffins. In
most of the burials a stone was placed over
the breast. The race of men whose burial-
place this was, do not appear to have been
essentially different from the present race.
One skull, which particularly attracted at-
tention, had a hole in it exactly like what
