ji6
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
a gunshot would produce. The numerous
articles of earthenware presented a great
variety of forms, and were both plain and
decorated. The iron articles were all very
much oxidized, so that traces could hardly
be detected of the silver with which some
of them had been damascened. Lances
were put at the head of the dead and arrows
and battle-axes along by the legs. The
bronzes were made of different alloys of
copper and tin and other metals, and in-
cluded fibules in the shape of a bird (single-
and double-headed paroquet), round belt-
plates, and handsome little shoe-ornaments.
Egyptological Discovery. — Great prog-
ress has been made within twelve months
in Egyptological discovery. M. Marriette, the
official curator of the antiquities of the coun-
try, who died in January, 1881, had, just be-
fore his death, opened three pyramids, two of
them those of monarchs of the sixth dynas-
ty who were among the most distinguished
kings of the old empire — Pcpi Rameri, who,
according to Manctho, reigned a hundred
years, and his son and successor Rameri.
The pyramids were richly adorned with
inscriptions, and the discovery pleasantly
supplements the valuable biography we al-
ready had of a chief officer of that period,
relating the wars with the negroes and other
events, which form one of the most satisfac-
tory historical documents which the ancient
empire has yet furnished us. Professor
Maspero, who was appointed to succeed M.
Marriette, shortly after he took his office ex-
plored the pyramids of a still earlier monarch,
Unas, the last king of the filth dynasty, which
was also richly decorated and contained in-
scriptions, mostly parts of the ritual, a sar-
cophagus of black basalt, and remains of
the mummy, bearing marks of the work of
the ancient tomb-breakers. The excava-
tions of the pyramids are to be continued in
the expectation of finding them to confirm
M. Maspero's theory that the pyramids from
Gizeh to the Fayoom are a series containing
in succession the bodies of the kings fi-om
the fourth to the thirteenth dynasty. A
second great discovery of no less impor-
tance was made in July at the caverns be-
hind the Dcir-el-Bahari, or temple of Ila-
tasu, near Thebes. Attention had long
been drawn to the antiquities which had
been offered to travelers for many years
past, and which it was believed must come
from some hiding-place known only to the
Arabs. M. Emil Burgsch secured the ar-
rest of the Arab who seemed most concerned
in these dealings, and succeeded in tracing
the articles to their source, the cave among
the hills where the royal mummies had been
carried and deposited for security against
invasion during the twenty -first dynasty.
The mummies are twenty-seven in number,
several of them being of kings, queens, and
princesses, and persons of distinction of
the eighteenth and intervening dynasties
to the twenty -first, and with them were
thousands of objects — amulets, statuettes,
papyruses which are expected when read
to prove of great value, and a leather tent
of a king of the twenty-first dynasty. Among
the mummies are those of Raskenen, a king
preceding the eighteenth dynasty; of Queen
Anscra, Amcnophis I, and his wife Ahmes
Nofertari, Thothmes II, and Thothmes III, of
the eighteenth dynasty; Rameses II, the
supposed Pharaoh of Moses, of the twen-
tieth dynasty ; Queen Notemit (to whom the
" Prince of Wales's papyrus " in the Brit-
ish Museum was originally attached) ; and
King Pinotem II, of the twenty-first dynasty.
Cases and other articles were also found be-
longing to other distinguished monarchs of
the eighteenth and nineteenth dynasties.
The cave in which the remains were found
is supposed to have been originally the
tomb of Queen Ansera.
The Manageable Zone of Anscsthctics.
— M. Paul Bert has announced some dis-
coveries of great value respecting the mode
of action of mixtures of anaesthetic vapors
and atmospheric air upon the animal or-
ganism. He applies the term manageable
zone to the different degrees of admixture,
rising from the proportion of anesthetic
which is insufficient to put to sleep, to
the proportion which will cause immediate
death. In the case of chloroform and ether
the mortal dose appears to be exactly
double the minimum anajsthetic dose. An-
assthesia takes place in the middle of the
manageable zone very rapidly and "without
danger, so that the animal may be left for
two hours in the anaesthetic atmosphere
without any one being concerned about him.
