POPULAR MISCELLANY.
717
It is not necessary to insist upon the con-
trast thus afforded between this method of
administration and the one that has hitherto
been used, in which the operator, making
his patient breathe dense chloroform direct-
ly into his nostrils, has to exercise the great-
est caution lest he kill him. The manage-
able zone of ether is a little more than
three times as wide as that of chloroform,
while that of the protoxide of nitrogen is
considerably wider than that of ether. Here
we see why ether is less, and the protoxide
of nitrogen still less, dangerous than chloro-
form. M. Bert's researches further show
that it is not so much the absolute quantity
of the anaesthetic that should be regarded
as the proportion in which it is mixed with
air. A dog can safely be made to absorb
many times as much chloroform as would
kill him, if it were pure, provided it is so
diluted as to bring its strength within the
manageable zone.
Poisonons Food-Colors. — The prefect of
police of Paris has expressly forbidden the
use of any of the following substances in
coloring sweetmeats, liquors, and foods :
Mine^-al Colors. — The compounds of cop-
per — blue verdigris, mountain blue. Com-
pounds of lead — oxides of lead — massicot
and minium. Oxychloride of lead — Cassel
yellow, Turkey yellow, Paris yellow. Car-
bonate of lead — white-lead, flake-wliite. An-
timoniate of lead — Naples yellow. Sul-
phate of lead. Chromates of lead — chrome
yellow, Cologne yellow. Chromate of bary-
ta — yellow ultramarine. Compounds of ar-
senic — arsenitc of copper, Scheele's green,
Schweinfurth green. Sulphide of mercury
— vermilion. Organic Colors. — Gamboge
and Naples aconite. Fuchsine and its
sub-products, such as Lyons blue. Eosine.
Nitro-derivativcs, such as naphtol yellow
and Victoria yellow. The use of these sub-
stances in coloring wrapping-papers for any
kind of food is prohibited, and manufact-
urers and dealers will be held responsible
for any accidents that may occur through
disobedience of the prefect's order.
The Bleteorosfraph. — llessrs. Van Rys-
selberghc and Schubert exhibited at the
Paris Exposition of Electricity an instru-
ment they called a meteorograph, for repre-
senting by means of continuous curves
drawn automatically upon a sheet of zinc
all the principal atmospheric variations, the
knowledge of which is indispensable in me-
teorological investigations and in making
forecasts of the weather. M. Theorell, of
Stockholm, exhibited another machine, of a
more complicated character, which indicates,
by printed figures in six columns on an end-
less roll of paper, the hour when the obser-
vation is taken, the velocity of the wind, its
direction, the indications of the wet and of
the dry thermometer, and the indications of
the barometer. Notwithstanding the com-
plicated character of the machinery that
must do so much, the instrument has borne
admirably the test of use at the University
of Upsala, where it has been employed for
two years in registering the condition of the
atmosphere every quarter of an hour. For
immediate use in the observatory it is not as
convenient as the Rysselberghe instrument,
the graphic curves of which can be read off
and appreciated at sight ; but it is much its
superior for use in cases where the facts
have to be transmitted by telegraph.
Sea Telegraphy for Ship?. — M. Menusier
has proposed a plan of telegraphy for the
use of ships at sea. Upon his cable, which
he would lay from the French coast to New
York, with a branch to Panama, he proposes
to ingraft at distances of about one hundred
and eighty miles, representing a ship's daily
sailing distance, vertical cables rising to the
surface where the ends may be held up by
buoys. To the main cable he would also
add secondary cables thirty or sixty miles
long, forming cross-cables, like great arms
stretching out on either side, to which other
vertical cables would be attached, each to
bfe held in place by its surface buoy. Thus
it could rarely happen that a ship keeping
on the regular course would not be able to
meet one of the buoys every day. Each
buoy should have its number and its place
marked on a special chart. If a ship wishes
to send a dispatch, it attaches the wires of
its own telegraphic apparatus, one to the
cable that is held up by the buoy, the other
to the buoy itself, which is of course in
communication with the earth-currents. M.
Jlenusier professes to solve the principal
difficulty in the way of the successful opcr-
