718
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ation of his invention, which is that of fix-
ing the buoys so that they shall not be re-
moved by storms, but declines to make his
plans public on account of the defective
condition of the patent laws. He has, how-
ever, explained it to competent navigators,
and they are said to regard it as practica-
ble.
American and European Palaeolithic Im-
plements. — Mr. Henry W. Haynes has com-
pared the argillite implements found in the
gravels of the Delaware River at Trenton,
New Jersey, with the palaeolithic implements
of Europe, by a personal inspection of both,
to ascertain to what extent they correspond
in character as objects of human workman-
ship. He traces many striking resemblances
between the two groups. The argillite im-
plements are, indeed, of ruder workmanship
than the European flints, but that is because
the material from which they are made is
less susceptible of being finely worked. The
types of the two classes of implements are,
however, remarkably similar, and the Dela-
ware objects are equally well adapted to
any purposes to which the European imple-
ments are capable of being applied. Re-
garding the character of the formations in
which the implements are found, the general
appearance of the country and the gravels
present a striking resemblance to what he
has seen in the places where the palaeolith-
ic implements in Europe were found. He,
therefore, considers the argillite objects of
the Trenton gravels to be true palaeolithic
implements.
Disease from Coal-Dnst.— M. Paul Fabre
has published some observations on the part
which coal-dust plays in the pathology of
coal-miners. The effects which result f rorti
the accumulation of dust in the respiratory
passages are obvious and need no particular
description. Coal-dust does not exert any
special action on the skin. The parasitical
pests, the origin of which some authors
have attributed to coal-dust, never appear
except when the chambers of the mines con-
tain water holding some irritant in solution
or suspension. Coal-sorters, who work on
the surface, live in an atmosphere contain-
ing coal, and handle as much coal as the
workmen in the mines, but do not suffer
from eruptions. Nearly all miners are
marked with characteristic scars of a clear
blue color, which, indelible as real tattooing,
follow every wound produced by splinters of
coal. Coal-dust in the air in a state of sus-
pension may produce a slight degree of sim-
ple conjunctivitis ; affections of the cornea
and iris are also sometimes observed, re-
sulting from blows inflicted by fine frag-
ments of coal. They are generally cured
after the irritating splinter has been re-
moved. Miners are frequently aSected with
defective hearing and other troubles of the
ears, which most frequently arise from a
stoppage of the extreme auditory conduit
with masses of dust that have been cement-
ed into a wad by the ear-wax. This may
be easily removed, and the irritation of the
car-passages may be cured afterward by
washing.
What Perils might come out of a Tnn-
ncl. — The scheme to tunnel the Channel has
excited great alarm, and called out formi-
dable remonstrances in England. The ob-
jection most prominently urged against the
proposed work is that it would expose the
country to a constant menace of invasion
or treachery. The French might fill the
tunnel at any time with soldiers in the guise
of innocent passengers, and seize the Eng-
lish approaches so firmly that it would be
impossible to shake them off, before the
people had begun to imagine that danger
was near ; and the Irish republicans might
form a league with the French, and, seeing
that the telegraph wires were cut, destroy
communication within the kingdom, thus
increasing the danger, which, as it was
previously presented, seemed as great as it
possibly could be. The single defense of the
English would be the power of blowing up
the tunnel suddenly and unexpectedly, " and
what would that power be worth ? The pre-
mier might think himself justified in destroy-
ing twenty millions of property and impairing
twenty-two millions more; . . . but also he
might not. He might be an undecided man,
or a man expecting defeat by the opposition,
or a man paralyzed by the knowledge that
the tunnel was full of innocent people whom
his order would condemn to instant death in
a form which is at once most painful and
most appalling to the imagination. . . . The
