NOTES.
719
responsibility would be overwhelming for
an individual, and a cabinet, if dispersed,
takes hours to bring together." The dan-
ger of panic, to which the people and the
markets would be constantly exposed, in
the view of such apprehensions as these, is
one the eif ects of which would be real. Such
objections to the tunnel have found formal
expression in a remonstrance which has
been signed by men whose names carry
weight everywhere, and have at last brought
about a suspension of the project. A very
curious objection, which Americans can
hardly appreciate, is suggested in "The
Spectator." It is that the tunnel would
turn England into an outlying peninsula of
the European Continent, and " would be al-
most purely mischievous, as slowly destroy-
ing the insularity and separateness of the
national character."
CoIor-.Vames aud Color=Sense. — Dr. B.
Joy Jeffries, in an article in " Education,"
calls attention to the fact that the power to
give right color-names does not indicate the
possession of a right perception of colors.
" A blind child will give the name of the color
of grass, trees, apples, bananas, bricks, its
companion's clothes, and perhaps even of
hundreds of objects, the color-name of which
it has learned. So, also, the color-blind boy
will do the same. It is one thing to learn
the color-name connected with a remembered
object, and a very different thing to con-
nect the right name with the sensation a
green color arouses. Here has been the
mistake which object-teaching has rather
fostered than corrected." It is evident, he
adds, that teaching color in the schools
must embrace the detection of color-blind-
ness in the boys, the learning the names of
the commonest colors at least, the sharpen-
ing of the appreciation and discrimination
of colors, and thus the gradual education of
the color-sense. Instruction should begin
in primary or Kindergarten work, and be
steadily pursued through school-life. Con-
genital color-blindness is incurable, but it
may be somewhat palliated. It is not ex-
hibited as strongly in artificial as in natural
light. Looking through a piece of lemon-
colored glass will help the color-blind in
daylight or electric light ; and the same is
true of looking through a solution of gela-
tine stained with fuchsine. No temporary
or permanent change takes place in the
color-sense under these circumstances, but
alterations of light and shade are made
which the color-blind have learned, uncon-
sciously, to avail themselves of.
NOTES.
In our notice, in the July number, of the
death of Professor W. B. Rogers, we as-
cribed it, following the newspaper reports,
to apoplexy. We now learn from his broth-
er, Professor R. E. Rogers, that the deceased
died from heart-disease. Professor Rogers's
physicians pronounced the cause of his
death to be " an attack of the heart, in
which life was extinct before his body
reached the floor."
Antoine Breguet, co-editor with Dr.
Charles Richet of the " Revue Scientifique,"
in Paris, died of a disease of the heart on
the 8th of July, in the thirty-second year of
his age. He was distinguished in science
chiefly as an electrician, and took a con-
spicuous part in the management of the
International Exposition of Electricity of
last year. Among his earlier writings was
a paper on the theory of the Gramme ma-
chine, which was published in the " Annales
de Chimie et de Physique." He contributed
many articles to " La Nature " between 1875
and 1S7S ; and became co-editor of the
" Revue Scientifique " on the retirement of
M. Alglave from that journal in 1880.
Mr. Ai.nEUT S. G.\tschett, in a study
of the Indian languages of the Pacific States
and Territories, and of the Pueblos of New
Mexico, disputes the affinities which are
supposed by many to exist between the
Aztecs and the Pueblos. The oldest and
most important characteristics of race and
language, he alleges, are far from being
common to both races, and even secondary
and more recent characteristics, as imple-
ments, manners, customs, laws, government,
religions, beliefs, worship, and traditions,
have not been shown to be identical in them.
A comparison of all of the four languages
of the Pueblos of New Mexico and Arizona
results in showing that none of them have
sufficient affinity with Aztec to justify a
classification with it.
The French Department of Public Works
reports that of the 39,938,126 metres repre-
senting the total length of the national high-
ways of the country, 23,731,028 metres may
be bordered with trees. Of this distance,
14,33."),31 1 metres have already been planted
with 2,C91,(J98,trces, leaving 9,396,017 me-
tres yet to be planted.
