•jzo
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The editor of the " Medical Press " has
visited a canary-bird, in the possession of
Dr. J. MacGrigor Croft, that can talk. He
says he found that the bird could pronounce
a good number of sentences, " clearly imita-
tive of the voice of the lady who had care
of it since its early youth," and that " the
effect produced by the clear, sweetly uttered
sentences pronounced by the bird is almost
weird at first ; but the feeling of wonder
thus created quickly gives rise to a sensa-
tion of exquisite pleasure, which is deepened
as the little creature suddenly, at the end
of a sentence, rushes off into an ecstasy of
song."
Mr. Cuaig, of Montreal, has produced a
novel effect in the electric light by the de-
vice of placing his reflectors under the light
and throwing the rays upward to the ceil-
ing. It is found that by using this method
the light, as reflected back from the ceiling,
falls upon the persons below much softened,
and far more agreeable in tone than when
reflected directly downward in the usual
way. The glaring center of light is hidden
by the reflector below it, and no longer of-
fends the eyes. Objects not exposed to di-
rect light are not in shadow, as in cases of
ordinary reflection, but the whole effect is
described as like that of the sun in the
zenith.
Mount Etna has been in a half-active
condition ever since the great eruption of
18*79. Hardly a month has passed in which
it has not ejected smoke and sand with
greater or less violence and persistency.
The outbursts have been accompanied by
the strong tremblings of the ground, and
the intense subterranean noises which com-
monly precede the great eruptions, but there
has been no emission of lava. Such fre-
quency of eruptive paroxysms, ending in
simple jets of dust, is unprecedented in the
long history of Etna.
The "Echo of Japan" says that a cave
near Bcppo-Moura, Japan, had not been
entered by any one for several generations.
According to popular belief, a god made his
abode there, and was ready to punish with
death any one who violated his privacy.
One of the tribe of doubters recently vent-
ured in, and found there the veritable god
whom the mass of mankind worship. The
ground was strewed with nuggets of gold.
A preliminary examination of the spot has
been made, and shows that it is extraordi-
narily rich in the precious metal.
It is estimated that twenty-nine per cent
of the acreage of Europe is still in timber.
Forty per cent of the enormous territory of
Russia is in forests, and of this two hundred
million acres are in pine-wcods. Thirty-
four per cent of the territory of Sweden and
Norway is occupied with woods of useful tim-
bers, twenty-six per cent of Austria, twenty-
seven per cent of Germany, seventeen per
cent of France, seven per cent of Spain, the
timber being cork, oak, and chestnut, five per
cent of Portugal, and four per cent of Great
Britain. Scotland is the only part of the
British Empire (including the colonies) in
which the planting of timber is going on to
any considerable extent. Sweden is now the
country from which the world's supply of fir
timber and deals chiefly comes.
Dr. J. R. Black of Newark, Ohio, in a
lecture delivered at Columbus, makes a well-
conceived plea for giving more attention to
physical education, saying : " To impart a
knowledge of the three R's is well, but is it
not as well to impart a knowledge of how to
live healthy lives ? Is not a strong, healthy,
self-made man better than a highly cultured
weakling ? Let the State, as educator, at-
tend to this point, earnestly and thoroughly,
and the results would be that, besides gain-
ing for itself a better soldiery in times of
peril, there would also be an increased im-
munity from crimes against the State, a
diminution of the conditions which produce
disease and pauperism, and the rendering of
the life of each more joyful and serene."
In a paper on the aurora of April 16 and
17, 1882, which was read before the Ameri-
can Philosophical Society, Mr. H. CarviJl
Lewis points to the occurrence of remarka-
ble auroral displays at this time, as afford-
ing a striking confirmation of the perio-
dicity of these phenomena. " It is just ten
years," he says, " since the last auroras of
importance occurred, and the period often to
twelve years between maximum auroral dis-
plays may be regarded as firmly established.
The coincidence of this period with that of
most numerous sun-spots shows a direct con-
nection between the electrical condition of
the earth and sun. At the present time the
sun is exhibiting remarkable disturbances."
News has been received in Paris of the
death of Dr. Crevaux, who had started from
Buenos Ayrcs on a second exploring expe-
dition in South America, designing this time
to ascend the Paraguay River and its tribu-
taries and thence pass to the valley of the
Amazon, whence he would descend the Ta-
payos. His company appears to have been
murdered by a horde of cannibals. On his
previous expedition, in 1879, he determined
with the compass the course of six rivers,
two of which belong to Guiana, and four are
tributaries of the Amazon. While a little
was known of three of these rivers, the Ma-
roni, Oyapok, and Issa, two of them, the
Parou and the Yari were virgin to all exi)lo-
rafion, and of the Japura, which is fifteen
hundred miles long, four fifths of its course
were unknown.
