722 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
In view of these facts, it need liardly be said that those who would
jjroperly understand and apply massage should be familiar with its
past and present literature ; they should also be familiar not only with
the natural history of the maladies in which massage may be applied
when left to themselves, but also with the course of these affections
when treated in the usual approved methods, so that improvements
or relapses may be referred to their proper causes. IVIoreover, they
should know something about the methods of others who have any
claim to respectability in their manner of applying massage, so as to
compare them with their own. And yet all these qualifications may
fail if the operator has not in addition abundance of time, patience,
strength, and skill, acquired by long and intelligent experience. Meas-
ured by these requirements, I fear that good masseurs (manipulators)
are scarce. Dr. E. C. Seguin, in the "Archives of Medicine" for
April, 1881, says, that even in New York there are few manipulators
who can be trusted to do massage well. Massage may be studied as
a science, but it has, like everythiog else in medicine and surgery, to
be practiced as an art. Those who have a natural tact, talent, and
liking for m9,ssage, united with soft, elastic, and strong hands, and
physical endurance to use them, may be as useful artists in this de-
partment of the healing art as in others. It has been well said that
those who do massage should be tender and gentle, yet strong and
enduring. These are qualities that are rarely found combined in
manipulators. It is a very common mistake to suppose that those
who are of a remarkably healthy, ruddy appearance, plethoric and fat,
are the best fitted to do massage. Such people require a great deal of
exercise in the open air for the proper oxygenation of their blood, and
confining, in-door work, like massage, they soon find to be tedious
and irksome. Besides, the stooping attitude and varying positions so
often necessary while doing this sort of work soon put them out of
breath ; and thus, while suffering from their ignorance and awkward-
ness, they fancy they are imparting "magnetism" to their patients at
their own expense. Better that the manipulators should be rather thin,
though if of too spare a habit their hands will not be sufficiently
strong and muscular and their tissues generally will lack that firmness
necessary for prolonged endurance.
One of the best German medical reviews, " Schmidt's Jahrbiicher,"
in an extensive report on massage, thus indicates the esteem in which
this treatment is held by many eminent physicians and surgeons of
Europe : " It is but recently that massage has gained an extensive
scientific consideration, since it has passed out of the hands of rough
and ignorant empirics into those of educated physicians ; and upon
the results of recent scientific investigations it has been cultivated
into an improved therapeutical system, and has won for itself in its
entirety the merit of having become a special branch of the art of
medicine." Professor Billroth, one of the most eminent surgeons of
