MASSAGE.
723
Germany, in a lecture on this subject published in tlie "T^Tiener med.
Wochen.," Xo. 45, 1875, says : "I can only agree with my colleagues,
Langenbeck and Esmarch, that massage in suitable cases deserves more
attention than has fallen to its lot in the course of the past ten j'ears
in Germany. ... As practice in the manipulations, time, persever-
ance, and personal interest in the matter are necessary, and these one
can not bestow who interests himself much in medicine and surgery,
I have turned over to my old exjaerienced surgical assistant suitable
cases for massage, and he has already obtained a series of results both
favorable and surprising, and far exceeding my expectations of this
method of treatment." Previous to the past fifteen years the French
physicians took more interest in massage than any others, but of late
they have almost entirely laid it aside. With their waning interest
the Scandinavians and Germans have taken up the subject with re-
newed zeal, and from time to time furnish instructive accounts of their
experiments, successes, and failures.
How is massage regarded, and what is its condition, in the United
States ? Except among very few — epicures in this matter, if one may
so speak — there is as yet but little evidence of a desire to place mas-
sage, and those who do it, on their merits alone, irrespective of the pol-
icy of employing persons who are only rubbing-machines, or of toler-
ating obnoxious individuals so long as the poor patients' minds are sat-
isfied. This is too often the case, and then massage is said to have
failed and valuable time is lost, when, if it had been properly applied,
it might have been successful ; or, on the other hand, perhaps it should
have been omitted and other remedies employed. The writer of this,
in a recent paper on the " History of Massage," has said : " In almost
every city of the United States, and indeed of the whole civilized
world, there may be found individuals claiming mysterious and mag-
ical powers of curing disease, setting bones, and relieving pain by the
immediate application of their hands. Some of these boldly assert
that their art is a gift from Heaven, due to some unknown power
which they call magnetism, while others designate it by some peculiar
word ending with/>aMy or cure, and it is astonishing how much credit
they get for their supposed genius by many of the most learned peo-
ple." Let a fisherman forsake his boat, or a blacksmith his anvil, or
a carpenter his bench, or a shoe-maker his sliop, and proclaim that he
has made the wonderful discovery that he is full of magnetism and
can cure all diseases, and, be he ever so ignorant and uncouth, he is
likely to have, in a remarkably short space of time, a large clientele
of educated gentlemen and refined ladies. It is not meant to imply
that the previous occupation of such people is at all to their discredit,
but, were they capable of giving a rational explanation of their doings,
the halo of mystery would be removed from around them, and their
prestige and patronage Avould suffer a sudden decline.
In Boston and Philadelphia, and perhaps in other cities as well.
