724 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
efforts have been made by physicians, who are thoroughly familiar
with massage, to instruct intelligent nin-ses and others how to apply
it, and at the training-schools for nurses the pupils receive some gen-
eral instruction in the matter. In this way something has been ac-
complished to bring massage within the rules and regulations of com-
mon sense and rational therajDeutics. But still there is great room for
improvement even in this direction, for it is but too often the case that
after one or two persons are specially trained to do massage they are
requested to give instruction to some of the pupils at the schools for
nurses, and to others, a few of whom, after having received some gen-
eral desultory lessons, are in turn delegated or relegated to teach others,
and so on, until, by the time massage reaches the needy patients, there
is often little left of it but the name. Hence it is not to be wondered
at that many a shrewd, superannuated auntie, and others who are out
of a job, having learned the meaning of the word massage, immediately
have it printed on their cards, and keej^ on with their "rubbin' " just
as they always have done.
The vaguest generalities exist as to the manner of doing massage,
even among the best authors on the subject, and, after having studied
and tried the methods of all, the writer proposes to briefly formulate,
as much as space will permit of, what he has found to be of value,
without having adopted the methods of any in particular. By so do-
ing it is hoped that some will be able to judge whether those employed
to do massage know anything about it or not, or whether it would not
be as well to employ one of their own domestics for ordinary rubbing,
the advantages of which are not to be despised. At any rate, from
the description which follows, I trust that not a few intelligent friends
of chronic invalids, who are beyond the reach of the professional ma-
nipulator, will be enabled to apply massage so as to afford even greater
relief and comfort than can be gained from many of those whom
the ignorance of the community on this subject alone tolerates as
experts.
The multiform subdivisions under v\'hich the various procedures
of massage have been described can all be grouped under four differ-
ent heads, viz., friction, percussion, pressure, and movement. Malaxa-
tion, manipulation, deep-rubbing, kneading, or massage, properly so
called, is to be considered as a combination of the last two. Each and
all of these may be gentle, moderate, or vigorous, according to the
requirements of the case and the physical qualities of the operators.
Some general remarks here will save repetition : 1. All of the single
or combined procedures should be begun moderately, gradually in-
creased in force and frequency to their fullest extent desirable, and
should end gradually as begun. 2. The greatest extent of surface of
tlie fingers and hands of the operator consistent with ease and efficacy
of movement should be adapted to the surface worked upon, in order
that no time be lost by working with the ends of the fingers or one
