MASSAGE. 725
portion of the bands when all the rest might be occupied. 3. The
patient should be placed in as easy and comfortable a position as pos-
sible, in a well-ventilated room at a temperature of about 70° Fahr.
4, What constitutes the dose of massage is to be determined by the
force and frequency of the manipulations and the length of time
during which they are employed. A good manipulator will do more
in fifteen minutes than a poor one will in an hour, just as an old raa-
chanic working deliberately will accomplish more than an inexperi-
enced one working furiously. Friction has been described as recti-
linear, vertical, transverse or horizontal, and circular. It has been
stated, and very properly, that rectilinear friction should always be
used in an upward direction, from the extremities to the trunk, so as
to favor and not retard the venous and lymphatic currents. But a
slight deviation from this method I have found to be more advanta-
geous, for though in almost every case the upward strokes of the friction
should be the stronger, yet the returning or downward movement may
Avith benefit lightly graze the surface, imparting a soothing influence,
without being so vigorous as to retard the circulation, and thus a
saving of time and effort will be gained. The manner in which a
carpenter uses his plane represents this forward-and-return movement
very well. Transverse friction, or friction at right angles to the long
axis of a limb, is a very ungraceful and awkward procedure. It has
been introduced on theoretical considerations alone, and may with
safety be laid aside, for the method already spoken of, together with
circular friction, will do all and a great deal more than rubbing cross-
wise on a limb can do. A convenient extent of territory, to begin
with, is from the ends of the fingers to the wrist, each stroke being
of this length, the returning stroke being light, without raising the
hand. The rapidity of these double strokes may bo from one hundred
to one hundred and fifty a minute. The whole palmar surface of the
fingers should be employed, and in such a manner that they will fit
into the depressions formed by the approximation of the phalanges
and metacarpal bones. The heel of the hand should be used for
especially vigorous friction of the palm, as well as for the solo of the
foot. From the Avrist to the elbow, and from the elbow to the shoul-
der, are separately convenient extents of surface, and here not only
straight-line friction, extending from one joint to the other, may be
used, but also circular friction. The form of the latter which I have
found most serviceable is in that of an oval, both hands moving at
the same time, the one ascending as the other descends, at the rate of
one hundred and twenty-five to two hundred and fifty each a minute,
or two hundred and fifty to five hundred with both hands, each stroke
reaching from joint to joint, the upward stroke being carefully kept
within the limits of chafing the skin. These observations apply to
the lower limbs also, but, as they are larger than the arms, the pos-
terior and lateral aspects, from ankle to knee, will be a convenient
