726 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
territory, while the anterior and lateral aspects will be another for
thorough and efficacious friction. The same systematic division of
surface may be made above the knees as below, the number of strokes
below will vary from one hundred to one hundred and sixty with each
hand ; above, from seventy-five to one hundred each. From the base
of the skull to the S2)ine of the scapula forms another region naturally
well bounded for downward and outward semicircular friction, and
from the spine of the scapula to the base of the sacrum and crest of
the ilium forms another surface over which one hand can sweep, while
the other works toward it from the insertion to the origin of the glutei,
at an average rate of sixty or seventy-five a minute with each hand
for a person of medium size. It will be observed that on the back
and thighs the strokes are not so rapid as on the other parts mentioned,
for the reason that the skin is here thicker and coarser, in consequence
of which the hand can not glide so easily, and the larger muscles be-
neath can well bear stronger pressure ; besides, the strokes are somewhat
longer, all of which require an increased expenditure of time. The
chest should be done from the insertion to the origin of the pectoral
muscles, and the abdomen from the right iliac fossa in the direction
of the ascending, transverse and descending colon. But here friction
is seldom necessaiy, for the procedure about to be considered accom-
plishes all that friction can do, and a great deal more in this region.
The force used in doing friction is often much greater than is neces-
sary, for it is only intended to act upon the skin, and there are better
ways of acting upon the tissues l^eneath it. If redness and irritation
be looked ujion as a measure of the beneficial effects of friction upon
the skin, then a coarse towel, a hair mitten, or a brush would answer
for this purpose a great deal better than the hand alone.
The most important, agreeable, and efficacious procedure of mas-
sage has been variously designated as manipulation, kneading, deep-
rubbing, or massage properly so called, in contradistinction to the more
superficial method spoken of above. This is done by adapting as
much as possible of the fingers and hands to the parts to be thus
treated, and, without allowing them to slip on the skin, the tissues be-
neath are kneaded, rolled, and manipulated in a circulatory manner,
proceeding from the insertion toward the origin of the muscles, from
the extremities to the trunk, in the direction of the returning blood
and lymphatic currents. For this purpose the same divisions of sur-
face as for friction will be found most convenient. Beginning then
with the fingers from the roots of the nails, the thumb of the manipu-
lator will be placed on one of the fingers of the patient, and parallel
to the latter, while on the opi)Osite side the index-finger will be placed
at right angles to this, and between the two the finger of the patient
will be compressed and malaxated, in a rotary manner, at the rate of
seventy-five to one hundred and fifty per minute. The dorsal and
palmar surfaces will of course receive special attention, while the
