MASSAGE. 727
lateral aspects will come in for a secondary share. If the manipulator
be sufficiently expert he can work with both hands on this small sur-
face with the same rapidity as with one. Each finger and thumb will
be taken in turn, and the manipulations extended over the metacarpal
and carpal bones as far as the wrist-joint, and finally the palm of the
hand by stretching the tissues vigorously away from the median line.
Each part included in a single gras^) may receive three or four manip-
ulations before proceeding onward to the adjacent region. The ad-
vance upon this should be such as to allow the finger and thumb to
overlap one half of what has just been worked upon. Advance and
review should thus be systematically carried on, and this is of general
application to all the other tissues that can be masseed. The force
used here and elsewhere must be carefully graduated so as to allow
the patient's tissues to glide freely upon each other ; for, if too great,
the movement will be frustrated by the compression and perhaps
bruising of the tissues ; if too light, the operator's fingers will slip ;
and, if gliding with strong compression be used, the skin will be chafed.
To avoid this last objection various greasy substances have been em-
ployed, so that ignorant M'ould-be masseurs may rub without injuring
the skin. AYhen the skin is cold and dry, and the tissues in general
are insufficiently nourished, as Avell as in certain fevers and other mor-
bid conditions, there can be no doubt of the value of inunction ; but
no special skill is required in order to do this, and there is no need of
calling it massage unless it be to please the fancy of the patient.
The feet may be dealt with in the same manner as the hands, using
the ends of the fingers to work longitudinally between the metatarsal
as well as between the metacarpal bones. Upon the arms and legs,
and indeed upon all the rest of the body, both hands can be used to
better advantage than where the surfaces are small. Each group of
muscles should be systematically worked upon, and for this purpose
one hand can usually be placed opposite to the other and in advance of
it, so that two groups of muscles may bo manij)ulated at the same
time. ^Vhen the circumference of the limb is not great, the fingers
of one hand will partly reach on to the territory of the other, while
grasping, circulatory, spiral manipulations are made, one hand con-
tracting as the other relaxes, the greatest extension of the tissues being
upward and laterally, and on the fore-arms and legs away from the
median line. Subcutaneous bony surfaces, as those of the tibia and
ulna, incidentally get sufficient attention Avhile manipulating their ad-
jacent muscles, for, if both be included in a vigorous grasp, imnecessary
discomfort results. Care should be taken not to place the fingers and
thumb of one hand too near those of the other, for by so doing their
movements would be cramped. The elasticity, or want of it, in the
patient's tissues, should be the guide, the object being to obtain their
normal stretch, and in this every person is a law to himself, the
character of their tissues varying with the amount and quality of
