728 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
adipose, modes of life, exercise, etc. A frequent error on the part of
manipulators is in attempting to stretch the tissues in opposite direc-
tions at the same time, especially at the flexures of the joints, where
the skin is delicate and sensitive, and where the temptation to such
procedures is greatest because easiest, the effect being a sensation of
tearing of the skin. The rate of these manoeuvres varies from
seventy-five to one hundred and fifty with each hand per minute on
the arms, from sixty to ninety on the legs, and from forty to eighty
on the thighs, where more force is required on account of the larger
size and density of the muscles, and the need of using sufficient force
to extend beneath the strong, tense fascia lata.
On the back the direction of these efforts will be from the base of
the skull downward, stretching the tissues away from the spinal
column while manipulating in graceful curves at an average rate of
sixty per minute with each hand. And here one hand can often be
re-enforced by placing the other upon it, and thus massage may be
done with all the strength the manipulator can put forth. With the
ends of the fingers the muscles on each side of the spinal column can
be rolled, and the supra-spinous ligament can be effectually masseed
by transverse to-and-fro movements. The ends of the fingers and
part of their palmar surface should also be placed on each side of
the spinous processes, and the tissues situated between these and the
transverse processes worked upon by up-and-down motions parallel
to the spine, taking care to avoid the too frequent error of making
pushing, jerky movements in place of smooth, uniform motions in
each direction.
On the chest and abdomen the same general direction will be ob-
served as in using friction, but the manipulation will be more gentle
than on the back and limbs, for the tissues will not tolerate being so
vigorously squeezed and pinched. Here the massage will consist of
moderate pressure and movement with the palms of the hands, and
rolling and grasping the skin and superficial fascia ; and, after this,
on the abdomen, steady, firm, deep kneading in the direction of the
ascending, transverse, and descending colon, using for this purpose
the greatest force with the heel of the hand on the side of the abdo-
men next the operator, and on the other side the strongest manipula-
tions with the fingers, avoiding the frequent and disagreeable mistake
of pressing at the same time on the anterior portions of the pelvis.
Before leaving this part of the subject, the writer begs leave to
say something more about the common errors into which manipulators
fall, even some of those who pass for being skillful. Many do not
know how to do the kneading or malaxation with ease and comfort to
themselves and to their patients, for, in place of Avorking from their
wrists and concentrating their energy in the muscles of their hands
and fore-arms, they vigorously fix the muscles of their upper arms
and shoulders, thus not only moving their own frame with every
