MASSAGE.
731
of the first importance, and will alternate Tvitli friction and mauijDula-
tion. Percussion is in massage Avbat faradization is in electricity, and
will often answer the same purpose ; manipulation, or deeiJ-kneading,
is to massage what the constant current is to electricity, and the ulti-
mate effects of each are very much alike. In "Schmidt's Jahrbiicher"
and elsewhere numerous instances are given in which massage has suc-
ceeded, after electricity and other means had failed. The reverse of
this may be true, but as yet I have not seen any proof of it. Let us
now speak of the general effects of massage, and, further on, its influ-
ence more in detail. And, first, it may bo well to premise that it re-
quires, on the part of the patient a certain amount of latent energy,
if one may so call it, in order to undergo even a minimum seance of
massage ; for a patient may be so weak as to preclude the possibility
of its being applied without harm resulting. In properly selected
cases, instances of which are frequently seen in individuals suffering
from overwork, or want of work, worry, depression of spirits, and loss
of sleep, together with feeble and tardy digestion — those who can not
get or take rest, no matter how favorable the opportunity — the effects
of massage are generally as follows : While it is being done, and often
for several hours afterward, the patients are in a blissful state of re-
pose ; they feel as if they were enjoying a long rest, or had just
returned from a refreshing vacation, and not a few say that it makes
optimists of them for the time being. It produces warmth, comfort,
and sleep ; relieves or cures constipation, muscular pains, and stiffness.
At the same time it exerts a peculiarly delightful and profound effect
upon the nervous system, its influence being tonic, sedative, and
physiologically counter-in-itant, making more blood flow through the
skin and muscles, and consequently less to the bx'ain, spinal cord, and
internal organs. To those to whom exercise would be injurious, mas-
sage affords the advantages of exercise without exertion while the
subjects of it are resting, their over-taxed will and used-up nervous
energy not being required to express themselves in voluntary motion.
For reasons such as these, we find no less an authority than the British
"Journal of ^Mental Sciences" (for April, 1878) recommending "mas-
sage for certain melancholies, with trophic and vaso-motor affections,
and also where dementia is threatened after an attack of excitement.
Under this treatment mental comfort and a sense of well-being take
the place of apathy and lassitude."
Lord Bacon has quaintly remarked that " repair is procured by
nourishment, and nourishment is promoted by forwarding internal
concoction, which drives forth the nourishment, as by medicines that
invigorate the principal viscera ; and, secondly, by exciting the exter-
nal parts to attract the nourishment, as by exercise, proper frictions,
etc." Massage excites the external parts to attract and assimilate the
nourishment, brought thither by an increased volume of blood, and
this, at the same time, favors absorption of the natural worn-out
