732 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
debris. The different ranks of the Sandwich-Islanders are of different
stature ; and we are told that the chiefs, though sunk in sloth and im-
morality, are not diminutive and decrepit, like many of their country-
men, for the reason that they fare sumptuously, take little or no
exercise, and are lomi-lomied after every meal, in order to aid their
digestion and promote their cii'culation without inducing fatigue or
exhaustion. Lomi-lomi is thus interestingly described by Nordhoff,
in his book on " Northern California, Oregon, and the Sandwich Isl-
ands " : " Wherever you stop, for lunch or for the night, if there are
native people near, you will be greatly refreshed by the application of
lomi-lomi. Almost everywhere you will find some one skilled in this
peculiar, and, to tired muscles, delightful and refreshing treatment.
To be lomi-lo'inied, you lie down upon a mat, or undress for the night,
if you prefer. The less clothing you have on the more perfectly the
operation can be performed. To you, thereupon, comes a stout natiA^e,
with soft, fleshy hands, but a strong grip, and beginning with your
head, and working down slowly over the whole body, seizes and
squeezes with a quite peculiar art every tired muscle, working and
kneading with indefatigable patience, until, in half an hour, whereas
you were weary and worn out, you find yourself fresh, all soreness and
weariness absolutely and entirely gone, and mind and body soothed to
a healthful and refreshing sleep. The lomi-lomi is used not only by
the natives, but among almost all the foreign residents ; and not
merely to procure relief from weariness, consequent upon over-exer-
tion, but to cure headaches, to relieve the aching of neuralgic or
rheumatic pains, and, by the luxurious, as one of the pleasures of life.
I have known it to relieve violent headache in a very short time. The
chiefs used to keep skillful lomi-lomi men in their retinues ; and the
late king, w^ho was for some years too stout to take exercise, and was
yet a gross feeder, had himself lomi-lomied after every meal, as a
means of aiding his digestion. It is a device for relieving pain and
weariness which seems to have no injurious reaction, and no draw-
back but one — it is said to fatten the subjects of it."
Dr. Weir Mitchell has successfully proved that many chronic in-
valids can be cured by rest and excessive feeding, made possible by
means of massage and electricity. Under this combination of treat-
ment, skillfully carried out, many become fat, strong, and well, thus
illustrating the truth of Lord Bacon's remark, and the beneficial effects
of the not very scientific massage of the Sandwich-Islanders. The
lomi-lomi of the Sandwich-Islanders is only a series of intermittent
squeezes proceeding toward the extremities, thus hindering the re-
turning circulation ; and this illustrates another fact — that many who
have had but one kind of pinching and squeezing think it is " excellent "
until they try some one who understands and can do it better ; more-
over, it shows that any sort of stirring up of the tissues is often better
than none. In using massage, as much depends on the cpialities and
