52 TEE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
his little ones with phantom scenes of beauty, brought by the sunbeam
and the stereoscoj)e from places that their eyes will never behold.
The writer will not be deemed blameworthy in transcribing, from a
letter that was not intended for the public, a few lines which the au-
thor has consented to let him give. Dr. Holmes says : " It appeared
to me that the box stereoscopes were cumbrous and awkward affairs.
I had one of Smith and Beck's, and one or more of other patterns, but
I did not like them ; and so one day I cut out a piece of wood in some
such shape as this (Fig. 10), the lines representing slots in which the
stereograph was to be placed, stuck an awl in for a handle, and there
was my stereoscope. ... I have forgotten to mention the hood, which
I made of pasteboard cut to fit. Other open instruments, and many
closed ones, have been made, but most of them have been awkward,
expensive, and sometimes gimcracky^ whereas I think mine may be
called simple, strong, cheap, handy."
No better compendium of good qualities can be expressed than is
comprised in this brief list of four words. The figure is taken directly
from " the original great-grandfather pattern," as the inventor has
pleasantly called it, the " real Adam " of hand-stereoscopes, that was
born — or developed — in 1861, delighted the human beings who lived
in that remote day, and has been sleeping these many years. Com-
pelled now to show itself, like Rip Van Winkle, it is perhaps a little
stiff ; and in style it is a trifle blunt, in comparison with its polished
and accommodating great-grandchildren of the present day (Fig. 11),
that fold up and pocket themselves out of sight ; but nevertheless its
character is that of a straightforward, clear-headed old ancestor, that
looks forth honestly from under that somber hood.
To produce the illusion of viewing an actiial sunlit scene. Dr.
Holmes placed between the stereograph and the semi-lenses an oblique
wooden plate, in which were a pair of elliptic openings, so that the
effect was that of looking through a circular window. The front was
covered with gilt paper from which a golden light was reflected upon
the picture. As an ajipropriate name he selected that of " The Claude
Lorraine Stereoscope."
The inventor offered his device gratuitously to manufacturers in
New York and Philadelphia, but their refusal was as courteous as
was consistent with firm opposition. He did not assume the trouble
to secure it by patent, as he " did not care to make money by so ob-
vious and simple a contrivance." A few of these stereoscopes were at
last constructed by Mr. Joseph L. Bates, of Boston ; and the demand
rapidly grew so that now but few of any other make are to be found in
the United States. Improvements, indeed, have been added, but not
of such kind as to diminish the cost ; one of these, introduced by Mr.
Bates, was the substitution of a sliding cross-bar for the series of fixed
slots. The " Claude Lorraine " effect may be easily obtained with any
ordinary stereoscope, by the use of an extra cross-bar, on which the
