MASSAGE.
733
qualifications of the person who does it as in any other occupation.
It would be wrong to leave the impression that massage is always
agreeable from the first. In proportion as the muscles, superficial
fascia, and skin are unnaturally tough, tense, matted and hide-hoimd,
will the massage be disagreeable until they become soft, supple, and
elastic. An appreciation of the proper consistence of the tissues and
their anatomical structure is of the utmost importance for the success
of this treatment.
But we must hasten to consider how massage acts locally. By up-
ward and oval friction, with deep manipulation, the veins and lym-
phatics are mechanically emptied — the blood and lymph are pushed
along more quickly by the additional vis a tergo of the massage, and
these fluids can not return by reason of the valvular folds on the inter-
nal coats of their vessels. Thus, not only is more space created for
the returning currents arising from beyond the region masseed, but, at
the same time, a vacuum is formed, which is visible in the sui^erfcial
veins of persons who are not too fat ; and this is thought by some to
add a new force to the more distal circulation. In this way the col-
lateral circulation in the deeper vessels is aided and relieved, as well
as the more distal stream in the capillaries and arterioles. One would
naturally suppose that the cii'culation in the larger arteries would, in
this manner, be interrupted, and such is the case. But, herein comes
an additional advantage to aid the circulation, for the temporary and
momentary intermittent compression causes a dilatation of the artery
from an increased volume of blood above the part pressed upon, and
this accumulation rushes on^vard with greater rapidity as soon as the
pressure is removed, in consequence of the force of the heart's action
and the resiliency of the arteries acting upon the accumulated volume
of blood.
But the same pressure also acts upon the tissues external to the
vessels, causing a more rapid resorption of natural or pathological
products through the walls of the venous capillaries and lymphatics.
When muscular nerves are stimulated, the vaso-dilators are influenced,
and this takes place by massage, whence follows enlargement of the
lumen of the vessels, so that an increased flow passes through them
with greater ease and diminished pressure. AVhen stimuli are applied
to the skin, reflex vaso-motor action shows that the vaso-dilators are
acted upon, hence the redness and congestion of the skin when mas-
sage is specially directed to it. It can be readily seen now that mas-
sage rouses dormant capillaries, increases the area and speed of the
circulation, furthers absorption and stimulates the vaso-motor nerves,
all of which are aids and not hindrances to the heart's action, as well
as to nutrition in general. Seeing that more blood passes in a given
time, there will be an increase in the total interchange between the
blood and the tissues, and thus the total amount of work done by the
circulation will be greater and the share borne by each quantity of
