734 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
blood less. It will not be surprising, then, to learn that in practice
massage sometimes proves a valuable ally in the treatment of func-
tional and organic diseases of the heart, for " the peripheral friction
of the blood against the walls of the capillaries and small arteries not
only opposes the flow of blood through them, but, working backward
along the whole arterial system, has to be overcome by the heart at
each systole of the left ventricle." This obstacle is in great part
lessened by massage. In exercise there is alternate contraction and
relaxation of voluntary muscles, and this is a powerful aid to the cir-
culation in general ; for at each contraction the vessels are emptied by
compression, and the alternating relaxation allows them to fill up again.
Thus each muscle or group of muscles in activity has been appropri-
ately likened to a beating heart. In this respect the intermittent
pressure of massage aids and imitates the alternate contraction and
relaxation of muscles very accurately, and no better praise could be
bestowed upon any therapeutical agent than the old-fashioned,
haughty, supercilious w^ay of dismissing the subject of massage as
unworthy of notice by saying that it was merely a substitute for
exercise. Exercise favors all the functions, and people who can exer-
cise freely without fatigue, and who can eat and sleep well, seldom
need massage. I am aware that this statement includes many neura-
sthenics, especially those who suffer from want of occupation.
While undergoing massage it is well for the patient to take fre-
quent and deep inspirations, in order to favor the flow of the venous
and lymphatic currents to the thorax. This, however, is often in-
stinctively done, and with such ease that the patient feels as if freed
from an immense load. From a paper by Professor H. P. Bowditch,
in the " Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences,"
for 1873, " On the Lymph-Spaces in Fascia3," we learn the following
valuable and interesting facts : "In experiments on animals where the
flow of lymph through the thoracic duct was measured, passive move-
ments of the limbs increased this flow in a remarkable manner. Gal-
vanization of the muscles had a similar but less powerful effect. The
lymph-spaces existing between the tendinous fibers of fasciffi and the
connection of these spaces with lymphatic vessels have been described
by Ludw^ig and others. By virtue of this structure the fasciae play
an important part in keeping up the flow of lymph through the lym-
phatic vessels. A piece of fascia was removed from the leg of a dog
and tied over the mouth of a glass funnel, with the side next the mus-
cles uppermost. A few drops of a colored turpentine solution were
then placed upon this surface, and the fascia alternately stretched and
relaxed by partially exhausting the air from the funnel and allowing
it to return again. In this way the coloring matter was made to
penetrate into the spaces between the fibers of the fascia and to enter
the lymph-spaces on the opposite side. The same result was obtained
when the coloring matter was injected between the muscles and the
