MASSAGE. 735
fascia, and the latter stretched and relaxed by passive movements of
the limb. The alternate widening and narrowing of the lymph-spaces
between the tendinous fibers seems, therefore, to cause absorption of
the lymph from the neighboring parts as well as its onward flow into
the lymphatic vessels." This function of the fascia certainly affords
a partial, important, and, so far as it goes, very satisfactory explana-
tion of the success of methods of treatment which involve passive
motion, for the removal of effete matters from the tissues is favored
by an increased flow of lymph.
But Nature, as one of her regular functions, is continually per-
forming this experiment in the voluntary and involuntary movements
of the muscles. The large serous cavities, such as those of the pleura
and peritonreum, are now regarded as extensive lacuna? in the course of
the lymphatic vessels ; lymph-spaces and lymphatic vessels, communi-
cating with each other by means of small openings or stomata, have
been demonstrated in these membranes, and also the communication
of the lymph-spaces with the pleural and peritoneal cavities by means
of intercellular openings. This has been shown by injecting either of
these cavities with colored fluid, and, after killing the animal, examin-
ing the course of absorption of the fluid under the microscope. In
the movements of respiration, alternate expansion and contraction of
the chest-walls, with descent and ascent of the diaphragm, we have a
continual pump-like action of absorption and onward expulsion in the
lymph-spaces and lymphatic vessels of the pleura and peritonaeum.
But we must not forget that the capillary blood-vessels are similarly
influenced, nor should we fail to remember that osmosis may also play
a very important part, and that this, too, can be increased by artificial
pressure. We can now understand why the kings of the Sandwich
Islands should be lomi-lomied after every meal in order to aid their
digestion, for the externally applied pressure over the abdomen would
force the contents of the lacteals, or lymphatics of the small intestine,
onward, at the same time aiding them in their absorption of digestive
products.
Professor von Mosengeil, of Bonn, has made some interesting and
useful experiments by injecting the cavities of corresponding joints
of rabbits with Indian ink, and in this way proving that resorption
takes place from these cavities by means of lymph-spaces and stomata,
communicating with lymphatic vessels, and through these with lym-
phatic glands. With each rabbit he mass'eed one of the joints and left
the corres])onding joint untouched. The swelling that arose from the
injection always disappeared rapidly under massage, and, upon exam-
ination of the masseed joint, it was found emptied for the most part
of its colored contents. Even when the examination was made shortly
after the injection and the use of massage, there was proportionately
little ink found in the joint, part of it was found upon the synovial
membrane ; and upon microscopic examination it was seen that the
