736 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
greatest part had been forced into, and had penetrated through, the
synovial membrane, and the darkened lymphatics could be seen with
the unaided eye from the injected joint to the lymphatic glands, and
these latter were black from the absorption of the ink. Upon ex-
amination of the injected joint-cavities that had not been masseed, the
ink was still found in the joint mixed with the synovia in a smeary
mass, and it had not even penetrated into the tissue of the synovial
membrane. With the removal of the effusion by the use of massage,
Yon JMosengeil always succeeded in improving the stiffness, and in
obtaining the same appearances in the lymphatics.
From clinical experience in the use of massage in joint affections,
such results as those obtained by Von Mosengeil might have been
with safety predicted. A consideration of the mode of application of
massage in joint injuries and affections, and its relations to mechanical
support, rest, and exercise, would far exceed the limits of this paper.
Scandinavian, German, and French array-surgeons, who with their
OAvn hands have used massage the most in joint maladies, have ac-
cumulated respectable and trustworthy statistics showing its great
value in such cases. At the same time they have not forgotten to
tabulate their failures. The result of their experience in recent joint
injuries admitting of the application of massage is thus formulated :
"7i tcill simidtaneoushj further and increase resorption^ accelerate
the circidation, relieve pain, and reduce elevated temperature^'' I
have illustrated this by a report of over three hundred cases, the de-
tails of which may be found in the " Kew York Medical Record," Ko.
353. The " Nouveau Dictionnaire de Medecine " clearly expresses the
action of massage in the following words : " Massage augments inter-
stitial absorption not only by the sur-activite impressed upon the re-
turning circulation, but also by dividing to infinity pathological and
normal products accumulated in the muscular interstices and meshes
of the cellular tissue. The dissemination of these products multiplies
their points of contact with the walls of the veins and lymphatics,
whence result their imbibition and diffusion into the general circula-
tion."
But, discuss any therapeutical agent as we may, there is something
still peculiar to each that evades expression by tongue or pen. Of
what use is it to describe odors, tastes, sensations, sights, and sounds ?
They can only be comprehended by smelling, tasting, feeling, seeing,
and hearing. Just so with the peculiar calm, soothing, restful, light
feeling that so often results from massage, which can not be under-
stood until experienced. It doubtless arises to a great extent from
the pressure of natural worn-out debris being speedily removed from
off terminal nerve - filaments. Furthermore, massage excites and
awakens the ynuscular soise in an agreeable and beneficial manner
such as nothing else does, and we know that the state of our muscles
indicates and often determines our feeling of health and vigor, or of
