LITERATURE AXD SCIENCE. 737
weariness and feebleness. To many minds a more satisfactory way
of explaining the phenomena produced by massage would be by say-
ino- that they all occur in consequence of "magnetism," by which they
have an indefinite understanding that this is some sort of impercepti-
ble, ethereal fluid passing from one person to another. Such an ex-
planation is low, gross, and vulgar, and it is erroneously used as a
synonym for personal influence by people who do not know the proper
scientific meaning of magnetism. Those who claim to have a vast
stock of " magnetism " are like those who talk much of their bravery
— sensible people find them devoid of either.
LITEEATUEE AXD SCIEXCE.*
By MATTHEW ARNOLD.
'' "VTO wisdom, nor counsel, nor understanding, against the Eter-
-LN Bal ! " says the Wise Man. Against the natural and ap-
pointed course of things there is no contending. Ten years ago I
remarked on the gloomy prospect for letters in this country, inasmuch
as while the aristocratic class, according to a famous dictum of Lord
Beaconsfield, was totally indifferent to letters, the friends of physical
science, on the other hand, a growing and popular body, were in active
revolt against them. To dejOTve letters of the too great place they
had hitherto filled in men's estimation, and to substitute other studies
for them, was now the object, I observed, of a sort of crusade with
the friends of physical science — a busy host, important in itself, im-
portant because of the gifted leaders who mai'ch at its head, important
from its strong and increasing hold upon public favor.
I could not help, I then went on to say, I could not help being-
moved with a desire to plead with the friends of physical science on
behalf of letters, and in deprecation of the slight which they put upon
them. But from giving effect to this desire I was at that time drawn
off by more pressing matters. Ten years have passed, and the pros-
pects of any pleader for letters have certainly not mended. If the
friends of physical science were in the morning sunshine of popular
favor even then, they stand now in its meridian radiance. Sir Josiah
Mason founds a college at Birmingham to exclude " mere literary in-
struction and education " ; and at its opening a brilliant and charming
debater, Professor Huxley, is brought down to pronounce their funeral
oration. Mr. Bright, in his zeal for the United States, exhorts young
people to drink deep of " Hiawatha" ; and the "Times" — which takes
the gloomiest view possible of the future of letters, and thinks that
* Address delivered as " The Ecde Lecture" at Cambridge.
TOL. XXI. — 47
