738 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
a hundred years hence there will only be a few eccentrics reading let-
ters, and almost every one will be studying the natural sciences — the
"Times," instead of counseling Mr. Bright's young people rather to
drink deep of Homer, is for giving them, above all, "the works of
Darwin and Lyell and Bell and Huxley," and for nourishing them
upon the voyage of the Challenger. Stranger still, a brilliant man
of letters in France, M. Renan, assigns the same date of a hundred
years hence as the date by which the historical and critical studies,
in which his life has been passed and his reputation made, will have
fallen into neglect, and deservedly so fallen. It is the regret of his
life, M. Renan tells us, that he did not himself originally pursue the
natural sciences, in which he might have forestalled Darwin in his
discoveries.
What does it avail, in presence of all this, that we find one of your
own prophets. Bishop Thirlwall, telling his brother who was sending
a son to be educated abroad that he might be out of the way of Latin
and Greek, "I do not think that the most perfect knowledge of every
language now spoken under the sun could compensate for the want of
them " ? "What does it avail, even, that an august lover of science,
the great Goethe, should have said, " I wish all success to those Avho
are for preserving to the literature of Greece and Rome its predomi-
nant place in education " ? Goethe was a wise man, but the irresistible
current of things was not then manifest as it is now. " No wisdom,
nor counsel, nor understanding, against the Eternal ! "
But to resign one's self too passively to supposed designs of the
Eternal is fatalism. Perhaps they are not really designs of the Eternal
at all, but designs — let us for example say — of Mr. Herbert Spencer.
Still the design of abasing what is called " mere literary instruction
and education," and of exalting what is called " sound, extensive, and
practical scientific knowledge," is a very positive design and makes
great progress. The universities are by no means outside its scope.
At the recent congress in Sheffield of elementary teachers — a very
able and important body of men whose movements I naturally follow
with strong interest — at Sheffield one of the principal speakers pro-
posed that the elementary teachers and the universities should come
together on the common ground of natural science. On the ground
of the dead languages, he said, they could not possibly come together ;
but, if the universities would take natural science for their chosen and
chief ground instead, they easily might. Mohammed was to go to the
mountain, as there was no chance of the mountain's being able to go
to Mohammed,
The vice-chancellor has done me the honor to invite me to address
you here to-day, altliough I am not a member of this great university.
Your liberally conceived use of Sir Robert Rede's lecture leaves you
free in the choice of a person to deliver the lecture founded by him,
and on the present occasion the vice-chancellor has gone for a lecturer
