LITERATURE AND SCIENCE. 741
of a school-course which treats us as if we were all going to be poets,
writers, orators, and he opposes this humanism to positive science, or
the critical search after truth. And there is always a tendency, in
those who are remonstrating against the predominance of letters in
education, to understand by letters belles-lettres, and by belles-lettres a
superficial humanism, the opposite of science or true knowledge.
But when we talk of knowing Greek and Roman antiquity, for in-
stance, which is what people have called humanism, we mean a knowl-
edge which is something more than a superficial humanism, mainly
decorative. "I call all teaching scientific,^'' says Wolf, the critic of
Homer, " which is systematically laid out and followed up to its origi-
nal sources. For example : a knowledge of classical antiquity is sci-
entific when the remains of classical antiquity are correctly studied ia
the original languages." There can be no doubt that Wolf is perfectly
right, that all learning is scientific which is systematically laid out and
followed up to its original sources, and that a genuine humanism is
scientific.
When I speak of knowing Greek and Roman antiquity, therefore,
as a help to knowing ourselves and the world, I mean more than a
knowledge of so much vocabulary, so much grammar, so many portions
of authors, in the Greek and Latin languages. I mean knowing the
Greeks and Romans, and their life and genius, and what they were and
did in the world ; what we get from them, and what is its value.
That, at least, is the ideal ; and, when we talk of endeavoring to know
Greek and Roman antiquity as a help to knowing ourselves and the
world, we mean endeavoring so to know them as to satisfy this ideal,
however much we may still fall short of it.
The same as to knowing our own and other modern nations, with
the aim of getting to understand ourselves and the world. To know
the best that has been thought and said by the modern nations is to
know, says Professor Huxley, " only what modern literatures have to
tell us ; it is the criticism of life contained in modern literature." And
yet " the distinctive character of our times," he urges, " lies in the
vast and constantly increasing part which is played by natural knowl-
edge." And how, therefore, can a man, devoid of knowledge of what
physical science has done in the last century, enter hopefully upon a
criticism of modern life ?
Let us, I say, be agreed about the meaning of the terms we are
using. I talk of knowing the best w^hich has been thought and uttered
in the world ; Professor Huxley says this means knowing literature.
Literature is a large word ; it may mean everything written with let-
ters or printed in a book. Euclid's "Elements" and Newton's "Prin-
cipia " are thus literature. All knowledge that reaches us through
books is literature. But by literature Professor Huxley means belles-
lettres. He moans to make me say that knowing the best which has
been thought and said by the modern nations is knowing their belles-
