742 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
lettres and no more. And this is no sufficient equipment, he argues,
for a criticism of modern life. But as I do not mean, by knowing
ancient Rome, knowing merely more or less of Latin belles-lettres, and
taking no account of Rome's military and political and legal and ad-
ministrative work in the world ; and as, by knowing ancient Greece, I
understand knowing her as the giver of Greek art, and the guide to a
free and right use of reason and to scientific method, and the founder
of our mathematics and physics and astronomy and biology — I under-
stand knowing her as all this, and not merely knowing certain Greek
poems, histories, and speeches — so as to the knowledge of modern na-
tions also. By knowing modern nations, I mean not merely knowing
their belles-lettres, but knowing also what has been done by such men
as Copernicus, Galileo, Newton, Darwin. "Our ancestors learned,"
says Professor Huxley, " that the earth is the center of the visible uni-
verse, and that man is the cynosure of things terrestrial ; and more
especially was it inculcated that the course of nature had no fixed
order, but that it could be, and constantly was, altered." But for us
now, says Professor Huxley, " the notions of the beginning and the
end of. the world entertained by our forefathers are no longer credible.
It is very certain that the earth is not the chief body in the material
universe, and that the world is not subordinated to man's use. It is
even more certain that nature is the expression of a definite order,
with which nothing interferes. . . . And yet," he cries, " the purely
classical education advocated by the representatives of the humanists
in our day gives no inkling of all this ! "
In due place and time we will, perhaps, touch upon the question of
classical education, but at present the question is as to what is meant
by knowing the best which modern nations have thought and said.
It is not knowing their belles-lettres merely that is meant. To know
Italian belles-lettres is not to know Italy, and to know English belles-
lettres is not to know England. Into knowing Italy and England
there comes a great deal more, Galileo and Newton among it. The
reproach of being a superficial humanism, a tincture of belles-lettres,
may attach rightly enough to some other disciplines ; but, to the par-
ticular discipline recommended when I proposed knowing the best
that has been thought and said in the world, it does not apply. In
that best I certainly include what in modern times has been thought
and said by the great observers and knowers of nature.
There is, therefore, really no question between Professor Huxley
and me as to whether knowing the results of the scientific study of
nature is not required as a part of our culture, as well as knowing the
products of literature and art. But to follow the processes by which
those results are reached ought, say the friends of physical science,
to be made the staple of education for the bulk of mankind. And
here there does arise a question between those whom Professor HuX'
ley calls with playful sarcasm "the Levites of culture" and those
