744 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
inquiry, wliich befits a being of dim faculties and bounded knowledge,
is the tone I would wish to take and not to depart from. At present
it seems to me that those who are for giving to natural knowledge, as
they call it, the chief place in the education of the majority of man-
kind leave one important thing out of their account — the constitution
of human nature. But I put this forward on the strength of some
facts not at all recondite, very far from it ; facts capable of being
stated in the simplest possible fashion, and to which, if I so state
them, the man of science will, I am sure, be willing to allow their due
weight.
Deny the facts altogether, I think, he hardly can. He can hardly
deny that, when we set ourselves to enumerate the powers which go
to the building up of human life, and say that they are the power of
conduct, the power of intellect and knowledge, the power of beauty,
and the power of social life and manners — he can hardly deny that
this scheme, though drawn in rough and plain lines, and not pretend-
ing to scientific exactness, does yet give a fairly true account of the
matter. Human nature is built up by these powers ; we have the
need for them all. This is evident enough, and the friends of physical
science will admit it. But, jDerhaps, they may not have sufiiciently
observed another thing, namely, that these powers just mentioned
are not isolated, but there is in the generality of mankind a perpetual
tendency to relate them one to another in divers ways. With one
such way of relating them I am particularly concerned here. Follow-
ing our instinct for intellect and knowledge, we acquire pieces of
knowledge ; and presently, in the generality of men, there arises the
desire to relate these pieces of knowledge to our sense for conduct, to
our sense for beauty, and there are weariness and dissatisfaction if the
desire is balked. Now, in this desire lies, I think, the strength of that
hold which letters have upon us.
All knowledge is, as I said just now, interesting ; and even items
of knowledge which from the nature of the case can not well be
related, but must stand isolated in our thoughts, have their interest.
Even lists of exceptions have their interest. If we are studying
Greek accents, it is interesting to know that pais and ^:)«s, and some
other monosyllables of the same form of declension, do not take the
circumflex upon the last syllable of the genitive plural, but vary, in
this respect, from the common rule. If we are studying physiology,
it is interesting to know that the pulmonary artery carries dark blood,
and the pulmonary vein carries bright blood, departing in tbis respect
from the common rule for the division of labor between the veins and
the arteries. But every one knows how we seek naturally to combine
the pieces of our knowledge together, to bring them under general
rules, to relate them to principles ; and how unsatisfactory and tire-
some it would be to go on for ever learning lists of exceptions, or
accumulating: items of fact which must stand isolated.
