MEASUREMENTS OF MEN. 53
gilt window-plate is hinged ; it may thus be adjusted to any position
and inclined at will according to the direction from which the light
comes.
A simple and moderately satisfactory stereoscope may be impro-
vised by unscrewing the concave eye-pieces from an ordinary opera-
glass, and looking through it at the stereograph, which must be held
about six inches from the centers of the object-glasses and parallel to
the line connecting these. Vision by this method, however, is very
uncomfortable if the stereograph be large. The instrument is a crude
Helmholtz stereoscope, but it needs adjusting-screws at both ends of
each tube to make it entirely satisfactory. The only objection to Dr.
Holmes's instrument is the absence of adjustment ; but, despite this
defect, it is deservedly used everywhere in our country. Quietly and
unselfishly he has done far more for the stereoscope in America than
has ever been credited him by those who enjoy the fruits of his spon-
taneous and unpaid ingenuity.
MEASUEEKEXTS OF MEN.
By FEANCIS GALTON, F. E. S.
WHEN shall we have anthropometi-ic laboratories, where a man may
from time to time get himself and his children weighed, meas-
ured, and rightly photographed, and have each of their bodily faculties
tested, by the best methods known to modern science ? In the Janu-
ary number of this " Review " I endeavored to show the advantages
of photographic chronicles maintained from childhood to age, and how
they should be made and preserved ; in the present memoir I propose
to briefly speak upon the anthropometric and medical facts that might
properly be recorded by the side of the photographs in the family
records to which I there referred. I shall endeavor to define the scope
of what may be effected in this direction, partly by accurate apparatus
now extant, and partly in a rougher and less effective way, owing to
the present want of appropriate apparatus. In doing so the instru-
mental and other desiderata will be pointed out that seem most easily
capable of being supplied, if the attention of a few persons interested
in the matter could be brought to bear on the subject Two things
are at present needed — a desire among many persons to have them-
selves and their children accurately appraised, and an effort among a
few scientific persons Avho have the special knowledge required for the
purpose to systematize the methods by which this could best be done.
There appears at length to be a somewhat general concurrence of
opinion that the possibilities of a child's future career are more nar-
rowly limited than our forefathers were fondly disposed to believe. I
