LITERATURE AND SCIENCE. 745
Well, tliat same need of relating our knowledge wliiela operates here
within the sphere of our knowledge itself, we shall find operating, also,
outside that sphere. We feel, as we go on learning and knowing, the
vast majority of mankind feel, the need of relating what we have learned
and known to the sense which we have in us for conduct, to the sense
which we have in us for beauty.
The projihetess Diotima explained to Socrates that love is, in fact,
nothing but the desire in men that good should be for ever present to
them. This primordial desire it is, I suppose — this desire in men that
good should be for ever present to them — which causes in us the in-
stinct for relating: our knowledge to our sense for conduct and to our
sense for beauty. At any rate, with men in general the instinct exists.
Such is human nature. Such is human nature ; and, in seeking to
gratify the instinct, we are following the instinct of self-preservation
in humanity.
Knowledges which can not be directly related to the sense for
beauty, to the sense for conduct, are instrument-knowledges ; they
lead on to other knowledge, which can. A man who passes his life
in instrument-knowledges is a specialist. They may be invaluable as
instruments to something beyond, for those who have the gift thus
to employ them ; and they may be disciplines in themselves wherein
it is useful to every one to have some schooling. But it is inconceiv-
able that the generality of men should pass all their mental life with
Greek accents or with formal logic. My friend Professor Sylvester,
who holds transcendental doctrines as to the virtue of mathematics,
is far away in America ; and, therefore, if in the Cambridge Senate-
House one may say such a thing without profaneness, I will hazard
the opinion that, for the majority of mankind, a little mathematics,
also, goes a long way. Of course, this is quite consistent with their
being of immense importance as an instrument to something else ; but
it is the few who have the aptitude for thus using them, not the bulk
of mankind.
The natural sciences do not stand on the same footing with these
instrument-knowledges. Experience shows us that the generality of
men will find more interest in learning that, when a taper burns, the
wax is converted into carbonic acid and water, or in learning the ex-
planation of the phenomenon of dew, or in learning how the circula-
tion of the blood is carried on, than they find in learning tliat the
genitive plural of j-iais and pas does not take the circumflex on the
termination. And one piece of natural knowledge is added to another,
and others to that, and at last we come to propositions so interesting
as the proposition that "our ancestor was a hairy qnadrujied furnished
with a tail and pointed ears, probably arboreal in his habits." Or we
come to propositions of such reach and importance as those which
Professor Huxley brings us, when he says that the notions of our fore-
fathers about the beginning and the end of the world were all wrong,
