746 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and that nature is the expression of a definite order with which nothing
interferes.
Interesting, indeed, these results of science are, important they are,
and we should all be acquainted with them. But what I now wish
you to mark is, that we are still, when they are propounded to us and
w^e receive them, we are still in the sphere of intellect and knowledge.
And for the generality of men there will be found, I say, to arise, when
they have duly taken in the proposition that their ancestor was " a hairy
quadruped furnished with a tail and pointed ears, probably ai'boreal
in his habits," there will be found to arise an invincible desire to relate
this proposition to the sense within them for conduct and to the sense
for beauty. But this the men of science will not do for us, and will
hardly, even, profess to do. They will give us other pieces of knowl-
edge, other facts, about other animals and their ancestors, or about
plants, or about stones, or about stars ; and they may finally bring us
to those " general conceptions of the universe which have been forced
upon us," says Professor Huxley, " by physical science." But still it
will be knowledge only which they give us ; knowledge not put for
us into relation with our sense for conduct, our sense for beauty, and
touched with emotion by being so put ; not thus put for us, and
therefore, to the majority of mankind, after a certain while, unsatisfy-
ing, wearying.
Not to the born naturalist, I admit. But what do we mean by a
born naturalist ? We mean a man in whom the zeal for observing
nature is so strong and eminent that it marks him off from the bulk
of mankind. Such a man will pass his life happily in collecting
natural knowledge and reasoning upon it, and will ask for nothing,
or hardly anything, more. I have heard it said that the sagacious
and admirable naturalist whom we have lately lost, Mr. Darwin, once
owned to a friend that for his part he did not experience the necessity
for two things which most men find so necessary to them — poetry and
religion ; science and the domestic affections, he thought, were enough.
To a born naturalist, I can well understand that this should seem so.
So absorbing is his occupation with nature, so strong his love for his
occupation, that he goes on acquiring natural knowledge and reason-
ing upon it, and has little time or inclination for thinking about get-
ting it related to the desire in man for conduct, the desire in man for
beauty. He relates it to them for himself as he goes along, so far as
he feels the need ; and he draws from the domestic affections all the
additional solace necessary. But then Darwins arc very rare. An-
other great and admirable master of natural knoAvledge, Faraday, was
a Sandemanian. That is to say, he related his knowledge to his in-
stinct for conduct and to his instinct for beauty by the aid of that re-
spectable Scottish sectary, Robert Sandeman. And, for one man
among us with the disposition to do as Darwin did in this respect,
there are fifty, probabh', with the disposition to do as Faraday.
