LITERATURE AND SCIENCE. 747
Professor Huxley holds up to scorn medieval education, witli its
neglect of the knowledge of nature, its poverty of literary studies,
its formal logic devoted to " showing how and why that which the
Church said was true must be true." But the great mediaeval univer-
sities were not brought into being, we may be sure, by the zeal for
giving a jejune and contemptible education. Kings Lave been our
nursing fathers, and queens have been our nursing mothers, but not
for this. Our universities came into being because the supposed
knowledge delivered by Scripture and the Church so deeply engaged
men's hearts, and so simply, easily, and powerfully related itself to
the desire for conduct, the desire for beauty — the general desire in
men, as Diotima said, that good should be for ever present to them.
All other knowledge was dominated by this supposed knowledge and
was subordinated to it, because of the surpassing strength of the hold
which it gained upon men's affections by allying itself profoundly
with their sense for conduct and their sense for beauty.
But now, says Professor Huxley, conceptions of the universe
fatal to the notions held by our forefathers have been forced upon us
by physical science. Grant to him that they are thus fatal, that they
must and will become current everywhere, and that every one will
finally perceive them to be fatal to the beliefs of our forefathers.
The need of humane letters, as they are truly called, because they
serve the paramount desire in men that good should be for CA^cr
present to them — the need of humane letters to establish a relation
between the new concej)tions and our instinct for beauty, our instinct
for conduct, is only the more visible. The middle age could do with-
out humane letters, as it could do without the study of nature, because
its supposed knowledge was made to engage its emotions so power-
fully. Grant that the supposed knowledge disappears, its power of
being made to engage the emotions will of course disappear along
with it — but the emotions will remain. Now, if we find by experience
that humane letters have an undeniable power of engaging the emo-
tions, the importance of humane letters in man's training becomes not
less, but greater, in proportion to the success of science in extirpating
what it calls " media3val thinking."
Have humane letters, have poetry and eloquence, the power here
attributed to them of engaging the emotions, and how do they exer-
cise it '? and, if they have it and exercise it, how do they exercise it in
relating the results of natural science to man's sense for conduct, his
sense for beauty ? All these questions may be asked. First, have
poetry and eloquence the power of calling out the emotions ? The
appeal is to experience. Experience shows us that for tho vast major-
ity of men, for mankind in general, they have the power. Next, how
do they exercise it ? And this is perhaps a case for applying the
Preacher's words : " Though a man labor to seek it out, yet he shall
not find it ; yea, further, though a wise man think to know it, yet
