748 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
shall he not be able to find it." Why should it be one thing, in its
effect upon the emotions, to say, " Patience is a virtue," and quite an-
other thing, in its effect upon the emotions, to say with Homer,
rX'QThv yap Mo7pai Ov/jlov Oeaav avOpiairoicni' * —
" for an enduring heart have the destinies appointed to the children of
men " ? Why should it be one thing, in its effect upon the emotions,
to say with Spinoza, Felicitas hi eo consistit quod homo sumn esse
conserv are potest — "Man's happiness consists in his being able to pre-
serve his own essence," and quite another thing, in its effect upon the
emotions, to say, " What is a man advantaged, if he gain the whole
world and lose himself, forfeit himself ? " How does this difference
of effect arise ? I can not tell, and I am not much concerned to know ;
the imjDortant thing is that it does arise, and that we can profit by it.
But how, finally, are poetry and eloquence to exercise the power of
relating the results of natural science to man's instinct for conduct, his
instinct for beauty ? And here again I answer that I do not know
how they will exercise it, but that they can and will exercise it I am
sure. I do not mean that modern philosophical poets and modern
philosophical moralists are to relate for us the results of modern scien-
tific research to our need for conduct, our need for beauty. I mean
that we shall find, as a matter of experience, if we know the best that
has been thought and uttered in the world, we shall find that the art
and poetry and eloquence of men who lived, perhaps, long ago, who
had the most limited natural knowledge, who had the most erroneous
conceptions about many important matters, we shall find that they
have, in fact, not only the power of refreshing and delighting us, they
have also the power — such are the strength and worth, in essentials, of
their author's criticism of life — they have a fortifying and elevating
and quickening and suggestive power capable of wonderfully helping
us to relate the results of modern science to our need for conduct, our
need for beauty. Homer's conceptions of the physical universe were,
I imagine, grotesque ; but really, under the shock of hearing from
modern science that "the world is not subordinated to man's use, and
that man is not the cynosure of things terrestrial," I could desire no
better comfort than Homer's line which I quoted just now :
rKrirhv yap Molpai Ovfj-hf Offfav avOpdiizoicTiv —
" for an enduring heart have the destinies appointed to the children of
men."
And the more that men's minds are cleared, the more that the re-
sults of science are frankly accepted, the more that poetry and elo-
quence come to be studied as what they really are — the criticism of
life by gifted men, alive and active with extraordinary power at an
unusual number of points — so much the more will the value of humane
letters, and of art also, which is an utterance having a like kind of
* "Iliad," xxiv, 49.
