WHAT ARE CLOUDS? 751
knowledge is set there, or the instinct for conduct. If the instinct for
beauty is served by Greek literature as it is served by no other litera-
ture, we may trust to the instinct of self-preservation in humanity for
keeping Greek as part of our culture. We may trust to it for even
making this study more prevalent than it is now. As I said of humane
letters in general, Greek will come to be studied more rationally than
at present ; but it will be increasingly studied as men increasingly feel
the need in them for beauty, and how powerfully Greek art and Greek
literature can serve this need. Women will again study Greek, as
Lady Jane Grey did ; perhaps in that chain of forts, with which the
fair host of the Amazons is engirdling this university, they are study-
ing it already. Defidt una tniJii si/mmetria p7'isca, said Leonardo da
Yinci ; and he was an Italian. What must an Englishman feel as to
his deficiencies in this respect, as the sense for beauty, whereof sym-
metry is an essential element, awakens and strengthens within him !
what will not one day be his respect and desire for Greece and its
symmetria jyrisca, when the scales drop from his eyes as he walks the
London streets, and he sees such a lesson in meanness as the Strand,
for instance, in its true deformity ! But here I have entered Mr. Rus-
kin's province, and I am well content to leave not only our street
architecture, but also letters and Greek, under the care of so distin-
guished a guardian. — Nineteenth Century.
WHAT ARE CLOUDS?
Bt c. morfit. »
THOUGH the clouds arc such familiar objects, very little is known
about them, and the processes by which they are formed and give
back their moisture to the earth are unsolved mysteries.
They can not be classified as belonging to the solid, fluid, or gaseous
form of matter. Yet they are defined as being " a collection of jvatery
particles in the state of vapor, suspended in the air." If they are ordi-
nary vapor, they must be governed by the laws which affect vapors.
Brande defines vapor thus : " When liquids and certain solids are
heated, they become converted into elastic fluids or vapors, which
differ from gases in this respect, tliat they arc not under common cir-
cumstances permanently elastic, but resume the liquid or solid form
when cooled down to ordinary temperature.'' According to this defi-
nition, clouds can not be composed of ordinary vapor, for under all
conditions their temperature must be below the condensing point of
water-vapor.
At the elevations at which clouds are often seen, they are in the
regions of perpetual congelation ; and as they float above the highest
