752 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
mountains they must be exposed, even in the sunshine, and certainly
in the night, when the solar heat is not poured upon them, to temper-
atures colder than those of the frigid zones.
As they occur in all climates, over the poles as well as at the equa-
tor, and even in the warm latitudes at elevations which are above the
regions of unmelted snows, it must be assumed that a low temperature
alone does not cause them to give up their moisture in the form of rain
or snow.
Glaisher, in entering a cloud eleven hundred feet thick, found the
dew-point remained unchanged, showing that there was no more (con-
densable) moisture in the cloud than in the surrounding air. And
aeronauts obtain no dew by Regnault's hygrometer at an elevation of
five miles, but clouds float above that height.
The moisture hi the air must not be confounded with the water of
the clouds. This moisture is precipitated by a low temperature, as is
seen in the condensation of water on the outside of a glass of ice-water
on a warm day, and the coating of the inside of window-panes with
ice on a very cold one ; and the formation of dews in summer and of
frosts in winter.
The precipitation of the moisture from clouds must be caused by
some peculiar condition of the clouds themselves. After a rain there
often are as many clouds remaining or passing away as there were at
the commencement of or at any time during the rain. In this there is
evidence that the action going on in a part of a single cloud, or in spe-
cial clouds, does not extend over the whole mass, nor to other clouds
near by.
In countries where it seldom or never rains, or where the rains are
pe^'iodic, clouds are as common as in places where it rains often. From
this it appears that the causes which produce precipitation are entirely
suspended, or rather do not exist in certain localities and seasons, al-
though clouds abound there at the time.
Another fact worthy of consideration is that snow and rain fall
slowly, little by little, and not in one sudden down-pour, as would be
the case if the whole mass of cloud or clouds were brought at the same
instant under the action which produces rain or snow.
It must not be forgotten that clouds move in well-defined masses,
sometimes retaining their shape for a long time, and do not disappear
in the air, as they would do if they were ordinary water-vapor.
As it is difticult to reach the clouds, little has been learned of their
composition. But at the elevated stations of the meteorological de-
partments of the various nations where the observers are at times in
the midst of clouds, opportunities may occur for observation and exam-
ination of them, which will reveal the laws by which they are governed.
It is not too much to expect tliat the acute and practical minds of the
present age will, ere long, add much to our present scant knowledge
of these mvsterious meteors.
