754 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The definition of the Cephalopoda, or cuttle-fish class, is largely a
matter of commonplace observation. Linnteus, naming them " cepha-
lopods," or " head-footed " mollusks, indicated the structural feature
which was calculated to appeal most plainly even to non-technical
minds. The circlet of arms, feet, or tentacles crowning the head-
extremity of a cuttle-fish, thus presents us with a personal character of
unmistakable nature. It is necessary, however, to bear in mind that
the ordinary and, to a certain extent, natural fashion of representing
a cuttle-fish head upward is, in zoological eyes, a complete reversion
of its surfaces.' To understand clearly why to speak of a cuttle-fish
head as its loioer, and of its tail as its xipper extremity, is a correct
zoological designation, we must enter upon a comparison of the cuttle-
fish body with the forms of its neighbor mollusks. The contemplation
of such a familiar being as a snail or whelk introduces us to a charac-
teristic example of molluscan form and anatomy. The head of the
snail or other gasteropod is clearly enough defined ; and no less plainly
discernible is the enlarged and broadened surface on which the animal
walks. This surface is known as the " foot." In one shape or another
this " foot " is a characteristic possession of the molluscan tribes. In
a section of a mussel or cockle, we perceive the " foot " to exist as a
muscular mass developed in the middle line of the body below, and
variously used in the mussel class as a spinning organ, a leaping-pole,
and a boring apparatus. Here we note the natural development of the
foot in the middle line of the animal. Let us suppose this foot to be
extended downward, and to be broadened so as to form a surface of
progression, and we may conceive readily of the modification whereby
a simple foot like that of the mussel becomes developed to form the
enlarged disk of the gasteropod. In the latter case we observe that
the foot occupies the floor of the body ; the bulk of the body, and the
head in particular, being borne above.
Cuttle-fish development can be shown to run, so far, in parallel
lines to those of the personal evolution of mussel and snail. But di-
vergent paths soon appear in cuttle-fish development ; and these varia-
tions, while they indicate an ancient departure from the ordinary
molluscan type, likewise give to the subjects of our present study their
most characteristic features, When a mussel or snail is watched in its
earlier stages of development, the embryo is seen, sooner or later, to
produce an appendage highly characteristic of molluscan young at
large, and named the velum. By aid of this ciliated fold such an or-
ganism as a young cockle, for instance, swims freely through its na-
tive waters. This velum undergoes varied changes and alterations in
the after-stages of molluscan development ; but, when cuttle-fish de-
velopment is studied in its fullest details, no velum is found among
the possessions of the larval body. Such an omission has naturally
been made the subject of remark by naturalists. Some authorities —
Grenachcr, for instance — have insisted upon the recognition of the
