THE PAST AND PRESENT OF CUTTLE-FISHES. 755
arms of the cuttle-fish head as the representatives of the missing
velum. But, as the latter organ always exists on the dorsal or upper
side of the mouth, and as the arms are placed originally behind and
under the cuttle-fish mouth, the correspondence of arms and velum
has not been accepted by zoologists. On the other side stands out the
opinion of Huxley, who regards the " arms " of the cuttle-fish head as
more truly corresponding with the " foot " of the mussel, snail, and
other mollusks.
The margins of the focit, in this view of matters, have been pro-
longed in the young cuttle-fish to form eight, ten, or more arms, and
the front and sides of the foot, having overgrown the mouth, are
united in front, so that the mouth appears to be placed in the center
of the foot, instead of in front and above it, as in other mollusks.
So, also, most naturalists maintain, and with every appearance of cor-
rectness, that the characteristic " funnel "' of the cuttle-fishes — to be
hereafter referred to — is an organ formed by two side-processes of the
foot, named epipodia. Adopting the view thus sanctioned by compe-
tent authority, we may trace in a cuttle-fish the highlj^ modified form
of a snail or whelk, and the still more modified form of the mussel
tribes. The foot, instead of growing backward and downward as in
the snail, and thus forming a broad walking disk, comes to grow over
the mouth in front. So that, placing a cuttle-fish in structural com-
parison with a whelk or mussel, we should have to set it head down-
ward, when the foot (or arms) would be lowest, and the great bulk of
the body, with the heart uppermost, would be situated, as in the snail,
above the foot.
The group of the cuttle-fishes may be said to divide itself in the
most natural fashion into two main divisions. The first of these
groups includes all living cuttle-fishes save one — the pearly nautilus.
This first division is that of the Dibranchiates, or two-gilled cuttle-
fishes. The familiar octopus (Fig. 1), the loligos or squids, the sepias,
and the argonauts or paper nautili, are among the best known of its
representatives. The second group is represented by a single living
cuttle-fish, the pearly nautilus {jVantilus Pomjnlius), just mentioned,
and by many fossil and extinct forms.
One of the most remarkable traits of cuttle-fish existence is the
curious play of " shot " colors which takes place in their integument.
I have seen a loligo, or squid, stranded on the sea-beach make glorious
its dying agonies by a play of colors of the most astounding descrip-
tion. The natural purplish tint of the body was now and again deep-
ened to well-nigh a dark blue ; the slightest touch served to develop
a patch of angry pink ; and continually over the whole surface of the
body the hues and tints, ranging from dark purple to light red, suc-
ceeded each other in rapid aiTay.
The assimilation of an animal's color to the surfaces on which it
rests forms a notable circumstance of zoology, which has been denom-
