756 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
inated " mimicry." That cuttle-fishes possess such a power is well
known. The hue of an octopus may so closely resemble that of the
rock to which it attaches itself, that the observer can with difficulty
say which is rock and which is animal. A flounder's color is in
the same way assimilated to the sand on which it rests, although
in the fish the alteration of color seen in the cuttle-fishes is not rep-
resented.
The manner of production of the changes of hue and play of
" shot " colors in the cuttle-fishes is really analogous to that whereby
the famed chameleons effect their alterations of hue.
The locomotion of the cuttle-fishes forms a point of interest in con-
nection with their general structure and physiology. Any one who
has attentively watched the movements of an octopus in its tank must
have been struck by the literally acrobatic ease Avith which it accom-
modated itself to the exigencies of its life and surroundings. In their
lithe, muscular, and flexible arms, the cuttle-fishes possess an apparatus
which is equally serviceable for the capture of prey, and for walking
mouth downw^ard — that is, in their structurally natural position.
They possess, likewise, the power of swimming upper side forward —
or popularly stated " backward " — by means of the jets of water
vrhich, by forcible contractions of the muscular mantle-sac, are pro-
jected from the tube or " funnel " situated on the hinder face of the
body. These jets d''eau consist of the effete w^ater which has been
used in breathing, so that the act of expiration and the effete water
of respiration together become utilized, in the economical wisdom of
nature, as a means of projiulsion. The mysterious backward flight of
an octopus through its tank (Fig. 1), when, detaching itself from its
hold on the rock, it swims gracefully and swiftly through the water,
is effected in the manner just described. This form of hydraulic ap-
paratus, imitated in experiments in marine engineering, serves but to
strengthen the wise man's adage concerning the utter lack of novelty
in terrestrial and mundane things.
It is equally interesting to note that some of the squids or loligos
— named pojaularly " flying squids " — appear to be able to rise from
the surface of the sea and to spring into the air after the fashion of
the flying-fishes. Instances are mentioned of the flying squids having
occasionally landed themselves on the decks of ships in their atmos-
pheric leaps.
The " arms " or " feet " demand, however, a somewhat detailed
mention, on account of their armature. In all cuttle-fishes, save the
exceptional pearly nautilus, the ai'ms are either eight or ten in number,
and are provided with acetabula, or " suckers." Those cuttles in
which ten arms are present — and of these the squids and sepias form
good examples — have two of these appendages produced beyond the
remaining eight in length. The " suckers " (Fig. 2, a), which consti-
tute a most noteworthy armament of the arms, are borne on short
