54 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
shall not endeavor to epitomize the many arguments ^>ro and con in
respect to such views as these, but will merely recall, in partial justifi-
cation of them, the results of some inquiries into the life-histories of
twins * that I published a few years ago. I took two categories of
twins — those who were closely alike in their infancy and those who
were exceedingly unlike — and I traced their histories up to the date of
the memoir. It ajjpeared that twins who were closely alike at the first
frequently preserved their resemblance throughout life, subject, I may
almost say, to the accident of a fever, or other serious illness altering
the constitution of one of them, and laying the first foundation of a
gradually widening divergence. I found not a few cases in which
twins residing apart and following difl^erent professions at home and
abroad still continued to live parallel lives, ageing in the same way,
and preserving all along the same features, voice, gestures, and ways
of thought. I also met with cases in which death had occurred at
nearly the same time to the two twins, and from the same disease. It
further appeared, as regards those twins who were born very unlike,
that in no case did their dissimilarity lessen under the influence of
identical nurture. They had the same nurses, the same tutors, the
same companions, they were reared in every respect alike, yet their
characters continued to be as dissimilar, and, I need hardly add, their
features remained as different as if they had belonged to totally dif-
ferent families. The conclusion to which I was driven by the results
of this inquiry was that a surprisingly small margin seemed to be left
to the effects of circumstances and education, and to the exercise of
what we are accustomed to call " free-will."
It follows from such opinions as these, which appear to be gaining
ground in popular estimation, that it is highly desirable to give more
attention than has been customary hitherto to investigate and define
the capacities of each individual. They form his stock-in-trade, the
amount of which admits of definition, whereby he has to gain his live-
lihood, and to fulfill the claims upon him as head of a family and as a
citizen. So far as we succeed in measuring and expressing them, so
far almost in an equal degree should we be able to forecast what the
man is really fit for, and what he may undertake with the least risk of
disappointment. They would encourage him if unduly timid, or they
would warn him from efforts doomed to be wasted.
What I propose to speak of in the present memoir are those meas-
urements of the bodily form and faculties that can, or apparently could,
be made with some precision, but the personal data in respect to in-
tellectual and emotional capacities, and to special aptitudes and tastes,
require a separate treatment. The progress of the art of measure-
ment of the more purely bodily faculties has been by no means uni-
form. It has never been specially directed toward furthei'ing the
* *' Journal of the Anthropological Institute," 1875 ; " Fraser's Magazine," November,
1876.
