MEASUREMENTS OF MEN. 55
knowledge of the life-history of individuals, but for the most part
toward other theoretical investigations. In some cases elaborate in-
struments and methods of observation have been devised by which
certain faculties have been tested with extreme minuteness ; in other
cases no well-contrived, and. approved system of examination exists.
If everything should be stated by which anthropometry might profit,
the effect would be not unlike the map of some partially-settled coun-
try, drawn on a scale so large as to show the cadastral survey of its
principal town-lands. A fraction of the whole would thus be minutely
engraved, the wide adjacent regions would be represented by a few
lines of route, and the remainder would consist of blanks. In order
to convey in the best way an idea of what is known about such a coun-
try as this, the general map of it should be on a small scale, and then
uniformity of treatment becomes possible. Acting on this principle,
I shall avoid entering into details on those subjects where there exists
very much to speak of, and shall nowhere go further than is sufficient
to express the simpler requirements of anthi-opometry.
Let us, then, consider how we should set to work to define and de-
scribe the various bodily faculties of a person whom we had ample
means of observing, say one of our own children. Some of the obser-
vations could hardly be made except at a properly equipped anthropo-
metric laboratory ; others, as it will be seen, could at present be car-
ried on best in the play-ground. I shall not care to distinguish these
in the description ; they will be obvious enough when they occur. The
tests would define the capacities of the person at the moment when he
was observed. They are expected to be renewed at intervals, so as to
serve as records of successive periods in his life-history.
Photography was the subject of my last memoir. I showed that
the features should be taken in full face and in exact profile, and on
not too small a scale — that of about one seventh of the natural size
being, perhaps, the most convenient. I also spoke of other photo-
graphs in less formal attitudes, to show the whole figure and gesture.
In some of these the limbs might be more or less bared to exhibit the
muscular development.
I need not dwell upon the usual anthropometric measurements.
/They should of course be made, and probably no better rules can be
followed in making them than those of the present Anthropometric
Committee of the British Association. These measurements refer to
height, to weight, to chest-girth (but only if taken by skilled observers
on a uniform plan), to capacity of lungs (also under those condi-
tions), and to color of hair and eyes. Other data are asked for in
the instructions issued by the committee which would also require
to be recorded, and which may as well be mentioned now — such
as birthplace and residence, whether in town or country, both of the
person and of his parents ; also their race, whether English, Scotch,
or Irish, etc.
