MEASUREMENTS OF MEN. 57
vantage of not causing injurious straining to weakly persons. Trials
of lifting heavy weights are positively dangerous. If a multitude of
persons were tested in that way, some instances of broken blood-
vessels and of abdominal ruptures would be jilmost sure to occur.
Agility may be defined in terms say of the number of seconds
required to run a hundred yards, of the greatest horizontal distance
that can be covered by a leap, of the distance to which a cricket-ball
can be thrown, and by means of various gymnastic feats. The several
merits of the latter, however, require to be carefully considered, and
those that can be performed in-doors and in a confined space should be
selected as standards.
The co-ordination of muscles and eye is another faculty that varies
widely in different persons, while it is also greatly increased by educa-
tion. Some persons are gifted with a high power of accurate move-
ment, while others are as notoriously clumsy. In all cases, however,
this faculty may be largely developed in special directions, as is shown
by the superior dexterity of artisans to that of amateurs. It seems a
most simple faculty to be tested, nevertheless I know of no recognized
methods of doing so ; and, in default of one, the best plan of defining
its amount might be, in the case of youths, by their measured skill in
well-known games, as racquets, cricket, rifle-shooting, billiards, and
wherever else a good eye and steady hand are required.
The faculty of sense-discrimination has in many respects been the
subject of most elaborate experiments, chiefly in regard to the rela-
tion between the amounts of stimuli, as measured by objective stand-
ards (such as weight in pounds, as brightness in units of intensity,
etc.), and the corresponding amount of evoked sensations, measured
by subjective standards, namely, by the feelings of the several persons
operated on. Out of all the contrivances that have been devised for
these experiments, some of which are extremely delicate, we want a
battery of the most simple ones that are sufliciently effective for ordi-
nary anthropometric purposes. I find it difiicult, in obedience to the
programme already laid down, to enter as much as I should like to do
into particulars concerning this wide and important part of the sub-
ject before us. The sources of error to be guarded against, the prin-
ciples that have to be attended to, and the instruments already in use,
can not be properly explained in a few paragraphs. The reader must
take it for granted that all this is a familiar subject to many writers
and experimenters, such as Fechner and Delbccuf, and that the work
remaining to be done is to select out of extant instruments those that
are sufficiently inexpensive and quick in manipulation to be appro-
priately placed in an anthropometric laboratory. Under these circum-
stances I Avill refrain from doing more than specifying the more im-
portant measurements among the many that admit of being made :
Sight. — Its keenness ; the appreciation of different shades ; that
of different colors.
