58 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Sound. — Its keenness ; the appreciation of different grades of
loudness ; that of different notes.
Touch. — Discrimination of different roughnesses, such as wire-work
of differently sized mesh.
Muscular Sense. — Discrimination of weights externally alike, but
differing slightly in specific gravity.
Another class of delicate apparatus refers to the rate of response
to stimuli. A signal is given to one of the senses, as by the sight of
a suddenly lifted finger, by an exclamation, or by a touch, to which
response is made by pressing a stop. The interval between the signal
and the response is measurable, and it differs in different j^ersons.
Another well-known arrangement tests the time lost in forming a
simple judgment. Arrangement is made for two possible and different
signals, which are severally to be responded to by different forms of
response. The subject. of the experiment is ignorant which of the
two signals will appear. After he perceives it, there is an appreciable
time of hesitation before he is able to make the appropriate response,
and this time is easily measured, and is found to differ in different
persons.
The persistence of impressions, especially if visual ones, is exceed-
ing various. Some persons are strongly affected by after-images and
others are not. For example, after gazing at a red wafer for a short
definite time and then rapidly -v^ ithdrawing the eye, the appearance of
a green after-image will be jiresent to some and not to others. There
can be little doubt that the liability to after-images is an important
factor of the artistic temperament, being the base of the enhanced
susceptibility to conditions of contrast and harmony of colors. Nu-
merous experiments exist bearing on various kinds of after-images, but
they want systematizing for anthropometric purposes.
The memory, in its dependence on the relative impressions of eye,
ear, and other senses, whether severally or in combination, admits of
being tested, and here again numerous scattered experiences have been
gained, and ingenious experiments have been devised which require
consolidating and systematizing.
This is perhaps as much as need be said in a very brief general
glance over a large division of a large subject. My object is to point
out that means already exist for the appraisement of many of the prin-
cipal bodily faculties, but that they require to be systematized, and
that others have to be contrived, and that they can not be properly
utilized for ordinary anthropometric purposes without such apparatus
as would require to be kept in a laboratory and used under the guid-
ance of an intelligent operator.
I will say a few words, and a few only, upon another large branch
to which I alluded in my previous article, namely the medical life-his-
tory of each individual. There seems to be need for medico-metric
