LIBERTY OF THOUGHT. 61
to go ; has also fixed the laws of literature and art, as vre see in the
conventional architecture, sculpture, and paintings of Egyjjt, Assyria,
and Babylonia. This ecclesiastical conventionalism, supported by the
popular supei'stition, has greatly hampered original thought.
This sacred fixedness has not allowed, on the one hand, any progress
in the native mind itself, nor the influence upon it of foreign mind and
foreign methods.
In Egypt we have a priesthood dominant and fixing all forms of
life. In the Assyrian power we have the kings constantly exalting the
gods, in proclamation and inscription ; and the architecture and sculp-
ture are of an ecclesiastical and unchanging pattern. In the Medo-
Persian power the ecclesiastical authorities largely shape the people's
life ; and we find that part of the creed, that idols should be de-
stroyed, enforced wherever the Persian arms were carried. In Hin-
dostan we have religion setting conventional limits to religion, phi-
losophy, science, art, literature, politics, and social life.
But, OR the other hand, Tve also find liberty of thought. Buddhism
has been tolerant and pacific ; has propagated itself never by war nor
by legal force, but only by moral suasion. China, too, seems to have
allowed a measure of liberty of thought in everything but politics.
Several religions exist there side by side ; and philosophy, science,
and literature are found -without an ecclesiastical imprint.
In the ancient republican systems of government there seems to
have been more or less liberty of thought, except in religion and poli-
tics. This was so in the Phoenician confederacy, in the Carthaginian
commercial states, in the Grecian republics, and in the Roman com-
monwealth.
In the dawn of Greece we find the priestly class weakened and
superseded by the military. The despotic colleges of priests which
existed in the East never had a place among the high-spirited and
independent chiefs of Greece, who are described in Homer and else-
where as taking the ofiices of religion into their own hands, and in
various ways keeping its ministers in check. Doubtless, the genius of
the people also had something to do with this. Nowhere has there
been more liberty of thought in heathendom than in Greece, more
freedom from superstition and bigotry ; and yet even the Greeks were
intolerant. Anaxagoras, who tried to explain astronomical and mete-
orological phenomena, had a narrow escape with his life from the
offended "piety" of the Athenians. It took ail the influence of Peri-
cles to save him. Socrates was put to death. Phidias was persecuted,
and died broken-hearted in prison. Every honest man was, at one
time, in danger of being accused of atheism by the zealots. ISToble
citizens were tortured. Yet, on the whole, " at the epoch of the high-
est glory of philosophy, Plato, Aristotle, and most of the philosophers,
whether of Grecian, or, more latterly, of Greco-Roman antiquity, had
full liberty of thought, or nearly so. The state's public policy inter-
