62 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
fered but little with their labors, to cramp them and give them a par-
ticular tendency. They, on their part, concerned themselves but little
about politics, nor cared much to influence immediately and decisively
the society in which they lived."
Liberty of thought was allowed in Roman civilization, and yet,
even there, was not permitted upon political subjects. The Roman
method of conciliation was, first of all, the most ample toleration of
the customs, religion, and municipal freedom of the conquered, and
then their gradual admission to the privileges of the conquerors. Free-
dom of thought was allowed to a remarkable degree. Education was
controlled neither by priest nor magistrate. Writing was free, and
the circulation of pojDular works was extensive, though probably the
rulers would have quickly restrained the circulation of what they
considered injurious to the state. Public speech was free iipon phi-
losophy and morals, and U23on theories of government, liberty, and
tyrannicide.
While Mohammedanism has fixed unalterably its doctrines and
forms, and has allowed no discussion of them, and so far has been
inconsistent with freedom of thought, still it has permitted a measure
of free thought. Its followers do not regard infidelity or heresy as
criminal, and persecution for theological oijinions has not been their
rule. They have never had an Inquisition ; or the burning of an unbe-
liever under authority of law. They have always allowed conquered
Christians to retain their faith, and even to have public worship. No
wars of compulsory conversion like those of Charlemagne, no expul-
sion of unbelievers, like that of the wars of Spain, stain the record of
Mohammedanism. The succession of the Greek Patriarchs of Constan-
tinople and Jerusalem has been regular for more than four centuries,
and their relations with the Sultan have been far more amicable
usually than those of the Pope with the kings of France and Ger-
many.
The Koran says, " Those who are Moslems and those who are Jews,
and the Christians and the Sabeans who believe in God and the last
day, and work righteousness, for them is their reward with the Lord,
and there is no fear for them, and they shall not be put to sorrow."
Many of the caliphs invited Christian scholars to their courts, and
were glad to have Christian students in their schools. The Caliph
Haroun-al-Raschid employed Nestorians as head teachers. In the
tenth century ambitious young Frenchmen went to the Asiatic
schools of Spain. For instance, there Gerson, afterward Pope Syl-
vester II, was educated.
We now come to the progress of liberty of thought in Christen-
dom.
The Christian Church has been afraid of inquiry because, so far as
it makes unsound and false statements of fact, contrary to those of
the Bible, it tends to unsettle the minds of men in what is regarded
