LIBERTY OF THOUGHT. 63
as accepted and very important truth, and so she objects to every one
reading what she considers to be infidel books.
But, again, portions of the Christian Church have opposed inquiry
because it made true statements which contradicted certain wrong
interpretations and inferences that the Church had made from Script-
ure, and so, in undermining the errors of theology and the Church,
seemed to be undermining the important truth, and, while in reality
doing a good service, seemed to be doing harm. For instance, inves-
tigation of the laws of nature has ever been supposed by many " to be
doing away with the being or the perfections or the providence of
God ; the discovery of second causes has been thought to detract from
the glory of the Great First Cause." The discovery that God works
by law, or with regularity, has been supposed to interfere with the
faith that he is personal, has a choice to do this or that, and inter-
feres among men for or against. A class of thinkers have assumed
that, at least in some spheres, God acts without the aid of second
causes, and frequently without regard to uniform laws — acts irregu-
larly. Science has been steadily reducing the extent and the number
of such spheres, but in the case of every one there has been a battle
offered by those who believed that in that sphere God operated with-
out regard to law ; that there man should not look for regular laws or
for secondary causes, and that to do so is presumptuous if not irrever-
ent and impious. In this way good men and great men have shown
themselves opponents of real science ; have made the mistake of assum-
ing that their prejudices and views were in harmony with the spirit
and the views of the Bible, or of true religion. These men have
supposed that they and the Bible were at one, and have been mistaken.
They have undertaken contests in which they were defeated, and in
which it became afterward apparent to the Church at large that they
were mistaken.
This opposition of portions of the Church to mental liberty is con-
trary to the original views and practices of the Church. And tlie right
has also been disputed by worthy men, sixch as Ambrose, Hilary, and
Martin, Mnthin the Church. The Christian religion is not accountable
for this false position of the Church toward freedom of thought.
Let us now look at the mental enslavement in Western Christendom.
Strange to say, that great Christian Church which has played such
an important part here, has, as before intimated, been guilty of such
enslavement ; has, with all its illumination on many subjects and its
great power, been an opponent of freedom of thought ; has been hos-
tile to views of Scripture and doctrine different from the accepted
views of the day ; has considered all expression of divergent views as
exceedingly bold, if not irreverent and heretical. For centuries the
clergy and the monks directed the whole current of European affairs,
personal, family, community, or national ; scientific, literary, philoso-
phical, or theoretical. The clergy and monks were a body by them-
