64 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
selves, a hierarchy, a caste, a class that had undertaken the intellect-
ual as well as much other schooling of Europe. They ruled in and
throughout every sphere. They fixed everything in thought, religious
doctrine, general philosophy, science, art, poetry — all. In a great
measure they formed and controlled public opinion. They fashioned
after their own views the minds of youth.
All this was well enough for a time. Europe needed it, and the
gain was greater than the loss ; better almost any education than no
education ; not but that their education was the best, but there comes
a time when formal education by human teachers must cease — when
'' school is out " ; and when this time arrived in Europe, and here and
there men were in thought beginning to go without theu' teachers
and beyond their teachers, then the Church, instead of, like a wise
father, letting them go, tried to hold them.
The Church had become lifted up with the idea that theirs alone
was the wisdom which could train, and theirs alone was the right to
train ; that it was their legitimate business. And so they tried to
regulate thought — all the thought of the world so far as they could
reach that world.
Learning was oppressed, original speculation in philosophy, original
research in science, were prevented. Human reason was bound, for
woe to him who claimed to find in metaphysics, mathematics, or the
physical sciences that which contradicted what was stated ! " The
habit of doubt, the impartiality of susj^ended judgment, the desire
to hear both sides of a disputed question, the going beyond what
was taught," the making discoveries, all were condemned. Freedom,
the condition of true inquiry, was cursed. Blind, unquestioning ac-
ceptance was blessed. The people were allowed a literature of imagi-
nation, but the effort was made to strictly keep them out of any
moral and physical truth other than Rome had provided.
We now come to the change of the tide, to the beginning of better
days for inquiry, to the dawn of the day of liberty. While liberty
of thought was always more or less asserting itself, still, after a while,
such assertion increased in emphasis and force. Several facts were
favorable. It seems that, after all, the Church admitted the principle
of freedom, for she advocated free thinking for herself. She main-
tained that religious belief and practice should not be brought under
the absolute control of the civil government, and, by this assertion of
the independence of the spiritual and therefore of the intellectual
world, she prepared the way for the independence of the individual in
these worlds. The language she held for herself as a whole, for her-
self in matters of religion and conscience, and for herself in the in-
tellectual sphere, led the way for similar language by each person
for himself.
' Another great gain for freedom of thought was when secular gov-
ernment began to think for itself in its executive, legislative, and judi-
