LIBERTY OF THOUGHT. 65
cial departments ; when each state began to declare that, in political
matters, it was independent of the Church,
Still another great gain was, when a few " mighty though solitary
persons " iu the twelfth century, the first scholastics, asserted the right
of human reason to be heard and to be consulted in the formation of
opinions, as against the mere say-so of the Church ; though most of
these persons forbore to attack commonly received opinions upon
religion ; but they revolted from blind acceptance of everything the
Church said. They went to work timidly. They would believe in
part because the Church said so, but they wanted that belief suj^-
ported also by reason. The inference would be that reason had also
some claim to be heard ; a further infei'ence might be that these men
were rationalists, and would only believe what reason could com-
prehend, but that would not follow. They only did not want to
believe what contradicted reason, and they wanted the privilege of
supporting their belief by reason so far as they could.
Abelard, founder of the scholastic philosophy, began the great
battle. The first shock of the strife was when he threw down the
gauntlet about reason, and St. Bernard, a very distinguished divine of
the day, took it up. Both were men of great genius, leaders of great
parties, and both were bent on reform. St. Bernard was a monk,
humble, self-denying, and modest. He was celebrated for his pen-
ances, his poverty, his devotion to the distressed, as well as for his
learning and eloquence. lie had attacked the vices of the monastic
world, and was reforming it with great zeal. It was a fight between
giants, and Abelard was beaten — he was silenced.
A friend and disciple of Abelard, Arnold of Brescia, advocated
liberty of thought, while he also championed the rights of the people
all around to act and live as they pleased, so far as the ecclesiastical
body then dominant was concerned. And, so far did this revolu-
tion go, begun by Abelard and Arnold of Brescia, that it seemed at
one time likely to antedate the great religious revolution of the six-
teenth century by nearly four centuries. Free, independent thinking,
with heresy, was rife ia all the schools. A republic existed at Rome.
The most fertile of the French provinces, Languedoc, was in the power
of the Albigenscs. But as Abelard was silenced, so Arnold was
hanged. The Roman Republic was suppressed. The Albigenses of
Languedoc were exterminated. The cause of liberty came to grief,
and yet the good work of emancipation was not ended.
Another great gain for free thought was in the early national
literatures. They were uncompromising foes of Rome, its vices and
its tyranny over thought. Petrarch denounced the Roman hierarchy,
popes, cardinals, and monks, with unmeasured severity. He poured
out a torrent of invective. Dante showed the ideal church, and then
contrasted with it the real Church. He put popes into hell, and called
Rome the very Babylon that John saw in the Apocalypse. Boccaccio
TOL. XXI. 5
