66 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
treated the popular religious teachers with unbounded ridicule. The
Minnesingers of Germany expressed freely their hatred of the tyranny
of the Church ; and the Proven9al bards of France were unsj^aring in
their attacks ujDon the hierarchy, until they were silenced by the fatal
Albigensian crusade. The rising popular national literature of Eng-
land indignantly censured the monks and higher clergy, and spoke out
boldly against the whole hierarchical system. The famous "Vision
of Piers Ploughman," by William Langlande (a. d. 1363), one of the
earliest pieces of English literature, is from the pen of an earnest
reformer, " who values reason and conscience as the guides of the
soul, and attributes the world's sorrows and calamities to the wealth
and worldliness of the clergy, and especially of the mendicant orders " ;
while, also, Chaucer, in his " Canterbury Tales," shows himself in full
accord with Wycliffe in hostility to the mendicant orders.
In many of 'these early writings, reverence for the Church and re-
ligion is blended wdth bitter censures of the arrogance and w^ealth of
the ecclesiastics. The spiritual power of the Pope is distinguished
from his temporal power. The one is revered, the other denounced.
Again, we have the beginning of' free thought in criticism in the
idea of the comparative study of religion, as seen in. the work " De
Ti-ibus Impostoribus."
Further, we have the beginning of free thought in philosophy, to
wit : in the Mohammedan philosophy of the great infidel Averroes,
introduced into Christendom from the Mohammedan universities of
Spain ; and there was also a struggle of the Church with Averroism,
the subject of conflict being the nature of the soul, and the doctrines
of emanation and absorption.
Furthermore, we have an effort at free thought in science. There
were the leaders of science, Raymonvd Lully and Roger Bacon ; there
were also the Platonists — Barbarus, Curanus, Ticinus, Patricius,
Pious, Agrippa, Paracelsus, Fludd, etc. ; and again the theoretical
reformers of science — Telesius, Campanella, Bruno, Ramus, and Me-
lanchthon.
^Moreover, there were discoveries which tended to diffuse knowl-
edge, and so to awaken the mind of Europe — the art of making pa-
per, the invention of gunj)owder, and the discovery of the magnetic
needle. There were, also, the universities. Instead of the Church
being exclusively the only tribunal of opinion, the universities became
now also centers of thought, with opinions and power of their own.
Thus a certain new supremacy sprang up in the world of thought — a
supremacy generally in accord with that of the Church, but sometimes
antagonistic, and always more or less separate from it in the sphere
of philosophy, science, and letters, here claiming to have an opinion of
its own, and the claim being to some extent allowed.
Again, free thought found help in the jurists. They hated the
Papal tyranny. Their study of the scattered remains of Roman law
