LIBERTY OF THOUGHT. 67
and civilization tended to generate mental freedom from prejudice and
from authority.
We also have belp to free thought in the revival of classical learn-
ing. In the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, among the many compli-
cated causes which it would be difficult to trace, a general revival of
Latin literature took place, which greatly modified the mental state of
Europe. For the first time in centuries we find, feeble though it be,
an uprising against the universal credulity and against the universal
passion for theology. There was a strong desire for secular learning
beginning to stir the mind of Europe. A taste was developed for
philosophy, science, letters, and classical learning, an intellectual life
which, while more or less suppressed in one land or another, one gen-
eration or another, by civil or ecclesiastical despotism, was destined
to increase all over Europe and to continue until the present. Men
thronged the universities to study not only theology, but also philoso-
phy, law, medicine, science, belles-lettres, and the old literature of
Greece and Rome. A desire arose among men to think for themselves
in every sphere of thought. At this revival there was introduced into
literature that principle of freedom to think which the Reformation
brought into religion, and which principle Cartesianism brought next
into i^hilosophy ; and, next, the French Revolution, four centuries
from the beginning of the general movement, brought into politics.
Again, we have the rise of free thought in religion. Church tyr-
anny was encountered by a resistance within the Church itself, which
resistance could not be overcome. Many could not bo restrained, con-
fined, and controlled by the Church. Nowhere, in fact, did individual
reason more boldly assert itself than in heresies and sects in the Church
— in their denial of the infallibility of creeds, councils, and popes.
The long rule of orthodoxy was broken through by many heresies,
which, though often repressed, broke out again as often, and with new
force and consistency. The minds of the learned were perplexed by
sudden doubts concernincr the leading doctrines of faith.
Every sort of new opinion in religion was entertained, notwith-
standing ecclesiastical authority. An impartial philosophy was pro-
claimed by Abelard. A stern and uncompromising infidelity was
taught in Seville and in Cordova, which infidelity began to overshadow
the mind of Christendom. A passion for astrology and for the fatal-
ism it implies revived, though there was, as yet, no general disposition
to rise above the traditional teachings and fixed systems of the
Church.
The Reformation was, among other things, an assertion of liberty of
thought ; was a partial emancipation of the mind of Western Christen-
dom from bondage ; was a teaching man to think for himself in the
specific instance of the claims of the Romish Church to control all in
religion ; was, if not a complete emancipation, at least a great increase
of liberty. This, in Germany, Denmark and Holland, England and
