68 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
France, and, for a time, in other lands where the Reformation was
afterward crushed out, was a power of mental freedom.
Yet mental enslavement continued. The reformers would only-
change the master. He certainly was not to be the Roman Catholic
Church, they said ; he was only to be a more legitimate power. Stand-
ards were still set up, and ecclesiastical and civil power stood behind
them, to compel religious, philosophical, scientific, and other thought,
not to differ from them. Every one, Romish or Protestant, claimed
the right to defend and to propagate opinion by force ; every one was
in favor of calling in the civil j^ower to aid in a controversy in thought.
But matters have much improved in the ecclesiastical sphere during
these last four centuries. There is now marked progress in liberty
of religious thought. The fierce invectives once hurled back and
forth between Protestant and Catholic are dropped. The war of de-
nominations has largely ceased. Convictions seriously entertained are
now generally respected. Although a change of religion, or even in
ministers a change of denomination, frequently causes more or less
petty persecution, still there is imjDrovement since the time, several
centuries ago, Avhen the apostasy of any one from the rest was re-
garded as one of the worst of crimes. A change of religion or even
of denomination, from a sense of duty, is now commonly allowed
among intelligent men. To-day the Protestant nations and the Roman
Catholic countries of France, Spain, Italy, Austria, Bavaria, and Span-
ish America, have abandoned intolerance and enjoy freedom of opinion.
There is also marked progress in liberty of scientific thought — in
the seventeenth century, that freedom to prosecute and j^ublish inves-
tigation in science, which is so necessary to the advancement of sci-
ence, hardly existed as yet. Though the political influence of the
Church of Rome had much diminished, though European society had
largely passed from the dominion of the Roman Church to that of
temporal governments, yet that Church, though less tyrannical, freer
from abuses, and more tolerant than before, was still disposed to
maintain at every point the doctrines and opinions already expressed
upon questions of science and learning ; while also in Protestant
lands popular prejudice still to an extent repressed mental freedom.
But there arose ])ractical reformers in science — Leonardo da Vinci
Copernicus, Fabricius, Galileo, Kepler, and Tycho Brahe. Science
began to make decided advances in geography, astronomy, chemistry,
physics, anatomy, medicine, geology, political economy, and other
branches., The conflict with the astronomers is well known and has
been well described — the fear of Copei'nicus, the imprisonment of
Galileo, the burning at the stake in Rome of Giordano Bruno for up-
holding the teaching of modern astronomy as to the immensity of the
universe and the plurality of worlds.
Still liberty of thought in science began to grow in various lands,
giving us Bacon, Harvey, Descartes, Hooker, Barrow, Newton, Locke,
