COLOR-BLiyDNESS AXD COLOR-PERCEPTIOX. 91
the A- and D-action of tlie one remaining color-substance are equal,
gray will be the result, because, as we have before remarked, where two
colors neutralize each other there still remains the action of both on
the black-white substance, which will give rise to the sensation of gray
or white of diminished intensity. But the same colors will not appear
gray to all color-blind persons, for the reason that the same colors do
not act in every case with the same intensity of dissimilation and as-
similation. In most individuals it is the purple and the blue-green
which give rise to the impression of gray.
A spectrum should, in accordance with this theory, appear in only
two colors to the color-blind, and may or may not be shortened ac-
cording as the dissimilating power of the two remaining colors is in-
tense or very feeble. The only colors, of course, which such a color-
blind person can with certainty distinguish are the two belonging
to the one remaining color-substance, blue and yellow, for instance,
when there is red-green blindness, and red and green when there is
blue-yellow blindness. It is not to be understood, however, that such
an individual can never correctly distinguish other colors. Most fre-
quently he can, but there is always a liability to confusion, often of
the most astonishing character ; and, moreover, the distinctions are
made, not by the sense of color, but by some other characteristic, dif-
ferent degrees of luminosity, most commonly.
The evidences which the phenomena of color-blindness have
brought against the thcee-fiber theory of Young-Helmholtz are :
1. That the red-blind can not distinguish perfectly the greens and
violets, nor the green-blind the reds and violets ; yellow and blue being
the only colors about which they make no mistakes.
2. Even in a spectrum which is very much shortened the red-
blind finds the brightest place, not in the bluish-green, as we should
expect, but in the yellow, as in the normal eye.
3. This theory can not satisfactorily explain the extreme shorten-
ing of the spectrum, extending, as it sometimes does, into the orange,
and even into the yellow,
4. The line of demarkation in the spectrum is sharply at the blue,
all to the left almost always appearing of one color, and all to the
right of another, there being no lines of division between blue and vio-
let, nor between the red and yellow and the yellow and green.
.5. The gray or neutral band is far from being invariably present,
and when it is it is often, in the red-blind, in the position it shoidd
be in the green-blind, and vice versa (Mauthner).
Against the Ilering theory the following objections have been ad-
vanced :
1. There is no reason for supposing that red and green and blue
and yellow are opposing colors. They are all active in their specific
line, and even Ilering has not been able to determine which possesses
the A-action and which the D-action.
