92 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
2. The simple colors are not complementary, as Hering asserts ;
blue-green, and not green, is the complementary color of red, and
violet-blue, and not blue, is the complementary color of yellow. The
simple colors can not, therefore, be considered as antagonistic.
3. The white, which comes from the union of two of Ilering's
antagonistic coloivs, is not the result of subtraction, but of addition, as
is shown when, Avith a double spectroscope, a saturated violet being
made to cover a yellow, a white is produced which is manifestly more
intense than the yellow, while another yellow of the same intensity as
the violet added to the yellow does not produce a yellow intenser than
the yellow resulting from the first experiment.
4. White is not a direct independent sensation ; it is absent in the
.spectrum where, in red-blindness or violet-blindness, the specific color
is absent (Donders),
From the foregoing, and from a study of the phenomena as pre-
sented by a number of color-blind persons, two impoi'tant facts are
forced upon the unbiased observer : 1. That we have not yet arrived
at any fixed laws governing the phenomena ; that all cases can not be
classed as distinctly red, green, or violet blindness, though it seems
probable that all might be classed under the heads of red-green and
blue-yellow blindness. 2. That neither of the two prominent hypothe-
ses fills the demands of an acceptable theory, inasmuch as both fail to
account consistently for all the phenomena.
It seems to us that, in the consideration of the subject of color-
blindness hitherto, too much stress has been laid on the part which the
retina plays in color-perception. There are three distinct agents at M'ork
in the perception of color. The impression is first made on the retina;
this is carried thence by means of the optic nerve to the center in the
brain which presides over the function of vision, and it is there con-
verted into a sensation. Let any one of these agents become incapaci-
tated, from any cause, for properly carrying on its function, and there
must be a perversion or absence of sensation. In certain affections of
the retina and optic nerve we have instances of color-blindness from
deranged or abolished functional activity of the first two agents, and
in some foi*ras of toxic action, particularly alcoholic poisoning, we have
in all probability examples of the cerebral form of color-blindness.
The supposed color-fibers or color-substances may be in a perfect con-
dition and acted upon in a perfectly normal manner by light, but the
optic nerve may be incapacitated by some change in its molecular
structure from carrying all of the impressions correctly to the brain-
center, and, even should all the separate impressions arrive there, the
cerebral center itself may not be in condition to convert them into the
proper sensation. The conducting power of the nerve, or the convert-
ing power of the cerebral center, may be but slightly deranged or to-
tally deficient for some color or colors, and so the phenomena presented
by two cases falling under the same category would be very different;
