COLOR-BLIXDXESS AXD CGLOR-PERCEPTION. 93
and, when we consider the infinite degrees of incapacity that may exist
for all the different colors, we can readily understand the infinite varia-
tion in the mistakes of the color-blind, and the impossibility of laying
down exact rules for diagnosis.
It is mv belief that a large number, perhaps a majority, of the
cases of cono-enital color-blindness have not their seat in the retina at
all, but are cerebral in their character. In other words, I believe
that in these cases the brain-center of vision has not the power to dif-
ferentiate the various impressions it receives. This opinion will seem
the more plausible when we remember that the sense of sight is a de-
veloped or educated one. Though we have received from our ances-
tors the potentiality of vision, every child that is born must learn to
see for itself. Without here entering into a discussion of the ques-
tion of the development of the color-sense, which has received much
attention at the hands of Mr. Gladstone, Magnus, and others, it is safe
to assume, with our knowledge of analogous matters, that the differen-
tiation of colors is a power partly inherited and partly developed in
the individual ; and, moreover, we should expect to find this power,
which is undoubtedly cerebral in its character, most strongly devel-
oped where the faculty was most used. And so we do find it. Wom-
en, who are much more concerned than men in the selection and com-
parison of colors, are rarely affected with color-blindness ; and we all
know how much quicker the feminine eye is in detecting slight differ-
ences in shades of color than is that of men who are not color-blind.
In those cases of color-blindness which, for the sake of distinction, we
shall call central, we believe that the brain-center of vision has not
been developed to its full or at least to its ordinary power for discrim-
inating between the impressions corresponding to the different colors.
The retina may be capable of pi'operly responding to these various im-
pressions, and the optic nerve may carry them as separate impressions
to the brain-center ; but this has not the power of converting them
into individual sensations.
From what has already been said, it is evident that neither of the
two at present prominent theories satisfactorily accounts for all the
phenomena of color-blindness. Moreover, it seems to me, the true
theory of colors when found will be simple ; and the laws governing
the sense of vision will be found to bear some analogy to those gov-
erning the other senses — at least, I do not believe it will be found nec-
essary to invent new processes and new reactions of tissues to agents
affecting the economy. The true theory, I believe, will be found to
lie in the direction pointed out by the recent researches on the phys-
ical reaction of certain simple substances to the undulations of the lu-
miniferous ether. This reaction may be in its restricted sense chem-
ical, purely physical, or chemico-physical ; but it will be due to the
changes in the molecular structure of simple substances, caused by the
action of the ether. In other words, the variation in the sensation
