94 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
produced ivill have its basis, not in complexity of tissue, hut in the
varying action of the affecting agent.
Without entering into a discussion of the question in detail, I
would say that it seems probable that the optic nerve is merely a
highly organized nerve of common sensation. In some of the lower
forms of animal life light is perceived over the whole cutaneous or
external surface, as shown by the action of the animals when exposed
to its influence. Furthermore, it is now a generally admitted fact
that heat and light are due to vibrations of the same ether, differ-
ing only in their wave-lengths. The effect of both heat and light is
to produce molecular change. When heat produces a sensation through
the cutaneous nerves, it is most probable that it does it by means of a
molecular change in the terminal filaments of these nerves which is
communicated to the brain-center through the nerves, probably also
by a rapidly progressive change in their molecular structure. The
nerves of common sensation, however, do not seem to possess the power
to differentiate variations in wave-lengths — they take cognizance only
of the varying intensity of the vibratory motion ; that is to say, they
distinguish quantities rather than qualities. It would, however, be
doing no violence to known facts to suppose that a high specialization
would enable these nerves to carry as distinct impressions the changes
wrought by the separate wave-lengths. In fact, it is highly probable
that they do so, but the cerebral centers in which they terminate have
not been educated to the point of making distinctions between these
separate impressions and fixing them as individual sensations.
In framing a theory of color-perception on the basis we have indi-
cated, we would suppose the retina to be a body whose molecular
structure is such that it will respond with promptness to all or nearly
all the wave-lengths of perceptible light. This molecular change pro-
duced in the retina is carried by the optic nerve to the center of vis-
ion in the brain, and is there converted into a sensation. This is, to
some extent, going back to the original theory of Xewton, who, in
speaking of the action of light upon the retina, considered that " the
rays impinging upon the ends of the optic nerve excite vibrations
which run through the optic nerve to the sensorium. Here they are
supposed to affect the sense Avith various colors according to their nat-
ure and bigness."
The chief objection to this hypothesis, advanced by Young, was
that the frequency of these vibrations must be dependent upon the
constitution of the substance of the retina, and it Avas almost impossi-
ble that every sensitive point should have an infinite number of differ-
ent particles to respond to this infinite number of vibrations. He there-
fore supposed the number to be limited to three Avhich corresponded
to red, green, and violet.
It Avill be seen that the difference in the different theories of colors
lies in the supposed reaction of the retina to light. After the imprcs-
