COLOR-BLIXDXESS AXD COLOR-PERCEPTION. 95
sion has passed beyond the retina, there is no special or important dif-
ference in the views as to the final conversion into a sensation. The
objections to these two hypotheses we have already stated. The accept-
ance of such an hypothesis as we propose, however, does not involve
the necessity of inventing new laws, or of ci'eating new issues, but
only applies known laws and analogous reactions of other substances
to the elucidation of the phenomena observed. We know that there
are membranes which respond with promptness to any number of sim-
ple aerial vibrations at the same time, and recent discoveries have
shown that there are substances which, when in proper condition, thus
respond to wave-lengths of light. Silenium, Avhen in a crystalline
condition, alters its molecular condition (as manifested by its varying
resistance to the passage of the electric current), not only when acted
on by light of varying intensity, but also by the different wave-lengths.
If, then, we suppose the retina to be a substance of this nature, but
responding more promptly, and in a more delicate manner, than any
other known substance to the wave-lengths of light, we have a basis
for a theory of vision which is extremely simple in its nature, and
founded on known physical laws.
We will not here enter upon a detailed application of this theory
to the elucidation of all the phenomena of colored vision, but will sim-
ply mention a few points in connection with color-blindness. One
general principle may be laid down which will cover all cases of reti-
nal color-blindness as distinguished from cerebral or central, and that
is, that in these cases the molecular structure of the retina is so al-
tered as to allow it to respond feebly or not at all to light rays of cer-
tain wave-lengths. We know, for example, that silenium must be in
a crystalline state — that is, its molecular structure must be in a certain
definite condition — before it can respond in such a delicate manner to
variation in the intensity of the light-waves ; and we know that there
are certain wave-lengths of the ether — the ultra-red and the ultra-
violet — which call forth no reaction on the part of the retinal sub-
stance. It would, therefore, be a highly justifiable supposition that a
slight alteration in the molecular structure of the retina would render
it incapable of being affected by certain wave-lengths to which it,
when in a normal condition, readily responds. This incapability may
be partial or complete as regards any particular wave-lengths. In
some instances of color-blindness, for example, the spectrum is short-
ened at the red end even under the most intense illumination, while
in others there is a shortening only when the illumination is feeble —
becoming of normal length when the intensity of the illumination is
increased — showing, in the latter case, that the reaction to the red rays
is still present when they are of sufficient intensity.
When we come to cerebral color-blindness, which is, according to
my view, the most common, the explanation is still simple. In this
instance we have only to suppose the cerebral center of vision incapa-
