STALLO'S ''CONCEPTS OF MODERN PHYSICS:' 97
objects, therefore, are the smallest number requisite to constitute con-
sciousness. On the other hand, objects are conceived as identical by
an attention to their points of agreement ; though conception may also
be regarded as perception applied to a group of objects, so as to bring
before the mind its class characteristics ; the word well expressing
the gathering into one of the several qualities or properties by which
the group is distinguished from other groups. Conception is, there-
fore, the source of ideas, and the word concept expresses the union
effected in the mind of those attributes or properties under which a
given object is at any moment recognized. In other words, it is " the
complement of properties characteristic of a j^articular class." If the
class be a very special one the concept will apply to but few individu-
als ; but the complement of properties which it will connote will be
a very comprehensive one. If, on the other hand, the class be a very
wide or general one, the concept will apply to a much larger number
of individuals, but it will comprehend fewer attributes or pi'operties.
As application widens, meaning narrows ; until from an infima species,
or in English a group of the most special kind, we rise to a siitnmiim
genus, or a class in which only such properties remain as are absolutely
essential to thought. The process by which this is done is the proc-
ess of abstraction, which consists in dismissing from consideration all
properties not essential to the particular class which we may Avish to
form. Objects are known, it is further to be remarked, " only through
their relations to other objects," and each individual object only "as a
complex of such relations." No operation of thought, however, "in-
volves the entire complement of the known or knowable properties (or
relations) of a given object. In mechanics a body is considered sim-
ply as a mass of determinate weight or volume, without reference to
its other physical or chemical properties " ; and, in like manner, every
other department of knowledge only takes account of that aspect of
the object which it is necessary for the purpose in hand to study.
The mind can not completely represent to itself at any one time all
the properties or relations of an object ; nor is it necessary that it
should do so, as they can not possibly all be relevant to the same intel-
lectual operation. Our thoughts of things are thus stjmbolical, because
what is present to the mind at a given moment is not the object in the
totality of its relations, but a symbol framed for the occasion, and em-
bracing just those relations under which the object is to be considered.
A concept in which all the relations of an object should be embraced
is an obvious impossibility. "We can not stand all round a thing all at
once ; we must choose our side, or, in other words, fix upon our point
of view.
The above line of thought will be familiar to all students of phi-
losophy, and particularly to those acquainted with the writings of Mr.
Herbert Spencer, For some reason or other, however, ]Mr. Stallo
abstains, not only here but generally throughout his book, from any
VOL. XXI. 1
