THE TREE THAT BEARS QUININE. loi
so important a rank, led the Government of India to try the experi-
ment of introducing the tree into the waste mountainous regions of
that country. Difficulties almost insurmountable were at first presented
in obtaining young plants and seeds from the cinchona regions of the
Andes, on account of the obstacles thrown in the way by the different
South American governments. Several years passed before a sufficient
number of plants could be secured for purposes of experiment.
Experimental gardens were opened on the Nilgiri Mountains of
Southern India, the Himalayas on the north of Bengal, the hills of
Assam and the Northwest Provinces, and on the highlands of Burmah.
"With the exception of the Nilgiris and Himalayas, these localities
were found to be unfavorable.
At Darjeeling in the Himalayas, four hundred miles north of Cal-
cutta, near which the cinchona-gardens are located, I gathered the fol-
lowing particulars of the introduction and culture of the cinchona-tree,
and the manufacture and use of its alkaloids :
1. The soil, climate, and temperature of the cinchona regions of the
Andes were carefully noted. Gneiss and mica schist in a somewhat
loose and decomposed state, with a covering of vegetable mold, at
such an altitude as would secure a moist temperature with the least
possible variability, wei*e the observed conditions, and these were
sought for in the Himalayas. Gneiss and mica schist compose the pre-
vailing formation throughout the Himalayan range, except its snow-
capped summits, which are granite. To find the proper altitude was
a more difficult matter. The higher and lower were at first tried, but
it was found that an elevation of from four to five thousand feet above
the sea-level afforded the most favorable conditions.
The soil is, as far as possible, identical with that of the Andes.
The eastern terminus of the Himalayan range, being nearest to the
sea, and in the range of the southeast monsoon, which on land is
southwest, is constantly shrouded in mist, so much so that the rays of
the sun are seldom clear. The eternal snows and glaciers are here not
more than fifty miles from the burning plains of Bengal, the highest
peak, the second in the world, being more than twenty-eight thousand
feet above sea-level. The rain-fall is more than double that of the
plains, the last ten years showing an average of one hundred and thir-
teen inches per year. A remarkably uniform temperature is thus se-
cured, the extremes being 34° and 90°, while the ordinary summer
range is between 60° and 70°, and the winter between 45° and 55°.
Several varieties of the cinchona have been tried. Some have
failed entirely, while the C saccirubra and (7. calisaya prove the most
hardy. The former of these has proved by far the most productive,
and is now much more generally cultivated.
2. The seeds ripen at the commencement of the dry season suc-
ceeding the rains, i. e., in October and November. After being gathered
they are spread out in shallow boxes to dry. It is estimated that an
