102 THE POPULAR SCIEXCE MONTHLY.
ounce of seeds may produce from twenty to twenty-five thousand
plants. When thoroughly dried they are sown in beds, and when
well started the young plants are transferred to nursery -beds protected
from sun and rain by light thatched roofs. When from eight months
to a year old, or about twelve inches high, they are ready to be planted
out, the thatch-covering having been removed for a fortnight or so to
harden them. Propagation by cuttings is practiced to some extent,
and succeeds well. The plants are about six feet apart, and an acre of
ground may produce a thousand or more trees.
WheTe vegetation is so rapid and profuse as in India, constant
weeding is necessary, and, until the trees are sufficiently large to shade
the ground, one or two hoeings a year are highly beneficial. The
following may be considered as a fair representation of the rapidity
of growth :
At four years of age, 9 inches girth, 9 feet height.
" six " " 13 " " IT "
u tgjj u u 21 " " 30 " "
" twelve " " 28 " " 39 " "
At first, a very successful method was introduced for securing the
bark without injury to the tree. Commencing with trees about eight
years old, a strip of bark an inch and a half wide was taken from the
trunk, extending from the lower limbs to the roots. Leaving a strip
of equal width, an inch and a half, another was taken, and so on quite
round the tree, thus removing one half and leaving one half intact.
The whole trunk was then covered with moss, carefully bound on, so
as to exclude the light and air. In from ten to eighteen months the
bark would be found to be completely renewed without detriment to
the growth of the tree. The new bark thus formed was found to be
thicker and richer in quinine than the natural growth. This process
could be repeated at intervals of from a year to a year and a half for
an indefinite period. This method is still followed in the Nilgiris,
while in the Himalayas it has failed on account of the ants, which
penetrate the moss and destroy the exposed wood. In the Himalayas
two methods are now practiced. By the first the trees are felled and
the bark carefully peeled from the trunk and branches. The stumps
are allowed to remain, and from the sprouts that spring up two of the
most thrifty are preserved for future trees, while the rest are cut away.
This is called coppicing. By the second method the tree is uprooted,
and the bark removed from the trunk, branches, and roots. The
ground is then replanted with seedlings. Time must show which of
these methods will prove the most profitable.
The bark, on being removed from the trees, is placed in open sheds
near at hand to dry, tliat the first process of drying may be in the
open air and in the shade. When dried as much as possible without
artificial heat it is carried to the dry-house, a close brick building,
where the process is completed with the aid of slow charcoal-fires.
