104 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
These results, corroborated as they are by many subsequent ex-
periments, in various parts of India, conclusively show that all the
alkaloids of cinchona possess a nearly equal curative value, and hence
the conclusion is that all combined possess a value very little if at all
inferior to quinine. The doses are about the same. Cinchona alkaloid
is now largely used throughout the country, with a proportionate re-
duction in the demand for quinine.
SKETCH OF SIR JOHN LUBBOCK, Baet., M. P.
O IR JOHN LUBBOCK is one of that class of men of whom each
k_) age can present only a few brilliant specimens, who are at home,
and masters, in pursuits of the most diversified character. He is al-
most equally distinguished as a banker and man of business, as a zool-
ogist, ethnologist, and archaeologist, and as a publicist and parlia-
mentarian. He stands in the front rank among bankers, while he
occupies a prominent position among naturalists, and " is a standing
proof that an industrious man of active mind may at once be diligent
in business while serving science." " His name," says one of his most
appreciative biographers, " is equally familiar to the ethnologists and
entomologists of New York or of Moscow, in the counting-houses
where the world's business is settled, and among the Maidstone Lib-
erals, who every four years temporarily lose their voices with crying,
* Sir John and liberty ! ' Most curious of all, the cause of this repu-
tation in one circle is little known to those in the other two. The
Kentish rustics may know that the ' Squire ' is fond of looking at
queer things, and the bankers may have sometimes listened to him at
the Royal Institution or in Parliament ; but each set of men judge
their many-sided friend by their own standard, and in each dej^art-
ment he has rendered services which ought to command the respect in
which he is indubitably held.''
Sir John . Lubbock derives his versatility in a very large measure
by inheritance. His father, Sir John "William Lubbock — the third
baronet of that name — was head of the banking-house to which the
son has succeeded, and earned a more enduring fame as an astronom-
ical and mathematical writer. He was for twelve years Treasurer and
Vice-President of the Royal Society, and was the author of works on
" The Lunar Theory," " Perturbation of the Planets," " Researches on
the Tides," the "Theory of Probabilities," and other publications,
which are still quoted as authorities. His treatise on " Probabilities "
anticipated that of Quetelet by several years, and, being published
anonymously, was for some time ascribed to De Morgan.
The present baronet, the subject of this sketch, was born in Lon-
