SKETCH OF SIR JOHN LUBBOCK, BART, M. P. 105
don, on the SOth of April, 1834. His early education was received in
a private school kept by Mr. Waring ; at a later period he was sent to
Eton College, where he had the Earl of Dalkeith, Lord Grey de \Yil-
ton, Mr, Lefevre, and Mr. Chitty, Q. C, for fellow-pupils. He was
withdrawn from school when fourteen years old without being al-
lowed to enter the university, and put into the bank ; for his father's
partners had been taken suddenly ill, and it was deemed important that
he should be prepared to assume control of the establishment as soon
as possible in case death should take away its heads. His attention
was here directed to quite different objects from those in which he
had been interested, but he did justice to their demands, and exerted
himself to become a complete man of business, with a success to
w^hich his subsequent accomplishments as ' a banker and the mark he
has left in English methods of business bear ample testimony. He
did not suffer this, however, to divert him from his former pursuits.
He passed his leisure at the family seat of High Elms, near Farubor-
ough, in Kent, " a goodly mansion in the midst of an estate of four-
teen hundred acres, which had been purchased by his grandfather."
Here he continued his studies in natural history, and made it an object
to supplement and extend that education only the foundations of
which are laid at school and college.
The banking-house of which Sir John Lubbock is the head — that of
Robarts, Lubbock & Co., has been in existence since 1750, has always
stood high, and has not decreased in stability during the administra-
tion of its present chief. Under that administration it has promoted
a reform in the methods of transacting business throughout the king-
dom that has greatly facilitated and expedited it, by securing the ex-
tension of the clearing-house system of London to the country banks.
The clearing-house has long been a most useful institution among
the London bankei's for collecting the checks paid in by their custom-
ers with greater facility than by sending round to the various banks and
getting the money over the counter, and, in their turn, having to pay to
the messengers of other bankers the charges drawn on them. In the
clearing-house building as many desks are arranged as there are l)ankcrs
connected with the institution, each of which is allotted to a particu-
lar banker. A clerk, going with a number of checks upon some or all
the bankers, puts those which are drawn upon each on his desk. At
the same time all the other banks holding checks upon his bank place
them upon his desk. When the day's business is completed, only the
balances shown upon posting the checks pro and con have to be paid
over, and this is done through drafts upon a special account in the
13ank of England. ]Mr. Babbage had called attention to the propor-
tion of transactions of bankers that passed through the clearing-house
to those that did not. Acting upon the suggestion given by Mr. Bab-
bage, Sir John, taking an amount of 8115,000,000 that passed through
the hands of his house during the last few days of 18G4, analyzed the
