SKETCH OF SIR JOHN LUBBOCK. BART, M. P. 107
of the Royal, Linnsean, and otber learned societies. Relative to these
subjects he has published an elaborate treatise on one of the obscure
groups of insects, entitled a " Monograph of the Thysanura and Col-
lembola" (Royal Society, 1873), and works of a more popular charac-
ter on the " Origin and Metamorphoses of Insects" and " Wild Flow-
ers considered in Relation to Insects," in the latter of which he con-
siders the agency of insects in the fertilization of flowers by carrying
pollen from flower to flower while in search of food, and the adapta-
tion of the flowers to the function of dusting the insects that visit
them with their pollen and to the reception of the pollen of other
flowers from them. His most recent researches, carried on with the
aid of members of his family, have been devoted to the observation of
the habits of insects, particularly of wasps, bees, and ants, which have
been attended with important discoveries. He has given particular
attention to the study of the mental faculties of insects, whether those
creatures have any, and to what extent they may be developed, and
has made numerous interesting communications on the subject to the
British Association and the Royal Institution, which have been ex-
tensively published, even in miscellaneous journals, and generally
read ; and in connection with this branch he was able to interest the
British Association with the life-history of a pet wasp which he kept,
to such an extent that its death in the following year was considered
worthy of notice in a special paragraph in "Nature." Among the
conseqiiences of these publications have been the direction of a greater
degree of attention to the biological history of the orders that rorm
the subjects of them, and a higher apioreciation of the study oT little
things.
Sir John Lubbock also became an active and eminent student of
archfeology. He examined the shell-mounds, or kitchen-middens, on
the coast of Denmark, to which attention had originally been called by
Steenstrup and other Danisb antiquaries, and was the first to make Eng-
lish readers acquainted with those rude relics of the ancient Scandina-
vian savages. He also studied the gravels of the Somme from Amiens
to the sea, in search of prehistoric remains, and explored the bone-caves
of Dordogne and the lake-dwellings of Switzerland, and examined the
archaeological collections in numerous public and private museums.
These researches formed the subjects of various memoirs in the "Nat-
ural History Review" and other publications, and were finally col-
lected, with many additions, and published under the title of "Pre-
historic Times as illustrated by Ancient Remains and the Manners and
Customs of Modern Savages," in a work which has passed through
five editions. His readings in the literature relating to modern savage
life led him to a consideration of the origin of civilization and of the
manner in which customs, once all but universal in the infancy of the
human race, became altered, or narrowed down to the few rude tribes
who may now alone possess them. These inquiries were originally
