THE
POPULAR SCIENCE
MONTHLY.
MAY, 1882.
METHODS AXD PROFIT OF TREE-PLAXTmO.
By N. H. EGLESTON.
THE recent calamitous fire in Michigan calls attention afresh to the
rajjid consumption of our forests, and occasions renewed inquiry
as to what may be done either to check that consumption or to make
good the loss thereby sustained. More than fifty townships of land,
covering an area of about two thousand square miles, or a territory
nearly half as large as the State of Connecticut, were swept over by
the flames. " Scarcely a green sprig," says a reporter, " was left in
the track of the fire." This fire was, indeed, exceptional in extent, as
well as in the loss of life occasioned by it ; and yet it was only the em-
phasized form of a very common occurrence — one so common that we
fail to notice it as we should, or become sensible of the aggregate losses
resulting therefrom. The destruction of the great pine-forests of the
Northwest, of Michigan and Wisconsin, rapidly as it is carried forward
by the lumberman's axe, is hastened by the fires lighted, in some cases,
by the lumberman's carelessness or that of others, and in other cases
as the speediest way of clearing the ground for agricultural use. There
is no part of our country exempt from the destructive effects of forest-
fires. The mountains and hill-sides of New England frequently show
blackened spaces on their verdant flanks. The same is true of the
great wooded regions of New York and Pennsylvania. The vast Adi-
rondack forests are visited by fires, the frequency and extent of which
are known to hardly any but the wandering trappers and hunters whose
camp-fires, left unextinguished, may have lighted them. New Jersey
has suffered severely from the burning of her woods. Ten thousand
acres, covering a space seven miles in breadth, were swept over at one
time, in 18GG. In 1871 two fires in Ocean County consumed over
thirty thousand acres, and it is said that this whole county is overrun
VOL. XXI. — 1
