SKETCH OF SIR JOHN LUBBOCK, BART, M. P. in
English land-owner. He has contributed to political literature, though
not so voluminously as to scientific, and he has taken an active jDart in
measures to promote the extension and improvement of science-teach-
ing in the schools. The amount of work that he has done could have
been accomplished at his age only by means of the most indefatigable
industry, and the most economical use of time. He has always been
an early riser, and contrives, whenever it is possible, to get three or
four hours' work in the morning befoi'e breakfast. His career is an
example of what can be accomplished in a life well spent. No doubt,
says a biographer, many adventitious advantages existed in his case,
which poorer men do not possess. He had no anxiety as to bread ;
but, on the other hand, he does as much mechanical woi'k every day
as would entitle him to a very fair return for his labors. Moreover,
the calls of his public position make inroads on his time, of which the
man who is his own master, by reason of his living in the by-ways of
the world, has little idea.
Sir John has received the appointment of the crown as a member
of the Senate of the University of London, and has been for several
years vice-chancellor of the same institution. He has also been a trustee
of the British Museum, a member of the Public School Commission, a
member of the International Monetary Commission, and a member of
the Royal Commission for the Advancement of Science. In literary,
scientific, and scholastic honors he is a Doctor of Civil Law of Oxford,
an LL. D. of Dublin, a Fellow of the Royal, Linnaean, Geographical,
Geological, and Antiquarian Societies ; he has been President of the
Ethnological Society, of its successor, the Anthropological Institute of
Great Britain, Vice-President of the Royal Society, Vice-President
and President of the Linnsean Society, the principal English biological
society ; and Vice-President and President of the British Association,
having been selected for the latter ofiice to preside over the last (the
jubilee) meeting of the association, at York.
Sir John Lubbock Avas married in 1856 to Miss Ellen Frances,
daughter of the Rev. Peter Ilordern, of Chorlton-cura-IIardy, Lanca-
shire, and has a family of three sons and three daughters. Lady Lub-
bock was a woman of considerable natural ability, and enjoyed the
privilege of giving much encouragement and aid to her husband by
the interest she took in all his pursuits. Her sympathies were also
extended to her husband's friends, who are still able to remember the
hospitable reception they used to meet at her hands. She contributed
a paper on " The Shell-Mounds of Denmark" to the volume of "Va-
cation Journals " for 1802-'63. She was a contributor to " Nature "
from time to time, and wrote a few articles which appeared in a pub-
lished form elsewhere. These M'orks, however, " Nature " remarks,
" would afford but a poor criterion of all that she has directly and in-
directly done toward the advancement of natural science." She died
in 1879.
