THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ENTERTAINING VARIETIES.
THE MOUNTAINS OF THE MOON;*
OR,
TRAVELS AXD ADVENTURES OF HAKIM BEN SHEYTAN.
Translated by F. L. 0.
CHAPTEE III.
" Whose salam bails me? Hath my friend returned ?
It is his form, but not his cheerful voice."
SO says the poet ; and thou, too, O father of my faith,f wilt find
me an altered man, if it be the will of Allah that we shall meet
again. Yet not the frost has chilled my heart ; not the harmattan-
wind has seared ray brow : the gloom that clouds my soul is the gloom
of sorrow for the boimdless misery of my fellow-creatures — even of
my fellow-men. For the habitants of Monghistan are not brutes ; nor
are they apes,J gifted with human skill. No : they are men, degraded
by vice and monstrous superstitions, and as a human being I share in
their shame, and the weight of their woe oppresses my own heart.
May the angel of mercy be their helper !
Beth-Raka is not a large town, and I hoped to reach the opposite
hills by sunset ; but, before we had made our way to the end of the
first street, the smoke began to stifle our breath, and we concluded to
make a detour to the right and approach the furnace from the north
side of the town, where the ground was higher and the air less suffo-
cating. \Ye entered a side-street, and would to Allah the smoke
had been dense enough to blind our eyes and save us the distress of
beholding such misery ! The street fonns a hollow way through the
hills, and the rocks on both sides are full of caves, most of them
widened to a height of eight feet. In and around these caves we saw
a swarm of shapes as if the sleepers of a rock-tomb had issued from
their gloomy dens— withered forms, bloated or swollen faces, and eyes
that were not fit to meet the light of day. We met a half -grown lad
with the face of an old man, and laborers that were too infirm to walk
erect, and as we proceeded I saw with horror that the condition of
these unfortunates was not the result of an exceptional malady, but of
* Copyright bv D. Appleton & Company, 1882.
t Addressed to the MoUah of Tripoli. The pastor fdcs of an Arabian mosque styles
himself » Guardian of the Faith," and " Gate-keeper of the Peace-house " (Kada'l Beth-
SaUm).
X " All that day we met neither man nor beast nor ape," says Ibn Koteiba in his
chronicle of the Mauritanian campaign. Monkeys, in the opinion of the Arabs, are not
beasts, but Ayd-Kapi's — a sort of half-men.
