ENTERTAINING VARIETIES. 113
their daily habits. The starved-looking children were playing in the
street ; some, too weak to play, were sitting on the ground, diverting
themselves as well as they could ; the men were busy at work, as if
disease had become their accustomed state, an evil too hopeless to
attempt its cure. Unlike the beggars of Soodan, their poor prefer
tatters to nudity. Even their little ones were encumbered with un-
sightly rags, and, strange to say, the poorest people seemed to have
the largest number of children. Habit has inured them to the im-
purities of the atmosphere ; they breathe the thickest dust with in-
difference ; yet these same people are afraid of the night-air. After
dark the fire of the furnace burns low and the smoke clears away, at
the very time when the inhabitants close every aperture of their
hovels, AVhere whole families sleep together (as in the den of Er-
Masood) this insane habit can not fail to increase their infirmities.
Poverty is by no means the only cause of their sickliness. The only
manly-looking men I saw in that town were the hard-working laborers
of a smithy, and in the wealthier quarters, where the children are as
pretty as our own, their fathers look unsound and peevish, in spite of
their great paunches.
The cave-street led steadily up-hill till we reached the top of an
eminence, where we stopped and breathed more freely. On the north
slope of the hill the wealthier burghers had some well-built log-houses,
and right before us was a large stone building with a spacious court,
where I saw a number of fat old fellows, all wearing the same kind of
cloaks, and all shaved like the sick of a lazar-house. At first I thought
that the place was a sort of hospital for the cure of obesity, but I
afterward ascertained that it was a guttle-house^ a building where
numerous dervishes are fattened at the public expense. These holy
men consume great quantities of manioc-roots, f which they digest in
the interior of the building, where every one of them has a little stall
of his own. At daybreak, at sunset, and again at the rise of the moon,
they set up a plaintive howl, in order to save their souls from the
Great Pitch-Hole, as the Monakees call the vale of Jehannum.| They
do not perform any kind of useful labor, but, as their howl is supposed
to propitiate the wrath of the gods, they are revered as saints, and the
people feed them very liberally. They wear a sort of sack-gowns, as
tighter garments would be inconvenient ; and among those I met
at Beth-Raka some were so fat that I could sec their cheeks from
behind.
In the mean time the sun had gone down, and, as the twilight in
* Frcss-Haus (W.).
f The Jatropha manihof, a species of esculent tubers, as nutritious as our yams or
"sweet-potatoes."
I The mythology of the Mohammedans represents the bottomless pit as a desolate
valley, swept by harm^ittan-winds, and infested with uncouth goblins and swarms of gad-
flics — a sort of tropical Tartarus.
VOL, XXL — S
