114 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
this country is very short, we feared that we should lose our way in
the maze of the suburban roads. The dervishes of the guttle-house
seemed disinclined to converse with strangers, and the children at play
on the hill were unable to answer our questions ; but at last we met a
well-dressed old burgher, who gave us all the information we desired.
" The road to Kapibad passes through my field," said he, " and if
you will follow me I will show you the shortest way. I live at the
foot of the hill over yonder, where you see that large mosque of the
Tripilates."
" Is not that sect very numerous in this town ? " I asked.
" Yes, their buildings occupy all the best sites," said he, " and they
have the impudence to call themselves the only true Yeshanees."
" Do you belong to the Thumpers ? " I asked.
" The Thumpers," said he, " are nearly as superstitious as the Tri-
pilates. Their teachers walk in darkness. No, I am a Kabir^ or
Senior, of the Grizzlies,* so called because our people follow the rule
of the primitive Yeshanees, whose priests were chosen from among the
gray -headed and venerable elders of the community. — How do you like
this part of our land ? " he asked, when we reached the foot of the
declivity.
" The hills remind me of the Khundee highlands," said I ; " the
buildings of Khundistan can not be compared to yours, but the in-
habitants seem to be happy in their free wilderness."
" Yes, they have a happy climate," said he, " but they are poor,
ignorant wretches, who worship only one God and take a sinful delight
in worldly pleasures. They do not know that the welfare of the soul
requires the mortification of the body, and that earthly thoughts ob-
struct the way to heaven,"
" Where does all this smoke come from ? " I inquired.
" From the mash-house," said he. " We shall pass it before we
reach the city gate. The mashers employ a hundred workmen, and it
will surprise you to see what quantities of grain pass through their
hands."
If the mash-house had been a bakery, its usefulness could have
reconciled me to the smoke, for in this quarter of the city, too, the
people seemed to be in desperate want of bread, and I asked the Kar-
man to distribute all our provisions to relieve some of the famished
children that gathered around us at the street-corners.
Near the gate the road was not paved, and the ground was here
covered with mire instead of dust.
" Yes, cities abound with foul odors and all kinds of imj^urities,"
remarked the Kabir, " but such evils are outweighed by moral bless-
ings. In this town even the poorest enjoy the advantage of spiritual
instruction and edifying sermons."
" A great advantage, indeed," I was going to say, when I stumbled
* Parduscos (R.).
