ii6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
though my soul shrank from the thought as long as there was a shad-
ow of doubt, namely, that these ship-loads of victuals would all be
made into fire-water ; mountains of grain and fruit turned into poison,
while the streets were full of starving children !
" Do you believe in a god ? " I asked the Kabir.
"I do, and in more than one ! " was the prompt reply,
"And do you believe the gods will forgive you this shameful
waste ? "
The Kabir touched my arm. " Do not talk so loud," he whispered.
" How can we help it ? " said he, in an undertone ; " we have tried all
kinds of remedies, and they have all failed. How can we prevent the
manufacture of mash ? "
" Simply enough," I replied ; " do not drink it. Does your religion
not forbid such an outrage, or does not your conscience prompt you
to stop it ? Is the way to freedom so far ? " *
" We have not been idle, O son of my uncle," said the Kabir ; " the
evil has been greatly diminished."
" In what way ? " I asked.
" Our dervishes," said he, " prohibit the sale of mash on all prayer-
days."
" When do they permit it ? " I asked.
" Only on six days out of seven," said he.
" But do you not drink mash in your mosques ?" asked my guide.
The Kabir gave him an evil look.f " That is a slander," said he.
" What they hand around in our mosques has the smell and the ap-
pearance of mash, but before we put it to our lips a special miracle
turns it into quite a different substance." \
*' Has it a different taste ? " I inquired.
The Kabir hesitated. "Unbelievers deny it," said he. "Our
doctors claim that it has the same effect on the human body as a simi-
lar quantity of ordinary mash ; but science, you know, is always forg-
ing Avcapons to destroy the faith." *
The overseer of the mash-house stood near enough to overhear our
conversation. He made no remark, but walked up to the furnace and
ordered the laborers to quit work. " It is time to close the gate," said
he.
We took the hint and left.
" That overseer owns a part of the mash-house," said the Kabir^
when we reached the open street. " I wonder if he has heard your
remarks ? "
* Professor Widerlegcr understands this as an allasion to the sixteenth chapter of the
Syrian Koran, where the drunkard is compared to a slave who can not fly because "the
way to his native laud is so far."
f Meyad emassek — a venomous look.
X "Por un mila^ro peculiar se obra una trasustaciacion," (R.).
* " Das3 die Wissenschaf t Waffen zur Vernichtung des Glaubens schmiedet," (W.).
