ENTERTAINING VARIETIES. 117
" Do you care if he did ? " said I.
" Oh, certainly ! " whispered the Kabir ; " he is a man of wealth,
and a prominent member of our mosque."
The Kabir's residence was a long wooden building at the end of a
field, with several shade-trees, and some fifty acres of land, devoted to
the cultivation of poison-berries.
" If you dislike the smell of fire-water, you had better accept the
shelter of my roof,'' said he, " for all our caravansaries are redolent
with the fumes of mash. As for myself, I never touch the stronger
sorts, though our doctors prescribe them."
"We thanked him for his kindness, but, as the night was clear and
pleasant, we asked permission to camj) under one of his shade-trees.
While the Karman pitched our tent, our host pressed me to inspect
the interior of the building.
" Do you know a remedy for the gout ? " * he asked as soon as we
were alone. " I have tried all sorts of cures, but unsuccessfully."
" Have you ever tried to drink water ! " I asked him.
The Kabir sighed. " I thought you were a physician," said he ;
" is that the only remedy you know ? Never mind," he added, when I
made no reply, " I suppose there is no help for it. This earth is a vale
of tears."
He had lighted a lamp, and I noticed that the background of his
room was full of papyrus-rolls, tablets, and other things that bespoke
him a man of letters.
"There is one consolation," said he; "the evils of this earth can
not deprive us of spiritual enjoyments. Nay, the more the light of
earthly j^leasure fades, the brighter the joys of a higher world often
dawn upon the mind."
A strange smell began to fill the room, and, looking toward the
corner where the Kabir was seated upon his divan, I discovered to my
dismay that he had lighted a pot with stink-weeds. He invited me to
take a seat at his side, but, seeing that I Avas in need of rest, he kindly
permitted me to retire to my tent.
Before we resumed our journey the next morning, we had to re-
plenish our provision-bags, and met a boy who ofl'ercd to show us the
way to the market-place. "It is not far from here," said he, "you
can already hear the shouting of the doctors."
Since daybreak we had, indeed, heard the sound of repeated
whoops, often accompanied by the tooting of a cow-horn ; and when
we arrived at the market-place we soon discovered the cause of the
noise. In opposite corners of the square two medicine-venders had
erected their platforms, and their incessant yells had already attracted
large crowds of the natives. One of the doctors had decorated his
booth with all sorts of fanciful pictures, and, while he exalted the
* Akdel heshad, the " wine-disease." Either the gout or the stone.
