ii8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
merits of his medicine, the mahudis * blew their horns, while two as-
sistants ran to and fro distributing spoonfuls and handfuls of a blue
powder and collecting copper coins. The doctor had the voice of a
steer, and I noticed that his sudden whoops f sometimes opened the
purse-strings of spectators who had listened with indifference to his
quieter remarks.
His rival had no pictures, but talked with astonishing volubility
and attracted customers by a very ingenious device. Behind his plat-
form he had made an inclosure with chains and ropes and filled it
with a troop of sickly-looking fellows — cripples, lepers, and such
like — as he could easily have collected in any back street of the
town. Now and then, in the course of his fluent harangue, the doc-
tor would stop and turn toward this cadaverous assembly. " Have
you not all derived great benefits from the use of my oil ? " he in-
quired.
" Yes, yes, yes ! " the lepers shouted in chorus, whereupon the
mahud blew his horn, and the collectors rushed into the crowd to ex-
change bottles for coin. At times the doctor varied his query : " Is
there any disease which my oil will fail to cure ? "
"No, no, no ! " yelled the chorus, and a shower of coin followed as
before. At longer intervals a couple of assistants would bring a large
tub from an adjoining building, and, with the appearance of a strenu-
ous effort, lift it up and exchange it for an apparently empty pot ujion
the stage.
"Another barrelful sold!" then cried the doctor. "By Allah
(whose perfection be extolled ! ), there is no medicine like it ! Oh, the
wonderful virtues of my oil ! " whereupon the mahud blew his horn
vigorously till coppers showered in from all sides.
Walking toward the gate, we overtook several men whom I re-
membered to have seen at the stand of the oil-man,
"What is that oil good for, O friend?" I asked a young fellow
who carried a bottle of it in his hand.
He looked at me with surprise. " Did you not hear what the doctor
said?" he replied ; "it cures all diseases, so it can not fail to be good
for something."
" Tell me, O my master," I asked an old burgher, " do you know
what that bottle contains ? "
" That I can not tell," said, he ; " but surely it must be a powerful
medicine."
"And do you prefer it to the other doctor's powder?"! asked
again.
" Judging from its taste, the potency of this oil can not be ex-
* Mahud (pi. mahudim, or mahudis), a town-crier, or uews-crier. 'When Cordova
was the capital of Moorish Spain, every market-hall of the vast city had two mahudis,
who announced the news twice a day, like our morning and evening papers.
f " Sein plotzlichcs Gebrull," (W.).
