CORRESP ONDENCE.
121
CORRESPONDENCE.
DR. PRIESTLEY.
Me^nrH. Editor a.
C-^ERTAIX facts connected with the life
/ and history of Dr. Priestley came to
my knowledge and recollection about the
time of the centennial gathering at North-
umberland, Pennsylvania. Had it occurred
to me sooner, I should have deemed it of
sufficient interest to those present, and to
the general public, to have communicated
these facts ; and, even now, it seems desira-
ble to make this record.
When Dr. Priestley's house was attacked
by the mob, and he was driven from his
home, he fled for his life, and took ref-
uge with my maternal grandfather, Samuel
Yaughan, either at his London house (in
Mark Lane, or Mincing Lane), or at his
country-house in Hackney. For a long time
previous to this date he was very intimate
in my grandfather's family, where he was
received always as a loved and welcome
guest. At the time referred to he remained
an inmate of the family for a month or
more. My mother, who was born in Lon-
don, in 1766, was living with her parents at
the time of the riot. A strong attachment
had grown up between her and Dr. Priest-
ley. She looked upon him as a second fa-
ther ; and I well remember, as a boy, the
great pleasure with which she dwelt upon
the memory of their friendship. While con-
cealed in my grandfather's house Dr. Priest-
ley wrote his celebrated " Appeal." It was
dictated by him to my mother, she acting as
his amanuensis. The " Appeal " was printed
from her manuscript. As a memorial of
this event, Dr. Priestley presented to my
mother a brooch, made for the purpose.
It is a miniature likeness of himself, cut in
shell, on a blue background, and mounted
in an oval gold frame, with a scroll across
it near the bottom, on which is the word
" Appeal." This brooch is now in my
possession. I held it in my hand at the
time of the celebration, regretting that so
interesting a relic could not be viewed by
those present. Forty years or more have
elapsed since my mother's narration of these
events, and, as the present account rests
entirely ujjon the memoiy of my late sister
and myself, it is possibly incorrect in some
details. The main points, however, may be
relied upon, and as proof may be taken the
existence of the brooch, bearing on its scroll
the word " Appeal."
T. B. Merrick.
Geemantown. Philadelphia, I
February 24, Vi-fl. j
QUACK ADVEKTISEMENTS.
Messrs. Editors.
Is the March number of " The Popular
Science Monthly" there is an article from
the London "Lancet" entitled "Quackery
within the Profession," which, though short,
is certainly vigorous. The following quota-
tions are pertinent :
" There can not possibly be a ' system '
or ' cure ' in medicine. There arc no rule-
of-thumb methods, and no im/steries in true
science. If we do not know what a remedy
is, and how it acts, we have no right, as hon-
est men, to employ it. The time has passed
for the working of cures by channs, and the
recourse to nostrums. We pander to the
credulity of the unskilled community when
we show ourselves credulous. . . . From the
highest places in society to the lowest ranks
of the people, there is just now a gi-ievous
readiness to ' believe in ' quacks and quack-
ery. . . . There is no system, or cure, or charm,
or nostrum, known to the profession."
These words are strong enough, and arc
properly found within the pages of a maga-
zine devoted to popularizing science — that
is, popularizing it in the sense of giving the
unprofessional reader the latest teachings
of science without the rigorous processes of
induction leading to such results.
The aim being, therefore, such a high
and laudable one, is it not somewhat incon-
sistent, to say the least, to find in the same
March number advertisements of the follow-
ing notoriously quack medicines and reme-
dies ?—
St. Jacob's Oil, Gra?ffenberg's Vegetable
Pills, Voltaic Belts, Parker's GingerTonic,
Kidney-wort, Mrs. Pinkham's Vegetable
Compound, "a positive cure for consump-
tion," and two whole pages devoted, the one
to Warner's Safe Kidney and Liver Cure,
and the other to Compound Oxygen ?
Such advertisements undoubtedly pay
well ; but should not a prosperous magazine
like "The Popular Science Jlonthly," with
such lofty pretensions, be above lending
itself, even indirectly, to countenancing
quackery, or doing anything to increase that
" grievous readiness to believe in quacks and
quackery " which the writer in the London
" Lancet " so much deplores ';
Respectfully yours,
Charlks E. L. B. Davis,
Captain of Engineers.
Buffalo, New Toek, February 11, 18S2,
Captain Davis writes to the editors of
the " Monthly," complaining that they do
