122
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
not also edit the advertisements. We must
draw tlie line somewhere, and we stop at
the one hundred and forty-fourth page. We
do not think it would be easy to edit the
advertisements. If the rule should be, not
to publish lies, it would abolish the depart-
ment, for they are by no means confined to
quack medicines. St. Jacob's may lie about
his " oil," and Aunty Pinkham about her
" compound " ; but there is this mitigation
in such cases, that everybody knows it.
The worst difficulty begins with those ad-
vertisements in which truth and falsehood
are mixed, for —
"A lie that is half a truth is evertheblackest of lies."
Our correspondent had better address him-
self to the managers of the advertising de-
partment, and convince them that they
should not work down to the low standard
of the religious and secular press. Mean-
time we agree not to sandwich advertise-
ments through the text of the " Monthly,"
as is the custom with some journals. — Ed-
itors.
SCIENCE m THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
Messrs. Editors.
I HAVE read with great interest the arti-
cles you have recently published, explain-
ing improved methods of teaching various
branches of science in public schools.
At the opening of this school last Sep-
tember, we found ourselves with a class of
a dozen boys and girls from fourteen to
eighteen years of age, who wei-e ready to
begin the study of " natural philosophy."
I suppose we might have provided those
boys and girls with copies of some one of
the many text-books which profess to carry
students over the entire subject in " four-
teen weeks," or some other incredibly short
time ; we might have set those students to
committing and reciting that text, but we
didn't.
After some experimental work with im-
provised apparatus in illustration of the
properties of matter, the students provided
themselves with copies of T5'ndairs " Les-
sons in Electricity." We chose that branch
of physics rather than any other, because
the school owned a set of Tyndall's appa-
ratus especially designed to accompany the
" Lessons." The class then began a sys-
tematic course of experiment, following, in
a general way, the order of their book, but
making also many other experiments. The
students took turns in conducting the work,
and all were enthusiastic. Nothing was
taken without proof, and, the better to as-
sure myself of the thoroughness of the work,
I had them write up from memory weekly
reports of the experiments performed. Of
course, our work was slow, but I think it
was sure, a real scientific spirit manifesting
itself in every member of the class. We
have now reached a part of the work where
a more powerful electrical machine is nec-
essary, and of course we shall get it. I
think it is a mistake to begin with the ma-
chine. It is too complicated to be easily
understood at first, and the result is a lack
of clear ideas. The simple experiments rec-
ommended by Professor Tyndall are excel-
lent. They lead the student along so grad-
ually and so surely that when he reaches the
explanation of the electrical machine, or the
Leyden-jar, he finds very Httle difficulty.
We have in the school other scientific
work than that described above ; but this
is the one subject where we have the best
chance to cultivate accuracy and an interest
in scientific methods.
Yours, respectfully,
Charles J. Buell,
Principal of Boonville Academy.
BooimLi,E, New Tobk, Februa/ry 18, 1882.
INFLUENCE OF EAKTH-W0EM3 ON
PLANTS.
Messrs. Editors.
I NOTICE much discussion concerning the
effects of earth-worms upon plants in pots,
in regard to their eating the roots of plants,
and also the injury their acid excretions
may do the plants. Having kept house-
plants for many years and in all sorts of
vessels, from unglazed earthen pots to
glazed delf, and in iron and in tin vessels
also, and having had good success without
drainage at all, even by having a hole in
the vessel, and also having had the earth-
worms under consideration, before Mr.
Darwin was heard from on the subject, I
feel that I may add an item of interest
about them. The complaints that I have
seen come from florists. Florists, like all
other specialists, have notions, and I believe
this about earth-worms hurting plants is
one. I have found women who, when their
house-plants did not thrive, laid it to earth-
worms. I do not agree with them nor with
the florists, as I do not believe, from nearly
twenty years' handling of house-plants, that
earth-worms injure pot-plants. I have used
all sorts of soil, from good garden to leaf-
mold, and have always used well-rotted
manure, in which earth-worms abound, to
mix with the soil, and, if I can, have had
good air, plenty of light, correct tempera-
ture, and have watered properly. I have
never failed to have a jilant thrive, even if
the pot was full of worms, and was tin, delf,
iron, or unglazed pottery, and I have grown
