EDITOR'S TABLE.
123
and had bloom all of the ordinary house-
plants, and some that were not common in
house-culture.
I have noticed that the worms will, if
there is a hole in a pot, and the pot is not
often disturbed, crawl out at the hole and
lie under the pot, if there is room, and the
bottoms of most pots will allow this, and
this they will do in all sorts of pots. Plants
frequently become diseased from over-wa-
tering, its lack, or from other causes, and
too often the worm has to take blame for
what he is entirely innocent of.
Yours, respectfully,
Ada II. Keplet.
Effingham, Illinois, February 20, 18S2.
EDITOR'S TABLE.
^'SCIENCE AND CULTUEEr
THE reception accorded to Professor
Huxley's new volume, under the
above title, by the leading organs of pub-
lic opinion, is especially significant at
the present time. The book is a collec-
tion of addresses, lectures, and essays,
which have appeared at intervals dur-
ing the last seven years, on a consid-
erable variety of subjects, educational,
biological, and philosophical. They are
all of superior merit — the maturest and
most finished of Professor Huxley's lit-
erary productions, and are all of popular
interest ; but the critics do not regard
them as having equal claims to their
attention. It is the first address, from
which the volume takes its name — given
at the inauguration of Josiah Mason's
college — to which they chiefly devote
themselves, and their discussions are
noteworthy, as indicating the great
change that is going forward in the
public mind with regard to the higher
relations of science and education.
It is beyond doubt that the most for-
midable hindrance to the progress of
rational education is the idolatry of an
antiquated and efiete system of study,
on the ground that it is pre-eminently
and exclusively adapted to the promo-
tion of " culture." It is by association
of classical studies with a dignified and
venerated ideal of " culture " that they
have acquired their superstitious as-
cendency, and have become the greatest
drags we have on real educational prog-
ress. Human cultivation is, and always
mast be, the supreme thing, and it is,
therefore, difficult to overestimate the
injurious influence of a false ideal of its
means and objects.
But the difficulty in this case is in-
creased by the fact that the ideal of
culture, which must now be rejected as
wholly inadequate, was once true. The
old and the still prevalent idea of cult-
ure is that which is derived from liter-
ary pursuits, and it is limited to certain
literary forms, as most perfect for the
purpose. Professor Huxley says of the
great majority of educated Englishmen
that, "in their belief, culture is obtain-
able only by a liberal education ; and a
liberal education is synonymous, not
merely with education and instruction
in literature, but in one particular form
of literature, namely, that of Greek and
Koman antiquity. They hold that the
man who has learned Latin and Greek,
however little, is educated, while he
who is versed in other branches of
knowledge, however deeply, is a more
or less respectable specialist, not admis-
sible into the cultured caste."
But the human mind is no longer to
be cultivated merely by the forms or
the arts of expression. That these are
important things, and that in past times
they may have been the main things, no
one denies ; but such an ideal of cult-
ure is essentially superficial, and breaks
down before the serious intellectual de-
mands of the present time. The mind
of our age has passed from the consid-
eration of verbal figments to the laws of
reality. The correlative of form is sub-
stance, and the correlative of literary
form is the substance of thought, and
modern science has made this the funda-
