124
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
mental concernment. There Las been
not only a change here, but a reversal
of the order of importance. The ques-
tion now is, not of the art of expres-
sion in itself, but to what is it subserv-
ient. We grow increasingly impatient
of the rhetorician. The casket may be
elegant, but what does it contain ? The
husks aud shells of expression have had
sufBcient attention — we have now to
deal with the living kernel of truth.
The old ideal is discredited by the new
developments of knowledge, and the
new ideal must contain more substan-
tial elements than that which it super-
sedes. Under the old ideal of cul-
ture, a man may still be grossly ig-
norant of the things most interesting
and now most important to know ;
but an ideal of cultivation begins to
be demanded which does not comport
with ignorance- Modern knowledge is
the highest and most perfected form of
knowledge, and it is no longer possible
to maintain that it is not also the best
knowledge for that cultivation of mind
and character which is the proper ob-
ject of education. This truth is making
its way steadily, and although the tra-
ditional ideal of culture is strongly for-
tified in existing institutions, and main-
tained by old habits and associations,
it is undermined on every side, and is
certain to give place to more compre-
hensive and rational views of what con-
stitutes a properly cultivated man.
The leading criticisms of Professor
Huxley's book, as we have said, illus-
trate this position decisively. They not
only show that the question is upper-
most and urgent with the thinking
classes, but that sci-ence has already so
clearly established its main positions
that the old resistance is futile, and that
a revised and enlarged conception of
culture has become inevitable, Pi*o-
fessor Huxley is even reproached by
distinguished literary authorities for not
fully perceiving the strength of his own
case, and how far science has already
pushed its educational conquests. It is
even maintained that the scientific spirit
and method have so far penetrated and
revolutionized the classical system as to
have given it a new lease of life ; so
that it will be conserved in future only
by virtue of what it has borrowed from
the progressive agency which it has
hitherto so desperately resisted. The
London " Saturday Review " discourses
upon the subject as follows:
Professor Huxley's position as to the claims
of the natural sciences on the one hand and
the humanities on the other — of the "mod-
ern " and the " classical " plan of education,
as they are commonly called — is, on the whole,
if we rightly collect his meaning, something
like this : The mediseval system of European
imivei'sities, which with more or less minor
diversity was in substance the same every-
wliere, embraced everything which to the
best men of its day seemed best worth a
man's knowing, and deserves our thanks and
praise according to its time and work. But it
became stereotyped and inexpansive. It was
too narrow to hold the flood of new knowl-
edge and interests let loose upon the world
by the revival of classical learning. The
Uenaissance, in so far as it affected educa-
tion, was the protest of far-sighted reformers
against the bondage of mediicvalism. The
humanities fought their pitched battle against
the scholastic curriculum, and won it. Our
present classical education represents the tri-
umph of the littera humaniores three cen-
turies and a half ago. But the humanities,
like the scholastic system before them, have
in their turn become stereotyped. Now science
has arisen and opened a new world, unfamil-
iar to the men of classical traditions, and often
scorned by them ; and science is fighting its
way to its proper eminence as Greek did in
the days of Erasmus. The leaders of science
are the true humanists of our own time, and
the old-fashioned humanities must give place
to them. Now, if we were prepared to as-
sume, as Professor Huxley to some extent
seems tacitly to assume, that classical educa-
tion hod reached its final development, and
that nothing more was to come out of scholar-
ship and antiquities than was got out of them
by English scholars forty or fifty years ago,
we should entirely agree with Professor IIux-
ley's conclusions. But, for our part, we are
not prepared to assume anything of the kind.
There are matters not adverted to by Profess-
or Hu.\ley, and to which, as they certainly lie
outside his business, his attention may natu-
rally have not been directed, which appear to
