EDITOR'S TABLE.
125
U3 necessary to be taken into account before
■we acquiesce in the \'iew of science and hu-
manism as two litigant parties, or attempt to
pass a final judgment upon theii- alleged
strife.
It may seem a strange thing to say, but
Professor Huxley has underrated the strength
and the \-ictories of science. They are not
confined to the boimds of natural history or
physics, or to any or every branch of what we
call the natural sciences. The modem spirit
of science is too mighty and subtile not to
penetrate into every region of the field of hu-
man knowledge. It is transforming and re-
quickening the humanities themselves ; and
■we make bold to say that classical studies, so
far from ■waning before the light of science,
are awakening and waxing to a new Renais-
sance of which not we, but our children and
children's children, will see the full splendor.
What is it that Sir Josiah Mason's foundation
excludes, and in Professor Huxley's judgment
rightly, from the benefits and encouragement
of his bounty ? " Mere literary education and
instnietion," such mere di-illuig in language
as until a recent date was understood to be
the staple of our so-called classical learning.
But our universities are now awake to the
truth tliat knowledge of the ancient languages
is an instrument, not an end in itself. The
end is another kind of knowledge, and knowl-
edge not undeserving to be compared for
worth with the knowledge of things and of
nature. It is the knowledge of man in the
works of his hands and his thought, of the
men from whom we inherit our laws, our art,
and our civilization ; the praise of fiimous men,
and our fiithers that begat us. Socrates and
Plato, the fathers of philosophy ; Pericles,
the father of statesmanship ; ^\icxander, the
father of conquering civilization ; Ulpian and
Papinian, the fathers of scientific law ; Trajan
and the Antonines, of administration and
government ; Homer, the father of poetry ;
Phidias and Praxiteles, of sculpture — these
last the masters of all followei-s in their craft
unto this day — and Aristotle, the fiither of
science itself; surely of these men and their
work we can not know too much, and even a
little knowledge of them would be ill ex-
changed, for a man who does not mean to be
a chemist, for a little knowledge of the atomic
weights of elements.
But this, some one will say, is not what
comes of our so-called classical education ;
•what we get from our classical tcachei-s is only
verse-grinding, scraps and odds and ends of
half-understood Latin and Greek, and a gen-
eral contempt for knowledge that is not ot
Latin and Greek. This has been only too
true ; but we hope it ■will not be true much
longer. Cambridge, the head and front of the
old verbal scholarship, is transforming her
classical cuniculum. Not through mere lin- '
guistic attainments, but through scientific phi-
lology, scientific ai-chffiology, scientific study
of ancient history and philosophy, will hence-
forth lie the road to her highest honors. We
shall no longer have accomplished classical
scholars who stand mute before a coin or an
inscription, and can not tell a work of the
school of Phidias or Praxiteles from a late
Asiatic or Eoman imitation. Let the teachers
of natural science look to it on their side that
their own special studies do not degenerate
into mere book-work, such barren catalogues
of undigested facts and such an empty show
of paper knowledge as Professor Huxley lifts
up no uncertain voice against. Then, when
at last a true and lively knowledge of man
and of his history goes hand in hand with a
true and lively knowledge of Nature and her
works, our schools will produce results woithy
of their noble means, and science and culture
will be no longer names to bandy in contro-
versy, but fiiin and inseparable allies. Science
has come upon our humanists as from a re-
gion of mystery, like the nameless champion
of the legend, clad in magical armor and
wielding invincible weapons. But the cham-
pion is a friend and deliverer •, well for them
that receive him, and ill for them that in rash-
ness and little faith repel him. But is there
not already a working alliance ? Are modem
philology and archceology "mere literary ed-
ucation and instnaction " ? We conceive not ;
and we call Professor Huxley himself to wit-
ness. In his Aberdeen address he expresses
the wish tliat there should be a Professorship
of Fine Aits in every university, and that its
functions should somehow be regularly con-
nected ■with the arts curriculum. We are
happy to think tliat this is exactly what Ls
being done, or in a fair way to be done, at
Cambridge. The study of classical antiquity
through classical art is there rapidly becom-
ing a living and working branch of the gen-
eral classical studies of the university. But
this, some will again say, Ls dreaming of the
future. Are we satisfied with the present ?
Are we content that there should be univer-
sity dignitaries who do not know one end
of the solar spectrum from the other, and
bishops who show their competence to criti-
cise biological theories by supposing that the
blood-corpuscles arc formed by coagulation
after death ? We answer, unquestionably not.
We hold that the elements of natural knowl-
edge should be an integral part of general edu-
cation. But we would make room for them
