126
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
— as we have already said on other occasions
— not by ceasing to teach the humanities, hut
by teaching them better.
The criticism of the London "Acad-
emy " still further illustrates the ad-
vance of rational ideas on this subject :
The address on "Science and Culture,"
•which gives its name to the volume, is a dis-
cussion of the place of scientific and of liter-
ary training in education. The form in which
the question in debate between the advocates
of " science " and of " culture " is presented
is not which of these two things is the more
valuable, but whether the idea of complete
culture does not include within itself that of
scientific discipline. This way of stating the
question brings out clearly the fundamental
agreement that there is — if we leave out of ac-
count the devotees of " useful knowledge " —
between the advocates of the classics and of
pliysical science. For it is seen that the ad-
vocates of science admit that every one ought
to know something of literature, though they
think it possible sufficiently to cultivate the
sense of Uterary form by means of the modern
languages alone ; while the advocates of the
classics, in maintaining that classical studies
give the best possible intellectual training,
admit that culture is not complete if nothing
but the sense for literary form has been cul-
tivated. The questions that are really in de-
bate are, therefore, the subordinate ones —
whether, though real intellectual as well as
aesthetic education is given by the study of
the classics, physical science is not the typical
intellectual discipline, for which anything
else is an imperfect subsitute ; and whether,
though some literary culture can be got out of
modem books alone, a certain knowledge of
the classics is not necessary as a preparation
lor the the full appreciation of European lit-
erature in general. Professor Huxley decides
both these questions in favor of the advocates
of scientific education. He suggests incident-
ally that modern men of science have more
of the spirit of antiquity than " the modern hu-
manists. . . . We falsely pretend," he says,
speaking of the Greeks, " to be the inheritors
of their culture, unless wc are penetrated, as
the best minds among them were, with an
unhesitating faith that the free employment
of reason, in accordance with scientific meth-
od, is the sole method of reaching truth."
He points out, near the end of the essay,
that the higher sciences, those that deal with
man and society, can only be constructed by
the application of the methods of physical
science. As regards the literary side of edu-
cation, he e.vpresses the opinion that " for
those who mean to make science their serious
occupation ; or who intend to follow the pro-
fession of medicine ; or who have to enter
early upon the business of life ; . . . classi-
cal education is a mistake." It is possible to
get sufficient culture out of modem literature
— perhaps out of English literature alone.
Something might be said against this last
opinion, even by those who agree with Pro-
fessor Huxley entirely as to the necessity of
scientific discipline as part of a complete ed-
ucation. But, granting that knowledge of
classical literature is not an essential part of
culture, there is still a difficulty about omit-
ting Greek and Latin from education in some
cases and not in others. For, if the classical
languages are to be taught at all, it is desir-
able that the study of them should begin at
an earlier age than that at which a decided
preference either for literature or lor science
usually manifests itself.
This last remark is very important in
its bearing upon the general issue be-
tween classical and scientific studies. It
is a concession of what we have con-
stantly maintained, that, if the study
of Greek and Latin is to be worth any-
thing at all, it must consume a portion
of the time devoted to education that
is out of all relation to the value of the
acquisitions, compared with others that
are necessarily excluded. If that time
is not given to them, the acquisitions are
so worthless that the eflort is wasted ;
but, if the full time is taken by the
classical tongues, there is no room left
for any fullness or thoroughness of
scientific study. Hence the need, as
the "Academy " remarks, of beginning
so eai'ly with the Greek and Latin that
the pupil is unable to form an opinion
of the uses and value of his studies. But
this period of immature judgment is ex-
actly the proper time for the training of
the powers of observation and the ac-
quisition of elementary science. These
early years, therefore, belong rightfully,
and by the laws of the mental constitu-
tion, to science and the rudimentary
study of natural things. It is a sufii-
cient outrage in itself to put children
at the dead languages, whereby there
is certain to be engendered a hatred of
study ; but it is no less an outrage upon.
