LITERARY NOTICES.
127
the childish nature to neglect those
studies which are hest suited to this
stage of his unfolding faculties.
LITERARY NOTICES.
Physical Education ; or, the Health Laws
OF Nature. By Felix L. Oswald, M. D.
New York : D. Appleton & Co. Pp. 259.
Price, 81.
The health papers contributed by Dr.
Oswald to the " Monthly " during the past
year, having been revised by the author, are
now issued in a separate form, and, as we
are glad to see, at a price which will favor
their wide circulation. We call attention
to some points of interest in this remark-
able Uttle book.
In the first place, it must be said that
the author is no mere unpractical theorizer.
He is a medical man of thorough prepara-
tion and large professional experience, and
an extensively traveled student of nature
and of men. While in charge of a military
hospital at Vera Cruz, his own health broke
down from long exposure in a malarial re-
gion, and he then struck for the Mexican
mountains, where he became director of
another medical establishment. He there
spent eight years, making many excursions
to explore the imperfectly known Mexican
highlands, and he has given the results of
his observations and adventures in his
" Summer-land Sketches," one of the most
interesting and instructive books of travel
that has appeared in a long time.
Dr. Oswald has also journeyed extensive-
ly in Europe, South America, and the United
States, and always as an open-eyed, absorbed
observer of nature and of men. So active
a career we might suppose not to be in the
highest degree favorable to superior literary
work, which we are accustomed to expect only
from the devotees of scholarship, who con-
centrate themselves upon books in the soli-
tude of their libraries. And yet Dr. Oswald's
merits as a writer are of a very high order.
He has a genius in the use of language
which is less a result of cultivation than a
gift of nature. He writes in a style that is
at once crisp and incisive, easy and flowing.
Ilis vocabulary is prolific, and every word is
the most felicitous for its place. There is
no halting and no dissonance in the musical
rhj'thm of his periods, and there is not a
weak or a faltering sentence to be found be-
tween the covers of the book on " Physical
Education." He never spins out his pas-
sages, or plays with epithets for effect ; and
though the earnestness and ardor of ex-
pression often start the pulse, the strain of
eloquence never breaks into rhetorical in-
flation. These traits are possessed by our
author in a degree that places him, beyond
question, among the few unrivaled masters
of lucid idiomatic English.
In an age when the whole force of cult-
ure is thrown upon the art of effective ex-
pression, it is no easy task to reach pre-
eminence in this field ; but the interest of
the case is heightened when we learn that
Dr. Oswald is not an Englishman, and is not
writing in his native speech, but in a foreign
tongue. Macaulay, in his life of Frederick
the Great, remarks, " No classic work, as
far as I recollect, was ever composed by
any man except in a dialect which he had
learned without remembering how and when,
and which he had spoken with perfect ease
before he had ever analyzed its structure."
The little book now before us will go far to
refute this dictum of the great essayist. At
any rate, we do not think the critic of the
" Troy Press " is far from the truth when
he declares that " Mr. Felix L. Oswald, of
Cincinnati, is the cleanest writer of pure
English on this continent."
But, though proficient to a rare degree
in one of the most difiicult arts, yet with
Dr. Oswald this art is far from being an end
in itself; he subordinates his gift of writing
to a more serious purpose. It is by the
breadth, beneficence, and vital urgency of
this controlling purpose that the man is to
be properly measured. With him the accom-
plishments of literary expression, like the
facts and truths of science, only acquire their
highest value as tliey arc made tributary to
human amelioration. By " pliysical educa-
tion '' he means not mere " gymnastics," as
hitherto interpreted, but all hygienic and
educative resources for the physical improve-
ment and redemption of mankind. Though
a man of many-sided culture, and a passion-
ate lover of nature, and therefore with in-
exhaustible resources for his own mental
gratification, yet Dr. Oswald is still more a
