128
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
man of profound sensibility to his human
environment, and of irrepressible sympathy
with the weakness, the dilBculties, the er-
rors, and the miseries of his fellow-beings.
His book has the double object of pointing
out the more common and fruitful sources
of those debilities and infirmities from
which people suffer through their preju-
dices, ignorance, unhealthy habits, and un-
natural practices, and of arousing them to
more earnest, hearty, and determined effort
at amendment.
It is just at this point that criticism in-
tervenes with its accusation that our author
writes with exaggeration and extravagance.
If this objection implies that facts are dis-
torted or truth overstrained in Dr. Oswald's
pages, we believe it will be found to have a
very slender basis ; if it is a mere matter
of taste, the use of superlatives is certainly
excusable here if anywhere. Dr. Oswald is
inspired with the hope of mending things ;
and, in writing for the people, be does not
believe that non-committal under-statements
are best suited to answer that purpose.
With feeble conventional protests which
arouse no indignation and provoke no ac-
tion Dr. Oswald has little patience. He
writes both to divert and to convert his
readers, and his essays are therefore doubly
contrasted with the subdued regulation
monographs of a scientific period that is
cultivated out of half its life. To produce
any salutary and permanent reform, the
evils to be corrected require to be presented
in a very strong light and vividly realized.
" Cool indifference, whatever subjective ad-
vantages it may have, will never set a rub-
bish-heap of old shams and errors afire."
There is but one thing worse, in the
view of Dr. Oswald, than the injurious prac-
tices which undermine the stamina and
lower the health and life of a people, and
that is the dull, conventional acquiescence
in a confessedly vicious state of things.
Holding that this wide-spread and culpable
torpor is due largely to the preaching of an
ancient gospel of anti-naturalism, he main-
tains that its only possible counteraction is
the vigorous and vehement inculcation of the
gospel of nature, and his book is animated
throughout with this preaching. The mere
lazy indifference of those who are comfort-
able in prevailing customs, and content with
the decorous rule of Mrs. Grundy, is suffi-
ciently intolerable ; but when these fall back
upon a philosophy of life which maligns
the natural instincts, libels the world we
live in, and promises another to compensate
for the breakdown of this, he has only hot
denunciation of the doctrine and all who
teach it. However we may object to pun-
gency of speech, Dr. Oswald may at any
rate plead the abundant example of his
adversaries in the use of it.
The " Physical Education " is one of the
most wholesome and valuable books that
have emanated from the American press in
many a day. Not only can everybody un-
derstand it, and, what is more, fid it, but
everybody that gets it will be certain to
read and re-read it. We have known of the
positive and most salutary influence of the
papers as they appeared in the " Monthly,"
and the extensive demand for their publi-
cation in a separate form shows how they
have been appreciated. Let those who are
able and wish to do good buy it wholesale
and give it to those less able to obtain it.
It will be a boon to benighted multitudes.
The Voyage of the Vega KorND Asia and
Europe, with a Historical Eetiew of
Previovs Joprneys along the North
Coast of the Old World. By A. E.
NoRDENSKioLD. Translated l)y Alexan-
der Leslie. With five Steel Portraits,
numerous Maps, and Illustrations. New
York: Macmillau& Co. Pp.741. Price,
86.
The frequent references which have been
made within the last two years to the enter-
prise of which this work gives the first full
and detailed account, attest the value which
the world attaches to the problem which it
was designed, if possible, to solve, that of
forcing a northeast passage to China and
Japan — a problem which, the author re-
marks, " for more than three hundred years
had been a subject of competition between
the world's foremost commercial states and
most daring navigators, and which, if we
view it in the light of a circumnavigation of
the Old World, had, for thousands of years
back, been an object of desire to naviga-
tors." Professor Nordenskiiild was led to
undertake this voyage by the success of his
previous voyages, in which he had reached
the mouth of the Yenisei River bv sea from
