LITERARY NOTICES.
131
examined by nations, for it presents very
varied phases in different countries, accord-
ing as it has been modified by the character
and circumstances of their people and by
their history. Everywhere, however, India
is looked to as the land of its origin ; and it
is in India that its oldest and most impor-
tant books are found. Mr. Davids has,
therefore, very properly selected India as
the country in which to consider it for the
elucidation of its fundamental principles.
His lectures, which were delivered on the
Hibbert foundation, consider, first, " The
Place of Buddhism in the Development of
Religious Thought," under which head the
author reviews the condition of India at the
time of the introduction of Buddhism, the
effect the new religion had on that condi-
tion, and the influence the condition exerted
upon the shape it eventually took ; and,
afterward, the "Pali Pitakas," or the prin-
cipal books of Buddhism — the Buddhist
theory of Karma, or what takes the place,
with a striking difference, of the Christian
idea of the future life ; the " Buddhist Lives
of the Buddha " ; " Gotama's Order," or the
rules that were laid down by the founder
of the religion himself; and "The Later
Forms of Buddhism," which are immense in
their variety. Among the lessons to be de-
rived from the study, Mr. Davids points out
that " the knowledge of what man has been
in distant times, in far-off lands, under the
influence of ideas which at first sight seem to
us so strange, will strengthen within us that
reverence, sympathy, and love, which must
follow on a realization of the mysterious
complexity of being, past, present, and to
come, that is wrapped up in every human
life."
Bacteria. By Dr. Ferdinand Cohn. Trans-
lated by Charles S. Dolley, Rochester,
New York. Pp. 30, with a Plate.
The title of this paper and the name of
its author commend it without any further
words. We need notice especially only the
translator's statement of one of his objects
in offering it, which is, to set the example
of publishing scientific books in cheap edi-
tions, as is done abroad. The plate of illus-
trations consists of figures that were drawn
by Dr. Cohn himself for " The Microscopical
Journal."
Beliefs about Man. By M. J. Savage.
Boston: George H, Ellis. Pp. 130.
Price, $L50.
This work, a complement to a previously
published volume on " Belief in God," cm-
braces the substance of a number of regu-
lar Sunday-morning sermons on the nature,
origin, and destiny of man, in which were
also considered some of the problems, such
as those of sin and salvation and of free-
will, which have troubled him during all the
ages. The points brought out may be sum-
med up in brief, that " man is the animal
that has learned to think of himself, to
think of right, to think of God, and has
ended by thinking that he is a son of God " ;
that the doctrine of evolution has no rela-
tion to theism or atheism ; that the doctrine
of necessity, as distinguished from free-will,
"gives us motive power, gives us a way to
work, gives us confidence that our work will
not be without its appropriate results " ; that
the forces, the powers, that are at work in
human nature to-day do not need uprootal
or change, but only instruction, guidance,
self-control ; that the perfect city of God
is to begin here ; that the absolute condi-
tions of progress are freedom and knowl-
edge ; and that death is not the end, but
may be simply the fitting for " that other,
higher life, that we may trust surrounds us
everywhere now, and of which, even to-day,
unknowingly, we are a part."
Transactions of the Medical Association
OF Georgia. Thirty-second Annual Ses-
sion, 1881. Edited by Dr. A. Sibley
Campbell, M. D., Secretary. Augusta,
Georgia : Pp. 314. Price, §1 ; by mail,
$1.05.
This volume includes the papers which
were read at the meeting of the association
whose proceedings it records ; which papers
pertain to appropriate subjects in medical
and surgical treatment, and are based upon
material drawn chiefly from cases in the
practice of their authors. The one, perhaps,
of most general interest is that of Dr. R. J.
Nunn, on " Female Diseases, the Result of
Errors in Habit and Hygiene during Child-
hood and Puberty." Illustrations are given
where the matter calls for them. The ne-
crology of members of the association who
died during the year is followed by a num-
ber of biographies of physicians previously
