132
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
deceased, among which a conspicuous posi-
tion is given to that of Dr. Crawford W.
Long, for whom is claimed absolute priority
in the discovery of anaesthesia by ether, and
who died in 1878, "at the bedside of a pa-
tient, in the discharge of his duty."
The Universe; or. The Infinitely Great
AND THE Infinitely Little. By F. A.
PoucHET, M. D. Sixth edition. Illus-
trated by 270 Engravings on Wood.
New York : G. P. Putnam's Sons. Pp.
564. Price, $3.75.
To present the leading facts of nature to
the non-scientific public in such a style that
it will read of them with the interest with
which it follows the development of a ro-
mance, without detracting from the dignity
and accuracy of scientific statement, to
compose such a vivid word-picture as shall
enable the reader to form an adequate con-
ception of the marvelousness of the wonders
that science has discovered, without falling
into exaggeration and sensationalism, are
tasks which the most learned investigator
in science and the best-trained writer would
be justified in shrinking from attempting.
Only a man of strong imagination, combined
with an unusually even mental poise, could
undertake to carry a series of description
of this character through the whole field
of nature. M. Pouchet has undertaken
this, and has accomplished it successfully,
lie leads us in his most entertaining work,
which the child or the student of science
may read with equal pleasure, by succes-
sive steps, truly from the infinitely little
to the infinitely great. Beginning with the
invisible world of the microscope, which
includes the animalcules that still live in
our fluids, the fossil infusoria of the edi-
ble earths, and the nummularia of the lime-
stones of which cities and the pyramids
are built, and the " architects of the sea,"
the corals, the boring mollusks, and the
" mountain-building " foraminifera, he goes
on to make us acquainted with the insects,
the abundance of their life, and the magni-
tude of their works and their depredations,
the birds and the artful structures of which
they are the architects, and with the won-
derful migrations of animals of every class.
Then, passing to the vegetable kingdom, he
illustrates the anatomy and physiology of
plants, the functions of the seed and the
process of germination, the " extremes in
the vegetable kingdom," from the lichen of
the rock to the baobabs and sequoias of the
primeval forest, and discourses of the lon-
gevity and density of plants, and their mi-
gration's, even more wonderful than those
of animals. Next the department of geology
is brought under review, with an account of
the formation of the globe by gradual devel-
opment and change as recorded on the tab-
lets of the rocks, descriptions of fossils, em-
bracing here again the extremes, though not
infinite, of the little and the great — "the
mountains, cataclysms, and upheavals of the
globe, volcanoes and earthquakes, glaciers
and eternal snows, caverns and grottoes,
steppes and deserts, and the air and its cor-
puscules. The " Infinitely Great " is repre-
sented in the sidereal universe, under which
head are considered "The Stars and Im-
mensity" and the solar world. The final
chapter gives a brief account of the mon-
sters and superstitions, belief in which was
cultivated in the middle ages. The author
declares — and his work bears him out — that
his object in composing it has been to in-
spire and extend to the utmost of his power
a taste for natural science : hence, he has
given, "not a learned treatise, but a simple
elementai-y study, conceived with the idea of
inducing the reader to seek in other works
for more extensive and more profound
knowledge." We can only refer to the rich-
ness of details that characterizes the work
and the excellence of the illustrations.
The Gospel in the Stars ; or. Primeval
Astronomy. By Joseph A. Seiss, D. D.
Philadelphia: E. Claxton & Co. New
York: E. P. Button & Co. Pp. 452.
Price, $1.50.
The author of this work, a prominent
Lutheran clergyman, has already acquired
considerable distinction from the zeal with
which he has propagated Piazzi Smyth's
theory that the great pyramid of Egj-pt was
constructed in pursuance of a divine revela-
tion, for a divine purpose. He here pro-
pounds a similar theory for the formation
and delineation of the forty-eight original
constellations of the sky, which he believes
were primarily composed under inspiration,
to typify man's redemption by Christ. What-
ever skeptics, readers, and scholars may
think of the matter, he has no doubt about it.
