LITERARY NOTICES.
133
The Art of Voice-Production, -with Spe-
cial Reference to the Method of Cor-
rect Breathing. By A. A. Patton,
author of "The Voice as an Instru-
ment." New York : G. P. Putnam's
Sons. Pp. 106. Price, §1.
Application is made in this work of the
investigations which have been carried on,
by means of the laryngoscope, into the struct-
ure and mode of action of the vocal organs,
to the study of a scientific cultivation, or, as
the author, with but litttle exaggeration,
calls it, production of voice. The founda-
tion of voice-culture is laid in correct breath-
ing. This should always be full and easy,
and done by the action of the muscles of the
diaphragm, not of the clavicle or ribs. The
technic consists in learning to know when
the voice-organs act properly, and how to
make them act so. Particular stress is laid
upon what is called the articulate action of
the glottis — an action under which, in its
perfection, the individual notes of a series
are divided in such a manner that a com-
plete scale of fractional tones of very small
degree may be produced with perfect smooth-
ness, and with unchanging though naturally
modifying tone-quality, by the voice, as the
best violinists accomplish the same through
their instruments. To this, the author be-
lieves, such singers as Xilsson and Santley
owe their marvelous powers of execution ;
and, in illustration of the fineness to which
it is possible to reduce it, the case is cited
of Madame Mara, who was able to perform
twenty-one hundred changes of pitch within
the compass of three octaves, or one hun-
dred changes between each two notes of the
ordinary scale.
The Study of Trance, Mcscle-Reading,
AND Allied Nervous Phenomena, in
Europe and ^Vmerica. With a Letter
on the Moral Character of Trance-Sub-
jects ; and a Defense of Dr. Charcot. By
George M. Beard, A. M., M. D. New
York. Pp. 40.
Thi3 is a setting forth, in brief, of what
has been done in Europe during the past
two or three years, in a department of psy-
chology in which the author was one of the
earliest and is still one of the most inde-
fatigable workers, and offers a means of
comparing American (of which Dr. Board's
have been the most conspicuous) and Euro-
pean researches in it.
Sparks from a Geologist's Hammer. By
Alexander Winchell, LL. D. Chicago :
S. C. Griggs & Co. Pp. 400. Price, $2.
This is a very pleasant volume of es-
says, descriptive, scientific, and philosophic,
though predominantly geological, and writ-
ten in a style intended to suit the general
reader. As is well known, the author has
command of a very entertaining style, and
his long and varied experience with the
practical study of nature has given him
ample materials for an attractive volume.
Books of this kind perform a most impor-
tant office, not only in awakening a feeling
for science, but in instructing the public on
many interesting topics which are hardly
touched in our scientific manuals. A few
of his titles will suggest the variety there is
in these pages : " Mont Blanc and its As-
cent," "Obliterated Continents," " A Grasp
of Geological Time," " Geological Seasons,"
" Salt Enterprise in Michigan," " Huxley
and Evolution," and " The Metaphysics of
Science." We need not commit ourselves
to everything Professor Winchell says in
this volume, but it will prove instructive
and provocative of thought to most read-
ers, and may be therefore cordially recom-
mended.
Principles of Chemical PniLosorirr. By
JosiAH Parsons Cooke, of Harvard Col-
lege. Revised edition. Boston: John
Allyn. Pp. 623. Price, 83.50.
We are glad to see that this well-known
standard work devoted to the higher grade
of chemistry has undergone careful and ex-
tensive revision by the author, and been so
largely rewritten as to make it in many
respects a new book. Not only is the work
itself essentially improved by this further
elaboration, but the results of the last ten
years of chemical progress are thoroughly
embodied in its text, and many features of
scientific interest are here brought forward
for the first time. The distinctive aim of
the work is philosophical, that is, it presents
the great body of the chemical truths in a
closely correlated and thoroughly .■systema-
tized form. " Thus alone," says the author,
" can the student give breadth and dignity
to his knowledge, and come to know nature
not as a sum of certain parts, but as a grand
and related whole." Such a generalized
knowledge of chemistry this book aims to
