134
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
impart. It presents chemistry as a philo-
sophic system, and it deals with the facts
of the science only so far as they illustrate
this system. It is not intended in any re-
spect to take the place of laboratory teach-
ing, but solely to supplement it. Not until
the student has become familiar with chem-
ical phenomena, at least to some limited ex-
tent, is he prepared to study the science in a
systematic way ; but all who have this prep-
aration will acquire most rapidly a general
knowledge of the whole field when the sub-
ject is presented in a deductive form.
Report of the Director of the Astronom-
ical Observatory of Harvard Col-
lege. By Edward C. Pickering. Cam-
bridge: University Press. Pp.16.
This is the thirty-sixth annual report of
the institution. Mention is made of the
improved position that has been given the
Observatory for conducting researches by
means of the subscription which was raised
in 18V8. Observations have been made on
eclipses of Jupiter's satellites, the spectra
of particular stars, the comets of 1881,
variable stars, and the working of the in-
struments, and also photometric observa-
tions. Some interesting results have been
derived from the observations on stellar
spectra, one of them giving a hint toward
a more rapid method of detecting variable
stars, another suggesting analogies between
the spectrum of a certain star and that of
the great comet of 1881. Mr. Chandler, of
the observatory staff, is engaged in collat-
ing, for comparison, the observations of
stars of known or suspected variability.
The Palaeolithic Implements of the Val-
ley OF THE Delavcare. Cambridge,
Massachusetts : Peabody Museum of
American Archaeology and Ethnology.
Pp. 25.
This publication contains communica-
tions which were made on the subject
named in the title to the Boston Society of
Natural History at one of its meetings, as
follows : " Historical Sketch of the Discov-
ery of the Implements," by C. C. Abbott ;
"A Comparison of them with Palsrolith-
ic Implements from Europe," by H. W.
Haynes ; " On the Age of the Trenton Grav-
el," by G. F. Wright ; " Statement relating to
the Finding of an Implement in the Grav-
el," by Lucien Carr ; and " On the Litholog-
ical Character of the Implements," by M. E.
Wadsworth. Mr. F. W. Putnam furnishes
the concluding remarks, in which he de-
scribes the finding of three implements by
himself and a companion, and adds, " Cer-
tainly the evidence that has been brought
forward to-night will clear away all doubts
as to the importance and reliability of Dr.
Abbott's discoveries and investigations,
which have proved the former existence of
palaeolithic man in the valley of the Dela-
ware."
Chemical and Physical Analysis of Milk,
Condensed Milk, and Infants' Milk-
Foods, with Special Regard to Hygiene
and Sanitary Milk-Inspection. By Dr.
Nicholas Gerbhi. Translated and ed-
ited by Dr. Hermann Endemann. Illus-
trated. New York. Pp. 101.
The author of this treatise has been
engaged, scientifically and practically, in the
dairy industry for several years, and is now
manager of a milk-product company in the
interior of the State of New York. Having
often himself felt the need of a uniform
method of analysis for milk and its products
which would satisfy practical wants, and
possess scientific accuracy, he has aimed to
give in this volume a short and exact method
for the examination of the various milks and
milk-foods, expecting to follow it up with
another volume on other milk-products and
substances employed in the dairy industry.
He claims superiority for his method over
the methods known before 1877, in accu-
racy, in simplicity, and in cheapness and
economy of time.
The Brain of the Cat. By Bdrt G. Wild-
er, M. D. Pp. 39, with Four Plates.
This paper, which was originally read
before the American Philosophical Society,
is the first of a scries of contributions to the
knowledge of the brain of the domestic cat,
and is to be followed with a " Description
of the Cerebral Fissures, together with their
Synonomy." The author believes that the
cat offers superior advantages over other
easily accessible animals for preliminary
anatomical work. He also proposes a re-
vision of anatomical nomenclature, with a
schedule of alterations for abbreviating and
simplifying it, and making it more intel-
ligible.
