61
The Evening Meetings, notwithstanding a little discourage-
■ment at first, owing to causes over which, no doubt, the Members
had no control, have been maintained during the past year with
varied success, and the programme for 1866 duly carried out.
The first Lecture of the series by the President was alluded to
last year — the second for February loth on "Ancient Leaden
Stamps found in England and other parts of Europe, by the
Reverend Prebendary Scarth," was not given owing to tho
■domestic afiliction of the Vice-President. His place, however,
was kindly supplied by the Rector of Swainswick, who gave a
description of the three marble figures inserted in the wall of the
Angel Inn, at ]\Iarshfield. The conclusions which Mr. Earle had
arrived at after careful observation were that these crowned
figures rei^resent the Virgin and Child, S.S. Margaret and
Catherine; and were formerly a jjortion of a series of five
figures forming the reredos over an altar ; the two others being
now lost, or perhaps still to be found concealed in the walls of
the town, or somewhere in the neighbourhood. He ventured to
^ve them as early a date as the 13th century, and said that they
merited the careful attention of the antiquary. Alluding to the
frequent occurrence of the name of St. Catherine in the neigh-
bourhood of Bath, and quoting the ancient oath Avhich the
Freemen of Bath took, that they should maintain " St. Katem's
chapel, and keep holy St. Katern's day," he impressed the Mem-
bers with the idea that the day would be a red letter one in his
calendar, on which any traces of this said St. Catherine's chapel
could be discovered. After tea the President gave a short
description of the peculiar habits and structure of the Artemia
salina^a small crustacean found in the salt pans at Lymington,
and called by the workmen the "Lymington shrimp." Some
tree-wasps' nests were exhibited, and the Secretary of the Bath
and West of England Agricultural Society laid on the table
several volumes of beautiful paintings of Natural History objects,
by Mr. Robbins, an artist of some reputation in Bath, of the
last century.
