62
On March 15th, Mr. Charles Moore described "the range and
structure of the Brachiopoda, with reference to local species."
Having alluded to their old name of " lampades " or lamp shells,
so called from the peculiar hole through which the pedicle thrusts
itself being similar to that in ancient Koman lamps, he enumerated
the families of these Mollusca, stated their early appearance in
the strata of the earth, and traced their rise, numerical develop-
ment and final disappearance through the various formations. In
illustration, several beautiful specimens of Crania, Lingida, and
Terebratuhe from his own collection were shown, ranging from
the Lower Silurian formation to the most beautiful and delicate
shells found in our present seas. The Ehynconella, so abundant
in the rocks of this neighbourhood, first appears in the Lower
Silurian, and passing up through the various formations is found
at the present time, though reduced to four or five living species
only. The internal structure of these shells, the wonderfully
developed spiral coils of the spirifer and loops of the Terebratulse,
were described and illustrated by specimens and drawings ; and
Mr. Moore concluded with an allusion to his own researches,
Avhereby he had been enabled to extend the range of some of
these Brachiopoda far higher up in the strata, than hitherto
supposed to be possible by other geologists.
The third and last Lecture of the spring Session was given by
the President, on the 12th of April, on " Phosphatic Nodules
obtained in the Eastern Counties for agricultural purposes." As
the Lecture has been printed and published, chiefly at the expense
of Mr. Jenyns, and is now in the hands of the Members, or may
be obtained by any who wish for a copy ; it will be sufficient
merely to state that the opinion formerly held that these nodules
found in the upper Green sand at the base of the lower Chalk
were coprolites, was shown to be erroneous. And the opportunity
was taken to pay a graceful tribute to the memory of the late
Professor Henslow, to whose patient research and scientific acumen
agriculturists were indebted for the discovery of the great value
