63
of these nodules in an economic point of view. The transition
from phosphatic to flint nodules was easy, and Mr. Crickitt
concluded the evening's transactions by reading a paper on the
formation of flints. Difi"ering from Dr, Buckland that flint was
formed of the silicious matter held in suspension in the chalk
mud of an ancient sea, and precipitated in a gelatinous form
around organic nuclei on the ocean bed, the Lecturer advocated
the theory that the ancient sea beds were covered with living
sponges which had been buried alive by a drift of decomposed
coral mud. In process of time this bed was upheaved, and by
the efi"ect of alkaline volcanic springs, like those of Tongariro,
holding silica in solution, the porous strata were interpenetrated,^
and the silica lodged in the cavities, thus forming masses of flint.
Three Evening Lectures of the winter and spring Session, of
1866-67, have already been given, — by the President, on the
" Bath Flora,"— by Mr. Crickitt on " The Hot Springs of Bath,
and elsewhere," — and by Mr. Scarth on " The Koman Villa lately
excavated at Wick, by the Club." When the concluding lecture
by Mr. Moore on the 13th March, shall have been delivered, it is
to be hoped that means will be provided to ensure the publication
of these and similar papers in a more permanent form than that
aff'orded by the columns of the newspaper press.
The four Excursions fixed at the Anniversary Meeting have all
taken place. The good attendance of Members and the pleasing
recollections which have remained, testify to the interest which
has been felt.
The first, in April, to Caerwent, was numerously attended,
fourteen or fifteen Members having assembled at the Bath
Station for Portskewet and Chepstow. The Vice-President met
the Members at the latter place, and under the admirable guid-
ance of the Lady of Dennel Hill, they proceeded in carriages to
investigate the antiquities and historical places of the neighbour-
hood. The Church and Farm House at Mathern, about three
miles distant, was the first point ; in the north wall of the chancel
