65
Chepstow Castle, was courteously permitted, also the four incised
monumental slabs in the Chapel adjoining, inserted in the floor
of the chancel, one of which bears an inscription in Norman-
French, to the memory of Urian de St. Pere, temp , Edward L,
1239. The other three are of later date. Leaving the house,
the Members drove through the park with its numerous deer,
fine yew trees, and picturesquely broken limestone ground, on
their way to Sudbrooke Camp, inspecting by the way a ruined
megalithic structure on the right hand, near Portskewet, situated
on rising ground. The stones, of which some are erect, are com-
posed of a sandy Conglomerate, with small pebbles of quartz, and
are much weather worn. A quarry at the base of the rising
ground gives a section of the Limestone, which assumes a rich red
and yellow tint. Caldecot Castle, and the walls of Caerwent
and most of the old buildings in the neighbourhood are princi-
pally composed of a similar stone. Sudbrooke Camp, a portion
of which seems to have been washed aiway, is ^kid to have been
the first station of the Romans after crossing the Severn ; it
assumes a semi-circular or oval form, and has been likened to a
bow, the side next to the Severn forming the string. A small
chapel dedicated to the Holy Trinity, the original portions of the
edifice being as early as the twelfth century, stands at the north-
east angle of the camp outside the vallum.
The gradual encroachment of the Severn at this point threatens
soon to undermine the remaining small space of ground between
tlae ruins and the river. Caldecot Castle with its fine gateway
and tower was the next point visited. Formerly the residence
of the Constables of England, and giving the title of Baron
Beaufort to the Dukes of Beaufort, it ranks amongst the finest of
the Castles in Wales. Situated in a level plain, its chief pro-
tection seems to have been the height and massiveness of its
surrounding walls with their encircling deep moat, which are
l)oth in a very fair state of preservation. At times, too, the
castle might be made difficult of approach, as all the country
E
