66
couW he put under water. A short inspection of the neighbour-
ing church, with its well kept churchyard, was made, and the
stream of tlie Troggy followed to Caerwent, the Venta Silurum
of the ancients. Before entering, the Vice-President beneath the
shelter of a massive portion of the south or port-wall gave a short
description of the city, and the various discoveries which have .
from time to time been made. A considerable portion of the
walls now remain, enclosing a space of forty aci'es, and are in
some places on the south side, twentj'-five feet high. The facing
has been removed in several places, and the " herringbone " work
in sandstone exposed ; red sandstone supplying the place of the
usual bonding courses of Roman bricks. The remains of the
north gateway may still be seen in a cottage garden, and the
fosse on the west and south-west is still of great depth. The via
Julia runs through the camp, and tlie church, which has no
features of architectural interest about it, appears to have been
built of the stones of the Eoman station. Only one inscribed
stone is said ever to have been found at Caerwent, but a very
interesting bath, with all its accompanying chambers, was laid
open to the south of the farm-house ; a model of this is preserved
in the museum at Caerleon, and it has been described by Mr.
Octavius Morgan in the ArchoBologia. The Eeaufort Arms gave
such accommodation as it could offer to the Members for the
night, and the next morning being bright and balmy, induced
some of the Members to make an early start for the Windcliff,
whilst others, under the guidance of Mr. Irvin, insjjected the
Castle ; and the geologists the limestone quarry across tlie Wye,
The principal feature to be noticed here is the existence of a
thick bed of Oolitic limestone, some twelve feet thick, at the base
of the qwarry nearest the river, similar to that observed by the
Secretary, at Skrinkle Bay, near Tenby, just above the Shales
and fish bed of the Carboniferous limestone. The capping of the
quarry appeared to be New Red, and there was a very thick talus
of yellow sand and clay, the accumulation of six or seven years
