67
merely. Where the Gloucester road rises beyond, the limestone
strata on the right present a very upheaved and contorted appear*
ance, similar to that on the banks of the Avon, at Clifton. After
breakfast, the train was taken to Newport, and a walk of three
miles brought the Members to Caerleon, the ancient Isca Silurum,
nestling beneath the Welsh hills, on the right bank of the golden
Usk. The station of the second Augustan legion under the
command of Vespasian, it was a city of no mean importance, as
the great amount of antiquities in the museum attests. The
Avails formerly enclosed about fifty acres, and were one mile in
circumference ; the mortar in the walls contains but little of the
customary pounded Roman brick, except at the angles, where it
occurs in the usual quantity. Under the able guidance of J. E.
Lee, Esq., all the points of chief interest were shoA^Ti — the amphi-
theatre, called King Arthur's round table ; the lofty mound the
site of the ancient Norman keep, whence is a glorious view of the
surrounding country ; the church, and the admirable museum,
the arrangement and management of which reflect so much credit
on its curator. There was but a short time to inspect the great
variety of Roman curiosities here collected together, and a cursory
glance merely could be given at altars, columns, pavements,
bricks, funereal urns, glass vases, Samian ware, fibulae, ornaments
and coins. Memory only retains a few of the more prominent —
an altar to Salus Regina, a votive tablet for the health of
Severus and liis sons, many sepulchral slabs, bricks inscribed
"LEG. II. AVG," coins from Claudius Caesar to Arcadius and
Honorius inclusive, electrotype in gold of an engraved stone,
representing Hercules strangling the Nemsean lion, the impression
in wax of a nicolo set in a ring of debased sUver, the subject
being Venus Victrix, portions of ornamental ribbed glass, two
ivory carvmgs (one a tragic mask), with holes, showing that they
were attached to harness or the like, and numerous other curiosi-
ties. The courteous and hospitable proprietor of this mine of
Roman antiquities invited the Members to a sumptuous lunch,
