68
and the short time allotted was but too quickly passed in anti-
quarian talk, and sipping classic wine, of which the ancient
Komans appear to have left a goodly cellar full — "sunt etiam
Ammenise vites, firmissima vina." The juice of the Ammenian
grape was most highly appreciated, and helped to strengthen the
pedestrians for a rapid walk to the train at Newport.
The Second Excursion, on May 15th, was devoted especially
to geology under the guidance of Mr. Charles Moore, the object
being to visit the Trap dike lately discovered by Mr. Moore on
the Mendips. The route taken was from Bath to Shepton Mallet
by railway. Passing through the latter town, and following the
main road, the first halt was called at a section on the right hand
side of the road, exhibiting a horizontal deposit of Ehaetic and
Liassic beds on the upturned edges of the Carboniferous lime-
stone. A fault on one side has brought down the Liassic beds
on a level with the Carboniferous limestone, against which they
rest at a slight angle. These beds which are of the same geo-
logical age as those of the Lower Lias near Weston, and contain
the same fossils, are very much like the " Sutton stone " beds.
Those Members who were present at the Southerndown excursion
last year, were struck with the similar appearance, both lithologi-
cally and as regards their fossil contents, which they presented.
The first few blows of the hammer revealed the usual fossils of
the Lower Lias, Lima gigantea, L punctata, and many specimens
of Ostrea liassica. The same bed was traced on some rising
ground on the opposite side of the road. The chief peculiarity
to be noticed in these beds as compared with the " Sutton stone "
series, was the absence of corals, of which during this short visit
no traces could be found. Even the flinty Conglomerates which
form so conspicuous a feature in the beds at Southerndown, are
traceable here. The Members then mounted the Old Eed axis of
the Mendips, passing on their road seme ancient Barrows, and
followed the Eomano-British road, called the "Eidgway," till
\hey arrived at the Beacon (one of the liighest points), an upright
