71
both r(»imd find oblong, which admitted to the gladiatorial shows,
and even child's toys of iron. The visit of the club was made
memorable by the discovery in the Forum of a beautifully sculp-
tured bronze eagle, a portion of one of the military standards
which accompanied the Roman legions, A vote of thanks was
cordially given to Mr. Joyce for his courteous reception, and a
huri'ied exit made from the Forum by Members who were anxious
to partake of something more substantial than Eoman antiquities.
The prospect of visiting Strathfieldsaye induced some of the
party to remain for the night at Eeading, and the next day, again
under Mr. Joyce's guidance, the plain and homely mansion of the
late Duke was inspected, and in the hall was seen the fine
tesselated pavement of geometrical pattern Avith an urn in the
centre, Avhich has been so successfully moved from Silchester,
and lately placed in its present position. Various reminiscences
of the Duke and his campaigns were shown, and a drive through
the magnificent avenue of elm trees nearly a mile long, and
across the finely timbered park, brought the party to Marochetti's
beautifully proportioned column and statue of the old Duke,
erected by the tenants and servants to the memory of their good
olH master. A hospitable reception at the Rectory increased the
obligations of the Club to Mr. Joyce, and was duly appreciated
by all present.
Some Members of the Cotteswold Field Club, accompanied by
their President, Sir William Guise, visited Bath on the 18th
July, and were met by our Members at the station. Under the
guidance of Mr. Moore the geological features of the Warleigh
Valley and heights were pointed out. The gravel beds at Fresh-
ford, said to bo of the same age as those at Amiens and Abbeville ;
the inferior oolite along the canal banks, thirty feet of which in
the section there exposed would represent beds in the Cotteswold
district 200 feet thick, and all the beds in this district with the
exception of the basement sands; the section opposite Dundas
where the Inferior Oolite rests upon very thin beds of Upper Lias ;
