75
Another shoi't excursion of the Chib was to the Eaclstock
Coal-pits. The Members under the guidance of Mr. McMurtrie
were shown over the " Ludlow's Pit." A rapid but smooth
descent was made in the iron cage to the lowest gallery, a depth
of 150 fathoms, and under the charge of "viewers" with lamps
and candles, they proceeded down a gallery for about 800 yards to
the " head " of the working, where a narrow seam of coal about
one foot two inches in thickness was being worked. The whole
process was kindly explained by Mr. McMurtrie, and some curious
wedge shaped masses of Shale intervening between narrow bands
of coal pointed out. Abundance of the usual coal fossils, such as
ferns, calamites, lepidodendra, fruits, seeds, &c., have been found,
but no shells or moUusca. The shaft is sunk through the New
Red, with an intervening band of gritstone. The galleries are in
some parts lofty enough to admit of horses working ; yet o-wing
to the great pressure it was stated that when disused for some
time these galleries have been known to close up entirely ; and
this arises by the gradual elevation of the floor, not by the sub-
sidence of the roof. In the " heads " the coal seam is Avorked
sometimes by the removal of a thin band of superincumbent
Shale, which allows the " seam " to become detached and upheaved
from below.
On Tuesday, May Sth, Mr. Godivin, Vice-President of the
Bristol Architectural Society, kindly gave a Lecture to the Club,
at the Literary and Scientific Institution, on " Mediaeval Bristol."
After an admirable and clear sketch of the ancient city, its rise,
and progress, the Members, under Mr. God^vin's guidance, plunged
into the dirty holes and corners of Bristol, and were amply
rewarded by the sight of many an architectural gem, ecclesiastical
and domestic, which was pointed out and described by their
able guide.
The Box Tunnel and the stone quarry of Kandall and Saunders
at Corsham, were objects for another day's walk. Mr. Amor, the
contractor, took charge of the Members in their walk through
