of which every memher made himself answerable." He him-
self held the governorship of the whole party, superintended
the enterprise, and took care that everybody discharged the
functions of the office allotted to him. There were seven in
number, besides Linneeus. The Jl?st "was to act as geographer,
to give an accurate description of all the villages, mountains,
lakes, rivers, roads, and districts, &c. — to say morning and
evening prayers, and to preach on Sundays." The second, as
general naturalist, " was to make observations on the quality
of the water, on mineral springs, on the snow and height of
the mountains, the weather, the fruitfulness or sterility of
soil, &c. &c. He was also charged with digesting, as secretary,
the transactions of the Society in proper written form." The
third, as mineralogist (or metallist as he is there called),
" besides collecting stones, minerals, earths, all kinds of
petrifactions, &c,, was further employed as groom, to saddle,
water, and attend the horses." The fourth, " a student of
physic, as botanist or herbalist, was to examine and to preserve
as well as possible all the trees, plants, herbs, grasses, and
fungi, which occurred to his view. He was moreover appointed
to precede the company as a quartermaster, to procure them
good lodgings, and to provide every necessary for their
reception." The fifth, " as zoologist, was to describe and
depict the quadrupeds and all the animals living as well in
the water as on the land, such as fishes, birds, worms, &c.
His collateral occupation consisted in shooting the game,
which was necessary for the support of the company, and in
fishing and angling whenever it was deemed expedient." The
sLvth " companion was commissioned to act as economist, to
examine the dress of the Laplanders, their dwellings, their
way of preparing provisions, their matrimonial and funeral
rites, their knowledge of medicine, mode of living, diet, &c.,
and to describe with the pen or pencil such objects as were
most worthy his attention. His additional employment was
to communicate to his companions the dispositions and regu-
lations of the president, — in the same manner as the adjutant
of a regiment announces the orders of the general to his
corps, — and to call them together whenever it was required,
especially in the evening when an account was always given
of the transactions of the day ; he was also to take care that
every companion went to bed and rose again to continue the
journey at the time appointed." The seventh companion did
the duty " of a steward and treasurer ; he had the chief care of
the fodder, cattle, wood, buying and selling, and discharged
the expenses of the whole company."
" Owing to these excellent regulations and their due
observance, the tour was continued and terminated with the
