82
tioR to that, if the heat came from the centre of the earth ; hut
experiment proves tliat it is not so. (See address of President
Geological Society for 1858.) Again, theory would say that this
heat would increase regularly towards the tropics, as there the
earth would lose less heat by radiation. Fact shows a departure
from this assumption. Moreover, at the Bagneres de Luchon, in
the Pyrenees, it was found that by boring a horizontal shaft into
the mountain, they came upon hotter water, and so proving that
it is not always an approach to the central parts of the earth that
involves increase of heat. If the globe has gradually cooled down
and formed a solid crust on its exterior, it follows that it must
still be cooling down, and that such cooling has proceeded steadily
from the time when it first began to cool, although it may well
be that as the crust thickens, it cools more slowly. I only state
that the progression must be regidar, and not subject to fits of
increase of heat. If we examine the geological records of the
past, we find that as we mount upward in time, towards the
commencement of our earth's history through the Pliocene, the
Miocene, the Eocene, the Cretaceous, the Carboniferous, the
Devonian, the Silurian eras, we shall find that there are numerous
signs that the cHmate of the globe has in these previous ages
been much warmer at least in Northern latitudes than now
obtains, and these facts taken isolated have seemed to countenance
the idea that the cause was the internal heat of the earth, and
hence an additional reason for supposing the central heat theory
a fact.
But admitting the fact of the previous warm climate, I do not
think that the cause has been rightly interpreted.
Let us suppose, however, that we admit the theory. We find
that during these periods, although there wore times when the
climate of the polar regions was warmer and more uniform than
at present, yet there were alternating periods when this state of
things was followed by a much greater cold than now exists, and
that if it be said that formerly the polar and temperate regions
