pleasure of rambling over new ground, especially in a neigh-
bourhood like that of Bath, where there is so much diversity
of landscape and beautiful soeuery to engage the attention,
irrespectively of its natural productions and other matters
of interest. With regard to the first of these objects, I think
there should be an earnest endeavour made on the part of the
membere of our Club — whether they work together on field
days, or prefer working quietly by themselves at other times
— to ascertain as far as possible what the neighbourhood of
Bath really produces. One advantage to be derived from
having a large body of members, is the better chance thereby
afi'orded of the several departments of Natural History being
all equally well looked after. We are more likely to find men
ready to take up its different branches respectively, and to
give them their exclusive attention. And there is a call for
work everywhere. Though the Flora of Bath, at least as
regards the phanerogamous plants, has been carefully got
together by Professor Babington, who was formerly connected
■with the place, — of its Fauna we know very little indeed. There
are records of certain species of shells and insects being
inhabitants of the district, but, so far as I am aware, that is
all. I think we ought to try to enrol amoug our members,
if such are not already to be found in the list, working natu-
ralists who are disposed to fill up this blank, and to supply
us in time \\-ith complete catalogues of the mammals, birds,
insects, shells, &c., occurring within a radius of eight or nine
miles round Bath, — availing themselves of every oppor-
tunity of having the species properly determined by
those most competent to give an opinion. Even the list of
plants contained in " Babington's Flora Bathoniensis" might
probably be much increased, while in the Cryptogamic depart-
ment, with the exception of the Fungi which have received,
and are still receiving, so much attention from ]\Ir. Broome,
one of our original members, we have a field entirely untrodden,
and one, from the multitude of forms which it embraces,
almost of unlimited research.
Natural History was the main subject of inquiry to which it
was intended this Club should devoteitself when first instituted.
The subject of Antiquities was afterwards added, and I think
very properly. For, although there is no very close connection
between the two, it still often happens that those who take an
interest in the one subject, take an interest in the other also,
and the two can be well prosecuted together in a field excur-
sion, — parties either joining, — or, if preferred, separating for a
time to follow up their respective pursuits, and coming together
again at the end of the day's work. It is a question, indeed,
whether, whenever there is a large company in the field, it
