18
the situation in Lydney Park is very beautiful and command-
ing. The inclosure which surrounds the Villa and its
appendages had also contained a temple dedicated to the
god " Nodon," as is known from an inscription in brass dug
up there. Somersetshire, as well as Gloucestershire, was
noted for its Villas, and rich in pavements as well. I have
mentioned that the remains of 20 villas have been found
within a radius of eight or nine miles around Bath. In the
neighbourhood of Somerton very extensive Villas have been
found — two in the parish of Kingsdon, one near the Roman
Koad to Ilchester, the other on the Bank of the Carey ; and a
third at Lytes Carey. These three Villas are, according to
Mr. Wright, included in a distance of about a mile. In the
parish of Hurcot, adjoining Somerton, two Villas have been
found, another at Charlton Mackarel, and another at Copley,
and in the parish of Littleton several Villas have been found.
Others could be mentioned, all in the neighbourhood of
Somerton, as at Pitney, which Villa covered an acre and a-
half of ground, and contained a very remarkable pavement,
of which this Institution possesses engravings.*
Roman Villas appear to have been equally abundant in
Hampshire and Oxfordshire. Sussex boasts the handsome
Roman Villa at Bignor, situated near the Roman road from
Chichester (Regnum) to London, and others also in that
neighbourhood. The pavements at Bignor, which are pro-
tected, and exhibited to visitors, are well worth a visit. In
Cambridgeshire and Essex, Roman Villas have been un-
covered by the Hon. Richard Neville, who has collected an
interesting Museum at Audley End, and has recorded the
results of his excavations in the pages of the " Archaeological
* A Roman Villa has lately been uncovered at Chedworth, near Foss Bridge,
north of Cirencester, on Lord Eldon's estate, which is described, though briefly,
in the proceedings of the " Society of Antiquaries of Scotland," vol. vi., pt. ii.,
p. 278, by James Farrer, Esq., M.P. This was visited by the Field Club in
May, 1867.
