8
might not be desirable to break up into even more than two
sections, according to the prevailing tastes of the members
present, and the objects they have in view.
If Antiquities have of late years attracted the attention of the
Club more, perhaps, than other subjects, — it has been mainly
due to the circumstance of the whole number of members
having been hitherto small, with very few naturalists among
them. But now that the number seems to be increasing, we
may fairly hope that Natural History will in proportion have
an increased number of followers. I need not dwell here upon
the rich stores which are open to the Antiquary in this neigh-
bourhood, — especiallyinBathitself and theimmediate precincts,
— where so much has turned up, carrying us back to the days
of occupation of this place by the Eomans, — altars, portions
of the great temple of Minerva, sepulchral remains, coins, and
various other articles of interest; — nor need I stop to point
out the numerous ancient mansions, churches, &c., to be met
with in more distant rambles from the city. They are too well
known to require mention, and they have been mostly already
visited by the Club, and in many instances well described and
illustrated by our valuable member, the Kev. H. M. Scarth, to
whom the public are so much indebted for his labours in this
department.
But leaving the subject of Antiquities, I pass on to other
matters of which I think the club might take cognizance. I
conceive everything connected with topography (taking a hint
from the caravan of Dalecarlian naturalists before spoken of)
— everything which throws light upon the manners of the
people and their mode of life, either now or at any former
period, — provincial words — etymology of the names of places
— local sayings — obsolete customs — superstitions and so forth,
— all this might be followed out as a legitimate object of
inquiry, — in addition to what relates to the physical features
of the district, its geology, or its natural history. And there
is yet another subject I would recommend to the notice of any
members of this Club, who are inclined to take it up, — and
that is the climate of Bath and its meteorology. When we
consider how much Bath is resorted to by invalids — avail-
ing themselves, in the winter especially, of its undoubtedly
milder climate at that season — it is of much importance that we
should know on far better data than any we possess at pi'esent,
or which at least have been made public, what is the exact
difference between its mean temperature and that of other
places lying farther either to the E. or W. — not merely in
winter, but at each respective season of the year — taken in
connection with its mean rainfall and humidity, nor over-
looking the position of the city, situated as it is in a boson
