27
taking great interest in the excavations, has established the
fact, I beUeve, that the old Roman temple crossed the street,
and was situate largely on the area of the White Hart. At
all events he has found there the basement of a large
building of ancient date, and also a continuation of the frieze
of the temple, a portion of which is in the vestibule of the
Institution ; and that is an additional argument in favour of
this supposition. It is a question whether, previous to the
Roman period, there was any city of Bath at all, or any town
or place of any name. Some of the earlier writers on Bath
produce some British names in connection with it, such as
Gaer Palladur and the like ; but I have never been able to
find any authority for those names, nor have I ever seen a
single scrap of evidence to lead me to the conclusion that
there was a city at all about the Waters before the Romans
came. I do not say it is unlikely, but that I desire
evidence to prove it. In the excavations lately made on
the site of the White Hart, and which are carried dowTi to
the geological bottom — to the lias — they passed through
about 18 inches of a fine red greasy clay, which Mr. Irvine
thought was the old sediment of the Bath waters ; in which
case one must suppose that there was once a considerable
pool existing there, or a morass of the water, which was very
probable, for Mr. Irvine's view is based not simply on what
he saw at the White Hart, but at the west end of the Abbey,
where a considerable sinking was was made, when he found
the same kind of mud. It appeared full of iron, and was of
a rusty red colour. That suggests, as I have remarked, an
extensive morass or pool, formed by these waters, and almost
immediately above that fine clay we begin to have tokens
of the Roman period. One of the things observed on
the site of the White Hart, was about six inches of a sort
of gravelling with concrete, as if there had been a large area,
esplanade, or parade ground there, which is exceedingly likely.
