31
him thro' the breast. Then shouted Arthur : " Now at them ; it
is well begun !" The Britons smote as the wicked ought to be
smitten ; and there fell of Childric's men two thousand ; while
Arthur lost not one ! The king was enraged as is the wild boar,
when in the beechwood he meeteth many swine. Tliis Childric
saw, and began to move over Avon, to hide him in the Bury.
Arthur sped at them, as it were a lion, and hurried them to the
flood. Many perished there — there sank to the bottom five-and-
twenty hundred ; insomuch, that the stream of Avon was aU a
bridge of steel. Cliildric fled over the water with one thousand
five hundred knights ; he thought to get away and sail o'er the
sea. Arthur saw Colgrim climbing the mount, retreating to the
hill that standeth over Bath. After him hied Baldulf with seven
thousand knights. They thought on that liill to find a secure
standing ground, where they might defend themselves and damage
Arthur. Then Arthur, the princehest of kings, beheld Colgrim
halting, and beginning to work at a camping place. Then he
shouted loud and keen : " Oh, my bold fellows, march on that
hiU : for yesterday Colgrim was keenest of men, but now he is like
the goat on the liill butting with his horns, when the wolf cometh
wildly wending towards liim. So wiU I to-day be Colgrim's
doom ; I am the wolf and he is the goat — ^the man shall die."
Again exclaimed Arthur, the most regal of kings, " Yesterday
was Baldulf the boldest of knights, but now he standeth on the
hill and beholdeth the Avon, how there he in the stream fishes
of steel— sword-begirdled fishes, with red water to swim in ;
their scales they look pretty like gold-spangled war shields !
Their fins how they flutter, just as if it were spears. Now this is
uncommon ; such cattle above and such fishes below."
" Yesterday Kaiser Childric was the most warlike of kings, but
now he's gone a hunting and horns go with him ; and away he
scampers over the broad weald to the barking of hounds. But he
hath left his hunting-party beliind — left it beside Bath ; and the
deer that he flies from shaU be a dinner for us."
The king's deed was even with his words. Gripping his spear
he put spurs to his horse, and like a bird he flew up the hiU with.
twenty-five thousand men mad for action. Colgrim received
them and felled Britons to ground ; in the first rush five hundred
fell. In high wrath exclaimed Arthur, " Where be ye Britons,
my barons bold ? Here be our foes, handy to reach : goodmen
