32
mine, lay them with the ground !" Arthur gripped his sword and
smote down two Saxon knights quickly, one after the other, and
this emboldened his Britons that they laid on the Saxons mightily
till they fell, the Saxons, by hundreds and by thousands. Colgrim
fought beside his brother Baldulf, and when he saw Arthur
make towards him he would have fled, but the heaps of dead
encumbered him. Arthur spake loud : " Here I come, Colgrim,
to reckon with thee ! We shall divide this land betwixt us two,
and thou shalt loathe thy portion." The act was even with the
word ; the king hove his broadsword on high and clove Colgrim
through the helm, that the sword stayed at his breast. Then with a
swing of his hand towards Baldulf he swept off his head, helmet
and all. Then laughed king Arthur, and in game began, " Lie
now there, Colgrim, having clomb so high ; Baldulf thy brother
lieth by thy side. Take my land for your own — dales, and
downs, and subject folk. Ye climbed too high to this hill top ;
ye would mount up to heaven, ye must go down to hell. There
ye will know many of your kin. And greet me now Hengest,
that was fairest of knights, and Ebba and Octa, and more of thy
kin, and say they may stay there winter and summer, while we
here in land shall pleasantly live ; and here your bones shall lie
beside Bath."
Then Arthur called to Cador the keen, who was earl of Corn-
wall, and bade him follow with 5,000 men after Childric, who had
fled, " Get to the sea before him, kill the Kaiser, and I will give
thee all Dorset." Cador sprang to horse like a spark out of the
fire. Over woods and wolds and wildernesses ; over dales and
downs and deep waters, Cador, who knew the way, made right for
Toteneis. Cador was there before Childiic, and raised the land-
folk and armed the churls with clubs and staves, and ensconced
them in Childric's ships. Cador, with his men, lay in wait in an
inland wood. Childric appeared, coming over the do^vns, making
for the ships. Cador cried aloud, " Look alive, boys, brave men
and brisk ! Think what Arthur, our princely king, besought us
at Bath, before we left him. Lo, where Childric speedeth, to flee
to his land and raise a new force to come back again. He
thinketh to avenge Colgrim, and Baldulf his brother, who rest at
Bath." So Childric and Ms men were cut oS" and destroyed
between the army on the one side and the churls on the other.
Then Cador took possession of the west country and established a
