34
Norman time, which are probably fragments of the church of
John de Vilkila, but nothing in situ with the exception
of. the two basements referred to. This, in fact, is one of
those instances in which an ancient town has really dis-
appeared, because with such a building as the Abbey then
was, there must have been otlier edifices of a superior kind
of architecture belonging to persons of distinction residing
in the city ; and if we look in the immediate neighbourhood
of Bath, we shall find it singularly rich in remains of the
Norman period. Taking a circle of seven or eight miles,
there are a great number. There is Charlcombe church,
where there is a very good Norman arch ; Langridge church,
again, has the most splendid Norman church in this locality.
Eemains of the same period are likewise to be found at North
Wraxall, Swanswick, and Twerton. At Queen Charlton, near
Keynsham, there is the Abbey gate, which is a fine old Norman
gateway ; and so on round the country, not omitting English-
combe, where there is some remarkable work, not merely a
south porch with a Norman arch in it, but also in the church
a fine Norman arcade. Of woi'k earlier than Norman times
I know of only one single scrap, and that is the font at St.
Catherine's church, which is of very high antiquity, probably
of the very earliest Saxon period. It represents a first rude
attempt at stone cutting, and is, perhaps, the oldest piece of
barbaric art in the neighbourhood. There was another
church, now lost sight of, and of which we have no traces,
and that w^as old St. Michael's — or St. Michael's intra muros,
as it was called, from being within the walls — which stood
very near the present St. Michael's, which, by way of dis-
tinction from the old church within, was called (and is called,
when its full designation is used) St. Michael Outwich.
St. Michael's intra muros appears to have been an old
Norman church. Mr. Long has a drawing of it by Lans-
down, but where the latter got the copy of it I do not
