35
know ; because Mr. Lansdown could never have seen the
original. It bore the date 1180, and if that is correct it
must have been the oldest Norman building which stood
in Bath.
Now when we pass from the Norman period to the next
great architectural revival in Bath, we find a very long inter-
val indeed. There really was not any work done in Bath of
which we have either any trace or any record earlier than the
beginning of the sixteenth century.* This, at first sight,
appears very unaccountable ; but it can be explained on
looking into history. In the twelfth century the Bishop of
Bath changed his residence from Bath to Wells. The first
who removed was Joscelyn Trotman, a name of particular
significance ; wherein the fortunes of the two cities may well
be bracketed together, the loss of Bath being the gain of
Wells. When we are asked for the glories of Bath between
the Norman times and the days of the Reformation, the
answer is that they are transferred to Wells, where the gi-eat
architectural development of the building centuries M'as dis-
played so conspicuously. It was not merely that the Bishop —
I am speaking of the result of years, and use the word Bishop
as an abstraction — changed his residence from one episcopal
seat to the othei-, which he had a perfect right to do, and which,
although it might have been a loss, could hardly have been
called an injury ; but there was a positive injury attached to
it. When the Bishop moved away fi'om Bath to Wells he
divested it of the glory of its abbacy. He incorporated the
dignity of the abbot in his ovm person of bishop, and he left
nothing but a poor subordinate prior in his place. He also
took away a pretty good share of the estates of the Abbey,
* This is a little too sweeping, though true ia the main. Mr. Irvine tells us
that some early English pilasters have been found in the masonry of a well on
the site of the White Hart ; and then there is the East Gate, which ought not
to have been forgotten.
