36
which he had changed into a priory, and under these circum-
stances Bath sank into comparative obscurity and insignifi-
cance. The prior left behind, took no pride in his position ;
he did nothing but let the buildings go down. Perhaps he
had not much more than enough to support Ms house with the
necessaries of life, and so he confined himself to promoting
the cloth business here, in which he was successful. The
Cathedral he let fall into a state of dilapidation, though had
there been sufficient revenue probably the old Norman church
would have been preserved. Probably it would have been,
because we cannot look upon the great spread of Norman
architecture in the country places around, except as a reflec-
tion of what was doing in Bath — as a consequence and imita-
tion of what was doing here.
In the sixteenth centurj' we come down to times when the
Abbey Church was partially restored. In the following — that
is, the seventeenth century — there was in Bath and its neigh-
bourhood a great architectural era. It does not seem to have
spread very widely in church architecture. I am not aware
of much of the latter being done in that century, with the
exception of the Abbey Church ; and also Swanswick Church,
where some windows were put in ; but in country houses,
farmhouses, and gentlemen's houses in the neighbourhood,
it was a very prolific period of architecture. In fact, the pre-
valence of sixteenth and seventeenth century manor houses
is the most distinguishing feature of the domestic architecture
of this district. They are to be found in Batheaston, St.
Catherine, Swanswick, and Englishcombe. We cannot drive
in any direction round the country, without coming across
these old Elizabethan and Jacobean manor houses. In Bath, at
the same date, there was the Guildhall, built by Inigo Jones ;
and without doubt there was also here a class of houses equal
to any that we now see in the country, if not superior to
them. There is now only one remaining, and that is Hetling
