12
capable of being proved, — that all the different forms of
animal and vegetable life may have sprung originally from
at most but a very few primitive germs, which, by continued
development under constantly altering conditions of life
through a long succession of ages, have given rise to all the
different species and varieties we see at the present day,
whether in the fossil or living state. Into these speculations
we will not enter. I only mention them in connection with
what I previously stated, — to show how necessary it is for the
student of any particular department of Natural History to
be acquainted in a general way with all the other departments.
Whether the several species of animals and plants have had
an independent origin or not, they shew mutual affinities often
of the closest kind. It is quite impossible to string them
all together in one straight line reaching from the lowest to the
highest as was formei'ly supposed: they rather form a compli-
cated network, radiating and branching out in all directions,
each species showing relationships more or less striking to a
multitude of others. They are all subject to the same general
laws of organization ; and there are certain first principles of
life and structure, as well as of classification, which apply to
all alike, and which must be understood by him who desires
to investigate their natural history with any hope of success.
A general knowledge of science in all its branches is
advantageous to the student in another way. It is calculated
to remove that narrow-mindedness which sometimes attaches
to those who confine themselves to one department of it
exclusively. The physicist has occasionally looked down upon
the naturalist as devoting his attention to objects of inferior
consideration to those which he himself studies. Even among
naturalists, those who have chosen for themselves the study of
the higher animals have sometimes underrated the labours
of the conchologist and entomologist, and yet more the
researches of others, who, perhaps, give all their time and
attention to the investigation of the minute infusoria, or of
those most repulsive of all animated forms — the entozoa.
It may be true that, at the present day, feelings such as
these are not entertained so much as formerly, and that men
of whatever rank who devote themselves to science at all, are
considered but as fellow- workers in a common field. But
still there is a narrow-mindedness, which, without any reference
to others, may hinder us in our own studies, when too confined,
in respect of the method in which we conduct them and the
judgments we form. Naturalists, especially, who are only
acquainted with one particular class of animals, have been fre-
quently led to entertain erroneous estimates of the importance of
certain organs and characters, from taking a too limited view
