58
This estimate differs only in the thickness of the pennant
from the estimate made at the Shepton Mallet meeting
of the Somersetshire Society, recent explorations having
proved it to be thinner than then stated.
So far we have considered the carboniferous system as it
probably exists in the centre of the basin, where it attains its
greatest vertical depth. I would now, in conclusion, say a few
words as to the construction of the section laterally. With re-
gard to the central portion of the section between Farringdon
and the old Dunkerton Collieries, there is little room for doubt.
It has been proved by pits sunk at regular distances between
those two points ; and that part of the section, therefore,
embracing as it does nearly the whole of the upper division,
may be taken as substantially correct. The eastern and
western parts, however, being more uncertain, I have shown
the strata in dotted lines, and it is necessary that I should
explain the evidence on which that part of the section is
founded. To begin with the western end, the only exploration
to the west of Farringdon is a trial pit, which was sunk many
years ago, in the village of Chewton. In this shaft, after
passing through some 35 fathoms of conglomerate, a boring
was put down for 180 feet in a hard stone, said to have been
the mountain limestone. We have no further data until we
reach the outcrop of the moimtain hmestone and old red
sandstone, on the Mendip Hills.
In the absence of better information, I have taken the out-
crop of the under part of the limestone, and extended that
formation downwards at its estimated thickness and at the
proper dip. I have then shown the millstone grit at its
estimated thickness, and in this way I have arrived at the
conclusion that the borehole cannot have been in the hme-
stone, as asserted, but more probably in the millstone grit.
In the section, the borehole is shown in the upper part of the
grit, and this agrees with the statement of one of the sinkers,
