67
hospitable luncheon, which, owing to the exhilarating air of
the Downs, was most thorouglily appreciated. After luncheon,
under the guidance of a neighbouring former, the numerous
Barrows in the vicinity were inspected. Twelve or fifteen at
least of various shapes and sizes were counted ; some were
double, others merely distinguished by a slight elevation
above the surface. One or two appeared to have been opened ;
and according to an account given by Mr. Atkins, of Kingston
Jvisle, excavations were made some 27 years since, and several
skeletons iji a sitting or doubled up position with the usual
accompaniments of flint arrow-heads found. The leather
or bronze boss of a shield found in one is now deposited in
the British Museum. A careful and scientific exploration of
these Barrows would well repay the antiquary, as but little
appears hitherto to be known of their history or contents. A
cross country traverse was made to Wayland Smith's Cave,
and a short halt called to hear the Vice-President's (Mr.
Scarth's) account of Barrows in genernl and this chambered
tumulus in particular, which he compared with those he had
seen in Brittan}'^ and also with that at Stoney Littleton, near
Wellow. The story of Wayland Smith and his forge — made
so memorable by our great novelist and historian. Sir Walter
Scott — was, in Mr, Scarth's opinion, founded upon the old
legend of Vulcan, the God of Blacksmiths ; Sir Walter
Scott's blacksmith being none other than the Vulcan of
northern mythology. A hurried glance at the " White Horse,"
in passing to the Uffington Station, revealed the fact that a
rescouring was sadly needed. It may be satisfactory to learn
that the Vicar of Uffington, who accompanied the Members
in the latter part of the Excursion, memorialised Lord Craven
on the subject. An appeal has been drawn up, signed by tlie
Vicar, the President, Vice-President, and Secretary of the
Club, representing the present condition of the " White
Horse" and the propriety of keeping it scoured, recommend-
