71
A few of the Members slept at the King's Head, Cirencester,
and spent the following day in visiting the fine old parish
church, now under restoration by Mr. G G. Scott, the Roman
pavement in Lord Bathurst's park, and the museum so rich in
remains of the Roman period, espacially in objects of iron, e.g.,
sacrificial knives, a steelyard, &c. ; the so called " Bull ring," an
ancient Roman amphitheatre,* and the remains of the old
walls were inspected before leaving the ancient Corinium.
The Third Excursion was made on 25th of June, to the Sahs-
bury Museum, Old Sarum, and Stonehenge. Twenty Members
with their friends availed themselves of the faciKties offered
by the Great Western Railway for excursion parties, and left
Bath by an early train. The principal point of attraction in
Salisbury, to those already acquainted with the elegant archi-
tectural proportions of its Cathedral with its almost unrivalled
spire, is the museum founded by Mr. William Blackmore, in
186i, and already containing a collection of remains of the
stone age, one of the best and most extensive in England.
Many thousand specimens of stone implements of all kinds, and
from all quarters, are here admirably arranged in historical
sequence, and the inquirer — who visits the series, not for the
purpose of scoffing, but with the higher aim of learning how
many things there are in the world of which he little dreams,
and of confessing his ignorance touching the ancient inhabit-
ants of the earth — is gradually led on from case to case, from
the archaeolithic to the neolithic periods, from the remains ot
the early dwellers in the caves, the flint implements from the
drifts of England and France, to the objects from Pfalbauten
of Switzerland, the more recent flint flakes and chips, down
to the very similar obsidian weapons of the Mexicans, in use
at the present day. Nay, more — for the purpose of illustra-
tion — the forgeries of "Flint Jack" are well represented,
* For a drawing of this and description, see Prof. Buckman's " Remains of
Roman Art at Corinium," p. 12.
