72
cliiefly discernible from the genuine article by the clumsiness
of the imitation. The Members were not permitted to wander
through the museum without guidance. Dr. Blackmore
and Mr. Edward F. Stevens, the curators, veiy kindly gave all
the information that was required, the latter especially being
indefatigable in his exertions to describe the contents of the
cases. Two hours w^ere most profitably spent here, and all
left with a certain sense of oppression at the immense mass
of information ^vhich was most mercilessly hurled at their
heads by their courteous and enthusiastic cicerone, and more
than one came away with the suspicion that civilisation has
been hitherto attributed to the wrong end of the human chain.
Were these the weapons and tools of barbarians, or of a race
as civilised, according to their opportunities, as we are, if not
more so ?
It only remains to be added that the Blackmore Museum
was opened to the Members by special permission, the public
not being as yet admitted until the whole collection is
entirely finished. Constant additions are still being made,
and in a few months an opportunity will be afforded of
seeing one of the most perfect collections of this kind in
Europe. Carriages were taken from the museum for Old
Sarum, Lake House, and Stonehenge ; the former is familiar
to most. The immense size of its earthworks appears to
grow with every visit rather than diminish. The mind, how-
ever, seems satisfied with the feelinof that it knows all about
this structure. History speaks plainly here, and facts, not tra-
ditional myths, give a certain sound ; and so the Members
pass on, over, and through the works. Lake House, which was
courteously opened for the occasion, caused a short delay.
The proprietor, the Rev. E. Duke, displayed in his hall the
various curiosities which had been collected from the adjacent
tumuli, amongst which as the most interesting may be men-
tioned an ornament for the neck, or moi'e probably the waist,
