u
of the Club — the way in which we may hope most successfully
to conduct our labours, the way, also, in which we may best
deal with the results obtained.
The plan which has been of late adopted respecting the
excursions may, I think, still be kept to, viz., that of having
from four to six (as judged desirable) field-days in the year, when
we may hope for the largest attendance of members, the
attendance of those especially who, from their professional
engagements or other business, are unable to attend oftener,
and more frequent meetings — weekly or fortnightly, as
preferred — of the few who may wish, and who have it in their
power, to join in a common ramble on the days appointed.
On all these occasions the party, as I observed before, might
either keep together, or break up into sections,, for more
unrestrained work in their respective departments, re-uniting
at the end of the day, as thought convenient. The places to
be visited on the field-days, and the objects in view, should be
arranged beforehand, and notice of the same suspended, as now,
at the Literary and Scientific Institution, for the information
of all. The directions which the walks may take on other
days may be left to be fixed at the time by those who join in
them, and they may carry out any plan, for the occasion, they
please. Only I should hope they would always remember
they are to use their influence in promoting any inquiries
which may add to our knowledge of this neighbourhood in
respect of the objects for which the Club is formed, and lay
their results before it at its appointed sittings. To-day is the
first occasion on which the Club has ever met for the reading
of papers, independent of its ordinary quarterly meetings for
mere routine business, and a question has sometimes been
raised at these latter meetings as to the best way of bringing
before the public any communications made to the Club
which may deserve to have a wider circulation. On each of
these points I will make a few remarks. The practice of the
Berwickshire Club, I believe, with respect to papers, has been to
have such as may have been prepared beforehand by any of the
members read at the termination of each day's excursion, these
excursions being five in the year; — and then, at the end of the
year, the retiring President delivers an address, giving a general
summary of what has been done, with a notice of the difierent
places visited, at each meeting. This address, along with a
selection of the papers read as above, furnishes matter for a
yearly number of their Transactions, enough being collected
in time in this way to make up a volume, which is printed by
the Club for the use of its own members. I should say that
all these papers, in respect of the subjects treated of, are more
or less connected with the district, which forms the field of
the Club's labours. It may be long before our Club arrives at
