by others, he observes, " But another equally good pleads in
favour of Trajectus, and this is — Brigstow ; the ancient name of
Bristol, has nearly the same meaning with Trajectus. Brigstow
plainly points out to us a bridge or passage over a river."
The early gi'owth of Bristol is very obscure. It comes before
us first in Saxon times. In the bridge of Athelstan we have
the first historical proof of its existence. (See Seyer, p. 243.)
But Roman coins have been found in and around Bristol,
in 1750 at St. Michaels Hill, in 1808 in Bell Lane, and in 1866
two pigs of lead bearing the Roman stamp, one of which is
now in the British Museum, and the other in a private col-
lection in Bristol These are described in the "Archaeo-
logical Journal," vol xxiii., p. 277. They were found in Wade
Street, in the ancient course of the river Frome, and bore the
stamp of the Emperor Antoninus Pius.
Bristol would not agree with the numbers given in the
Antonine " Itinerary " any more than Sea Mills. We see,
therefore, the difficulty of fixing the exact point of the
stations in this portion of the Iter. We are certain of the
direction, we can trace the road at certain points. Its course
has been ascertained in part to correspond with that of the
present turnpike beyond Bitton. We know that there was a
station there, as well as at Sea Mills and at Elberton, but
we can make neither names nor distances agree. On the whole,
I am inclined with Dr. Gale and others to reverse the sta-
tions of Abone and Trajectus, and fix Trajectus at Sea Mills and
Abone at Bitton ; and seeing that Wesselin, in his notes to his
edition of the Antonine " Itinerary," calls it " Yitiosissimus
Liber," we may be allowed to take some hberty in the altera-
tion of the numerals.
I mil now go on to detail that portion where the course hasbeen
less interrupted, and where distances and stations agree better.
We have seen that the XIV Iter begins with Caerleon,
which was visited two years ago by the Field Club, under the
