14
statement of the recent examination of Silbury Hill and the
Eoman road contiguous to it, by Members of the Wilts Ai-chseo-
logical Society, I send you the following account of what was
done, only premising that I fear I can add but little to the
account which has already apj^eared in the AthencBum of Nov. 2nd,
9th, and 16th:—
I am informed that the Wilts Society are at present having
plans and drawings made, and that a detailed account of the
excavations will appear in a forthcoming number of the Journal of
that Society.
Although I am a Member of that very useful and intelligent
body of Antiquaries and Naturalists, and residing in a neighbouring
county, I am not often able to join in their proceedings, which I
much regret ; but on the late occasion I am indebted to the
kindness of Mr. Wilkinson and of Mr. Cunnington for enabling
me to take part in a very interesting examination.
Having, by previous arrangement, joined Mr. Wilkinson at
Calne, he drove me from thence to Silbury Hill, on the afternoon
of October 22nd, and being well acquainted with the country and
having himself traced the Roman road, he carefully pointed out
what he believed to be the direct line of it before we met the
other investigators at the Mound.
On reaching the hill we found that excavations were in progress
on the eastern side, where two trenches had been dug, one a little
north of the other, in the direction in which it was expected
that the Roman road could be traced. As Mr. Fergusson has
already stated in his letter to the Athenceum (Nov. 2), " The
intention was to dig down until the old turf was found, and
following that to join the two trenches, and to see if any trace of
the Roman road existed between them." But, as he further states,
" Before the trenches had gone far into the hill, it was discovered
that the chalk had been excavated to the depth of 10 or 12 feet
below what must have been the original surface of the ground, so
far as could be inferred from the lay of the surrounding country,
and no turf or soil of any kind remained on the present surface of
the solid chalk." He infers from this that the hill was probably
