16
road by marking the Sheep Track, which indicates the hard and
dry portion of the ground, where it passes through a boggy or
swampy district ; and in the ploughed land, as in this case, you
discern it by the short stunted crop of grain, where the root of
the plant is the shallowest, and so trace the course of the road ;
but in autumn, when the crop is reaped, you must judge by the
size of the turnip where the ditches were which accompanied the
road on each side, there the turnips, by reason of the greater
depth of soil in the ditches, will grow to a larger size, having
more root ; and if you look out for the largest flints you will often
find that they also mark the line of the road, having been dragged
by the plough out of the bed of the road. Aided by these
"indicia," and ha\'ing ascertained the exact point at which the
road traversed the summit of the hill, we marked out the line
which we supposed it had taken through several fields, and then
having brought it near to the Mound, at the point where it seemed
to deflect, we caused a section to be made about from 30 to 40
yards from the Mound itself. (Mr. Wilkinson says 30, see " Wilts
Archaeological Journal," November, 1867, p. 117.) I did not,
however, take the exact measurement, which I think has since
been made, but only write from recollection.
This section revealed the road and the ditches on each side,
and this was opened before the rest of the party arrived. On
their arrival, it was considered well to make other sections in the
line that had been staked out (seven or eight trenches were cut).
These -were made at intervals varying from 50 to 100 yards or
further apart, and each section revealed the road and the
accompanying ditch on one or on both sides. The length traced
by means of sections is 477 yards. The first section was made
very near to the point where the Roman road unites with the
turnpike road between Bath and Marlborough. I believe the Une
marked out in the Ordnance Survey to be perfectly correct. The
road did not run up to Silbury Hill or under it, but deflected
before it approached the low ground upon wliich Silbury Hill is
placed, and the present turnpike road marks its track some short
way beyond Silbury.
