33
the core, the under part, will generally be found curved, with
a concave surface ; and, in accordance with the goodness of the
core and the skill of the workman, will be the length and taper-
ing character of the " flake." Some of the "flakes" from Pres-
signy now in the Christy collection, seen by me during a
recent visit to London, reach to a length of at least seven or
eight inches, and show great skill in the art of flaking. After
this first process the core assumes an altered form (somewhat
similar to fig. 2), and the fashion of the "flakes" corre-
sponds. This second series, instead of being keeled, has
a flat band passing down the front (a. d.), and the flake
c. a. c. b. d. is the result (vide fig. 2).
The core now resumes its former shape before the first set
was struck off, and the process may be repeated — the third
set being keeled as above described, the fourth flat, banded,
and so on ; the " flakes" and the core being of course reduced
in size at each repetition of the operation. That this is no
imaginary process, nor the result of our internal conscious-
ness alone, may be shown by a reference to the workers
in stone of the present day, in the New World. Eecent
travellers have described the manner in which the natives of
Mexico and Austraha prepare their flint weapons, the nature
of the materials still causing the form of the weapons to be
alike at all times and in all countries. Sir Edward Belcher,
at the meeting of the British Association, at Nottingliam, in
1866, gave an account of the method by which the Western
Esquimaux tribes at Icy Cape, and yet further north, made
their weapons, and exhibited some of the very instruments
they used. In this instance the " flakes" appear to have
been 'pressed ofi by a peculiar instrument made of fossil
ivory, tipped with the hard point of the reindeer's antler.
Again, we have a graphic description by Torquemada, the
old Hispano-American historian, of the manner in which
the Aztecs made their obsidian knives — still in use at the
D
