34
present day — and with which that, to us Europeans, necessary
act of shaving has been efiected. Pressure too, in this case,
seems to have been used by means of a stick placed in a
particular way against the chest. (Vide " Reliq. Aquit.," Pt.
II., p. 16.) To give an instance, however, of the method by
which " flakes" are struck ofi, reference may be made to a
letter from the great African traveller, Mr. Baines, to the
editor of the " Geological Repertory," in which letter he states
that in Australia he has " seen an area of considerable extent,
say from one hundred to two or three hundred yards, more or
less, thickly strewn with fragments, not relics of antiquity,
but the refuse of recent labours in the manufacture of wea-
pons for the chase ;" and then he goes on to describe the
process of the native operator.
In a recent communication from M. Cabot to Sir Charles
Lyell, entitled, " An account by an actual observer, in Cali-
fornia, of the process of making stone arrow-heads by the
Shasta Indians, who still commonly use them," we have a
description of the manner in which the Califbrnian Indians
make tlieir more complicated chipped weapons. So inge-
niously did an Indian, with an agate pebble, shape obsidian
arrow-heads before his eyes, that he says, — " In a moment,
all I had read of the hardening of copper for the working of flint
axes, &c., vanished before this simplest mechanical process."
(" Reliq. Aquit.," Pt. Ill, p. 17.) If, then, the pecuhar flaked
form be found among savage tribes at the present day, so
likewise is that form which has the name of " scraper " given
to it, which name alone sufficiently indicates the use to which
this peculiar form has been applied, viz., to the preparing of
the skins of animals for garments, by scraping off the loose
tissue and fat whicli adhere to the inner side of the skin.
The Christy collection contains some very good specimens
of sharpened stone " scrapers" still used by the Esquimaux ;
likewise by the natives of Australia for the preparation of
