36
edges of the Devonian beds, which present a very disturbed
appearance, the cause of this disturbance being apparent in a
dyke of " greenstone " which exists on the left bank of
Fremington Pill, and which, so far as I am aware, has never
yet been recorded in any work on the geology of that locality,*
Not the slightest trace of a worked flint rewarded my researches
among these gravels : at Croyde and Baggy, however, the result
was different. Wandering to the north of Croyde Bay in the
direction of Baggy Point, on one of those summer afternoons
when the enjoyment of mere existence alone seems to be the
summum bonum of created things, intent upon any and
every thought but searching for flint flakes, my attention
was irresistibly called to their abundance on all sides.
At the very end of the down — where the promontory pro-
jects far into the sea, and where nothing is seen or heard
save the blue sky above mirrored in the calm sea beneath,
and the scream of the gull mingling its echoes with the
reverberating murmur of the tide as it heaves and gurgles
in the many caverns and recesses of that picturesque coast —
on the very topmost ledge, a well-formed " flake " was
sticking out of the " head " about a foot and a half below the
surface. Many of the rabbit -holes too were certain locales for
these " flakes " — several were lying in the loose earth and
sand which streamed away from their burrows. These busy
little animals, finding a sharp " flake " sticking out of the
side of their hole somewhat detrimental to their comfort,
doubtlessly scratched it out with the other ejectamenta.
Having been warned by the sloping rays of the sun that a
retreat from this wild scene was advisable, I returned towards
the village of Croyde over the top of the down, finding in my
course "flakes" and "scrapers" plentifully scattered around
* Since writing the above I have seen an allusion to this dyke in Mr.
Etheridge's exhaustive article on "The Physical Structure of West Somerset
and North Devon." — Quart. Journal Geolog. Soc, 1867'.
