37
until coming to a field with a ravine at the bottom, it seemed
to me as if the flint implements for the whole of Devon and
Cornwall must formerly have been manufactured here. The
corn had hardly been cleared off the field — in fact, the shocks
were still standing — but nevertheless, in spite of the obstacle
of the newly-cut stubble, I had but to sit down, and within
reach of me on both sides gather a plentiful crop ; and
my bag and pockets were soon filled with " cores," " scrapers,"
and "flakes." Nearly the whole of these flints were dis-
coloured by long exposure on the surface.
Descending from this field to the small ravine, with a
trickling streamlet running seawards, I found myself on the
spot where Spence Bate, Wliitley, Hall, and others have
discovered so many specimens. A short half hour's digging
speedily showed me that their facts were true ; however much
one may feel disposed to disagree with their theories. The
"head" here assumes a thickness of 10 feet ; in the topmost
layer of earth and debris, to the depth of 2 feet where the
yellow clay commences, " flakes," " cores," and chippings
were found in abundance. Time did not permit me to
count them accurately, but Mr. Bate observes that there were
about 144 " cores," to 1,000 other specimens. The last-men-
tioned writer thinks these implements were brought down in
the " wash " from the field above. With this view I cannot
agree, as the " flakes" in every case presented sharp, fresh, and
unworn edges, which they could scarcely have done had they
been carried down by a " wash." They were, too, in every
case comparatively fresh in appearance, merely stained by the
matrix in which they were found, not white and decomposed
like those in the field above. It seems to me far mox's
probable that just at this point, where the coast sloped down
to the little cove, the manufacturers (whoever they might
have been) lived and worked. This may have been the focus
of their trade, and to this point the flint pebbles were
