38
brought ; for flint does not occur naturally in this part of
Devonshire — the chalk, in which flints chiefly are found,
being distant some 70 miles, and the gi'eensand with flint
about 13 miles, in a direct line across Barnstaple Bay.
Proceeding to the south of Croyde, the "flakes" become more
and more scarce, until Northam Burrows are reached. A
slightly seawards-sloping sandy beach might be thought the
last place where such things would be found, yet here they
are again in abundance ; only not on the surface, but buried
some feet below in a thick tenacious blue clay deposit. At
low tide, on the very verge of the receding waves, at certain
times patches and long ridges of the blue mud appear
denuded of sand ; and about a foot beneath this clay traces of
a buried forest are found — roots and branches of hazel, alder,
oak, nuts, &c. In this clay and, in some cases, mixed up
with the carbonaceous matter, flint pebbles, " cores," " flakes,"
and " chips " are numerous. When first exposed to the air,
they appear as black and fresh as if chipped off but an hour
ago from the chalk flints ; and yet a considerable period must
have elapsed since the time when those trees, of which we
now find but the traces, extended their roots and threw out
their arms over the people who worked beneath their shade.
Every indication seems to point to the fact that these " flakes "
were struck off in the place where they lie. Since then the
land has subsided, and what was formerly dry land, or at least
a marshy swamp, has now sunk sufficiently low to be covered
by a deposit of thick clay with a top mantle of sand, and to
be swept twice every day by the waves of the advancing tide
some fathoms deep. A paper on this submerged forest was
read by Mr. Ellis at the Dundee Meeting of the British Asso-
ciation, and my " flakes" were then exhibited. In that paper
incontestable evidence was brought forward that man had
once walked amid these bosky thickets, and worked away at his
flints for purposes of everyday life — either for the chase or for
I
