44
normal or abnormal order. Some might think, from the
constant changes that take place in the direction of the wind —
the vane continually shifting backwards and forwards, occa-
sionally even veering quite round the compass, and then
retracing its steps within a very short time — that the winds
could hardly be said to observe any order at all. Yet such
is the case notwithstanding. Though fickle even to a proverb,
long observation shows that they still conform with more or
less regularity to a given law — the law first enunciated by
Dove under the name of " the law of g}'ration " — all deviations
from which are sure to be set right in the end. The law may
be thus explained. In consequence of the rotation of the
earth on its axis, combined with the circumstance of the
several parallels of latitude moving with increased velocity as
they approach the equator, any body of air flowing from north
to south is, at every point of its progress, passing from places
moving with less, to places moving with greater speed. The
effect of this is to cause it to become more and more a north-
easterly wind, while in the case of a current from south to
north, or from the equator to the pole, the effect is in the
opposite direction, and from a southerly it becomes more and
more a south-westerly wind.
From this circumstance the wind has at all times a pre-
ponderating tendency to veer round the compass in the
direction of the sun's motion, i.e., to pass from north, through
north-east, east, south-east, to south ; and in like manner
through south-west, west, and north-west, to north. It may
remain stationary for a time in any one of these points, or it
may retrograde even to the extent of a whole revolution, but
after a time it always recovers itself, the normal direction
being reassumed. At the end of a year, if the vane be found
to have made a certain number of revolutions in the wrong
direction, it will be found to have made a much larger number
in the right. " The vane of Osier's Anemometer at Green-
