45
wich, in twenty years, peiformed 248 more complete revolu-
tions in one direction than in the other." *
"Without entering at length into the subject of the winds,
which would be foreign to the purpose of this paper, I would
only observe farther — that, while there is a normal direction
they take at all times with more or less regularity, there is
Hkewise a normal order they conform to mth reference to the
seasons, however this order may be occasionally broken in
upon. All are famihar with the easterly, or rather north-
easterly winds, which in general prevail in spring. In hke
manner, during summer, and often in autumn as well —
sometimes even to the close of the year— the prevaiHng
winds are north-westerly, or, perhaps, winds continually
oscillating between north-west and south-west, causing that
changeable weather which is ordinarily so characteristic of an
English summer. Occasionally, however, the easterly winds
are out of place ; or they prevail to a greater or less extent
than usual. They may be in excess, or at a mean, or at a
minimum ; though from what causes we may be unable to
say. I have elsewhere remarked, "that, in all cases of a
fine and dry summer, either the easterly winds are entirely
out of place, occurring in summer and autumn instead of
spring (as in 1846, the finest and hottest summer I ever
remember) ; or else, though occurring chiefly in the spring,
they still, in some measure, keep their ground, returning at
intervals during the succeeding months. In fact, it is mainly
due to the wind setthng itself again in the dry quarter, such
as the north-east usually is, that the weather remains
steady."t No instance has occurred to my observation of a
very fine summer, in which the amount of easterly mnds was
much under the mean. If the easterly winds are quite
* Those who wish to see this subject treated of in detail, are referred to
Dove's work on "The Law of Storms." An English translation by Scott was
published in 1862.
t " Observations in Meteorology," 1858, p. 117.
