46
deficient in summer, the south-westerly taking their place,
the summer is wet ; if they are at a minimum through all the
Seasons, the result would generally be a wet year altogether.
How now has it been in the case of the late hot summer
of 1868 ? If we look into the Registers, we shall find that
while north-east, north, and north-west winds, or, as we may
briefly call them, northerly winds, were all alike deficient
from the middle of January to the end of i\Iay (with the
exception of April, in which month they were more frequent),
the south-westerly and westerly taking their place, these same
northerly winds were the prevailing winds through a great
part of June, nearly the whole of July and August, and the
first half of September, the true north-easterly being especially
constant in July, when the weather was hottest and most
settled. *
But let us proceed to consider the whole season in detail^
which, though certainly a very hot one, especially as regards
the month of Jidy, was not so entirely unprecedented as some
persons suppose.f The first thing observable is that it was
not merely a summer of high temperature, but the tempera-
ture had been higher than ordinary from a very early period
of the year. November and December, 1867, had both been
true winter months, each having a mean temperature below
the average, accompanied by northerly winds. The first
eleven days of January, 1868, were likewise cold, but the
winter may almost be said to have then terminated, so com-
plete and lasting a change in the weather occurred imme-
* Thus Mr. Lowe, of Nottingham, speaking of the hot weather in a letter to
the editor of the Times, dated July 15, remarks, — "We had scarcely any east
wind in the spring, and its prevalence now accounts for the great heat and
drought."
t See " Symons's Meteorological Magazine," No. 34 (Nov., 1868), p. 161,
where it is shown that at Linton Park, Staplehurst, " the average temperature
of the five summer months of May, June, July, August, and Septemher, was
this last season only a trifle over that of 1865 for the like period."
