53
Bath for placing instruments in to determine the climate ; but
it is the only one the Institution had at its disposal, and it
serves at least to tell the character of the Bath climate in the
lower part of the town, while we may hope some day to get
that of other and higher parts from other observers.
Supposing, however, that the maximum temperatures during
such hot weather as we had last July were unduly influenced
by the situation of the instruments, and higher than they
ought to have been, the consequence would only be, allowing
for the error, to increase still more the diflference between
Bath and other places, and to prove the former to be relatively
yet cooler than we have made it out to be.
To try, however, this question, I applied to Mr. Weston, of
Ensleigh, on Lansdown, well-known in Bath as an asti'onomer,
and a very accurate observer of meteorological phenomena, to
know exactly what had been the temperature with him on
some of the very hot days in July last, Ensleigh being, as
far as possible, the very opposite to the Institution Gardens
in respect of situation and altitude, on an open down, freely
exposed to the air on all sides, and estimated by Mr. Weston
to be 7-40 feet above the sea level.
That gentleman kindly sent me his register for the whole
month, for comparison with the one kept at the Institution,
and it proved, on examination, that though the mean tempe-
rature of July at Ensleigh was P. 5 lower than in the Institu-
tion Gardens, the mean of all the highest was only C.T lower.
There were 13 days at Ensleigh, as at the Institution, on which
the thermometer rose to 80° or upwards ; though they were
not always the same days in the two cases. It is remarkable,
however, that on six of those days the temperature was actually
higher at Ensleigh than in the Institution Gardens ; on one
of them, July loth, the excess was as much as 2''.0, the ther-
mometer standing at Ensleigh at 89''.2, when in the Gardens it
was 87°. 2. This result surprised Mr. Weston, as it surprised
