54
myself; while it shows that the Garden at the Institution
is not so very unfavourable a spot for determining high
summer temperatures. What it may be in respect of low
temperatures in winter, I am not prepared to say at present.
Mr. Weston has suggested one reason why it may have been
hotter on the above days at Ensleigh than in the lower parts of
Bath, which is probably the true one. He attributes it to the
solar radiation, which on those days was very great, especially
on the 15th, when it was excessive, amounting at Ensleigh to
140°, the highest during the month. Unfortunately, we have
not the means of determining the heat of the sun's rays in the
Institution Gardens, there being no suitable spot where a
proper thermometer for the purpose could be placed ; but we
might expect that, so low down as these Gardens are, and so
near the river, the air would always be in a more humid
state than higher up, and its transparency proportionably
diminished. And that such is the case would seem to be
shown by the circumstance of the mean temperature of the
dew point for the whole month of July being very nearly one
degree higher in the Institution Gardens than at Ensleigh.
On that particular day, the 15th, the temperature of the dew
point at Ensleigh at 9 a.m. was 5 9°. 6, being a depression below
the temperature of the air of 15°.9 ; in the Institution Gar-
dens, at the same hour, the dew point was 65°. 6, or 6° higher,
with a depression of only 10° ; and this difference in the
temperature of the dew point was kept up throughout the
day, remaining a constant quantity, though of course, at both
places, the temperature of the dew point itself varied with
the hour. This fact is quite sufficient to show the greater
humidity of the town, compared with the higher part of the
downs, at least on that particular occasion.
Mr. Weston, in his letter to me, makes an interesting
remark on the appearance of Bath on a fine summer's morn-
ing from the elevated spot on which his house stands. He
