75
There was likewise an altar to the goddess, at which each
new senator took the oaths, poured forth his libations, and
offered the offering of incense, before he took part in the
deliberations of the empire. In the fourth century, when
the empire of Rome was on the point of changing from
Paganism to Christianity, the dispute turned upon this figure
of Victoiy. In the year 326 after Christ, Constantius, the
son of Constantine, who was the first professedly Christian
emperor, had the altar and the statue removed from the
Senate hall. This proceeding caused much controversy and
great irritation, which lasted nearly through the remainder of
the century, which then had yet three-quarters to run.
During that time four celebrated deputations were sent to
the Imperial Court from the Senate, soliciting the restoration
of the figure and the altar. The first was in the year 382, the
next in 384-, the third in 388, and the last in 392. The quarrel
between the Pagan senators and Pagan public on the one
hand, and the Christian senators and Christian public on the
other, then took the form of a request on the Pagan side that
the statue of Victory might be restored, and on the Christian
side that it should not be replaced. The second of these
deputations was remarkable on account of the orators
who then represented the opposing parties. Symmachus
was the orator who spoke on the heathen side, and
Ambrose, Bishop of Milan, was the orator on the Christian
side. The latter, omng to his great influence and having
truth on his side, in the end carried the day, so that the altar
and the statue were never replaced. Though that controversy
has passed away and is altogether a matter of ancient
history, yet it may be considered as attaching to the figure
of Victory an interest of a very peculiar kind. As I was
last year looking over, for the first time, the Abbey of
Malmesbury, in company with the Rev. Prebendary Kemble,
who was showing it to me, I was very much struck with the
