106
Camp on the other side of the ravine, called Stokesleigh
Camp, which remains quite perfect, was also examined. A
brief account and a rough plan of these Camps will be found
in the volume of the Journal of the " British Archaeological
Association for 1857," and a very full account in Sayer's
" History of Bristol." It is well that some notice should be
taken of these interesting earth works, as Bower Walls will
soon be entirely obliterated by the advance of building.
These three Camps give an idea of the great importance of
the navigation of the River Avon in very remote times, and
furnish a clue to the early origin of Bristol.
In April, a most interesting expedition was made to the
Willsbridge section (figured by Mr. Charles Moore, in " Quart,
Journal Geological Society," vol. xxiii. part 5), on the Bath
and Mangotsfield line. Leaving the train at Keynsham, the
Members walked along the new cutting to Bitton, passing
good sections of the lower lias (Am. Buchlandi beds) and
drift gravels, which are four feet thick in some places, and
consist of pebbles from the mountain limestone, pennant,
" Bitton sawyers" (a hard siliceous close grained sandstone),
lias, oolite, flint, &c. An engine and trucks under the
superintendence of Mr. Donaldson, the engineer of the line,
conveyed the party from Bitton to the last cutting near
Mangotsfield, where a most instructive section of fire clays,
shale, and sandstones, with occasional seams of coal cropping
up at the surface, is exposed. Owing to the disturbances
which have taken place here, the beds are much dislocated
and almost vertical ; the coal seams, about three feet thick,
afford good fuel for the navvies' fire. On the upturned
and almost vertical edges of the shales repose wedge-like beds
of clay and coal, which seem almost like a later deposit or
in-filling. Leaving the trucks at Oldfield Common, Mr.
Moore conducted the Members down the line to his section,
passing a great thickness of pennant deeply coloured with
