tunities of intercourse with men of inquiring minds meeting
together, — to say nothing of the bodily health and exercise got
by the excursion itself. I felt satisfied that the example thus set
would soon be taken up in other places, and similar clubs insti-
tuted elsewhere, and such has been the event as already stated.
But though the Berwickshire Club is the oldest of our modern
Clubs, it is interesting to find that the idea of thus enlisting
men of the same taste for out-of-door natural history purposes
is of more ancient date. In the life of the illustrious Swedish
naturalist, Linnaeus, there is an amusing account of his getting
together "a caravan of naturalists" — students who had offered
their services — to accompany him on a tour through Dalecarlia in
the year 1734, with a view to explore its natural productions, and
whom he marshalled under " certain laws and regulations, for the
due observance of which every member made himself answerable."
He himself held the governorship of the Avhole party, superin-
tended the enterprise, and took care that everybody discharged
the functions of the office allotted to him. There were seven in
number, besides Linnreus. The first "Avas to act as geographei",
to give an accurate description of all the villages, mountains,
lakes, rivers, roads, and districts, &c. — to say morning and even-
ing prayers, and to preach on Sundays." The second, as general
naturalist, " was to make observations on the quality of the
water, on mineral springs, on the snow and height of the mountains,
the weather, the fruitfulness or sterility of soil, &c., &c. He was.
also charged with digesting, as secretary', the transactions of the
Society in proper written fcrm." The third, as mineralogist (or
metallist as he is there called), " besides collecting stones, minerals,
earths, all kinds of petrifications, &c., Avas further employed as.
groom, to saddle, water, and attend the horses." The fourth, "a
student of physic, as botanist or herbalist, was to examine and to
preserve as Avell as possible all the trees, plants, herbs, grasses,
and fungi, which occurred to his view. He was moreover ap-
pointed to precede, the company as a quarter-master, to procure
