122
Let it be remembered that this list includes none but what
may be called the Natural Sciences Societies, and only those
in London. Were we to take in all the other scientific bodies
in the metropolis, and then further extend the list to the
many diflferent societies in provincial towns — setting the
Field Clubs entirely aside — we should be amazed at the
number. With regard to provincial institutions for the
promotion of science, the wish expressed by Sir Isaac Newton
in 1712, that " there were a Philosophic Society in every town
where there was company enough to support them,"* is in the
way of fast being carried out. And what a view does all this
present to a thoughtful spectator, of the movement made for
science at the present day. To go back to a still earlier
philosopher than Newton, the great Lord Bacon, we seem, in
all these societies, dividing the sciences among them, in some
measure to realise the imaginary college sketched out in his
New Atlantis, under the name of Solomon's House, instituted
for " extending our knowledge of every part of nature,"
where the work was in like manner parcelled out to diflferent
classes of labourers, each class having its appointed duties to
fulfil.
Yet various as are the pursuits of these different societies,
they have all one common object in view, and that is truth.
It was remarked by one of the wise men in Solomons House,
that it was theu' privilege to " know the works of creation and
true secrets of them, and to discern (as far as appertaineth to
the generations of men) between divine miracles, works of
nature, works of art, and impostures and illusions of all sorts."
So, too, it is both the privilege and the duty of the man of
science at the present day to follow after truth, as the one
thing at which he is to aim — whatever he takes in hand,
whatever he looks into, whatever he reflects on, whatever he
seeks to explain to himself or others.
* Weld's " Hist, of Hoy. Soc," vol. i., p. 422.
