them good lodgings, and to provide every necessary for their
reception." The fifth, " as Zoologist, was to describe and depict
the quadrupeds and all the animals living as well in the water as
on the land, such as fishes, birds, worms, &c. His collateral
occupation consisted in shooting the game, which was necessary
for the support of the company, and in fishing and angling when-
ever it was deemed expedient." The sixth "companion was
commissioned to act as economist, to examine the dress of the
Laplanders, their dwellings, their way of preparing provisions,
their matrimonial and funeral rites, their knowledge of medicine,
mode of living, diet, Arc, and to describe with the pen or pencil
such objects as were most worthy his attention. His additional
employment was to communicate to his companions the disposi-
tions and regulations of the president, — in the same manner as
the adjutant of a regiment announces the orders of the general to
his corps, — and to call them together whenever it was required,
especially in the evening when an account was always given of
the transactions of the day ; he was also to take care that every
companion went to bed and rose again to continue the journey at
the time appointed." The seventh companion did the duty " of a
steward and treasurer ; he had the chief care of the fodder, cattle,
wood, buying and selling, and discharged the expenses of the
whole company."
" Owing to these excellent regulations and their due observance,
the tour was continued and terminated with the greatest ease and
convenience. When the president discovered a village, it was
not necessary for all the company to ride thither, but the geo
grapher alone was sent to enter it. If some particular stone or
fossil was found on the way, the metallist was directed to alight ;
at the sight of some curious plant or insect, the botanist or
zoologist did his duty; they took the respective objects with
them, and prepared a description to be inserted at night in the
Transactions, besides the name of the jilace where they had been
found. The above regulations being thus uniformly observed.
