8
the president had nothing to do upon the road, but remind his
companions of what they were to set down in the diary."
" At night they all met together, the president then dictated
to the secretary the memoranda collected by each companion, in
a regular turn from the geographer to the steward ; and if he
happened to forget any remark, the companion to whose office
that part of the service belonged refreshed his memory. The
president was quite surprised at the readiness and diligence with
which his attendants discharged the duties of their respective
offices. In the short space of a few weeks, they appeared to him
as if they had been accustomed to it for whole years together,"*
Such is the account left us of what may be called the Dalecar-
lian Field Naturalist's Club in the days of Linna?us. I have
given it in some detail from its being probably unknown to most
of my hearers. If our Club is not organised with the same
military precision, nor instituted for exactly the same purpose,
viz., that of exploring a new country in one continuous tour, still
the account may supply us with a few hints. At any rate, it is
not without interest to find this plan of enlisting a number of
men of congenial pursuits to co-operate in workiiig out the
natural history, &c., of a particular district, carried out no less
than 130 years back, at a time when the natural sciences were
generally in little favour, and when the few who studied them
were left almost entirely to their own individual resources — with
little help from others, especially in the field.
To confine ourselves now to our own body; there are two
especial objects which a Club such as ours has, or ought to have,
in view. One is the thorough investigation of the neighbourhood
in which it carries on its researches, as regards its natural history
and antiquities ; the other the bringing together men of the same
pursuits, with the addition of those who — without following up
any particular branch of science themselves — may yet enjoy the
* Stoever's Life of Sir Charles Linnaeus _: by Trapp, p. 395.
