145
up the coal measures appear to be of similar date. We have
an instance at Paulton of a fault which dates subsequent to
the formation of the has, but the great majority of the disturb-
ances which we have been considering to-night must have
had their origin long before even the earliest of the secondary
deposits, for the inequalities produced had been removed by
denudation before the new red sandstone began to be
deposited. If, then, the upheaval of the Mendips and the
formation of the faults were contemporaneous, and if, as has
already been stated, a large proportion of the faults range
parallel with the Mendips, showing their lines of action to
have been the same, it seems not improbable that they are to
be ascribed to one common origin.
Whether or not this be true of the faults of the district
generally, it seems to be the only rational way of accounting
for the two more remarkable disturbances, viz., the overlap
fault of Radstock and the folded strata of the Vobster Valley.
In order to throw as much light as possible on this subject
I have constructed a section taking in the different points in
question. (See Section No. 2, which has been reduced from
the original.) It begins with the highly inclined limestone
of the Mendips, and taldng a line as nearly as possible at
right angles with that range, it includes the folded strata of
Vobster and Mells and the overlapped strata of Radstock. Its
northern and southern ends are strictly in accordance with
fact, so far as that is ascertainable, and I have endeavoured to
connect them by the only theory which seems adequately to
account for the circumstances.
Briefly to embody the conclusions to which it leads : —
The existence of volcanic matter in the centre of the Mendips
discovered by Mr. Moore having explained beyond doubt the
origin of that anticlinal, we are led to infer that the upheaval
of the Mendips with the steep inclination prevailing on their
northern side has produced that extraordinary folding back
L
