society and conversation of those who do, — or may like to join
the Club for the sake of its excursions, the health and exercise
they afford ; the pleasure of rambling over new ground, especially
in a neighbourhood like that of Bath, where there is so much
diversity of landscape and beautiful scenery to engage the atten-
tion, irrespectively of its natural productions and other matters
of interest. With regard to the first of these objects, I think
there should be an earnest endeavour made on the part of the
members of our Club — whether they work together on field days,
or prefer working quietly by themselves at other times — to ascer-
tain as far as possible what the neighbourhood of Bath really
produces. One advantage to be derived from having a large
body of members, is the better chance thereby afforded of the
several departments of Natural History being all equally well
looked after. We are more likely to find men ready to take
xip its different branches respectively, and to give them their
exclusive attention. And there is a call for work everywhere.
Though the Flora of Bath, at least as regards the phanerogamous
plants, has been carefully £ot together by Professor Babington,
■who was formerly connected with the place, — of its Fauna wo
know very little indeed. There are records of certain species of
shells and insects being inhabitants of the district, but, so far as
I am aware, that is all. I think we ought to try to enrol among
our members, if such are not already to be found in the list,
working naturalists who .are disposed to fill up this blank, and to
supply us in time with complete catalogues of the mammals, birds,
insects, shells, &c., occurring within a radius of eight or nine
miles round Bath, — availing themselves of every opportunity of
having the species properly determined by those most com-
petent to give an opinion. Even the list of plants contained in
"Babington's Flora Bathoniensis !' might probably be much
increased, while in the Cryptogamic department, Avith the excep-
tion of the Fungi which have received, and are still receiving, so
much attention from Mr. Broome, one of our original members,
