18
of them could be planned and carried out. A correct and complete
plan of Roman Britain containing all the late discoveries of Roads,
Camps, and Villas, would be an undertaking worthy of our own
Society, in conjunction with the Society of Antiquaries and kindred
Societies. In referring to Horsley's " B. R.," in the Library of
the Literary and Scientific Institution in Bath, and which was
bequeathed by Mr. Leman, Chancellor of Cloyne, I find a marginal
note on the course of this Iter, stating that he traced it in 1795
and 1796 and in 1805, and discovered the long lost station of
Verlucio at High Field, near Sandy Lane, at the exact distance
of 15 miles from Bath. He then specifies the direct course.
That much remains yet to be done by the antiquary in tracing
exactly the Lines of Roman Roads, and correctly naming the
Stations on them, is evident from remains that have been laid bare
witliin the last month in Walcot parish, on the north side of the
river Avon, at the point where the Cleveland Bridge unites the
parishes of Walcot and Bath^\dck.
In the course of excavating for the foundation of a house, three
interments were laid open, two being in stone cists, one in a stone
cofiin. These were in a straight line, at some intei'val apart, i.e.,
the stone cofiin lay by itself, and in it was found a perfect
skeleton, said to be that of a female, but the teeth were worn
perfectly flat at the crown of the tooth ; and the two cists were
covered with one stone. In the smaller cist were burnt bones,
but the covering having become detached from the larger one,
wliich had sunken, the bones had perished and the cist become filled
with mould. With these were found Roman pottery of various
kinds, some of the Samian is very delicate and the figures sharp
and well deUneated. These interments are in the line of the Via
Julia, as it leaves Bath for Marlborough. The road seems to have
run nearer to the river than the present street which marks its
line. I have sent rough sketches of these sepulchral remains from
drawings by Mr. Irvine, and in concluding this statement have
only to inform you that this morning the inteUigence has reached
me that in the course of clearing away the foundations of the old
White Hart Hotel, and at the level of the Roman City, another
