12
I have thus touched upon the principal matters of inquiry
which I think might fairly come under the consideration of this
Clulj. I proceed now to speak of the second object these Clubs
have in view, viz., the bringing together men of the same pur-
suits. I prt-sume it will be generally allowed that men's minds
l^rofit much 1iy a mutual interchange of ideas on subjects they
study in common. Each learns something from the others, or
has his mistakes corrected, while he imparts something to them
in return. ■ Advantage arises even out of the collision of opposite
opinions Avhicli sometimes takes place on the comparison of their
respective views. Truth is never so surely elicited as when those
who have long held opinions, which in their own estimation
rest upon a firm basis of facts, are compelled to reinvestigate
questions, and to judge by the light thrown on them by others.
But it is especially to students of science that this intercourse
with others is so valuable. When working alone, we know how
apt they are to flag at times from the want of fellow-workers to
encourage them in their researches ; — or if, from an ardent love
of the pursuits they have taken up, they need no such stimulus to
keep them to the mark, they yet fall short of what they might
accomplish, if they had others at hand to direct or assist them in
any particular inquiry. These Clubs (and the remark applies
equally to Natural History Societies, and all gatherings for scien-
tific purposes) have sometimes been the means of bringing men
into notice, who might otherwise have remained all their life in
obscurity, unknown perhaps even to some following up the same
pursuits in the same neighbourhood. This is one of the good
results that has arisen out of the yearly meetings of the British
Association. Almost in every town in which that body has met
for the first time, men, whose names were before quite unknown
in the ranks of science, have come forward on the occasion of the
meeting being held in their native place, — have attached them-
selves to the section that dealt with the particular subjects they
studied, and gained for themselves a standing and reputation
