13
which they have kept ever afterwards, and greatly to their
advantage in the further prosecution of their researches. It is by
being tlms brought into contact with the scientific world, that
men see and learn what others are about as well as themselves ;
that they discover, in some instances, that what they had sup-
posed new is well known, — that they are made more thoroughly
acquainted with the present state of our knowledge in any given
department of science, and that they are kept back from putting
forth views and opinions not thoroughly matured, or which need
further sifting, such as can in no way be got better than by being
made the subject of public discussion.
They also get enlarged views by having their attention drawn
to other branches of Science beside that which they themselves
study.
These are days in which the sciences are fast advancing towards
higher generalisations than they Imve ever yet attained to. The
most intimate connection is found to exist amongst them, so that
a student cannot successful!}' follow up one without knowing
something of the others. There is a correlation of the physical
sciences, and there is a correlation of the natural sciences. Even
the physical and the natural sciences seem to find a bond of union
in chemistry, which has to deal with inquiries relating to both.
For while chemistry investigates the nature and constitution both
of organic and inorganic substances, it has at the same time to
consider the influences of those subtle agents, — light, heat, elec-
tricity and magnetism, — upon the ultimate particles of matter,
employing, too, formula? of an algebraical character, by which to
express more precisely tlie results of its analyses. Chemistry,
again, is closely connected with mineralogy ; insomuch that the
latter is now considered by many as more properly a branch of
chemistry than as a distinct science : yet mineralogy, in all that
relates to crystalline forms, is dependent upon geometrical laws,
and requires, on the part of the student, some knowledge and
application of mathematical reasoning as indispensable.
