at South Lamljeth, a catalogue being published of its contents, a
small volume now of considerable rarity.*
On the death of the younger Tradescant,, which took place in
1662, this Museum passed by bequest into the hands of Elias
Ashmole, who had lodged in Tradescant's house, and who gave it
to the University of Oxford. There it has long been preserved
under the name of the Ashmolean Museum, kept for many years
in a separate building raised on purpose for it " under the
superintendence of Sir C. Wren," but now finding a place, at
least the Natural History portion, in the new Museum which the
University has lately erected, and where various other collections
have a standing with it. Thus the first Museum got together in
this country still exists, retaining its original reputation, though
the name of its founder should never have been set aside for that
of Ashmole, its subsequent possessor.
Another collector of note in the 17th century, and deserving
mention from the circumstance of his having been an apothecary,
and thus affording an instance of the study of Natural History
being associated with that of medicine, was James Petiver. He
is thought to have been a native of London. He was, apothecary
to the Charter House; and he is said to have been "one of the
very few after the Tradescants who made any considerable
collection in Natural Historj'. He engaged the captains and
surgeons of ships to bring home specimens and seeds of plants,
birds, stuffed animals and insects ; and he directed their choice,
and enabled them to judge, in some measure, of proper objects,
by distributing printed lists and directions among them."t
The celebrated Sir Hans Sloane, who combined the same two
pursuits, being both a physician and a naturalist, belongs to this
period. He bought Petiver's Museum, for which he is said to
* Museum Tradescantianuni, or a Collection ef Earities preserved
at South Lambeth, near London. 12ino., p.p. 183. London, 165G.
t Pulteney's History of Botany, vol. 2, p. 32.
