10
But there never can be more than a very few establishments
on anything like the scale of the British Museum, with the
zoological portion of which Dr. Gray is connected, and from
which his experience is derived. If, therefore, we multiply
Museums, and they cannot be multiplied too much, it is clear
the generality of them must aspire to something less than a
collection of all the productions of nature, animate and inanimate.
What, then, is to guide us in the formation and arrangement
•of those smaller Museums, which we may Avisli to set up in
provincial tov/ns and villages ■? It would seem that we must do
one of two things ; either get together everything we can without
discrimination, until our building is full, and we give out to those
who would be contributors that it will hold nothing more, or we
must select certain objects and specimens, or certain classes of
such, to the exclusion of others. Still it will not do, perhaps,
to dismiss the first question in so summary a way. We must
bear in mind with what motives and feelings persons are led
primarily to enter Museums. And clearly the majority, at least
among the uneducated classes, enter from curiosity. It has been
stated above how formerly virtuosos formed collections of what-
ever they deemed curious in nature or art, ajsparently taking
pleasure in the possession of strange or uncommon objects, apart
from the consideration of any other of their characteristics. Now
what shewed itself generally in the age in which Natural History
was only just beginning to be studied as a science, will still shew
itself for a time, we must remember, in individuals whose minds
have not yet been trained to scientific research. Hence if we
wish to attract men to the study of nature,^-still more if we
wish to wean them from other pursuits of a frivolous, or it may
be of a debasing character, by engaging their attention with
objects calculated to raise their ideas above those which have
hitherto occupied their thoughts, — to ennoble and elevate their
hearts also as well as their minds, we must in the first instance
find something to excite their curiosity.
