11
It was in this way that the Lite Professor Henslow acted in
his parish of Hiteham in Suffolk, where, on first coming to reside,
he found a large population of agricultural poor, not merely
wholly uneducated but debased in morals, a large portion of
them living in idleness and crime, or, if not joining in the
misdemeanours of others, indulging together in the coarsest
amusements. Where religious lessons would have utterly failed
and have been thrown away, he worked an amendment hj his
resources as a naturalist. After talking to them kindly for
some time, he persuaded them to come and see some of tlxe
natural and artificial curiosities which he had brought out of his
Museum for them to look at. Of course, in the first instance,
they stared not a little, as all ignorant and uneducated persons
would, at the strange things set before them, such as they had
never seen before. But this did not last long. The vacant stare
gradually gave M\ay to something better. After a few inspections
of the Rector's curiosities, they began to take more interest in .
them, and felt a desire to know something about their history
and uses. Thus the first difficulty was got over. From that
time his people grew to be ameliorated in their habits as well as
morals. In a few years these same poor not only became orderly,
and alive to every kind of intellectual entertainment which the
Professor served uj) for them, but they accompanied him in
crowds in his parochial excursions to the Ipswich Museum (of
which more presently), listened with eagerness to his " Lecturets,"
or short lectures of a few minutes each, which here, as on other
occasions, he would deliver from time to time in explanation
of what Avas shown them, until he received from their own
months testimony as to tlie good effects wrought on them by
such exhibitions, by their saying that their " heads would not be so
full of drink, if they oftener had such things as these to occupy
their minds."
Now these facts supply us with a useful hint. They suggest to
us that in the first forming of our Museums we need not be over
