12
fastidious as to what Ave admit into tliem. If curiosities — mere
curiosities — are offered to us, it -would be unwise, jjerhaps, to pass
them over entirely, because of little or no scientific value, or not in
keeping with the main objects for which our Museum is designed,
— at least until we have something better to supply their place.
We know not what may arise ou,t of the preservation, for a time,
of such sf)ecimens. The mere gazing at a stuffed alligator, a
monstrous lamb, the tattoed head of a New Zealand Chief, or a
relic of the Eoyal George, may lead to the development of a taste
for the works of nature or art, which, but for such accident, might
never have been called out. But evidently we must not stop here.
Our aim should Ije not merely to gratify the curiosity, but also to
instruct the understandings of those who frecjuent our Museums.
Having therefore once got a few things together by way of
beginning, we must, as soon as jiracticable, consider of a plan by
which we can make our Museums of real service, as well to the
public generally as to profe»sed naturalists and the interests of
science. We must set about introducing method and arrangement
into them; — method, as regards the principle upon which, in the
main, we are to form our collections ; and arrangement, as regards
the best displaying of our specimens for scientific and educational
purposes. Our principle may vary with circumstances ; or it may
be carried out into more or less of detail, according to our means
and according to the room at our conimand.
Let us suppose, which is the most conmion case, that we wish
to have something to show in each of the three great departments
of nature. What should we first endeavour to get together with
this vieAV 1 Now I think it will be generally allowed, as regards
provincial Museums, we ought to make it our especial aim, in the
first instance, to collect th:> productions of our OAvn neighbourhood.
These are what would have most attraction for residents in the
district who are disposed to take up the study of Natural History,
as well as what would most assist them in their pursuits. The
first thini!- a man does M'ho wishes to be more of a naturalist than
