15
But in respect to any more general collection, including foreign
as well as native species, the principle upon which we ought to
act, with a view to educational purposes, is to select from the
immense field which nature opens to us, those specimens only
which are severally characteristic or typical of the higher groups,
— classes, orders, families,— taking in one or more of these groups
thus rejiresented according as our space allows, — but excluding all
groups of lower value. Or, having formed a British collection, we
may intercalate in the arrangement of it type-forms of those
larger groups which contain no British representatives. Any
considerable number of closely-allied exotic species would be here
out of place. They only take up room which might be turned to
a more useful account. It is very important that a commencing
student of Natural History should have a general knowledge of
the whole subject before entering upon any particular branch of it,
but that is all he wants. And nothing could be more instructive
than a Museum containing a well-arranged series of specimens, by
Avhich he might trace the various relationships existing between
the larger and well marked groups of animals, — relationships of
time as well as of affinity, — not only indicating, as we pass from
one to another, the chief modifications of structure upon which are
based our principles of classification, but exhibiting likewise,
associated with living forms, those lost forms which preceded them
in the earlier days of this earth. Or, if we wished to give a
general idea of the geographical distribution of animals at the
present dny, Ave might select a single species of each class,
order or familj^, in a given country, and then show their several
representatiA-es in other countries, thus affording a glance of the
productions of the whole earth.
Dr. AYheAvoll has remarked that it is classification, conducted
on scientific principles, by which Ave " obtain fixed characters of
the kind of things," that " renders exact knowledge and general
propositions possible."* Bare " facts are" but " the materials of
* See " History of the Inductive Sciences," vol. iii., pp. 188 and 227.
