19
in which they are employed. And a similar plan might be
adopted in every Museum, suited to the particular collections
which it contains. Little gleanings of knowledge obtained in
this way have the effect of stirring up the mind to further
inquiries — either at home by the help of books, or in the fields
by interrogation of nature herself.
In suggesting the above principles for the formation of local
Museums, that I may not be supposed to set up my own
judgment alone in this matter, it may be well to state that the
same principles have been inculcated by men occupying a high
position in the natural sciences, and that they are becoming
yearly more and more assented to, as well as acted upon. Two
other Professors, Forbes and Phillips, besides Henslow, have
raised their voices against suffering our local Museums to become
mere depositaries of whatever can be got together by gift or
purchase, " until a heterogeneous assemblage of natural objects
is amassed," serving no purpose beyond that of furnishing
amusement for an idle hour, innocent amusement no doubt, but
teaching nothing, — adding nothing to our real knowledge of
nature. The late Edward Forbes, in a letter written in 1852 to
the late Dr. Drew, of Southampton, " On the subject of Museums
and the teaching of the Natural Sciences," after speaking of
lectures, says : — " Much may be done in the way of imparting
knowledge (of Natural History) by Museum arrangements alone,
but very rarely do we find this systematically attempted.
Provincial Museums are too often ambitious attempts at general
collections, and, necessarily, failures. Too many of them are
little better than curiosity shops. In their best aspect they are,
with very few exceptions, far more costly and far less useful
than they ought to be. I would have a provincial Natural
History Museum (he adds), to consist of three departments, for
which three spacious rooms, if properly constructed, would
suffice :— 1. A local collection, illustrative of the zoology, botany,
and geology of the county or district. This, if done with
