20
judgment, would attract visitors from far and near, and be
equally interesting to residents and strangers. — 2. A teaching
collection, consisting of carefully-selected, ■well-arranged, and
thoroughly labelled types of the classes, orders, families and
leading genera of animals and plants, of the series of geological
formations and their characteristic fossils, and of minerals — no
superfluous specimens to be admitted. — 3. A miscellanemts
collection, including fine or rare specimens of exotic productions
not necessary for the teaching collection, remarkable curiosities,
and ethnological illustrations. There might be included, to
render this division useful as well as curious, a classified trade
collection, displaying the natural productions or sources of
production used in commerce."*
Professor Phillips, writing on the geology of the Malvern
Hills, in 1856, gives the following advice to the Malvern and
other Field Clubs at Worcester : — " I would, if it were necessary,
urge all persons belonging to Field Clubs, not selfishly to retain
the specimens they gather, but to deposit them where they may
be of use to their fellow-explorers. My experience of the
friendly disposition of the officers and members of those clubs,
assures me that here it is not necessary. But I feel justified in
proposing a mode by which their liberality may become more
effectually and permanently beneficial ; I earnestly advocate and
petition for the formation of an entirely local Museum at
Malvern. Such an institution there would prove of the utmost
value ; — it is not so easy to be established as may be imagined.
Whoever has the charge of it will have difficulty except it be
made a fundamental law, an invariable statute, to keep the
Museum to its narrow but useful purposes. You will be offered
curiosities from every land, trifles from every sea. I entreat you
to refuse all but what is the growth of your own beautiful
Malvernia, or the gift of your Palaeozoic and Mesozoic seas.
* Life of Edward Forbes, p. 513.
