Bath district, or at least in Somersetshire ; — a geological collec-
tion in illustration of the beds characterizing the country round
Bath, made and arranged by the late Mr. Lonsdale ; — Mr.
Field's well-arranged collection of Minerals ; — and a very fair
general collection of Birds, in which most of the leading groups
are represented by a limited, but not badly selected, number of
species. I have myself placed in the Museum a Cabinet of
British Shells, and have lately obtained, as another addition, a
small collection of the chief typical forms of British Zoophytes,
through the kind help of a gentleman in the North of England,
who has paid especial attention to the marine animals of our
shores.
The Roman Antiquities of Bath, lately so well described by
our Vice-President, the Eev. H. M. Scarth, occupying the porch
and Vestibule of the Museum, find also a most suitable place
in a local Institution of this nature.
What we most want in this Museum — I speak now of the
department of Zoology — is a collection of the mammals, reptiles,
fishes, and insects of the neighboiirhood : a general collection
of British insects I should never recommend, from the extent to
which it would reach, and the difficulty in getting such a
collection properly arranged and attended to. There should also
be a series of the land and freshwater shells of Bath, which
would occupy but little room, and which it would be desirable to
keep distinct from the British collection above mentioned ;
likewise specimens of all other invertebrate animals belonging to
the district, not referable to the classes of insects and shells.
Besides what has been enumerated, there is in the Museum of
the Institution a large number of miscellaneous articles and
specimens, admitting of little scientific arrangement, and having
no connection with the neighboiirhood. My own opinion is
that these should not be suffered to increase, lest every available
space in the building be lost for future collections, more
serviceable to science and more appropriate to the place. Some
