u
and bringing in immense profits both to the farmers and the
proprietors of the soil.
I will now proceed to speak of the way in which these nodules
are obtained, saying a few words first in reference to the
particular bed in which they arc found in Cambridgeshire. The
Upper Green-sand (as well known to geologists) is a much older
bed than either the Crag or the London clay, and belongs to the
Upper Cretaceous beds among the secondary rocks. Its position
is between the Chalk and the Gault ; the Chalk in Cambridgeshire
occupying the higher lands, and the Gault — a stiff" dark blue clay
— undeilying the fens. The Chalk thins out gradually as it
approaches the level of the fens, and it is near the fens, and
where the thin bed of Green-sand intervening between it and the
Gault is most accessible, that the chief diggings are carried on.
The usual practice of landlords — after ascertaining that their
land is rich enough in these nodules to be worth turning over —
is not to work it themselves, but to lease it out for a term of
years, say three, to some other party ; — this party often making
it a business to farm perhaps several of these diggings under
different proprietors. -The lessee is under covenants, one being
that the land shall be levelled and restored at the end of the
three years just as it was at the commencement.
A friend of mine, who has had these nodules dug on his own
estate in Cambridgeshire, and who kindly sent me many
I articulars, informs me that at one time it was the practice for
the lessee to give a royalty of so much ])er ton — perhaps 8s. or
10s.— but that this practice is noAV going out from the difficulty
of ascertaining the precise number of tons sold. The ordinary
way at present is to lease the land at so much per acre — the
price depending upon the probable peld of nodules as ascertained
by trials in diff"erent spots, what conveniences of carriage there
are at hand, and at what depth below the surface the nodules lie.
The highest price mentioned is £120 per acre, where the
yield Avould be from 300 to 350 tons, the nodules lying at a
