15
depth of from eight to ten or twelve feet below the surface^
This price would fall to £100 or £70 if the depth of the bed was
fourteen or eighteen feet, in which case the labour and cost of
procuring them would be much increased.
The deeper the vein, the better in general the nodules in
quality and value; there is also less labour in washing them
clean, there not being so much silt and gravel mixed up with
them as when they lie shallower.
The work is done sometimes by the day, but more generally
by the piece. — A body of forty or fifty labourers will appoint a
ganger and an accountant from the cleverest among themselves,
and take the work, digging and washing at so much ; for fleet
digging, as the term is there, or shallcvj, — (eight to ten or twelve
feet below the surface) — at 14s. to 18s. per ton; — over that
depth (seventeen to twenty feet) — at 20s. to 26s. per ton.
Beyond twenty feet the digging is seldom attempted, the market
value, now about 30s. to 33s. per ton, not being sufficiently high
to remunerate. At one spot, however, near Cambridge, the
digging goes down to twenty-two feet, where the nodules are of a
very unusual size, being as large as the fist.
The process of getting these nodules is exactly that of
'•■ double trenching " on a large scale. The men begin an acre
by digging a trench of the requisite depth and harrowing away
the material to the further extremity of the land, where they
mean to finish. After the nodules have been obtained from the
bottom of this trench, a second is dug parallel to it, the material
from which serves to fill up the first ; then a third is dug, the
material from this filling up the second ; and so on to the end,
the last trench being filled up with the material harrowed from
the spot where the digging commenced. In each case, the top
soil, after removal, is carefully packed up in ridges, to be replaced
at the top of the trenches when filled up again, as agreed upon
with the landlords.
The trenches vary in length from tliirty to fifty yards, The
