16
•breadth at top is ten or twelve feet, but contracted at bottom to
four and a half, one side sloping gradually downwards, the other,
where the nodules are obtained, being undermined, the refuse
material being thrown backwards. This method of working
shortens the labour, and allows the trench when done with to be
filled up quicker.
The stratum of nodules is generally from six to nine,
occasionally twelve, inches in thickness ; the nodules sometimes
forming an even layer on the Gault, but not unfrequently being
found in '•' pockets," or small basons, hollowed out here and
there in the Gaiilt, in which case, from being more mixed up
with grit and gravel, they are not so clean and good for the
market as when more evenly distributed. I am informed that
on the borders of Bedfordshire children are much employed in
picking the grit out.
Water at places is a great difficulty. Tlie trenches soon gt-t
full, steam-pumps being employed, and often kept working
during the night or early morning, in order to have the trenches
ready for the men the next day. Where parties cannot aftbrd
steam, hand-pumping has to be done at a great cost. Well; in
the neighbourhood are observed to ebb and flow in a remarkable
manner during these disturbances of the grovmd ; the effect being
felt at some distance from the works.
The layer of nodules in all cases is mixed up more or less witli
clay, forming hard lumps. Clay and nodules together are throwu
up by the shovel from the bottom of the trench, where the
men stand working in a row, — the men getting accustomed to
throwing it up, even from a depth of ten or tM-elve feet, on to a
clean shelf or board, from which it is barroAved away to the
mill— always close at hand— for Avashing. This mill consists of
a mound of earth, at the top of which is placed a circular iron
trench, four feet or so in width and two or three deep, in which
is dragged round and round, by a horse on the outside, a heavy
iron-toothed harrow. The trench being filled with the material,
