17
water is poured in, and by continued attrition the mud and clay
are separated from the nodules, the latter being left clean at the
bottom. The refuse water, which the workmen call " slurry," is
conducted away by channels cut in the slope of the mound upon
which the mill is erected, to pass off into a drain or pool on the
surface of the land prepared to receive it. There it lies for a
year to dry up, when the mud at the bottom is ready for carting
away, and mixing as manure with the soil after spreading.
The nodules thoroughly cleansed in this way form a heavy
mass, three pecks and a quai;ter going to the hundred weight,
and a bushel making about ten stone. Among them are many
shells and other fossils in an entire state, though the large
proportion consist only of fragments of animal remains, Avorked
up with clay and other earthy pai'ticles.
After drying and weighing, they are taken to the Railway
Station and sent up to London. Whole strings of trucks full of
them may often be seen at Cambridge, the trucks being kept for
this traffic and labelled accordingly, the number of them
indicating the largeness of the business for which they are set
apart.
Arrived in London, the nodules undergo the process of
grinding, after which they are dissolved in sulphuric acid, and
then mixed up with other ingredients to form an artificial
manure, or " super-phosphate," coming back again to the farmers
in bags, and sold at prices varying from £8 to £12 per ton.
The manure thus obtained, I am told, is used for drilling in
with turnips and other root crops, and also usually for barley.
Care, however, must be taken that sufficient burnt earth and
ashes are- mixed with it, lest it should "burn" and destroy the
seed instead of encouraging it to grow.
The details above given relate exclusively to the Green-sand
nodules found in Cambridgeshire. With the Suffolk diggings,
which, though considerable, I believe are not quite so extensive,
—I am less acquainted, Mr. Rodwell, however, a Member of
B
