18
our Club, and himself a Suffolk man, has been kind enough to
obtain for me a few particulars respecting these, which I will
give in addition to what I have already said.
The diggings in Suffolk are confined entirely to the Crag
formation, which extends inland from the Coast to the distance —
in some cases — of ten or twelve miles, the largest quantities of
nodules, however, being found nearer the sea. The Suffolk
nodides are of rather less value than those of Cambridgeshire,
averaging a less per centage of the phosphate of lime. The cost
of raising them is said to be from 8s. to 15s. per ton. The
present price at Ipswich is about 28s. per ton, but it has been a»
high as 65s. or 70s. In some cases the landlords sell the royalty : —
in others they raise them on their respective estates and sell
them. In one instance, in which a Suffolk landlord raised them
on his own estate for sale, he is said to have realized ^8,000 on
one farm, after paying the tenant 15 s. per ton for raising,
washing, and carting.
Besides the diggings in the Eastern Counties, I believe there
are some other parts of England in which these phosphatic
nodules have been obtained for agricultural purposes ; but of
these diggings I have no particular knowledge. None occur in
this neighbourhood. Mr. Charles Moore, who is so well
acquainted with the Geology of the Country round Bath, informs
me that the Upper Green-sand is very continuous at the base of
the chalk escarpment throughout the Counties of Wilts, Dorset,
Somerset, and Devon, its greatest superficial area being between
Great Bedwin and Devizes, and again in the neighbourhood of
Warminster. In many other localities to the West it is often
not more than from a quarter to a half-a-mile in breadth. For
this reason, and owing also to the general physical and well
cultivated character of the districts in which the beds occur,
they are but seldom opened up, and not very readily detected.
When, however, they are opened, tlie phosphatic nodiUes, as at
Cambridge, are usually found present though more widely
