thi^mselves men in all their liabits, and to assume an air of
iuilcpendence, not favourable eitlier to their manners or morals,
l>i3fore they are much more than half grown up.
►Such are the points of chief interest coiniected with the
diggings for these phospluxtic nodules in the Eastern Counties,,
relating, however, more especially to Cambridgeshire. How
long these operations may continue to be carried on, it is
impossible to say. Immense tracts of land in the neighbourhood
of Cambridge, reaching in some places quite to the borders of the
county, have now been turned over, and of course the diggings
must one day have an end. But with the future I have nothing
to do. I have simply attempted to give you, as far as my
information goes, some idea of what has been now, for several
years back, going on in that part of England ; and I think, as
originating under the circumstances I alluded to at the beginning
of my lecture, the story of these nodules is not uninstructive nor
entirely without a moral.
It impresses ns with a sense of the vast and important residts
following, in some cases, from what might be considered trifling
and unimportant incidents. It hints to us what may arise out
of an accidental discovery — or, as in this instance, a mere
Huggestion — founded upon thoughtful observation and experiment,
but thrown out at hazard, in the uncertainty Avhether if acted
upon it would be found to answer or not. Professor Henslow
saw clearly to what purposes these Crag and Green-sand nodules
might be applied, provided only they brought in a sufficient
remuneration for the cost and labour of procuring them. This
ho left to be ascertained by others. And with what results we
have seen.
Naturalists are not unfrequently taunted with the question
— Cut bono ? Of what use all this close looking at objects which
the world in general neither knows nor cares anything about 1
This picking at rocks — collecting rare specimens — and analysing
with such nicety and precision their structure and quality 1
