22
Have we not the answer, in part at least, to these questions,
in what has been stated in this room this evening 1
The Naturalist's researches are not always profitless even to
those who are most inclined to hold them in cheap estimation.
In many cases, too, the world has the advantage of discoveries,
while wholly ignorant of those who made them, and not over
solicitous to inquire to whom it is indebted for a large share of
the good fortune it enjoys.
No acknowledgment was ever made to Professor Henslow for
the benefits conferred by him on agriculture in the way we have
described ; and probably very few of those who reaped, and who
are still reaping those benefits, have the slightest idea with
whom they originated.
This, however, mattered nothing to him. It was not his
habit to work for reward or for the sake of being known. The
fruits of his researches he gave freely to the world. He was
satisfied with having made a useful discovery, and it was no
sooner made than he at once gave it the widest circulation in the
local papers, without reservation of any kind, not looking foi
recompense here, "but casting his bread upon the waters," in
the belief that he would " find it after many days."
And this whole subject is not altogether without a local
bearing, though the details into which it has led us have no
connection with this neighbourhood. We here assembled are
a Field Club instituted for purposes of scientific research in the
district round Bath. This is the last occasion of our meeting in
this room for evening entertainment and instruction this present
season. The winter is past, and our members will soon be going
on their summer excursions, each to glean what he may find to
interest him in that particular department of inquiry to which
he devotes himself.
Let none of us think our time thrown away, or our attention
misdirected, while carrying on our respective investigations.
We want a large number of facts to construct a theory, or even
