25
water on the surface of our globe liass becu iu so many instances
modified from time to time in the course of ages. In this way
the bridge, as it were, by which these particular plants arrived
at their present localities having been broken down, they have
necessarily become isolated from the rest of their species.
It would be foreign to the subject of this lecture to speak at
all in reference to the arguments which have been brought
forward either in support of this theory or the contrary ; I will
therefore simply state his general view respecting the original
sources of the great mass of our British plants, founded on this
theory, assuming it to be correct.
He remarks that the vegetation of the British Islands may
be said to consist of five Floras : — " 1st. A West Pyrenean,
confined to the west of Ireland, and mostly to the mountains
of that district," the plants of which " have the nearest portion
of their specific centres in the north-west of Spaiij." He considers
this as " the oldest of the Floras ; its very southern character,
its limitation, and its extreme isolation, being evidences of its
antiquity, and pointing to a period when a great mountain
barrier extended across the mouth of the Bay of Biscay, from
Spain to Ireland." " 2ndly. A Flora related to that of the
south-west of France, extending from the Channel Isles, across
Devon and Cornwall, to the south-east and part of the south-west
of Ireland. This is the next in point of probable date, its
distribution having depended on the extension of a barrier, the
traces of which (he says) still remain, from the west of France to
the south-west of Britain, and thence to Ireland." " 3rdly. A
Flora coinmon to the north of France and south-east of England,
and especially developed in the chalk districts. Its distribution
depended on the connexion, generally allowed by geologists, of
the coasts of France and England towards the eastern part of
the Channel.'' " 4thly. An Alpine Flora, developed in the
mountains of Wales, north of England, arid Scotland ; its
distribution having been effected during the glacial period, when
