27
vegetation, but consisting of fewer species. So too with respect
to climate, some plants like a moderate climate, others a more
extreme one. In the west of England, the summers are for the
most part cooler, and the winters milder, than in the eastern
counties, and accordingly, though many species of plants may
grow indifferently on both sides of the kingdom, each side has
certain species not found in the other. Some plants again thrive
best in a humid atmosphere, while others are able to maintain
themselves on the most barren spots — even on the tops of walls.
Some species are altogether aquatic, growing in rivers, or pools,
or marshes. Many species again grow only by the sea, or where
they can have the influence of sea breezes or brackish water.
Such then being the various conditions required by plants for
their proper growth and development, let us suppose a particular
species to have gained a footing in some country, the requisite
conditions of which are favourable to its diffusion. If it had
that country entirely to itself it would quickly overrun it. This,
however, is never likely to be the case. Other species are at
liberty to enter in with it, as when our own islands were first
stocked -ndth plants, according to the theory above alluded to ;
it then has to contend with these others, all striving together for
the possession of the soil ; and any advantages the former
possessed, had it been alone, may be counteracted by greater
advantages possessed by the latter. The climatal and other
couditions of the country may be yet more favourable for its
companions than for itself. Or the former may be plants of
larger size and quicker growth, or of more robust habit, soon
overpowering the smaller and weaker species. Or they may have
fewer enemies to contend mth wliilst in a seedling state. Mr.
Darwin, " on a piece of ground three feet long and two wide,
dug and cleared, and where there could be no choking from other
plants, marked all the seedlings of our native weeds as they
came up, and out of the 357 no less than 295 were destroyed,
chiefly by slugs and insects." Thus we see there is constantly
