31
Warner's list in "The History of Bath," pubhshed in 1801,
contained fifty-six species ; but in the small edition of this work,
published the year following, and intended as a guide book to
Bath and its environs, a much more extended list is given,
comprising 191 species, and including many cryptogams. Thia
second list was supplied by the late Dr, Davis of Bath.
The work, however, of most use to the Bath botanist at the
present day is the " Flora Bathoniensis " of Professor Babington^
published in 1834, to which a supplement was added in 1839.
The number of species given in this work is 756, but many of
these are unquestionably mere varieties of others, while a few
appear to have become extinct, if they ever grew in the localities,
assigned to them.* In truth, it is not easy to estimate the exact,
number of plants growing in a particular district, from the
uncertainty that exists about species, and the difficulty of
determining in many cases whether certain plants are indigenous,
or not ; or how far, on other grounds, they have claims to be
admitted. No two authors are agreed, in all instances, as to,
what is a species, or what a variety. Between two so-called
species, there often exists so many intermediate forms that it is
hardly possible to fix the limit that shall separate them. If we
do not always meet with these intermediate forms in the country
whose Flora we are inquiring into, we often find them when we
compare specimens of the species in question from different
countries. And this, indeed, shows the importance of examining
the plants of other countries besides our own, in order to become
acquainted with their true characters. Then again as to
indigenousness ; we call plants indigenous which are kuo"vvn to
have been denizens of the soil as far back as botanical records
reach, or which we may reasonably suppose to be such, though
only recently observed. But Floras, we must remember, have no
fixed limits any more than species. They are constantly under-
* See a list of such species in the Appendix at the end of this paper.
