32
going change, some species becoming extinct, from one cause or
another, others getting introduced, and after a time becoming
more or less naturalised. On this subject I 'will say more
presently. I pass on, therefore, to remark further that the extent
of a Flora of any district will depend upon the extent of country
"we include within that district. It is not uncommon with the
authors of Floras occasionally to strain the assigned limits, in
order to bring in some particular rare species found outside
them. This has been much done in the instance of the "Flora
Bathoniensis ; " such localities as Spye Park and BoAA'den being
often given, which are fifteen miles or more from Bath. If we
were to go the same distance in the opposite direction Ave might
take in a large portion of the Flora of Bristol. Perhaps as a fair
limit to our field we might assign ten miles as a distance not
ordinarily to be exceeded ; and if a few species of particular
interest or rarity occur outside those limits, but not far beyon<l
them, they might be inserted in an appendix.
With these premises we may set the number of species in the
Bath Flora (excluding all the cryptogams except ferns), at from
700 to 760, according to the views we hold on the points above
mentioned. If to these Ave add about forty species discovered in
the district since the publication of the supplement to the " Flora
Bathoniensis,"* it Avill bring the number up to from 7J:0 to 800
accordingly. Suppose we take a middle term and call the
number 770. There Avill still be very many aiuongst these,
perhaps sixty or more, Avhich we cannot Avell leave out of our
list, but which probably, in some cases undoubtedly, oAve their
introduction into the neighbourhood to accidental causes. t I Avill
noAV mention some of the circumstances under Avhich such
introduction may take place.
Sometimes these strangers are brought in Avith the seed soavu
in cultivated land, and where the conditions of the soil, &c., are
* See Appendix. + See ditto.
