35
species ought to be admitted into its Flora, and what species
excluded. And as new plants come in, so do old plants from
time to time die out. This may arise from the failing of some of
those conditions necessary to secure their continuance in a
healthy state to which we before alluded. But it is oftener due
to causes more constraining than these, such as drainage,
enclosure, and the clearing of forests. It would be difficult to
estimate what have been the combined eifects of these operations in
diminishing the number of our old original British plants, since
civilisation first made a start in these islands. We may imagine
how much richer a field must have been open to the researches of
the botanist in our own neighbourhood, if we go back in thought
to the days of the Komans, when the slopes of the hills round
Bath were all thickly clothed as they probably were, and as they
still are in places, Avith trees and brush-wood ; and the valleys
still unreclaimed for arable pasture. Nor is there a doubt that
riot here only but in most parts of the country many species were
formerly plentiful, which are now extremely rare, whilst a
considerable number have been altogether extirpated. And
there is still another cause, we regret to say, tending to bring
about this extirpation — the greediness of collectors and cultivators
of rare plants, who, not content with one or two specimens for
their herbarium or garden, will sometimes well-nigh eradicate
all they find.
Perhaps it is not too much to say that few years pass without
one or more species, in different localities, succumbing to their
fate from some of the above causes. And the straitened circum-
stances under which others are placed, though they may continue
to exist, will go towards explaining why certain plants are
found at the present day cooped up within such extremely
narroAv limits. The areas over which they may have formerly
ranged have been more and more contracted until they are at
last driven into a corner, where alone they can any longer hold
their ground.
