36
In the neighbourhood of Bath we have two species especially-
deserving of notice in this point of view ; that is to say from
their localisation in particular spots, without positively asserting
what has led to this localisation. I refer to the Euphorbia
2nlosa, found in Prior Park lane, and in a wood on Claverton
Down, near the monument, the onlj'^ known station for it in
Great Britain ; and the Lysimachia thyrsiflora that grows, or did
grow, plentifully in a small pond near South Wraxall, a species
almost entirely confined to North Britain, and very local
everywhere. It may be possible, as some think to be the case,
that both these plants have been, accidentally or intentionally,
introduced into the places where we now find them. With regard
to the first, however, the Euphorhla, there is evidence to show that
it was growing in the same locality nearly 300 years ago, it having
been discovered there by Matthias de Lobel, botanist to King
James I., and published by him as a British plant in his
" Stirpium Historia," the date of which is 1576. He describes
it under the name of Esula majw Germanica, and speaks of it as
plentiful " in a wood belonging to Mr. John Coltes, near Bath."
I am sorry to say it is not plentiful there now, and it appears to
be getting scarcer every year. I would express a hope, therefore,
that if any of our members or other persons go to look for it,
they wUl be sparing in gathering specimens, lest it soon become
entirely extinct. It has been suggested that it "may have
escaped originally from the neighbouring grounds of the Prior
of Bath, or from the physic gardens of the herbarists of this
city,"* it being a plant undoubtedly used in medicine in those
days, but though this might have been the case with tlie plants
growing in the station in the lane near the town, it seems hardly
* See a paper by the late Mr. Edward Forster in the " Linnean
Transactions," (vol. xvii., p. 533), in which are given full particulars
relating to the discovery of this species of Euphorbia as a British
plant.
