42
place. There are three species I more particularly allude to —
the Blue-bottle (Centaurea ajanus), found in cornfields ; the
small Stinging Nettle (Urtica urens), in other districts to be seen
on almost every dunghill; and the Wall-Barley (Hordcum
murinum), so abundant elsewhere under walls and by waysides.
All these plants are mentioned in the " Flora Bathoniensis "
either as "frequent," or "common," or "not uncommon,"
though I never myself succeeded in finding any of them.
Neither has Mr. Broome, who has botanized over this district so
much longer than myself, found two out of the three, nor the
third except in a very few instances. With respect to the
Hordeum murinum, Professor Babington seems to have discovered
his mistake afterwards, as in the supplement to his book he has
mentioned it as "rare," giving but one locality for it, "the
river-side at Twerton Bridge." I find, however, in Mr. Sole's
" Illustrations of British Grasses," to which I have already dra\vn
your attention, some notes relating to this species, which, as his
book was never published, it is desirable to put on record, and
which tend to shew that even in the above locality this grass may
T)ossibly not be indigenous. Mr. Sole, under the head of Holcus
mollis, another rare grass in this neighbourhood, observes — " We
are lucky in having neither Darnell, Wall Barley, nor this species
of couch about Bath." Underneath, hoAvever, he adds — " I am
sorry to find, since Avriting the above, that Wall Barley has
found its way hither, and established itself in Brett's timber-yard,
Bath ; it is to be feared it will flourish too well in the vicinity."
Again, under the head of the Hordeum murbmm itself, he says,
" this grass though common in most places is not so about Bath,"
underwriting as before, " N.B. But is since arrived here."
These remarks by Mr. Sole were 'made sixty-seven years ago.
I have not been able to ascertain whereabout in Bath Brett's
timber-yard was, as' there is none, I believe, of that name now.
But it is clear, by our not finding this grass in the neighbourhood
at the present day, that though introduced, probably by accident,
