RULES OF THE
BATH
INSTITUTED FEBRUARY 18th, 1855.
1.— The Club shall be called "THE BATH NATURAL HISTORY AND
ANTIQUARIAN FIELD CLUB," and shall consist for the present, of
not more than Fifty Members ; out of whom shall be chosen each year a
Vice-President and Secretary, the latter acting also as Treasurer.
2. — The object of the Club shall be to make Excursions around Bath, with the
view of investigating the Natural History, Geology, and Antiquities of the
neighbourhood.
3. — There shall be Four Excursions during the Year, to be fixed at the Anni-
versary Meeting on the 18th February. A List of such Excursions, with
the respective Places of Meeting, shall be suspended in the Vestibule of
the Baih Literary and Scientific Institution. Such Members as feel
disposed shall also meet every Thursday, at the Institution, at 11 a.m.
4. — An Excursion may be changed on the Morning of the Meeting for that day
only, if agreed to by all the Members present, bnt not for any other times,
unless agreed to by the whole Club— Six Members to form a Quorum.
5. — The Hour of Meeting shall not be changed, except for the convenience of
taking particular Trains, when it is arranged to go by rail to any place ;
in which case the altered hour shall be posted at the Institution, not later
than Twelve o'Clock on the Saturday previous.
C. — In arranging the Excursions, due regard shall be paid to Natural History
and Antiquities, so as to secure an equal share of attention to each
subject ; with this view, when the same Excursion does not include them
both, they shall, so far as practicable, be taken alternately.
7.— Meetings for the Election of Members, and for the transaction of other y
Business, shall take place Quarterly.
8. — Special Meetings shall be appointed for the Reading of Papers, or Exhibition
of Specimens, notice being given to the Secretary at or previous to any one
of the Quarterly Meetings, by Members having such communications to
make to the Club.
9.— Persons wishing to join the Club, may send in their Names and Addresses
through any of the Members, and be admitted when there is a Vacancy,
after being proposed at a previous Quarterly Meeting, if approved of by
all the Members present.
10. — Any Member of the Club may invite friends to accompany them on the
proposed Excursions.
11. — It shall be the business of the Secretary to take Notes of the Day's
Excursion, and to draw up a Summary of the Year's proceedings, previously
to the next Anniversary ; he shall also see that the proper Notices of
Excursions are suspended at the Institution, and communicate with the
Members by letter, when occasion shall require.
12. — A Subscription of Five Shillings shall be paid Yearly by each Member,
to defray any expenses the Club may incur otherwise than by Journeys
and Refreshments ; this Subscription shall be considered due on the
Anniversary.
