43
it has never flourished as Mr. Sole expected, shewing how
ungenial the place must have been to it, if indeed it still exists
in the neighbourhood.
I might pass on to speak of other weeds, common in most
parts of England, but apparently rare about Bath, especially the
Black Nightshade (Solanum nigrum), met wdth in only one
or two localities, and of uncertain appearance even there. There
is likewise the Corn Marygold ( Chrysantheirmm segehim), stated
in the " Flora Bathoniensis," as in the case above alluded to, to
be "frequent in cornfields," wliich I never met with myself,
though it has been occasionally seen by other botanists. Samolus
valerandi is said in like manner to be "frequent in watery
places," whereas it seems to be decidedly rare. Mr. Flower
informs me he has observed it in one locality below Combe
Down, but I know of no one else who has ever found it. The
three following species also, Seneblcra coronopus, Malva rotundifoUa,
Geranium pusillum, not generally esteemed rare plants, are much
less common about Bath, especially the two last, than in most
other places.
On the other hand, to reverse the picture, we have two or
three species, usually accounted rare or local, found in this
neighbourhood in the greatest profusion. Of the Ornithogalum
pyrenaicuM I have already spoken. But there is likewise the
Geranium rotundifolium, found on old walls, banks, and other
waste ground, almost everywhere ; and yet more plentiful the
Mercurialis annu/i, one of the greatest pests in our gardens, which
it is next to impossible to get rid of. It is singular how the
last mentioned plant seems to be confined to the ■s'icinity of a few
old towns, such as Bath, Bristol, London, Eochester, and Norwich ;
shewing that even in the vegetable world we have our regular
town, as well as country residents, indifierent as manj' species
may be to either.
But I must not trespass too much upon your time. Whether
I have said anything this evening to lead you to take an interest
