45
danger from its corrupt influences, have been spent amid woods
and fields in search of our native plants.
" Rura mihi et rigui placeant in vallibus amnes,
Flumina amem silvasque inglorius."
Even when a botanist has become well acquainted with the
Flora of a district, there is always the pleasurable hope of still
finding something new to reward his industry ; and if he fail in
this, it is yet no small advantage to have an object to give an
interest to every walk, and to induce him to take the exercise so
conducive to health. But in truth, the field in which he carries
on his researches, if he looks closely into it, will never be
exhausted. It is surprising how novelties turn up from time to
time under the influence of some of those causes to which I have
already alluded, even in the best explored districts. This is in a
measure true with the higher orders of plants, but in respect of
the Cryptogamia, plants of lower organisation, there is hardly
any district in Great Britain that has been worked out so as to be
able to say what it yields. These obscure tribes off'er, no doubt,
some difliculty to the beginner, but they deserve to be considered
in their turn. If the student or the collector pass them over at
first, as in most cases he naturally would, at least let him not
think that there is nothing more for him to do, when he has
examined or collected all the larger and more showy plants ; or
that there is nothing left of any interest to arrest his attention,
or to be worth looking after.
I leave it to those botanists who, like Mr. Broome, one of our
oldest members, have so thoroughly studied the Fungi, among
the lowest of all vegetable forms, to speak of the several species
of this large tribe found in the neighbourhood of Bath. I hope
he may one day make us acquainted with them, pointing out
their peculiarities of structure, the places and seasons in which
they most abound, and the need in which they stand of further
investigation. But should you doubt whether Mushrooms,
Toadstools, Puff"balls, and Moulds, and other similar productions,
