47
not more calculated to entertain the mind than to improve the
heart.
Mungo Park, one of the earKest of those enterprising travellers,
who have at various times gone forth from this country to
explore the wastes and wilds of Africa, and who alas ! have too
often, like him, laid down their lives in the cause, has recorded
in his Journal a little incident, which some may think triflino-
but which can hardly fail to arrest the attention of every serious
reader. In a season of great danger and distress, when he had
just been robbed, and stript, and ill-treated by a banditti, and he
found himself in the midst of a vast wilderness, naked and alone,
surrounded by savage animals, and men still more savao-e,
with the reflection that he was 500 miles from the nearest
European settlement ; when his spirits had begun to fail him,
and he considered his fate as certain, and that he had no
alternative but to lie down and perish — in that moment the
extraordinary beauty of a small moss, in fructification, irresistibly
caught his eye. •' Though the Avhole plant " (he says) " was not
"larger than the top of one of my finger's, I could not contemplate
"the delicate conformation of its roots, leaves, and cap.iules,
"without admiration. Can that Being (thought I) who planted
"watered, and brought to perfection, in this obscure part of the
" world, a thing which appears of so small importance, look with
"unconcern upon the situation and sufferings of creatures formed
"after his own image ? Surely not !" he replied to himself, and
he goes on to say how such reflections roused him from his
despair. Starting up, and disregarding both hunger and fatigue,
he travelled forward, assured that relief was at hand, and (he
adds) he was not disappointed.
This is but one of the many instances in which the contem-
plation of the marvellous works of nature has called up in the
beholder the best thoughts which a devotional mind can
entertain. Bacon can commend us to a garden as " a refreshment
to the spirits," but a greater than Bacon would suggest something
