Vm INTKODUCTION.
Do not build a grapery under the erroneous impres-
sion, that, having done so, and planted the vines, you
have secured to yourself, without further labor, a boun-
cess of producing the grape, in this country, the author undoubtedly alludea
to early forcing ; for we apprehend that, in cold houses, the process requires
as little care, if not much less, than in England." I cannot imagine how
any one could doubt the meaning of this expression ; for, after mentioning
the extreme changes in winter and spring, the mercury falling to zero,
{which it can* never he expected to do when the grapes are growing in a cold
house,) is added these words: "render the care requisite, for the successful
FORCED culture of fruit, very great, and the process a more difficult one,"
&c. If Mr. Hovey considers growing grapes under glass, without fire heat,
forcing them, he differs from me, in what forcing is. (See Remarks oa
Forcing.)
The care necessary, is in the regulation of the temperature of the Forcing
House in the daytime, under the particular circumstances referred to. Good
judgment, some experience, and much caution, are requisite in the proper
ventilation of the house at these times. For instance, the mercury, in the
open air, has been, during the night, 5° or 10° below zero; to keep the
temperature of the house at 45" or 50°, at sunrise, you must have the flues,
or water-pipes, hot ; as soon as the sun shines, as it frequently does in win-
ter as well as in the summer, with great brilliancy upon the glass, the heat
rapidly accumulates, and the mercury is soon, at 90° or 100°. The tempera-
ture in the open air may bo at zero, or from that point up to 20°. Now,
here is the difficulty ; if the top lights, or any other ventilators are opened
so as to allow a current of this cold air to flow over the vines, the fruit thus
exposed will perish, and if you suffer this very high temperature, when 80°
or 85° is the highest point you should allow, the vines will be unduly ex-
cited, and consequently very liable to a check, when the temperature falls.
The foliage may not show, at the time, any bad effects from this cold air, but
soon the young bunches will turn yellow and drop. " "What is the matter
with my vines ?" (is a question which is often put to me,) '' they pushed very
strong, and showed fine buncnes of fruit, but the most of them have dried
up and dropped." They have at some time received a check to the flow of
the sap, and the effect of this, in the first seventy days of forcing, will al-
ways be the loss of the crop. Having small ventilators, and opening the
lights but very little, with every precaution that can be used, under the cir-
cumstances, to remedy and prevent the too much heat, and the admission
of a current of the cold air, is the only way to avoid any iU efifects from such
eauses.
