222 THE CULTURE OF THE GRAPE.
It is liable to the same objections that all the long cane
systems of training are.*
The long, or succession- mode of pruning, is recom-
mended by Mr. London, and many others. It is thus : —
The j^V^z; year^ one shoot only is allowed to grow, which
is cut down, at the autumn pruning, to the second or
third eye.
The second yeai\ two shoots are encouraged, the
strongest of which must be stopped three or four buds
beyond the middle of the root, the weaker one after grow-
ins: three or four feet.
At the fall of the leaf, the shoots are to be reduced ;
* Extracts from a Journal of a Horticultural Tour. Bv a deputation of
the Caledonian Horticultural Society. Edinburgh, 1823 : —
Ghent, seat of the Baron de Vrocylande.
"There are two small vineries, which did not afford us much satisfaction.
The vines are planted in front, on the outside of the house. Every year, a
nev/ set of wood is taken into the vinery ; the wood produced this year, is
trained upright, on an exterior trellis, and is, next season, laid down to a
sloping trellis, and made to yield its fruit within the house.
" The wood which has once been forced, is cut entirely out ; and from
the same roots, new upright shoots are, annually, required. The shoots
which had been forced, still remained, and a bare inspection was sufficient
to satisfy any one, that they could have afforded but very few grapes.'
The exterior, upright shoots, of this season, were, at the same time, in a
very backward state, and there was (sixteenth August,) little prospect of
their acquiring maturity this year."
The natural soil of the garden is represented as hght and sandy ; but no
mention is made of the border for the vines.
At the seat of .Madame Yilain Quatorze, also, at G-lient, the same method
of forcing the grape is pursued, and the result is, sickly and weak vines.
At Brussels, also, they found similar training and pruning, and with no
better success.
This plan of training, etc., is upon the renewal system, and, where this
is adopted and continued for many years, the effect must be to weaken tho
vine.
