THE CULTURE OF THE GRAPE. 231
The pruning is on the short-spiir system.*
It should be borne in mind, that the larger the crop a
vine is allowed to bear, the longer will be the time re-
quired to mature the fruit, and the quality of which will
also be deteriorated in proportion to its amount.
The native varieties of the grape, when planted in a
soil naturally dry and suitable, will do well w^ithout a
prepared border; but, as a general rule, it must be re-
membered that the more care there is bestowed on the
preparation of this, the greater will be the chance of
success.
The Black Hamburgh grape, when well cnltivated, is
a richer fruit in this climate than in that of England, and
it is necessary to test the quality of the foreign kinds
here, as the experience of European cultivators does not
always coincide with our own.f
* la the Journal of Horticultural Tour, Edinburgh, 1823, is the follow-
ing: — " Grape vines are likewise commonly trained against the walls of the
houses, in the outskirts of the town, (Rotterdam.) and we were assured
that they often pi'ove very • productive. A long shed, extending two
hundred feet, was thickly clothed with vine branches, which were tolerably
well filled with fruit. There were, in ail, six plants, wliich grew in the
open area, next the street; we observed both White and Black grapes; tlie
latter were more numerous, the Frank endale."
f Dr. Lindley, after some remj^i'ks relative to fruits of American origin,
in which he states their " utter worthlessness in England," advising his
readers not to try them, closes with this language : — " Tliey can only be
disappointed so long as the mean of the hottest month is 64" 40' in London,
and 80=' -70' in K"ew York." — Gardeners' Chronicle, 1848, p. 51.
By the above remarks, it would seem that Dr. Lindley attributes all this
difference in the quality of fruits, to the diminished quantity of heat ;
doubtless, in this diSerence of heat, he means to include also the effect of
the relative proportion of diminished light from the sUn, which is, in part,
the cause of this lower temperature. But these circumstances will not al-
ways explain the causes of these differeuces in the goodness of fruits. For
