THE CULTURE OF THE GRAPE. 261
BOimdness of his principles. A large silver medal, which
was awarded by the Horticultural Society, to some
bunches of gra})es, exhibited September Tth, 1841, suffi-
cientl}^ attested the advantage of his practice; nur were
they a picked sample, but a fair gathering from the
vineries under his care, as we happen to know on the
very best authority.
'' It is therefore with no ordinary reluctance that wo
venture to question a part of the system which Mr. Rob-
erts advocates. We allude to the employment of carrion
in his vine borders.^ In a letter which we published
* The improper use of the word "carrion" by Mr. Roberts has been the
cause of this controversy or discussion, so far as the English writers have
participated in it. In his rules for making the border, he calls it by this
name, when be is giving directions to have the substance procured. In
placing it in the border, he adds, " Not bringing it to the surface within
one foot, as its assistance is not wanted the first year." Thus it will be
seen, that it is not putrefying flesh, carrion, that he gives to the vine as
food, but the decomposed matter and the bones, which may be properly
termed a manure, composed of loam, or soil, and decayed animals. An-
other error, I think, oi Mr. Roberts, is, his not directing that this flesh of
animals be used when fresh and sweet, and the disagreeable consequences
attending the removal of it, as described by him, would be avoided. If it
must be collected, before making the border, then let it be done a sufficient
length of time before removal, to insure its decomposition. What that time
may be will depend upon the climate and the season of the year. Near
the equator, a few weeks would be ample time for even the bones to de-
compose. In England, it would probably require the whole summer for
the flesh and sinews to dissolve. At my garden in Salem, Massachusetts,
a very fat hog, that had died from excessive heat, in August, was placed
just under the ground, and covered with the soil, with the intention of re-
moving and scattering the remains on the border in the fall. In sixty or
seventy days, the place was opened, and not a bone even could be discov-
ered. The only vestige of animal remains that could have been part of the
creature were some teeth, and they may have been in the soil before. The
rapid decay in this case, no doubt, was owing to the excessively tat condi-
tion and age of the hog, which was only six or eight months.
