THE CULTURE OF THE GRAPE. 821
berries, which lie found four inches in circumference.
At the nurseries of the Shaker Society, Harvard, vines
of this grape may be found on sale, and, probably, at the
farm of Mr. Sage, Portland, Connecticut. The foliage
blighted badly in my garden in July, 1848. In the au-
tumn of 1852, Mr. Sage sent me a quantity of the fruit
of this vine. It is the best Fox Grape I have ever eaten,
and, when fully ripe, has but little pulp. It, will be
esteemed by those fond of the peculiar flavor of our
native grapes, and disliked by others of opposing tastes.*
* The following are extracts from two letters of Mr. Sage to Mr. Leonard,
giving its history, etc. : —
'■'■Portland, Oct. \st, 1846. — The vine was taken from the margin of a
small stream, in quite a secluded spot, some thirty-five years since, and has
been a constant bearer many seasons, yielding in great profusion.
*' Perhaps I shall be considered selfish, but must say the}'- are the richest
flavored grapes I have ever tasted. The pulp is very soft and juicy. They
commenced ripening about two weeks since, and are now dead ripe ; they
will not drop from the vine when ripe, as many grapes do, but will remain
(unless gathered,) until they get perfectly dry, and their flavor is so very
rich, that a few bunches, in a room, will perfume it for months. For mak-
ing jelly they are not surpassed. H. E. Sage."
" Portland.! April 8th, 184:8. — I this day received your line requesting in-
formation about the ' Sage Grape.' In answer to your- inquiry, 'Is it a
great and constant bearer?' I would say it is a constant bearer, and would
bo a prolific one, were it not for the rose bugs, which have almost wholly
destroyed them for some years ; it always blossoms fidl, and, just at this
stage, the bugs appear to make tlieir havoc.
*' Seasons when not destroyed, the vine has been borne down with the
fruit, probably as many as twenty bushels have been gathered from the
vine which you saw; the bunches, in such seasons, are large and full; the
berries very round, and their average girth three inches, and many of them
much larger.
" The soil of my garden is rather of a dry, loamy nature, and brings forth
vegetation pretty early. I have never used any kind of manure for my
vine, and have scarcely taken the trouble to build a place for it to run
upon.
"I would recommend rather a dry soil for its cultivation, and in a situa*
14*
