22 THE CULTURE OF THE GRAPE.
portions ; the length of it can be as desired, from twenty
to one hundred feet or more.
The front of the house should be framed, the sills
standing on, and secured to, stone, or locust posts, set
four or five feet under ground, and eight feet apart, thus
giving the roots freedom to roam at pleasure. The floor of
the house should be on a level with the surface of ttie
border. The back wall may be either of brick or wood.
If the house is to be used for forcing fruit, it should have
a double wall on the back. A span-roofed house is the
best for a cold grapery.* It should be, above the sills,
on all sides of glass, and of the following dimensions : —
twenty feet wide, and of any length desired ; the upright
sides above the sills, six feet high ; the rafters should be
* " In a span-roofed house sixty feet long, the south side glazed, the
north, wood and asphalte, vines will not do well under the latter. Better
glaze the north span ; but, depend upon it, you would do better still were
you to add another sixty feet to the length, and so form one hundred and
twenty feet of roof facing the south, instead of emplojing the same quan-
tity of glass for a house half the length with a double aspect ; and the more
especially, if it is intended for early forcing." — Gardeners' Chronicle, p. 696,
Oct. 1846.
A house of this construction is not suitable for forcing grapes, it being all
of glass, and consequently so open to the admittance of air in very cold,
windy weather, that it is very diflacult to avoid such extremes of temperar
ture as will be injurious to vines. If peaches or cherries are to be forced,
Buch a house is desirable, and, for many kinds of pot plaij^s, no better can
be had. With respect to the correctness of the opinion expressed above,
that it is better to build a house of double the length, with the same quan-
tity of glass, it depends upon what uses the house is to be put to. As a
cold grapery, and as a house where the vines are aided by artificial heat,
(but not forced,) it is superior in its arrangements to the lean-to house, and,
under the same circumstances, will perfect its crop ten or fifteen days sooner,
and will yield a larger amount of fruit on a given space. It is more liable
to damage from hail and frost. (See description of one of my span-roofed
houses.)
