*44: THE CULTUKE OF THE GRAPE.
is to be made in tiiis manner, in alternate spaces of ten
feet each trenching. After it is finislied, the border
should be tlu'ee feet six inches deep ; it will settle to less
than three feet in a few rnontlis ; any soil left, after it is
finished, can be carried ofi.''^
Dr. Lindley is of opinion, that, in the draining of the border, the im-
provement is more by the admission of air and heat tlian by the removal of
water. — Gardenerb' Chrontde, 1847, p. G51.
* Tlie above is the inetliod by wiiich I have twelve thousand square feet
of border prepared.
After throwing out the soil, the materials are placed in the border, and
following each other in these proportions: First, nine' inches of the strong
slaughter-liousc manure, (or the carcasses of animals, or bones, etc..) four
inches of ^soil. two inches of shells, four inches of soil, six inches of cow
manure, four inches c^" soil, three inches of shells, four or five inches of sta-
ble manure, and six inches of soil.
These artl(;Ies were tjjrown as roughly as possible into place, and not
levelled ; the first manure, lor instance, in some places, would be only six
indies deep, and in others, ten or twelve, or more, just as it v,-ould happen
to fall from the shovel, the above measurements being near what they
would have been, if on a level Avoiding, as much as possible, the form-
ing of layers, which, at first sight, would seem to be the case, but the jvii-
ces of the strong manures would be all imbibed by the soil placed amongst
them, aiid rendered rich accordingly.
In the strong manure, at tJie bottom of the border, no care was taken to
have the same material throughout ; but, as they could be procured, they
Avere placed in position, as fresh as possible, (before they became offensive.)
If the cai'cass of an animal was had, it was simply quartered, and laid in
and covered with the soil. If the entire skeleton of the horse was had, (of
which there arc, in this border, at least forty,) it was similarly placed, as
also the slaughter-house manure ; but when, as was the case in some parts,
bones were used which had been boiled, the floor of the border was cover-
ed with these from two to four inches deep, and the freshest cow manure
Vv'hich could be had was placed to the depth of from two to four inches
upon them, and this again was covered with a like quantity of bones, Vhich
were stuck into the manure in every direction, care being taken that they
should not lie flat on its surface ; the object in view, being to have as rich
a niaterial in this case, as when the other manures were employed. SomC'
times, old mortar and brickbats were mixed with the slieJls, and used in
connection with them.
