THE CULTUEE OP THE GEAPE. 45
The proportions recommended for tLis "border, are one-
half loam, one fourth bones, or other strong manure, one-
eighth oyster shells, or lime' and brick rubbish, and one-
eighth rotten stable manure.
Before planting the vines, the border should be spaded
over, to mix well the top substances, being careful not to
disturb the strong manures at bottom, as these substances,
when decomposing, would destroy any of the roots of
the vine with which they came in contact.
Should the soil be poor, decrease the proportion used
in preparing the border, and, in the same ratio, increase
the manures, or substitute the top soil of a loamy pasture.
If the soil is very poor, or unsuitable for the purpose,
so as to require to be removed entirely, then a compost,
prepared thus, is recommended : — one half to be the top
soil of an old pasture ; one quarter to be bones, or some
other strong manure; one eighth oyster shells, or lime
and brick rubbish; one eighth rotten manure; these ar-
ticles thrown together in a heap, and so to remain until
In preparing- this border, there ^ras found a difference in the natural soil,
part of it being- a very rich j^ellow loam, several feet deep, and part of it a
gravelly or slaty soil, not more than two feet deep, upon a bottom of rot-
ten rock. The rich soil did not require as much manure as the thin, and
received le,=s. but more shells, and old mortar, and bricks ; and the thin
slaty soil received more than the above proportions of manures, and less of
tlie shells, etc. This border is on a hill-side, and these are the extremes
of soils at the top and bottom. Thus situated, there was no occasion for
rocks, or any kind of drainage at the bottom of the border, and, cpnsequent-
ly, none was used. Tn a border since made, to the above ingredients, I
have added a good proportion of charcoal screenings, and, when they can
be had convenienth^, they should always form a part of the compost, as be-
ing valuable, tending to keep the soil porous and light, and, also, as afford-
ing moisture in seasons of drought, and as absorbents of ammonia from the
atmosphere.
