THE CULTURE OF THE GRAPE. 117
shut lip the house before the sun sets. About the mid-
dle or last of May, the four eyes will have grown, each,
one or two feet ; train up the strongest of the two on
last year's wood, and shorten back the other three, by
pinching off the ends of the shoots ; during the season,
give plenty of air in line weather, and shut up the house
at night. The best way of training the vines is by iron
rods, parallel with the rafters, having three of them ; a
centre one, to which should be tied the cane, and one on
each side of this, about eight inches distant, to tie the
bearing shoot to ; in a cold house, they should be ten
inches from the glass, and, in a forcing one, fourteen
inches."^'*
As the leading cane grows, tie it carefully to the rod,
* Some persons prefer the rods to run horizontally the whole length of
the house, which is the preferable mode when the vines are planted at
three feet distant from each other, and no regard ig paid to placing them
under the rafters. This is the method used in the houses which I have
recently erected. On the front, or upright part, there should be two of
these ; the first about eigliteen inches from the ground, the second at the
proper distance (10 or 14 inches,) from thereof; on the rafters, the first one
should be placed about twelve inches from the plate, and the last, or upper
one, at about fifteen inches from the ridge-pole ; the intervening ones may
be at distances of three or four feet, as deemed best. Witli this method of
training, small wires, running parallel with the rafters, should be attached
to the ridge-pole, or upper rod, and, resting on the other rods, be brought
down and secured to the sill, one on each side of the stem of the vine, at
about ten inches from it, to support the lateral, or fruit bunches. The rods
should be of one quarter inch iron, secured at the eiads to the wood work
by screws. In tlie interior, they must be fastened to the rafters by iron
pieces, which should be three eigliths of an inch in thickness, and five or
six inches- long; these are secured by two screws (on a flattened end,) into
the raft,ers, with a socket on the other for the rod to rest in, which must be
closed firml}"-, by pincers, after insertion.
Yines on the back wall may be trained on wire, or other trellis, as may
be most convenient. (See trellis for out-door training.)
