124 THE CULTUEE OF THE GEAPE.
lieat of summer, some leaves are necessary over the fruifc
to shelter it from the sunbeams until it is half ripe, and
then bareness* is requisite to brmg it to maturity." —
The Com/plete Gardener^ eto.^ hy If. De la Quintiney^
London^ 1719, page 157.
" JSTets may be used to prevent birds eating the fruit,
and vials with water and honey, or a little sugar, hung
upon the branches, will induce llies to drown themselves,
which, (when a considerable number are in,) must be
emptied, and renewed as before." — Ihid, 157.
When ripening oif, if the berries do not swell or colgr
well, and, in black varieties, are of a pale red color, feeling
soft, if touched, you may be assured the vines are not
strong enough to ripen the crop ; cut off the lower part
of the bunch of some, and the whole of others ; selecting,
for this purpose, the bunches which are the most affected
in this way, and reducing the quantity on the vine one
third, or one half, and do so as soon as you suspect this
is the case ; by these means, you may save the residue
of the crop, and, at the same time, relieve the vine from
the exhausting effort of attempting to mature it. This is
a trouble caused by overcropping, and is entirely distinct
from what is usually termed shanking ;f for this disease,
* The leaves on the shoot bearing* the fruit must never, on any consider-
ation, be removed ; if necessary to let in air and light, prune out the laterals
and cut back to the bunch. The whole tenor of this remark is only
applicable to European culture ; with our American varieties, this practice
would be highly improper. It would be better never to prune or stop a
shoot than to do thus. I would advise the opposite, and say, if a shoot is
very vigorous, and is drawing an undue share of the sap to itself, to the
detriment of other parts of the vine, check it by stopping the end of the
branch, to promote the growth of the weaker ones.
•j- Shrivel or shanking in grapes is caused by a disease on the skin of the
