128 THE CULTURE OF THE GllAPE.
lating, giving air, and watering the vines and the
floor of the house as heretofore.
After the vines are secured to the trellis, and the shoots
are one or two inches long, rub out, from the spurs which
w^ere cut close, all but one shoot ; this you must leave to
grow for future use ; do not allow it to bear fruit this
season.
If the vines are strong, and were not injured by
overbearing last year, you can now leave on each vine
fifteen bunches, that will weigh one pound each, to ripen
this season ; let the bunches be distributed, at proper
distances, over the vine. The leading cane should not
be allov/ed to bear fruit until it has become established
at the length desired for permanent use, when it can be
fruited as well as the other shoots. Yery strong, healthy
vines will often show, on this length of cane, sixty to one
hundred bunches ; and it requires some firmness, in an
inexperienced person, to cut out in this free manner."
* Grapes under glass, and in the open air, almost invariably do well the
first and second year of fruiting. This is undoubtedly to be attributed to
the fresh soil having, in its constituent parts, all tlie requisite ingredients.
The cause of their bearing fruit in a diminished degree after this may be,
that some substance was supplied in a small quantity, and has become
exhausted, or, it may be that the vine has been too highly excited by
stimulating manures, given too freely at first, and not continued ; but more
frequently, I apprehend, by suffering the vine to mature too much fruit.
Pruning. — " In your leading article, on the subject of the vineries at
Bishop's Stortford, you concluded by saying, that the vines there were
pruned on Mr. Crawshay's sj^stem. [This is giving a n^w and improper
name to an old system ; it has long been in use in France, and is known
as the close-spur system of pruning, its proper appellation. — Editor.] I'
presume, from that general allusion, that the system is well understood by
professional gardeners ; but I rather think it is not as imiversally known
as it would seem to deserve, if it can be proved to be certain and successful.
In all treatises I have read on pruning the vine, from Speechly downwards,
