( 370 )
Astronomy. — "Inresthjalion of tl te eri-ot'.s of the tahles of tlie moon
of Hansen — Newcomb for the i/ears 1895 — J 902". By Dr. E. F.
VAN DE SaNDE BaKHUI./ZEN.
(Communicatfd in the meeting of June '■11, 1903).
/. Iidrodiirfion.
1. In the years 1901 — 1902 ^Ir. C. Sanders has made a longitude
determination on the West-coast of Africa by means of liie moon.
The investigation descril)ed in the following pages was undertaken in
order to furnish liini witli accurate data for the moon's places.
Especially with regard to the systematic errors which aftect all
the observations of the moon's limbs, it is desirable to use for this
purpose not only a fe\v observations made in the neighbourhood of
the days for which the places of the moon are required, but to
make a more extensive investigation of the errors of the tallies.
There was still another reason foi' doing so. For when I first
undertook the \^ork, for which the observations at Greenwich had to
form the Imsis, I could dispose only of those up to the year 1899,
so that a direct determination of the required corrections was entirely
impossible.
So at first I employed only the observations of the years 1895 —
1899, but later I was able to extend my investigation also over the
3 following years. For this I am indebted to the courtesy of Mr. Christie,
who sent me a complete copy of the observations of the moon made
at Greenwich during the years 1900 — 1902 and who thus enabled me
to render my results much more reliable. In the same letter, however,
Mr. Christie told me that a similar invcstigaticm for a similar pur-
pose had been undertaken at Greenwich ^) and at first this made
me doubt whether in this circumstance it would not be better to
stop my ^vork. But as my calculations for the period 1895 — 1899
were rather far advanced, I ultimately resolved to continue them.
I considered that perhaps in this case it might be useful when two
independent investigations should confirm each other.
2. It is well-known that the motion of the moon offers many
unsolved problems. Quite recently Newcomb in a paper read at the
March-meeting of the English Royal Astronomical Society '), (when I
had already begun my work), once nu)re cleaily pointed out the
deficiencies of the theory which chiefly his investigations had brought
to light. Let us shortly recapitulate those investigations.
1) Comp. Report of the Astronomer Royal .... read VM)'i June 0, p. 9.
2) Monthl. Not. R. Astr. Soc. Vol. 03, p. 316.
