( 371 )
111 1876 Newco:\[i? published a coiiiparisoii of (lie observations of
the moon from 1862 — 1874 with the tables of Hansen ^) and showed
the existence of slowly increasing errors in the tabular mean longitude.
On the other hand, after having applied theoretical corrections to
ihe coefficients of some of Hansen's inequalities of short period, ho
found a hitherto unsuspected inequality in the true longitude of the
form a sin((/ -\- N), where (/ represents (he mean anomaly and N
an angle increasing by about 20^ per annum. The long period errors
were further investigated by Newcomb in his Resedrches ^), which
appeared in 1878. After an elaborate investigation of all the obser-
vations before 1750, he embodied the errors found in an empirical
formula, which apparently satisfied all the available observations.
In the same year he published his "Corrections to Hansen's tablc\^
of' the moon'', where tallies were given for the application of the
long i^eriod corrections according to the empirical formula alluded to
above and for the correction of a term of the true longitude accidentally
introduced into the tables with a wrouü' si"n. For the time being he
(Hd not consider it advisable to apply other corrections. These
"Correction.^" have since been introduced into all the lunar ephenierides.
For the enqnrical term of long period no theoretical basis has
been found until now. As for the term depending on </ -j- JV^,
Neison's and Hill's investigations have shown that it may be the
"Jorian Erection".
f I. Inve.^t.i<icition of the errors of lonxjitude.
3. In my investigation I followed the same method as Newcomb
in his paper of 1876, that is to say, instead of the errors of longitude
and latitude 1 used those of right ascension and declination. Although
in this way the calculations become somewhat more intricate, it offers
tlio great advantage that the errors of observation, tlie systematic
and Ihe chance errors, in the two coordinates do not become intermixed.
Thus in in\estigating the errors of longitude, I started from the
dilferences A «, which, in accordance with Newcomb I take in the
sense : Computation — Observation.
4. In the lirst place I had to investigate the systematic errors
in tlie observed transits of the two limbs, but, as it is welMviiown,
tiie values found for them depend to a high degree on the value
adopted for the parallactic inequality. This renders an independent
determination of the two very difficult, as, for instance, it may be
^) S. Newcomb, Invedtigation of corrections to Hansen's tables of the moon with
tables for tlieir application. Washington 187ü.
-j S. Newcomb, Researches on the motion of the mopu. Washington 1878.
25*
