( 587 )
make the corresponding isothermals of tlie different diagrams coincide
by shifting them only in the direction of the log v-axis.
I found tliat it was not possible to place the diagrams in such
a way over each other that the isothermals of the whole system
coincided ; I, however, succeeded for the large volumes. According to
Kamerlinoh Onnes this signifies that in the mixture the coel'ficients
A,B,C,D,E,F of his series do not hang together with the coefficients of
the pure substance at corresponding temperatures in such a manner as
would follow from the law of corre8[)onding states, but that for the
volumes where the terms with D, E, F in comparison with the others
are still so small that we ma_y neglect the differences between these
terms and those given by coefficients which would obey the law
of corresponding states, the diagi-ams will coincide over such a large
range of temperature that B and (' may still be regarded as corre-
sponding functions of temperature, hence a critical temperature and
a critical pressure holding for this range of volume and temperature
may be deduced from the law of cori-esponding states.
On the plate the diagrams are placed over each ' other so as
to give the best agreement for the larger volumes. In the hori-
pv
zontal direction loij v is drawn, in the vertical hg — . The complete
lines refer to carbon dioxide, the dash lines to the lirst mixture,
the dash-dots lines refer to the second mixture. The points for
carbon dioxide are enclosed in circles, those for the iirst mixture in
triangles, for the second in squares. The different isothermals are
indicated by the letters a, h, etc., with which they are communicated
in IV § 2 and V §§ 2 and 3. The points at the beginning and the
end of the condensation are marked by h.c. and e.c. ; they are con-
nected by curves which thus sej^arate the homogeneous area from
the area where separation occurs. Finally the plaitpoints and the
points of contact are indicated by P and R, K is the point adopted
according to IV ^ 5 for the critical point of carbon dioxide.
It appears that the agreement for volumes larger than the critical
is very satisfactory. In the smaller volumes, howe\'er, considerable
systematic deviations from the law of corresponding states occur.
We ha^'e already used these diagrams to determine the critical
temperature, pressure and volume in the sense as explained above
for the different mixtures. Although these results are satisfactory
they will not be given here, as more accurate results may be expected
from the same operations with diagrams projected on double the
scale for the part concei-ned.
If on a j>7^-diagram we draw the point of contact- and the plait-
