( 588 )
point curves, they are seen to touch each other at tlie end (critical
point of pure carbon dioxide) in agreement with Comni. X^ 81
§§ 9 and 14 (Proc. Oct. 1902). In the investigated part tiie curves
do ]iot show the point of inflection found by Verschaffelt with
mixtures of hydrogen and carbon dioxide (Comni. N". 47 Proc. Feb.
1899) ; they are ahvays concave towards the T-axis.
Physics. - — ''IsothermaU of mivtures of oxygen and carbon dioxide.
r. hothermab of mivtures of the molecular compositions 0.1047
and 0.1994 of oxyijen, and the comparison o f them with those of
pure carbon dioxide." By W. H. Keesom. Communication N". 88
(6'^^ part) from the Physical Laboratory at Leiden, by Prof.
Kamerlingh Onnes.
(Communicated in the meeting of November 28. 1 903).
\ 5. According to § 4 (p. 586) the observations allowed of a
more accurate determination of the data for the critical point of
the mixtures for the range of the larger volumes and the range of
temperatures over which the observations have been made, in the
sense as it has been explained there, than it was possible from the
drawing given tliere. To this end diagrams were projected on
double the scale for the points in the homogeneous area for which the
volume is larger than 0.005 ; in these diagrams 0.0005 is represented
by 1 mm. l^oth for log — and for log v. To determine the relation
of the critical pressures independently and to test the relation of the
critical temperatures of mixtures to that of pure carbon dioxide,
pv
diagrams were constructed for the same area, where log — is drawn
as a function of log p; here 1 mm. represents: on the log p-axis
0.00025, on the %^-axis 0.0005.
§ 6. The diagram for the mixture which had been transferred on
tracing paper and in the middle of which a cross of axes was drawn
in order to permit an accurate judgment of the agreemeiit of the
systems of axes for the two diagrams, was placed over the diagram
for carbon dioxide, so that the log v-, and log y>-axes respectively
coincided, and then they were shifted until to the eye the isother-
mals of the mixtui-e coincided with the svstem foi carbon dioxide.
