( 007 )
salic'iii solution ;iii(l 1 <ir;im of ii'lncosc \v;is diliilcd willi a I "/n
Sciligeninsolutioii up lo 50 cc; tlie 0.005 orain of saiiciii prcsoit
could be dolectod in llie niaiiiiei' described. (Ireat cjire miisl lx; hiken
to ensiii-e the coniplele i-einoxal of the sali.iieiiiii, as this also gives
a red coloration with strong H.^SO^.
T think these experiments warrant the coiiclusion that the
resolution of saccharose bv invertase niav be proi)ai)lv considered
as an equilibriuni reaction and that this is tolerably certain in
the case of the action of eniulsin on salicin.
As regards the last reaction, Tammann had como to the conclusion
that, although incomplete, it is not however a limited reaction, as
the limit did not undergo retrogression on adding the products of
decomposition. Tammann however has not worked with sterile
solutions so that, as others have already observed, his experiments
are Jiot conclusi^•e. Moreover, the figures found by Tammann for
the concentration in the condition of ecpiilibrium at 0^ and 25°
differ not inconsiderably from ni}^ own.
2. Dynamical researches as to the action of enzymes have soon
shown that certain decompositions do not proceed in such a simj)le
manner as in the case where acids are employed. Although
O'Suj.LiVAN and Tompson iirst believed that the hydrolytic resolution
of saccharose by invertase is represented by the same simple
formula (for reactions of the tirst order) as that for the same
reaction by H-ions, Tammann and Duclaux have demonstrated that
such is by no means the case. This has been confirmed by subsequent
researches particularly by those of Henri. The reactioncoeflicient of the
system saccharose -|- invertase calculated according to the logarithmic
formula ai>peared to increase ; for the system salicin -[- emulsin it
api)eared to decrease with the lime. So Tammann c(nnes to the
conclusion that the enzymes do not conform to the same la>\ s as
the inorganic catalyzers and that these laws will not readily be
traced, aiid Duclaux is of opinion that the laws of physical chemistry
do not apply at all to enzym actions.
As the dynamic investigation of the action of ferments had only
just commenced, these conclusions could hai'dly be accepted as lliial.
The exhaustive researches published in D)OI i)y Victor Hknki ')
and afterwards continned ') have indeed i)roved that the course of
ferment actions may decidedly be ex[)ressed by a fornnda. It has
already l)een observed that the resolution of saccharose by invei'tase
proceeds more rapidly than is expressed by the formida for reactions
1) Z. pliys. ell. :V.). ]*)i (1901).
2) Lois générales de faclion des diasases. Theses, Paris, Février 1903.
