C 608 )
uf {]\c first order: il was llicrefore obvious to jissume liero aii acce-
lerating' aiilocatalysis, a i-eactioii tor wliicli Ostwald^j liad Nvoi'ked
out a foniiula. Hknri has now followed this course indicated by
( )sTWALD and deduccMl an empirical f'oi'imda an hicli, wlieii applied to
his experiments led to coefficients wlii(di mav be taken as practi-
cally constant for jS' 100 to N sobitions. Hkahi accepted a theory
of the mechanism (»f the action of in\ertase according- to Avhich the
ferment shonld enter into combination with saccharose as well as with
fructose (accoi-diug to an (Mjuilibi-ium-reactioii). Wy now trying diJï'e-
rent values for the e(|uilibrium c()nstauls of these two i'(\U"tious, he
ai'riN'es at two figures, tlic introduction of whicli into the formula
leads to tlie said constants. 1 believe to ha\'e sui-cecded in j)i-oving
that IlKNin's views ai-e not correct Judging from his own experi-
mental data and from my own observations.
Recently UvAV/Am '), for the resolution of salicin l)y emulsin, (where
on applying the formula foi' reactions of the fii'st ordei' flic coefii-
cients regnhii'ly (hn-rease) has applied ( )st\vai,I)'s formula for reactions
with negative autocatalysis ■') to IIf.mu's and Ta.mmanx's experiments
on the said reaction; he has found that this formula leads to
reaction coefficients Avlii(di may be considei'ed as constants. These
constants change with the iidtial concentration of the salicin solutions.
Hkkzoct however obserxes that Ostwald's differential e(iuation for
negative autocatalytic transformations is incomplete "and that it
would be better to give it the form of a reaction of a higher
order". This was already done by me some time ago.
3. Given the tact (now tolerably well substantiated) that enzym-
actions are equilibrium reactions, I have taken a A'iew of the theory
of these decompositions different from that hitherto accepted and first
deduced formulae giving the relation between velocity of reaction
and (diemical eipiilibrium. These formulae differ from those at present
ai)plicated to this case '') ; I have deduced them for mono-, bi- and
trimolecular equilil)rium reactions "), first tested them in well-kwown
cases (ester formation ; the transformation studied l>y Küstkk ''} etc)
also by Schookl's observations on the action of sugars on urea ")
Aviiich 1 have myself extended and subsequently applied them to the
observations of lIiWRi as well as to my ow^n series of determinations
rclatiiiL'' to the saccharose and salicin resolutions. The results of this
1) Lehrbuch, II, 2, 2m.
^) Tliese Froc. VI November 28 1903, p. :«2.
«) Lelifbuch il, 2. 270.
-'') Ustwald's Lelifhuch 11, 2, !2öl, cv.
") Z. phvs. (;li. 18, 1(11 (iSi),")).
6) Rec. 22. 31, Disseilalion, 1902.
