( 610 )
Anatomy. ''Tfw foeful nn'inln-aiK'.s 1111(1 the phicentd of P/ioca
vihi/ina." By A. J. 1'. van dk\ IIrokk. (('oiniiiiuiicjiled by
Piof. T.. BOT.K).
((lommunicated in Ihe meeting ol' January 30, 1904).
Some time ago a seal in an advanced state of gestation was sent to
the anatoniical Laboratoi-v of the Amsterdam llniversity. As neither
the foetal envelopes nor the placenta of the ])innepedal carnivores have
been described in detail, 1 was very gralilied to be enti-nsted by the
Director of the Laboratory with the task of carefnlly examining these
organs. The ])rei»aration (nrned ont to be in very good condition and
well enough i)reserved for microscopic examination.
Whereas a more detailed description will be published in another
place, the following may be given here as the principal results of
my investigations.
The gravid uterus was U-shaped, tlie convexity l)eing on the cranial
side. The oi'gan, which Avas somewhat flattened dorso-ventrally was
lying in transverse <lirection, so that the fundus uteri was situated
in the righthand part of the body. This U-shaped curve was ac-
companied by a twisting oï the organ, so that the left ovarium,
entirely enveloped by an ovarial bag, was medially situated.
The greater part of the ligaiuentum latum had l)ecome absorl)ed;
the ligamentum rotundum, a very powerful cord, ran from the front-,
respectively hind-wall of the uterus, that is : from the spot where
the ovarium was lying against the uterine wall, running down in a
slanting direction across the latter, towards the abdominal wall. The
ostium uteri, tilled with a mucous clot, showed an aperture of d= 3 cm.
Close to the top of this ostium, which formed an oval foramen in
the middle of the portio vaginalis, the foetal sac, rather strained,
could be felt. All this seemed to indicate that the animal, being in
labour, had gone ashore, when it was caught.
On opening the uterus by means of a longitudinal incision in the
organ, along the convexity, the following was noticed : The wall of
the uterus is extremely thin in jiroportion to the voluminous organ,
a little more than 1 mm., but increases in thickness towards the
vagina. The nmscularis of the wall of the latter, however, is rather
thick (1 cm.).
The chorion, as well as the placenta, is only loosely attached to
the walls of the uterus all over. It appears that the foetal sac reaches
down to the ostium uteri. On detaching the placenta I found septa
of cellular tissue adhering to the inner surface of the wall of the
uterus, which, just there, is somewhat thicker.
