The placenta fninis a perfectly closed uirdle, situated about llio
middle of the foetal sac, or, with regard to the uterus, in the
curve of that oruan.
The uterine surface presents a lohated structure, the various irre-
gular lobes being separated bv ])i'elly wide fissui-es, and as moreover,
the placenta is comparatively thin, it is not very compact.
The circumference, measured at the surface of the uterus, is 66
cm., the width, which is the same all over, 32 cm. The edges are
not stumpy and thick : rather thin. Several thicdv bloodvessels emei'ge
from the sides of the placenta, branching oil" into the chorion so
abundantly as to leave not a single part of it without a suj)ply of
vessels. On splitting the chorion and the placenta along the comex
curve of the foetal sac, the anmion becomes visible. This is <pute
discoiuiected. There was no direct contact between the two tissues
anywhere, nor with the placenta, the anuiion not covering the foetal
surface of the placenta, but branching oif at the placentary end of
the und)ilical cord. The amnion, like a l)ag with thin walls, invests
the foetus pretty closely, especially along the back. Only behind
the tail-end of the foetus, which is turned towards the fundus uteri,
we tind another part of the amnion that is not taken up by the
foetus, but tilled with a suitstance that is soft to the touch. The
amnion is j)artly \ascuiarized, j)artly dexoid of any vessels ; especi-
ally in the immediate vicinity of the umbilical cord a vascular part
is noticeable. Here the amnion membrane seems also to be somewhat
thicker and to consist of two layers, which are mo\ cable one over
the other. Here we tind the umbilical sac, in the shape of an
elongated organ,- connected with the anmion riuht along, lying against
this membrane.
As the amnion has not coalesced with the foetal surface of the
placenta, the latter can be at once examined after opening the
chorion. Of an insertion proper of the umbilical cord into the
placenta there can hardly be any question, the vessels di\iding and
branching off long before they i-each the ))lacenta.
These ramifications enter the placenta at a rather consideraiile
distance from each other. Slips of the allantois, which lines the
placenta, cover these vessels, which therefore are found in (lu|)li-
catures in this membrane as sooii as they leave the cord. The
main canals of each of the two nndiilical arteries bi-anch off
into a girdle-shaped half of the ))lacejita, and with fairly large
ramiticatiojis spread further into the chorion. When the convex
surface of the anmion is slit open \ery little foetal fluid runs out.
The foetus is found to be lying with its muzzle towards the ostium
