( 613 )
coating, and tlien. i-iLjht round this, a coatiiifi; of bundles of muscles
running lengthwa^'s, but not adhering close together. In the walls of
this vena I have not noticed anv bloodvessels. In the lumen I found
here and there some blood-corpuscles. In following np this i)artlv
obliterated vena towards the foetus, it is found to divide itself into
two branches shortly before the foetal insertion of the umbilical
cord; the two branches run together a little way down, then one of
them splits up again and three branches can be traced right up to
the front abdominal wall, where tiicy lose themselves. Towards the
placenta this vena also s})lits np into ramifications, which grow finer
and finer and finally branch off into the tissue of the umbilical cord.
The fifth lumen in the umbilical cord is situated in the foetal half
between the two umbilical arteries ; towards the placenta these apj)roach
each other and the vessel runs alongside of them. This lumen is
of an irregular shape, somewhat compressed and provided with an
epithelium composed of cells that are flattened and arranged in several
layers, the respective limits not being distinctly defined.
This lumen runs right through the cord till close to the placenta
wdiere it suddenly stops. There is no communication between this
lumen and the yolksac. That we have here a continuation of the
allantois-channel is proved by its original position between the two
umbilical arteries, which position I also noticed inside the abdominal
wall. I did not notice any remains of a yolk duct with certainty.
The stroma of the umbilical cord consists of cellular tissue with
exceedingly fine fibrils [)ursuing a circular course, underneath the
epithelial coating this circular direction is dexiated from and the
curve becomes irregular. Round the vessels there is no distinct system
of circular fibres. Between the two arteries the character of the
stroma changes somewhat, it is of a looser construction and contains
a few longitudinal bundles of smooth muscular tissue. These can
best be seen by staining with polychrome methylen-blue (Unna) and
can be traced right through the whole cord. By the side of this the
profusion of the bloodvessels belonging to stroma funiculi proper
seems remarkable.
These vasa proprid funiculi umhilicaVn^ are met with right along
the funiculus, most of all in the foetal part. They appear to be con-
nected with the vasa of the subcutaneous cellular tissue of the abdo-
minal wall. Arteries as well as lai-ge veins filled with blood are
noticeable. The dislribution is somewhat irregular. Especially round
the umbilical vessels they are heaped up together, entering the walls
close up to the intima. I have not been able to ascertain the existence
of a connection between the vasa propria funiculi and the vasa
