( ('^^ )
iimbilicalia. As far as I know, a case of tlio presence of vasa propria
funiculi in any animal was not on record.
This isolated case suggests tiie general peculiarity of the \'ascular
system of seals, to which attention has already been drawn by
Hyrtl^). I may add tiiat the immediately surroundin.ü; pai'ts of the
allantois were also very rich in vasa propria, whicii, however, were
generally of smaller size.
A microscopic examination of tlie chorion, or rather ofthewallof
the outermost and widest emI)iTO-sac, shows us that thei'c arc two
layers, an outer one and an ijiner one, connected by exti-emely
loosely woven cellular tissues ; between the two layers the blood-
vessels are situated. The outer, or uterine layer, the chorion proper,
is lined with a simple cylindrical epithelium about 20 (i high. The
nuclei are o\'al-shaped and in the basal half of the cell ; the proto-
plasm is finely granulated. Cell limits ai'c distinctly visil)le. The inner
lininir consists of one laver of flat cells with much-llattened nuclei.
The inner coat is nothing but the outer surface of the allantois.
(This connection u ill be i-eferred to bye and bye). We caimot, there-
fore, call this membrane the choi-ion, sti-ictly speaking, the name of
outer foetal envelope is more to the [)oint. The bloodvessels in the
wall of this sac are of unequal calil)er, in the centre, between the
two lavers, larger vessels are met with, the arteries have a thick
muscular coating, smaller vessels arc found partly in the stroma of
the allantois, in greater quantity however right under the chorion-
ectoderm.
Even with the naked eye an accumulation of small \i\\i, conspi-
cuous by their velvety as])ect, could be seen in some places on the
nterine surface of the outer foetal sac. A microscopic examination
confirmed that these were rudimentary xilli. The epithelium did not
differ from the other parts, but the stroma was a much more com-
pact tissue and the interior was filled with very numerous capillaries
the central ones of Avhich had a fairly large Inmen.
The amnion, too, or rather the inner foetal sac, is found to consist
of two layers, lying against each other along the Avhole surface; only
where the uml)ilical vesicle is situated they separate to envelop this.
The inner layer is covered with a cubic epithelium of 10 |!i., the outer
one is identical with the inner layer of the outer foetal sac and
must be considered to be a layer of the allantois. On comparing
foetal sacs of Phoca vitulina with those of other carnivores, Phoca
1) Hyrtl. Ueber einige Eigentümlichkeilen der arterielleii Gelassveriistelungen bei
den Seehunden.
Sitz. Ber. d. malli. naluiw. Classe d. Akad. d. Wissensch. Vienna. Bd. XI. 1854.
