( 617 )
amorphous coiHlitioii T have not l)een al)lo to li'aco in sucli spots.
Tlie discok:» ration of the tissue may be explained in this way tliat
tiie hh)0(l-eorpuscles give otF their haemoi^lobine to the surrounding
parts and tiiat tliis is absorbed gradually by the surrounding placenta-
tissue. This latter point is the most significant part of the process,
for, why should this surrounding tissue, which, unlike the corpuscles,
can hardly be regarded as having died off, absorb the altered blood -
pigment so uniformly ? That we have here no post-mortem pheno-
menon appears clearly on examination of the blood-vessels at the
edge of the placenta. As already stated, this is of a more intense
yellow hue than that of the spots imder the foetal surface, partly
through the more considerable amount of pigment. Now, we find in the
tissue of the border of the placenta, several vessels, the lumen of
which, in addition to blood-corpuscles, is filled witli pigment. These
are foetal vessels. In the vasa umbilicalia I only found some blood,
but no pigment.
The presence of this pigment in the vessels proves, that this yellow
hue of the placenta-tissues is a vital reabsorption-process, and not
one of post-mortem diffusion. There is another fact in favour of
this view : it is my discovering (in the border-zone, where the
villi are not very much elongated and the villous epithelium, or
chorion ectoderm, is still intact), some distinct pigment-particles in
these cells, which had been absorbed from the pigment situated close
against this epithelium.
And on further comparing the structure of the placenta of Plioca
with that of fissipede carni^•ores (e. g. the dog), it is found that the
spongy layer is entirely missing; all along the thickness of the
placenta the same uniform structui-e is maintained.
The foetal surface of the placenta is covered with a layer of
the allantois, coated with a single layer of flat endothelium, as
already described. Underneath this, thei'e is a thin layer of fairly
firm connective tissue, in Avliich the larger i-amifications of the umbilical
vessels are found.
From this tissue coarse septa of connective tissue find their way
into the placenta, which gradually diminish as they run towards
the foetal surface, although they usually succeed in reaching it. In
these septa the ramifications of the foetal vessels are found. Coarse
septa send out finer compartments in every direction. The coarser
ones divide the very compact mass of placenta into smaller sections.
From the maternal side too, some septa of connective tissue filling
up the aforesaid grooves on the foetal side of the placenta, enter
the latter; I hey are however less voluminous than those coming
41*
