( 618 )
from the foetal side. The compact cellular tissue of the placenta
reaches right up to the wall ; between the latter's coating of
muscles and the comj)act placenta tissue a very narrow, loosely
woven layer of connective tissue runs. In this layer, lying against
the muscular coat, we find the diameters of the very wide
uterine vessels and also in scxei'al places some uterus-glands. These
glands, in the shape of elongated tubes with short ramifications and
parallel with the surface of the uterus, are squeezed in between the
muscular coat and the placenta. They have a distinct lumen, the
epithelium is highly cylimlrical. They are glands that have obviously
fully developed, but have not been invaded by villi. On the foetal
surface of the placenta moreover, distinct extremities of glands are
met with, which, like those just described, have bent round and
which run parallel witii the muscular coat, in which a foetal villus
is plainly visible. These villi are not h'ing close to the inner surface
of the follicle, but are somewhat retracted from it. I did not succeed
in observing a distinct e})ithelium on these \illi.
Some of these uterus glands appear in another form : the cells
have very much increased in volume, have s^wollen and are bulging
out in several places in the lumen. The protoplasm of these cells is
of a well defined I'eticular structure, the cell nuclei are in the basal
part of the cells. In the liimen of such glairds we find some inde-
pendent cells, or combinations of only a few, some with nuclei,
the larger ones without any ; nujreover some conglomerations of
deeply stained fine [)articles nuiy be observed here and there.
The compact mass of the i)lacenta, when magnified, turns out to
contain a great nundjor (*fl)loo(lvessel-lumina, adhering close together,
each one of them surrouiuled by a distinct endothelium-wall. The
ramifications of the foetal \essels, together with some connecti\e tissue,
run between these branches of the placental vessels. Forming a separating
laver between these two systems of blood-vessels, we find in the
greater })art of the [>lacenta ojie single layer of nuclei, situated in
a mass of protoplasm, in which, however, no cell limits could be
traced. This layer of nuclei, is to be regarded as belonging to a
syncytium. In some })laces I counted two, sometimes even nu)re,
rows of nuclei between the bi-anches of the placental- and those
of the foetal vessels, without my being able to say with certainty
which })art t)f it should be taken to be of a syncytial character.
In the cases of suballantoidal hemorrhage and in the surrounding
parts, the nuclei of cells, lining the endothelium-walls of placental
vessels and the foetal villi adhering to the blood-mass, are of a
much darker hue than those of other parts of the placenta. As a
