( 019 )
coaliii;^' of lliese foetal \illi I often observed a double layer of
lUK'lei, viz. a layer of flattened nnelei, lyini!; close together, coating
the villus and, round this, a layer of round, large nuclei. Against
the latter layer the exti'avasated blood is found. Between the nuclei ot
the inner series, cell-limits are sometimes noticeable (chorionectoderm).
Finally I want to offer a few remarks about the villi in the
border-seam.
The mass of coagulated blood found near the edge of the placenta,
and the bulk of which has the shape of amori)hous, orange coloured
lumps, is mainly situated between two very long villi, running in
a slanting direction from the foetal surface of the j)lacenta to the
wall of the uterus. From these villi and from the part of the
chorion that is Ij'ing between the bases of the two, a number of
shorter villi, with ramifications, find their way into the above
mentioned mass.
These villi are generall}' somewhat swollen and rounded off at
their extremities. They are all conspicuous by their profuse vascularity.
The chorion between the bases of the two villi just described is
covered with a layer of very darkly-stained nuclei, lying very close
together. It remains doubtful whether this was a s^^ncytium.
The secondary villi, passing into the cibove mass also have such
a coating. In some cases t^vo rows of nuclei could be seen on
the surface, while it seemed to me that the row of nuclei turned
towards the villus was not of such a dark hue as the outer one
turned towards the blood-mass. At the extremities of the villi the
nuclei are found to lie very closely together and to be more numerous.
Both iji the protoplasm of the latter layer, covering the chorion,
and in that of the \illi one observes accumulations of orange-
coloured particles.
Reabsorption of these corpuscles from the mass found in the border-
seam of the placenta is thei'efore effected by means of the coating
of the said layer of the chorion as well as that of the villi.
In one or two instances I found a coloured [)article in the stroma
of a villus or in the capillaries miming into it.
