( 646 )
Rv moans of an elements-switch of wliicli the arrangement may be
seen without further description from PI. I fig. 7 and PI. II, we
can switcli the single elemejits or combinations of them in series or
ill opposition and obtain electromotive forces in the i-atios of
J, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 which bv the central commutator of the elements-
switch are connected to the gahanometer wires (jr in a positive or
negative sense. The elements-switch has been made of galvanoplastic
copper (mounted on ebonite) and packed in a case with cottonwool
so that there elec(romoti\e forces are excluded.
The electromotive forces mentioned cover at intervals of about
30 (legs moi-e than the whole range of temperatures below 0° C.
Tiierefore in the measurement of a temperature we can each time
use a verv near combination of standard-thermoelements for comj)arison.
§ 3. Di'tci'iiiiiKitions of the clcctroniotirc forces of the obscrratloji-
f'/('nieiif. Iji Comm. N". 27 the obserxatioji- and the comparison-
element were compai-ed bv means of the detlcctions which they
l)roduced successi\ely on the same galvanometer. This deflection-
method must always be applied whenever the determinations must
be made (piickly. For these determinations of the deflection the
string-gahajunnetoi' of Kinthox kn ^) Avhich owing to its sensibility
and inde[)endence of magnetic disturbances would for the rest be
probably also very suitable for thermoelectric determinations, would
ha\e the advantage above other galvanometers that the indications
are instantaneous. An opportunity to test this instrument has not
yet presented itself.
In determinations, however, where we especially want to observe
fluctuations of the electromotive force about an almost constant value
a compensation-method offers lai-ge advantages. In order to avail
ourselves of the adxantages offered by the circumstance that the
electromotive forces to be compared are approximately equal, the
switching in opposition of the observation- and the comparison-
element was rendered possible in Comm. N". 27, Avhere the batter}^
of the standard-elements of the nearest electromoti\'e force would
then be used. To the arrangement of Comm. N°. 27 for measure-
ments of deflections an arrangement has l)een added which allows
of a determination of the electromotive force of the observation-
element at perfect compensation by means of a zero-method. Thus
the comparison of the standard-clemejit with the Clakk-ccII of the
arrangements of Comm. N". 27 by means of the deflection-method
is left out. Ill tills case the element must give a very small but
1) Proc. 1003-1004 p. 107.
