( 654 )
states. Also for a neighbouring mixture this deviation is onlj percep-
tible in third approximation, while for mixtures with a small com-
position, i. e. on the edge of the if>surface, it exists already in second
approximation.
The cause of this smaller deviation in mixtures near the special
mixture must be looked for in the circumstance that those mixtures
in all their qualities deviate only in second approximation from a
single substance; thus we deduce from equation (11) that the critical
points : plaitpoint, critical point of contact, critical point of the homo-
geneous mixture and point of maximum coexistence pressure, differ
only in second approximation, so that tlie four curves (in the space
with p, V and T as coordinates), which connect these critical points
of all mixtures touch each other at the critical point of the special
mixture, which in general is not the case at the two critical })oints
of the pure components.
Application to mixture.s of hydrochloric acid and ethane.
The experiments of Kienen with mixtures of ethane and nitrous
oxide, the first where the existence was shown of a mixture tliat
in its critical phenomena agrees with a simple substance, does not
allow us to form a complete image of the conduct of neighbouring
mixtures. Besides, his investigations were only aimed at the discovery
of the second kind of retrograde condensation, and the existence of
that special mixture was a new discovery, and not the object of the
investigation. Suitable data for our purpose are given by the measure-
ments of Quint on mixtures of hydrochloric acid and ethane; accord-
ing to Quint the composition of the mixture which behaves as a
simple substance is x/c = 0.44, i.e. 0.44 gram molecules ethane and
0.56 gram molecules hydrogen chloride. Mixtures behaving as a
pure substance have also been observed bij Caubet ^) in his experi-
ments with CH3CI and SO^ ; as Caubet however investigated only
two mixtures of this binary system, his data are insufficient for
our purpose.
In order to proceed with the mixtures investigated by Quint in
the way indicated by Kamerlingh Onnes, we must determine in the
first place the critical elements of the homogeneous mixture T^k, Pxk, v^k-
pv
Instead, however of drawing, the log pv, log v or — , log p diagrams
it was sufficient, as in the case of my former investigations''') of the
1) Liquefaction des mélanges gazeux, Paris, 1900.
2) Arch. NéerL, (2), 5, 644, 1900.
