( 660 )
important to furtlier eoiitiiiu tliis statement and as Dr. Beekman could
not undertake tliis himself, I have studied this subject once more
and now communicate the I'esults obtained.
Tlie (Htïicullv wliicli presented itself was tluit we were unalile lo
obtain benzene orthonitrofluoride so lliat il was impossible to ajjply
tlie methods which, in the case of the products of nitration of the
other halogen benzenes, lead to the knowledge of the proportion in
which the isomers are foi-med. Two observations by Dr. Beekman
furnished us, however, A\ith a key to tind the said proportion. Tliese
were: J. the very ready traii^foi-niatio]! of benzene /3-nitrotlnoride
with sodium methoxide into the coirespojiding- anisol ; 2. the further
jiitration of the benzene orthonitrotluoride present in the nitrating
mixture to benzene dinitrotlnoride (Fl : XOg : NO^ = 1:2:4) which
compound lia> l»eeii obiaiiicd by Dr. Beekman in a pure coiKbtion.
I con\inced myself in the tirst place of the quantitative course of
tlie transformation of benzene y>-nitrotlnoride with XaOCH,.
1.8347 grams of p-NOo Cg H^. Fl = 13.01 millimols. were dis.solved in a very-
little pure methyl alcohol, an equivalent quantity of sodium metoxide dis-
solved in methyl alcohol to the concentration of 0.75 normal was added
and the mixture w-as heated in a reflux apparatus for fully one hour in
the boiling waterbath. The liquid still possessed a faint alkaline reaction
but became neutral on our adding a trace of dilute acetic acid. On pouring it
into water a very beautiful white mass was precipitated which was drained
and then air-dried. Without being reerystallised it exhibited a melting
point of 52 — 53", showing it to be pure pnitranisol.
On the other hand in tiiis dilution benzene metanitrolluoride is
but very little affected by treatment with sodium methoxide for one
hour in the boiling waterl)ath :
1.0842 grams »«-X0o Cg H^ Fl = 7.7 millimols. were mixed with Ittc.c. of
w/i.295 NaOCHg this being the equivalent quantity. After being diluted with
water, the liquid was titrated back with 7.50 cc, of n acid, theory requiring
7.7 cc. Only 0.2 millimols of the compound had therefore, been decomposed,
or 2.6% ^f the total amount.
This renders it possible to (juantitati\"ely determine the amount of
benzene />- and /«-nitroflnoride in a mixture of the two com|»ounds
as shown by the following experiments :
(/. 1.1040 grams = 7.83 millimols. of a mixture of 89 y/„ of the para and
no/,, of the meta compound were mixed with 10.1 cc. of n\.n,y, sodium
methoxide ;md heated in a retlux apparatus for one hour in the boiling water-
bath. After being poured into svater the liquid was titrated back with 0.8 cc.
