( «64 )
subsequcnr nitration of the henzeiie o-nitrotluoride. This, thcrofoi-o,
amounts to 8"/„, corresponding- witli 6.1"/,, of ort ho compound. Accor-
diuf? to the al)ove the eouipositioii of the uilratioii product is therefore :
6.17,, l)enzene ortho nitro-lhu»ri(UM Heing foruied hy nitration of hen-
4.1Y„ „ mcta „ ' zene lhiori(h' at ()" ^vitil tiie com-en-
89.8"/,, ,, para ,, Mi-atiou of the acitl stated on p. (i62.
The composition of tlie twice nitrated pi'oduct M'as found to be
i)"'„ of benzene dinitrofbioride, 4"/„ of meta- and 87"'„ of para com-
poun(h This was easily coiUrolhMl Im malcinii- an artilicial mixture
liaving this composition as all the three componejils were at disposal.
Its properties must then be identical witli that of the twice nitrated
product. And indeed, the solidifying poijit of such a mixture was
found to l»e 18\7 and 18. 9 whilst that of the said product Avas at
18°. 8. According to 1)1<',1''.k.man"s data'), the sp. gr. of the artilicial
mixture should amount to 1.2773, whereas 1.271)1 was found for the
twice nitrated product. This higher figure is, probably, to be attri-
buted to the fact that the coi-rections to be appbed are somewhat
uncertain so that the results could only be accurate to within about
!"/„. If this should cause a little excess of dinitro and a little deti-
ciency of meta compound, the si), gr. will be at once seriously
alfected, whilst the solidifying point does not i)ercei»libly alter. In
fact, an excess of 0.8''/„ of dinitro compound is sutHicient to explain
the diiference in the sp. gr.
1 have also endeavoured to nitrate benzene tluoride at — 30°,
nsino- the same acid mixture employed in the nitration at 0''. On
adding the tluoride drop by drop to the acid cooled to that temperature
it dissolves with a dark brown colour causing but little rise in
temperature, just as had been observed in the nitration of benzene
bromide. After all the benzene fluoride had been added, the colour
o-radually began to fade and when the nitration vessel was removed
from the refrigerating mixture and its contents reached a temperature
of about — 20', the liquid soon became pale yellow and the temperature
rose to about -|- 10". It, therefore, appears that the velocity of
nitration at — 30' is already considerably retarded, as the intro-
duction of each drop of benzene fluoride at 0' is accompanied by
a very perceptible caloric effect. The solidifying point of the product
which was collected in the way described, was situated at lO.'^l,
from which it may be coiududed that it dilfers but little t'nnn the
product obtained by nitration 0\ This can only contain al)out 1";;
less of by-products.
1) Sp. gr. meta 1.2532; para 1.2.j83: dinilro 1.4718, all at 84-.4S.
