( 669 )
oxygen — on llie etliylene circulation, so that this might he made a type
of a low toinpcratiire circulation with a small quantity of working
gas. The removal of the pi-inci|»al deticiencies of Pktkt's tirsj cycle
in place of which my niethylchloride cycle is used, was llnis, as
far as possible, defei-red until an ethylene condensation was recpiired
quicker llian the one then necessary.
One inqtortant iinproxement in the cascade method could uol he
dispensed with even dien in the niethylchloride circulation, if I wished lo
work with success, ll was (he inlroduction of a i-egencrator with the
niethylchloride refrigerator. Regenerators had been ali-eady, as 1 found
later, used or patented by Siemens and Solvay for freezing-machines.
Still it ap[)ears that tliey were tirst used \)\ me for the systematic
|)roduction of liquetied gases, and that the combination of regenerators
with the cascade method, in addition to my other auxiliary a[»paratus,
tirst made this method practical.
The regenerator, where the \aponr rising from the niethylchloride
cools the ethylene which [)rocee(ls to the condenser immersed in
methylchloride, has been very curtly mentioned inComni.N"14{Dec.'94).
It is shown on PI. IV of Conim. N" 51, Sept. '99 and on PI. II of
the present communication, where further under © the same letters
will be found as employed in Comm. N" 51. In the following the
details are always indicated by suftixes to the (lothic lettei-s which
are used as distinctive for the various kinds of apparatus. 2^ƒ,Ms the well
known Pictkt refrigerator (tirst designed for sulphur dioxide), ^e
the regenerator. The liquid nietli3dchl()ride tlows into the condenser
through 2)^ (/ cf. Comm. N" 51), and is pumped away through ^a'.
The spiral within the regenerator contains N^O in the case repre-
sented in the plate (represented by doubly marked lines).
This refrigerator and regenei*ator is now almost exclusixely used
for the production of liquid N.,( ) (cf. Comm. N" 51 Sept. '99). A
refrigerator and regenerator with a much larger working surface and
a better construction is combined with the condenser and its pump
for use with liquid ethylene. These were constructed with great care
by the mechanist of the cryogenic laboratory Mr. C. J. Klim. Their
description has now become necessary, since the increased rapidity
^vith which this (piantity of eth^dene can be circulated by their
means has rendered many recent iiieasurements possible.
The ethylene boiling vesseP) of § 5 Comm. N" 14 Dec. '94 served
as a model for the new arrangement. In that model the regenerator
and refrigerator haxe l)eeii combined to a single piece of apparatus.
1) Represeoted in the account by Matthias, l-lev. Gen, deb' Sciences 30 April
1893, p. 385,
