( 67() )
III I lic same way the i-cgeiierator and retViueralor for mellivl-
chloride arc coiiibincd (see Qü J'l. Jj ior Hie elcxatioii and I'l. 1 for
tlie sec'tion) in one apparatus whieli we will eali (he iiiethylchloride
boiling- vessel. The experience with the ethylene hoiling vessel has
been put to use, so that in ils tuni also the niethylchloride apparatus
will serve as a model for an ini[>rove(l ethylene lioiling \essel. The
increase of the ratio iietween the surfaces of regenerator and refri-
gerator allows the melhylchloride to leave the ai)paratus at nearly
ordinary temi)erature, even when the l)rRCKHARDT pump asdescril)ed
Comm. N" 8.3 Apr. '03 sucks with its full force, which coidd not
be obtained before with the ethylene l)oilijig vessel. The condensing
surface measured in the tube is about 0.9 M-., and the regenerator
surface, similarly measured, nearly the same.
The walls of the boiling vessel are soldei-ed to form one whole ;
those of the refrigerator 6'c/,„ and Da (see PI. 1) are of copper 1 nnn.
thick, that of the refrigerator Fa of thin brass 0.5 mm. thick. The
neck A' of the refrigerator is soldered to the regenerator and this
again to the mouthpiece Ga. Owing to the length of the regenerator
and the thinness of the walls it is possible to make the latter of brass.
Even w ith this material the heat conductioji is of no importance.
Since I he vessel nnist l)e e\acuated it nmst show a considerable
resistance to external pressure. The resistance of the Avails themselves
is in the first place increased by the addition of small ridges Avhich
are shown as Ca^^ in the main drawing with the detail of the Avail
to the right and the section to the left. In the conical space D six
triangular copper plates Do^^ (cf. principal figure and the section at
bottom right of Pi. 1} give the necessary stiffness. These ha\e flanges
-Z)iji, i>6j„, which rest on one side oji the bottom, on the other
side they carry the conical Avail of the vessel through three rings
yjtj , J)c., and Dr^ . Resistance to outAA^ard pressure, Avhich becomes
necessary Avhen leaks have to be sought, is proA'ided by pressing the
l»ottom of the i-efrigerator against the plates JJij^o by means of four
Avooden balks Cd, Avhich also protect Ca^, pressing on crossed laths
Co ^vhich are screAved up to rest on the round upper surface by
means of steel rods Cc^ and a ring Ccg •
In contrast Avith the scheme of the ethylene boiling vessel, it was
not considered necessary that the height of the liquid should remain
very little above the Avindings of the condensation spiral. To condense
oxygen in the ethylene boiling vessel it Avas of all importance that
the temperature of the condensation spiral should fall as far as pos-
sible and thus that the ethylene should boil under a very Ioav pressure.
2sow in that case there woidd be no advantage in the vacuum pump
