( 671 )
removing llie vapour uiuler veiy low pressure, which implies a
rather considei'able loss of work by friction, if boiling nevertheless
occurred at a higher pressure. And this nnist occur Avhen to the
suction i)i-essure was to be added a noticeable hydrostatic pressure
due to the turns of the condensationspiral, where the vapour forms,
being much beneath tiie surface of the evaporating liquid. In the case
of the methylchloride circulation it seemed to me that the obtaining
of the lowest possible temjierature was not of utmost importance and
that there was no objection to simplify the construction by allowing
liciuid to be introduced to a height of 20 cm. in tiie refrigerator,
though not all protit is taken in this way of the low ])ressure (at most
20 nmi. of mercury) under which the Burckhardt — Weiss vacuum
pump, which is introcbiced into the methylchloride circulation, sucks
at full speed (usually about 8 mm. is employed).
The spiral where the ethylene is liquetied (length 53 m., inner
diameter 6.4 mm., thickness of wall 0.8 mm.) lies in two windings
in the hollow cylindrical mantel 6" in which the conical refrigerating
vessel D terminates below. There is just room between the two
windings of the spiral i^see section bottom left l)elovv^ and the elevation
of the section through I) bottom right on the plate) for the ascending
tube Ad by which the lower end of the inner spiral .Ic ^Ir/ is Joined
to the upi)er end of the outer. These two cylindrically wound spirals
are Joined to a Hat spiral Ac which lies on the bottom of the boiling-
vessel. When the latter is well tilled this spii-al lies Just under the
surface of the liquetied gas introduced through the cock .V. The spirals
are coupled so that the li(pii{l is driven out by the pressure of the
gas. If the boiling vessel is always kept so full that the tl at spiral is
immersed, it is advantageous to let out the condensed gas from the
last spiral. Shoidd it be desirable to work with a smaller quantity,
it is l)etter to tirst run the gas to be condensed through the tlat
s])iral ; this case is shown in the drawing. If the tlat sjtii-al is immersed
the temperature (usually — 87° C.) of the liquid can be read on the
thermometer (), the stem of which is bent for convenience and is
immersed in the tube Dj^ filjed with alcohol and protected from
interchange of teuq)erature with the air by means of aii ebonite
tul)e Dd-i Joined to it with tish glue. The capacity for liquetied gas
when the cylinder- and flat spirals are covered is 6 litei's, the volume
of tlie spiral 1 liter.
The conical sjiace of the refrigerator is suflicieiit even foi' an
excessive boiling up of the li»]uid, which is always large at low
temperatui-cs as can be seen from the movements of the float.
The regenei-ator spiral consists of two long tubes i>\ and i>V^ 31) m.
