( 672 )
and Bc and Bd 19 m. respectively, wliicli are wound in the sjiaee
between the unter wall Fa of the regenerator and the very thin
walled iinier cylinder 7/, divided into thi-ee parts by two wooden
rings. The inner diameter of the tubes is 7.5 mm., the walls are 1 mm.
thick. The two spirals can be joined otherwise than in the manner
sho\vn in the figure, but further description is uimecessary. A safety
cap A„ (c.f. the ethylene boiling vessel Comm, N". 14 § 5) is also
joined to the spiral, so that the bursting of the spii-als within the
boiling \essel is not ])0ssible. The figure shows cleai'ly how, without
a complicated construction, an intimate contact between the rising
vapour with the regenerator spiral is jn'odnced and also a constant
intermixture of the vapour partially warmed by contact with the
metal and of the still uidieated portions, convection currents which
extend to some distance being avoided.
The interchange of heat between the vapour, which rises in the
regenerator, and the gas which is put into the spiral is furthered
without ajipreciable loss of i)ressure l)y friction, by laying a perforated
copper plate Bh,,,, through w Inch the spiral find its way, horizontally
above each lattice spiral i)\, (see detail right section and plan). This
plate is soldered to the spiral where it turns downwards. In the detail
figure to the right, section and view above a plate, the soldering
place can be seen to the right of i>\, at the vertical section of the
spiral. In this figure the |»ei'forations are only (h-awn over a small
portion of the plate foi- simplicity. The perforated plate is insulated
by wooden blocks Bb^^ from the adjacent lattice, against which these
blocks press. Further cotton and ])archment paper are wrapped round
the column of plates ajid thus the spiral with the plates is made to
a whole that just fits \n\o the regenerator space. In this way the
gas, finding the A\ay through the inner cylinder shut, can only
escape through tlie perfoi-ated plates. The inner cylinder is insulated
by paper from the })erforated plates, and is usually closed above by
Hu. Sh(»uld it have to sustain pressure owing to perhaps a sudden
violent development of \apour, or owing to the closure of a sieve
plate i)y the freezing of moisture the vapour can immediately escape
througli the safety valve Hi,^, the construction of which is shown
sufficiently in the drawing.
The whole boiling vessel hangs on the solid neck (j„, along which
the vapour escapes, in the same manner as the ethylene boiling
vessel Ga rests with a collar (r, on a bracket (see PI. II). The main
outlet tube Ga gives off a brauch thi-ough a lai-ge but light cock
/ — the construction of which is sufficiently showji on the drawing
