( 673 )
— to tlie wide feeding tube of the Burchhardt — Weiss \acuuin
])iimp (^l PI. II), arranged as described in Conini. N". 83.
A second narrower branch witli ordinary cock X runs to one of the
combined pnnips of tlie Société Crénèvoise, mentioned in domm. N". 14.
On commencing- to work with tlie metiiylchloride circidation ^
is used alone, aftei-\vards 51 and ^ in series. Naturally when no
more liquid ethylene is required than was foi'merly used (Comin.
No. 14 Dec. '94) the pump 33 can be used alone and ^j (PI. II)
remains closed.
A third branch Gf goes to the safety cap K, the construction of
which is sufliciently shown in the diagram, and as soon as the
pressure reaches above the atmospheric the vaponr is conveyed into
large rul)ber sacks S? of 500 liters capacity each which are tlieni-
selves connected with a safety tube Spi,.
If a sudden violent development of vaponr occurs or the outlet
becomes closed unexpectedly, the vaponr can escape through the
safetycap Af PI. I. The arrangement of this can be seen from tlie
detailed drawing near A/. Tlie caoutchouc sheet AIi,^ covei-ed on its
lower surface by a tin plate nearly up to the sides, and tixed to
the rim A fa (on which a rim is turned to prevent lateral motion),
rests on the perforated {date Afe and is thus protected from the etfect
of exhaustijig the vessel. It is also not blowm out l)y pressure as it is
pressed by the cap J/^. As soon as the pressure rises above that at
which the spring is set (0,15 Ats above the atmospheric) the catch on
which the spring presses tlies open, the cap is driven upwards and
the caoutchouc bursts.
The soldered connection between the main outlet tube and the
regenerator is not exposed to strain since above and below^ the latter,
stout wooden rings Fd Fe are laid and strengthened with iron bands
Ffj^ Ffj.y The upper is fastened to the cover by three rings 7^^, the
loAver is drawn against the upper l)y steel wii-es F/\^^ at constant
tension temperature, changes l)eing allowed for by springs 7^y',,. The
tension is adjusted to the mean of the w eight of the whole apparatus
and that of the regenerator. The lower ring F^j^ Just mentioned is
fixed sideways by bands Sa and >S'^; (see chief figure and detailed figure
to left), it carries further anoflier iron band >S, onto which various
cocks are fixed (see also PI. II, €").
The cock JV to admit methylchloride is also fixed on an extension
Sc of this ring. The most advantageous cock Avould be one constructed
in the manner of that on the ethylene boiling vessel (see Mathius
description 1. c. p. 385). It is however sufficient that it siiould Iiave
the construction of that at 5D (PI. II. of this and PI. IV of Comm.
