( 675 )
The flask is packed in Ihe same way as the ethylene boiling vessel
(Comm. N" 14) first with nickel paper and then with several layers
of wool, the number of layers increasing at the colder parts, as can
be seen from the drawing PL I. They are contained between varnished
and nickelled paper as is seen in Ch, Ci, Ck, C, Fh, Fi, Fi„ while
horizontal strips of felt, dotted in the drawing, prevent convection
currents. These various layers form airtight compartments, which
are connected together by means of small tubes C,n C„, while the
whole airtight space is connected with the atmosphere through a
drying tube FL The outer surface is painted white.
§ 2. The methylchloride cycle. A short description of this is
desirable. The liquid methylchloride is preserved in the tubulated
condensor C^>, which is cooled by running water. Its pressure is
measured by the manometer and its level can be seen in the level
glass @^,, with blow-off cocks as used with water boilers (to make
a reading the connecting tube for liquid meth^ichloride ©^^j must be
cooled with ice as shown diagrammatically on PI. II (for further par-
ticulars the quoted description of Mathias p. 383 N" 2)). A large
cock QVi protected by a fdter (shown I.e. as N° 9) makes it possible
to shut the condenser off immediately by a small movement, even when
a strong stream of methylchloride is sent through the condenser. This
cock is followed by a regulating cock ©^.^ to which the tubes for
liquid methylchloride are connected. The latter run to :
"I'^f. the refrigerator D, which is used to obtain liquid nitrous oxide,
either in the manner given in Comm. N" 51 Sept. '99, or by drawing
it off into a vacuum vessel II from wliicli the nitrous oxide can
be siphoned over into other vacuum vessels and thus be brought to
apparatus arranged in other rooms.
As far as the nitrous oxide circulation according to Comm. N" 51
is concerned the mercury and auxiliary compressors (Comm. N" 54)
can be used as ï in place of the Brothekhood of Comm. W. 51.
The various pieces of apparatus, for which the nitrous oxide in 51
is used, are generally connected to the tube App and the sack 2Ö
from which the gas can be repumped into 25. Plate II shows the
use of a small 2 K.G. cylinder 35 of the kind usually used in this
laboratory for this purpose.
2"'^. other apparatus formerly described e.g. one of the cryostats
(Comms. N" 51 and 83),
3"^ the boiling vessel for the preparation of liquid ethylene ^
PI. II as described in § 1, either directly or through the regenerator
S' where the methylchloride is cooled by cold vapour coming from
another vessel and passing from In to Ex,
45
Proceedings Royal Acad. Amsterdam. Vol. VI,
