( 676 )
4'i' . an apparatus sjjj which will be described in detail in the following
section and intended to deliver a stream of calciumchloride solution
at a low but very constant temperature.
We may consider the methylchloride vapour which streams out
of these refrigerators and regenerators. In the case 3 above (some-
times also in case 2 for which the connection ^i serves) it would
be sucked by a Burckhardt — Weiss vacuum pump ^!, installed in
the manner given in Comm. No. 83. B'rom here it would travel to
one of the conjugated pumps of the Société Génèvoise ^\ mentioned
in Comm. No. 14, which receive the vapour from the Burckhardt
or from all other apparatus (S PI. II and further indicated under 2).
This pump ^^^ may for another example take the vapour directly from
the boiling vessel ^ (see PI, II and L PI. I) as weW as between the
hio-h and low pressure cylinder from the branch tube •(?, which too
allows gas to be pumped from one of the four above mentioned
sacks •!?, in which the methylchloride can be preserved for a short
time and of which only one is represented on PL II, while other
sacks can be connected to apparatus from which methylchloride
escapes under constant pressure. The pump is provided with an
indicator on the low pressure cylinder, a vacuummeter between
the hio-h and low pressure cylinders and a manometer on the high
pressure cylinder, besides several cocks which are required for
pumping, drying and filling with methylchloride. The vacuum meter
^mv indicates the pi-essure of the gas wiiich enters the high pressure
cylinder. From the cylinder volume and the number of strokes one
can derive the volume of gas and reduce it to that under normal
conditions moved in the cycle, so that the velocity with wdiich the
liquid in the refrigerator evaporates can be followed.
In addition a safety valve ^w is added to the high pressure cylinder
principally to protect the condensor 5\
The methylchloride which can escape from this safety valve is
passed into the above mentioned sacks -0. Usually, all the methyl-
chloride passes into the condenser, where it is cooled by running
water from the main. In between, an oil trap ^- is placed which
is slightly warmed by steam (see Q:\-„,X so that the transported oil
shall give up the dissolved methylchloride. The oil thus separated
by the change of direction is run into a flask iv. The last portion
of the methylchloride, freed here, is carried to the sack •!?. At the
top of the oil trap, the gas is freed from the last traces of oil by
layers of felt and wadding contained between sheets of metal gauze.
(C.f. the oil trap of the ethylene circulation shown by Mathias I.e.
p. 383 fig. 1).
