( 680 )
Mi
Fig. 3.
from the side of large v, we
>^ should see a succession of ridges,
and where we for simplicity con-
sider the case of a single solid
state of aggregation, we should
see the resulting ridge rising at
lower temperatures above the
liquid ridge (cf. fig. 3).
To find the coexisting phases from the region a' a" or from the
region U with the vapour phase from the region c, one must lay
the common tangent plane on the curved surface in c and the given
ridge. In the case that a rarefied gas phase occurs in c, the ridges
would be represented approximately by curved lines. This is then
also to be permitted in the search for the corners a and b of the funda-
mental triangle of the triple point. The general thermodynamical
character of a solid state occurring together with the Van der Waals
state (liquid, gas and labile intermediate states) would be thus obtained
by representing it on a Gibbs' surface by a ridge of a somewhat
other position and form but generally analagous to the liquid ridge.
There is thus every reason to suppose that outside the region
of observations and towards the large volumes the first continuations
of the isotherms obey an analogous law as to form and change
of form with temperature as tlie liquid isotherms, and thus by
a slight extension really produce a ridge. This appears to be more
probable when one notices that there is also a ridge on the Gibbs'
surface which does not correspond to the original equation of
VAN DER Waals where a and h are taken as unchangeable but
which belongs to the equation into which this changes when a and
h are taken as functions of temperature and volume. Thus when
shifting the variable or corrected isotherms (cf. ls\ 66 ยง 3 end) in
place of the original constant one a similar ridge as that Avhich
we have considered would also be always formed, though the suc-
cessive isotherms are no longer equal and similar, but show a small
continuous change with temperature. In this way one cannot escape
the conclusion that metastable states occur at the side of the solid
s'ate between solid and gas.
The observed part of the isotherm on the vapour side for tempe-
ratures far below the furthest limit of the observed undercooling of
liquid does not extend beyond the sublimation line. Still from ana-
logy with what is known for vapour at higher temperatures, it must
be assumed until the contrary is proved, that the Gibbs' surface extends
inside the sublimation line to metastable and even to labile equili-
