( 682 )
and the great change of the time of relaxation with the above men-
tioned further change of b at the transformation from solid to liquid
is explained on the same grounds. Still keeping this in view we may
say that by prolonging the line hi till it reaches the solid state we
have given what van der Waals calls the eqnation of state of the
molecule.
Now it follows immediately from this representation that the form
of the connecting line Id must be taken as dependent upon the tem-
perature and the inflection as decreasing and finally vanishing with
rising temperature. Thus the above consideration of the form of the
liquid ridge on the Gibbs' surface necessitates the assumption that the
solid can be joined to the liquid ridge by a plait. This wdll be gene-
rally perpendicular to the ^'-axis and will end in a plaitpoint i.e. this
indicates the continuity of the gaseous and solid states of aggregation.
With these considerations we have not treated the question whether
the conditions in the plait which we assume to exist in the gap
between the two states of aggregation (c.f. § 2 for outside the plait)
are also conditions of equilibrium, labile or ollierwise. We have
advanced no reason for this. This is as far as we know not done
by othei'S either who have assumed the existence of similar condi-
tions '). [n considering the vapour, we slated that there have not
been observed metastable states connecting the solid with the gaseous
and liquid states. However these appear very clearly and markedly
between the gaseous and liquid states, and have an important bearing
in the theory of van der Waals.
Also it is not unlikely that van der Waals has never in his
writings treated the continuity of the gaseous and solid states, and
has expressly kept it in the background, because the use of such
intermediate states as those above considered is only allowed theo-
retically when it is shown — as van der Waals did for the inter-
mediate vapour-liquid states — that these intermediate states may be
treated as conditions of equilibrium. However we do not propose to
determine "the molecular equation of state" from a given mechanism,
but to seek for an empirical form for this from the known facts by
induction. In this case we must use the most obvious analogies as
indications and it is not allow^ed to deviate from the most simple
suppositions without proving each step. With variable molecules it
is probable that relations between entropy and volume can exist
other than those which van der Waals has already treated in
his equation of state based on the theory of cyclic motion. In order
1) See especially Ostwald, Textbook of general cliemislry.
