( 685 )
similarity results in the law of corresponding states. The various
substances certainly differ widely in the solid state when they are
expressed with reduced coefficients. Thus the mechanical dissimilarity
of the actions of unhomologous points appears at once. When the
same isotherm passes through the gaseous liquid and solid states,
the higher coefficients of the polynomium must without doubt differ
considerably. It is thus to be expected that the lower coefficients,
will also exhibit certain but smaller differences, which are connected
with those in the higher coefficients. In this manner, in the compa-
rison of two substances, the deviations from the law of corresponding
states would be clearly connected with the solid properties of the
two given substances.
Further, as the virial coefficients give the deviations from the
Boyle Gay-Lussac law we may say that these deviations do not only
express the properties of the liquid state as given by van dee Waals
but also those of the solid state. Really a connection between the
deviations and the properties of the solid state is also implied in
VAN DER Waals' last development of the equation of state after the
method of cyclic motion.
ยง 2. The best possible connection of the known part of the solid
with the liquid ridge by a continuous surface has some similarity with
the use of the continuous line by which J. Thomson connected the
liquid and gaseous states found by Andrews. Still there remains a
marked difference. Thomson could start from the existence of a cri-
tical point. A continuous change from the solid to the liquid state
is not experimentally proved, it is doubted by some and as to the
crystalline modification it is directly contradicted by Tammann. If
Tammann's theoretical considerations were correct, then it would already
be clear that we had produced only a simple empirical interpolation
when we intended to have constructed a group of intermediate states
which beforehand would be at least probable on physical grounds.
Tammann's objections are certainly not conclusive. They rest in
the same way as our assumptions on extrapolations outside the
experimental region, and it appears that our extrapolation is more
probable than his. Also Tammann's combination of the fusionline of
water, an associating substance, with that of other substances as if
they were two cases which could pass one into the other by change
of temperature and pressure, presents some important difficulties. We
have not to consider these conclusions so long as we exclude asso-
ciated substances and substances of perhaps very complicated character.
Instead of giving immediately a general treatment of cases so
