( 686 )
different in principle, we confine ourselves to the simplest group
of substances.
For these we have constructed the representation which we shall
further develop in the following.
In agreement with Tammann, we also assume, although under-
cooling only occurs to a limited extent, that the liquid ridge
continues to very low temperatures (at first we may assume to the
absolute zero) states with increasing times of relaxation up to the
glass condition being encountered in passing over the ridge towards
decreasing temperature. Thus we do not come into collision with the
observations. Still we do not mean that it is quite impossible for
crystalline properties to be found on the glassy ridge e.g. at very low
temperatures. Further we do not suppose that the existence of one
such a ridge would exclude the possibility of other amorphous condi-
tions where other equilibrium relations between entropy and volume
could equally be found. Moreover it is highly doubtful if the term
amorphous does not include very various structures in the solid state,
so that it is certainly not necessary that an amorphous condition
should be present on the ridge where liquid would be found at a
higher temperature. As to the crystalline ridge, our whole represen-
tation makes it appear more probable to us, that the crystalline
ridge in the simplest case should run next to the liquid ridge down
to very low temperatures, than that it should follow Tammann's ring
shaped form (c. f. § 4).
The process of transformation from the crystalline to the gaseous
(below the liquid-gas critical temperature, liquid) state does not at all
disagree with the usual assumptions concerning the molecular forces,
but is immediately to be deduced from them. A very satisfactory
agreement with the suppositions would be obtained when the charac-
teristic difference between two ridges appeared to result from the
differences of density and entropy (specific heat) of the modifications,
the crystalline or amorphous form taken by each of these modifications
being thermodynaraically of secondary importance, so that for a first
investigation they would not come into account in comparison with
the cliange of properties of the solid phase due to difïerences of
density and entropy.
However it may be, we must certainly assume that the crystalline
form will result from the molecules being by choice oriented and
arranged in a giA'en manner owing to the forces from the not
corresponding points. The directing and arranging forces will then
be different for different densities and entropies, whence the most
probably occurring orientation and arrangement will be different
