( 687 )
for different densities and entropies and the crystal form will be
different for various modifications.
The increase of the vibration energy will gradually efface the
mean predominant most probable distribution and orientation as the
crystal is raised in temperature and although the whole continually
approaches a uniform mean distribution and orientation still some
different groups will remain in arrangements of most probable predo-
minant distribution and orientation. In particular if this hypothesis
Is applied to the case of a gaseous and a solid phase in equili-
brium which are brought together to a higher temperature, fresh
hypotheses must be made to render it clear that no identity of the
two phases can become possible and therefore no continuity of solid
and gaseous states will be found. Of course it does not matter if
the temperature under consideration is above the liquid-gas critical
point. Further there is no reason known why it should not be
allowed to extend the double convex part of the Gibbs' surface, —
containing essentially states of equilibrium, to higher temperatures and
pressures, so that it surrounds the critical point at the end of the plait.
Is is quite in harmony with our assumptions of ^ 1 that, in the
gaseous phase of a substance occurring also as solid, molecular groups
will at all times be found (produced always from different indivi-
duals) in which the particular attraction betw^een not equivalent
points ^), predominating in the solid state, will also be manifest.
Below a certain temperature it will then be necessary to momenta-
rily consider certain portions of the gas as crystalline. We are here
only following the method employed by Boltzmann for the deter-
mination of the equilibrium distribution, which is the most probable.
We apply it to a given densitj- and velocity distribution but also
extend it to orientation and arrangement.
We have mentioned above the existence of more ridges wiiich
appear successively on the Gibbs' surface towards the side of
diminishing volume. This case appears to us to be the normal one.
It is probable that the various solid modifications are not known for
most substances. If we further consider that a small change in the
course of the isotherms can cause one ridge to rise above another and
thus to represent more stable i)hases or not, it is not at all probable that
just those modifications of the various substances are known, which
belong to corresponding ridges. It is therefore, possible that in the solid
state the various substances would differ- less than now appears to be
the case if one were acquainted with all their modifications; finally the
J) Gomp. Reinganum, Drudes Annalen. 1903. 10 p. 334.
