( 688 )
possibility remains that more liquid ridges could exist along which with
falling temperature the time of relaxation would not increase to the
value required for the solid state, while states of equilibrium between
the two are to be expected, so that the same substance could exist
in two liquid modifications.
The reasons why such a case is not known and why the various
solid modifications are usually crystalline, must be farther explained
by a theory of the solid state.
§ 3. Following the lines developed \\c have constructed tlii-ee
models of Gibbs' surfaces.
We have first considered an imaginary substance, which partially
corref^ponds with carbon dioxide, in the liquid state is in harmony
with VAN DER Waals' original equation, and which further can exist
in one solid (crystalline) modification. For the Gibbs' surface of this
substance constructed according to our ideas, we have only considered
that portion where the fusion line of the substance is to be found.
This model serves principally to present clearly the views on the
solid state advanced in this communication.
Having assumed that we can express the character of the
peculiarities in the transition from solid to liquid by this model,
we have further constructed two others, which refer to the actual
CO3 and on which all known thermodynamical properties are
expressed as numerically exact as possible.
One of the models represents the whole surface for CO.^ with the
exception of the portions for the ideal gas state and for very low
temperatures.
The second gives, on a necessarily larger scale, the region where the
transition occurs between the various modifcations with small volumes.
Finally another model has been formed which demonstrates
sufficiently, that taking it in general, a substance like water can be
represented in the manner followed by us. We mean that the
deviations which this substance exhibits can be brought into line
with the association. In general a liquid ridge which
I i corresponded sufTiciently with the van der Waals
I equation of state, would be pressed upwards and
J X towards decreasing volume by the association. This
IK ( \ transformation is represented schematically in the »; v
"^^ \ projection by fig. 5. To the right lies the undisturbed
X VAN DER Waals ridge, given by the portion where
tiie connodal liquid-vapour, the curve drawn, runs
Fig- 5. to the left, the twisted ridge is again given by the
