( 689 )
altered portion, the two portions of the connodal solid- vapour are
again drawn (unfortunately the altered connection is omitted in the
figure). At m lies the maximum density of water under its own
vapour pressure. The preliminary model made by us serves to show,
that the most notable properties of H,, will be correctly given if
we consider the ice ridge as an ordinary solid ridge on the surface, and
the liquid ridge as changed by the last mentioned process owing to the
association.
We hope shortly to obtain models which will exhibit the trans-
formation of the different modilications or allotropic states as well as
the peculiarities of the expansion phenomena. In this way we hope
to contribute to a somewhat better insight, at least to a better
survey, of the thermodynamical character of the different substances.
However in addition to the questions relating to association there
are others, which have reference to mixtures, saturated solutions
etc., and which would necessitate a long investigation. We hence
think that the results now obtained from a sufficiently independent
whole to be published.
We have thus in the above made the meaning of our work
clear and can now proceed to describe the models somewhat more
fully and to show that the experimental data can really be obtained
on these surfaces.
I. The solid-liquid plait on the Gibbs' surface.
(Representation of the continuity of the solid and gaseous states).
The specific heat of the imaginary substance in the gaseous state
has been assumed to be equal to half that of liquid carbon dioxide:
the specific heat in the solid state as equal to that which is found
by employing Neumann's law. Also the substance obeys the van der
Waals equation of state for carbon dioxide in the liqLiid and gaseous
states. It appeared useful to give for this model (pi. II, fig. J) front
and side elevations and plan (pi. Ill fig. 1, 2, 3, 4) Avith the lines
•>/ = const., i" =: const., 7'= const, (dashed lines) /}==: const, (dotted
lines), for which the drawings are sufficiently explanatory. The con-
nodal fluid (gas)-solid is drawn on this model and the coexisting
states joined by steel wires.
The principal difference between our representation and Tammann's
is very clearly seen on comparing the plan (pi. Ill fig. 2) with his
figure (Drude's Ann. 3 p. 190).
This model is also useful for a comparison of our idea with the
well known scheme given by Maxwell (Theory of Heat, p. 207)
