( 696 )
Further, care has been taken to give the tangent plane the proper
inclination at these points in agreement with
p := — ( — ) ^^ ^^ ( T ) ^^ ^^^'^^ temperature and pressure shall
have their real value.
On the given drawings (scale ^ /^ of model) for plan and elevation
PL III, fig. 3 and 6 — one side elevation has been rejected as it
does not clearly show the course of the pressure and temperature
line — the behaviour of the line 7'= const, ;9 = const, ?; = const,
t] = const and the position of the triple point can be seen without
further explanation. We draw attention to the intersection of the connodal
line Sa Sb bv the connodal line Sl S/j and further to the passage
of the isotherms over the connodal line and the crossing of the
isotherms with their corresponding isopiestics. In order to read from
the isotherms, given on the model, tiie corresponding values of /;
and V, the diagram of the isotherms (see PI. I, fig. 2) was constructed,
which reminds one of the course of the isotherms derived from the
VAN DER Waals' equation. The point Z^ in this figure corresponds
to the triple point for li(iui(l and llie two solid modifications of
carbon dioxide. According to Tammann the pressure is 2800 K.G.
The point KLSa is the critical point of the modification A in the fusion
line. According to the model the critical pressure would be 6500 K.G.
and the reduced temperature 1.7,
The critical point GL occurs so far to the right on this scale
(the unit of volume is equal to that of PI. Ill fig. 5 and 6) that it
cannot be represented in the drawing.
No critical point exists for the transition of Sb to L omving to
the interposition of the ridge Sa. The binodal line on Sb antl L,
loses its physical meaning at a given position of the rolling tangent
plane. A continuous passage from Sb to Sl is only possible through
the gaseous as an intermediate state.
An important result can be obtained from the foregoing. Whenever
substances exist whose molecules undergo changes in the transition
to the solid state, which are mechanically similar to those which
determine the condition of the two phases, these said substances
Avill also agree with the law of corresponding states in the solid
condition. An experimental investigation for the continuity of the
solid and gaseous states would be best made on the substance with
the lowest critical pressure. If, for the moment, we assume that i/, and
CO, are sufficiently comparable from this point of view — at present
no better example is at hand — - the critical point solid-gas should
be sought at about 1800 atm. and — 210' C, and thus in possible
