( 698 )
follows from the motlei. In fig. 2 PI. IV, let AA' and BB' be a
j)air of coexisting phases. A higher temperature belongs to AA' than
to BB', while the pressure at AA' is greater than that at BB'. If
we extend the fusion line of ice in the direction of falling pressure,
dp
it is probable that for a given negative value of j), -y would change
its sign and become positive. Those phases for which ^0 would
dt
be determined bv DD', EE' and FF'. The critical point water-ice I
woidd be found at G and would therefore present a negative value.
PoYNTiNG ^) came to the same conclusion in a different wav. A second
critical point at positive pressure, which is deduced by Poynting
and also by Planck ") by linear extrapolation of the variation of
the latent heat of fusion, which is also given by us, becomes
impossible by the appearing of the other ice varieties, which we will
describe now. If we assume, returning to AA, that by rolling the
common tangent plane to CC in the direction towards BB on the
water and ice / ridge, we should also touch the ridge ice III
dp
at H'. Then -- would be positive for water and ice ///, in agreement
dt
with Tam:\iann's measurements. If now Ave suppose that ice III is
non-existent, we may prolong the binodal line AC A! 6" to a little
over CC' which gives us continually lower temperatures and higher
pressures. For a given position the tangent plane will now also touch the
ice II ridge. Hence we obtain a lower temperature T^ for this triple
point than for the triple point water —ice I— ice III, while the pressure
is higher for T^ than for T'j. This is also in agreement with Tammann's
results. In the same wav for water —ice III and water— ice II is -- > 0.
dt
According to our model the fusion curve of ice II has a termination
at higher pressures and temperatures and therefore we have assumed
that a critical point water — ice II exists.
Now we consider further the transformation line ice I to ice III.
According to Tammaxn the heat of transformation from ice I to ice III
is positive in the neighbourhood of the critical point T= 251° and
at lower temperatures negative. In order to be in agreement with
this, the ice I ridge has been given a strong curvature and the ice III
ridge a weak (see fig. 3 PI. IV where the elevation of the ridges
from the side of the i]s plane is shown). Hence the course of the
1) Poynting Phil. Mag. (5). 12. 1881.
2) Planck. Wied. Ann. Bd. 15 p. 460. 1882.
