( 388 )
same and the conclusions to be derived from these must hold good
in general.
For the sake of clearness we Avill considei a special case, viz.
that in which the licjnid curve falls outside the vapour curve and
the contact takes place in the critical point of the former. As the
saturation cur\'es contract on heating, the two curves will in this
case separate ^vhen the temperature is raised above the critical
temperature ; on the other hand the liquid curve begins to intersect
the vapoiu' curA-e Avhen the temperature is lowered. The relative
position of the curves here assumed is very common: it was discovered
for the tirst time bv van der Lee for mixtures of phenol and water ^).
When the liquid curve intersects the vapour-liquid curve an equili-
brium between a vapour phase and two liquid phases is possible,
but VAN DER Waals ■) has shovvn how this equilibrium mav be
ignored and a continuous vapour-liquid curve traced out through
the metastable and unstable parts of the diagram : along this curve
the liquid phase passes twice through the spinodal curve of the
two-liquid curve and at the same moments the vapour branch of
the curve forms cusps; the vai)our pressure considered as a function
of the composition of the liquid passes at the same time through a
maximum or minimum ; the thermodynamicxil condition in these
points is I — I = 0, where ^ is the tiiermodynamical potential.
In many cases the further complication arises that there is a
condition, where the compositions of the liquid and the vapour,
.I'l and .Tj, are the same and where therefore the pressure is again
a maximum or minimum : if this poiiit falls, as it often does, between
the two points where —— = 0, it can onlv be a minimum and botli
^ o.r-
the other points are then maxima; the composition of the vapour
in the three-phase equilibriuui then lies between the compositions
of the liquids and the three-phase pressure is higher than the pressure
of neighbouring mixtures on both sides. This is the case Avliich was
assumed by van der Lee in drawing his diagrams for phenol and
water, but from subsequent measurements by Schreinemakers ^) it
appears that for these mixtures the maximum where d\ =: .v.^ lies
outside the three-phase triangle in the v — iv diagram.
As the temperature approaches the critical point, where the two
1) Van der Lee, Dissertatie, Amsterdam 1898. Zeitschr. Physik. Chemie 33 p. 622.
2) Van der Waals, Goutinuitat II, p. 18, fig. 3.
=5) Schreinemakers, Zeitschr. Physik. Chemie, 35, p. 461.
