( 699 )
binodal curve is given by the line drawn in fig. 4 PI. IV. It is easy
dp dp
to see that now — <^ at the triple point 251^ and --^0 at lower
dt dt
temperatures. The transformation line has thus the course drawn in
fig. 5 PI. IV, which qualitatively is in complete agreement with
Tammann's determinations for this line.
The transformation line from ice I to ice II is xerj similar to
that from ice I to ice III. Since the ice II ridge distinctly rises more
steeplj' than the ice III ridge the line of transformation from ice I
to ice II is more curved than that for ice I to ice III. The result
is that the line of transformation from ice I to ice II cuts, above
the absolute zero, the vapour pressure line of ice I, wiiich runs verv
close to the T-axis (see fig. 6 PI. IV). A triple point vapour
— ice I — ice II corresponds with this common point, this has not
been observed, but Tajdiann holds its existence as probable. Also the
transformation curve from ice I to ice III (PI IV fig. 5) when
produced cuts the T-axis. The common point then corresponds to a
negative temperature, and thus this triple point cannot be realised.
The cur\e of transformation from ice II to ice III was not deter-
mined by Tammann, but its course can be seen on our model.
From the model it follows that Tammann could obtain ice II by
cooling to — 80" C, w^hile less cooling would be sufficient for ice III.
Owing to the form which we have chosen for the liquid ridge,
the expansion coefficient of water near 0° C. would be negative and
Avater would show a maximum density, while the expansion coeffi-
cient of ice would be positive, all in agreement with experiment.
The pressure lines for w^ater (see fig. 7 PI. IV) run in accordance
with this (at least near 0°) from larger to smaller value of v, and
simultaneously from lower to higher temperatures. The maxinuim
density of water, on our model, is shifted by increase of pressure
towards decreasing temperature, while at the same time it becomes
less marked and finally vanishes; also in agreement with experiment. ^)
1) Amagat. Recherches sur les gaz.
V. D. Waals. Arch. Néerl. Vol. XII. p. 457.
Grassi. Ann. d. chim. 3. 31, p. 437. 1851.
