( 700 )
Chemistry. — ''On ocimene". By Prof. P. van Rombukgh. (Com-
municated by Prof. C. A. Lobry dk Bruyn).
(Communicated in the meeting of February 27, 1904).
At the December meeting 1900, I Iiad the lionour to submit to
the Academy a communication on the essential oil from an Ocimum
Basilicum L. which contains besides a large quantity of eugenol, a
hydrocarbon of the formula C^^^,, to which I gave the name of
Ocimene. The peculiar behaviour of that hydrocarbon reminded me
of the olefmic terpenes, discovered by Semmler, of which myrcene,
isolated by Power and Kleber, was the best known. Ocimene,
however, did not appear to be identical with myrcene.
Chapman^) has shown some time ago that the essential oil of hops
contains 40 — 50 "/„ of an olefmic terpene which he considers to be
identical with myrcene. In his papei-, Chapman disagrees witii my
observation that myrcene is not so changeable as stated by Power
and Kleber. According to these investigators this substance becomes
polymerised after standing foi' a week, whereas I could preserx^e it
for months, of course in a properly sealed bottle. Chapman refers to
a paper of Harries '') to show the unstability of myrcene. Tiiere we
read however, only that the polymerisation "sehr leicht zu bewirken
ist durch langeres Stehen oder durcli mehrstiindiges Erhitzen auf
300"^", wdiilst Semmler'), in accordance with my observations, says
that he found it to be "überhaupt nicht so leicht veranderlich".
' The olefuie terpene from hops has the power of absorbing oxygen,
like ocimene. In one of Chapman's experiments 16 cc. of oxygen
were absorbed in three days by 1 cc. of the terpene. I had already
found previously that myrcene does not absorb in the same time any
notable quantity (only fractions of a cc.) and, recently, on repeating
my experiments I found my previous observation confirmed. If,
however, myrcene was left in contact with oxygen for a long time
(in tubes 1.5 cm. in diameter) the volume of the gas began to de-
crease gradually, but with increasing velocity, so that after 16 days
30 cc. had been absorbed. Of a sample of ocimene which had been
kept in a properly sealed bottle for three years and had twice made
the journey to and from Java, 1 cc. absorbed 17.8 cc. of oxygen in
11 hours; in the case of this terpene I again noticed that after
1) Journ. of the Ghem. Soc. Trans 1903. 83 p. 505.
2) Berl. Ber. 35 (1902). S. 3259.
3) Berl. Ber. 34 (1901). S. 3126.
