( 701 )
oxidation had set in, the absorption proceeded more rapidly so that
on the secoiid day, for instance, oxygen was being absorbed at the
rate of 2 cc. per hour.
Still, I should not feel justified in saying that hops-terpene and
myrcene are not identical, merely on account of the difference in
oxygen absorption, because further experiments have taught me that
under certain undefined conditions even this hydrocarbon may some-
times be left in contact with oxygen for a day without absorbing a
notable quantity '). But as soon as the absorption has commenced
it proceeds at a fairly rapid i-ate.
By the action of oxygen a colorless viscous substance is obtained.
I hope to refer to these experiments more fully later on.
In the same paper Chapman expresses some doubts as to the
"chemical individuality" of ocimene. Although I have already pointed
out in my previous communication that the boiling point at 20 mm.,
the behaviour on distilling at the ordinary atmospheric pressure and
the index of refraction of ocimene and myrcene differ considerably,
I will now adduce additional facts which undoubtedly prove that
ocimene and myrcene are different compounds.
Mr. C. J. Enklaar, who has taken up the study of ocimene in the
Utrecht laboratory, repeated in the first place the determination of
the index of refraction of this hydrocarbon and for a product care-
fully fractioned over metallic sodium he found y^,j9 = 1.4872 and
??,^^ 1.4867, which values satisfactorily agree with 1.4861 previously
found by myself by means of another apparatus. For myrcene, Power
and Kleber have found 7^/^ = 1.4674 whilst I had, previously, found
1.4685.
Semmi.er (loc. cit.) has shown that myrcene is reduced by sodium
and alcohol to dihydro-myrcene. On applying this reaction to ocimene,
Mr. Enklaar obtained a dihydro-ocimene, which not only differs
from dihydro-myrcene ^) as regards boiling point, specific gravity
and index of refraction, but also by the fact that it yields with
bromine a crystaUised additive compound. These investigations are
being continued.
1) Nol improbably, traces of moisture or of products of oxidation exercise a
catalytic influence. A retardation was noticed when ocimene freshly distilled over
metallic sodium was placed in dry oxygen.
2) Dihydro-ocw2e;?e boils at 1G8^ at 7G3 mm. At 21 mm. the boiling point is
65°. Sp. gr. at 15° 0.775. The boiling point of diliydrü-Wi//m'«(^ is 17r.5— 173°.5
at the ordinary pressure and its sp. gr. 0.7802.
