( 702 )
Chemistry. — ''Additive compounds of s. trtnitrohenzene.'" Bj Prof.
P. VAN RoMBURGH. (Communicated bj Prof. C. A. Lobry de
Bruyn).
(Communicated in the meeting of February 27, 1904.)
A communication from Jacks(jn and Clarke ^) on additive com-
pounds of substituted nitrobenzenes and dimethylaniline and another
from HiBBERT and Sudborough ^) on additive compounds of s. trini-
trobenzene and alkylated arylamines induces me to call attention to
the fact that I have been engaged for a long time with the study
of the additive compounds of m. dinitro- and s. trinitrobenzene. In
addition to those which I have described in former papers ') I have
prepared a large number of compounds with different aromatic amines
(such as toluidines, phenylendiamines, benzidine and their alkyl
derivatives) which will be fully described elsewhere as soon as the
crystallographic investigation of many of these products, kindly
undertaken by Dr. F. M. Jaeger, has been concluded.
Besides with benzene and naphthalene^), s. trinitrobenzene combines,
like picric acid, with different aromatic hydrocarbons. It forms with
anthracene fine orange-red needles (m. p. 161°), with a ???.é^/i?//an^Amce?ze
reddish colored needles (m.p. 138°), with phenanthrene an orange-
yellow compound (m.p. leS^)"*) with fluorene a yellow compound.
In all these compounds we find that 1 mol. of s. trinitrobenzene
is combined with one mol. of the hydrocarbon.
s. Trinitrobenzene forms with «-bromonaphthalene a fine lemon-
vellow compound (m.p. 139'') and a similar one with dibenzylidene-
acetone.
Substituted aromatic amino-compounds such as anthranilic acid,
and its methy tester, p. aminoacetophenone, ethyl m. and p. amino-
benzoate brought together with s trinitrobenzene in alcoholic solution
readily form colored well-crystallised compounds, the first two of
which are colored orange and the others red. p. Aminobenzoic acid
combines less readily and I ha^'e not succeeded in obtaining an
additive compound with m. aminobenzoic acid, which is a stronger
acid than its isomers.
Among the above compounds are some which \\\\\, presumably,
prove of importance in the hands of the micro-chemist for the
detection of certain substances.
1) Berl. Ber. 37, (1904), S. 177.
3) Journ. Chem. Soc. 83 p. 1334.
3) Rec. d. Trav. chim. d. Pays-Bas 6, 3G6; 7, 3, 228; 8, 274; 14, 65.
4) Hepp, Ann. d. Chemie 215, S. 876.
5) In the Dutch pubUcation of this article, the melting point has been stated
incorrectly.
