( 739 )
them. My rosearelies were pi-incipallv limitcMl to the soul hern i)art
of' tlie Noi-(li-Ilollaji(l low-lands, iiicludiuf!; the dunes, and the adjacent,
parts of the jn'ovinees of Uti-eeht and of South-Holland. It is a
matter of course that also here I had to limit myself to the chief
points of the (juestion.
In the last decemiia, lunidreds of Uorings have been done in the
polders, in the dunes and in the area between them by the corps
of military engineers ajid by othei's, with the object of making
fortifications or of obtaining fresh water. Down to a certain de[)th,
the constitntion of the soil is conseipiently pi-ett_y well known, and some
deeper borings have tolerably well ac([uainte(l us also with the
constitution of tlie soil at greater dejtth. Sand is the chief substance,
alternating with beds of always very im[)ure cla}'. Close to the
surface, pretty generalh, a zone is found of clayey sul)stances, (the
well-known "old sea-clay" of STARiN(i), over considerable areas,
covered with a layer of peat, which cla}', in the dunes, where that
peat is generally lacking, is covered with blowji sand. Under the
liner sand of the u[)per-soil, often mixed with clay, in which occur,
in large areas, deeper layers of peat, there is a zone of coai'se-grained,
often gravelly sand, not unfrequently containing pebbles. In the
west of the mentioned region, the top of that zone lies ab(jut 30 M.
^- A P. deep, or a few metres higher; in the east, near Aalsmeer,
Sloten, Amstelveen, Mijdrecht, Wilnis, (Judhuizen, it rises to J 6 or
14 M. fA.P.; near lAluiden and Nigtevecht as high as 10 or 8 M.
-r A.P. and its reaches the surface further east. Uiuler Amsterdam and
both south-east and north-east of it, the soil, on the whole, is much
richer in clay.
Also at greater depths, clay-beds occur, but nevei- as unbroken
layers, extending over great distances ; the most regular zone is
after all that of the so-called old sea-clay, near the surface. It is
besides of importance, that near our eastern frontiers much older
formations come to the surface, than have been found, some hundreds
of metres deep, under the lowlyhig lands in the west. This in itself
is a reason not to expect ai-tesian water, from Germany, in our
western sea-provinces, to some hundreds of metres below the surface,
at least.
Of great signiticance for the |n-oblem is also Ihe fad lha(m(u-eor
less pure clay I'arely occurs. Whai is considered as such, on further
examination, (washing of a uunibei- of samples of diilerent origin,
and especially chemical analysis, which analysis Dr. N. Sciiookl
was kind enough to do at my reipiestj proved lo consist for ojdy
one thii'd of clay at the nu;)sl, genei-ally for much less, even for only
49*
