( 74J )
is equal to that of sandy clay, hut that in aiiollier respect, it is
very ditFerent from clay, i.e. in its water-contaiiiiiifi' oapaeity. Wliereas
clay, like sand, can contain water for scarcely nioi-e Ihan a liiird
of the volume of the dry substance, non-compressed |wat can do so
many times over. Peat of the Rieker polder, near Sloten, on the
territory of the military \vater-works, A^as found to huxe a capacity
of holding water, nine^times the volume of the dry peat; and the
water in it can, altliough slowly, yet freely move.
On the whole we have to deal with an upper-soil of finer, often
clayey sand water, and on which or in \vhich, in most j^laces,
enormous water-reservoirs occur: the peat beds, for e\en the com-
pressed peat contains still a large quantity of water. In the colder
(rainy) seasons the upper peat layers are not only always kept filled
with fresh water, but they can, though slowly, provide lo^ver regions
from their water-store ; and along with the water, no doubt with carbonic
acid, which deep below will dissolve iron and chalk ; and methane
which, in the same way as carbonic acid, the more easily dissolves,
the higher the pressure is. Deep down tiie latter product of decaying
organic matter, cannot be formed, on account of the absence of
bacteria. ,
Those upper-lay ei'S, little permeable, more or less shut off the
zone of gravelly coarse-grained sand which at the bottom, in a
similar way l)ut much more imperfectly, in ils turn is shut off by the
irregular beds of impure clay and fine-grained sand, occurring there.
Under those conditions the vertical motion of the water, must on
the whole be difficult; at one })lace more and at the other less,
according to clay or sand locally prevailing and in pro[)ortion to
the latter being finer- or coarser-grained, Avhereas in the coarse-
grained medium zone or zones, horizontal motion is comparatiA^ely
eas}' ; that medium zone is therefore the great channel, and in
extracting underground water this "water-vein" is generally found
at about 30 M. ^ A. P. or a little deeper still.
That indeed below that depth the underground water has an easy
horizontal passage, appears from the fact, that the height to which
the water ascends in tube-w'ells, driven below the upper-edge of the
coarse-grained bed, falls but little; whereas higher up in the fine-
grained sand, it nearly always is considerably higher, (i.e. excepting
the deep polders, where the deep Avater \y\\\ nnturally rise above
the surface of the soil).
As to fixing the direction in which the dee[) nnderground water
moves, a thing that will enable us to inquire after the existence of those
currents, supposed by some, and also the origin of the uiidergi-ound
