{ 742 )
Wilier, tlie lueaiib lu do so, jiltliongh liardly ever applied, ;iro evidcMit.
.lust tis on the siirFuce, it is the law of gravitation that also deep
below, gives to Ihe water its hoiizoiilal course. The direelion of that
motion, as caused Iw gra\ itation, can i)e demonstrated from the
inclination of the pression-line of Ihe water, deep l)elow, for that
motioncan hap[)en only from spots under greater, to tiiose of smaller
pression. The \ertical motion, under any given constitution of the
soil, can, as a rule, be inferred from the jtositive or negative character
of the j)rcssion l)elow, Avitli res|»ect to tlie level of the water on
the surface.
When the water from the undergrouiul, freely rising in a lube-
well, remaijis below the level of that in Ihe upjier soil, that vei'tical
motion can take place only in a dowiiwai-d direction — if at
any rate, then and there, a motion in a ^■ertical direction on the
whole is possible, which is mostly the case. When, on llu^ other
hand, the level of the water, iu the tube-well rises highei' than that
of the surface-water, as is the case in the dee|t p(>lders, vertical
motion in a somewhat permeable soil, can take place only in aji
upward direction. The (puintity of chlorides in the watei', <letei'mined
as chlorine, furnishes us wiih an othci- indication of the direction
of that Aei'tical motion.
So the observation of the height to which the water ascends in
the tnbe-wells and the mutual com|»arisou of the same, can teach
us much as to the direction in which the watei- moves. A great number
of those observations have enabled me to ascertain, that also deep
below, the motion of the underground water (unintluenced though it
remains by small irregularities), depends on the sha})e of the surface.
In short, the direction is from the dunes to the lower regions ;
from the higher to the deeper jiolders, and any great une\'enness of
the surface, makes its influence felt, already at a considerable distance.
In the dunes the deep underground water is under the highest
pressure ; in the deepest polders it ascends in the tube-wells to a
level some metres lower, although there it wells up above the
ground. Near a low-lying polder the water falls also in very deep
wells. So not only near the surface, but also deep below, there is
a motion from the dunes to those polders and also from the higher
to the lower polders.
Before communicating the observations, on which those results are
founded, 1 must specially state, that there are influences, which for a
time may more or less change the pressicui of the water in the
underground, as it appears from the rise or fall in the wells. In the
tirst place uuisl be mentioned: rains, whicli make their influence felt
