( 750 )
iin(lei',G:i'Onnd water is submitted, is liroken l»y those local irregularities
of the geological structure.
That we have not to thijik of strong currents of the deep under-
ground water, in a general direction for all, but of currents, dependent
on the local form of the surface, may tinally be confirmed by
soundings in two wells, sunk also under the direction of Dr. Klein,
in tlie Watergraafsme'^r [tolder (Summer Level r o.5() M.). One of those
wells, in the north of that polder, near the Ooster-railway, at 250
jNI. north-west of the so called Poort, deep about 39.5 M. t- A.P.,
had oil June 18^'^ 1903 a level of 3.215 M. ^ A. P. In another,
presumi]igly 35 M. -! A. P. deep, in the south of that polder, near
the Omvali the level was 3.125 M. ^ A.P., on June 23'' 1903. The
latter lies 5 K.M. almost straight east, from that near the "Huis de
Vraag," which in its turji lies 2.3 K.M. east, but a little towards
the north, from well 111. 40, in the Rieker polder.
Another Avell, about 25 M. ^A.P. deep lies, in the south-west
corner of the Bijlmermeej- [)older (Summer Level ~ 4.80), at 4 K.M.
north-west of the well near the Oostzijdschen Water-mill, 4.8 K.M.
south-east of thai near the Onnal and 11 K.M. from the Bullen-
wijkei- and Holendrechter polder (Summer Le\el^3.35 M.). This
well had, under the same meteoi-ological conditions, a level of 3.075
M. ^ A.P. At the well-known boring done by the corps of military
engineers, at Diemerbrug. near the Weesp turn])ike, beyond the
northern extremity of the Bijlmermeer pf»lder, the level of the water
in the well, then' 73 M. ^ A. P. deei), was 2.51 -f A.P. on Oct. 18^»!
1888. That well was 2 K.M. from the eastern border of the Water-
graafsmeer polder.
Consequently the result of the ditferejit observations is, that there
is not a general, so called "artesian' current from east to west
or vice versa, in the i-egion between Amsterdam and the H. M.
polder, neithei' south-east of Amsterdam: those found, are but special
currents originating in local diiferences of height of the surface and
directed towards the Haarlemmermeer- and adjacent other deep i)olders
and towards the Watergraafsmeer-, the Bijlmermeer- and the Holen-
drechter ])olders.
Another result is the c()iiclusioii we may di-aw, as to the dii-ection
of the vertical motion of the undei'ground watei-, hy comparing the
dilferent levels of the Avater in the deej» wells with that of the
Aarying levels of the undei-ground water I'ising b'om smaller (le[)lhs
and with the highest level this reaches. In short in the shallow
polders, in the dunes and iji the area between them, the tlireclion
appeal's to be downward ; in the deep polders, on the other hand,
