(751)
such as tlie Haarlemmermeer polder and I ho adjacent deep ones,
upward. It is a wellknown fact that the water in deep wells rises
above tlie snrfaee of the nndergronnd water and above the grass-
land of the deep polders. In polders of smaller depth, tlie deep
welhvater remains below the surface. Likewise the ascending
power of tlie water, as a rule, gradually diminishes towards the
middle of the deep polders. In higher parts, such as in the dunes
and in the Hat sandy adjacent area, the surface of the undei--
gronnd water is considerably higher than the level of the water
in the deep wells. So here we find increase of pression from
below upward, and descending movement of the water. In the
dunes near Castricum the level of the surface of the underground
water is about 1.30 M. higher than that reached in the deep
wells ; at Santpoort, at the inland side of ihe dunes, the difference
eveu being 1.80 M.
In connection with the above indicated conditions, especially in
the colder seasons, when the underground ^vater is generally fed
with the water penetrating the soil from the rainfall, the dunes,
the shallow polders and the intermediate area will get a fresh
supply of water, wliereas there is always a loss by the pumping in
the deep polders, to which, certainly in no less degree than to the
sea, there is a constant affluence. The underground water not being
of distant origin, it can as a matter of coui-se be derived only from
rains on the spot itself, or at a small distance.
.lust a passing reiuark in connection with the results arrived at,
to call the attention to the drying out of the dunes and especially
of the lower stretches of land west of the H. M. polder. This drying
out, i.e. considerable lowering of the surface-level of the underground
water, actually noticed for already half a century, has repeatedly been
attributed to the w^aterworks in the tlunes for the water-provision
of Amsterdam; to my opinion howevei- it is in the first jdace
due to the draining of the Haarlemmermeer, just iialf a century
ago, from which event dates the powerful subterranean cui-rent
from the dunes to the deep extensive Haarlemmermeer })older.
Especially in the lower tracts from Zuidschalkwijk to Benuebroek,
up to a few kilometers from that polder, the drying out process
has made itself felt, on account of clay above the coarse-grained
sand being almost entirely lacking. In those parts the water in the
ditches, when there is no fresh artificial in-flow, will soon sink down,
actually making its way under the encircling canal of I lie II. M.
polder, as is proved by the considerably lower level in part of
