( 752)
that region '). E\'er since, a few years ago, the level of the H. M.
pokier was lowered 0.30 M., the le\'el of the water in a pond, 4 M.
higher, al Meer-en-Berg, and 400 M. outside the ])older, was observed
to be lowered as much. From this we can imagine how powerful
the influence of a lower level of 5 M. nnist have been at the
time Avhen the Lake of Harlem was being drained dry.
As to the motion of the deep underground water, at the side of
the dunes, facing the sea, 1 have been able to make only a few
observations. The great uniformity Avith which the dunes border on
the sea however, in connection with the other results of my investiga-
tion, permit drawing pretty safe conclusions from them, as to the
general condition.
A well known fact is that the superticial water Hows from the
dunes towards the sea, just as it does inland from the dunes to
the adjacent tlat area and the polders. A remarkable proof of the
water flowing from the dunes to the sea, is the welling up, at
ebb-tide, of fresh water on the beacli, north of Noordwijk-aan-
Zee. Puddles and furrows form themselves, from which, as long
as it is ebb, not unHke rills, fed from sources, large quantities
of water, only partly consisting of salt-water, flow towards the sea.
Particles of clay brought up with the water and found in the ripple-
marks on tlie beach, suggest the presence of a clay-bed, close to
the surface, through interruptions of which the welling u}> of the
water takes place. On March 27'i' 1903, at 1Ï a.m., it being low-
tide, about 9 hours after high-tide, (the wind S.S.E.), I scooped
opposite stmnd-pole N". 78, from such a rill, about 200 M. long,
(the debit of which miglit be calculated to be in the least 7 M' an
hour), a sample of water, which proved to contain 11550 niG. of
chlorine the Liter. So for \/^ it was fresh- and for -/j sea-water,
and hourly more than 2.3 M' fresh water found its way into the
sea, through that little ebb-rill. The great uniformity now with which
the dunes slope dowji to become beach permit us to accept as
a general though in most cases invisible fact what here, through
local circumstances, ha[)i)ens visit )ly.
Another proof for the considerable flowing down of fresh surface-
water towards the sea, furjiished to me a stone- well at the foot of the
dunes, on the beach at Zandxoort, from which the fishing-smacks
take their water-store. The bottom of that well is 0.72 M. ~ A. P.,
1) That also from the euciicliiig canal itself, which is about 3 M. ^ k.P. deep,
the water is sinking down, is proved by the fact, that near the Gruquius, tlie
level is always some centimeters lower than in the Spaarne and in the canals
of Harlem.
