( 757 )
place, tlial wilhiii lliose poldei-s, jiisl as oiilside (lioni, hiil already
al a liij2,ii(H' le\eK tlie water deeper down will he found lo iiave a
liighei- salt standard. At Hoofddor[» the (pianlity of chlorine, at
18.5 M. : A.P., was 202 m.U. a Liter; at 28 lAI. : A. P., 200 m.G.
and at 38 M. ! A.P., 993 ni.GJ. With such a rapid increase as in
the last 10 M., iinniixed sea-water may he expected, at little greater
depth.
No douht can l)e entertained as to undergronnd sea-\\'ater and
fresh Avaler in onr sea-provinces balancing each other in a way, as
indicated hy P)AnoN Ohyben and Herzberg ^), xevy much however
modified, in general and in special cases, by the general geological
structure with its local modifications. There is no ground for fear
of the sea-water coming up from belo^v, in ]»art of the dunes, in
which the imderground water has been lowered down to the sea-
level ; the XGvy fact that there are polders, which already for
centuries lie beloAv it, and still have tresh water, down to great
depths, and that even of the deepest polders the u))[)er-soil, several
scores of metres deep, is much more soaked with fresh than with
salt water, refutes that fear.
Remarkable however is that at Hoofddorp, although situated in
the midst of the Haarlemmermeer polder, the deej) underground water is
less salt than at Eert-den-Koning, near the edge of the polder, and
less still so than some kilometres north-west of Hoofddorp, e. g. on
the farm Mentz, where a deep well, [)resuniably eipially deep, has
water containing 653 m.G. chlorine a Liter, i. e. 2^ times the
quantity of that at Hoofddorp. Differences in the condition of the
sub-soil are evidently the cause of those differences in the salt quantit3\
In the shallow polders, on account of the direction downward of
the \ertical motion, also the water from the canals ("boezemwater")
may be the cause of rendering the deep underground water salt,
^vhen locally the structure of the soil does not prevent it.
Bearing in mind, for the motioji of the umlerground water, the
significance of the difïerent heights of the polders, and not forgetting
the irregularities in the extent, the thickness and the com|)arative
pureness of the clayey beds, also irregularities in the vertical tlistri-
bution of the water and in the composition of it may be explained.
1) W. Badon Ghyben in : Tijdschrift van het Kon. histituut van Ingenieurs 1889,
p. 21; Herzberg in; Journal fur Gasbeleuchtung imd Wasserversorgung. 1901,
p. 815 s.q.q. I count myself happy to have pointed out in lectures, conversations
and letters this forgotten merit of one of our engineering-officers, in consequence
of which remembrance Mr. C. E. P. Ribbius and Mr. K. d'Andrimont have, in
their publications given due honours to our compatriot.
