(758)
intermixing- with water, rirlier in salt, both from above and from
below, may consequently l)e hindered or iiirlhered l»y it, also the
oozing in of fresh water; the diiferent mixtures, as an olhei- conse-
quence, being able to move horizontally in the one or the other
direction, or be prevented to move at all, which explains the diiferent
levels they reach.
The hypothetic currents can be dispensed with to explain the
existence of fresh water, bel u een 35 and 50 M. : /V.P., in the old
boriiig at Sloten, so often ui-ged in i>roof of powerful subterranean
water-currents of distant origin. Of the abo\e mentioned \vells in
the Rieker polder, those, most A\est, are only 800 M. east of tlie
boring of 1887. The diiferent levels observed in the wells at Sloten
can in reality be due only to local motion, in the direction of the
shallower polders (with their higher upper-pression) to the deeper
polders, where the pression from above is less powerful. The fresh
water, everywhere found there at great depths, down to 50 M. ^ A. P.,
can lind its origin only in those shallow polders themselves. The very
position of the old boring at Sloten, at a corner of the shallow
Rieker polder, between two deep jwlders (the H. M. polder and the
Middelveldschen Akerpolder (S. 1.. f 4.20 M.)), explains the irregu-
larities of composition observed there in the vertical distribution of
water, and thus it is, with the l)oring near Diemerbrug, outside the
north corner of the deep Bijlmermeer polder (S.L. -f 4.20 M.). At about
250 M. ^ A.F. water of a somewhat lower standard of salt (mini-
mum 1J92 m.G. a Liter) was found; no fresh water, as Dahapsky
lately held forth. Considering what influences are at work in the
distribution of the water in our soil, one can but see natural
phenomena in all those deviations.
Considering the geological condition of the pliu-e itself and of its
surroundings, the occurrence at Wijk-aan-Zee, both of fresh water down
to 31 M. ^ A. P. (47.8 m.G. chlorine) and of its getting l)rackish, ali-eady
at 50 M. -7- A. P. (351 m.G. chlorine) may be easily explained; also
the presence of a layer of fresh water, between the sea-water, in
the sub-soil of IJmuiden.
In this discourse on some general features of the movement of
the underground water in our lowlands the question remains to be
settled, how it is that some shallow polders, of whicli the canals
and the ditches like those of other, deeper polders, are mostly tilled
with brackish water, can furnish fresh underground water.
In the first place the answer will be that, by no means, all
surface waters of the polders are brackish. Even in the H. M. polder,
I found, also at dry seasons, in some places fresh surface water
