( '5» )
containing only 78, 60, 35.5 niG. of rhlorine ;i Liter. Holes made
in the midst of deep-polder meadows often till with fresh water,
even when a long period of ahsolnte dry weather precedes the
digging of them ; so in the Purmer-polder, near the above mentioned
deep well, on May 13^'i 1903, the water in snch a hole, dng abont
1.80 M. deep, contained only 72.6 m. G. chlorine a Liter, the
adjacent ditch water having 407 m.O. Near Hoofddorp, in the
H. M. polder, in the midst of the Slaperdijk, 250 M. sonthwest of
the Hoofdvaart, after weeks of dry weather, in a hole, the Corps
of military engineers had dug, down to 0.40 M. below^ polder-level,
water oozed in, wdiich contained not more than 102 m.G. chlorine
a Liter, still that dike (the summit of which is about = A. P.)
over all its length stretches between two canals 10 a 15 M. wide,
only 40 M. apart and always füled with brackish water, lorl.5M. '
deep. The water of those canals at that moment contained 511 m.O.
of chlorine a Liter. The level of the water that had gathered in
the hole, was 0.11 M. higher than that in the canals and at that
time they w^ere even considerably higher than they had been the
last month. But those are deep polders, in which the vertical motion
of the underground water is from below upward. What to think
now of the w^ater that penetrates the soil of the shallow polders?
The extent of the land, in the polders, generally exceeding that of
the water at least 25 times, and the level of the underground Avater
in vsiiny seasons, being considerably higher than the neighboui-ing
ditch water, consequently the fresh water will filter down, in a far
greater proportion than the brackish, the surface of which forming
but an insignificant portion of that of the fresh water fallen in the
meadows. The water of the canals ("boezemwater") consequently can
but little add, in those rainy seasons, to the salt-standard of the
underground water. In the dry season, on the other hand, the land
drying out, water must be let in ; the soil is then absorbing brackish
water from the canals. In fact, however, even such shallow polders,
as the Rieker polder and those of Purmerend, which possess fresh
underground water below the recent more or less impermeable strata,
have brackish nnderground water near the surface, all the year round.
Ne\'ertheless, to my opinion, a great number of phenomena point to
the supposition of the deep fresh underground water, found in some
of our shallow^ polders, which ha\e brackish underground Avater
near the surface, being due to rainfall on the spot itself, or at a
comparative short distance. This question will be the subject of a
further communication.
Considering the facts communicated here, in connection with others,
