concern iii,^' llic qiiantilics of wntcr \vliicli fioiii ilir laiiifall poiictralos
the soil, it need not be further demonstrated that in tlie f^nb-soil under
the dnnes, nndcr the adjacent flat e]e\ate(l area and nnder some
shallow polders, drinkalde water is and will not i)e lacking, in the
main land of the pro\inces Norlli- and Soulli-lIoUaiid, superficiallj'
judging so little favoured in this respect, and with two fifths of the
population of our country. That the velocity with which the deep
uiulerground water can move through the coarse-grained sand, is quite
sufficient to make it possible to procure it from the sand in large
quantities, a great number of facts prove it. I will mention but one,
that of the paper-manutactory at Velsen, of which the six wells,
encompassing an area of 0.85 H.A., every 24 hours, on the average,
furnish at least 2200 M" of fresh water or nearly as nnu-h as the
town of Harlem wants and about a tenth of Avhat Amsterdam
consumed during these latter years. And those wells funiish water,
which shows no signs as yet of a too slow horizontal motion ere
long being likely, by disturbing the natural ecpulibrium of the under-
ground fresh and salt-water, to convert the pumped fresh into salt-
water. On the contrary the water of the oldest well, full six years
in use, has grown a little sweeter still.
Physics. — "Lwestlgt/tidii of 'i .source of oi'ors in measiirempnfs
of magnetic rotations of the plane of pi'liirisalion in atisoi-hnuj
solutions." By Dr. L. H. Sh'-.rtsema. (Communication N". 91
from the Physical Laboratory of Leiden by Prof. H. Kameulingii
Onnes.)
(Communicated in the meeting of January 30, 1904).
In a great number of measurements of the magnetic rotation of
the plane of polarisation it was found, that this rotation assumes very
large values in the neighbourhood of an absorption-band. Similar large
values were found by me in an investigation on the negative mag-
netic rotation of potassium ferricyanide ^) in dilute solutions. Tiiese
results ao-ree with the new optical theories which \ ield for the
magnetic rotation the dispersion formula: 'j
e A d7i
^ ~m2VT).
dn
since the ouautitv — also assumes a large value near a i)and.
1) Arch. Need. (2) ö p. iiT: These Proc. 1901 '02 p. 339; Conim. Pliy>. Lab.
Leiden N". 02, 76.
2) These Proc. 1902/03 p. 413; Comm. Phys. Lab. N'l 82.
