( '<>1 )
Much atleiilion sliould niereforc bc paid to tlic fVu-l that Bates ^)
has made iiieasiireiiienls witli Mohdiuiis of cyaiiijie, fiKdiisiiie, litmus
and aniline blue, from which it wouUl follow lliat these large
rotations did not exist, whereas Schmauss ') wilh these verv sub-
stances has found ^ery large rotations. According to Hates these
large differejices are caused by a source of error which arises from
the circumstance that for these measurements we make use of light
of which the intensity varies with the wave length '). He shows
that both with the iialf-shadow method, and wilh Ihat where we
adjust on a dark or a bright band in the spectrum, great ei-rors may
be made as soon as we arrive at a region where the intensity-curve
of the light used shows a considerable deci'ease, and that this may
produce apparently large rotations.
As this source of errors might also occur in my measurements
with potassium fei-ricyanide, it seemed important to me to investigate
in how far this may have had a disturbing intluence, and thus in
how far the lai'ge rotations then found would ha\e to be ascribed
to it.
With the method involving the use of a dark band in the spectrum,
the source of above errors comes to this, that as soon as the intensity
of the light on the two sides of the band is not the same, we are
inclined to wrongly adjust the middle of the band, and to displace
it too much towards the dark side. For we may suppose that for
an adjustment we, as a rule, search for two points on the borders
of the band which are of eqnal intensity and then adjust between
them. It must be noted that attention has been re})eatedly drawn to
this source of error ^) although, as far as 1 know, an experimental
investigation of the errors which may so arise was first made by
Bates ^). A theoretical solution would be possil>le in the manner
indicated by Bates, but this requires a knowledge of the intensity-
curve of the spectrum which is seen l\v the observer in the absence
of the magnetic rotation. Moreover Ave ought to know which of
the intensities on the edges is nsed by the observer to determine
the middle of the band, and this especially will partly depend on
the observer. An experimental determination may easily be made.
We need only produce a spectrum witli a movable dark band and
1) Bates. Ann. d. Phys. (4) 12 p. 1091.
S) ScHMAUss. Ann. d. Phys. (4) 2 p. 280 ; 8 p. 842 ; 10 p. 8.j3.
3) Bates. Ann. de Phys. (4) 12 p. 1080.
*) Gernez. Ann. éc. norm. 1 p. 12 (1864).
Van ScHAiK. Thesis for the doctorate. Uti-echt 1882 p. 30.
«) B.\TE3 1. c. p. 1086,
