( 392 )
liquid curve at first and then appears outside, either on the tempe-
rature being raised, as is the ease with mixtures of triethjlamine
and water ^), or on lowering the temperature, as with propane and
methylalcohol ^) ; if in those eases a maximum vapour pressure exists,
this maximum may disappear in a manner similar to the one
sketched above.
The above conclusions may be summarised as follows:
The critical mixing-point of two liquids does not coincide with a
point of maximum vapour pressure, if such a point exists; but the
latter point may sooner or later at some distance from the critical
point be enclosed inside the three-phase equilibrium; in the critical
point the liquid branch of the saturation curA-e in the ji — x diagram
has a point of inflexion with a tangent parallel to the .r-axis.
university College, Dundee.
Physiology. — "Sontethhu/ concernlmi the growth of the lateral
areas of the trunkdermatomata on the caudal portion of the
upper extremity" By Prof. C. Wjnkler from researches made
in connection with Di-. G. van Rijnberk.
(Gomraunicated in the meeting of November 28, 1903).
A methodical treatment of the dermatomata of the upper extremity
offers very considerable difficulties, which have been confronted for
the first time by the eminent labour of Sherrington, though to our
belief he has not wholly succeeded in conquering them.
The first difficulty we encounter, wdien essaying their physiological
elaboration, is a technical one. The upper extremity transforms by
its growth the dermatomata (of neck and trunk) situated above
and beneath it. Owing to this transformation their extension-areas
overlap one another mutually in a very peculiar manner, and only
by means of cutting through numerous — sometimes from 7 to 9 —
adjacent posterior roots, it becomes possible to isolate them completely.
The operation therefore presents greater difficulties, its duration is
prolonged, its dangers are increased, partly because of the near
vicinity of the medulla oblongata, partly because of the presence of the
large perimedullar venous blood-reservoirs (air-embolus, hemorrhage).
The experimental definition of the extension of a root-area on the
extremity, already more complicated than it is on the trunk, because
1) KuENEN, Phil. Mag. (G) G, p. 637-G53,
