( 775 )
standing' of tlie inoclianisni of the HF/KMANN-rearmngement. Tliey
prove tlial lliis iinporlani (raiisforniation is inosi decidedl}' a real
inti'ainolei'ular rearrangement, wliicli may occni- in some cases with
the oxime, Itnl in the majority of cases with derivatives in which,
instead of jjie OH-gronp, another negati\e groiij) or a halogen has
been attaciied lo the nitrogen. In that case the change from II into
III represents the actnal I'earrangement.
AuwKRS and Czerxy have already j)ointed ont that the above rearran-
gement caused by distillation deserN-es the closest attention. They are
of opinion thai this observation leads to Ihe view that the Beckmann-
rearrangement is a calalytical process which is in accord with
Bkckmann's own ideas. Bnt is it permissible to speak of a catalytic
process when the catalyzer is ^vanting? And do not Auwers and
CzERNY withdraw their o^^'n statement when they say that "es sich
vielmehr handelt iim die directe üeberführnng eines weniger stabilen
System in ein stabileres?"
The BECKMANN-reai-rangement has not, up to the present, been
subjected to a dynamical inxestigation. Such a study is not i-endered
less desirable or less important by the fact that, as a rule, the
rearrangement of the intermediate jtroduct and not that of the oximes
themselves will be investigated.
The oxime which has been studied in the lirst place is aceto-
phenonoxime of which only one form is known and which quantita-
tively passes into acetanilide. Its configuration is therefore:
C,H.— C— CH, -^ C,H,. HN. COCH3.
II
HON
The rearrangement, which Bec;kman'N found to take place under
the i])thience of concentrated sulphuric acid was studied in the lii'st
place. Before starting it was necessai-y to work out an analytical
method allowing the (pumtitative determination of the resulting anilid
in I lie presence of tlie unchanged oxime. After several ])reliminary
ex[)eriments it was found that the anilide formed on adding water
was completely hydrolyzed by boiliiig for a few houi's and that the
acetic acid could then be distilled olf and titrated; the excess of
oxime did not interfere. We have in consecpienco determined the
velocity with which the aiiilide Avas formed. In cai-rying out the
experiments 2.5 grams of the oxime were dissolved in 50 or 1ÜÜ cc.
of sulphuric acid, previously heated to the temperature at which the
experiment was made (60"^ or 65°) and at detinite periods a certain
quantity was pipetted off from the bottle (which was placed in a
thermostat) and analysed.
