( 393 )
of the mutual removal of the neigiibouring dermafomata, will be
exposed moreover, in consequence of the more important operation,
to a greater \ariability of shape, and we must be prepared to obtain
only caricatures of its real shape.
In order however to undertake a just evaluation of these carica-
tures, it is necessary to know beforehand the variations in shape,
suffered for the same reasons by the trunkdermatomata. A knowledge
of the significance of the dorsal, lateral and ventral portions of the
dermatoma, of their maxima and of their different reactions on a
more or less serious trauma, is needed to enable us to understand
the caricatures, obtained on the extremities. Even the technical
mastership of Sherrington has not wholly succeeded, we believe,
in interpretating them truly.
The second difficulty, the perfect control of which we owe to
Sherrington, is found in the individual variations, presented by the
animals experimented upon. On all dogs it is not always the same
dermatomata that participate in the covering of the extremity. In
most cases it will be the 5^*^ — 11^^ posterior roots that participate
in the innervation of this extremity, vet it may sometimes occur
that the 4''' — 10''' (in cases of so-called pre-fixion), or also the
(3ih — 22^'' (in cases of post-fixion) take their place. For this reason
we cannot always be sure of the equivalence of two roots situated
at the same height. The 9^'^ root e.g. may (in cases of pre-fixion)
take up the part generally performed by the IQi^'', or (in cases of
post-fixion) that generally performed by the 8^'' etc.
Even if one is prepared by a previous knowledge of the trunk-
dermatomata for a true interpretation of the caricatures, and knows
the dangers arising from pre- and post-fixion, it will still be necessary,
as it has been done by Sherrington, to describe the consequences
of every separate isolation in the same manner, in order to retain
one identical point of view for all of them.
In order to find this point of view, we have thought it convenient
to adopt for the extremities mid-dorsal and mid-\entral lines, in the
same ^^■ay as had been done already by Bolk and Sherrington;
moreover we made use of a simple artifice.
As soon as a dermatoma has been isolated on an animal, employed for
our experiments, and the boundaries of the insensible zones have been
defined on the skin, the animal is photographed in different attitudes.
When by these preliminaries Ave have obtained the photos necessary
for controlling the experiment, the animal is killed, and the skin
with the designs upon it, after having been iwe pared further in a
deHnite methodical manner, is tanned and stretched, in order that it
