( 788 )
It is clear that at least one of these formulae must be wrong and
it does not seem doubtfnl to me that (1) is so. As is known, formula
(1) has been found by van dek Waals by applying a correction to
Clausius' original formula ^)
jr ns^ —
Pi=- r (3)
,. V
Now it is easy to shou' that this correction has been wrongly
applied to (8). We caji do this without much difficulty either by
making the original proof of Clausius for (3) applicable, taking into
account the reasons which lead to the correction in question, or by
making use of van dek Waals' reasoning for (1), which leads really
to (3). For shortness I shall confine myself here to pointing out the
mistake in the train of thought, which led van der Waals ^) and
after him Koktewec; •') to the application of this correction. This
reasoning is chiefly this. Fii-st it is demonstrated that formula (3)
holds for a gas, the molecules of which are discs of the same diameter
and nature as the spheres iji Cjuestion, which discs have further the
property to take a position normal to the direction of their relative
motion with regard to a molecule, with which they are going to
collide. Then it is thns demonstrated that formula (3) must hold for
spheres. (I derive this passage from the proof of Korteweg''), with
which that of van der Waals agrees perfectly).
"Now, however, the moment has come, to remove the incorrect
hypothesis — introduced in § 3 — and replace the discs again by
spheres. The consequence of this will not be that the nature of the
collisions is changed, for any molecule M, which pursuing its way
would have reached any disc, ^^'ill infallibly first reach the surface
of the sphere, which we now put in its place. All the molecides
will therefore strike against the same molecules, whose discs we have
supposed to be cut by their centres; but all these collisions will lake
place somewhat earlier, in other words, the paths will be shortened."
From this shortening of the mean path follows the increase of the
number of collisions, as this number is in inverse ratio to the length
of path.
That this reasoning has been able to deceive not only its inven-
tors, but so many after them, is exclusively due to the and)iguous
1) Pogg. 105, p. 239.
~) Verslagen Kon. Ak. Afd. Natuurk. Tweede reeks, X. 321. Gonlinuitat 1899.
p. 4.5 et seq.
•^) Verslagen Kon. Ak. Afd. Natuiiik. Tweede reeks, X. p. 349.
■^) ], c, p. 355.
