( 789 )
use of the word leii;i^lli of path. If we a\<>i<l tin's, every one will
see throiifj^h tlie niistuke; for i-eiilly the reason inii' e(nnes to this: In
a certain time a numl)er of [)artieles j*eaeii a eerlain snrface .l;now
every partiele reaches a snrface /> somewhat sooner, so more particles
I'each ]j than A in the same time. In essentially the same way we
iniu'hl show that more vertical fallin<2; raindrops would strike a pointed
roof than a flat one of a section of equal area. Nobody will make
this mistake, because it is cleai- that the number of raindrops fallinji,'
()]! the roof depends solely on the (piaiitities, Avhich <;overii the
stream of those drops and on the area of the section of the roof.
The same holds foi" the niolecules ; and tluMpiantities which determine
the strength of the stream of molecules are only the velocity of
the molecules, the law^ of the distribution of velocity which is the
same, whatever the form be of the molecules, and the number of
molecules per unit of volume.
I said already, that the opposed opinion derives its force from the
ambiguous use of the Avord "length of path." We might also justly
say of the raindrops that the path which they describe to get from
a certain point to the roof, is shortened, wdien w^e think the roof
pointed. In the same way we may say of the molecules, that the
path from a certain Ji,red point to the sphere is shorter than that to
the disc, but this does not hold for the mean path and of course
the latter only is iji inverse ratio to the numl)er of collisions. The
A'alidity of this reasoning is easy to see by means of any of the
seemingly different definitions for the length of path. I shall for
shortness, confine myself to that according to which the mean length
of path of molecules moving with the velocity c, if? found by
examining, how^ many molecules strike against a certain molecide
within a certain interval of time, by adding the })alhs described by
any of those molecules between this collision and the preceding one,
and by dividing this sum by the number of those molecules. Let us
now^ determine the mean path of the molecules which strike with a
Aelocity c from a direction P 1^ either against the disc S, or the
spherical surface B (Fig. 1). We shall call these molecules the
molecules of the group in question. The fact that a molecule of the
group in question whose last collision before it reached 7>or>S'took
place in a point ^4 ^), will have a shorter i)ath to B than to S, does
not call for discussion. In so far van dek Waals and Korteweg are
^) We shall call such a point henceforth the "last point of collision". This is
therefore the point where the collision takes place, which makes a molecule pass
into the "group in question". The collision with B or S makes the molecule leave
this group again.
