( 394 )
may be compared with other simihir skins, on which are designed
likewise the boundaries of the isolated dermatomata.
Tiiis is done in the following manner. r)n the skin of the corpse
tiie ini(l-\eiitral line of the trunk is drawn, and upon this line is
designed on the sternum a point (\ situated between the affixture of
the 2^^ and 3' rib.
Heginning from this point, we next design, on the ventral side of
the maximum abducted foreleg turned towards us, a line in the longi-
tudinal axis, passing through the plica cubiti cranially of the epicon-
dylus niedialis humeri straight through the plant of the hand, towards
the middle of the plant of the third linger.
This having been done on both sides, the stripping off of the skin
may begin.
In the first place a circular incision, beginning above the third
neck-vertebra is made around the neck, perpenchcularly upon the
longitudinal axis of the animal.
Next a similar circular incision is made around the trunk over
the 17''' vertebra.
Thirdly these two circular incisions are united by a skin-incisiou
in the mid-ventral line.
Fourthly olecranon and epicondylus humeri medialis are marked
on the skin by means of a striking colour.
l-'ifflily an iiicision is made on the extremity along the ventral line,
t-untijiued through the plant of the third finger. That half of this
latter situated next to the thumb, is stripped off, the web l)etween
the 'M and the 2'^^ finger is split open between fore- and back-side;
next the i)lant of the 2^ finger is stripped off, the web between the
2^ finger and the thumb is split, and the plant of the thumb is loosened.
The same operation is then performed for the finger-plants and
webs of the ulnar fingers.
Finally the skin on the back-side of the fingers is loosened, the
end-phalanges of each finger being cut one by one, in such a way
that the nails remain affixed to the skin of the back-side. Both hands
beinü thus stripped off, the animal is Hayed further.
The piece of skin, obtained in this manner, with the boundary-
lines designed upon it, is next stretched, tanned and dried. xA.fter-
wards the insensible areas are coloured white by means of oil-paint
and then varnished, and under control of the originally obtained
photos such a piece of skin may be compared with other similar ones.
These skins are read in the following manner (fig. L5) : .4.4' is the
cranial boundary (the incision around die neck), 5^' the caudal boundary
(the incision around the trunk). Of course the point C recurs four
