( 791 )
Waals in the following' words'): "This fonnnla viz. (1) — can
only hold for I he cjise that the ciiaiice liial iiioi'c (liaii (wo nioUn^ides
eome into collision al (he sanie (inie niav he considered as zero
compared to the chance that only two come into collisioji." Kortkavp;g
has expressed this more pointedly in the following way'''): "For a
short time after each cojlisidu the possibilities of fi'esh collisions are
considerably inthienced by the [n-oximity of the departing molecnle.
This influence, certaiidy of very difficult mathematical treatment, is
disregarded in my calculations." Claush's was the first (o take this
influence into account •'), through which he came to foi-mida (2). 1 will
discuss his [U'oof here, as it may lead to a closer approximated value
of the length of path, even in principle to the drawing up of a strictly
accurate equation, which we shall want for the derivation of the
equation of state.
Clausius [\o('. cit.) considers the general case of a point moving
in a volume IT between several surfaces in rest. He calculates the
chance, that the point will strike against a surface element with the
velocity (//, by considering the jtoint for a moment as stationary,
and by giving the surface element the opposite ^'elocity. Tf ^ is the
angle of the normal to tlie element with tlie direction of motion,
then the chance that the [joint lies in the cylindre co.^ 6 ds dl, is
cos 6 th dl
equal to ~~ — . if we bring this in connection with the chance
that sucli an angle 6 occurs, and if we integrate over all tlie angles,
we find for the total chance that the element is struck -- dl , so
4 n
.s
for the total surface --- dl: if the mean \elocitv is w, so dl =i ïi dl
4]»
then :
~ 4 1 r " ^7i '
This derivation appears to be strictly accurate, as long as all
surface elements have an e(pial chance of being struck and all
volume elements have an eipial chance of containing the point. If
there should be elements for which this chajice is zei-o, (hey must
not be included in the integration. If wc think the surfaces to l)e
movable, then it is clear, that we must introduce the mean relative
velocitv in the w^av known.
1; 1. c. p. 336.
2) Nature 45 p. 152.
3) Pogg. Ergbd. 7 p. 244, cf. Kinetische Theorie der Gase 1. c.
