( 825 )
that those parts which are dark wliile the syslcm is at rest, will remain
so after it has been put in motion. It will therefore be impossible
to detect an intlnence of the Earth's motion on any optical experi-
ment, made with a terrestrial sonrce of light, in which the geome-
trical distribntion of light and darkness is observed. JNIaiiy experi-
ments on interference and ditFraction belong to this class.
In the second place, if in two points of a system, rays of light
of the same state of polarization are propagated in the same direction,
the ratio between the amplitudes in these })oints may be shown not
to be altered by a translation. The latter remark applies to those
experiments in which the intensities in adjacent parts of the Held
of view are compared.
The above conclusions confirm the results 1 ha\'e formerly obtained
by a similar train of reasoning, in which hosvever the terms of the
second order were neglected. They also contain an explanation of
Michelson's negative result, more general and of somewhat different
form than the one previously oiven, and they show why Rayleigh
and Brace could find no signs of donble refraction produced by
the motion of the Earth.
As to the experiments of Trouton and Noble, their negative result
becomes at once clear, if we admit the hypotheses of § 8. It may be
inferred from these and from our last assumption (§10) that the only
effect of the translation must have been a contraction of the whole
system of electi'ons and other particles constituting the charged
condenser and the beam and thread of the torsion-balance. Such a
contraction does not give rise to a sensible change of direction.
It need hardly be said that the present theory is put forward with
all due reserve. Though it seems to me that it can account for all
well established facts, it leads to some consequences that cannot as
yet be put to the test of experiment. One of these is that the result
of Michelson's experiment must remain negative, if the interfering-
rays of light are made to tra\'el through some ponderable transparent
body.
Our assumption about the contraction of the electrons cannot in
itself be pronounced to be either plausible or inadmissible. What
we know about the luiture of electrons is very little and the only
means of pushing our ^^ay farther will be to test such In'potheses
as 1 have here made. Of course, there will be difïiculties, e.g. as soon
as we come to consider the rotation of electrons. Perha[)S we shall
have to suppose that in those phenomena in which, if there is no
translation, spherical electrons rotate about a diameter, the points of
the electrons in the moxing system ^vill describe elliptic paths,
