( 826 )
eorrcspoiidiii.u', in llio lu.iiiiier S[>eciüed in § iO, to the circular paths
descrihod iji the other ease.
§ 12. Jt remains to say some words about molecular motion. We
may conceive that bodies in which this has a sensible influence or
even predominates, undergo the same deformation as the systems of
j)articles of constant I'elative position of whicii alone we have spoken
till now. Indeed, in two systems of molecules 2£' and ^, the first
without and the second with a translation, we may imagine molecular
motions corres[)onding to each otiier in such a way that, if a particle
in ^"' has a certain j)Osition at a definite instant, a particle in -^^
occupies at the corresponding instant the corresponding position. This
being assumed, we may use the relation (33) between the accelera-
tions in all those cases in which the velocity of molecular motion
is very small as compared to ir. In these cases the molecular forces
may be taken to be determined by the relative positions, indepen-
dently of the \elocities of molecular motion. If, finally, we suppose
these forces to l)e limited to such small distances that, for particles
acting on each other, the ditfei'ence of local times may be neglected,
one of the particles, together with those which lie in its sphere of
attraction or repulsion, will form a system which undergoes the
often mentioned deformation. In virtue of the second hypothesis
of § 8 we may therefore apply to the resulting molecular force
acting on a t)article, the equation (21). Consequently, the proper
relation between the forces and the accelerations will exist in the two
cases, if we suppose that the masses of all particles are influenced
by a translation to the same degree as the electroniagnetie masses of
the eJectrons.
§ 13. The values (30) which I have found for the longitudinal and
transverse masses of an electron, expressed in terms of its velocity, are
not the same as those that have been formerly obtained hj Abraham.
The ground for this difference is solely to be sought in the circnm"
stance that, in his theory, the electrons are treated as spheres of
invariable dimensions. Now, as regards the transverse mass, the
i-esults of Abraham have been confirmed in a most remarkable way
by Kaufmann's measurements of the deflexion of radium-rays in
electric and magnetic fields. Therefore, if there is not to be a most
serious objection to the theory I have now })roposed, it must be
])Ossible to show that those measurements agree with my values
nearly as well as with those of Abraham.
1 shall beuin bv discussing two of the series of measurements
