( 831 )
ill tlie slate of rest, and l»y ^ -f- i' the energy in the state of motion,
Avc have l\v the formnlae of this paper, up to tlie terms of the
second order,
2 to''
U' = U,
an expression, agreeing in order of magnitude \\'ith tlie value used
bv Trolton for estimating the etTect.
U'
The intensity of the sudden jerk or impulse will therefore be — .
Now, supposing tiie apparatus to be initially at rest, we may
compare tlie deflexion a, produced by this iin[)ulse, to the deflexion
a' which may be given to the torsion-balance by means of a constant
couple K, acting during half the vibration time. We may also
consider the case in which a swinging motion has already been set
up ; then the impulse, applied at the moment in which the apparatus
passes through the i)Osition of equilibrium, will alter the amplitude
by a certain amount ,? and a similar effect ;>' may be caused by
letting the couple K act during the swing from one extreme position
to the other. Let T be the period of swinging and / the distance
from the condenser to the thread of the torsion-balance. Then it is
easily found that
a 3 :i: U' I
-=-=: (39)
According to Trouton's statements (" amounted to one or tAvo
ergs, and the smallest couple by Avhich a sensible deflexion could be
produced was estimated at 7,5 C. G. S. -units. If we substitute this
value for K and take into account that the velocity of the Earth's
motion is 3 X iO* c.M. per sec, we immediately see that (39) must
lia\e been a very small fraction.
Mathematics. — " (Jhsi'rvatlon on tlw jMfper communicated on
Fehr. 2 7 1*' 1904 hji Mr. Brouwer: ''On a deco m position of th<3
continuous motion about a point of S^ into tu^o continuous
motions about of Sy's." By Dr. E. Jahnke. (Communicated
by Prof. D. J. Korte weg.)
The above mentioned paj)er is connected with investigations of
Ferd. Caspary and with works pnblislie<l by me hi the years
1896 — 1901. Mr. Broiwkh not referring to these, T take the liberty
to remark llie following : Problems of the theory of the thetafunc-
tioiis on one hand and of ineciianics on the other hand have led
