( 841 )
emplui.si/XMl llic })rol)loiH of tlie rclalioiisliip hchvcoii ('Iciiopliorii iiiid
Pltitheliiiiiitlis, l nieaii ('leiioplaiia and ('ocloplaiia. In (lilïcrciit degree
tliey unite [)ropei'ties of Uolli classes as has ali-eady heen elearlv eliu-i-
dated by their discoverers: Korotnki'f and Kowalkwsky. Yet iieitiier
Bourne who prepared llie Cteiiophora for Ray TjANKkstkk's h\i-ge
Textbook of Zoology, nor Kokschelt and Heider Iji tiicir handbook
mentioned above, nor Wit,t,kv, who lately studied Ctenoplana in a
livinu; condition, are reallv convinced of the |)Ossibilitv of a derivation
of Plathehninths from Ctenoi)hores, in -which case these two genera
shonld have to be considered as intermediate forms in that direction.
So WiLLEY e.g. points out that it is jiot very })robable that littoral
forms would have sprung from pelagic ones, wliereas generally
the contrary is observed. This would according to him have been
a reversion of the natural sequence. The future will show, in
my opinion, that the difticidties mentioned, and raised by such able
experts, will for the greater part vanish as soon as relationships
"ao-ainst the srain", i. e. in the umiatural order, are no longer
accepted, but when both genera are considered as gradually' mutating
Plathelminths which are already fairly on the way of assuming
ctenophoran habitus.
From what precedes we may at any rate infer that whereas the
Coelenterate relationship of the Ctenophora has faded, their com[)a-
rability with the Plathelminths has come to the fore.
The data for judging in how far a derivation of the Annelids from
Plathelminths might be possible are given in extenso especially in
Lang's earlier and later i»ublications, more ])articularly in his well
known Gundapaper (1881) of which he has given an improved and
partly modified edition in his most recent essay, quoted in the
beginning. So I need only refer to this latest paper here.
I for my part must now tiy to show that a derivation in the.
opposite direction presents no difficulties. We then should look upon
Plathelminths and Ctenophores no longer as ancestral forms but as
modified and in many respects unilaterally modified descendants of
a more primitive, Annelid-like type.
Lang has already in his Polyclad-monograph (p. 674) openly
declared himself against such a view. Yet in the twenty years which
have since elapsed, various considerations have changed and it seems
that Caldwell's view (Proc, R. Soc. 1882 no. 222) has become
more probable again, according to which "there is a presumption . . .
that in fact Platyelminths are degenerate Enterocoeles."
I should be willing like to undertake the defence of this thesis
and to see in the Plathelminths degenerate forms in which the
