( 842 )
t'oelom luis almost eiitirelv disappeared, while the üenital apparatus
luis obtained a inaxiinuni degree of coniplieatioii.
At the outset it seems to me to be less probable that at the base
of the pedigree of the Annelids such animals should stand like the
hermaj)hi'odite Plathelminths with their ovaries, testes, vitellaria, so
greatly varying in size and shape ; with their shell-glands, ootype,
cirrus, penes, uterus, spermatheca, etc., not even to mention the
vitello-intestinal, the Laurer- and other canals. Does not this very
complication force us to place such animal forms rather in the
peripheral branches than near the root of any pedigree ?
On the other hand we can state that in those Polychaeta which
liave retained archaic characters, such as Polygordius, Protodrilus and
Saccocirrus, various peculiarities draw our attention which in Plathel-
minths are further developed. So the phylogenesis of the Plathel-
minths wonld not necessarily ha\e to be so long, via Polychaeta,
Oligocliaeta, Hirudinea, but the type of Plathelminths might already
at an early period \\a\e been a deviation of the origiiuil coelomatous
ancestral forms, while in the conrse of this evolutionary process also
the present Oligochaeta and Hirudinea might have sprung off laterally.
Meanwhile the stronges argument for the degeneration of the
Plathelminths seems to nie to be fonnd in their early ontogenesis.
When we consider this in the light wliich not long ago especially
Americaii workers have procured to us, we ought to pay attention
to the phenomena of ceU-Iiueage : the descent of special groups of
tissue from certain mothercells. Wilson, Conklin, ^Ikad and others
have shown iis the way here.
Of paramount importance is the fact that Annelids (Polychaeta
Oligochaeta, Hirudinea) and Molluscs in those earliest phases of
development show a striking uniformity and that e.g. in all of them
the couple of mothercells of the so-called mesoblast-bands, within which
the coelom and metamerism appear tirst, originate in a similar
manner from one cell, the oldest, unpaired, mesodermic mother-cell,
belonging to the 64-cellular cleavage phase.
This cell lies in the second quartet of cells reckoned from the vege-
tative pole and is produced by a plane of division slanting to the left.
The next cleavage always divides this cell into a right and left
mesodermic cell ; these two develop into the paired mesodermic bands.
All this is always observed in the animal phyla above-mentioned. Con-
cerning the Plathelminths Lang provided us already t\venty years ago
Avith extensive data, which however do not constitute an unbroken
series such as is necessary for establishing the cell-lineage. Such
a series was given us a few years ag(» ( l-Sy.S) tor J^e|»t<)phiiui
