( 845 )
also have possessed unpaired tentacles and an unpaired gastral division
in the median line. They forget that such an unpaired medial coeloraic
cavity is already present in Balanoglossus and that Langerhans
("Zeitschr. fiir wiss. Zool." ^'ol. 34. 1880) and (toodrich (Q. J.
Microsc. Sc. Vol. 44, 1901) have also shown the existence of an
unpaired coelomic cavity in Saccocirrus, while cases of unpaired
median sensory spots could be enumerated in Coelomata. The well-
known antithesis of headseginent and pygidium as compared with
the trunk in the bilaterally metamei-ic Coelomata is an argument
that goes far to meet Lang's and Hatschek's contention.
Neoformation of segments, still pretty equally distributed with the
cyclomeric Coelenterates, but there also already \ariable, occurs with
the Coelomata exclusively at the posterior end and with many of
them only during embryonic life.
If we assume in accordance with E. van Hkneden (see Verh. Kon.
x4kad. V. Wet. Amsterdam. Vol. VIII p. 69) that the stomodaeum
of an actinia-like ancestral form has been the precursor of the chorda
dorsalis, beside and above which the ner\-e-rijig unites to a spinal
chord, while under it a connection between the stomodaeal fissure
(the chordal cavity) and the gastral diverticula (coelomic cavities)
can be observed, then it follows from this that the ancestral forms
of the acpiatic Chordata are moved about in the water in a position
diii'erent from that of the ancestral x-Vrticulates by 180'. The mouth
of the Chordates would then have arisen later as a new formation,
as has already repeatedly been asserted. It is an undoubted simpli-
fication of our phylogenetic speculations if we are entitled to look
for this difference in orientation already in \ery early ancestral
forms and can so avoid Geoffroy St. Hilaire's error who shifted
the process of reversion to a much later stage of development.
If thus the phylogenesis is very considerably shortened, I may
call attention to the tact that even with respect to the mammalian
foetal envelopes, I showed in the al)Ove-mentioned publication the
possibility of a similar shortening of their phylogenesis, by not
admitting that these embryonic coverings have originated from those of
reptiles and birds, as was done until now, but by considering them in
direct connection with larval envelopes of invertebrate ancestral forms.
In the grouping of bilaterally symmetrical, coelomatic animals
(resp. of such as have lost their coelom again) which has here
been attempted, important phyla (Xemertea, Nematoids' Prosopygii,
Chaetognatha, etc.) have been left out of consideration.
There are still too many gaps in our knowledge of their anatomy
