CONTENTS. IX
ENTROPv-voLUME-ENKRGY SURFACE of Gtbbs (The representation of tlie continuity of
tlie liquid and gaseous conditions on the one lumd and the various solid aggre-
gations on the other by tlie). '378.
ENZYMACTioNS Considered as equilibria in a homogenous system. 605.
EPITHELIUM (On the) of the surface of the stomach. 30.
EQUATION OF CONDITION (The liquid state and t:;e). 123.
EQUATION OF REALITY (An) for real and imaginary plane curves with higher singu-
larities. 764.
EQUATION OF STATE (On VAN DEB WaALs'). 794-.
EQUATIONS (On the) of Clausius and van der Waals for the mean length of path
and the number of collisions. 787.
equations OF STATE (The) and the \J/-surface in the immediate neighbourhood of the
critical state for binary mixtures with a small proportion of one of the compo-
nents (part 3). 59. (part 4). 115.
equilibria (Enzymactions considered as) in a homogenous system. 605.
equilibrium (The) between a solid body and a fluid phase, especially in the neigh-
bourhood of the critical state. 230. 2nd part. 357.
ETHYL- or methylalcohol (The electrolytic conductivity of solutions of sodium in
mixtures of). 104.
EXOSporina laricis oud. — A new microscopic fungus occurring on the Larch and
very injurious to this tree. 498.
FIBERS (The conduct of vegetal and animal) towards coal-tarcolours. 325.
FLAX-ROTTING (On the bacteria which are active iu). 462.
FOCAL CURVE (The singularities of the) of a curve in space. 17.
— (The singularities of the) of a plane general curve touching the line at inhuity
(J times and passing f times through each of the imaginary circle points at
infinity. 621.
FOETAL MEMBRANE (The) and the placenta of Phoca vitulina. 610.
F R A N c H I M N T (a. P. N.) presents the dissertation of Dr. F. M. Jaeger : "Cry-
stallographic and molecular symmetry of position isomeric benzene derivatives." 406.
FUNGUS (A new microscopic) occurring on the Larch and very injurious to tiiis
tree. 498.
QA8EOU8 conditions (The representation of the continuity of the liquid and) on the
one hand and the various solid aggregations on the other by the entropy-volume*
energy surface of Gibbs. 678.
o E E 8 T (J.) and P. Zeeman. On the double refraction in a magnetic field neiu- the
components of a quadruplet. 19.
GEOGRAPHICAL POSITIONS (Contributions to the determination of) on the West-coast
of Africa. II. 426.
Geology. J. IT. Bonnema : "A piece of lime-stone of the Ceratopyge-zoue from the
Dutch diluvium." 319.
~ EuG. Dubois -. "Deep boulder-clay bods of a latter glacial ])eriod in North-
Holland." 340.
