f 400 )
5'^ finger on the back of the hand, and rising straight over the extensors
of hand and fingers, between olecranon and epicondylus humeri lateralis,
to the tricepstendon, which is crossed by it. On the foreside of the m. triceps
it meets again its point of starting (see fig. Ill, 1).
Dog I: to the left are found two insensible spots. One of these is a very
small one against the mid-ventral line at the affixion of the second rib.
The other, elliptic, having its longitudinal axis in that of the arm, is
bounded by a line beginning high up in the axilla, continuing in the direction
of the olecranon and avoiding this, passing on the dorsal surface of the
extremity. It continues over the sinews of the extensors of hand and fingers
until 1 cm. before the plant, returns then on the ventral surface, crossing
there the flexores, and passing beyond the plica cubiti cranially from the
epicondylus humeri medialis, it takes a bend over the m. biceps. Crossing
this muscle it reaches again, deviating in a caudal direction, its starting-
point high up in the axilla.
The 8<-ti + the 7'^' dermatoma.
On October 10"' 1902 on a small black female dog, designed as dog VIII,
are cut through to the right the 4^^, m\ m\ 9'i\ lO^^i, 11th and 12»' pair of
roots. To the left the 8*^ pair of roots is cut through. Autopsy on Oct. 13"'
verifies this. A reproduction of the result is found in fig. IV. To the right
is a sensible area, encompassed by a large, continuous insensible zone,
extending dorsally from the 3'^ to the 13"' vertebra. Ventrally it extends
from 5 cm. above the manubrium unto 1 cm. below it. Somewhere between
the 2^^ and 3'^ rib its ventral boundary-line passes beyond the mid-ventral
line to the left. The boundary-line of the sensible area begins at 1 cm.
caudally of the acromion, goes straight to the epicondylus humeri lateralis,
and accompanies the ulna unto the fore-plant (see fig. IV, 1 and 3), then
taking a sudden turn, it makes for the ventral surface of the extremity,
that is reached halfway the fore-arm, crosses it obliquely through the elbow,
regains the dorsal side on the upper-arm, and rejoins its starting-point below
the acromion.
To the left no insensibility is found on the extremity, with the exception
of a small insensible spot at the mid-ventral line of the trunk.
The 9t-h -\- the 10 tl' dermatoma.
On Sept. 22*1' 1902 on a dark male dog, designed as dog V, are cut through,
to the right the A^^, 5^^, 6"', 7"', 8"', ll^i', 12"', 13^^ and 14"' pair of roots.
To the left the 10"' is cut through.
Autopsy on Sept. 28^'' confirms this having been performed. A reproduction
of the results is given by fig. V.
To the right two insensible zones encompass a sensible area. The cranial
boundary-line of the cranial zone extends from the 3''^' vertebra to the mid-
ventral line 4 cm. above the sternum. The caudal boundary-line of the
caudal zone extends from the 13"* vertebra to the mid-ventral line, nearly
perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the animal.
The cranial boundary-line of the sensible area starts from the mid-dorsal
line at the 8^^ vertebra and continues straight towards the epicondylus
