( 403 )
sible zone on the extremity). The line then continues downward along the
sternum until beyond the 4t[^ rib, takes again a turn upward, and bending
cranially it ends in a point near the extremity of the spina scapulae.
Caudally there is found no insensible dorsal portion.
Near to the angulus scapulae, the line turns back again on the dorsal
surface of the upper arm, straight in the direction of the olecranon, 2 cm.
before reaching this, it takes a bend towards the ventral surface of the upper-
arm, and crossing this, returns to the ventral portion. It is separated by
a narrow zone from the sensible ventral triangle. (On the skin it passes
here into the caudal boundary-line of the sensible ventral triangle). Above
the latter it takes a turn in dorsal direction, and having reached again the
dorsal surface on the middle of the upper-arm, it makes straight for the
back, reaching this at the รถ^^^ vertebra.
Moreover there is found an insensible spot on the lower part of the extremity.
This has its beginning a little under the epicondylus humeri lateralis,
it crosses longitudinally, the backside of the fore-arm likewise the hand and
passes along the ulnar margin on to the plant, crosses along side the plants of
the fingers which are insensible, and continues, taking a rectangular bend before
the plant of the 4*1^ finger, straight upward towards the epicondylus lateralis.
It is allowed to draw a few conclusions from these experiments.
1st The caudal portions of those derniatomata, bounding the
extremity caudally, especially of the 10^^' and the 11^'', are pushed
over the lower situated derniatomata.
We have observed already previously that, cranially of the 15''^
dermatoma, the cutting through of at least three adjoining roots is
necessary, in order to obtain insensible dorsal spots. Only wdien 4
adjoining roots are cut through, a continuous insensible zone is found
in that region. This presents a marked difference with the conditions
existing on the trunk, wdiere for the same purpose, the cutting through
of two, resp. three roots, suffices.
This fact is contlrmed here. By cutting through the 12''', 13^''
and I4"i root (tig. I) or the Jl^'', 12^^' and 13''i root (fig. II), anal-
getic areas are called into existence both dorsally and ventrally,
but no continuous zones; when cutting through the 10^'', TJ'^ and
12''i root (fig. VI), the analgetic dorsal area fails even, though the
lO^, ll^'i and 12"' dermatoma possess each of them a dorsal
portion, which it is possible to isolate.
The significance of this fact is evident. The growth of the extre-
mity in caudal direction, removes the caudal boundaries of the 10'''
and 11"' dermatoma towards the caudal side. In the lateral part the
10"' dermatoma overlaps the 14''', the II"' the 15"'. The dorsal pieces
of the 10"', 11"' and 12"^ dermatoma are lying so near to one
another or even covering one another, that the unimpaired 6"', 9"^^
and 13"' are able to proN'ide together for the sensory innervation
27^^
