( 404 )
along the back. The \eiitml pieces are pressed on one another against
the sternum about the second rib.
2ncl The ventral and dorsal pieces, pressed on one another, are
becoming gradually smaller and of less importance. It is only the
lateral pieces that are pushing on the extremity.
In isolating the 1I>'' dermatoma (fig. I. 5) it has been shown that
the cranial jmrtion of the lateral part of it is stretched on the extremity.
At the same time its cranio-caudal axis is displaced. On the trunk
it was parallel to that of the ventral and dorsal pieces, here it
forms with them an acute resp. an obtuse angle. On the boundaries
between lateral and ventral part the dermatoma suffers a rather
deep indentation.
In isolating the 10''' dermatoma (tig. II, 4) the stretching of the
cranial lateral portion is even more important, and the difference in
direction between the cranio-caudal axis of the lateral and that of
the ventral part has become so great, that here they are already
placed nearly perpendicularly to one another.
The indentation here has become so deep, that apparently the
dermatoma has been split into two parts, the lateral piece being
torn from the ventral. Apparently only, for most probal)ly this result
of isolating the 10^^^ dermatoma is but a caricature. For in cases
where it is isolated together with the 9^^ (fig. V) or with the 6'^
(fig. Yl 3) dermatoma, a narrow sensible zone unites the ventral
to the lateral area.
Thus much however is sure: only tlie lateral part, not the ventral
part of the 10''' dermatoma passes on the extremity.
Something similar happens for the dorsal pieces of the 10^'' and
of the 11^'' dermatoma. Here we find likewise an indentation,
though a less profound one, on the boundary of the lateral pieces
towards their cranial side.
Yet there exists a great difference between the ventral and the
dorsal indentations. Because of the fan-shaped extension of the
displaced cranio-caudal axes of the lateral pieces, there must of
necessity remain towards the ventral side, between two axes, close
to the indentation, on the caudal portion of the extremity, a skin-area
that owes its sensibility to one dermatoma oidy. Close to the dorsal
indentation such is not the case.
This is shown if the 11''' or 10^'' I'oot are cut through. There are
always produced two insensible areas, a small ventral area, such as
we found much larger on the trunk and an area on the caudal
portion of the extremity, where the lateral pieces of the 12^'' and
lOfi' dermatoma no longer overlap the 11^'', or those of the 11'*^
