( 407 )
sition, bill also on llieir eheuiical tstnictiirc in (ho broadest sense
this wonhl also be Iho i-ase with the crystalline form. Dr. ,1ak(H''.r
has, i^o^^cver, perceived that the relation between (brni and struc-
tnre cannot be (jnite so sini[)le and only stands a chance of being-
discovered bv a very delicate investigation of |)roperly chosen series
of objects and lie jnstities the choice of the six isomeric tribromo-
tolnenes used in his i-esearch : by their high moiecnlar weight and
the slight ditference in chemical jiroperties, so that practically, only
the relative position of (he gronps of atoms in the molecnle causes
a ditFerence and because the number of isomers is not too small.
Dr. Jaeger has j^repared these substances, which were oidy known
as tine needles, in a form suited to measurement and an accurate
examination of them showed that four of them l)clong to the mono-
clinic, one to the rhombic and one to the tetragonal system. The
last two are those with the vicinal position of the three bromine
atoms. Of the tirst four there are two 'svhich exhibit an isomorphism
bordering" on identit}' and which can form mixed crystals in all
proportions.
The densities of the four monoclinic forms do not difïer greatly,
(hat of tlie rhombic isomer, however, is smaller and that of the
tetragonal form still smaller so that a higher symmetry of form is
accompanied by a lesser density.
He further determined the tifteen possible melting point lines of
the binary mixtures of the six isomers and obtained very notable
results, some of which have already been mentioiied by Dr. Van Laar
at the last meeting.
From the isomorphism boi-dering on identity of the two monoclinic
forms we may certainly, conclude that there is great similarity in
the structure of their chemical molecules although these are not
expressed in our chemical formulae; tliej" are the compounds 1. 2.
3. 5. aiid 1. 2. 4. 6. if CH., stands on i. This similarity appears,
however, if we keep in view the analogy which exists, in a certain
sense, between the group CH3 and a bromine atom, which has
been noticed in a number of cases and which may be referred to
a similarity in space relationships, \'olume perhaps. A conformity
already ])ointed out by Groth in 1870 and which has been since
observed by many chemists, for instance in cases of so-called sterical
obstacle.
The relations found by Dr. Jaeoer between chemical and crystal-
lographic symmetry have given rise to a nund)er of problems, which
he is now engaged in solving, for instance whether the isomorphism
of the two monoclinic tribromotoluenes remains intact when substi-
