( 408 )
tilting the otlier //-atoms I )v feeble morphotropic groups such as .VO,.
In regard to this, lie recently informed me that both form a
dinitroderivative, l)ut with a ditferent melting point and that not
only tiie isomorphism is completely preserved, but that even the
typical twin formation in certain solvents takes place with both in
exactly the same manner, so that it looks as if one were dealing
with the same material.
Chemistry. — "The mhliiri'ition lutes of btnm-// nu.('fure.s'\By PvcA'.
H. W. Bakhuis Roozeboom.
(Communicated in the meeting of November 28, 1903).
From the consideration of the j), t, ./--representation of the equi-
libria for solid, liquid and gaseous phases of binary mixtures given
by me a short time ago ^) it may be deduced in w^hat manner the
evaporation of the mixtures of two solid substances, or inversely
their condensation on cooling a mixture of vapours, takes place at
a constant pressure by a change of temperature.
It is only necessary to take a f, ./'-section at constant pressure
through the figure at such a height, that ikj other equilibria occur
than those between solid and vajiour or between solid and solid.
This is possible as long as we keep below the pressure of the qua-
druple-point w^here solid .4, solid B, liquid and vapour coexist.
The adjoined figure then indicates
the general character of the section,
in which the vertical axis represents
the temperature and the horizontal
axis the concentrations of the mixtures.
F is then the sublimation tempera-
ture of the pure substance A, (J, that
of pure B. These temperatures are
depressed along the lines F E and
G F until, below the point F, total
condensation of the vapour mixture to
solid A -\- solid B occurs.
Conversely the sublimation com-
mences at the temperature given by
the line CE D and one of the two solid substances then disappears
according to the concentration, unless the composition corresponds
with F, in which case thev both sublime simultaneously.
A
coru
B
1) These Proc. V, p. 2711.
