( 410 )
Tlie lower the sul)limati()n temperature of the added substance,
the further (h)u-nward tlie course of the sulilimatiou li]ie of a solid
substance will extend. If, therefore, gases are used as admixtures
and in sufticient excess, any solid substance ought, theoretically, to
volatilise at a very low temperature.
Of this circumstance advantage has often been taken in the artiti-
cial preparation of minerals by sublimation-methods in which gases
or \apours (.V/f, (7) have been used as second substance.
If, however, they exercise a chemical action on tiie others, the
subUuiatiou phenomena belong to systems of tlu-ee or more components.
The sublimation pheiKuuena may also be accompanied by plieno»
mena of fusion, as may be decbiced from an exaiuiuatiou of other
sections through mv three (buiensional tigure.
Chemistry. — "A qmnitifatlri' research concerniiH/ Baeyer's Ti'nsani
Thi'nni'' By Prof. A. F. Holleman and Dr. G. I.. Voerman.
(Commuüicaled in llie meeting of November iX, 1903'.
Pjaeyer's tension theory gives an explanation of numerous pheno-
mena in organic chemistry, but it is, however, almost exclusively
of a qualitative nature. The preference for die formation of cyclic
compounds with 5 and the instability of cycle systems with a larger
or smaller number of atoms required by the theory are con-
firmed in many instances. Meanwhile as far as I am aware, that
"preference" and that "instability" has never been expressed in
figures. And so long as this is not the case such expressions remain
vague, as we do not possess any measure with which we can gauge
the ''preference" for the cycle formation w ith 5 over one with a
different number of atoms, and also are not in a position to compare
the stability of one compound with that of another.
I, therefore, suggested to Dr. Voerman to investigate quantitatively
the relative stability of the members of a special class of cyclic sys-
tems, namely the anhydrides of the dibasic acids of the normal satu-
rated series. They are again converted by the action of water into
the dibasic acids. The ease with which they re-absorb Avater must
depend on the degree of tension in the ring contained in these
anhydrides, as the ring opens and the l»onds then can retake their
normal position. The velocity with which these anhydrides are
converted into the corresponding acids may therefore, be taken as
the measure of the tension in the ring.
