f 411 )
Dl'. VoKHMAN' lias firsl of all prepared iliesc aiiliyclrkles, then dis-
solved tlieiii in a large aiiiouiil of water aii<l deteniiined the velocity
of iheir transforiiiation into acids.
The anhydrides investigated were those of snecinic acid (Cj, glntaric
acid ^('jj, adi[)inic acid (Cj, pimelic acid (C-), snberic acid {t\),
azelaic acid ((\) and sebacic acid (C^J. Many of these acids arc dif-
licnlt to ])ro('ure. Init Dr. A'okrmax has sncceeded in greatly impro-
ving their mode of [)reparation, for the [)articnlars of which we refer
to a commnnicatiün shortly to appear in the Recneil.
In order to determine the velocity with which these anhydrides
pass into acids when introduced into ^vater, it was necessary to be
able to determine at any given moment the (|naiitity of acid which
had already been formed. This is done by measuring the electric
condnctivity of the solntion, taking it for granted that the solution
of the anhydride does not conduct the current.
This snpposition is first of all jnstitied by the observation that
the conductive power of the anhydride solntion is smaller the sooner
it is measnred after it has been prepared and secondly because the
acid anhvdrides do not belong to the class of electrolvtes. In order
to obtain the concentration of the acid in the solntion from its con-
dnctivity it is only necessary to measure the conductivities of solutions
of the acids at the temperature employed over the range of con-
centrations which is considered in the experiments. These measure-
ments were conducted by Dr. Voerman, who generally used the
acids which were recovered from the anhvdrides by the action of
water in order to work under quite the same conditions as existed
in his velocity determinations. As might, however, have been expected
the same values were obtained for the conductivity of the acids
themselves and those recovered from their anhydrides.
As the concentration of the acid, after the complete conversion
of the anhydride, in the velocity measurements did not exceed ^/j,
norinal, the quantity of water may be taken as constant, so that the
con^'ersion may be represented by the equation for unimolecnlar
reactions. This indeed, gave satisfactory values for the constant
occurring therein.
It is, however, only in the case of the anhydrides of succinic and
glntaric acids that Dr. Vokkman has obtained satisfactory determi-
1 C
nations, at 25°, of the values of K =: 1~ it in minutes, C =
t,-t, C,
grm. mol. per Litre).
He obtained the values 0.1683, and 0.1708 showing that the
5-ring is somewhat more stable than the (>rin2:. In the case of the
