( 412 )
higher anhydrides we met with aw obstacle which p^e^'ented accurate
measurements. This was their small solubility in water. He always
noticed in their solutions a gradual increase in the electric conductive
power showing that they first dissolve as such before being con-
verted into acids, l)ut this increase was too small to allow the velocity
constant to be calculated. It is worthy of note that although when
boiled \NitIi water they form only globules which are but slowly
converted into acids, they are so hygro.scopic that they keep but a
short time unchanged when exposed to the air. This may, perhaps
be attributed to the fact that A\ater in tiie li(|uid condition consists
mainly of polymeric molecules, whereas in the state of vapour they
are normal. The anhy(h-ides of glutaric ajid succinic acid do not
show this peculiarity.
But the higher anhydrides also (HJter in another res])ect from the
two first mentioned namely in tlieir molecular complexity. Deter-
minations of the boiling points of their solutions in acetone show
that they are much polymerised whilst the anhydrides of succinic
and glutaric acids l)ehave normally. This, perhaps, explains their
difficult solubility in water.
(rroiiii///i'iL Lai). Univers. Xov. '03.
Astronomy. — "■Invi'stujation of th' errors of the tables of the
moon of Hansen — Newcomb hi the i/ears 1895 — 1902." By
Dr. E. F. VAN DE Sande Bakhuyzen. (2'''^ Paper).
(Communicated in the meeting of September 20 1903).
14. After my previous paper under this title was read at the
meeting of the Academy of June 27, 1903, a preliminary communi-
cation on the investigation undertaken at Greenwich on similar lines
has also been published. Mr. P. H. Cowell who was occupied with
this work gave a summary of his results in "Tlie Ohserratovif' of
September 1903 in a paper under the title "Anahjsls of the errors
of the moon', which he kindly sent to me in advance of publication.
Mr. CowELL utilized for his investigation the observations of right
ascension of the period 1883 — 1898. His method in the main agrees
with that used by Newcomb in his " fnvestk/ation\ which I had also
followed and our results for the years 1895 — 98 are substantially
in accordance. In the second place he compared his empirical results
with those derived from theory.
This last part of Cowell's paper has drawn my attention to the
