( 413 )
fact that the tlieoretical forDiiilao ^vliicli I had used for the same
comparison were incomplete. For 1 had not noticed tiiat Radau in
his valuable " Recherc/ws concernant h's inci/alih's plaiu'taires da
mouvement de la Itine" ^), had found that besides the "Jovian Evection"
there exist some other ine(iualities of a nearly' inonthly period with
appreciable coeflicients. Nor had I paid attention to tlie fact that
according to Hill's researches on the inequalities resulting from
the figure of the earth '), made following Delaunay's method, an
apprecial)le term of inojithly period must be added to those inserted
into the tables of Hansen.
It is this gap of my preceding investigation which I shall here
try to till u[). lUit I shall go no farther, for from the beginning
the aim of my work was limited and there would be still less
reason to continue it, now that Mr. Coavell intends to continue his
work and to extend it also to other periods.
15. The principal terms of a nearly monthly period which, according
to Radau and Hill, are still to be added to the true longitude from
Hansen's tables are :
— 0".68 sin ((/ + 2 JT + 3 F— 5 ^) (I)
— 0.S8 sin {(J ^2 Jt —2 J) (II)
-4- 0.32 sm (<7 + 2 -r — 3 J -^ 7°) (Ill)
+ 0.45 sin 8 cos g (IV)
where V, E and J represent the mean longitude of Venus, the
Earth and Jupiter. The first three are terms found by Radau as
arising from the planets, while the fourth expresses the difference
between the inequalities arising from the figure of the earth after
Hill and after Hansen").
^) Annales de VObservatoire cle Paris. Mémoires T. XXL
~) G. W. Hill Determination of the inequahlies of the moon's motion which are
produced by the figure of the eartli. A^tron. papers American Epliemeris and
Naiit. Ahn. Vol III. Part. II.
■') Comp. also Gowell I.e. Gowell introduces still two other terms, numbered
by him 2 and 6 (Observ. p. 350). It seems doubtful to me whether their intro-
duction is sufficiently justified.
As to 2, we must, if wo consider Newco.mb's empirical term of long period as
an inequality of the mean longitude, like the first Venus-inequality of Hansen, and
this seems the most plausible, also accept the inequality of short period in the
true longitude connected with if.
Gowell's correction 6 results from the rejection of Hansen's constant term in
the latitude — I ".00. It seems however that the correction of the tabular latitude
or declination with 4-l"-00 is a posteriori not justified. From a comparison of
the declinations determined at Greenwich in the years 1895—1902 I found as the
mean difference Obs.— Gomp. — 0".17, and after ihe reduction to Newcomb's
