{ 457 )
This invesligation is capable of further extension and so we can
examine tiie e(|niiihria of phases in I)inary mixtures in which the
two comi)onenls form one or more compounds.
Let us limit oui'selves to the ilrst case. If an eciuilihrium exists
the (|uantity of the compound in the licjuid or vapour will be depen-
dent on the proportion of the two mixed components and on the
temperature and pressure.
We now consider onl)' the equilibria between liijuid and solid
and this at constant pressure. If the compound is wholly- undissociated,
the phenomena of melting and solidifying may be represented in space
by means of an equilateral triangular prism in which the height
represeiits the temperature and points in the equilateral triangle
represent the i-elative proportions of the components a., and />., and
of the compound.
For convenience we suppose the latter to be ah. It now behaves
as an independent component, as it is supposed that there is no
equilibrium between ah, a^ and 6,. We then obtain, in space, for
each of the three solid substances a melting-surface which takes a
downward course from the melting point.
Should, however, the compound be in equilibrium with its com-
ponents, it ceases to be an independent component and at each tem-
perature only those relative proportions can exist in a liquid condition,
which are in internal equilibrium.
The curved line «._, r h^ in the
adjoining figure represents such
an equilibrium line, which there-
fore indicates the only proportions
capable of existing at a given
temperature. We call this line
the dissociation-isotherm.
If the compound did not form
ail equilibrium with its compo-
nents and if the chosen tempera-
ture was situated below the melting
point of a.^ a line p q would then
be the solubility-isotherm for the solid substance a.^ and in the case
of an ideal course of the melting-surface of this component a^ p
would be equal to a^q and the \\nQ p q would be straight. The
points of the line pq then indicate the solutions which can be in
equilibrium with solid a.^ at the temperature in question.
If, hcTAvever, a., r />., is the equilibrium line of the liquid phase,
the point .v will be the only point of the line p q which can exist
fiR'. 1.
