( 460 )
The heat of solution is here tliei-moclieinically positive : and zero
in F and C. The explanation is now as follows :
The dissolution of the solid substance a considered by itself will
be accompanied bv absorption of heat; the formation of the compound,
this being" exothermic, with development of heat. In that region of
temperature in which the formation of the compound chiefly takes
place, it may, therefore, happen that the heat of formation of the
compound exceeds that which is absorbed during the dissolution. This
is the case from F to C, between which temperatures, as seeji in
the triangle, the dissociation isotherms are the most divergent and
the quantity of the compound formed, therefore, increases most
rapidly with a decreasing temperature.
The solubility -isotiierms for a.^ will, at a sufticiently low tempe-
rature, approach to the side h^ ah. If at a lower temperature the
combination is complete, the intersection of the dissociation- and melting-
isotherm wiW finally come very close to the angular point of the
compound and the projected melting point line will, therefore, become
an asymptote to the straight line PQ which indicates the composition
of the compound. It is also possible that the melting point curve
does not intersect the straight line PQ for the second time but
remains to the right of PQ.
When a larger quantity of the compound is already present at
a higher temperature, the bend is shifted further to the left, so
that it may happen that the melting point line is not intersected
by PQ.
If the formation of the compound takes place over a larger temi)e-
rature interval, the bend BCD F may disappear from the line and
there may only remain a more strongly inclined part.
In a similar manner the solubility line for the compound ah or
for the component h^ may be determined. The different forms \vhich
these lines assume either wholly or in those parts which, OAving to
their mutual interference, are alone capable of existence, are again
entirely dependent on the manner in which the solution-isotherms
shift in regard to the dissociation-isotherms.
In this way all the known cases of the meeting of the lines of
the components with those of the compound may be deduced. It
also is shown how it is possible that the compound which exists
partly in the liquid cannot separate in the solid condition and must,
therefore, again be decomposed when the components solidify.
Another case, as yet unknown, may also be possible namely that
after the solidification of the two components by cooUng a liquid is
again formed from which on further cooling the compound is depo-
