{ 462 )
In the upper point /"* the compound })asses into the liquid state,
heat being absorbed. This absorption consists of two parts, the ordinary
lieat of fusion and tlie heat evolved when a part of the liquid (endo-
thei-mic) compound decomposes until the equilibrium in the liquid is
reached. An at higher temperatures the quantity of the compound in
the li(piid is hirge, tlie second quantity of heat will be small in
comparison with the tirst and the meliing will cause absorption
of heat.
At Q it is, however, just the reverse because at a low tempera-
ture there exists but little compound in the liquid and the dissocia-
tion of a large proportion of the liquid compound may evolute so
much heat that this exceeds the actual heat of fusion of the
solid compound. The total fusion therefore produces heat and con-
sequently the liquid field is situated l)elo\v Q.
Up to the present, however, no endothermic compounds are known
in the liquid state.
Microbiology. — Professor Beijerinck presents a paper from himself
and Mr. A. VAN Delden : "(>/^ the bacteria which are active in
flax-rotting" .
(Communicated in the meeting of December 19, 1903).
1. How far flax-rotting should go.
The object of flax-rotting is the partly solving and softening of the
rind of the flax-stalk to remove the pectose, in consequence of which
the bast-bundles are freed so that later, after drying, the fibres may
easil}' be separated from the wood by breaking and scutching.
Pectose (/>/ Fig. 1) is the substance of which the young cell-walls
consist, as also the outer layers of the old cell-walls; these walls are
further built up from cellulose, which in a good rotting does not
undergo any change^).
By the rotting also the middle-lamellae, by which the fibres in the
bast-bundles stick together, may go into solution and consequently
the bast-bundles would be decomposed into the fibres proper. This is
not desirable as in this case no large coherent "lints" would be got
in scutching, but only loose fibres, of about 2 cm. in length.
The fibres of the bast-bundles, however, separate with much greater
1) For the microbes which affect tlie cellulose proper see Omeljansky, Centralb.
f. Bacteriol. 2 Abt. Bd. 8 p. 193, 1901, and G. van Iterson. These Proceedings
24 April 1903.
