( -±07 )
steeping of the ilax in water, tliat is in the white- and the blue-
I'Ottin^.
Tn the dew-rotting a most unequal product is obtained ; this
process shall not further be discussed here.
In the blue-rotting in ditches and ponds, as also in the white-rotting, a
so-called anaerobic bacterium is the active agöiit. This highly interesting
organism belongs to the genus Granulobacter and shall be called G. pec-
tinovorum ^) {(Jj) fig. 2). At the present moment the whole rotting indus-
try is nothing else but a more or less rational culture-method of
this bacterium.
From a theoretical point of view it is interesting that there are
also some aerobic bacteria w^itJi which rotting is possible with free
access of air. These are the various kinds of the so-called hay-
bacteria group, also known by the name of potato-bacteria, the chief
species of which are Bacillus mesentericus vulgatus, B. subtllis, and
Granulobacter (Bacillus) poly my xa (= B. solaniperda Kramer).
4. Arramjement of the rotting experiments in the laboratory for the
examination of microbes in pure culture on their power of rotting.
In order to ascertain if any microbe can be used for rotting it is
necessary to dispose of perfectly sterile flax. This is obtained b}'
heating the flax for some time at 125 — 130° C. in the steam sterilis-
ator, whereby it is seen that it is not rotted at all by this overheating.
For the laboratory experiments with the "anaerobes", thick walled
test-tubes were so closely filled with flax, washed out or not, that
the pressure against the glass-wall prevents it from mounting up
whon the tube is further filled with w^ater. After cotton-plugging
tlio tilled tubes are sterilised in the sterilisator.
It is true that in these tubes air can penetrate from above, but
if the [»ieces of the flax-stalks are not too short, say 20 cm., the entrance
of air is not noxious to the anaerobes, provided some ordinary aerobic
microbe be added, which lives at the surface and there absorbs the
oxygen. We always used to this end a Torula yeast.
For testing the aerobic microbes the flax is spread in a thin layer
at the bottom of a wide ERLENMEUER-flask, and after immersing in
a little water the whole is sterilised, after cooling infected with the
species concerned and cultivated at 35"*, or lower, in accordance with
the microbes to be examined. After 2 or 3 dajs the rotting is finished.
2) First discovered by Winogradsky (Comples rondus T. 121, pag. 742, 1895).
Störmer (Miltlieil. der deulschen Landwirlhschafts Gesellschaft Bd. 32, pag. 193
1008) used for it the name of Pleclridium pedinovorum.
31
Proceedings Royal Acad. Amsterdam. Vol. VI.
