( 468 )
At the exaiiiiiiatioii of the luimeroiis microbes which may be obtained
from flax in rotting condition, the result was negative for by far the
greater part of the species. No rotting was to be observed with the
\'arious kinds of yeast, of Mycoderma, of Torula, of Oidium and of
red yeast, nor with the lactic-acid ferments, the vinegar bacteria and
the different forms of the Aerohacter-^vow'^, such as A. coll and
A. aerogenes, which organisms are all universally found in the rotting
water of natural rottings.
The aerobic bacteria of the hay-bacteriagroup {B. mesentericus and
B. subtilis), which, at sufficient supply of air are on the contrary
strong rot ting-organisms, are rare in good rotting water. For rotting
they should be kept at least at 30''.
5. The rotting reposes on the action of the enzyme pectosinase
lohich is secreted hy the 2)ectose-hacteria.
The action on the flax, as well of the anaerobic Granulobacter
pectinovoriun as of the aerobic hay-bacteria and the moulds, is caused
by a specific enzyme pectosinase ^). This enzyme, like the acids, exerts
an hydrolytic influence, first converts the pectose into pectine, and
subsequently the pectine into sugars, which are fermented by G.
pectinovorum {Gp fig. 2) under production of hydrogen, carbonic
acid and a little butyric acid, and assimilated in case the hay-bacteria
are used for the experiment.
These sugars are most probably galactose and xylose, and (perhaps
in some cases) also glucose and arabinose, which as we saw^ before,
have been found by Tollens as products of the hydrolysis of the
pectinic substances with acids.
Pectosinase is not easily soluble in water and can he precipitated
with alcohol. In presence of chloroform and in absence of the
microbes, we succeeded thereby to decompose into cells thin slices
of potato, and further to liquefy with it solid plates of pectine,
made by solidifying pectine from Gentiana hdea (see ^ 2) with
pectase -\- CaCl'. The action of the isolated enzyme is feeble, much
feebler than when also the secreting bacteria themselves are present
in living condition. This is evident from the facility with which the
hay-bacteria at 37^ C. decompose slices of li\'ing potatoes, whilst this
gives much more trouble when effected by the enzyme prepared
separately.
1) Not identic with the ''pektinase" or" Bourquelot and Hérissev (Comptes
rendus T. 1:27 pg. 191 1898) from green malt (which is identic with the "cytase"
of Brown and Morris (Jüurn. Ghem. Soc. Trans. 1890, p. 458)) for with malt
flax cannot be rolled.
