( 469 )
The insolubility of peetosinase in water and, nmch more the faci;
that all the pectose bacteria examined by iis lose suddenly in
cei-tain not well defined circumstances the power to secrete it render
the study of this enzyme very troublesome. Particularly important is
its following propei'ty.
Whilst the action of the pectosinase is fiwoured bi/ a little acid
the growth of the pectose bacterium is retarded bi/ acid.
As to the rotting-process, for which the production of the enzyme
is clearly the essential point, one has, if not exclusively, at least
chiefly to reckon with the properties of the microbes themselves
more especially ^\ïÜl the conditions for their production. Hence,
from this point of view only a slight production of acid will be
favorable for the rotting.
From the above it follows that the chief question of flax-rotting
is : what are the conditions of life of the bacteria concerned and
how can their multiplication and accumulation in the flax-stalks
be attained so profusely as to expel the other microbes, and, by a
sufficient formation of pectosinase cause the rotting-process to go on
regularly ?
WiNOGRADSKY has, it is true, partly answered this question by the
discovery of the pectose-bacterium. But the essential point in the
arrangement of a rottijig experiment has quite escaped him, for he
has not recognised the necessity of the water refreshing. Hence, hitherto
there exists no clear method which may give rise to a iiatnral
accumulation of the bacteria specifically concerned in the rotting and
accordingly neither for the really rational arrangement of the rotting-
process.
This gap will be filled-up here.
6. Fiuula mental experiment for the explanation
of the rotting-process.
A cylindrical glass vessel A, Fig. 3 is quite filled with flax V,
so that the stalks by their pressure mutually and against the
glass-wall, are |)revented from floating iq) as the vessel is further
filled with watei'. Thereby is obtained 5 to 10 7^ of weight in flax
to 100 of water.
To the bottom of the vessel A, a glass tube B reaches, through
which pure water can flow down from the higher placed reservoir C.
This water flows upward through the flax-stalks, according as the
washing-water flows off by the tube J), and thereby extracts most
of the s()hd)le substances from the flax, whilst the insoluble
31*
