( 472 )
experiment is made without the water-current going through the
flax, a rich growth of all Ivinds of other bacteria will arise, but a
real accumulation of G. pectinovorum and a good rotting-process is
not obtained in the first two or three days.
The cause of this striking phenomenon reposes exclusively on
the competition of the different microbe species. This is evident
from the fact that with pure cultures of 6^. ^><?c?moyt>;'?/m, even without
refreshing the water, a very good rotting is possible. The substances
removed from the flax by the water-current are not in themselves
prejudicial to G. pectinovorum, but they favour the growth of the
other species, in particular of the lactic-acid micrococci, so much more
strongly, that G. pt'ctinororum can develop only later and with very
great difficulty. It is also certain that the secretion of pectosinase in
the dilute liquid is more profuse than in the more concentrated
nutrient solutions. Thus we did not succeed in rotting flax by placing
it in dilute sterilised malt-extract with chalk, of about 2^ on the saccharo-
meter of Balling, which was in a vigorous fermentation by a
pure culture of G. pectinovorum. Evidently no pectosinase secretion
takes place under so favourable nutrient conditions.
Hence, there is a double reason why extraction so much promotes
the rotting: the pectose bacterium gets the ascendency, and its faculty
of secreting pectosinase becomes active.
If we compare tlie microscopic image of the bacteria (PI. Fig. 1)
of the flax, rotted after the current "experiment", with that, treated in
the usual way, after the white or blue rotting methods, one is struck
b^ the enormous diiference. In the latter case hardly anything is seen
but the foreign species and G. pectinovorum is scarcely detected ;
whilst in the product, obtained by the current-experiment G. pectino-
vorum is seemingly in pure culture ^).
7. Simplification of the current-experiment.
When the great importance for the rotting-process of extraction
of the flax-stalks and of aeration had been recognised, it was natural
to try whether the current-method could be replaced by a more
rational way of water-refreshing for the practice.
This was effected in the following simple manner.
After standing 24 hours on the flax, the water was completely
decanted off, so that all spaces between the stalks were drained and
could fill with air. Subsequently a new supply of water was provided,
either of fresh water of about 30' C. or of 2:ood rottino;- water of
1) Compare further ยง 12.
