( 4"'i )
a pre\iou8 rotting. When using fresh water it proved desirable
after every 24 hours to repeat the refreshing, but when good rotting-
water could be had a second renewing was not required, good
rotting-water containing already a sutTicient accumulation of G. pec-
tinovorum.
By this treatment, too, which may be called the "decanting method",
excellent rotted samples were produced in 27, or 3 days. It even
seems that it should be preferred to the "current method", because
by decanting the concentrated rotting-water will be enabled more
completely to flow off from the narrow interspaces of the ilax-stalks
than will be possible wdien replacing it by slowly streaming pure
water. For the same reason the aeration must needs be more com-
plete anywhere in the sheaves by "decanting" than by "streaming."
On account of these experiences tiiere is no doubt but any other
method of water supply which can give rise to a sufïicient extraction
and aeration, can replace the "streaming" and the "decanting method",
if only care be taken during the rotting not to injure the delicate
and easily bruised flax-stalks.
Here once more it may be observed, that although G. pectinovorum
belongs to the so-called obligative anaerobic bacteria, the strong
aeration, described above, should be pronounced decidedly favorable
to this bacterium. This is, however, quite in accordance with the
experience acquired for all other well-observed anaerobes. Hence,
it may be considered as a truth, confirmed by each subsequent
research, that anaerobes, in the strict sense of the word, do not
exist, and that the term "niicroaerophily" more precisely denotes
the relation between such organisms and free oxygen, than the term
"anaerobes".
8. Application of the current experiment for practical rotting ^).
Practical rotting has until now been managed in a very primitive
way. Even at the Leie, near Courtray, from whence the best flax-fibre
comes to the market, e\en the superficial obser^'eI■ is struck b}' the
numerous and great deficiencies existing there.
1) By "vat-rotting", the bleaching of the flax on tlie field through light, so
essential in "white rotting", is excluded. In the flax-rotting establishments to come,
it will therefore be necessary to make the rotting be followed by a chemical
bleaching process. Experiments have shown that ozon or hydrogen-superoxide may
be used to this end Whether hypochlorites ("electrical bleaching") will also prove
applicable without weakening the fibres, will have to be made out by dynamometrical
estimations. Vat-rotting will also call attention to good drying-apparatus and, no
doubt, to other troublesome problems, which, completely to solve, will require
surely much time and many an industrial effort.
