( 479 )
remain much longer unchanged and continue distinctly to show the
shape of the bacteria. This phenomenon of bacteriolysis is perhaps
associated with the pectosinase secretion and is also observed in the
hay-bacteria.
The essential difference between G. urocephaluni and G. pectino-
vorum is that the former with ammonium-salts as source of nitrogen,
can ferment all kinds of carbohydrates, such as glucose, milk-sugar,
cane-sugar and dextrine, for which G. pectinovorum requires peptone
or broth. On the other hand, pectose is so little attacked by G. uroce-
phahim that fermentation cannot be observed with this substance,
even not when broth is present as source of nitrogen. Trypsine-
formation is ^^'illl G. u. about as vigorous as with G. p. and much
more abundant than with G. sacchaivbutyricum. The secretion of
diastase, on the other hand, is extremely feeble in both species and
much less vigorous than in the butyric-acid ferment.
12. Accumulation experiment for G. urocephalum. Why the butyric
cicid- und the lactic-acid ferment.-^ disappear from good flax-rottings.
That G. pectinovorum so strongly accumulates in our "current-"
and "decanting experiments", reposes on the double ada})tation of
this ferment, on the one hand to the insoluble albuminoids of the
flax-stalk by a strongly peptonising enzyme, on the other hand to the
insoluble pectose by the secretion of pectosinase.
Why G. urocephalum also accumulates in the flax, but much' less-
strongly, and why the common and vigorous butyric-acid ferment
disappears nearly completely, was made clear by the following accu-
nudation-experiment for (r. urocephalum, devised by Mr. G. van
Itkrson, at the occasion of a researeli on the butyric-acid fermentation.
If to any carbohydrate, for exam})]c insoluble starch, glucose,
cane-sugar, or milk-sugar, a slight quantity of egg-albumine or peptone,
or very little broth, is added as nitrogen source, in the proportion:
Ta|>water 100, Glucose 5, Albumiuo 0.1, K^HPO^005, (!halk 5,
infected with garden-soil and cultivated in a sto|)i)ored bottle at
35" C, there will first, that is so long as soluble carbon compounds
are still present, originate a butyric fermentation, but this is soon
replaced by a Urocephahi m-fevmenisinou.
If from the thus obtained first fermentation a small drop is
transported into the same mixture, the butyric-acid ferment, indeed,
does not completely disapj)ear, but the intensity of the Uroceplialum-
fermentation becomes therebv much enhanced. If at the end of the
