( 480 )
fermeiiüxtiüii a new quaiitit}' of sugar (and chalk) is added, a further
purification of the ferment is observed.
When using a smaller dose of sugar, the soluble nitrogen com-
pounds which occur in the albuminous matter, become more trouble-
some as they make the butyric fermentation more prominent.
If the same experiment is made, the albumine being replaced by
an ammonium salt, G. urocephalum is quite expelled and the butyric
ferment, G. mccharobu.ti/ricum, gains the victory.
That this experiment reposes only on competition, is proved by
the fact that G. urocejyhalum in pure culture, can grow excellently
and ferment \vith the said sugars and an ammoniumsalt as source
of nitrogen. Further, the pure culture on dilute mali-extract gelatin
proves that G. urocephahun, like G. pect'movorum, liquefies the gelatin
nuich more strongly than the butyricferment, and thus secretes more
trypsine.
The reason why these three bacteria accumulate so unequally in
the flax in the "current-experiment", and why G. urocephalum
takes the middle between the pectose-bacterium and the butyric
ferment, is thus evidently as follows.
During the extraction the insoluble nitrogen compounds are removed,
so that, as source of nitrogen there remains nothing else but the in-
soluble vegetal proteids. This assures the victory to the strongly pep-
tonisin"- G. pectinovorum and G. urocephalum over the not or feebly
peptonising butyric ferment.
This latter yields much more diastase than G. pectinovorum. and
G. urocephalum, so that its presence is a source of sugar formation,
starch being never completely absent.
Hence, as soon as the butyric-ferment disappears, the insoluble
carbohydrates, too, will promptly be removed by the extraction
and the fermentation. The insoluble pectose only is now left behind,
by which G. pectinovorum, which secretes much pectosinase, finally
also subdues G. urocephalum, which produces little or no pectosinase
at all.
The lactic -acid micrococci produce no enzymes which attack
pi'Oteids, pectose, or carbohydrates. So, from the moment, that only
insoluble proteids and insoluble carbohydrates are present, Ihey
can no more multiply and are carried off by the water-current.
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATE.
Fig. 1 (GOO).
Dmp pressed from Ilux-stalk at Ihe maximum point of a rolling during the
«current experiment", stained with iodine, and showing the natural accumulation
