( 482 )
Gad and Goldscheider have made methodical experiments con-
cerning the phenomenon, causing them to consider it as a sensation
brought about by summation of stimuli.
Thej also have pointed out already the analogy with the after-
images, of the retina, produced by optic stimuli of short duration.
An exact analysis however of the subjective phenomena, following
the experiment indicated b}' Goldscheider shows, that the anology
betw^een what happens for the skin and for the eye, is a far greater
one than w^e might think at first sight.
For by this analysis -it becomes evident that something may be
added still to Goldscheider's description. The subjective impression
does not stop at the secondary seiisation, but constantly a tertiary
sensation may be observed.
x\s soon as I am trying the experiment of Goldscheider upon
myself, applying on the skin with Ihe point of a blunt pin a prick
of very short duration, but very feeble, the skin being depressed
hardh" more than Vs millimeter, the first, primary sensation arises
almost simultaneously with tlie contact. After an interval of from
0.8 — 0.96 second the secondary sensation commences in accordance
with the description of Goldscheider.
About from one to three seconds after this, a tertuiry sensation
folloivs, consisting in a peculiar feeling of irritation and itching,
compelling us involuntarily to rub the irritated portion of the skin
with the hand. This last sensation rises very slowly, reaching
its maximum in little more than one second, and disappearing again
with far greater slow^ness. The duration of the first sensation amounts
to a very small part of 1 second, the second sensation is like-
wise a short one, though generall}- souiewhat longer than the first;
the duration of the tertiary sensation is still longer, amountiiig to
from 2 — 10 seconds, and even nioi'e if the intensity of the pi'ick
was somewhat stronger. The curve of the three sensations may he
represented graphically by a figure.
Figure 1.
The analogy with the visual after-images, such as these have been
described recently by Kries, Hess, Hamaker and others, is most
