A REAPPRAISAL OF THE TRILOBITE ScOticUa 9
of the Stonehouse Formation and being most common in the last
(McLearn, 1924, p. 20).
AGE. As for Scotiella conservatrix cited above.
DIAGNOSIS. A species of Scotiella Delo 1935 with faint to very faint
anterior and median lateral glabellar furrows occasionally repre-
sented by fine upraised ridges; preoccipital furrows deep and wide
(exsag. ); anterior and median lateral glabellar lobes fused abax-
ially; frontal lobe anteriorly depressed, gently angled, not encroach-
ing laterally across the courses of the axial furrows; genae with
minute posterolateral points; eye moderately large; seven lenses
at the maximum height (vert.) of the visual surface; pygidium
with eight to ten axial rings, mesially interrupted in the posterior
two-thirds of the axis; five pleural segments; border moderately
wide especially along the lateral margins, without distinct mar-
ginal furrow; margin entire in adults, denticulate in young hol-
aspides.
DESCRIPTION. The description is based on cranidia, glabellae and
pygidia. There is one specimen in which the eye is preserved. The
geometry of outline of the cephalon, the nature of the hypostome
and the thorax remain unknown.
Glabella trapezoidal, laterally subparallel-sided, anteriorly
gently angled. The axial furrows diverge at about 25-30 degrees
in small specimens, about 20 degrees in large adults. Anterior
lateral and median lateral glabellar side furrows faint to very faint
on internal moulds or represented by weak elevated ridges; very
faint to obsolete on casts taken from external moulds. The relief
of the anterior part of the glabella is uniformly convex (tr. and
sag.). When visible the anterior lateral furrows are long, very
shallow, narrow (exsag.), and slightly sigmoidal, with a weak
posterior median deflection; as in Scotiella conservatrix (McLearn)
they tend to converge towards the adaxial ends of both the median
lateral and preoccipital furrows. The median lateral furrows are
rather wider (exsag.), shallow and considerably shorter, linear or
gently curved and failing abaxially to reach the axial furrows.
The preoccipital furrows are deep and wide (exsag.) in all speci-
mens regardless of preservation; they curve slightly to the ante-
rior at both their abaxial and adaxial ends, this curvature being
most strongly emphasized in small specimens. There is apparent
