10 P05//7/<:/ YALE PEABODY MUSEUM No. 112
on some specimens a narrow (tr. ) median longitudinal field,
slightly upraised, and separated from the equally raised anterior
and median lateral glabellar lobes by a faint, discontinuous furrow
lying along the proposed line of confluence between the anterior
lateral and preoccipital furrows.
Frontal lobe, when viewed in lateral profile, with lower con-
vexity than that of S. conservatrix, falling anteriorly to a very
narrow (sag.), dorsal intramarginal rim, running concentrically
to the anterior contour of the frontal lobe and representing the
preglabellar furrow; not extending laterally across the courses of
the axial furrows; bearing up to five rows cf very faint tubercles,
radiating from a point between the adaxial extremities of the
anterior lateral furrows. Anterior lateral glabellar lobes subtrian-
gular, fused distally with the subrectangular median lateral lobes.
Preoccipital lobes very narrow (exsag.), about one-fourth the
width of the median lateral lobes but having a slightly greater
transverse convexity.
Occipital furrow deep, especially abaxially, wide (sag.).
Occipital ring raised above the general surface of the glabellar side
lobes, with a somewhat stronger transverse convexity than that of
the preoccipital lobes.
Genae postero-laterally provided with very smaU mucronate
points, similar to those of Acastella prima Tomczykowa 1962a.
Eyes moderately large, extending from the anterior lateral glabellar
furrows to the preoccipital furrows; sited a little closer to the
glabella than to the cephalic margins; rising to about the level of
the top of the glabella. The visual surface at hand is incomplete,
the posterior third being broken off, but the remainder contains at
least 73 lenses (giving an estimated total for the surface of approx-
imately 120) contained in at least 15 dorso-ventral files (an
estimated 22 for the complete surface) with rows of six lenses
alternating with seven at the maximum vertical height of the
surface.
Pygidium with subtriangular outline, laterally evenly rounded,
culminating in a short, sharp, inflected caudal point. There are
eight to ten axial rings and five pleural segments. The axis is
moderately convex (tr.), raised above the pleurae and abruptly
terminating before the posterior border without a marked post-
axial ridge. Rings 1-3 separated by deep and wide (sag.) trans-
