A REAPPRAISAL OF THE TRILOBITE Scotiella 13
much less prominent in S. logani. The pygidia are almost
inseparable.
In cephalic characteristics S. logani is very nearly homeo-
morphic with S. opatowiensis Tomczykowa 1962b, save that the
eyes of the latter are a Uttle further distant from the posterior
border furrow and the frontal lobe is a little more anteriorly
rounded. The pygidium of S. opatowiensis is unknown but is pos-
sibly identical to that of S. samsonowiczi Tomczykowa 1962b,
which occurs at the same localities and in the same beds.
Scotiella conservatrix is most closely related on cephalic
characteristics to S. minor (M'Coy 1851). Both species have
strong glabellar furrows, but in the latter they are somewhat
shorter. In S. minor the frontal lobe of the glabella is decidely
anteriorly angled (Shergold, 1967, pi. 2, fig. 1). The same com-
ments also apply to S. cf. minor with its distinctly pentagonal
glabella (ibid., pi. 1, fig. 9).
Scotiella samsonowiczi is in its cephalic form intermediate
between S. conservatrix and S. logani and also between S. con-
servatrix and S. minor. The glabellar furrows are present but weak
in the type specimens although other material from the same
locality shows considerable diversity in strength (Dr. Ewa Tom-
czykowa, pers. comm.). The genal spines are somewhat longer
than in other species of Scotiella at the equivalent morphogenetic
stage. The frontal lobe is anteriorly angled and the preocular sec-
tion of the facial suture is marginal as in S. minor. In the pygidium
there are six pleural segments as against five in S. logani and
S. conservatrix and the posterior axial rings are entire, as in young
holaspides of S. logani, not mesially interrupted.
The interruption of the posterior axial pygidial rings in adults
of S. logani and S. conservatrix is paralleled in other dalmanitid
genera only in Acastoides henni (R. Richter 1916), aiTecting
rings 5-8 in both A. henni posthuma R. & E. Richter 1952 and
A. Iienni henni (R. Richter 1916) (see R. & E. Richter, 1952,
pi. 2, figs. 8, 13). The reason for this development is unknown.
Young holaspides of Scotiella logani and, or S. conservatrix
appear to have pygidia with lateral marginal denticulations, these
appearing in Scotiella contemporaneously with similar structures
in young holaspides of species of Acastella. In the latter genus
these denticulations appear in the adult ontogenetic stages at a
