14 PoJ'/zV/fl YALE PEABODY MUSEUM No. 112
later date, e.g. Acastella tiro R. & E. Richter 1954. They are also
present in young holaspides of species of Acastocephala Shergold
1966 but, as in Scotiella they do not persist into the adult mor-
phogenetic stages.
Discussion
The type material for Scotiella originally described by Hall
(I860} has not been traced though it is possible that the two
specimens concerned (Hall, 1860, p. 158, text-fig. 18) were
unknowingly refigured by McLearn ( 1924). The specimens of this
latter author now constitute the type series. In this there are no
complete specimens with articulated cephala and pygidia; and
no such specimens have been observed in the recently collected
material. All the specimens available to date are isolated heads
or tails, these being preserved either as moulds or are exfoliated,
with the greater part of the shell usually missing.
Within the material at his disposal McLearn (1918a, 1924)
was able to differentiate two cephalic types, one referred to
Scotiella logani, sensu stricto, and the other to the variety con-
servatrix. The logani type of cephalon (McLearn, 1924, pi.
XXVII, figs. 3, 4, 6) is characterized by having a rather smooth
glabella with low sagittal convexity and faint, weakly impressed,
anterior and median lateral glabellar furrows. The axial furrows
of early holaspides diverge anteriorly at a greater angle than do
those of late holaspides (see pi. 2, figs. 1, 3, 5, 7, 8). The con-
servatrix type of cephalon (McLearn, 1924, pi. XXVII, fig. 1)
has a greater glabellar convexity (sag.) and there are three pairs
of clear, well-defined glabellar furrows, as in the genus Acastella.
Throughout morphogenesis the axial furrows appear to diverge
at an angle similar to that of the early holaspides of Scotiella
logani, sensu stricto, (see pi. 1, figs. 1,5). The greater anterior
angle to the frontal lobe of the conservatrix cephalon figured by
McLearn (1924, pi. XXVII, fig. 1; YPM 472) is due to slight
lateral distortion. In this characteristic there is very little difference
between the two cephalic types on undistorted material.
McLearn (1924, p. 168) considered there to be every grada-
tion between the strongly furrowed cephalic form (conservatrix)
and the pauci-furrowed type (logani), this presumably influencing
his contention that the conservatrix type of cephalon should be
