A REAPPRAISAL OF THE TRILOBITE ScOtiella 15
regarded as having no higher taxonomic status than that of a
variety. His opinion was supported by Delo (1940, p. 34).
In originally assessing only the type material the present author
was incUned to disagree with the above stated view. Large holaspid
cephala appear to be quite distinct, though the number of charac-
teristics in common between the two cephalic types certainly
establishes their close relationship. Small holaspides, however,
show greater atlinity and are often difficult to separate, the one
diagnostic difference being a slightly greater lobar convexity in the
conservatrix forms, which have as a result somewhat deeper fur-
rows. On examining additional material, recently collected and
kindly loaned by Professor A. J. Boucot, however, the differences
between specimens of large holaspid cephala gradually became
reduced. The statement, "in the distinctness of the anterior
two pairs of furrows . . . the logani form . . . grades more or less
indistinguishably into the variety conservatrix" (Delo, 1940, p. 34),
is justifiable, the conservatrix and logani cephalic forms being
interpreted as the end members of this morphological gradation.
McLearn made no differentiation between the two taxa he
recognised on pygidial characteristics. Delo (1940, p. 34), how-
ever, referred to S. logani a pygidium with a short, inflected, rather
incongruous, caudal mucronation (Delo, 1940, pi. 2, fig. 17; YPM
25102) and to conservatrix a non-mucronate pygidium (pi. 2,
fig. 20; YPM 25656). The latter has been re-examined by the
writer who concludes that it belongs not to Scotiella but to a
proetid trilobite.
It is indeed difficult to make a differentiation on pygidial
characteristics because all the pygidia represented in the collec-
tions examined, and referable to an acastinid genus, have the
same segmentation, five pleural segments and nine to eleven axial
rings, depending on the morphogenetic stage attained. All the
pygidia observed are further characterized by a mesial interrup-
tion in the posterior rings of the axis. Nevertheless there are
pygidia similar to that figured by Delo (1940, pi. 2, fig. 17) as
S. logani. In addition there are others with lateral margins a little
more sharply drawn in, very slightly narrower borders and slightly
longer mucronations. These may belong to the conservatrix type
of cephalon. Just as the head of this species is closely similar to
that of Acastella, so is the narrower, more triangular pygidium.
