16 Po5//7/« YALE PEABODY MUSEUM No. 112
It must be stressed, however, that the pygidia of logani and con-
servatrix are very similar and as such cannot be used confidently
as a basis for differentiation, a problem which may only be re-
solved by the discovery of a completely articulated specimen of
either species.
Thus among the type material of Scotiella there are two dis-
tinct cephalic types, which may be end members of a gradational
morphological series, accompanied by scarcely distinguishable
pygidia. There can be no question of the observed differences being
attributed to preservation or to morphogenesis, for specimens,
quite distinct and of comparable size, occur together at the same
localities in both calcareous and argillaceous matrices. That sexual
dimorphism may account for these differences might be considered
but cannot be proved. It is interesting to note in this respect that
Tomczykowa (1962b) has recently described two species of
Scotiella from the Holy Cross Mountains, southern Poland:
S. samsonowiczi , having glabellar furrows present but incised to
varying depths, and S. opatowiensis, having weak anterior and
median lateral furrows. Only one type of pygidium is known and
this is articulated with the samsonowiczi type of cephalon. Both
species occur on a similar horizon in the Rzepin Beds (Pod-
lasian =: ? Downtonian) at Lezyce-Belcz near Opatow and at
Lipniczek near Sandomierz (Tomczykowa, 1962b, p. 203).
The inclusion of both strongly and weakly furrowed cephala
within the single genus raises certain taxonomic points. Delo
(1935, p. 409) in erecting Scotiella originally confined the genus
to the type species, S. logani (Hall), the generic diagnosis thus
incorporating the observation "anterior glabellar furrows faint to
obsolescent.'' This diagnosis was left largely unmodified in a later
paper (Delo, 1940) though in considering the pygidium the earlier
definition "rounded, with short spine" was altered to "rounded,
with or without short spine" (p. 33), presumably to reconcile the
differing species which Delo attributed to the genus at this time.
The variety conservatrix was included in Scotiella in his paper, in
spite of the original definition which excluded trilobites with
strongly defined glabellar furrows. No emendation was made to
the diagnosis to account for this inclusion.
Disregarding the latter assignation later authors have come to
regard the faintness of the anterior glabellar furrows as absolutely
