A REAPPRAISAL OF THE TRILOBITE ScOtiella 17
diagnostic of Scotiella. Struve {in Moore, 1959, p. 0489) for
example has considered Scotiella as representing a subgenus of
Phacopina Clarke 1913, in which the anterior and median lateral
furrows may be similarly faint. His diagnosis retains Delo's ( 1940)
statements concerning the nature of the pygidium of Scotiella. If
these authors are to be followed strictly, then only such species as
S. logani with the anterior two pairs of furrows faintly defined,
can be classed within the genus.
With respect to the differences and similarities between the
cephalic forms noted above, this situation is somewhat unsatis-
factory. Until it can be conclusively proven that the logani and
conservatrix forms are conspecific or otherwise, I would prefer
to regard them as separate species, thus following the procedure
adopted by Tomczykowa (1962b) in deahng with the Polish
species. The generic diagnosis of Scotiella has been emended here
to embrace both strongly and weakly furrowed glabellar forms.
Some allowance has also been made for the differing pygidial
characteristics between North American and European species.
The species thus included in the genus are: Scotiella logani (Hall
1860), S. conservatrix (McLearn 1924), S. samsonowiczi Tom-
czykowa 1962b, S. opatowiensis Tomczykowa 1962b and S. minor
(M'Coy 1851).
Conclusions
1. The exact taxonomic status of Scotiella must remain in
doubt until fully articulated specimens of either S. logani or
S. conservatrix are discovered, in which event the correct assign-
ment of the pygidium may be facilitated.
2. McLearn (1924) and Delo (1940), impressed by the
apparent morphological transition between the logani and con-
servatrix cephalic types and being unable to distinguish associated
pygidia readily, referred both species to Scotiella, a procedure
followed here.
3. It is suggested that the poorly furrowed cephalon represents
a derivation from the strongly furrowed type, though there is a pos-
sibility that this difference is the result of sexual dimorphism.
4. The strongly furrowed Scotiella of the Stonehouse Forma-
tion probably represents a rapidly evolved branch of Acastinae
