18 PoA'////« YALE PEABODY MUSEUM No. 112
derived from a parent species of Acaste at a time when Acastella
was evolving from a similar source in northwest Europe.
5. Acastella, present in Europe and north Africa from Lud-
lovian to Siegenian time, has not been reported from North
America. Scotiella, present from Ludlovian to Lower Gedinnian
time in North America, is only sparsely represented in Europe,
where its range is confined to beds about the Siluro-Devonian
passage (late Ludlovian to early Downtonian). Scotiella may
thus be interpreted as the temporal equivalent in North America
of the genus Acastella in Europe and north Africa.
Acknowledgements
For allowing me access to either their personal collections
or to Museum material in their care I am gratefully indebted to
Dr. C. MacClintock, Peabody Museum of Natural History, Yale
University, New Haven; Professor A. J. Boucot, California Institute
of Technology, Pasadena, California; and Dr. T. E. Bolton, Geo-
logical Survey of Canada, Ottawa. I am especially grateful to
Dr. Ewa Tomczykowa, Instytut Geologiczny, Warsaw, for much
helpful discussion and for her hospitality during my brief visit to
Poland. Dr. C. Harper, Jr., U. S. National Museum, Washington,
kindly sent me photographs of the types of Scotiella obsoleta and
Dr. G. K. B. Alberti, Geologische Staatsinstitut, Hamburg, Ger-
many, passed on to me material from Professor Boucot's collec-
tions. I thank Professor T. S. Westoll, University of Newcastle
upon Tyne, Newcastle upon Tyne, England, for providing me
with facilities to complete the study, and Dr. A. A. Opik, Bureau
ol" Mineral Resources, Canberra, Australia, for his critical reading
o.' the manuscript. The research was partially financed with the
aid of a travel grant from the Natural Environment Research
Council.
Literature Cited
Bassler, R. S. 1915. Bibliographic index of American Ordovician and
Silurian Fossils. U. S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 92 (1 & 2): 1-1521, 4 pi.
Clarke, J. M. 1890. As Trilobitas do Grez de Erere e Maecurii estado do
Para, Brazil. Arch. Mus. Nac. Rio de Janeiro 9: 1-58, 2 pi.
. 1907. Some New Devonic Fossils. N. Y. State Mus. Bull. 107:
153-291.
