2 Postilla YALE PEABODY MUSEUM No. 112
Introduction
The genus Scotiella Delo 1935 has a geographical distribution
which extends from Nova Scotia across the Atlantic to Poland.
It is of importance in that it has a limited stratigraphical range,
being confined to the passage beds between the Silurian and Devo-
nian Systems.
The species now referred to Scotiella show considerable varia-
tion in characteristics associated with the furrowing of the glabella
and pygidium and with the axial structures of the latter. These
variations have been incorporated into an emended generic
diagnosis.
Scotiella is closely related to Acastella Reed 1925, a genus
existing contemporaneously during the late Silurian and early
Devonian in northwest Europe. Scotiella is differentiated on the
character complex diagnosed below. Trends found in Scotiella,
but not in Acastella, include a tendency towards obsolescence of
the anterior glabellar furrowing and a mesial interruption of the
posterior axial rings of the pygidium. The similarities between
Scotiella and Acastella suggest a common ancestry which may be
found in Acaste Goldfuss 1843.
During the research necessary for this short paper I have had
the opportunity to study at first hand types and other specimens
from collections in the Peabody Museum of Natural History, Yale
University, New Haven, Connecticut; plaster casts of type speci-
mens from the collections of the Geological Survey of Canada,
Ottawa; material recently collected from the type section at Ari-
saig, Nova Scotia, by Professor A. J. Boucot, Division of Geo-
logical Sciences, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
California; and also material deposited in the collections of the
Geological Institute, Warsaw, from approximately contempora-
neous strata in Poland.
In the following text YPM indicates specimens from the col-
lections of the Peabody Museum of Natural History; GSC those
from the Geological Survey of Canada and USNM those from the
U.S. National Museum, Washington.
When referring to the morphogenesis of the species considered
the terms "early" and "late" holaspid are constantly mentioned.
These terms are applied to dilTerentiate the smallest and largest
groups of holaspid instars. In the Acastinae and related trilobites
