A REAPPRAISAL OF THE TRILOBITE ScOticlla 7
Anterior lateral glabellar furrows strong, wide, deep, slightly
sigmoidal, posteriorly oblique, almost reaching backwards to the
ends of the median lateral furrows. The latter are short, equally
deep and wide (exsag.), linear or gently curved, failing to reach
the axial furrows abaxially. Preoccipital furrows very wide
(exsag.), deep, slightly curved to anterior at abaxial ends, strongly
curved to the anterior at the adaxial ends, with a tendency to con-
verge towards the posterior extremities of the anterior lateral fur-
rows, there being a shallow tract along the proposed line of con-
fluence between on the one side the anterior and median lateral
lobes, which are very slightly raised above it, and on the other a
narrow (tr.) median longitudinal field raised to an equal level.
Occipital furrow curving slightly forward mesially. Occipital
ring considerably wider (sag. and exsag.) than the preoccipital
lobes, having a similar transverse convexity, rising above the level
of the glabellar side lobes.
Genae laterally extensive, without marginal furrow, without
an area of librigena anterior to the frontal lobe such as that pre-
sent in species of A caste and Acastella. Postocular section of the
facial suture cutting the lateral cephalic margins opposite the
median lateral lobes; preocular section marginal immediately ante-
rior to and defining the limits of the frontal lobe. The preglabellar
furrow is represented merely by a slight marginal break in the
slope of the convexity of the frontal lobe. Adult genae are provided
with minute genal spinules; young holaspides have somewhat
longer, more delicate, spines. Eyes moderately large and extending
from the anterior lateral to the preoccipital glabellar furrows.
Nature of visual surface, hypostome and thorax unknown.
Pygidium subtriangular in outline, the lateral margins cul-
minating posteriorly in a caudal spine which is long in young
holaspides but considerably shorter in adults. Axis strongly convex
(tr.), raised throughout its length above the pleurae, terminating
abruptly before the posterior spine without trace of a post-axial
ridge. There are nine clearly defined rings and a trace of a tenth.
Rings 1-3, forming the anterior third of the axis, are clearly
defined, being separated by deep transverse furrows. The remain-
ing rings are separated by poorly-defined furrows. Ring 4 is entire,
similar to 1-3. Rings 5 and 6 are broadly V-shaped (sag.), the
apex pointing posteriorly, bearing, in well-preserved material, a
