2 Postilla Yale Peabody Museum No. 60
nient of Surinam. Mr. and Mrs. Freund and the Peabody
Museum of Natural History are especially grateful to the
following people and institutions : Mr. Harold Nassy, Director
of the Government Information Service; LARECO, the Land
Reclamation Corporation; Mr. Fritz Barends, Mayor of Para-
maribo; Dr. D. C. Geijskes, Director of the Surinam Museum;
Corporal H. P. Pijpers of the Surinam Army; Mrs. Dorothy
Badger, Surinam Tourist Bureau, New York; Surinamse Luft-
vaartmaatschappij (Surinam Airways) ; and Pan American
Airways.
We are also grateful to Mr. Emmet R. Blake, Chicago
Museum of Natural History; Mr. James Bond, Philadelphia
Academy of Natural Sciences; Dr. Kenneth C. Parkes, Car-
negie Museum ; and Dr. Dean Amadou, American Museum of
Natural History, for use of specimens in their care. We are
especially indebted to Mr. F. Haverschmidt for calling to our
attention a species misidentified in the manuscript of this note
and for bringing up to date our comments on three species.
Dr. Wesley E. Lanyon and Mr. George E. Watson kindly
examined specimens for us at the American Museum of Nat-
ural History. Dr. S. Dillon Ripley, Mr. Peter Ames, and
others have given us advice or assistance.
COLLECTING LOCALITIES
Kaysergebergte Airstrip. The Freunds collected 58 birds at
Kaysergebergte Airstrip (see map) from November 23 through
December 6, 1901. This airstrip is one of seven recently built
during "Operation Grasshopper," a program which is opening
the previously almost inaccessible forested interior of Surinam
to travel. Kaysergebergte Airstrip is a clearing of approxi-
mately 200 by 2000 yards in the tropical forest. Most of the
specimens were collected near or at the forest edge bordering
the airstrip; some were collected along trails from the airstrip
to nearby Oranje Creek.
Sipaliwini Airstrip and Paru Savannah. The Freunds col-
lected 58 birds at Sipaliwini Airstrip and Paru Savannah
December 7 through 11, 1961. Sipaliwini is the southernmost
of seven airstrips constructed during "Operation Grasshopper"
