MINUTES
October 3, 1 99 1
TTie meeting was held ai Deniers Ciarden
Center. Bob Demers (acting president).
Paul Godbout, Peter Corey, Jennifer, and
Chris were there. Previous minutes and
tinancial report were read and accepted.
Paul reported on the Granite State Flower
Show.
It was decided lo hold the Winter Meeting
in Manchester this vear and several hotels
that offered meeting facilities were
discussed. Bob and Paul will look at what
each offered and make a linal decision. It
was decided not to otter pesticide credits
this year. Peter will contact a possible
main speaker; other speakers will be
needed.
It was decided to man a booth at Farm iSl
Forest and maybe sponsor a speaker
Peter Cxirey (The Village Green,
Littleton), Henry Huntington (Pleasant
View Gardens, I'litsfu-ld), and Richard
Zoerb (Gloeckiur. N.isliu.i) have all
expressed interest in scrxuig on the board
next year. Although oihet candidates are
still needed, this was encouraging iiews.
The preparations for the twilight meenng
at Conlev Tree Fanii were done; the fivers
were out and on time.
Jolly Farmer Products (East l.empstcr) has
expressed interest m hosting next year's
hummer Meenng.
Peter asked^in behall oi his business
partner bveretl .Aldticl.— il the NHPCj.A
would be interesied in allowing a |omt NH/
VT Telctlora meeting to l..ke pl-'-e at the
summer meeting alongside e\ervthing else,
ll was thought that thi-- speci.il meeting
might be bettet organi:ed il il were separate
and maybe in September.
The meeting adjourned at nine.
NovemfcerS, 199)
The meeting was called to order at 7: 10 al
Demets Garden Center. Bob, Bnice, and
Chns were there.
The minutes and financial rcporl were read
and accepted.
Membership is curtentiv .it 24^. Planning
tor the next New hngland Cireenhouse
Conference is beginning; Richard F.merson
will be keeping us inlorined. The Plannvwn
will continue to be sent to members ever\
other month; costs have been ml and ll
seems to be on a more solid financial base.
The idea of a simpler logo with greater
impact was brought up. The Board decided
to see how the membership felt about a
new l«3go at the Winter Meeting.
The program for the Winter Meeting was
discussed. Ideas for speakers and topics
seemed to center around management in
various forms and it was decided that this
topic would be the theme of the meeting.
Speakers will be confirmed in a few days and
a tlver will be seni oul in early December.
There are several possible candidates for the
two vacancies on the Board, but thev haven't
firmly commuied themselves at this time.
Both twilight meetings — at Van Berkum
Nursery in September and Conlev Tree Farm
in October — were seen as successful. Atten-
dance at both was somewhat higher than ex-
pected and the information given was worth-
while. The Board hopes to plan a series of
twilight meetings fot I'^'^l, choosing a variety
of operations in different pans of the state.
Next veat's Summer Meeting will be at the
jollv Farmer in Fasi l.empMer, probably in the
ihird week .>f .Augu-I l>.b Pemers recently
visited the openuion and reported that thete
IS delinitelv plentv lo see. There's plenty o\
r<H-ini tor vendor, and thete will probably be a
chance to earn one or two recertification
credits. A representative from Jolly Farmer
will be invited to attend the Febmarv board
meeting.
The Board also decided lo plan an all-day
recertificaton meeting in the fall of IW2
The meeting adjourned at 9:30.
WORTH REPEATING
Could Taxus Help Treat Cancer?
Bruce Vanicek
The Rhode hkmd Nurseries
Reprinted from New England
Newsline, a publication of the New
England Nuserymcns .\ssocuition ,
Fall 1991
There is a compound in the genus
Taxus that may help save the lives
of cancer patients. Taxol, an
experimental drug found in Taxus
plants in very small quantities, has
shown some promising results in
the treatment of ovarian cancer. It
is also being clinically tested
against other cancers including
breast, lung and colon tumors.
The drug is currently extracted
from the bark of the Pacific Yew
(Taxus brevifoliii) which is native to
the old growth forests in the Pacific
Northwest. The drug is present in
such small quantities that it takes
six, lOO-year-old trees to treat one
28 THE Plaktsman
patient. Because these trees are a
finite resource, as well as growing
in the same forests where environ-
mentalists are trying to save the
spotted owl from logging opera-
tions, the drug is extremely scarce.
Currently, the supply of drug is not
enough to complete research
necessary for approval .
Researchers are also trying to
synthesize Taxol. Their attempts
have been frustrated because the
molecule is extremely complex.
Also, the cost of synthesis may be
so expensive, the drug may not be
economically viable. Others are
trying to culture the Taxol
producing cells to regenerate as a
means of producing the drug. This
too has been unsuccessful.
You may be asking yourself "What
about all the Taxus grown and sold
in the nursery industry?" Well, a
researcher familiar with the
promising results of Taxol as well as
the supply problem, called me with
the same question about three years
ago. Since then, people from inside
and outside the nursery industry
have spent many hours researching
arid evaluating ornamental
cultivars for their potential use as a
source for Taxol. Growers that
have been involved with the
research and two Universities have
formed an alliance to facilitate the
extraction of Taxol from
ornamental cultivars. The effort is
ongoing and membership in the
Alliance is not restricted. It you
would like more information about
the Alliance or Taxol, please call
me at (401) 846-0721.
