8 THE ROYAL CANADIAN INSTITUTE.
Canada's sons who have so honourably responded to the call of the
Empire. The rest of the people of Canada are doing their duty nobly
for the Red Cross and the comforts of the soldiers at the front, in
the hospitals, and on their return as ineffectives. There is, however,
the business and social life of the country, what can we say of that?
Is it not true that the people as a whole are conducting their business,
their manufactures and their lives much as if nothing had happened
not looking for any radical changes as a result of the war, but waiting
till it ceases with the expectation that things will go on as they did
before. The immense expenditure on munitions of war now in progress
in Canada must bring a degree of prosperity which it is difficult to
measure undoubtedly various prevailing conditions will bring into
the country a large amount of money. The same will happen in the
country to the south of us. Such conditions alone will not suffice to
make the people of this country or of the United States permanently
prosperous.
It is common knowledge to all that will learn that the United States
has long since developed within itself a means of doing its manufacturing
and trade in a great degree by large trade combinations such as in
Canada we have not yet been able to rival. These combinations long
since learned the necessity for applying the discoveries of science and
scientific research to the betterment of their processes, the saving and
utilization of by-product and waste, and the investigation of materials
and processes for new products and new means of more economically
producing products already known.
The war experience has shown them and the whole world how
dependent they were upon Germany for many things which were the
result of application of science and scientific research by the German
people.
In the United States the result is already apparent in a vast advance
in the opening of plants to manufacture many of the things required,
and a multiplication and livening up of the means of scientific investi-
gation to discover and to demonstrate the means and the result called
for.
The people of Canada have made no move as yet in the direction
above indicated. Nothing has been done to give value to the term
"made in Canada" when our goods are so labelled.
The term "made in Germany" we all know has not among us the
reputation of pointing to any superiority in the articles upon which it
appears. The fact nevertheless is that hundreds of products "made
in Germany" have been upon the markets of the world possessing a
value actually due to the fact that they could be procured exclusively
