PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS, 1915. 9
in Germany, or that their quality by reason of efficiency of process or
manufacture could not be rivalled in cheapness outside of Germany.
It is stated in publications on the subject that the German products
exclusively manufactured by them from coal tar and kindred sources
number upwards of thirteen hundred. The manufacturing premises
of that great firm of the Badische Anilin u. Soda Fabrik occupies alone a
mile and a half of the bank of the Rhine, while a great many other parent
sources have been exploited by them also, resulting in hundreds of pro-
ducts. In relation to this subject the amateur character of the infor-
mation which I possess compels me to leave further details to those
more intimately and practically acquainted with such matters. The
whole of this great German trade has been by the occurrences of the
past fifteen months thrown open to all the countries in the world. De-
prived of it, Germany's great sources of wealth are suspended. It must
be remembered that the scientific institutions, the laboratories, the
manufactories, and the commercial equipment of Germany will not be
destroyed, and it depends upon the means taken by the rest of the
world to meet a resumption of German aggressive commercialism to
see whether the suspension of her special trade will be converted into
its permanent loss. Before the time arrives for Germany's attempts
at commercial recovery, the other countries of the world must take care
to establish and prepare to maintain the production of those articles,
commodities and things which form the exclusive trade of Germany.
They must be ready to withstand the aggressive power which German
manufacturers and German science and efficiency will be able to exercise
by flooding their markets with these products with which local manu-
facturers may find it impossible to compete, unless steps have been
taken to meet such an emergency. Mere protective duties will not
suffice for this purpose. There must be real live business energy in the
commercial manufacturing world directed to the preservation of its
interests. The people of the British Empire must understand that there
will be this great commercial war to carry on with Germany, that it
will call for all the resources, all the intelligence, all the learning, and
all the assistance that can be derived by these means from scientific
and industrial research and personal enterprise on the part of its people
to wage the combat. It will be an Empire war. Great Britain itself is
not equal to the emergency; she must have the assistance of all her
dominions and dependencies. Canada must step in. Here we have
the resources in nature, in men, in learning and opportunity to take a
large and important part among the forces required for the contest.
England has already taken steps forward in the matter, which you will
no doubt hear of from some of the speakers here to-night. While we
