10 THE ROYAL CANADIAN INSTITUTE.
are waiting we are endangering our interests, endangering our commercial
future. We should spring at the great business opportunities which
are presented to us. The Government of Canada for its part, we trust,
will immediately step in and follow the lead of England in this respect.
We have the right to expect that Governmental efforts will be im-
mediately supplemented by the successful support of the Bureau of
Scientific and Industrial Research which we are now promoting to deal
with the private commercial aspects of the campaign, and as well to
participate in and to promote the general commercial success of Canada's
enterprises and manufactures.
The Royal Canadian Institute has acted in the direction indicated
by the institution of a " Bureau of Scientific and Industrial Research
and School of Specific Industries", following upon the advocacy of such
a course set forth in the publications of the Institute, and particularly
the "Red Pamphlet" issued in 1914.
This Bureau, as promised, is modelled on the Mellon Institute at
Pittsburg, of which much has already been said in the "Red Pamphlet,"
and in addresses delivered in the Institute. The Bureau is already in
operation and meeting, through its secretary, such persons and corpora-
tions as should or may require to have its aid. The investigations which
the Bureau may be called upon or be employed to make, it will place
in the most efficient hands to be found for the particular purpose in
view at one of the universities under such conditions as may be neces-
sary. In particular cases it may be necessary for the Bureau itself to
make the research, for which means will in this particular case have to
be provided by endowment by the applicant for the research. The
conditions of research will in each case be the subject of an agreement
with the applicant similar to that form of agreement ratified by use at
the Mellon Institute. You will at once ask how the Institute has pro-
vided the means for the maintenance of the Bureau even the initial
means necessary to meet the preliminary expenses of launching it.
My answer is that the Institute has not been able to provide the means
required. The members and the public are to be asked to provide the
means which are required, to the amount of about $10,000, which will
set the work going satisfactorily, and enable us during the first year to
provide for the future, in case (unlike the Institute at Pittsburg) we do
not find ourselves visited by benefactors like the Brothers Mellon to
provide one half million for a laboratory for the Bureau and another
half million for it spermanent endowment.
A committee has been formed for the purpose of collecting the means
required, consisting of the following governors of the Bureau, i.e.: Prof.
J. C. McLennan, Frank Arnoldi, J. B. Tyrrell, Dr. Field, W. B. Tindall,
Prof. A. B. Macallum, and the Secretary-Treasurer F. M. Turner.
