PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS, 1915. 11
A word or two is necessary as to the field which the Bureau will seek
to fill. The commercial world and its industries necessarily require the
advantage of scientific and industrial research as the universities give
it for educational purposes and the advancement of the public interests
in every way. A general scheme for scientific and industrial research
utilizing the universities, a Government Commission backing up the
universities may well be called upon to undertake. Into this field the
work of the Bureau will largely extend, but the commercial world and
its industries require in addition something of a different kind. The
individual factors, the corporations, the partnerships, the individuals
carrying on manufactures and enterprises require scientific and in-
dustrial research in their individual spheres and for their individual
benefit. This work to a large extent the universities may find means
to do. The selection of the best instrumentality, whether in a uni-
versity or in the Bureau itself, or otherwise, for any particular investi-
gation contemplated, necessarily calls for a competent body, capable
and organized, to put forth the necessary propaganda and to provide
a selecting body with machinery adapted for the negotiation with the
applicant, the proper choice of the investigator, and the making of the
agreement for a Fellowship, or other form of endowment of the investi-
gation between the applicant on the one hand and the proposed investi-
gator on the other. It is self-evident that the instructional functions
of the universities and their trust for the general public prevent their
taking upon them these functions of the Bureau of Scientific and In-
dustrial Research, which, however, in its investigations, will necessarily
depend largely upon and ask for the assistance of the universities wher-
ever it is available.
In view of the action of the British Government in calling to their
assistance the great scientists and scientific manufacturers of Great
Britain to aid in the application of science to the production of efficient
munitions of war, your Council in its name, and in the name of the
members of the Institute, by letter to the Prime Minister of Canada,
has placed the services of the Institute, its Council, its Bureau, and the
use of its Library unreservedly at the command of the Government of
Canada for the same purpose. It is hoped that they may be as fully
availed of as they will be freely given.
Although, apart from the special demands we have alluded to for
the employment of scientific methods and research, the war does not
seem to have retarded scientific progress generally.
Necessity has created calls throughout the world which have been
answered by new applications of known scientific principles, and by
new discoveries and inventions, more particularly in the warring coun-
