12 THE ROYAL CANADIAN INSTITUTE.
tries. There is evidence of much progress of this kind in Germany,
and although the knowledge of it is withheld as much as posible from
the rest of the world, it has been furnished in many ways. We may
instance the wonderful advance in the construction of submarines up
to the point of the so-called super submarine capable of prolonged
voyages never dreamt of for such craft prior to the war. The same
thing may be said of air craft of all kinds.
England and France we know have also made immense advances
in the construction of their submarines and air craft, so much so indeed
as to outclass the Germans, and in addition have produced scientific
means and machines which have practically defeated and stopped
Germany's submarine warfare against the Allies, and in the air have
more than met every device of the enemy.
Further instances in this direction some of those present will no
doubt take the opportunity to tell us about.
We have so far spoken of the effect of the war upon the people of the
British Empire. Let us for a moment ask ourselves what the effect is
now upon the nations of the civilized world what it may be after peace
is declared.
Before the war there had been for a century growing stronger among
the nations, outwardly at least, a strong sympathy for humanity; the
standard of national honour was high, and no insult to a country could
exceed that of doubting the good faith of its government or its observ-
ance of its treaty obligations.
These conditions were shown by the growth of influential peace
parties in the chief nations of Europe and America, who spread their
propaganda for the settlement of all international disputes without
war by means of convention or by arbitration till within recent years
the Tribunal of the Hague was erected for the trial and determination
of what may be designated international law suits to be brought before
it. The relations between the nations had developed what might be
said to amount to a code of international law which was added to by
agreements entered into by the Powers at the Hague, and later by the
Treaty of London so far as that Convention was adopted.
All this structure was built upon the good faith of the nations. The
world thought good faith a safe security for the fulfilment of the obliga-
tions of Treaties and international law.
What was to be done with a Power which did not abide by its obliga-
tions in these respects was not provided for. In the nature of things
it could not be provided for and was not discussed till the circumstances
attending the war brought a suggestion for the formation of a con-
