PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS, 1915. 13
federacy of the Powers to enforce the observance of national treaties
and obligations.
Probably this suggestion will be unearthed by posterity as one of
the curiosities of this age of the world. What is to be hoped for is that
when German Militarism shall have been crushed the horrors of what
has occurred will operate in the minds of all nations automatically to
produce such unity of thought and action among them as will enable
them to overawe on the part of any country any effort to make war
or in case of necessity by force of arms punish or restrain the offending
nations.
We live in a time when the whole structure which we have referred
to for the preservation of peace has been utterly repudiated by Germany
and Austria. Their action has made itself evident that there is no means
of preserving peace or the sanctity of treaty obligations, or enforcing
submission to international law, when a nation thinks itself strong
enough to defy the opinion and the arms of the other nations of the world.
On the basis of German "kultur" international obligations stand only
for those who are not strong enough to repudiate them. The honour of
the Central Powers has been cast in the mire. While the other nations
of the world hold to the sacredness of treaty obligations, the mandates
of international law, and the dictates of humanity, these are all repudi-
ated by Germany and Austria. Their creed is such that they will not
acknowledge, much less voluntarily expiate, the wrongs which they have
perpetrated against God and man, by bringing on the war indeed but
a thousand times more so by the ruthless, wanton and cruel way in
which it has been waged in the invaded countries. The other nations
of the earth cannot submit to the rule of national license which Germany
and Austria have set up.
In quietness and confidence let us await the victory of the nations
who are fighting for truth and justice against the powers of hell let loose
by Germany.
The conflict involves an issue of life and death for all that gives real
worth to human existence for all civilization, all progress, all morality,
all liberty worthy of those august names.
It will be a long fight, doubtless a fight in which our enemy will
shrink from no atrocities, but it will be a fight to the finish. The
commonest considerations of prudence make this certain.
The stern judgment of the old Roman patriot upon the great foe of
his country was "Delenda est Carthago". As stern a resolution is on
the lips of all true lovers of their country and of mankind be they English,
or French, Russian, Italian, Japanese, and I do not hesitate to add
American. German militarism must be utterly destroyed and the
