14 THE ROYAL CANADIAN INSTITUTE.
monstrous creation of blood and iron be overthrown. Such is the plainest
dictate of the instinct of self preservation. It is also the plainest dictate
of justice. Germany must be paid that she has deserved and a reckon-
ing be had also personally with the pillagers, assassins, and murderers
who have carried out her pitiless campaign. Germany must be put in
a position that never again shall she have the ability to rise to defy the
world as she has done.
We must not ignore, in dwelling on these matters, the difficulties
that stand in the way of attaining such results. No falsehood, no
artifice, no crime, no consideration, moral or otherwise, no baseness
stands for one moment between Germany and the objects she seeks to
attain. Even now she is feeling the public of the other nations on the
possibility of peace on some terms to save her face. The greatest danger
to be met is that the Allies may allow themselves to be bluffed into a
premature and inconclusive peace.
The Allies hold the winning position and all that is necessary is to
stand fast together sternly mindful of the fact that it is not the German
armies alone that are to be met, but in addition the vast secret influence
and power possessed by Germany in that great number of its people,
and of its agents and spies resident in the countries of the Allies and in
the United States, combined with the strength and ramifications of
German financial interests throughout the world, more particularly
in England and the United States. The significant fact may be pointed
out, viz., that in England the public trustee has been appointed the
custodian of property to the amount of upwards of one hundred million
pounds sterling belonging to alien enemies. The agents and protagon-
ists of high finance will not lose sight of these facts, and their machina-
tions must be sternly faced.
With all the craving of the public for information it is yet true that
little is known outside of those in high places of the inner history of
the war. We are with difficulty able to learn a fraction of the happen-
ings from day to day. Political action, diplomatic action affecting
these happenings and the relations of the nations are as to nearly
everything a sealed book. So it seems from the light of the past it must
be.
On this subject Prof. Webster in his inaugural address before the
University of Edinburgh in 1914 said:
"You will look in vain for the books which can teach Englishmen
the connection of their own country with the political life of the conti-
nent during the nineteenth century. Such books cannot be improvised
on the spur of the moment in the midst of a national crisis. Few will
dispute that the study of our diplomatic history in the past century
