6 THE ROYAL CANADIAN INSTITUTE.
We have to mourn also the death of Miss Logan, who since 1905 has
officiated in the office of the Institute, looking after the assortment and
distribution of the exchanges, the keeping of the records, and the carry-
ing on of the correspondence under supervision, and much other detail
work in connection with the Institute with signal industry and ability.
Miss Logan had become a sort of universal directory as to all the interior
economy of the Institute. All who had relations with her learned to
respect her and remember her most kindly, and now that she is gone
she is sadly missed.
In the death of Sir Sandford Fleming, the first Honorary President
of the Institute, who may be regarded as its founder in the year 1848,
not merely an outstanding pillar of the Institute, but one of our greatest
public men has passed away.
Dr. Kennedy, associated with the Institute for a great many years as
its President and as a member of the Council, has a paper prepared on
the subject of Sir Sandford Fleming's demise, which I will ask him later
to read, forbearing further comment myself.
When in November, 1914, it was my privilege to address you we
met under the pressure of the first few months of the greatest war ever
waged by man, cherishing in our inmost thought the hope which no one
dared to express, that not a long time would elapse before the Allies
would triumph and the strife cease. The year has passed with its
anxieties, thrills and great griefs, and the people of the British Empire,
far from realizing the hope we have mentioned, are in the stage of appre-
ciating that the end is not yet, and that before it comes, and to bring
that end about favourably to themselves, the sacrifices that the people
of the Allies have made must be supplemented by all the sacrifices
they are capable of making.
The calls made upon the spirit of sacrifice and endurance in the
case of the people of Great Britain have been so contrary to their state
of mind, social relations and mode of life moulded by a century of peace
and of great commercial prosperity, that new conditions must hereafter
prevail. We find that this is the common theme of the prominent
writers and commentators of the time. These say that things can never
again be in Great Britain as they were. A new order will prevail from
the time peace is declared. It is even said that the political life of the
nation will be changed in many respects. It would require much greater
prescience than we are accustomed to meet to enter with certainty into
a more particular enumeration of the new conditions arising and to
arise.
It is in the nature of things that there must be an incompatibility
between pre-war thought and post-war thought. When peace returns
