A NEW FORAMINIFER COMJ^IENSAL ON CYCLAMMINA.
By Joseph A. Cushman,
OJ the Boston Society of Natural History.
Specimens of Cydammina are occasionally found which, instead of
being bilaterally symmetrical, have the last few chambers much
extended on one side. Such specimens have a deep depression in the
umbilical region of the same side. These have been noted in the
material collected by the United States Bureau of Fisheries steamer
Albatross from the northeastern coast of the United States in my
examination of that material, but without a discovery of the cause.
On examining material from Albatross station D2213 a number of
specimens of Cydammina with this character were noted, and a further
search revealed the cause tor the abnormal form.
It is caused by the attachment of a single-chambered species of
foraminifera to the outside of the test of the specimen of Cydammina
and the further growth of the test about this. When the attached
form falls away it leaves the resulting space unoccupied and the
resulting depression. So far as the material shows this seems to be a
one-chambered species with a chitinous wall somewhat arenaceous m
parts but with little variation in size.
The position as shown in plate 25, figure 4, is at the edge of the
aperture when the attachment is made. Later, by the continued
growth of Cydammina this position becomes more nearly umbilical.
There is as a rule but a single attached specimen, but two may be
attached, either on one side as shown in plate 25, figure 1, or there
may be one on each side, as in figure 3. This at once suggests that
little or nothing is known of the life habits of Cydammina except that
it is a heavy, bottom-living form. If the attached specimens were
always on one side only it would suggest that Cydammina might live
on its side, but with specimens with both sides occupied this does not
hold. Cydammina might lie Vv'ith its appertural face uppermost
which would allow opportunity for the pseudopodia both of the at-
tached form and of itself to rise easily to the surface of the bottom
ooze. At any rate, Cydammina seems too heavy to be a form with
any great freedom of movement.
Proceedings U. S. National Museum, Vol. 56— No, 2290.
101
