NO. 2291. MAMMALIAN AND FISH REMAINS FROM FLORIDA— HAT. 105
the bone. Owen writes^ that the anterior and inferior surface of the
astragalus of Mylodon rohustus is occupied by one extensive elongated
articular surface adapted to the calcaneum, cuboides, and navicu-
lare, and his figure shows that this is true. On the other hand, in
the bone from Florida, this surface is completely divided by a deep
rough furrow for ligaments. It will be noted, too, that the out-
lines of the two bones as seen from below are very different.
It might be supposed that the astragalus here described is that of
Megdlonyx; but this bone was described by Leidy,^ and only a glance
at Leidy's figures is needed to convince one that the Florida bone
can not belong to that genus.
Owen^ described and figured an astragalus which had been brought
from South America and which he thought belonged possibly to
Megalonyx. This was afterwards made by Leidy * the type of a new
genus and species, GnatJiopsis oweni. When the Florida bone is
compared with Owen's figures here reproduced (pi. 27, figs. 3, 4)
there are to be seen close resemblances. It might not be far out of
the way to refer the astragalus from Florida to a second species of
Gnathopsis, but a careful examination shows differences that seem
to indicate a distinct but closely related genus. On the upper
surface of the bone figured by Owen there was certainly no such
deep fossa for a process of the tibia and for a ligament as is seen in
the Florida bone. Nor was the surface for the tibia as convex as
it was in the bone here described. Again, as seen from below, there
was in the astragalus of Gnathopsis a deep and wide notch in the
anterior border at the end of the ligamentous groove, as if this and
the upper one joined across the border of the bone. In the Florida
bone the anterior surface for articulation with the calcaneum extends
nearly to the inner border of the bone; in Gnathopsis oweni it is
much shorter. Believing that such differences in as characteristic
a bone as the astragalus is among the ground sloths, indicate other
important differences in the skeleton, the name TMnohadistes is
proposed for the genus, the species to be known as Thinohadistes
segnis. (Derivations, Ols sand; ^ahcT-qs, a walker; segnis sluggish.)
The following measurements in millimeters have been made on
the astragalus here described:
Extreme length of astragalus 108
Width from summit of tuberosity for tibia to border between the
fibular and the calcaneal surfaces 97
Length of surface for tibia 76
Width of surface for tibia 70
Height and length of surface for fibula 38
Length of posterior articular surface for calcaneum 69
Width of posterior articular surface for calcaneum 38
I Descr.skel. Mylodon rohustus, "p. 118.
« Smiths. Contrib. Know!., vol. 7, art. 5, p. 40, pi. 12, figs. 7-10.
' Descr.skel. Mylodon rohustus, p. 132, pi. 23, figs. 3, 4.
* Smiths. Contrib. Knowl., vol. 7, p. 41.
