NO. 2291. MAMMALIAN AND FISH REMAINS FROM FLORIDA— HAY. 107
It will be seen at once that the Vero tooth was probably that of a
larger species than T. fatalis and that the crown is everywhere higher
in proportion to its length. As may be seen from comparing the
figures of the two teeth, the width of the principal cusp at its base is
one-half of its height, while that of T. fatalis is relatively consider-
ably wider. The two teeth agi-ee in having the protocone absent
and in having the anterior lobe divided into two parts. It appears
certain that the Vero tooth does not belong to T. fatalis. The latter
was found at Sour Lake, in Hardin County, Texas.
Through the courtesy of Mr. John G. Rothermel, director of the
Wagner Free Institute, the writer has been able to examine the
upper jaw of Leidy's t^-pe of Machairodus florid anus. The carnas-
sial possessed in front two roots, of which the inner was somewhat
reduced in size and pushed backward, as in the Vero tooth, to nearly
opposite the interval between the anterior outer root and the great
hinder root. It is quite certain that the anterior lobe of the tooth
was much larger than it is in the lion and the tiger. The alveolus
has a length of 37 mm. ; that part for the hinder root is 24 mm. long.
The tooth was therefore only slightly larger than the Vero tooth;
and there appears to be no reason why the latter can not be with
much certainty referred to Leidy's species.
In the deposit at Vero which furnished the carnassial Doctor Sellards
found a part of a great canine tooth Avhich belonged to some one of
the Machairodontinae. The fragment (pi. 28, fig] 3) is 67 mm. long.
Probably nearly 25 mm. of the distal extemity is gone. The upper
end does not reach the base of the crown. In the Ocala skuU the
socket for the canine measures 40 mm. in length fore and aft and its
width is 20 mm. At its upper end the fragment from Vero has a
width for and aft of 30 mm. and a thickness of 13 mm. If the front
and rear borders of this tooth are continued until the distance between
them is 40 mm. and the distal extemity is restored, a tooth is indi-
cated whose crown was about 1 1 mm. long. Both borders are acute,
more especially the hinder one, which is knife-like. The anterior
edge is smooth, but the hinder one is obsoletely crenulated. The
tooth is quite different from that of Barnum Brown's Smilodontopsis
conard%.' In the latter the base of the fragment has the same fore and
aft diameter as does the Vero tooth. At a distance of 55 mm. from
this, toward the tip, the fore and aft diameter is 19 mm.; in the Vero
specimen, only 16 mm. In Smilodontopsis coiiardi both edges are
crenulated. In Cope's Smilodon gracilis => the powerful canine main-
tains weU its breadth as the tip is approached; and both edges are
free from denticles (Cope). For comparison there is figured here
(pi. 28, fig. 4) a right canine tooth evidently belonging to Dinolastis
1 Mem. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 9. p. 190. pi. 19.
» Journ. .\cad. Nat. Sci. Phila., vol. 11, pi. 20, fig. 1.
