NO. 2291. MAMMALIAN AND FISH REMAINS FROM FLORIDA— HAY. 109
recent tiger or the fossil one. Naturally, the fossil is very distinct
from the jaguar because of its greater size.
From Natchez, Mississippi, Leidy described Felis atrox ^ which was
based on a lower jaw with teeth. Inasmuch as the lower carnassial is
31.2 mm. long, while that of the existing tiger above-mentioned is
only 23 mm., it is evident that F. atrox had upper carnassials which
were about 44 mm. long. It was therefore a much larger animal
than the Vero cat. Felis augustus,^ besides belonging to the Arikaree
of the Tertiary, differs in various ways from the Vero specimen.
Felis JiiJlianus Cope belongs to the Blanco Pliocene and is based on
a canine tooth and some foot bones; so that it can not be compared
with the animal here described. Felis imperialis, of the Pleistocene
of California, had a second molar about 25.5 mm. long and was,
therefore, a larger animal than that from Vero. According to Cope ^
the upper carnassial of Fells inexpedata has a length of 24 mm., being
thus considerably smaller than that of the Vero animal.
Inasmuch as this large felid found at Vero appears to have been
hitherto unknown, it is proposed to introduce it under the name
Felis veronis.
TRICHECHUS ANTIQUUS Leidy?
Plate 26, tigs. 2, 3.
In the collection of the National Museum is a part of the lower
jaw of a manatee (Cat. No. 2522) v/hich is labeled as having been
found with the other fossils of the Alachua clays, in Levy County.
However, the writer finds no reference to this genus in any of the lists
of materials collected in the Alachua clays; the fossil has an appear-
ance different from most of the other fossils of those clays; and there
is attached to it an oyster shell, showing that it had lain in salt
water. Doctor Sellards informs the writer that he has never seen
any marine fossils that have -been found in the Alachua clays. It is
hence probable that the bone was found somewhere else in Florida.
Leidy reported * fragments of ribs of supposed Tricheclius antiquus
from Peace creek, and Sellards ^ included T. manatus among the fossils
found in Withlacoochee river. No mention is found of the discovery
of a lower jaw at any place.
The jaw in question appears to be well fossilized and it is heavy;
so that it evidently belongs to either the Pleistocene or to some
late Tertiary deposit.
The jaw lacks both ascending rami and all of the teeth. It evi-
dently belonged to a species of Trichechus, but not to T. manatus.
The individual possessing it appears to have had a size somewhat
less than that of a manatee whose basilar length is 356 mm. The
1 Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, vol. 10, 1853, p. 319, pi. 34. < Trans. Wagner Inst., vol. 2, p. 27.
2 Leidy, Ext. Vert. Fauna, etc., pi. 7. sgth Ann. Rep. Fla. Geol. Surv., p. 104.
' Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., vol. 11, p. 248.
