110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.50.
distance from the front of the symphysis to the rise of the ascending
ramus was close to 180 mm; in the jaw of the existing manatee with
which it is compared this dimension is 195 mm. The length of the
symphysis is relatively the same as in the manatee. Its greatest
height is 68 mm.; in the manatee, 83 mm. In the latter animal the
upper half of the hinder face of the symphysis forms a concavity;
this does not exist in the fossil jaw. The surface which in life was
occupied by the horny plate is relatively much shorter than in the
manatee, being only 60 mm. long; in the manatee, 80 mm. In the
manatee the inner face of the horizontal ramus is flat or even con-
cave; this does not seem to have been the case in the fossil jaw.
The height of the jaw was evidently less than in the existing manatee,
being apparently only 48 mm. at the middle of the length; whereas
in the only slightly larger manatee jaw the height is 60 ram. The
inferior dental canal is considerably larger than in the manatee, its
diameter being 17 mm. Moreover, its outer face is open backwar«l
to about the position of the third or fourth tooth.
Judging from what remains of the sockets of the teeth the latter
had a length somewhat greater than in the existing manatee. Three
of these sockets occupy a line 45 mm. long; in the manatee used for
comparison, 41 mm. The lower teeth appear to have been wider
than those of the manatee, but of this one can not be certain.
Leidy described an upper tooth of a manatee which bears the
name Trichechus antiquus, and which was found at Charleston,
South Carolina. The fore and aft diameter of the tooth v/as about
20 mm.; that of the existing manatee is about 12.5 mm. T. an-
tiquus was evidently a much larger animal. Its lov\^er teeth must
have had a length of about 24 mm. Evidently the jaw supposed to
have been found at Williston belonged to a considerably smaller
individual, perhaps to a smaller species, than the one which fur-
nished Leidy's type. In the various species belonging to the genus
Trichechus there is a continuous succession of teeth which are pro-
duced at the rear of the jaw and which move forward. These in-
crease in both length and width as the animal grows. Hence the
tooth described by Leidy may have belonged to a very large speci-
men of the same species as that to which the jaw belonged which is
above described. For that reason the jaw is referred provisionally
to Trichechus antiquus; but it may, vnih equal probability, have be-
longed to an undescribed species.
ATRACTOSTEUS LAPIDOSUS, new species.
Plate 26, fig. 4; plate 28, fig. 8.
In the United States National Museum are a right opercular bone
and some scales of a fresh-water gar which are labeled as having
been found by L. C. Johnson, in 1885, in the "Mixon bone bed," in
