114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.56.
genus Neurankylus yet discovered. The other two species, N.
eximus Lambe, being from the Belly River formation of Canada,
and N. haueri Gilmore, from the Kirtland formation of New Mexico.
All of the carapace in front of the posterior half of the second
vertebral scute is missing; likewise, all of the plastron slightly in
advance of the inguinal notches. The shell has been pressed fiat
dorsoventrally, but the outlines of the part preserved appear to be
but little distorted, and undoubtedly give a correct conception of
the form of the shell. None of the sutures between the bones can
now be observed, all traces being obliterated by their complete coa-
lescence, due, no doubt, to the old age of the individual. The sulci
defining the dermal scutes, however, can in most instances be clearly
made out, as shown in Plate 29.
The presence of an ornamentation over all the external surfaces
of the shell at once distinguishes this form from the two species
mentioned above. This sculptm-e is composed of low, fiat-topped
ridges and elevations, the ridges usually being wider than the
intervening valleys, which are often threadlike. They form rather
a imiform roughening of the smiace but do not have any definite
pattern.
There is no indication of an interrupted median carina such as is
present in the neiu-al region of N. haueri.
The presence of this ornamentation over the external surfaces of
the shell, the relatively narrower vertebrals, and relatively wider
posterior plastral lobe with a truncated posterior end, constitute a
combination of characters indicating the distinctness of this specimen
from the other described forms and the name Neurankylus wyoming-
ensis is proposed for its reception.
In form the part of the carapace preserved resembles that of N'.
haueri being broadly but evenly rounded, not scalloped, as in the
former species, except that they agree m having a wide posterior
median notch. It is estimated that the length of the entii'e shell
was about 530 millimeters; the greatest width is 475 millimeters.
The border anterior to the inguinal notches is thickened and rounded,
but posteriorly it becomes thinner, though the edges are obtusely
roimded, not having the thin acute border of iV. hauen. There was
probably a slight flaring upward of the peripheral bones, though
they have been quite flattened by the pressure to which they were
subjected.
The sulci are narrow and faintly impressed. The vertebral scutes
are relatively narrower than in either N. eximus Lambe or N. haueri
Gilmore. The principal dimensions of these scutes are given in the
table.
