116
PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.
VOL. 50.
Family BAENIDAE.
BAENA ANTIQUA Lambe.
Plates 31 and 32.
Baeaa antiqua Lambe, Contrib. Canad. Paleontology, vol. 3, 1902, pp. 44, figa.
10, a, b. — Hay, Fossil Turtles of North America. 1908, pub. Carnegie Institu-
tion, Washington, pp. 62-G3, text-figs. 37, 38.
A Baenid turtle acquired by the United States National Museum
from Mr. C. H. Sternberg is here provisionally identified as per-
taining to Baena antiqua Lambe. Except for its smaller size, in
so far as a comparison can be
made with the rather fragmen-
tary type of the species, it shows
close similarity in nearly all de-
tails. If the identification is cor-
rect, as there is reason to be-
lieve, the specimen before me is
of importance in contributing
much to our knowledge of the
skeletal anatomy of this little
known species.
The specimen. No. 8801, U.S.
N.M., consists of the almost com-
plete carapace and plastron, the
latter lacking the anterior lobe.
It was collected by Bruce Mc-
Kee in 1917, 3 miles below Steve-
ville on the Red Deer River,
Province of Alberta, Canada, in
the Belly River formation, Upper
Cretaceous.
The carapace is broadly
rounded in front with a nar-
rowed and truncated posterior
extremity. It has an extreme length at the center of 222 milli-
meters, whereas Lambe estimates the type as being 290 milli-
meters in length. The greatest breadth of No. 8801 is 167 milli-
meters which is slightly forward of the inguinal notches. In most
Baenids the greatest transverse diameter is posterior to this notch.
From the inguinal notches the sides of the carapace round in rap-
idly to a shallow indentation half way to the posterior end, there
less rapidly to the straight truncated end. Except for the one
indentation mentioned above there are no scallops on the posterior
margins. There is a slight median projection of the nuchal plate on
the anterior border which is also slightly undulating, as in the type
Fig. 1.— Carapace of Baena antiqua I,ambe.
No. 8801, U.S.N.M. C.l. C.8., costal bones
ONE AND eight; N. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, NEU-
RAL BONES ONE TO SEVEN; TIM., NUCHAL; V. 1.,
y. 5., VERTEBRAL SCUTES ONE AND FIVE. + INDI-
CATES POSITION OF INGUINAL BUTTRESSES. ONE
THIRD NATURAL SIZE.
