122
PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.
VOL. 56.
The costal scutes are reduced in size, due to the enlargement of
the supramarginals. The second is much longer (fore and aft) than
broad, whereas this same scute in B. pnlchra is wider than long.
The area of the first costal scute is also greatly reduced, due prin-
cipally to the presence of an extra supramarginal which separates it
from contact with the marginals. There is a large subtriangular
supernumerary costal scute (see s. c. s., fig. 3) as in B. pulcTira and
such as is often present in other members of the Baenidae.
The supramarginal scutes are
in a row, alternating with the
costal scutes, between them
and the marginals. These are
exceptionally wide, all except
the first being wider than long.
In the genotype the opposite
condition prevails.
The marginal scutes are all
longer than high, and those
bordering the supramarginals
appear relatively wider than
in B. pnlchra. The marginal-
supramarginal sulcus back as
far as the eighth runs well
below the costo-peripheral su-
ture. On the fourth costal
this sulcus suddenly rises above
this suture.
The plastron (fig. 4) is longer
than wide, with rather narrow
lobes. It has a greatest length
of 222 millimeters, with a
greatest breadth at the center
of 186 millimeters. The bridge
has a width fore and aft of
101 millimeters. The anterior lobe is 64 millimeters long and 94
millimeters wide at the base. The width diminishes quite rapidly
from the base anteriorly, the end being rounded with sinuous borders
caused by indentations where the sulci come to the edge. The pos-
terior lobe is 70 millimeters long and 84 millimeters wide at the base.
The lateral borders are nearly straight and convergent to the squarely
truncated end, that has a width of 45 millimeters. The lateral edges
are obtuse, but the bone thickens rapidly toward the median Ime.
Just behind the mguinal notch it reaches a thickness of 14 millimeters;
near the posterior extremity, 7 millimeters.
FiQ. 4.— Plastron of Boremys albertensis, new
SPECIES. Type. No. 8803, U.S.N.M. ab., abdominal
scute; 071., ANAL SCUTE; ent., entoplastron; epi.,
epiplastron; fern., femoral scute; g., gular scute;
hum., humeral scute; hyo., hyoplastron; hppo.,
hypoplastron; ing., intergular; in. m., infra-
MAROiNAL scutes; meso., ME.S0PLASTR0N; pec, pec-
toral scutes; per., median peripherals; tiph.,
XIPHI PLASTRON. ONE-THIRD NATURAL .SIZE.
