NO. 2292. t^EW FOSSIL TURTLES— GILMORE. 123
The entoplastron is diamond-shaped, as in B. pulchra. It is 30
millimeters long and 20 millimeters wide. At the center the hyoplast-
rals meet on the mid line for 58 millimeters. The mesoplastra are
large. At the center the right element is wider (32 millimeters)
then the left (24 millimeters). The right element has a greatest
transverse diameter of 93 miillimeters. At the outer end it measures
28 millimeters fore and aft. The hypoplastrals join on the midline
64 millimeters; the xiphiplastrals for 34 millimeters.
The small intergulars slightly overlap the anterior end of the entop-
lastron.. The larger gulars meet on the median line for 13 millimeters;
the humerals for 38 millimeters; the pectorals for 45 millimeters;
the abdominals for 33 millimeters; the femorals for 50 millimeters;
and the anals for 29 millimeters. In having the anal scutes confined
exclusively to the xiphiplastral bones Boremys differs from most of
the other members of the Baenidae, Baena hatcheri being one of the
notable exceptions.
On the ])ridge are four large inframarginal scutes, as in B. pulchra,
but they differ from those of that species in that all are wider than
long. These scutes lie principally on the plastral bones, only extend-
ing over slightly on the median peripherals.
As has been previously pointed out it is in the arrangement and
proportion of the dermal scutes that the principal characters are found
for distinguishing this species from Boremys pulchra Lambe, but
these appear to be sufficient to indicate their dissimilarity.
Family DERMATEMYDIDAE.
AGOMPHUS ALABAMENSIS, new species.
Plate 35.
Type.— No. 8806, U.S.N.M., consists of the anterior half of the
carapace and plastron. Collected by Dr. E. TI. Sellards, 1908.
Type locality. — Moscow Landing, Tombigbee River, Alabama.
Horizon. — Midway formation. Lower Eocene.
The specimen to be described is of more than ordinary interest on
account of coming from a geological formation in which but few
vertebrate specimens have been found. The carapace as preserved
without crushing is highly arched both transversely and antero-
posteriorly. The posterior half of the shell is missing, being cut off
obliquely at the posterior end of the fourth neural, so that there is
much more of the left side of the carapace preserved than there is of
the right. At the center, the height of the shell is 185 millimeters.
It is estimated that its greatest width was about 280 millimeters. It
will be observed from these measurements that this specimen is a
considerably larger individual than the type of Agomplius oxyster-
