124
PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.
VOL. 59.
num^ (Cope) from this same formation, as exposed near Montezuma,
Macon County, Georgia.
The sulci defining the first vertebral scute and the costo-marginal
contact are the only ones that can be traced, though the sutures
between the bones can nearly all be clearly made out as shown in
figure 5.
The shell, both carapace and plastron, are thick and heavy. The
free border in front, is obtuse and flares upward. The nuchal plate
has a length antero-posteriorly of 52 millimeters; a greatest width
of about 64 millimeters. The neurals are especially elongated,
hexagonal in shape, with the widest end forward, all being longer
than wide, whereas in A. oxy sternum they are wider than long. The
principal dimensions of the neurals are given in the table.
Measurements of neutrals, in millimeters.
No.
Length.
Width.
1
54
21 e
2
40
23
3
46
24
4
46 e
21
« Estimated.
The fii-st costal has a gi'eatest length of 92 millimeters, a width of
72 millimeters; the second is 100 millimeters long, and 42 millimeters
wide at the proximal end; third is 120 millimeters long, and 44
millimeters wide at proximal end; fourth 126 millimetei-s long, and
42 millimeters wide; fifth is about 125 millimeters long. Excepting
the first, the other costals present in the type are remarkably uniform
in the widths of the proximal and distal ends.
The peripherals are high and all unite closely and strongly by
suture with the distal ends of the costals. At about their centers
they are crossed by the costo-marginal sulcus. On the ventral side
of this sulcus the bone swells abruptly outward forming a prominent
offset along the side of the shell, but not a ridge as in the genus
Hoplochelys. Peripheral 6 has a width fore and aft of 42 millimeters;
7 is 43 millimeters wide.
The surface of the shell is without ornamentation, except for a
broad rounded median longitudinal keel which is paralleled on each
side, at a distance of 35 millimeters, by lateral keels. The median
keel appeai-s to rise close to the anterior border of the nuchal plate.
These keels resemble somewhat those found on the carapace of
Hoflochelys saliens Hay, but are less prominent, being lower and
more rounded, as contrasted with the higher and sharper keels of that
species.
» See Hay, O. P., Fossil Turtles of North America, 1908, p. 256, flg. 256.
