KO. 2292.
NEW FOSSIL TURTLES— QILMORE.
125
The first vertebral scute is 71 millimeters long and its anterior end
is 57 millimeters wide. The sulci bounding the other vertebrals can
not be observed.
The plastron is rather poorly preserved, lacking the whole of the
posterior lobe and much of the right side. The anterior lobe narrows
rapidly from the base to the blunt anterior end, as in J., masculinas
Wieland. The anterior lobe has a length of about 75 millimeters, a
width at the base of 116 millimeters. The epiplastrals are narrow.
The entoplastron is broadly rounded behind and pointed in front, as in
A. oxysternum (Cope). It measures 42 millimeters in length and 40
millimeters in width. The bridge has a width of 90 millimeters.
The anterior lobe in front turns up slightly from the level of that
portion between the
bridges. None of the
sulci on the plastron or
the sutures posterior to
the entoplastron can
be made out.
Seven species belong-
ing to the genus have
been described, all
based on rather frag-
mentary materials.
Excepting A. oxyster-
num (Cope), from the
Midway formation of
Georgia, all the others
have been founded on
specimens from the
Upper greensand bed.
Upper Cretaceous of
New Jersey. The pres-
ence in Agomi)hus ala-
hamensis of three low broad, parallel, longitudinal keels, and with
neurals longer than wide appears to distinguish this form from aU other
described species. Its much larger size may also prove of assistance
in distinguishing this species from A. oxysternum, the species to which
the present specimen is m all probability most nearly related.
Family EMYDIDAE.
ECHMATEMYS MEGAULAX (Cope).
Plate 36.
In 1872 Copei described the above species, basing it on five or six
fragmentary specimens. Portion s of some of these are now in the
» Sixth Ann. Kept. U. S. Geol. Surv. Terr., 1872 (1873) p. 628.
Fig. 5.— Anterior half of carapace of Agomphus ala-
BAMENSIS, NEW SPECIES. TYPE No. 8806, U.S.N. M. C. /, C. 5
COSTAL BONES ONE AND FIVE; N. 1, 2, S, 4, NEURAL BONES ONE
TO four; nu., nuchal bone. One-third natural size.
