142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
protuberant between the antennal sockets, the rims of the latter
flush with the surface of the face. Antennal scape luiear with the
lower margin slightly expanded as a narrow rim on tlie apical half,
forming a slight groove on the exterior surface for the reception of
the pedicel: the latter nearly as long as the iirst two funicie joints
combined; funicie joints decreasing slightly in length distad, the
first about one-half longer than thick, rarely but little longer than
thick, the sixth as thick as long; club slightly longer than the last three
funicie joints combined, hardly thicker and obliquely truncate
beneath. Thorax, abdomen, and legs as described under the generic
heading; the ovipositor not protruded. Forev>dng with a broad more
densely ciliated cross-band across the middle of the disk, the basal
area proximad of the cross-band v/ith weaker, paler cilia, or in large
part bare, and the apical part beyond the band moderately thickly
ciliated but enclosing between itself and the cross-band an oval spot
of much weaker, paler cilia, variable in size, but always v.'ell separated
from either margin of v,-ing, the speculum narrow but distinct, origi-
nating at the base of the stigmal vein and becoming lost at the middle
of the disk in the bare area at base of wing. Head microscopically,
punctulately shagreened, the punctures roundish, extremely close set
and v/ith slightly raised interspaces, the upper part of occuput simUai'ly
shagreened but rimosely, transversely striate with ver}' fine raised
lines instead of punctulate; face, frons, and vertex to miicii less degree
also provided with shallow, rather small sctigerous pm-puncturcs,
which are scattered but rather numerous; pronotum and mesoscutum
microscopically, closely reticulate, with numerous scattered, Uiinute,
setigerous punctures; axillae and scutellura sculptured like tlio fronto-
vertex, but the microscopic pimctures considerably deeper, producing
a mucli more opaque effect, those on the axillae slightly larger, T'ore
oval, and transversely arranged; propleura, prepectal plates, tegulae,
and anterior half of mesopleura like the scutum, but the reticulations
considerably coarser, the posterior half of mesopleura becoming longi-
tudinally striate; mctanotum transversely and very finely aciculate,
the propodeum nearly smooth; abdomen coarsely, longitudinally reti-
culate on the sides of the first tergite, transversely and more coarsely
reticulate at the middle of the tergite, and becoming smooth on the
anterior margin of the segment, the following segments especially the
next two with a similar sculpture. Length, 1.21 to 2 mm.
Head dark olive green (R.) ' with a strong ])ut not brilliant metallic
luster, rarely somewhat bluish black, the clypeal region up to the
bases of the antennae somewhat brovvnish yellow; pronotum and
mesoscutum greenish or more rarely bluisii black with a metallic
1 An " XI." in this and tho follovving descriptions implies that the color in question had been detennined
after comparison with Ridgvray's color plates in Color Standards aJid Komenclaturc, Washington, B.C.,
1912.
