NO. 2293. PARASITIC CHALCIDOID FLIES— TIMBERLAEE. 143
luster; axillae and soutellum dull, opaque black except when viewed
at a strongly oblique angle from the sides or in front when a metallic
luster appears; metanotum, propodeum, and abdomen black with a
bluish or greenish luster; sides and underparts of thorax usually-
shining brov/nish yellow, but not rarely becoming entirely metallic
black, more greenish on the proplcura and rather strongly bluish
on the mesopleura, in the inteniiediate forms the dark coloration
appearing first on the posterior half of the mesopleura; tegulae ivory
white with their apical maigin black. Antennae black with a slight
bluish metallic luster on the scape and pedicel, the funicle duller,
often slightly brownish, the sixth joint varying to paler, not infre-
quently becoming white or yellowish white like the club. Wings
with a broad, brownish crossband across the middle, coterminous
with the band of darker colored cilia described above, wider on the
anterior margin, paler and narrower on the posterior margin, the
apical margm of band itself slightly convex and originating at the
apex of the stigmal vein. Legs variable, the front and hind tarsi
brownish or blackish, the middle tarsi and spur white or yellowish
white, except in the typical European form, which has the coloration
of the middle and hind tarsi reversed; in the paler forms the front
coxae and femora and the middle femora are yellowish brown, the
remaining parts, except the tarsi as noted above, dark brov/n or
blackish, often with a metallic luster on middle coxae and the hind
femora; in the darker forms the legs become entirely black or blackish
with a more or less distinct metallic luster, with the exception of
the white middle tarsi and spurs. Vestiture of head consisting of
white, scattered subappressed, short hairs most numerous on the
face and especially around the anteimal sockets; pronotum and
mesoscutum with a similar white pubescence, the axillae and scutelliun
with a darker colored pubescence; metapleura densely white pub-
escent, the coxae of middle and hmd legs similarly but considerably
less densely pubescent.
Male. — Harclly differs from female, but the band on the wings is
not so deeply stained and the size averages smaller. Length, 1.45
to 1.83 mm.
The following material aU seems referable to jimninius:
Series 1. One female reared from material of Pseudococcus citri
(Risso), probably issuing from a larva of Exochomus quadripustulatus
(Linnaeus), Palermo, Sicily, June, 1914 (H. L. Viereck), California
State Insectary No. 727B. Head metallic olive-green (R.), the upper
parts of thorax and the abdomen black, the pronotum and mesoscu-
tum with a greenish luster, the metanotum, propodeum, and abdomen
with a slight bluish luster; oral margin of face, underparts of thorax
and middle femora ochraceous tawny (R.); the front and middle
coxae similar beneath, but metallic bluish above, the front femora
