144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
brownish, the rest of front legs and the hind legs brownish black
with a slight bluish luster on the hmd coxae and femora, the nuJdle
tibiae and spur dark brown, and middle tarsi white above but blackish
beneath, the last two joints brownish even above. First funicle
joint slightly longer than thick, tlie following joints subequal and
about as long as thick; postmarginal vein about a fifth longer than
the stigmal. Length, 1.72 mm.
Series 2. One female reared from material of Saissetia oleae (Ber-
nard), actual host unknown. Cape Town, South Africa, March 15,
1907 (C. P. Lounsburj). Head invisible green (R.) with a metallic
slightly bluish luster, pronotum and mesoscutum shining black, with
a bluish green luster, axillae and scutellum opaque blackish, rest
of thorax and the abdomen metallic blue-black; legs brov/nish black;
the middle tibiae, front and hind tarsi and last two joints of middle
tarsi more brownish; the coxae, femora, and hind tibiae with a bluish
luster, the spur of middle tibiae and the first three jomts of middle
tarsi yellowish white. First funicle joint about a fourth longer
than thick, the following joints gradually shortening, the sixth as
thick as long; postmarginal vein slightly longer than the stigmal.
Length, 2 mm.
Series 3. One female, Swatow, China (A. Koebele). Colored like
the Cape Town female, but the head slightly more bluish in luster, the
notum slightly more greenish, tlie mesopleura not as deeply blue-
black, the middle femora with apical half on outer sm-face brownish
yellow, onlj'" the last joint of middle tarsi brownish black and the last
funicle joint brownish. First funicle joint about a sixth longer than
thick and no longer than the second, the last two funicle joints no
longer than third; the postmarginal vein a little shorter than the
stigmal. Length, 1.85 mm.
Series 4. Eight females, two males, Chma (A. Koebele), Koebele's
No. 1200. Head metallic olive green, the notum greenish black,
otherwise like the Swatow specimen, but the legs slightly more
brownish with a less distinct bluish luster, the middle femora with a
narrow yellowish or whitish annulus near the base, and the funicle of
antemiae more brownish, the last joint becoming yellowish at apex.
First funicle joint nearly twice as long as thick, distinctly longer than
the second, the following joints shortening but the sixth still slightly
longer than thick; the postmargmal vein a little shorter than the
stigmal. Length of female, 1 .94 to 1 .98 mm. ; length of male, 1 .83 mm.
Series 5. One male, China (A. Koebele), Koebele's No. 1146.
Head nearly sepia (R.) but darker with very little luster, the clypeal
margin and a transverse spot above antennal sockets and between
the lower corners of eyes cinnamon buff (R.), otherwise much like the
preceding series except that the underparts of thorax, the abdomen,
and leg's are more brownish with but little or no bluish luster. First
