NO. 2293. PARASITIC CHALCIDOID FLIES— TIMBERLAKE. 14b
fuiiicle joint about a fourth longer than thick, following joints all
shorter except the fourth, the sixth no longer than thick; the post-
marginal vein nearly as long as the stigmal. Length, 1.45 mm.
Series 6. Four females, one male reared from larvae of Coccinella
repanda Thmiberg, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia, September, 1915
(J. C. Bridwell). Colored like series 4 (Koebele's No. 1200), but the
head darker green, the funicle blackish except the last joint, which is
brownish, and the middle femora a little darker brown. First
funicle joint about a fourth longer than thick and a little longer than
the second, the last four funicle joints about as long as thick; post-
marginal vein slightly shorter than the stigmal. Length of female,
1.53 to 1.82 mm.; length of male, 1.49 mm.
Series 7. One female, one male reared from larva of Coccinella
hingi MacLeay, Australia (A. Koebele), Koebele's No. 20. Head
slightly bluish black with a weak luster, the postorbital region more
greenish ; notum of thorax dark greenish black, the underparts nearly
bister (R.) with the posterior part of mesopleura nearly bluish black;
abdomen bluish black ; legs concolorous with pleura, the front femora,
middle coxae and femora paler or about snuff brown (R.), the front
coxae with a pm-plish luster beneath, middle tarsi except the last
jomt and the tibial spur yellowish white; scape bluish black, the
pedicel and funicle brownish, the club yellowish white. First funicle
joint a half longer than thick, the following joints gradually shorten-
ing, the sixth about as long as thick; postmarginal vein a little
shorter than the stigmal. Length of female, 1 .83 mm. ; length of male,
1.67 mm.
Series 8. Two females reared from larva of Verania frenaia (Erich-
son), Australia (A. Koebele), Koebele's No. 4. Colored practically
as in the preceding series. Funicle joints all about equal and as long
as thick, except that in one specimen the fu'st joint seems a trifle
longer than thick; postmarginal vein nearly as long as the stigmal.
Length, 1.21 to 1.24 mm.
Series 9. One female, one male, reared from larvae of Orcus
australasiae (Boisduval), Australia (A. Koebele), Koebele's No. 2.
Colored very nearly as in series 4 (Koebele's No. 1200), but the sixth
funicle joint entirely yellowish white and the middle femora a little
more brownish. First funicle joint nearly a half longer than thick,
the following joints shortening, the sixth about as long as thick; post-
marginal vein a little shorter than the stigmal. Length of female,
1.89; length of male, 1.63 mm.
Series 10. Four females, one male reared from larvae of Orcus
cJialyheus (Boisduval), Australia (A. Koebele), Koebele's No. 1.
One female like the preceding series, the rest similar but the under-
parts of thorax varying to cinnamon brown (R.), the middle femora
115690— 19— Proc.N.M.vol.56 10
