146 PROCEEDINGS OP THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. ^ou 50.
about buckthorn brown (R.), the middle tibiae a little darker, and
the rest of the legs except the middle tarsi and spur brownish black
with a slight bluish luster on the coxae. First funicle joint about a
fourth longer than thifk, the following joints about as long as thick;
postmarginal vein a little shorter than the stigmal. Length of female,
1.74 to 1.88; length of male, 1.51 mm.
Series 11. Three females, one male reared from an Orcus species
(the larval remains mounted with the parasites seem identical with
those labeled 0. australasiae under Koebele's No. 2), Australia
(A. Koebele). Like the preceding series except that the underparts
of the thorax and the front and middle coxae and femora are ochra-
ceous tawny (R.), the middle tibiae cinnamon brown (R.), the front
tibiae and tarsi a little darker, the hind legs blackish brown, and all
the coxae with bluish luster; but in two of the females the front legs,
except the coxae and underside of femora, and the middle tibiae are
concolorous with the hind legs. First two funicle joints a little
longer than thick, the following joints about as long as thick; the
postmarginal vein about as long as the stigmal. Length of female,
1.77 to 1.86; length of male, 1.63 mm.
Series 12. Two females, two males reared from Orcus nummularis
(Boisduval), Australia (A. Koebele), Koebele's No. 47. Practically
identical with the darker specimens of the preceding series. Length
of female, 1.60 to 1.73; length of male, 1.55 mm.
Series 13. Two females, one male reared (at Honolulu, Hawaii)
from larva of Orcus lafertei Mulsant, Bundaberg, Queensland, De-
cember 16, 1904 (A. Koebele and R. C. L. Perkins). Much hke the
preceding series, but the coxae are more bluish metallic and the
mesoplura have a bluish luster. First two funicle joints about a
fourth longer than thick, the following joints gradually shortening,
the sixth about as long as thick; the postmarginal vein nearly as
long as the stigmal. Length of female, 1.83 to 1.93; length of male,
1.76 mm.
Series 14. Two females (cotypes of H. microgaster Girault), Austra-
lia (A. Koebele). Practically identical with series 9. Length,
1.60 mm.
Series 15. Two females (cotypes of H. orci Girault) reared from
larva of Orcus janthinus Mulsant, Salatiga, Java. Colored much as
in the preceding series, but the sixth funicle joint blackish. The
first funicle joint about a half longer than thick, the following joints
a little shorter but longer than thick; postmarginal vein about a
third shorter than the stigmal.
In all 01 tne Australian series the head is slightly longer compared
with the width, the scape narrower than usual, much as in terminalis
of North America, and the pubescence of the face seems slightly
longer and more abundant.
