148 PROCEEDINGS OF TEE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
series 9, described below, but the bead is said to be one-sixth longer
than wide, which would ally it more with the Old World forms of
fiaminius. It is recorded from Mendoza, Argentina.
.1. HOMALOTYLUS TERMINALIS (Say).
Serlion tenninalis Say, Maclur. Lye. Phil., vol. 2, 1828, p. SO.
Scdio terminalis Cresson, Syn. Hym. No. Amer., 1887, p. 248.
Homalotylus terminalis Ashmead, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 22, 1900, p. 378.
Homalotylus ohscurus Howard, Bull. 5 (Old Series), Bur. Ent., U. S. Dept.
Agric, 1885, p. 22.
Female. — In structural characters similar to fiaminius, but the
head averages slightly wider as compared with the length, as seen
from the side a little thicker or fully as thick on the lower half, the
space between the lower corners of eyes and the antennal sockets
usually considerably less than the space between the lower, outer
corners of eyes and the occipital margin. Sculpture and pubescence
practically as m fiaminius. Length, 1.33 to 2 mm.
Head and underparts of thorax brownish yellow, the head usually
with a bronzy, more rarely with a greenish luster, the mesopleura
often suffused with brown and with a metallic somewhat bluish luster;
notum of thorax and the abdomen black, the scutum with a distinct
greenish luster, the axillae and scutellum dull except when viewed
at a very oblique angle from in front, the metanotum, propodeum,
and abdomen usually with a bluish luster; or in paler variations the
brownish yellow coloration may extend over all parts except the hind
border of the pronotum, most of the mesoscutum and dorsum of ab-
domen ; tegulae white, the posterior half brown or blackish, or in some
cases nearly entirely white. Antennae dark brown or black, the club
yellowish white. Legs variable, in darker specimens mostly dark
brown or blackish with the middle femora brov.niish yellow, the tibial
spur and middle tarsi yellowish white ; in paler specimens only the
hind tibiae and tarsi brown or blackish, and the front tibiae and tarsi
usually pale brown. Wings banded practically as in fiaminius.
jlfale. — Similar to the female, but with the v/ing markings less
distinct. Length, L14 to 1.81 mm.
The following material has been examined:
Series 1. Two females (cotypes of H. ohscurus How ard) reared from
Coccmelline larvae, probably Cycloneda, Centerville, Florida, July
24 (H. G. Hubbard), Hubbard's No. 46, Insectary No. 2308. Head
and underparts of thorax ochraceous orange (R.), the frontovertex
and face with a weak bronzy luster, the vertex suffused with brown,
the postorbital region with a greenish luster; notum of thorax black
with a greenish luster, the scutellum more brownish, the lateral
margins of pronotum and mesoscutum like underparts; abdomen
rather bluish black with the base brownish, the venter about antique
brown (R.) with a bronzy luster; antennae except club dark brown;
