152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
4. HOMALOTYLUS TERMINALIS CALIFOKNICUS Girault.
Plate 38, fig. 1.
Homalotylus obscurus californicus Girault, Ann. Entom. Soc. Amer., vol. 8, Oct.,
1915, p. 274.
Uomalotylus terminalis Dimmock, Proc. Entom. Soc. Wash., vol. 4, Mar., 1898,
p. 149.— AsHMEAD (part), Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 22, June, 1900, p. 378.
Female. — ^In structural characters, sculpture, and pubescence agree-
ing throughout with terminalis (Say), except that the head averages
still wider as compared with the length and the antennal scape is
slightly wider. Length, 1.28 to 2.26 mm.
Coloration as in jiaminius (Dalman) and imdergoing the same
variations, except that the tibial spur and middle tarsi are always
yellowish white, the hind tarsi always brown or blackish, and the
luster apparently never bluish on the head and notum.
Male. — Like the female, except that the markings on the wings are
paler and the size averages smaller. Length, 1.38 to 2.15 mm.
The following material has been examined:
Series 1. Sixteen females, tv. o males (includmg four female cotypes)
reared from a larva and pupa of Cheilomenes sexmaculata (Fabricius)
(an oriental Coccinellid which was liberated in considerable numbers
during 1912 in California), IViiittier, California, Jidy 12, 1912 (P. H.
Timberlake). Head deep slate olive (R.) with a metallic luster, the
oral margin brovrnish yellow; pronotum and mesonotum black with
a greenish luster, underparts of thortix antique brown (R.), suffused
with raw umber (R.) and with a bluish or purplish luster, especially on
the posterior half of the mesopleura; antennae black, the scape slightly
bluish metallic, the club and more or less of the sixth funicle joint in
most of the specimens yellowish white ; front and hind legs and middle
coxae mostly bro-wnish black with a bluish or purplish luster, espe-
cially on the coxae, the front femora considerably brov/ner; middle
femora about raw sienna (R.) and with a pale yello\nsh annulus near
the base; middle tibiae dark brown, the spur and the middle tarsi
except the last two joints yellowish white. Funicle unusually short,
the joints subequal, the first joint in most of the specimens no longer
than thick; the postmarginal vein about a fourth shorter than the
stigmal. Length of female, 1.28 to 1.57; length of male, 1.38 mm.
Series 2. Six females, two males reared from larvae of Adalia
hipunctata (Linn sens), Salt Lake City, Utah, August 17 to September
13, 1913 (P. H. Timberlake). Similar to the precedhig series, but the
head somewhat brighter green, the luiderparts of thorax purer
antique brown (R.), being darker and metallic only on the posterior
margin of the mesopleura; the last fimicle joint slightly more brown-
ish than the other jomts, but not whitish; middle femora more
