NO. 2293. PARASITIC CHALCIDOID FLIES— TIMBERLAKE. 158
antique brown and without an annulus at the base, the front femora
nearly concolorous with the middle pair, but darker on the inner
surface with a purplish luster, the hind femora not so black or about
concolorous with the middle tibiae. First funicle joint about a
third longer than thick, the following joints shortening, so that the
sixth is no longer than thick ; the postmarginal vein as in the preced-
ing series. Length of female, 1.57 to 1.89; length of male, 1.61 to
1.76 mm.
Series 3. Four males reared from larva of Coccinella quinquenotata
Kirby, Salt Lake City, Utah, August 19, 1912 (P. H. Timberlake).
Like the preceding series, but the last funicle joint is pale brownish,
the middle femora more raw" sienna (R.), the hind femora blacker, and
the foiu'th joint of middle tarsi nearly white. First funicle joint but
slightly longer than thick. Length, 1 .40 to 1.50 mm.
Scries 4. One female, Salt Lake City, Utah (C. N. Ainshe), Webster
No. 5595. Coloration practically as in series 2, but the first funicle
joint is only slightly longer than thick and the postmarginal vein is
nearly as long as the stigmal. Length, 2.09 mm.
Series 5. Six females, tvv^o males reared from larvae of Coccinella
novemnotata Herbst, Arlington, Massachusetts, August, 1885 (George
Dimmock), Dimmock's No. 731c. Similar to series 2, but the oral
margin of face and underparts of thorax slightly brighter or more
nearly raw sienna (R.) suffused with antique brown (R.) and
slightly metalhc; abdomen with a stronger bluish green luster,
still more greenish on the venter; the last funicle joint of male partly
v/hitish; the front and middle femora raw sienna, the middle tibiae
and hind legs bro\vner, and only the last joint of middle tarsi blackish.
First funicle joint nearly a half longer again than thick; the post-
marginal vein nearly as long as the stigmal. Length of female, 1 .66
to 2.03; length of male, 1.77 mm.
Series 6. Three females reared from larva of DisonycTia species on
wiUow, Springfield, Massachusetts (George Dimmock), Dimmock's
No. 2206. Nearly identical with the preceding series, but the under-
parts of thorax darker or more antique brown (R.), the luster of
mesopleura a little more distinct and the hind legs blacker. The
postmarginal vein about a fourth shorter than the stigmal. Length,
1.99 to 2.06 mm.
Series 7. Three females, one male reared from a CoccineUine larva,
probably Indiana or Ohio (Herbert Osborn). Like series 5 but not
so dark, the raw sienna on oral margin extending upward on face
above antennal sockets and with a bronzy luster; the underparts of
thorax, front and middle coxae, and femora raw sienna (R.); the
rest of legs except tibial spur and middle tarsi dark brown, the middle
tibiae and hind femora more yellowish brown; last funicle joint in
