154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ilUSEUM. vor.. 5(5.
one female partly whitish, and in the male yellowish white. First
funicle joint about a fourth longer again than thick; the postnjnrginal
vein a little shorter than the stigmal. Length of female, 1 .66 to 1.67 ;
length of male, 1.39 mm.
Series 8. Two females reared from a larva of Coccinella novem-
notata Herbst, Cabin John Bridge, Maryland, June 25, 1900 (F. H.
Chittenden). Nearly identical with series 5, but the abdomen with
a bluish luster above, and a distinctly greenish luster on the venter.
Length, 1.99 to 2.19 mm.
Series 9. Three females reared from a Coccinelline larva, Spartan-
burg, South Carolina, June 1, 1908 (G. G. Ainshe), Webster No. 4811-
12. Like the preceding series but the head darker green, with the
luster more bronzy green and becoming about taupe bro^vn (R.) on
the vertex in two of the specimens. The postmarginal vein about a
fourth shorter than the stigmal. Length, 1.80 to 1.85 mm.
Series 10. Five females, one male reared from larva of Hippodajnia
convergens Guerin, June 28-29, 1896, Insectary No. 46^. Similar to
series 7, but the mesopleura antique bro\^Ti (R.) and the luster of
venter more bluish in most of the specimens. First funicle joint
about a half longer again than thick; the postmarginal vein about
a fourth shorter than the stigmal. Length of female, 2.20 to 2.26;
length of male, 2.15 mm.
Series 11. One female, Washington City. Practically identical
with series 8. Length, 1 .79 mm.
Series 12. One female, District of Columbia. Head about sea
brown (R.) with a bronzy purplish luster, the postorbital region with
a greenish luster; oral margin of face, the cheeks and lower half of
occiput nearly raw sienna (R.); underparts of thorax antique brown
(R.) with the posterior part of the mesopleura much darker and with
a strong bluish or purplish luster; abdomen bluish black above, the
venter greenish in luster; antennae blackish except the club; front
and middle legs except the tibiae and tarsi antique brown, the front
tibiae and tarsi and hind legs bro\vnish black, the front tibiae and all
the coxae with a purplish luster; middle tibiae dark brown: the
tibial spur and middle tarsi except the last joint pale yellowish brown
but probably more w^hitish in life. First funicle jouit about a third
longer again than thick; the postmargmal vein nearly as long as the
stigmal. Length, 1.99 mm.
Calif ornicus apparently intergrades through series 7 and 10 with
terminalis (Say) and it seems best to consider it a subspecies. On
the whole it occupies a more northern section of the country than
terminalis, and has preserved the fiaminius type of coloration.
Type.~Cat. No. 19338, U.S.N.M.
