156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.56.
legs Otherwise dark brown; spur of middle tibiae yellowish white,
the middle tarsi about warm buff (R.), the last joint blackish, and
the fourth joint slightly brownish. Wings banded as in flaminius
or terminalis. Pubescence of scutellum blackish, of the head,
mesoscutum and metapleura silvery white.
Male. — Not kno^vn.
Described from two females (type and paratype) reared from
material of Ceroputo yuccae (Coquillett) on agave, Guadalajara,
Mexico, November 10, 14, 1894 (C. H. T. Townsend), Townsend
No. 33, Insectary No. 5726"". Both specimens have been partially
eaten by museum pests and the head of the paratype is missing.
Type.— Cat. No. 22034, U.S.N.M.
G. HOMALOTYLUS ALBITARSUS Gahan.
Homalotylus alb'darsvs Gahan, Canad. Entom., vol. 42, June, 1910, p. 200.
Female. — Agreeing closely with other forms of the flaminius
group, the head being slightl}^ longer than wide, the vertex a little
wider than in mexicanus, and the ocelli very nearly in an equilateral
triangle. Antennal scape more flattened than in mexicanus, a
little expanded tovrard the apex and grooved beneath; first funicle
joint about tv^^o-thirds as long as the pedicel and nearly a half longer
again than thick, the following joints slightly shorter than the first,
and all except the sixth a trifle longer than thick. Stigmal and
postmarginal veins nearly equal in length, the angle between them
very acute, the stigmal slender and slightly enlarged at apex.
Sculpture and pubescence as in mexicanus, but the frontovertex
more opaque and t-ie postorbital region smooth. Length, 1.50 mm.
Head, pronotum, axillae and scutellum about amber brown (E,.),
the head being a httle paler and with a slight greenish luster on post-
orbital region; the underparts of thorax somewhat more yeliowisn;
mesoscutmn and abdomen blackish brown, the scutum with a slight
metallic luster, the first tergite of abdomen a Uttle more yellowish.
Antennae blackish brown, the fourth funicle joint fading into whitish
on the inner side at apex, the following funicle joints and club white.
Front coxae and femora, most of middle legs, hind coxae and lower
margin narrowly of hind femora concolorous with the pleura; front
tibiae and tarsi pale brown; most of hind femora and hind tibiae
blackish brown; middle and hind tarsi white, with the last joint
brownish ; the spui' of middle tibiae yellowish wdiite. Wings banded
as in other species of the flaminius group. Pubescence as in mexi-
canus.
Male. — Not known.
Redescribed from two females (tj^pe and paratype) reared from an
unknown Coccinellid larva, Washington County, Maryland, August
2, 1898.
Type.— Cat. No. 13223, U.S.N.M.
