NO. 2293. PARASITIC CHALCIDOID FLIES— TIMBERLAKE. 157
7. HOMALOTYLUS SCYMNI (Shlir.er).
Eutclus ? scymnae Shimer, Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, vol. 2, Nov., 1869, p. 385.
This species remains unknown to the writer. The description
suggests alhitarsus Gahan, but there seems to be enough difference to
avoid s3-nonymizing the latter species at least for the present. Ash-
mead, however, synonymized the species with terminalis (Say), on
apparently insufficient evidence. Doctor Shimer reared his speci-
men from the larva of a Scymnus species feeding on Caermes pinicor-
ticis (Fitch), probably at Mount Carroll, lUinois.
VICINUS GROUP.
KEY TO THE SPECIES OF THE VICINUS GROUP.
1. Head longer than wide, oval in outline 2
Head seen from in front hardly longer than wide, or nearly circular in outline;
head and scutellum orange rufous, the mesoscutum greenish black, legs dark,
blackish brown, the hind tarsi and three middle joints of middle tarsi white.
8. quaylci, new species,
2. Head and body not entirely black , 3
Head and body black with green and bluish luster, legs black, the hind tarsi, and
the three middle joints of the middle tarsi white, antennae black, the club and
more or less of the preceding joint white 9. africanus, new species.
3. Head and scutellum cadmium yellow, the mesoscutum and abdomen greenish
black; front legs and middle tibiae pale brown, the middle femora, middle and
hind tarsi whitish, the hind femora and tibiae blackish, antennae black, the
club and last three or four funicle joints yellowish white.. 10. oculatus (Girault).
General color more or less dark castaneous, the mesoscutum blackish with a greenish
luster, the scutellum opaque black; legs castaneous with front and middle
coxae, base of front and middle femora, and the hind legs blackish, middle tibial
spur yellowish white, the three middle joints of middle tarsi and the hind tarsi
except apical joint white, the lower margin of hind femora distally pale yellow-
ish; antennae black or blackish, the club white 11. vicinus Silvestri.
8. HOMALOTYLUS QUAYLEI, new species.
Plate 39, fig. 9.
Female. — Head in frontal view very nearly circular in outline,
being a trifle longer than wide; the dorsal orbits of eyes strongly
converging posteriorly so that the width of tlie vertex at the posterior
ocelU is less than half that of the face at the lower corners of eyes;
ocelli placed in a strongly acute-angled triangle, the posterior pair
about one-third nearer tlie occipital margin than to the median
ocellus ; eyes slightly longer than in H. Jlaminius, and the head in
side view somewhat thicker, being thickest below the middle instead
of at the middle; face slightly protuberant between the bases of the
antennae (the latter broken off in the unique type). Mandibles
with moderately long teeth, the middle one slightly longer than the
ventral and less acute, the inner or dorsal tooth shortest, distmctly
not forming a subtruncate edge with the middle tooth, as the emar-
