153 FKOVEEDINOS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.56.
gination between them is distinct. Thorax and abdomen normal
for genus, the ovipositor prominently protruded, the exserted por-
tion about equal to one half the length of abdomen. Wings much
as in H. flaminius, the subbasal area of hyaline cilia much narrower,
the dark area at extreme base larger, the median fascia broader, its
apical margin extending considerably beyond the apex of the vena-
tion and distinctly transversely truncate; the oval hyaline area
reaching nearly to either marghi of wing, the apical area of dark
cilia only about a third wider again than the preceding hyaline spot
instead of about twice as wide as in H. flaminius ; the postmarginal
almost as long as the stigmal vein. In other structural respects
and in regard to the sculpture practically as in H. flaminius, except
that the punctures on the front are rather less numerous and not so
distinctly impressed. Length of body, 1.76; length of head, 0.59;
width o^' hoa'l, 0.545; width of vertex, 0.103; length of eye, 0.51;
width of eye, 0.265; width of mesoscutum, 0.60; length of forewing,
1,41; width of forewing, 0.535; length of ovipositor, 0.305 mm.
Head, protiotuin, axillae, and scutellum orange rufous (R.), the
vertex dusky and together with the frons slightly greenish metallic,
the head otherwise mostly bronzy in luster, the pronotum narrowly
greenish black along its posterior margin, mesoscutum distinctly
greenish black with a strong luster; metanotum, propodeum, and
abdomen slightly bhiish black, the dorsum of abdomen with an
iridescent luster; pro pleura, sternum, prepectal plates and anterior
margin of mesopleura concolorous with pronotum but slightly more
yellowish, the mesopleura othenvise shining clove bro^^^l (R.);
tegulae white with the posterior margin dark brown. Antennae
(according to field notes of Prof. H. J. Quayle) black or brownish
black with the last funicle joint and club v/hite. Legs rather dark
or bluish brown, the front coxae and femora concolorous with pro-
pleura, the femora being a little duskier, middle femora paler brown
with a tinge of yellowish, the middle tibial spurs dilutely brownish,
second and fourth joint of middle tarsi and the apex of the first
joint yellowish white; hind femora with a bluish luster and a nar-
row streak of yellow on their posterior margin except on the basal
third, the hind tibiae more nearly black, the hind tarsi yellowish
white except the last joint and the extreme base of the first joint.
The broad fascia of wings deeply pigmented, as also the triangular
dark spot at ])ase; the apex of disk beyond the oval hyaline spot
slightly pigmented but more evidently so than in other species.
Exserted part of ovipositor yellowish, the apex becoming dusky
Pubescence on head whitish, on mesoscutum pale bro\mish, on scutel-
lum black, and on the metapleura silvery white.
Described from one female reared from citrus meal}^ bug material
{Pseudococcus citri Risso), in August, 1913, Sicily, Italy (H. J.
