NO. 2293. PARASITIC CHALCIDOID FLIES— TIMBERLAKE. 161
width of eye, 0.235; length of antenna, 1.19; width of mesoscutum,
0.54; length of forewing, 1.43; width of forewing, 0.535; length of
ovipositor, 0.30 mm.
Scutelluni and most of pro thorax cadmium yellow (R.), the head
somewhat paler or light cadmium yellow (R.) suffused with deeper
yellow or brownish at the vertex; pronotum, except on the sides, and
the mesoscutum greenish black, with a metallic luster, axiUae dark red-
dish brown or more or less ])rown medially, otherwise like scuteUum,
metanotum and propodeum purer shining black; anterior corner of
mesopleura cadmium yeUov^'^ shading gradually into blackish brown
on the remaining part which is sliining but hardly metaEic; teguiae
white with the posterior margin broadl}- dark brown; abdomen
black, appearing slightly bluish in certain lights, or iridescent metallic
in others, the venter duller and more brownish; ovipositor sheaths
pale cadmium yellow with apex blackish brown. Antennae blackish
brown shading into yellowish v/hite or pale yellow on distal half of
flagellum, the last three funicic joints pale and the preceding joint
also in some specimens. All the coxae dark brown or blackish brown,
the front pair somewhat suffused with brov»mish yellow; front femora
brownish yellow, the tibiae and tarsi brownish black; middle legs
(except coxae) yellowish white with the tibiae pale brown, darker
along upper margin; hind femora blackish brown with the lower
margin narrowly j^ellowish, or entirely brownish yellow, darker at
base and more yellowish toward apex and along inferior margin, the
tibiae blackish, and tlie hind tarsi j'eilowish white vvdth the last joint
somev/hat brownish. Wings banded as in II.jiam.imus except as noted
above. Pubescence on head very fine, and silky, whitish in color;
on the pronotum and scutum rather abundant, conspicuous, silvery
white in color, on the scuteUum appearing whitish in certain lights,
but in others blackish, the apex furnished with about three or four
longer hairs on each side, which are suberect and inclined inward to
inclose a quadrate bare spot; metapleura and hmd coxae furnished
with usual appressed silvery white pubescence.
Male. — Similar to the female except tliat the scape has a rather
deep, rounded notch or ernargination just bej^ond the middle on the
upper margin. The coloration of the single specimen is slightly
paler than in any of the females, as the axillae are practically entirely
concolorous with the scuteUum, the mesopleura more brownish,
and the middle tibiae yellow instead of pale brown. Length of
body, 1.57 mm.
Redescribed from three females and one male reared from larvae
of Scymnus hipunciatus Kugelann, Manila, Philippine Islands (H. S.
Smith and D. T. FuUaway). The host may not be correctly de-
115690— 19— Proc.N.M.vol.56 11
