162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56,
termined, but is a common species at Manila and has been introduced
thence to California as an enemy of Pseudococcus citri (Risso).
The type female of Hemaenasoidea oculata GirauU also examined.
This species is most closely related to H. vicinus Silvestri and the
male has a pecidiar notch on the upper margin of the scape as in
that species, although rather better developed.
Type.— Cht. No. 19949, U.S.N.M.
11. HOMALOTYLUS VICINUS Silvcslri.
Homalotylus vicinus Silvestki, Boll. Poitici Lab., vol. 9. I'cb., 1915, p. 293.
figs. 50-51.
This species has not been seen by the writer. It was reared by
Silvestri from the larva of a Scymnine, Ne/phus vetufstus Weise, at
Nefasit, Eritrea, Africa.
COCKERELLI GROUP.
KEY TO THE SPECIES OF THE COCKERELLI GROUP.
1. Hoad dark colored, diamine brown or raw umber, with a distinct metallic luster . .4
Tfaari brownish yellow with the metallic luster weak or absent 2
2. Froniovenex with an evans^scent metallic luster; pubescence of scutellum dark
colored; ovipositor not over a third as long as the abdomen 3
Frontovertex not at all metallic; scutellum with a pale pubescence; ovipositor
over one-half as long as the abdomen; head and underparts of thorax ochraceoue
orange, the scutellum and axillae cadmium yellow, the mesoscutum dark brown
to blackish vdth a greenish luster centrally; antennae black, the club and pre-
ceding joint white; front and middle legs and hind tarsi pale yellowish, hind
legs other\vise dark brown or blackish except base of femora and the coxae.
12. cockerelli. new species.
3. Ovipositor about one-third as long as abdomen; coloration nearly as in cockerelli;
antennae black, the club white; legs dark brown or blackish with the coxae,
front and middle femora yellowish, the spur of middle tibiae and the middle
tarsi yellowish white 1^. affinis, new species.
Ovipositor about one-fourth as long as abdomen; coloration nearly as in the two
preceding species; antennae black with club and preceding joint white, legs
paler than in affinis. the hind tibiae only remaining dark brown.
14. brevicavda. new species.
4. Ovipositor fully one-half as long as abdomen; front moderately punctate; teeth of
mandibles short; head raw umber with a strong bronzy metallic lust-er, mesos-
cutum metallic greenish black, the scutellum yellowish; front and hind legs
dark brown or blackish, the front tarsi pale brown; middle legs and also sometimes
the front femora brownish yellow, the tibiae paler apically. the spur and tarsi,
except last joint, pale yellowish; antennae black, the last funicle joint and.
club white 15. hyperaspidis, newspecies.
Ovipositor about one-third as long as abdomen; front unusually thickly punctate;
teeth of mandibles rather long; head diamine brown, the metallic luster not
strong, thorax as in hyperaspidis but the scutellum more ferruginous; front and
hind legs dark brown with a strong metallic purplish luster on front femora,
middle legs yellowish brown, the tibial spur and tarsi pale yellowish; antennae
black, the last two funicle joints and club yellowish white.
16. punctifrons. new species.
