NO. 2293. PARA8ITIC CHALCIDOID FLIES— TIME Eli LAKE. 163
12. HOMALOTYLUS COCKERELLI, new species.
Plate 39, fig. C
Female. — Head in general shape much as in //. Jlaminius, being
a trifle (about one-thirteenth by measurement) longer tlian wide,
and widest across the middle of the eyes; dorsal orbits not strongly
convergent behmd, the width of vertex at the posterior ocelli being
a little more than half the distance between the lower corners of
eyes; ocelli in an ec^uilateral triangle or nearly so, the posterior pair
in smaller specimens about one-third more farther apart than dis-
tance from either to the anterior ocellus, or to the occipital margin,
or in larger specimens (with the vertex proportionately narrower) the
posterior pair are a little closer together than space to anterior ocellus,
and to the same degrees farther from the occipital margin, ocellar
angle about 60° to 75°; the occipital margin more rounded than in
//. Jlaminius ; eyes shaped about as in jlaminius but slightly wider
below the middle ; the face slightly protuberant between the antenna]
sockets. Antennal scape linear, compressed; the pedicel as long as
the first funicle joint and three fourths of the second joint combined;
the first funicle joint about twice as long as thick, the following joints
becoming gradually a little shorter but hardly thicker, the sixth being
about a third longer than thick; club nearly as long as the three pre-
ceding joints combined. Mandibles v,ith three short subequal blunt
teeth, the middle one slightly longer. Thoracic and abdominal
structure not deviating from the usual type, the ovipositor protruded
for a length about equal to one-half to two-thirds of the length of the
abdomen, dependent upon how much the latter is contracted. Wings
similar to those of ILflaminius, the medial cross-band of dark colored
cilia a little wider, its basal margin much less oblique, and the apical
marghi straight instead of a little convex, the subapical oval spot of
transparent cilia large, reaching nearly to either margin, its width
nearly equal to the apical area of dark colored cilia; stigmal vein
distmctly narrowed at its middle, the apex thus appearing more tri-
angular than in Jlaminius, the postm.arginal vein equal in length to
the stigmal. Sculpture much as m Jlaminius but considerably finer,
somewhat so on the head and especially so on the axillae and scu-
tellum \vhich are entirely opaque alutaceous, the reticulations of the
first tergite of abdomen all a little longer than wide, and their longer
axes all rimning longitudinally except across the base of the tergite
and not at all coarser at the middle; pm-punctures on head rather
numerous but very small and shallow. Length of body (1 .15 to 1 .83),
1.73; length of head, 0.565; width of head, 0.535; width of vertex,
0.160; length of eye, 0.41; vvidth of eye, 0.24; length of antenna,
1.39; width of mesoscutum, 0.55; length of forewing, 1.52; width of
forewing, 0.56; length of ovipositor, 0.405 mm.
