164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.56.
Head ochraceous orange (R.), the cheeks and postorbital area of
head with a trace of greenish luster; pronotum and mesoscutum dark
bro^^ii or less suffused with black especially on the middle of the scu-
tum, sometimes entirely brownish, or entirely blackish with a slight
greenish metallic luster; axillae and scutellum cadmium yellow (11.)^
tegulae white with the apical margin dark gray or blackish, metano-
tum, propodeum, and metapleura shining brownish black; pleura and
under parts of thorax about concolorous with the head, the posterior
part of mesopleura sometimes suffused with browTiish; abdomen
mostly like head and pleura but more shining, the venter duslcy
apically and the apical half of dorsum blackish, the luster especially
strong on the dorsum and somewhat iridescent, ovipositor concolor-
ous with the apical fourth blackish. Antennae black, the scape brown-
ish, especially on the upper side and toward the base, the fifth funicle
joint changing to whitish at the apex, the sixth joint and club yel-
lowish white. Legs concolorous with pleura of thorax, the middle
coxae blackish, the hind femora most often suffused with blacldsh on
apical half of outer surface and along the dorsal margin of the inner
sm'face, the hind tibiae blackish brown; middle tibiae, especially
apically, the spur and the middle and hind tarsi considerably paler
yellow, the last joint of all tarsi dark bro^Ti or blackish. Wings
banded as in flaminius except as noted above. Pubescence of head
and thorax entirely whitish, most ' prominent on the dark colored
mesoscutum and pronotum, the metapleura and hind coxae densely
silvery white pubescent; the scutellum in addition has two short
black bristles on each side at the apex.
Male. — Entirely similar to the female in structin-al and coloration
characters, but averaging slightly smaller in size. Length of body,
1.07 to L51 mm.
Described from ten females, five males (type, allotype, paratypes
a-in) reared from the larvae of Hyperaspis trimaculala (Linnaeus)
associated with Dactylopius confusus Cockerell, on Opurdia or col-
lected at Dactylopius colonies on Opuntia, Bro^vnsville, Texas, Janu-
ary 20 to July 8, 1915 (P. H. Timberlake).
The following material also examined; A large series collected or
reared with the types, January 20 to July 8, 1915; two females reared
July 4, 1915, from a single host of the same species, collected at San
Antonio, Texas, January 9; four females, one male, reared from a
Coccinellid larva associated with Dactylopius species (the host larva
probably the same as above), Guanajuato, Mexico, Insectary No.
5859<'a (U.S.D.A.); six females, two males, reared from Dactylojnus
confusus material. Point Isabel, Texas (C. H. T. Townsend), Town-
send No. 650; six females, two males, reared from Dactylopius
material, La Puerta, Tamaulipas, Mexico (C. H. T. Townsend),
