Ko. 2293. PARASITIC CHALCIDOID FLIES— TIMBERLAKE. 165
Townsend No. 650. The last two series labeled "from (or on)
Coccus cacti,'' the first record undoubtedly referring to D. conjusus
and the second probably so.
The name adopted for this species is one used by Dr. L. O. Howard
in manuscript.
Type.— Cat. No. 22037, U.S.N.M.
13. HOMALOTYLUS AFFINIS, new species.
Plate 39, fig. 8.
Female. — Very similar to H. cockerelli, but differing as follows:
Head about one-fourteenth longer than wide, the width of the
vertex at the posterior ocelli proportionately wider in comparison
with the width of head, but practically the same in comparison v/ith
the width of frons at the lower corners of eyes, being almost exactly
one-sixth more than half that width; the posterior ocelli somewhat
farther apart than distance from either to the median ocellus, the
ocellar angle about 75°; eyes slightly smaller or narrower than in
cockerelli, being hartlly wider on the lower half than above. Anten-
nae similar, the pedicel as long as the first funicle joint, together
with three-fifths of the second; first funicle joint one-fourth longer
than thick, the following becoming slightly shorter and thicker, the
sixth about as long as thick; club as long as the last three funicle
joints combined, the under side obliquely truncate on the apical
two-thirds, rather indistinctly three-jointed, the sutures being visible
under high magnification. Mandibles practically the same. Thoracic
and abdominal structure as in cockerelli, except that the ovipositor
is much more shortly protruded, being about only one-fourth as long
as the abdomen. Wings with the ciliary bands practically the same,
the subapical hyaline spot a little smaller; the stigmal vein less
constricted toward the base, the apex appearing less enlarged; the
postmarginal subequal to the stigmal. Sculpture of the head con-
siderably more evident than in cockerelli, the punctures hardly
larger except possibly on the vertex, but more deeply impressed,
the pin punctures rather more numerous; axillae and scutellum with
evident punctulate sculpture about as in flaminius; the first tergite
of the abdomen with the reticulations much longitudinally narrowed
on the sides, becoming gradually transversely lengthened across the
base, and a little coarser and more equilateral on the medio-apical
part; sculpture othei-wise of the usual type. Length of body (1 .39 to)
1.70; length of head, 0.587; width of head, 0.538; width of vertex,
0.185; length of eye, 0.434; width of eye, 0.230; length of antennae,
1.26; widthofmesoscutum, 0.540; length of forewing, 1.32; width of
forewing, 0.500; length of ovipositor, 0.227 mm.
Head nearly Mars yellow (R.), the clypeal margin more yellowish,
the frontovertex more brownish with an obscure bronzy metallic
