166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 5«.
luster; mesoscutum and posterior ma,rgin of pronotiim shining Sudan
brown (R.) appearing darker in some lights and with a slight greenish
luster; axillae and scutellum cadmium yellow (R.). the former some-
times more brownish; tegulae white, with the posterior margin brown;
metanotum and propodeum shining reddish black; underparts of
thorax about concolorous v/ith the head, or somewliat more yeUow,
the posterior part of mesopleura appearing slightly brovrnish ; center
of abdomen brownish yellow, the dorsum Sudan brown (R.), but
darker apically (in one specimen, paratype a, the basal half of the
dorsum is brownish yeUow like the center); ovipositor brownish
yellow, becoming blackish on the apical third. Antennal scape
brownish, the pedicel and funicle black, the club yellowish white.
Legs at base concolorous with underparts of thorax, the front tibiae
brownish, the front tarsi dark brown, middle tibiae dark brov/n with
apex more yellowish, the spur yellowish white, the middle tarsi
pale yellowish, the last one or two joints dark brown; hind legs with
the coxae concolorous with the posterior part of the mesopleura, the
femora shading into brownish on the apical half, the tibiae and tarsi
brownish black. Wings banded as in cockerelli except as noted
above. Pubescence of head, pronotum, and mesoscutum white, that
of scutellum black; the thick, appressed pubescence of metapleura
and hind coxae silvery white.
Described from three females (type and paratypes n-b) roared
from larvae of H>jperaspis osculans LeConte, in colonies of Dactylopius
confusus Cockerell, Uplands, California, June and October, 1014
(C. P. Clausen), Clausen's No. 8.
Type.— Csit. No. 22038, U.S.N.M.
14. HOMALOTYLUS BKEVICAUDA, new species.
Plate 40, fig. 13.
Female.— DiSers from H. affinis in the following respects: Head
practically as wide as long, and almost perfectly circular in outline
when viewed from in front, tlie width of the vertex at the posterior
ocelli narrower than in affinis in comparison with the width of head
and a trifle less than one-half the distance between the lower corners
of eyes; ocelli in an equilateral triangle, or nearly so, the posterior
pair about equidistant from the occipital margin and the median
ocellus; eyes a little wider in proportion to their length than in
affinis, and widest at the middle. Antennal scape slightly dilated
on the lower, inner margin of the apical half; pedicel as long as the
first funicle joint, together with four-fifths of the second; first five
funicle joints practically equal in length, being very slightly longer
than wide, the sixth sliglitly shorter than tlie others and about as
long as wide, and no wider than the first; club indistinctly sutured,
the underside obliquely truncate to the apex of the first joint, the
