NO. 2293. PARASITIC CHALCIDOID FLIES— TIMBERLAKE. 167
length almost equal to the last three funicle joints combined.
Thoracic and abdominal structure as in affinis, except that the ovi-
positor is slightly sliorter. Wings practically as in affinis with the
subapical hyaline spot very slightly larger. Middle tibial spur
noticeably longer tlian the first tarsal joint (not or hardly longer in
other species). Sculpture practically the same as in affinis through-
out. Length of body, (1.40 to) 1.83; length of head, 0.62; width of
head, 0.62; width of vertex, 0.169; length of eye, 0.47; width of eye,
0.28; length of antennae, 1.46; width of mesoscutum, 0.62; length of
forewing, 1.51 ; width of forewing, 0.57; length of ovipositor, 0.19 mm.
Coloration entirely like that of affinis except for the following par-
ticulars: Funicle more brownish black, the last joint white like the
club; legs paler, the front tibiae with hardly more brown than the
front femora, the front tarsi pale brown, the middle tibiae only
slightly brownish toward the base, the hind femora very slightly
brownish, the hind tibiae dark brown, the hind tarsi paler brown or
even yellowish brown: abdomen sometimes suffused with ^^ellowish
at the base of the dorsum and becoming almost blackish toward the
apex, the ovipositor sheaths hardly darker at the apex,
Male. — Entirely similar to the female. Length, 1.44 mm.
Described from four females, one male (type, allotype, and para-
types a-c), reared from a Scymnine larva associated with an Ortliezia
species on Hymenoclca. monogyra, Ignacio, Durango, Mexico, October
12, 1894 (C. H. T. Townsend), Insectary No. 6448". Three other
specimens of uncertain sex from the same series but much eaten by
pests may be considered metatypes.
Type.~C2it. No. 22039, U.S.N.M.
15. HOMALOTYLUS HYPERASPIDIS, new species.
Plate 39, fig. 7.
Female. — ^Head nearly circular in outline when viewed from in
front, being very slightly longer than wide, the width of the vertex
at the posterior ocelli a little over one-half the width of the frons at
the lower corners of eyes, the ocelli very nearly in an equilateral
triangle, the median ocellus being a trifle farther from either of the
posterior pair than the distance between the latter which are situated
at the usual distance from the occipital margin; e3"es noticeably
wider across the lower half. Antennal scape as long as the first
funicle joint together with one-half of the second; the first funicle
joint nearly one-half longer again than thick, the following joints
nearly equal and a little longer than thick; club as long as the last
two funicle joints together v/ith two-tliirds of the fourtli joint, solid
and strongly obliquely truncate on the inner side to or nearly to the
base. Mandibles with three short, rather blunt, and nearly equal
teeth. Thorax and abdomen of the usual structure, the ovipositor
