168 PROCEEDINGS OP THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
protruded for a length fully equal to one-half that of the abdomen or
a little more. Wings with median cross-band somewhat convex on
its apical margin, tlie subapical hyaline area reaching nearly to either
margin of wing and about one-fourth narrower than the apical area
of dark colored cilia; postmarginal vein about as long as the stigmal,
unusually thickened proximad and completely obliterating the space
between its own base and that of the stigmal vein, so that without
careful examination the marginal vein appears to be fully thrice as
long as thick, or much longer than it actually is, stigmal vein very
slender but becoming somewhat enlarged at apex. Sculpture about
as in II. cocTcereUi except that the pin punctures of the head are
larger and deeper, the reticulations on the first tergite of abdomen
a little coarser than in cocJcerelli, but much finer than in jlaminius,
being longitudinally lengthened on the sides, transversely lengthened
toward the base, and becoming no larger and mostly pentagonal at
the middle of the posterior margin, the extreme base of the tergite
remaining smooth. Length of body, (1.50 to) 1.76; length of head,
0.587; width of head, 0.571; length of eye, 0.448; width of eye, 0.258;
width of vertex, 0.176; length of antenna, 0.46; width of mesoscutum,
0.575; length of forewing, 1.51; width of forewing, 0.552; length of
ovipositor, 0.394 mm.
Head antique brown (R.) with a rather pronounced bronzy luster
on face and frontovertex and a greenish luster on the cheeks and
postorbital region; pronotum and mesoscutum metallic greenish
black, the axillae dull antique brown, the scutellum deep chrome
(R.), the metanotum and propodeum shining brownish black,
tegulae white with the posterior margin blacldsh, underparts of thorax
antique brown ; abdomen shining blackish brown with a strong green
and iridescent luster especially at the base, the venter suffused
with antique brown but much darker at the sides, the ovipositor
sheaths brown at the base and blackish on the apical third. Antennae
black, with the sixth funicle joint and club yellowish white. Legs
raw sienna (R.) with the coxae, front tibiae and hind femora raw
umber (E,.), the hind tibiae blackish, the middle tibiae somewhat
dark brownish at base and becoming pale orange yellow (R.) at apex,
the spur and the middle tarsi a little paler, the last joint of all tarsi
blacldsh. Wings banded with fuscous as in other species with the
peculiarities noted above. Pubescence of head and mesoscutum
whitish, of the scutellum blackish, and that of the metapleura silvery
white.
IfaZg.— Entirely similar to the female throughout. Lengthy
L40 mm.
Described from four females, one male (type, allot}T)e, and para-
types a-c) reared from larvae and pupae of Hyperaspis undulata
(Say), Murray, Utah, July 12-29, 1913, and spring of 1914, the
