NO. 2293. PARASITIC CHALCIDOID FLIES— TIMBERLAKE. 171
Labial palpi with thi-ee joints; the maxillary with four joints, the
two basal ones subequal, the apical one about twice as long, the
third a little shorter than the apical. Thorax, legs, and abdomen
practically as in Homalotylus , the ovipositor not protruded. Wings
differing in having the stigmal and postmarginal veins meetmg in
a much less acute angle, the postmarginal only about one-half as
long as the stigmal, which is noticeably shorter than in Homalotylus;
the basal and subapical areas of paler-colored cilia present, the
integumentary fuscous spot beneath the stigmal vein reaching but
little more than halfway across the disk of the wing.
Male. — Similar throughout to the female.
Anisotylus presents a combination of the characters of Homaloty-
lus Mayi- and Isodromus Howard. In the shape of the head it is
like the latter; in the structure of the thorax and abdomen it is not
unlike Homalotylus, and in the venation of the wings it is inter-
mediate between the two. The bidentate mandibles, in which it
differs from either, by no means indicate relationship with the
Ectromatini, as the genus is immistakably closely allied to Homaloty-
lus. TLe sculpture and pubescence in character and arrangement
are of the same type as in Homalotylus. The species so far as known
are parasitic in the larvae of Scym/nus and Hyperaspis.
Type of genus. — Homalotylus similis Ashmead.
KEY TO THE SPECIES AND SUBSPECIES OF ANISOTYLUS.
i. Distal half of flagellum yellomsh white 3
Fiagellum entirely black or dark brown.
ivlesoscutum metallic greenish black 2
Mesosciitum and abdomen metallic purplish black; the fronto vertex and
scutellum Sanford's brown; rest of head and iinderparts of thorax brownish
yellow 1. similis (Ashmead)
2. Frontovertex, axillae, and scutellum zinc orange; the rest of head and underparts
of thorax brownish yellow; the abdomen bronzy black above, the venter more
or less yellowish 2. similis texanus, new subspecies.
Frontovertex ochraceous orange; the rest of head and underparts of thorax a little
paler yellow; the abdomen and the entire notum of thorax, except rarely the
scutellum, greenish black 3. similis utahensis, new subspecies.
3. Head, underparts of thorax, venter, and legs except hind tibiae yellow, the notum
of thorax and dorsum of abdomen greenish black. . 4. pallentipes, new species .
1. ANISOTYLUS SIMILIS (Ashmead).
Homalotylus similis Ashmead, Trans. Amer. Entom. See, vol. 14, Nov., 1887,
p. 190.
Feimde. — Head slightly longer than wide, the frontovertex about
twice as long as the width at the ocelli, the latter in an acute-angled
triangle, with the space between the posterior pair about equal to
three-fourths of the space between either and the anterior ocellus.
Scape increasing slightly in. width from the base toward the apex,
being somewhat expanded along the inner ventral margin; pedicel
