172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.56.
nearly equal in length to the first two funicle joints; the funicle
joints increasing slightly in thickness and less distinctly in length
distad, the sixth, however, distinctly longer than the fifth, and all a
little wider than long; club nearly as long as the last three preceding
joints combined, solid and obliquely truncate from the apex nearly
to the base on the inner side. Thorax and abdominal structure
practically as in Homalotylus jiaminius, the ovipositor not protruded.
Wings with cilia on basal third of disk, and those in an oval spot in
the middle of the disk just distad and below the apex of the stigmal
vein, transparent and weaker; the speculum as in the species of
Homalotyhis; stigmal vein rather thick, only slightly enlarged at
apex, and forming an angle of about 45° with the postmarginal, which
is about one-half as long or a trifle more. Head finely punctulate,
a trifle more coarseh^ so than in H.Jlaminius, the pin punctures few,
very shallow, and evanescent; mesoscutum finely scaly-reticulate,
the mesopleura fhiely reticulate, with the reticulations arranged in
longitudinal lines, especially on the posterior half; axillae and scutel-
lum opaquely punctulate, the punctures fuier and more closely set
than those on the head; side pieces of the metascutum transversely
aciculate; first abdommal tergite scaly-reticulate on the posterior
half and entirely smooth across the base, the reticulations at the
sides hardly larger than those on the mesoscutum, but gradually
becoming medially much larger and transversely lengthened except
at the posterior margin. Pubescence on face, cheeks, and mesoscu-
tum v.'hitish, that on the face and cheeks not very thick; the meta-
pleura and hind coxae with an appressed silvery white pubescence as
in the species of Homalotylus. Length of body, 1.G5; length of head,
0.59; width of head, 0.56; width of vertex, 0.141 ; length of eye, 0.43;
width of eye, 0.28; length of antennae, 1.02; width of mesoscutum,
0.59; length of forewing, 1.41; width of forewmg, 0.56 mm.
Frontovertex of head and the scutellum Sanford's brown (R.), the
rest of the head, the pronotum and underparts of thorax similar but a
little more yellowish, the postorbital region of head with a slight
greenish luster, the center of the occiput and concealed part of pro-
notum blackish; the axiflae considerably darker than the scutellum
or about auburn (R.), and with a purplish luster in a strongly oblique
view; tegulae white, with the apex pale brown; mesoscutum and
abdomen blackish ^vith. a strong metallic purplish luster, the meta-
notum, propodeum, and metapleura similar but with a weaker
luster. Antennal scape concolorous with face, but darker at apex,
the pedicel and flagellum darker brown, the club paler brown, especially
along the truncated margin. Legs concolorous, with underparts of
thorax, front and middle tibiae, and the hind femora a little more
brownish; the hind tibiae blackish brown; the middle tibial spur, first
joint of middle tarsi and the hind tarsi, except the last tv.'o joints,
