NO. 2293. PARASITIC CHALCIDOID FLIES— TIMBERLAKE. 173
yellowish white. Wings hyaline, with a roundish, fuscous spot
beneath the apex of the venation and reaching about two-thirds of
the way across the disk.
Male. — Not known.
Redescribed from one female, Biscayne, Florida, May 17 (E. A.
Schwarz), which had been compared with Aslnnead's type female
from Jacksonville, Florida, and found identical.
r?/n^.— Cat. No. 4745, U.S.N.M.
2. ANISOTYLUS SIMILIS TEXANUS, new subspecies.
Female. — ^Practically identical with A. similis (Aslunead) in all
structural characters. Length of body, (1.62 to 1.80) 1.72; length
of head, 0.63; width of head, 0.59; width of vertex, 0.15; length of
eye, 0.45; width of eye, 0.29; length of antenna, 1.07; width of
mesoscutum, 0.63; length of forewing, 1.57: width of forewing, 0.58
mm.
Frontovertex about zinc orange (R.), the ocellar region infuscated,
or even metallic greenish as in paratype a, the rest of the head
brownish yellow, but considerably purer yellow at the scrobes of the
face; the scutellum and axillae like the frontovertex but a little
more brownish, the axillae especially brownish medially, and some-
times metallic greenish as in paratype a; most of the pronotum and
the underparts of thorax brownish yellow practically concolorous
with the head; posterior margin of pronotum and the mesoscutum
greenish black with a metallic luster, the posterior corners of the
scutum more or less brownish along the margin; tegulae white with
the posterior margin brown; metanotum, propodeura, metapleura,
and dorsum of abdomen shining blackish brown and with a slight
bronzy luster on the abdomen especially at the base, the apex of the
last tergite yellowish; venter of abdomen brownish yellow with a
bronzy luster and more infuscated medially. Antennal scape yellow-
ish brown, the pedicel a little darker, the flageliuni brownish black.
Legs brownish yellow, the front and middle tibiae a little more
brownish, the liind tibiae blackish brown, the middle tarsi, spur and
the hind tai-si yellowish white except the blackish apical joint of the
middle pair and the two dusky apical joints of the hind pair. Wings
as in J., similis (Ashmead).
3Iale. — Not laiown.
Described from tliree females (type and paratypes a to h), the type
collected on sorghum heads, San Antonio, Texa ;, June 27, 1908 (C. N.
Ainshe), Webster No. 5009; parat3^pe a rearerl from a pupa of
Eyperaspis Ugeminata Randall, Austin, Texas, May 25, 1917 (Carl
Hartmann), Hartmann's No. 63; paratype h reared from an unde-
termined Coccinelhd larva, Brownsville, Texas (C. H. T. Townsend),
Townsend's No. 645.
Type.— Cht. No. 22042, U.S.N.M.
