174 PR0CEEDIKG8 OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.56.
3. ANISOTYLUS SIMILIS UTAHENSIS, new sabspecies.
Plate 40, fie. 11.
Female. — Entirely similar to A. simUis (Ashmead) in .structural
characters. Length of bod^^ (1.35 to 2.03) 1 .77 ; length of head, 0.63 ;
width of head, 0.62; width of vertex, 0.155; length of eye, 0.47;
width of eye, 0.30; length of antenna, 1.13; width of mesoscutum,
0.655; length of forewing, 1.57; width of forewing, 0.63 mm.
Fronto vertex ochraceous orange (R.), the re.-t of the head and
underparts of thorax a little paler, the scrobes of the face purer yel-
low, the ocellar region of vertex suffused with metallic dark green,
the postorhital region with a slight greenish metallic luster, the center
of the occiput and posterior margin of mesopleura dusky; entire
upper parts of thorax including pronotum, the metapleura, and abdo-
men metallic blackish green, the axillae and scutellum opaque in
most aspects, the pronotum with a faint ochraceous transverse line
just before the posterior margin, the scutellum in two paratypes, a
and h, more or less dusky ochraceous orange, in one distinctly so only
at the sides, in the other entirely so except at the base; tegulae white
with the apical margin broadly brown. Antennae brow^nish black,
the scape on the upper side more brownish, often pale broA\ai. Front
and middle coxae and front femora very nearly concolorous with
underparts of thorax, front tibiae and tarsi and the middle and hind
femora a little more brownish, sometimes distinctly so, the middle
tibiae and hind tibiae and tarsi blackish brown, the latter more
brownish underneath ; hind coxae varying from dusky yellow to more
or less blackish with a greenish metallic luster, the middle tarsi and
spur yellowish white with the last two joints of the tarsi dusky.
Wings as in A. similis (Ashmead).
J/aZ6.— Entirely suniiar to the female, although the head is some-
what purer yellow in color. Length, 1.27 to 1.69 mm.
Described from 10 females, five males (type, allotype, and para-
types a to m), selected from a large series reared from larvae of
Scymnus americanus Mulsant and Scymnus lacustns LeConte, Murray
and Salt Lake City, Utah, May to September during the seasons of
1913 to 1915 (P. H. Timberlake).
At first sight this form looks distinct enough to bear specific rank,
but in the absence of any structural characters to separate it from
A. similis (Ashmead) it seems best to consider it a geographical race
of that species. The rare individual variation with the orange-
colored scutellum is strikingly similar to A. similis texanus, and gives
additional weight to the belief that the three forms are geographical
variants of one species.
Type.— C&t. No. 22043, U.S.N.M.
