NO. 2293. PARASITIC CHALCIDOID FLIES— TIMBERLAKE. 175
4. ANISOTYLUS PALLENTIPES, new species.
Plate 40, fig. 12.
Female. — In structure very close to A. similis (Ashmead), but the
folloAving differences may be noted: Head very slightly longer in
proportion to the v>adth, the yertex somewhat narrower and the ocelli
in a more acute triangle, the distance bet\veen the posterior pair
being about three-fifths of the distance between either and the
median ocellus; antennae a little longer and slenderer, the first three
funicle joints being a little longer than thick, the sixth a trifle wider
than long; subaj^ical spot of transparent cilia on the forewing unusu-
ually small and eyanescent, situated near the middle of the disk and
roundish in shape; the postmarginal yein a little shorter and more
spur like; sculpture throughout a little finer, especially on head, the
pin-punctures of the head entirely effaced; pubescence the same,
except that the eyes bear a few extremely short, scattered hairs.
Length of body, 1.50; length of head, 0.58; width of head, 0,53;
width of yertex, 0.117; length of eye, 0.43; width of eye, 0.27; length
of antenna, 1.12; width of mesoscutum, 0.59; length of forewing,
1.46; width of forewing, 0.60 mm.
Head light cadmium yellow (R.), becoming a little darker on the
frontovertex, the region around the posterior ocelli suffused with
blackish, center of occiput and concealed part of pronotum black;
the propleura, prepectal plate, and anterior margin of mesopleura
pale lemon yellow (R.), this color ascending onto pronotum as a
narrow, transverse preapical line, on posterior lateral margins of
mesoscutum and the base of the axillae; the rest of mesopleura
ochraceous orange (R.); posterior m.argin of pronotum narrowly,
mesoscutum except the lateral posterior margin, most of axillae and
the scutellum greenish black with a strong metallic luster, the axillae
and scutellum opaque, however, in most aspects; metanotum, pro-
podeum, and metapleura brownish black, somewhat shining but not
metallic; tegulae white, with the posterior margin broadly brov\'n;
dorsum of abdomen blackish with a slight greenish luster at the base,
the venter brownish yello^v. Antennal scape and pedicel yellowish
brown on the upper side, much darker beneath, the first three funicle
joints blackish brovvn, the fourth joint very pale brownish, following
joints and club maize yellov/ (R.). Front legs buff yellow (R.),
the tarsi brownish; the middle and hind legs similar, but the middle
femora and hind coxae and femora slightly paler, the hind tibiae
pale broAvn; the middle tarsi and spur m.aize yellow, the last tarsal
joint brownish at apex, the hind tarsi with the tv.'o basal joints maize
yellow, and the apical joints pale brovN'nish. Wings with a median
smoky cross band beneath the stigmal and apex of the submarginal
vein, extending across the disk but interrupted by a narrow longi-
