176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.56.
tudinal hyaline line some distance from the posterior margin, the
cut-off portion narrower and somewhat less deeply pigmented.
Male. — Not known.
Described from one female (type), Oracle, Arizona, May 7 (Hub-
bard and Schwarz).
Type.— Cat. No. 22044, U.S.N.M.
Genus ISODROMUS Howard.
Isodromus Howard, Rep. Entom.. U. S. Dept. Agric, for 1886. 1887. p. 488,
pi. 3, fig. 1.
Parataneostigma Girault, Annals Entom. See. Amer., vol. 8, Oct., 1915, p. 275
This genus is similar to Homalotylus in general structure, but
differs in details as follows:
Female. — Head thicker fronto-occipi tally, not subhemispherical as
the face is distinctly inflexed; a little wider than the mesoscutum, as
wide as long or a little wider than long, as seen from in front the out-
line circular above, but below the cheeks converge in a straight line
to a slight extent and the oral margin is broadly truncate; as seen
from the side the outline is sub triangular, the outline of vertex
rounded, the dorsal side of head being strongly convex, its plane
meeting the plane of the face at somewhat more than a right angle
as in iceryae or in a strongly obtuse angle as in idger; occiput slightly
more concave above than in HGmaloiylus but yet only moderately so.
the vertico-occipital margin rather sharp; frontovertex moderately
wide, the dorsal orbits of eyes only slightly or hardly perceptibly
diverging anteriorly; ocelli in an equilateral or a somewhat more
acute-angled triangle, the posterior pair touching or nearly touching
the eye-margins; eyes shorter than in Homalotylus or considerably
less than twice as long as wide, their long axis parallel with the plane
of frontovertex, the postorbital space on the sides of head remaining
broad as in Homalotylus, and posteriority the eyes meet or almost
meet the vertico-occipital margin; cheeks about as long as the width
of the eyes as in iceryae or about two-thirds or three-fourths as long
as in most species; face about as wide as long, the scrobes in the
form of distinct and narrow furrows, converging above but not
meeting, the space between the antennal sockets slightly convex but
not prominently elevated. Antennae inserted as in Homalotylus
shorter and somewhat more robust; scape of the same shape but
shorter, the radicle joint about an eighth or tenth of the total length;
pedicel as long as the first two funicle joints combined; funicle cylin
drical, increasing slightly in thickness distad, the basal joints about
iS long as thick, the apical ones somewhat wider than long; club
wider across the base than apex of funicle, as long or a little longer
than the last three funicle joints combined, and obliquel}" truncate
on the inner side to the basal third or fourth. ^Mandibles robust,
