KO. 2293. PARASITIC CHALCinOID FLIES— TIMBERLAKE. 181
brown as in the female, the hind tibiae hardly darker; the pedicel and
flagellum hardly darker than the scape. Lengtli, 1.57 to 1.98 mm.
The following material has been examined: One female (type),
Washington City (W. H. Ashmead); two females reared from
material of Porthetria disbar (Linnaeus), Massachusetts, November,
1894 (C. H. Fernald); one female, Forest Hills, Massachusetts, July,
1911 (C. T. Brues); nine females, six males, reared from CJirysopa
cocoons, Murray and Salt Lake City, Utah, September 2-18, 1913
(P. H. Timberlake); one female, one male, reared from a Chrysopa
cocoon, Sacramento, California, August 24, 1912, California State
Insectary No. 25; one female reared from material of CMlocorus
similis, Rossi, Island of Formosa, 1916 (C. P. Clausen) ; and one female
reared from a Hemerobiid, Duarte, California, September 12, 1916
(J. R. Horton), Horton's No. 38.
Type.— Cat. No. 4747, U.S.N.M.
2. ISODROMUS ICERYAE Howard.
Plate 40, fig. 15.
liodromus iceryae Howard, Rep. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric, for 1886, 1887, p. 488,
pi. 3, fig. 1.
Isodrovius pulcher Girault, Descriptiones Stellaruni Novariim, Washington, D.
C, May, 1917, p. 16.
Parataneostigma nigriaxillae Girault, Annals. Ent. Soc. Amer., vol. 8, Oct., 1915,
p. 275.
Female. — Head a little thicker than in niger, the planes of the
frontovertex and face meeting in an angle of but little more than 90°;
frontovertex about two and one-half times longer than wide, the
dorsal orbits of eyes parallel; ocelli very nearly in an equilateral
triangle, the posterior pair about one-fourth of their own diameter
from the eye margins, the median ocellus considerably behind the
middle of the frontovertex; antennal sockets farther apart than in
niger, the distance between them being about one and a half times
their length, their inner rims nearly parallel; scrobes distinct and
reaching above a line drawn between the lower corners ot the eyes.
Antennae rather shorter than in niger, the scape practically the same,
the pedicel longer or equal to a little more than the first two funicle
joints combined; all the funicle joints wider than long, increasing
gradually in width distad, the first joint somewhat smaller than the
second and about one-half as wide as the sixth, which is twice as wide
as long; club without trace of segmentation, obliquely truncate nearly
to the base, and as long as the last fom* funicle joints combined.
Mandibles with three short, equal teeth, the lower two acute, the
upper one blunt. Axillae but slightly elevated above the scutellum;
the latter rather flat on the basal half, but more sloping towards the
sides and apex, the base with a trace of a median impressed line.
Wings broad, the basal area with a row of dark-colored cilia next to
