182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
the submarginal vein, and an oblique double row or band of similar
cilia originating at the bend of the submarginal vein, the speculum
indistinct; stigmal vein forming a right angle with the postmarginal
vein, and originating distmctly before the submarginal reaches the
costal margin; postmarginal vein short and thick at base. Abdomen
about two-thirds as long as the thorax, the base broad, the sides
nearly parallel, and the apex subtruncate; tactUe plates situated
but little beyond the middle; the ovipositor barely protruded. Head
microscopically and alutaceously punctulate, the frontovertex without
pin-punctures, the postorbital region and occiput nearly smooth;
mesoscutum very finely reticulate, the axillae and scutellum more
coarsely scaly-reticulate, but the reticulations hardly more deeply
impressed than on the scutum; the first tergite of abdomen with the
reticulations nearly uniform but fading out across the base, otherwise
as in niger. Pubescence of head very fine and inconspicuous, that of
mesoscutum coarser, white and rather prominent but much less so
than in niger; the scutellum with only a few, hardly visible, dark-
colored hairs; the metapleura and hind coxae with the usual, dense,
appressed pubescence. Length of body, (1.77 to 2.11); length of
head, 0.73; width of head, 0.75; width of vertex, 0.226; length of eye,
0.53 ; width of eye, 0.38; length of antenna, 1.11 ; width of mesoscutum,
0.78; length of forewing, 1.94; width of forewing, 0.81; exerted part
of ovipositor, 0.06 mm.
General color strontian yellow (R.) but the head often more pri-
muline yellow (R.), the posterior part of mesopleura a little brownish;
center of occiput, pronotum except a narrov/ band along the posterior
margin, a lenticular mark on the anterior half of mesoscutum, the
axillae, most of scutellum except the apex and often a pale yellowish
spot low down on the sides just before the middle, metanotum,
propodeum, and most of the dorsum of abdomen except across the
base, and a spot on each side just behind the tactile plates black or
blackish; most of venter brownish except at base and with a blackish
spot on each side near the middle, the exposed part of ovipositor
yellowish; tegulae pale yellowish white, with the apical margin broadly
brownish. Scape and pedicel uncolorous with face, the funicle pale
brown and the club a little darker. Legs strontian yellow, the upper,
inner margin of the hind femora on the apical half, the Icnee joint,
a broad annulus just beyond the middle and a narrower one near
base of the hind tibiae, and the last joint of all tarsi brownish black.
Wings entirely hyaline except for a small brownish area along the
lower margin of the stigmal vein, which is hardly wider than the vein
itself.
Male. — Enthely similar to the female, but the abdomen is a little
smaller, more ovate in shape, and the black spot on each side of venter
is nearly absent. Length, 1.66 to 1.85 mm.
