184 PROCEEniNGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.56.
the middle of the f rontovertex ; eyes moderately wide, slightly the
widest just before the middle, the facial end rather less bluntly
rounded than the occipital end instead of being broadly rounded as
in iceryae; antennal sockets about as in iceryae, the scrobes distmct
but not deep and reaching a little above the lower corners of eyes.
Antennal scape a little shorter than the eyes, slightly expanded
below and widest at the middle, son^ewhat grooved beneath at apex,
and rather strongly curved before the middle; pedicel somewhat
longer than the first two funicle joints coinbined; funicle joints nearly
equal in length, the first as long as wide, the following gradually
widening so that the sixth is twice as wide as the first; club solid,
obliquely truncate to the basal fourth, and nearly as long as the last
four funicle joints combined. Mandibles the same as in iceryae.
Thorax and abdomen also similar except that the ovipositor is rather
more protruded. Wings as in iceryae except that there are several
more rows of cilia on the basal third of disk and the speculum is
more distinct. Sculpture as in iceryae, although somewhat finer
the pubescence similar. Length of body, 1.70; length of head, 0.61
width of head, 0.60; width of vertex, 0.174; length of eye, 0.44
width of eye, 0.27; length of antenna, 0.95; width of mesoscutum,
0.62; length of forewing, 1.70; width of forewing, 0.66; length of
ovipositor, 0.12 mm.
Frontovertex, mesoscutum except behind the parapsidal lines on
each posterior corner, and the scutellum pale ochraceous orange
(R.), the rest of head, sides, and anterior margin of pronotal collar,
posterior corners of mesoscutum and underparts of thorax wax
yellow (R.); apex of mandibles, the hidden part of pronotum, the
axillae, propodemn, and most of dorsum of abdomen brownish
black, collar of pronotum transparent whitish, separated from the
blackish area of the concealed part by a narrow yellow band as
noted above, and apparently overlying a blackish, concealed area
on the anterior margin of mesoscutum; tegulae pale yellowish with
the posterior margin brown; metanotum, first tergite of abdomen
except median part of the posterior margin, most of the last tergite,
ovipositor sheaths and the venter about 3'ellow ocher (R.), the
venter a little more bro\vnish towards the apex in the paratype.
Scape and pedicel about concolorous with the face, the flagellum
pale yellowish brown. Legs wax yellow, the tibiae somewhat darker,
or nearly yellow ocher (R.); the middle tibial spur and tarsi a little
more whitish, with the apical joint of the tarsi browniish; knee-
joint of the hind legs brownish black. Wings entirely hyaline, the
veins pale brown.
Male. — Similar to the female, but the yellow parts all about
strontian yellow (R.), the frontovertex, mesoscutum, and scutellum
concolorous; the scutellum with a pale brownish spot on the disk
