xo. 2293. PARASITIC CHALCIDOID FLIES— TIMBERLAKE. 185
just before the apex; the venter of abdomen brownish except at
base and on the lateral margms near apex. Length, 1.36 mm.
Described from two females, one male (type, allotype, and para-
type), China, probabl}' from one of the southeastern provinces
(A. Koebele), Koebele's No. 1553.
r^/2^6'.— Cat. No. 22045, U.S.N.M.
5. ISODROMUS VINULUS (Dalman).
Plate 41, fig. 17.
Encyrtus vinulus Dalman, Svensk. Vet.-Akad. Handl., vol. 41, 1820. p. 349.
Homalotylus vrnulus Mayr, Verh. zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, vol. 25, 1876, p. 753.
Nobrimus vinulus Thomson, Hym. Skand., vol. 4, 1876, p. 140.
Female. — Head in general shape very nearly as in niger, but the
frontovertex broader, being about twice as long as wide, the dorsal
orbits of eyes slightly diverging anteriorly ; ocelli nearly in an equilat-
eral triangle, the posterior pair almost touching the eye margins,
and the median one slightly behind the middle of the frontovertex;
antennal sockets situated farther apart than in niger, their inner rims
strongly convergent above, the distance between their lower corners
being about twice their length and between the upper corners about
one-half longer again than their length; scrobes faint and hardly
reaching a line drawn between the lower corners of the eyes. Antennae
considerably longer than in icergae or niger, the scape being fully as
long as the eyes and the flagellum proportionately as long; scape
a little curved near the base, subcylindric^l, the inner lower margin
slightly expanded, and the underside excavated at apex as usual;
pedicel as long as the first two funicle joints combined; funicle joints
all nearly equal in length, the first slightly longer than thick, the
second and third about as long as thick, and the sixth considerably
wider than long and about one-half wider again than the fii'st joint;
club solid, obliquely truncate nearly to the base, and as long as the
funicle lacking the first and one-half of the second joint. Mandibles
with the three teeth rather short and acute, but longer than in niger
or iceryae. Axillae and scutellum practically as in niger. Wings
unusually narrow, their basal third bare of cilia, the speculum dis-
tinct for a short distance and running nearly parallel with the sub-
marginal vein; stigmal vein forming a rather acute angle with the
postmarginal and joining the submarginal just before the latter
reaches the costal margin; postmarginal vein well developed and
nearly one-haK as long as the stigmal. Abdomen a little longer than
wide and about tv.^o-thirds as long as the thorax, the sides subparallel
for a short distance, but the base and apex well rounded; tactile
plates situated about half way between the middle and the apex, the
vibrissae reaching well beyond the apex; the ovipositor barely
visible. Head finely punctulate nearly as distinctly as in niger, the
