186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vor.. 56.
pin-punctures few, scattered, and shallow; mesoscutum finely
reticulate with the reticulations somewhat lengthened transversely
along the anterior margin; reticulations of the axillae and scutellum
not much coarser but more deeply impressed than those on the
scutum; reticulations on the first tergite of abdomen except across
the base fine and uniform and but little coarser than those on the
scutum. Head with a very fine and not i:)rominent pubescence, the
thorax apparently nearly bare, except for the usual appressed pubes-
cence on the m.etapleura and hind coxae. Length of body, (2.22 to)
2.26; length of head, 0.73; width of head, 0.73; width of vertexj
0.235; length of eye, 0.49; width of eye, 0.29; length of antenna, 1.29 ;
width of mesoscutum, 0.71; length of fore-wing, 2.00; width of fore-
wing, 0.705 mm.
Head auburn (R.), the occiput more blackish, the vertex sometim.es
along the orbits opposite the median ocellus and the dorsal occipital
margin suffused with yellowish: thorax and abdom.en nearly black,
the mesopleura, hovrever, v.'ith a distinct brown tinge; prepectal
plates transparent whitish, the collar of pronotum broadly v.'hitish
changing to yellowish on the propleura; posterior lateral corners of
the mesoscutum primuline yellow (K.) with the anterior margin o
the marldngs convex; tegulae white, with the apical, outer corner
fuscous. Antennae nearl}' uniformly brown, or about bister (R.),
the pedicel a little more yellowish, and the base of the scape Jiiore
nearlj' concolorous with the face. Front coxae and tarsi, middle
coxae, and hind legs blaciiish brown or about concolorous v.'ith the
mesopleura; the middle tibiae and tarsi a little paler, especially
beneath; front tibiae pale brov^n, the front and middle femora yel-
lovv^ish brown, and the tibial spur a little more yellowish. Wings
with a large brown spot beneath and beyond the stigmal vein, and
becoiiiing fainter as it approaches the opposite margin.
Redescribed from two females from Sweden (C. H. Boheman).
6. ISODROMUS ATRIVENTKIS Ashinead.
Plate 41. fig. 16.
Encyrtus puncticeps Howauo (part"), Bull. 5 (old series), Bur. Ent., U. S. Dept.
Agric, 1885, p. 14.
Isodromus atriventris Ashmead, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 22, 1900, p. 379.
Female. — Head somewhat wider than long, a little thicker fronto-
occipitally than in niger; in side view the facial and dorsal surfaces
about equal in length, their planes meeting in a little more than a
right angle; the dorsal surface a little less convex than in niger;
frontovertex nearly two and a half times as long as wide, the ocelli
Yery nearh-^ in an equilateral triangle, the posterior pair almost touch-
ing the eye margins, the median one situated a little behind the center
of the frontovertex, the dorsal orbits of the eyes very slightly divergent
