NO. 2293. PARASITIC CHALGIDOID FLIES— TIMBERLAKE. 187
anteriorly; anteiinal sockets situated a little farther apart than their
own length, their inner rims nearly parallel or only slightly convergent
above; scrobes somewhat longer than in vinidus and more deeply
impressed, reaching to a line drawn between the lower corners of
the eyes. Antennae about as long as in vinulus; scape as long as
the eyes, moderately curved a little below the middle, somewhat
thicker distad, and furrowed beneath the apex as usual; pedicel as
long as the first two funicle joints; funicle joints about equal in
length, except that the third is a trifle longer, increasing a little in
width distad, the first three about as long as xnde, the last three vdder
than long, the sixth being about a third wider again than the first;
club solid, obliquely truncate to about the basal third, and slightly
longer than the last four funicle joints combined. Mandibles with
the teeth comparatively long, the lower two acute and the upper one
rather blunt. Thorax unusually convex, the axillae well elevated
above the scutellum, the latter very high and convex, being rounded
from the median line of base toward the sides and apex and abruptly
declivous at the margins and without the median impressed line at the
base. Wings moderatel}^ wide, their basal third bare, the speculum
distinct for a short distance and forming a slight angle with the sub-
marginal vein or a right angle with the stigmal vein; the latter a
little more ciu-ved at the base than in 'punctictjys, forming an acute
angle vvith the postmarginal and joining the marginal at the costal
margin; postmarginal vein about a third as long as the stigmal but
spurlike. Abdomen about a third longer again than wide, about
three-fourths as long as the thorax, broadly oval in shape, both the
base and apex being well rounded; the tactile plates situated some-
what less than halfway from the middle to the apex, the vibrissae
reaching about to the apex; the ovipositor not protruded. Sculpture
very similar to vinulus, with the pin-punctures on the head more
distmct but not prominent, the reticulations of mesoscutum uniform
and those on the first tergite of abdom.en a little coarser and very
delicately iinpressed. Face and mesoscutum with a fine, whitish
pubescence neither very thick nor prominent, the axillae and scu-
tellum with a more scattered, similar pubescence, the metapleura
and hind coxae with the usual appressed hairs. Length of body, (2
to) 2.28; length of head, 0.73; width of head, 0.76; v/idth of vertex,
0.223; length of eye, 0.53; width of eye, 0.33; length of antenna,
1.33; v/idth of mesoscutum, 0.71; length of forewing, 2.10; v/idth
of forewing, 0.79 mm.
Frontovertex and mesonotum intermediate between xanthine
orange and Mars yellow (R.), the face, cheeks, postorbital region,
occiput, and underparts of thorax ochraceous orange (R.); the
collar of pronotum. nearh^ transparent or probably whitish in life,
the inner half of the axillae more or less blackish, the median part of
