188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 5C.
the scutelium suffused with dark brown or blackish toward the base;
nner half of tegulae white, outer half blackish; the propodeum and
metanotum blackish brown, the abdomen entirely black. Scape
concolorous with the base, pedicel a little darker, the funicle rather
dark brown and the club still darker. Legs ochraceous orange, the
front tibiae and tarsi rather dark brown, the hind tibiae and rest of
tarsi brownish black, except that the first joint of the middle tarsi
is somewhat yellowish; the middle tibiae somewhat brownish above
and at the apex, the spur pale j'ellowish. Wings with a roundish
spot beneath the stigmal vein, not extending over halfway across the
disk.
Male. —Not known.
Redescribed from one female (type), Ottawa, Quebec (W. H.
Harrington); one female (cotype of Encyrtus puncticeps Howard),
Arlington, Virginia, September, 1881 (L. O. Howard) ; and one female
captured at flowers of Polygonum, Melrose Highlands, Massachusetts,
Septembers, 1909 (P. H. Timberlake).
Type.— C&t. No. 4748, U.S.N.M.
7. ISODROMUS PUNCTICEPS (Howard).
Plate 41, fig. 18.
Encyrtus puncticeps Howard, Bull. 5 (Old Series), Bur. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric,
1885, p. 14.
Isodromus puncticeps Ashmead, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 22, 1900, p. 379.
Aphycus chrysopae Ashmead, Entom. Amer., vol. 4, 1888, p. 15.
Isodromus chrysopae Howard, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 21, 1898, p. 240.
Female. — Head a little longer than wide, about as thick as in
niger; the dorsal surface considerably shorter than the facial surface
in side view, their planes meeting in an angle of somewhat more than
90°, the dorsal aspect moderately convex or about as in atriventris;
the frontovertex rather narrow, about three times as long as wide, the
ocelli in a somewhat more acute angle than that of an equilateral
triangle, the posterior pair close to the eye margins, the anterior one
considerably behind the center of the frontovertex, the dorsal orbits
of eyes subparallel; antennal sockets situated about one and a half
times their own length apart, their inner rims about parallel; the
scrobes long, distinct, and reaching well upward between the eyes.
Antennae shorter than in atriventris, the scape considerably shorter
than the eyes, and reaching but little beyond the plane of the fronto-
vertex, subcylindrical, a little thicker at the middle, slightly curved
but hardly furrovv'ed at apex beneath; pedicel about equal to the first
two together with one-half of the third funicle joint; funicle joints
nearly equal in length, the first one slightly longer than thick, the
following increasingly wider, the sixth considerabl}^ wider than long
