NO. 2293. PARASITIC CHALCIDOID FLIES— TIMBERLAKE. 191
sockets and scrobes separated by a broad ridge well rounded from
side to side but entirely plane longitudinall}^ Antennae short,
cylindrical, somewhat clavate, in general structure similar to Homal-
otylus or Isodromus: the scape cylindrical, very slightly curved, and
excluding the radicle joint about as long as the eyes; pedicel obconical,
and a little longer than the first two funicle joints combined; funicle
cylindrical but increasing slightly in thickness distad, the first
joint unusually short, nearly twice as wide as long, hardly over
a third as long as the second and narroAver, the next four joints
longer than wide, tlie second and third but slightly so, the fourth
about one-third longer than wide, the fifth wider but no longer
than the fourth, the sixth hardly longer than wide and about as long
as the preceding joint; club considerably wider than the funicle,
with three distinct joints, the first of v.'^hich is shortest, the apical
one obliquely truncate from apex to its base on the inner side, the
truncation reaching to the middle of the club. Mandibles rather
short and very broad at apex with three long, acute, simewhat di-
verging and incurved teeth of which the middle one is considerably
the longest.
Thorax throughout nearly as in Isodromus, but not so convex,
the mesoscutum, axillse, and scutellum lying in one plane as in
Ilomalotylus, the scutellum fiat across the disk, its margins much
elevated and abruptly declivous. Legs as in Howalofyius or Iso-
dromus, the middle tibial spur slender and as long as the first tarsal
joint, which is nearly as long as the followdng joints combined.
Fore-udngs about as in Isodromus, the basal third bare of cilia ex-
cepting a row next to the submarginal vein and one obliquely trans-
verse row; speculum distinct, reaching from the stigmal vein obliquely
half way across the disk: submarginal vein attaining the margin
before the middle of the disk, the marginal punctiform, the stigmal
moderately long and very slightly enlarged at apex, the postmar-
ginal about one-third as long and forming an acute angle with the
stigmal. Hind-wings as in Isodromus, except that the costal cell
becomes very attenuated before reaching the booklets.
Abdomen depressed, broadly ovate in shape, widest at the middle,
slightly narrowing toward the base and more rapidly toward the
rather acute apex, and a little over one-half as long as the thorax;
the tactile plates situated just behind the middle, the vibrissae nearly
reaching to the apex; the venter moderately convex from side to
side, or as in some specimens the ventrites may be compressed into a
sharp longitudinal fold especially toward the base, the fifth ventrite
reaching nearly to the apex and enclosing the ovipositor which
barely protrudes.
