192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 50.
Frontovertex and face rather coarsely, hexagonally punctato-
reticulate, with the sculpture delicately impressed; the cheeks,
postorbital region and occiput nearly smooth; the mesoscutum micro-
scopically reticulate, the axillae and scutellum with a similar but
much coarser reticulation; pleura rather coarsely reticulate, with
the aciculations mainly continuous and longitudinal, the prei^ectal
plates, however, scaly-reticulate; abdomen uniformly reticulate
except at the apex, and across the base of the first tergite, the retic-
ulations of about the same size as those of the scutellum but more
delicately impressed.
Pubescence on face and mesoscutum very fine, rather scattered,
whitish in color but not conspicuou:^ ; the motapleura concealed by a
dense, approssed, silvery white pubescence, the hind coxae with a few
scattered hairs of the same character.
Male. — ^Accorduig to Girault's description of abnonnicornis the
male is similar structurally, except that the antennae are less clavate,
with the funicle fdiform, the last five joints ])eing subequal and all a
half longer tiian vvide.
Type of genus. — Brethesia latifrons, new species.
1. BRETHESIA LATIFRONS, new species.
Plate 40, fig. 14.
Femole.— Length of body, (1.08 to) 1.21; length of head, 0.45;
width of head, 0.39; width of vertex, 0.192; length of eye, 0.244;
width of eye, 0.176; length of antenna, 0.705; width of mesoscutum,
0.415; length of forewing, 0.11 ; width of forewing, 0.42 mm.
Frontovertex and mesoscutum ochraceous orange (R.), the face,
cheeks, occiput, and anterior half of underparts of thorax mustard
yellow (R.); most of pronotum similar but suffused with pale brown-
ish; axillae and scutellum with an ochraceous orange ground color but
suffused v/ith brownish, the apical half of the scutellum becoming
still darker brown; metanotum, propodeum, and posterior half of the
mesopleura chestnut b^o^\^l (R.) but appearing more blackish in
some lights ; tegulae mustard yellow with the apical margin slightly
brownish; dorsum of abdomen rather shiny black, v/ith most of the
first tei^ite primuline yellow (R.), a minute dot behmd the tactile
plates and another at the apex ochraceous orange; venter mostly
ochraceous orange but paler medially tov/ard the base, and invaded
b}^ the black of the dorsum hi two areas on each side, the first pair
just before the tactile plates and well separated medially, the second
pair just before the apex and nearly meetmg, the black marks on
each side bemg narrowly separated l)y the ochraceous orange, the
extension of which produces the dot on the dorsum behind the tactile
plates. Antennae nearly concolorous with the face or slightly paler.
Legs mustartl yellow v> ith the front tibiae on their upper surface and
