PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
Quite a number of the species are from considerable depths, ob-
tained during the explorations made by the United States Bureau of
Fisheries steamer Albatross; and another large contingent is due to
nij'^ own dredgings on the coast of Alaska and in Bering Sea during
1871 to 1880.
I am also under great obligations to a host of collectors in our
Pacific States, who have with the greatest liberality intrusted me
with material for study which has added much to our knowledge of
the fauna and incidentally to the national collection.
To Mrs. E. M. Decker much credit is due for the careful retouching
of the microphotographs of the new species from a study of the typi-
cal specimens under the compound microscope. And to Dr. Paul
Bartsch, curator of invertebrates, United States National Museum, I
am under many obligations for assistance in various ways during the
preparation of the figures.
Some question having been raised as to the spelling of the family
name which I have retained as first proposed by Henry and Arthur
Adams in 1853, I submitted the question of " Turridse versus Turri-
tida3 " to two expert Latinists, who, after due consideration of all the
data, concluded that, while either was correct, the latter term under
the circumstances was to be preferred.
DESCRIPTIONS OF THE SPECIES.
Family TURRITIDAE.
Subfamily Tueritinae.
TURRICULA LIBYA, new species.
Plate 2, fig. 5.
Shell solid, fusiform, the apex eroded, the surface white, covered
with a blackish olive periostracum and having about seven (decollate)
whorls; suture strongly appressed, obscure; anal fasciole wide,
smooth, concave, the sulcus wide and shallow, close to the suture;
spiral sculpture of a few feeble threads on the earlier whorls; axial
sculpture of (on the penultimate whorl nine or ten. on the last Avhorl
only three or four) short prominent riblets extending from the fas-
ciole protractively forward to the succeeding suture on the spire; on
the last whorl there is on the later part only an angle at the anterior
edge of the fasciole; base moderately convex, aperture narrow, with a
deep anal sulcus and a prominently arcuate, thin, sharp-edged outer
lip ; inner lip with a thin layer of white callus ; pillar thick and solid,
attenuated in front ; axis not pervious, canal short, wide, not recurved.
Height of (slightly decollate) shell, 40; of last whorl, 24; diameter,
13 mm. Cat. No. 96576, U.S.N.M.
