200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
lobes about equal, 2f to 2| in combined head and trunk. Pectoral
short, pointed. If in head. Ventral inserted shghtly before spinous
dorsal, If to 2^ in pectoral. Color in alcohol with silvery-white
reflections, back dusky with dark bluish tint, lower surfaces Avhitish.
Fins largely dull brown, dorsal and anal front tips black. Each
caudal lobe largely dusk}' above and below, leaving hind edge
broadly paler. Pectoral axil dusk}^, fin like ventral, with somewhat
yeUowish-brown tint. Six examples, 163 to 334 mm.
These agree with a series of 19 Italian examples of all ages.
Rakers and scales fewer in young than in adidts, and scale stnicture
identical in all.
SERRANELLUS ATRICAUDA (GUnther).
Head, 2§; depth, 3§ to 3^; D. X, 15, i; A. Ill, 8, i; scales along
and just above lateral line to caudal base, 120 to 126 and 12(?) to
18 on latter; pores in lateral line 73 to 80 to caudal base and 3 or 4
more on latter; 10 scales above lateral line, 28 to 30 below; predorsal
scales 28 to 34; snout 3f to 3§ in head measured from upper jaw tip;
eye, 5 to 5§; maxillary, 2 J to 2^; interorbital, 5§ to 6f. Body com-
pressed, rather fusiform. Head well compressed. Snout about
broad as long. Eye advanced, hind edge about midway in head
length. MaxUlary to eye center, expansion 1| in eye. Mouth
large, lower jaw slightly projecting. Strong canines in front of
jaws and along mandible sides. Nostrils close, front one nearly
half an eye-diameter before eye. Interorbital flattened. Preopercle
edge finely serrated, serrae but shghtly coarser below. Rakers, v 3
+ 11 II or III, lanceolate, long as filaments, or 2^ in eye. Pseud-
obranchiae about § of gill-filaments. Scales finely ciliated, with 6
to 12 basal striae. Cheek with 18 rows of scales. Muzzle, interor-
bital, preorbital and top of head naked. Fourth dorsal spine
longest, 2§ to 3 in head. Soft dorsal inserted little nearer caudal
base than eye, front rays little longer, second ray 2f to 2f in head.
Third anal spine longest, 3^ in head. Soft anal hke soft dorsal,
third ray 2^ in head. Caudal slightly emarginate, upper lobe little
longer. Color in alcohol generally dark brownish. Below lateral
line along sides row of 4 or 5 large square dusky-brown blotches
and streaks of same color between each. Above lateral fine color
largely dark brown. Pale blue obhque line along upper maxillary
edge or impression. Another parallel from below eye front to cheek
corner. Dusky spot below eye front and on cheek at end of maxil-
lary. Fins brownish, edges of unpaired blackish. Upper and lower
corners of caudal and anal end black. Soft dorsal, anal, caudal and
caudal peduncle rather sparsely marked with small bluish dots.
Pectoral pale brown. Ventral with dusky shade. Iris brown.
Three examples, 170 to 245 mm.
