NO. 228S. NEW AIOLLUSKS OF THE FAMILY TURRITIDAE—DALL.
Range. — Station 2830, off Cape San Lucas, in 66 fathoms, sand ;
U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
The absence of the opercuhim makes the generic position somewhat
doubtful.
Subgenus Knefastia Dall.
Type. — Pleurotoma oUvacea Sowerby, 1833, not of Reeve, 1843,
-\-funiculata Valenciennes, 1839.
Tliis includes such species as P. dwplicata Sowerby and olivacea
Tiyon, of the Panamic fauna.
TURRICULA (KNEFASTIA) NIGRICANS, new species.
Plate 2, fig. G.
Shell slender, acute, blackish brown with the anterior part of the
last whorl pale reddish brown, a conspicuous periostracum, a closely
appressed suture separated by a single cord from the constricted
anal fascicle; whorls nine, without the (lost) nucleus; axial sculpture
of (on the last whorl eight) prominent angular ribs with wider
interspaces, beginning abruptly at the shoulder rapidly dwindling
anteriorly and obsolete on the base; these ribs are crossed by (on the
last whorl about 14) widely spaced slender cords, slightly nodulous
at the intersections; aperture narrow, anal sulcus shallow, outer lip
sharp, simple, a slight subsutural callus, the inner lip erased, the
pillar straight, the canal wide and very slightly recurved. Height
of shell, 38; of last whorl, 22; diameter, 11 mm. Cat. No. 96664,
U.S.N.M.
Range. — Off Lower California in 21 fathoms sand. U. S. Bureau
of Fisheries steamer Albatross.
This species belongs to the group of T. olivacea and dwplicata
Sowerby, though much more slender and differently sculptured.
TURRICULA (SURCULA) LAYSANICA. new species.
Plate 1, fig. 4.
Shell slender, fusiform, yellow brown with a broad white periph-
eral band, and a less well-defined one in front of the suture and the
base, with eight well-rounded whorls exclusive of the (lost) nucleus;
the suture appressed, the fasciole in front of it constricted, with only
incremental lines ; axial sculpture of about 15 slender rounded some-
what sigmoid ribs; these are crossed by (on the penultimate whorl
seven or eight, on the last whorl more than 15) flattened cords with
narrower almost channeled interspaces, toward the canal with inter-
calary threads, on the canal four or five with much wider interspaces ;
aperture ovate, outer lip thin, anal sulcus wide, not deep, with no
subsutural callus, canal straight. Height of shell, 52; of last whorl
and canal, 33; diameter, 15 mm. Cat. No. 274121, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Laysan Island, North Pacific Ocean; W. H. Golisch.
