202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
Caudal forked. Pectoral not quite to anal, long as head. Ventral
spine, 1-| of fin, latter H in pectoral. Color in alcohol uniform
bro•w^lisll, sides and below with traces of silvery white. Dorsal
tinted, with dull brown. Pectoral axil and base with large dusky-
brown blotch. Two examples, 189 to 241 mm.
PAGRUS PAGRIIS (Linnaeus),
Head, 3^; depth, 2|; D. XII, 10, i; A. Ill, 8, i; scales, 53 in lateral
line to caudal base and 9 more on latter; 7 scales above lateral
line, 15 below; snout, 2^ in head; eye, 3f ; maxillary, 2|; interor-
bital, 3\. Body oblong, well compressed, upper profile evenly
convex from snout tip to soft dorsal. Head well compressed, sides
flattened. Snout, width IJ its length. Eye large, midway in head
length. Maxillary about to eye. Molar teeth biserial. Pair of
small canines in front of each jaw behind which patch of villiform
teeth. Front nostril about half an eye-diameter before eye. Inter-
orbital convex. Preorbital width equals eye. Rakers, 8 + 9, short
stumps about one quarter of filaments, latter 1§ in eye. Pseudo-
branchiae large as gill-filaments. Scales narrowly imbricated, about
11 basal striae on largest. Cheek with seven rows of scales. Supra-
scapula edge nearly entire. Scales very small on top of head, below
suprascapula, on pectoral and caudal bases, and along soft dorsal
and anal bases. Tubes in lateral line simple, largely concurrent
with dorsal profile and little high along caudal peduncle side. Dorsal
spines rather slender. Soft dorsal inserted about midway between
spinous dorsal origin and caudal base, fin low. Anal similar, second
and third spines subequally longest. Caudal deeply forked. Pec-
toral little longer than head, reaches second anal spine base. Ventral
spine I of fin, fin If in pectoral. Color in alcohol, dull uniform
brownish generally, with traces of bright silvery-white on sides and
below. Length, 241 mm.
DIPLODUS SARGUS (Linnaeus).
Head, 3 to 3^; depth, 1| to 2i; D. XII, 13,i, or 14, i; A. Ill, 13
I, or 14, i; scales 60 to 65 in lateral line to caudal base, and 6 to 8
more on latter; 8 or 9 scales above and 16 to 18 below lateral line;
snout, 2f to 3 in head; eye, 2i to 4f; maxillary, 3; interorbital, 2|
to 3i; rakers, 7 or 8+9 or 10. Three examples, 70 to 260 mm.
One of the above from Loando, Angola (p. 284). It has three rows
of molars above and two below and slightly larger and longer anal
spines than the largest example, from the Azores. In the last
axilla and hind edge of opercle flap dusky and preorbital, about
seven-eighths of eye. In young axiUa and opercle flap pale, pre-
orbital but slightly over half of eye, and molars in three rows above
and two below. Young in alcohol with back olive, grayish where
scales have fallen, with six vertical lines or narrow bands of deeper
