Ko. 2294. FISHES FROM WEST AFRICA— FOWLER. 203
olive-brown down to abdomen, also dark or slaty blotch on front
of caudal peduncle. Fins, pale brownish, ends of ventrals and
median caudal rays dusky. Head, iris, and sides with silvery reflec-
tions.
An example from Messina, Italy, agrees best with the largest of
the above. It has the dark axillary blotch, though shorter pectoral.
Rakers, 8 + 10; length, 216 mm. The scales of all the examples
alike, finely ciliated, and with many as 9 basal striae.
CHROMIS CHROMIS (Linnaeus).
Head, 3|; depth, 2; D. XIV, 11; A. 11, 11; scales, 19 in upper
arch of lateral line and 11 pores in straight section before caudal
base; 4 scales above lateral line to spinous doi^sal origin, 10 below to
spinous anal origin; 27 predorsal scales; snout, 3f in head; eye 3^;
maxillar}^, 3; interorbital, 2f . Body greatly compressed, elongately
ellipsoid. Caudal peduncle compressed, length two-thirds least
depth, which two in head. Last with flattened sides, width If its
length. Snout, convex; length, about f its width. Eye large,
rounded, advanced, hind edge little behind middle in head length.
Mouth small, inclined but little from vertical, lower jaw slightly
protruding. Lips rather fiCshy. Maxillary almost to eye, expan-
sion 2f in same. Teeth conic, outer row slightly enlarged, in narrow
bands in jaws. Nostril simple pore near last fourth in snout. In-
terorbital convex. Preorbital narrow, 3 in eye, edge entire, also
preopercle edge. Rakers, 10+21, lanceolate, slender, equal fila-
ments, or 2| in eye. Scales large, finely cihated, with 7 or 8 basal
striae, of smaller size about bony edges and top of head. Preorbital
with two irregular rows of scales and four rows on cheek. Very
small scales on fins basally. Lateral line with upper arch only to
soft dorsal origin, tubes simple. Spinous dorsal inserted behind
pectoral origin or about opposite ventral origin; fourth spine longest
or slightly less than half of head. Soft dorsal greatly posterior,
behind soft anal origin and third or longest ray forming fin point,
1§ in head. Second anal spine much longer than first, IJ in head;
fin origin little nearer caudal base than pectoral origin. Soft anal
larger than soft dorsal, pointed behind with seventh ray longest or
If in head. Caudal elongate, deeply forked, long lobes sharp
pointed, longer than head by eye-diameter. Pectoral pointed, long
as head. Ventral reaches anal, first ray filamentous, spine half of
fin. Vent half an eye-diameter before anal. Color in alcohol dull
uniform brownish with slight olive tint; back and head above, dusky.
Spinous dorsal, front half of soft dorsal, first two-thirds of soft anal
and outer halves of each caudal lobe black. Remaining portions
of soft dorsal and anal, and caudal, whitish. Pectoral pale, also
ventral, though latter with front edge and base brownish. Iris
brown. Length, 140 mm.
