204
PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.
VOL. 56,
JULIS AZORENSIS, new species.
Head, 3^ (without teeth); depth, 4f; D. IX, 12, i; A. Ill, 12;
P. II, 12; V. I, 5; scales, 60 + 10 in lateral line to caudal base, and
8 more on latter; 4 scales above lateral hne to soft dorsal origin; 20
below to spinous anal origin; 16 predorsal scales; head width, 2h its
length; snout, Sf; eye, 5^; maxilliary, 41-; interorbital, 5; second
dorsal spine, 4§; first dorsal ray, 2f ; second anal ray, 2^; caudal,
1§; pectoral, Ih; ventral, 2^.
Body much elongated, weU compressed, deepest at hind opercle
edge and tapering graduall}^ back to caudal, edges convex. Caudal
peduncle strongly compressed, about long as deep and least depth
about 2i in head.
Head elongately rhomboid, well compressed, sides slightly flat-
tened and about evenl}' approximate above and below. Snout
conic, upper profile slightly concave in front; width, 1^ its length.
Eve rounded, advanced, with hind edge little before center in head
KTrmrn
Fig. 2.— Julis azorensis.
length. Mouth moderate, gape extending about halfway to eye;
jaws and teeth about even in front. MaxiUary about reaches oppo
site front nostril. Lips moderately wide, fleshy. Teeth biserial,
outer row much larger, and four canines in front of each jaw, of which
median pair of each much larger. Tongue small, elongate, end free
and rounded. Nostrils small, near one another; front one about half
an eye-diameter before eye. Interorbital convex. Least width
of preorbital about seven-eighths of eye. Hind preopercle edge
entire.
GiU-opening forward about opposite hind pupil edge. Rakei-s 8 + 11
short flexible points, spinescent, about one-fourth of filaments, and
latter two-fifths of eye. Isthmus triangular, with median keel.
Scales thin, in even longitudinal rows, elongate, wefl exposed,
cycloid. Head naked. Scales smaller on predorsal, breast, and
caudal base. Scales with about 18 basal radii and twice as many
apical obscurely, circuH very fine. Lateral line complete, high along
