210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 50.
crowded, mostly ctenoid, those on head cycloid. Snout scaly, and
only very few obsolete maxillary scales. Dorsal origin about oppo-
site pectoral origin, third spine longest or slightly over one-third of
head. Soft dorsal inserted little nearer caudal base than hind pre-
operele edge; fin rounded. Spinous anal inserted about midway
between pectoral origin and caudal base, third spine longest or about
3i in head. Soft anal, like soft dorsal. Caudal rounded. Pectoral
broad, rounded, | to anal. Ventral origin slightly behind pectoral
origin, not quite rea,ching far back as pectoral tips or to rent, which
about an eye-diameter before anal.
Color in alcohol dark brown everj^where except lower or ventral
edge with small blue dark-edged spots. On lower side spots more
sparse and less crowded than on back and vertical fins. Pectoral
also spotted, though ventrals plain brown, but both pairs with dusky
edges. Vertical rayed fins narrowly edged bluish. Brown line from
near snout tip to eye above, includes nostrils. Another below extends
along snout side horizontally till close under eye. Length, 344 mm.
DIAGRAMELLA MACROPS (Pellegrin).
Head, 3i to 3J; depth, 2| to 3; D. XIII, 15; A. Ill, 7; scales 100
to 108 along and above lateral line to caudal base, and 15 to 17 more
or less enlarged on latter; tubes, 56 to 58 in lateral line to caudal
base and about 10 more on latter; 12 scales above lateral line to soft
dorsal origm and 18 or 19 below to spinous anal origin; snout, 3 to
3^ in head; eye, 3| to 4; maxillary, 2^ to 2f ; interorbital, 3| to 4.
Body elongately ellipsoid, well compressed. Caudal peduncle
strongly compressed, least depth 1| to IJ its length, or about 2ยง in
head. Head deep, well compressed; width, 2 to 2^ its length. Snout
convex, long as wide or little shorter. Eye large, advanced or hind
pupil edge about midway in head length. Mouth moderate, jaws
about even. Maxillary beyond front eye edge, not quite to pupil,
expansion 2 in eye. Teeth small, in bands in jaws, and outer row
enlarged, especially forward. No teeth on roof of mouth or tongue,
latter elongate, roimded and free in front. Nostrils large, close to-
gether, front one about half an eye-diameter before front eye edge.
Interorbital convex. Hind preopercle edge with about 25 to 30 den-
ticles, smaU and obsolete below. GiU-opening forward about opposite
hind maxillary end. Rakers 14 + 20, lanceolate, about long as fila-
ments or two in eye. Pseudobranchiae slightly shorter than fila-
ments. Scales all finely ctenoid, in oblique series above and below
lateral line, smaller about body edges and on head. Snout to nostrils
and area around same, maxillary and also most of mandible, naked.
Suprascapula densely scaled, hind edge dentate. Cheek with 21 or
22 rows of scales. Pectoral with short concealed axillary scaly flap.
Bases of all fins scaly, and caudal largely covered with very minute
