NO. 2294. FISHES FROM WEST AFRICA— FOWLER. 211
scales. Spinous dorsal without scales, and edges of soft dorsal and
anal broadly naked. wScales with very fine circuli, mostly waved,
and basal radii 5 to 11. Lateral line complete, largely concurrent
with dorsal profile, and tubes simple. Spinous dorsal inserted about
opposite ventral origin, fifth spine longest or 2^ in head with others
graduated down, and edge entire. Soft dorsal origin httle nearer
spinous dorsal origin than caudal base, rays about equally high or
first ray a])out 3 in head. Anal spines with fine longitudinal striae,
second larger and little longer than third or 2 to 2| in head, fin
origin nearly midway between ventral origin and caudal base.
Soft anal rounded, first branched ray longest or If to 1| in head.
Caudal deeply emarginate, much less so as fully expanded, fin 1|
to l^^^ in head. Pectoral, IJ in head; ventral. If to Ih and spine,
1^ to If in fin. Vent about an eye-diameter before anal.
Color in alcohol with general appearance uniform bro\vnish, each
scale with pale yellowish median small spot. Fins all pale brownish ;
edges of dorsals and anal narrowly dusky-brown. Iris brownish.
Length, 301 and 302 mm., two examples.
Pellegrin gives the coloration * as violet above, also the fins, and
lower surfaces orange-yeUow. His figure differs from both my
examples in showing the second dorsal spine but little less than the
third, my examples having it only about half the third. The scales
are also not shown on the preorbital, which in my specimens are in
about a dozen rows across the narrowest part,
Diagramella Pellegrin ^ is here admitted to generic rank, allied with
PledorJiinchiis Lacepede (=the later Diagramma Olsen), in its rather
numerous gill-rakers, broad preorbital and rather deep body. It
differs in the oblique mouth, rather more dorsal spines (13 compared
with 9 to 12) and less elevated head. Anomalodon Bowdich ^ is
allied with Parapristipoma Bleeker in its long ana.1 fin. Bowdich,
however, gives a crude figure of his Pristipoma humilis * and, though
the scales are represented as far too large for the present species,
still certain details are somewhat suggestive. He says "the fore-
head of this species has but little elevation," D. XIII, 14; A. II (one
very short) and 8 rays; "the fins and tail are a pale yellow, the rest
of the fish is silvery." Now the serrate preopercular edge, maxillary,
large eye, emarginate caudal and dark marginal lines of the dorsals
and soft anal, shown on the figure also invite consideration.
Pristipoma viridense Cuvier^ is described briefly as uniform
brown, second anal spme slightly longer than third, with 12 dorsal
and 8 anal rays. Valenciennes next states^ it has 14 dorsal and 7
1 Annal. L'Inst. Oc6anog. Prince de Monaco, voi. 6, fase. 4, 1914, p. 48.
2 BuU. See. Zool. Franco, vol. 37, 1912, rp. 292, 295.
3 Excurs. Madeira, 1825, p. 237.
<Idem.,p. 236, pi. fig. 40.
' Hist. Nat. Pois., vol, 5, 1830, p. 215. San-Iago, ile du cap Vert.
6 Hist. Nat, lies Canar., Ichthyol., 1836-44, p. 26.
