212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL HIUSEUM. vol. 56.
anal rays, the scales 60, and the large second anal ray striate. The
latter gives its color as uniform brown with a blue-black spot on
each scale, fins blackish and deeper on soft parts, pectoral paler,
ventrals yellowish basally and blackish at tips. Giinther gives ^ the
dorsal rays 15 and the anal 7, and the lateral line 80, also color uni-
form brown with dorsal edge more or less distinctly blackish. As
these writers place it in Pristij^omu, the inference is it possesses the
central groove below the chin, not found in the above examples.
PAGELLUS MORMYRUS (Linnaeus).
Head, 2f to 3^^; depth, 2f to 2|; D. XI or XII, 11, i or 12, i; A.
Ill, 10, i; scales 58 to 60 in lateral line to caudal base and 6 to 8
more on latter; 5 scales above lateral Ime to soft dorsal origin, 12
below to spinous anal; snout, 2 J to 2^; eye, 4^ to 5; maxillary, 2f to
3; interorbital, 3f to 3|. Upper molars in 4 rows and row next to
innermost of largest size. Lower molars in 3 rows in front, but me-
dian row becomes inner behind, where of larger size. Cheeks with
five rows of scales. Trunk with seven narrow brownish cross bars
on sides. Three examples, 134 to 219 mm. ; one from Loando (p. 284).
Compared with the largest example one from Messina, Italy, of
about the same size, shows a longer snout, or eye about 2f in snout,
compared with 2| or less in the Cape de Verde material. The Mes-
sina example with maxillary not reachmg much beyond front nostril,
while in the Cape de Verde reaching hind nostril. The former w4th
10 + 16 rakers and between each dark vertical bar on the back
another midway, but fainter and not extending as far below. Scales
of all with 9 or 10 basal striae.
LETHRINUS ATLANTIC US Valendennee.
Head, 2f ; depth, 2|; D. X, 9, i; A. Ill, 7, i; P. ii, 11; scales 45 in
lateral line to caudal base, 5 above to soft dorsal origin, and 14 below
to spinous anal origin; 9 predorsal scales; snout, If in head; eye, 4^;
maxillary, 2|; interorbital, 4|. Body deep, well compressed, back
moderately elevated. Caudal peduncle well compressed, least depth
1^ its length, or 3^ in head. Head pointed, well compressed, width
2} its length, sides flattened, upper profile slightly concave near snout
end and above eye. Eye rounded, elevated, front edge about mid-
way in head length. Mouth large, nearly horizontal, jaws about
even. Lips thick, tough, moderately wide. Bands of vUliform
teeth hi jaws, with outer row strongly conic formed as pair of canines
in front of each jaw, nine molar behind. No teeth on mouth roof.
Maxillary to front nostril, which slightly over half of eye length
before and nearly level with lower eye edge. Hind nostril larger
above and nearer eye. Interorbital broadly convex. Preopercle
» Cat. Fish Brit. Mus., vol. 1, 1859, p. 302. Madeira and St. Vincent.
