PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
TXJRRICULA (SURCULA) PANTHEA, new species.
Plate 1, fig. 5.
Shell solid, acute, fusiform, white, with pale brown blotches be-
tween the ribs (the nucleus lost), with about 14 whorls; suture closely
appressed, obscure with a rounded thread in front of it ; anal f asciole
close to the suture slightly depressed, spirally threaded, arcuately
striated ; spiral sculpture on the early whorls consisting of a periph-
eral keel with one strong thread behind it, the rest of the surface finely
closely spirally threaded; the last three or four whorls peripherally
waved with narrower interspaces over which the keel and thread are
a little swollen, the fine threading continuing; the space in front of
the keel on the last whorl with about 25 strong cords with wider inter-
spaces; aperture narrow, anal sulcus distinct, without a subsutural
callus; outer lip produced, thin, smooth inside, inner lip with a
thin wash of enamel, the pillar straight, the canal long, narrow, with
BO siphonal fasciole or recurvation. Height of shell without the
nucleus, 47; of last whorl, 28; diameter, 13.5 mm. Cat. No. 212348,
U.S.N.M.
Range.— Station 2795, in Panama Bay, in 33 fathoms, bottom tem-
perature 64.1° F., U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
TURRICULA (SURCULA) LAVINIA, new species.
Plate 1, fig. 6.
Shell rather coarse with about a dozen whorls, the cT)lor yellowish
or light brown, the nucleus smooth, slightly bulbous ; suture strongl j
appressed with a spiral cord in front of it, the whorls moderately-
shouldered; the anal fasciole somewhat concave, spirally striate;
axial sculpture of (on the last whorl about 12) protractively oblique
rounded ribs with subequal interspaces, prominent on the periphery,
attenuated on the base and not reaching the canal ; incremental lines
sharp, sometimes almost threadlike; spiral sculpture of (from three
to five on the spire, about 10 on the last whorl) strong, rounded cords
overriding the ribs and not swollen at the intersections, the inter-
spaces subequal and sometimes with an intercalated smaller thread;
lastly the surface is finely minutely spirally striate in the intervals
between the larger threads and cords; aperture narrow^, anal sulcus
close to the suture, short and rounded, with a subsutural callus ; outer
lip produced, thin edged, more or less crenulate from the spiral sculp-
ture, smooth within; inner lip and pillar with a rather thick layer
of callus with slightly raised outer edge; pillar straight; siphonal
fasciole feeble; canal short, wide, recurved. Height of shell, 49;
of last whorl, 26.5 ; diameter, 16 mm. Cat. No. 56085, U.S.N.M.
Range. — West coast of Mexico.
