NO. 2294. FISHES FROM WEST AFRICA— FCnVLER. 213
edge entire. Rakers 5 + 7 short knobs, 2| in filaments, and latter 1|
in eye. Pseudobranchiae nearly large as gOl-filaments. Scales large,
in rows parallel with lateral line. Patch of scales above preopercle,
few in postocular region, though opercles scaly, head otherwise
naked. Smaller scales on breast and base of caudal than on trunk.
Cheek marked by broad area of fine vertical reticulations, all below
eye. Suprascapula entire. Scales minutely ciliated and basal
striae about 10. Lateral line largely concurrent with back, tubes
large and simple. Spinous dorsal mserted about over pectoral origin,
fourth spine (damaged) longest, all spines rather robust. Soft dorsal
inserted little nearer caudal base than hind preopercle edge, fin
rounded, sixth ray 2f in head. Spmous anal inserted little nearer
pectoral origin than caudal base, third or longest spme 3f m head,
and rayed fin like soft dorsal. Caudal little emarginate, upper lobe
If in head. Pectoral about f to anal, pointed, upper rays longest.
If in head. Ventral uiserted just behmd pectoral base, extends as
far back, spine about three-fifths of fin, which If m head. Vent
about half an eye-diameter before anal. Color in alcohol largely
dull uniform brownish, back darker or more olivaceous. Fins all
plain pale browTiish. Length, 368 mm.
PSEUDUPENEUS PRAYENSIS (Cuvier).
Head, 3i to 3^; depth, 3f ; D. VIII— I, 8; A. I, 5 or 6; scales,
28 or 29 in lateral line to caudal base, and 3 more on latter; 3 scales
above lateral line and 6 below; 7 predorsal scales to occiput; snout,
1|- to li% in head; eye, 5 to 5J; maxillary, 2f to 2|; interorbital,
31- to 4. Upper teeth biserial. Thi*ee outer teeth each side little
enlarged and flaring out somewhat backward. No teeth on mouth
roof. Cheek with three rows of scales. Scales finely ciliated and
with about five basal striae. Two examples, 203 to 209 mm.
The pale spots shown in Bleeker's figure are not now very evident.
BALISTES FORCIPATUS Gmelin.
Head, 3; depth, 2; D. Ill— m, 26; A. ii, 23; P. i, 12; scales,
61 from gill-opening to caudal base and 7 more on latter; 33 scales
from rictus to pectoral origin; snout. If in head; eye, 6; interorbital,
3f . Body well compressed, contour ellipsoid. Caudal peduncle and
head compressed, profiles slightly concave in front. Preorbital
groove about four-fifths of eye. Mouth small, with thick fleshy lips.
Median pair of teeth largest and aU teeth distinctly notched. Nos-
trils together, about two-fifths of eye-diameter before eye close
over preorbital groove. Interorbital convex. Gill-opening little
inchned, equals two-fifths of eye. Scales all roughened, asperities
usually in vertical series. Front of fh-st dorsal spine asperous, fins
otherwise smooth. Ventral spine rough, followed by 10 narrow thin
