214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIOXAL MUSEUM. vor.. 56.
s))ines in flap. Humeral region asperous. First doi-sal spine inserted
over gill-opening. If in head, second about one-third of first, and
third still shorter. Soft dorsal origin about midway between hind
nostril and caudal base, elevated front lobe with fii-st five branched
rays elongate filaments, with first three at least reaching slightly
beyond caudal base. Anal like second doi-sal, except front lobe
without elongated rays. Caudal with upper and lower rays }h-o-
truded in ])oints, hind edge of fin convex medially. Least depth
of caudal j)eduncle 4 J in head, rounded pectoral 2f .
Color in alcohol brownish generally, paler below. Back with
many thickset deep brown round s])ots, Vv'hich on fianks and lower
surface give place to larger spots of darker color than narrow pale
ground-color formed as reticulating lines. Also center of each
lower spot with pale s])ot. Sides of head and trunk with traces
of irregular pale bluish dots or small spots. Doi"sal and anal spotted
darker, especially second doreal, though paler spots more numerous
on anal. Length, 441 mm.
SCORPAENA SENEGALENSIS Stelndachner.
Head, 2|; depth, 3; D. XH, 9; A. HI, 5; P. i, 6, xi; V. I, 5; scales
from shoulder opposite u])j)er corner of gill-opening, along and above
lateral line to caudal base, 45, and 4 more out on latter; tubes,
20 in lateral line to caudal base; scales above lateral line to soft
doreal origin and 13 below to spinous anal origin; ('» predorsal scales;
head, width 1| its length measured from upper jaw tip; snout, 3§;
eye, Of; maxillary, 2}; interorbital, of; third dorsal spine, 2f ; fourth
dorsal ray, 2f ; second anal spine, 3; first anal ray, 2f; least depth
of caudal peduncle, 4^; caudal. If; pectoral, 1 V; ventral, If.
Body elongate, back greatly elevated in front with greatest depth at
base of second dorsal s])ine. Caudal peduncle well compressed, and
length about two-thirds its least depth.
Head very large, compressed; sides convex and slightly converging
above. Snout large, broadly convex over surface and in profile,
length about two-thirds its width. Eye moderate, ellipsoid, hind
edge advanced little before center in head length. Maxillary oblique,
extends opposite hind pupil edge, expansion but slightly less than
eye length. Mouth large, wide, and closed mandible but slightly
protruding. Bands of villiform teeth in jaws, but not extending
across front of either, on palatines and vomer. Lower inner buccal
fold narrower than upper. Tongue large, fleshy, wide, free around
front edge, surface smooth. Front nostril nearer eye than snout
tip, just below frontal spine, with fringed tentacle above nearly high
as latter. Hind nostril with similar tentacle, on inner front face of
preorbital. Interorbital not quite wide as orbital socket, deeply
concave, though bottom more or less leveled. Occiput with deep
