NO. 2294. FISHES FROM WEST AFRICA— FOWLER. 237
papillae. Small barbel near end of maxillary largely concealed.
Each jaw edge as firm, entire homy sheath. Nostrils together,
separated by short skinny flap, at last fourth in snout. Interorbital
broad, slightly convex.
Gill-opening forward nearly to hmd eye edge. Rakers, about
16 + 65, weak, flexible, o in filaments and latter about equal eye.
Pharyngeal teeth, 2, 4, 5 — 5, 4, 2, each with broad grinding surfaces
and no terminal hook. Each pharyngeal arch with an outer row of
four extra deciduous teeth; these more obtuse and without grinding
surfaces.
Scales large, rather narrowly uniform in exposure; scarcely smaller
on caudal base, though much more so on breast, so about 18 trans-
versely across between pectoral origins. Free pointed scaly ventral
flap about two-fifths of fin. Scales finely striate, about 24 to 28
basal and 60 to 70 apical, circuli all very fine but not complete
apically. Lateral line midway along side, complete, inconspicuous,
nearly straight, and with small simple tubes.
Dorsal origin about midway between snout tii> and caudal base,
upper edge concave, first branched ray longest and extends far back
as tip of last or 1| to caudal base. Anal inserted about opposite
tip of depressed dorsal, fin falcate, with first branched ray longest
and reaching slightly beyond caudal base, though not quite to hind
limit of caudal squamation. Caudal deeply forked, lobes pomted
and upper little longer; fin large. Pectoral moderate, extends
three-fourths to ventral. Latter inserted about opposite third
branched dorsal ray base, and fin three-fourths to anal, though not
quite to vent.
Color in alcohol deep dusky -bro\m, paler or more broA\aiish below,
on belly, and under surface of head. On sides and back edges of
each scale slightly darker than general color. Lips pale. Fins all
dusk}', and on lower fins more or less dusky blackish on outer
portions with narrowed paler edges. Iris dull slaty.
Length, 210 mm.
Ty pe.—C&t. No. 48512, U.S.N.M. St. Pauls River, Liberia.
Rolla P. Currie.
Also No. 48513, same data, in all three paratypes. These show:
head, 3^ to 3i, depth, 3^ to 3§; D. in, 10 or iii, 11; A. ii, 5 or 6;
scales, 30 to 32 in lateral line to caudal base and 3 or 4 more on latter;
5 scales above lateral line and 5 below; 10 or 11 predorsal scales;
snout. If to 2 in head; eye, of to 7; maxillary, 2 to 2J; interorbital,
2^ to 22; length, 154 to 180 mm.
This species falls with Labeo nasus Boulenger and Labeo greenii
Boulenger, both from the Kongo, according to Boulenger's key, as it
has 16 or 17 scales around the caudal peduncle. It differs from
either, however, in the more obtuse snout, which, though finely
