238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
tubercular, is not turned upward; deeper body, larger scales, and
darker color.
(For Rolla P. Currie, who obtained the types.)
HYDROCYNUS FOBSKALIl Cuvier.
Head, 3^; depth, 4^; D. ii, 8; A. iii, 13; scales 44 hi lateral line
to caudal base and 4 more on latter; 8 scales above lateral Ime, 3
below to ventral, and same below to anal; 19 predorsal scales;
snout, 2| in head from upper jaw tip; eye, 4|; maxillary, 2^; inter-
orbital, 3i. Elongate, compressed, deepest at dorsal origm. Caudal
pedimcle compressed; least depth. If its length, or 2| in head.
Head well compressed, sides flattened; width, about 21 its length.
Snout, conic, long as wide. Eye, high, covered with broad adipose
lid in front and behmd; hind pupil edge about midway in head
length. Mouth, rather large, with powerful convex jaws, lower
little protruded. Upper jaw with 10 and lower with 8 large teeth.
Maxillary largely concealed below broad suborbital, reaches pupil.
Nostrils together, hind one about last fourth in snout. Interorbital
broad, very slightly convex. Rakers, ii, 3 + 10 ii, lanceolate, about
two-thirds of filaments and latter 1| in eye. Scales mostly uniform,
in even lengthwise rows, but little smaller on caudal base. Free
pointed axillary ventral scaly flap about tAvo-fifths of fin. Scales
with fine even basal cu-culi and one basal ray. Lateral Ime largely
straight, decurved suddenly from shoulder, low along caudal pedimcle
side. Tubes slender, well exposed, simple. Dorsal origin midway
between mandible tip and caudal base; first branched ray If
in head; adipose fin, 4. Anal inserted slightly nearer caudal
base than ventral origin; first branched ray about 2 in head.
Caudal deeply forked, long slender lobes about an eye-diameter
longer than head, pectoral 1ยง, ventral. If. Color m alcohol, dull
browTi, paler below. Narrow blackish brown longitudmal streak
along each row of scales on trunk. Dorsals and caudal with outer or
hind edges dusky gray, and median portion of lower caudal lobe
tinged with same. Lower fins brownish, median portions brighter
brownish. Iris, slaty. Length, 237 mm. C.
^ALESTES LONGIPINNIS Gunther.
Head, 3^ to 3ยง; depth, 2^; D. ii, 8; A. iii, 18; scales, 27 to 30
in lateral line to caudal base and 3 more on latter; 6 scales above
lateral line, 3 below; 12 or 13 predorsal scales; snout, 3^ to 3^ in
head; eye, 3i to 3i; maxillary, 2f to 3; interorbital, 2f to 2ยง.
Deeply elUpsoid, compressed, deepest at dorsal origin. Head width
If to 2 in its length. Snout conic, length three-fourths its width.
Eye advanced, hind pupil edge about midway in head length.
Maxillary to eye, largely concealed. Mouth broad, short, gape not
quite half way to eye; jaws about even. Upper teeth 6+8, lower
