NO. 2294. , FWIIES FROM WEST AFRICA— FOWLER. 239
8+2. Nostrils together, at last two-fifths in snout. Interorbital
convex. Lower suborbital meets horizontal preopercle limb, and
others leave but very narrow naked strip on cheek in front and
behind at corner. Rakers, 8 + 14, lanceolate, weak, about three-
fifths of filaments and latter about 1| in e^'^e. Scales large, well
exposed, each with 4 basal striae, 1 above and another below as
vertical, and pair of apical. Dorsal inserted midwa}^ between nos-
trils and caudal base, first 4 branched rays prolonged and filament-
ous, and third nearly to caudal base. Adipose fin about long as eye.
Anal inserted close behind dorsal base, first branched ray 2 to 2| in
head. Caudal well forked, lower lobe slightly longer, ^ to ^ eye-
diameter longer than head, pectoral 1| to 1|, ventral, 1^. Color
in alcohol with back brown; side and below pale or whitish. Large
black blotch on caudal peduncle extends out and includes median
caudal rays. Fins all pale; dorsal and caudal each \vith some brown-
ish on membranes. Length, 111 to 113 mm. Two examples. C.
The dorsal rays end in long filaments, nearly long as rest of the
fin in male.
ALESTES RUTILUS Boulenger.
Head, 3^; depth, 3|; D. ii, 8; A. iii, 13; scales, 22 in lateral line to
caudal base and 2 more on latter; 5 scales above lateral line, 2 be-
low; 8 predorsal scales; snout, 3 in head; eye, 3f ; maxillary, 3; in-
terorbital, 2|. Deeply ellipsoid, well compressed, deepest at dorsal
origin. Head, width 1| its length. Snout broadly conic; length,
four-fifths its width. Eye advanced, hind pupil edge about mid-
way in its length. Maxillary well exposed, not to eye or only to
hind nostril. Mouth, broad, short, gape about two-fifths to eye;
lower jaw sHghtly shorter. Upper teeth, 10+8; lower, 8+2. Nos-
trils together about last third in snout. Interorbital convex. Lower
suborbital meets horizontal preopercle limb, and others leave narrow
naked strip on cheek in front and behind at corner. Rakers, 14 + 16,
lanceolate, about three-fourths of filaments and latter 2 in eye.
Scales very large, well exposed, each with 4 basal striae, 1 above
and another below as vertical, and 4 or 5 apical. Dorsal inserted
about midway between hind eye edge and caudal base; first branched
ray, 1| in head; adipose fin, 4|. Anal inserted well behind dorsal
base but close before last ray's tip, first branched ray If in head.
Caudal well forked, about 1 +| in head; pectoral, 1|; ventral. If.
Color in alcohol with back brown, paler below, edge of each scale
on back narrowly darker. Obscure dusky blotch on caudal base
within squamation. Dorsal and caudal brownish, with dusky on
outer portions. Other fins pale with brownish on outer portions,
dusky on anal. Iris olive-slaty. Length, 150 mm. C.
This differs from Boulenger's account in the median caudal rays
with a pale shade and obscure blotch of darker at caudal base.
