242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
3 scales above upper lateral line to spinous doi-sal origin and 9 below
to spinous anal origin; 15 prcdorsal scales; snout 3| in head from
upper jaw tip; eye, 3|; maxillary, 3; interorbital, 3. Well com-
pressed, deepest medially, caudal peduncle not developed or rudi-
mentary. Head width nearly half its length. Snout broadly conic,
length I its widtli. Eye round, hind edge midway in head length.
Mouth small, moderately inclined; lower jaw veiy slightlj' protruded.
Maxillary to eye. Bands of small conic teeth in jaws, front ones
little longer, none on mouth roof. Interorbital convex. Preorbital
and preopercle entire; hind edges of opercle and subopercle spines-
cent. Rakers, 5 short firm points, half of filaments, which about
two-fifths of eye. Scales with about 22 basal striae and fine circuli,
all finely ctenoid. All rayed vertical fins densely scaled over greater
portions basally. Cheek with five rows of scales. Tubes in lateral
line simple, well exposed, not out over caudal base. Last dorsal
spine 2| in head; sixth dorsal ray, 1|; last anal spine, 2|; sixth anal
ray, If; caudal, IJ: pectoral, U; ventral, 2. Color in alcohol dark
brown generally. Round blackish blotch at end of lower lateral hue
over two scales at least. Head below and breast dull brown. Iris
slaty. Length, 84 mm. C.
TILAPIA GALILAEA (Linnaens).
Head, 2^ to 2f ; depth, 2 to 2^; D. XV, one XIV, 12 to 14; A
III, 11 or 12; scales, 19 in upper section of lateral line, 11 or 12
in lower section to caudal base, and 2 more out on latter; 4 scales
above upper section of lateral line to spinous doreal origin, 10 below
to spinous anal origin; predorsal scales, 10 to 13; snout, 2| to 3
in head; eye, 3^ to 3^; maxillary, 3f to 3f; interorbital, 3 to 3|.
Head width, 2 in its length. Snout convex; length, long as width
or little less. Maxillary ver}- slightly beyond nostril, well short of
eye. Teeth rather slender, incisor-like; ends notched; outer rather
large. Interorbital Uttle convex. Rakers, 4+20, short, lanceo-
late, about 2 in filaments and latter 1| in eye. Scales cycloid, extend
on caudal basally. Circuli moderate, mostlj^ complete, basal radii
13 or 14 and apical denticles slightly developed or short. Fourth
dorsal spine about 2^ in head; third anal spine, 2| to 2ยง; caudal, 1|
to 1\; pectoral, 1^^; ventral spine, 2^ to 2?. Color in alcohol
brov/nish, paler below, with about seven indistinct darker brownish
bands on back above. Fins all pale, Avith dark blotch at origin of
soft dorsal and two or three oblique dark streaks on latter forward.
Caudal slightly emarginate, with hind edge dusky. Length, 55 to
66 mm. Three examples. C.
TILAI'IA HEUDELOTI A. Dumeril.
One adult. C.
