244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
Gill-opening forward about to front eye edge. Rakers, 2 + 14,
lanceolate, short or about one-third in fdaments and latter two in
eye. Isthmus narrowly triangular.
Scales large, cycloid, rather well exposed, small on breast or about
25 rows before ventral. Caudal covered Avith small scales over basal
half; other tins naked. Cheek witli four rows of scales. Scales
with complete fine circuli and 11 basal converging radii. Upper
section of lateral line slightly convex, and lower begins 2 scales before
terminus of upper. Tubes all simple and well exposed.
Spinous dorsal inserted behind pectoral base; spines all graduated
up toward last, which longest; fin edge notched and small skinny
flap from behind tip of each spine. Soft dorsal with rays all graduated
up to fourth or longest, which form slender point extending back
about opposite first two-fifths in caudal. Spinous anal inserted
opposite soft dorsal origin, graduated to third or longest ray which
forms slender filament extending back to middle of caudal. Caudal
with hind edge truncate. Pectoral with upper rays longest, three-
fourths to anal. Ventral inserted close behind pectoral base, first
branched ray ending in long filament reaching base of third anal
spine. Vent about half an eye-diameter before anal.
Color in alcohol dull brownish generally; lower siu-faces of head
and trunk paler. Nine broad dusky brown transverse bands over
back; first connecting eyes and those on trunk extended down oppo-
site pectoral base. Opercle with conspicuous rounded black spot
little smaller than eye. Dark band from lower front eye edge to
end of maxillary. At front of soft dorsal basally large black blotch.
Also dusky-brown horizontal baud, much narrower than any of
vertical ones, extends from behind opercular dark blotch to caudal
base medially. Vertical fins dull brownish-dusky leaving pale
obscure blotches, and other fins pale. Iris slate. Lower lip pale.
Length, 128 mm.
TVpe.— Cat. No. 48504, U.S.N.M. St. Paul's River, Li])eria.
Rolla P. Currie.
Also No. 48,503, including four examples, same data, paratypes.
These show: head, 3 to 3^; depth, 2J to 2^; D. XV or XVI, 13; A.
Ill, 9 or 10; scales, 21 or 22 in upper section of lateral line; 8 or 9
in lower section to caudal base and 2 more on latter; 5 scales above
lateral line and 10 below; snout, 2^ to 2J in head; eye, 3^ to 3f ;
maxillary, 3 to 3^; interorbital, 3 to 3J^. Snout long as broad or
little smaller in younger examples. Maxillary to eye in young
slightly shorter or not much beyond eye with age. Last dorsal
spine, l^ij to 2 in head; fourth dorsal ray, 1| to If; third anal spine,
2i to 2^; third anal ray, 1 to 1|; caudal, 1 to ^; pectoral, 1^ to 1^;
ventral spine, If to 2 J. Length, 00 to 116 mm.
