NO. 2288. NEW MOLLUSKS OF THE FAMILY TURRITIDAE—DALL. 5
LEUCOSYRINX PERSIMILIS BLANCA, new variety.
Shell differing from the original persimilis by the well-niarked
spiral sculpture being continuous over the whole surface and by the
pronounced depressed spiral area on each side of the convex anal
fasciole, which with the ridge at the shoulder gives the effect of two
parallel ridges behind the periphery. Height of shell, 60; of last
whorl, 44; diameter, 22 mm. Cat No. 214337, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Off Cape Blanco, Oregon, in 1,064 fathoms, mud, bottom
temperature 35.9° F. U. S. Bureau of Fisheries steamer Albatross.
? LEUCOSYRINX GALAPAGANA, new species.
Plate 3, fig. 2.
Shell small for the genus, white under a straw-colored periostracum,
thin, with about seven whorls exclusive of the (lost) nucleus; suture
appressed, the edge slightly swollen, the fasciole in front of it
slightly constricted ; axial sculpture of about a dozen narrow rounded
ribs with wider interspaces, beginning at the fasciole and obsolete on
the base; also fine incremental lines rising to minute wrinkles near
the suture: spiral sculpture on the penultimate whorl of about nine
flattish threads with narrower interspaces, on the last whorl beyond
these threads the interspaces become channeled grooves and the
places of the threads wider flat areas, while on the canal these
are replaced by more rounded closer threads; aperture narrow, the
anal sulcus very shallow, outer lip thin, sharp, arcuate, simple ; pillar
and body erased, smooth, the pillar attenuate in front; canal narrow,
straight. Height of shell, 20; of last whorl, 14: diameter, 7 mm.
Cat. No. 96494, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Off the Galapagos Islands in 634 fathoms, coral sand,
bottom temperature 40° F. U. S. Bureau of Fisheries steamer
Albatross.
I felt some uncertainty as to whether this deep-sea species should
be referred to Surcula or Leucosyrinx, as the shell characters partake
of the characteristics of both to some extent.
LEUCOSYRINX AMYOUS, new species.
Plate 3, fig. 7.
Shell white with an ashy brown periostracum and six or more
whorls, the apex eroded ; suture slightly appressed, especially on the
spire; anal fasciole wide and deep, somewhat in front of the suture
and extending to a moderate peripheral carina; behind the carina
the shell is feebly, and in front of it strongly spirally grooved with
wider flat interspaces; aperture simple, outer lip thin, produced,
inner lip erased, white, pillar gyrate but not pervious, canal distinct
and slightly recurved. Height of shell, 52 ; of last whorl, 40 ; diam-
eter, 20 mm. Cat. No. 204049, U.S.N.M.
