NO. 2294. FISHES FROM WEST AFRICA— FOWLER. 247
below to spinous anal origin; 11 or 12 predorsal scales; snout, 3 J
to 3i in head from upper jaw tip; eye, 3f to 4; maxillary, 2| to 3;
interorbital, 3^ to 4. Elongately ellipsoid, deepest opposite ventral
spine tip. Caudal peduncle well compressed; length about three-
fourths its least depth and latter 2 i to 2 1 in total head length. Head
width, 2 to 2J its length. Snout conic, long as broad or length
sUghtly less with age. Eye slightly elevated; hind pupil edge about
midway in head length, slightly advanced in young. Mouth moder-
ate, lower jaw slightly protruded. Teeth conic, mostly uniserial,
sometimes inner row of small obscure ones above and well back.
Interorbital broadly convex. Rakers 3 + 5, anvil-shaped, about
2 in eye. Scales large, cycloid, out over caudal at least halfv/ay
basally, with fine circuh incomplete apically and 10 or 11 basal
radiating striae. Cheek with 3 or 4 rov/s of scales. Small scales on
breast like those on caudal base. Spinous dorsal inserted opposite
pectoral origin ; last spine, 2| to 3^- in head, sixth ray If to 2. Spinous
anal midway between ventral origin and caudal base; third spine, 3,
fourth ray, 2 to 2 J. Caudal convex behind, U in head; pectoral,
If to 1^; ventral If to If. Color in alcohol brown above with olive
tint; below, paler to whitish. Black blotch nearly large as eye on
opercle; another just before anal and usually third at caudal base.
Median dark, usually lengthened as vertical streaks and 5 dark leaden
vertical streaks across back in front of it and as many more tov/ard
tail. Fins largely pale brownish, uniform. Iris brownish. Length,
60 to 108 mm. Nine examples (C), and one (C. C).
DREPANE PUNCTATA (Linnaeus).
Cryptosmilia luria Cope, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., ser. 2, vol. 13.
1867, p. 401. "Western African seas."
Head, 3: depth, 1: D. I, IX, 21; A. Ill, 17; scales 44 (pockets)
in lateral line to caudal base and 4 more on latter; 12 scales above
lateral line, 30 below to anal origin; snout, 2§ in head; eye, 3;
maxillary, 3f; interorbital, 4. Deeply rhomboid, greatly com-
pressed, least depth of caudal peduncle, 2f in head. Head width
2 in its length. Snout compressed, v/idth If its length. Eye well
elevated, advanced. Mouth small; lower jaw slightly shorter.
Maxillary well exposed, about to eye. Teeth brush-like, in bands in
jaws. Interorbital sUghtly convex. Lower preopercle edge serrate.
Rakers, 5 + 11 short v/eak points, about one-fifth of filaments and
latter 2 in eye. Scales all narrowly exposed, small ones extending
over vertical fins basally and breast. Cheek with 8 rows of scales to
preopercle corner. Ventral axil with free pointed scaly flap about
half ventral spine. Suprascapula entire. Scales with fine complete
circuli, and 3 basal radii convergent. Lateral line steeply arched,
and simple tubes well exposed. Fourth erect dorsal spine longest,
