250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
nearer gill-opening than snout tip, 3f to -ih in snout. Nictitating
membrane below eye forward. Mouth greatly arched, wider than
cleft. Upper labial fold little longer, about fourth of upper jaw.
Teeth alike, 24 or 23 below, 25 above, edges entire, bases wide. At
front of upper I or 2 erect teeth and 2 or 3 in front of lower. Inter-
orbital broadly convex, 2-J- to 2^ in head. Gill-oponings about wide
as eye. Scales with 3 ribs ending in as many points and median
lono^est. First doi-sal origin opposite end of inner pectoral angle,
extended end behind reaching opposite ventral origin. Second
dorsal base aV)out 1-i of anal base and one-third above end of anal
base. Second dorsal end behind l\ to If lengths from its base
behind to caudal pit above, which larger. Tail 3^ in entire length.
Pectoral, If to If in head; ventral, 3. Color in alcohol ash-gray
generally, below whitish. Iris pale. Fins all ash-gray; hind edges
of lower, including lower caudal lobe whitish, or at least paler.
Border of long caudal lobe narrowly brownish. Length 310 to 314
mm., two examples.
^VUied with ScoUodon lalandi (MtiUer and Henle) from the tropical
Atlantic of Central and South America. Compared with an example
of the American species, 425 mm. long, fromi Colon, the lower caudal
lobe in blackisli marginally, front half of pectoral entirely blackish
and inner half only pale, and rictal grooves equal. Although Pietsch-
mann describes the rictal grooves they are not indicated in his lower
view of the head.
TORPEDO NARKE (Risso).
Disk partly circular, width greater than iengtli for space about
equal to space between front disk edge and spiracle. Snout short,
slightly concave medially. ^Mouth small, slightly crescentic, with
longitudinal fold at each angle. Teeth small, about 34 rows above
and below. Spiracle twice size of eye, with 7 weak papillae. Eye
small, 4 in interorbital. Second dorsal about seven-eighths of first,
latter with front half above ventral bases. Second dorsal base more
than interdoi-sai spaos. Tail short, slightly over one-thiril of total
length. Upper caudal lobe slightly longer. Color in alcohol russet-
brown above, with scattered variable small white spots or dots, none
larger than pupil. White below, outer pectoral and ventral portions
broadly brownish submarginally. Length, 387 mm.
Compared with Italian examples the present one differs in colora-
tion, or the presence of the minute v/hitish spots and the absence of
the five large black ocelli. Compared witli Torpedo torpedo (Lin-
naeus) from Italy, the spiracle fringes are found well developed in the
latter, besides tlie presence of usually five to seven dark blue-black
ocelli.
