252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.56.
deep and least depth 2^ to 2^ in head. Head width, If its length.
Snout broad, length lialf its width. Eye advanced; hind edge
slightly before center in head length. Month broad. Teeth ex-
tremely minute, rudimentary, few, in single row and only in upper
jaw. Maxillary concealed, not quite to eye. Upper lip width nearly
half of pupil. Nostrils close: front one about midway in snout.
Interorbital broadly convex. Preorbital denticulate. Rakers, about
40 + 51, finely lanceolate, about half of filaments and latter equal eye.
Scales with 7 to 9 basal striae. Cheek with 3 rows of scales. Pectoral
without axillary scaly flap, and 4 scales behind depressed spinous
dorsal tip and soft dorsal origin. Spinous dorsal inserted midway
between eye center and caudal base, or midway between front eye
edge and caudal base in small examples: second spine slightly longer,
or 1| to 2^ in head. Soft dorsal inserted mu(;h nearer spinous dorsal
origin than caudal base, first branciied ray, Hii^ head. Anal inserted
about midway between ventral origin and caudal base, If to If in
head. Caudal large, pupil length in smallest example to eye-diameter
longer than head in larger ones: pectoral, l\: ventral, 1^. Color in
alcohol, dull olive-brown above: sides and below, paler Avith silvery-
white reflections. Iris whitish. Fins all pale brownish, with obso-
lete brownish blotch at pectoral base. Eight examples, 105 U>
145 mm.
Boulenger's figure ^ does not indicate any scales on the opercle;
those on the cheek imperfect and front of soft dorsal and anal basally
scaleless. In all my examples these areas are quite scal3\
An Angola example in the Academy (Bengo River at Cabu'i)
shows: head, 3f; depth, 3f: D. IV— I, 9; A. Ill, 11; scales, 39
from shoulder to caudal base and 6 more on latter; transverse scales,
13; predorsal, 23; snout, 4 in head; eye, 3§; maxillary, 4; inter-
orbital 2f ; few scales on front of anal basally; length, 82 mm.
UZA HOEFLEKI (Steindachner).
Head, 3f; depth, 4f; D. IV— I, 8; A. Ill, 9; scales, 36 from
shoulder to caudal base and 5 more on latter; 13 scales transversely
between soft dorsal and anal oiigins; 25 predorsal (pockets) scales;
snout, 4f in head; eye, 3f ; maxillary, 4; interorbital, 3. Elongate,
rather slender, or deepest at spinous dorsal origin, well compressed.
Caudal peduncle with least depth. If its length, or 2^ in head. Head
width half its length. Snout length nearly tin ee-fif ths its width.
Eye advanced; hind edge about midway in head length. Mouth
broad; would form obtuse angle. Row of minute ciliate teeth in
upper jaw. Maxillary exposed, almost to eye. Nostrils close to-
gether, front one about midway in snout length. Interorbital
broadly convex. Preorbital denticulate. Rakers, 35+46, about
> Cat. Fresh Watei Fish. Africa, vol. 4, 1916, p. 89, fig. 51.
