NO. 220!. FISHEH FROM WEST AFRICA— FOWLER. 253
three-fourths of filaments, or 1^ in eye. Scales with 9 or 10 basal
radii. Cheek with three rows of scales. Apparently no axillary
ventral flap, and three scales between depressed spinous dorsal tip
and soft dorsal origin. A few scales on front of anal basaUy. Spinous
dorsal inserted about midway between front pupil edge and caudal
base; fii-st spine longest, or 1| in head. Soft dorsal inserted very
slightly nearer caudal base than spinous doi-sal origin; fu-st branched
ray, 1| in head. Anal inserted slightly before soft doi-sal; fu'st
branched ray, 1? in head. Caudal about equals head; pectoral, 1^;
ventral, 1|. Color in alcohol with back, pale olive; sides and below
pale with silvery-white tints. Hind edge of median caudal rays
tinged with dusky; fins otherwise dull brownish and lower ones paler.
Iris, whitish. Length, 105 mm.
It differs a little from Boulenger's account, likely due to age, in the
snout slightly shorter than the eye. Compared with Mediterranean
examples of Liza aurata (Risso) it agrees in the long pectoral and
seiTate preorbital, though the rakers are 35 +46, in the adults 40+70,
which shorter and though finely lanceolate, about three-fourtlis in
young to two-thirds in adults in filaments. The Mediterranean
species has scales with more obtuse apical denticles, lower or slightly
less concealed. Both have 9 or 10 basal radii, reaching 12 or 13 in
the Mediterranean, and always with very fine circuli.
LIZA CRANDISQUAMiS (Valenciennes).
Head, 3? to 3f ; depth, 3| to 3|; D. IV— I, 8; A. Ill, 9; scales,
28 or 29 from shoulder to caudal base and 5 or 6 larger on latter; 10
scales transversely between soft dorsal and anal origins; 20 to 23
predorsal scales; snout, S^- to 4^ in head; eye, 4 to 4-|; maxillary,
3| to 4; interorbital, 2^ to 2|. Elongate, well compressed, deepest
at anal origin. Caudal peduncle well compressed; least depth, 1 to
1} its length or 2| in head. Head width. If to If its length. Snout
broad; length about half its width. Eye advanced, before center in
head length. Mouth broad. Teeth extremely minute, rudimentary,
few above laterally, slightly more developed in smaller example.
Maxillary end exposed little; reaches eye. Nostrils close, front one
about midway in snout length. Interorbital broadly convex. Pre-
orbital conspicuously denticulate. Rakers, 34+42, finely lanceolate,
about two-thirds giU-filaments and latter 1^ in eye. Scales with
8 to 11 basal striae. Cheek with four rows of scales. Ventral with-
out axillary scaly flap and two scales between depressed spinous
dorsal tip and soft doi*sal origin. Small scales over base of front anal
lobe and along front edge of soft doreal. Spinous dorsal inserted
about midway between front pupil edge and caudal base, midway be-
tween hind pupil edge and caudal base in smaller example; first
spine, 1§ in head. Soft dorsal inserted midway between spinous
