258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. tol. 56.
length. Maxillary beyond front eye edge, not to pupil. Lips rather
broad, firm. Teeth fine, in villiform bands in jaws. Nostrils to-
gether, close before upper front of eye. Interorbital level or only
very slight median concavity. Preorbital and preopercle edges entire.
Rakers, 5 or 6 + 8 or 9 short points, nearly one-third of filaments;
latter 2h in eye. Pseudobranchiae little less than filaments. Pre-
maxillary groove on top of head entirely scaleless, also maxillary,
preorbital and snout tip. Hind part of premaxillary groove never
entirely shut off by lateral intrusion of scales. Scales finely ciliated,
with about five basal striae. Suprascapula entire. Lateral line
concurrent with back to caudal base medially; simple tubes well
exposed. Spinous dorsal inserted nearly midway between eye center
and soft dorsal origin; slightly more advanced in young; third spine,
l-f to 1^^ in head. Anal inserted little behind soft dorsal origin;
third spine longest or trifle longer than second; 2 J to 2f in head.
Caudal well forked, trifle less than head ; pectoral, 1-^ to 1ยง ; ventral,
If to If. Color in alcohol silvery-wdiite generally; back pale
brownish. Iris white. Fins all very pale brown; end of spinous
dorsal lobe black with white bar below, and midway on fin still
lower pale dusky horizontal streak. Seven examples, 47 to 108 mm.
Bleeker does not show ^ the whitish band below the black apical
blotch at front of spinous dorsal, nor mention if in his text. His
example was 97 mm. long.
GALEOroES DECADACTYLUS (Bloch).
Tw^o examples.
TILAPIA HEUDELOTI A. Dumeril.
Thirty-seven examples.
CHAETODON HOEFLERI Steindachner.
Head, 2^ to 2^; depth. If to If; D. XI, 23; A. HI, 18; scales,
43 to 45 from shoulder in nearly median series to caudal base medi-
ally; about 40 or 41 tubes in lateral line; 7 scales above lateral line
to spinous dorsal origin, about 4 to soft dorsal origin, and 22 or 23
below to spinous anal origin; snout, 3 to 3ยง in head; eye, 2| to 3;
maxillary, 3ยง to 3|; interorbital, 3f to 3^. Back well elevated;
body strongly compressed; predorsal slightly trenchant. Caudal
peduncle strongly compressed; length about three-fifths its least
depth and latter, 2J in head. Head width half its length. Snout
conic, length about seven-eighths its width. Eye elevated, advanced,
or hind pupil edge about midway in head length. Small mouth
terminal, closed jaws even. Maxillary largely below preorbital, to
hind nostril and expansion 1ยง in horizontal pupil. Teeth in brush-
like bands. Lips rather thin, moderate. Nostrils close before eye
I Nat. Verhandel. Holl. Maats. Wet. Haarlem, vol. 18 (P. GuintSe), 1863, p. 44, pi. 8, fig. 1. Guinea.
