6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. ^ol. 56.
Range. — Off Monterey Bay, California ; in 871 fathoms, sand, bot-
tom temperature about 38° F. U. S. Bureau of Fisheries steamer
A Ihatross.
LEUCOSYRINX KINCAIDI, new species.
Plate 3, fig. 8.
Sliell of moderate size, fusiform, with an acute spire and elongated
canal, waxen white, nucleus of two smooth bulbous whorls with five
subsequent whorls; axial sculpture only of faint incremental lines;
spiral sculpture including a very prominent thin sharp peripheral
keel and fine spiral striae with wider interspaces, over most of the
surface; the interspaces become more rounded and coarser on the
base; tlie entire space between the keel and the preceding suture may
be said to form the anal fasciole, the wide arcuate sulcus being
situated a little way in front of the suture ; the base is neatly rounded
and contracted at the beginning of the canal ; outer lip thin, sharp,
much produced in front, inner lip slightly erased; pillar obliquely
attenuated in front, gyrate, and with a minutely pervious axis; canal
narrow, slender; operculum yellowish, ovate, with an apical nucleus.
Height of shell, 29; of last whorl, 21.5; diameter, 13 mm. Cat.
No. 151581, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Shelikoff Strait, north of Kodiak Island, Alaska ; Prof.
Trevor Kincaid.
This very distinct species is extremely thin and fragile, indicating
a"deep water habit.
CYMATOSYRINX HESPERA, new species.
Plate 20, fig. 2.
Shell small, white, polished, acute, with a small, smooth, glassy,
inflated nucleus of one and a half whorls, with seven and a half subse-
quent whorls ; suture appressed, obscure ; anal fasciole immediately in
front of it, constricted; spiral sculpture none; axial sculpture of (on
the penultimate whorl 11) more or less sigmoid strong rounded ribs
crossing the whole whorl, feebler on the base and fasciole, nearly con-
tinuous up the spire and with subequal interspaces; incremental lines
rather regularly spaced and evident; aperture narrow with a vari-
cosity behind the thin produced outer lip, anal sulcus conspicuous,
rounded, with a marked subsutural callus; inner lip and pillar with
a thin callus with a raised edge; canal distinct, constricted, deep,
short, recurved, forming a keeled siphonal fasciole. Height of shell,
9 ; of last whorl, 4.5 ; diameter, 3.5 mm. Cat. No. 122799 U.S.N.M.
Range. — Station 2805, in Panama Bay. in 51 fathoms muddy bot-
tom ; U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
CYMATOSYRINX ELISSA. new species?.
Plate 20. fig. 1.
A possible variety of the above, smaller, with a larger pinkish
nucleus, eight or nine straighter ribs, not continuous up the spire, and
