NO. 2294. FISHES FROM WEST AFRICA— FOWLER. 259
above, front one little lower or about three-fifths of pupil length before
eye. Interorbital broadly convex. Rakers, 3 + 9 or 10 weak points,
about 4 in filaments and latter 1§ in eye. Scales ctenoid, with about
14 basal striae, in oblique rows above and below lateral line, become
much smaller and greatly crowded over rayed vertical fins. Cheeks
with five rows of scales. Lateral line greatly arched; ends close
below last dorsal rays. Dorsal with stronger and slightly longer
spines in front; fifth spine, 1^^ to 1| in head; fin edge notched. Soft
dorsal rounded, fifth ray 1| to 2 in head. Spinous anal inserted
about midway between hind preopercle edge and caudal base; second
spine 2 in head, and fifth ray about If to 2. Caudal convex behindj
If to 1^ in head; pectoral, 1{; ventral spine, If to 1|.
Color in alcohol pale brownish generally, lower or under surfaces
pale or whitish. Deep brown broad band begins just below and
before spinous dorsal origin, but not meeting its fellow on predorsal,
extends forward to eye, which it intersects, leaving hind portion of
iris whitish. This also continued below over cheek to front branchi-
ostegals. Second broad band begins on spinous dorsal, including
third to fifth spines, extends down, including pectoral base, hind
edge of opercle broadly to ventral base, though about haK its width
before these fins so its fellow converges. Third broad band extends
from last two dorsal spines basally and front dorsal rays basally,
down toward front of soft anal, narrowed and paler below, but quite
dark and conspicuous at its origin above. Dark transverse band
across caudal peduncle, followed by narrow white border. All dark
bands noted with rather narrow pale borders. Edges of soft dorsal
and anal dusky. Fins all pale, and caudal base with dull brownish
crescent transversely. Each scale on breast and along side of abdo-
men between dark bands with srqall pale spot. Two examples, 63 to
66 mm.
Compared with examples of Chaetodon striatus (Linnaeus) from
Delaware Bay and the West Indies, 68 to 136 mm. long, one finds a
constant difference in coloration. In C. hoefleri the second broad
dark band extends more obliquely forward to include hind portion of
opercle entirely, besides pectoral and ventral bases likewise; third
band deeply black above and not joined by dark band on basal por-
tion of soft dorsal. Due to youth, likely, my examples of C. Tioefieri
differ somewhat from Steindachner's figure, as dark edges on soft
dorsal and anal are broader; second dark band extends more forward
to include more of opercle besides ventral base and area well before it.
HAPATUS HEPATUS (Linnaeus).
Head, 3i; depth. If; D. IX, 26; A. Ill, 24; snout, 1| m head;
eye, 3; maxillary, 4; interorbital, 3J; caudal spine about 2 in eye.
Caudal slightly lunate, truncate when expanded. Color in alcohol
