NO. 2294. FISHES FROM WEST AFRICA— FOWLER. 263
except snout, jaws, and chin. About 6 rows of scales on cheek.
Scales finely ctenoid, basal striae about 11. Lateral line slightly
convex; slopes down till midway at caudal base. Dorsals and anals
with developed basal scaly sheaths. Caudal base scaly. Rays of
soft dorsal and anal scaleless. Above lateral line scales in oblique
rows to front part of spinous dorsal, then parallel with lateral line,
and rows below lateral hne horizontal. Fourth dorsal spine longest,
little less than half of head; fin well separated from soft dorsal; first
ray, 2f in head. Second anal spine much longest, If in head, not
quite reaching caudal base; third spine much shorter and more
slender, or about long as first ray; both 2} in head. Caudal v/ith
hind edge concave; fin, H in head; pectoral, 1; ventral, Ih.
Color in alcohol brownish, little paler below. Below dorsals on
back and sides down to pectoral, with deep brown spots, variable,
though largely in horizontal rows, or about four or five rows equally
above and below lateral line. Blackish blotch at hind opercle edge
little smaller than eye. Outer membranes of spinous dorsal with
obscure dusky blotches, and subbasal band of brown spots on mem-
branes of soft dorsal; outer portion of fin })rownish. Hind caudal
edge tinged with dusky. Length, 230 mm.
The three Ashantee examples listed previously all agree in the
characteristic long second anal spine extending beyond any of the
anal rays or other spines. They show: head, 2f to 24; depth, 2§
to 2| ; i). X or XI, 16; A. Ill, 8 to 10; scales, 46 to 52 in lateral line
to caudal base and 8 to 12 more on latter; 5 or 6 scales above lateral
hne, 11 to 14 below; snout, 3^ in head; eye, 3f to 3f ; maxillary, 3f
to 3§ ; interorbital, 4^ to 4J; length, 115 to 175 mm.
PSEUDOTOLITHUS TYPUS Bleeker.
Head, 3J: depth, 4§ ; D. IX, I, 29; A. II, 7; scales 50 in lateral
line to caudal base and 22 more on caudal medially; 7 scales above
lateral line to soft dorsal and 7 below to anal; snout, 4^ in head,
measured from upper jaw tip; eye, 7§ ; maxillary, 2J; interorbital,
Body compressed, deepest at pectoral end. Caudal peduncle
length about two-thirds least depth; latter 3f in head. Head width,
2 J its length; upper profile concave to snout. Latter convex;
length two-thirds its width. Eye small, faces largely upward;
center slightly before first third in head. Mouth large, well inclined;
lower jaw well protruded. Maxillary to hind eye edge. Lips thin,
fleshy. Teeth fiiie, in narrow bands and outer row in each enlarged,
though upper much larger. In front above one or two slightly
enlarged canines. Hind nostril very close before eye and larger than
front, which less than half an eye-diameter before front eye edge.
Interorbital slightly convex. Preopercle edge obsoletely denticulate.
