270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MU8EDSI. vol. 5G.
width, 2f to 2^; interorbital, 2 to 2J; eye, 4^ to 5| in interorbital.
Body compressed, deepest at dorsal origin. Head width, 1^ to 1|
its length, coarsely granular above, more so in half-grown. Snout
wide, depressed; length about two-fifths to one-half its width. Eye
small, at first third in head, or hind edge at first third in half-grown.
Mouth broad, with fleshy papillose lips; under jaw shorter. Broad
bands of villiform teeth in jaws and on vomer; band of upper jaw
about three-fourths width of vomerine band. Nasal barbel about
three-fifths to gill-opening; maxillary to middle of pectoral spine
or four-fifths in half-grown; outer mental to pectoral origm and
inner about two-thirds in head length. Width of long frontal, one-
fourth its length; one-third in half-grown or 3i to 3^ times occipital
fontanel. Occipital process triangular; length about two-thirds
its base. Rakers about 15 + 76; lanceolate, fine, slightly longer
than filaments or equal eye. Space between dorsal and caudal
1^ to If eye-diameters. Dorsal begins slightly behind middle in
space between pectoral and ventral origins in half-grown to last
two-fifths in adults. Anal origin midway between hind fontanel
edge and cUudal base in half-grown or about midway between snout
tip and last dorsal ray base in adult. Caudal, If in head; pectoral,
If to 1|; ventral, 2 to 2f. Outer pectoral spine edge serrate, obso-
lete with age. Color in alcohol dull brownish, paler below. Seven
examples, 303 to 406 mm., from the Quanza River at Cunga.
EUTROPIUS ECLIPSIS. new species.
Head, 4|; depth, 5; D. I, 6; A. ii, 52; P. I, 10; V. i, 5; head
width, 1^ its letigth; dorsal spine. If; pectoral, 1^; ventral, 2^^;
snout, 3 in head, measured from upper jaw tip; eye, 4J; mouth
width, 2; interorbital, 2.
Body elongate, rather slender, well compressed, deepest at spinous
dorsal origin; predorsal trenchant and breast broad. Caudal pedun-
cle strongly compressed, about long as deep, and least depth about
3| in total head length.
Head broader below, converges above, and profiOles alike. Snout
broad; front edge but little convex as seen from above, and length
in profile about two-fifths its width. Eye lateral, though equally
visible above and below; upper edge level with closed tip of lower
jaw, and hind edge slightly advanced before middle in head length.
Mouth wide, lower jaw slightly protruding, and rami low. Teeth
villiform, in broad bands in jaws and across vomer and palatines;
latter continuous band slightly widens backward on each palatine.
Tongue broad, thick, free around front edge. Barbels fine; long
nasal reaching back behind eye or about If in head; maxillary about
half an eye-diameter beyond head; outer mental about an eye-
diameter beyond eye, and inner mental about two-fifths length of
