N0.2i288. NEW MOLLUSKS OF THE FAMILY TURRITIDAE—DALL.
some very faint indications of spiral striae near the canal. There are
in all seven whorls less inflated and with a less constricted fasciole.
Height of shell, 7; of last whorl, 4; diameter, 2.5 mm. In other re-
spects similar to the preceding. Cat. No. 1227996!, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Same as the preceding.
? CYMATOSYRINX LALAGE, new species.
Plate 20, fig. 3.
Shell small, pinkish white, polished, acute, with a smooth nucleus
of about two whorls and five subsequent hardly rounded whorls;
spiral sculpture of a few obscure threads on the canal ; suture obscure,
strongly appressed ; anal fasciole slightly constricted ; axial sculpture
of (on the penultimate whorl nine) strong rounded ribs most promi-
nent at the periphery, extending from suture to suture, with subequal
interspaces, obsolete on the last half of the last whorl and on the
base ; incremental lines irregular, obscure ; there is a hump-like varix
some distance behind the outer lip ; aperture narrow, anal sulcus con-
spicuous, rounded, with a heavy subsutural callus ; outer lip thin with
no internal lirae, moderately produced ; inner lip callous, pillar short,
thick, canal wide, very short, hardly differentiated from the aperture.
Height of shell, 8 ; of last whorl, 5 ; diameter, 3 mm. Cat. No. 55491,
U.S.N.M.
Range. — Gulf of California, Stearns collection.
This form is somewhat intermediate between KyUx and Cymato-
ayrinx.
CYMATOSYRINX PLICATELLA Dall.
Plate 20, fig. 4.
Clathurella pUcatelJa Dall, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., vol. 43, No. 6, p. 289,
Oct. 1908.
Range. — Station 2799, in Panama Bay, in 29| fathoms muddy bot-
tom; U. S. Bureau of Fisheries steamer Albatross.
Type-specimen.— Csit. No. 110604, U.S.N.M. This shell is smaller
■than most of the forms referred to this group, but appears to have
all the proper characters, though in miniature.
? CYMATOSYRINX FERMINIANA, new species.
Plate 8, fig. 4.
Shell white, with a yellowish base, slender, acute, with a swollen
smooth white nucleus of about two whorls and six subsequent whorls ;
suture appressed, on the earlier whorls the posterior edge is prom-
inent ; whorls moderately rounded ; spiral sculpture absent from the
spire, on the last whorl hardly visible except on the extreme anterior
base and siphonal fasciole where there are a few impressed lines;
axial sculpture of (on the last whorl 12) somewhat sigmoid ribs,
feebly arcuate on the anal fasciole, strongest in front of it, rather
