NO. 2294.
FISHES FROM WEST AFRICA— FOWLER.
271
outer. Front nostril close to upper jaw edge, simple pore, about
first fifth in snout length. Hind nostril close behind nasal barbel,
or about midway in snout profile. Interorbital broadly convex.
Occipital process long narrow ridge about two-thirds to dorsal
origin, and meets dorsal buckler.
Gill-opening well forward or about to last fourth of snout in profile.
Rakers 5-1-11, lanceolate, about three-fourths of filaments and latter
one and one-half in eye.
Bones of head all covered with thin skin and with rather weak
striae. Humeral process about 2f pectoral spine, with a few striae.
Lateral line complete, midway along side, deflected from caudal
base downward.
Dorsal inserted about first third between mandible tip and caudal
base, compressed slender spine with front edge smooth, and about
20 antrorse serrae on hind edge; first ray, 1| in head. Adipose fin
Fig. 12.— Eutropius eclipsis.
inserted about last twx)-fifths in space between depressed dorsal tip
and caudal base, about long as eye. Caudal deeply forked (dam-
aged), apparently with slender sharply pointed subequal lobes,
both little longer than head. Anal inserted about midway between
mandible tip and last anal ray base; front rays slightly longer or
fourth branched about 2 in head. Pectoral not quite to ventral;
spine hke that of dorsal and hind edge with 18 antrorse serrae. Ven-
tral insertion falls about opposite fourth dorsal ray base; fin small
and reaches but httle beyond front of anal. Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol brown above, paler below on head, belly, and
trunk, and silvery-white tinge along body below lateral Ime and
above long anal. Fins and barbels all pale. Iris pale straw color.
Above pectoral large dusky blotch, entirely before dorsal, and its
extent about H eye-diameters. Anal with an inconspicuous median
longitudinal streak, its entire length, formed of minute dusky dots.
Length, 185 mm. (Caudal tips damaged.)
