NO. 2294. FISHES FROM WEST AFRICA— FOWLER. 273
convex, length J to 1 its width. Eye well advanced, hind profile
about first two-fifths in head length. Mouth cleft very short, wide.
Jaws with 5 conic teeth above in front and 6 below in front. Inter-
orbital convex. Scales with 9 or 10 basal radii. Each caudal lobe
scaly over basal two-tliirds and 12 scales around caudal peduncle.
Dorsal inserted little behind anal origin, slightly nearer caudal base
than pectoral origin; first branched ray, IJ to 2 in head; that of anal,
1| to 2. Caudal well forked, about IJ in head; pectoral, 1§ to If,
and ventral, 2i. Color in alcohol, brownish above to silvery-white
below. Fins ail pale. Iris grayish. Four examples, 98 to 116 mm.
Quanza River at Cunga.
One of the above examples is distorted, having the lateral line and
apparently vertebral column in a somewhat sigmoid pattern.
BARBUS EUTAENIA Boulenger.
Head, 3f to 3J; depth, 2| to 3^; D. Ill, 8, once 7; A. in, 5; scales
23 to 25 in lateral line to caudal base and 2 more on latter, rarely 3; 5
scales above lateral line, 3 below, rarely 4; predorsal 9, rarely 10;
snout, 3 to 3| in head; eye, 3^ to 4; maxillary, 3f to 4; interorbital,
2f to 3. Body well compressed, back slightly elevated. Caudal
peduncle well compressed, least depth about I5 to If its length, or
If to If in head. Head width. If to If its width. Eye advanced,
hind pupil edge at least midway in head length. Mouth small, closed
lower jaw slightly included. Maxillary not quite to eye. Front
barbel slightly larger than eye and liind one longer, or equals eye
and space to hind nostril. Interorbital broadly convex. Rakers,
1+5 short points, about one-sixth of filaments, which IJ in eye.
Pseudobranchiae about one-third of gill-filaments. Teeth 2, 3, 5—5
3, 2, some of larger hooked and with well-developed grinding sur-
faces. Scales with 3 to 5 basal scallops, 5 or 6 distinct basal radii,
and about 4 or 5 apical radii. About 12 scales around caudal pedun-
cle. Caudal base covered with small scales for at least two-fifths of
lobe externally. Free axillary ventral scaly flap one-third of fin.
Scales on breast moderately small, about 9 across between pectoral
origins. Dorsal origin nearly an eye-diameter nearer snout tip than
caudal base, or about midway in half grown examples. Dorsal spine
with about 28 to 30 serrae along hind edge, variably little shorter
or longer than head. Upper dorsal edge a little emarginate. Anal
inserted little before depressed dorsal end or midway between ventral
origin and caudal base, nearer ventral in half grown. Caudal well
forked, usually an eye-diameter longer than head; pectoral, 1| to
It; ventral. If to 1|.
Color in alcohol pale brownish generally, with bright or silvery
reflections, and lower surface paler. Side of head, iris, and broad
115690— 19— Proc.N.M. vol.56 18
