NO. 2294. FISHES FROM WEST AFRICA— FOWLER. 277
eye edge. Interorbital depressed, scarcely or very slightly convex.
Rakers about 10+25, lanceolate, nearly three-fourths of filaments,
and latter about two-thirds of eye. Isthmus narrow frenum. Scales
largely caducous, all narrowly imbricated, very deep along side;
circuli very fine and mostly continuous above and below. Top of
head with two longitudinal arborescent areas in each mastoid region.
Lateral line not complete beyond middle of caudal peduncle; large
tubes arborescent below. Dorsal inserted about last fourth in space
between hind eye edge and caudal base; in smaller examples at last
fourth between front eye edge and caudal base; last branched ray
about 1§ of first. Anal inserted near first third of dorsal base; fin
small. Caudal well forked; upper lobe about three-fourths of lower.
Pectoral large, 2\ to ventral; about 2| in younger. Ventral inserted
much nearer caudal than pectoral base.
Color in alcohol dull olive-brown on back, sides, and below paler or
silvery white. Underlaid leaden band along dark color of back, not
quite wide as pupil, from shoulder to caudal base. Dorsal, caudal,
and pectoral pale brownish; other fins whitish. Iris pale. Length,
305 to 382 mm. (Caudal tips and beaks of several damaged.)
Loando. Six examples.
These fall into two groups, one with longer pectorals and slightly
fewer anal rays, or 8 to 10 branched contrasted with 11 branched in
the short-pectoral pair of examples. The long pectoral having been
offered as an alleged character for several closely allied species, an
examination of the following material in the Academy results.
A Porto Rico specimen, 254 mm. long, shows the pectoral about
1^ in head from upper jaw tip, 10 branched anal rays, and rakers
9-f-25. Three Hawaiian examples, largest 355 mm., all have a long
pectoral, which about long as head without beak, 10 or 11 branched
anal rays, and rakers 11+25. They represent H. depauperatiis,
Lay and Bennett,^ and do not appear to differ in any but trivial
characters from the African examples. Of three small New Jersey
examples, largest 190 mm., the pectoral is IJ to If in head; branched
anal rays 11, and rakers 12 + 25. Another example I obtained in
Chesapeake Bay, 328 mm. long, has pectoral U, branched anal rays
11, and rakers 8 + 22. An examination of scales from examples
representing all of the above, besides others from other parts of the
West Indies, reveals no grounds for specific distinctions. The circuli
are all very fine and complete.
The only distinction for HemirJiampJius halao, Le Sueur, ^ which is
described with "the tail yellow and bluish," appears to be the
''caudal fin black." Eemirhamphus macrocJiirus, Poey,^ is based
1 Zool. Beechey's Voy., 1839, p. 66. Oahu.
« Joum. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., vol. 2, 1823, p. 136. Caribbean Sea near Guadeloupe, Martinique, and
Domingo.
3 Memor. H. N. Cuba, vol. 2, 1861, p. 29
