280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.56.
slightly before center in head length. Mouth small; lower jaw
included slightly in upper. Maxillary to eye center, expansion If
to 2 in eye. Teeth fine, conic, in bands in jaws, on vomer and pala-
tines. Nostril about midway in snout. Interorbital level, with
superciliary and 2 median longitudinal bony ridges. Opercular
spines 2, short, of equal length, and spine at preopercle angle about
twice as long. Serrae strong on preopercle, opercle, suborbital and
preorbital ridges and edges. Rakers v, 4 + 14, lanceolate, equal
filaments, or 2 in eye. Scales narrowly imbricate; basal lobes 4 or 5;
apical serrae, 16 to 18, and striae all parallel vertically. Cheeks with
5 rows of scales. Tubes in lateral line simple. Spinous dorsal
inserted over pectoral origin; fourth spine 1| to 2 in head. Soft
dorsal origin much nearer caudal base than pectoral origin, or at
last third between hind pupil edge and caudal base; second ray, 1^
to If in head. Anal opposite dorsal, similar; third spine, 1 J to 2 in
head; first ray, If to 2. Caudal strongly forked, IJ to If in head;
pectoral, 1^ to 1|; ventral, 1^ to IJ.
Color in alcohol faded dull brownish, apparently each row of scales
with pale streak. Back gray-brown, line of demarcation along close
below lateral line. Lower surface with dull brassy tint. Iris and
side of head dull brassy-brown. Fins pale brown; some smaller
examples with dusky tint on outer portion of membranes between
first and second dorsal spines, and another between tenth and eleventh.
Length of 6 examples, 84 to 96 mm. Loando.
Cuvier's figure does not show the black spot between first two
dorsal rays as mentioned in his text relative to his first example,
which without locality. The figure also shows the third anal spine
twice length of fourth and opercular flap behind the long opercular
spine black.
TRICHIURUS LEPTURUS Linnaeus.
Six examples Ii om Loando.
CARANX ANGOLENSIS, new species.
Head, 3i; depth, 4; D. VIII— I, 31; A. II— I, 27; P. ii, 20; V, I, 5
scales, 53 in curved lateral line, and 39 in straight portion with 8 of
latter on caudal base; head width, 2^ its length; mandible, 2; third
dorsal spine, 2| ; first dorsal ray, 2\ ; first anal ray, 2 J ; upper caudal
lobe, If; pectoral, 1|; ventral, 2^^; snout, 31 in head, measured
from upper jaw tip; eye, 3f; maxillary, 2§; interorbital, 3^.
Body well compressed, elongately fusiform, front profiles evenly
convex and lower slightly more so behind to greater depth at spinous
anal origin. Caudal peduncle slender, moderately depressed, least
depth 2 and least width 3 in its length.
Head well compressed, moderate in depth, pointed, and flattened
sides converge more below. Snout conic, width IJ its length. Eye
