r NO. 2294.
FISHES FROM WEST AFRICA— FOWLER.
281
moderate, advanced, elevated, and hind pupil edge about midway in
head length measured from upper jaw. Mouth oblique, gape nearly
straight, and mandible well protruded. Lips fleshy, somewhat
narrow. Maxillary to eye and upper edge not entirely slipping
below preorbital, terminal expansion 2 in eye. Short oblique groove
down from behind hind maxillary end when mouth closes. Teeth
small, sharp pointed, uniserial largely, though at least two rows in
front of each jaw. Bands of similar teeth on vomer and palatines.
Tongue long, rather slender, free and round in front, with two elongate
patches of minute simple teeth. Mandibular rami well elevated
inside mouth. Nostrils together, similar, or hind one but slightly
larger, fall at last third in snout. Interorbital broadly convex,
median keel rising close behind hind nostril and extends to spinous
dorsal. Opercle with few striae above and forward.
Fig. 13.— Caranx angolensis.
Gill-opening extends forward about midway in space between hind
nostril and front e^^e edge. Rakers, 16 + 37, slender, lanceolate,
slightly longer than filaments, or three-fifths of eye. Pseudo-
branchiae nearly two-fifths of eye. Isthmus long narrow triangle,
each edge slightly raised.
Scales very caducous, v/ith moderate concentric circuli. Head
largely scaly; snout, mandible, and lips naked. Spinous dorsal with
low basal scaly sheath, and front of soft dorsal and anal each with
scaly basal sheath. Caudal base scaled, also pectoral base. Straight
portion of lateral line begins after elevated dorsal rays. Scutes
moderate, deepest 5 in greatest body depth.
Spinous dorsal small; slender spines pungent; third longest, with
second and fifth subequal, depressible in a groove and reaching soft
dorsal origin. Spinous dorsal inserted about over first fifth in
pectoral length, or nearly midway between eye center and depressed
pectoral tip. Soft dorsal inserted nearly over last fifth in depressed
pectoral, or nearly midway between hind nostril and caudal base.
