8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
sharp-edged, extending mostly over the base, and with somewhat
wider interspaces; they are not continuous up the spire; aperture
rather narrow, the anal sulcus conspicuous, with a subsutural callus ;
outer lip thin, sharp, with a ribless space and a small varix behind
it, smooth internally ; inner lip and pillar callous, smooth ; canal dis-
tinct, small, narrow, short, somewhat recurved, with an evident
siphonal fasciole. Height of shell, 14.2 ; of last whorl, 7.5 ; diameter,
5 mm. Cat. No. 214267, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Station 3034, off Point San Fermin, Lower California,
in 24 fathoms, gray mud ; U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
This shell is slightly decorticated and may have been polished when
fresh. It is somewhat intermediate in character between Elaeocyma
and Cymatosyrinx.
? CYMATOSTRINX PALMERI, new species.
Plate 19, fig. 7.
Shell small, brilliantly polished, light brown, with six whorls ex-
clusive of the (lost) nucleus; suture distinct, closely appressed, un-
dulated by the axial sculpture; anal fasciole constricted; spiral
sculpture none; axial sculpture of (on the last whorl 10) rounded
sigmoid ribs, feebler where they cross the fasciole, fading out on the
base, and most prominent at the periphery, with subequal interspaces ;
aperture moderately wide, anal sulcus large, close to the suture, with
a thick subsutural callus ; outer lip thickened with no internal lirae,
a knob-like varix a little way behind it; body and pillar callous,
siphonal sulcus deep, canal wide, short, slightly recurved. Height of
(decollate) shell, 9.5; of last whorl, 7; diameter, 4 mm. Cat. No.
56036, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Beach at the head of the Gulf of California, collected by
Dr. E. Palmer.
In another lot of specimens bleached white (No. 56040) one or two
have a few more ribs and a few faint spiral lines on the base, but
they appear to be only mutations of the same species, and are from
the same locality. This is another of those species which seem inter-
mediate between Elaeocyma and Cymatosyrinx.
CYMATOSYRINX IDOTHEA, new species.
Plate 21, fig. 11.
Shell small, thin, acute, rose pink, not polished, with a blunt
nucleus of one and a half smooth inflated whorls, and five well
rounded subsequent whorls; suture distinct, appressed, the adjacent
fasciole constricted; spiral sculpture none; axial sculpture of (on
the last whorl about a dozen) protractively oblique sigmoid riblets,
faint on the base and practically absent from the fasciole, with
subequal interspaces; aperture moderately wide; anal sulcus wide
and deep, adjacent to the suture and with no subsutural callus; outer
