NO. 2294. FISHES FROM WEST AFRICA— FOWLER. 283
soft dorsal origin and 12 to 15 below; snout, 3 to 3^ in head; eye, 3^
to 4-1^; maxillary, 3 i to 3|; interorbital, 3| to 5. Back little elevated,
body well compressed; least depth of caudal peduncle, 1^^- to 1^ its
length, or 3^ to 3J in head. Head width, 2J to 2| its length. Snout
conic, long as wide, little longer in young. Eye little advanced or
hind pupil edge midway in head length. Mouth small, well inclined,
lower jaw slightly included. Maxillary to front nostril, to hind
nostril in yoimg. Bands of fine teeth in jaws. Interorbital convex.
Hind preopercle edge with 16 denticles, lower larger. Rakers, ii
6 + 16, lanceolate, about 2 in filaments and latter 1^ in eye. Scales
with 8 to 10 basal striae. Scales smaller along body edges and fin
bases. Tubes in lateral line simple. Dorsal spines strong, third, 2^
to 2J in head; second ray, 2f to 2|. Second anal spine longest, 2 to 2\
in head, always slightly longer than third, first ray, 2| to 2^. Caudal
emarginate, 1| to IJ in head; pectoral, 1^ to IJ; ventral, If to 1§.
Color in alcohol brownish on back, sides and below silvery- white.
Back above lateral line with many dark obscure spots, rather irregular
and broken into blotches though mostly in oblique rows. Pale
lengthwise subbasal streaks on dorsals with pale brown above and
below. Round deep brown blotch on opercle above, slightly less
than eye. Eight examples, 140 to 175 mm. Loando.
In this and the following species the long anal spines are always
shorter than the first anal ray, whereas in P. juhelini the second at
least is longer. The following species differs from P. suillum in the
second spine constantly subequal with the third, and the increased
anal rays.
POMADASIS BENNETTII (Lowe).
Head, 2f to 2|; depth, 2f to 2f ; D. XI, I, 16; A. Ill, 12; scales,
52 to 54 in lateral line to caudal base and 6 to 8 more on latter; 7 or 8
scales above lateral line to soft dorsal origin and 13 below; snout S^
to 3f in head; eye, 3 to 3^; maxillary, 3 J to 3J; interorbital, 3| to
4^. Back scarcely elevated and least depth of caudal peduncle
slightly greater than eye. Head width about 2| its length. Snout
conic, about long as wide. Eye little advanced or hind pupil edge
about midway in head length. Mouth small, lower jaw slightly
included. Maxillary to front nostril. Bands of fine teeth in jaws.
Interorbital slightly convex. Hind preopercle edge with 23 denticles.
Rakers ii, 6 + 12, iii, lanceolate, about 2 in filaments or 4 in eye.
Scales with 7 or 8 basal striae. Scales smaller along fin bases and body
edges. Tubes in lateral line simple. Third dorsal spine, 2| in head;
first dorsal ray, 2f ; second anal spine, 2f ; first anal ray, 2. Caudal
emarginate, IJ in head; pectoral; 1|; ventral. If. Color in alcohol
brownish on back, sides, and below silvery-white; above lateral line
traces of deeper brown obsolete dots or small spots. Fins all brown-
