N(.. 2294. FISHES FROM WEST AFRICA— FOM'LER. 287
HEMICHROMIS FASCIATUS Peters.
Seven examples from the Quanza River.
LAGOCEPHALUS LAEVIGATL'S (Linnaeus).
One from Loando, 476 mm., compared with an example of equal
size from Cape May, New Jersey, is indistinguishable. Also 2
smaller examples, 260 and 450 mm., same data. The lateral line
seems variable in some cases and may appear broken or several
times mterrupted. Also 2 young in poor preservation, included
previously under Sierra Leone, have 3-rooted conspicuous abdominal
spines. Sides of body, especially below pectoral, Math many large
blackish round spots, nearly large as pupil. Back blue-black, sides
and below bright silvery-white.
SPHEROiDES SPENGLERi (Bloch).
Upon comparison with a series of examples from Massachusetts,
Florida, the Bahamas, and St. Martins, West Indies, my Loando
example differs in coloration. In American material the caudal
always shows a dark or black basal and terminal crossband, and
though present in the Angola example, narrower and with the addi-
tion of a broad dark median bar. The black round spots on the side
of the head and trunk below are fewer, only about 6 distinct as 4
before pectoral and 2 behind, though very pale traces of others exist.
Several larger black blotches below eye and slightly backward do not
occTu- in the American examples, though conspicuous in the Loando
example. Evermann and Marsh ^ figure an inflated example of S.
spengleri which differs from a nearly inflated Bahama example before
me in the dark blotches being so far removed from the pectoral, as
in all my material the seventh blotch is behind and scarcely at all
below the pectoral base. The row is also continuous and not broken
before the caudal peduncle in my material, and the upper 3 spots
behind the pectoral, though present, are much higher.
ELEOTBIS VITTATA A. Dumeril.
Head, 2| to 3; depth, 4 to 4|; D. VI— I, 8, i; A. I, 8, i; scales
38 from shoulder to caudal base m.edially, and 8 more on latter; 17
scales transversely between soft dorsal and anal origins; 44 pre-
dorsal scales; snout, 4f in head; eye, 6^; maxillary, 2|; interorbital, 4.
Body depressed in front, compressed behind. Head width. If its
length. Caudal peduncle long, compressed; least depth, If its length
and 3i in head. Snout wide, convex; length half its width. Eye
well advanced: hind edge at first third in head measured from
mandible tip. Maxillary nearly to hind pupil edge, greatly inclined;
1 Bull U. S. Fish Comm., vol. 20, pt. 1, 5900, p. 267, fig. 79.
