288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ^xUSEUM. vol.56.
expansion, If in eye. Teeth, fine, in rather broad bands. Mandible
protrudes little in front. Tongue wide, smooth, free; front slightly
emarghiate. Front nostril midway in snout and hijid one close
over upper front eye edge. Interorbital depressed concavely. Pre-
opercle with concealed spine directed down. Rakers about 4 + 6
rudimentary tubercles and filaments nearly equal eye. Scales on
predorsal, about spinous dorsal base, head, breast, and belly, cycloid,
circuli complete, and basal striae about 18. Scales on trunk largely
ctenoid; basal striae about 32. Muzzle, most of mandible, cheeks in
front and below, naked. First dorsal hiserted about midway between
front pupil edge and hind dorsal ray base, secoiid spine 2| in head.
Soft dorsal inserted about midway between pectoral origin and
middle of caudal peduncle length; seventh ray 2 in head, also seventh
anal ray same. Caudal long, rounded, 1^ in head, pectoral 1-|,
ventral 2.
Color in alcohol deep warm brown, paler on under surfaces of head
and abdomen. Deep brown streak from eye to shoulder, where
widening as broad blackish band to upper basal part of caudal.
Back and sides also riiottled with deep brown. Two dark streaks
back over cheek from lower hmd eye edge and branohiostegal region
mottled with dull umber, also muzzle. Iris brown. Fins all finely
orossbarred with deep brown, coarser bands on spinous dorsal.
One from the Quanza River, 165 mm.
MAPO SOPORATOR (Valenciennes).
Head, 3 to 3i; depth, 4 J to 4^; D. VI— I, 8, i or 9, i; A. I, 8, i;
scales, 36 to 38 from shoulder to caudal base medially and 3 or 4
more on latter; 13 to 16 scales transversely between soft dorsal and
anal origins; 26 to 33 predorsal scales; snout, 3f to 4^ in head; eye,
4 J to 5i; maxillary, 21 to 2^; interorbital, 6f to 8. Body moderately
compressed. Caudal peduncle moderately long, v/eLl compressed;
least deptli about tlu-ee-fourths to four-fifths its length, or 2i to 2^
in head. Head width. If to l^ its length. Snout rather broad,
convex; length, two-thirds to tlu-ee-fourths its width. Eye well ad-
vanced; center near first third in head length, which is more backward
in smaller examples ; impmgmg on upper profile. Maxillary to hmd
pupil edge in smaller example, to eye in larger. Javrs about equal.
Teeth viliiform, outer row enlarged, in narrow bands in jaws. Tongue
thick, smooth, free, with sUght median notch in front. Front nostril
little nearer eye than snout tip and liind nostril close before eye.
Interorbital concave. Rakers, six short, Vv-eak, inconspicuous rudi-
mentary tubercles; filaments about half of eye. Scales crowded on
predorsal, breast, and belly. Predorsal scales cycloid, with about
14 basal striae and circuli rather obsolete. Head naked, except
occiput. Body scales ctenoid; circufi distinct and about 22 to 32
