NO. 2294. FISHES FROM WEST AFRICA— FOWLER. 291
dorsal. Head pointed, lower profile more inclined. Snout long as
broad. Eye large, adipose eyelids wide, hind pupil edge midway
in head length. I^Iaxillary to pupil. Lower jaw protrudes. Teeth
minute, simple, uniserial in jaws. Row of similar teeth on palatines
and small patch on vomer. Tongue pointed, free. Nostrils together,
nearly v/idth of pupil before upper front eye edge. Interorbital
convex. Rakers about 18+48, lanceolate, slender, equal filaments or
about 1 1 in eye. Pseudobranchiae about tliree-fif ths of gill-filaments.
Scales small, scutes in lower straight section of lateral line broader.
Spinous dorsal origin about midway between front eye edge and soft
anal origin in vertical, third spine longest. Soft dorsal inserted
nearly midway between front nostril and caudal base, front rays
little elevated. Soft anal similar, inserted about midway between
hind eye edge and caudal base. Caudal (tips damaged) about If in
head. Pectoral not quite to soft anal origin. Ventral close behind
pectoral base, three-fourths to spinous anal and vent close before latter.
Color in alcoliol uniform brownish, paler below, and body largely with
brassy reflections. Black opercular spot little smaller then pupil.
Pectoral axil black. Other fins all pale brownish. Dorsal tip and
outer portions of soft dorsal and anal each with dark brownish tinge.
Length, 331 mm.
Though I have no European examples for comparison, the above
seems to agree with Nilsson's account,^ he giving but 75 scutes, of
which were 38 spiny.
POMATOMUS SALTATRIX (Linnaeus).
Head, 3|; depth, 3*; D. VIII— II, 25; A. II, 28; scales in latera
line (damaged) 85 ( ?) to caudal base and 6 more on latter, 9 above, and
16 below; snout, SJ in head, measured from upper jaw tip; eye, 6;
•naxillary, 2^^; interorbital, 3 3. Rakers, 3+8, three-fourths of
filaments, and latter Ig in eye. Pectoral, If in entire head length.
Brown blotch at pectoral base. Length, 396 mm.
I have no examples over a foot in length for comparison, and these
from Massachusetts, New Jersey, and Rio Janeiro. The}^ all show
but 1 1 developed rakers on the lower arch, the formula so far examined
always 3 + n. The scales show no differences except characters of
age. The American exa,mples have but few scale denticles, and
usually with the numerous circuli unbroken, likely due to their
adolescence. The Cape example has strongly denticulated scales
and several basal striae.
DENTEX ARGYP.OZONA Valenciennes.
Head, 2|; depth, 2§; D. XII, 10, i; A. Ill, 8; scales, 56 in lateral
line to caudal base and about 7 more on latter; 7 scales above lateral
> Prodr. Ich. Scand., 1832, p. 38. In rinu. Codano & Mari Norvegica.
