DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF MOLLUSCA FROM THE
NORTH PACIFIC OCEAN IN THE COLLECTION OF THE
UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.
By William Healey Dall,
Honorary Curator of Mollasks, United States National Museum.
INTRODUCTION.
In preparing a census of the shell-bearing Marine Mollnsca of the
west coast of North America from the Arctic Sea to San Diego,
California, with the view of compiling a classified checklist of these
animals, it became necessary to review the entire fauna of the west
coast of both Americas, as it proved that the range of many species
is far greater than had hitherto been assumed. The National Col-
lection is probably the richest in the world for the region indicated,
including the dredgings of the United States Bureau of Fisheries
steamer Allatross, as well as the contributions of a multitude of
collectors during nearly half a century. The presence of the types of
species described by Gould, Carpenter, and Stearns among the earlier
collectors has facilitated the accurate determination of many more
or less obscure forms. Among the species examined, especially
those from warmer waters and from depths not reached by private
collectors, there were found many which seemed to be undescribed.
In order to avoid the publication in the checklist of manuscript
names or the omission of species needed for completeness, it has
seemed best to prepare diagnoses of such forms as appear clearly
new. This has already been done in another publication for the
group of Chitons and for the family of Turritidae (foi-merly known as
the Pleurotomidae) and the latter difficult group fully illustrated.
It is hoped that the other unfigured species may be illustrated later,
but under present conditions the best that could be done was the
preparation of full and exact diagnoses and measurements. The
types of these new species are, with hardly an exception, preserved in
the National Collection.
A thorough and exhaustive collection of the mollusca of the
Panamic fauna is still a desideratum and can hardly fail, when made,
to enormously increase the number of species known, especially
among the minute forms. There are particular areas like the Gulf
of Dulce in Central America and the St. Elena region on the north-
Proceedings U. S. National Museum. Vol. 56— No. 2295.
293
