294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
western coast of South America which promise rich returns to the
explorer. From the latter region Cuming many years ago obtained
material which kept the British naturalists, Broderip, Sowerby, and
Reeve busy for a score of years describing and illustrating his har-
vest of new forms. And yet Cuming seems to have collected very
few of the smaller species.
From California northward more exhaustive work has been done,
though there are notable gaps, many miles in extent, where dredging
has never been attempted and shore collections are practically un-
knowii. The character of the coast does not, in such regions, lend
itself to easy investigation. Nevertheless we may consider the gen-
eral fauna as fairly well known, though still affording the prospect of
many novelties.
If we regard that region where a given genus is represented by the
greatest number of specific forms as being probably the center of
origin for species of that group, the conclusion is quite obvious that
the Oregonian fauna taken in its widest sense is the parental source of
the greater part of the boreal mollusks of the world. On the other
hand, if the meager fauna of the boreal Atlantic be taken as the
focus of origin, the reverse would be true, and the differentiation of
specific forms be greatest at the most distant area of migration,
other things being equal.
The Tertiary faunas present much the same problem when ana-
lyzed, but in some instances suggest the possibility of reciprocal
migration; particular types appearing later in America than in
Europe, and the opposite. There can be no doubt, however, that
migration of species in the boreal region between the two hemis-
pheies was more easy and the routes more open in the Pliocene and
ate IMiocene than at any subsequent period. In the tropical region,
however, the reverse appears to be true, intercommunication be-
tween the two oceans having been finally interrupted at the end of the
Oligocene period. In my report on the collections of the Albatross
in the Panamic region I have called attention to the remarkable
difi'erences which have resulted from this cause in the composition of
the Caiibbean and Panamic mollusk faunas.
The explorations of the Albatross in the Okhotsk Sea and on
the coasts of northern Japan and eastern Siberia, taken with those
of the Canadian Arctic Expedition and others on the American side,
have cleared up many obscurities in our conception of the geographi-
cal distribution of boreal mollusks. We know now that the Asiatic
fauna, even near Bering Strait, notwithstanding its geographical
approximation is measm'ably distinct from that of the American
coasts, and that the latter on the Arctic shores extends without
Greenlandic admixtm-es far to the eastward of the Mackenzie River
delta. Of course there is the expected admixture of characteristically
