NO. 2288. NEW MOLLUSKS OF THE FAMILY TURRITIDAE—DALL. 11
constricted, very short, deep, and slightly recurved. Height of shell,
13.7; of last whorl, 6.5; diameter, 5 mm. Cat. No. 106495, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Scammon Lagoon, Lower California, collected by Henry
Hemphill.
ELAEOCYMA HALOCYDNE, new species.
Plate 4, fig. 4.
Shell slender, acute, rather flat-sided, purplish brown usually more
or less obscured by a yellowish white glaze: nucleus with the first turn
smooth, inflated, the second has a peripheral keel and is followed by
about eight and a half subsequent Avhorls ; suture strongly appressed
Avith a smooth narrow band in front of it and behind the somewhat
constricted fascicle; other spiral sculpture of sharph' incised lines,
four or five on the spire between the sutures, equal and with wider
equal rounded interspaces, and about 24 on the last whorl, the inter-
spaces becoming more cord-like near the canal and sometimes feebly
nodulous where the lines cut the ribs; axial sculpture of (on the
penultimate whorl about 18) feeble narrow ribs, stronger near the
apex, obsolete on the last whorl, with wider interspaces, beginning in
front of the fascicle, hardly reaching the base, and prctractivel}'^
oblique ; there are also fine sharp incremental lines, chiefly evident in
the depressions, but here and there finely reticulating the interspaces ;
aperture rather wide, anal sulcus conspicuous, rounded ; outer lip thin,
prominently arcuate, smooth within; inner lip with a thin layer of
brownish enamel, the edge raised anteriorly ; canal distinct, slightly
constricted, with a small concentrically striated siphonal fascicle.
Height of shell, 18; of last whorl, 10; diameter, 6 mm. Cat. No.
216748, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Station 203, off San Pedro; University of Southern
California.
ELAEOCYMA AEOLIA. new species.
Plate 3, fig. 1.
Shell small, brilliantly polished, pinkish brown, with a minute
smooth-pointed nucleus of three whorls and seven subsequent
Avhorls; suture distinct, appressed, constricted, and slightly undulated
by the sculpture; spiral sculpture of (on the spire two) incised lines
in front of the shoulder with much wider interspaces, on the last
wliorl there are about 10, extending to the canal ; axial sculpture of
(on the last whorl 11) rounded prctractively oblique ribs, somewhat
lighter colored than the body of the shell, extending from the
shoulder to the base and not crossed by the incised lines, the inter-
spaces subequal, the ribs not continuous up the spire ; aperture rather
wide, and sulcus well marked, short and close to the suture; outer
lip thickened, the edge sharp; inner lip erased, pillar short, canal
wide, short, slightl}^ recurved. Height of shell, 7; of last whorl, 3.5:
diameter, 2.5 mm. ' Cat. No. 208592, U.S.N.M.
