NO. 2295. NEW NORTH PACIFIC MOLLUSKS—DALL. 297
pillar which has a strong plait with a groove behind it, the body with
a slight glaze; length, 6.7; diameter, 2.5 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat.
No. 218410.
Type-locality.— Msigdsilena Bay, Lcwer California, collected by
C. R. Orcutt.
RETUSA XYSXaOM, new species.
Shell minute, white, subcylindric, the aperture as long as the shell,
the whorls involved, with a deep pit at the apex, slightly wider in
front; very little constricted around the middle; sculpture cf ex-
tremely fine close longitudinal grooves covering the whole surface;
the base produced, imperforate; the aperture very narro^v, outer lip
straight, as long as the shell, simple, sharp, rounding into the base;
length of the shell, 3; maximum diameter, 1 mm, U. S. Nat. Mus.
Cat. No. 273985.
Type-locality. — Dredged at San Diego, California, by C. R. Orcutt.
Also found at San Pedro.
RETUSA PAZLANA, new species.
Shell minute, white, with an involved spire, above which is a rather
large perforation; the general form is subcylindric, wider anteriorly,
obscurely widely constricted about the middle of the shell, rounded
at the summit, the aperture as long as the shell; sculpture wholly
axial, of fine, sharp, close vertical grooving extending over the whole
shell, with no perceptible spiral sculpture; aperture very narrow
except at the base, rising somewhat above the summit of the shell;
base rounded, pillar simple with no chink behind it; height, 3; maxi-
mum diameter, 1.4 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus, Cat. No. 211418.
Type-locality. — U. S. Fish Commission station 2823, off La Paz,
Gulf of California, in 26 fathoms broken shell,
RETUSA GALAPAGANA, new species.
Shell minute, white, involved, with a deep pit at the apex, the
aperture as long as the shell; form subcylindric, the diameter slightly
larger anteriorly, the middle of the whorl feebly constricted, the
whorl at the summit rounded; the entire shell axially closely sharply
grooved; outer lip thin, sharp, aperture very narrow behind the base,
pillar simple, rounding into the basal lip; height of shell, 3; maximum
diameter, 1.5 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 194976&.
Type-locality. — U. S, Fish Commission station 2813, at the Gala-
pagos Islands, in 40 fathoms, coral sand; temperature at surface,
81° F.
VOLVULELLA COOPERI, new species.
Shell subcylindric, white, in the young with a very short spine, the
adult having the spine obsolete or even absent, involved, bluntly
rounded at each extremity, the aperture as long as the shell: smface
