298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.56.
entirely smooth; aperture parallel with the body, very narrow, body
with no perceptible enamel, pillar very short, thickened, slightly
reflected with a minute cliink behind it; length of shell, 9.5; diam-
eter, 3.6 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 105501.
Type-locality. — Scammon Lagoon, Lower California, collected by
Henry Hemphill. Its range extends north to San Pedro, California.
This is larger, smoother, and less distinctly spinose in the adult
than any other west coast species.
VOLVULELLA CALIFOKNICA. new species.
Shell minute, polished, white, elongate-ovate, involved, with a
short apical spine; axial sculpture of very faint incremental lines;
spiral sculpture of microscopic striae licar the anterior end; axis
imperforate; aperture as long as the sliell, outer lip reaching to the
end of the spine, from which it is separated by a narrow groove,
laterally straight, anteriorly rounding to the slightly thickened
pillar; body with a coat of enamel which extends to the pillar and
the spine; length, 4; diameter, 1.7 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No.
211303.
Type-locality. — U. S. Fish Commission station 2902, off Santa Kosa
Island, California, in 53 fathoms sandy mud; the bottom tempera-
ture, 45° F.
VOLVULELLA PANAMICA. new species.
Shell small, involved, ivory white, smooth except for very famt
incremental lines, apex with a small short sharp spine extending
beyond the edge of the outer lip; form subcylii dric, aperture very
narrow with a deep apical sulcus, base romided, pillar very short
with a slight twist; length of shell, 4.25; diameter, 1.75 mm. U. S.
Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 212654.
Type-localiiy.—'Piin&mii Bay at station 2799, in 29^ fathoms,
U. S. Fish Commission.
VOLVULELLA CATHARIA, new species.
Shell small, plump, ovate, ivory white, involved, with a hardly
perceptible point at the apex; surface polished; aperture almost or
quite equal in length to the shell, narrow, wider in front, the outer lip
nearly straight laterally; near the apex and at the pillar the enamel
on the body is slightly reflected with a free edge; there are a few
hardly perceptible spiral striae, with wider interspaces, near the
anterior end; the shell, for so small a species, is relatively thick;
length of shell, 2.75; diameter, 1.8 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No.
211784.
Type-locality.— IJ. S. Fish Commission station 2794, in Panama
Bay, in 62 fathoms, sand; bottom temperature, 60° F.
