NO. 2295. A^iJW NORTH PACIFIC MOLLUSKS—DALL. 299
VOLVLTLELLA CALLICERA, new species.
Shell minute, involved, white, with a short spine at the apex, sub-
cylindrical, almost equally attenuated at both ends, smooth and pol-
ished, the outer lip slightly falling short of the end of the spine,
laterally straight, rounding gently into the pillar lip in front; aper-
ture not quite as long as the shell, the body polished, a slight thick-
ening on the pillar lip; length, 3.5; diameter, 1 mm. U. S. Nat.
Mus. Cat. No. 194976&.
Tyx>e-localiiy. — U. S. Fish Commission station 2813, off the Gala-
pagos Islands, in 40 fathoms, coral sand.
SCAPHANDER WILLETTI, new species.
Shell small, yellowish white, of about four whorls, the apex sunken
but exposed in a pit bounded by a sharp carina, the shell wider
anteriorly; surface with faint incremental lines crossed obliquely by
minute vermicular sculpture, which is niore nearly spiral about the
middle of the shell and visible only imder a lens; aperture narrow
behind, wider and produced in front, the edge of the outer lip pro-
duced to form the apical carina, laterally straight and rounded to the
pillar in front; umbilical region covered with a smooth layer of enamel,
pillar concave, axis twisted; height of shell, 12.5; maximum diameter,
7; diameter at apex, 2 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 216405.
Tyj^e-localii'y.—ForTGster Island, Alaska; George Willett.
DIAPHANA BRUNNEA, new species.
Shell small, reddish brown, thin, with a small subglobular nucleus
and about tliree whorls, separated on the flattish summit by a rather
deep suture; the last whorl rather large, swollen, widest in front;
surface smooth; aperture not quite as long as the shell, narrow
behind, expanded in front; outer lip thin, nearly straight, rounding
into the pillar lip which is reflected over but does not close a narrow
umbilical chink; inner lip thinly glazed, the axis not gyrate; height
of shell, 5; diameter, 3.5 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 208718.
Type-locality. — Harbor of St. Paul, Kodiak, Alaska; in 15 to 20
fathoms, gravelly bottom. Collected by W. H. Dall.
DIAPHANA CALIFORNICA, new species.
Shell translucent and whitish, thin, the brown soft parts showing
through, subcylindric, the nucleus minute, globular, with about three
subsequent whorls ; the spire blunt with the whorls rounded narrowly
above a deep suture; surface smooth except for faint incremental
lines, polished; aperture as long as the shell, posterior sulcus sm_all,
outer lip thin, sharp, straight, axis imperforate, pillar lip thin, body
hardly glazed; height, 4.5; diameter, 2.5 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat.
No. 130561.
