300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
Type-locality. — Long Beach, California; collected by Miss Shepard,
now Mrs. Oldroyd.
CVLICHNELLA (BULLINELLA) DIEGENSIS. new species.
Shell small, thin, cylindric, white, with a pale straw-colored peri-
ostracum with reddish brown spiral lines on the base and near the
apex; whorls involved, the apex exhibiting a funicular depression
ending in a minute perforation; the surface smooth and polished
except for faint incremental lines; aperture very narrov/, the outer
lip thin, straight, recurving deeply around the apex, at the base
receding and rounding uito the simple, thickened pillar lip; body
with a slight glaze; length of shell, 8; diameter, 3.5 mm. U. S. Nat.
Mus. Cat. No. 209071.
Tyye-locality. — -U. S. Fish Commission station 4359, off Point
Loma, San Diego County, California, in 98 to 191 fathoms, muddy
bottom.
Bl LLAXJIA QL'OYANA, new name.
This is Bulla quoyi A. Adams, 1850, but not of Gray, 1843. The
species ranges from Catalina Island, California, to Acapulco, Mexico.
HAMINOEA OLGAE, new species.
Shell large, thin, very light yellowish green or reddish brown,
inflated, with the outer lip rising high above the sunken and impervi-
ous spire; the apical depression not carinate, the axis gyrate and
wideh^ pervious; outer lip arcuate, thin, sharp, rounding into ih.&
pillar below; axial sculpture confined to low narrow irregular wrinkles,
stronger dis tally; spiral sculpture of minute, close-set, slightly wavy
striae over the whole surface; the inner lip with a thin coating of
whitish enamel; height of shell, 27; dianieter, 16 mm. U. S. Nat.
Mus. Cat. No. 216812.
Type-locality . — Sandspit, Peavine Pass, Olga, Washington, collected
by C. C. Engberg. The species ranges to Lower California, at San
Quentin Bay.
The nearest relative of this species is //. vesicula Gould, which is
uniformly smaller, paler, with a shorter body and wider axial gyration.
PHILINE BAKERI, new species.
Shell mmute, translucent, of two or more whorls, enfolded, except
the subglobular nucleus by the last whorl; apex blunt; last whorl
narrow, obliquely expanded in front; sculpture of numerous fine
incised punctate spiral lines with wider interspaces; axis gyrate,
pervious; aperture as long as the shell, narrow behind with a very
slight sulcus, but widely expanded in front; outer lip thin, sharp,
straight, inner lip hardly glazed; height, 2; diameter, 1.25 mm. U. S.
Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 225194.
