NO. 2295. NEW NORTH PACIFIC MOLLUSKS—DALL. gOl
Type-locality. — Off the South Coronado Island in 3 to 6 fathoms ;
collected by Dr. Fred Baker.
PHILINE HEMPHILLI, new species.
Shell small, greenish-white, thin, of about three whorls, the last
enveloping the others, the axis gyrate, widely pervious; apex de-
pressed, not perforate, bluntly rounded; aperture as long as the shell;
surface smooth, except for a few microscopic spirals near the summit
and faint increm^ental lines; outer lip thin, a deep sulcus between it
and the spire; the middle part of the lip much produced, the anterior
part receding and curving roundly into the thin pillar lip, the body
hardly glazed; height, 5; diameter, 3 ram. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No.
211753.
Type-locality. — U. S. Fish Commission station 2936, off Cape San
Quentin, Lower California, in 359 fathom.s; bottom temperature,
49° F.
CKYPTOGEMMA EIDOLA, new species.
Shell sm.all, white, covered with an olivaceous periostracum, and
with four whorls exclusive of an apical whorl or two (which in the
specmiens is always eroded), suture distinct, the edge of the whorl
in front of it slightly thickened; spiral sculpture on the upper whorls
of a somewhat blunt peripheral keel, undulated more or less toward
the apex and obsolete on the last whorl; other sculpture of minute,
broken, irregular, more or less oblique, usually punctate impressed
lines; aperture simple, the outer lip sharp, the body erased, white,
the canal short, som.ewhat recurved; height of four whorls, 15; of
last whorl, 10; diameter, 7 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 21233Ca.
Type-locality. — Off San Diego, California, in 822 fathoms, mud;
U. S. Fish Commission.
CRYPTOGEMMA OREGGNENSIS, new species.
Shell small, white, with a pale olivaceous periostracum, and more
than four vv'horls, the apex always eroded, the suture distinct, the
whorl in front of the suture as far as the shoulder flattish; shoulder
of the whorl strongly marked, angular, coronated by the ends of
(on the penultimate whorl about 25) straight, protractively oblique
narrow ribs with subequal interspaces, becoming obsolete on the
base of the last whorl; incremental lines more or less distinct but
not regular; sphal sculpture of one or two feeble impressed lines
on the whorl above the shoulder, and three or four v/idely spaced
threads on the base, though the region of the canal is free from
spiral sculpture; aperture narrow, anal sulcus wide and shallow,
outer lip produced, thin, body and pillar erased, canal rather short,
axis pervious; height of four whorls 11; of last whorl, 7; diameter,
5 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 214243.
