302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. voi,. 56.
Type-locality. — ^U. S. Fish Commission station 3346, off Tillamook
Bay, Oregon, in 786 fathoms, ooze; bottom temperature, 37.3° F.
BORSONELLA CIVITELLA, new species.
Shell fusiform, elongate, acute, of a pale buff color, of eight or
more whorls, the nucleus defective, the suture distinct, not appressed;
axial sculpture of (on the penultimate whorl, 9) short prominent
ribs conspicuous only on the periphery and obsolete on the later
part of the last whorl, the incremental Imes are also rather con-
spicuous; there is no spiral sculpture except a few faint lines on the
anal fasciole which is adjacent to the suture; in addition to the
above there are minute oblique striae often punctate, with wider
interepaces which cross the incremental lines almost at right angles;
these, hardly visible except under a lens, give the surface a vermi-
culate aspect; aperture rather narrow, the anal sulcus wide and
shallow, the outer lip strongly protractively arcuate, thin, simple;
inner lip with a thin wash of callus, pillar straight with a single
plait, throat yellowish, canal wide, straight; height of shell, 19;
of last whorl, 11.5; of aperture, 8; diameter, 6.5 mm. U. S. Nat.
Mus. Cat. No. 209034.
Type-locality.— {]. S. Fish Commission station 4310, off Point
Loma, California, in 71 to 75 fathoms sandy mud.
The plait on the pillar is mvisible from the aperture.
LORA FIOSA, new species.
Shell small, grayish white, acute, with a small subglobular nucleus
and six subsequent whorls moderately rounded and with a slight
shoulder; suture distinct, not appressed; spiral sculpture of (on the
penultimate whorl in front of the shoulder about 6) incised lines,
with wider mterspaces, overrunnuig the ribs; on the last whorl tliia
sculpture extends to the canal; axial sculpture of (on the last whorl
about 17) short rounded ribs extendmg from the shoulder, where
they are most prominent, over the periphery and obsolete on the
base; there are also fairly distinct incremental lines; aperture short,
wide, with a feeble anal sulcus and hardly differentiated canal;
outer lip thin, simple, inner lip erased; throat whitish; height of
shell, 9.75; of last whorl, 6; of aperture, 4; diameter, 4 mm. U. S.
Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 220399a.
Type-locality.— Adakh Island, Aleutians, in 15 fathoms, mud and
sand; collected by W. H. Dall.
LORA CASENTINA, new species.
Shell small, white, with about five whorls, the nucleus decor-
ticated, the whorls with a sub angular shoulder m front of the anal
fasciole; axial sculpture of (on the penultimate whorl about 20)
