NO. 2295. NEW NORTH PACIFIC MOLLUSKS—DALL. 303
low, thread-like ribs extending from the shoidder to the succeeding
suture, but more or less obsolete on the last whorl; spiral sculpture
of faint feeble striae on the fasciole, in front of the shoulder of
numerous close-set flattish small threads, extending uniformly to the
canal; anal sulcus shallow; outer lip slightly arcuate, inner lip
erased; piUar short, straight; canal hardly differentiated; height of
shell, 9; of last whorl, 7; diameter, 5 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat.
No. 209257.
Type-locality. — U. S. Fish Commission station 4538, off Pomt
Pinos Light, Monterey Bay, California, m 795 to 871 fathoms, sand.
LORA GALGANA, new species.
Shell white, under a yellowish periostracum, of six or more obtusely
shouldered whorls, the apex decorticated, the suture appressed;
axial sculpture on the earlier whorls of about 18 protractively oblique
rounded ribs, slightly angulate at the shoulder, feeble on the fasciole
and crossing the whorls except on the last whorl where they grad-
ually become obsolete; the whole surface is spirally sculptured with
fine close-set threads, here and there one a little more prominent
than the rest, others near the canal coarser; anal sulcus wide and
shallow; outer lip arcuate, inner lip erased; canal moderately long,
slightly recurved; height of shell, 15; of last whorl, 11; diameter,
6 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 214173.
Type-locality. — ^U. S. Fish Commission station 3330, Bering Sea,
north of Unalaska in 351 fathoms, sand.
LORA AMJATA, new species.
Shell elevated, rugose, white under a pale yellow periostracum,
with six subtabulate v/horls, the nucleus decorticated, suture obscure,
closely appressed; spiral sculpture of an angle at the shoulder,
between v/hich and the suture are four or five close-set small equal
threads; iii front of the shoulder is a constriction beyond which are
about a dozen deep grooves with v/ider rounded interspaces which
are finely spirally striated; on the canal there are crowded small
threads; axial sculpture of about 15 short ribs extending from the
shoulder, which they nodulate, to the periphery only; aperture
narrow with a shallow anal sulcus; outer lip thiii, mner lip erased,
canal straight and short; height of shell, 15; of last v/horl, 10.5; of
aperture, 8; diameter, 7 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 214219.
Type-locality. — Off Belkoffski, Alaska, in 15 to 75 fathoms, shelly
bottom; collected by Vv". H. DaU.
LORA RASSINA, new species.
Shell small, white, with a small (decorticated) nuclear v/horl and
five subsequent slightly shouldered v/horls; suture distinct, not
