30 i PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.56.
appressed; axial sculpture of (on the last whorl about 20) narrow-
rounded ribs extending from the suture over the periphery but niore
or less obsolete on the base; the interspaces wider; spiral sculpture
of numerous close-set rounded threads over the whole surface but not
nodulating the ribs; anal sulcus very shallow, outer lip thin, nearly
straight, mner lip erased, canal very short, hardly differentiated
from the aperture; height of shell, 10; of last whorl, 7; diameter,
5.5 mm, U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 214224.
Type-locality. — U. S. Fish Commission station 3305, in Bering Sea,
southwest of Hagmeister Island iu 23 fathoms, mud; bottom tem-
perature, 41.8° F.
PHILBERTIA CAPANIOLA, new species.
Shell smaU, strongly sculptured, yellowish wiiite, elevated, with
about six whorls, includmg the smooth minute nucleus of about one
whorl; suture distinct, rather deep, whorls well rounded; axial
sculpture of (on the last whorl 11, omittmg the fhial varLx) narrow
rounded ribs with a slight shoulder, extending to the canal, with
wider intei-spaces, both crossed by the spirals but without nodula-
tion; spiral sculpture of (on the spire in front of the shoulder about 4)
well-defined cords with narrower interspaces, v/hich become more or
less obsolete on the last whorl; aperture narrow, the anal sulcus
shallow, and producing no very marked fasciole; outer lip infolded,
thick, with a varical swelling behind it, simple withm; body erased,
piUar short, straight; canal hardly differentiated; height of shell,
6.5; of last whorl, 4; of aperture, 3.5; diameter, 3 mm. U. S. Nat,
Mus. Cat. No. 150992a.
Type-locality. — Near San Diego, southeast of Point Loma, in 12 to
15 fathoms; collected by Dr. Fred Baker.
MANGILIA (KURTZIELLA) ALESIDOTA, new species.
Shell small, yellowish, with on the last whorl a faint dark band in
front of the suture and an obscure dark line at the periphery, with a
dark flush on the canal; with six whorls, including a minute smooth
nucleus followed by a minutely reticulated second whorl, and then by
the adult sculpture; suture distinct, slightly appressed, the anal
fasciole occupying the space between it and an angular shoulder;
axial sculpture of (on the penultimate whorl, 15) narrow, sharp,
arcuate ribs extending from the suture over the periphery, with
wider interspaces; there are also minute incremental lines roughening
the spirals; spiral sculpture of numerous minutely channeled grooves
with wider flattish intei-spaces (the latter sometimes v.dth a smaller
median groove) covering the whole surface; aperture narrow, with a
wide very shallow anal sulcus; outer lip thin, sharp, body erased,
pillar straight, axis pervious, gyrate; canal hardly differentiated;
