NO. 2295. NmV NORTH PACIFIC MOLLUSKS—DALL. 307
tlireo subsequent whorls; spire low, covered with a thin coating of
enamel which partly obscures the sutures; last whorl plump, v/ith
a tinge of yellow outside the varLx and around the siphonal fasciole;
outer lip with a narrow external thickening, internally quite smooth;
inner lip with four prominent thin plaits with wider interspaces,
counting the elevated edge of the pillar; height of shell, 27; of last
whorl, 25; diameter, 17 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 101068.
Type-localiiy. — West Mexico, received from Prof. Alfred Duges.
This belongs to the group of M. curia Sowerby, but is a much thin-
ner and more elegant shell.
MARGINELLA POLITIJLA (COOPER MS.), new s.jeciee.
Shell minute, translucent white, of about two and a lialf whorls,
the spire evident but covered with transparent enamel; it is widest
posteriorly but docs not attenuate rapidly enough to become pyri-
form; the aperture is nearly as long as the shell, the outer lip thick-
ened, internally smooth, nearly straight; inner lip polished with
three oblique plaits; height of shell, 3; maximum diameter, 1.5 mm,
U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 23240.
Type-loculiiy. — Catalina Island, California, in 30 fathoms, collected
by J. G. Cooper.
The differences which separate these small MarginelUdae are not
great but appear to be constant enough to take specific rank. The
present species has long been known among collectors by Doctor
Cooper's manuscript name, but so far as I have discovered has
never been described, although it was collected by Colonel Jewett
in 1849.
MARGINELLA EREMIIS, new species.
Shell small, white, smooth, solid, v.dth about four whorls, the
nucleus, as in most abyssal species of the genus, being subglobular
and relatively large; suture appressed, rather obscure, general form
of the shell not unlike that of M, yucaiecana of the West Indies, but
more slender and much smaller; outer lip thickened, especially near
the posterior commissure, near which is a single denticle on the inner
side of the lip; in front of this a few obscure low nodulations; inner
lip with four subequal plaits, including that at the edge of the pillar ;
height of shell, 5 ; of last whorl, 4 ; diameter, 2.4 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus.
Cat. No. 207622.
Type-localiiy. — Near the Galapagos Islands, at U. S. Fish Commis-
sion station 2808, in 634 fathoms, sand; bottom temperature 39.9° F.
MARGINELLA ANTICLEA, new species.
Shell minute, smooth, evenly spindle shaped, glistening milk v/hite,
with about four whorls, including a moderately large blunt nucleus;
suture obscured by a thin coat of enamel; aperture narrow, outer lip
