308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. ^ol. 56.
thin, with no internal denticulations; pillar with four plaits, including
the thickened edge, the two posterior plaits larger than the others;
general form not unlike that of eremus, but more slender; height of
shell, 3.5; of last whorl, 2.8; diameter, 1.6 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus.
Cat. No. 194986.
Type-locality. — U. S. P'ish Commission station 2813, among tho
Galapagos Islands, in 40 fathoms, coral sand.
HYALINA MYRMECOON, new species.
Shell minute, white, smooth, polished, with about three whorls
forming a blunt spire, widest n.ear the posterior commissure of the
aperture, attenuated in front, sides moderately convex; suture ob-
scure; aperture r.arrow, outer lip straight, slightly thickened; body
with a w^ash of enamel, pillar with three plaits; height, 3.3 ; maximum
diameter, 1.6 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 9440.
Type-locality. — San Diego, California (Brannan), Stearns Collec-
tion.
Genus BOREOMELON Dall, 1918.
Type.- — Scaplidla stearnsii Dall, 1872.
The fortunate receipt of some ovicapsules of this species shows that
the larval specimens have a smooth, shelly nucleus, so that it must be
removed from the Caricellinae, to which it has hitherto l^een referred,
and placed under Fulgoraria in the Volutinae. In the absence of the
nuclear characters the writer formerly placed this species with
Adelomelon, though with some doubts.
Genus PHENACOPTYGMA Dall. 1918.
Shell fusiform, with transverse and axial sculpture, elongated canal
and apparently simple pillar; the axis in the upper whorls with two
well-marked plications.
Type.—Surculina cortezi Dall, 1908.
This shell has the appearance of a Pleurotomoid, with the whorl
constricted and appressed near the suture and a feeble mcurvation
of the margin of the lip at the constriction. By grindhig away a por-
tion of the apical whorls it was revealed that the axis is furnished
with plications which extend to the beginning of the penultimate
whorl. It is probably a member of the Volutidae, which family is
known to include several genera in which the plaits become obsolete
before reaching the apertm"e, or even, as in Halia, completely dis-
appear.
STRIGATELLA (ATRIMITRA) CATALINAE, new species.
Shell solid, black, fusiform, with about seven whorls exclusive of
the (lost) nucleus; suture depressed, not deep, the whorls only mod-
erately convex and polished; axial sculpture of extremely fine hardly
perceptible incremental lines; spiral sculpture of about four fine in-
