12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.56.
Range.— Stsition 3020, off Cape Tepoca, Gulf of California, in 7
fathoms, sand, and shell ; U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
ELAEOCYMA EMPYROSIA Dall.
Plate 4, fig. 1.
DrilUa empyrosia Dall, Nautilus, vol. 12, No. 11, p. 127, March, 1899 ; Proc.
U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 24, No. 1264, p. 516, pi. 39, fig. 5, March, 1902.
Elaeocyma empyrosia Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 54, No. 2238, p. 317,
April 5, 1918.
Range. — Off San Pedro, Cal., in moderate depths of water.
This is the typical species of Elaeocyma.
ELAEOCYMA ABDERA, new species.
Plate 4, fig. .5.
Shell small, acute, thin, of a dull waxen color with a darker blotch
behind the aperture and a dark brown nucleus of a whorl and a half,
smooth and polished, and nine subsequent whorls; spiral sculpture of
obscure fine threads, on the last whorl in addition there is a more
prominent duplex thread in front of the suture ; on the base are four
other widely separated threads only prominent as nodules at their
intersection with the line of the ribs; there are six or more finer
threads on the canal; axial sculpture of (on the last whorl 7 or 8)
ribs which appear at the periphery as conspicuous nodules and be-
come obsolete on the base except at the intersections above mentioned ;
there are also fine, sharp, close, arcuate incremental lines on the anal
fasciole; the peripheral nodules are more riblike and numerous on
the earlier part of the spire; aperture short, rather wide, the anal
sulcus deep, oval, almost tubular; outer lip moderately thickened,
sharp-edged, smooth inside, with a prominent knob behind it; inner
lip smooth with a rather thick layer of enamel continued down the
pillar with a raised edge and a chink behind it; canal short and
wide, hardly differentiated, with an inconspicuous siphonal fasciole.
Height of shell, 15; of last whorl, 8; diameter, 6 mm. Cat. No.
212373, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Panama Bay at station 2798, in 18 fathoms, sandy bottom.
U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
This specimen is not as brilliantly polished as most of the species
of the gi'oup which, however, may be due to wear.
ELAEOCYMA AEGINA, new species.
Plate 4, fig. 2.
Shell brownish, pale on the early whorls, with a whitish glaze,
polished, acute, except for the nuclear apex, which is flattened; nu-
cleus smooth, polished, of two whorls, the second sharply keeled and
passing gradually into the sculpture of the subsequent eight and a
half whorls; suture strongly appressed behind the concave arcuately
