KO. 2295. NEW NORTH PACIFIC M0LLUSK8~DALL. 309
conspicuous minutely punctate incised lines, only strong on the very
early whorls, obsolete on the last whorl, with wide interspaces crossed
by almost microscopic spiral striae; aperture narrow, the canal hardly
differentiated, the enamel very dark, only the plaits whitish, the
anterior plait feeble, only distinct in the completely adult shell, the
other three conspicuous and strong. Height of shell, 29 ; of last whorl,
20; of aperture, 15; diameter, 11 mm. U. S. Nat Mus. Cat. No.
219648.
Ty]ie-locality. — San Pedro, California, Ivli-s. Baldridge.
No special name having been applied to the group of black Striga-
tellas of the Pacific coast, although their similarities are so striking,
I have proposed the designation Atrimiira (1918).
STRIGATELLA (ATRIMITRA) DIEGENSIS, new species.
Shell small, blackish brown, slender, with a whitish nucleus of
about three whorls and four subsequent whorls; the initial part of
the nucleus very small and forming a blmit apex, the whole nucleus
smooth and changing suddenly to the normal sculpture; the latter
begins with four rounded, somewhat undulated strong spiral cords
with narrower interspaces; on the next whorl the cords have flat-
tened out and the much narrower interspaces are channeled; on
the subsequent whorls tlie cords become still flatter and wider a,nd
the interspaces narrow grooves, occasionally punctate from the inter-
section of incremental lines otherwise hardly visible; on the last
whorl the grooves arc obsolete on the middle of the whorl, but there
are half a dozen fee])le threads on the base and canal; the suture is
closely appressed ; aperture narrow, simple, outer lip hardly thickened,
body erased, pillar with two prominent and one obscure plait; canal
not differentiated; height of shell, 14; of last v/horl, 11; of aperture,
8 mm,; diameter 5.5 nmi. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 252998.
Type-localiiy . — San Diego, California; White Collection.
STKIGATELLA (ATRIMITRA) MEXICANA, new species.
Shell large, solid, originally black, but the type-specimen is now
decorticated and has lost its nucleus; spire acute, of more than seven
moderately rounded whorls, the apex defective; spiral sculpture on
the early whorls of half a dozen feeble flattish cords with narrower
interspaces, stronger near the preceding suture, absent on the an-
terior part of the whorl; these continue but less obviously on the
last whorl and similar but stronger cords appea,r on the base, the
peripheral region remaining smooth; the canal hardly differentiated
but slightly recurved, forming a well marked fasciole; pillar with three
strong plaits about midway of the aperture; length of shell, 72; of
last whorl, 48; of aperture, 35; maximum diameter, 24 mm. U. S
Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 274124.
