310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 5G.
Type-locality. — U. S. Fish Commission station. 3011, off Guaymas,
Mexico, in 71 fathoms, sand.
VOLUTOPSIUS ROTUNDUS, new species.
Shell large, slender, rather thin, with a distinct almost constricted
suture and more than five rounded whorls (the extreme apex defec-
tive) ; white or pinkish with a thin dehiscent pale straw-colored
periostracum; axial sculpture on the apical whorls of a few, irregular,
low plications, mostly with narrower interspaces; on the rest of the
shell only irregular incremental rugosities; spiral sculpture on the
last whorl behind the base, of half a dozen obscure low cords with
wider interspaces; on the base these cords number about 15, becom-
ing more regular and close anteriorly; the canal is still more finely
and closely threaded; aperture elongate, outer lip thin, body and
pillar erased; canal short and wide. Height of four whorls, 105; of
last whorl, 75; diameter, 40 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 206350.
Type-locdliiy . — Kodiak Island, jVlaska; Fisher.
This is also rather common in Cook's Inlet, and may prove to be
a Beringius.
VOLUTOPSIUS FILOSUS. new species.
Shell small, solid, fusiform, of a livid flesh color with grayish
white outer coat and dehiscent olivaceous periostracum and about
six whorls, the nucleus decorticated; suture distinct, rather deep;
sculpture of uniform fine fiattish threads, close-set, about two to a
millimeter, covering the whole surface, with axial sculpture of fine
inconspicuous incremental lines; whorls evenly rounded but not
inflated; aperture elongate, the outer lip thickened and slightly
reflected; the body and rather straight pillar thickly enameled; canal
short and wide, slightly recurved, with a feeble fasciole; the oper-
culum is brown, narrow, parallel-sided, with the nucleus at the right-
hand corner. Height of shell, 64; of last whorl, 52; diameter, 30
mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 223055.
Type-locality. — U. S. Fish Commission station 3283, off the
Khudubine Islands, Bering Sea, in 39 fathoms, sand; bottom tem-
perature, 40.3° F.
VOLUTOPSIUS MIDDENDORFFH. new variety EMPHATICUS.
Shell smaller than the average typical middendorffi, with the fine
spiral striae and threadlike incremental lines emphasized so as to
form a fine cloth-like reticulation on the surface. A female specimen
measures, height of shell, 92; of last whorl, 70; diameter, 50 mm.
U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 205368.
Type-locality. — U. S. Bureau of Fisheries station 4982, in the
Japan Sea, in 390 fathoms, mud; bottom temperature, 32.7° F.
