NO. 2295. NEW NORTH PACIFIC MOLLUSKS—DALL. 311
VOLUTOPSIUS DIMINUTUS, new species.
Shell small for the genus, pale flesh color, with six whorls, of which
about two (decorticated) belong to a swollen nucleus apically blunt;
the spire is rather attenuated, the whorls moderately rounded, the
suture narrow and deep; surface in front of the suture smooth halfway
to the periphery on the last whorl then spirally sculptured with
numerous shallow grooves, with much wider flat interspaces, the
grooves almost punctuate b}^ the incremental sculpture which also
gives them a more or less minutely irregular course and transversely
striates the interspatial surfaces; aperture lunate, the outer lip
somewhat expanded and thickened, the body and pillar callous, the
canal short and wide, a little recurved; height of shell, 42; of last
whorl, 31; diameter, 21 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 206829a.
Type-locality. — U. S. Bureau of Fisheries station 4844, in the
Japan Sea, in 116 fathoms.
BERINGIUS CREBKICOSTATUS, new variety UNDATUS
Specimens (mostly young) differing from the typical form in having
about 17 arcuate rounded ribs extending from the constricted suture
to the periphery and obsolete on the base; there are also more numer-
ous (about 18) spiral ridges, smaller and of course much closer together
than in the case of the typical form. The apex of the largest specimen
(about two-thirds grown) is defective, but there are five completed
whorls, measuring 78 mm. long and with a diameter of 35 mm.
U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 223031.
Type-locality.— U. S. Bureau of Fisheries station 4224, at Cygnet
Inlet, Boca de Quadra, Alaska, in 160 fathoms, mud; bottom tempera-
ture, 43.7° F.
BERINGIUS KENNICOTTII, new variety INCISUS.
Shell resembling the typical form but more slender and with the
spiral sculpture very sharply emphasized, the striae becoming grooves
and the base coarsely threaded. Height of immature shell, 75; of
last whorl, 50; diameter, 35 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 110488.
Type-locality. — U. S. Bureau of Fisheries station 4779, on Petrel
Bank, Bering Sea, in 54 fathoms, gravel.
In a large series of the typical B. Icennicoitii I find the axial ribs
varying in number on the last whorl from 9 to 19 ; the specimens with
the more numerous ribs and inflated whorls, being usually females
who have to carry the material for the large ovicapsules.
BERINGIUS MARSHALLI, new species.
Shell large and thin, livid flesh color, with a dehiscent, thin, pale
brownish periostracum; suture distinct, constricted, the whorl
slightly flattened in front of it; spire attenuate with seven whorls
