312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
exclusive of the (lost) nucleus, the apical whorls feebly irregularly
axially plicate, the others with only rather conspicuous silky incre-
mental lines; at the shoulder on the last whorl are developed low
oblique, irregular ridges with wider interspaces; a few also appear
near the periphery; on the base there are about eight low obscure
ridges with wider interspaces; aperture ovate, pinkish brown within,
outer lip thin, body and pillar with a thin layer of enamel, the pillar
nearly straight, as is the wide short canal; the operculum large,
black, with apical nucleus. Height of shell, 144: of last whorl, 100;
diameter, 54 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 224077.
Type-locality. — U. S. Bureau of Fisheries station 3549, in Bering
Sea, off Unalaska, in 78 fathoms, sand; bottom temperature, 40.1° F.
Named in honor of Mr. W. B. Marshall of the National Museum,
staff and well kno\vn as a student of fresh water mollusca.
BERINGIUS INDENTATUS, new species.
Shell large, short^spired, acute, solid, livid whitish, with a thin
dehiscent pale brownish periostracum and six shouldered whorls
exclusive of the (lost) nucleus; axial sculpture of (on the penultimate
whorl, 14) rounded, arcuate ribs, withv/ider interspaces, most promi-
nent at the shoulder but extending over the periphery almost to the
canal, though somewhat irregularly disposed; other axial sculpture
of rather conspicuous crov/ded incremental lines; spiral sculpture
none, on and near the periphery of the last whorl are a few more or
less obsolete irregularly divergent raised lines; aperture wide, white,
throat pinkish, outer lip thin, expanded, body and pillar thickly
enameled, pillar straight, canal short, shallow, wide, hardly recurved;
operculum dark brown, chrysodomoid, the scar of attachment rela-
tively small. Height of shell, 110; of last whorl, 78; diameter, 58
mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 213315.
Type-locality. — U. S. Fish Commission station 3282, off the Khudu-
bine Islands, Bering Sea, in 53 fathoms mud; bottom temperature,
38.2° F.
This belongs to the group of B. Icennicottii.
ANCISTROLEPIS EUCOSMIUS, new Tariety BICINCTUS.
Shell resembling typical eucosmius, but with, on the spire, only
two strong spiral ridges, equidistant from the sutures, and on the
base three more adjacent, smaller, and diminishing in size and sepa-
ration toward the canal. The surface is covered with a delicately
reticulated, velvety periostracum of a pale olive color over white
shelly matter. The operculum is normal. Height, 28; diameter,
17 mm., the apex shghtly eroded. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 122673.
Type-locality. — U. S. Fish Commission station 3337, southeast of
Unalaska, Alaska, in 280 fathoms, mud.
