NO. 2295. NEW NORTH PACIFIC MOLLVSKS—DALL. 813
ANCISTROLEPIS CALIFORNICUS, new .species.
Shell of moderate size, solid, white, with an olivaceous periostra-
cum, with about seven whorls, excluding the (defective) nucleus,
with the sutural channel almost obliterated; apical whorls with two,
later whorls with three strong but not sharp carinae, revolving
nearl}^ equidistant between the sutures, the posterior carina slightly
smaller than the others; on the base are about half a dozen similar
carinae beside the small spiral threads on the canal; other spiral
sculpture of minute striae and threads pretty uniform over the
surface, with an occasional stronger intercalary tluread; axial sculp-
ture of faint irregular incremental lines on which the periostracum
is sometimes raised; aperture v/hite, internally reflecting the stronger
sculpture; outer lip thin, not reflected, body erased, pillar short,
strong, sharply twisted, with a short wide canal. Height of shell,
46; of last whorl, 33; diameter, 30 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No.
122667.
Type-locality. — U. S. Fish Commission station 2919, in 984 fathoms,
mud, near the Cortez bank oft' the coast of southern California.
This is a larger and more conic shell than A. eucosmius and has
fewer keels.
ANCISTROLEPIS BERINGIANUS, new species.
Shell large, solid, livid whitish, with a long acute spire, the apex
defective, but the shell had more than six whorls, separated by a
very narrow deep suture and covered by a very thin pale oUvaceous
periostracum; whorls well rounded, with four or five nearly obsolete
flattish spiral ridges between the base and the shoulder, with wider
interspaces, the base delimited by a stronger cord, in front of which
are eight or ten similar flattish spirals more closely set. There is
also a very minute scratchy spiral striation; axial sculpture only of
rather rude incremental lines; aperture short and wide, the outer
lip thin, not expanded, the body erased, the pillar short, white,
twisted, the axis not quite pervious, and with a feeble fasciole.
Height of five whorls, 98; of last whorl, 66; of aperture and short
wide canal, 51; diameter, 52 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 205401.
Type-locality. — U. S. Bm-eau of Fisheries station 4794, in western
Bering Sea, off Starichkoff Island, in 58 fathoms, gravel.
ANCISTROLEPIS TROCHOIDEUS Dall.
Shell small, short, wide, white, with about five whorls, the nucleus
eroded, white, with a pale olive, minutely laminate periostracum;
upper whorls with two later with four angular keels, with smaller
intercalary cords, the base with seven strong rounded cords with
equal interspaces; axial sculpture of fine incremental lines on which
at regular intervals the periostracum is laminar; aperture wide,
