314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.56.
white, the body and pillar with a thick coat of enamel, the pillar
short, twisted, with a wide canal. Height, 30; height of last whorl,
24; diameter, 20 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 205098.
Type-locality. — Off Yokohama, Japan, in 600 fathoms.
This is Ghrysodomus trochoideus Dall, 1907.
PLICIFUSUS (RETIFLSUS1 INCISUS, new species.
vShell of moderate size, whitish, with a yellowish brown periostra-
cmn and about seven well-rounded rapidly increasing whorls, the
nucleus eroded; suture distinct, deep; axial sculpture of numerous
retractively arcuate small plications with subequal interspaces,
extending from suture to suture, but becoming obsolete on the last
part of the last whorl; the incremental lines evident but not con-
spicuous; spiral sculpture of (on the penultimate whorl about 8)
flattish pairs of spirals divided by a shallow groove and the pairs
separated by deeper, narrower, somewhat channeled grooves; be-
tween these and the preceding suture is a narrow band of closer
threads; the former sculpture extends to the canal with much uni-
formity; aperture rather wide, the outer lip arcuate thin simple;
the body with a thin layer of callus; the pillar straight; the canal
short, wide, recmwed; the operculum normal, with a glazed border
on the inner side. Height of shell, 38; of last whorl, 26; of aperture,
19; diameter, 18 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 225614.
Type-locality. — U. S. Fish Commission station 3643, in the western
Bermg Sea, in 100 fathoms, sand; bottom temperature, 31.7° F.
PLICIFUSUS (RETIFUSUS) OCEANODROMAE, new species.
Shell of moderate size, bucciniform, acute, v/hite, of about seven
whorls, moderately rounded, the suture distinct, not appressed; axial
sculpture of (on the last whorl about 22) narrow, rounded, retrac-
tively arcuate ribs, v/ith subequal interspaces, extending from the
suture to the base; the incremental lines not prominent; spiral scidp-
ture of close-set flattish threads of somewhat irregular strength, often
medially grooved, and having a tendency to associate in groups of
two or three, these cover the whole surface; a])erture buccinoid, re-
tractively conspicuously waved near the suture, protractively arcuate
beyond; throat white, body with a glaze, pillar slightly arcuate, canal
wide, recurved; operculum with apical nucleus; height of shell, 34;
of last whorl, 25; of aperture, 17; diameter, 16 mm. IT. S. Nat. Mus.
Cat. No. 205923.
Type-locality. — U. S. Fish Commission station 4777, on Petrel
Bank, Bering Sea, in 52 fathoms, gravel.
COLUS (LATIFUSUS) PHARCIDUS, new species.
Shell of moderate size, white under an olivaceous periostracum, with
six well-rounded whorls exclusive of the (lost) nucleus; suture dis-
