338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUHL
Type-locality. — ^U. S. Fish Commission station 4255, in Tai5^a inlet,
southeastern Ahiska, in 253 fathoms, rocky bottom: temperature,
36.8° F.
The opercuhirn is dark brown and normal.
NEPTUNEA STAPHYLINA, new species.
Shell white, slender, subturrited, of five or more whorls, the apex
lost; suture distinct; axial sculpture of (on the last whorl seven)
sharp-edged varices, prominent only at the shoulder where they are
produced into a small spine; there is no spiral sculpture except the
angle at the shoulder; aperture obovate, simple; canal long, narrow,
recurved: the body with a coat of enamel, the pillar very short;
operculum normal; height of spire, 9; of aperture, excluding the
canal, 5.5; the canal, 6.5: diameter, 8 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat.
No. 209947.
fype-locality .—V . S. Fish Connnission station 4415, off Santa Bar-
bara Island, California, in 302 to 638 fathoms, mud.
NEPTUNEA CALLICERATA, new species.
Shell small, white, with a smooth nucleus of one and a half whorls
and five subsequent whorls; suture distinct, not appressed; varices
sharp, a. spine rising nearly vertically from the shoulder, guttered and
slightly recurved, nine on the penultimate, eight on the last whorl,
and extending from the suture to the base; spiral sculpture of ex-
tremely close fine striation on the whorls above the base and in front
of the shoulder; aperture semilunate, body erased, pillar long and
attenuated; canal long, slender, slightly curved; height of shell, 16;
of last whorl, 12; of aperture and canal, 9; diameter, 6 mm. U. 8.
Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 209914.
Type-locality. — U. S. Fish Commission station 4356, off Point Loma,
California, in 120 to 131 fathoms, muddy bottom.
NEPTUNEA (TROPHONOPSIS) LASIA, new species.
Shell fusiform, slender, white, with a dingy brownish periostracum
and more than five whorls, the apex defective; suture distinct, the
whorls prominently rounded; axial sculpture of numerous elevated
incremental lines which imbricate or noduiate the spiral sculpture at
their intersections; spiral sculpture of (on the early whorls 4, on the
penultimate whorl by intercalation 8, on the last whorl about 25)
narrow cords with wider or subequal interspaces, increasing by inter-
calation until on the last whorl they become practically equal and
mostly minutely imbricated: ai)erture ovate; outer lip thin, simple;
body erased: canal long, narrow, recurved; axis minutel}^ pervious,
pillar short, gyrate; height of shell, 30; of last whorl, 24: of aperture
and canal, 19; diameter, 10.5 mm. Operculum normal. U. S. Nat.
Mus. Cat. No. 210087.
