NO. 2295. NEW NORTH PACIFIC MOLLUSKS—DALL. 339
Type-locality. — U. S. Fish Commission station 4515, off Point Pinos,
California, in 198 to 495 fathoms mud and shell.
This is closely related to N. tenuisculpta Carpenter.
TYPHIS LATIPENNIS, new species.
Shell large for the genus, solid, heavy, with four varices to a whorl,
the tubes retractive, nearer the preceding varix, and about six whorls,
the nucleus rounded, small; suture obscure, the spaces between it and
the shoulder excavated ; sculpture of a keel at the shoulder and lines
of growth elsewhere ; terminal varix wide, with a prominent retractive
spine at the shoulder and the outer edge recurved; aperture ovate,
entire, canal (defective) closed, not very long; height of shell (esti-
mated), 30; of spire, 8; of aperture, 7; maximum diameter, 24 mm.
U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 96653.
Type-locality. — U. S. Fish Commission station 2822, off Lower Cali-
fornia, in 21 fathoms, sand.
Although the specimen is defective about the end of the canal, it
is obviously distinct from either of the species yet described from this
region.
CORALLIOPHILA STEARNSIANA, new species.
Shell large, solid, white, of about six very rapidly enlarging whorls,
with an acute apex, the nucleus decorticated; suture distinct, very
deep and narrow, but not channelled; axial sculpture of about 16
rounded ribs with subequal interspaces, chiefly prominent on the
periphery, much obscured by the spiral sculpture and obsolete on
the last half of the last whorl; spiral sculpture of (on the last whorl)
in front of the suture about 15 close-set small cords not undulated by
the ribs, next follow 10 or more much coarser ribs of irregular promi-
nence with subequal interspaces carrying each an intercalary thread,
all with the rasp-like lamination peculiar to the genus and extending
to the verge of a narrow, axially striated umbilicus; aperture wide,
rounded, the outer lip simple, the body with a lamina of w^hite enamel,
the pillar lip short, with a Trichotropis-like notch at its base; height
of shell, 23; of last whorl, 18; of aperture, 15; diameter, 24 mm.
U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 46377.
Type-locality. — -Lower California; Stearns Collection.
COBALLIOPHILA (PSEUDOM UREX) KiNCAIDl, new species.
Shell fusiform, dirty white, with about six shouldered whorls, the
nucleus decorticated, the suture deep, very narrow; axial sculpture
of nine rather sharp vertical ribs extending from the suture to the
canal with wider mterspaces ; spiral sculpture of (on the penultimate
whorl eight) strong subequal cords, with narrower deep interspaces
covering the whole shell, all furnished densely with short guttered
lamination as usual in the genus; aperture ovate, outer lip simple,
