340 PROCEEDINGS OP THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
fringed by the external sculpture, inner lip glazed with white enamel;
canal rather long, l:)ent to the left, narrow, open, with a strong
laminose fasciole; height of shell, 30; of last whorl, 21; diameter, 15
mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 183067.
Type-locality. — Puget Sound, Prof. Trevor Khicaid. This has some-
what the aspect of a Tritonalia.
CORALLIOPHILA (PSEUDOMUKEX) ORCUTTIANA, new species.
Shell white with a pinkish flush in the aperture, of about six whorls,
the nucleus defective, suture distinct, slightly appressed; axial
sculpture of (on the last whorl 10) vertical rounded ribs extending to
the canal, with equal or narrower mterspaces and overrun by the
spirals; spiral sculpture on the penultimate whorl of one strong
peripheral cord, a secondary smaller cord on each side of it, carrying
a smaller thread in the mterspaces; between the suture behind and the
first secondary cord are three threads and this part of the whorl is
slightly flattened; on the last whorl beside the peripheral one there
are about a dozen secondary cords and as many intercalary threads,
all sculptured with small close-set arched lamellae; aperture rather
small, outer lip striated withm at certam stages, inner lip with rosy
white enamel; canal long, narrow, with a well marked fasciole;
height of shell, 22; of last whorl, 17; of aperture and canal, 13;
diameter, 11 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 217869.
Type-locality.— M.2ig^dl&i\^ Bay, Lower California ;■ C. R. Orcutt.
EPITONIUM (ASPEEOSCALA) TINCTOEIUM, new species.
Shell small, white with a narrow purple-brown spiral line m front
of the suture, of six or more whorls excluding the (lost) nucleus; the
whorls adjacent, the axis imperforate, with 11 to 12 contmuous
varices which about half encircle the spire; the varices smooth,
Slightly reflected, wider where they cross the rather deep suture;
there are no varical angles or spines ; the whorls are uniformly finely
spirally striated; aperture rounded; there is no basal cord or disk;
no operculum was taken with the specimen; height of shell, 7; of last
whorl, 3; diameter, 3 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 218100.
Type-locality. — ^Magdalena Bay, Lower California ; collected by C. K.
Orcutt. The colored Ime probably fades in time in the cabmet, like
that of the Californian tiyicta Carpenter, Avhich is a larger shell.
EPITONIUM (ASPEUOSCALA) KERATIUM, "ew species.
Shell small, white, with 13 or 14 varices and 8 rounded whorls exclu-
sive of the (lost) nucleus; suture distmct, axis imperforate; varices
concentrically striated on the anterior face, not coronate or angular,
continuous up the spire, which they about one-third encircle; spiral
sculpture of, on the early whorls, fine close threads, which gradually
