NO. 2288. NEW MOLLUSKS OF THE FAMILY TURRITIDAE—DALL. 13
striated anal fasciole; axial sculpture of (on the last whorl 10)
prominent protractive ribs extending from the fasciole to the suc-
ceeding suture on the spire and somewhat over the periphery on the
last whorl; these ribs are knob-like and prominent on the periphery
and rapidly diminish forward; incremental sculpture faint; spiral
sculpture begins on the early whorls with about four faint striae
which grow sharper on the later whorls which carry four or five
grooves with wider flattish interspaces between the periphery and
the succeeding suture, with on the later whorls sometimes one or two
on the anal fasciole, on the last whorl there are 16 or more in all ; the
last rib on the last whorl is more swollen than the others and usually
darker in color; aperture narrow, outer lip thin, sharp, produced,
smooth internally with a deep rounded anal sulcus close to the suture
with a heavy lump of callus on the side of the body ; inner lip with a
rather thick callus with a raised edge extending to the end of the
pillar; canal short, wide, deeply cut, with a small keel bordering
the posterior edge of the siphonal fasciole. Operculum dark brown.
Height of shell, 13 ; of last whorl, 6.5 ; diameter, 4.8 mm. Cat. No.
266371, U.S.N.M.
Bange.—Agasi Verde Bay, Gulf of California, Dr. Paul Bartsch.
? ELAEOCYMA AEROPE, new species.
riiite 1, fig. 3.
Shell small, acute, whitish, with a polished, smooth, trochiform
nucleus of about two and a half whorls and eight or more subsequent
whorls ; suture distinct, slightly appressed, anal fasciole slightly con-
stricted ; spiral sculpture of sharp narrow grooves, with much wider
flat smooth interspaces ; there are about eleven of the grooves on the
last whorl between the shoulder and the spirally threaded siphonal
fasciole; the anal fasciole is not spirally striate; axial sculp-
ture of (on the last whorl about 10) sharp-edged ribs, with
wider interspaces, compressed and arcuate on the anal fasciole, nearly
vertical elsewhere and extending over the whole whorl, but not con-
tinuous over the spire; incremental lines inconspicuous; aperture
rather wide and short with a deep rounded anal sulcus and prominent
subsutural callosity; outer lip subvaricose, sharp-edged, smooth
within ; inner lip with a thick layer of enamel ; its outer edge raised
with a slight chink between it and the siphonal fasciole ; pillar short,
straight; canal deep, short, wide, and slightly recurved. Height of
shell, 16; of last whorl, 8; diameter, 6 mm. Cat. Nos. 266398,
U.S.N.M. (showing nucleus) and 266311, U.S.N.M. (adult shell).
Bange.—Agua Verde Bay, Lower California, Dr. Paul Bartsch.
The specimen has a dull surface, which is probably due to wear.
