KC. 22f>5. XEW NOHTH I'ACIFIV MOLfAJSKS—DALL. 341
become feeble and on the last whorl entirely absent; aperture
rounded with a slight angulosity at the anterior end of the pillar lip,
forming a strong wrinkled fasciole behind that lip; there is no basal
disk or ring; height, 10; diameter, 4.5 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No.
217878.
Type-locality. — ^Magdalena Bay, Lower California; collected by C. R.
Orcutt.
EPITONIUM (ASPEROSCALA) CANNA. new species.
Shell small, white, shadhig to yellowish on the spire, with six
whorls excluding the (lost) nucleus, imperforate, with a deep suture
and six strong varices, continuous up the spire which they about
one-fourth encircle; the varices are concentrically striated on the
anterior face, are very solid, and have no angulation at the shoulder;
spiral sculpture of on the base of the last v/horl numerous minute
sharp threads with hitercalary fine striae occupying the wider inter-
spaces; this sculpture becomes obsolete at or behmd the periphery;
there is no basal cord or disk; height, 9; maximum diameter, 5 mm^
U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 218099.
Ti/pe-locality. —Miigdalena Bay, Lower California; collected by C. R.
Orcutt.
EPITONIUM (NITIDOSCALA) BARBAEINUM, new spefies.
Shell small, imperforate, v/hite, with 11 varices contuiuous up the
spire which they one-third encircle; anterior surface of the varices
flattish, smooth; the shoulder is not angular or spinose; there are
six whorls exclusive of the (lost) nucleus; suture deep; base rounded
without a basal cord or disk; aperture subovate, the inner lip thick-
ened; height of shell, 19; of last whorl, 7.5; of aperture, 4; diameter,
6.5 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 46229.
Type-locality. — San Diego, California, Steams collection.
EPITONUIM (NITIDOSCALA) PHANIUM, new speiies.
Shell small, white with a ficsh-coiored upper spire, with seven or
eight nearly vertical continuous varices, and somewhat more than
eight whorls, including a smooth white nucleus of tv/o whorls;
suture distinct, deep; axis imperforate; surface smooth except for
faint incremental lines, the varices smooth without angles or spines;
base rounded with no basal disk or cord; aperture oval, simple;
height of shell, 8; of last whprl, 4; of aperture, 1.5; diameter, 3 mm.
U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 218095.
Type-locality. --MsigiMenh Bay, Lower California; collected by
C. R. Orcutt.
EPITONIUM (NITIDOSCALA) CALLIPEPLUM, new species.
Shell small, lilac color on the spire, pahng into white on the last
whorl, with about eight whorls exclusive of the (lost) nucleus, imper-
