342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. ^ou 56.
forate; suture deep; axial sculpture of very faint incremental lines
and 1 1 thin, low, narrow, continuous varices, dipping into the suture
which encircle less than a quarter of the circumference of the spire;
surface polished, aperture obliquely ovate; height of shell, 9; of last
whorl, 5; diameter, 4 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 218096.
Type-locality. — Beach at Magdalena Bay, Lower California; col-
lected by C. R. Orcutt.
GUAPHIS SHEPAUDIANA, new species.
Shell mmute, slender, translucent yellowish, with about nine whorls,
including the rather blunt smooth apical nucleus; suture constricted,
distinct, coils of the spire rather lax; axial sculpture of minute,
close-set plications which start from the suture and become feeble
on the base; these are crossed by minute close spiral striae most
evident near the periphery, and under the lens showing an incon-
spicuous reticulation; base imperforate, romided, and somewhat
produced; aperture ovate, the margin thin, not reflected, interiaipted
by the body, produced anteriorly; height of shell, 3.7; diameter,
1mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 107276.
Type-locality. — San Pedro, California; collected by Miss Ida Shep-
ard, nov/ Mrs. Oldroyd.
This shell was collected and named in 1895, but by some accident
the diagnosis has remained unpubhshed. It may have been dis-
tributed under the generic name of Siylopsis.
CARINARIA LATJDENS, new species.
Animal slender and mostly translucent yellowish ; the extreme tail
for a short distance, the muzzle, and the hver contained chiefly in
the shell, are dark purple; the crop or anterior food cavity is pink-
ish; the eyes very vivid black, contained in short subcyhndric proc-
esses behind and a little outside of the short slender tentacles. The
surface of the body is covered with small translucent acute pustules.
The giUs are small and protrude from the shell. The ventral fln is
romided quadrate, about one-third of the way from the muzzle to
the tail. The shell and its included organs are about midway of the
total length. The ventral sucker is small on the ventral and near
the posterior edge of the fin. The dorsal fin halfway between the
shell and the tail is lower, rounded triangular, diminishing in height
backwards. The shell is small, with a minutely coiled apex, and
the weight of the included organs causes the animal to swim perma-
nently on its back. The radula is of the general type of that of
C. cristata, but the rhachidian tooth is more than twice as wide
proportionately and develops a smaU cusp at each anterior corner
of the base — a feature not known in C. cristaia. There are three
slender laterals. Behind the eyes the body is gradually constricted
