344 PROCEEDINOS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 5G.
Type-locality. — V. S. Fish Commission station 440S, off Catalina
Island, California, in 104 to IIS fathoms, sand.
SEGUENZIA CERVOLA, new species.
Shell small, white, slightly depressed, with one small, smooth nu-
clear whoii and five subsequent whorls flattened a little in front of a
distinct sutme, separated by a somewhat convex smooth fasciole
from a thread-like keel abo^ e the j^eriphery; in front of this is a wide,
smooth interval; on the base are about a dozen spiral threads with
wider interspaces, and very faint microscopic spiral striae are visible
in all the interspaces under a lens; on the upper whorls there is a
small thread betv\-een the keel and the suture, and near the apex they
become obsolete; at the aperture is a shallov/ sulcus between the keel
and the suture and a smaller one at the middle of the base; there is a
shar]) notch below the end of the thin, arcuate projecting ])illar,
behind which is a moderately large twisted umbilicus; the body shows
no glaze, the base of the shell is conspicuously convex; height, 4.5;
diameter, 5 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 209229.
Type-locality. — I'. S. Fish Commission station 4.381, off North Coro-
nado Island, in 61S to 692 fathoms.
SEGUENZIA CALIANA, new species.
Shell small, v>-hite, elevated, trochiform, with a minute glassy
smooth nucleus and about five subsequent whorls; suture obscure,
laid on the peripheral keel; spiral sculp tm-e of, on the spire a single
sharp prominent keel somewhat behind the central line betvv'een the
sutm-es, and on the last whorl a similar peri})heral keel with a wide
excavated space on each side of it, the space behind the periphery
wider; base with seven rather close-set squarish cords, those nearer
the axis most adjacent to each other; axial sculpture of low thin
sharp lamellae with wider interspaces, over riding the peripheral keel
on the spire but not on the last whorl, prominent in the interspaces
behind the base, retractivel}' arcuate in the posterior interspace, and
protractively arcuate in the othei-s; they do not invade the someM^hat
fiattish base; apertm-e with a very deep sulcus next the sutm-e, the
outer lip in front of it much r^roduced, a feeble sulcus at the middle
of the base, in front of the arcuate pillar a smaller rounded indenta-
tion; behind the pillar a deep groove ending in a minutely perforate
umbilicus; body with no perceptible glaze; height of shell, 4. .5; diam-
eter, 3.2 mm. V. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 207694.
Type-locality. — XL S. Fish Commission station 2928, off San Diego,
California, in 417 fathoms sand and gravel; bottom temperatm-e, 41°
F. Also in more than 800 fathoms.
7 CERITHIOPSIS SASSETTA, new species.
Shell small, slender, wliite with a pale olive periostracum, with
more than seven whorls, the apex being eroded, the whorls moder-
