NO. 2295. A-^;j/ NORTH PACIFIC MOLLUSKS—DALL. 347
is smooth and there is no umbilicus. Height of (decollate) shell, 35;
of last whorl, 14; diameter, 13 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 224134.
Type-locality. — U. S. Fish Commission station 3253, off the Pribi-
lof Islands, Bering Sea, in 51 fathoms, mud; bottom temperature,
39.5° F.
? TACHYRHYNCHUS PRATOMUS, new species.
Shell small, yellowish white, acute, with a glassy swollen nucleus of
about one whorl and six subsequent whoils; suture distinct, not deep,
axis imperforate; early whorls moderately convex, the periphery near-
er the succeeding suture, with numerous low rounded rather irregular
ribs extending from suture to suture, with subequal interspaces;
these ribs become gradually obsolete on the later whorls; spiral sculp-
ture of low, u'regularly distributed partially obsolete threads, with
minute threadlets between them, this sculptm-e covers the entire
whorl; base convexly regularly rounded with no umbilical depres-
sion; aperture ovate, simple, the lips sharp, with no callosities on the
body; height, 10; diameter, 4mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 219369.
Type-locality. — Semidi Islands, Alaska, at station 1152, in 20
fathoms, gravel, collected by W. H. Dall.
This is obviously not a typical TacJiyrhynchus , but in the absence
of the operculum and soft parts I am unwiUing to refer it to a new
group. It may be related to the New England CoutJiouyella or to
Bittium.
■; TACHYRHYNCHUS STEARNSIi, new species.
Shell small, slender, acute, white or pale brownish, with a minute
subglobular mucleus and about 10 subsequent well-rounded whorls,
regularly increasing in size; suture distmct, not appressed; spiral
sculpture of (on the spire three, on the last whorl four) low prominent
lines about equally spaced above the base, and minute almost micro-
scopic close-set spirals in the interspaces and on the convexly rounded
base; axial sculptm-e not perceptible; aperture rounded, simple, the
outer lip somewhat arcuate, the body thinly glazed; height of shell,
13; diameter, 4.5 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 74014.
Type-locality. — San Pedro, California, Stearns Collection.
This was regarded as a new species of Mesalia by Doctor Carpenter,
but I have always had some (perhaps unwarranted) suspicion that
the shell is exotic.
TURRITELLOPSIS (ACICULA variety) STJMPSONI, new name.
Twritellopsis acicula G. O. Sars, Moll. Reg. Arct. Norv., p. 186, pi. 10, fig. 14
a— 6.; pi. 7, fig. 2 a-e; pi. 18, fig. 25, 1878; not of Stimpson, Shells of New
England, p. 35, pi. 1, fig. 5, 1851.
A comparison of the figures of Stimpson and Sars, both elegant
and accurate draftsmen, shows at once that there is a wide differ-
ence between them. T. acicula is more slender, with a looser coil and
