348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
a much more constricted suture. It has three strong spiral cords
while T. stimpsoni has five to seven. The west coast specimens
so far obtained are of the stimpsoni type, which is represented in the
Jeffreys collection from Lofoten, Spitsbergen, and Maine. The origi-
nal adcula type from Grand Manan; Portland, Maine; and New-
foundland. On the Pacific side we have the stimpsoni from Nunivak
Island; Port Etches; Shoal Bay, British Columbia and San Diego,
California.
•.' EGLISIA NEBULOSA. new species.
Shell with the apex and outer lip defective, about seven whorls
remaining, w^hite with yellowish brown clouding, whorls regularly,
increasing, well rounded, with a rather constricted suture; spiral
sculpture of (on the last whorl four) small threads with narrower
interspaces, in front of which are six stronger threads with at the
periphery an intercalary tlu-eadlet; behind the margin of the base on
the last remaining whorl there is a constriction, the margin being
formed by a stout cord on which the suture is laid; the base is flattish
with spiral sculptm-e obsolete or absent; axial sculpture of very low
thin sharp varices crossing the whorl and inconspicuous incremental
lines; base imperforate, aperture roimded. Height of seven whorls,
18; of last whorl, 8; diameter, 6 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 120702.
Type-locality. — Cape San Lucas, Lower California.
This was pronounced to be a new species of Eglisia by the late
Doctor Carpenter, but it lacks the channel in front of the suture in
the typical species. It looks as if it were related to Epitomum, and
from Edgar Smith's discussion of the genus I have no doubt it belongs
to that family.
Genus LITTORINA Ferussac, 1822.
T5rpe, L. littoralis Linnaeus.
Section ALGARODA Dall, 1918.
Type, L. litorea Linnaeus.
Section LITTOKIVAGA Ball, 1918.
Type, L. sitcliana Philippi.
Subgenus Melahaphb (Muhlfeldt) Menke, 1828.
Type, L. neritoides Linnaeus.
Subgenus ALGAlviORDA Dall, 1918.
Type, A. newcomhiana Llemphill.
LACUNA MARMOBATA, new species.
Shell small, short, acute, dark brown (fading in the cabinet) of three
or four rapidly enlarging whorls; suture distinct; surface, when un-
