NO. 2295. NEW NORTH PACIFIC MOLLUSKS—DALL. 349
worn, with a fine spiral striation which is sometimes feeble; the last
whorl has a marked keel at the margin of the base in most specimens,
but this region is frequently more or less rounded, and is generally
whitish with interrupted brown flecks, which painting occasionally
spr-eads over the upper part of the whorl; a white band in front of the
suture is common and on the base the white may be extended to a
brown area bordering the umbihcus; height, 6; diameter, 5 mm.
U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 47081.
Type-locality, — Monterey, California.
A variety is more elevated and acute, with a more pronounced keel
and narrower umbilical groove, which may take the new varietal name
of olla. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 21G895.
Type-locality. — Olga, Washington.
This was formerly known to collectors on the Pacific coast as Lacuna
Ufiifasciata Carpenter, but the type-specimens of the latter in the
United States National Museum (Cat. No. 60675) are more acute,
elevated, and slender, pale above and below with a continuous dark
brown line at the keel; exactly the reverse of the present species,
which, when fresh, is dark above with a white or whitish line at tlie
keel, broken up by brown dots or flecks.
LACUNA, new variety PUTEOLOIDES (Carpenter MS.).
Tliis form is represented in the collection by specimens from Lobitas,
CaUfornia, collected by Doctor Stearns and labeled by Doctor Car-
penter (No. 46984). The only difference between it and the typical
L. porrecta, to which Doctor Carpenter allied it as a variety, appears
to be a considerabb/ narrower pillar and consequently sharper and
narrower umbilical groove in the variety. As far as I am able to
discover Doctor Carpenter did not pubhsh the name.
Genus BOETICA Dall, 1918.
Shell small, sohd, subconic, few whorled, umbihcate, a groove at
the commissure of the outer hp and body, a shallow sulcus at the
anterior end of the pillar hp, the aperture without denticulation, the
lip not reflected.
Type. — Boetica vaginata Dall.
BOETICA VAGINATA Dall, 1918.
Shell small, sohd, conical, white, smooth except for faint incre-
mental hues, of about five rapidly enlarging whorls including a minute
subglobular smooth nucleus; suture distinct, not deep; base rounded,
aperture subovate, a distinct sharp groove in the subsutural callus,
the outer lip simple, thick; the body with a thick coat of enamel
curving into the concavely arcuate pillar lip ; umbihcus perforate, the
area bounded by a thickened spirally striated ridge parallel with tlie
