350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
pillar lip, with the area between them excavated; at the anterior end
of the pillar is a shallow, narrow sulcus, somewhat as in TncJiotropis;
height of shell, 4; of last whorl, 3; diameter, 2.5 mm. U. S. Nat.
Mus. Cat. No. 209891a.
Type-locality. — U. S. Fish Commission station 4322, off La Jolla,
San Diego County, California, in 199 fathoms, shelly mud.
The exact position of this genus awaits the discovery of the oper-
culum and soft parts.
HALOCONCHA MINOR, new species.
Shell small, purple-brownish, trochiform, with about three and a
half rounded, rapidly enlarging whorls including a minute glassy
nucleus; surface smooth except for incremental lines, covered with a
glossy olivaceous translucent periostracum; suture distinct and deep;
base rounded with a moderately wide umbilicus; aperture ovate,
body with a layer of enamel connecting the two lips; height, 5.5;
longer diameter, 6; sliorter diameter, 5 mm. U. S. Nat, Mus. Cat.
No. 215073.
Type-locality. — English Bay, St. Paul Island, Pribilof group in
Bering Sea, in the laminarian zone. Collected by G. D. Hanna and
various others.
This resembles Haloconcha reilexa Dall, of the same region, but is
uniformly smaller. That species seems confined to the Pribilof
Islands, but H. minor ranges also through the Aleutian chain and
eastward as far as Cliirikoff Island.
FOSSARUS ANGIOLUS, new species.
Shell small, yellowish white, with a minute globular nucleus and
about four whorls; the suture distinct, not appressed; surface dull;
axial sculpture none; spiral sculi)ture on the upper whorls two, on the
last whorl six strong elevated cords, with somewhat wider channeled
interspaces; umbilicus perforate, the anterior cord forming its outer
boundary; aperture circular, the outer lip thickened but not reflected,
the inner lip thin, sharp; height, 2.25; diameter, 1,75 mm. U. S.
Nat. Mus. Cat, No. 271503.
Type-locality. — ^Todos Santos Bay, Lower California, near San
Diego; collected by C. R. Orcutt.
FOSSARUS LLCANUS, new species.
Shell small, whitish, depressed, with a very minute brown nucleus
and about two and a half subsequent whorls, the last much the
largest; suture distinct, the upper part of the last whorl flattish;
spiral sculpture of two very strong keels near the periphery, and two
less prominent on the base, with wider minutely spirally threaded
interspaces; the top of the whoii is similarly threaded; base moder-
ately rounded with a wide excaA ation behind the pillar lip leading to
a small umbihcus; aperture seniicircular, outer lip showing the ends
