NO. 2295. NEW NORTH PACIFIC MOLLVSKS—DALL. 351
of the keels, pillar lip straight; height, 1.5; diameter, 2.5 mm.
U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 59849.
Type-locality. — Cape San Lucas, Lower California; W. H, Dall.
Genus ISELICA Dal!, 1918.
Isapis Adams, 1853, not of Westwood, 1851.
The generic name being preoccupied, I have proposed the above
modification.
ISELICA OBTUSA Carpenter, new variety LAXA.
Shell much resembling obtusa, but having a longer and more acute
spire, much feebler spiral sculpture, and the whorls more laxly coiled
giving the suture a well-marked channel in adults. The color is
grayish white, with a yellowish dehiscent periostracum and the um-
bilicus is a narrow chink, partly covered by the reflected inner lip.
Height of shell, 8.5; of last whorl, 6.5; diameter, 5 mm. U. S.
Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 219754.
Type-locality.— M&t^Iq Bay, Vancouver Island; collected by Mr.
Hanham; also not rare in Puget Sound.
? CITHNA ORVIETA, new species.
Shell minute, olive brov.^l, thin, turbinate, of about three rounded
whorls, the surface smooth, not polished, the suture distinct; the
base convex, imperforate; the aperture subcircular, simple, a chink
behind the inner lip, the peristome continuous; height, 0.75; diam-
eter, 0.60 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 105466.
Type-locality. — San Diego, California, in sea moss at low water,
Henr}^ Hempliill. This species may perhaps be a Rissoid.
CREPIDULA ORBICULATA, new species.
Shell dextral, suborbicular, minutely concentrically ^^Tinkled,
white, covered with an olivaceous velvet}" periostracum; whorls
about four counting the (lost) nucleus; the apex curved strongly to
the right and elevated (in the type-specimen) about 4 millimeters
above the basal margin; back evenly convex; interior subtranslucent
white, the edge of the deck prominently produced at the left center
with a deep sulcus at the left; there is no cavit}^ under the spire
between the deck and the margin; height, 26; length, 20; v,adth,
17 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 31100.
Type-locality. — Ro3^al Roads, Victoria, Vancouver Island, in 60
fathoms, on dead bivalve; W. J. Fisher.
This is a rather rare species of quite constant character, usually
found in deep water, and ranging from Bering Sea to San Diego,
California. The form of the deck approaches that of Crepipatella.
CRYPTONATICA SALIMBA. new species.
Shell small, smooth, except for faint incremental lines, yellowish
white %vith a faintlv darker band in front of the suture and another
