352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MU^'^EUM. vol.56.
between the periphery and the base; with four evenly rounded
whorls slightly flattened in front of a somewhat oppressed suture;
base rounded, the umbilicus closed by a semilunar convex mass of
callus not notched above; the aperture lunate, outer lip thin, the
the body callous, the pillar lip somewhat thickened; the operculum
is white, porcellanous, of about two whorls; height of shell, 14; of
aperture, 10; diameter, 13.5 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 209295.
Type-locality. — ^U. S. Fish Commission station 4423, between
Santa Barbara and San Nicolas islands, California, in 216 to 339
fathoms, sand. A very neat and characteristic species, ranging
from Esteros Bay to the Gulf of California in deep water.
CRYPTONATICA ALEUTICA, new species.
Natica russa Dall, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., vol. 5, p. 251, 1874, not of Gould, Proc.
Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. 7, p. 43, June, 1859.
This species was long supposed by me to be Gould's russa, but the
fortunate recovery of Gould's type indicates that the large Aleutian
species requires a name. The rhachidian tooth, Hke that of Bulhus,
has a simple cusp, which establishes the subgenus founded on oper-
cul a r ch ar acters .
EUSPIRA ALGIDA Gould.
Natica algida Gould, Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. 3, p. 73, Nov. 1848.
The fact that Gould's species was labeled "Rio Negro" has led
to the supposition that it is a South American species, but the per-
fect agreement of Gould's type with an iUaskan and Puget Sound
shell has led me to conclude that this locality, like so many other
Exploring Expedition localities, is an error. There is, however a
Brazilian form, quite similar, which has added to the confusion.
EUSPIRA ACOSMITA, new species.
Shell white with a minutely spirally banded yellow brown perios-
tracum and about four whorls, the nucleus defective; suture distinct,
the whorl in front of it a little impressed; axial sculpture of fine
silk}^ incremental lines; there is no spiral sculpture; aperture semi-
lunar, oblique, the outer lip thin, the body with a coat of enamel
reflected over the umbilical region in a flat pad as in Cryptonaiica,
the pillar lip somewhat thickened; height of shell, 16; of aperture,
13; diameter, 15 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 207218.
Type-locality. — U. S. Fish Commission station 3128, off Monterey
Bay, California, in 627 fathoms, mud; bottom temperature, 38.9° F.
When the operculum is known this may perhaps turn out to be a
Oryptonatica.
EUSPIRA MONTERONA, new species.
Shell of moderate size, of a dark greenish olive color with a whitish
base; whorls about five, the nucleus decorticated; the surface
smooth except for faint incremental lines, the suture distinct, not
