14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL IdVSEVM. vol. 56.
CLATHRODRILLIA PAZIANA, new species.
Plate 5, fis. 1.
Shell small, acute, pale olivaceous, with 10 whorls, of which the
first nuclear is smooth, the second obscurely peripherally keeled, the
subsequent whorls normally sculptured ; suture distinct, the periphery
of the upper whorls nearer the succeeding than the preceding suture ;
anal fasciole constricted but crossed by the ribs; spiral sculpture of
(on the upper whorls 4 or 5, on the last whorl about 14) strong cords
with narrower groove-like interspaces, extending from the fasciole
to the canal; the cords not swollen where they cross the ribs; axial
sculpture of (on the penultimate whorl 13, on the last whorl 10)
rounded ribs with subequal interspaces, strongest at the shoulder, ex-
tending from suture to base, the incremental lines rather strong on
the fasciole; anal sulcus deep and rounded with callous margin, the
outer lip arcuate, thin; the inner lip simple, canal slightly recurved.
Height of shell, 13; of last whorl, 7; diameter, 5 mm. Cat. No.
311372, U.S.N.M.
Range. — La Paz, Lower California.
Though small, this is a typical Clathrodrillia.
CLATHRODRILLIA LIMANS. new species.
Plate 13, fig. 3.
Shell small, of a warm yellow brown, with a blunt short smooth
nucleus of a whorl and a half and five or more subsequent mod-
erately rounded whorls; suture distinct, appressed, moderately con-
stricted with three or four fine spiral striae on the fasciole; spiral
sculpture of (on the penultimate Avhorl between the fasciole and the suc-
ceeding suture about six) fine equal, equally spaced threads, with nar-
rower deep interspaces, forming minute nodules where they cross the
ribs, on the last whorl the threading continues hardly altered, to the
end of the canal; axial sculpture (on the penultimate whorl about
•35) narrow ribs with subequal interspaces, extended from the fas-
ciole to the canal, forming a very uniform reticulation over the whole
surface; aperture (the outer lip defective) rather wide, the inner lip
erased, the pillar short, stout, whitish ; the canal very short and wide,
hardly differentiated from the aperture. Height of shell, 7; of last
whorf, 4; diameter, 3.5 mm. Cat. No. 56218, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Gulf of California; Stearns collection.
This shell was sent to Dr. Philip Carpenter by Stearns and re-
turned to him with the above manuscript name, but never published.
The aperture when complete is probably of the usual Clathrodrillm
type.
