NO. 2295. ^EW NORTH PACIFIC MOLLUSKS—DALL. 353
appressed; base rounded, whitish, the umbiUcus narrow, filled below
with enamel with a minute perforation above forming a notch-like
gap between the white enamel of the inner lip and that of the umbili-
cus; outer hp thin, sharp; body with a thick coat of enamel, pillar
lip much thickened, white; operculum dark brown, of about two
whorls; height 19; diameter 18 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No.
220856.
Type-locality.— St&tion 1199, Captains Bay, Unalaska, in 75
fathoms, mud and gravel; W. H. Dall.
EUSPIRA POLITIANA. new species.
Shell small, white, covered with a pale brown dehiscent periostra-
cum ; whorls four and a half, the nucleus decorticated, the specimen
probably not quite adult; axial sculpture of retractively radiating
grooves from the edge of a channeled suture nearly to one-fifth of
the arch of the whorl, with wider interspaces, and faint incremental
lines; there is no spiral sculpture; aperture ovate, outer lip thin,
sharp, inner lip with a glaze of enamel, thicker under the suture and
forming a convex mass over the wholly obhterated umbihcus;
pillar lip slightly reflected, the periostracum on the base paler than
elsewhere; height of shell, 16; of aperture, 13; diameter, 13 mm.
Operculum thin, horny, of two whorls. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No.
205653.
Type-locality .—V . S. Fish Commission station 4779, off Petrel
Bank, Bering Sea, in ,600 fathoms, sand and pebbles.
If it were not for the umbihcus and operculum, this species might
be taken for a Natica.
EUSPIRA CANONICA, new species.
Shell small, white under a pale yellowish periostracum, with more
than four whorls, the nucleus eroded; suture distinct, narrow, almost
channeled; axial sculpture of incremental Hues and numerous small
irregular wrinkles radiating from the suture and extending on the aver-
age about halfway to the periphery; there is no spiral sculpture; base
rounded with a small perforate umbilicus partly overshadowed by a
narrow reflection of enamel from the pillar lip; aperture semilunate,
shnple, the body, pillar, and posterior commissure with a liberal coat-
ing of enamel; height of shell, 8; of aperture, 5; diameter, 7 mm.
U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 209411.
Type-locality. — U. S. Fish Commission station 2923, off San Diego,
California, in 822 fathoms, green mud; bottom temperature, 39° F.
EUMA SUBFUSCA, new species.
Natica fusca Carpenter, 1864 (name only), not of Blainville, 1825.
Shell depressed conic, fuscous or livid above, whitish below, the
wide umbihcus deeply fuscous stained, the aperture deep livid brown-
115690— 19— Proc.N.M.vol.56 23
