NO. 2295. ifEW NORTH PACIFIC MOLLUSKS—DALL. 357
ASTRAEA (PACKYPOMA) BARBARENSIS, new species.
Shell of moderate size, trochiform, white, covered by a reddish-
brown periostracum, with six or more flattish whorls, the nucleus
defective; suture rather obscure, not appressed; axial sculpture of
(on the last whorl about 30) rounded, protractively oblique ribs,
with equal or wider interspaces, reaching from the suture to the
periphery which they undulate; haKway from the suture to the
periphery these are cut into segments by three deeply incised
grooves; there may be, near the periphery, a few intercalary short
ribs; there are also fine, close, inconspicuous incremental lines; on
the base inside the undulate border are five strong regularly beaded
cords with narrov/er channeled interspaces; aperture subquadrate,
the upper part of the outer lip much produced; the body glazed,
the pillar concavely arcuate, ending in a blunt projection, behind it
a porcellanous white semilunar callus around the imperforate umbili-
cal depression; height of shell, 26; of aperture, 12; diameter, 37
mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 223819.
Type-locality. — U. S. Fish Commission station 2945, off Santa
Cruz Island of the Santa Barbara group, California, in 30 fathoms,
gravel, bottom temperature 56° F.
The operculum, blackish brown inside, of about two whorls,
resembles that of P. inequale, but is more slender and somewhat
concave.
ASTRAEA (PACHYPOMA) SPIRATA Dall.
Pachyvoma inaequale var. spiratum Dall, Na'atiliis, vol. 24, p. Ill, 1911.
Shell trochiform, elevated, solid, of a reddish color with nacreous
substratum, of more than six carinated flattish v^^horls, the apex,
eroded; suture obscure, slightly overhung by the carina which is
blunt and undulated; axial sculpture of (on the penultim_ate whorl
about 20) protractively oblique rounded irregular ribs extending
from the suture to the edge of the carina with wider interspaces,
and cut into nodules by three or four equally spaced spiral grooves;
the evident, almost lamellose, retractively oblique incremental lines
cross the ribs and interspaces almost at right angles; the flattish
base has five sharp channeled grooves with regularly spaced wider
squarish interspaces between the imperforate depressed umbilical
area and the carina; aperture obliquely rhombic, simple, the body
with a thin glaze, the pillar nacreous, concavely arcuate, the outer
lip simple produced above; height of shell, 32; of last whorl, 19; of
aperture, 11; maximum diameter, 31 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat.
No. 222318.
Type-locality. — Gulf of Cafifornia; Miss J. M. Cooke.
This is the most elevated and smallest of the subgenus in west
American waters. The examination of a number of specunenB
