358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
indicates that this is a distinct species, and as the original diagnosis
was very brief, a full description is now supplied.
LEPTOTHYRA JUANENSIS, new species.
Shell solid, turbinate, very dark olive, with a very minute smooth
nucleus and about five well-rounded whorls; suture obscure, not
appressed; spiral sculpture of (on the penultimate whorl five, on
the last whorl about a dozen) strong, undulate or beaded cords with
wider rather deep interspaces; axial sculpture of close, oblique,
rather prominent incremental lines; aperture oblique, internally
nacreous, the outer lip thin, the body with a glaze of nacre, the pillar
lip concave, white, nacreous with two rather formless nodulations
anteriorly; height, 8; maximum diameter, 9 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus.
Cat. No. 186070.
Type-locality. — Tia Juana, Lower California, near San Diego,
California; collected by J. H. Paine.
This is the least attractive and one of the largest species of the
genus on the west coast north of Cape San Lucas.
Dr. Paul Bartsch has proposed the varietal name fenesirata for a
form of Leptothyra paucicostata, in which, under the strong spiral
sculpture, there is visible in the interspaces a certain number of
raised radial threads forming a more or less evident reticulation.
LIOTIA SCITULA, new species.
Shell minute, white with flecks of brown, of about four whorls,
including a very minute smooth nucleus; spire flattened, suture
distinct; axial sculpture of fine incremental lines, somewhat wrin-
kled in front of tlie suture and on the last whorl developing a narrow
row of beads at the suture, and crenulating on the base the margin
of the umbilicus; spiral sculpture of a very prominent, minutely
crenulated keel at the periphery and a smaller one on which the
suture is laid; the margin of the narrow umbilicus is also thread-
like; aperture rounded except where modified by the external
sculpture; the body with a glaze of enamel, the pillar lip somewhat
thickened; height of shell, 1; maximum diameter, 2 mm. U. S.
Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 194975.
Type-locality. — U. S. Fish Commission station 2813, among the
Galapagos Islands, in 40 fathoms, coral sand.
The specimen may not be entirely adult and the aperture in the
full-grown sheU may be modified from the above description.
MOLLERIA DRUSIANA, new species.
Shell minute, of two and a half rapidly enlarging whorls, whitish,
covered with an olivaceous periostracum; suture distinct, rather
deep; whorl section circular, surface smooth except for microscopic
