NO. 2295. ]^EW NORTH PACIFIC M0LLUSK8—DALL. 359
incremental lines ; base convex with a rather wide umbilicus ; aperture
circular, simple, sharp edged; operculum calcareous, multispiral,
centrally depressed on the outer side; height, 1; larger diameter,
1.5 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 31117.
Type-locality. — Constantine Harbor, Amchitka Island, Aleutians,
in seaweed at low water, W. H. Dall.
CHLOROSTOMA GALLINA, new variety UMBILICATUM.
Most of the specimens of CMorostoma gallina are imperforate,
some have the umbilical callus concave, formmg a sort of pit, and a
rare variety has an entirely open, narrow, deep umbilicus. The
types of the latter are U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 152998, and while
in other characters similar, are smaller than the average adult
gaUina, measuring, height 22 and diameter 25 mm. They were
collected by Turrill at San Quentin Bay, Lower California. Other
specimens have been found at San Diego, California.
CHLOROSTOMA BRUNNEUM, new variety FLUCTUOSUM.
The common form of hrunneum has a nearly smooth surface or a
surface affected by incremental rugosities, but there is another form
rather widely spread which exhibits well-marked obliquely pro tractive
ribs to the number of 18 or 20 on the last whorl, reaching from the
suture nearly to the periphery with narrower interspaces. It is
rather less elevated than the average of the typical hrunneum and
has a more depressed suture. The types of the variety are U. S.
Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 60055 and come from Monterey, California.
OMPHALIUS MARIANUS, new name.
This is 0. coronatus Pilsbry, 1889, not of C. B. Adams, 1852, and
0. turhinatus Pease, 1869, not of A. Adams, 1851. A new name for
the species being needed, the above is proposed. The 0. marianus
ranges from Santa Barbara, California, to Panama and Paita, Peru,
and is U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 4033.
CALLIOSTOMA COSTATUM, new variety CAERULELM.
Shell resemblmg the ordinary typical form except that the apex
and part of the whorls in front of the suture are colored with bands
of a brilliant mazarin blue when fresh, but which, unfortunately,
fades after a few years m the cabinet. Fresh specimens have a
very different aspect from the common shells carrying reddish
spiral lines on a yellowish ground. Typical specimens in the National
Collection come from Monterey, California, and bear the catalogue
number 59808.
CALLIOSTOMA COSTATUM, new variety PICTUM.
These shells resemble the type except that on the periphery of the
whorl, and sometimes on the whorl between the periphery and the
