360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 58.
preceding suture, the shell is adorned with alternating light and
dark patches or clouds of color. Typical specimens come from
Neeah Bay, Washington, and bear the number 12612a.
CALLIOSTOMA CANALICULATUM, new variety NEBULOSUM.
Shell resembling the typical form except that the whorls are
painted with small brown nebulous patches in a radial fashion;
specimens of this kind from San Diego, California, illustrate the
variety and are numbered 159251.
CALLIOSTOMA CANALICULATUM. new variely TRANSLIRATUM.
Another variation occurs in the northern part of the range of this
species, from Sitka to the Straits of Fuca, in which the channels
between the yellowish spiral cords are of a dark reddish brown,
giving the shell a somber appearance, much in contrast with the
light straw-colored type from southern California. Specimens of the
former kind are in the collection from Biorka Island, Sitka Sound,
and are numbered 160558.
A dark and comparatively small form of C. gloriosum Dall seems
to be characteristic of specimens from the southern extreme of the
range of this species, especially in the vicinity of San Diego.
SOLARIELLA RHYSSA, new species.
Shell small, trochiform, translucent, with four whorls, including
a smooth nucleus of a whorl and a half; suture distinct; whorl-
section circular; axial sculpture of (on the last whorl 35) narrow
threadlike ribs, regularly spaced, uniform, the interspaces wider;
extending from the suture to the verge of the umbilicus; spiral
sculpture of minute spiral threads showing in the interspaces under a
lens, but not modifying the axial ribs; umbilicus wide, funicular;
aperture circular, simple, sharp edged; operculum brown, multi-
spiral, horny; height, 1.7; longer diameter, 2 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus.
Cat. No. 173803.
Type-locality. — Catalina Channel, California; collected by Prof.
F. W. Kelsey. This shell is probably not quite adult.
SOLARIELLA TAVERNIA, new species.
Shell small, white, with a subglobular nucleus and three and a half
subsequent whorls; suture distinct, deep; spiral sculpture on the
spire of four or five equally distributed and subequal small threads
with wider interspaces and a narrow flattish space in front of the
suture; intercalary threads appear on the penultimate whorl and
on the first half of the last whorl they become numerous, covering the
whole surface uniformly, but a little coarser on the verge of the
umbilicus which is moderately wide and deep ; this sculpture becomes
