NO. 2295. NEW NORTH PACIFIC MOLLUSKS—DALL. 361
obsolete and the last quarter of the last whorl is perfectly smooth and
polished; axial sculpture of numerous retractively arcuate threads
beginning at the suture and extending feebly to the periphery on
the upper part of the spire, later becoming obsolete; base rounded,
aperature subcircular, simple, sharp, the lips connected by a glaze
on the body and not reflected; height, 3; greater diameter, 4 mm.
U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 207625.
Type-locality. — Galapagos Islands, in 634 fathoms, sand; bottom
temperature, 40° F.
SOLARiELLA (SOLARICIDA) KONDOENSIS, new species.
Shell of moderate size with six moderately inflated whorls, the
nucleus lost, the color olivaceous, the suture distinct, not appressed;
spiral sculpture of (on the upper whorls two, on the last two whorls three)
sharp threads behind the periphery raised into rather sharp nodules
at the intersections with the axial threads, and with wide interspaces
between the suture, each other and the following tlireads, the first
of which on which the suture is laid and three similar threads on the
base are minutely beaded, while the last, at the verge of the funnel
shaped axially striated deep umbilicus is m.ore coarsely beaded;
axial sculpture of fine sharp threads more or less obsolete in the inter-
spaces but forming nodules at the intersections and between them
finer sharp close threadlets; not nodulating the posterior spirals;
base convex, aperture rounded, the pillar and outer lip continuous
thin and sharp, the inner lip erased, pearly; operculum thin, multi-
spiral; height of shell, 19; maximum diameter, 17 mm. U. S. Nat.
Mus. Cat. No. 205778.
Type-locality. — U. S. Bureau of Fisheries '-tation 4974, off Hondo,
Japan; in 905 fathoms, mud; bottom temperature 36.6° F.
SOLARIELLA DIOMEDEA, new species.
Shell small, white with pinkish brown touches on the prominences
and four or five brown radial flecks on the spire; whorls five exclusive
of the glassy subglobular nucleus, flattened in front of the suture,
otherwise well rounded; spiral sculpture on and near the periphery of
five or six subequal cords with narrower interspaces; on the base are
about eight finer closer threads extending to the verge of the funic-
ular umbilicus within which are four stoutly beaded strong cords
diminishing in strength inward; axial sculpture of numerous fine equal
regularly spaced threads with wider interspaces, beading the posterior
spiral and conspicuous on the flattish part of the whorl; aperture
circular, hardly interrupted at the body, the margin thin, crenulated
by the sculpture; operculum multispiral, concave, translucent; height
of shell, 4 ; diameter, 5 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 194971.
