362 PROCEEDINGIS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 50.
Type-locality. — U. S. Fish Commission station 2813, at the Gala-
pagos Islands, in 41 fathoms, coral sand.
This though much smaller, belongs to the type of S. perainahilis
Carpen ter.
SOLARIELLA NYSSONA, new species.
Shell small, white, prickly, with six well rounded whorls exclusive
of the one-whorled glassy very minute nucleus; suture deep, almost
channeled; spiral sculpture of a prominent line of sharp nodules at
the shoulder of the whorl in front of which, between it and the base,
are three widely spaced threads similarly but less prominently
nodulate at intersections with the axial sculpture and with one or
two fine intercalary threads in the much wider interspaces; on the
base are four or more equal small beaded threads with wider ir.ter-
spaces to the verge of the funicular umbilicus which is marked by
one or two rows of prominent sharp nodules; internally the umbilicus
is axially striated; axial sculpture of numerous sharp, widely spaced,
often broken, elevated lines sharply nodulose at the intersections;
aperture subcircular, the margin thin, sharp, hardly interrupted by
the body. Height, 6; diameter, 7.5 mm. U. S. Nat Mus. Cat. No.
205799.
Type-locality .—\] . S. Bureau of P'isheries station 3738, off Hondo,
Japan., in 167 fathoms, mud; bottom temperature, 67° F.
SOLARIELLA DELICATA, new species.
Shell small, white, with about four well rounded v/horls exclusive
of the rather promment minute glassy nucleus; suture distinct, almost
appressed; sphal sculpture of a prominent thread at the shoulder,
two with an intercalar" smaller thread at the verge of the umbilicus
and numerous feeble mmute elevated lines under-running the axial
sculpture; umbilicus narrow, deep; axial sculpture of very numerous,
equal, regularly spaced low lamellae, with (on the last whorl) about
equal interspaces, extending to the verge of the umbilicus and
minutely beadmg the shoulder cord; aperture circular, hardly inter-
rupted by the body, the margins thin and sharp; height, 7; diameter-
6.5 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 205780.
Type-locality. — U. S. Bureau of Fisheries station 5050, near
Hakodate, Japan, in 266 fathoms, sand; bottom temperature, 37.9° F.
This is one of the most elegant species of this very beautiful genus.
SOLARIELLA KOREANICA, new species.
Shell small, white, with four well rounded whorls exclusive of the
minute glassy nucleus, and a distinct not appressed suture; spiral
sculpture of a feel)le thread at the base and two stronger, rather
widely separated, sharper threads around the narrow umbilicus;
spiral sculpture of (on the last whorl about 25) obliquely retractive
