NO. 2295. NEW NORTH PACIFIC MOLLUSES—DALL. 863
low folds which barely reach the periphery, with narrower interspaces,
but are feebly and irregularly revived on the base, especially near
the umbilicus; aperture subcircular, hardly interrupted by the body,
with a sharp thin margin; height, 5; diameter, 4.5 mm. U. S. Nat.
Mus. Cat. No. 205783.
Tyfe-locality . — U. S. Bureau of Fisheries station 4852, off the
coast of Korea (Chosen) in 568 fathoms, mud; bottom temperature,
36.6° F.
MARGARITES PAUPERCULUS. new species.
Shell coarse, usually more or less eroded, of a yellowish white
over a brilliant nacre, with five or more moderately rounded whorls,
the nucleus eroded; suture distmct, not appressed; axial sculpture
of numerous somewhat irregular narrow close-set ^vrinkles, extending
over the whorl from the suture to the verge of the funicular umbilicus ;
spiral sculpture of a few spiral lines near the umbilicus; aperture
subcircular, oblique, produced above, the lips joined over the body
by a layer of enamel; the operculum dark bro^n, multispiral, with
8 or 10 turns; height of shell, 9.5; of aperture, 4.5; maximum diam-
eter, 11 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 109457.
Type-locality. — Arctic Ocean, north of Bering Strait; collected by
Capt. E. Everett Smith.
MARGARITES (PUPELLARIA) KAMCHATIC13S. new species.
Shell large, solid, ashy gray, somewhat depressed, with six whorls
exclusive of the (lost) nucleus; suture distinct, not appressed; axia
sculpture of radiating threads near the apex, soon becoming obsolete
and reduced on the last three whorls to somewhat rude incremental
lines, slightly sharper and more regular on the base; spiral sculpture
of two close and one larger peripheral cord between the sutures on
the spire, on the last whorl these occupy the posterior half of the
space between the suture and the periphery; in front of them is a
space without spiral sculpture reaching to the periphery; on the base
between the periphery and the verge of the umbilicus there are
about a dozen spiral uniform threads with wider mterspaces decus-
sated only by the lines of growth; the interior of the rather wide
umbilicus is axially striated; the periphery is rounded; aperture
oblique, subquadrate, the margms thin, the body with a thin layer
of nacre; the pillar is slightly concavely arcuate. Height of shell,
23; of last whorl, 18; diameter, 27 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat.
No. 210275.
Type-locality. — U. S. Bureau of Fisheries station 3643, on the
southeast coast of Kamchatka, in 100 fathoms sand; bottom tem-
perature, 31.7° F.
MARGARITES (PUPILLARIA) HEALYI, new species.
Shell large, livid yellowish white, with a thm very pale periostracum
and about six whorls including a smooth white turbinate nucleus
