364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 5G.
of two moderately rounded whorls; suture distinct, not appressed,
the whorls between not inflated; axial sculpture of oblique quite
evident incremental lines, occasionally developed into minute v.Tin-
kles; spiral sculpture of rather irregularly spaced low threads, about
a dozen on the penultimate whorl, with wider mterspaces; especially
near the ])eriphery on the spire; on the last whorl, includmg the
base, they are more numerous and closer; base slightly flattened
with a narrow, perforate umbilicus; aperture oblique; simple, nacreous;
body with a coat of enamel; pillar straight, slightly callous, with
no projection at the base; height of shell, 20.5; of last whorl, 15;
maximum diameter, 20 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 223801.
Type-locality. — Arctic Ocean, north of Bering Strait, station 10, of
U. S. S. Corvnn, Capt. M. Healy.
MAUGARITES (PUPILLARIA) SI?ANNONICL'S, new species.
Shell large, thin, gray, with a dull surface, trochiform, with a
minutely glassy globular nucleus and five subsequent whoils, suture
distinct, deep; axial sculpture of prominent, almost lamellose close-
set incremental lines, which near the apex of the shed develop as
stronger wrinkles; spiral sculpture of (on the penultimate whorl
four, on the last whorl between the sutm-e and the base five or more)
low keels, with much wider interspaces and occasional intercalary
threads; just over the edge of the base and around the deep rather
nari'ow umbilicus are other fine threads with a more or less smooth
space between the two groups; aperture rounded, outer lip somewhat
produced above, pearly, with a thin layer of enamel across the body;
pillar lip thin, hardly reflected; larger diameter, 14; shorter diameter,
11.5; height, 13 mm. Operculum whitish, of about 10 turns, fringed
extemally at the suture. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 219265
Type-locality. — Shannon Fiord, East Greenland, Doctor Pansch.
This recalls M. striatus Broderip and Sowerby, but is a thinner and
more delicate shell with quite different minor characters. The
ovicapsules attached by the base to the specimens are discoid and
appear to hold only one or two eggs.
MARGARITES (PUPILLA2IA) RUDIS, new species.
Shell of moderate size, white, with a pale olivaceous periostracum,
a smooth nucleus of about one whorl and five subsequent whorls;
spiral sculpture of two strong cords with wider interspaces and a
thud on which the suture is laid and which forms the margin of the
base; there is also a small thread between the sutm-e and the posterior
cord and on the last whorl a similar thread in the interspaces; on the
base there are six or seven smaller closer cords separated by obscmely
channeled interspaces between the verge of a narrow umbilicus and
the basal margin; axial sculpture of (on the penultimate whorl about
20) retractive riblets extending from suture to periphery, with wider
