NO. 2288. NEW MOLLUSKS OF THE FAMILY TURRITIDAE—DALL. 15
CLATHRODRILLIA CASTIANIRA, new species.
Plate 2. fig. ].
Shell small, white, apex eroded, having five or more whorls exclu-
sive of the (lost) nucleus; whorls well rounded, anal fasciole exca-
vated, close to the appressecl suture; spiral sculpture of (on the up-
per whorls in front of the fasciole, three, on the last whorl about a
dozen between the fasciole and the end of the canal) strong, equal,
equally spaced, rounded threads with wider smooth interspaces;
axial sculpture of (on the penultimate whorl 14) low riblets barely
reaching the base and starting from the shoulder, with subequal in-
terspaces, and becoming obsolete near the aperture; they are sub-
nodulous at the intersections with the spirals; aperture rather wide,
anal sulcus deep, close to the suture with a subsutural callus; inner
lip erased; outer lip thin, hardly varicose; canal distinct, short, re-
curved. Height of shell, 10; of last whorl, 6; diameter, 4.5 mm.
Cat. No. 214246, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Station 3189, off Cape San Martin, California, in 218
fathoms, mud, bottom temperature 43.2° F. U. S, Bureau of
Fisheries.
CLATHRODRILLIA AENONE. new species.
Shell yellowish brown, of about seven whorls exclusive of the
(lost) nucleus, spire acute, the whorls markedly shouldered, the
suture strongly appressed with a strong cord in front of it; anal
fasciole excavated, arcuately striated, with a few obscure fine spiral
threads running in it; axial sculpture of (on the last whorl fifteen)
short prominent nearly vertical subrectangular ribs rounded above
and confined to the peripheral region in front of which on the base
of the last whorl are about twice as many thread-like ridges mostly
continuous over the base to the beginning of the canal; incremental
lines rather marked; spiral sculpture of three or four threads with
wider interspaces overrunning and sometimes slightly nodulating the
peripheral ribs ; in front of these on the base are about eight spiral
threads conspicuously nodulous at the intersections with the minor
ridges, and with much wider interspaces; on the younger shells these
threads are more close set, fewer and less nodulous, the minor ridges
inconspicuous; finally between these in the adult are more or less
distinct finer spiral striae; the canal is also spirally threaded with
a conspicuous siphonal fasciole ; aperture rather narrow with a well-
m.arked anal sulcus close to the suture, and on the body a prominent
subsutural callus; outer lip produced, sharp-edged, smooth within;
inner lip callous, the outer edge of the enamel slightly raised, and on
the canal prominent with a chink between it and the siphonal fas-
ciole; canal short, recurved; height (without the nuclear whorls),
