NO 2295. ^^EW NORTH PACIFIC jIOLLUSKS—DALL. 367
This species resembles M. marginatus but is larger, more solid, not
fluctuated, nor angular at the periphery, and with a different
suture.
MAKGARITES FRIGIDUS, new species.
Shell small, polished, conic, pale flesh color, of six whorls, including
a minute subglobular nucleus; suture distinct, not appressed, whorls
only moderately rouaded; axial sculpture of faint incremental lines,
spiral sculpture of a few very faint lines near the umbilical region;
base rounded, imperforate; operculum pale brownwith about 8 turns;
aperture rounded, slightly angular above, outer hp simple sharp,
body with a thin nacreous glaze, pillar lip rounded, broader than the
rest; height of shell, 9; of last whorl, 6.5; of aperture, 3; diameter, 6
mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 223423.
Type-localily.— Arctic Ocean north of Bering Strait; Capt. M. Healy
of the U. S. R, M. steamer Corwin. This species occurs also as far
south as Nunivak Island.
MAEGAHITES MARGINATUS, new species.
Shell small, thin, trochiform, pale gi-ay or pink, vdth a minute glassy
nucleus and about five subsequent whorls; suture distinct, rather deep,
in front of it the last whorl is marginated by a series of eight or more
slightly arcuate broad convex waves with narrow interspaces, extend-
ing about halfv/ay to the periphery vvduch is somewhat angular though
not distinctly keeled ; other spiral sculpture of minute almost micro-
scopic striae over the whole surface; base moderately convex v/ith a
narrow umbilicus; aperture rounded, simple, the margin not expanded,
the body with a thin layer of enamel uniting the lips, the pillar lip
not reflected, slightly thickened; the operculum pale with six or more
turns; larger diameter, 6.5; shorter diameter, 5; height, 5 mm.
U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 109464.
TyfeAocalitij.^KA'Akh. Island, Aleutians, collected by W. H. Dall.
It has also a wide range including the Arctic Ocean in both hemis-
pheres. The wavy margin, though always indicated, is variable in
strength in different individuals.
MARGARITES HYPOLISPUS, new species.
Shell small, solid, turbinate, pale flesh color, polished, smooth,
with five well rounded whorls, including a minute subglobular
nucleus; suture very distinct, not appressed; base rounded with a
narrow deep perforate umbilicus; aperture subcircular, simple, the
pillar lip hardly thickened, the body with a thin coat of enamel;
height, 3.5; diameter, 4.5 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 274122.
Type-locality. — Arctic Ocean north of Bering Strait; Capt. M.
Healy. This species was at first taken for the young of M. frigidus,
but that is imperforate, more elevated, and with fewer whorls, and
has less rotundity of the whorls.
