368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.
? CIRCULUS KOSSELLINUS, new species.
Shell minute, white, solid, depressed turbinate, of two-and-a-half
whorls, including the smooth nucleus; suture distinct; sculpture of
numerous close-set spiral threads rather large for the size of the shell,
crossed by m.icroscopic incremental lines; base rounded, with a nar-
row deep umbilicus; aperture subcircular, the outer lip sharp, much
produced above, pillar lip thickened, not reflected; height, 0.75;
longer diameter, 2 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 223286.
T[ipe-locality. — Off South Coronado Island, near San Diego, Cali-
fornia, collected by Dr. Fred Baker, in three fathoms.
GANESA (GBANIGYSA) FIONA, new species.
Shell minute, white, of about three well-rounded vrhorls of whicn
the smooth small nucleus forms one; suture deep; surface covered
with a minute subgranular vermiculation, the incremental lines hardly
perceptible; base evenly rounded, the umbilicus narrow; the aperture
subcircular, the margin slightly thickened, not interrupted by the
body; height, 2; diameter, 2 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 207624.
Type-locality. — U. S. Fish Commission station 2808, near the Gala-
pagos Islands, in 634 fathoms, coral sand; bottom temperature,
39.9° F.
GANESA (GRANIGYKA) FILOSA, new species.
This species is much like the preceding one but mth coarser sculp-
ture in which the elevations take the form of somewhat irregular
slightly retractive very narrow folds, stronger near the suture and on
the base, less conspicuous on the periphery, and with a subsculpture
of revolving striae which at, times roughen the threadlike folds; the
shell has one more whorl than G. jnona but in all respects except those
above noted is extremely similar; the operculum is horny, subtranslu-
cent and multispiral; height, 2.3 ; diameter, 2.5 mm.. U. S. Nat. Mus.
Cat. No. 207602.
Type-locality. — This is the same as that of G. piona.
In her useful paper on Cyclostrema., Adeorlis, etc., in the Transac-
tions of the Connecticut Academy of vSciences* Miss Bush proposes a
new genus Lissospira with subordination of older nam.es as subgenera
or sections. The correct arrangement, however, would have been to
accept Ganesa Jeffreys, 1883, as the genus, with Granigym Dall, 1889,
as subgenus and Lissospira Bush, 1897, as a section of the latter, with
smooth or nongranular shell. From a smooth shell to one with gran-
ules and by coalescence of granules into vermiculation, and this into
plications, is a series of steps not too difficult or important.
1 Vol. 10, 1897, pp. 98-144.
