NO. 2295. NEW NORTH PACIFIC MOLLUSKS—DALL. 369
TEINOSTOMA (PSEUDOROTELLA) SAPIELLA, new species.
Shell minute, white, translucent, solid, of about two whorls, includ-
ing a minute dark brown subglobular nucleus; suture distinct; sur-
face glossy, smooth; last whorl only moderately enlarged and little
produced at the aperture; base rounded, depressed in the center,with
a pad of enamel leaving a slight chink but no perforation in the
umbilical region; aperture subcircular, the outer lip thin, a thick
callus on the body and a large ovate pad behind the pillar lip; height,
1; longer diameter, 2 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 127560.
Type-locality. — San Pedro, California, Mrs. Oldroyd.
TEINOSTOMA (PSEUDOROTELLA) BIBBIANA. new species.
Shell minute, very similar to the preceding, but smaller, more
depressed relatively, and more transparent and thin; aperture
circular, with a thinner callus on the body, and only a small lingui-
form pad behind the pillar lip. Height, 0.75; longer diameter, 2
mm. U. S. Nat. Cat. No. 274123.
Type-locality — San Diego, California, Mrs. Oldroyd.
TEINOSTOMA (PSEUDOROTELLA) SALVANIA. new species.
Shell small, translucent white, moderately depressed, smooth, of
about three and a half whorls with a minute inflated nucleus; the
only sculpture is a few faint incremental lines; base rounded, convex,
imperforate, with a minute umbilical dimple, behind which is a small
callus; aperture ovate, simple, the outer lip arcuate, simple, hardly
produced except near the suture, with a retractive wave near the
periphery; pillar thick with a small callus behind it; height, 1.2;
larger diameter, l.S mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 225190.
Type-locality — Off South Coronado Island, near San Ciego, Cali-
fornia, in 3 fathoms. Dr. Fred Baker.
TEINOSTOMA (PSEUDOROTELLA) CECINELLA, new species.
Shell small, translucent white, glassy, smooth, of two and a half
depressed whorls, the suture smoothly appressed and the apex not
rising above the summit of the last whorl; last whorl produced at
its extremity, the umbilical region covered with a smooth pad of
enamel, the aperture subcircular with thick simple lips and a slight
angularity at what would be the end of the piUar if there were a
pillar; height, 2; longer diameter, 3.5 mm. U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No.
218341.
Type-locality — Magdalena Bay, Lower California; collected by
C. R. Orcutt.
115690— 19— Proc.N.M. vol.56 24
