370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. ^ou 56.
SCISSURELLA CHIKICOVA, new species.
Shell small, white, trochiform, with a minute subglobular nucleus
and about four and a haK subsequent whorls ; spiral sculpture of two
sharp narrow peripheral keels, with a narrow interspace inclosing
the anal sulcus and f asciole; on the outer side of each keel is a moderate
constriction of the whorl; the suture is laid just below the anterior
keel; there are also very minute spiral threads over the whole sm*-
face wliieh do not reticulate the axial sculpture; the latter is com-
posed of retractively arcuate, uniform, minute, close-set threads
extending over the flattish upper sm-f ace of the whorls and the roundly
convex base; axis perforate, the lunbilicus small, the ajierture
rounded except the rather straight, somewhat reflected, short pillar
lip; operculum multispiral, whitish, sub transparent; height, 2.5;
diameter, 3 mm. V. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 206509.
Type-locality — ^LT. S. Fish Commission station 3340, southeast of
Chirikoff Island, Alaska, in 695 fathoms, mud; bottom temperature,
36.8° F.
SCHISMOPE CALIANA. new species.
Shell minute, translucent white, of three whorls and a minute glassy
subglobular nucleus; sutm-e distinct; last whorl with a keel halfway
to the periphery, another at the periphery; half a whorl back from
the aperture between these two is the oval perforation found in the
genus; these interspaces are wide; a third keel is found nearer the
second on the outer part of the base, and several finer ones on the
base, which is funnel-shaped in the center, but forms merely a pit, the
axis being imperforate; aperture wide the upper part of the outer
lip protracted; the pillar lip thin, arcuate, the general form of the
aperture rounded; height, 1 mm., maximum diameter, 1.5 mm.
U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 198609.
Type-locality — San Diego, California, Professor Kelsey.
HALIOTIS CRACHERODII. new form IMPERFORATA.
In the Nautilus for December, 1910 (p. 96), I described a unique
form of this species which is entirely imperforate, never having had
any perforations, but appears normal in every other respect. While
this can hardly be termed a variety it seems well to give it a name
in order that it may be kept in mind by those interested in teratology
of mollusca. The specimen is U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 219850, and
measures 100 mm. in length by 42 in height and 95 in width, and was
collected on the coast of California not far from San Pedro.
SPHENIA GLOBULA. new species.
Shell small, white, with a dehiscent brownish papery periostra-
cuni which extends beyond the shell at the siphonal end; almost
