NO. 2296. CERTAIN GENERA OF ICHNEUMON-FLIES— CU8HMAN. 377
synonymous with TrypJion ? nasutus, the species he had before him.
The type of Carn/potlirfptus Davis is therefore Tryphon ? nasutus
Cresson.
The only North American species that has been described is Hyho-
phanes nasutus (Cresson), redescribed in more detail by Davis.
HYBOPKANES NASUTUS (Cresson).
Tryphon ? nasutus Cresson, Trans. Ainer. Ent. Soc, vol. 2, 1868, p. 107, female.
Campoihrephis nas^Uus (Cresson) Davis, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, vol. 24, 1897,
p. 247, female.
Zarliynclius -nasutus (Cresson) Ashmead, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 23, 1900, p. 59.
Rhijnchothyreus nasutus (Cresson) Ashmead, Can. Ent., vol. 32, 1900, p. 368.
(The species not mentioned by name, Rnyncliothyreus being here proposed to
replace Zarliynclius Ashmead, precocciipied.)
Plectisddea (Campoihrepius) nasuta (Cresson) Viereck, Hym. Conn., 1917, p. 276.
This species differs in some respects from Schmiedeknecht's de-
scription of the genus, as follows: Antennae distinctly shorter than
the body; eyes in female slightly convergent below,
in male parallel: second and third tergites nearly
quadrate, not or barely longer than wide: fourth
tergite as well as the first three distincth' though more
weakly sculptured.
The male has not been heretofore described. It
differs from the female principally in having the
clypeus flattened medially and broadly rounded
'. - 1 • 1 c 1 F'^- 1— UYB0PHANE3
apically; the mesoscutum brighter rufous; the an- nasutus (Cresson).
tennae without annulus; and the legs paler through- « female, lateral
^ ^ <=> VIEW OF HEAD. (e.=
out. EPOMIA.) 6. MALE.
The United States National Museum collec- ^^"^"^ ^'^^ o^
<• 1 c X 1 CLYPEUS.
tion contains three specimens, a female from Lake
Placid, New York; a male from Canada; and another female with-
out locality.
ZAGRYPHUS, new genus.
Differs from IlyhopJianes (Foerster) Schmiedeknecht principally as
follows: Head not wider than thorax; clypeus nearly twice as long
as face, in female nose-like protuberant, weakly impressed below,
shining with sparse setigerous punctures, face elevated in middle to
level of clypeus; clypeus in male strongly convex, densely punctate,
and, together with the medially protuberant face, sides of frons and
vertex and posterior orbits, densely griseo-pubescent; antennae of
both sexes broadly white annulate; thorax rather densely punctate
and pubescent, notauli vreak; propodeum with sharp carinae, basal
areas polished, nearly impunctate, pleural areas densely punctate,
median and apical areas transversely rugose; basal joint of hind tar-
sus longer than remaining joints combined; nervellus an tef ureal;
