378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.56.
transverse cubitus barely a sixth as long as basal abscissa of radius
(in Hyhophanes it is fully a fourth as long) ; basal abscissa of radius
more than half as long as apical abscissa; abdomen subcompiessed at
apex, the apical segments retracted, first tergite much longer than
second, spiracles distinctly behind middle, lateral fovea far from
base, postpetiole and second tergite longitudinally rugulose, third
very weakly so; ovipositor as long as first tergite.
Type. — Mesoleptus ? nasutus Cresson.
ZAGRYPHUS NASUTUS (Cresson).
Mesoleptus ? nasuius Cresson, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, vol. 2, 1868, p. 103. Male
and female.
This is the only described North American species. It is easily
recognized from the generic description and from the original descrip-
tion.
There are two females and one male in the United States National
Museum collection — the females from Chain Bridge, Virginia (H. B.
Kirke), and Cabin John, Marjdand (R. M. Fonts), and the male from
Lawrence, Kansas (Hugo Kahl), all de-
termined by the VvTiter and S. A. Rohwer.
These specimens are the basis of the ge-
neric description.
Genus NELIOPISTHUS Thomson.
Neliopisthiis Thomson, Opusc. Ent., fasc. 9,
1S83, pp. 907, 908.
Type. — Phytodietus elegans Paithe.
Polysphhictomorpha Ashmead, Proc. U. S. Nat.
Mus., vol. 33, 1900, p. 59.
I ro. 2.— ZAGRYPirUS nasutus (OeeS- rr, „, i-,7.7 -Ai
.SON), a. FEMALE. LATERAL VIEW OF TypB. -Polysphmctomovpha luggen Ash-
IIEAU. (e. = EPOMLA.) 6. MALE. FRONT mead MS.
VIEW OF CLYPEUS. C. KIIEATH OF nyr • P ,^ i 11
OVIPOSITOR. LATERAL VIEW. ^ o specimeu of the genotype has been
available for study, but that the three
species described below belong here there is no doubt, especially since
one of them differs in very little from Schmiedeknecht's description
of the genotype and may even be that species.
Judging from the tliree species studied Schm.iedeknecht's descrip-
tion of the genus ^ will need a few alterations. The areolation of the
propodeum is subject to considerable variation: The areola varies
from twice as long as broad and pentagonal (Schmiedeknecht) to as
broad as long and hexagonal; the petiolar area is sometimes nearly
half as long as the propodeum and sometimes much shorter. That
portion of the cubitus lying between the intercubitus and the second
recurrent is not always longer than the intercubitus. These and the
comparative length and breadth of the tergites are specific charac-
ters. The white markings of the head and thorax are apparently of
generic significance.
» Opusc. Ichn., fasc, 32, p. 2506.
