16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
35; height of last whorl, 18; diameter, 12 mm. Cat. No. 266370,
U.S.N.M.
Range. — Agua Verde Bay, Lower California ; Dr. Paul Bartsch.
The outer lip is more or less crenulated at the edge by the spiral
sculpture.
? CLATHRODRILLIA RESINA Dall.
Plate 2, fig. 4.
Tunis (Surcula) resina Dall, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., vol. 43, No. 6, p 264,
1908.
Range. — Station 3354, Gulf of Panama, in 322 fathoms, mud, bot-
tom temperature 46° F. U. S. Bureau of Fisheries steamer Albatross.
Cat. No. 123103, U.S.N.M.
This species is intermediate between Clathrodrillia and some of the
species of Surcula., but on the whole is nearer the former by its sculp-
ture and the latter in its straight canal.
CLATHRODRILLIA CALLIANIRA, new species.
Plate 5, fig. 2.
Shell slender, acute, pale brownish, with a smooth i^egularly in-
creasing nucleus of two and a half whorls and eight and a half sub-
sequent whorls ; suture closely appressed with a cord-like edge behind
the strongly constricted, arcuately striated anal fasciole; spiral sculp-
ture of (on the penultimate whorl about seven) flattish, close-set
cords; in some specimens these alternate in size, in others they are
nearly equal; on the last whorl there are about 25, some irregularly
larger than the others, and a few smaller threads on the canal ; axial
sculpture of (on the last whorl 10 to 14) rounded ribs with subequal
interspaces, more conspicuous and less numerous as we ascend the
spire, over which the spiral sculpture passes without nodulation;
aperture short, subovate, anal sulcus short rounded, with a subsutural
callus; outer lip arcuate, thin, smooth inside, without any marked
varix behind it; inner lip and pillar with a smooth callus; canal
short, slightly recurved. Height of shell, 16; of last whorl, 8.5;
diameter, 5.5 mm. Cat. No. 96722, U.S.N.M.
Range.— Station 2823, off Lower California in 27 fathoms, sand,
U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
CLATHRODRILLIA ANDROMEDA, new species.
Plate 2, fig. 2.
Shell acute, fusiform, whitish with a brown periostracum ; nucleus
small, the apex minutely globular and, with the succeeding inflated
whorl, smooth ; subsequent whorls eight, regularly increasing in dia-
meter; suture closely appressed, obscure, bordered in front by two
undulated cords, the anterior cord larger; axial sculpture of (on the
last whorl 18) equal narrow nodulous ribs with subequal interspaces,
