NO. 2296. CERTAIN GENERA OF ICHNEUMON-FLIES—CUSHMAN.
379
KEY TO FEMALES OP NORTH AMERICAN SPECIES.
General body color fulvous or ferruginous luggeri ( Ashmead)
General body color black \
I. Mesoscutum rufous; postpetiole as long as wide at apex; second tergite fully as
long as wide; ovipositor sheath barely longer than first tergite. .similis, new species
Mesoscutum black; postpetiole much shorter than wide at apex; second tergite wider
than long; ovipositor sheath much longer than first tergite
nigridorsum, new species.
NEUOPISTHUS SIMILIS, new species.
Differs from Schmiedeknecht's description of the genotype only in
the shape of the areola and the length of the petiolar area, both of
which character are included in his generic description, and in having
a dark longitudinal mark on the disk of mesoscutum, the pronotum
partly, metapleura entirely, and propodeum laterally reddish, and
the mesonotum no darker than mesopleura.
Female.— Length, 4.5 mm. Head polished, frons and face weakly
punctured; thorax subpolished, weakly punctured, more strongly so
on disk of mesoscutum; propodeum laterally and posteriorly punc-
tate, medially polished, areola about two-thirds as wide as long, hex-
agonal, petiolar area not reaching nearly to middle of propodeum;
basal vein weakly curved; second abscissa of cubitus much longer
than intercubitus ; abdomen densely punctate; postpetiole as wide
as long; second tergite as long as v/ide at apex; ovipositor sheath
but little longer than first tergite.
Head piceous black; cheeks, mouth parts, clypeus, face below and
at sides, and semicircular spot at top of eye whitish; s-cape and pedi-
cel below rufous; pronotum black, rufous laterally, dorsal and ven-
tral margins white ; an elongate spot between notauli blackish ; thorax
otherwise rufous; propodeum blackish, rufous laterally; legs strami-
neous, front and middle coxae and all trochanters white, hind tibiae
white with obscure apical and subbasal dark annuli; abdomen black-
ish, tergites apically rufous.
Type-locality. — Wood County, West Virginia.
Type.— Cat. No. 22001, U.S.N.M.
Described from one female captured by Dr. A. D. Hopkins on a goose-
berry bush May 2, 1891, and recorded under Jiis West Virginia No.
3200.
NELIOPISTHUS NIGRIBORSUM, new species.
Differs from similis principally as follows:
Female. — Length, 4 mm.
Head and thorax more strongly and densely punctate; propodeum
more strongly sculptured, areola as well as petiolar area transversely
rugulose ; basal vein strongly curved ; postpetiole wider at apex than
