380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
long; second tergite much wider than long; ovipositor sheath about
a half longer than first tergite.
Face almost entirely white; pronotum and mesoscutum, except
for white markings, black; postscutellum and propodeum entire!}^
black; legs with same color pattern, but pale testaceous rather than
stramineous and with dark markings of hind tibiae larger.
Type-loc(Uity. — Mount Washington, New Hampshire.
Type.— Cat. No. 22002, U.S.N.M.
Described from one female taken by Mrs. Annie T. Slosson.
NSLIOPISTHUS LUGGER! (Ashtnoad).
Polysphinctomorpha luggcri Ashmead IMS., Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 23, I'JOO,
p. 59.
This species was not described by Ashmead, but was merely men-
tioned by him as type of the genus Polysphinctomorpha.
Differs from similis principally as follows:
Female. — Length, 4 mm.
Head and thorax more strongly punctate; propodeum more
strongly sculptured, areola rugoso-pmictate, nearly as broad as long,
petiolar area reaching very nearly to middle; basal vein strongly
curved; second abscissa of cubitus barel}^ longer than intercubitus;
post-petiole wider at apex than long; ovipositor sheath distinctly
longer than first tergite.
General color fulvous to ferruginous; head with occiput, vertex
and frons mediaU}^ black; face almost entirely white; scape and
pedicel beneath white; pronotum medially and prescutum anteriorly
black; propodeum basally piceous; legs testaceous, front and middle
coxae and trochanters yellow and hind trochanters paler, hind tibia
at apex and all tarsi fuscous; tergites apically narrowly yellow;
ovipositor sheath black.
Male. — Differs from female as follows: Black with same color
pattern as female; antennae not annulated; eyes not convergent
below; intercubitus longer than second abscissa of cubitus; abdomen
somewhat more slender, the postpetiole not wider than long; hind
coxae more or less piceous; hind tibiae more strongly infuscate.
Type-locality. — Minn eso ta .
Type.— Cat. No. 22003, U.S.N.M.
Described from one female labeled by Ashmead '^ Polysphincto-
morpha luggeri Ashm.," and three females and two males reared March
17, 1883, from a tineid larva on Comptonia without localit}^ or col-
lector's name, but probably reared in Missouri by Miss Mary E.
Murtfeldt.
Tlie type is apparently not fully matured and is paler throughout,
the normal color being probably ferrugmous rather than fulvous.
