NO. 2296. CERTAIN GENERA OF ICHI\iEUMON-FLIES—CUSHMAN. 331
The three female paratypes have the first tergite in the middle and
the others more or less at base piceous.
Genus THYMARIS (Foerster) Erischke.
Only one North American species has been referred to this genus.
This is Tliymaris sling eiiaimnna Ashmead. It does not belong to
the genus but is a Campoplegine synonymous with Diodes ohliter-
atus (Cresson).
The following new species is apparently the first North American
species truly referable to the genus.
THYMARIS AMERICANUS, new species.
In Schmiedelcnecht's key to the European species of Tliymaris
runs to coUaris Thomson and agrees fairly well with the description,
but lacks the brown color on the metapleura. The description of
collaris is, however, based entirely on color and size, and is so brief
that it is inadvisable to determine an American species as collaris,
especially without a specimen of that species for comparison.
Female. — Length, 4 mm.; antennae, 4 mm.
Head poUshed, weakly, sparsely punctate, more densely and
strongly so on face and frons; temples narrow, convex; clypeus
finely punctate; thorax sparsely punctate, more strongly and densely
so on disk of mesoscutum and metapleura; propodeum punctate
basally transversely rugulose apically, areola and petiolar area equal
in length, the former hexagonal with costulae at its basal third;
hind basitarsus very nearly as long as remaining joints combined;
second abscissa of cubitus barely longer than intercubitus; first
three tergites longitudinally striate, the third more weakly so.
Black; clypeus and mandibles yellow; palpi white; antennae
black, flavous at base, flagellar joints 9-12 white; thorax black,
with pronotum laterally, mesopleura in dorso-anterior corner, disk
of mesoscutum and scutellum reddish; tegulae stramineous; legs
stramineous, front and middle coxae and trochanters white, hind
tibiae slightly infuscate apically and subbasally; abdomen black
with apices of first three tergites reddish.
Male. — Length, 4 mm.; antennae, 5 mm.
Differs from female ])rincipaily as follows: Head wider and more
strongly convex behind eyes; antennae black without annulus and
with only scape and pedicel yellowish ; pro thorax mostly black, meso-
pleura only obsoletely red dorso-anteriorly; mesoscutum and scu-
tellum entirely black; hind tibiae and tarsi generally infuscate.
Four female paratypes show color variation both ways from the
type, Paratypes a and h have the red of the thorax brighter and
more extensive, the discal spot on mesoscutum of a embracing most
