NO. 2297. BRACHIOrOD GENUS PLATYSTROrillA—iloEWAN. 387
specimens shovr that the sinus is proportionally deeper than the height
of the fold. This is accomplished by the compression of the pedicle
valve, which results in a greater elevation of the slopes next to the
sinus.
With few exceptions the surface of both valves is marked by strong
plications, which are generally sharp. Platystrophiafernvalensis, new
species, from the Fern vale of Cape Girardeau, Missouri, is striated,
but next to the beak these striae merge mto broad plications. The
genus is extremely variable in form, size, and number of plications.
Form and size are reasonably constant, but the number of plications
varies considerably within the limits of the species.
The surface layer of the shell is finely granulose. This feature is
not always evident if the surface l&jev has been subject to abrasion.
The inner surface is finely punctate.
Old age is indicated by increase in gibbosity, thickening of the
shell, strong growth varices, and loss of characters of low taxi-
nomic rank.
TYPE OF THE GENUS.
King took as the type of his genus, Terehratulites hiforatus Schlot-
heim. This species was described in 1820 as follows: "Mit ganz
gleichen, breiten, langlichrunden Halften, deren Schnabel gleich-
formig gewolbt und auf bey den Seiten durchbohrt sind. Die Ober-
schaale mit einer breiten concaven Riickenfurche, die untere Halfte
mit convex hervorstehenden Riicken. Beyde Halften gleichformig
der Lange nach gestreift, mit ziemlich tiefen Zwischenfurchen. Aus-
serordentlich seiten." ^
Schlotheim's type material consisted of one specimen which was
not figured. His description is too general for application to any
particular species, and as a result paleontologists have not been able
to come to any definite conclusion as to the specific denomination of
the shell.
M. de Verneuil says ' that Von Buch saw Schlotheim's type in the
Berlin Museum, and reported the distinctive characters to be the
presence of five ribs in the sums, and the width ]^roportionally greater
than the other species of the genus then known. There are individ-
uals of nearly every species and every variety of this genus which
have four, five, or more plications in the sinus, and transverse forms
are common. There are subquadrate specimens with five plications
in the smus and transverse specimens with five plications in the sinus,
so that the characteristics cited are not sufficient to constitute a
species.
1 Schlotheim, Die PetrifactenkundeaufihremjetzigenStandpunktedurchdieBeschreibungversteinerter
Schalle, 1820. p. 265.
» De Vemeuil et De Keyserling, Geol. Russia, vol. 2, p. 138.
