388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.56.
Davidson says: "We certainly have the type hiforata and the
variety lynx, but these two seem with us so intimately connected that
I have combined them under Schlotheim's single designation; * * * " ^
Davidson figures ^ his specimens as PlatystropMa hiforata and varie-
ties of that species. The origin of the phcations of the fold and sinus
as showTi in figs. 11, Ua, 11& is distinctly different from that shown in
figures 12, 14, 15, 25. The origin of the phcations of the other speci-
mens is not determinable with certamty. This difference in origin
is of great importance as it takes place very early in the development.
Members of the same species would necessarily have a uniform
ontogeny.
McCoy describes Platystroplda hiforata as "having the mesial fold
wider, and less elevated, bearing usually from six to nme ribs, at six
lines or less from the beak, and five to seven in the sinus; the lateral
ribs narrow, simple and from nine to twelve on each side, at six lines
from the beak."^ This description does not define any particular
form as there are individuals of nearly every species of the genus
which show this characteristic.
As it is impossible to determine what Schlotheim's type-specimen
was it can not stand as a type of the genus. PlatystropMa laticosta
Meek is well known to all investigators of Ordovician paleontology.
As it possesses all the quahties necessary for a genotype, it is sug-
gested that future workers regard it as such.
RELATION TO OTHER ORTHIDS.
Professor Cumings has shown that the nepionic development of
Platysiropliia is identical with that of Orusia lenticularis variety
lycoicles Matthew and concludes that that species is the ancestor of
the genus. ^
EoortUs of the Upper Cambrian has the physiognomy of this genus
and has been confused with it. This resemblance is of little impor-
tance. It is, however, of interest that in this genus the sinus is in the
brachial valve and the fold on the pedicle valve. This recalls the
early development of PlatystropMa, in which the pedicle valve bore
a fold and the brachial valve a siaus. In Monograph 51, United
States Geological Survey (pi. 93, fig. 3), EoortMs'i diahlo (Walcott)
is represented. Tlie specimen seems to have been smooth at the
beak. Very near the beak broad undulations arise and extend to the
frontal margin. This agrees with the early nepionic development of
PlatystropMa and further investigation is hkely to bring to hght close
relationships between the two genera.
The resemblance of PlectortMs to PlatystropMa has also been
demonstrated by Professor Cumings.^ He says: "If the sinus and
1 British Fossil Brachiopoda, 1851-1855, p. 271. « Amer. Journ. Sci., ser. 4. vol. IS, 1903, p. 5.
' Idem, pi. 38. ' Idem, p. 11.
» British Pal. Fossils, pp. 192, 193,
