390 PROCEEDINOS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
In subgroup D a plication is intercalated in a median position in
the sinus and a lateral plication is implanted on each of the slopes,
while on the fold all the plications bifurcate.
3. Triplicate group. — The greater number of North American
species belong to the triplicate group. In this group the primary
plication remains unmodified tliroughout the life history. In the
early neanic stage a plication is implanted on each slope of the sinus,
the one on the right side appearing first. Contemporaneous with
this development the two primary plications of the fold bifurcate
and form four plications.
The triplicate group was found to be separable into three subgroups
which the writer is designating, the low fold, the high fold, and the
Ponderosa subgroups. The first two subgroups are alike in possess-
ing a long hinge line relative to the height. By a comparison of the
growth stages both are found to pass through a similar development
in the nepionic and early neanic stages. In the low fold subgroup
the low rounded fold persists throughout its development and the
plications of the fold and sinus remain of nearly the same strength.
The second subgroup in the late neanic stage develops a high com-
pressed fold on which the lateral plications become weak and tend
to disappear, giving the fold an angular appearance.
Some individuals and varieties belonging to species of the low
fold subgroup have slightly elevated folds, on which the lateral
plications are somewhat weakened. This may be an expression of
an innate tendency of the race to develop a high fold which was
somewhat realized when the organism was subjected to the proper
environmental stimulation.
Those species and varieties which are characterized by large size
are placed in the Ponderosa subgroup.
These large PlatystropJiias have been called Platysirophia lynx or
PlatystropJiia hiforata, according as they were interpreted by the
investigator.
PlatystropJiia hiforata has been discussed in the preceding pages
and it has been shown that the term is of no specific value.
In 1830 Eichwald * described Terelratula {PlatystropJiia) lynx as
follows: "Spirifer, cardine elongato, recto, vertice, utriusque valvae
prominulo, utraque valva sulcata, stratis singulis transversis ex
testae incremento exortes, numerosissimis margine dentato; media
parte unius valvae prominula, quadrisulcata, alterius vero parte
eadem exclavata, profunda,"
Eichwald's specimen was from the drift and was not figured.
The description is not specific enough to delineate a species and
accordingly is of no value.
Several hundred specimens were before the writer and an endeavor
was made to find some logical classification of them. There are
1 Skizze von Podolis, p. 202.
