N0.228S. NEW MOLLUSKS OF THE FAMILY TURRITIDAE—DALL. 17
the ribs extending well over the base from the anterior margin of
the anal fasciole, where they form a marked shoulder; the incre-
mental lines are hardly noticeable except on the fasciole; spiral sculp-
ture of (on the spire three) strong cords, the posterior slightly
larger, which become swollen and nodulous where they intersect the
summit of the ribs; on the last whorl there are 7 of these cords
and 10 minor threads in front of the base and on the canal ; in the
interspaces between the major cords there are from one to three fine
threads which do not become nodulous ; anal fasciole narrow, concave,
somewhat removed from the suture, the sulcus shallow ; in the type-
specimen the outer lip is thin and sharp, the inner lip erased, but if
the specimen is immature the outer lip would probably be thickened
with a subsutural callus in the adult; pillar straight, attenuated in
front, white; canal distinct, not recurved. Height of shell, 16.5;
diameter, 8.5 mm. Cat. No. 211516, U.S.N.M.
Range.— Station 2828, in 10 fathoms, oflf La Paz, Lower California.
U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
CARINODRILLIA, new section.
For the species in which the spiral sculpture predominates and in
which there is a tendency for the peripheral cord to form a carina,
the name Carlnodrillia is proposed with Clathrodrillia halis Dall, as
the type. This forms a very natural group containing a large num-
ber of species mostly unicolor, whitish or brownish.
CLATHRODRILLIA (CARINODRILLIA) HALIS, new species.
Plate 5, fig. 4.
Shell yellowish white, elongated, acute, with two polished, more
brownish nuclear whorls and nine subsequent whorls; suture ap-
pressed with an angular thread in front of it, separated by an ex-
cavated wide fasciole, microscopically spirally striated, from an
acute shoulder surmounted by a single cord ; other spiral sculpture of
(on the last whorl nine) widely separated subequal cords on the
posterior one of which the suture is laid ; these have the interspaces
minutely striated and are not swollen when they pass over the ribs ;
axial sculpture of (on the last whorl six) short, very prominent ribs
with narrower interspaces, not continuous up the spire and horizontally
angulated by the cord which forms the periphery ; they undulate the
succeeding suture but are obsolete on the base and anal fasciole; on
the early part of the spire the peripheral cord is duplex, but the
posterior thread gradually fades out; aperture narrow, anal sulcus
deep, rounded, outer lip thin, sharp, arcuately produced; inner lip
erased, pillar short, canal very short but distinct. Height of shell,
20; of last whorl, 10; diameter, 7 mm. Cat. No. 211649, U.S.N.M.
Range.— Stditioji 2822, off La Paz, Lower California, in 21 fathoms,
sand, U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
115690— 19— Proc.N.M vol.56 2
