NO. 2297. BRACHIOPOD GENUS PLAT78TR0PHIA—MCEWAN. 391
gibbous, subquadrate forms with the hinge about equaling the
width; these represent the species described by Doctor Foerste as
Platystropliia ponderosa and seem to be confined to the Bellevue.
There are globose forms found in the Mount Auburn which Foerste
has described as Platystropliia ponderosa auhurnensis; and there is
an unusually large transverse form confined to the Arnheim forma-
tion which the writer is describing as Platystropliia ponderosa
arnlieimensis. But there are innumerable variants which refuse to
mark any definite horizon and before they can be of any use to
stratigraphy further data are needed.
RELATION OF THE GROUPvS.
As the uniplicate stage is common to all PlatystropMas, it is evi-
dent that there was a uniplicate ancestor with three and four pli-
cations on the lateral slopes. The species most closely related to
this ancestral form is Platystropliia uniplicata, new species, from the
New York Lower Trenton. That this is not a retrograde from the
triplicate group is shown by the fact that none of the many speci-
mens associated with it showed a tendency toward loss of the lateral
plications of the fold and sinus. There is a uniplicate species in the
Lower Trenton of Europe, but this form is gibbous and has a more
specialized fold and sinus.
Divergence from the uniplicate stock must have taken place in
early Ordovician or Upper Cambrian time, as somewhat specialized
members of the triplicate group are found in the Black River.
The biplicate group must have diverged at a very early stage in
the development of the genus, as the modification of the phcations
of the fold and sinus takes place before the shell has reached a length
of 1 mm.
Subgroup A shows the least differentiation, as the median plication
has not appeared in the sinus, and the median plication of the fold
has not bifurcated. It therefore stands closer to the ancestral stock
than the other subgroups. Its occurrence with the uniplicate group
and subgroup B does not necessarily mean that differentiation was
taking place in Lower Trenton time, but rather that the uniplicate
type and subgroup A were representatives of the primitive stocks
which give rise to the other subgroups in early Ordovician time.
Subgroups B and C diverged from the radical represented by
subgroup A about the same time ; one added a plication in a median
position in the sinus and the other added plications on the slopes.
A very little later subgroup D diverged from C by adding plications
on the lateral slopes.
As the triplicate group retains the uniplicate condition until the
shell has reached a length of 1.2 to 1.5 mm., it must have diverged
from the ancestral stock much later than the biplicate group.
