392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vot. 56.
All of the Trenton triplicate species except Platystrophia prepon-
derosa, new species, belong to the low-fold subgroup, which preserved
the low fold and convex form of the ancestral stock. Members of
this group persisted into the Maysville, being represented by Platys-
trophia juvenis, new species; Platystrophia. panciplicata; Platystro-
phia strigosa, new species; Platystrophia nitida, new species; Platys-
trophia morrowensis; Platystrophia coiTyviUensis, new species; and
Platystrophia sublaticosta, new species. While there were seven spe-
cies present, four of these were confined to the Lower Mays ville and two
are limited to narrow horizons in the Corryville. Platystrophia sub-
laticosta, new species, which ranges through the Fairmount, Corry-
ville, and Mount Auburn, has only a scanty representation.
There is an increase in the number of low-fold species in the Rich-
mond. Some of these are so similar to the Upper Trenton members
of the genus as to require great care in differentiation. This is
especially true of Platystrophia foerstei, new species, and Platystrophia
precursor latiformis, new variety. The Richmond species is distin-
guished by its somewhat deeper sinus. Platystrophia atfenuatus, new
species, which occurs in the Wajnesville at Waynesville, Ohio, has
many characters in common with Platystrophia amoena, new species*
of the Middle Trenton and Platystrophia juvenis of the Lower Mays-
ville Group. The Richmond species usually has fewer plications on
the lateral slopes. Platystrophia moritura of the Upper Richmond
is distinguished from Platystrophia precursor augusta, new variety, of
the Upper Trenton, with difficulty. In all these instances the
Richmond species has a somewhat deeper sinus.
The writer is not inclined to regard this similarity of form as being
due to reversion to primitive types. The Maysville species had
undergone too many changes to leave no record in the ontogeny It
seems to indicate a reinvasion of the region by Platystrophias from
an area where environmental conditions during Lower and Middle
Ciacinnatian time did not stimulate decided change. This recur-
rence agrees with Doctor Ulrich's observations on the recurrence of
Cathey's corals. He says: "These same corals, or, rather, their
scarcely distinguishable descendants, appear once more in the Rich-
mond series of Ohio, Indiana, and Kentucky." ^
While many of the Richmond members are quite like those of
earlier horizons, there are many whose physiognomy is entirely
distinct. Such species as Platystrophia annieana, Platystrophia
clarTcsviUensis, Platystrophia cumingsi, new species, and Platystrophia
acutilirata are decidedly more transverse and their brachial valves
are more ventricose than any of the earlier forms. They also tend
to have a greater number of plications on the lateral slopes.
Extreme specialization was expressed in the low fold subgroup by
the long hinge line and many plications on the lateral slopes. This
« Revision of the Paleozoic System, Bull. Geological Soc. America, vol. 22, 19n, no. 3, p. 300.
