394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
It marks a development toward a loss of plications on the lateral
slopes, while PlatystropJiia cypha marks the culmination of a develop-
ment toward an increase in the length of the hinge line and in the num-
ber of plications on the lateral slopes. This is accompanied by the
development of a high compressed fold and profound smus on which
the lateral plications have disappeared or exist only as rudimentary
structures. These characteristics represent the liighest degree of
specialization reached by the high fold subgroup. The culmination
is followed by decline, which is indicated by the development of a
galaxy of variants. Those variants, which are tied together by a
group of constant characteristics, are described in the following pages
as varieties of tliis species but by far the greater number will permit
of no classification.
In the Lower Maysville members of tliis subgroup were rare.
However, from late Fairmount until the end of the Maysville, they
form the most conspicuous fossil, being represented by great num-
bers of PlatystropJiia crassa in the Upper Fairmount, PlatystropJiia
laticosta, and PlatystropJiia unicostata in the Belle vue and Corryville
and Mount Auburn. At the end of the Maysville most of these spe-
cies became extinct. PlatystropJiia cypJia, however, lived into the
Arnheim and became associated with the members of the low fold
subgroup, wliich had migrated into the area.
From a study of the early development of members of the Ponde-
rosa subgroup the conclusion was reached that these specimens repre-
sent degenerate branches of the genus which originated wliile the
race was still in a progressive state of development.
PlatystropJiia preponderosa, new species, of the Upper Trenton
group, passes through a PlatystropJiia precursor development and
then becomes globose. There existed during the Maysville and
lower Richmond time a large form with a long hinge line and equi-
convex valves, and low spreading fold. The early development of
these is almost identical with that of PlatystropJiia precursor. Most
of these large PlatystropJiias are globose with the brachial valve much
the deeper, and with moderately elevated folds.
The writer's investigation revealed very little as to the origin of
this protean group. All of them, however, pass through a low-old
development which indicates their origin from some member of that
subgroup. It may be that various members possessed the possi-
bility of large size wliich was realized in one or more lines. When
their energy was exhausted, decline was marked by assumption of
gerontic characters and the development of multitudinous forms
which are so diverse as to permit of little classification.
PARALLELISM IN DEVELOPMENT.
This genus furnishes several examples of convergence in develop-
ment. The adult members of the most specialized mutations of
