398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
An examination of the diagram shows that all Platystrophias pass
through stages A, B, C, and it is inferred that these stages represent
the entire hfe history of a primitive ancestor which hved in late
Cambrian or early Ordovician time. The uniplicate group adds
stage D, and the more specialized species of the group add stages
F and I. Subgroup A recapitulates the development of the unspe-
cialized members of the uniphcate group and adds stage E, and the
more specialized species add stages F and I. Subgroup B recapitu-
lates the ontogeny of the unspecialized members of subgroup A and
adds stage E* and the more specialized species add F and I. Sub-
group C recapitulates the ontogeny of the unspecialized members of
subgroup A, and adds stage E^ and the more specialized members
add F and I. Subgroup D recapitulates the ontogeny of the unspec-
cialized members of subgroup B and adds stage E^ and the special-
ized species add stages F and I.
The low-fold subgroup recapitulates the ontogeny of the unspe-
cialized members of the uniplicate group and adds stage E^ and
the more specialized species adds stages F and I. The Ponderosa
subgroup recapitulates the ontogeny of the low-fold subgroup and
adds stage H, and the high-fold subgroup recapitulates the ontogeny
of the low-fold subgroup and adds stage E.
CORRELATION OF THE PHYLOGENY AND STRATIGRAPflKJ SUCCESSION.
This progressive development is in harmony with the stratigraphic
succession of the species representing the groups and subgroups.
According to our present knowledge species of this genus appeared
in North America and Europe in early Middle Ordovician time.
The earliest North American form is found in the Black River
group (Decorah Shale) 4§ miles north of Fennemore, Tennessee.
This form has been referred to Plafysirophia extensa, new species,
and belongs to the triplicate group. As the long hinge and broad
lateral slopes bearing numerous plications indicate a certain degree
of specialization it is evident that the genus was in existence prior
to this time.
Hall and Clarke ' have reported a form from the Chazy. Winchell
and Schuchert say,^ "This widely distributed and protean species
has its beginning in North America in the Chazy group and is found
in all geological horizons upward and into the Niagara formation."
Schuchert ^ and Ruedemann * have also reported occurrence of
species in the Chazy.
' Paleontology of New York, vol. 8, pt. 1, Brachiopoda, 1892, p. 202.
' Geol. of Minnesota, vol. 3, pt. 1, Paleontology, 1892, p. 456.
» Synopsis of American Fossil Brachiopoda, 1897, p. 309.
« Bull. N. Y. State Museum, No. 49, 1891, 1902, p. 25.
