400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56
low spreading folds and shallow sinuses. The genus had expressed
its invariability in Cambrian or early Ordovician time by differen-
tiation of the plication pattern of the fold and sinus. This differ-
entiation was at that time only of specific value. These species,
however, became the source of lines of development which per-
sisted until the extinction of the race. Thus, while near the origin
of the genus differentiation was not pronounced, the variation
which achieved expression was of high taxonomic value.
The uniplicate group is confined to the Lower Trenton of North
America and seems to occupy that horizon in Europe, where it is
associated with members of the biplicate and triplicate groups.
In North America the biplicate group is not found in the Ordo-
vician above the Lower Trenton except in the Uppermost Richmond
of Anticosti Island. Its recurrence in North American early Silu-
rian points to its existence during ^liddle and Upper Trenton and
Cincinnatian time in an area which was cut off from North American
seas.
The writer had access to about 200 specimens from the Baltic
province of Europe. These range in age from Lower Middle Ordo-
vician (ivuckers) into the Silurian. A uniplicate species was found
to occur in the Jewe, and one specimen was found which occurred
in the Upper Ordovician (FO. All the other species belonged to the
biplicate group.
The inaccessibility of the literature made it impossible for the
writer to determine the limits of the European species and the group
to which they belong. The figures and descriptions by Davidson
and other authors help but little. Davidson's figures 15a, 17, 18,
19^ represent specimens of the biplicate type from the Caradoc.
The Wenlock species (figs. 11, 11a) are also of the biplicate type and
seem to be related to Platystro'pliia regularis Shaler. The abundance
of this group throughout European Ordovician and its limitation to
the Lower Trenton and early Silurian of North America suggest an
invasion from that area which was followed by extinction of the
invading forms.
The Trenton members of the triplicate group belong to the low-
fold subgroup which is most closely related to the ancestral stock.
Members of this subgroup persisted into the Maysville, but by the
end of that time they became rare. A reincursion in Richmond time
brought in several species belonging to the low-fold subgi'oup which
are scarcely distinguishable from Trenton forms. Extreme speciali-
zation and extinction was reached in late Cincinnatian and early
Silurian time.
The high-fold subgroup originated in early Maysville. It became
the predominant type in Middle Maysville to Middle Richmond
I British Fossil Brachiopoda, vol. 1, pi. 28.
