NO. 2297. BRACHIOPOD GENUS PLATYSTROPHIA—McEWAN. 409
Bomewhat sinuously rounded at the junction of the mesial sinus and fold. Beaks
nearly equal, incurved and approximate, sometimes almost touching; cardinal areas
nearly equal.
Dorsal valve more convex than the ventral, its greatest convexity being near the
middle. Mesial fold rather rounded, arising near the beak, becoming more prominent
as it extends forward, with rounded sides; beak projecting beyond the hinge margin,
strongly incurved; cardinal area directed backward, somewhat incurved; foramen
broad, triangular and not closed )jy the cardinal process.
Ventral valve of a mesial sinus, beginning near the beak, extending forward, ter-
minating in a rounded projection which continues the curvature of the shell and thus
produces a sinuous outline for the front edge of the shell. Surface of the valve rounded
into the .moderately concave sinus. Beak less strongly incurved than that of the
dorsal valve. Cardinal area incurved and directed backward, less, however, than that
of the other valve. Foramen triangular, wider than high; hinge teeth moderately
prominent and trigonal ; muscular cavity oblong, little more than one third the length
of the shell, lateral margins parallel, well defined by the dental ridges. On either side
of this cavity are a number of short striae, which are arranged Ln longitudinal lines
following about the direction of the plications.
Surface of each valve with rounded, radiating plications, from 24 to 36 in number,
of which 4 to 6 occupy the mesial sinus, and 5 to 7 (in one specimen 10 or 11) the mesial
fold. In the sinus two plications begin at the beak, two additional ones are immedi-
ately added, and later one or two more at one-third or one-half the length of the shell
from the beak. On the mesial fold three plications originate at the beak, to which
two more are added at one-fourth the length of the shell from the beak; later two more
appear and in one specimen in hand 10 or 11 plications are more or less distinctly
shoAvn. The plications in the sinus and on the fold branch in all specimens as described
above; the lateral ones, 10 to 15 in number, are almost always simple. Lines of
growth not shown in the specimens found. Well preserved specimens under the
microscope show numerous minute granules, arranged in regular rows across the
plications.
Occurrence — Brassfield limestone; Dayton, Ohio.
Plesiotype.—Csit. No. 48626 U.S.N.M.
d. STTBGROUP D.
PLATYSTROPHU HERMITAGENSIS, new species.
Plate 42, figs. 15-19.
This represents a species, the types of which were collected from
the Hermitage limestone of Auburn, Tennessee. It is a thin, long-
hinged form with subequally convex valves. The species resembles
Platystrophia extensa, new species, in general physiognomy, but the
latter belongs to the Triplicate Group.
In the nepionic stage there is one plication in the sinus and two on
the fold which appear to originate in a point at the beak. The neanic
stage is initiated by the bifurcation of the plication in the sinus and
on the fold this development is marked by the intercalation of a
median secondary plication. After a slight interval of growth a
plication is intercalated in a median position in the sinus, and a little
later a plication is implanted on each of the sinal slopes, while on the
fold first the median plications and then the primary plications
bifurcate.
