410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.56.
Some specimens do not show a further development but the
greater number show that the median pUcation in the sinus has
bifurcated and a seventh plication is intercalated on the fold in a
median position.
There are 9 to 13 somewhat round plications on the lateral slopes.
The slopes of the pedicle valve are almost flat or slightly concave;
those of the brachial valve are slightly convex. The fold is low and
broad and the sinus is shallow. The characteristic granular markings
of the surface are unusually distinct.
Measurements. — 27.4 mm. along the hinge, 24 mm. wide across the
middle, 14.4 mm. high, 10 mm. thick, 9 mm. sinal width, 4.2 mm
sinal depth, 1.2 mm. fold height.
Occurrence. — Trenton group. Hermitage limestone; Payton's
Creek, 6 miles northwest of Carthage, and Auburn, Tennessee.
Cotypes.— Cat. Nos. 66100, 66101, U.S.N.M.
3. TRIPLICATE GROUP.
a. LOW FOLD STJBGROTTP.
PLATYSTROPHIA EXTENSA, new species.
Plate 42, figs. 39-il.
Associated with PlatsystropMa Tiermitagensis is a species with the
same general physiognomy. Its distinguishing characteristic is the
plication pattern of the fold and sinus which places it with the
Triplicate group.
The hinge line varies from nearly as great to greater than the width
of the shell across the middle. The valves are subequally convex.
The slopes of the brachial valve are flattish, with a tendency to
become concave; those of the pedicle valve are convex. There are
9 to 13 round plications on the lateral slopes, which are separated by
furrows of their own width.
Two specimens were found in the Decorah shale near Fennemore,
Tennessee, which are referred to this species. However, they have
proportionally longer hinge lines and more ventricose forms than the
Trenton specimens.
A specimen measures 21 mm. along the hinge, 20.5 mm. wide across
the middle, 12 mm. high, 8.8 mm. thick, 7.5 mm. sinal width, 2.7 mm.
sinal depth, 1 mm. fold height.
Occurrence. — Trenton group: Hermitage limestone at Hartsville
and Auburn, Tennessee. Black River group: Decorah shale 4^
miles north of Fennimore, Wisconsin.
Ootypes. —C&t. Nos. 66102, 66103, U.S.N.M.
PLATYSTROPHIA ELEGANTULA, new species.
Plate 43, figs. 44-47.
The types of this species were found m the Bigby limestone of the
Trenton group at Frankfort, Kentucky, and vicinity. It is common
