414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
PLATYSTROPHIA COLBIENSIS Foerste.
Plate 44, figs. 8-11.
Platystrophia colbiensis Foerste, Bull. Sci. Lab. Denison Univ., vol. 16, 1910,
p. 55, pi. 4, figs. 2A-B.
Platystrophia of colbiensis Foerste, Journ. Cincinnati See. Nat. Hist., vol. 21,
1914, p. 131.
In the Upper Trenton of Kentucky and Tennessee occurs the species
which Doctor Foerste has described as Platystrophia colbiensis. The
fold is slightly elevated and slightly compressed; the sinus is shallow.
Four subequal plications occupy the fold; they have originated by
the bifurcation of the two primary pUcations at the beak. There are
three subequal plications in the sinus; one is primary and occupies a
median position; two are lateral, secondary plications which are im-
planted on the slopes of the sinus at about 1.5 mm. from the beak.
There are 9 to 11 plications on the lateral slopes. Young specimens
have subequally convex valves, but the brachial valve of older speci-
mens is quite ventricose.
This species is larger than Platystrophia amoena new species and
the fold is slightly compressed, while the fold of that species becomes
progressively wider as it approaches the frontal margin.
Measurements. — 20.6 mm. along the hinge line, 21.6 mm. wide
across the middle, 15.3 mm. high, 14.4 mm. thick, 9 mm. sinal width,
6.5 mm. sinal depth, 2 mm. fold depth.
Occurrence. — Trenton group: Cynthiana limestone : Between Colby
and Winchestei , Paris, Lexington, Frankfort, etc., Kentucky. Catheys
formation: Edgefield Junction and Nashville, Tennessee.
Plesiotypes.~Cat. Nos. 34231, 48614, U.S.N.M.
PLATYSTROPHIA COLBIENSIS-MUTATA Foerste.
Plate 44, fig. 12.
Platystrophia colbiensis mutata Foerste, Bull. Sci. Lab. Denison Univ., vol. 16,
1910, p. 56, pi. 4, figs. 3a-6.
Among the specimens representing Platystrophia colbiensis there are
thinner and somewhat higher and broader shells with more than four
plications on the fold and more than three in the sinus. The number
varies generally from five to six on the fold and four to five in the
sinus. The increase is effected b}^ the bifurcation of the lateral pli-
cations of the fold and by implantation on the slopes of the sinus.
One specimen has eight plications on the fold and seven plications in
the sinus. In this case both the median and lateral plications of the
fold have bifurcated and tertiary plications have been implanted on
the slopes of the sinus and between the primary and secondary
plications.
