N0.22S8. ]\fEW MOLLVSKS OF THE FAMILY TURRITIDAE—DALL. '21
PSEUDOMELATOMA PENICILLATA Carpenter.
Plate 22, fig. 3.
Drillia peniciUata Carpenter, Journ. de Concliji., ser. 3, vol. 12, p. 146,
April, 1865.
The poor condition of Carpenter's imfigured type specimen led
to the belief that it was best to figure a perfect if somewhat imma-
ture example. The name has been variously applied, especially to
forms of MoniUopsis, in ignorance of the true character of the
species.
Bange. — Cerros Island to Gulf of California.
CRASSISPIRA ERIGONE, new species.
Plate 7, fig. 8.
Shell solid, biconic, acute, olive brown with a purplish aperture;
nucleus with two whorls, the first minute, smooth, rounded, the
second with a peripheral keel, followed by eight sculptured whorls;
suture appressed, obscure, behind a strongly constricted anal fasciole
sculptured with almost microscopic spiral striae ; other spiral sculp-
ture of small obsolete threads covering the whole surface in front of
the fasciole and three or four cords on the base of the last whorl
widely separated and conspicuously nodulous where they cross the
ribs; there are also 10 or more closer cords on the canal; axial
sculpture of (on the spire about a dozen) short narrow ribs, very
prominent and almost angular in front of the fasciole and on the
last whorl extending nearly to the canal, with wider interspaces
and not nodulous behind the base; the incremental lines are very
fine and minutely crenulate the fine spiral sculpture in places;
aperture narrow, anal sulcus short, rounded, with a strong subsutural
callus; outer lip thin, smooth inside, moderately arcuate, with a
hump-like varix behind it: inner lip and straight pillar with a thin
layer of enamel, raised anteriorly at the edge; canal short, not deep,
hardly differentiated from the aperture. Height of shell, 20; of
last whorl, 12.5 ; diameter, 9 mm. Cat. No. 212368 U.S.N.M.
Range. — Station 2798, in Panama Bay, in 18 fathoms; U. S.
Bureau of Fisheries.
CRASSISPIRA EURYNOME, new species.
Plate 7, fig. 5.
Shell small, slender, acute, dark brown with a whitish peripheral
and a less obvious basal band; nucleus blunt, polished, reddish
brown, of two whorls; subsequent whorls six, the anal fasciole on
the sjjire depressed, very minutely spirally striated with a single
fine thread near the posterior edge which is appressed at the suture ;
other spiral sculpture of fine striae and three stronger threads with
