NO. 2297. BRACHWPOD GENUS FLATYSTROFHIA—McEWAN. 437
Compared with Platystrophia waUowayi this form has more acum-
mate cardmal extremes with concave rather than convex lateral mar-
gins. The slopes of the brachial valve are more tumid and those of
the pedicle valve more compressed than in the latter species. It has
many of the characteristics of Platystrophia unicostata. The slopes
of the brachial valve are more swollen and those of the pedicle valve
more compressed than that form and it also has a greater number of
plications on the slopes.
The inflated brachial valve suggests relationship to Platystrophia
clerTcsvillensis and Platystrophia cumingsi and the stratigi'aphic
position of the three forms strengthens this view, but this variety-
marks the culmination of a development toward decrease in width
and increase in thickness. It would not be likely to give rise to
species whose development was toward increase in the width of the
sheU.
Measurements. — 33.5 mm. along the hinge line, 25.9 mm. wide
across the middle, 19.3 mm. high, 25 mm. thick, 16.8 mm. sinal
width, 16 mm. smal depth, 6.5 mm. fold height.
Occurrence. — Richmond group: Ai-nheim formation: One mile
south of Mount Washmgton, Greenwell Ford, li miles south of
Clark, etc., Kentucky; 4 miles northeast of Gallatin and Goodletts-
viEe, Tennessee; WaynesviUe and ClarksviUe, Ohio; Southeastern
Indiana.
Holotype.— Cat. No. 66069, U.S.N.M.
PLATYSTROPHIA CYPHA ARCTA, new variety.
Plate 48, figs. 1-3.
Another variant of Platystrophia cypTia has a thinner valve and a
more compressed fold and sinus than other members of the species
and the lateral plications on the slopes of the fold and sinus are weak.
Sometunes they become obsolete before reaching the frontal margin.
Most of the specimens have subquadrate cardinal extremes; a few
specimens are slightly elogate on the hinge-line. The convexity of the
brachial valve and concavity of the pedicle valve are not so marked as
in other members of the species. Nine and ten closely spaced plica-
tions occupy the lateral slopes.
This variety is easily distinguished by its thin fold, nairow form, and
closely spaced plications.
Measurements. — 35 mm. along the hinge line, 33 mm. wide across
the middle, 17.5 mm. high, 13.5 mm. thick, 12 mm. sinal width,
9.5 mm. sinal depth, 6 mm. fold depth.
Occurrence. — Richmond group. Arnheim formation: Wyoming,
Sunset, i mile east of FisheiviUe, Clark, Greenwell Ford Section,
Bullitt County, Kentucky; Gallatin, Tennessee; WaynesviUe, Ohio.
Cotypes.— Cat. No. 66045, U.S.N.M.
