22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
wider interspaces on the base; the canai has about half a dozen
smaller closer threads; axial sculpture of nine oval prominent
nodules on the periphery, which may in some specimens be bisected
by an incised spiral line; the incremental lines are not prominent;
aperture rather wide and short; anal sulcus large, deep, with a
small subsutural callus; outer lip sharp edged, with a small varix,
internally not lirate; canal short, wide, deep, with a perceptible
siphonal f asciole and slightly recurved. Height of shell, 10 : of last
whorl, 6.5; diameter, 3 mm. Cat. No. 59345, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Beach at Acapulco, Mexico; W. H. Dall.
The specimen is slightly beach worn and the sculpture is prob-
ably sharper when fresh.
CRASSISPIRA CANDACE, new species.
Plate 6, fig. 6.
Shell small, pale purple with touches of brown, the nucleus lost,
with about seven subsequent short whorls ; suture appressed, obscure,
behind a moderately impressed anal fasciole with a fine thread be-
tween them; other spiral sculpture of (on the spire) two peripheral
close-set threads overriding the ribs; in front of these on the last
whorl are two or three obscure broad flattish ridges with rather wide
interspaces overridden by the axial sculpture, and on the canal a
few rather sharp threads more closely set; axial sculpture of 10 or
more short ribs on the penultimate whorl with narrower interspaces ;
on the last whorl there are about 13 smaller ribs extending nearly to
the canal and reticulating the spiral sculpture ; the incremental lines
are rather marked; aperture wide and short, anal sulcus large,
rounded, with a subsutural callus; outer lip thin-edged, prominent,
with a large rounded varix behind it, within dark brown, smooth;
inner lip simple, pillar very short, not callous, canal very short but
distinct. Height of shell, 7; of last whorl, 3.5; diameter, 2 mm.
Cat. No. 73929, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Gulf of California, Stearns collection.
This shell is so small and its sculpture so intricate that its descrip-
tion is not easy.
CRASSISPIRA APPRESSA Carpenter.
Plate 7, fig. 2.
Drillia appressa Carpenter, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 3, vol. 14, p. 45,
July, 1864.
Range. — Cape San Lucas, J. Xantus. Cat. No. 4087, U.S.N.M.
CRASSISPIRA DIRGE, new species.
Plate 6, fig. S.
Shell acute, dark brown (the nucleus lost) with about a dozen
whorls, the spire acute, rather flat sided; axial sculpture only of faint
