NO. 2288. NEW MOLLUSKS OF THE FAMILY TURRITIDAE—DALL. 23
incremental lines, spiral sculpture of two prominent cords, the space
between them wider than the space between either and the nearer
suture ; there is a third cord over which the suture is laid and ap-
pressed, sometimes left uncovered; the posterior cord is simple or
only slightly undulated, the anterior is at first undulate and later
develops spirally elongate keeled nodulations about ten to a whorl,
on the last whorl there are three undulated and five simple cords, the
nodules being usually lighter colored than the rest of the shell ; the
surface also has fine regular, close-set uniform spiral striation ; aper-
ture short, ovate, with smooth lips ; outer lip somewhat varicose with
a short, rounded anal sulcus and prominent parietal callus; canal
hardly differentiated. Height of shell, 23.5; of last whorl, 12.5;
diameter, 8.5 mm. Cat. No. 55461, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Panama, Stearns collection.
The reticulated marking on the figure is due to Polyzoa which
have been removed.
CRASSISPIRA NEPHELE, new species.
Plate 7, fig. 1.
Shell small, biconic, acute, solid, black with the projecting sculp-
ture yellow, with a rounded nucleus of one and a half smooth whorls
and eight subsequent whorls; suture closely appressed, obscure, be-
hind a series of very fine close threads (about four on the last whorl)
followed by a very strong yellow cord which on most of the spire
forms the periphery, in front of this cord is the moderately con-
stricted anal fasciole similarly threaded; in front of this is (on
the spire one, on the last whorl two) a series of yellow nodules (about
a dozen on the last whorl) rather distant from one another and
connected by a small yellow cord, like beads on a string; the two
series on the last whorl are close together, only separated by a much
smaller thread, giving a dumb-bell shape to the nodules ; in front of
this pair on the last whorl are four distant yellow threads with single
nodules placed in harmony with the larger ones above mentioned
and half a dozen finer threads on the canal ; the interspaces between
the threads are finely threaded like the fasciole, and are often mi-
nutely decussated by the incremental lines which form the only axial
sculpture; aperture narrow, anal sulcus shallow, rounded, with a
subtural callus ; inner lip smooth, erased, pillar callous, smooth, canal
short, wide, hardly differentiated from the aperture. Height of
shell, 13; of last whorl, 7.5; diameter, 5 mm. Cat. No. 55472,
U.S.N.M
Range. — Panama, Stearns collection.
This species seems by coloration and sculpture different from the
numerous other forms of this group which swarm at Panama, but
