450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
and fishery industries appeared in the Proceedings of the Fourth
International Congress meeting in Washington in 1908.* Various
circumstances unnecessary to be detailed in this place combined to
delay, first, the compilation of the observations relating to the habits
of the birds, and, second, the publication of the manuscript after it
was completed. During the past few years other investigators have
studied the guano industry, but, so far as the writer is aware, no
report has been issued to cover the ground of the present paper.^ Its
publication even at this time seems therefore desirable.
It does not seem inappropriate to indicate briefly, or at least to
suggest, some of the conditions under which the studies were pur-
sued, for, had more favorable circumstances prevailed, mvestigations
covering a period of like duration might have been productive of
more extensive and valuable results.
Travel was sometimes accomplished by taking a steamer from one
port to another, whence small sailing skiffs were used to visit islands
that were 10 to 50 miles from port and upon which temporary camps
could be established if desired. At other times trips of 100 to 500
miles were made in a balandra, or small cargo sloop. In a few
instances travel could most conveniently be made by pack over the
desert.
As one may have inferred, the studies were primarily economic
and directed at two related industries.^ In such a case the primary
needs could be met only by securing accurate knowledge of the
natm*al forms upon which the industries are based and recording the
methods of operation as well as the precise conditions under which
they were conducted. With only unskilled assistance available, it
was necessary for the investigator to devote much time personally
to the collection and preservation of specunens, to the mevitable
routme of record keeping, and to the preparation of reports describing
the existing comm.ercial operations.
It win be understood that the conditions both of work and of
travel were not favorable to the preservation of so many skins of
birds as it would have been desirable to save. I am glad, however,
to acknowledge the cordial aid rendered by Mr. Robert Gunner, of
Callao, who, having started with me as interpreter, acquired some
facility in the preparation of bird skins and in other services. In
all, about 80 skms were saved and 30 lots of eggs. With the permis-
sion of the Peruvian Government, and by its direction, this small col-
» Coker, R. E.: The fisheries and the guano industry of Peru. Bulletin of the Bureau of Fisheries for
1908, vol.28, Washington, pp. 333-365, pis. 12-17, 1910.
s Allusion must be made, however, to two interesting papers by Prof. Henry O. Forbes, which will b«
cited and quoted in a proper connection on a later page.
» Peruvian guano is indirectly but obviously a product of flsh. The birds in this case fulfil a fimction
comparable to that of the American factories that convert flsh into fertilizer. The operation of the birds
may in some respects be relatively wasteful, but the product yielded by them has the virtue of being in
a form more readily available to the growing crops.
