NO. 2298. THE GUANO BIRDS OF PERU—COKER. 451
lection was divided between the National School of Agriculture of
Pern and the United States National Museum.
The specimens transmitted to the National Museum were identi-
fied by Dr. Charles W. Richmond, to whom grateful acknowledg-
ment is made. All specimens were provisionally identified in the
field, with the aid principally of Taczanowski's invaluable Ornitho-
logie du Perou.^ It was found that few errors had been made in
field identifications and that these did not apply to any of the im-
portant species. Accordmgly, the observational data is of correct
application to the several species treated.
I can not fail to express my strong sense of indebtedness to Senor
Don Carlos Larrabure y Correa, then Dii-ector de Fomento, who, with
sympathy, wisdom, and energy, facilitated my investigations in every
way possible. Mr. Edmundo de Habich, at that time chief of the
division of agriculture, extended me many courtesies and valuable
assistance. To Capt. Chase, manager of the CaUao house of Messrs.
W. R. Grace & Co., and to Mr. H. H. Bunting, chemist of the Peruvian
Corporation, I was sensibly indebted for counsel and suggestions.
Finally, I may with full propriety acknowledge the invaluable en-
couragemxcnt derived from a knowledge of the dhect and personal in-
terest maintained throughout the investigations by Senor Don Man-
uel Pardo, at that time President of the Republic of Peru, and by
Senor Don Augusto B. Leguia, then minister of the treasury and sub-
sequently President, both of whom gave effect to some of the recom-
mendations offered in course of the study.
The following pages deal more particularly with the habits and
significance of birds that were observed to possess economic impor-
tance, but they comprise also some accoimt of other species which
are associated with the useful birds as enemies or as competitors,
and such additional data as are essential for an understanding of
the conditions of life of the birds and their economic significance.
GENERAL FEATURES OF THE COAST.
From Paita, at 5° south latitude, to the southernmost limits of
present Peruvian territory, a distance corresponding to that between
New York and Cuba, or about 1,300 miles, the coast of Peru and the
waters bathing its shores are characterized by conditions of remark-
able uniformity. Striking physical features, and significant as affect-
ing both aquatic and avian fauna, are the bold and rocky shores, the
absence of large islands, the moderate but almost invariable south-
west trade winds, the low humidity and the relatively and unvaiy-
ingly cold sea water.
> TaczanowsW, Ladislas. Ornithologie du P6rou, vols. 1-3, and a volume of tables (key and index).
Rennes. 1884-1886.
