NO. 2298. THE GUANO BIRDS OF PERU—COKEB. 455
about three quarters of a billion dollars. Billion-dollar birds, they
have easily been without exaggeration. Well before the close of the
century the best ancient deposits were exhausted and the lowest
grades were being sought. In the first years of the present century
the exportation was in the neighborhood of 100,000 tons a year. At
the present time it is less. The requirement of Peruvian agriculture
as estimated in 1905 was 25,000 to 40,000 tons a year. While the
the remnants of the ancient deposits, so far as is known, are of the
lowest quality (3 per cent or less of nitrogen), it is to be emphasized
that the annual production of the birds, amounting in 1906-1908 to
20,000 tons or more, is of the highest grade, yielding by analysis
from 12 to 17 per cent of nitrogen (with higher ammonia equivalent)
THE PENGUIN.
One of the most interesting birds of the Peruvian coast is the
smaller penguin, Syheniscus humboldti Meyen (pi. 53, fig. 1). The Pe-
ruvians aptly call it the "pajaro-nino," or "baby-bird," Observed
from a distance, the waddling uncertain gait and the stumpy flight-
less wings held out awkw^ardly inevitably suggest the manner of
an infant toddling on the beach.
Undoubtedly the penguin was much more abundant on the coast
many years ago than it is at the present. Raimondi,^ at the time
of his visit (evidently in 1855), mentioned that the penguin had
quite abruptly left the north island of the Chinchas, was rarely
found in the middle island, but was in "great abundance" on the
south island at that time. This change of home was undoubtedly
due to the operations of guano extraction that were being carried
on upon the islands. At the present time a few penguins may be
observed at any of these islands, but nowhere could they be described
as abundant. The largest number seen at one time was on the beach
of the Isla Vieja, in the Bay of Independencia, where about 60 birds
were congregated.
The northward range of the penguin is surprising at first, but it is
readily accounted for by the effect of the cold Humboldt Current,
which, supplemented as it doubtless is by the upwelhng of bottom
waters, tempers the climate of the coast of Peru, even up to within a
few miles of the equator. The farthest north I observed the penguin
was at the islands of Lobos de Afuera in 7 degrees South latitude.
At Guanape very young penguins were seen on the rocky shore in
March, 1907, or late summer of the southern hemisphere. At the
Ballestas Islands, a part of the Chinchas group, in May, 1907, the
nests of the penguin were found commonly in some of the deeper
caverns. Most of the nests contained eggs, some of which were
just hatching; a month later a number of grown but immature
> Raimondi, A. M^moire sur le huano des isles de Chincba et les oiseaux qui le produisent. (Extralt.)
Compt. Rend. Acad. Sci., vol. 42, 1856, pp. 735-738. Paris. 1856.
