456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
birds were seen at the Bay of Independencia. These observations
would suggest that the breeding season extends over the greater part
of the year, since we find young penguins in late summer and eggs
and immature young in early and midwinter. Two mature males
that I killed were, respectively, 67 and 72 cm. long, 47 and 48 cm. in
girth, and 9f and 11 J pounds in weight.
Raimondi (1856) ^ makes the following interesting note regarding
Spheniscus, which not only testifies to the much greater abundance
of the penguin in past time, but comprises a valuable observation
concerning their breeding places at a time when the caverns could
not have afforded sufficient space for them.
The Spheniscus are abundant on the south island [Chincha group], which as I
have said, was uninhabited [by guano workers]. It is probable that they have been
driven from the north island by the ships that repair to that place in great numbers,
and by the exploitation works. These birds, not being able to fly, seek shelter and
dig for themselves a subterranean home in the guano itself.
At the season when I visited the islands [evidently September, 1855] they were
occupied in incubating their eggs which are of the size of an egg of a turkey, and from
two to four in number [p. 738 translated].
It was at the small islands of Ballestas, a sister group to the Chin-
chas, that I had the best opportunity to see the penguin. The bluff
faces of these islands are marked by many caverns, some of which
extend deep into the islands beneath the high table-like tops. The
north island of the group is practically imdermined on all sides
by such caves. Rowmg around this island we could see a number
of penguins in couples or small groups in numerous hollows and
small caves or " cuevacitas." Far back in one of the large caves a
considerable number of these birds were conspicuous, even in the
obscurity of that deep vault, for their glossy white breasts and
lateral stripes. The stripes of the sides and backs were generally
better marks than the breasts, since the latter, though naturally
white, were often quite dark with the mud and manure of the nests.
Directing our boat into one of these caverns we rowed up well under
one of the great arches forming the double entrance, but were obliged
to put back as the boatmen were afraid of being unable to handle
their craft in the swell and among the rocks. Another cavern
proved more feasible of approach; after being rowed back to where
the water was quite shallow near the beach at the inner end, I could
step into the water and wade ashore. Some of the penguins ran
hurriedly into the water along the sides, while about a dozen retreated
to the very back of the cave. As soon as the eye became accustomed
to the darkness, fully a dozen nests could be seen, each with two
large eggs. The nests were simply hollows in the larger rocks and
covered with bones, evidently those of penguins.
> Raimondi. A. Mf^molre sur le huano des Isles de Chincha et les oiseaux qui le produisent. (Extrait.)
Compt. Rend. Acad. Sci., vol. 42, 1856, pp. 735-738. Paris. 1856.
