NO. 2298. THE GUANO BIRDS OF PERU—COKER. 457
The penguins are active indeed for walking birds and step along
with quickly moving feet, but with an awkward movement of the
upper part of the body, and with wings hanging out like stiff and
useless little arms. When they have retreated to the back of their
cavern they make no further effort to run out and escape, but huddle
together and gaze stupidly at the intruder. They make a queer
twisting movement with the head and neck so as to place first one
side of the head toward you then the other, pausing a moment
between each twist. When the natives capture them they do so by
striking them on the back of the head with a club or with a stone
thrown at them, for their bills are too strong and vicious in defense
to make a close approach entirely safe. Once it is slightly stunned,
a penguin may safely be taken up by the back of the neck. Even
after an extremely severe blow they soon recover and appear to be
in good health.
We kept a penguin at our camp for some weeks restrained by a
long line (pi. 53, fig. 1). When it rested upon the rocks above the
water, its round fat body and stout neck laid flat on the rock, its slick
hair-like covering of short close feathers, and its outspread seal-like
flippers, all gave it the semblance of a dimunitive sea lion. Penguins
are strong swimmers and, when free in nature, dive for considerable
distances, coming up only for a moment's breathing and each time
indicating theu* position by a peculiar cry, a slightly prolonged
hoarse note of a single pitch, much like the sound of a toy trumpet.
At night they are frequently heard to bray in such close imitation of
the donkey, that one might well be deceived except for the knowledge
that the vicinity is that of a desert island.
The penguins yield a guano which is generally esteemed, and is
regularly sought, but, because of the greatly reduced abundance of
the birds and the conditions surrounding the nests in the deep, damp
caverns, the fertilizer derived from the penguins is deficient now
both in quantity and quality. The birds are frequently killed by
the fishermen or guano workers, who esteem not only the oils deriv-
able from them, but the skins which are well adapted for the making
of warm "fur" caps.
THE GULLS AND TERNS.
The most common gulls of the Peruvian coast are the large white
"gaviota," "cleo," or ''cau-cau," Larus dominicanus Lichtenstein, a
smaller white ''gaviota" or "sime6n," Larus helcTieri Vigors, and the
slate-colored "mat^o/' Larus modestus Tschudi. The mat^o was
generally observed south of Callao. The two gaviotas are so much
alike in color that the two species are readily confused at a distance.
At closer view, L. helcheri is easily distinguished by its smaUer size,
its red-tipped bill, and bright yeUow feet and tarsi; the feathers of
