458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
the back are pearly white, and not pure white as in the larger species.
As I observed it this species was wilder, being found more commonly
about outlying rocks, while the dominicanus is the familiar visitant
of the beaches and fishing camps. The foUow^ing notes refer to Lams
dominicanus.
LARUS DOMINICANUS Lichtensteln.
THE GAVIOTA.
The gaviota, or Dominican gull, is so generally distributed over
southern seas and so familiar to travelers and seamen that one hesi-
tates to imagine that the observations of any but the most experienced
ornithologist could add to existmg knowledge regarding it. Never-
theless, to exclude the gaviota from the present account would be to
leave the picture of bird-life upon the islands too incomplete, and to
ignore a most significant element in the bionomics of the bird com-
munities.
Though not equaling most of the other birds of the islands in
abundance,value, or interest, the gaviotas form an important element
in the aesthetic effect and keep one most insistently reminded of their
presence (pi. 55). They frequently follov/ one about, circling slowly
over-head and uttering harsh cries. They manifest a greater diversity
of habit than any other of the familiar sea birds. Though not
strictly gi-egarious, they are often seen in flocks of some hundreds,
resting drowsily on some interior flat of guano or sand and appearing
like gTOups of white baUs on a dark background. More often they
are seen isolated or in groups on some slope commanding a view of
the water. Favorite positions are on salient points of the shore or
smaU outlying rocks projecting. a little above water. Again they are
found far away from the islands, floating on the waves or flying slowly
after a vessel watching for offal.
The gaviotas make four or five different calls: the familiar caw, caw,
in flight; the prolonged laugh, ha-ha, ha-ha, ha-ha, ha-ha., ha (or
cah-cah), when standing; a softer and shorter ca, ca, ca, ca, (like ca
in ''call") repeated rapidly and staccato while flying; and a sort of
clucking sound when at rest.
Near the large fishing camp at Lobos de Tierra, large numbers of
the gaviotas regularly congregate to feed on the waste matter at the
camp. It was repeatedly observed that while the birds would feed
even between the feet of the native fishermen they would fly quickly
at the approach of a white stranger.
Gaviotas are not only scavengers of the beaches and rookeries,
but are most pernicious in their depredations upon the nests of other
birds. I have seen them taking the eggs and fledglings from the
nests of pelicans and piqueros, and even robbing eggs from other
gaviotas. They break the eggs at the nest or take them into the air
and let them fall to break on the rocky groimd. They will swaUow
