NO. 229S. THE GUAyO BIRDS OF PERU—COKER. 459
entirely a new-born pelican (with considerable effort) or tear a larger
one to pieces, contending with the turkey buzzards over the common
prey. The concerted attacks of gaviotas and gallmazos on the nests
of piqueros is described in another place (p. 498),
Besides doing scavenger duty in the rookeries by feeding on dis-
carded fish or dead bodies of birds, they were not uncommonly seen
perched on the floating body of a peHcan, which had perhaps been
killed by a sea-lion, and tearing at the meat, a position undisputed
by the gallinazo. I was interested to determine if they were them-
selves afraid of the sea-lions. They would always desert a floating
body as a sea-lion approached and, though they will rest on the
water with the sea-lions nearby, they fly invariably to another position
as the "lobo" draws too near.
The nests were found in December, principally at Lobos de Tierra,
but a few were observed at Lobos de Afuera. They were generally on
the hills, scattered among the nests of the larger piqueros, and Uned
with a few feathers and seaweed (pi. 56, fig. 1). Three nests were found
under the shelter of a low bank upon a beach and close to the water.
There are almost always three eggs or young, although one nest was
found with five eggs. The eggs are olive green, spotted and blotched
with dark brown (75 by 50 mm.). The very small birds have a
black bill with light tip, and are covered with thick soft down, gray
in ground color but brmdled with fuscous; the head is distinctly
spotted with dark fuscous on a light gray background. When quite
young they will run about, leaving the nest to hide among the rocks
as an intruder approaches.
The gaviotas have a variety of color phases with the age and
season. The head, at one stage dark gray or nearly black, becomes
white-mottled and then pure white; the black tail with white base
and tips becomes a white tail with narrow black bar.
The nests of the gaviotas are practically devoid of guano, so that
their economic significance depends principally upon their service as
scavengei-s and, on the other hand, their depredations upon other
birds.
STERNA HIRUNDINACEA (Lesson).
THE TERRECLE.
Among the terns, particular attention was given only to the
" terrecle, "Sterna hirundinacea {Liesson),^ and the "zarciUo, "Larostema
inca (Lesson).
The terrecle is very common in the southern region particularly.
The principal breeding places observed were San Gallan (Jmie 25)
and the Islas de Santa Rosa at the Bay of Independencia (July 18,
> The bill was deep blood red and the tarsus a brighter red, in the specimens of S. hirundinacea collected,
although Taczanowsla describes the parts as yellow and yellowish. The outer third of the upper bill of
one specimen was almost black.
