24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.56.
the range of variation requires thorough investigation before one
can be certain of the specific status of any of them.
CRASSISPIRA EPICASTA, new species.
Plate 7, fig. 4.
Shell small, slender, acute, black, or very dark reddish brown,
with two smooth nuclear whorls, the second with a peripheral keel,
and seven subsequent whorls; suture obscure, appressed, with a
marked thread at its edge ; spiral sculpture of fine spiral striae over
the entire shell, and (on the spire two or three, on the last whorl
eight) stronger cords undulated but not nodulated where they pass
over the axial sculpture, and separated by wider interspaces; the
anal fasciole hardly constricted; axial sculpture of fine sharp in-
cremental lines cutting the minor spirals and, on the last M^horl about
13 low rounded ribs extending from the fasciole nearly to the canal
but not conspicuous anywhere, with equal or narrower interspaces;
aperture small, dark brown, the anal sulcus shallow- and the thin
outer lip only moderately arcuate; inner lip and pillar simple, canal
short, hardly differentiated from the aperture. Height of shell, 9;
of last whorl, 4.5 ; diameter, 3.5 mm. Cat. No. 204102, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Beach of Taboguilla Island, Panama Bay ; U. S. Bureau
of Fisheries.
CRASSISPIRA BRIDGESI, new species.
Plate 7, fig. 7.
Shell small, solid, grayish, with six whorls exclusive of the (lost)
nucleus; suture strongly appressed, obscure with a thread-like edge
in front of which is a narrow spirally striated space bordered in front
by a larger cord forming the posterior margin of the anal fasciole ;
the fasciole is strongly constricted, undulated by the ribs and spirally
striated; other spiral sculpture of (on the upper whorls one, on
the later two) peripheral cords which are swollen where they pass
over the ribs and on the anterior of which the suture is laid ; on the
last whorl there are six such cords with much wider spirally striated
interspaces, and about five closer threads on the canal ; axial sculpture
of (on the last whorl six) strong rounded ribs almost continuous up
the spire, most prominent at the periphery and feeble on the base;
aperture narrow, with a varicose rib behind it; anal sulcus short,
with a strong subsutural callus, inner lip erased, pillar with a thin
layer of callus, smooth, short, with a very short deep canal forming
an evident siphonal fasciole. Height of shell, 11 ; of last whorl, 5.5 ;
diameter, 5 mm. Cat. No. 55254, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Panama, in the Stearns collection, collected by Thomas
Bridges.
This shell, being somewhat bleached, is probably of a darker color
when fresh.
