NO. 2298. THE OUANO BIRDS OF PERU—COKER. 461
about one, now and again making startling dashes straight for the
head, to swerve sharply aside when within but a few feet. The
desire to investigate seemed at first the probable motive for such
flight. They were observed to practice the same maneuvers over
our captive penguin swimming in the water. It is possible that
such sudden startling dashes would have the effect of causing larger
birds or animals to drop a morsel of food which could be seized upon
by the alert terns.
The plaintive call of the Inca tern is somewhat like the cry of a
young kitten; although sometimes petulant, it lacks the harsh tone
of other terns.
The breeding places of zarcillos are found on many islands; gen-
erally they were observed to use the trenches or other places where
the surface crust had been broken away in guano extraction, and where
the nests could readily be concealed by excavatmg little tunnels
in the bank (pi. 54). Nests with all stages of eggs and young were
observed at the Chincha Islands (North Island) in Jime, 1907. One
of the most populous breeding places was the Isla Asia visited in
August of the same year. I have no record of nests observed in
the summer season although' doubtless there is little interruption of
the breeding season.
None of the terns have any noteworthy value as producers of
guano. A native described the Inca tern as good to eat.
The skimmer, RyncJiops cinerascens Spix, doubtless frequents the
northern islands although I did not observe it near any island. A
spechnen was taken at Tumbes in January, 1908, where it was not
imcommon. Both Tschudi and Raimondi noted its presence at the
Chincha Islands (pp. 507 and 508, below).
THE ALBATROSS.
The albatrosses are represented by the "pajaro-carnero" (mutton-
bird), or "pajarote," Diomedea irrorata Salvm, a beautiful bird, with
dusky brown body and white head and neck, little exceeding a cormo-
rant in size of body, but with wing expanse of 8 feet (2 J meters) (pi. 53,
fig. 2). The specimen shown in the illustration was captured when
wounded on the ocean and was kept in captivity for some time.
Naturally it did not lend itself to domestication and it never con-
sented to take food. The albatross was always seen either flying
low over the water or resting upon the surface. Its wing strokes
seem slow and deliberate, but the flight is rapid and graceful. It will
soar for considerable distances, keeping just above the water and
rising and falling with the waves. When resting on the water, and
at a distance, one might easily confuse it with a gaviota; but at
nearer range its flight and its longer biU readily distinguish it. The
pajaro-carnero was observed from the Bay of Independencia in the
