462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
south to the Lobos de Tierra in the north. While it was more fre-
quently seen in the south, yet on one trip made in a small boat from
the island of Lobos de Tierra to Eten on the coast the pajaro-carneros
were nearly always present in numbers; often 30 or more were m
view at one time. One was observed devouring a fish about a foot
in length.
The pajaro-carnero was never seen on land, and presumably does
not breed m that latitude. Native fisherman assured me that the
bird never aUghts (in that latitude) except upon the high sea:
"Paran en la altura, no mas."
THE PETRELS.
The family of Procellariidae is well represented on the Peruvian
coast, by the Wilson's petrel, stormy petrels, several species of
shearwaters, and the diving petrels. The "pardela" Puffinus
griseus Gmelin, is a sooty shearwater, frequently seen swimming
lazily on the surface of the water and relatively tame. I think this
is sometimes called "dona." Another and somewhat smaller species,
the "pardela tablera," was observed but not taken.
Numbers of small petrels, the stormy petrel, Procellaria tetJiys
Bonaparte, the Wilson's petrel, Oceanites gracilis EUiot, and others,
were frequently in evidence, skimming lightly over the surface of the
water or hovering over a school of small fish which was being pursued
by bonitos. The stormy petrel is known as the danzarin or "dainty
dancer" — the most appropriate name possible — descriptive both of
its swift, graceful, swaying fhght close over the water and of its light,
dancing movement with feet and wings when feeding. As we went
by sloop from Pisco to Independencia, numbers of them followed our
vessel picking up the crumbs thrown into the water. The danzarin
seems to alight on the surface of the water, the wings stopping out-
spread for a moment as they follow the upward and downward
movement of tiie wave. A slight flirt of the wings and the bu"d is
resting again on the suiface only a few inches away, while it daintly
picks the bits of food from the water.
PELECANOroES GARNOTI (Lesson).
THE DIVING PETREL OR POTOYUNCO.
Among the petrels, one is of particular interest and importance,
the "potoyunco," Pelecanoides garnoti (Lesson), a diving petrel, an
abundant bird, and a significant guano-producer. In favored
locations on the islands they are breeding at all seasons and the guano
left in their subterninean chambers is considered particularly rich
in nitrogenous matter.
My first acquaintance witli these birds was when at night in a small
boat we often sailed close by them floating on the surface of the water
