NO. 2298. THE OUANO BIRDS OF PERU—COKER. 467
with reappearing birds; the confused sounds of whirring wings and
unremitting splashes.
The food of the piqueros, as far as I observed it, consisted principally
of anchobetas, Engraulis ringens Jenyns; like other sea birds they
doubtless feed upon what is most readily available, and they too,
doubtless, regale themselves with the small crustacean, Munida coJceri
Rathbun, which is sometimes so abundant as to form veritable "red
seas" of great area.
The piqueros seem to prefer the rougher and more inaccessible
places for breeding (see pi. 59). Thousands of their nests may
be seen upon the face of abrupt cliffs, as at the Chincha Islands; at
that particular place they overflowed the cliff, so that a few nests
were found on the level ground at the top. This, in fact, was the
only place where piquero nests were seen on real table-land. At
Guanape (pi. 58) and Lobos de Afuera, many nests were found on
very steep and rugged slopes high above the water and approachable
only with considerable difficulty. The nests are hollowed, shelflike
masses of guano built on some scant ledge, and are usually as closely
crowded as circumstances permit. The adult birds readily desert
the nests on the approach of an observer, and one must w^ait with
some patience for their return. Since the breeding season is continu-
ous throughout the year, one may at any time find eggs and all stages
of young. The nests contain from 1 to 4 eggs, a considerable pro-
portion of them having as many as 3. Nine out of 25 nests counted
at one view had 3 eggs. The eggs are a pale blue, smeared more or
less with a white, chalky coat, are little pointed and are generally
rather uniform in size. The measurements of 5 specimens from the
Lobos de Afuera Islands (December 1908) and of 3 from the Chincha
Islands (June, 1908) are as foUows:
Dimensions, in milliTneters, of eggs of Sula variegata.
Lobos de Afuera Islands.
Chin
53 61
40 43
62
43
62 61
44 41
60
42
Longdiameter 53 61 62 62 61 60 G2 59.0
Transverse diameter 40 43 43 44 41 42 43 39.6
The immature birds have the skins of exposed parts of the same
color as in the adult except that the tarsus and feet are lighter, in
effect a bluish gray. The iris, however, is yellowish gray, instead of
clear ruby, as in the adult. The primaries, secondaries, tertiaries,
greater and middle coverts, scapulars, and tail feathers, appear before
the birds are of full size (pi. 56, fig. 2) . Specimens with the breast and
belly feathered, upper tail coverts present, and back feathers appear-
ing, show the adult measm-ements. The feathers of the breast and
beUy are of light fuscous or gray widely margined with white. The
