468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. voi.. 56.
feathers of the shoulders are dark fuscous scarcely tipped with white,
and a band of similar feathei^s extends to the breast around the base
of the still down-covered neck. The upper surface of the wings is as
in the adult, except that the colors, as everywhere on the body, are
duller. A conspicuous feature of the immature birds is the cross of
white down on the rump which long persists while the rest of the body
is becoming fully feathered. The predominant white colors of the
adult bird are not evident until a late phase. The young when
abandoning the parental nest have practically the entire head, neck,
and body a variegated fuscous. At this stage the birds are easily
confused with the larger species, Sida nehouxi, unless the measure-
ments are considered.
The young birds go through much home practice in flight before
starting away from the nest. They will stand in the nest fla])ping
the wings continually for a long time, or, facing the wind and assisted
by its power, will rise in the air to remain in an almost fixed position
for a considerable time flapping the wings strongly all the while, and
then gradually receding to the nest. These practice flights were
repeatedly observed, the young birds getting only 3 or 4 feet above
the nest and 2 or 3 feet forward, and thus remaining for a minute or
more.
Von Tschudi ^ ascribed to the Sula variegata the chief rank as a
guano producer, and his mistake has been frequently followed.
There is reason to believe that the habit of this species as regards
choice of nesting site has undergone some modification since Tschudi 's
time.^ Tschudi was a very careful observer and he spent some
years upon the coast, but he expressly states in his Ornithologie
(p. 313) that none of the birds nest on the mainland, but only on
the barren islands. Such a statement certainly could not be made
in the present time. Unless the habits of this bird have materially
changed during the past 70 years, Von Tschudi was misled by
observation of the evident abundance of the Sulas; and his mistake
has been too frequently followed in nearly all reference books. This
species now ranks a very poor third in economic importance, being
far exceeded by the cormorant and the pelican. Yet this may not
be the case in future. As has been previously mentioned, the
piquero frequents the rough and scarcely accessible places and even
the abrupt cliflFs; and, while practically no place is entirely inac-
cessible to the intrepid guano workers, it is evident that from such
positions a large proportion of the guano must be lost by falling to
1 Tschudi, J. J. von. Travels in Peru during the years 1838-1842. Translation by Thomaslna Ross. New
York, 1852 (p. 168). Also,
Tschudi, J. J. von. Untersuchungen iiber die fauna Peruana. 2 vols. St. Gallen, 1844-1840. Vol. 2,
Section: "Ornithologie" (p. 313).
2 Raimondi also believed that Sula variegata produced more guano than pelicans or cormorants, because
they keep themselves in the interior of the island (not confirmed by a later statement. See p. 608.)
