NO. 2298. THE GUANO BIRDS OF PERU—COKER. 471
Raimondi's observations of the nesting places of S. variegata
(quoted on p . 508, below) agree essentially with mine.
SULA NEBOUXI MHne-Edwards.
THE PIQUERO MAYOR (GREATER PIQUERO).
The larger Sula, the blue-footed booby, gray gannet, or "piquero,"
was not observed south of Guanape Islands (8° 35' S.), and it was,
therefore, a surprise to me afterwards to learn that the range of the
species is given as from the Gulf of California to Chile. The original
specimen described by Milne-Edwards ^ was assumed to have come
from Chile, but it is not clear upon what evidence the southern records
are made.
In color and habit the blue-footed booby is in striking contrast to
the smaller white-head species, except in the manner of feeding and
in this there are noteworthy differences. The showy white markings
of the variegata are wanting, the plumage of all upper parts being
variegated, and the eyes are yellow instead of ruby (pL 60). In
breeding habit the nests are widely scattered on the level ground
or gentle slopes. In feeding, the nebouxi was often observed to use
localities which the variegata did not frequent. At the Lobos de
Tierra islands the gannets of the larger species were almost constantly
feeding in the very shallow water near the gentle beach in front of
our camp. The white-head gannets frequently passed over this place
but never plunged into the shallow water. I never observed them
feeding except in the deeper waters and generally plunging from
some height.
The gray gannets would circle about over the bay, often with the
bill pointing directly down, as they searched the water for their prey.
If a little off-shore they might plunge from some height, but, in the
shallow water two or three feet in depth near the beach, the drop
was made from only a few feet above the surface or else the bird
dived at an angle when flying barely above the water. Between
times they were resting with the pelicans on the low rocks near-by.
When this piquero plunges, the wings are held out angularly, and
just as the bird is about to enter the water the wings are folded to the
body. The bird emerges very promptly and may rest a few moments
on the surface or at once arise in flight. Sometimes it seemed to
find itself too high for the contemplated drop, when it would descend
by a spiral course of flight to a proper level for the plunge. I observed
a gannet dive vertically from the air into the water that was only
about 6 inches in depth, while another more prudent bird dropped
to its feet in the water at nearly the same place and then secured his
prey. It is interesting to note how frequently the piqueros of this
1 Milne-Edwards, A. Recherches sur la fatine des Regiones Australes. Annales des Sciences naturelles
Zoologie, ser. 6, vol. 13, art. 4, pp. 36,37. Paris, 1882. [See p. 37 and pi. 14.]
