472
PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.
VOL. 50.
species are associated with the pelicans. A few are often seen stand-
ing among a group of pelicans resting on a hillside. They not
uncommonly accompany the pelicans in flight, and I have seen them
joining with the same birds in the characteristic bathing act. When
flying from the land the nebouxi rarely rises except after using its
feet on the ground for a few yards, just as the pelicans do; yet they
will rise at once from the surface of the water, and without the
slightest apparent difficulty or delay. On the whole, the larger
gannet is less active in flight and far inferior to tl^e white gannet in
grace and elegance of form and body.
The nests are not made in compact rookeries, but are widely scat-
tered over the hills and valleys for many square miles of the island and
are interspersed with nests of gaviotas (pi. 56, fig. 1, and pi. 60). As
with the other species, no labor appears to be expended in the con-
struction of the nest. The eggs or young are usually found in a
slight hollow in the ground which is, however, apparently but an
incidental result of the movements and the deposits of the nesting
birds. In the newly formed nest with a single egg, the hollow is
scarcely perceptible, but with longer use the nest becomes very
distinct. After the young birds are able to stand and to move about,
all traces of a nest disappear until soon there is no clue as to where
the eggs were laid.
The nests contained from 1 to 3 eggs or young; thus, of 54 nests
examined, 18 contained 3 eggs or young birds, 25 contained 2 eggs
or young, while 11 had only 1 egg or 1 nestling. In no case did the
young birds, whether 2 or 3, seem to be of the same age — there was
always a series, as if hatched at different times. (See pi. 60, fig. 2.)
Of 39 nests without imhatched eggs, 12 had 3 young, 19 had but 2,
and 8 had only 1. The eggs are pale blue, having a distinctly blue
shell mostly covered by a thin bluish chalky coating. The form is
various but usually ovoid and rather elongate. The measurements
of several eggs were as follows:
Dimensions, in millimeters, of eggs of S. nebouxi.
Long di-
ameter.
Transverse diameter.
Long di-
ameter.
Transverse diameter.
1
64
67
65
63
401
39 >3 eggs from one nest.
38j
41, 2 eggs from one nest.
5
60
65
61
44, 2 eggs from one nest.
40.
2
6
3
7
61.
4
A very small egg that measured only 49 by 35 mm. was found to
have no yolk.
The adult birds of this species excel all other birds of the islands
in the boldness with which they wiU defend their young. If only
