NO. 228S. NEW M0LLU8KS OF THE FAMILY TURRITIDAE—DALL. 25
CRASSISPIRA BACCHIA, new speciea.
Plate 6, fig. 1.
Shell solid, biconic, acute, slate gray with whitish projections;
nucleus (eroded) of two brownish whorls, apparently smooth, and
nine subsequent whorls; suture distinct, appressed, bordered by a
small thread behind and a strong white cord in front betAveen it
and the fascicle which is constricted narrow and minutely spirally
striated; other spiral sculpture of (on the spire two) peripheral
whitish cords, the anterior stronger and swollen where it passes over the
ribs ; on the last whorl in front of the periphery are seven similar but
smaller cords with wider, minutely striated interspaces sometimes
carrying an intercalary thread; on the canal are about half a dozen
close-set threads; axial sculi^ture of (on the last whorl 10) short
rounded ribs prominent only on the periphery and extending from the
fasciole to the canal, with subequal interspaces; there is also a promi-
nent rounded varix behind the outer lip ; outer lip sharpedged, smooth
internally ; anal sulcus conspicuous, rounded, short, with a strong sub-
sutural callus; inner lip erased, dark purple as well as the throat;
pillar straight, short, canal hardly differentiated from the aperture.
Height of shell, 14.5; of last whorl, 7.5; diameter, 5.5 mm. Cat. No.
212372, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Station 2824, off La Paz, Lower California, in 8 fathoms,
sandy bottom. U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
It is quite likely that the color of this species varies and may be
darker or lighter.
CKASSISPIRA TEPOCANA, new species.
Plate 6, fig. 5.
Shell solid, livid purple under a very dark olive periostracum. of
about six whorls exclusive of the (lost) nucleus; suture strongly
appressed behind a constricted anal fasciole; spiral sculpture of (on
the penultimate whorl about nine) strong flattish threads, equal all
over the surface and without intercalary striae; having narrower in-
terspaces on the spire and equal or wider ones on the last whorl;
axial sculpture of (on the last whorl about 10) sharp edged narrow
nearly straight ribs reaching nearly to the canal from the fasciole,
with much wider interspaces; aperture narrow, dark purple; anal
sulcus rounded, short, with a strong subsutural callus ; outer lip thin,
slightly arcuate, smooth within, having a feeble varix behind it; inner
lip with a thick layer of enamel, having a raised edge anteriorly;
canal short hardly differentiated from the aperture; siphonal sulcus
deep, forming an evident fasciole. Height of shell, 19; of last
whorl, 12 ; diameter, 8 mm. Cat. No. 224415, U.S.N.M.
