476 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
spacing of the nests (as shown in pi. 63, fig. 2) being practically
invariable and determined apparently by the minimum space require-
ments of a pair of breeding birds. One may safely compute the
number of breeding adults by multiplying by 6 the number of square
meters covered by the aggregation.
At this time, the close of the breeding season, the immature but
grown nestlings were still being fed by the parents from mouth to
mouth and occupied the parental nest. Estimating on the basis of
two birds to the nest and three nests to the square meter, there would
be 360,000 parent birds in the flock, with undoubtedly an equal or
greater number of unmature birds able to fly, about three-quarters
of a million birds in all.^ I had the opportunity to revisit this island
briefly in the following month of July to find the flock at least 50
per cent larger, practically the entire island being occupied. The
increase in size of the flock m this brief time may have been due in
part to the accession of birds from the Ballestas Islands, but un-
doubtedly in part a natural expansion, as the older birds of the past
season's brood mated and established homes of their own.
The photograph shows the form and arrangement of the nests on
the hillside (pi. 63, fig. 2). The nests are rather less regular in dis-
tribution than at first appears. Whatever may have been the origin
of the nests, they were now composed entirely of guano except for
the little gravel or stone which was mixed with the guano. Each
nest is like a shallow basin with heavy rolled rim, the diameter of the
hollow of the basin being 20 cm. (8 inches) and that of the circum-
ference of the rim 40 cm. (16 inches); the raised ring of guano sur-
rounding the hollow is then about 4 inches wide. The nests, how-
ever, are not separate, but are portions of the continuous carpet of
guano. The distance from center to center of nests varies from 50
to 70 cm., being generally a little less than 60 cm.
The young birds in the early days of June, although able to fly
from the island with the older birds, were continuaUy seen to be
nagging the parents for food, pecking at them and expanding the
throat to form a receptive pouch. When the food is conveyed the
head of the young disappears entirely down the long throat of the
parent and the two bend over to one side or the other, the brother
young bird meantime making every effort to inteifere and displace
the more fortunate nestling. Even at this time there were among
mature birds suggestions of preliminary love plays in the raising
and lowering of crests and the brushing together of the birds of a
pair. It was several weeks later v/hen this island was revisited (in
1 1 am aware that others have estimated the number of cormorants at this island at much higher
figures — up to 10,000,000; in the absence, however, of precise data regarding the method of computation
employed, such estimates are to be viewed with conser\'atism at least.
