NO. 2298. THE GUANO BIRDS OF PERU—COKER. 477
July) and many eggs and even a few young nestlings were found.
It is evident, therefore, that there is scarcely a "closed season" for
parental responsibilities in this species.
Occasionally a wanderer bird is seen to be driven relentlessly from
place to place as it works its way through the crowd. What was
the significance of this I could not detect; whether it was a bird
away from the proper nest or one without a mate, its unwelcome-
ness v/as unmistakable.
It is the habit of the guanays to remain on the islands the greater
part of the time. They appear to leave only in search of food. They
form, indeed, a great "breeding class." They walk more than either
of the other Peruvian spegies of cormorant and their erect position
and v/addling gait is quite suggestive of the penguin. At a casual
glance the birds in the photograph (pi. 61) might easily be mistaken
for penguins.
Unlike pelicans, the guanays will return to some extent to rook-
eries whence they have been disturbed during the preceding season,
although a preference for undisturbed islands was most clearly indi-
cated by the growth of the flock on the South Chincha Island. When
I revisited the island in 1908, a considerable number of guanays were
still using the Ballestas islands, although the rookery was entirely
broken up in the preceding year.
When one approaches a rookery the guanays crowd away with
much gi-umbling, and when once a few birds arise in fhght, the move-
ment is liable to spread through the entire flock until hundreds of
thousands are on the ^ving, even most of those that were too remote
from the intruder to know the cause of the disturbance. It was
found with these, as with other birds, that, if one waits motionless
and with much patience, the birds will after a while return to the
nests and gradually close around the observer, until at last only a
circle with radius of 3 or 4 feet is left vacant. While in every direc-
tion one is surrounded by acres of birds all of a single species, the
scene is yet peculiarly variegated. In one direction the birds are
turned watchfully toward the intruder, and the thousand white
breasts make a glistening white groundwork spotted with black
heads; in another direction the birds are turned in side view so that
the breasts show only as white streaks. Additional effects are caused
according as the birds are more or less compactly grouped. Close
around one, the metallic green heads, the green-lustred backs, sides
and legs, the white throats, breasts, and bellies, and the hundreds of
intent green eyes are most conspicuous. The voice of a single bird is
a sort of a croak, less deep, less hoarse, and less powerful than that
of a bullfrog, but somewhat of that character. The collective voice
of the flock of hundreds of thousands is indescribable except as it
