NO. 2298.
THE GUANO BIRDS OF PERV—COKER.
479
slanting aerial trolley wires or on the low rocks near the shore. They
remain generally motionless, though grunting noisily, but occasionally
fly down into the water to dive for fish. They seem to prefer the
bottom fish or shallow-water fish close in shore, such as the "tram-
boUos" (blennies), which one may see from the rocks in almost any
suitable place. The cuervo can swallow fish of considerable size, and
I have found in the stomachs tramboUo fish from 2^ to about 10
inches in length.
The nesting places were observed only at the Lobos de Tierra
Islands in the north in midsummer — December, 1907. It is not
doubted, however, that a visit to the southern islands at the same
season would have revealed nesting places in that locality. The
choice of nesting site is characteristic and is well shown in the illus-
tration (pi. 64). They were using small rough-topped rocks lying
close along the shore, but partly or entirely cut off from the shore
proper.
The nests contained from one to five eggs or young, usually four
eggs or four young birds. The eggs are comparatively small and pale
blue in color, the blue somewhat obscured by a chalky coating which
is not uniformly disposed. They were variable in shape. Four eggs
from one nest were of an ordinary oval form, 53 by 36 mm., and these
were representative of most of the eggs observed ; one nest, however,
contained five greatly elongated eggs. The nestlings were black.
Dimensions, in millimeters, of the eggs of the *^ Cuervo de Mar.^'
1
2
3
4
Long
diameter.
Transverse diameter.
og [characteristic form.
5
6
7
Long
diameter.
Transverse diameter.
I Unusual form; 5 eggs
I from one nest.
As compared with the guanay, the tail of the cuervo is rather
long, the bill rather short, and the bird is lighter in build. Its weight,
about 3i pounds, is a fourth less than that of the guanay. The
iris is green in both species.
The cuervo ranges probably the entire length of the Peruvian
coast from Tumbes in the north to Chile, and it extends to the inland
waters.
The cuervo de mar is excellently described by Taczanowski.* It
must be remarked that in the specimens from which my color notes
were made (Lobos de Afuera, November and December, 1907), the
white feathers on each side of the auricular region, as described by
> Omithologie, vol. 3, pp. 429, 430.
