480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 50.
Taczanowski, were wanting. These white marks were noted, how-
ever, in examples observed at Pisco in June, 1907.
PHALACROCORAX GAIMARDI (Garnot).
THE SCARLET-FOOT CORMORANT OR "PATILLO."
The patillo, P. gaimurdi, though less familiar to the landsmen, is
a not less common cormorant than the preceding. To anyone
navigating in small boats along shore or among the islands the
patillo is a familiar feature of the seascape. One meets them floating
lazily yet watchfully on the water, occasionally flapping wings or
ducking beneath the surface as enjoying a bath, or making a sudden
dive for prey to come up with a fish or a wriggling eel, which is
swallowed only after a little struggle. They seem to be peculiarly
successful eel catchers, as I have many times seen them with such
prey. This species bears many local names. Among them are
"pato de mar" (sea duck), "chuita," and "chiquitoy"; besides that
of "patillo" (little duck).
Their flight is characteristic — low and straight. The appearance
of intentness in flight is accentuated by the series of three conspicu-
ous streaks in series; the orange and red bill, the white neck stripe,
and the scarlet legs and feet lying straight back beneath the tail.
The whole manner is that of one with predetermined com'se eagerly
seeking a certain destination. I never saw one turn its head aside,
as the swift gannet will do to investigate an observer. A very
sUght bend of the neck is sufficient for reconnoissance or for deter-
mining a change of course. Their short wings make fhght a more
strenuous and absorbing affair than for the gannet. Thus, as I
have counted them, the wing strokes of the patillo, a minute, are
from 250 to 300, as against 160 to 170 for the gannet, 150 to 190 for
gulls of different species, and 140 to 150 for the pelican.
The home of the patillo is on the bold cliffs (pi. 65) and in the
caverns, and the body color would give effective concealment against
the rocky walls except for the brighter markings of the legs and the
neck of the adults. As one approaches an apparently bare rocky
wall rising above the surf, small bright red spots in pairs with three
or four rays may be distinguished against the gray background of the
rocks. If low down, they may easily be mistaken for star-fishes or
the red-legged crabs left by the tide, but these are the legs and feet
of the patillo. When one is a little closer a white spot is made out
some distance above the red. The eye and the imagination may
then fill out the form of the bird between the white neck stripes and
the scarlet feet. The young birds against a rocky wall are almost
indistinguishable even when one knows the exact location of the nest
(pi. 65, fig. 2). When in flight, the bright skin colors and the neck
