NO. 2298. THE GUANO BIRDS OF PERU—COKER. 481
stripe, together with the characteristic manner of flight, makes this
bird most easily recognized even at a great distance.
A sm-prising characteristic of the patillo is its cry, which is entirely
milike that of the ordinary cormorants that utter a coarse grunt or
croak. When flying from the nest it often gives a high-pitched
repeated chirp, somewhat like the note of the sparrow. This
undoubtedly accounts for the common name sometimes used,
"chuita," a name certainly more suggestive of a peewee than of a
cormorant.
The nests are always isolated. Those examined were composed of
a great variety of seaweeds, of many leathery worm tubes, of straw,
feathers, and string, apparently any accessible and suitable material
(pi. 65, fig. 1). One nest was weighed, although, unfortunately, more
than a third of the material had been lost in removing it from the
side of the cliff. The amount saved was found to weigh 8 pounds,
and the complete nest must have weighed over 12 pounds. It was
composed of Ulva and of various brown and red seaweeds, but the
bulk of the total material was a chocolate brown weed with white
tips, probably Corallina cJiilensis. The worm tubes, however,
formed a very considerable portion, constituting 2f pounds or one-
third of the material saved. These tough tubes, which bind together
the looser materials to give strength and stability to the nest, must
be of great value to birds that build, as the patillos do, such large
and strong nests on almost any sort of a cliff where there is a bare
foothold for the bird and the scantiest basis of support for the nest.
Such tubes are, of course, taken only by diving, since the coast is
free of exposed tidal flats.
The nests are frequently formed also deep in the caverns that
undermine the walls of islands or mainland. The nests were found
to have two or three eggs, but I did not happen to observe a nest
with more than two young birds. The eggs are of very elongate
oval form, pale blue, but smeared with a white coating unevenly
distributed. Two eggs measured were respectively 6.3 cm by 3.8
cm, and 6.4 cm by 3.9 cm.
Tschudi ^ remarks on pecuharities of the coloration of the eye in
this species, stating that the pupil of the eye of the patillo is sea
green. I did not observe this, but my notes direct attention to the
bright blue beading on the eyelids, 16 blue beads in all surrounding
the eye.
The patillo (P. gaimardi), does not appear to extend very far
north of Callao. It was never observed at the Lobos Islands of the
north; in that region the P. lougainvillei is locally known as the
"patillo." The name, "chiquitoy," applied in some localities to the
» On p. 314 of the Ormthologie, previously cited.
115690^19— Proc.N.M. vol .56 31
