482 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.56.
gaimardi, refers, I take it, to its small size among tlie cormorants.
This cormorant has no appreciable economic value.
The three species of cormorants above described offer a striking
illustration of the adaptability of nature. Three birds closely
related, withhi the same genus in fact, dwelling in the same localities
and not differing greatly in size, afford such striking contrasts in
habits and appearance, as may be expressed in the following analysis.
Social hahit.— The one herds in enormous flocks, another forms
small groups, while the third is never seen except singly or in pairs.
Of the two extremes, the patillo is always thought of as an individual,
even though chance might bring several birds together, but the indi-
viduality of the guanay is always lost in the multitude.
Breeding hahit. — The one nests crudely on the broad expanses of
the island tops, another on the rough outljdng rocks, while the third
finds isolated homes on the cliffs or in the caverns v/here it constructs
strong and secure nests of variously collected materials.
Feeding hahit. — The one flies out in great flocks to swim on the
surface and dive for prey in the schools of surface fishes; another
watches from its low perches or dives down to capture the fishes of
the bottoms near shore; while the third often makes long single
flights before diving in search of eels or other fish or for nest-building
materials.
Voice. — The one utters a distinctive croak, the second makes a
harsh gutteral grunt, whfle the third has a high-pitched voice of the
timbre of a song bird.
Color. — The guanay has a shiny black back and glossy white
breast, the cuer\^o is dark and of almost uniform coloring, and the
patillo is of generally variegated coloi with white stripes and scarlet
feet.
The patillo (P. gaimardi) is lather remarkable among cormorants
for the entire absence of any disposition to gregariousness, and it is
the most specialized of the tlu-ee in its vrell-developed habit of nest
construction and its instinct of protection of young, shown in the
choice of location for the home.
All of the Peruvian cormorants are smaller than the American
carho, but the guanay and the cuervo are about equal in size to the
double-crested cormorant, the patillo being much smaller. The long
bill of the guanay nearly equals that of Phalacrocorax carho.
Specimens of the "patillo" weighed 2 7/8 to 3 1/8 pounds. The
"cuervo" weighs 3 1/8 to 3 1/4 pounds, while the guanay has a weight
of 41/2 pounds.
ECONOMIC IMPORTANCE OF THE CORMORANT.
The guanay (Phalacrocorax hougainvillei) is the only one of the
cormorants having especial economic value, but this one outranks
aU the other birds of the coast in significance as a guano producer.
