26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.56.
Range. — Station 3018, off Cape Tepoca, Lower California, in 36
fathoms, sand, bottom temperature 63.3° F. ; U. S. Bureau of Fish-
eries.
CRASSISPIRA ARSINOE, new species.
Plate 6, fig. 4.
Shell biconic, acute, dark brown with paler projections and a red-
dish brown nucleus of two smooth whorls followed by nine subse-
quent whorls; suture closel}' appressed, obscure, somewhat undu-
lated with two fine threads and a garland of elongated paler nodules
between it and the constricted spirally grooved anal fasciole; other
spiral sculpture of on the last whorl sharp narrow channeled grooves
with wider flattish interspaces, which cut the axial sculpture into
nodules, there are half a dozen closer threads on the canal; there is
apart from the fasciole no finer spiral striation such as is found in
most of the species of the group; axial sculpture of (on the last
whorl about 14) feeble ribs beginning at the fasciole, obsolete on
the base and only prominent as single, double, or triple nodules at
the shoulder, there are four or five rather distant spiral rows of
nodules between the shoulder and the canal; the incremental lines
are very fine and sharp ; aperture narrow, anal sulcus wide and shal-
low with a marked subsutural callus; outer lip thin sharp, smooth
inside, with no very evident varix behind it; throat brownish, inner
lip and pillar with a smooth layer of enamel, the anterior edge raised
on the canal; the latter short wide, hardly differentiated from the
aperture. Height of shell, 17 ; of last whorl, 9.5 ; diameter, T.5 mm.
Cat. No. 56135, U.S.N.M. '
Range. — Bartolome Bay, Lower California, H. Hemphill.
? CRASSISPIRA RUGITECTA Dall.
Plate 7, fig. 6.
Turris (C7-assispiya) rugitecta Dall. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mu.s., vol. 54, No.
2134, p. 226, April 5, 1918.
Shell solid, acute, dark reddish brown, with a pale peripheral band
and eleven rapidly enlarging whorls exclusive of the (lost) nucleus;
suture closely appressed, obscure, with four or five strong spiral
cords between it and the anterior edge of the anal fasciole which is
moderately constricted; between this and the succeeding suture are
five or six rather close-set flattish cords, obsolete on the summits of
the ribs, the whole surface polished; on the last whorl there are
about 14 of these cords extending to the canal near which there are
a few intercalary smaller cords but no fine spiral striation; axial
sculpture of (on the last whorl 16) nearly vertical ribs with narrow
interspaces, beginning abruptly in front of the fasciole and becom-
ing obsolete on the base; incremental lines rather strong; anal sulcus
wide, rounded, not deep, separated from the suture by a strong
