488 PROCEEDINGS OF TEE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
stitute a considerable proportion of the food of pelicans as of the other
sea fowl.
The nests are made on the level ground or on gentle slopes and
generally in large aggregations (pi. 66). After the rookery at the
Lobos de Afuera Island was broken up in 1907, many smaller rook-
eries were found in the following season (Dec, 1907), in addition to
one or two that were some acres in extent. Some of these rookeries
were connected in a curious rambling way (pi. 67). The nests are
less regularly spaced than those of the guanays and naturally are
much farther apart; while the guanays average 3 nests to the
square meter, the pelican wiU average only about 2 to the square
meter.
The behavior of pelicans on the nesting grounds in some respects
appears stupid and inexplicable. An alcatraz on her nest will
sometimes reach over with her long neck and bill, take a fledgling
from the uncovered nest of a neighbor and throw it away, perhaps
into another nest. Once, within a space of 2 square meters, I saw
six little "pichones," almost new born, bandied about in a most
merciless way, tossed from one alcatraz to another, each seemingly
unv/illing to have the little birds in their proximity. Finally three
of the fledglings were thrown beyond the margin of the nesting
ground and left to die in the sun. I watched a pelican that returned
to a nest from which the only fledgling had been transferred by a
mischievous neighbor into an adjoining nest. The returning brooder
did not appear to notice the loss, but sat composedly on the remain-
ing egg ; then, pilfering on her own account, she quietly reached over
and stole all of the feathers from the nest in which lay her own
offspring (supposedly) among others, to add to the lining of her nest.
I questioned if the birds invariably occupied the same nest; on one
occasion, at least, a bird was seen to brood on two different nests.
The birds near the margin had been frightened away, but, most of
them retm-ning, all of the nests were soon reoccupied except the ones
nearest to me. An alcatraz, after sitting for 15 minutes on one nest,
moved slowly over to another nearer to me, while its place on the
first nest was at once taken by a bird that was previously covering
an empty nest. The young were trampled dangerously by the old
birds as they moved awkwardly about. Perhaps these are abnormal
actions, attributable to nervousness caused by the presence of an
intruder.
I never found any considerable nimiber of nests imcovered but
once, when I came on a small rookery of some 100 to 200 nests,
where there were only a dozen birds. Returning after an hour or
less I found the same condition. Supposing the ground abandoned,
I opened some eggs from different nests, finding live embryos in aU.
The eggs remained warm under the midday sun. Doubtless the
insect parasites which swarm on the nesting grounds would occa-
