490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
The average of these measurements is 79.9 by 55.6. Forbes fomid
an average of 83.7 by 55.7.
The young bu-ds are bare of feathers, and, as I observed them at
the Lobos islands, with black, dark blue or purple skins, but Forbes
says * they " are of a pale flesh-color, thus differing markedly from
those of the brown pelican {P. fuscus) which, according to Chapman,
are livid black." They are of some size before the white downy
covering is acquired. The birds are nearly full grown before the
first feathering appears on the wings and back. (See pi. 68, fig. 2, show-
ing an old bird and young in several stages.) The young about this
time seem to be substantially larger than the adults in almost all
dimensions.^ A young bird just attaining the stage of flight from
the nest is shown in the illustrations (on plate 69). The very
dark brown or fuscous coloring of head, neck, back, and sides is
conspicuous. The rump is lighter in color while the belly is nearly
white. There is yet no sign of the white forehead and neck stripe
of the adult. This bird was kept as a pet for several weeks.
The season of nesting is almost uninterrupted, though less active
during the winter months of May to September. In March and
AprU, 1907, the rookeries at Lobos de Afuera contained thousands
of eggs and young in all stages. On June 18 of the same year,
young nestlings just beginning to feather were observed on an islet
near the North Chincha Island. The Lobos de Afuera islands were
again visited in December, when the large rookeries were filled with
eggs and very young nestlings.
In the south the only active rookeries noted were on two islets
near the North Chincha Island; although numerous evidences of
abandoned pelican rookeries were observed on various islands of the
Chincha and Ballestas groups, on San Gallan, and on the Santa Rosa
Islands at the Bay of Independencia. At the latter place, I was
informed by a fisherman that, a few years before, a guano extractor,
finding the young pelicans in the way, had herded them and driven
them over the cUff. Examinations of the beach at the base of the
cHff revealed thousands of skeletons of young pelicans with other
debris.
In the autumn of 1907 (March), at Lobos de Afuera, a rookery many
acres in extent (pi. 63, fig. 1) occupied the northern point of the east-
ward island, and a small islet to the north of it. It was estimated that
there were about 100,000 birds. During the following v/inter this was
entirely broken up by the extraction of guano. At the beginning of the
next summer (December) there were numerous (six or more) small rook-
eries scattered over this island and containing in all about 2,000 nests;
1 Forbes, Henry O. Notes on Molina's Pelican {Pelecanus thagus). The Ibis, ser. 10, vol. 2, No. 3,
London, July, 1914, pp. 403-420 [p. 416).
» The grown young are normally somewhat heavier. Several fully mature pelicans weighed 12-14
pounds, a very old and thin bird weighing only 9i pounds. A young specimen had a weight of 16 pounds.
