NO. 2298. THE GUANO BIRDS OF PERU—COKER. 491
but the majority of the birds were occupying the westward island, which
had not been disturbed. Here, too, were many scattered rookeries,
some v/ith birds in small groups, others with nests arranged in long
rambling ranks (pi. 67). At the end of the land, however, and con-
nected with the last-mentioned series, there was a large rookery
including probably 6,000 nests (pi. 66). It was estimated that there
were between 10,000 and 20,000 nests on the group of islands. A
great many of the birds had apparently removed to the Lobos de
Tierra Islands, a few miles to the north.
The change of conditions noted in successive seasons on the Lobos
Islands as regards the nesting of pelicans, was only one of many evi-
dences that this species is not easily reconciled to disturbances. The
adult pehcan will often stand by its young, but the radical disturb-
ance of its nesting ground, as by removal of the guano, seems to be
the signal for a change of location in the following season. The
pelican is, indeed, relatively timid and clannish by nature. Its
nesting grounds were never observed in close proximity to those of
other birds.^ It was noted also that the rookeries were generally
well removed from the loberias (or rookeries of sea lions), though this
may have been due to chance.
Pehcans are more infested with insect pests than any other of the
guano birds. The neighborhood of the nests is, therefore, a most
unpleasant place to stand for any length of time. One of these (a
MaUophaga?) is abundant all over the ground; it crawls up the legs,
body, and neck of the bird to find an attachment within the pouch,
where it may always be seen in scores. The great bills are quite
helpless against such pests, and the only defense seems to be in the
daily baths which the pehcans take in convenient coves.
Other enemies of the pehcans are the gulls and "gallinazos," whose
depredations will be described in the account of the gaUinazos(p. 498).
Cats undoubtedly prey upon the young. It is interesting that cats,
which have escaped from the guano workers' or fishermen's camps
should have estabhshed themselves upon the Lobos Islands, where
there is no possible source of fresh water, although an abundance of
bird and fish food is to be found in the rookeries and on the beaches.
The extermination of these cats is strongly to be recommended, and
the conveyance of cats to the islands should be prohibited.
StiU another enemy of the pelican is the abundant ''lobo," or sea
lion, although I can not rate highly the damage done by it. I wit-
> On the other hand, Forbes, from observations at the Chincha Islands when pelicans and cormorants
had just returned after a remarkable and imexplained absence of a year, found the nesting pelicans
' ' crowded together in large colonies, very generally surrounded by still denser and more extensive colonies
of Phalacrocomx bougavniUci." He adds: "At this season the birds are extremely timid and rarely allow
the near approach of an intruder without taking wing with a recriminating 'wauk' from their nest; In
this respect they are unlike their incubating friendly neighbors, the cormorants, which allow one to come
comparatively close to them without leaving the nest." (Forbes, The Ibis, vol. 2, 1914, p. 415).
