NO. 2298. THE GUANO BIRDS OF PERU—GOEER. 495
birds disgorge their proy in self-defense, the tijereta with swift flight
will recapture it in mid-air or snatch it from the surface of the water.
In one instance I have seen the table almost turned when a large
gannet (Sula nehouxi) pursued a tijereta back and forth for a con-
siderable time. A turn of the tijereta from time to time would
put the gannet to temporary flight. The end of the combat was not
witnessed.
Stolzmann, as quoted by Taczanowski/ says:
The Peruvian port of Payta is the southern limit of geographic distribution of this
bird on the Pacific Ocean. It is astonishing that it is found on the Atlantic aa far
as Rio Janeirw, 23° S. latitude, while on the Pacific it does not pass the 5° of S. latitude.
Undoubtedly the colder waters of the west coast are not favorable to
an extended range, but my records indicate a more southerly range
than is stated by Stolzmann. The tijereta was observed at Tumbes
(3i° S.) in January, 1908; at Paita (5° S.) in April, 1907; at Lobos
de Tierra (6^8.) same month; at Eten (7° S.) in November, 1907;
and at Pacasmayo (7^° S.) in March, 1907. At Eten nine specimens
at one time were seen in flight inland from the village, and a little
later some six or seven more were observed. Only one example
was noted at Pacasmayo, but a reliable local informant at that place
spoke of it as an occasional visitor.
The mangrove-bordered estuaries of Tumbes in the far north of
Peru undoubtedly constitute its most southerly nesting place. In
January, 1908, their nosts were seen in abundance on the mangrove
trees, as had previously been described by Stolzmann.
Von Tschudi mentions the red-billed tropic bird, Plmetlion
aethereus Linnaeus, as occurring on the Peruvian coast and states
that the Snakebird, Anhinga (Plotus) anhinga (Linnaeus) , nests on
the islands of the coast. The latter is mentioned as one of the
importa,nt guano birds. Neither of these v/as observed on or near
the islands.
THE SHORE BIRDS (LIMICOLAE).
While the Limicolae, or shore birds, are well represented in favora-
ble regions on the mainland, they do not in any abundance frequent
the Peruvian Islands mth their generally rocky shores. The islands
of Lobos de Afuera and especially Lobos de Tierra offer more favorable
beaches than any of the others, although some of the shore birds
may be met on almost any of the island groups. No extensive
collections of birds of this order were made, but the species collected
and identified are mentioned in the following paragraphs.
The oyster catcher or "brujillo de pecho bianco" (little witch
with white breast), Haematopus palliatus (brasilianus Maximillian ?),
was recorded in my notes at the Chincha Islands, Chilca Bay, and the
Isla Vieja. With its distinctive cry and striking color markings, the
1 Ornithologie du P6rou, p. 428.
