496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
white-breast brujillo is unmistakable, whether in the air or on the
land. In flight the conspicuous white band on the upper surface
of the wing, the white breast, the almost black head, and bright
red bill directed downward and continually opening and closing,
makes this bird as conspicuous as does its shrill excited cry. While
on the ground they usually make a single isolated call, but when
flying high-pitched cries are uttered almost incessantly. On one
occasion, in the little Bay of Chilca, about a dozen of these birds in a
group on the shore, becoming excited from some cause, fairly filled
the small amphitheater with their shrill voices. This was an unusual
aggregation, for I rarely observed them except in pairs, whether at
rest or in fUght.
A female, taken at the Chincha Islands in June, had only very
minute eggs in the ovary. In a female taken at Asia in the latter
part of August the eggs were 3 to 4 millimeters in diameter. Stomach
examinations revealed small pebbles, pieces of Crustacea (Hippa,
etc.), pieces of shell, opercula of gastropods, and mussel shells. A
specimen taken at Chincha had a weight of If pounds.
The black oyster bird, or "brujillo" {Haematopus quoyi Brabourne
and Chubb), was more commonly observed than the other. It was
noted at the Chincha Islands, Chilca Bay, Asia Island, the Bay of
Independencia, Paracas Bay, and Lobos de Tierra.
The curlew or "sarapico" Numenius liudsonicus (Latham), is
not infrequent on the islands, and, of course, is quite commonly
found on the mainland about small lakes or rivers. They frequent
the available beaches of the islands, singly, in couples, or in small
flocks, and at a little distance are barely distinguishable against the
sandy beach. They have a high-pitched excited cry when flying.
The stomach contents of two specimens examined were exclusively
portions of Hippa, the common "mui-muis" of the sand beaches.
In these examples the eggs were small, about 1 millimeter in diameter
(Chincha Islands, June 14, 1907, and Chilca, Aug. 27, 1907).
The small beach birds, sandpipers, plovers, etc., were observed
rather abundantly at Lobos de Tierra in December, 1910, and they
were not uncommon at Lobos de xVfuera about the same time. The
following specimens were taken :
Arenaria interpres (Linnaeus), Asia Island, August 26, 1907.
Common name: "Til-Til."
Arenaria interpres (Linnaeus), Lobos de Afuera, December 3, 1907.
Common name: "Tfl-Til."
Heteroscelus incanus (Gmelin), Lobos de Tierra, December 13, 1907.
Common name: "Til-Til."
Calidris leucopliea (PaUas), Lobos de Tierra, December 10, 1907.
Common name: "Til-Til bianco."
