NO. 2298. THE GUANO BIRDS OF PERU—COKER. 497
Aegialitis nivosa (Cassin), Paracas Bay, June 29, 1907. Common
name: "Chinita."
Aegialitis nivosa (Cassin), Paracas Bay, June 29, 1907. Common
name: "Cajero."
Ereunetes pusillus mauri Cabanis, Lobos de Tierra, December 13,
1907. Common name: "Til-Til."
THE CONDOR.
None of the vultures are significant guano producers, yet they are
found on the islands, and at least one of the species is an important
factor in the bionomics of the island.
The large condor, or "buitri" (Vultur grypJius Linnaeus), "the
king of the vultures," is not uncommon in the higher hills and
mountains of the interior of Peru and visits the coast to feed upon
the animal matter cast up on the beaches (D'Orbigny).* It is
reputed by the natives to prey sometimes upon the nestlings of
guano birds, but such depredations were not observed. Individual
birds, evidently of this species, were not infrequently seen resting
on a hillside or on some high ledge of the islands south of Callao, as
at Santa Rosa, San Gallan, the Ballestas Islands, and Isla Asia.
Doubtless the condor frequents islands north of Callao ; but my visits
to islands of the northern region were principally to Lobos de Afuera
and Lobos de Tierra, which are, respectively, 10 and 35 miles from
the main shore. According to my native guides at these points the
condor is never seen on these islands.
D'Orbigny states that the wing spread of this condor does not
exceed 3 meters and that the ordinary length is above IJ meters.
In this connection it may be mentioned that the true king vulture,
Sarcoramplius papa (Linnaeus), which, according to D'Orbigny, is
not half so common as the condor, and is confined to the eastern
side of the Andes, has been recorded by Stolzmann from the west
coast between Tumbes and Lechugal.^
Condors are undoubtedly becoming rare, while the vultures men-
tioned below increase with the spread of human habitation. The
rapacious condors are pursued, while the harmless vultures are, in a
measure, protected for their service as scavengers.
THE VULTURES OR "GALLINAZOS."
The "turkey vultures," or "turkey buzzards" ("gallinazos" they
are called in Peru), are not only among the most common birds seen
about the tov/ns and villages, but are found on any island inhabited
by other birds or by sea lions. The commoner species near the cities
1 TaczanowsM. Omlthologie du P6rou, vol. 1, p. 75fl.
» Idem, vol. 1, p. 81ff.
115690— 19— Proc.N.M.vol.56 32
