498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 5C.
is the black vulture, "urubu," or "galiinazo de cabeza negra"
("gallinazo of the black head"), Coragypsfoetens, which undoubtedly
renders most useful service where the scavenger work is otherwise
too little provided for. With them is found the red-headed gallinazo
{Cathartes aura), which renders similar good service, but which is less
numerous and, according to report, more timid in its nature.
The latter species is common on the islands, whither it is attracted
by the excellent opportunities for feeding afforded not only on the
beaches but on the rookeries of birds and of sea lions. On the
islands, indeed, it is at least questionable whether its beneficial ser-
vices as a scavenger outweigh the detriment that it works by its
depredations upon the nests of the birds of more direct importance.
The gallinazos are always to be seen about the loberias or homes of
the sea lion's, and in the rookeries of pelicans, gannets, and cormor-
ants. Their diet is not restricted to refuse of the beach and dead
bodies of birds and sea lions they may find occasionally on the higher
ground; whenever the opportunity occurs they will snatch the eggs
from the nests or devour even the young fledglings. Any visitor may
make such observations, since the presence of an observer, causing
the birds to fly temporarily from their nests, gives a most con-
venient opportunity for the gallinazos to commit their depredations.
That they do not have to wait for such an unusual occurrence was
shown by the repeated observation of two or more gallinazos or
gaviotas working together to despoil the nest of a piquero; while the
anxious parent is occupied in driving the intruders away, the other
gallinazos or gaviotas seize the opportunity to rob the uncovered
nest of eggs or nestlings. Perhaps this cooperative assault is not the
result of definite plan, yet it seems quite clear that when the attack
is initiated by one bird the others recognize that the result will bring
a desired opportunity and prepare to avail themselves of it. At
other times they snatch the opportunity to feed upon the fish brought
by the parent to feed the young but for some reason prematurely dis-
gorged ; the offended bird contests with the intruder for the fish, but
the latter is usually successful in getting a large share.
While the gallinazos render some service in the rookeries by con-
suming the waste food and the bodies of fowls which may die at the
nest, yet in the dry atmosphere of the islands, where the sun shines
every day, it is doubtful if such bodies would accomplish much
injury. The result of the atmospheric and soil conditions, at least
on some of the islands, is such as to preserve the dead bodies. I havo
observed on the Chinoa Islands the exhumed bodies of men who,
having died in service on the islands, have been buried in the guano
or sand. These bodies, disinterred in time by the removal of more
guano, seemed almost perfectly preserved.
