NO. 2288. NEW MOLLUSKS OF THE FAMILY TURRITIDAE—DALL. 27
cord : aperture reflecting the colors of the exterior ; outer lip short,
sharp, arcuate; pillar and body smooth, canal very short, a little
recurved. Height of shell, 30.5; of last whorl, 16; diameter, 10. mm.
Cat. No. 266911, U.S.N.M.
Range. — San Bartolome Bay, Lower California, Dr. Paul Bartsch.
This elegant species appears to be a Crassisfira^ but lacks the fine
spiral striation and lilack color characteristic of the latter group.
? CRASSISPIRA AMATHEA, new species.
Plate 6, fig. 2.
Shell solid, marbled with brown and white, the brown chiefly as a
broad dark peripheral band with a narrower band just behind the
canal; nucleus blunt, brown, of two smooth whorls, followed by
about six subsequent whorls, suture obscure, appressed, with a strong
whitish ridge in front of it behind a rather v/ide constricted f asciole ;
spiral sculpture of fine striae covering the whole surface ; axial sculp-
ture of (on the last whorl about a dozen) short ribs extending from
the fasciole to the canal and most prominent at the shoulder, with
three nodules on the basal par* of each rib; on the spire they are
more like nodules than ribs; aperture wide, outer lip thickish, with
a feeble varix behind it; anal sulcus distinct, shallow, with a large
subsutural callus ; imier lip with a moderate layer of enamel the an-
terior edge of which near the canal is raised, with a chink between
it and the siphonal fasciole ; canal wide, deep, very short, constricted,
with a well marked siphonal fasciole. Height of shell, 22; of last
whorl, 12 ; diameter, 8 mm. Cat. No. 56099, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Purchased from a native at Acapulco, Mexico, by W. H.
Dall.
The shell is polished, but this may be due to the manner in which
it has been cleaned by the seller.
? CRASSISPIRA MARTINENSIS. new species.
Plate 13, fig. 4.
Shell brownish, with two smooth nuclear and seven subsequent
whorls; suture distinct, with a strongly nodulous ridge between it
and the anal fasciole which is retractively arcuately wrinkled; the
body is strongly sculj)tured with about a dozen rounded cords with
narrower interspaces, not swollen where they pass over (on the penul-
timate whorl 14) close rounded ribs which extend to the periphery
and are obsolete beyond it; aperture defective. Height, 18; of last
whorl, 12 ; diameter, 8 mm. Cat. No. 162669, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Gulf of California at Cape San Martin.
MONILIOPSIS GRIPPI, new species.
Plate 8, fig. 2.
Shell slender with about eight (slightly decollate) whorls, livid
olivaceous with a pale peripheral band, lighter near the aperture;
