NO. 2298. THE GUANO BIRDS OF PERU—COKER. 499
Nests of the gallinazos were observed in the islands of Lobos de
Afuera and Lobos de Tierra. In December, 1907, three nests of the
aura were found, one in a cave on the hillside, another under a small
overhangmg ledge of rock (pi. 53, fig. 3), and a third in a narrow deep
cave just above the water line on the beach. In the first case, as the
bird flew from the nest it emitted a brownish vomit, which created an
unendurable stench. Scarcely any effort seemed to have been made
to form a nest. The eggs are sHghtly yellowish white, spotted and
blotched with reddish brown, and little reduced at the smaller end.
The measurement of two eggs from one nest were 72 by 50 mm. and
74 by 50 mm., and of two from another nest, 71 by 47 mm. and
72 by 47 mm. These arc smaller than the dimensions given by
D'Orbigny (83 by 54 mm.). The photograph (pi. 53, fig. 3) shows two
young birds with whitish down and blackish bills fairly well con-
cealed against the rock beneath a barely overhangmg ledge.
THE CHIROTE.
The small "chirote," Cinclodes taczanowskii Berlepsch and
Stolzmann, is of particular interest as the only land bird, beside the
condor and the buzzard, observed on any of the islands. They were
seen only on islands of the south — the Chinchas — and the Isla Vieja
at Independencia Bay.
Our camp on the north island of the Chincha group was located
on a small crescent-shaped bit of beach between the water and
the cliffs, where the chirotes were regularly seen flying back and
forth from the chff to the beach. Their nests were not observed,
but the time was early winter of the southern hemisphere — June,
1 907. In the gonads of a specimen taken the eggs were distinguishable
only with a lens. The stomach contained sand and bits of shells of
Gastropods and Lamellibranchs.
The lively Cinclodes recalls both the T^Tieatear and Dipper, as it runs with upturned
tail from stone to etone, takes short low flights, or hunts for crustaceans, mollusks, and
insects in the water, equally happy on the streams of the Andes or the desolate lake
Bides of Patagonia. The note is a sharp trill, while three eg^ are laid on a bed of grass
and fur in holes.'
It is believed that this is the first record of this bird from the
Peruvian Islands. Cinclodes belongs to the family Furnariidae
peculiar to the neotropical region.
THE SEA LIONS IN RELATION TO THE BIRDS.
Two kinds of "lobos" are distinguished on the Peruvian coast —
"lobos ordinaries" and "lobos fines," or "lobos de dos pelos"
{ordinary "lohos" and Jine "lohos" or "Mos" with two coats). This
> A. H. Evans, in the Cambridgo Natural History.
