500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
distinction corresponds to sea lions and fur seals. I did not observe
the fur seal, but from the uniformity of local accounts I would assume
that it occurs in small numbers as far north as the peninsula of
Paracas.
The sea lion, Otaria juhata, occui-s fairly abundantly along the
entire coast. There is scarcely an island of any size without its
"loberia" or rookery of sea Mons. Naturally, this animal has some
relation to the birds. Many persons have charged them with being
very destructive of the guano birds. Some years ago the capture of
lobos in Peru was permitted and it was found that the value of the
hides and oil was sufficient to make the industry profitable. Sub-
sequently this fishery was stopped by governmental prohibition,
chiefly because of the extensive use of dynamite, but partly because
it was suggested by some persons that the lobos rendered an importan t
and necessary service to the birds in herding the fishes, driving them
to the surface, or demoralizing them, and consequently making it
easier for the birds to obtain their food. These questions were of
particular interest and it was consequently kept in view to note such
observations as might bear on them.
To the sea lions has also been ascribed some importance as pro-
ducers of guano; in fact, the literature of the subject almost invaria-
bly attributes Peruvian guano to the "birds and sea lions." Some
definite observations were made on this point, and it may not be
inappropriate to refer to them briefly and before proceeding to the
proper subject of the section, in order to establish more precisely
the significance of the birds in relation to the valuable deposits of
guano.
THE SEA LION AS A PRODUCER OF GUANO.
It is well known that there have been deposits regarded as lobo
guano, deposits wliich may have been entirely guano of lobos, or a
mixture of the guanos of lobos and of birds. That the lobos now
produce a very insignificant amount of available guano seems to be
the unanimous opinion of those most practically concerned with the
guano industry. I have observed a good many hauluig grounds of
sea lions between Paita and Independencia, but have usually found
that the rocks were clean. The resting grounds were, as a rule, on
the rocks close to the water, and, as the sea lions floundered and slid
over the rocks going into and out of the water, they swept away
with them not only their own, but also such guano of birds as may
have been in the way. The rocks are thus left smooth and slippery.
Some exceptions must be made. A small island was visited in
1907 off the Punta Loberia, just above Cerro Azul, where there had
been a recent deposit of "lobo guano." According to the best
information that could be obtained, this island was cleaned of guano
