502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. "^oi.. m.
is^made for the varying proportions of moisture in the total, it will
be found that the proportion of nitrogen to solid matter is almost
exactly the same in the pure guano as in the two Cerro Azul samples.
From the most elementary principles of mammalian physiology
it is, of course, to be inferred that the nitrates would be absent from
the guano on account of being excreted with the urine and in a form
subject to loss both by evaporation and seepage. From all observa-
tions it is safe to say that the sea lions should not be credited with
any significant part in the formation of the guano deposits, both
on account of the small amount deposited by them in secure places
and because of the low nitrogen value of the guano.
THE SEA LION AS ENEMY AND COMPETITOR OF THE BIRDS.
The suggestion that the sea lions, as great consumers of fish, have
caused a serious diminution in the food supply, and consequently in
the abundance of birds, may be briefly dismissed. Sea lions are, of
course, competitors of the birds in the search for food, but the sea
lions and birds have existed together for untold ages, and there is
entirely wanting any evidence of suffering on the part of the birds
for want of food. On the contrary, I was invariably impressed with
the comparatively brief portion of the day occupied by the cormorants
and pelicans in the search of food, and the correspondingly consid-
erable proportion of the time which, they spend upon the islands.
There is every reason to believe that these birds are not nearly up to
the maximum number which might exist upon the normal food
supply, and the deficiency is without any question attributable to
the molestation of the rookeries during the past 60 years.
That the sea lions will destroy birds at times is indisputable.
Many persons with long experience on the islands mentioned having
seen the sea lions eat the birds or tear them open for the fish con-
tained within. Many of these observations are perhaps made under
abnormal circumstances when helpless birds are forced into the water.
However, I had the rare opportunity to witness the killing of a pelican
by a sea lion, and the incident is worthy of description. It should be
mentioned that this was near an abandoned island, so that there was
no known unusual circumstance to demoralize the bird.
When first seen the lobo had taken the bird apparently by the legs.
He dragged it about a little and then by an arched dive carried his
captive completely out of view under the water. After a few seconds
they were up again. This action was repeated several times, the lobo
evidently endeavoring to get a good hold with his jaws on the belly
of the bird, protected by its very thick covering of feathers. At first
the pelican made so little struggle that I should have thought it dead,
but that the neck was held quite erect. It seemed thoroughly
demoralized, but, after the third dive, began to fight the lobo with
