REPORT ON A SMALL COLLECTION OF INDL^N PARASITIC
HYMENOPTERA.
By A. B. Gahan.
Of the Bureau of Entomology ^ United States Department of Agriculture.
The Hyrtienoptera listed and described in the following pages and
belonging to the superfamilies Chalcidoidea and Serphidoidea are
part of a lot of material received by the Bureau of Entomology from
Ramakrishna Ayyar, acting government entomologist, Madras Agri-
cultural College, Coimbatore, Southern India. Most of it is reared
material, although in many instances the name of the host insect is
unknown. A large part is said to have been reared from galls on
various plants and some of the Eurytomids may prove to be phyto-
phagous. The new species of BrucTiophagus will without much doubt
prove to be a destroyer of the seeds contained in the pods from
which it was reared.
The collection as a whole forms an interesting addition to the as
yet largely unknown Indian fauna. In addition to the forms
described here this lot of material contained a number of species of
Eulophidae and Elasmidae which will be treated separately by Mr.
J. C. Crawford, of the Bureau of Entomology, who has cooperated
with the writer in determination of the entire lot.
Superfamily CHALCIDOIDEA.
Family EURYTOMIDAE.
BRUCHOPHAGUS MELLIPES, new species.
Agrees nicely with the generic characterization by Ashmead.
Readily distinguished by the reddish testaceous legs from all described
species at present placed in the genus.
Female. — Length, 2.4 mm. Head strongly umbilicately punctate;
antennae short; first funicle joint a little longer than broad, about
equal to the pedicel in length but distinctly thicker ; following funicle
joints subquadrate or slightly transverse; club not quite as long as
the three preceding funicle joints, 3-jointed, the joints subequal in
length; clypeus and a slight median longitudinal ridge below the
antennae shining, impunctate; pronotum, mesoscutum, and scutel-
Proceedings U. S. National Museum. Vol. 56,— No. 2299.
115690— 19— Proc.N.M.vol.56 33 513
