514 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.56.
lum umbilicately punctate like the head; propodeum strongly
declivous, approaching perpendicular, rugoso-punctate laterally,
with a broad, very slightly concave median area, which is coarsely,
irregularly, longitudinally rugose, and bounded anteriorly and
laterally by carinae, the two lateral carinae converging posteriorly;
marginal vein scarcely as long as the stigmal, somewhat thickened;
postmarginal distinctly longer than either the marginal or the stig-
mal, and slender; stigmal knob rather large and squarely truncate
at apex;discal cihation delicate; abdomen robust, conic ovate, not
compressed, the third tergite the largest, approximately twice the
length of the second; second and fourth tergites subequal; those
beyond the fourth shorter and subequal to each other; apex of
ovipositor barely exserted ; fourth tergite faintly reticulated medially,
otherwise the abdomen is pohshed. Black, opaque; the antennal
scape reddish testaceous, the fiagellum brownish testaceous; all legs,
except their coxae and the basal half, more or less, of the fore and
hind femora, reddish testaceous; coxae black; fore and hind fem^ora
brownish or blackish basally; ovipositor sheath pale testaceous;
wings hyaline, venation pale testaceous.
Male unknown.
Type-locality. — Coimbatore, South India.
Type.— C^t. No. 22279, U.S.N.M.
Four females received by the Bureau of Entomology from Rama-
krishna Ayyar, and labeled as follows: "Galls in Daincha pods.
Insectary. 7-IX-1914." Also one female from the same source,
labeled: "From Red gram pods. Y. R., collector, 11-1-1916."
By "red gram" pods is probably meant the pods of Vigna sinensis.
This species, like its congener B.funelris, will in all probability be
found to be a true seed Chalcid, destroying the seeds of the plant
from which it was reared.
EURYTOMA PARASAE. new species.
Female. — Length, 3.8 nnn. Head coarsely imibilicately punctate;
face medially with a low, nearly smooth, longitudinal ridge on
either side of which the punctures are modified to form several short,
irregular, striatiform rugae which converge tov/ard the clypeus;
cheeks strongly carinate behind; ocelli rather large, the lateral ones
about their own diameter from the eye margin; antennpJ scape
short; pedicel scarcely longer than broad; first funicle joint twice or
very nearly twice as long as the pedicel and distinctly longer than
twice its thickness, following joints of the funicle gradually decreas-
ing in length, the last funicle joint a httle less than twice as long as
thick; club no thicker than the funicle, very slightly longer than the
two preceding funicle joints combined, 3-jointed, the suture between
the first and second club joints deep and distinct, that between the
