No. 2299. INDIAN PARASITIC HYMENOPTERA—GAHAN. 517
bases and apices of middle and hind tibiae, apices of all femora more
or less, and all tarsi pale testaceous; legs otherwise dark brown or
blackish, the middle femora and all of the tibiae less dark than the
fore and hind femora. Otherwise as in the female.
Type-locality. — Coimbatore, South India.
Type.—Csit. No. 22282, U.S.N.M.
Thi-ee females received from Ramakrishna Ayyar and labeled as
follows: "From gall. T. V. R., collector, 30-VI-1913." One male
with same data except dated "18-VI-1913." Also four females
labeled: "Parasite from gingelly galls. Y. R. collector, 11 to 19-III-
1913."
EURYTOMA SETrTIBU. new species.
Easily distinguished from the other Indian species by the setae on
hind tibiae and the entirely pale testaceous antennae.
Female. — Length, 2.8 mm. Head, except a narrow median longi-
tudinal line on the face, coarsely umbilicately punctate; cheeks
strongly carinate behind; occiput umbilicately punctate behind the
vertex, shagreened below; antennal scape narrowed at apex; pedicel
about as long as broad, subglobose; funicle submoniliform, the first
funicle joint nearly twice as long as the pedicel and about one and
one-half times as long as thick; following funicle joints subequal and
very slightly longer than thick; club 3-jointed, compact, longer than
joints 4 and 5 of the funicle combined, the second suture not very
distinct ; pronotum, mesoscutum, and scutellum umbilicately punctate
like the head ; sides of the scutellum and the axillae below shagreened ;
propodeum rugoso-punctate laterally, with a broad, rather deep,
irregularly carinately margined median excavation which is nearly
smooth medially but finely shagreened on the sloping sides; front
coxae excavated beneath, but without a transverse carina or tooth;
mesosternum with a distinct median carina, but without a tooth-like
projection; hind tibiae above on the basal half with three strong stiff
setae in addition to the usual fine bristles or hairs, the distal seta the
longest and approximately as long as the basal joint of tarsi ; marginal
vein about one and one-half times the stigmal, postmarginal very
slightly longer than stigmal; abdomen about as long as head and
thorax, subcompressed, the fourth tergite equal to the first, second,
and third combined; fifth very short, sometimes completely hidden
by the fourth; stylus rather prominent; apex of ovipositor sheaths
exposed; all tergites distinctly reticulate-punctate laterally, less dis-
tinctly so dorsally. Black; antennae entirely, fore and middle
femora, all tibiae, and all tarsi pale reddish testaceous.
Type-locality. — Coimbatore, South India.
Type.— Cat. No. 22283, U.S.N.M.
Type female and two female paratypes labeled: "Parasite from
gaUs on Oordia myxa. T. V. S., collector. 24-V-1917."
