518 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 50.
EURYTOMA HINDUPURENSIS, new Bpecies.
Female. — Length, 2.5 mm. Vertex with a few not very distinct
umbilicate punctures; frons between the antennal groove and the
eye margins longitudinally reticulated; face with fine striae converg-
ing toward the clypeus; cheeks carinately margined behind; temples
rugulose-punctate; occiput with shallow nonumbilicate punctures;
antennal scape constricted at apex; pedicel small, not longer than
broad, and not over half as long as the first funicle joint; funicle joints
submoniliform, much thicker than the pedicel, the first joint a little
longer than thick, following joints about as long as thick; club dis-
tinctly 3-jointed, conic ovate, and somewhat longer than joints 4 and
5 of the funicle combined; pronotum, mesoscutum, scutellum, and
axillae umbilicately punctate, the sides of scutellum smooth, and
lower two-thirds of axillae more or less granularly sculp tm-ed; pro-
podeum laterally rugoso-punctate, the medial impression deep, broad,
and not bounded by definite carinae, finely reticulate-punctate
medially, the sculpture of the sloping sides more or less transversely
rugulose; front coxae beneath apparently excavated from base to
apex, without a tooth; marginal and postmarginal veins subequal and
distinctly longer than the stigmal; abdomen shining, strongly com-
pressed, the fourth tergite not more than half as long as the third,
second and third subequal and rather large; sides of segments 2, 3,
and 4 closely finely punctate except along the posterior margins;
stylus rather prominent. Black; antenna entirely black; front
tibiae and all tarsi testaceous; middle and hind tibiae dark brown,
paler at apices ; abdomen ventrally more or less piceous.
Type-locality. — Hindupm", Anantapiu* Dt., India.
Type.~C&t. No. 22284, U.S.N.M.
Two females collected by Ramakrishna Ayyar, 12-V-1914. The
paratype female with head and fore legs missing.
Family CHALCIDIDAE.
CHALCIS ARGENTIFRONS Aahmead.
Eight specimens determined as this species are labeled : ' ' Parasite on
Lasiocampid pupa. Coimbatore, South India. Insectary. August
1, 1914," The species was originally recorded from the Philippine
Islands.
STOMOCERAS AYYARI, new species.
Female. — Length, 8 to 9 mm. Whole insect, including the legs and
antennae, black; wings hyaline basally, faintly infuscated apically
with a dark brown spot behind the marginal and apex of submarginal
veins, this spot extending posteriorly not quite to the middle of the
wing; also two long narrow longitudinal streaks of brownish, one
from the stigmal vein and the other from the hind margin of the brown
spot. Head strongly punctate; scrobicular depression broad and
