No. 2299. INDIAN PARASITIC HYMENOPTERA—GAHAN. 519
deep, coarsely punctate laterally, coriaceous medially, bounded by
coarse carinae which meet in a curve behind the front ocellus and
which are weaker below the eyes; vertex sloping and not separated
from the occiput; cheeks separated from, face by a smooth carinate
ine; antenna 11-jointed, slender, separated at base by a strong keel;
scape and pedicel as well as the funicle and club opaque; pedicel about
twice as long as the subquadrate third joint and very slightly shorter
than or subequal to the fourth joint; joints beyond the fourth grad-
ually shortening, the tenth subquadrate and very slightly longer than
the third; club solid, conic ovate and about twice as long as the tenth
joint ; pronotum with coarse thimble-like punctures, its sides separated
from the declivitous anterior portion by a sharp carina which fades
out dorsally; the posterior margin of pronotum unarmed; mesoscu-
tum and scutellum sculptm-ed like the pronotum, the scuteUum cari-
nately margined and terminating apically in a broad projection which
is bidentate at apex ; mesopleura coarsely longitudinally striate above,
smooth on lower one-third; metanotum with coarse longitudinal
striation; propodeum rugoso-punctate, with a short, blunt angula-
tion just posterior to the spiracle, a distinct carina on each side arising
just mesad of the spiracle and extending to the base of abdomen and
two parallel longitudinal carinae medially which are separated by a
distance about equal to that between the apices of the two teeth on
the scutellum; margin of the posterior femora beneath with two
broad shallow emarginations and finely denticulate for about two-
thirds the length of femora ; abdomen about as long as head and tho-
rax, the first tergite the largest; fu-st to fifth tergites above with a
broad apical border, finely closely punctate, smooth basally; sides of
tergites with much coarser punctures; sixth terete coarsely uni-
formly punctate all over; seventh compressed into a keel above and
coarsely punctate on the sides only. Male unknown.
Type-locality. — Coimbatore, South India.
Type.— Csit. No. 22285, U.S.N.M.
Described from f om* females labeled : ' ' Parasite from Parasa lepida
cocoons. 16-XII-1914."
Named in honor of Ramakrishna Ayyar, acting government
entomologist, Madras Agricultural College, Southern India, from
whom the specimens were received.
Family ENCYRTIDAE.
Subfamily Eupelminae.
Genus NEANASTATUS Girault.
Neanastatus Girault, Bull. Wisconsin Nat. Hist. Soc, vol. 11, 1913, p. 35.
Sohndinelleus Girault, Soc. Ent. Jahrg., vol. 29, 1914, p. 22.
In the opinion of the writer Neanastatus and Solindinelleus are
synonyms. The former genus is founded on the female sex, while
