520 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
the latter, although said to have been founded on a female, is believed
to be based on a male. The author of the genus ^ writes that Solin-
dinelleus is "like Neanastatus, excluding the shape of the abdomen."
His description of the abdomen of S. pulcTiricorpus strongly suggests
a male and agrees in every particular with males received from
India, where they were associated with galls, as was the genotype
specimen. Associated with the male from India are females which
imdoubtedly belong to Neanastatus.
(SOLINDINELLEUS) NEANASTATUS PULCHRICORPUS (GIrault).
Two males and three females of what are believed to be this species
are labeled: ''Coimbatore, South India. From gall. T. V. R., col-
lector. June 18-25, 1913." As stated above the description of
the species is said to have been based on a female, while this deter-
mination is based on the belief that the description is of a male.
Until the sex of the type is definitely determined, therefore, this
determination will of necessity remain doubtful.
NEANASTATUS TROCHANTERICUS, new species.
Female. — Length, 3.5 mm. Vertex and frons opaque, with close
shallow thimble-like pimctures; face below antennae and cheeks
finely lineolated; antenna slender, the club thickened; scape equal
in length to the pedicel, ring joint, and first funicle joint combined;
pedicel obconic, about twice as long as thick at apex; ring joint
strongly transverse; first funicle joint two- thirds the length of scape,
second funicle joint one-half as long as scape, third nearly four-
fifths the length of second, fourth slightly more than half as long as
the second, fifth very slightly less than half as long as the second,
and about one-fifth longer than thick; club a little longer than funicle
joints four and five combined, 2-jointed, obliquely truncate, the api-
cal joint much longer than the basal one; pronotum conically pro-
duced, as long as the mesoscutum and with faint scalelike sculpture;
mesoscutiun, tegulae, and scutellum sculptured like the pronotum,
the mesoscutum depressed down the middle, and the scutellimi with
a deep median groove; sides of pronotum and mesopleura finely
lineolate-reticulate; the posterior half of mesopleura very finely
longitudinally striate; forewing long and rather narrow, strongly in-
fuscated from a short distance proximad of the stigmal vein out-
wardly to the apex, the apex somewhat lighter, rest of the wing
hyaline; postmarginal vein at least four or five times as long as stig-
mal; legs long and slender, the middle pair especially long, as long
as the whole insect or very nearly; the median trochanter with a
short but distinct spinelike process dorsally; middle tibiae outwardly
with short black bristles along either margin and terminating apically
' Memoirs Queensland Museum, vol. 4, 1915, p. 35.
