No. 2299. INDIAN PARASniC HYMENOPTERA—GAHAN. 521
in a comb of short black spines, middle tibial spur as long as the
three basal joints of tarsi combined, the basal joint of tarsus with a
single row of black spines beneath; abdomen slender, distinctly longer
than the head and thorax, subcompressed and conical, the ovipositor
sheaths barely showing at apex. General color light orange-yellow;
antennae, vertex and frons, transverse blotch on the occiput, pos-
terior margin of pronotum medially more or less, tegulae apically,
scutellum, posterior femora and tibiae, and apical four joints of the
fore and middle tarsi brownish-testaceous or fuscous; basal joint of
hind tarsi white, apical four joints black; abdomen with two broad
blackish bands, one some distance before the middle, the other
before the apex; sometimes with an obscure brownish band near
base and another between the two blackish bands. Male unknown.
Type-locality. — Coimbatore, South India.
Type.— Cat. No. 22286, U.S.N.M.
Described from four females labeled: "Parasite from galls on
Ischaemum ciliare. Y. R., collector, 25-XI-1915." Oneofthepar-
atypes has lost the abdomen. Antenna of the type mounted on
Hymenoptera slide No. 883, U.S.N.M.
Subfamily Encyrtinae.
APHYCUS FUSCIDORSUM, new species.
In Timberlake's key to the species of this genus, this species runs
best to coquillettii Howard, but differs from that species in antennal
characters, as well as in the color of mesonotum and antennae. Could
also be run to alberti, but differs in color of mesonotum and legs as
well as in the antennae.
Female. — Length, 0.8 mm. Front and vertex not quite twice as
long as broad and granularly opaque; ocelli in an acute angled tri-
angle, the posterior pair about one-fourth their own diameter from
the eye-margin; antennal scrobes deep and rather narrow, the frons
prominent. Scape widest at about the middle, one-third as broad as
long; pedicel shorter than the first two funicle joints combined; first
four funicle joints subequal and fully as long as broad or a little longer
than broad, the fifth and sixth joints subequal and subquadrate and
wider than the fourth; club ovate, a little broader than the funicle
and about equal in length to the three preceding funicle joints com-
bined. Wings closely uniformly ciliated, not broad; oblique hairless
streak interrupted posteriorly; mesoscutum and scutellum finely
sculptured, opaque. Frons and vertex brownish yellow; dorsal por-
tion of pronotum whitish with a brown dot at each lateral angle;
remainder of dorsum of thorax and abdomen dark fuscous except that
the margins of scutellum and a broad margin on abdomen are pale
yellowish; the mesoscutum and scutellum covered with fine whitish
