522 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
hairs; underside of head, thorax, and abdomen pale brownish j^ellow;
tegulae pale; legs concolorous with the underside of the body, the
tibiae each with two very obscure, scarcel}^ noticeable, brovv nish bands
or spots and the apical tarsal joint brownish. Scape with an oblique
blackish spot in middle; pedicel blackish basally; basal half of club
blackish; rest of antennae pale yellowish.
Type-locality. — Coimbatore, South India.
Type.— C&t. No. 22287, U.S.N.M.
Described from four female specimens labeled: "Parasite on scales
on Lab-lab. Insectary. 9-X-1914." The host plant is probably
one of the hyacinth beans belonging to the genus Dolichos.
ANICETUS CEYLONENSIS Howard.
Three female specimens are labeled : "Parasite on scale on Lab-lab.
Coimbatore, South India. Insectary." Compared with the type
By "Lab-lab" is probably meant one of the hyacinth beans belonging
to the genus Dolichos.
PARACOPIDOSOMOPSIS JAVAE Girault.
Seven specimens labeled: "Parasite of Plusio, signata on Ragi,
Coimbatore, South India," have been compared with the Girault
types which were reared from Plusia, sp. from Salatiga, Java. The
Indian specimens are indistinguishable from the Javanese.
EUCOMYS LECANIORinVI Mayr.
Nine specimens of what appear to be this species are labeled:
"Parasite on Lecanium on cotton. Coimbatore, South India.
Y. R. coll." These specimens were compared both with Mayr's de-
scription and with a specimen determined as E. lecanioruni, reared
from Lecanium hesperidum from Portici, Italy.
Family PTEROMALIDAE.
EUPTE«OMALUS PARNARAE, new species.
Very close to Eupteromalus nidulans (Foerster) Kurdjumov, but
differing by being much lighter green in color.
Female. — Length, 2 mm. Head, thorax, abdomen, and coxae
green, the coxae more or less diluted with yellowish inwardly, the
middle pair mostly yellowish; antennal scape and legs, except coxae,
pale reddish testaceous; antennal flagellum dark brown; wings
hyaline, the venation and tegulae pale. Head and thorax with close
irregular thimble-like punctation; cheeks and clypeus with fine con-
verging striae; occiput delicately carinately margined; antennal
pedicel about equal to the two ring joints and first funicle joint com-
bined; first funicle joint very slightly longer than broad, the following
funicle joints subequal and subquadrate; club 3-jointed and about as
