No. 2299. INDIAN PARASITIC HYMENOPTERA—GAHAN. 523
long as the three preceding funicle joints; pronotum short, the dorsal
portion smooth posteriorly, punctate along the anterior margin, the
declivitous portion reticulated and separated from the dorsal portion
by a weak carina; mesoscutum and scutellum sculptured like the
vertex; propodeum between the lateral folds sculptured like the
scutellum, v/ith a very delicate median carina which is absent in some
specimens, the lateral folds very distinct and complete; neck of
propodeum large and sculptured a little more coarsely than the area
in front of it; abdomen conic-ovate, as long as the thorax, smooth
and polished, the first segment comprising approximately one-third
of its length; postmarginal vein nearly as long as the marginal and
distinctly longer than the stigmal.
Type-locality. — Karvetnagar, South India.
Type.— Cat. No. 22288, U.S.N.M.
Described from ten females labeled "Parasite on Parnara matMas
on Paddy. 7-XII-1914."
MERAPORUS VANDINEI Tucker.
Eight specimens, labeled "Par. on Sitodrepa on Coriander, April 4,
1918, Madras I. R. 41," have been compared with the types of
vandinei and found to be indistiaguishable. Also six specimens of
the same species, labeled "From maize seeds Coimbatore, Rama-
krishna Coll." The latter specimens were evidently reared from the
same lot of material as the type specimen of Eurytoma denticoxa,
described elsewhere in this paper.
The original types of vandinei were reared from corn and rice
infested by Calandra oryza at diffei'ent points in Texas and Louisiana.
BRUCHOBIUS COLEMANI Crawford.
Three specimens, labeled "Coimbatore, South India, from Red
Gram pods. Y. R. coll." Bruchobius colemani was originally de-
scribed as a parasite of BrucJius chinensis from Mysore, India. The
name "red gram" is said by Mr. W. E. Safford, of the United States
Department of Agriculture, to be applied in South India to Vigna
sinensis, the seeds and pods of which are edible.
Superfamily SERPHIDOIDEA.
Family PLATYGASTERIDAE.
POLYGNOTUS, species.
Five specimens, labeled "Pudukota. Parasite on Anaikombon,
28-XI-1914."
TELENOMUS COLEMANI Crawford.
Nine specimens of this species are labeled "Parasite on Pentato-
mid eggs. Coimbatore, South India."
