524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56
XESTONOTIDEA, new name.
Xestonotus Foeiister, Kym. Stud., vol. 2, 1856, p. 107 (preoccupied by Xesto-
notus LeConte, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, vol. 10, 1853, p. 383).
Since the original description of Xestonotus Foerster, whach was
described without included species, two species have been referred
to the genus. In each case, however, the author has questioned the
correctness of his placement of the species. Neither Xestonotus
andrici'pliilus Ashmead nor X. meridionalis Brues, therefore, are eli-
gible for designation as type of the genus. The following new species
agrees with Foerster's characterization. It is accordingly named as
the type of Xestonotus Foerster and automatically becomes type of
the new generic name.
Type of the genus. — Xestonotidea foersteri.
XESTONOTIDEA FOESTERI, new species.
Female. — Length, 1.5 mm. Head transverse as viewed from above ;
lateral ocelli slightly less than their own diameter from the eye-
margin, more distant from the front ocellus; head viewed from in
front a little broader than long; frons smooth and polished with a
few transverse striae just above the antennae; occiput and the ver-
tex behind finely transversely striated; antennae inserted at the
clypeus, 10-jointed; scape long, slightly swollen beyond the middle;
pedicel twice as long as the third antennal joint, and a little longer
than the fourth; fifth subequal to the fourth; sixth and seventh
Bubequal to each other and slightly shorter than the fourth; eighth
and ninth equal to each other and as long as the fourth ; tenth a little
longer than the pedicel; joints 7 to 10 somewhat thicker than the
preceding joints, but not forming a well-differentiated club; thorax
ovoid, the mesonotum polished, with distinct, complete parapsidal
grooves, which are slightly convergent; scutellum smooth, sparsely
hairy, longer than broad, ovate, unarmed; propodeum short, ele-
vated into a sharp carina on each side of a rather narrow smooth
medial depression; wings extending beyond the apex of abdomen;
legs moderately long, all femora club-shaped, thickened toward the
apex; hind tarsi distinctly longer than their tibiae; abdomen as
long as the head and thorax, broadest beyond the middle, the first
tergite as broad as long with a distinct longitudinal carina on each
side of a median groove and more or less depressed laterad of these
carinae; second tergite large, constituting nearly two-thirds the
total length of abdomen, basally with a distinct longitudinal foviea
on each side of the middle and a shallower median one. Head, thor-
ax, and abdomen black; antennal scape and pedicel and all legs
except their coxae rufo testaceous; antennal flagellum black, the
basal joints more or less brownish. Male unknown.
Type-locality. — Coimbatore, South India.
Type.— C&t. No. 22289, U.S.N.M.
Described from one specimen labeled "Parasite from galls on
Ischaemum ciliare. 26-XI-1915. Y. R., coll."
