NO. 2288. NEW MOLLUSKS OF THE FAMILY TURRITIDAE—DALL. 31
duced, narrow, slightly recurved. Height of shell, 14 ; of last whorl,
9; diameter, 5.5 mm. Cat. No. 212332, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Station 334G, off Tillamook Bay, Oregon, in 786 fathoms,
ooze, bottom temperature 37.3° F. U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
CRYPTOGEMMA CHRYSOTHEMIS. new species.
Plate 11, fig. 2.
Shell short-fusiform, white, with a pale olive periostracum. the tip
eroded, with six or more subsequent Avhorls; the suture distinct, the
anal sulcus shallow, somewhat removed from the suture, the fascicle
narrow, depressed; spiral sculpture of a low blunt peripheral keel,
somewhat undulated on the earlier whorls with occasional traces of
minor sjiiral threads; the entire surface is more or less obliquely
granulose or minutely vermiculate; axial sculpture only of feeble
incremental lines; outer lip thin, sharp, produced; inner lip erased;
pillar short, obliquel}^ attenuated in front ; canal short, wide, not re-
curved; axis not pervious. Height of (eroded) specimen, 16.5; of
last whorl, 11 ; diameter, 7.5 mm. Cat. No. 208908, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Station 4405, between San Clemente and Santa Catalina
Islands, California, in 654 to 704 fathoms, mud, temperature 39°.4 F.
D. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
CRYPTOGEMMA CALYPSO, new species.
Plate 9, fig. 8.
Shell small, the nucleus always eroded, whitish with a dark dull
olivaceous periostracum and about five remaining whorls; suture
appressed, with a broad smooth ridge in front of it and behind the
excavated anal fasciole; spiral sculpture in front of the shoulder of
fine even close-set equal threads, covering the surface, including the
canal; axial sculpture of feeble incremental lines arcuate on the
fasciole and antesutural ridge, also of narrow low sigmoid ribs
beginning and forming a shoulder in front of the fasciole and obso-
lete in front of the periphery, differing in strength in different indi-
viduals and averaging fourteen on the last whorl; anal sulcus wide
and deep, rounded; outer lip thin and sharp, much produced; inner
lip with a thin layer of callus ; pillar straight, short, obliquely atten-
uated in front; axis impervious; canal distinct, wide, hardly re-
curved. Height of (decollate) shell, 11; of last whorl, 7; diameter,
4.7 mm. Cat. No. 214067, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Station 2923, off San Diego, California, in 822 fathoms,
mud, temperature at bottom 89° F. U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
CRYPTOGEMMA CYMOTHOfi. new species.
Plate 9, fig 3.
Shell much resembling the preceding species, from which it differs
by having the anal fasciole striated spirally, the surface in front of
