No. 2300. SKELETON OF DIMETRODON GIGAS—GILMORE 527
The one most striking feature of Dimetrodon is the high dorsal
fin-Uke crest along the median line of the back formed by the elonga-
tion of the neural spines of the vertebrae. That in life these tall
spmous processes were united by a thin membrane of skin there is
little doubt, though Professors Abel and Jaekal are disposed to think
the spines were covered by skin but not connected. The one living
lizard which throws some light on this problem is Basiliscus plumi-
frons from tropical America (see inset plate 73), which has the crest
on the back; though not so high or extensive as in Dimetrodon, is
nevertheless supported by the elongated spinous processes of the
vertebrae, and in it we have the best suggestion of the probable
appearance in life of the crest in Dimetrodon.
In trying to account for some practical use for this unusual out-
growth, it has been suggested that it may have resembled some of the
ancient vegetation, and thus served to conceal the animal as it lay
in wait for its prey or for better concealment from its enemies. Prof.
E. C. Case says of these:'
The elongate spines were useless, so far as I can imagine, and I have been puzzling
over them for several years. * * * It is impossible to conceive of them as useful
either for defense or concealment, or in any other way than as a gi-eat burden to the
creatures that bore them. They must have been a nuisance in getting through the
vegetation, and a great drain upon the creatures vitality, both to develop them and
keep them in repair.
The head of Dimetrodon is enormously large in proportion to the
size of the body. The jaws are provided with powerful incisor and
maxillary tusks, the largest of which reach a length of 3 inches. The
cheek teeth are recurved, with sharp, serrate edges. There is no
animal known which has a more efficient apparatus for the capture of
its prey. The eyes were large and set well back and high in the head.
The neck is short, the limbs are strong, havuig feet with 5 digits, each
of which is termhiated by a sharp claw. No specimen has as yet been
found with a complete tail, but the rapid decrease in size of the known
caudal vertebrae suggests a short tail, and it has been so restored
in the mounted skeleton. The specimen here pictured in plate 70,
although a representative of the largest species of the genus, is ex-
ceeded in size by several known individuals. The presence of
the greater number of the ribs of both sides shows the great depth
of the body cavity and the extreme flatness of the sides of the ante-
rior part of the body. From a study of the habits of living reptiles
it is known that those with compressed bodies are usually dwellers
among bushes and trees. Professor Case is of the opinion that
Dimetrodon is descended from an aquatic ancestry, and that it ranged
widely over the land. It is probable that ordinarily the animal did
« The Permo-Carboniferous, Beds of North America and Their Vertebrate Fauna. Pub. No. 207 Car-
negie Institution, Washington, 1915, p. 142.
