No. 2300.
SKELETON OF DIMETRODON GIGAS—GILMORE
529
dition found to prevail in four other individuals in this same collection.
All authorities, I think, are now agreed that this part of the occiput
consists of a median supraoccipital, small exoccipitals, large para-
occipitals (opisthotics), and basioccipital. In addition to these
Huene in 1913 ^ recognized a distinct dermosupraoccipital (post-
parietal) bone lying between the upper extremity of the supraoccipital
and the parietal, and laterally a tabulare and supratemporal bones.
In assembling the bones of the present skull all of those preserved
could be articulated except the one illustrated in figure 2. It was
submitted to Dr. S. W. Williston, who identified it as being a portion
of the tabulare and dermosupraoccipital, but I have not been able to
satisfactorily articulate these bones, so they have been left ofl" the
skuU until such
time as their
proper place shall
be definitely deter-
mined.
The squamosal
shows on its medial
side a convex tri-
angular articular
facet (see fig. 1,
ta), which I first
regarded as the
surface for articu-
lation with the
concave area of
the so-caUed tab-
ulare shown in B,
figure 2. These
two surfaces seem
to be counterparts,
but unfortunately the tabulare appears to belong to the right side,
while the one squamosal present pertains to the left side of the skull,
so that a direct trial could not be made. Furthermore, I have never
been able to orientate the bones shown in figure 2, so that their relation-
ships with the other elements of the posterior aspect would be entirely
in harmony. Another suggestion as to the use of this articular facet
on the squamosal, arrived at since the skull was articulated, is that
it may be for the paraoccipital process. In the event of that fact
being estabUshed it would necessitate the shifting upward of the
whole central mass of the occiput to a higher position. Such a change
would bring the supraoccipital in contact on the ventral side with the
Fig. 2.— Dimeteodon giqas occipital bones No. 8635, U.S.N.M.
JNATUEAL SIZE. A, EXTERNAL ASPECT, d, DEKMOSITPBA OCCIPITAL; (.,
TABULARE. B, INTERNAL ASPECT OF CONCAVE AKTICI7LAE SURFACE
OF TABULARE.
« Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 32, 1913, p. 359, fig. 44.
115690— 19— Proc.N.M.vol. 56 34
