530 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
parietals, as it is usually, if not always, found in the reptilia. The
median superior border of the supraoccipital is not united by suture
with the overlying parietals, but presents a finished grooved border
for cartilagenous attachment — a condition foimd in many of the
Predentate dinosauria.
The presence of such a border casts grave doubt on the authenticity
of Huene's determination, where he depicts ^ the supraoccipital as
attached by jagged suture with a dermosupraoccipital that is inter-
posed between it and the parietals. Either the upper mecUan portion
of these coalesced occipital bones in No. 8635, U.S.N.M. (fig. 1)
represent the dermosupraoccipital or else Huene's interpretation is
in error. All the evidence sustains the latter conclusion, but as to
how the dermosupraoccipital does articulate with the parietals the
present specimen offers no evidence.
The complete, uncrushed left squamosal is present, and it appears
to clear up some of the earUer determinations of authors. The upper
end is obliquely truncated, presenting on the superior surface of the
upper end an articular face, the outer half of which is certainly for
articulation with the posterior branch of the postorbital; the inner
half of this facet meets the outer end of the parietal. It should be
stated, however, that the parietal was found detached, but everything
about it appeared to indicate a close union with the posterior branch
of the postorbital and squamosal as shown in figure 1.
There was no evidence of the separation of the posterior extremities
of these bones by an interposed supratemporal bone such as found
by Huene, and I think it highly improbable that such a condition
existed, for were the supratemporal present in this position in Dime-
trodon, contact between the parietal and squamosal would be severed —
a most unusual condition in the reptiUa.
Broom m liis restoration ' of the skull of Dimetrodon shows the parie-
tal and postorbital in close apposition and both properly in contact
with the squamosal. In view of the evidence now before me I can
see no possibility of there being an element thrust in between the
posterior extremities of these bones such as found by von Huene.
The quadratojugal is another bone whose limitations are not as
yet fuUy and satisfactorily determined. This bone is represented in
the present skull by the greater portion of the left element. It had
not been identified at the time of articulating the skull, so does not
appear in the illustrations. As preserved it is a small irregularly
shaped bone, with a short lateral process which extended forward to
overlap the posterior end of the jugal (see fig. 1, qj.) and a superior
process which extended upward behind the quadrate to unite with the
squamosal as shown in figure 1. Huene has correctly viewed the
lateral extent of the quadratojugal (fig. 42, p. 357), but he appears
to have been in error regarding its superior process, which he con-
> Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 32, 1913, p. 359, fig. 44 A
* Broom, R. Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 28, 1910, p. 225, fig. 19.
