No. 2300.
SKELETON OF DIMETRODON GIGAS—GILMORE
531
sidered short. This process has been broken off and is missing from
specimen No. 8635, U.S.N.M., but is shown restored in its entirety
on the right side of the posterior aspect of the skull in figure 1. The
upper extremity on the left side was purposely left out so that the
artist could depict the decided depression on the posterior border of
the squamosal.
If this articular depression is not for the reception of the upper
end of a process from the quadratojugal, I am utterly at loss to
know its function. That other specimens have obscurely indicated
such an extension of tliis process is shown in a figure ^ of the pos-
terior aspect of a Dimetrodon skull illustrated b}^ Case, where the left
element is shown extending up as high as the paraoccipital process.
Fig. 3.— Skull of Dimetrodon gigas Cope, No. 8635, U.S.N.M. Palatal view. One-foueth nat-
UKAL size, bs, BASISPHENOID; /. St., facet "WITH WHICH THE STAPES ARTICULATED; _;, JUGAL; TOI, MAX-
aLARY; OCC. OCCIPITAL CONDYLE; pi., PALATINE; -pmx, PREMAXILLARY; p. OC, PARAOCCIPITAL PROCESS;
pt., PTERYGOID; q., QUADRATE; qj., QUADRATOJUGAL.
The union of the quadratojugal and quadrate on the ventral
border is by an inverted V-shaped notch on the distal side of the
former which fits over the outward extension of the articular por-
tion of the latter. Immediately above this notch on the medial
side is the rounded border foiming the outer boundary to the fora-
men between these two bones.
The bones of the top of the skull a:<i pretty well known, and the
skull as restored agrees quite closely with the determinations of
Case and other authorities. The septo-maxillaries are present,
being found attached by matrix to the posterior end of the pre-
maxillary. These were displaced in relation to one another, and I
have been unable to articulate them with any degree of confidence
of their being correctly placed.
In figure 3, I present a view of the palate of No. 8635, U.S.N.M.,
which in the main agrees closely with Broom's restoration of this
» Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. History, vol. 28, 1910, p. 193, fig. 4.
