532 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
aspect of the skull differing chiefly in the proportions of some of its
elements. The anterior portion of the palatines are relatively wider
than represented by Broom, and the pterygoids, especially their
anterior prolongation, is clearly shown by this specimen to be nar-
rower than in any restoration yet given. It now appears quite
probable tliat in articulating this skull the palate especially between
the maxillaries has been made too narrow, thus closing up the
posterior median aperture.
Vertebral 'column. — The complete backbone in front of the sacrum
in Dimetrodon, according to Dr. E. C. Case, consists of 27 vertebrae.
In the present specimen there were parts present of that number of
presacrals. The atlas was represented only by the preatlantal inter-
centrum, and vertebrae 11, 13, 14, and 15 (counting from the head
backward) by their spinous processes. The other vertebrae of the
series are unusually well preserved, but all except the fourth and sixth
lack the proximal terminations of the spines. In articulating the
skeleton the fourteenth and fifteenth have been assigned centra
that were found associated with this specimen, but there is no evi-
dence to show that they belong to these particular vertebrae. There
is a single caudal present that on account of the large size of its
transverse processes is called the fu'st of the series. The missing
sacral vertebrae have been supplied from a second individual (No.
8661, U.S.N.M.), belonging to the same collection and from the
same deposit of fossils. It appears to pertain to a slightly smaller
individual than No. 8635, U.S.N.M. With the exception of the
single caudal mentioned above the remainder of the tail has been
restored.
The fin-like crest along the back formed by the lengthened spinous
processes of the vertebrae presents a notably different aspect than
found in the previously mounted skeletons of Dimetrodon incisivus,
but whether the differences observed represent constant features
peculiar to Dimetrodon gigas, I am not prepared to decide at this
time. Unlike D. incisivus, where the spines rise perpendicularly
and rapidl}^ lengthen from the axis backward, the first four posterior
to that bone in this specimen are of about equal height. Beginning
with the seventh of the series they rapidly grow longer as we pro-
ceed posteriorly in the column, reaching their maximum develop-
ment with the twelfth vertebrae. Continuing posteriorly they
gradually diminish in length, finally graduating into the short spines
of the tail. The processes of the first dorsals have a tendency to
rise vertically, but as we pass backsvard they assume an oblique and
finally a curved retroverted position overhanging the sacrum.
The spinous process on the fourth cervical is complete, being
ternunated by a cupped extremity. It measures 220 mm. in length
from center of neural canal to tip. The sixth spine is very nearly
perfect, lacking only a small portion of the tip. All of the others
