No. 2300.
SKELETON OF DIMETRODON GIGAS—GILMORE
533
have suflPered more or less loss from their upper ends, but none show
any expansion of this end as in Edaphosaurus; all probably tapered
to a pointed end with cupped extremity.
Several of the spines as shown in plate 71 have large exostoses
showing that they have been
broken and healed during life.
Rihs. — Parts of nearly all the
ribs are present, of which six
are complete. None were found
articulated, so that their present
position in the skeleton is based
entirely on a study of their rela-
tive size, spread of head between
capitulum and tuberculum as
compared with the vertebral ar-
ticulating facets. Counting back
from the axis, ribs Nos. 7, 9, 10,
and 1 1 of the right side, and Nos.
7 and 16 of the left side are
perfectly preserved.
The anterior thoracic ribs when
articulated form a much flattened
and exceedingly deep body cav-
ity immediately behind the fore-
legs. (See pi. 72, fig. 1.) More
posteriorly, however, the ribs
take on a decided convexity, as
may be seen by comparing ribs
A and B, figure 4. All of the
thoracic ribs are terminated dis-
tally by slightly expanded cylin-
drical ends that are cupped for
the better attachment of the
cartilagenous ribs of the belly.
There was no evidence of the
presence of ossified abdominal
ribs. The seventh pair of ribs,
the longest of the entire series,
measure 395 mm. in length. The
sixteenth rib of the left side is
334 mm. long measured from the tuberculum over the curve.
Shoulder girdle avd fore limh. — In his monographic work, "The
Pelycosauria of North America," » page 121, Case says: "The
shoulder girdle of Dimetrodon gigas unknown." It is, therefore, of
interest to find with specimen No. 8635, U.S.N.M., the complete
Pub. 65, Carnegie Institutton of Washington, 1907.
Fig. 4.— Ribs of Dimetrodon gigas, No. 8635,
U.S.N. M. A, SEVENTH rib of RIGHT SIDE,
VIEWED FROM THE FRONT; B, SIXTEENTH RIB OF
LEFT SIDE, (REVERSED) VIEWED FROM FRONT;
C, MEDIAN CERVICAL RIB; C, CAPITULUM; t.,
TUBERCULUM. ALL FIGURES ABOUT ONE-THIRD
NATURAL SIZE.
