No. 2300.
SKELETON OF DIMETRODON GIGA8—GILM0RE
537
illustrated in figure 8 must await the discovery of a more complete
articulated manus.
The carpus of Dimetrodon as known at this time consists of 11
elements, though Williston is of the opinion that a pisiform ^ will
be foimd articulating in the interval between the ulna and ulnare,
as in modern reptiles and as it does in Varanosaurus , Casea,
Limnosceles , and Trispondylus.
The proximal row consists of three bones (the radiale, intermedium,
and ulnare), a median row of two centrale, and a distal row of five
carpale. These carpal bones articulate with one another by well-
defined facets and with the metacarpals by equally well-developed
articular faces, which indi-
cate clearly the spreading
nature of the digits and
especially the decided di-
vergence of digit 5.
The radiale is a stout
block-like bone with a flat-
tened proximal end which
articulates with the
radius. The distal end is
wedge-shaped, formed by
two nearly equal but
oblique articular faces.
The outer face meets cen-
trale 2 (Cg), the inner ar-
ticulates with centrale 1
(Ci). The posterior side
of the radiale is channeled
by a deep vertical groove
running from top to the
bottom.
Theulnare is a relatively
thin but elongate element, broadly grooved vertically on the posterior
side. The subconvex articular proximal end forms the chief articu-
lation of the foot with the ulna. The flattened distal end unites
with carpale 4 and 5; most extensively with the former. On the
radial side are two distinct articular facets — the upper for the inter-
medium, the lower unites with centrale 1. The rounded border be-
tween these two facets represent the ulnare boundary of the very large
intracarpal foramen such as is found in S'phenodon. This is consid-
ered by Osborn to be a "primitive feature' characteristic of other
Diapsida."
FiQ. 8.— Left fore foot of Dimetrodon gigas Cope, No.
8635, U.S.N.M. One-third natural size. Ci, Ci, cen-
trale 1 AND 2; /, INTRACARPAL FORAMEN; in. INTERMEDIUM ;
ra, eadlale; S, sesamoid; ul, ulnare; 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5
CARPALE 1 TO 5; I, U, 111, IV, V, DIGITS 1 TO 5.
I Williston, S. W. American Permian Vertebrates, 1911, p. 103.
s Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 23, p. 269, 1907.
