538 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
Between the radiale and ulnare is the intermedium, which projects
well above the proximal ends of those bones, thus interposing itself
between and separating the distal ends of the radius and ulna. The
inner side of the proximal end articulates with the ulna much as in
Sphenodon. Above the flat distal end that articulates exclusively
with centrale 1 the sliaft of the intermedium is constricted, but higher
it again expands into a thin plate, being terminated by a blimtly
pointed proximal extremity.
On the ulnar side an elongated facet articulates with the idnare.
In the present carpus there is no direct contact between the inter-
medium and the radiale— a peculiarity which appears to be distinctive
of Dimeirodon and which differs from all other Permian reptilia.
The illustrations of the carpus as published by Case ^ and by Willis-
ton * certainly give the impression that these bones were in contact
in Dimetrodon incisivus, but an examination of a carpus of this
species shows the same condition prevails as in the specimens here
illustrated in figure 8.
Centrale 1 {C^) has a wedge-shaped proximal end presenting two
articular faces; the outer, which is the larger, unites with the radiale;
the inner with the intermedium. A slight notch on the ulna side is
the contribution of this bone to the boundary of the intracarpal
foramen. Below this notch an elongated vertical facet meets the
ulnare, while on the opposite side it unites with centrale 2, there being
a small foramen at the point where the radiale and the two centrale
meet. The distal end is in contact with carpale 3 and 4.
Centrale 2 {C^) is smaller than C^. Distally it articulates with
carpale 1, 2, and slightly with 3. On the radial side there is a dis-
tinct articular facet for the "sesamoid," here restored.
Of the distal row composed of five carpale, carpale 4 is the largest.
The first is expanded transversely and presents at its distal extremity
a peculiar articulation for metacarpal 1, the external half being on
the ventral side, the internal half being on the anterior border. The
articular surfaces on carpale 2, 3, 4, and 5, which meet their respec-
tive metacarpals are broadly concave from front to back.
Digits.— ThQ metacarpal of the first finger is very smaU and the
finger is very short. The metacarpals gradually lengthen toward the
outer side of the foot, reaching their maximum development in the
fourth, which, as in Varanosaurus, is the longest toe of the foot. The
fifth toe is divergent, as clearly indicated by the articular surface of
carpale 5.
The digital formula remains to" be definitely determined, though
there is every reason to beUeve it to be 2, 3, 4, 5, 3, as here illustrated
and as it exists in most primitive reptilian forms.
' Case, E. C. Pelycosauria of North America, Carnegie Institution, Pub. No. 55, 1907, pp. H3, 114, pi.
16,flg. 1.
« Willlston, 8. W. American Permian Vertebrates, 1911, pi. 7, fig. 8.
