32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
the shoulder without spiral sculpture and minutely vermiculate, the
ribs more knob-like, shorter, and averaging about 12 on the last
whorl; whorls about six in number, the apex always eroded. Height
of (decollate) shell, 9; of last whorl, 6.5; diameter, 5 mm. Cat. No.
214067a, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Station 2923, off San Diego, California, in 822 fathoms,
mud, temperature at bottom 39° F. U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
CRYPTOGEMMA QUENTINENSIS, new species.
Plate 9, fig. 9.
Shell small, solid, white under an olivaceous periostracum, having
five (decollate) whorls, suture distinct, bordered by a rounded ridge
on each side ; surface dull ; spiral sculptuie of a prominent nodulous
peripheral ridge which is the anal fasciole, with two smaller ridges
in -front of it with wider interspaces ; in front of the first of these
the suture is laid; the space between this and the second is more or
less channeled, but these two ridges are not nodulous ; in front of these
four or five obscure threads appear on the canal ; axial sculpture of
strong retractive wrinkles at the suture, which become arcuate
nodulous riblets on the fasciole and dwindle protractively in front of
it; there are also more or less obvious incremental lines; aperture
moderate, simple, the axis pervious, the columella short, attenuated
in front; canal short, slightly recurved, operculum narrow, with
apical nucleus. Height of shell, 12 ; of last whorl, 9 ; diameter, 5 mm.
Cat. No. 209417, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Off Cape San Quentin, Lower California, in 359 fathoms.
CRYPTOGEMMA ANTIGONE, new species.
Plate 11, fig. 4.
Shell solid, white, with an olivaceous periostracum, spire badly
eroded, short, indicating a total of five whorls exclusive of the
nucleus, the last whorl and a half alone retain their normal condi-
tion ; suture distinct, not appressed ; anal fasciole narrow, constricted,
separated from the suture by an obscure ridge; in front of the
fasciole is an undulated rounded ridge from which extend obliquely
protractive obscure riblets more or less obsolete on the last whorl,
probably stronger and more distinct on the spire when not eroded;
there is also very obscure spiral grooving with much wider inter-
spaces on the base; the entire surface is minutely irregularly vermi-
culate; aperture narrow; anal sulcus shallow, rounded, close to the
suture ; outer lip thin, sharp, moderately produced ; inner lip erased,
pillar short, white, obliquely attenuated in front; canal short, wide,
hardly differentiated. Height of (decollate) shell, 23; of last whorl,
18; diameter, 10 mm. Cat. No. 2140665, U.S.N.M.
