NO. 2288. A^jSTF MOLLUSKS OF THE FAMILY TURRITIDAE—DALL. 33
Range. — Station 2922, off San Diego, California, in 822 fathoms,
mud, bottom temperature 39° F. U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
This shell resembles a Borsonella so much that I was not satisfied
of its true position until by grinding off part of the back the pillar
was shown to be quite destitute of plication.
CRYPTOGEMMA ADKASTIA. new species.
Plate 19, fig. 2.
Shell white, Avith a thin, pale olive periostracum, the apex invari-
ably eroded, and the subsequent whorls, eight or more, polished and
faintly showing incremental lines ; suture inconspicuous, the anterior
margin sometimes raised like a small cord; spiral sculpture of a
strong, sometimes nodulous or undulated peripheral keel, rather
nearer the succeeding suture than to the preceding one, the latter
space occupied by the slightly concave anal f asciole ; axial sculpture
only of arcuate incremental lines; base rounded; aperture narrow,
outer lip thin, sharp, produced, internally smooth; anal sulcus wide
and shallow, with no parietal nodule ; inner lip erased ; pillar smooth,
twisted, not pervious, attenuated obliquely toward the rather long,
slightly recurved canal. Height of decollate specimen of about five
whorls'^, 16 ; of last whorl, 11.7 ; diameter, 6.25 mm. Cat. No. 226154,
U.S.N.M.
Range. — Station 3670, Monterey Bay, California, in 581 fathoms,
mud, temperature 37.8° F. ; U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
ANTIPLANES AGAMEDEA, new species.
Plate 24, fig. 2.
Shell small, white, covered with an olivaceous periostracum, with
more than five whorls, apex eroded, the periphery with a rounded
keel; spiral sculpture of a thickened flattish ridge in front of the
channeled suture, and obscure spiral threading on the impressed
anal f asciole and base, the canal smooth; axial sculpture of fine in-
cremental lines more or less reticulating the spirals and arcuate over
the fasciole, the peripheral keel on the spire nearer the succeeding
than the preceding suture; aperture elongate, the outer lip thin,
smooth within, arcuately produced in front of the fasciole ; inner lip
erased, pillar short, solid, obliquely attenuated in front, straight.
Height of four whorls, 10.5 ; of last whorl, 8 ; diameter, 5 mm. Cat.
No. 211759, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Station 2936, off Cape San Quentin, Lower California, in
359 fathoms, mud, bottom temperature 49° F. U. S. Bureau of
Fisheries.
ANTIPLANES KAMCIIATICA. new species.
Plate 10. fig. 1.
Shell sinistral, large, coarse, with a shining brown periostracum
over a yellowish substratum, the suture distinct, the spu'e acute, the
115690— 19— Proc.N.M.vol.SG 3
