No. 2301. NEW SPECIES OF MU8C0ID FLIES— TOWNSEND. 553
PTERINOPTERNA, new genus.
Genotype. — Pterinopterna ciliata, new species.
Clypeus considerably sunken, not twice as long as wide. Epistoma
well warped. Facialia bare. Proboscis short; palpi clubshaped,
reaching epistoma. Third antennal joint about twice second.
Arista short, thinly long-plumose. Eyes thickly pilose. Frontals
stopping at base of antennae. No proclinate fronto-orbitals in male.
Ocellars present. Parafacialia wider than clypeus, thickly black-
pilose on outer lower part. Cheeks over two-fifths eye length.
Two postintraalars, preacrostichals and postacrostichals ; three sterno-
pleurals and lateral scutellars; four postsuturals. No apical scutel-
lars. Third vein bristled only at base, others bare. Apical cell open
some distance before tip. A very short stump at cubitus. Hind
crossvein nearer to cubitus. Hind tibiae quite thickly and evenly
cihate with ordinary bristles ; hind metatarsi pliunose with fine hairs
on each side, a double series of long hairs on outer edge and a single
series of shorter hairs on inner edge. No median marginals on first
segment, a short appressed pair of median marginals on second, a
strong erect pair of median marginals on third, marginal row of erect
on anal segment.
PTERINOPTERNA CILUTA, new species.
Length, 10 mm. One male, Huascaray Ridge, Jaen Province,
Peru, 7,000 feet, September 22, 1911 (C. H. T. Townsend).
Blacldsh, abdomen widely rufous on sides. Face, including para-
faciaha and anterior half or so of cheeks, bronze pollinose; rest of
cheeks and occiput gray pollinose. Frontalia and parafrontaiia soft
brownish-black. Antennae brown, third joint reddish at base.
Plem*a thinly silvery. Mesoscutum more thickly silvery; with five
black vittae, of which the next to outer one on each side is narrow,
subconfluent with the median vitta and gives out a little behind
suture. The three main vittae are heavy, uninterrupted at suture,
and narrowly edged with bronze pollen. Scutellum bronze pollinose
in a discal triangle, more silvery laterally. Abdomen rufous; median
depression of first segment, median vitta, hind border of third segment
and most of anal segment dark brown to blackish; front borders
of last three segments narrowly silvery, widening in oblique view
on median line; median vitta and anal segment showing bronze to
silvery pollen in oblique view. Legs black. Wings clear. Tegulae
glassy-infuscate.
Type.— C&t. No. 22228, U.S.N.M.
Tribe TRICHODUMNI.
TRICHODUROPSIS GUIANENSIS, new species.
Five females, Bartica, British Guiana (Thiough C. W. Johnson).
Differs from recta Schiner as follows: Abdomen and wings colored
as in Trichodura anceps Wiedemann. Thorax has the median light
