554 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
golden vitta split anteriorly into three, the darker vittae and lateral
marking being pale brown to brown and extending on scutellum,
while the long stripes from hmneri to scutellum are dark brown.
First abdominal segment with median marginal pair. Size is same.
Type.— Cat. No. 22271, U.S.N.M.
Tribe COItDYLIGASTERINI.
EUTOROCCA, new genus.
Genotype. — Eutorocca fasciata, new species.
Clypeus considerably sunken. Epistoma arcuately cut out, in cly-
peal plane. Facialia short-cihate one-third way. Proboscis short,
palpi stout and flattened. Eyes bare, descending to vibrissal level.
Male front narrower posteriorly than length of second antennal joint.
Frontals stopping at base of antennae, continuing posteriorly to
ocelli in male. No verticals nor proclinate fronto-orbitals in male.
Ocellars very weak; ocellar triangle extremely small, atrophied.
Parafacialia narrowed almost to a line below, bare. Cheeks hardly
one-twelfth eye length in male. One preacrostichal and postacro-
stichal ; two sternopleurals and postintraalars ; three postsuturals and
lateral scutellars; no apical scutellars. Third vein bristled about
one-third way to small crossvein; others bare. Apical ceil narrowly
open a little before tip. Hind crossvein fully its length from cubitus.
Male claws long. Abdomen about twice as long as thorax and nar-
rower than latter. Median marginal joair on first segment; marginal
row on last three segments; median discal pair on first three seg-
ments; and discal row on anal.
EUTOROCCA FASCIATA. new species.
Length, 8.5 mxn. One male, Peradeniya, Ceylon, August 11, 1913
(A. Rutherford).
Dark brown, thinly pollinose. Frontalia, antennae (third joint
missing) and palpi brown, the palpi slightly tinged with fulvous.
Face and front silvery, shading to pale golden on latter in oblique
view. Mesoscutum and scutellum dark metallic-green, faintly silvery
in oblique view, more so in front of suture, with four black vittae;
humeri and pleura more thickly silvery, latter with two shining
brown spots. Abdomen shining dark brown, base of intermediate
segments widely golden pollinose, basal half of anal segment silvery
pollinose. Wings faintly smoky-yellowish. Tegulae yellowish glassy.
Type.—Cat. No. 22241, U.S.N.M.
Tribe MINTHOmi.
MICROMINTHO. new genus.
Genotype. — MicromintTio mejania, new species.
Clypeus a little depressed. Epistoma short, gently warped. Fa-
cialia bare. Proboscis short, palpi slender. Third antennal joint
