34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 5G.
whorls moderately rounded ; axial sculpture only of sigmoid lines of
growth, with six whorls exclusive of the nucleus and about a whorl
and a half of the apex which are missing; spiral sculpture of fine
close subequal striations with slightly wider interspaces, covering the
whole surface; aperture wide, the outer lip sinuous, simple, the anal
sulcus shallow, the canal wddc and short. Height of shell, 51 ; of last
whorl, 32 ; diameter, 27 mm. Cat. No. 225255, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Western Bering Sea and the southeast coast of Kam-
chatka in 100 fathoms, pebbly bottom, temperature 31.7° F. U. S.
Bureau of Fisheries steamer Albatross.
This is the largest species of the genus and follows the rule that the
species of the Asiatic side of Bering Sea are larger and coarser than
their analogues of the American shore.
ANTIPLANES BULIMOmES, new species.
Plate 11, fig. 7.
Shell elongate, decollate, whorls six or more, four distinctly re-
maining, suture distinct, not appressed, whorls moderately convex,
smooth, with a pale polished greenish p>eriostracum over a whit©
substratum, in spots minutely granulose, apparently from some
wrinkling of the periostracum ; anal sulcus wide, shallow, hardly
forming a fasciole; outer lip thin, sharp, moderately produced; in-
ner lip with a thin white layer of callus ; pillar straight, with an an-
terior oblique attenuation; canal wide, hardly differentiated; length
of three complete whorls, 31 ; of last whorl, 23 ; diameter at apex, 5 ;
maximum diameter, 15 mm. Cat. No. 111051, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Station 4772, on Bowers Bank, Bering Sea, in 344
fathoms, sand, bottom temperature 38.1° F. U. S. Bureau of Fish-
eries.
The bulimoid shape and glistening greenish periostracum make
this species quite unique.
ANTIPLANES LITUS, new species.
Plate 11, fig. 1.
Shell slender, white, acute, with seven or eight moderately convex
whorls separated by a very distinct suture ; nucleus swollen, twisted,
of two whorls, the second spirally threaded ; on about three of the sub-
sequent whorls these threads are developed into two or three major
cords between the periphery and the suture, becoming on later
whorls obsolete, or this sculpture in other specimens may be obsolete ;
there is also a semiobsolete fine spiral striation covering the whole
surface and somewhat stronger on the canal ; there is no axial sculp-
ture; aperture narrow, anal sulcus feeble, close to the suture hardly
forming a fasciole; outer lip thin, slightly produced; inner lip
erased; pillar straight, canal short, wide. Height of shell, 16; of
last whorl. 9 ; diameter, 5 mm. Cat. No. 206602, U.S.N.M.
