560 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
brown. Thorax and scutellum brassy-cinereous; leaving four black
vittae, the outer ones interrupted. Basal half of last three abdominal
segments thickly brassy-cinereous pollinose; the rest of abdomen
shining brown. Legs dark brown to blackish. Wings lightly yellow-
ish-smoky, especiall)'^ on costa. Tegulae yellowish-white.
Type.— Cat. No. 22220, U.S.N.M.
Tribe URAMYINI.
ANAPORIA, new genus.
Genotype. — Aporialimacodis Townsend, 1892.^
Differs from Paraporia mainly in the clypeus being distinctly,
though slightly sunken, the arista thickly short-pubescent halfway,
the male abdomen conico-subcylindrical and truncate anally. The
clypeus is quite flush in Paraporia, while the male abdomen is flattened
and pointed anally. The ocellars are quite strong, at least in male,
and there are two weak discal scutellar pairs. There are no well-
developed median anterior macrochaetae on second segment.
PSEUDEUANTHA OCTOMACULATA, new species.
Length, 13 mm. One male, Huadquina, Peru, 5,000 feet, July 30,
1911 (Yale Peruvian Expedition).
Differs in coloration from Paraporia quadrimaculata as follows:
All four of the abdominal segments with whitish lateral spots which
are small and restricted. Wings conspicuously yellow across basal
third; brown on outer two-thirds of costal portion. The grayish
pollen has a yellowish or brassy tinge.
Type.— Cat. No. 22272, U.S.N.M.
MICROAPORIA, new genus.
Genotype. — Microaporia elegans, new species.
Near Chaetonopsis , with main characters as follows: Form very
narrow. Arista long-pubescent, mostly on upper side. Eyes bare,
pushed far forward below. Male front prominent, vertex nearly
one-fourth head width. Ocellars very weak. Frontals stopping at
base of antennae. Frontalia very wide. Parafacialia bare. Cheeks
nearly one-third eye length. No postacrostichals; one preacrostichal
and lateral scutellar; two sternopleurals and postintraalars; three
postsuturals ; medium decussate apical scutellar pair. Costal spine
strong. Third vein with one strong bristle at base; others bare.
Apical cell open a little before tip. Hind crossvein near middle.
Male claws long. Abdomen narrow and elongate; widest on hind
margin of first segment, gradually narrowing posteriorly. Median
marginal pair on first segment, marginal row on last three segments;
median discal pair on intermediate segments; discal row on anal.
« Psyche, vol. 6, p. 275.
