No. 2301. NEW SPECIES OF MUSCOID FLIES— TOWN SEND. 563
Shining dark brown. Frontalia with fulvo-cupreous reflection in
oblique view. Face, third antennal joint and sides of front silvery.
Palpi fuscous. Thorax silvery; with three wide black vittae; the
middle one more or less fulvous pollinose on median line before suture
especially in male; the outer ones interrupted by a narrow silvery
pollinose border on hind edge of prescutum. Scutellum and abdomen
without pollen except the narrow thinly silvery bases of last three
segments. Wings and tegulae moderately yellowish-fuscous; paler in
female.
Type.—Qsii. No. 22230, U.S.N.M.
URODEXIA SIAMENSIS, new species.
Length, 13 mm. to end of tail; tail, 5 mm. One male, Khow Sai
Dow, 1,000 feet, Trong, Lower Siam, January to February, 1899
(W. L. Abbott).
Head silvery, shading to golden on sides of front. Palpi fuscous.
Antennae black; third joint grayish. Frontalia dark brown. Pleura
silvery; mesoscutum golden, with four narrow dark brown vittae; the
outer ones widely interrupted at suture and abbreviated anteriorly,
while behind suture they are connected by a broad dark brown fascia
covering a little more than the anterior half of the postscutum.
Scutellum dark brown except the golden tip, as though crossed by a
similar dark fascia. Abdomen brown; the bases of intermediate seg-
ments broadly golden poUinose; anal segment silvery with the tail
brown. Legs light brown. Wings and tegulae lightly smoky-yellow.
Type.— Ca^t. No. 22267, U.S.N.M.
PSEUDOCHAETONA, new genus.
Genotype. — PseudocJiaeiona polita., new species.
Head characters of Pseudodexia. Third antennal joint four or five
times second. Arista longer than antennae, slender, thinly short-
plumose to tip. Eyes bare. Frontals one or two weak below base
of antennae. One vertical in male. Ocellars vestigial. Para-
facialia very narrow, bare. Cheeks hardly one-eighth eye length.
One preacrostichal, postacrostichal and lateral scutellar; two
sternopleurals and postintraalars ; three postsuturals ; long decussate
apical scutellar pair. Third vein bristled only at base; others bare.
Apical cell open just before tip. Hind crossvein nearly in middle.
Apical crossvein deeply bowed in. No median marginals on first
segment, but a pair on second; marginal row on last two segments.
PSEUDOCHAETONA POLITA, new species.
Length, 6.5 mm. One female, Trinidad Rio, Panama, March 25,
1912 (A. Busck); one male, Yahuarmayo, Peru, February 10, 1910
(C. H. T. Townsend).
