564 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
Palpi pale straw-color. Antennae pale fulvous; third joint in
female largely fuscous. Frontalia brownish. Rest of head silvery,
pale golden on parafrontalia. Pleura brown, with a broad oblique
silvery fascia. Mesoscutum pale golden pollinose, the irregular
forward half of postscutum shining dark brown, Scutellum shining
brown, the tip golden pollinose. Abdomen shining dark brown or
blackish; the base yellow as far as middle of second segment, but
leaving a dark median vitta in male; base of third segment narrowly
yellow on sides; bases of last three segments silvery to pale golden
pollinose. Femora yellow; the tips and rest of legs darker. Wings
nearly clear, faintly smoky-yellowish. Tegulae glassy, slightly tawny.
Type.— Cat. No! 22251. U.S.N.M., from Panama.
MINTHOMYIA, new genus.
Genotype. — Minthotnyia ahdomlnalis, new species.
Clypeus very shallow. Epistoma short, not warped. Faciaha
bare. Proboscis very short; palpi short and wide. Third antennal
joint about three times second in male, widening somewhat apically.
Arista a little longer than antennae, bare. Eyes bare. Male vertex
about one-seventh head width. Two frontals below base of anten-
nae. No prochnate fronto-orbitals in male. Parafacialia extremely
narrow, bare. Cheeks hardly one-sixth eye length in male. One
preacrostichal ; two sternopleiu-als and postsuturals ; three post-
intraalars and lateral scutellars; no apical scuteUars. Third vein
bristled only at base; others bare. Apical cell open just before tip.
Hind cross vein a little nearer to cubitus. Male tarsi and claws long.
Median marginal pair on first two segments; marginal row on last two.
MINTHIOMYIA ABDOMINALIS, new species.
Length, 6.5 mm. One male, Rio Charape, Jaen Province, Peru,
4,500 feet, September 12, 1911 (C. H. T. Townsend).
Blackish, abdomen yellowish. Head thinly silvery. Palpi fulvous.
Articulation of antennae and base of arista tinged with fulvous.
Frontalia and posterior half of parafrontalia brown. Disk of meso-
scutum, humeri, and pleura thinly ashy, leaving two broad shining
vittae and scutellum bare. Abdomen fulvous-yellow; the anal
segment and posterior border of third brownish from the dried con-
tents of abdomen. Wings lightly smoky, more deeply so on outer
half of costa. Tegulae glassy-yellowish.
Type.— C&t. No. 22235, U. S.N.M.
TELOTHYRIOSOMA, new genus.
Genotype. — Telothyriosma tersa, new species.
Clypeus a little sunken. Epistoma cut off, warped on edge.
Facialia c*liate one-fourth way. Proboscis short, palpi rather club-
shaped. Third antennal joint hardly tliree times second in male.
