No. 2301. NEW SPECIES OF MU8C0ID FLIES— T0WN8END. 569
before tip. Hind crossvein nearer to cubitus. Male tarsi and claws
long; median marginal pair on first segment, median marginal pair
or marginal row on second; median discal pair on second; marginal
row on last two segments; median discal pair or discal row on third;
discal row on anal.
LEPTOMACQUARTIA PLANIFRONS, new species.
Length, 6.5 to 7 mm. Three males, Matucana, Peru, 8,000 feet,
January 30 and August 16, 1913, on foliage (C. H. T. Townsend).
Head black, thinly silvery on face and sides of front. Antennae
and palpi blackish; frontaha dark brown. Thorax black with faint
metallic bluish tinge; silvery on humeri, pleura, and middle of
prescutum; with four brown vittae, the outer heavy and confluent
anteriorly with the inner. Abdomen blackish, faintly metallic
greenish, thinly silvery laterally on bases of segments, the pollen
extending across segments in oblique view. Legs black. Wings
narrowly brown on costa. Tegulae whitish.
Type.— Cat. No. 22246, U.S.N.M.
Tribe HYALTJUGmi.
XANTHOCERA ATRA, new species.
Length, 4.5 mm. (abdomen arched). Two females, Alto Pass and
Dubois, Illinois, May 7 and 21, 1917 (J. R. Malloch).
Differs from clistoides Townsend as follows: Abdomen wholly
polished black, without sign of pollen. Thorax and scutellum
shining black, but with faint indications of thin pollen coat in oblique
view. Front a little ^\dder, and clypeus not quite so depressed.
No weak apical pair of scutellar bristles. Femora shining black to
brown-black.
Type.— Csit. No. 22270, U.S.N.M.
Tribe LYDELLnil.
AUBAEANETIA, new genus.
Genotype. — Aubaeanetia assimilis, new species.
Clypeus moderately sunken. Epistoma cut off, not warped.
Faciaha ciliate at most about one- third way. Proboscis a little
over half head height; palpi about as long as haustellum, a little
widened at tip. Third joint of antennae in male about three times
second and stout; in female twice second and not stout; in both sub-
mucronate. Arista short-pubescent. Three frontals below base of
antennae. Two proclinate fronto-orbitals in both sexes. Ocellars
strong. Parafacialia bare. Cheeks over one-fourth eye length.
Two preacrostichals and postacrostichals ; three sternopleurals, post-
intraalars, postsutm^als and lateral scutellars; very weak apical
scutellars. Costal spine strong. Third vein bristled about one-
