NO. 2288. NEW MOLLUSKS OF THE FAMILY TURRITIDAE—DALL. 35
Range. — Station 3194, off Esteros Bay, California, in 92 fatlioms,
sand, temperature 45.9° F. U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
ANTIPLANES ABARBAREA, new species.
Plate 9. fig. 5.
Shell "whitish, acute, with one globular nuclear and six and a half
subsequent, well-rounded whorls; suture distinct, not appressed;
spiral sculpture of faint obscure grooves with w^ider interspaces over
the whole spire but obsolete on the last whorl, and a series of faint
irregular peripheral nodulosities on the upper part of the spire ; axial
sculpture of rather coarse, irregular incremental lines, retractively
arcuate in front of the suture, though there is no distinct fasciole;,
aperture elongate, anal sulcus close to the suture, rather deep ; outer-
lip thin, smooth inside; inner lip erased; pillar straight, smooth, at-
tenuated in front; canal short, wide, nearly straight. Height of
shell, 21.5; of last whorl, 13.5; diameter, 8 mm. Cat. No. 224393,
U.S.N.M.
Range. — Station 2954, off Santa Eosa Island, California, in 55
fathoms, shelly bottom, temperature 55.4° F. U. S. Bureau of
Fisheries.
This specimen, though complete, has lost its periostracum and the-
nucleus is slightly eroded.
ANTIPLANES BRISEIS. new species.
Plate 22, fig. 1.
Shell elongate, acute, white, covered with a very pale olivaceous
periostracum, with a blunt swollen nucleus of about a whorl and a half
(eroded) and eight subsequent rather fiattish whorls; suture obscure,
appressed ; spiral sculpture of one or two feeble fiattish cords between
the periphery and the succeeding suture on the spire, and on the
last whorl about twice as many more or less obsolete; axial sculpture
of rather prominent, deeply arcuate incremental lines; anal fasciole
wide, not impressed, the deepest part of the sulcus near the periph-
ery; aperture narrow, outer lip thin, sharp, much produced; inner
lip and pillar erased, the latter short, straight, obliquely attenuated
in fi'ont ; canal distinct, produced, straight. Height of shell, 18 ; oi
last whorl, 10 ; diameter, 5 mm. Cat. No. 212329, U.S.N.M.
^an^e.— Station 3179, off Drakes Bay, California, in 30 fathoms^
mud, temperature 50° F. U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
ANTIPLANES HYPERIA, new species.
Plate 9, fig. 6.
Shell with more than six hardly rounded whorls (decollate), white,
with a dark olive periostracum, the base white ; suture appressed, dis-
tinct, the whorl in front of it constricted; spiral sculpture of (on
the last whorl) a sharp thread or low keel above the periphery, two
