36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUil. vol.56.
more at the peripherj^; on the anterior one the suture is laid and
it also forms the anterior boundary of the dark coloration; on the
base are about five less conspicuous threads; all these have much
wider interspaces; axial sculpture of moderately conspicuous incre-
mental lines; anal sulcus wide and extremely shallow, the deepest
portion at the posterior keel ; there is no well defined fascicle ; aper-
ture short and wide, outer lip thin, only slightly produced in front
of the sulcus; inner lip erased; pillar verj^ short; canal very short
and wide, but distinct, slightly recurved and with an inconspicuous
siphonal fasciole. Height of five whorls, 12; of last whorl, 7;
diameter of decollation, 1.7; of last whorl, 4.5 mm. Cat. No.
212329a, U.S.N.M.
Range.— Station 3179, off Drakes Bay, California, in 30 fathoms,
mud, bottom temperature 50° F. U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
This form might be taken for a variety of A. hriseis, but is dis-
tinguished by its more emphatic and somewhat different sculpture,
its white base, and the short pillar and canal. The anal sulcus is
much more shallow and the outer lip less produced.
ANTIPLANES AMYCUS, new species.
Plate 11, fig. 5.
Shell white, covered ^^ith a brownish olive periostracum ; witii five
or more moderately rounded whorls exclusive of the (lost) nucleus;
suture distinct with a wide rounded ridge in front of it, forming the
posterior boundary of the anal fasciole ; spiral sculpture of a few ob-
scure threads on the fasciole and in front of the shoulder 8 or 9, on
the last whorl 15 to 18 flattish, rather close-set threads smaller and
closer anteriorly and absent from the canal ; axial sculpture of more
■or less distinct incremental lines, and on the upper spire of about
15 very oblique anteriorly protracted riblets chiefly visible at the
:shoulder and obsolete on or entirely absent from the last two whorls;
anal sulcus wide, deep, rounded, the fasciole slightly impressed ; outer
lip thin, sharp, arcuately produced; inner lip erased, pillar short,
white, obliquely attenuated in front; canal short, wide, distinct,
slightly recurved. Height of fovir whorls, 21.5; of last whorl, 15;
diameter at decollation, 3; of last whorl, 9.5 mm. Cat. No. 226163,
U.S.N.M.
Range. — Station 3670, in Monterey Bay, California, in 581 fathoms,
mud, bottom temperature 37.8° F. U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
ANTIPLANES SANTAROSANA Dall.
Plate 11, fig. 3.
Pleurotoma (Antiplanes) santarosana Dall, Proe. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 24,
No. 1264, p. 515, March, 1902.
Range. — Off Santa Rosa Island, California, in 53 fathoms, sand.
