NO. 2288. JSfEW MOLLUSKS OF THE FAMILY TURRITIDAE—DALL. 37
ANTIPLANES AMPHITRITE, new .species.
Plate 9, fig. 1.
Shell white, covered vvith a pale olivaceous periostracum, of five
or more well-rounded whorls exclusive of the (lost) nucleus, having
a rounded shoulder and distinct not appressed suture ; axial sculpture
of, on the spire, obscure nodulations at the shoulder (about 15 on
the penultimate whorl) which do not form ribs and are absent from
the last whorl ; incremental lines fine but obscure ; beside these there
are minute, anteriorly obliquely retractive lines somewhat micro-
scopically reticulated by the lines of growth; there is no spiral
sculpture except on some specimens a few obsolete lines on the base ;
anal sulcus shallov/, slightly removed from the suture, the fasciole
lightly impressed on the last whorl; aperture narrow, the outer lip
thin, sharp, arcuately produced ; inner lip erased, pillar white, solid
straight, anteriorly obliquely attenuated; canal wide, straight, dis-
tinct. Height of five whorls, 13.5 ; of last whorl, 10 ; diameter, 6mm.
Cat. No. 209953, U.S.N.M.
Bange.—St3ition 4415, off Santa Barbara Island, California, in
638 fathoms, muddy bottom; U. S. Bureau of Fisheries. Also a
variety heroe at Station 2923 off San Diego, California, in 822
fathoms, mud, bottom temperature 39°.
ANTIPLANES AMPHITRITE BEROE, new variety.
The variety differs in being larger, with the suture appressed, the
fasciole close to it, and bearing three or four spiral grooves ; height
of four whorls, 19; of last whorl, 14; diameter at decollation, 2.5;
of last whorl, 9 mm. Cat. No. 21466a, U.S.N.M.
ANTIPLANES THALAEA Dall.
Plate 11, fig. 6.
Plenrofoma (Aiitiplanes) thalaea Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 24, No,
1264, p. 514, March, 1902.
Range. — Off San Luis Obispo, California, in 252 fathoms, and
north to the Aleutian Islands.
BORSONELLA BARBARENSIS, new species.
Plate 12, fig. 6.
Shell solid, of six or more whorls, the apex decollated, the perios-
tracum greenish olive over a white substratum, yellowish on the
pillar; suture distinct v>'ith a convex spiral band between it and the
fasciole ; spiral sculpture of a pronounced keel in front of the fasciole,
on the upper part of the spire this keel may be more or less undu-
lated ; in front of the keel the surface is retractively somewhat irregu-
larly obliquely grooved, with wider flattish interspaces upon which
