38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.56.
is a minute protiactively looped sculpture giving a vermicular aspect
to the surface under a magnifier; aperture ovate, simple, the outer
lip thin and sharp, the anal sulcus wide and moderately deep, the
pillar straight, attenuated in front, the plait hidden behind it, the
canal short and wide, the operculum missing. Height of shell, 29; of
last whorl, 20; diameter, 12 mm. Cat. No. 96841, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Off Santa Barbara Island, California, in 302 to 614
fathoms, sand, bottom temperature 41.4° F. U. S. Bureau of Fish-
eries steamer Albatross.
In these species the plait on the pillar is generally hidden behind
the pillar so as to be invisible from a front view of the aperture.
BORSONELLA NYCKIA, new species.
Plate 12, fig. 2.
Shell white with an olivaceous periostracum, biconic, acute, the
nucleus (eroded) of one or two whorls, with about six subsequent
whorls, rapidly enlarging, flatl}' descending from a distinct, not ap-
pressed suture to the periphery and with the last whorl conically at-
tenuated in front; spiral sculpture of an obscure thickening in
front of the suture, fine rather irregular striae thence to the pe-
riphery, crossed obliquely by irregular scratches, a prominent angle
at the i^eriphery which on the spire is just behind the suture, and on
the last whorl is ornamented with nine or ten prominent nodules
with wider interspaces; on the base the striae are coarser and more
irregular, the interspaces assuming the form of (about 15) flattish
threads, sparser on the canal ; axial sculpture of fine incremental lines
arcuate on the anal fasciole; aperture elongate triangular, the anal
sulcus very wide and shallow, outer lip thin, sharp, smooth within,
arcuate in front of the periphery; inner lij) erased, pillar solid, short
with a single plication near the body, attenuated in front, straight;
canal hardly differentiated, somewhat produced. Height of shell,
12 ; of last whorl, 8 ; diameter, 5.5 mm. Cat. No. 208891, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Station 4361, off Point Loma, California, in 101 fathoms,
sandy bottom; U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
BORSONELLA OMPHALE, new species.
Plate 12, fig. 4.
Shell slender, acute, with eight flattish whorls exclusive of the
(lost) nucleus, white covered by a very light olive gray periostracum;
suture distinct, fasciole hardly impressed : spiral sculpture of obscure
striae, sparser on the base ; axial sculpture of incremental faint lines
arcuate on the anal fasciole; aperture narrow, anal sulcus wide, mod-
erately deep ; outer lip thin, prominently arcuate in front of the pe-
riphery; inner lip erased, pillar strong with a single fold near the
body ; attenuated in front ; canal short. Height of shell, 16 ; of last
whorl, 10; diameter, 6 mm. Cat. No. 209174, U.S.N.M.
