NO. 2288. NEW MOLLUSKS OF THE FAMILY TV REIT ID AE— BALL. 41
emphasis, to the canal; the interspaces are equal or narrower; spiral
sculpture begins at the shoulder and consists of very minute equal,
regular close-set flattish threads which are less conspicuous on the
ribs and, in the interspaces, are segmented by the incremental lines ;
aperture simple, inner lip erased, canal short, proximately con-
stricted, marking a perceptible siphonal f asciole. Height of shell, 6 ;
of last whorl, 4; diameter, 2.6 mm. Cat. No. 96216, U.S.N.M.
i?«n(7e.— Magellan Strait, in 61 fathoms, sand bottom temperature
48° F.
There is a possibility that this shell may belong to another genus,
but in the absence of the operculum and soft parts, this can not be
decided.
LORA BRACHIS. new species.
Plate 7, fig. 3.
Shell small, short, stout, blunt, of about four and a half whorls;
anal fasciole sloping toward a carinate beaded shoulder, retractively
wrinkled between the distinct suture and a nearly median thread:
axial sculpture of (on the last whorl about 30) Fmiall, narrow, pro-
tractive equal ribs with subequal interspaces, obsolete on the base,
each beginning at a bead on the carina ; spiral sculpture of fine sharp
equal and equidistant striae covering the shell in front of the carina,
cutting minutely the summits of the ribs, with Avider flattish inter-
spaces; aperture rather wide, simple; canal short, deep, recurved.
Height of shell, 4.5 ; of last whorl, 3 ; diameter, 3.3 mm. Cat. No.
96486, U.S.N.M.
^ff^^f'.— Galapagos Islands in 812 fathoms, ooze, bottom tempera-
ture 38.4° F. U. S. Bureau of Fisheries steamer Albatross.
LORA ANTIPODA, new species.
Plate 19, fig. 1.
Shell small, whitish, elevated, with a smooth bulbous nucleus and
about five shouldered whorls; suture distinct, slightly appressed,
anal fasciole wide, sloping, concavely wrinkled ; shoulder marked by
a stout smooth slightly undulated cord in front of which are three
or four smaller threads and beyond those still smaller close-set
threadlets extending to the end of the canal; axial sculpture of (on
the penultimate whorl about 14) protractively arcuate ribs with sub-
equi^.l interspaces, feebler on the last v.-horl and obsolete on the base;
canal straight, rather long, aperture simple; the spiral sculpture does
not nodulate the axial ribs and is most distinct in the interspaces.
Height of shell, 5; of last whorl, 3; diameter, 2.4 mm. Cat. No.
209450, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Magellan Strait, in 61 fathoms, mud, bottom temperature
53.9° F. U. S. Bureau of Fisheries steamer Albatross.
