THE RED SPIDERS OF AMERICA AND A FEW EUROPEAN
SPECIES LIKELY TO BE INTRODUCED.
E. A. McGregor/
Of the Bureau of Entomology , United States Department of Agriculture.
The so-called red spiders or s{)innmo- mites (which were all included
in the genus Tetranychus until within the last few years) are without
doubt the most important economically of the mites, and cause
gi-eat damage annually to many of the most valuable cultivated
plants. The writer has previously estimated that at normal prices
the cotton crop of the United States may suffer through the ravages
of the common red spider (Tetranychus himacvlatus Harvey) to the
extent of $2,000,000. Leading crops in various parts of the world
are Imown to suffer similarly.
As Tragardh and others have pohited out, the systematic knowledge
of the red spiders is by no means on a plane with the comprehension
of their economic status. Moreovei-, not until the completion, re-
cently, of the investigation of the red spider on cotton (23 )2 by the
Bureau of Entomology, was much known as to accurate details of
their biology. Banlcs in the United States and Berlese in Europe
were the pioneers who undertook the taxonomic separation of the
species of this group. As Zacher (13) and the present writer (20)
have already pointed out, the ordinary microscopic equipment with
which these mites previously have been studied was far too crude,
and only on such grounds could the finer taxonomic details have
escaped such excellent observers as the two above mentioned pioneer
acaridologists.
In Banks's Red Spiders of the United States (9) he separates the
species chiefly through the palpal and tarsal characters. These are
still very useful in the taxonomy of the group, but to them have been
added the so-called collar tracheae and the penis. In order properly
to examine these structures it is absolutely necessary to employ an
' Since this paper was written the author has resigned from the Bureau of Entomology.
" The numbers in parentheses refer to " References " at the end of this paper.
Proceedings U. S. National Museum, Vol. 56— No. 2303.
1 15690— 19— Pioc.N.M.vol.56 41 641
