642 PROCEEDINGS O/' THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.
oil-immersiou lens. H. E. Ewing (17) and the present writer have
already pointed out that a careful examination of red spider species
with up-to-date equipment has revealed the fact that the tarsal and
palpal structures are not nearly as simple as Banks (9) and other
earlier v/orkers have indicated. Also for years it was believed that
each of the numerous host plants supported a distinct species, and
that each of the many color forms represented a species. In this
mannei- a very annoying confusion regarding synonymy arose, which
has not been entirely straightened out at the present wTiting.
A sort of controversy has arisen between certain of the recent work-
ers concerning the correct nomenclature of the microscopic struc-
tural parts of the tip of the tarsus. Tragardh (18) claims that
Zacher and Ewing each had the wrong conception of what con-
stitutes the em}>odium. The former asserts that the bases of the
tenent hairs are homologous* with the claws of other mites. lie
claims that what Banks, Pawing, and others have been calling the true
claw is but the empodium which in the several s})ecies is variously
modified so as to exhibit from one to six claw divisions.
It was Zacher (13) who first recognized the importance of the penis
as possessing specific variations, and Ewing (15) followed soon after
with an amplification of the penis characters. Tragardh (18) also
recognizes the taxonomic value of the variation shown by the penis
of the various species. The present writer's studies have similarly
tended to corroborate the opinions of the above workers as to the
value of the penis in possessing specific characters. Dr. W. Dwight
Pierce has pointed out to the writer the resemblance of this chitinous
organ to the oedeagus of insects, especially the Strepsiptera. He
believes that the penis will be found to be a delicate extrusible tube
within this chitinous oedeagus. Perhaps detailed study will bear him
out. The wT-iter has not had this opportunity as the suggestion was
made while Doctor Pierce was reading over the completed manuscript.
The "thumb " or terminal joint of the palpus has long been accorded
a place of importance among the taxonomic structures. The char-
acters of this member, however, appear through recent studies to be
rather too constant to furnish specific features of a very satisfactory
nature. There are almost without exception seven appendages,
including, two "fingers," two digituli, and three short hairs. About
the only characteristics of these appendages that appear useful are
the outlines of the terminal and the dorsal "fingers" and their pro-
portionate sizes one to the other.
The dorsal body bristles or appendages also offer some assistance
in the taxonomy, although, aside from the two members of the genus
Anychus, the number and arrangement of these hairs seem to be
nearly constant.
