No. 2303. RED ISPIDERS OF AMERICA— McaUEGOK. 643
Tragardh (18) veiy fortunately discovered the utility of the collar
trachea as a help in the differentiation of the species. In certain
species this organ is V-shaped with both arms of equal caliber: in
some it is also V-shaped but with one arm much thicker than the
other: while in otlier species the collar trachea is straight with a
bladder-like enlargement at its end.
As to any taxonomic importance being attributed to the respective
colors of the various species, there is much doubt. Ewing (17)
conducted some interesting tests, the results of which indicated that
the various shades of green, yellow, orange, brown, and black were
attributable to the presence in the blood, tissues, or fecal matter of
chlorophyll, or other pigments derived from it through the process
of metabolism. The investigations of the present writer (23) of
T. himaculatus in South Carolina indicated that the species was
subject to much variation in color and that individuals about to
enter the wintering existence often became a salmon-yellow color.
At various seasons and under varying conditions individuals of the
two-spotted mite could be found of nearly all shades exhibited by
any species of red spider. It would seem that the color pattern
rather than the general color of the species is the important factor.
Once more it is important to emphasize that the minuteness of
the taxonomic structures together wth the aggravating light refrac-
tion when emplojdng great magnifications makes the definite con-
ception of the microscopic image extraordinarily difficult. This
has also been mentioned by a few other workers.
The red spider body is oval or elliptical, furnished wdth a score
or more of dorsal cuticular appendages arranged in four rows.
These appendages are usually long and hairlike and either simple
or finely plumose, or are in the form of short, rather stout rods.
The cephalothorax is separated from the abdomen by a slight
constriction, and bears on each side one or two simple eye corneas.
The pedipalps are short, the third joint ends dorsally in a strong
claw; the last joint is thumblike and bears one or more appendages
called "fingers," as well as digituli and sense hairs. In all species
examined the palpus of the male bears dorsaUy on the distal margin
of the second joint a strong spur. The basal portion of the mandibles
are fused to form a broad retractile plate, the apical portion of
which is produced into the slender piercing stylet. The legs, the
first pair of which are longest, are never much longer than the body,
with scattered hairs, the tarsus terminating in claw appendages
which vary greatly in arrangement: the name Tetranychus is based
upon those species the tarsal claw of which is split into four parts.
The anal and genital openings occur ventrally near the tip of th&
abdomen; the former is terminal, the latter basal.
