644 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol.30.
KEY TO GENERA.
a ^ Empodiiil claw vestit^ial, amnate at base to tarsus of wldch it is merely a pro-
tuberance Anychus, new genus.
a '-. ICnipodial claw (listinctly separated at base from distal portion of tarsus.
b ' . Claw simple Neotetr anychus Tragardh.
h 2. Claw complex.
(• '. Claw cleft wit)i from 2 to (5 etjual divisions.
(1 * . Claw divisions 2 Schizotetr anychus Tragardh .
d ^. Claw diA-isions 4 ' to G Tetranychus Dut'oiir.
c -. Claw appendiculate either at base or at a point l)otween it and middle point
with from 4 to 6 spurs.
.'/*. Dorsal spur of tarsus decidedly shorter than the ventral group of
apurs Septanychus, new genus.
d *. Dorsal spur more preeminent and much longer or about equaling the
appendiculate spurs: collar trachea straight, enlarged at end.
Paratetr anychus Zacher.
ANYCHUS, new genus.
This genus is thus far represented by a species from Florida and
one from Peru, South America.
Spinning mites, having only a vestigial claw which is connate at
base with the tarsus of which it forms merely a protuberance. The
usual series of dorsal bristles is replaced by a series of rodlike or
spatulate appendages.
Type. — Tetranychus (Anychus) lanlcsi McGregor.
KEY TO SPECIES OF GENUS ANYCHUS.
a '. " l<Hnger '■ on tip of palpal "thumb " terminal and much stouter than the two dig-
ituli, at base nearly as thick as tip of "thumb"; dorsal appendages IS, spat-
ulate-serrate A. banksi McGregor.
a'. "Finger" on tip of palpal "thumb" ventro-terminal, less conspicuous than the
two digituli, at base about one-fourth as thick as tip of " thumb " ; dorsal append-
ages 26, noutapering, serrate, rodlike A. rusii IMcGregor.
ANYCHUS BANKSI (McGregor).
Tetranychus tensfci McGregor, 1914, Ann. Ent. Soc. Amer., vol. 7, no. 4, ]>. 357.
Color rusty red, from underlying paired organs which occupy all
of the dorsal region excepting a median abdominal area and a
clear area containing the mandibular plate. Eyes (in moimted
material) translucent, directly over suture between coxae I and II.
The usual series of dorsal bristles is lacking, but a series of 18 spatu-
late-serrate hairlike appendages are distributed on the dorsal aspect
of the body as follows: One at either side of the mandibular plate
anteriorly, one just mediad of each eye, one just overlying each
coxa II, six forming a fringe at hind margin of body, and three along
> All recent European authorities show four divisions of the tarsal claw for 7*. ielarius and T. aUhaeae
and others, but this type has not yet been seen in this country.
