No. 2303. RED SPIDERS OF AMERICA— McGREQOR. 645
each side of abdomen. Body of female rhombic-ovate, widest across
cephalo thorax, exceedingly obese for the size of the legs; cephalo-
thorax rounded generally anteriorly with a slight concave border
overlying the palpi; male almost sagitate in outline, conspicuously
reduced in proportion to the legs. Mandibular plate about half
again as long as wide, tapering somewhat anteriorly, with a distinct
emargination and with a superimposed chitinized ridge anteriorly.
"Thumb" of palpus subcorneal, upper surface twice transversely
depressed with an intervening dilation, bearing at its tip a long
slender "finger," which is over four times as long as thick; on its
upper side arising between middle and tip are two stout hairs, and
near the base of upper side arise a reduced "finger" and two stout
hairs; the claw of the penultimate joint reaches only to the basal
"finger"; a hair arises ventrally from the "thumb" and another
laterally from the penultimate joint. Legs of female are of average
length, barely equaling length of body; those of male are about twice
as long as body ; femur between four and five times as long as thick,
three-quarters again as long as tarsus; tibia somewhat longer than
patella, which is over twice as long as trochanter; relative length
of joints as follows: Coxa, 9; trochanter, 3.75; femur, 14; patella,
8.75; tibia, 10.9; tarsus, 8; tip of tarsus not provided with a claw,
it being reduced to a vestigial protuberance; the customary series
of four tenent hairs arise from the onychium.
Type.—Cat. No. 19089, U.S.N.M.
The type material was from Orlando, Florida, August 16, 1913,
from the under surface of castor beans (Ricinus comraunis) and velvet
bean leaves. Mr. W. W. Yothers wiites that the species is an im-
portant pest of the castor bean plant in Florida, but that at times
it is controlled by a predaceous mite (Sciulus, species) and by the
coccinellid Stethorus, species. Larvae and pupae of Arthrocnodax
Carolina have been observed on infested castor bean leaves from
Orlando, Florida.
ANYCHUS RUSTI (McGregor).
Tetranychus rusti McGregor, 1917, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 51, p. 582.
Color ranging from yellowish or gi-eenish to red. Eyes (in mounted
material) translucent, directly over coxae II and between subfrontal
and posterior cephalothoracic bristles. The dorsal epidermal ap-
pendages are not distributed to conform with the usual arrangement
for this genus, but a series of 26 moderately short, nontapering,
sparsely serrate, rod-like appendages are distributed on the dorsal
aspect of the bodj^ as follows : One at either side of mandibular plate
anteriorly, one just anterior to each e3^e, one just posterior to each eye,
six forming a fringe at hind margin of body, three along each side
of abdomen, one on either side of median axis in line with coxae III,
