646 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 5H.
and one on either side of median line near hind margin of abdomen.
Body of female ovate, widest across front region of abdomen, slightly-
obese for the size of the legs; cephalothorax rather evenly rounded
anteriorly with a slight truncate border overlying the palpi; male
elongate- sagitate in outline, legs conspicuously long for size of body.
Mandibular plate slightly over half as wide as long, tapering gradu-
ally forward, with almost no emargination anteriorly. "Thumb" of
palpus subcylindrical, belling considerably at base, upper surface
indented near central point; tip of "thiunb" bearing three "fingers,"
one at inferior angle conical and three times as long as thick, one
at superior angle slender and eight times as long as thick; a slender
"finger" between these at inner angle which in size is intermediate
between them. A reduced "finger" and a slender spine arise side
by side from the indentation of the upper side of "thumb." The
claw of the penultimate joint reaches to the subbasal "finger." Legs
of female are of average length, bai-ely less than that of bod}^; those
of male are slightly more than half again as long as body. Femur
nearly five times as long as thick, from three-quarters again to twice
as long as tarsus. Tibia about a quarter again as long as patella,
which is two and one-half times as long as trochanter. Relative
lengths of joints are as follows: Coxa, 6; trochanter, 4; femur, 15;
patella, 10.3: tibia, 12.7; tarsus, 8.5. Tip of tarsus not provided
with a claw. The usual series of four tenent hairs arise from the
end of the onychium.
Type.—Ctii. No. 20170, U.S.N.M.
The type material was from Mira Flores Station, Departmento de
Piura, Hacienda "San Jacinto," Peru, South America, October 15,
1912, on papaya (Carica pajyaya). Mr. E. W. Rust, the collector,
states that the species in life behaves much like T. himaculatus, and
injures the tender leaves of the papaya by feeding on the upper
surface.
Genus NEOTETRANYCHUS Tragardh.
Neotetranychus TkaoArdh, 1915, Med. Nr. 109 fr. Centr. f. fore, pa jordbr. Entom.
avdel. Nr. 20, p. 20.
This genus is thus far represented by a species from Europe and
a species from Illinois.
Spinning mites with empodial claw undivided and without sub-
basal appendages, sickle-shaped, slightly dentate at end; coUar
tracheae of the Tetranyclius type, but with posterior limb much
wider; penis strongly hooked and attenuate, unbarbed.
Type. — Neotetranychus ruhi Tragardh, originally designated.
KEY TO SPECIES OF GENUS NEOTETRANYCHUS.
a'. Empodial claw sickle-shaped, strongly curved, dentate at tip; tenent hairs four—
Neotetranychus ruhi Tragardh.
a^. Empodial claw slightly curved, very sharp at tip; tenent hairs two —
Tetmnychvs {Neotetranychus) uniunguu Ewing.
