No. 2303. iiEn SPIDERS OF AMERICA— McGREGOR. 647
NEOTETRANYCHUS RUBI Trag&rdh.
Tragardh (18) erected this genus in 1915 for a Swedish red spider
which was only observed on wild raspberries in the autumn. He
states that "to this genus belong hicolor Banks and modestus Banks,
which both have a simple, claw-shaped empodium." A careful
study of Banks's types, as elsewhere indicated, shows that in both
the above species the empodial claw is furnished with the group of
subbasal appendages, thus placing them in the genus ParatetraiiycJius.
NEOTETRANYCHUS UNIUNGUIS (Ewing),
Tetmnychus uniunnds Ewing, 1917, Journ. Econ. Ent., vol. 10, no. 5, p. 497.
A greenish-3^ellow species. Palpi rather stout, reaching the tip
of tibia of leg I. Palpal claw rather short, strongly curved, and not
very sharp at its tip. "Thumb" of palpus stout, as
broad as long, reaching but not surpassing the palpal
claw; "finger" of "thumb" situated in middle of the
apex, about twice as long as broad, and rounded at
its tip. Hairs of "thumb" distributed as follows:
Two small ones on the inside of "thumb" near its
apex, one long hair, about as long as the "thumb"
itself, on the inside near the base; and another of fig. i.-neotet.
about equal length on top not far from the base. R^nychus uni-
m^ T 1 • ■ « UNGUIS E^ING-
Cnelicerae each ansmg near the base of plate, and palpal append-
making an evenly rounded loop posteriorly, and then ages (after kw.
passing forward for about two-thirds their length,
then in a do\^^lward direction to their tips. The only place that the
chelicerae are swollen is near their bases. Tarsus of leg I consider-
ably longer than the tibia. Tarsi each ending in a single claw,
Avhich is not strongly curved, but is very sharp; two tenent hairs.
Length, 0.59 mm. ; width, 0.42 mm.
From Urbana, Illinois; on arbor vitae (Thuja occidentalis).
Genus SCfflZOTETRANYCHUS Tragdrdh.
Schizoietram/chi's Ti^aoArph, 1915, Med. Nr. 109, fr. Centr. f. fors. p^, jordbr.
Entom. avdel Nr. 20, p. 19.
This genus is represented at present by a species in Germany
and one in the United States.
Red spiders with empodial claw possessing two subequal simple
divisions ; penis with a large basal lobe and with a coarse tip.
Type.—ScMzotetranycJius schizoims Zacher, originally designated.
KEY TO SPECIES OF GENUS SCHIZOTETRANYXHUS.
fl' Palpal "thuml) '" without digit; tarsus I very broad and truncate at tip, two claws
subequal ScMzotetranychis latitarsus Ewing.
a^ Palpal "thumb" with slender terminal "finger" and adjacent digitulus; two
strong-curved tarsal claws; penis broader than that of teJorius, with an obtuse
basilar lobe Schizotetranychus schizopus Zacher.
