No. 2303. RED SPIDERS OF AMERICA— McGREGOR. 651
has long been recognized as an economically important species, and
has been treated taxonomicall}^ and economically by many workers
since Linnaeus, including Boisduval, Lucas, Wliitehead, Murray,
Ormerod, Oudemans, Berlese, Canestrini, Fanzago, Von Hanstein,
Tullgren, Noel, Bruyant, Keifi'er, Tragardh, Banks, and Ewing.
Among American workers Ev/ing (17) alone lias claimed that the
common red spider described in 1892 by Harvey as T. himamlatus is
identical ^Aith the linden mite. He claims also that T. sexmaculatus
Riley and T. gloveri Banks are synonyms of T. telarius. The present
writer believes he has established in the present work the valid
specific distinction of each of these excepting T. glm^eri, which he
finds to be identical with T. himaculatus.
The linden mite of Europe is the smallest of the true Tetranychus
species. It feeds commonly on linden, elm, horse-chestnut, maple,
aspen, and bird-cheny. In Europe T. telarius is laio"wai to occur in
England, France, Germany, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, and Italy.
American material has been determined at times by Banks as T. tela-
rius, but the latter authorit}" admits that he has not given the matter
the critical analysis that present-day workers in the Tetranychidae
have found to be necessary for the proper separation of species. The
present author has never collected the linden mite in this country.
The description of the European T. telarius as compiled from ac-
counts by European workers is as follows:
Ijength of female, 0.42 ram.: length of male. 0.33 mm. Color yellowish-gi'eenish-
yellow, sometimes green and with the hibernating females orange-yellow. A single
eye cornea on each side. The body has the typical
13 pairB of bristles, of which those located in the hind
half of the hysterosoma are the shortest ; bristles not
at all pilose: the two front vertex hairs are shorter
than the hind ones; the hairs are fine, the longest
of them being about one-third the length of the body.
The collar trachea is V or U shaped and of about even
thickness throughout. A trans vei'se suture sharply
separates the proterosoma from the hysterosoma, and
immediately behind tliis line the body attains its
greatest width. Leg I of male has empodiu.m of same
structure as the other pairs of lege. Empodial claw
sometimt-s t)-cleft, but usually 4-cloft . Penis slender, y^^^ ;5— Tetr vnychcs tel\riu3
the inner lobe rod-like; the basilar lobe obtusely Linnaeus, i, tarsal append-
sharp angled; the shaft somewhat thicker than inner ages; 2,collar trachea; 3, palpus
AND IT.S
GlTtDH).
lobe and is bent upward about G0° from the shaft ^^'^'"'^ appendages (after TrX.
axis to form the hook, which is acuminate pointed.
Palpal ' ■ thumb '" with stout terminal ' " finger. ' ' which at base is nearly as wide as tip
of "thumb:'" a pair of digituli at upper distal angle; a small dorsal "finger" midway
to base than which the terminal ""finger " is two and one-half times as thick, a pair of
shon hairs between dorsal "finger" and base: and a hair arising latero-ventrally from
the middle of the "thumb." Hook of the penidtiaiate joint just reaching to the
dorwal "finger."
