652 PROCEEDINOS OF THE XATIOXAL MUSEUM. vol.56.
TETRANYCHUS ALTHAEAE Von Hanstein.
Plate 79, fig. 8.
Tetranychus nlthaeae Von Hanstein, 1901, Zeitschr. wi^ss. Zool., vol. 70, pp. 5^108,
pi. 6.
Von Hanstein (10) described this mite from material on liollyhock
in Germany. His original description of T. althaeae was altogether
too vague to be of much value taxonomically. We are therefore
including Tragardh's (18) revised diagnosis, which in substance is as
follows :
Length of female, 0.570 mm.; of male, 0.430 mm. Body of
female broadly oval, more reduced backwards than forward, and
with a slight constriction between proterosoma and hysterosoma,
the greatest width, 0.225 mm., is not at the shoulders, but nearer
the middle. The legs are relatively longer in the male than with
the female. The body hairs are finely pilose, quite pointed and
short (about 0.09 mm.), not arising from elevations of the cuticule,
and consisting of 13 pairs in the typical arrangement; frontal hairs
only haK as long as subfrontal ones. Pedipalps in both sexes with
claw shorter than "thumb." Male palpus with claw small, shghtly
bent, and reaching very little onto the "thumb," which is sloping
conical so that the dorsal line is longer than ventral line, and in the
middle of the dorsal line with a small concavity. The seven ty|)ical
appendages are present, including three hairs, two "fingers" and two
digituli. The dorsal "finger" is only half as long and broad as ter-
minal "finger," which is half as long as the fourth joint, cyhndrical,
three times as long as thick, and rounded at tip. The two digituli
are somewhat longer than the terminal "finger" and are placed
close together. Penis with a relatively stout and short shaft with a
blunt point and with a slight prominence on the middle of the dorsal
outhne of shaft. (See plate 79, fig. 8.) Female pedipalp broader at
base than in male, second joint about twice as long as third one;
the terminal "finger" of the "thumb" is large, just equafing the
ventral side of the fourth joint, cylindrical and rounded at tip; the
digituli and hairs are similar to those of male. The tip of tarsus of
female, with a strongly curved empodial claw, which is four-cleft
beyond the angle, and four tenent hairs are borne on two enlarged
pedicels at the sides of the claw base. The male tarsus bears an
empodial claw that is very short, stout, and slightly bent, and is
tripartite beyond the angle. The collar trachea extends straight
down and is then bent in a round bow backward and upward without
widening to a noticeable extent at any point.
