42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
LORA HEALYI, new species.
Plate 16, fig. 8.
Shell white, more or less discolored by ferruginous red (probably
adventitious) with five and a half rounded whorls, a subglobular
smooth nucleus forming one and a half of these; spiral sculpture of
(on the penultimate whorl 6 or 7, on the last whorl about 14) coarse
rather irregular cords with narrower channelled interspaces, the
cords more or less nodulated by incremental lines and on the spire
by obscure ribbing; suture distinct, aperture narrow, simple; pillar
white, erased, canal short, straight. Height of shell, 15; of last
whorl, 10; diameter, 7 mm. Cat. No. 223908, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Arctic Ocean north of Bering Straits.
Named in honor of the late Capt. M. A. Healy, of the United States
Hevenue Marine, a frequent contributor to the national collection.
LORA POPOVIA, new species.
Plate 14, fig. 8.
Shell white with straw-colored periostracum, six shouldered
whorls, a subglobular small nucleus, and distinct suture; spiral
sculpture of (on the upper whorl four or five) rounded threads, be-
tween the shoulder and the succeeding suture, the threading obsolete
on the last whorl or reduced to fine striation on the base and canal;
axial sculpture on the spire of about 16 short rounded ribs swollen
at the shoulder and reaching the succeeding suture, but fainter on the
last whorl and absent from the base; aperture simple, pillar white,
erased, canal short, straight. Height of shell 13; of last whorl, 8:
.diameter 5.5 mm. Cat. 220883, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Bristol Bay, Bering Sea, to Monterey Bay, California.
LORA TENUILIRATA Dall.
Plate 15, fig. 4.
Bcla tcnuilirata Dall, Amer. Journ. Conch., vol. 7, p. 98, Nov. 1871.
? + Bela simplex G. O. Saks, 1878, not of Middendorff, 1849.
The original specimen of this species was quite young. I now
figure the adult.
Range. — Point Barrow, Arctic Ocean, to the Shumagin Islandf.,
Alaska.
LORA TENUILIRATA CYMATA. new variety.
Plate 16, fig. 4.
Shell resembling typical tcnuilirata, but with a higher and more
acute spire, and with 20 or more narrow axial riblets on the last
whorl, obsolete on the base, and a single spiral thread at the shoulder.
Height, 23 ; of last whorl, 17 ; diameter, 10.5 mm. Cat. No. 226186,
U.S.N.M.
Range. — Nunivak Island, Bering Sea, to the Shumagin Islands,
Alaska.
