No. 2303. RED SPIDERS OF AAlElUCA—McGREGOR. 655
The writer (23) published a list of 29 synonyms of the original
European red spider ( T. telarius) as claimed by various workers since
Linnaeus. The studies that resulted in the elaboration of this exten-
sive synonjmiy were, for the most part, probably not conducted with
equipments of a natm-e satisfactory for the determination of the
taxonomic characters. A further critical review of these species may
bring to light additional synonyms of T. Urnaculatus. Ewing (15)
states that T. telarius, T. himaculatus, T. gloveri, and T. sexmaculatus
should be considered as synonymous.
The writer has had an opportunity to study very critically all of
Banks's types, and has examined himaculatus material collected by
Harvey at Orono, Maine (type locality of same), as well as copious
material of sexmaculatus from Florida. We are agreed with Ewing
that gloveri and himaculatus are the same, but our studies iiave demon-
strated conclusively that sexmaculatus is distinct. Since Tragardh
(18), Zacher (13), and Berlese (5) of Europe state that telarius pos-
sesses but four erapodial claws, and since Zacher's and Berlese's
figures of the penis differ radically from tliat of himaculatus, the
writer prefers to consider the latter a distinct species, at least for the
nresent.
T. vitis was described in 1867 by Boisduval (2) from mites on
grape in France. The accompanying text figures of the palpus and
mandibular plate, drawn from material collected and determined in
France, are obviously identical with the corresponding cJiaracters of
himaculatus. The tarsal appendages also agree perfectly with those
of himaculatus. A study of Boisduval' s type may corroborate this
and cause himaculatus to fall as a synonym of vitis.
A critical study of Banks's type slide (No. 7508) of T. desertorum
reveals the fact that the tarsal claw is 6-clef t (not 4-clef t as claimed by
Banks), and it othervv^se agrees with that of himaculatus. The palpal
appendages of the former are also just like those of the latter, and
this is true also with the mandibular plate.
A study of CockreU's (11) type slide of T. verhesinae on Verhesina
exauriculata, from Las Vegas, New Mexico, proves that the tarsal
structure, as well as tliat of the mandibular plate, shape of bod}',
arrangement of bristles and other characters, is quite like that of
bimxiculatus. Cockerell's description is so general that it might apply
equally to any of the red spiders, and is of almost no taxonomic value.
Banks's type slide (No. 2330) of T. gloveri contains material that
conforms perfectly with himaculatus. The palpal appendages and the
collar trachea are of the himaculatus type, the tarsal claw is 6-cleft,
and the mandibular plate is just as in the latter species.
An examination of Banks's type slide of T. bpuniiae on cactus
from Arizona reveals the fact that the palpal and tarsal characters are
precisely as in himaculatus. The empodial claw is 6-cleft, there is
