656 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
a single eye cornea on each side, and the ratio of the frontal to sub-
frontal bristles is 3:5. The collar trachea appears about like that of
himaculatus.
In Banks's type collection there was a species that lie had indicated
as new and had given it the manuscript name T. peruvierisis. It is
well to record at this point that this species likewise agrees thoroughly
with himaculotus when subjected to a very close study.
At the time of publication of previous papers on T. bimaculaivs
by the writer a realh^ ultramicroscopic examination with the aid of
the oil immersion equipment (such as we have more recently adopted
as the necessary standard) had not been made. Such intensive
studies have since been conducted (see pi. 76, fig. 1), and I can cor-
roborate Ewing's (17) description of the tarsal appendages wherein
he says :
Tarsal claw strongly curved at its base, * * * tlien divided into six pronglike
elements * * * arranged in three pairs.
Description of female of T. himaculatus Harvey:
Color variable; at times rusty green, sometimes greenish amber, or
yellowish, at times almost black, but more often brick red or ferru-
ginous red. Pigmented blotches occur almost invariably on the sides
of the body, which are usually coalesced to form two large dark spots,
one on each side extending from the back of the cepiialothorax to the
posterior region of the abdomen. These are often interrupted pos-
teriorly to form a large anterior and a small posterior spot. These
spots arise from underlying paired organs. Almost directly over
coxae II are the carmine eyespots located on each side near the
margin of the cephalothorax. Legs pale amber, much paler than
ground color of body. Palpi pale salmon. Dorsal bristles pale, not
arising from tubercles. Body pyi-iform oval, widest across posterior
region of cephalotliorax; bristles in four rows, each succeeding pair
becoming shorter; the frontal pair a little over half as long as the
subfrontal pair which, like the median pair next behind, are two-
fifths the greatest width of body. Mandibular plate about twice as
long as broad, tapering sliglitly forward, broadly rounded at tip, with
a slight median notch. "Thumb" of palpus in shape somewhat like
a truncated cone, the dorsal face about one-third longer than the
greatest width at base, the upper surface twice slightly depressed
transversely, with an intervening dilation, bearing on its tip a sub-
oylindrical "finger" which is about two-fifths as wide at its base as
the distal end of the "thumb." On its upper side, just above the
"finger," are two stout, straight hairs arising close together, one
medially and the other laterally, which do not greatly exceed in length
the "finger." Near the middle of the upper side is a small "finger"
three-fourths the length and one-half the width of the terminal "fin-
ger" and verv similar to the latter. Between this dorsal "finsrer " and
