No. 2303. RED SPIDERS OF AMERICA— McQREQOR. 657
the base of the "thumb" and at middle of latero-ventral aspect of
"thumb" arises a hair about equalling the latter. The penultimate
palpal joint bears the usual claw, which reaches about to the basal
"finger," and also bears two bristles, one arising dorsally at base of
claw which hardly equals the length of claw, and one arising near
center of outer side which about equals the length of claw, and one
arising near center of outer side which about equals the dorsal
bristle. Legs I hardly equal the length of body from the anterior
margin of cephalothorax to tip of abdomen; relative lengths of seg-
ments of leg I— coxa, 25; trochanter, 15; femur, 53; patella, 23;
tibia, 30; tarsus, 49; femur almost four times as long as thick; tip
of tarsus (the onychium) bearing a claw which is strongly arcuate
and 6-cleft to its middle. Arising also from the onychium, lateral
of base of claw on either side is an enlarged process which immedi-
ately splits into two nearly straight hairs, each of which bears a
capitate tip. These four tenent hairs spread spokelike in the same
plane and their respective lengths are similar to those of the fingers
of the human hand viewed dorsally. A series of measured females
gave the following dimensions : Length (front of cephalothorax to tip
of abdomen), 0.424 mm.; width (across posterior margin of cephalo-
thorax), 0.278 mm.; length of forelegs, 0.325 mm. (see pi. 76 and pi.
79, fig 11).
From Orono, Maine, on 37 species of cultivated plants by F. L,
Harvey (7), who also reported it from Ithaca and New York and
from West Grove, Pennsylvania.
TETRANYCHUS PACIFICUS, new species.
Plates 77 and 79, fig. 12.
Color, lemon-amber; spotted laterally from fecal contents of viscera.
A single pale eye cornea on either side posterio-ventrad of subfrontal
bristles. Legs and palpi pale. Dorsal bristles about 24, in four
rows, appearmg simple, pale, longest bristle (subfrontal) equaling
breadth of body. Body elliptical, 0.39 mm. long by 0.215 mm. wide;
vertical thickness of body about normal. "Thumb" of palpus of
about usual length, a trifle longer than wide, bearing at its tip a
subcyhndrical ''finger," the length of which is two and one-fourth
times that of its thickness, and whose base is hardly one-half the
width of "thumb" at tip; on its dorso-distal angle are two digituli;
on dorsal face hardly midwa}^ to base is a "finger" or sensilla, in
length just one-half that of terminal "finger," and between this and
base are two short hairs barely exceeding the digituli; a hair arises
latero-ventrally from the center of the "thumb;" the claw on the
penultimate joint nearly reaches to the dorsal "finger." The spur
on tlie second joint of the male palpus is conical and arises from a
115690— l$>—Proc.N.M.vo!.56 42
