658 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
flattened tubercle. The forelegs are about three-quarters the length
of body. Femur three and one-half times as long as wide, about
one-fifth longer than tarsus; tibia one-fifth longer than patella, which
is two- thirds again as long as trochanter. Relative lengths of joints
as follows: Trochanter, 9; femur, 33; patella, 15; tibia, 18; tarsus, 27.
Tip of tarsus with empodial claw, which is strongly bent below its
middle, and with distal two-thirds cleft into six equal spurs arranged
in pairs. The usual series of four tenent hairs arise from the ony-
chium at the sides of the empodial claw base. Collar trachea scythe-
shaped, extends backward and downward, then bends sharply up-
ward, of rather even caliber throughout. Penis (see pi. 79, fig. 12)
nearest that of T. himaculatus but very distinct in the nature of the
barb; uiner lobe slender, horn-like; basilar lobe projecting dorsally as
a cone-shaped process; shaft not very stout, but somewhat thicker
than inner lobe, bent upward to form an angle of about 90°; hook
bearing a barb that is produced posteriorly into a spur nearly as long
as the hook (see pi. 4).
Type.— C&t. No. 22292, U.S.N.M.
The type material is from Portland, Oregon, September 2, 1915,
from mock orange {PMlacMphus gordonuinus) , from Vicia, species,
and from wild current (Rihes, species) , and on chinaberry from Tracey,
California, September 12, 1915, collected by the author. The species
is nearest T. himaculatus, from Avhich it differs chiefly in the structure
of the penis and of the collar trachea.
TETRANYCHUS BOREALIS Ewing.
Plate 79, fig. 9.
Tetranychus borealis Ewing, 1913, Ann. Ent. Soc. Amer., vol. fi, p. 457.
In the original publication Ewing (15) states that the female is
"similar to the female of T. teJarius Linn., but smaller, and never
orange or red. The inner prongs of the tarsal claw are stouter than
the inner prongs of the tarsal claw of T. tdarius Linn." Regarding
the male he states it is ' 'similar to the male of T. telarius Linn., except
for penis. Penis long, straight. Inner lobe about equal to basilar
lobe in length. Shaft shaped like a slender rod. Basilar lobe very
pronoimced, cone-shaped, equal to about one-fourth the length of the
shaft. Hook absent. Barb knob-like." (See pi. 79, fig. 9.)
Ewing's type material was from Spirea species, from the Coast
Range Mountains, Benton County, Oregon. Ewing states that this
species is very closely related to T. Jiavus Ewing, but on account of
the marked difference in the character of the empodial claws, and
of the penis, the writer is of the opinion that the two species are rather
widely separated.
