No. 2303. RED SPIDERS OF AMERICA— McGREGOR. 661
forelegs about four-fifths the length of body. Femur about two and
one-half times as long as thick, barely longer than the tarsus; tibia
and patella equal. Tip of tarsus bears a claw which is rather strongly
bent near base and only slightly arched for the rest of its length; it
appears to be uncleft for over half its length, and then divided into
six closely appressed spines. Tlie usual series of four tenent hairs
arise in pairs by the side of the claw base. The collar trachea, open-
ing medially in a pore, runs first downward and backward, then up-
ward and backward, and then upward and slightly forward. It is of
nearly even caliber throughout, but gradually enlarges a trifle toward
the hind end. Viewed as a whole it is very nearly sickle-shaped.
The penis (see pi. 79, fig. 1) is simple in structure, the shaft l)eing
very gradually attenuated to an extremely sharp point; it is very
slightly bent just distad to the middle, but is generally straight.
Type.— Cat. No. 20169, U.S.N.M.
From Oregon City, Oregon, from the leaves of white oak (Quercus
lobata), to which a noticeable rusty appearance is imparted through
the work of the species.
TETRANYCHUS OREGONENSIS McGregor.
Plate 79, fig. 2.
Tetranychus oregonensis McGregor, 1917, Proc. L". S. Nat. Mus., vol. 51, no. 2167,
p. 585.
Color, straw color or pale yellowish amber ; lateral spots lacking or
very inconspicuous. Eyes pale, a single one on either side near base
of subfrontal bristles. Legs and palpi paler than body. Dorsal
bristles 26, in four rows, plumose, pale, longest bristle (subfrontal)
equal to half the breadth of body. Body eUiptic-ovate, 0.304 mm.
long by 0.142 mm. wide; vertical thickness of body greatly reduced.
"Thumb" of palpus very short, nearly half again as wide as long,
bearing at its tip a fairly ample '^finger," whose base, however, is
slightly more than one-third the width of "thumb" at tip. On its
upper distal corner are two pseudo-fingers; on upper side hardly
midway to base is a very small "finger" or sensilla, and between this
and base are two short hairs ; a pair arises latero-ventrally from the
center of the "thumb." The claw on the penultimate joint reaches
to the dorsal "finger." The spur on the second joint of the male
palpus is rather long and tack-like. The legs are rather short, about
three-fourths the length of body. Femur hardly twice as long as
wide, equaling the tarsus; tibia one-fom'th longer than patella, which
barely surpasses the trochanter in length. Relative lengths of joints
as follows: Trochanter, 10; femur, 21; patella, 11; tibia, 14; tarsus,
21. Tip of tarsus bears a claw which is strongly bent below its
middle; the portion beyond this point is cleft into six nearly straight
