062 I'ROCJ^JUJDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 5«.
claw divisions, the two inner of which are somewhat stronger than
the others. The usual series of four teiient hairs arise by the sides
of the claw base. Collar trachea of novel type; runs baclcvvard and
doAvn-ward as a straight, even-calibered tube, and then bends sharply
upward into a short, wide chamber, the two arms making an angle
with one another of less than 90°. The penis shaft (pi. 12, fig. 2)
appears to taper gradually to a strong, unbarbed hook.
Type.— C&t. No. 20166, U.S.N.M.
From Portland, Oregon, on wild cherry (Prunus, species). Prob-
ably nearest T. monticolu^s, from which it is readily separated through
the collar trachea and penis characters.
TETHANYCHUS MONTICOLUS McGregor.
Plate 79, fig. 3.
Tetranychus moniicolus McGre(50u, 1917, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 51, no.
2167, p. 584.
Body of a rather uniform pale amber color. Eyes pale ; one cornea
on each side close behind the subfrontal bristle, behind which are the
carrot-colored eyespots. Legs and palpi rather paler than body.
Dorsal l^ristles colorless, distinctly plumose, 26 hi four rows, the
longest about five-ninths the width of body. Body pyriform-
elliptic, usually widest between legs II and III. Mandibular plate
nearly three times as long as broad, narrowed considerably ante-
riorly to a well-rounded, unemarginated tip. "'Thumb" of palpus
two-thirds as long as broad, bearing on its truncate tip a subconical
''finger,'' whose base is only two-fifths as wide as the tip of the
"thumb." On its upper distal corner are two pin-shaped pseudo-
fingers, in length somewliat exceeding the terminal ''finger," on
upper side, about a third the distance to base, is a small ''finger;"
and immediately proximad to this is a short hair. Another similar
hair occurs on the upper side just at base ; a hair arises on the ventral
aspect of the "thumb." The claw of the penultimate joint does not
reach quite to the dorsal "finger." The legs are short, not much
over two-thirds the length of body (exclusive of palpi). Femiu- a
little more than twice as long as wide, not quite as long as tarsus;
tibia a little longer than patella, which is five-sevenths again as long
as the trochanter. Relative lengths of joints are as follows: Coxa, 8;
trochanter, 7; femur, 20; patella, 12; tibia, 14; tarsus, 22. Tip of
tarsus bears a claw which is bent near its middle and cleft into six
slightly curved spurs. Tlie customary four tenent hairs arise, two
on either side by base of claw, tarsal claw of male differing from that
of female in that its six divisions are much shorter and more al)ruptly
acuminate. Tlie collar trachea is rather novel; it runs downward
