664
PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.
TOL. 56.
of body; in some specimens there is an additional spot each side between the two;
legs and mouth parts pale reddish. Young specimens are paler, with spots more
distinct and confluent. Eggs are pale red. Bodj- mod-
erate!}' broad; bristles rather longer than usual, quite
stout, all in the usual arrangement, pul^frontal pair not
twice as long as the frontal pair. Palpi of average
length; "thumb" a trifle longer than greatest width, on
its tip is a large, short, cylindro-conical "finger" whose
base is over two-thirds the width of tip of "thumb," the
usual dorsal "finger" arises at the middle of the dorso-
median line and is about one-third longer than the ter-
minal "finger," but in thickness is barely more than
one-third that of the latter; the two customary digituli
arise at the outer distal angle of the "thumb," and
the usual two hairs occur dorsally between the dorsal
"finger" and the base; a hair arises near the middle
of the outer face of the "thumb." Mandibular plate
twice as long as broad, narrowed toward tip, the sides
before tip slightly concave, broadly rounded at tip,
without a median emargination. I^egs moderate; femur
I fully t%vice as long as broad; tibia I longer than patella;
tarsus of moderate length, terminating in a claw which is
strongly bent near middle, at which point arise two main
divisions — the termino-dorsal division consisting of a
single stoiit spur, and the ventral division of a somewhat
stouter cla'fl' that soon splits into six equal, slender, spine-
like spui-s, which exceed considerably the donsal spur.
Fig. 5.— Septanychus TUMiDt-s
liANKS. 1 , MANOIBL'I.AR PLATF ;
2, TARSAL appendages; .3, PAL-
PAL "thumb"' ANI> IT.S AP-
PENDAGES (ORIGrXAL"!.
From Eustis, Florida, on the leaves of water hyacinth.
SEPTANYCHUS QUINQUENYCHUS (McGregor).
Tetranychus quinquenychus McGrkoor, 1914, Ann. Ent. Soc. Anier., vol. 7,
no. 4, December.
There are a number of types of coloration, but the general ground-
color is reddish-chestnut, mth the cephalothorax decidedly paler; the
prevaihng design consists of two large lung-shaped blackish areas one
on each side toward base of abdomen, which coalesce medially toward
the front, a similar but smaller spot on each side near posterior end
of abdomen; legs and mouthparts pale. Body broadest midway
between legs II and III, tapering sharply forward to the narrow,
slightly convex frontal margin, also tapering considerably behind,
twice as long as broad; length, 0.45 mm,, width, 0.23 mm.; bristles
rather long and iSne, seven each in the dorsal rows and six each in
the sublateral rows, frontal pair half as long as subfrontal pair,
wldch are placed just in front of the eyes. "Thumb" of palpus
very short and stout — somewhat wider at base than the length, on
its tip is a blunt "finger" the basal width of which is not greatly
less than its length; midway on the upper side is a "finger" some-
what shorter than the terminal "finger" and of about one- third the
widtli of the latter; at the upper distal angle are two digituh, and
two short hairs occur on the "thumb" between the dorsal "finger"
