No. 2303.
RED SPIDERS OP AMERICA— McOREGOR.
665
and the antepenultimate claw. Mandibular plate with subparallel
sides and subtruncate at front but unemarginated. Legs of moderate
length; foreleg, 0.33 mm.; femur I, two and one-half times as long
as broad; tibia I somewhat longer than patella I; tarsus in length
equaling tibia and patella together; the tarsal appendages, consist-
ing of the usual series of four tenent hairs and an empodial claw,
which is very sharply bent at middle at which point arises dorsally
a strong spur and ventrally a stronger division that immediately
splits into six * equal, slender, distally-curving, spine-hke claws
which considerably exceed in length the dorsal claw. Relative
lengths of the leg joints are as follows: Tro-
chanter, 10; femur, 25; patella, IS; tibia, 19;
tarsus, 37. There is but a single eye cornea
on each side, which is set in a shallow sub-
marginal socket directly over coxa II. Col-
lar trachea scythe-shaped, the anterior arm
running downward and backward with a
shght upward convexity near its middle and
then bending very sharply upward to form
the nearly straiglit posterior arm, which is
of similar cahber to the anterior arm.
The spur on the male palpus consists of a
spine-hke appendage set in a thuml)-like
prominence of the second joint.
Type.— Cat. No. 19087, U.S.N.M.
From Orlando, Florida, on castor bean
(Ricinus cormnurvls). This species is rather
close to the preceding species, but is proba-
bly distinct through the following characters:
Breadth of body; relative length of frontal to subfrontal bristles;
mandibular plate; proportions of terminal "finger." A more care-
ful study of tumidus material may eventually show that the species is
identical with quinquenychus.
Genus PARATETRANYCHUS Zacher.
Paratetranychtts Zacher, 1910, Mitth. Kais. Biol. Anst. f. Land u. Forst., Heft 9,
Januar, pp. 37-41.
This genus contains at the present date two European species, one
South American species, and seven North American species.
Red spiders, with empodial claw complex, appendiculate at base
or at point between it and middle point with from 4 to 8 spurs; dorsal
spur more prominent and much longer or at least equahng the
appendiculate spurs; collar trachea straight, enlarged at end into a
bladder-shaped chamber.
> In the original description the author erroneously writes that the ventral claw division splits into
our spurs. We take this opportunity of correcting this statement as above recorded in the text.
Fig. e.— Septanychus quinque-
nychus McGregor. 1, TARSAL
appendages; 2, collar tra-
chea; 3, palpal "thumb" AND
ITS appenpagk.s -(original).
