666 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
Type. — Paratetranychus ununguis Jacobi, designated by Tra-
gardh, 1915.
KKV TO THE SPKCIES OF GENUS PARATETRANYCHUS.
1. Appendiculate spurs at base of tarsal claw about one-quarter the length of the main
dorsal claw division; femur I about lialf again as long as tarsus I ; palpal "thumb"
over twice as wide as long; terminal "finger" about half again as long as thick;
mandibular plate deeply emarginate P. peruvianus McGregor.
Appendiculate spurs at base of tarsal claw half or more the length of the main dor-
sal claw division 2
2. Main dorsal division of empodial claw decidedly exceeding the basal, appendicu-
late spurs; palpal "thumb " of male longer than wide 3
Main dorsal division of empodial claw not conspicuously exceeding the basal
appendiculate spurs; palpal "thumb " wider than long 4
3. Terminal "finger" of palpal "thumb " well developed, at base fully half as wide as
tip of "thumb"; tarsal appendiculate spurs rather closely appressed and fused
toward the bases; penis shaft stout, bent sharply to form acuminate hook;
mandibular plate elongate, truncate or broadly rounded in front without emargi-
nation P. pralensis Banks.
Terminal "finger" of palpal "thumb'" of male inconspicuous, much less than half
width of "thumb " at tip; tarsal appendiculate spurs widely radiate, free to their
bases; penis shaft slender, together with acuminate hook forming sickle-shaped
structure; mandibular plate wide, broadly rounded anteriorly without emargi-
nation P. ununguis Jacobi.
4. Terminal "finger" of palpus three times as long as thick, not oA'^er twice as thick as
lateral "finger"; ventral tarsal claw division cleft barely more than half its
length, and the six appendiculate spurs rather closely clustered; mandibular
plate not plainly emarginate P. modestus Banks.
Terminal "finger" of palpus not much longer than thick, from three to five times
as thick as lateral "finger"; ventral tarsal claw division cleft nearly or quite to
base, and considerably divergent; mandibular plate more often emarginate 5
5. Mandibular plate not emarginate 6
Mandibular plate distinctly or indistinctly emarginate 7
6. Terminal "finger" of palpal "thumb" spatulate in outline; lateral "finger" short,
tack-like; main dorsal claw of tarsus with greatest thickness at mid-point.
P. pilosus Canestrini and Fanzago.
Terminal "finger" of palpal "thumb" subconic in outline; lateral "finger" long,
banana-shaped ; main dorsal claw of tarsus thickest at base P. viridis ' Banks.
7. Dorsal bristles arising from prominent tubercles 8
Dorsal bristles not arising from prominent tubercles 9
8. Tarsus equaling femur; mandibular plate almost imperceptibly emarginate; hook
of penis longer than shaft, bent 60° from main axis of penis; tarsal claw with six
appendiculate spurs; subfrontal bristles about three times as long as frontals.
P. citri McGregor.
Femur from one-quarter to one-fifth longer than tarsus; mandibular plate distinctly
emarginate; hook of penis about half length of shaft, bent over 90° from main
axis of penis; tarsal claw with five appendiculate spurs; subfrontal bristles only
one-quarter again as long as frontals P. ilicis McGregor.
9. Femur about t^\'o and one-half times as long as wide and one-quarter again as long
as tarsus; tarsal claw with six appendiculate spurs P. bicolor Banks.
Femur about half again as long as wide and hardly equaling the tarsus; tarsal claw
with five appendiculate spurs P. yothersi McGregor.
» VirldU and simplex are synonyms; the former was the earlier and holds.
