No. 2303. RED SPIDERS OF AMERICA— McGREGOR. 667
PARATETRANYCHUS PERUVIANUS (McGregor).
Tteranychus {Paratetranychus) peruvianus I^IcGregor, (peruianus) 1917, Proc U.
S, Nat. Mus., vol. 51, pp. 581, 582, 589, pis. 101-107. The name was mis-
spelled on p. 581, but properly spelled on p. 589.
Color, translucent yeUo wish-green. Eyes (in mounted material)
clear, directly over front margin of coxae II. Dorsal bristles, 24 in
number, not arising from tubercles, for the most part very short and
weak, distributed on dorsal aspect of body in about the usual arrange-
ment. Body of female rhombic-ovate, widest across hind margm of
cephalothorax, which is shghtly emarginate in front; male cuneate-
pentagonal, widest across hind margin of cephalothorax, which is trun-
cate in front, abdomen tapering to acute point posteriori}^. Man-
dibular plate considerably more than twice as long as broad, margins
subparallel, v/ith a very distinct anterior emargination. ''Thumb"
of palpus very short in proportion to its vddth, bearing at its tip a
relatively large, subconical ''finger," whose base is half as wide as
tip of "thumb," length of "thumb" and terminal "finger" together
equaling width of " thumb." On its rather truncate tip, on opposite
sides of the "finger," are two stout spines or pseudo-fingers (not much
thicker than hairs) ; on upper side about one-third to base, is a small
"finger," and between this and base are two short hairs, the distal-
most one of which apj)ears to arise adjacent to the small "finger."
The davv^ on the penultimate joint reaches far beyond the middle of
the " thumb " ; a hair arises laterally from the center of the " thumb,"
and another from a similar position on the penultimate joint. The
legs are unusually short, in the female distinctly less than the width
of the body, in the male barely exceeding the width of body. Femur
I considerably less than twice as long as wide, about half again as long
as tarsus I. Tibia I just equaling pateUa I, which barely equals
trochanter I. Tip of tarsus bears a stout, siclde-shaped claw, wliich
is unclef t to its tip ; arising from the under face of this claw, near its
base, are six weak spmes, which are less than one-fourth of the length
of the main claw. The usual series of four tenent hairs arise by the
sides of the base of the claw from the tip of the short onychium. The
egg is unknown to the writer.
Type.— C&t. No. 20164, U.S.N.M.
The type material was collected by Mr. E. W. Rust " along the line
of the Ferrocarril Central del Peru near La Legua (between lima and
Callao), Peru, South America, January, 1913, from the underside of
willow (Salix, species) leaves."
