668
PROCEEDINGS OF THE XATIOXAL MUSEUM.
VOL. 50.
Notes. — ^An ample series of measurements of mounted material
in fair condition yielded the following averages for adults of both
sexes :
Sex.
Length
palpi).
1
Foreleg.
vim.
0. 173
.177
Female
mm. 1 mm.
0.299 1 0.205
.237 .168
I
I
Male
The relative lengths of the leg joints are as follows: Coxa, 9:
trochanter, 10; femur, 16; patella, 9.5; tibia, 9.5; tarsus, 10.
Mr. Rust states that the presence of this species causes the willow
leaves to turn yellow and drop, but did not appear to greatly injure
the trees. He says that the individuals live in restricted colonies
under small, compact webs which almost completely conceal them.
These webs, according to Mr. Rust, resemble very much the webs
under which many true spiders deposit their eggs. No predaceous
species were observed in the mite colonies.
PAH.4TETKANYCHUS PRATENSIS (Banks).
Plate 79, fig. 16.
Tetranychus pratensis Banks. 1912, Proc. Wash. Eutom. Soc, vol. 14, p. 459.
Owing, undoubtedly, to inadequate microscopic equipment,
Banks (14), in his original description of this species, entirely mis-
stated the characters of the tarsus and palpus. Recent critical
studies of the type material have revealed the fact that instead, as
Banks states, of the tarsus ending "in two long, simple, and but
little curved claws," it bears a single sickle-shaped claw, which gives
rise near its base to six appendiculate spurs. Ewing writes that
"the inner claw is bent downward very near its base, and beyond
this bend it is three-cleft." Also the palpal "thumb," in addition
to bearing "one stout finger and a hair at one corner," possesses the
usual dorsal "finger," two digituli at the upper distal corner, and
two short hau-s dorsally between the dorsal "finger" and base. The
original description as modified through the results of recent studies
of the type material is as follows :
Pale greenish. Body nearly or quite twice as long as broad,
rather more elongate than usual, broadly rounded behind, without
humps above, with the usual four rows of rather long bristles, those
above longer than the hmd tarsi. Legs short, none as long as the
body, with many long hairs, some extremely long, being as long as
two joints together. Mandibular plate elongate, truncate, or
broadly rounded in front, but not emarginate. Palpal "thumb" a
