No. 2303. RED SPIDERS OF A2IEIlICA—2IcGREGOR. 671
PAKATETR.4NYCHUS PILOSLS (Canestrini and Fanzago).
Plate 79, %. 14.
Tetranychics pilosus Canestrini and Fanzago, 1877-78, Intorno agli Acari
Italian!, Atti 1st. Venet., ser. 5, vol. 4, pp. fi9-208.
Canestrini and Fanzago (3) in 1878 referred this species to the
genus Tetravychus, but Zacher (13), in 1910, as before mentioned,
erected the genus Paratetranyehus to include P. wnunguis Jacobi
and P. pilosus. P. pilosus is called the rose mite in Italy and occurs
there most commonly on roses, Rihes, species, pear, and cherry.
Length of female, 0.315 mm. Dorsal bristles, 26, in four rows,
line-pointed, pilose, and arising from tubercles. Palpal "thumb"
bears on its tip a stout spatulate ' 'finger, " the thickness of which
about equals its length. The usual dorso- terminal digituii, the dorsal
"finger" which is tack-like, and the dorso-basal hairs occur on the
"thumb," as well as the latero- ventral hair. The tarsus possesses
a heavy, sickle-shaped claw wliich is thickest at mid-point; from this
middle point ventrally four appendiculate spurs arise which con-
siderably surpass the claw. The usual four tenent hairs are present.
The inner lobe of the penis (see pi. 79, fig. 14) is club-shaped, thick-
ening considerably posteriorly to form the obtuse basilar lobe; the
shaft barely half as long as inner lobe but otherwise similar; hook
bent only 45° from the main axis of the penis, sharply acuminate
without barb. Collar trachea straight and of even caliber, with
spherical, dilated chamber. Mandibular plate narrowed and rounded
anteriorly, but not emarginate.
PARATETRANYCHUS VIRIDIS (Banks).
Tetranychus viridis Banks, 1894, Trans. Amer. Entom. yoc, vol. 21, p. 218.
Tetranychus simplex Banks, 1914, Pomona Journ. Ent. Zool., vol. 6, no. 2, p. 57.
Banks's (8) description of P. viridis, which
follows, is in the most abstract terms and in
no way differentiates the species from the red
spiders :
Length, 0.40 mm. Greenish, with a large, blackish or
sometimes reddish spot each side covering the shoulders
of the alidomen and the posterior angles of the cephalo-
thorax. The cephalothorax is quite distinctly sepa-
rated from the abdomen by a constriction; the abdomen
broadest at the shoulders ; the cephalothorax short, broadly ^la- (».— Pak vtetranychus
rounded. The body bears a few long bristles. Those ''''^'^''^ "''''''• ^\ ^""^-'^
on the legs are similar, but shorter. The anterior
pairs of legs are somewhat larger than the posterior agks (okicix.vl).
pairs.
A critical study of Banks's material reveals the following tarsal
and palpal characters:
,vp pen a g e s ; ■>, palpal
thumh" and its APPKND-
