672 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
Tip of tarsus bears a short, sickle-shaped claw, which is uncleft
to its tip; arising from the ventral surface of this claw, one-fifth
its length from base, are six radiating spurs, which are about haK
the length of the main claw. The usual series of four tenent hairs
arise by the sides of the base of the claw from the tip of the onych-
ium. "Thumb" of palpus short, wider than long, bearing at its
tip an unusually ample, oval-shaped "finger," wliich is almost as
thick as long, and whose base is just half as wide as tip of "thumb."
Near the upper distal angle are the two customary digituli which
slightly exceed the terminal "finger;" on upper side not quite mid-
way to base is a small, banana-shaped "finger" or sensilla one-
fifth the thickness of the terminal "linger," and between this and
base of "thimib" are two short hairs; a hair arises latero-ventrally
from the center of the "thumb." The claw on the penultimate joint
reaches to the dorsal "finger." Neither the penis nor the collar
trachea could be discerned in the preserved material.
Type material from the upper side of pecan leaves, Texas.
It has developed from a stud}^ of the type material that Banks's
species T. simplex is identical with P. viridis, and is iierewith reduced
through the operation of the priority rule.
PARATETRANYCHUS CITRI (McGregor).
Plate 79, fig. 15.
Tetram/chus {Faratetraatjclms) f;i7ri "McGregor, 1916, Ann. Ent. Soc. Ainer., vol.
9, no. 3, pp. 284-288, pi. 2.
Tetranychus niylilaspidis Banks not Riley {Fentha lodes), 1900, U. S. Dept. Agr.,
Div. Ent., Tech. Ser., Bull. 8, p. 71.
As pointed out in a paper by the present writer (20), the citrus
mite had never been described prior to that time. Banks had inter-
preted Riley's type material of Pentlialodes mytilaspidis to be the
citrus mite which we have shown was clearly not the case.
Distinctly velvety-red in color. In size larger and more obese
than the majority of red sj>ider species. Female : Length, 0.305 mm. :
width, 0.230 mm. A single eye cornea on each side, twice as far
behind the subfrontal bristle as the latter's distance from the frontal
bristle. Dorsal bristles long, stout, arising from prominent tubercles
subfrontal bristles barely three times as long as frontals; bristles
sparsely pilose. Legs paler than body color, bristles arranged chiefly
in four longitudinal rows. Mandibular plate abruptly narrowed
anteriorly, tip rounded, usually with an almost imperceptible emar-
gination. Palpus is provided with a comparatively short "thumb,"
bearing a terminal, shghtly clavate "finger" whose base is less than
half the width of tip of "thumb;" with two pseudo-fingers arising
on either side of the upper distal corner, which are not greatly
thicker than hairs; on upper side hardly midway to base with a
small "finger" between which and base are two short, stout hairs;
near the lower center of the outer side of "thumb" with a hair
