No. 2303. RED SPIDERS OF AMERICA— McGREGOR. 673
which reaches to the tip of the terminal "finger;" with the claw
on the penultimate joint stout and reaching to the dorsal "finger;" a
strong hair arising laterally from the center of the penultimate joints
another arising from the center of the dorsal face of this joint
which equals the claw, and a short weak hair with its origin on the
inner base of claw; and with a very strongly tubercled spur arising
distally from the top of the antepenultimate joint of the male.
The legs are relatively short; femur somewhat more than twice as
long as wide, barely equahng tarsus; tibia a little longer than
patella which is one-third again as long as trochanter: Relative
lengths of joints are as follows: Coxa 11, trochanter 11, femur 29,
patella 15, tibia 17, tarsus 29. Tip of tarsus bears a claw which
is rather straight for two-thirds its length and then bent sharply
downward; at a point one-third the length of the claw from its
base arise six slightly curved spurs whose tips surpass that of the
main claw; the four usual tenent hairs arise two on either side of
the base of the claw.
The male is considerably smaller than the female (length, 0.216
mm.; width, 0.146 mm.), abruptly narrowed posteriorly. The legs
appear longer in proportion to the body than in the case of the fe-
male, and are salmon-pink. The distribution of dorsal bristles
is similar to that of female. Penis (see pi. 79, fig. 15) comparatively
short; inner lobe long, rod-hke, about three times as long as the
shaft; shaft very stout and short, becoming abruptly smaller dis-
tally, and bent upward at an angle of 120° to form the attenuate
hook, which is considerably longer than the shaft ; basilar lobe pres-
ent on upper side of shaft as a strong, conical projection; hook
possessing no barb, being spine-Uke terminally.
The egg when first laid is pale, almost colorless, like a drop of
honey, but later turns bright red, is sphero-lenticular, with a vertical
stalk arising from the center of the top side which in length is about
twice the diameter of the egg. Several guy fibrils radiate downward
from the apex of the stalk to the leaf surface, thus giving additional
attachment to the egg.
Type.— C&t. No. 20362, U.S.N.M.
The type material is from Orlando, Florida, March 7, 1916, from
the leaves of lemon, collected by W. W. Yothers.
PARATETRANYCHUS ILICIS (McGregor).
Plate 79, fig. 17.
Tetranychus ilicis McGregor, 1917, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 51, pp. 581-590,
pis. 101-107.
Color, from ferruginous to reddish-brown, with a pale pink area
embracing central portion of the cephalo thorax; darker than most
red spider species. Eyes conspicuous, carmine. Dorsal bristles
115690— 19— Proc.N.M.vol.56 i3
