674 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
colorless, arising from rather prominent tubercles, densely clothed
with distally pointing barbules; subfrontal bristle one-fourth again
as long as frontal one. Body of female rotund-elliptical, length,
0.302 mm.; width, 0.259 mm. Male much less rotund, narrowed
baclovard; length, 0.237 mm.; width, 0.184 mm. Bristles about 22
in four rows, in length averaging about five-sevenths the width of
body. Mandibular plate three-fourths again as long as wide, nar-
rowed somewhat anteriorly to a rotund tip, which is distinctly
emarginate in the female. Palpi pale pink, like cephalothorax.
"Thumb" of palpus not greatly shortened axially, the thickness at
middle being about one-fifth in excess of its length,
bearing at its tip a slightly clavate "finger," whose
base is less than half as wide as the tip of ' ' thumb ;"
on its upper distal corner are two spine-like pseudo-
fingers; on upper side almost midway to base is
a greatly reduced "finger," about one-fourth as
thick as the terminal "finger," and between this
and base are two short stout hairs rather similar
to the pseudo-fingers. A hair, similar to the upper
basal one, arises laterally from the center of the
"thumb." The claw of the penultimate joint
Fig. 10.— paratetrany- rcaches just beyond the dorsal "finger." The legs
cHus lucis MCGREGOR. J ambcr-color, not quite as long as width of
1, TIP OF MANDIBULAR i '1 _ '^
plate; 2,PENisAND HIND body. Fcmur thrcc aud ouc-half timcs as loug as
?0RiIiN?Lr'''' ^' ^ "" "" ^^^' soinewhat exceeding tarsus. Tibia nearly a
third longer than patella, which is nearly twice the
length of the trochanter. Tip or tarsus bears a stout claw, which is
sickle-shaped ; six slender spurs, which are free to their bases, arise per-
pendicularly from the claw a short distance from its base. The usual
series of four tenent hairs are present, two on each side fusing to
form a swollen pedicel, which are set on the onychium on either
side of the main claw base. Relative lengths of leg joints as follows:
Coxa, 15; trochanter, 7; femur, 26; patella, 12; tibia, 15; tarsus, 23.
The collar trachea, opening medially in a pore, runs downward in an
almost straight line, and just above the ventral end bends sharply
backward and expands into an elliptical chamber, which is twice
the caliber of the hnear portion.
Penis (see pi. 79, fig. 17) appears to be intermediate between the
TetranycJius himaculatus type and that of T. monticolus. The inner
lobe is rod-hke, slender, and over twice as long as the shaft; a well-
developed basilar lobe occurs dorsally; the shaft is comparatively
short and thick and is bent abruptly downward at an angle of over
90° from the main axis of the penis to form the stout hook; the hook
is about one-half the length of the shaft, and terminates in a rather
straight, unbarbed, very sharp spur.
