No. 2303.
RED SPIDERS OP AMERICA— McOREGOR.
675
The egg is slightly depressed globose, and bears a recurved stalk
which about equals the height of the egg.
Type— Cat. No. 20167, U.S.N.M.
The type material is from Batesburg,, South Carolina, January 6,
1916, from the upper and under sides of American holly leaves (Ilex
opaca), collected by Ivlr. F. L. McDonough and the author. The
present species bears some Hkeness to Tragardh's genus ScUzote-
tranycJius in the presence of two main divisions of the tarsal claw.
PARATETRANYCHUS BICOLOR (Banks).
Tetranychus bicolor Banks, 1894, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, p. 218.
The following original description of the species by Banks is so
abstract as to be of almost no taxonomic value :
Length, 0.35 mm. Cephalothorax pale; abdomen dark
red, the anterior edge of the red with a median and lateral
projections; legs pale yellowish; eyes red; bristles white;
Sometimes there is a light dorsal streak on the abdomen.
Body elliptical, pointed in front. Cephalothorax with four
long bristles; abdomen with a submedian row of five and
an outer row of four bristles. All the bristles arise from
small, circular depressions. Legs short, subequal, hairy.
The male has the abdomen more pointed than in the
female, otherwise similar.
The following diagnostic characters of real
taxonomic importance were determined through
a critical study of the type material:
Tarsus ending in a very strong, sickle-shaped
claw, which is unclef t to its tip ; arising from the
ventral surface of the claw, one-fifth its length
from its base, are six diverging spurs, the proxi-
mal one of which is the strongest, which in length
are three-fifths that of the main claw. The cus-
tomary four tenent hairs arise, two on each side
at the base of the claw from the tip of the
onychium. ' ' Thumb " of palpus bears an ample
"finger" terminally which is nearly as wide as
long, and the base of which is three-fifths as wide
as tip of "thumb"; two strong digituli arise at
the dorso-terminal angle, and the dorsal "finger," wliich is only one-
fourth the thickness of the terminal "finger," arises midway to the
base; a pair of short hairs occur dorsally between the dorsal "finger"
and the base, and a similar hair arises latero-ventraUy near the middle
of "thumb," Foreleg a trifle longer than width of body. Femur I
about two and one-half times as long as wide, and one-fourth again
as long as tarsus; tibia a httle longer than patella, which barely
Fig. 11.— PARATETRANTCHU3
BICOLOR Banks, l , tarsal
appendages; 2, foreleg
showing relative
lengths of joints (origi-
NAL).
