676 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
exceeds the trochanter, relative lengths of leg joints as follows:
Trochanter 13, femur 29, patella 14, tibia 16, tarsus 23.
Type material on upper side of oak and chestnut leaves, woods near
Sea Cliff, New York. Other specimens from oak at Washington, Dis-
trict of Columbia, and from Geneva, New York, on a Norway spruce
hedge. This species is very close to P. yothersi.
PARATETRANYCHUS YOTHERSI (McGregor).
Tetranychus yothersi McGregor, 1914, Ann. Ent. Soc. Amei'., vol. 7, no. 4,
December.
Predominating color a rusty-red, arising mainly from large intes-
tinal structures occurring on each side and connected centrally by a
narrow isthmus, a sliield- or saddle-shaped pale pinkish-amber area
includes most of the cephalothorax; a narrow clear or translucent
area extends medially from behind almost to the thoracic suture.
Eyes crimson, each set at inner border of a groove overlying coxae I
and II. Coxae and femora of a greenish hue; tibia I and tarsi I
salmon-color. Palpi salmon-color. Dorsal bristles colorless, not
arising from tubercles. Body of female sphero-elliptical, widest
equatorially; male subcuneate, widest across cephalothorax, wliich is
somewhat truncate in front, abdomen tapering to acute point poste-
riorly; bristles in four rows, averaging in length two-fifths of the
width of the body. Mandibular plate less than twice as long as
broad, somewhat tapering anteriorly with a distinct emargination.
"Thumb" of palpus much reduced longitudinally, bearing at its tip
a relatively large, slightly clavate ''finger" whose base is almost as
wide as the tip of the "thumb"; on its upper distal corner are two
pseudo-fmgers, not greatly thicker than hairs; on upper side about
midway to base is a small "finger," and between this and base are two
short, stout hairs; the claw on the penultimate joint reaches to the
middle of the "thumb"; a hair arises laterally from the center of the
"thumb," and another from a similar position on the penultimate
joint. The legs are relatively short, barely as long as width of body;
femur only half again as long as wide, hardly equahng tarsus; tibia a
trifle longer than pateUa, which equals the trochanter; tip of tarsus
bears a claw which is nearly straight for two-thirds its length and
then bent to nearly a right angle; a second claw, arising from the
other at its point of origin from the onychium, is almost straight and
forms with the fu-st an obtuse angle; four strong spurs (corresponding
to the usual 4-cleft claw) have their origin in common with the claws;
the usual series of four tenent hairs arise by the sides of the claws from
the tip of the onychium.
The egg is globose-lenticular and bears a stalk wliich varies in
development from a length equahng the height of the egg to a mere
