44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. ^^l. 5G.
distinct; axial sculpture of (on the last whorl 14) sigmoid ribs
which cross the whorls and reach the canal with subequal inter-
spaces; spiral sculpture with narrow channeled grooves with wider
flattish interspaces often divided by a central feebler groove, these
cover the whole surface; aperture simple, inner lip erased, white;
canal short, very slightly recurved. Height of shell, 20; of last
whorl, 14; diameter, 9 mm. Cat. No. 222088, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Unimak Island, Aleutians, eastward to Alitak Bay,
Kodiak.
LORA EQUATORIALIS, new species.
Plate 13, fig. 2.
Shell white, rather solid, with about six shouldered whorls, the
apex eroded, the suture distinct, slightly constricted and appressed;
axial sculpture of about 14 rounded ribs nearly reaching the canaL
with subequal interspaces; incremental lines inconspicuous; spiral
sculpture of uniform spiral grooves with wider flattish interspaces,
cutting the tops of the ribs; aperture short, simple, inner lip callous,
canal short, recurved. Height of shell, 13,5; of last whorl. 9;
diameter, 6 mm. Cat. No. 97092, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Coast of Ecuador to Patagonia in 401 to 122 fathoms.
LORA PRIBILOVA, new species.
Plate 16. fig. 3.
Shell white with a strawcolored periostracum and about six
roughly sculptured whorls, the apex eroded; suture distinct, axial
sculpture of (on the last whorl 16) rounded narrow riblets cross-
ing the whorls and obsolete on the base ; spiral sculpture of (on the
spire three, on the last whorl four) prominent rounded cords more
or less nodose at the intersections with the ribs, and between the
cords two or three fine threads and a few finer striae ; the posterior
cord forms a shoulder to the whorl; on the canal the cords and
threads become more uniform; aperture simple, pillar erased.
Height of shell, 12; of last whorl, 8; diameter, 5.5 mm. Cat. No.
225573, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Cape Lisburne, Arctic Ocean, south to Esteros Bay,
California.
LORA INEQUITA, new species.
Plate 16, fig. 9.
Shell yellowish white, thin, of about six moderately rounded
whorls, the nucleus eroded; suture distinct; spiral sculpture on the
early whorls of two strong cords one on each side of the periphery',
between which are first one, later two, and finally four smaller
threads ; the posterior cord gives the whorl a slight shoulder ; on the
last whorl in front of the anterior cord to the end of the canal are
smaller, more or less alternate flattish cords close-set, the inter-
