NO. 228S. NEW MOLLVSKS OF TEE FAMILY TURRITIDAE—DALL. 45
spaces wider on the canal; axial sculpture of (on the penultimate
whorl about 20) rounded sigmoid ribs with wider or subequal inter-
spaces, crossing the early whorls, becoming less evident on the later
whorls, and obsolete on the base of the last whorl; the incremental
lines are more or less evident; aperture narrow, simple; pillar
white, erased, attenuated in front. Height of shell, 11; of last
whorl, 7; diameter, 4 mm. Cat. No. 222238, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Plover Ba}', Bering Sea, south to Boca de Quadra,
Alaska.
LORA SURANA, new species.
Plate 14, fig. 6.
Shell thin, white, small, with about six whorls, the nucleus de-
fective, the suture distinct; anal fasciole extending from the suture
to a cord which forms a shoulder to the whorl, retractively loop-
wrmkled ; axial sculpture in front of the shoulder of numerous low
narrow sigmoid riblets with subequal interspaces, obsolete on the
base, on the spire crossing the whorls ; spiral sculpture of somewhat
unequal flattish threads with equal or wider interspaces, crossing the
shell, not nodulous at the intersections; aperture simple, canal
short, twisted, developing an evident siphonal fasciole; operculum
normal. Height of shell, 9 ; of last whorl, 6 ; diameter, 4 mm. Cat.
No. 206590, U.S.N.M.
Bange.— From off Point Sur to off Point Pinos, California, in 292
to 398 fathoms, mud, bottom temperature 41° F.
LORA TABULATA Carpenter.
Plate 14, fig. 1.
Manffclia ? tabula ta Carpenter, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 3, vol. 15, p. 29,
Jan., 1865.
Range. — Sitka, Alaska, to Monterey, California.
In fully adult specimens there is sometimes a thickening near the
anterior end of the pillar which in some individuals approaches a
fold, but is not carried into the interior on the pillar.
LORA NAZANENSIS, new species.
Plate 15, fig. 8.
Shell short-fusiform, white with a brown band in front of the
suture and another on the base, or all white, with about five whoris
and a very small blunt nucleus, suture distinct, whorls moderately
rounded; axial sculpture of (on the penultimate whorl about 25)
narrow crowded sigmoid ribs not passing the periphery but extend-
ing from the preceding suture with narrower interspaces; spiral
sculpture of narrow grooves with wider interspaces, more close to-
ward the base and on the spire cutting the summits of the ribs; aper-
ture simple, pillar white, erased; canal short, straight. Height of
