NO. 2288. NEW MOLLUSKS OF THE FAMILY TURRITIDAE—DALL. 47
cord like riblets, beaded at the shoulder, obsolete on the base, the rec-
tangular interstices marked; aperture simple, pillar erased, atten-
uated in front, canal well marked, straight. Height of shell, 8.5 ; of
last whorl, 6; diameter, 4 mm. Cat. No. 209421 a, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Off San Diego, California, and south to Cape San Quen-
tin, Lower California, in 112 to 822 fathoms.
LORA LOTTA, new species.
Plate 14, fig. 4.
Shell small, white, with a pale straw-colored periostracum, nucleus
eroded, four whorls remaining, the general characters resembling
those of L. sura7ia, but the axial sculpture nearly obsolete, or quite
absent from the last whorl, the shoulder less accented, and the canal
straighten Height of shell, 7.5; of last whorl, 6; diameter, 4 mm.
Cat. No. 210725, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Queen Charlotte Islands, British Columbia, in 876 fath-
oms, mud, bottom temperature 36.5° F.
LORA KYSKANA, new species.
Plate 14, fig. 3.
Shell belonging to the group of L. fidicula Gould, but with looser
and less regular sculpture, white, the nucleus defective, with about
six shouldered whorls; suture distinct, anal fasciole obscure, undu-
lated by the ends of the ribs, spirally striated; axial sculpture of (on
the last whorl 14 or 15) rounded ribs with wider interspaces, promi-
nent at the shoulder, crossing the whorls at the spire, obsolete on the
base; spiral sculpture of numerous narrow channeled grooves with
wider flattish interspaces, not nodulating the summits of the ribs;
on the spire the interspaces are more cordlike, six or seven between
the shoulder and the succeeding suture; aperture simple, inner lip
erased, canal short, straight. Height of shell, 10.5 ; of last whorl, 7 ;
diameter, 4.5 mm. Cat. No. 224286, U.S.N.M.
Range, — Aleutian Islands to Puget Sound.
LORA MIONA, new species.
Plate 14, fig. 2.
This is another species of the -fidicula group, white, small, roundly
shouldered with rather coarse sculpture on the spire, which becomes
obsolete on the last whorl; axial sculpture of (on the penultimate
whorl 13) rounded irregular ribs with subequal interspaces, the ribs
nodulate by the intersection of three or four rather strong spiral
cords with narrower interspaces; on the last whorl the ribs are ob-
solete and the spiral sculpture feebler, flatter, and with occasional
intercalary smaller threads; anal fasciole and sulcus obscure, aper-
ture narrow, inner lip erased, canal short. Height of shell, 8 ; of last
whorl, 5 ; diameter, 3.5 mm. Cat. No. 252208, U.S.N.M.
Range.— ^\iV^, Alaska, to Puget Sound.
