KO. 22SS. NEW MOLLUSKS OF THE FAMILY TURRITIDAE—DALL. 51
subeqiial interspaces, in the space between the periphery and the
succeeding suture, and on the hist whorl on the base about twenty
flatter spirals with narrower interspaces; most of the threads are
swollen wdiere they pass over the ribs; aperture wide and short;
anal fasciole deep and rounded, not quite adjacent to the suture;
outer lip thin, produced, sharp; body erased; pillar short, gyrate,
but the axis not pervious; canal distinct, short slightly recurved.
Height of shell, 19; of last whorl, 12; diameter, 8 mm. Cat. No.
210544, U.S.N.M.
Rmige. — Station 4407, off Catalina Island, California, in 600 fath-
oms, ooze, U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
PLEUROTOMELLA THALASSICA, new species.
Plate 3, fig. 4.
Shell small, snow white, with five or more whorls exclusive of the
(lost) nucleus; suture distinct, appressed, the fasciole in front of it
constricted, giving the whorls a conspicuous shoulder; spiral sculp-
ture of a few obsolete threads on the base, not extending to the canal
and with wider interspaces; axial sculpture of (on the penultimate
whorl 16) strong obliquely protractive ribs, most prominent at the
shoulder where they begin, disappearing on the base and obsolete
on the last whorl; the incremental lines are inconspicuous; aperture
rather wide, anal sulcus close to the suture, rounded, rather wide but
not deep; outer lip thin, much produced; inner lip erased, pillar
short, canal short, deep, distinct, recurved, with a distinct siphonal
fasciole. Height of shell, 10; of last whorl, 5.5; diameter, 5 mm.
Cat. No. 214206, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Station 3346, off Tillamook Bay, Oregon, in 786 fathoms,
mud, bottom temperature 37.3° F. U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
PLEUROTOMELLA OCEANIDA, new species.
Plate 3, fig. 5.
Shell small, thin, pure white, with five well-rounded whorls with-
out the (lost) nucleus; suture distinct, anal fasciole wide, arcuately
wrinkled; axial sculpture of (on the last whorl about 30) narrow
thread-like ribs extending from the fasciole to the base with wider
interspaces; also very fine close incremental lines; spiral sculpture
of (on the penultimate whorl five or six) similar threads slightly
nodulous where they intersect the ribs, with wider interspaces in
each of which is a smaller intercalary thread ; this sculpture extends
to the base on the last whorl, the interspaces on the canal have no
intercalary thread; aperture rather wide, anal sulcus rounded, deep,
outer lip thin, produced, inner lip and pillar erased, the columella
gyrate, attenuated in front, the axis pervious, the canal a little
recurved. Height of shell, 12; of last whorl, 8.5; diameter 6.7 mm.
Cat. No. 123117, U.S.N.M.
