52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
Bange.— Station 3392, Gulf of Panama, U. S. Bureau of Fisheries
steamer Albatross in 1,270 fathoms, bottom temperature 36.4° F.
GLYPHOSTOMA THALASSOMA Dall.
Plate 17, fig. 2.
Ghjphostoma thalassoma Dall, Bull. Mas. Comp. Zool., vol. 43, No. 6, p.
290, Oct. 1908.
Ra/ngc. — Station 3017, Gulf of California, off Cape Lobos, in 58
fathoms, mud, bottom temperature 61.8° F. Cat. No. 110612,
U.S.N.M. The specimen selected for figuring is from 76 fathoms
Cat. No. 223154, U.S-N.M.
GLYPHOSTOMA ADANA, r.ew species.
Plate 17, fig. 1.
Shell sm.all, slender, acute, whitish with the aperture more or less
tinged with brown; nucleus white, glassy, with a minute globular
apex and four subsequent whorls changing abruptly into the sculn-
ture of the six subsequent whorls; the first of the latter has a pe-
ripheral keel changing on the next whorl to two and on the later
whorls to three equidistant prominent cords with a smaller one be-
hind and another in front of and close to the suture; on the last whorl
the latter is obsolete and on the base there are 9 or 10 cords with
interspaces widening toward the periphery, of which cords the more
prominent are minutely nodulous or swollen when they cross the
axial riblets; there is a wide concave anal fascicle in front of the
suture with arcuate striation; the whorl at the suture somewhat ap-
pressed; axial sculpture is composed of about a dozen rather feeble
ribs extending from the anal fasciole forward to the suture, but
which are nearly obsolete on the second half of the last whorl ; aper-
ture rather narrow, the outer lip varicose, minutely denticulate
within and with a sharp edge, the anal sulcus deep and rounded with
a nodular callus on the body; inner lip with six or more denticula-
tions; canal short, deep, and strongly recurved. Height of shell, 10;
of last whorl, 5 ; diameter, 3.7 mm. Cat. No. 267597, U.S.N.M.
Range.— R&2idi of Concepcion Bay, Lower California, Dr. Paul
Bartsch.
This species resembles G. adna, but is lighter colored, smaller, and
proportionately more slender.
GLYPHOSTOMA ADRIA, new Bpecies.
Plate 17, fig. 5.
Shell small, slender, acute, pale brownish, or with still paler nebu-
losity ; with three darker brown nuclear whorls, the first minute, the
others regularly increasing with a deep suture; subsequent whorls
seven, the first peripherally keeled, the periphery rather anterior;
