NO. 2288. NEW MOLLVSKS OF THE FAMILY TURRITIDAE—DALL. 53
subsequent whorls with a broad spirally striated anal fasciole fol-
lowed by two or three spiral cords strongest where they cross the
ribs and feebler in the interspaces; on the last whorl the cords are
less prominent, with about equal spirally striated interspaces, and
the cords continue becoming more close-set toward and upon the
canal to the number of 15 or more; axial sculpture of (on the last
whorl 10, excluding the terminal varix) protractively oblique ribs
extending from in front of the anal fasciole stronger on the peripherjr
and obsolete on the base of the whorl; terminal varix strong, th&
margin incurved smooth; the anal fasciole large, rounded; the lips,
callous with minute denticulations ; the canal short, deep, recurved,
the aperture rather narrow. Heiglit of shell, 10; of last whorl, 6;
diameter, 4 mm. Cat. No. 269030, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Dredged at Santa Maria Bay, Lower California, Dr. Paul
Bartsch.
GLYPHOSTOMA PARTEFILOSA, new species.
Plate 17, fig. 4.
Shell small, white, with pale brown spiral banding; nucleus small,
smooth, glassy, followed by six sculptured whorls; suture distinct,
the whorl with a shoulder immediately in front of it; spiral sculp-
ture only of about 13 threads, covering the canal when it is
not worn; axial sculpture of (on the last whorl 12) narrow,
slightly oblique ribs, arcuate at the shoulder, not continuous over the
spire and with wider interspaces; aperture narrow with a flaring
anal sulcus and no subsutural callus; pillar short, denticulate, outer
lip thickened, dentate within, canal short, recurved. Height of
shell, 11; of last whorl, 6; diameter, 4.5 mm. Cat. No. 224413,
U.S.N.M.
Range.— ^Ofi Cape Tepoca, Gulf of California, in 36 fathoms, sand.
GLYPHOSTOMA SIRENA, new species.
Plate 17, fig. 3.
Shell elongated slender, acute, waxen white clouded with light
brown, nucleus pointed, the first whorl minute, the next two enlarg-
ing, all smooth; subsequent whorls seven, at first with a peripheral
keel, later strongly ribbed and coarsely reticulated ; spiral sculpture
of a thread in front of the appressed and undulated suture, then,
on successive turns of the spire, two, three and four coarse cords,
with subequal interspaces between the fasciole and the suture, prom-
inent only when they cross the ribs and feeble in the interspaces ; on
the last whorl there are nine of these and a few smaller threads on
the canal ; the anal fasciole is smooth narrow and close to the suture,
undulated by the ends of the ribs; axial sculpture of (on the last
