54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
Avhoii nine) strong rounded ribs, feeble on the fasciole and reaching
to the canal; aperture narrow, anal sulcus deep with a small sub-
sutural callus; outer lip arcuate, prominently varicose, the edge in-
folded; inner lip and pillar smooth (possibly not quite adult);
canal short, distinct, slightly recurved. Height of shell, 10; of last
whorl, 5 ; diameter, 4 mm. Cat. No. 195004, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Station 2813, in the Galapagos Islands, in 40 fathoms,
coral sand, surface temperature 81° F. U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
This species is small for the genus and perhaps has not quitie com-
pleted the callosities around the aperture.
GLYPHOSTOMA CYMODOCE, new species.
Plate 17, fig. 6.
Shell small, flesh colored, slender, acute, with a smooth small pur-
ple-brown nucleus of about two whorls and about six subsequent
whorls; suture appressed with a slightly constricted fasciole immedi-
ately in front of it sculptured by half a dozen fine sharp close-
set equal spiral threads; other spiral sculpture of (on the spire two to
four) flattish spiral major cords with equal or wider interspaces in
wdiich runs an intercalary smaller thread; on the last whorl this
sculpture is continuous over the shell from the shoulder to the base,
but the intercalary threads gradually enlarge until they are prac-
tically equal to the originally larger cords; the small siphonal fas-
ciole has a few finer and closer threads; axial sculpture of (on the
penultimate whorl about eleven) rounded vertical ribs extending
from the shoulder to the succeeding suture, but obsolete on the last
whorl and not nodulose where they are intersected by the cords ; the
incremental lines are only conspicuous on the anal fasciole, wdiere
they are slightly puckered in front of the suture ; aperture subovate,
anal sulcus deep, rounded, close to the suture with a subsutural
callus; outer lip thickened, slightly crenulate by the external sculp-
ture, smooth within, arcuately produced, with a prominent varix
behind it; inner lip erased, pillar short, canal short, distinct, slightly
recurved. Height of shell, 11.5; of last whorl, 6; diameter, 4 mm.
Cat. No. 150569, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Santa Barbara, California; Woodworth.
PHILBERTIA HESIONE, new species.
Shell small, whitish, biconic, acute, with a smooth bulbous nucleus
of a whorl and a half and four and a half subsequent sculptured
whorls; suture distinct, not appressed, the anal fasciole close to it,
flattish, at first w^ith fine spiral sculpture but on the last whorl it
becomes nearly smooth: other spiral sculpture of a narrow prominent
thread at the periphery which is doubled on the subsequent turns, on
the last whorl there are ele^•en of the threads which are somewhat
