NO. 2288. NEW MOLLUSKS OF THE FAMILY TURRITIDAE—DALL. 55
nodulose where they override the ribs, with much wider interspaces,
and a few close threads on the canal; axial sculpture of about 13
somewhat oblique narrow ribs, extending from the suture to the
shoulder on the spire, and on the last whorl obsolete on the base ; they
are separated by wider interspaces and the incremental lines are
feeble; aperture narrow, the anal sulcus narrow, deep, rounded, close
to the suture, with a conspicuous subsutural callus; outer lip thin
with a moderate varix behind it, and no internal lirae; inner lip
erased, pillar short; canal short, deep distinct, slightly constricted
and recurved ; there is a small nodule at the inner anterior end of the
outer lip where the canal begins. Height of shell, 9.5 ; of last whorl,
6; diameter, 4 mm. Cat. No. 211333, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Station 2902, off Santa Rosa Island, California, in 53
fathoms, sandy mud, bottom temperature 49° F. U. S. Bureau of
Fisheries.
PHILBERTIA HELENA, new species.
Plate 18, fig. 2.
Shell minute, solid, pale yellowish brown, strongly sculptured;
nucleus low, rapidly increasing, of about two whorls, the last one
keeled, otherwise smiooth ; subsequent whorls four with a deeply con-
stricted, not appressed suture; axial sculpture of (on the last whorl
seven) strong ribs angulated at the periphery, with subequal deep
interspaces, and which are not continuous up the spire ; spiral sculp-
ture of on the upper whorl one, on the third two, on the last whorl
about seven obscure rounded rather coarse threads with narrower
interspaces; aperture narrow; anal sulcus shallow close to the suture;
outer lip varicose, smooth within, inner lip smooth, pillar short,
straight, canal not differentiated from the aperture. Height of shell,
3.5 ; of last whorl, 1.5 ; diameter, 1.25 mm. Cat. No. 268910, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Agua Verde Bay, Gulf of California. Dr. Paul Bartsch.
PHILBERTIA DORIS, new species.
Plate 18, fig. 4.
Shell minute, yellowish white, acute, slender, with a small, elevated
nucleus of three whorls, its apex minute, smooth, the last whorl micro-
scopically axially ribbed ; subsequent whorls reticulate, well rounded,
with a distinct not appressed suture ; spiral sculpture on the spire of
strong cords, not nodulate at the intersections, three at the first, four
or five on the next tvv^o, and about a dozen on the last whorl, equal
with equal interspaces and separated from the preceding suture by a
finely striated anal fasciole; axial sculpture of (on the last whorl 13)
slender, equal, rounded ribs extending from the suture to the canal,
with wider interspaces, not continuous up the spire and nearly
parallel with the axis; aperture ovate, anal sulcus conspicuous,
rounded, close to the suture; outer lip varicose, sharp edged, smooth
