56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. ^ol. 56.
within; inner lip erased; canal short but distinct. Height of shell,
5.2; of last whorl, 3.25; diameter, 2.5 mm. Cat. No. 2G8703(^
U.S.N.M.
Ba7ige.— Dredged in Agua Verde Bay, Gulf of California. Dr.
Paul Bartsch.
? PHILBERTIA DIONE, new species.
Shell minute, whitish or yellowish with whiter mottling, sub-
cylindric, coarsely sculptured, with about six whorls exclusive of the
(lost) nucleus; suture obscure, constricted, somewhat appressed;
spiral sculpture of (on the earlier whorls two, on the later ones three)
strong equal cords, slightly swollen at the intersections and with
somewhat narrower interspaces, the suture is laid on a fourth cord
which is usually invisible ; on the last whorl there are eight of these
cords, the last one nodulous ; there are three or four smaller threads
on the canal ; axial sculpture of coarse incremental lines and (on the
last whorl 9 or 10) rounded ribs extending from the suture to the
base, continuous up the spire which they half encircle; aperture
narrow, anal sulcus shallow and wide, outer lip slightly thickened
with a fev/ lirae inside ; inner lip smooth, canal narrow, very sliort.
Height of (decollate) shell, 5; of last whorl, 2.8; diameter, 2 mm.
Cat. No. 268703, U.S.N.M.
Range. — With the preceding species.
PHILBERTIA EPHAEDRA, new species.
Shell small, slender, acute, very pale brown or whitish, the nucleus
with its apical whorl minute, transparent, smooth, bubble-like, fol-
lowed by one and a half faintly reticulate whorls; subsequent whorls
five and a half with a deep appressed suture; spiral sculpture of al-
ternate threads with narrower interspaces, the major threads (on the
spire two or three) rather prominent, especially the posterior one,
which forms a sort of shoulder to the whorl, more conspicuous in the
earlier whorls; the minor threads usually number one on the spire,
but on the last whorl sometimes two or even three in the interspaces
between the major threads; the threads are little or not at all swollen
where they cross the ribs but are rendered harsh by the intersection
of fine sharp close-set incremental lines; other axial sculpture of (on
the last whorl seven) prominent rounded ribs, crossing the whole
whorl, with subequal interspaces, and practically continuous verti-
cally up the spire; there is no obvious anal fasciole; aperture narrow,
the anal sulcus shallow, rounded, with no subsutural callus ; outer lip
subvaricose, moderately infolded, with a sharp edge, smooth inside;
inner lip erased ; canal short, wide, hardly recurved. Height of shell,
8.3 ; of last whorl, 5 ; diameter, 3.2 mm. Cat. No. 27410T, U.S.N.M.
Range.— In beach drift at Panama; James Zetek.
