NO. 2288. NEW MOLLUSKS OF THE FAMILY TURRITIDAE—DALL. 57
PHILBERTIA AETHRA, new species.
Plate IS, fig. 6.
Shell small, acute, pale brownish, with a smooth acute nucleus of
tw^o whorls and six subsequent whorls, the first of which has two pe-
ripheral spiral threads with an angle at the shoulder; other spiral
sculpture of somewhat alternated small uniform close-set threads,
made minutel}^ scabrous by the intersection of sharp incremental lines
and covering the Avhole surface; axial sculpture otherwise of six
prominent sharp vertical ribs with much wider interspaces, practi-
cally continuous up the spire and extending from the suture to the
canal; aperture narrow, anal sulcus shallow, rounded, not preceded
by any obvious f asciole, close to the suture ; outer lip with a thickened
varix behind it, sharp edged without internal lirae ; inner lip slightly
erased; canal narrow short, distinct. Height of shell, 8; of last
whorl, 4.5 ; diameter, 3.3 mm. Cat. No. 211382, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Station 2823, off La Paz, Lower California, in 26^
fathoms broken shelly bottom. U. S, Bureau of Fisheries.
PHILBERTIA DICTYNNA, new species.
Plate IS, fig. 3.
Shell small, translucent white, with one and a half small smooth
nuclear and four subsequent well-rounded whorls ; suture distinct, not
appressed; spiral sculpture of (on the last whorl about 10) subequal
and equally spaced strong rounded threads, nodulous on the
periphery where they intersect the ribs and feebler on the canal;
axial sculpture of (on the last whorl about 10) short rounded ribs
prominent only near the periphery and with wider interspaces; aper-
ture elongate-ovate, anal sulcus wide and very shallow, outer lip
thin, smooth inside, moderately produced; inner lip erased, pillar
short, canal very short, slightly recurved. Height of shell, 3.8; of
last whorl, 2.7 ; diameter, 2 mm. Cat. No. 4085, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Cape San Lucas, Lower California ; J. Xantus.
PHILBERTIA SCAMMONI, new species.
Plate 18, fig. 1.
Shell small, whitish, with brown interspaces or bands, more or less
variable; nucleus small, blunt, turbinate, the first whorl smooth, the
third obliquely minutely axially ribbed ; subsequent whorls five, with
a rather deep suture the whorls rounded, uniformly sculptured;
spiral sculpture of two kinds, on the spire two major threads near
the periphery and four on the last whorl, whiter than the rest of the
surface; in the interspaces much finer threads, the major threads
hardly swollen where they override the ribs; on the base the sculp-
ture takes the form of flattish bands appressed on the anterior edge,
about four in number, on the canal are only four or five close-set
