58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
rounded threads ; axial sculpture of (on the last whorl including the
terminal varix 10) rounded, rather strong ribs, extending from suture
to canal and usuall}' vertically continuous up the spire, the shoulder
hardly indicated, the spiral sculpture passing over the ribs without
nodulation ; the interspaces of the reticulation usually darker colored
than the threads; aperture narrow, elongated, with a large rounded
and conspicuous anal sulcus; outer lip varicose, thick, sharp edged,
internally smooth; inner lip smooth not callous; canal short, wide,
hardly differentiated from the aperture. Height of shell, 7; of last
whorl, 4; diameter, 2.5 mm. Cat. No. 106488, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Scammon Lagoon, Lower California, on a sand beach be-
tween tides; Henry Hemphill.
PHILBERTIA TELAMON, new species.
Plate 18, fig. 5.
Shell minute, snow white, polished, with a dark brown narrow
band in front of which the suture is laid; nucleus of one and a half
white smooth whorls and four and a half strongly sculptured subse-
quent whorls; suture distinct, not appressed; spiral sculpture of on
the first two whorls one, on the next two, two strong white rounded
cords on the periphery and a brown one at the suture, somewhat
swollen at their intersections with the ribs and separated by a nar-
rower interspace; on the last whorl there are in front of these three
or four similar but slightly smaller white cords and a few small
threads on the canal; axial sculpture of (on the last whorl about
ten) rounded ribs extending over the whorl but not continuous up
the spire and with narrower interspaces ; outer lip strongly varicose ;
anal sulcus distinct, small, shallow, the whorl somewhat constricted
at the beginning of the canal; pillar short smooth, canal verj^ short
but distinct. Height of shell, 4; of last whorl, 2; diameter, 2 mm.
Cat. No. 73927, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Gulf of California, Stearns collection.
This is a very distinct little species, recalling in color some species
of THforis.
PHILBERTIA AEGIALEA, new species.
Plate 18, fig. 8.
Shell small, yellowish white, slender, acute, with a small smooth
nucleus of a whorl and a half and four and a half subsequent sculp-
tured whorls; suture distinct, not appressed, undulated by the ends
of the ribs; whorls with a prominent shoulder; spiral sculpture of
small sharp close-set threads covering the whole surface most promi-
nent in the interspaces between the ribs and given a frosty appearance
by the intersection of close fine sharp slightly elevated incremental
lines; other axial sculpture of (on the last whorl eight) strong rounded
ribs with wider interspaces extending to the canal from the preceding
