NO. 2288. NEW MOLLUSKS OF THE FAMILY TURRITIDAE—DALL. 81
ture of seven strong rounded somewhat sigmoid ribs, slightly shoul-
dered near the suture, continuous up the spire and obliquely retrac-
t ive posteriorly ; there are no obvious incremental lines ; the ribs ex-
tend from the canal to the suture on the last whorl ; aperture narrow,
anal sulcus shallow, rounded; outer lip broadly infolded, smooth
within; inner lip smooth, not callous, canal hardly differentiated.
Height of shell, 6.2; of last whorl, 4; diameter, 2.5 mm. Cat. No.
274106, U.S.N.M.
Range. — In beach drift at Panama, James Zetek.
TARANIS PANOPE, new species.
Plate 9, fig. 2.
Shell small, of about six whorls including the blunt (defective)
nucleus, white with pale olivaceous periostracum, short and stumpy;
earlier whorls with two strong peripheral keels and a thread upon
which the suture is laid ; last whorl with a cord at the suture and on
the other side of the anal fasciole about five elevated keels with sub-
equal interspaces, more adjacent on the base with about as many
more smaller and closer threads on the anterior region; suture ap-'
pressed, obscure; anal fasciole concave, not spirally striated; axial
sculpture of rather close sharp striae which cut the spirals; aperture
narrow, anal sulcus deep, rounded; outer lip greatly produced, thin,
smooth within, inner lip with a wash of callus, canal distinct but
very short. Height of shell, 4.5; of last whorl, 2.6; diameter, 2.3
mm\ Cat. No. 2075T7, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Station 2792, off Manta, Ecuador, in 401 fathoms, mud,
bottom temperature 42.9° F. U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
TARANIS ZEUXIPPE, new species.
Plate 3, fig. 3.
Shell minute, white or warm brown, with a turbinate nucleus hav-
ing a minute smooth apex and three later axially concavely arcuate
ribbed whorls; subsequent whorls three and a half with a distinct
suture; spiral sculpture between the sutures of two prominent keels
and an anterior smaller one on which the suture is laid ; on the last
whorl there are about eight minor threads in front of those men-
tioned, all with wider interspaces; axial sculpture of prominent
oblique lines protractively cutting the interspaces; anal sulcus shal-
low, distinct, close to the suture; outer lip thin, slightly produced,
inner lip erased; pillar short, straight, canal hardly differentiated.
Height of shell, 3.8; of last whorl, 2.2; diameter, 2 mm. Cat. No.
194965, U.S.N.M.
Range. — Station 2813, among the Galapagos Islands, in 40 fathoms,
sand, temperature at surface 81° F. U. S, Bureau of Fisheries.
115690— 19— Proc.N.M.vol.56 6
