A REVIEW OF THE LEAFHOPPERS OF THE GENUS
GYPONA NORTH OF MEXICO.
By Edmund H. Gibson,
Custodian of Remiptera, United States National Museum.
The genus Oypona represents a group of leafhoppers that is more
or less weli known to all collectors of msects and especially to those
who frequently have occasion to "sweep" or "beat" trees, bushes,
cultivated plants and crops, and weeds. They often occur in con-
siderable numbeis in limited areas, assuming the proportions of a
concentrated outbreak, and hence their economic importance is
brought to attention.
The common large green species occiu* in most all collections of
Homoptera, but in the majority of instances have been wrongly
identified. The species are, however, quite easy to separate, and
with the following key and short treatises upon the species the gen-
eral entomologist should experience no difficulty in making correct
determinations. It must, however, be said that the key is purely
artificial and should be taken as a guide to, rather than positive
means of, identification.
Eight species are herein described as new, making a total of 33
that are known to occm in North America north of Mexico. A much
larger number of species are distributed throughout Central and
South America. The genus is also represented in the Palaearctic,
Ethiopian, Oriental, and Australian regions.
The genus was described by Germar in 1821. Since that time
St&i in 1858 and J. Spanberg in his excellent treatises of the genus
in 1878 and 1881 have added the most to our knowledge of the
group.
The author has deemed it wise to omit a full description of each
species, since the majority of species were described in available
pubhcations and in most cases in good detail. It is believed that a
comparison of species will be of gieater value, for identification pur-
poses, than lengthy, minute descriptions which primarily "fill up
space" and in this particular group of insects might tend towards
confusion.
Proceedings U. S. National Museum. Vol. 56— No. 2289.
87
