90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
Specimens have been examined from New York south to Florida and
west to Colorado and Arizona.
2. GYPONA OCTO-LINEATA Say.
Tettigonia octo-lineata Say, Compl. Writ., a'oI. 2, p. 257, 1824.
Gypona striata Burmeister, Gen. Ins., vol. 1, Rhynchota, No. 9, 1838.
Gypona carta Burmeister, Gen. Ins., vol. 1, Rhynchota, No. 10, 1838.
Gypona flavilineata Fitch, Homop. New York, State Cab., p. 57, 1851.
Gypona quebecensis Provancher, Nat. Canada, vol. 4, p. 352, 1872.
Gypona flavilineata SpAngberg, K. Svenska Vet. Akad. Handl., vol. 5, No. 3,
p. 8, 1878.
Gypona scrupulosa SpAngberg, K. Svenska Vet. Akad. Ilandl., vol. 5, No. 3,
p. 9, 1878.
Gypona olivacea SpAngberg. Ent. Tidskr. Stockholm, p. 24, 1881.
Gypona octo-lineata Uhler, Standard Natural History, vol. 2, p. 247, 1884.
This is the most common and widespread member of the genus in
the United States. Great variation is exhibited in the general size
and color of individuals and also in the reticulations of the elytra.
The fact that the species has at various times been described imder
several different names is due to these mentioned variances. Bio-
logic observations will prove the writer's opinion that the several
so-called forms have no basis for specific value, and that the above
names are correctly placed in synonomy. Sp&ngberg laid too much
stress upon the character of the reticulations of the elytra in sepa-
rating and grouping species. While the majority of specimens of
octo-lineata Say examined have reticulations on the clavus as well as
corium, every gradation to the other extreme of no reticulations on
any portion of the elytra have been seen. Again some specimens are
brilliantly colored with red, while others are solidly green, and even
some nearly white. However, the form and shape of the female
genitalia is identical in each so-called form.
The species has been recorded from every section of the United
States and from southern Canada.
3. GYPONA PRUINOSA Spingberg.
Gypona pruinosa SpAngberg, K. Svenska Vet. Akad. Handl., vol. 5, No. 3, p. 9,
1878.
This species resembles octo-lineata Say in general appearance. The
female segment rather than being simply and deeply sinuate is dis-
tinctly and shallowly trisinuate. As far as available records show
it is restricted to ''east of the Kocky Moimtains."
4. GYPONA GEMINATA Osborn.
Gypona geminata Osborn, 20th Rept. State Ent., New York, p. 513, 1905.
The shorter vertex and nearly truncate female segment will serve
to separate this species from octo-lineata Say, its nearest relative. It
is somewhat smaller and lacks the amount of reticulations that is
common to the majority of specimens of octo-lineata Say. The re-
