NO. 2289. LEAFHOPPERS OF THE GENUS GYPON A— GIBSON. 91
ticulations of the wings of geminata Osborn are confined to the apical
portion. It is a bright green species, becoming yellow in dried
specimens.
The only two specimens that I have examined are paratypes from
Professor Osborn's collection. They were captured from pine at
Cold Springs Harbor, New York, 1904.
5. GYPONA RAMOSA Eirkaldy.
Gypona ramosa Kirkaldy, Hawaiian Sugar Planter's Assoc, Bull. No. 4, p. 60,
1907.
This southwestern species is conspicuous among other members
of the genus because of its very thin or foliaceous anterior margin of
the vertex, which is tinged with black. It is bright yellow or yellowish
green, but sometimes nearly white. The elytra is heavily reticulate,
having nearly a rugose appearance. There are two black dots near
the anterior margin of the pronotum, one behind each eye. Speci-
mens are entirely light beneath.
The only records of this species in the United States come from
southeastern Arizona.
6. GYPONA TENELLA Sp&ngber£.
Gypona teiulla SpAngberg, K. Svenska Vet. Akad. Handl., vol. 5, No. Z, p. 34,
1878.
The long, produced, and rather acutely pointed vertex separates
this from all the other green species. Otherwise in general appearance
it resembles angulafa Spangberg. It is one of the smallest members
of the genus, the female measuring less than 8 mm. long.
The only specimens examined are from Texas, however it is also
known to occur in Florida.
7. GYPONA DICTITORIA. new species.
Vertex short, less than one-half the length of pronotum; anterior
margin comparatively thin and slightly produced at the middle.
Vertex depressed behind apex. Ocelli very lai^e and clear, placed
midway between median line of vertex and eyes. A small dark spot
behind each ocellus on posterior border of vertex. Pronotum not
much wider than head, striations transverse. Elytra opaque with
base of clavus unmarked, with appendix. Female segement pro-
duced at the middle with very deep sinuations on each side. Size,
female 10.5-11 mm. long. Very robust.
Color, a decidedly green species, sometimes with inner margins of
elytra mottled with brown, more often without any dark markings.
Type. — Female, Reddington, Arizona, collected by Dr. W. Barnes.
(Collection of U. S. National Museum.) Cat. No. 21882.
