NO. 2289. LEAFHOPPER^ OF THE GENUS GYPONA— GIBSON. 93
10. GYPONA BIMACULATA Sp&ngberg.
Gypona bimaculata SpAngberg, K. Svenska Vet. Akad. Handl., vol. 5, No. 3,
p. 23, 1878.
This is a comparatively large and very broad green hopper, with
a rather long vertex, with its anterior margin thin. There is a promi-
nent black spot on the pronotum behind each eye. The elytra is
transparent. With unicolor Stal they form a distinctive group
within the genus. The comparisons of the two species will be noted
under unicolor Stal.
Specmiens have been examined and identified from New York,
Pennsylvania, Maryland, Michigan, Iowa, Colorado, and New
Mexico.
11. GYPONA UNICOLOR St&I.
Gypona unicolor StAl, Stettin. Ent. Zeit., vol.25, p. 84, 1864.
This species closelj^ resembles bimaculata Spangberg, but having
a longer vertex, which is slightly more acutely pointed, and lacking
the black spots on the pronotum. Also the base of the clavus is
unmarked. The average of a long series of specimens will show it
to be a somewhat narrower form than himaculata Spangberg. The
female segment is also more nearly truncate in unicolor Stal.
This is a western species and more especially southwestern.
12. GYPONA MEDITABUNDA Sp&ngberg.
Gypona meditahunda SpAngburg, K. Svenska Vet. Akad. Handl., vol. 5, No. 3,
p. 39, 1878.
This is an easily recognized species. In color it varies from a
decided green to reddish brown. Normally the posterior two-thirds
of the pronotum is rosaceous and often times the basal haK of the
elytra is so colored. The dorsal aspect is immaculate and shiny.
The female segment is only slightly trisinuate. An eastern species
extending as far west as the central Mississippi Valley.
13. GYPONA CITRINA Spingberg.
Gypona ciirma SpAngberg, K. Svenska Vet. Akad. Handl., vol. 5, No. 3, p.
45, 1878.
Gypona pauperata SpAngberg, Ent. Tidskr., p. 33, 1881.
This species greatly resembles luctoralis Spangberg. 1 1 is somewhat
smaller, with less variation in color, the females being of one general
color as viewed from above. Elytra entirely opaque. A lighter
species. The spots on the elytra of the females are indistinct, but
very prominent on the males. The wings are less smoky than in
pectoralis Spangberg.
Tliis is strictly a southern species. Specimens in the collection of
the United States National Museum are from Florida and Texas.
