94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
14. GYPONA CACOZELA, new species.
The vertex of this species is not produced, but is nearly as long
as one-half the length of the pronotum, with anterior margin thick
and broadly rounding. Ocelli comparatively large and situated
midway between median line of vertex and eyes and somewhat
nearer the anterior than posterior border. Striations of pronotum
prominent. Elytra with base of clavus darkened and with four
small black spots more or less prominent. Elytra opaque, inner
margin beyond clavus clouded with brown. Hind wings light
colored but opaque. Female segment produced at the middle and
with a small notch. Size, female, 9 mm. long.
Color, yellow or yellowish brown or orange, much the same as
citrina Sp&ngberg. Vertex and scutellum distinctly yellow to yellow-
ish green. Pronotum, especially posterior half, orange or light
brown. Entirely light beneath.
Type. — FemalC) allotype, male, paratypes, 2 females, Los Borregos,
Brownsville, Texas, collected by H. S. Barber. (Collection of U. S.
National Museum); 2 males, Brownsville, Texas, collected by C. H,
T. Townsend. (Collection of U. S. National Museum). Cat. No.
21883.
This species closely resembles citrina Spangberg.
15. GYPONA OCCLUSA, new species.
The vertex is broadly rounding, not produced, about one-half the
length of pronotum and nearly as broad. Ocelli comparatively large
and situated midway between the median line of the vertex and the
eyes. Pronotum prominently striated and marked with a small
black spot near anterior border behind each ocellus. Elytra with
base of clavus darkened and with a broad appendix. Female
segment slightly produced at the middle and prominently sinuate on
each side. Size, female, 7 mm. long. About the smallest species
in the United States. Comparatively narrow for its length.
Color, yellow and orange when dried, much the same general
appearance as citrina Sp&ngberg in color. Probably yellowish green
when alive. Elytra shiny and not as opaque as in citrina Spangberg
or cacozela Gibson.
Type. — Female, allotype, male, and one paratype male, from Los
Borregos, Brownsville, Texas, collected by H. S. Barber. (Collection
of U. S. National Museum.) Cat. No. 21884.
16. GYPONA PECTORALIS SpSngberg.
Gypona pectoralis SpInberg, K. Svenska Vet. Akad. Handl., vol. 5, No. 3,
p. 46, 1878.
Gypona albimarginata Woodworth, Illinois. Lab. Nat. Hist., vol. 3, p. 31, 1896.
Gypona hullensis Provancher, Lee Hem., 1889.
