NO. 2289. LEAFH0PPER8 OF THE GENUS QY PON A— GIBSON. 9?
23. GYPONA GRISEA Spingberg.
Gypona grisea SpAngberg, K. Svenska "Vet. Akad. Handl., vol. 5, No. 3, p. 64,
1878.
The identity of this species should not be at all confused, being
very distinct from all other species. It is one of the largest species
in the genus, measuring about 12 mm. long and is comparatively
broad. The two dried specimens examined would indicate that
live individuals have a decided brown appearance. The entire
dorsal surface is finely flaked with red. The vertex is broadly
rounding and but little produced. Veins of the elytra are margined
with minute punctures.
The only available records of capture are from Georgia and North
Carolina,
24. GYPONA CURIATA, new speciea.
The vertex is short, only slightly produced, anterior margin rather
thick and rounding, striations transverse, OcelU comparatively
large and placed midway between median Hne of vertex and eyes.
Pronotum not quite three times as long as vertex, with transverse
striations and numerous minute dark colored punctures on posterior
two-thirds. Scutellum with striations but lacking punctations.
Elytra semi-transparent, with base of clavus black, veins sometimes
with faint irregular markings in cells, veins prominently bordered
with minute punctations. Female segment, nearly truncate, only
shallowly sinuate if at all. Size, female, 8.5 mm. long.
Color, dried specimens are a light brown, live specimens would
probably be yellowish brown, certainly a brownish species.
Type. — Female, allotype, male, Arizona. (Collection of U. S.
National Museum, P. R. Uhler.) Cat. No. 21885.
Paratypes. — 1 female, same as type. 2 males, Arizona, collected
by Morrison. (Collection of U. S. National Museum.) 5 females and
a male, Huachuca Mountains, Arizona, collected by H. G. Barber.
(Collection of H, G. Barber.)
25. GYPONA NEGOTIOSA. new species.
Tlie vertex of this species is nearly one-half as long as width between
the eyes, anterior margin thin, prominently depressed beneath margin
and also behind margin on vertex. Vertex somewhat produced and
angulate. Ocelli comparatively small and nearer the median line
of vertex than eyes and midway between anterior and posterior
borders. A black spot on posterior border of vertex just outside
each ocellus. Four dark spots on anterior border of pronotum, one
behind each spot of vertex and one in each anterior lateral angle.
Base of clavus darkened. Female segment bisinuate with a small
notch at middle of central lobe. Elytra with the four prominent
spots as in pectoralis Spangberg and also with numerous smaller
115690— l^—Proc.N.M.vol.56 7
