NO. 2289. LEAFHOPPERS OF THE GENUS GYPONA— GIBSON. 99
dark spots near the anterio-lateral angles of the pronotum which may
be considered diagnostic characters.
Uliler's manuscript name intertexta applies to this species.
Normally it appears to be a southeastern species; however, it has
been recorded from other parts of the country east of the Rocky
Mountains.
28. GYPONA MODESTA Spingberg.
Gypona modestn SpIngberg, Ent. Tidskr.. vol. 4, p. 107, 1883.
The prominent dark veins of the elytra, witli numerous dark ir-
regular lines, together with the more or less pointed vertex, serve as
distmguishing characters for this species. It is a relatively large and
decidedly brown species, however; m dried specimens the elytra
sometimes fade to a dirty yellow. The female segment is nearly
truncate, bemg slightly produced at the middle. Fitch has given the
manuscript name of columba for this species.
Records indicate the distribution of the species to be from Mas-
sachusetts west to the Rocky Mountains.
29. GYPONA MARGINIFRONS Fo\¥ler.
Gypona marginifrons Fowler, Biol. Cent. Amer., p. 302, 1909.
This is the most easily recognized of all species. The short, broadly
rounding vertex, with ocelli placed nearer the anterior than posterior
border, constitute the most prominent characteristics. The anterior
margin of the pronotum is marked with irregular dark lines. It is a
rather large brownish species. Veins of elytra distinctly dark brown.
Specimens at hand are from Arizona and New Mexico.
.•?». GYPONA AQUILA, new species.
The vertex is short, not produced, broadly rounded, anterior
margin thick. ^Minute transverse striations on vertex. Ocelli com-
paratively large and placed equidistant from median line and eyes,
and slightly nearer the anterior margin of vertex. Median line dark-
ened. Two dark spots on posterior border of vertex behind eyes.
Width of pronotum much greater than width of head and more than
three times as long. Several small dark spots and one or two irregu-
lar lines near anterior border of pronotum. Tiansverse striations and
numerous tiny dark punctations prominent. Scutelluni large. Elytra
with base of clavus black and with veins lined with minute puncta-
tions. Elytra semitransparent, with numerous irregular dark lines
in cells. A prominent small, white, opaque, longitudinal area along
middle of the inner margin of clavus. Female segment produced
at the middle with a small notch and sinuate on each side. Size,
female, 10.5 mm. long.
Color, general appearance dark grayish brown, due to the many
dark markings on pronotum and elytra. Ground color of head,
pronotum, and scutelluni yellow in dried specimens. Hind wings
dark and smoky. Entirely light beneath.
