100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. vol. 56.
Type. — Female; allotype, male; paratypes, 2 females; all from
Huachuca Mountains, Ai'izona, collected by H. G. Barber. (Allotype
in collection of H, G. Barber.) Cat. No. 21917. (Type and para-
types in collection U. S. National Museum.)
Tills species is very distinct from all others of the genus, but most
nearly resembles modesta Spangberg.
31. GYPONA FRATERNA Splngberg.
Gypona fraterna SpAngberg, K. Svenska Vet. Akad. Handl., vol. 5, No. 3, p. 72,
1878.
This species, with cinerea Uhler, are characterized by the extremely
long vertex, which nearly equals the length of the pronotum. Viewed
from above they have the general appearance of the Cercopid genus
PJiilaenus.
Fraterna Spangberg is the more common of the two species occur-
ring throughout the entire United States, while cinerea Uhler is most
abundant in the extreme Southwest. Fraterna Spangberg is compara-
tively large and varies in color from light yellowish gray to dark
bro\vn.
32. GYPONA CINEREA Uhler.
Gypona cinerea Uhler, Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv., vol. 3, p. 460, 1877.
Besides the comparisons as noted under fraterna Spangberg,
it may be said that the abdomen of cinerea Uhler is usually darker
and the male plates are comparatively narrower. The female seg-
ment is deeply bisinuate.
33. GYPONA DRACONTEA, new species.
The vertex is about one-half as long as pronotum and generally
concave, not produced, anterior margin thin. Ocelli comparatively
small and placed midway between median line of vertex and eyes.
Pronotum not much wider than head. Elytra reticulate toward
apex, apical area rugose or wavy. Female segment notched at the
middle with a blunt tooth. Size, females 6.5 mm. long. Short and
robust, having the general appearance of an XeropJiloea.
Color, the upper surface finely punctate with red. Ground color
yellowish. The red punctures sometimes become brown. Elytra
tinged with red and mottled more or less with brown. Veins of the
elytra spotted. Elytra opaque to apical area, which is transparent.
A light spot at center of claval suture.
Type. — Female; allotype, male; paratype, 1 female; Huachuca
Mountains, Aiizona. (Collection of U. S. National Museum.) Cat.
No. 21887.
Paratype. — 1 female, Nogales, Arizona, Koebele. (Collection of
Herbert Osborn.)
The most higlily colored and distinctive species in the genus
occurring in the United States.
