1967 Brazilian Scleractinian Corals 11
NEW SPECIES DESCRIPTION
Genus Scolymia Haime 1852
Mussids remaining simple during their entire life, without any
division of the primary calicle. This genus, the type species of
which is the West Indian Madrepora laceia Pallas, was abandoned
long ago on the belief that its various species were actually
young stages of already known colonial mussids, chiefly Mussa
Oken and Isophyllia Milne Edwards and Haime. It was retained
by some paleontologists under the name Lithophyllia Milne
Edwards and Haime. Wells (1964), who revived the genus, has
pointed out that Scolymia has priority over Lithophyllia. This is
a tropical Atlantic genus.
Scolymia wellsii sp. nov.
Figures 1, 2, 3
Description. Corallum simple, generally turbinate, sometimes
cylindrical, flabelloid or discoidal, fixed to the substratum or
rarely free.
Calicle rounded, elliptical or deformed owing to crowded con-
ditions of growth. Maximum diameter 6 cm, concave, generally
deep. Septa numerous; five complete cycles in a specimen of dia-
meter cf 5 cm. Sixth cycle incomplete. The first three cycles only
attain the columella, the septa of higher orders joining these by
bending. Primary septa thickened but much less so than in adult
specimens of S. lacera. Septal teeth numerous (12 to 15), high,
erect, brittle, laciniate, cylindrical; never wide and triangular as in
S. lacera; teeth of septa of higher cycles bend toward the periphery
and fuse to one another to give the septum a delicate lacelike
aspect. Lateral faces of septa covered by rather numerous stout
and blunt conical granulations.
Wall parathecate, sometimes becoming septothecate in old speci-
mens. Costae strong with acute teeth ascending near the margin
of the calicle. The fleshy parts of the polyp cover the whole coral-
lum in very young corals only.
Color of the living animal: generally a bright green or lavender,
sometimes chalky white or dark brown. In certain specimens from
the Abrolhos a sectorial arrangement of the hues was observed;
for example, one sector may be green and the rest of the polyp
lavender.
