12 Postilla Yale Peabody Museum No. 107
Ecology. Scolymia wellsii was found in three types of environ-
menc, all characterized by dimness of illumination: (1) On the
vertical slopes of the "chapeiroes" of the Abrolhos reefs, from
4 to 28 meters. (2) Under overhangs and in recesses of the back
reef at Tamandare (Pernambuco) and Porto de Galinhas (Per-
nambuco) at depths of only 1 to 3 meters. These reefs are gen-
erally washed by clear waters even in winter. (3) In the sub-reef
zone, from 55 to 110 meters, on bottoms of calcareous algae on
the continental shelf of northeastern Brazil (dredged by
CALYPSO.) Seme of these specimens were free and had devel-
oped into cornucopialike forms by successive regeneration.
HoLOTYPE. Corallum with diameter of 6 cm; from back reef
of Tamandare (Pernambuco); collected February, 1964, by J.
Laborel; deposited at the Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle,
Paris.
Paratypes. From same locality; deposited at the Peabody
Museum of Natural History, Yale University; YPM Nos. 8117,
8118.
Affinities. The species is very closely related to S. lacera
(Pallas) from young specimens of which it is sometimes difficult
to separate. Adults of 5". lacera are larger (up to 12 cm in diam-
eter) and less concave; the septa are thicker; and the septal teeth
are triangular, a characteristic never observed in the Brazilian
species. It is usually possible to determine even young specimens
since the septal dentition of S. wellsii is less regular and more
contorted than that of S. lacera.
Distribution. From the latitude of Recife to that of the Abrol-
hos reefs.
notes on Millepora and Stylaster
Three species of Millepora were encountered commonly:
( 1 ) Millepora alcicoruis Linnaeus. This species ranges from
Cabo de Sao Roque to Cabo Frio and assumes a number of growth
Figure 1. Scttlymia ivellsii sp. nov., lateral view; from Tamandare
(Pernambuco). The larger specimen is the holotype with coral-
lum diameter of 6 cm.
Figure 2. Calicinal view of the same.
Figure 3. Lateral view of a broken corallum of Scolymia ivellsii sp.
nov., showing arrangement of septal teeth.
