4 Postilla Yale Peabody Museum No. 107
All the species listed were observed in the field and collected
by the writer. The list cannot be considered definitive since more
extensive collecting in the Brazilian region may bring to light other
species, some perhaps new, especially in the genera Montastrea
I one specimen from the Abrolhos reefs suggests the presence there
of a species related to M. annularis (Ellis and Solander) | and
Mussismilia [some deep forms in the sub-reef regions.]
The following species reported by previous authors appear to be
synonymous with species in the list above:
Orbicella braziliana Verrill 1901a = Montastrea cavernosa
(Linn.) — a deep water form.
Orbicella cavernosa var. hirta Verrill (1901a and 1901b) and
Orbicella cavernosa "var."' coinpacta Vaughan (1901b) are
growth forms of Montastrea cavernosa found in well-lighted
environments. It is not uncommon to find different portions of the
suiface of the same colony exhibiting the structure of the several
"varieties."
Heliastraea {= Orbicella) aperta Verrill 1868 = Fav/a lep-
tophylla Verrill — confirming the opinion of Matthai, 1928.
Favia (= Meandra) conjerta Verrill 1868 = a form of Favia
gravida Verrill — from agitated waters; confirms the opinion of
Vaughan, 1901a.
Porites verrillii Rehberg 1892 {=Porites solida Verrill 1868) =
Porites astreoides Lamarck 1816. Observation of type and field
material showed that both "species" have very fluctuant features
and overlapping ranges of variation. Systematics of Porites are
still poorly known and a true regional and ecological study of the
genus remains to be done. Since it is now completely impossible
to draw a line between P. astreoides Lamarck and P. verrillii Reh-
berg, their provisional reunification seems justified.
The absence from the Brazilian fauna of many West Indian
genera such as Acropora, Oculina, Stephanocoenia, Diploria, and
Dichocoenia is once again confirmed.
COMMENTS ON THE TAXONOMY AND ECOLOGY
OF SOME BRAZILIAN CORALS
The following species from the revised list are discussed here
either because they are new occurrences for Brazil or because they
have been subjected to some revisionary work by the author.
