1967 Brazilian Scleractinian Corals 7
synonymized SymphylUa harttii with Mussa harttii, having recog-
nized an intergrading series between the original two species on the
basis of additional material in the Peabody Museum collections at
that time. He named four varieties of the emended species, Mussa
hurt til. His variety conferta, previously called SymphylUa harttii,
represented to him one extreme in the series, with the corallites
united to their summits; he regarded the variety laxa as the other
extreme, with corallites in dichotomous groups and with the calicles
and branches free. Varieties intermedia with the corallites free
for 1 3 to 1 2 their length and confertifolia with corallites free
for only a short distance, Verrill considered as intermediate
between the two extreme forms. In the same year Verrill (1901b)
described Mussa (SymphylUa) tenuisepta, choosing as the type
specimen a colony collected at Pernambuco in 1870 by Derby and
Wilmot. (This specimen, YPM No. 4542, was originally labeled
SymphylUa harttii in the Peabody Museum catalogue.) Moreover,
he (1901a) gave the name Mussa (Sympliyllia) hispida to a speci-
men (YPM No. 4287) that Dana (1846) had determined errone-
ously as Astraea dipsacea Lamarck. Matthai (1928) complicated
the matter still further by uniting (without any clear written justi-
fication or explanation) VerrilFs species, Mussa braziliensis, M.
tenuisepta, and M. Iiispida, in his concept of Protomussa brazil-
iensis. Field observations together with morphological studies of
my extensive collections lead me to the following resolution of the
problems just outlined:
(1) Mussismilia liarttii (Verrill) should be restricted to the
concept held of it by Verrill (1868) in his original description.
The varieties la.xa (YPM No. 1468, type, from the Abrolhos
reefs), intermedia (YPM No. 4551, type, from Pernambuco) and
confertifolia (YPM No. 4544, type, from Pernambuco) represent
ecological variations of the species.
Mussismilia harttii is an important reef builder north of the
mouth of the Rio Sao Francisco do Norte to Cabedelo. It is very
abundant in the region of Bahia State and the Abrolhos reefs but
has little significance in reef formation in this locality where it
occurs along with M. braziliensis. Its southern limit is in the region
of Vitoria. On the islands of Rocas and Fernando dc Noronha it
is very scarce, perhaps owing to the strong surf, and grows only in
the more protected bays and coves.
