8 Postilla Yale Peabody Museum No. 107
(2) Mussismilia hispida (Verrill). This species is based on a
specimen collected by the United States Exploring Expedition and
identified by Dana (1846) as Astraea dipsacea Lamarck. The
locality of collection is reported as the West Indies, but this is
almost certainly an error. The specimen (YPM No. 4287) is very
similar to my material from the region of Cabo Frio, Brazil, a
locality visited by members of the expedition during their stopover
at Rio de Janiero in 1838. Since the populations of M. hispida
show strong regional dilTerentiation, it seems reasonable to suppose
that Dana's specimen came from Brazil. Moreover, Mussismilia
hispida has never again been collected in the West Indies.
VerrilFs species Symphyllia harttii (1868), Mussa (Symphyllia)
tenuisepta (1901b) and his Mussa harttii var. conjerta (1901a)
must all be regarded as synonyms of Mussismilia hispida. The
great variability of the species warrants its subdivision into two
geographical subspecies:
A. Mussismilia hispida hispida subsp. nov. This subspecies
ranges from Salvador, State of Bahia, to Sao Sebastiao, State of
Sao Paulo. The following specimens of Verrill are included:
Symphyllia harttii, YPM No. 1469, Abrolhos reefs; Mussa harttii
var. conjerta, YPM No. 4514, Periperi coast. State of Bahia;
YPM 4287, type, ?Cabo Frio or vicinity.
B. Mussismilia hispida tenuisepta (Verrill). This subspecies
is characterized by smaller septal teeth and thinner septa. It ranges
from Rocas and Fernando de Noronha Islands south to the Baia
de Todos os Santos where it intergrades with the other subspecies.
The following specimens of Verrill are included: YPM Nos. 4542,
type, and 4543, both from Pernambuco.
(3) Mussismilia brazHiensis (Verrill). This species is well dif-
ferentiated from M. hispida. Its nearly spherical colonies may
attain a diameter of more than a meter and form the bulk of the
coral growth in the Abrolhos region. The chief diagnostic charac-
ters are the extreme reduction of the trabecular columella, the
small size of the calicles (ca. 8 mm) and the feebly devel-
oped exotheca which gives the corallum a subcerioid appearance.
Little morphological variation was observed.
Its range is limited to the region between Salvador and the
Abrolhos reefs. VerrilFs types (YPM No. 1467, from the Abrolhos
region) are in good condition.
