Proceedings of the National Shellfisheries Association
Volume 65-1976
ABSTRACTS OF THE TECHNICAL PAPERS PRESENTED
AT THE 1975 NSA CONVENTION
CULTURING AND TRANSPLANTING
HATCHERY-SPAWNED QUAHOGS
H. Arnold Carr
Massachusetts Maritime Academy Division of
Marine Fisheries
Buzzards Bay, Massachusetts
Between May and October, 1973, 5.5 million
quahogs, averaging 2.0 mm along their ante-
rior-posterior axis, were placed in trays sus-
pended in the water column. By November, the
mean survival rate was 52% and the mean size
of quahogs delivered in May and June was 6.4
mm. Quahogs subjected to freezing water tem-
peratures and ice during the winter of 1973-74,
had a survival rate of 99%. Other hatchery-
spawned quahogs with a size range of 8-20 mm
were transplanted onto natural bottom. Recov-
ery and survival of shell stock planted at a
water temperature of 6°C was greater than that
planted at 20°C.
MOTION PICTURE FILM ENTITLED
"PREDATORY BEHAVIOR OF THE
BORING SNAIL UROSALPINX CINEREA"
Melbourne R. Carriker and James G. Schaadt
Biological Science Center
Boston University
Boston, Massachusetts
The film depicts the approach, mounting,
penetration, and feeding of oysters and mussels
by the oyster borer. After a short sequence on
fossils, the film shows snail approaching a jar
filled with live pumping oysters, climbing the
outside against the flow of water, entering the
jar and boring oysters. The control jar is ig-
nored. The remainder of the film demonstrates
mounting of oysters, selection of boring site,
details of shell penetration magnified under an
optical system, slow motion pictures of radular
activity, and feeding on the flesh inside.
HOST RESPONSE TO INFECTION WITH
BUCEPHALUS IN CRASSOSTREA
VIRGINICA
W. Rudd Douglass
Oyster Research Laboratory
N. J. Agricultural Experiment Station
Rutgers University
New Brunswick, New Jersey
Little or no host response to Bucephalus in-
fections in Crassostrea virginica has been re-
ported by Hopkins (1954) and Cheng and Burton
(1965). Mackin and Loesch (1954) reported an
intense cellular response to Bucephalus sporo-
cysts infected with a haplosporidan hyperpara-
site. Sprague ( 1962) mentions a similar response
to Bucephalus sporocysts infected with a mi-
crosporidan hyperparasite. Canzonier (per.
comm.) reported leucocytic responses to mori-
bund and dead Bucephalus sporocysts.
During a year-long survey (1972-73) of Bu-
cephalus infections in a natural population of
oysters from the Navesink River (New Jersey),
host response was noted in a number of varying
infection conditions. One case is of special inter-
est. Young sporocysts in presumably new infec-
tions elicited an intense cellular response in 3 of
7 oysters with similar infection intensities. In
one case phagocytes were observed within the
sporocyst proper.
This response may be due to previous experi-
ence with the parasite. It may also be due to
environmental conditions which alter the nor-
mal host-parasite relationship in this biological
system.
