ABSTRACTS
MSX-OYSTER INTERACTIONS:
LEUCOCYTE RESPONSE TO MINCHINIA
NELSONI DISEASE IN CRASSOSTREA
VIRGINICA
W. Rudd Douglass and H. H. Haskin
Oyster Research Laboratory, N. J. Agricultural
Experiment Station
Rutgers University
New Brunswick , New Jersey
Several investigators have reported an in-
crease in leucocytes in oysters with the develop-
ment of Minchinia nelsoni (MSX) disease
(Myhre, 1967; Farley, 1968). However, there has
been no attempt at quantification of this re-
sponse to date. This presentation represents an
attempt to measure leucocyte population
changes during MSX disease development.
Two stocks of oysters, one resistant and one
susceptible to MSX, were sampled at regular
intervals for one year (May 1972-June 1973).
Alterations in the total leucocyte populations
(TLP) were monitored by counts of leucocytes/
oil field (OF), (20 OF/oyster), number of hyaline
leucocytes/OF, (10 OF/oyster), and the percent-
age of MSX plasmodia phagocytized/200/MSX/
oyster.
Both stocks showed an increase in the num-
ber of leucocytes/OF during the summer of 1972.
There was no significant difference between the
two stocks. During the winter and spring the
number of leucocytes/OF ranged from 10%-30%>
higher in infected oysters when compared with
uninfected oysters in the resistant stock. Dur-
ing the same period the number of leucocytes/
OF in infected susceptible oysters ranged from
80%-140% higher than that of uninfected oys-
ters. The number of leucocytes in infected sus-
ceptible oysters was significantly higher than
that of infected resistant oysters during this
time interval.
There was no significant difference in the
percentage of MSX plasmodia phagocytized/
sample, between the stocks. In both stocks the
average percentage of MSX phagocytized was
usually less than 10%.
Hyaline leucocytes constitute less than 10% of
the TLP in uninfected oysters. Changes in the %
hyaline leucocytes/TLP were similar in both
stocks. In oysters with gill lesions in the sum-
mer there is a slight increase in hyaline leuco-
cytes (10%-20% of the TLP). Hyaline leucocytes
total 15%-40% of the TLP in oysters sampled in
the winter and spring. In oysters with general
infections throughout the year, hyaline leuco-
cytes ranged from 25%-50% of the TLP.
The lack of significant differences in leucocy-
tic responses to MSX between resistant and sus-
ceptible oysters verifies earlier speculation from
this laboratory that leucocytes probably play a
minor role in the resistance mechanism. This
suggests that unknown humoral responses may
control MSX lesion development in resistant
oysters.
MSX-OYSTER INTERACTIONS: SOME
NEW OBSERVATIONS ON MINCHINIA
NELSONI DISEASE DEVELOPMENT IN
STOCKS OF OYSTERS RESISTANT AND
SUSCEPTIBLE TO M. Af£LSCW/-CAUSED
MORTALITY
W. Rudd Douglass and H. H. Haskin
Oyster Research Laboratory
N. J . Agricultural Experiment Station
Rutgers University
New Brunswick, New Jersey
Two stocks of oysters (Crassostrea virginica),
one resistant, one susceptible to Minchinia nel-
soni (MSX) were sampled at regular intervals
for one year (May 1972-June 1973) on the Cape
Shore tidal flats, Cape May, New Jersey. Mor-
tality rates were monitored and histological sec-
tions of 250 oysters/stock were examined for
MSX prevalence/sample, weighted MSX inten-
sity/sample, MSX lesion type/oyster, and MSX
Plasmodium type/sample.
Patent MSX lesions were observed in both
stocks by the first week of July 1972. Three
weeks later the susceptible stock reached 100%
prevalence and remained high (70% -100%) for
the rest of the experimental period. The in-
crease in prevalence in the resistant stock was
much slower, reaching 90% six weeks after the
initial patent infection was detected. Infection
prevalence declined in the stock to 10% by mid-
September 1972, rose to 90% over the winter-
spring period, and then dropped to 50% in June
1973.
The quantity of MSX lesions in susceptible
