PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL SHELLFISHERIES ASSOCIATION
increasing both quantity and quality (based on
shell shape) of oysters are enormous because (1)
adequate spatfall occurs practically every year,
(2) growth increments of oysters range from
z W-\ l l2 a year, (3) survival rates of oysters are
high, (4) at least 200,000 boxes of unharvested
stocks of small oysters grow either in deep water
or on poor shallow grounds, (5) several million
bushels of oyster shells lie in buried deposits,
and (6) about 1,000 acres of otherwise barren
grounds possess favorable environmental fea-
tures for producing high quality oysters.
Use of large vessels to transplant both oysters
from unharvested stocks and shells from depos-
its and spread these on barren public grounds is
recommended. In 1973 the Province's first oyster
vessel, a 43-foot catamaran, was constructed. It
transplanted and spread 34,000 boxes of oysters
on 68 acres of grounds. Earnings of each fisher-
man are expected to rise steadily from an an-
nual average of $2,300 and reach about $4,550
after the transplanting program has been un-
derway a few years. Earnings of local buyers
and mainland wholesalers should rise signifi-
cantly. Overall oyster production should more
than double. Use of the vessels may not always
be required because the newly-established oys-
ter beds will self-perpetuate themselves with
regular annual spatfall, even under intense
harvesting pressure.
The expenditures to finance the oyster reha-
bilitation program should be exceeded many
times by monetary benefits to the fishermen.
Cost-to-benefit ratios should eventually exceed
1:20, as costs involve only the transplanting of
existing live oysters and shells.
The author developed and implemented this
program during a one-year period, 1972-73,
while engaged as oyster consultant to the Pro-
vincial Department of Fisheries.
DECLINE OF MINCHINIA NELSONI IN
MARYLAND WATERS OF CHESAPEAKE
BAY
Sara V. Otto, Janet B. Hammed, and
Aaron Rosenfield
NOAA-NMFS
Oxford, Maryland
Prevalence ofMinchinia nelsoni, a haplospor-
idan pathogenic to oysters (Crassostrea virgin-
ica), steadily decreased from its highest level in
1964 (average of 19.6% prevalence for all areas
sampled) until the cessation of regular sampling
in 1972. At this time M. nelsoni was not ob-
served in oyster tissues from any of the areas
sampled. After Bay-wide sampling was discon-
tinued, only oyster tissues from 9 areas in the
Manokin River, a southern Maryland, Eastern
Shore tributary to Chesapeake Bay, were exam-
ined with any regularity. In spite of the reduc-
tion in sampling and histological examinations,
there are sufficient data to indicate that M.
nelsoni either disappeared or became inactive
at least 2 years prior to Hurricane Agnes. This
information does not support the common
claims that the storm drove M. nelsoni out of
the Maryland waters of the Chesapeake Bay.
PHARMACOLOGY AND CHEMISTRY OF
NATURAL GUMS USED AS BINDERS IN
FOODS FOR MARICULTURE
Walter L. Smith
Suffolk County Community College
Selden, New York
The chemistry and pharmacology of extracts
from marine plants such as agar, carrageenan,
furcelleran, and alginates are briefly described,
these extracts and other products derived from
them have many pharmaceutical uses; for ex-
ample, as anti-coagulants, connective tissue
growth enhancers, bulk laxatives, and coagu-
lants. The chemistry of these extracts, the
structure of the polysaccharides, and the varia-
tions, both physical and chemical, are depend-
ent on the types of plants and the kinds of salts
present. The possible effects of these com-
pounds, in the form of binders and capsules,
when fed to certain marine animals are dis-
cussed.
COOLING METHODS FOR SOFT-SHELL
CLAMS
G. U. Schaffer, F. W. Wheaton, and A. J.
Ingling
College of Agriculture, University of Maryland
Maryland soft clams harvested during the
warm summer months are subject to quality
