ABSTRACTS
deterioration due to bacterial growth. Cooling of
the clams has been suggested as a possible solu-
tion.
This investigation was designed to develop
data from which rational comparisons of various
cooling techniques could be made. Three sources
of cooling were investigated: ice, dry ice and
mechanical refrigeration. These sources were
utilized in several different sizes and types of
systems under conditions of both natural and
forced circulation. Various types of containers
were tested to determine their effect on cooling
rate.
Results of the experiments were used to de-
rive cooling curves for various combinations of
equipment and cooling source. Ice and dry ice
quantities, equipment descriptions and power
requirements are discussed.
THE ROLE OF SERRATIA MARCESCENS
IN THE COLORATION OF "RED" OYSTERS
AND SOFT-SHELL CLAMS
H. S. Tubiash
National Marine Fisheries Service
Oxford, Maryland
A study was made to determine the role of a
chromogenic strain of Serratia tnarcescens, iso-
lated from shucked osyters, on seasonal red col-
oration of shellfish. This event reduces the mar-
ket acceptability of affected shellfish. Experi-
ments were designed to test effects of the orga-
nism in live and shucked oysters and soft-shell
clams. Live clams and oysters were held over-
night in water of varying temperatures contain-
ing Serratia concentrations of 5.6 x 10" per ml.
The mollusks were then opened and examined
for coloration. The live clams were tinged pink
in the gills and superficial tissues, but the
digestive glands and shell liquor did not differ
from unexposed controls. After 5 days refrigera-
tion the shucked clam meats showed a pinkish-
orange liquor, had a putrid odor and were of
unacceptable quality. Oysters similarly treated
showed no coloration and after 5 days refrigera-
tion the meats were still in good condition. It
was concluded that S. marceseens plays no sig-
nificant role in the coloration of marketable
quality shellfish.
A LAWSUIT (ENVIRONMENTALLY
ORIENTED) BROUGHT AGAINST
MECHANICAL CLAM HARVEST IN
WASHINGTON STATE WITH A HANKS-
TYPE HARVESTER
Ronald E. Westley
Shellfish Laboratory
Brin non , Wash ington
Harvest of Eastern soft-shell clams on the
inter-tidal flats of Skagit Bay by a Hanks-type
harvester was halted by an injunction issued
against the clam harvester and the Washington
State Department of Fisheries. Initial basis for
the injunction was fear of damage to a high
intertidal rush used for food by wild fowl located
above the clam beds. Trial was held and the
Court ruled that the clam harvest operator had
failed to comply with the terms of the Washing-
ton State Shorelines Management Act, and that
mechanical clam harvest was both a substantial
development and dredging in terms of the
Washington law. He further ruled that the De-
partment of Fisheries had failed to consider
terms of the Washington State Environmental
Policy Act of 1971 and that the clam harvest
permit was not valid.
This trial and action have potential for major
impact on the Washington shellfish industry
and it currently appears that it may greatly
complicate the management regulation and
conduct of shellfish harvest in Washington
State.
