PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL SHELLFISHERIES ASSOCIATION
NSA PACIFIC COAST SECTION
GENETIC VARIATION IN THE PACIFIC
OYSTER, CRASSOSTREA GIGAS
Norman E. Buroker and William K.
Hershberger
College of Fisheries
University of Washington
The genetic variation that has been investi-
gated is shown by electrophoretic separation of
proteins (enzymes) on starch gels. This proce-
dure allows an analysis of single gene differ-
ences between individuals and will give an indi-
cation of the genetic diversity within and be-
tween populations.
Eleven enzyme (protein) systems have been
examined at our laboratory reflecting twenty
loci; seven loci were monomorphic, eight were
polymorphic, and five remain unresolved. The
eight polymorphic loci found in the fifteen re-
solved loci (53.3%) indicates that C. gigas is a
highly polymorphic species. This high degree of
genetic variation within a population should
provide material for genetic improvement of the
species.
APPLICATION OF SPANISH MUSSEL
CULTURE TECHNIQUES IN PUGET
SOUND, WASHINGTON
Linda Chaves and Kenneth K. Chew
College of Fisheries
University of Washington
Mussel culture in Spain is of the floating raft
type which has a high yield per unit area. Man-
ual labor plays a large role though in the
growth and preparation of the finished product.
Ropes are thinned and harvested manually.
Prior to marketing, the mussels must undergo
depuration or canning which is not yet fully
automated there. Without modification this
would not be economically sound in the United
States.
A pilot study is being conducted in Puget
Sound to determine the biological possibility of
a commercial industry. Natural setting, sub-
strate for seed collection, and growth are sev-
eral of the factors being observed. During the
past eight months of the study a major set has
occurred at only one station and prior foulding
of the ropes has been observed to be a deterrent
to successful setting. Of the three types of sub-
strates being used, manila, sinclove, and oyster
strings, the sinclove appears to be the most
promising.
PROGRESS IN CENTRAL CALIFORNIA
SHELLFISH SEED PRODUCTION
Richard A. Eissinger, Production Manager
International Shellfish Enterprises
Moss Landing, California
International Shellfish Enterprises, a four
year old California mariculture company, is
presently expanding facilities to present for sale
large quantities of oyster and clam seed to be
available in the early spring, 1975. Using hatch-
ery reared seed, International is growing oyster
seed, primarily C . gigas, to a size of 1" for use by
shellfish growers throughout the world. Clam
seed of 3-7 mm will also be available for plant-
ing. Production of these large quantities is pos-
sible by use of a hatchery and nursery tank
farm using the warm water from a Moss Land-
ing power plant.
THE ASSESSMENT OF SUBTIDAL
GEODUCK CLAM POPULATIONS BY
VISUAL AND PHOTOGRAPHIC
TECHNIQUES
Lynn Goodwin
Washington Department of Fisheries
Brinnon, Washington
Since 1967 the Washington State Department
of Fisheries has been surveying subtidal clam
stocks in Puget Sound with SCUBA divers. Geo-
duck (Panope generosa) stocks are evalutated
by visual counts of siphons or siphon holes
(shows). The number of geoducks detected by
divers using the visual method varies consider-
ably depending on how well the clams "show"
when the surveys are made. Preliminary obser-
