ABSTRACTS
vations from nine plots showed that the percent-
age of the true population detected in our visual
surveys could vary from as low as 26 to a high of
92. In more detailed studies, the percentage de-
tected was low during the cold winter months
and high during spring, summer, and fall, and
averaged approximately 40% from year-around
monthly samples. The percentage detected in
underwater photos is also highly variable, and
is subject to similar errors. The montly "show-
ing factors" have been used to refine our diver
survey counts and the total Puget Sound subti-
dal geoduck population estimate. The estimate
for the 33,992 acres surveyed thus far is
114,700,000 clams.
Surveys with underwater TV or cameras
mounted on sleds, tripods, or other devices
which come in contact with the bottom should
be done with a knowledge of the effects of me-
chanical disturbance on the "showing factor".
Geoducks at certain times of the year are ex-
tremely sensitive to mechanical disturbance
and will withdraw their siphons from the sub-
strate surface at the slightest contact of divers
or equipment with the bottom. We have success-
fully surveyed geoducks with underwater TV
and have observed large numbers of these clams
in water as deep as 240 feet. Mechanical dis-
turbance was kept to a minimum by keeping the
camera and all other equipment suspended off
bottom on cables.
This study demonstrated that useful survey
information on the populations of marine
benthic organisms can be obtained with visual
or photographic techniques, but the surveys
should be done with knwoledge of the percent-
age which can be detected and the effects of
equipment or divers on that percentage.
GENETIC MANIPULATION AND
BREEDING IN THE PACIFIC OYSTER,
CRASSOSTREA GIGAS
William Hershberger and Kenneth Chew
College of Fisheries
University of Washington
As part of the Sea Grant program to investi-
gate the summer mortality in Pacific oysters
apparently associated with Vibrio species of
bacteria, a genetics study has been initated to
investigate the selective breeding of the oyster
for resistance to the disease. Results on single
gene differences demonstrate a high degree of
genetic variation on which breeding can be
based, but no genetic differences have been
shown between the various populations which
can be correlated to their historical mortality
level.
However, laboratory experiments in which
oysters were challenged with a mortality-induc-
ing situation and a large portion killed indi-
cated that some individuals with a particular
phenotype survived better. Although these re-
sults are preliminary, there is an indication
that at least one gene can be used to "mark"
slightly more resistant oysters. With markers
such as this, more resistant individuals can be
chosen for a breeding stock to improve the re-
sistance of the total population used for market-
ing.
Other characteristics desirable to the oyster
grower that can also be improved through
breeding and the types of genetic manipulation
necessary will be discussed.
PLANTING HATCHERY SPAWNED
MANILA CLAMS (VENERUPIS
JAPONIC A) IN PUGET SOUND BEACHES
Chris Jones and Kenneth K. Chew
College of Fisheries
University of Washington
Hatchery spawned Manila clams averaging
3.7 mm in length were planted in four Puget
Sound locations in the spring of 1973 to deter-
mine the feasibility of rehabilitating potential
clam producing beaches that do not currently
have commercial densities of clams. Heavily
dug public beaches may also be repopulated in
this way. The variables of planting density and
tidal height were examined with regard to
growth rate and mortality. Plots were planted
with densities of 300, 600, 1200, and 2000 clam
seed per square meter with an unplanted con-
trol plot. Samples were taken at two weeks,
thriteen weeks and twenty-five weeks subse-
quent to planting. Two of the four plots were
unsuccessful in that there was almost no recov-
ery of planted clams after thirteen weeks. It is
unknown whether the failure was due to move-
ment of the clams or to mortality caused by
predation and physical factors. The other two
