PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL SHELLFISHERIES ASSOCIATION
plots were more promising with recovery rang-
ing up to 140 clams per square meter in Decem-
ber with a size averaging 23 mm. Recovery was
higher and the clams were faster growing at the
+ 2 level than at the +4 level. Absolute numbers
of clams recovered increased with increasing
planting density but the percentage recovered
dropped sharply. The possible reasons for this
outcome were discussed.
CRANGON NIGRICAUDA AND CRANGON
FRANCISCORUM IN YAQUINA BAY,
OREGON
Earl E. Krygier
Oregon State University
School of Oceanography
Corvallis, Oregon
The distribution, reproduction, and growth of
Crangon nigricauda and Crangon francisco-
rum in Yaquina Bay, Oregon are described
from the examination of 8,244 C. nigricauda
and 4,568 C. franciscorum collected by beam
trawl at bimonthly intervals during Dec. 1970
through Feb. 1972.
The distribution of C. nigricauda and C.
franciscorum is generally related to water tem-
perature and salinity. Both species exhibit a
wide tolerance for temperature (5.2-16.5 C for
C. nigricauda; 5.3-21.5 C for C. franciscorum)
and salinity (>19pptforC. nigricauda; 0.2-34.4
ppt for C. franciscorum). Between species, C.
nigricauda displays a preference for cooler tem-
perature and higher salinity than does C. fran-
ciscorum. Within species, variations in re-
sponse to temperature and salinity changes
were observed between size and sex groupings.
The spawning season for both species is from
Dec. to mid-Aug. C. franciscorum and C. ni-
graieauda ovigerous females disappear from the
Bay in August and September, respectively.
Berried females were collected in waters rang-
ing from 6.8-12.9 C for C. nigricauda and 6.8-
19.2 C for C. franciscorum , and with salinity of
>25.4 ppt for C. nigricauda and > 14.6 ppt for C.
franciscorum. Both species exhibit bimodal
spawning periods with larger females initiating
the spawning season. Fecundity is correlated
(R 2 > .91) with total length (TL), with the mean
and range being 4,016 and 2,393-7,000 for C.
nigricauda and 3,528 and 1,923-4,764 for C.
franciscorum .
Growth of young was defined by the regres-
sion equations: Y = -6.04 + 0.76 (TL) summer
and Y = +7.79 + 0.95 (TL) winter for C. nigri-
cauda. Only a summer growth rate estimate
was attainable for C. franciscorum: Y = -25.44
+ 1.37 (TL). Both species exhibited differential
growth after attaining sexually recognizable
sizes, with females being 8-10 mm TL larger
than males at maturity. Females apparently
live a maximum of IV2 yr and males not more
than 1 yr.
AMINO-ACID REQUIREMENTS OF THE
DUNGENESS CRAB
Gerald Lasser
Humboldt State University
Areata. California
The amino acid requirements of the Dunge-
ness crab, Cancer magister, were investigated
with radiometric techniques. Seven crabs were
tested in all. Five were injected with glucose-
H C(U), one with glutamic acid- M C(U), and one
with phenylalanine-' 4 C(U). The following
amino acids were determined to be nonessen-
tial; alanine, aspartic acid, cystine, glutamic
acid, glycine, hydroxyproline, proline, serine,
tyrosine (with phenylalanine present).
The glutamic acid injected crab showed no
labeled proline though all others expected to be
labeled were. The phenylalanine injected crab
showed labeling on glutamic acid, alanine, and
tyrosine.
These results are similar to those reported for
other arthropods.
RECENT FINDINGS ON THE SUMMER
DISEASES OF PACIFIC OYSTERS
Patsy R. Lipp, Bruce Brown, John Liston,
and Kenneth Chew
College of Fisheries
University of Washington
Although the 1960's was a decade in which
significant Pacific oyster mortalities occurred in
specific bays along the Pacific Coast, the first
four years in 1970 did not demonstrate a similar
pattern. Some mortalities did take place during
these years, but they were very low in incidence
and were considered to be the normal back-
ground mortalities due to predation or other
