10
ABSTRACTS
natural causes. During the summer of 1974,
there was a general mortality of up to 15-20% in
specific areas of Willapa Bay and Rocky Bay in
central Puget Sound in late July and August.
Laboratory studies and evaluation of field
data have shown that high temperature and
high nutrient levels in water are associated
with oyster mortality. Under experimental con-
ditions, oysters dying in high temperature wa-
ter have been shown to carry large numbers of
bacteria in the heart, blood, and pericardial
fluid. Vibrios (particularly V. anguillarum ) iso-
lated from dying oysters have been shown to
cause mortalities when introduced into healthy
oysters under high temperature conditions by
either active or passive inoculation. Detectable
ammonia levels are present in the dying and
dead oysters.
Field studies have shown that total bacterial
counts and mesophilic vibrio counts rise with
the onset of summer water temperatures. Per-
cent incidence of V. anguillarum is higher dur-
ing summer months also.
The Willapa Bay and Rocky Bay mortalities
porvided the first opportunity to test the hy-
pothesis based on laboratory findings that dis-
ease and death were due to bacterial infection.
Dead or moribund oysters were found to contain
bacteria in the heart blood. Apparently healthy
oysters from the mortality area were also found
to contain bacteria, though healthy oysters usu-
ally have sterile heart fluids. NH :! was also
detected. Vibrios from these oysters were shown
by inoculation experiments to be virulent to-
wards healthy oysters and could be recovered
from the heart fluids. The initial findings thus
support the bacterial infection hypothesis, and
work is continuing to confirm or refute its valid-
ity.
SHELL GROWTH OF BUTTER CLAMS AND
LITTLENECK CLAMS NEAR MADRONA
BEACH ON CAMANO ISLAND
Mark B. Miller, Charles H. Hanson
and Kenneth K. Chew
College of Fisheries
University of Washington
A possibly unique abnormality of unknown
origin in butter clams (Saxidomus giganteus)
and littleneck clams (Protothaea staminea)
from a localized area on Camano Island, Wash-
ington is being investigated at the College of
Fisheries, University of Washington. The na-
ture of the abnormality is a scalloping or inden-
tation along the ventral margins of the valves
which sometimes extend as grooves from the
ventral margins of the valves which sometimes
extend as grooves from the ventral shell margin
to the umbo. Outside of a several hundred foot
horizontal distribution of the abnormal clams,
few traces of the shell defect are found. The
same general area which is inhabited by high-
est percentages of abnormal clams is also
washed by a freshwater seepage which origi-
nates at about the two foot tide mark and below.
The problem of determining the cause of the
abnormality is being approached by comparing
the affected area with unaffected areas, map-
ping the abnormal clam distribution and see-
page range, histological examination of clam
tissue, examination of clams for trace metals,
analysis of properties and contents of the see-
page, and a literature search.
ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN THE PACIFIC
OYSTER INDUSTRY 1
Sally Nickelson and Stephen B. Mathews
College of Fisheries
University of Washington
Seattle, Washington
The energy efficiency of the Pacific oyster
industry in Willipa Harbor was estimated by
converting all manpower, fuel, vessel, machin-
ery and other inputs of production of a standard
firm into kcal and comparing this to kcal in the
oyster meat. On an annual basis the ratio of
kcal output to kcal of input was estimated to be
.21.
This level of efficiency was similar to that of
other fishery industries of Washington and to
other U. S. agricultural protein production sys-
tems, which was surprising since oyster culture
requires neither artificial feeding nor tradi-
tional fishing. The diesel fuel used in planting,
transplanting and harvesting accounted for 85%
of the input energy.
' Research supported by a National Science Foundation
Grant for Undergraduate Research, GY-11242.
