Proceedings of the National Shellfisheries Association
Volume 65 - 1975
LIVING MARINE ANIMALS IN A SHIP'S BALLAST WATER
J. C. MedcoP
DEPARTMENT OF THE ENVIRONMENT FISHERIES AND MARINE SERVICE
BIOLOGICAL STATION, ST. ANDREWS, N.B.
ABSTRACT
Seawater ballast taken aboard in Japan, 1 May, 1973, was sampled when the
ship berthed in Australia two weeks later. It contained living copepods, amphi-
pods, ostracods, unidentified crustacean larvae , polychaetes (larvae and adults)
and chaetographs . No mollusc larvae were found although most physical-
chemical conditions of the ballast water were optimal for larvae of Pacific
oysters.
INTRODUCTION
Samplings of ballast water in two holds of a
ship were made on 15 May, 1973, eight hours
after it berthed at Eden in Twofold Bay, New
South Wales, Australia (S. Lat. 37°05'; E. Long.
149°55'). It had just completed a 14.5-day pas-
sage without cargo from Tagonoura, Japan (N.
Lat 35°12'; E. Long. 138°42'). The ship's officers
stated that the ballast water was boarded partly
in Tagonoura Harbour and partly at sea during
the first 4 days of the passage.
CHARACTERISTICS OF BALLAST WATER
Results of water sampling at the surface and
bottom of both ballast holds and at the surface of
Twofold Bay adjacent to the ship, are tabulated
below (Personal Communication, 1973, Mr. E.
A. Scribner, chemist).
PLANKTON OF BALLAST WATER
At the same time, two bottom-to-surface verti-
cal hauls through the ballast water were made
in each hold with a standard cone-type plankton
net (length, 1.8 m; mouth diameter, 0.5 m; mesh
apertures, 88 u). One 10 m-long, horizontal haul
at a depth of 0-3 m was also made in Hold No. 4.
Pocket-magnifier inspection of the fresh
catches revealed numerous, swimming orga-
1 Retired. Present address: St. Andrews, N.B., Canada
nisms; crustaceans being the most conspicuous.
Microscopic examination after formalin preser-
vation showed that the crustaceans included
planktonic copepods of several species (0.5-3
mm long), amphipods (5 mm long), an ostracod
and juvenile stages of various unidentified
groups. The most abundant organisms were
eyed polychaete larvae that had contracted into
spherical forms (0.2 mm diam.). Adult benthic
polychaetes (whole and fragments, 1-5 mm
long) and chaetognaths (5-8 mm long) were also
present in small numbers. The hauls were re-
markably uniform as regards total numbers of
animals caught and relative abundance of the
various types composing the catches.
DISCUSSION
It is assumed that all these organisms were
pumped aboard with the ballast water 10-14
days previous to the samplings. On that assump-
tion the results indicate that conditions in the
ballast water (Table 1) were favourable to sur-
vival and that the plankters did survive an
inter-hemisphere transport through more than
70 degrees of latitude before they were dis-
charged with the ballast water into a new envi-
ronment.
Presumably most of these organisms could
accommodate to the small salinity change (maxi-
mum, 1.6 0/00) when discharged into Twofold
Bay on 15 May (see Table 1). But the drastic
temperature change (approximately 10°) would
11
