Proceedings of the National Shellfisheries Association
Volume 65 - 1975
A GREGARINE-LIKE PARASITE ASSOCIATED WITH
PATHOLOGY IN THE DIGESTIVE TRACT OF THE
AMERICAN OYSTER, CRASSOSTREA VIRGINICA
Thomas K. Sawyer, Martin W. Newman and
Sara V. Otto
NATIONAL MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE,
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE, OXFORD, MARYLAND
AND
MARYLAND DEPARTMENT OF NATIONAL RESOURCES,
OXFORD, MARYLAND
ABSTRACT
Histological examination of oysters, Crassostrea virginica, from Connecticut
and Maryland waters showed that an amoeboid or gregarine-like parasite was
associated with seasonal pathology in the digestive tract. Focal sloughing of
cells of the columnar epithelium and clear zones, or halos, around individual
parasites were observed only in the spring months. The specific pathological
response was found during 1967 and 1968 in Connecticut, and in 1970 and 1973
in Maryland. Comparative studies with oysters from each location provided
certain immature growth stages which resembled developmental forms of gre-
garines of the Nematopsis-Porospora group. It is tentatively suggested, that the
parasite overwinters in hibernating oysters, undergoes vegetative growth in the
spring when oysters resume feeding, and is cleared from the digestive tract in
association with a transient host tissue response.
INTRODUCTION Crustacea. Further observations on the orga-
The seasonal occurrence of an amoeboid orga- nisms found in C. virginica are presented in
nism in the digestive tract of the American this report to illustrate probable life-cycle
oyster, Crassostrea virginica, was first reported stages other than the amoeboid vegetative form,
by Newman (1971), who briefly described the Pathological conditions recognized in commer-
parasite in shellfish collected from New Haven cially valuable shellfish include two broad cate-
Harbor, Connecticut. Subsequently, similar or gories: those which are attributable to a specific
closely related organisms were discovered in pathogen and those which are characterized by
oysters collected in April 1970 and 1973 from a specific pathological response for which the
several tributaries of Chesapeake Bay, Mary- causative organism is unknown. Sprague (1971)
land (Sawyer, Newman and Otto, 1973). Com- reviewed the principal pathological conditions
parative studies on oysters from those two recognized in oysters which, although widely
sources suggest that the amoeboid organisms recognized, often were characterized by the lack
are vegetative stages of an unknown species of of an identifiable etiologic agent, viz., "Denman
gregarine. The severe focal cellular response Island Disease," "Amber Disease" and others,
and sloughing of columnar epithelial cells in the Sindermann and Rosenfield (1967) published a
infected oysters appears to be similar to patho- comprehensive review which summarized the
logical conditions discussed by Ball (1951), who principal shellfish diseases of known etiology,
described new species of gregarines from marine and Sawyer (1966) briefly summarized the taxo-
15
