18
T. K. SAWYER AND M. W. NEWMAN
include Maryland and to amplify the original
observations of Newman (1971). At the same
time, we propose to redesignate the organism as
gregarine-like instead of amoeboid as reported
in the earlier publication. It is noteworthy that
the pathological condition in the digestive tract
was identical in both Connecticut and Maryland
oysters. Furthermore, the location of the para-
sites among sloughing cells of the gut epithe-
lium represented a host response which was
similar, although not identical, to an earlier
report (Ball, 1951) of intestinal pathology in
crabs caused by several new species of Nematop-
sis and Carcinoectes. Until new information on
the host-parasite relationship in oysters is ob-
tained, we propose tentatively to identify the
parasites as gregarines, possibly of the Nema-
topsis-Porospora type.
Mature spores were not detected in tissue
sections of gill and palp epithelium of the in-
fected oysters. According to Leger & Duboscq
(1913), and to Hatt (1927a, 1927b, 1928), the
spores of certain species of Nematopsis and of
Porospora mature in the gills of hosts such as
oysters, mussels, chitons, etc., after infection by
gymnospores from crustacean hosts. Typical life
cycles have been elucidated for Nematopsis os-
trearum Prytherch (1940), which develops in the
oyster and mud crab, Porospora gigantea v.
Beneden (1869), which develops in the lobster
and the common mussel, and others. Typically,
infection of the molluscan host is initiated by
direct penetration of the gymnospores into cells
of the gill epithelium and the pallial lobes of the
palps, but not by penetration of the epithelium
of the tegument or the digestive tract. In con-
trast, development in the crustacean host does
occur in the digestive tract, beginning with spor-
ulation and progressive development of sporo-
zoites to trophozoites, syngyns, and finally, ga-
metocytes. Photomicrographs of the life-cycle
stages present in tissue sections of oysters from
Connecticut and Maryland show developing par-
asites in stages of growth that usually are found
in a crustacean host. We do not have a satisfac-
tory explanation for our findings, but we pro-
pose that such development is atypical and in-
complete. The absence of parasites and degener-
ative changes in the gut epithelium, except dur-
ing March and April, suggest that the orga-
nisms probably overwinter in hibernating oys-
ters, causing transitory tissue pathology in
early spring; then either perish or undergo fur-
ther development in an unknown second host
species. The present stage of our knowledge
suggests that atypical growth of the parasites
induces transient sloughing of gut epithelium
with progressive repair and recovery of the oys-
ter host.
The apparent seasonality of the infection sum-
marized in this report suggests that several in-
terpretations may be proposed on a strictly spec-
ulative basis. We have considered the possibil-
ity that feeding oysters might have spores or
sporocysts passing harmlessly through their
digestive tracts during the months in which
they feed and grow; such stages not necessarily
belonging to species which normally parasitize
oysters. Later, when oysters cease feeding dur-
ing cold seasons, transient organisms might be
trapped in the digestive tract when they would
reside until feeding activity was resumed in the
spring. During the winter interlude, such orga-
nisms could be trapped between crypts or villi of
the intestine and transported from the lumen to
the columnar epithelium by phagocytes. Fi-
nally, during the spring months of March and
April, when we found active cell sloughing and
growth stages of the parasites, transient host
response would effectively remove the last ves-
tiges of the overwintering protists. This hypo-
thetical interpretation might account for the
presence of immature stages of a gregarine
which more appropriately would be expected to
reside in the digestive tracts of crustacean
hosts. Abortive growth of immature parasites in
atypical host animals is well-documented in par-
asitological literature. Future reports on the
same or related host-parasite interactions
should extend the geographic range of this dis-
ease and perhaps yield new information on de-
velopmental stages which we did not observe. It
is likely that the tissue response illustrated
here for Connecticut and Maryland oysters will
be recognized as an entity in much the same
way as "Malpeque Bay Disease," "Amber Dis-
ease" and other pathologic conditions are diag-
nosed although the precise nature of the causa-
tive agent is uncertain.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors gratefully acknowledge the as-
