Proceedings of the National Shellfisheries Association
Volume 65 - 1975
ENERGY PARTITIONING IN THE
AMERICAN OYSTER, CRASSOSTREA VIRGINICA (GMELIN)
Curt Michael Langefoss and Don Maurer
FIELD STATION
COLLEGE OF MARINE STUDIES
UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE
LEWES, DELAWARE
ABSTRACT
Research was conducted to develop an energy budget for the American oyster,
Crassostrea virginica (Gmelin), in culture. Caloric values ofpseudofeces, feces,
food ingested, food cleared and food assimilated were determined at three levels
of alga! {Phaeodactylum tricornutum Bohlin) concentration , 1 .0 x 20 5 , 5.0 x 10 4
and 2.5 x 10 4 cells -ml-' at 20° and 25°C; approximately 74-148 calories per 12
hours were used by the oysters. Oysters at the lowest food concentration showed
the greatest amount of filtration , while oysters at the medium food concentration
cleared the most food. In addition, the greatest amount of feces and pseudofeces
were produced at the medium food concentration . There was little difference
between the amount of energy assimilated at the high and medium concentra-
tion. The mean assimilation efficiency obtained from the three food concentra-
tions was 67.6%, and the mean filtration rate (water pumped 6 2 mlhr~' mgdry
tissue weight'') was consistent with other studies.
INTRODUCTION
This research was undertaken to develop an
energy budget for the American oyster, Crassos-
trea virginica (Gmelin). An energy budget re-
lates the intake of food by an organism to its
subsequent utilization. To develop an energy
budget, it requires assessing food intake, rejecta
and the amount of energy utilized by the ani-
mal. The budget takes the form:
C = P + R + F + U (Crisp, 1971)
where C = Consumption, P = Production, R =
Respiration, F = Feces, U = Urine.
Some aspects of an energy budget for C. vir-
ginica have been studied. Oxygen consumption
of C. virginica was reviewed by Galtsoff (1964).
Walne (1972) determined the influence of cur-
rent speed, body size, and water temperature on
the filtration (water pumped) rates of two spe-
cies of oysters. Dame (1972) reported for the first
time the quantitative examination of growth
rates in intertidal oysters and a simultaneous
examination of respiration in relation to size
and temperature. Tenore and Dunstan (1973)
investigated the effects of different concentra-
tions of mixed phytoplankton on the feeding and
biodeposition rate of the American oyster to
understand bioenergetics of filter-feeding herbi-
vores. The significance of this budget resides in
its application to mariculture.
MATERIALS AND METHODS
Water
Sea water for the oyster experiment was
pumped from the Broadkill River, Delaware, at
high slack water to assure salinity of 25%o and
low turbidity. This water was filtered through a
cloth bag (5 /j.) and then vacuum filtered
through a "Whatman 40" filter and finally
passed through a 0.45 fi Millipore filter. Back-
ground count of particles per ml determined by
a Coulter Counter was less than 500 per ml. The
20
