ENERGY PARTITIONING IN OYSTERS
21
range of pH was 8.0-8.1. Water temperature
(20°C ± 0.5) for all experiments was controlled
by a constant temperature bath and circulator.
Algae
Sea water for culturing algae was pumped
into a settling tank at high slack water. After a
few days, water was filtered through a 5 ix bag
and "Whatman 40" filter. The water was en-
riched according to the method of Matthiessen
and Toner (1966). After enrichment, a twenty
liter carboy (filled to the 16 liter mark) was
autoclaved at 18 pounds pressure and 125°C for
two hours, cooled and inoculated with two liters
of a 14 day old Phaeodactylum tricornutum
(Bohlin) culture.
Caloric content of the alga was determined by
two methods: 1) bomb calorimeter (Parr auto-
matic adiabatic calorimeter), 2) quantitative di-
chromate oxidation (Standard Methods, 1965;
Maciolek, 1962).
The conversion of mg COD/L (as obtained by
wet oxidation) to calories per gram of sample
follows Maciolek (1962). The conversion factor
used was 1 mg Oa/L = 3.4 calories/L. The dried
alga was ashed to constant weight at 600° in a
muffle furnace (Parsons, et al., 1961).
Oysters
Oysters were artificially spawned, reared and
set in the laboratory. They were then held for 18
months in running sea water from the Broadkill
River at ambient temperatures.
Oysters were randomly selected from the labo-
ratory-reared stock and were allowed to accli-
mate and purge their guts at 20° C for 12 hours
prior to each experiment. Each oyster was
placed in a three-liter glass jar filled with two
liters of filtered sea water. The oysters were
placed on a pedestal so that feces would fall to
one side of the jar and pseudofeces would fall on
the other (Haven and Morales-Alamo, 1965).
Four oysters (approximately 6.8-7.2 cm in
height and 27.7-30.9 gm wet weight) were used
in each 12-hour experiment. These were sup-
plied one of three levels of algal concentration:
1.0 x 10 5 cells/ml (high), 5.0 x 10 4 cells/ml (me-
dium), or 2.5 x 10 4 cells/ml (low). After an exper-
iment, each oyster was sacrificed and dried to a
constant weight in an analytical oven (at 80°C).
Thirty experiments were performed.
A Coulter Counter, Model B, was used to
count the number of algal cells cleared by the
oyster. A one hundred micron aperture tube
was used. The method to obtain a specified
amount of algal cells and to maintain a constant
amount of cells throughout an experiment was
described in Langefoss (1973).
Feces and pseudofeces were collected by pipet-
ting immediately upon production and placed in
a collecting jar. Desalting was accomplished us-
ing a Dow hollow fiber beaker dialyzer Model b
HFD-1. Water was passed through the dialyzer
for 40 minutes, after which the sample was
dried to constant weight at 80° C. The sample
was then placed in a Ca S0 4 filled dessicator
and cooled to room temperature (22-23° C). This
weight represents total feces or pseudofeces pro-
duction for the animal for 12 hours. Caloric
determinations of feces and pseudofeces were
made by the quantitative dichromate oxidation
method (Maciolek, 1962; Standard Methods,
1965).
Pseudofeces production was subtracted from
the amount of algal material cleared with the
difference as a measure of ingestion. Assimila-
tion was estimated by subtracting fecal produc-
tion from ingestion estimates. All data were
converted to energy units based on calorimetric
analysis.
The total number of cells removed was di-
vided by the cells/ml (food concentration) to
yield the number of milliliters of water filtered
(water pumped). Cell counts were made with a
Coulter Counter.
RESULTS
Oysters
Energy partitioning by oysters at three levels
of algal concentration, 1.0 x 10 5 cell/ml (high),
5.0 x 10 4 cell/ml (medium), and 2.5 x 10 4 cell/ml
(low) is shown in Figure 1. Each mean repre-
sents at least 24 oysters. Oysters at the medium
food concentration cleared the most food (Fig.
1). In addition, the greatest amount of pseudo-
feces and feces was produced at the medium food
concentration. However, there was little or no
difference between the energy assimilated at
the high and medium concentration.
The percentage assimilation and amount of
filtration (L-hr _1 -gram dry tissue weight -1 ) is
