Proceedings of the National Shellfisheries Association
Volume 65 - 1976
THE ORGANIC CONTENT OF SHELLS AND SOFT TISSUES OF
SELECTED ESTUARINE GASTROPODS AND PELECYPODS'
T. J. Price, G. W. Thayer, M. W. LaCroix, and G. P. Montgomery
NATIONAL MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE
ATLANTIC ESTUARINE FISHERIES CENTER
BEAUFORT, NORTH CAROLINA 28516
ABSTRACT
The total organic matter in shells and soft tissues of 3 species of gastropods
and 14 species of pelecypods was measured by combustion at 475 ± 5° C. The
organisms were collected along the eastern coast of the United States during
1970-1972. The percent organic material in the shells of pelecypods ranged from
12.2 (Argopecten irradians) to 71.9% (Crassostrea virginica); in soft tissues from
25.5 (C. virginica) to 84.3% (A. irradians); and in pallial fluid from 2.6 (C.
virginica) to 9.1% (Modiolus demissus). For the gastropods [Littorina irrorata,
Ilyanassa obsoleta and Urosalpinx cinerea), the average organic material in the
shells, 35.9, and in the soft tissues, 63.7%, were similar for the three species. The
percent ash-free dry weight for the shells, soft tissues and pallial fluid of
pelecypods averaged 4.5, 79.5 and 30.5%, while that for the shells and soft tissues
of gastropods averaged 3.1 and 77.8%. The percent of ash-free dry weights of
pelecypods ranged from 1.4 (A. irradians) to 21.4% (Solemya velum) for shells;
68.1 (Abra aequalis) to 93.9% (Rangia cuneata) for soft tissues; and 20.0 (C.
virginica) to 60.2% (R. cuneata) for pallial fluid. The percent ash-free dry weight
of gastropod shells ranged from 2.7 (L. irrorata) to 3.2% (I. obsoleta) and for soft
tissues from 67.7 (/. obsoleta) to 85.1% (U. cinerea). The other species of
pelecypods that were analyzed were Argopecten gibbus, Mercenaria merce-
naria, Tagelus plebeius, Chione cancellata, Mytilus edulis, Macoma tenta,
Tellina versicolor, and Corbula contracta.
Since molluscs are important estuarine herbivores and the organic matrix of
their shells rarely is assimilated by carnivores or other organisms, the produc-
tion of shells represents a drain on the productive capacity of an estuary.
INTRODUCTION estuarine environments. Thus, live benthic
Many estuarine molluscs are important com- molluscs are an essential segment of the estua-
mercially, as food for man, and ecologically, for rme food web ' contributing to the flow of energy
their contribution to the production and energy and matenals to predators, and through feces
flow of estuarine systems. Williams, Murdoch and excretion, to the detntal, decomposer and
and Thomas (1968) imply that the importance of P roducer tr0 P mc levels - U P on death - the dlsm "
the benthos as part of the herbivore link in the te %™ tmn of molluscs recyles nutrients into the
marine food chain increases with decreasing ecosystem. However, the organic matrix of mol-
water depths and is a significant component in luscan shells ma y constitute a large part of the
total organic content of these organisms (Kuen-
zler 1961; Bernard 1974) and may represent a
1 Th ls research was supported through a cooperative significant energy pool in the system. If this is
agreement between the National Marine Fisheries Service the case, permanent burial of shells in the sedi-
and the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission. ment would represent a substantial drainage of
26
