30
T. J. PRICE, G. W. THAYER, M. W. LACROIX, G. P. MONTGOMERY
cant increase in the contribution by the shells
from New Jersey to North Carolina and also
from Florida to North Carolina. There also was
a significant decrease in the contribution by the
meat component from New Jersey to North Car-
olina and from Florida to North Carolina. The
pallial fluid contribution was significantly
greater in the North Carolina mussels than
from those collected either north or south of that
area.
Wilbur (1964) noted that environmental tem-
perature has an influence on the crystal type in
molluscan shells. He also stated that the influ-
ence of temperature on crystal type is mediated
through changes in mantle secretory activity.
This will cause changes in the inorganic and
organic components of the extrapallial fluid
which secretes the organic matrix and secondar-
ily in the organic matrix itself. Thus, the signif-
icant geographic differences noted for the con-
tribution by the shell and meat components of
Modiolus probably are in part the result of envi-
ronmental differences in the specific areas of
collection.
The pH of the gut of many fishes (Barrington
1957; Baptist 1966) is sufficient to hydrolyse pro-
teins and to decalcify some of the shell material
from ingested molluscs. Thus, the protein ma-
trix of the shell, especially the periostracum is
potentially available to predators of molluscs.
Adams (1974) has shown that unidentified pele-
cypods, Bittium varium and juvenile Argopec-
ten irradians are fed upon by several fishes
inhabiting grass beds in the Beaufort, N. C.
area. Pelecypods composed 14% of the annual
diet of spot (Leiostomus xanthurus), Bittium
varium composed 83% of the diet of striped
burrfish (Chilomycterus schoepfi) (Fig. 1) and
scallops contributed 25% of the diet of oyster
toadfish (Opsanus tau). In addition, we have
found numerous Bittium varium and other gas-
tropods in the gut of pinfish (Lagodon rhom-
boides).
The rate of decomposition of organic matter in
mollusc shells deposited in the sediments is
probably slow and could represent a substantial
sink of organic matter in estuarine environ-
ments. We have analyzed old, weathered oyster
shells which had lain unburied in an intertidal
area; the area used to have an oyster shucking
house nearby which ceased to operate 50 years
FIG. 1. A striped burrfish (Chilomycterus
schoepfi). The gut (foreground) has been re-
moved and exposed showing gut contents con-
sisting entirely of gastropods .
ago. The shells had an organic content of 1.2 ±
0.3%, a content which is approximately 40% of
that present in living oyster shell (Table 2).
Smith and Wright (1962) reported weathered
oyster shells which had been dredged from the
Gulf of Mexico had an organic content of 0.06%,
while Degens and Love (1965) found measurable
amounts of amino acids present in Tertiary Gy-
raulus trochifermis shells. Thus, the rate of
decomposition of the organic matrix of mollus-
can shells buried in sediments is extremely
slow.
Our data (Table 3) on pelecypods and gastro-
pods indicate that death of these molluscs and
burial of the shells would constitute a loss of 12-
72% of the organic material present in the orga-
nism at any one time. The loss of organic pro-
duction through shell burial, however, would be
considerably less because a substantial portion
of the organic matter produced by molluscs dur-
