Proceedings of the National Shellfisheries Association
Volume 65-1976
GROWTH OF OYSTERS IN A RECIRCULATING MARICULTURAL
SYSTEM'
Charles E. Epifanio and Carta A. Mootz
COLLEGE OF MARINE STUDIES, UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE
LEWES, DELAWARE 19958
ABSTRACT
Eight groups of oysters (Crassostrea virginica) have.been cultured for nearly
one year post setting in a recirculating maricultural system. Each group,
consisting of approximately 200 animals, was fed a different diet. All the diets
consisted of algae from monospecific, but not axenic, cultures, and since the
water in the maricultural system was recirculated, the oysters had access to only
the food which we supplied. We believe this to be the first report of oysters grown
for an extensive period of time on defined diets. The experiment is still underway
and will continue until the animals have reached a marketable size. Extrapo-
lated growth rates indicate that the fastest growing osyters will reach marketa-
ble size in approximately two years after setting. This is much sooner than the
reported three to four years to marketable size among wild oysters in Delaware
Bay.
INTRODUCTION
While oysters are undoubtedly one of the
most highly studied of all marine organisms,
there is little known concerning their nutri-
tional needs. There is almost no information
about the biochemical aspects of their nutri-
tional requirements and only slightly more
known of gross food types which will support
their growth (Nelson, 1947; Ukeles, 1971). Over
the past one hundred years, however, three
schools of thought regarding the way in which
filter-feeding bivalves obtain their food have
evolved: 1) that first proposed by Putter (1909)
wherein dissolved organic material is the main
nutritional source for the animals; 2) that first
put forth by Petersen and Jensen (1911) where
inanimate detritus is the main component; 3)
that first supported by Dean (1887) wherein
phytoplankton constitute the main food. While
bivalve molluscs almost certainly derive some
nutritional value from dissolved organic com-
1 Publication No. 102, College of Marine Studies, Univer-
sity of Delaware.
pounds (Collier, 1959) and from detritus (Ga-
vard, 1927), the view that planktonic algae are
the main food source of these animals has
gained widest acceptance.
There has been a large amount of study of the
nutritional value of many species of algae to
European, Japanese, and American oyster lar-
vae (Davis, 1950; Davis, 1953; Davis and Chan-
ley, 1956; Davis and Guillard, 1958; Imai and
Hatanaka, 1949; Loosanoff and Davis, 1963;
Loosanoff et al., 1955; Loosanoff and Marak,
1951; Walne, 1956, 1963, 1965) but very little
examination of the value of different algal spe-
cies to post-larval bivalves (Galtsoff, 1964). In
the present paper, we report the results of a
study where oysters {Crassostrea virginica
Gmelin) have been fed defined algal diets for a
period of forty-six weeks post setting.
MATERIALS AND METHODS
Hatchery techniques
Oysters used in these experiments were
hatchery-reared. The parents of these animals
were collected from the Broadkill River near
Lewes, Delaware. Techniques for conditioning
32
