Proceedings of the National Shellfisheries Association
Volume 65 - 1976
OIL BIOASSAYS WITH THE AMERICAN OYSTER, CRASSOSTREA
VIRGINICA (GMELIN)'
Roger D. Anderson 2 and Jack W. Anderson 3
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY
COLLEGE STATION, TEXAS 77843
ABSTRACT
Oyster bioassays were conducted to determine the relative toxicity of four test
oils and a reference toxin. The oysters (Crassostrea virginica) were exposed to
oil-water dispersions of two crude and two partially refined petroleum hydro-
carbons. The partially refined oils #2 fuel and Venezuela bunker C were found
to be more toxic than the two crude oils tested. South Louisiana and Kuwait.
Oysters demonstrated greater resistance to test oils than to the reference toxin,
dodecyl sodium sulfate. Valve closure by oysters made it difficult to determine
percent mortality data in 96-hour or extended studies. Composition of test
solutions is compared to calculated values of oil in water and referenced to the
relative toxicity demonstrated. Behavior and condition of test animals is dis-
cussed in relation to bioassay results.
INTRODUCTION
Considerable bioassay work on marine ani-
mals has been conducted in the laboratory to
determine the relative toxicities of petroleum
hydrocarbons, dispersants and other potentially
hazardous compounds. These investigations
have focused on selected crude or refined petro-
leum products tested on a wide variety of ani-
mals. Many of the studies include discussions on
the relative merits of static and flow-through
bioassays, behavioral responses of test animals
and use of suitable test animals for given re-
gions. Much of this work is detailed and dis-
cussed by Anderson (1973).
In an effort to compare laboratory studies to
field conditions, recent reviews attempt to re-
late the composition and behavior of oil in water
to both the animals tested and their ecosystems
(Nelson-Smith, 1970; 1973; Wilber, 1969; Moore,
1 This work was partially supported by the American Pe-
troleum Institute, through Letter of Agreement No. 0520-P
to Texas A&M University and the Texas A&M Sea Grant
College Program through the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration, Grant No. 04-3-158-18.
- Present address: Virginia Institute of Marine Science,
Gloucester Point, Virginia 23062.
3 Present address: Battelle Northwest Marine Laboratory,
Sequim, Washington 98382.
19731. Little information, however, has been de-
rived or cited in these studies pertaining to the
actual concentration of the exposure medium,
particularly in regard to the petroleum hydro-
carbons in aqueous phase or the chemical com-
position of oils tested.
This present work emphasizes the additional
need to reference behavior and condition of test
animals. Rather than report calculated concen-
trations of oil in seawater, actual concentra-
tions, composition and relative toxicity of test
solutions are cited and relationships between
behavior, condition and relative toxicity of the
oil-water dispersions discussed. This study was
initiated to provide baseline information in a
broad program to examine the sublethal effects
on estuarine animals, brought about by both
environmental alteration and introduction of
potentially harmful compounds.
MATERIALS AND METHODS
Two crude oils. South Louisiana and Kuwait,
and two partially refined oils, #2 fuel oil (con-
taining approximately 40% aromatics) and Ven-
ezuela bunker C oil (a residual), were utilized.
Oils were supplied in 55-gallon barrels by the
American Petroleum Institute. Contents were
transferred to one-gallon amber glass jars. Be-
38
