OIL BIOASSAYS WITH THE AMERICAN OYSTER
39
fore being sealed with aluminum foil liners or
Teflon caps, jars were flushed with nitrogen.
American osyters, Crassostrea virginica,
were collected at natural and artificial reefs in
the Galveston Bay system. Primary collection
sites were intertidal reefs at Six Mile Road and
Eight Mile Road in West Bay, and Morgan's
Point Reef in Galveston Bay (Fig. 1). Oysters
collected in West Bay ranged from approxi-
mately 40-70 mm in shell length, while oysters
collected at Morgan's Point ranged from 70-90
mm. West Bay oysters were collected as needed,
while oysters from Morgan's Point were held in
trays at the Seabrook Laboratory, Texas Parks
and Wildlife Department, prior to shipment to
the laboratory in College Station.
After shell cleaning, oysters were placed in
large, aerated aquaria and maintained at 20%o
salinity and 20°C in the commercial seawater
product, Instant Ocean (Aquarium Systems,
Inc., Eastland, Ohio). The 10-, 20- and 30-gallon
aquaria used as holding tanks were maintained
in subdued light, gently aerated and main-
tained at 20%o salinity by addition of distilled
water. Oysters were used within 7 to 28 days
after collection and were not fed.
Preliminary experiments showed that in the
laboratory oysters could acclimate within 72
hours to new salinities ranging from 10 to 30%°
(Anderson, 1973). Animals having low condition
indices or testing positively for fungal parasites,
Labyrinthomyxa spp., were discarded. To deter-
mine the comparative health of animals tested
at various times and from different locations, a
standard toxicant (dodecyl sodium sulfate: DSS)
was used as a reference during toxicity studies.
The basic procedure used in this bioassay was
a modification of LaRoche, Eisler and Tarzwell
(1970). One-quart, wide-mouth jars were used as
assay containers. Measured amounts of the oils
or reference toxin, DSS, were added to the arti-
ficial seawater to make 500 ml test solutions.
Solutions to be tested were tightly capped with
new aluminum foil liners or Teflon liners and
shaken for five minutes at approximately 200
cycles per minute on a shaker platform.
One hour after mixing, one oyster was added
per jar. Since extremely high concentrations of
oil were employed, dispersions were character-
ized by large numbers of droplets. Solutions
were aerated by using disposable pipettes low-
-Six Mile Road
2-Eight Mile Road
3-Morqan's Point
4-Seabrook Laboratory
FIG. 1. Location of oyster sampling and hold-
ing stations in the Galveston Bay system.
ered into the test jars through holes in the lids.
When impossible to count the number of bub-
bles, aeration was decreased. For tests with the
reference toxin, vessels were packed with towels
around the holes in the lids to contain the foam
from the detergent-like material. Test animals
were examined every 12 hours. Oysters that
were gaped or failed to close their valves after
being soundly tapped by a pipet, were removed.
Bioassays were considered for termination after
96 hours. However, this proved to be inappro-
priate because of the oysters' great resistance to
test oils and their ability to remain closed.
Long-term bioassays, often extending over sev-
eral months, were then conducted, and the time
to first death (TL„), time to 50% mortality (TL,„)
and time to 100% mortality (TL 100 ) determined
for each group of animals tested.
Petroleum hydrocarbons present in the
aqueous phase of the oil-water dispersions were
prepared for analysis by infrared and gas chro-
matographic methods. Aliquots were drawn
carefully from below the surface of the oil-water
dispersions, with care taken to avoid contami-
nation of the water sample by any surface slick
present. A 200 or 400 ml aliquot of each oil-
water dispersion was taken for analysis. De-
