OIL BIOASSAYS WITH THE AMERICAN OYSTER
41
that as the amount of oil added was increased, a
corresponding rise did not occur in total hydro-
carbon content in the water phase. At 0.1%, the
maximum (51 ppm) was reached with slightly
lower levels (47 ppm at 1%, 37 ppm at 10%)
recorded with the addition of more oil. For #2
fuel oil, the range of oil in the water phase was
approximately 14-15 ppm for 0.01 to 10% oil
added. Anderson, Neff, Cox, Tatem and High-
tower (1974) attributed this phenomenon to in-
creased droplet coalescence at very high oil con-
centrations. Similar data for the residual oil,
Venezuela bunker C, were not available be-
cause of the difficulty in working with this ex-
tremely viscous product. Detailed composition
of test solutions is discussed by Anderson, Neff,
Cox, Tatem and Hightower (1974).
As pointed out in literature already cited, the
oil-water dispersions were unstable in the bioas-
say containers. Concentrations of total oil hy-
drocarbons in the aqueous phase of the oil-water
dispersions dropped rapidly during gentle aera-
tion. In analytical work provided to this study
and cited in Anderson, Neff, Cox, Tatem and
Hightower (1974), generally only 10% of the
original hydrocarbons were present in the dis-
persion after the first 24 hours of aeration. It is
difficult then to assess over any length of time,
the amount of petroleum hydrocarbons actually
in solution. In addition, Anderson (1973) found
that oysters depurate petroleum fractions dur-
ing these static exposures, with amounts of oil
in solution constantly changing. Anderson
(1973) noted wide individual differences in the
test exposures over time, along with the rapid
rise of microorganisms in the various disper-
sions.
This study indicated an increased resistance
to toxicants by oysters collected during the late
fall and winter. A partial explanation is re-
vealed in the Gulf oyster's life cycle. In summer
and early fall, oyster meats are in poor condi-
tion; i.e., watery, translucent, thin. Spring
spawning, accompanied by loss of food reserves
(glycogen), markedly affects quality. Rising
summer temperatures increase incidence of in-
fection by pathogens. Animals are further de-
pleted by a second spawning in the fall. As a
result, oysters collected in summer and early
fall have poor condition indices and often are
infected with the highly pathogenic Labyrintho-
myxa spp. In this study, tests conducted by Dr.
William Wardle at the Texas A&M Marine Lab-
oratory in Galveston, indicated negative or very
low incidence of ' Labyrinthomyxa spp. in oysters
tested.
"Experimentation conducted in late fall and
winter was carried out with oysters in good to
excellent condition (Anderson, 1973). The mol-
luscs were fat with large glycogen reserves. Be-
cause of the high quality of the meats and low
incidence of disease, these oysters can be ex-
pected to be more hardy and resistant. Results
show the experimental animals used in winter
months to be almost twice as resistant as those
employed in the bioassay experiments con-
ducted in summer and early fall. Observations
by other investigators on loss of condition asso-
ciated with summer months support these con-
clusions (Fingerman and Fairbanks, 1956; Galt-
soff, 1964; Roosenburg, 1969; Quick, 1971). As
stated by Gardner, Barry and LaRoche (1973>,
sufficient background data on the test animals
must be available to assess bioassay results.
Though static bioassays cannot be expected to
replicate field conditions, good baseline data
can be drawn, particularly when one references
the animal's behavior and health in relation to
actual concentrations of the test solutions.
Though oysters are difficult to study in bioas-
says, they are an important shellfish resource
which reflect the problems of sessile animals.
LITERATURE CITED
Anderson, J. W., J. Neff, B. Cox, H. Tatem and
G. M. Hightower. 1974. Characteristics of dis-
persions and water-soluble extracts of crude
and refined oils and their toxicity on estua-
rine crustaceans and fish. Mar. Biol. 27: 75-
88.
Anderson, R. D. 1973. Effects of petroleum hy-
drocarbons on the physiology of the American
oyster, Crassostrea uirginica Gmelin. Ph.D.
Dissertation. Texas A&M Univ., College Sta-
tion. 146 pp.
Fingerman, M. and L. D. Fairbanks. 1956. Os-
motic behavior and bleeding of the oyster,
Crassostrea uirginica. Tulane Stud. Zool.
3(9): 149-168.
Galtsoff, P. S. 1964. The American oyster: Cras-
sostrea uirginica Gmelin. U.S. Fish Wildl.
Serv., Fish. Bull. 64. 480 pp.
