Proceedings of the National Shellfisheries Association
Volume 65 - 1976
OBSERVATIONS ON SPAWNING AND GROWTH OF SUBTIDAL
GEODUCKS (Panope generosa, Gould) 1
C. Lynn Goodwin
WASHINGTON STATE DEPARTMENT OF FISHERIES
BRINNON, WASHINGTON
ABSTRACT
Histological preparations of subtidal geoducks from Puget Sound were exam-
ined to determine their annual reproductive cycle. One annual spawning season
occurred in spring and early summer. Most clams were in a spawned-out
conditions in late summer. Gametogenesis occurred rapidly in the fall and
continued into the winter. By early spring, most were mature and ready to
spawn .
The growth rate of subtidal geoducks was estimated from mark and recovery
studies in five locations throughout Puget Sound. These experiments showed
that during the first 3 years of life, marked geoducks grew from 20 to 30 mm/
year in total shell length. Growth of older marked geoducks was less, and the
shell length in the majority over 100 mm did not increase at all.
Growth rate based upon length frequency distributions from two locations
amounted to about 30 mm/year for the first 3 years. This figure more accurately
estimated the true growth rate because of the setback in growth caused by
handling in the mark and recovery studies.
Geoducks are estimated to reach the average adult size of 158 mm in 10 years
and, thereafter, growth is reduced. The average length of geoducks in separate
populations varied from 123.8 mm to 171.3 mm in samples taken in 22 loca-
tions. The largest clam from a sample of 2,037 was 206 mm. The growth rate
probably varies considerably from one clam bed to another.
The length-weight curve based on 1 £13 pairs of observations can be expressed
by the equation: log w weight (in grams) = -3.42983 + 2.97281 log ul length (in
millimeters). The sigmoid age-weight curve shows that the average 10-year-old
geoduck weighs about 1 £00 grams, and the greatest annual-weight gains occur
between the third and seventh years.
INTRODUCTION The author has observed them in Puget Sound
from the lower intertidal zone to depths of over
The geoduck is the largest clam in the Pacific 60 m. Puget Sound is hydrographically very
Northwest. They range from Alaska to Califor- complex. Dabob Bay and other locations (Fig. 1)
nia, and are very abundant in Puget Sound stratify during the summer and are warmed by
(Goodwin, 1973), where they are an important so iar radiation to maximum temperatures of
sport and commercial clam. They are normally ver 20 C at the surface. Minimum temperature
found buried 50-60 cm in a sand-mud substrate. i n tne winter can be as low as 6 C. In other areas
of Puget Sound where waters are more thor-
oughly mixed, summer maximums of 15 C or
' The work reported here was partially financed by the leSS are common. Geoducks living at 60 m are
National Marine Fisheries Service, Fisheries Research probably never exposed to water Over 10 C. Be-
and Development Act, PL 88-309. cause of this complexity and the wide vertical
49
