SPAWNING AND GROWTH OF SUBTIDAL GEODUCKS
51
and the ratio was due to males maturing at a
smaller size than females.
STAGE OF GONADAL DEVELOPMENT
The seasonal gonadal changes and spawning
cycles have been studied and described for many
of the important pelecypods of the East Coast of
the United States, including the eastern oyster,
Crassostrea virginica, Loosanoff (1942), Ken-
nedy and Battle (1964); northern quahog, Mer-
cenaria mercenaria, Loosanoff (1937), Porter
(1964); soft shell clam, Mya arenaria. Ropes and
Stickney (1965), Shaw (1962), Pfitzenmeyer
(1965); coot clam, Mulinia lateralis. Calabrese
(1970); and the surf clam, Spisula solidissima,
Ropes (1968).
Similar studies have been conducted on the
West Coast pelecypods, such as littleneck clam,
Paphnia staminea, Quayle (1943); jingle, Podo-
desmus cepio, Leonard, Jr. (1969); mussel, My-
tilus edulis, Moore and Reish (1969); native
oyster, Ostrea lurida, Coe (1932); gaper clam,
Tresus capax, Machell and DeMartini (1971);
geoduck, Andersen (1971); manila clam, Vene-
rupis japonica, Holland and Chew (1974); and
the softshell clam, Porter (1974).
Many different schemes have been used in
these papers to describe the various stages of
gametogenesis. For the present study, gameto-
genesis was divided into five stages after Ropes
(1968) except the stages "spent" and "resorbing"
were combined into one called "spent".
1. Early active: Follicles are small and contain
early stages of sex cells. Connective tissue is
abundant.
2. Late active: Follicles are enlarged and con-
tain sex cells of different stages of develop-
ment. Male follicles contain spermatozoa and
early spermatogenic stages. Female follicles
contain primary oocytes, many of which are
still attached to the follicle walls. Connective
tissue is reduced in amount.
3. Ripe: Follicles are full size and filled with
spermatozoa and oocytes. Connective tissue
reduced to thin layer between the follicles.
4. Partially spent: Follicles are reduced in size
and often partially empty. Connective tissue
increasing in amount.
5. Spent: Follicles are greatly reduced in size
and contain few if any mature sex cells. Con-
nective tissue is greatly increased in amount.
SEASONAL SEXUAL CYCLE
OF FEMALES
Spawning begins in the spring with the major
release of ova occurring during June. The clams
examined at the end of July 1968 and during the
first of July 1969 were either partially or com-
pletely spent. Most gonads in this stage con-
tained a few residual ova in the contracted folli-
cles. Connective tissue between the follicles was
thickened. Females examined in September
were beginning to show active gametogenesis.
October and November samples revealed that
gametogenesis was proceeding rapidly with the
follicles proliferating and invading the connec-
tive tissues and with oocytes enlarged and at-
tached to the follicle walls. By January, all
females contained follicles with oocytes of vary-
ing stages of development, some of which were
the mature size. 2 All females appeared to be
mature and ready to spawn in April. The go-
nads were large, distended, and creamy in tex-
ture. The follicles were large and filled with
ova. The follicle wall was thin and most of the
connective tissue between the follicles had dis-
appeared. The connective tissue between the
follicles contains inclusions (probably glycogen
or lipid) which are abundant during early stages
of gametogenesis and are gradually lost as the
gonad ripens. These findings are in general
agreements with those of Andersen (1971), who
stated that geoducks spawn in a single mode
from March to July. He found them partially
spent as early as January, and completely spent
in August.
SEASONAL SEXUAL CYCLE
OF MALES
All males apparently do not follow as concise
a seasonal pattern as do the females. Some
males with sperm were observed in all months
sampled. The majority, however, do follow a
pattern similar to that described for females.
Andersen (1971) found no difference between
females and males in the timing of the annual
gonadal cycle. The major release of sperm oc-
curred during May and June, so that by July
Oocytes stripped from clams sampled in June and mea-
sured in wet smears were 75 /x. Newly released ova in
natural spawnings averaged about 82 ix.
