52
C. L. GOODWIN
most males were partially or completely spent.
The typical male sampled in August has con-
tracted and partially empty follicles. Connec-
tive tissue between the follicles is abundant. Six
of the 15 males examined in September and
October contained mature sperm, and the other
nine were in active gametogenesis stages. By
April and May, all males examined appeared
ripe.
LABORATORY SPAWNING
OF GEODUCKS
Additional information on the geoduck sexual
cycle was obtained from 35 spawning experi-
ments conducted in the laboratory. Thermal
stimulation was used to initiate natural release
of gonadal products in the majority of these
experiments. The spawners were held in heated
water pumped from Dabob Bay. The majority of
these experiments were conducted within a few
days after the clams were collected. The short
time that the spawners were held in the labora-
tory before spawning probably had little effect
on the annual timing of spawning. Some spawn-
ing was accomplished by mechanically stripping
the gonads of sperm and ova. Natural labora-
tory spawning, which produced normal larvae,
has been initiated with thermal stimulation as
early in the winter as January 10. Geoducks
have spawned in water ranging from 8.5 C to
16.0 C, with the majority of successful spawn-
ings occurring in water of 12 C to 14 C. Spawn-
ing occurred in the laboratory as late as July 5.
Mechanical stripping experiments, which have
resulted in normal larval development, were
completed as early as November 29, however,
none were attempted later than June 1 1 .
Spawning in nature was observed twice by
our divers near Frenchmans Point. One oc-
curred on April 20, 1969, in 9-12 m of water at 8-
10 C, and the other in 8-9 m of water on July 13,
1969, when the water temperature was not mea-
sured. In each case, only a single clam was
spawning. The sex products flowed from the
excurrent siphon continuously over a period of
several minutes.
GROWTH
Annual ring method
Geoduck shells from many locations in Puget
Sound were examined for annual rings. Diffi-
culty was encountered in determining whether
or not a ring was an annulus or not. After
considerable effort, this method was judged to
be unfeasible for geoduck age or growth esti-
mation. Andersen (1971) came to the same con-
clusion in his study of geoducks from Hood
Canal. Tegelberg (1964) questioned the validity
of the ring method in determining the growth of
razor clams.
Mark and recapture method
Mark and recapture experiments were con-
ducted at various locations in marked plots in
substrates of sand and mud mixtures in water
depths ranging from 5 m to 14 m calculated from
zero tide (Table 2; Fig. 1).
Geoducks were first removed from the plots
by divers with small hand-held washout nozzles
or venturi suction dredges. The same number of
geoducks that were taken from a plot were
marked, measured, and planted into the plot.
Numbers were ground into the shell in large
clams with thick shells, and small clams were
marked with waterproof ink. Only the total
length (greatest anterior-posterior distance) of
the right valve was measured. Large geoducks
were planted in individual holes excavated by a
venturi dredge. They were planted in the sub-
strate at a depth of about 60 cm, which is the
depth at which most adult geoducks live. Small
geoducks, being good diggers, were placed in
small holes made by the diver's fingers and
protected for a few minutes until the clams com-
pletely buried themselves. Small wire stakes
were placed near each planted geoduck to facili-
tate future recapture.
Four hundred-ninety geoducks were marked
and planted in five separate plots. Of these, 202
were recovered: 107 alive and 95 dead (Table 2).
The majority of the mortalities was due to han-
dling. The geoducks in this table were divided
into two groups, those that were less than 100
mm and those more than 100 mm total shell
length at marking.
The smaller geoducks showed substantial
growth. The greatest rate of growth for any
single group of clams was 2.8 mm/month, or
33.6 mm/year. These clams, which were planted
at Fishermans Point, averaged 48 mm in shell
length at marking. The average growth rate for
all geoducks less than 100 mm was 1.8 mm/
