Proceedings of the National Shellfisheries Association
Volume 65-1976
CLAM MARICULTURE IN NORTHWEST FLORIDA:
FIELD STUDY ON PREDATION'
R. W. Menzel, E. W. Cake-, M. L. Haines, R. E. Martin' and L. A. Olsen
DEPARTMENT OF OCEANOGRAPHY
FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY
TALLAHASSEE, FLORIDA 32306
ABSTRACT
Twenty thousand small hatchery reared Mercenaria clams were planted for a
period of nine months in a predation experiment at two field locations in
Northwest Florida. At each location four 4.5 M- plots were established , in each
of which were planted 2500 clams. Before planting the clams, one plot was
prepared with a substrate of pea gravel and one with crushed oyster shell at each
location . Two plots at each location received no substrate additive and served as
controls. One control plot at each location was covered with a wire cage to
exclude predators. Survival was over 50% in the wire covered control plots; less
than 1 % in the unprotected control plots; slightly more than 2% in the plots with
shell and 10% in the plots with gravel. In this area of Florida gravel and
crushed shell added to the substrate do not ensure satisfactory survival of small
elatyis.
INTRODUCTION
Mariculture of quahog clams (Mercenaria ) has
been advocated for some time (Menzel & Sims,
1961) as certain procedures were developed.
Further refinements of techniques, as well as
development of new ones, should enable such a
venture to become even more attractive and
result in clam mariculture becoming a viable
reality.
The advancements made so far have been
experimental. Hybrids between the northern
M. mercenaria (L.) and the southern M . canipe-
chiensis (Gmelin) have better commercial traits
than either of the parent species, at least in
Sponsored by NOAA, Office of Sea Grant, Department of
Commerce, under Grant #04-3-158-43. The U. S. Govern-
ment is authorized to produce and distribute reprints for
governmental purposes notwithstanding any copyright
notations that may appear hereon.
1 Present address: Gulf Coast Research Laboratory, Ocean
Springs, Mississippi.
' Present address: Florida Board of Natural Resources,
Marine Laboratory St. Petersburg, Florida.
warmer southern waters. The northern quahog
can remain closed, alive and in good condition
for a considerable period, which permits the
very valuable shell trade of cherrystones and
littlenecks, whereas the southern species
quickly gapes and spoils when removed from
the water. Although the northern clam has an
annual growth rate greater in Florida than in
more northern waters, the growth rate is not as
great as that of the native southern clam. The
hybrid between the two species has the storage
qualities of the northern parent and the fast
growth rate of the southern parent (Menzel,
1962, 1968, 1971, 1974; Menzel and Sims, 1962).
For the past two years we have been investi-
gating F,, F 2 and F 3 hybrids as well as back-
crosses of the two species to determine if certain
combinations of crosses have even better growth
rates, using original parent species from var-
ious areas along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts of
the United States.
It is fairly easy to induce spawning and to
rear the larvae through to setting stage, and up
to 1-2 mm, under the controlled conditions of a
59
