60
R. W. MENZEL, E. W. CAKE, M. L. HAINES, R. E. MARTIN AND L. A. OLSEN
hatchery. At the present time it is more practi-
cal to grow clams to marketable size in open
waters where they can feed on naturally occur-
ring food, than to rear them under the con-
trolled conditions in a closed system, where the
costs of space, equipment, food water quality
and labor may be prohibitive. 4
We have never been able to obtain growth
rates in the laboratory comparable to those in
the field. Since we are interested in the fastest
growth rate and maturity possible, we plant
clams in open water as soon as possible. We rear
small clams (1-2 mm at planting) in the field,
but encounter excessive mortalities, mainly
from crab predation, unless protected. Experi-
mentally we control predation by using sand-
filled containers, covered with plastic window
screening, over which we place open-ended wire
cages (1.2 cm mesh), pressed into the bottom.
We have successfully grown larger (15 mm at
planting) clams within fences of wire and net-
ting of 1.2 cm mesh), pressed into the bottom.
We have successfully grown larger (15 mm at
planting) clams within fences of wire and net-
ting of 1.2 cm mesh. With our present tech-
niques, the costs of rearing clams to 15 mm
before planting in the field, are excessive from a
commercial standpoint. We need a low-cost
method whereby small clams (1-2 mm or less)
can be planted, protected and reared in open
water.
Castagna, Mason and Briggs (1970) reported
that "clams as small as sand grains" were
planted in Virginia waters with excellent re-
sults. They planted clams in a "protective" bot-
tom prepared with a substrate (gravel, slag or
shell). This paper reports on our attempts to use
this technique in Florida waters.
METHODS AND MATERIALS
In the spring of 1972, in the course of our
experiments on selection and hybridization, we
reared excesses of clams. These clams were kept
in holding tanks (1 x 1 x 0.65 M) supplied with
continuously pumped seawater from the adja-
cent bay at our Ed Ball Marine Laboratory,
The school of Marine Science, University of Delaware is
now operating a pilot closed system facility for rearing
mollusks.
Turkey Point, Florida. No substrate was pro-
vided in the tanks and the accumulated silt was
flushed out at intervals. The clams grew, but
not at a spectacular rate. In the fall of 1972, the
clams were used in a "protective substrate" ex-
periment at Turkey Point and at Alligator Har-
bor, the site of the former marine laboratory,
Florida State University.
In both locations clams were planted in a firm
bottom, several centimeters below mean low
water. Substrate samples from the two locations
were analyzed for sand, silt, clay, organics and
carbonate content. The range of salinities at
both locations was 25-35%o, with an average ca.
30%o at Alligator Harbor and 28%o at Turkey
Point.
The clams had different parents for plantings
in the several plots and the pedigrees were dif-
ferent for the two locations. All were back-
crosses. Those planted at Alligator Harbor were
the progeny of an F, female (wild female M.
campechiensis x wild male M. mercenaria tex-
ana) crossed with a wild male M. campechien-
sis. The pedigree for those planted at Turkey
Point was the same for the male parent (wild M .
campechiensis) but the female parent was an F,
hybrid of wild female M. mercenaria x wild
male M. campechiensis. The size range when
planted (4-20 mm) ranged mostly from 7 to 10
mm long. The clams were removed from the
tanks, allowed to dry and sprayed with red en-
amel paint, prior to planting, to distinguish
them from any that might be recruited from the
wild population. After the paint had dried the
clams were returned to the tanks for a period
before planting. The treatment produced no
mortality and the color is still readily visible
after nearly two years on the remaining surviv-
ing clams.
Wooden frames of 5 cm x 10 cm lumber,
having inside dimensions of 1.5 M x 3 M were
constructed and four of these frames were
placed at each location, parallel to each other
about a meter apart. The frames were partially
buried in the bottom and secured with stakes.
At each location two of the plots were used as
controls with no substrate added. One of the
plots at each location was planted with ca. 5 cm
of pea gravel and one with ca. 5 cm of crushed
oyster shell. In each plot of 4.5 M'-, 2500 marked
clams were hand-scattered as evenly as possible
