CHANGES IN THE PACIFIC OYSTER DURING STARVATION
85
ulate matter was removed by filtering the tank
water to remove all matter of 2/x in diameter
and greater. Prior to filtering, the water was
passed through a UV sterilizer. The water was
recirculated in the tank and continuously
passed through two spun-glass and activated
charcoal filters. Temperature control was ac-
complished by use of a series of coiled 2 cm
inner-diameter tubes placed off the bottom of
the tank through which cool ocean water was
continuously circulated. Temperature was
maintained at 13. 5C ± 2C. Salinity was ad-
justed to 25"/,„ l -28"/(.(i by use of aged tap water.
The tank water was maintained near oxygen
saturation by use of compressed air.
The following environmental factors were
monitored: (i) temperature-daily; (ii) salinity-
bi-weekly; (iii) pH-bi-monthly; (iv) oxygen satu-
ration-bi-monthly.
Analytical Procedure
The initial weight was determined by insert-
ing a wood wedge between the valves of venti-
lating oysters, removing the oysters from the
tank, draining the interval var fluid, air drying
the valves, and then weighing the drained oys-
ters to the nearest gram. The starvation period
lasted 175 days. A sample of five oysters was
removed from the tank every 25 days for the
first 125 days. A sample of nine oysters was
removed at the end of the starvation period. A
total of seven samples were analyzed. Upon re-
moval from the tank the hinge ligaments were
cut, valves pried open sufficiently to drain the
intervalvar fluid, the valves air dried, and then
each oyster weighed. After weighing the
drained oyster the adductor muscle was sev-
ered, the body removed and placed in a petri
dish, and the valves weighed. The oyster body
was dissected into adductor muscle, mantle,
gills and palps, digestive gland, and gonad (the
style sac, intestines and rectum were pooled
with the gonad). Care was taken to collect all
the extracellular body fluid which was subse-
quently filtered through Whatman no. 1 filter
paper. Each body component was pooled,
weighed, freeze-dried, and then reweighed.
Pooling of the body components prevented any
measurement of variation within the samples.
The freeze-dried body components, including
the body fluid, were homogenized and then
stored in capped vials at -15C until ready for
analysis.
Each pooled body component was analyzed
colorimetrically for total protein, total carbohy-
drate and total lipid. The body fluids from the
25, 75, and 175 day samples were analyzed for
their free amino acid composition.
Total protein . A sample of each body compo-
nent was homogenized with a glass tissue
grinder in doubly distilled water. Cold 157c tri-
chloroacetic acid was added to the homogenate.
The homogenate was centrifuged, supernatant
discarded, and the precipitate dissolved in IN
NaOH. An aliquot was then treated following
the method of Lowry, et al. (1951) using bovine
serum albumin as a standard.
Total carbohydrate . A sample of each body
component was homogenized with a glass tissue
grinder in a 2:1 (v/v) ehloroform-methanol solu-
tion. The homogenate was centrifuged and the
supernatant discarded. The precipitate was air
dried, pulverized with a glass stirring rod, and
then digested in 10% trichloroacetic acid at
95 C. An aliquot of the supernatant was diluted
and then treated following the method of Du-
bois, et al. ( 1956) using glucose as a standard.
Total lipid. Lipids were extracted by the
method of Folch, Lees, and Sloane-Stanley
(1957) and subsequently analyzed by the
method of Marsh and Weinstein (1966) using
tripalmitin as a standard.
Chromatography of body fluid free amino
acids. Amino acid analysis was done by gas-
liquid chromatography with a Varian Aero-
graph model 1860 gas chromatograph. The
freeze-dried body fluid was homogenized with a
glass tissue grinder in doubly-distilled water
followed by deproteinization and ion-exchange
cleanup by the method of Gehrke, et al. (1968).
Subsequently the samples were prepared by the
method of Roach and Gehrke (1969) and then
chromatographed on a column packed with sta-
bilized grade ethylene glycol adipate (EGA).
The body fluid chromatograms were compared
with chromatograms of a standard amino acid
mixture.
RESULTS
The first observed effect of starvation was the
disappearance of the greenish-brown chloroform
soluble pigment of the digestive gland. Its dis-
