86
R. T. RILEY
appearance was probably due to the fact that
the oysters had stopped feeding on algae rich in
carotenoids. At the end of the starvation period
the oysters appeared extremely emaciated and
were characterized by a change in body colora-
tion from creamy-white to greyish-tan. The
mantle, originally thick and creamy in appear-
ance, became very watery and thin to the point
of translucence. The interior of the valves ex-
hibited regressive lines of shell layering which
indicated a shrinkage of the mantle edges from
the valve edges. The first sign of gonadal matu-
ration appeared at 75 days. The sex was deter-
mined by examining a gonadal smear. At 125
days four of the five oysters in the sample were
sexed. At 175 days all of the oysters showed
signs of gonadal atrophy. Only four of the oys-
ters from the 175 day sample of nine oysters
could be sexed. There was no indication in the
tank or in the filters that the oysters had
spawned during the starvation period. There
was a total of 18 mortalities; all of which oc-
curred during the first 100 days of starvation.
The cause of the mortalities was uncertain, al-
though excessive handling could have been a
factor.
Due to mortalities and difficulties in deter-
mining the initial weight of some oysters it was
impossible to determine the weight loss of all
oysters. The wet weight loss was determined for
the 25, 50 125 and 175 day samples (Fig. 1). At
the end of the starvation period the wet weight
was 68% of the original weight, a wet weight
loss of 32%. There was an increase in the aver-
age water content from 82.0%- to 89.7% (Table
1). The dry weight at the end of the starvation
period was 39%- of the original dry weight (Fig.
1), a dry weight loss of 61%. The digestive
gland, gonad, and mantle showed the greatest
dry weight loss. The adductor muscle, and gills
and palps showed the least (Table 2).
In general the % protein of the whole body
increased while carbohydrate decreased during
starvation. The % lipid of the whole body ex-
hibited little change (Table 1). By the end of the
starvation period only the adductor muscle did
not show a considerable increase in the % pro-
tein. Similarly it was the only body component
not showing a considerable decrease in % carbo-
hydrate. The gonad and the adductor muscle
were the only components showing considerable
ioor
75
50
525
WET
DRY
i
+ and- one SE
WET
DRY
WET
DRY
WET
DRY
25
50
DAYS
125
175
FIG. 1 . Wet and dry weight expressed as a per-
cent of the pre-starved wet and dry weight.
increase in the % lipid. Considering the % pro-
tein, carbohydrate and lipid of the time zero
sample as the pre-starved values, I calculated
the utilization of protein, carbohydrate and
lipid of the whole body in terms of dry weight,
expressed as % of the pre-starved value:
U = 100
(Xf)
(XJ
(DW)
U is the utilization expressed as a % of the pre-
starved value; X f is the % substrate in the
starved sample; X,, is the % substrate in the pre-
starved sample; DW is the dry weight of the 25,
50, 125 and 175 day samples expressed as a % of
the original weight. Carbohydrate was utilized
the most, protein the least, and lipid utilization
was intermediate (Table 3). Following a similar
procedure, the utilization of protein, carbohy-
drate and lipid was calculated for each body
component. These calculations were done exclu-
sive of the weight of the body fluid. At the end of
the starvation period all body components ex-
cept the adductor muscle exhibited the same
pattern as exhibited by the whole body with
carbohydrate being the most utilized, protein
