26 FIELDIANA: ZOOLOGY, VOLUME 62
Remarks. So far Ophrydesmus is known only from a handful of
species, chiefly described by Cook in 1896 from Javan material.
Three taxa first described by Pocock (1894) in Cryptodesmus and
later referred by Attems to Phenacoporus must be added, following
Jeekel's (1955) observation that Phenacoporus is a junior synonym of
Ophrydesmus. Two of Pocock's species were from Java, and one of
them (weberi) appears to be a senior synonym of Cook's 0. gede; the
status of the other {concolor) cannot be ascertained without examina-
tion of the type specimen. The third name (sumatranus) was based
upon a Sumatran species which is almost certainly referable to
Ophrydesmus, as are two others from the same island named by
Silvestri in 1895.
A species almost certainly misidentified as "Phenacoporus weberi"
was recorded from Johore State, Malaya, by Wang and Tang (1965),
and the same authors described as new a "Phenacoporus kedahensis"
from Singapore. Therefore, at least two taxa of ophrydesmids are
known from the Malay Peninsula, both of them possibly referable to
Ophrydesmus itself. The distribution map (fig. 7) shows the approxi-
mate general distribution of the genus on the basis of the foregoing
records.
0. exilis agrees closely with the Malaysian forms in external char-
acters, and even if the gonopods of the species are found to be gen-
erically different, there can still be no doubt that exilis is to be placed
in this general section of the family. Even though the smaller milli-
peds of Borneo have not been carefully sought so far, it is surprising
that heretofore only one pterodesmid Dyakryptus grandis from
Mount Kinabalu has been taken on that large island. The dis-
covery of an Ophrydesmus type on Palawan encourages the expecta-
tion that eventually others will be found also on Borneo, an obvious
link in the presently discontinuous area occupied by the group.
REFERENCES
Cook, O. F.
1896. Cryptodesmus and its allies. Brandtia, no. 5, pp. 19-28.
Hoffman, R. L.
1961. An interesting new genus of eryptodesmoid Diplopoda from Borneo.
Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 13, 4, pp. 401-409, figs. 1-5.
Jeekel, C. A. W.
1955. Milliped miscellany II. Entomol. Bericht., 15, pp. 412-417, figs. 1. 2.
