n.s.
62:2 1973
FIELDIANA
Zoology
Published by Field Museum of Natural History
FJ
Volume 62, No. 2 June 15, 19.73
4*
A Pterodesmid Milliped From the fy *y
Philippine Islands 1 +*iS^ & / ^
Richard L. Hoffman *?U %l
Radford College, Radford, Virginia
Species of the diplopod family Pterodesmidae inhabit a far-flung
and highly discontinuous area in the tropics of West Africa, southeast
Asia, and provisionally, northern South America. Proposed by O. F.
Cook in 1896, the family has been generally disregarded by most later
specialists, and was not formally defended in print until a few years
ago (Hoffman, 1961). As was remarked at that time, however, the
genera originally referred to the family, and several proposed later,
do appear to comprise a group as "natural" as might be wished and
distributed over a familiar geographical pattern. Whether this group
is best regarded as a family, subfamily, or tribe is something that
can only be decided by a future consensus among students of the
Diplopoda.
My 1961 synopsis admitted nine Asiatic genera to the Pterodes-
midae, these being allocated into two major groups on the basis of
paranotal configuration. One category included those taxa in which
the caudal edges, at least, of the paranota are prominently inter-
rupted by deep, rounded incisions: Trichopeltis, Otodesmus, Astro-
labius, and Dyakryptus referred here. The other included forms, such
as Ophrydesmus and Pocodesmus, are more similar to the African
pterodesmids in lacking marginal incisions. The significance of this
dichotomy remains unproven since the gonopods of most of the
species have not been comparatively studied, but it does seem to as-
sociate related forms. As a point of fact, Trichopeltis and Otodesmus
were segregated by Cook into a separate family Otodesmidae.
1 A contribution from studies supported by grant GB-7MG from the National
Science Foundation. DlULlRiT LIWnHlvi
101 BUIWiLL KAU
Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 73-79269
3%
Publication 1165 21
MAR 8 1989
