HOFFMAN: PTERODESMID MILLIPED 23
corded however from Sumatra. It is a matter of considerable interest
to extend the known range of the family into the Philippine Islands,
the more so since the newly-discovered representative there is ob-
viously much more closely related to species of Java and Sumatra
than it is to the sole Borneo form.
During the recent process of sorting through large collections
of Philippine diplopods sent to me for identification by Dr. John
Kethley of Field Museum, I noticed the unmistakable outline of a
large pterodesmid among several dozen platyrhacids collected on
Palawan Island. This specimen, extricated at once from its jarmates,
regrettably proved to be a female and thus not referable to a genus
with absolute confidence. That the species is undescribed there can
be no doubt, and in virtually all peripheral characters it is very close,
if indeed not congeneric, with the various species of Ophrydesmus re-
corded from Java and Sumatra, and known also from Malaya (un-
published data).
Although the proposal of new names on the basis of female speci-
mens only is not always recommended, the Palawan pterodesmid ap-
pears likely to be a distinctive member of a limited fauna, and worthy
of nomenclatorial recognition in order to establish the zoogeographic
information. The species is tentatively referred to Ophrydesmus,
with the realization that discovery of males may render such an al-
location entirely illusory.
Ophrydesmus exilis, new species. Figures 1-6.
Diagnosis. A moderately large Asiatic pterodesmid with a high
W/L ratio of 30 per cent; the basal antennomeres twice as long as
broad; the podosterna virtually divided into bilateral halves by the
extremely deep longitudinal groove; and shift in position of the
ozopores from anterior to posterior segments.
Holotype. Adult female, length 23.0 mm., greatest width 6.7 mm., W/L ratio
30 per cent. Widths of selected segments as follows:
segment 1 4.5 mm. segment 10 6.7 mm.
25.6 mm. 126.6 mm.
46.6 mm. 146.6 mm.
6 6.6 mm. 16 6.4 mm.
86.7 mm. 184.3 mm.
Color uniformly medium brown, underparts paler.
Head proportionately rather small, 2.3 mm. in width across genae, moderately
convex, the surface very finely granular, without special ornamentation; epicranial
groove indistinct; genae prominently convex, narrow, laterally margined; frons
with an indistinct median convexity; interantennal isthmus relatively broad (0.7
