24 FIELDIANA: ZOOLOGY, VOLUME 62
mm.), its ratio to antennal length 33 per cent. Labral area prolonged ventrad, its
surface elevated above adjoining head surfaces and polished, labral setae 4-4,
clypeal setae 2-2. Edges of genae with numerous slender macrosetae.
Antennae set slightly below middle of face, relatively long (2.2 mm.) and
slender, especially the basalmost articles, of which the 2nd and 3rd are more than
twice as long as broad, 4th and 5th about equal in these dimensions. Antennae
geniculate between articles 1 and 2 and between 3 and 4, article 2 slightly bent near
its base. Article 6 smaller than 5, subconical in shape, with four small terminal
sensory cones. Articles 5 and 6 with large and conspicuous sensory areas on the
outer surface near the ends, composed of dense fields of short hairlike sensillae.
Collum (fig. 1) much broader than head, which it completely conceals in dorsal
aspect, and nearly flat, only the posterior half of the median region slightly elevated
and indistinctly tuberculate; periphery flabellate, divided into 22 elongate poly-
gonal areas, each with a conspicuous submarginal seta. Lateral ends subacutely
produced, anterior edge evenly arcuate.
Body segments generally similar in structure, differing chiefly in width and
form of the paranota, these broad and flat, set fairly high on body and only slightly
depressed; anterior margins smooth and nearly straight, their scapulorae high and
prominent. Lateral marginal areas normally five, each with a submarginal dorsal
seta, the 5th area forming posterior paranotal corner, which is basically rectangular
back to posterior third of body where paranota become inclined caudally and in-
creasingly produced. Mid-dorsal area of segments 2-5 with three transverse series
of low rounded tubercules, segments 6-19 with four such series, of which those of
the two middle rows are distinctly largest, those of the posterior row smallest and
flattest; on most midbody segments a deep conspicuous transverse groove separates
the 2nd and 3rd series.
Paranota of segments 18 and 19 project caudally (fig. 3), those of segment 19
in the form of broad obtuse lobes which enclose the epiproct. Latter small, sub-
triangular in outline, with four transverse series of setiferous tubercules. Para-
procts large, flattened, vertically striate, ventral setiferous tubercule nearly in
contact with median elevated rim, dorsal seta located on the median rim at its
upper corner. Hypoproct (fig. 6) with enlarged paramedian tubercles and a low
indistinct median projection.
Prozona and metazona about equal in length and diameter, separated by a
broad, prominent stricture, the front edge of which is formed by the overhanging
posterior edge of the prozona; stricture continuous around body, becoming some-
what wider in front of anterior coxal socket. Surface of prozona finely shagreened
dorsally, becoming very finely tuberculate ventrally, surface of metazona smooth,
largely lacking microtubercules and incrustation of dirt. Ozopores tiny, with nor-
mal distribution, near front end of body located near middle of paranota near the
base (fig. 2), on the caudalmost segments the pores migrate more laterally to take a
position near base of the 5th lateral area. Limbus distinct, consisting of closely-set
unmodified setiform projections.
Segment 19 without legs, but with a pair of indistinct, low, para-median ventral
ridges. Legs of midbody segments set upon prominently elevated podosterna,
these evenly divided into quarters by narrow grooves of which the transverse
groove is moderate in depth, the longitudinal more profound and extending down
