132 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and polygyny on recalling two facts named in the chapter on " Exog-
amy and Endogamy." By members of savage communities, captured
women are habitually taken as additional wives or concubines, and
the reputations of warriors are enhanced in proportion to the numbers
thus obtained. As Mr. McLennan points out, certain early peoples
permitted foreign wives (presumably along with other wives) to the
military class, when wives from alien societies were forbidden to other
classes. Even among the Hebrews the laws authorized such appro-
priations of women taken in war. The further direct connection is,
that where loss of many men in frequent battles leaves a great surplus
of women, the possession of more wives than one by each man con-
duces to the maintenance of population and the preservation of the
society : continuance of polygyny being, under these circumstances,
insured by the conflicts between such societies, which, other things
equal, entail the disappearance of those not practising it. To which
must be added the converse fact that, in proportion as decreasing
militancy and increasing industrialness cause an approximate equali-
zation of the sexes in numbers, there results a growing resistance to
polygyny ; since it cannot be practised by many of the men without
leaving many of the rest wifeless, and causing an antagonism incon-
sistent with social stability. Hence monogamy is to a great extent
compelled by that balance of the sexes which industrialism brings
about.
Once more, the natural relation between polygyny and predomi-
nant militancy, and between monogamy and predominant industrial-
ness, is shown by the fact that these two domestic forms harmonize
in principle with the two associated political forms. We have seen
that the militant type of social structure is based on the principle of
compulsory cooperation, while the industrial type of social structure
is based on the principle of voluntary cooperation. Now, it is clear
that plurality of wives, whether the wives are captured in war or pur-
chased from their fathers regardless of their own wills, implies domes-
tic ruleof the compulsory type: the husband is despot and the wives
are slaves. Conversely, the establishment of monogamy where fewer
women are taken in war and fewer men lost in war is accompanied
by an increased value of the individual woman, who, even when pur-
chased, is therefore likely to be better treated. And when, with fur-
ther advance, some power of choice is acquired by the woman, there
is an approach to that voluntary cooperation which characterizes this
marital relation in its highest form. The domestic despotism which
polygyny involves is congruous with the political despotism proper
to predominant militancy; and the diminishing political coercion
which naturally follows development of the industrial type is congru-
ous with the diminishing domestic coercion which naturally follows
the accompanying development of monogamy.
Probably the histories of European peoples will be cited in evi-
