ON THE EVOLUTION OF THE FAMILY. 133
dence against this view : the allegation being that, from Greek and
Roman times downward, these peoples, though militant, have been
monogamic. It may, however, be replied that ancient European so-
cieties, though often engaged in wars, had large parts of their popu-
lations otherwise engaged, and had industrial systems characterized
by considerable division of labor and commercial intercourse. Fur-
ther, there must be remembered the fact that in Northern Europe,
during and after Roman times, while warfare was constant, monogamy
was not universal. Tacitus admits the occurrence of polygyny among
the German chiefs. Already we have seen, too, that the Merovingian
kings were polygamists. Even in the Carlovingian period we read
that
" The confidence of Conan 11. was kept up by the incredible number of men-
at-arms whicli his kingdom furnished ; for you must know that here, besides
that the kingdom is extensive as well, each warrior will beget fifty, since, bound
by the laws neither of decency nor of religion, each has ten wives or more
even." (Ermold. Nigellus, iii., ap. Ser. . Fr., vi., 52.)
And Koenigswarter says that " such was the persistence of legal con-
cubinage in the customs af the people that traces of it are found at
Toulouse even in the thirteenth century."
Thus considering the many factors that have cooperated in modi-
fying marital arrangements considering also that some societies,
becoming relatively peaceful, have long retained in large measure the
structures acquired during previous greater militancy, while other
societies which have considerably developed their industrial struct-
ures have again become predominantly militant, causing mixtures of
traits the alleged relations are, I think, as clear as can be expected.
That advance from the primitive predatory type to the highest indus-
trial type has gone along with advance from prevalent polygny to
exclusive monogamy, is unquestionable ; and that decrease of mili-
tancy and increase of industrialness have been the essential cause of
this change in the type of family, is shown by the fact that this
change has occurred where such other supposable causes as culture,
religious creed, etc., have not come into play.
The domestic relations, thus far dealt with mainly under their
private aspects, have now to be dealt with under their public aspects.
For, on the structure of the family, considered as a component of
a society, depend various social phenomena.
The multitudinous facts grouped in foregoing chapters show that
no true conception of the higher types of family, in their relations to
the higher social types, can be obtained without previous study of the
lower types of family in their relations to the lower social types. In
this case, as in all other cases, error results when conclusions are
drawn from the more complex products of evolution, in ignorance
