134 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of the simpler products from which they have been derived. Already
an instance has been furnished by the interpretations of primitive
religions given by the reigning school of mythologists. Possessed
by the ideas which civilization has evolved, and looking back on the
ideas which prevailed among the progenitors of the civilized i-aces,
they have used the more complex to interpret the less complex ; and
when forced to recognize the entire unlikeness between the iuferrcd
early religious ideas and the religious ideas found among the imcivil-
ized who now exist, have assumed a fundamental difference in mode
of action between the minds of the superior races and the minds of
tlie inferior races : classing with the inferior, in pursuance of this
assumption, certain ancient races to which the modern world is
indebted for its present advance. Though to the teachings of so-
called Turanians the Aryans and Semites owe their civilizations;
though the Accadians had great cities, settled laws, advanced indus-
tries, arts in which four metals were utilized, and writing that had
already reached the phonetic stage, while the Semites were still
nomadic hordes ; though the Egyptians had for mme thousands of
years lived as an elaborately-organized nation, approaching in many
of its appliances to modern nations, and producing monuments that
remain a wonder to mankind, while the Aryans were wandering with
their herds in scattered groups about the Hindoo Koosh yet these
peoples are, in company with the lowest barbarians, cavalierly grouped
as having radically inferior intelligences, because they sliow in an
unmistakable way the genesis of religious ideas irreconcilable with
that genesis which mythologists are led by their method to ascribe
to the superior races.
All who accept the conclusions set forth in the first part of this
work, will see in this instance the misinterpretation caused by
analysis of the phenomena from above downward, instead of syn-
thesis of them from below upward. They will see that in search of
explanations we must go below the stage at which men had learned
to domesticate cattle and till the ground.
O'
I make these remarks by way of introduction to a criticism on the
doctrines of Sir Henry Maine. While valuing his works, and accept-
ing as true within limits the views he sets forth respecting the family
under its developed form, and respecting the part played by it in the
evolution of Em-opean nations, it is possible to dissent from his as-
sumptions concerning the earliest social states, and from the derived
conceptions.
As leading to error, Sir Henry Maine censures "the lofty contempt
which a civilized people entertains for barbarous neighbois," which,
he says, " has caused a remarkable negligence in observing them."
But he has not himself wholly escaped from the effects of this senti-
ment. While valuing the evidence furnished by barbarous peoples
