ON THE EVOLUTION OF THE FAMILY. 137
Semites, it cannot be sustained. Proof has been given that political
cooperation and the accompanying structures arise from the confliots
of social groups with one another. We have seen that this evolves
chieftainship, which becomes established when the military activity is
constant ; and we have seen that, having first politically oro-anized
simple groups, this process afterward politically organizes compound
groups, and again doubly-compound groups. Though it may be facili-
tated where " the commonwealth is a collection of persons united by
a common descent from the progenitor of an original family," yet,
in multitudinous cases, it takes place where no connection of this kind
exists among the persons. The members of an Australian tribe which,
under a temporary chief, join in battle against those of another tribe
have not a common descent, but are alien in blood. If it be said that
political functions can in this case scarcely be alleged, then take the
case of the Creeks of North America, whose men have various totems
implying various ancestries, and whose twenty thousand people, liv-
ing in seventy villages, have nevertheless evolved for themselves a
government of considerable complexity. Or, still better, take the
Iroquois, who, similar in their formation of tribes out of intermingled
clans of different stocks, were wielded by combined action in war into
a league of five (afterward six) nations under a permanent republican
government. Indeed, this system of kinship puts relations in politi-
cal antagonism ; so that, as we read in Bancroft of the Kutchins,
"there can never be intertribal war without rancjincy fathers and sons
against each other." Even apart from the results of mixed clanships,
that instability, which we have seen characterized primitive relations
of the sexes, negatives the belief that political cooperation every-
where originates from family cooperation. Instance the above-named
Creeks, of whom, according to Schoolcraft, " a large portion of the old
and middle-aged men, by frequently changing, have had many differ-
ent wives, and their children, scattered around the country, are un-
known to them."
Thus finding reason to suspect that Sir Henry Maine's theory of
the family is not applicable to all human societies, let us proceed to
consider it more closely ;
Pie implies that, in the earliest stages, there were definite marital
relations. That which he calls "the infancy of society " "the situa-
tion in which mankind disclose themselves at the dawn of their his-
tory " is a situation in which " ' every one exercises jurisdiction over
his wives and his children, and they pay no regard to one another.' "
But in foregoing chapters on "The Primitive Relations of the Sexes,"
on " Promiscuity," and on " Polyandry," numerous facts have been
given, showing that definite, coherent marital relations are preceded
by indefinite, incoherent ones ; and also that, among the marital rela-
tions evolving out of these, there are in many places types of family
