OJV THE EVOLUTION OF THE FAMILY. 139
" Social Types " will scarcely need reminding that in various parts
of the world we find social groups without heads, as the Fuegians,
some Australians, most Esquimaux, the Arafuras, the Land Dyaks of
the Upper Sarawak River ; others with headships that are but occa-
sional, as Tasmanians, some Australians, some Caribs, some Uaupes ;
and many others with vague and unstable headships, as the Andama-
nese, Abipones, Snakes, Chippewyans, Chinooks, Chippeways, some
Kamtchatdales, Guiana tribes, Mandans, Coroados, New Guinea peo-
ple, Tannese. Though it is true that in some of these cases tlie com-
munities are of the lowest, I see no adequate reason for excluding
them from our conception of " the infancy of society." And even
saying nothing of these, we cannot regard as lower than infantine in
their stages those communities Avhicli, like the Upper Sarawak Dyaks,
the Arafuras, the New Guinea people, carry on their peaceful lives
without other government than that of public opinion and custom.
Moreover, as has been pointed out, what headship exists in many
simple groups is not patriarchal. Such chieftainship as arose among
the Tasmanians in time of war was determined by personal fitness.
So, too, according to Edwards, with the Caribs, and, according to
Swan, with the Creeks. Then, still further showing that political
authority does not always begin with patriarchal authority, we have
the Iroquois, whose system of kinship negatives the genesis of patri-
archs, and who yet have developed a complex republican government ;
and we have the Pueblos, who, living in well-organized communities
under elected governors and councils, show no signs of patriarchal
rule in the past.
Another component of the doctrine is that, originally, property is
held by the family as a corporate body. According to Sir Henry
Maine, "one peculiarity invariably distinguishing the infancy of
society " is that "men are regarded and treated not as individuals
but always as members of the particular group." The man was not
" regarded as himself, as a distinct individual. Ilis individuality was
swallowed up in his family." And this alleged primitive submergence
of the individual affects even the absolute ruler of the group.
"Though the patriarch, for we must not yet call him the pater-
familias, had rights thus extensive, it is impossible to doubt that he
lay under an equal amplitude of obligations. If he governed the
family it was for its behoof. If he was lord of its possessions, he
held them as trustee for his children and kindred . . . the family, in
fact, was a corporation ; and he was its representative." Here, after
expressing the doubt whether there can exist in the primitive mind
ideas so abstract as those of trusteeship and representation, I go on
to remark that this hypothesis involves a conception difficult to
frame. For while the patriarch is said to hold his possessions "m a
representative rather than a proprietary character," he is said to have
unqualified dominion over children, as over slaves, extending to life
