140 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and death ; which implies that though he possesses the greater right
of owning subordinate individuals absolutely, he does not possess the
smaller right of owning absolutely the property used by them and
himself. I may add that besides being difficult to frame, this concep-
tion is not easily reconcilable with Sir Henry Maine's description of
the patria potestas of the Romans, which he says is " our type of the
primeval paternal authority," and of which he remarks that while,
during its decline, the father's power over the son's person became
nominal, his "rights over the son's property yv ere always exercised
without scrujjle," And I may also name its seeming incongruity with
the fact that political rulers who have absolute powers of life and
death over their subjects, are usually also regarded as in theory
owners of their property : instance at the present time the kings of
Dahomey, Ashantee, Congo, Cayor on the Gold Coast. Passing to
the essential question, however, I find myself here at issue not with
Sir Henry Maine only, but also with those writers on primitive social
states who hold that all ownership is originally tribal, that family
ownership comes afterward, and individual ownership last. As al-
ready implied, the evidence appears to me to show that from the be-
ginning there has been individual ownership of all such things as
could without difficulty be appropriated. True though it is that in
early stages rights of property have not acquired deiiniteness; certain
though it may be that among primitive men the moral sanction which
property equitably obtained has among ourselves is lacking ; obvious
as we find it that possession is often established by right of the
strongest the evidence implies that in the rudest communities there
is a private holding of useful movables maintained by each man to
the best of his ability. A personal monopoly extends itself to such
things as can readily be monopolized a proprietorship not yet made
definite by the growth of social regulations. The Tinne, Avho, "re-
garding all property, including wives, as belonging to the strongest,"
show us in a typical way the primitive form of appropriation, also
show us that this appropriation is completely personal, since they
"burn with the deceased all his effiicts." Indeed, even apart from
evidence, it seems to me an inadmissible supposition that in " the in-
fancy of society" the egoistic savage, utterly without idea of justice
or sense of responsibility, consciously held his belongings on behalf
of those depending upon him.
One more element, indirectly if not directly involved in the doc-
trine of Sir Henry Maine, is that " the infancy of society " is charac-
terized by the perpetual tutelage of women. While each male de-
scendant has a capacity " to become himself the hend of a new family
and the root of a new set of parental powers," " a woman of course
has no capacity of the kind, and no title accordingly to the liberation
which it confers. There is therefore a peculiar contrivance of archaic
jurisprudence for retaining her in the bondage of the family for life."
