ON THE EVOLUTION OF THE FAMILY. 141
And the implication appears to be that this slavery of women, derived
from the patriarchal state, and naturally accompanied by inability to
hold property, has been slowly mitigated, and the right of private pos-
session acquired, as the primitive family has decayed. But when we
jiass from the progenitors of the civilized races to existing uncivilized
races, we meet with facts requiring us to qualify this proposition.
Though in tribes of primitive men, knowing no law but that of brute
force, entire subjection of women is tlie rule, yet there are exceptions,
both in societies lower than the patriarchal in organization, and in
higher societies whicli bear no traces of a past patriarchal state. We
learn from Hodgson that among the Kocch, who are mainly governed
by "juries of elders," " when a woman dies the family property goes
to her daughters." Mason tells us of the Karens, whose chiefs, of
little authority, are generally elective and often wanting, that " the
father wills his property to his children. . . . Nothing is given to the
widow, but she is entitled to the use of the property till her death."
Writing of the Khasias, Lieutenant Steel says that " the house belongs
to the woman ; and in case of the husband dying or being separated
from her, it remains her property." Among the Dyaks, whose law of
inheritance is not that of primogeniture, and whose chieftainships
where they exist are determined by merit, St. John tells us that as the
wife does an equal share of work with her husband, " at a divorce she
is entitled to half the wealth created by their mutual labprs;" and
Rajah Brooke writes, concerning certain Land Dyaks, that " the most
powerful of the people in the place were two old ladies, who often told
me that all the land and inhabitants belonged to them." North
America furnishes kindred facts. Of tlie Aleutian-Islanders, Bancroft,
in agreement with Bastian, tells us that " rich women are permitted
to indulge in two husbands " ownership of property by females being
implied. Among the Nootkas, in case of divorce, there is " a strict
division of property " the wife taking both what she brought and
what she has made ; and similarly among the Jpokanes, " all house-
hold goods are considered the wife's property," and there is an equi-
table division of property on dissolution of marriage. Again, of the
Iroquois, who, considerably advanced as we have seen, were shown, by
their still-surviving system of descent in the female line, never to have
passed through the patriarclial stage, we read that the proprietary
rights of husband and wife remained distinct; and, further, that in
case of separation the children went with the mother. Still more
striking is the instance supplied by the peaceable, industrious, freely-
governed Pueblos, whose women, otherwise occupying good posi-
tions, not only inherit property, but, in some cases, make exclusive
claims to it. Africa, too, where the condition of women is in most
respects low, but whei-e descent in the female line continues, furnishes
examples. Shabeeny tells us that in Timbuctoo a son's share of the
father's property is double that of a daughter. Describing the cus-
