OUR AMERICAN OWLS.
'43
have been called " feathered cats," for the owl, cat-like, prowls at
night, and steals upon its victim by a quick, fluffy, still swoop or
spring. With the silent movements of a spirit, and a voice so super-
natural, and with certain associations of time and place, the effect is
appalling. As if burned into the brain-tissue with a hot iron, the
memory of a certain night experience when but a lad is still fresh
and vivid. It was a rural home ; sickness had entered at "the witch-
ing-time of night." No man around, and the well must stay by the ill ;
then who should go for the doctor, more than a mile away ? Impul-
sive and sympathetic, I was " the good and brave boy " to volunteer.
Not until after midnight was the doctor's house reached, and he was
out. Much disappointed that I must return alone, thinking to help
the matter, I ventured upon that country-boy expedient known as a
" short cut." So the open road was abandoned for a narrow path
which led to the old graveyard, which having reached, my timidity
began to increase. Cautiously I crossed the stile of the stone-wall,
and just as I had entered, the clock in tlie old church-tower struck
one ! There was first a startling shock, then a prolonged horror, for
the reverberations kept every fibre of my frame in a quivering thrill.
Fig. 1. The White or Bakn Owl of Europe (Strix fiammea).
I think the moon was large, and running low, for my shadow which
preceded me was frightfully long, while parallel to it, in most forbid-
ding neighborship, lay the dark shadow of a tall Lombardy poplar,
as if reflecting some huge monumental shaft. The grave of a sainted
mother was near, and a certain sense of her nearness somewhat
soothed the fears of that little night waif. I had now got well be-
yond the saddening shadow of that shaft-like tree, and the exit from
the churchyard was but a few steps off, and my courage was begin-
ning to rise, when lo ! from out of that dark shaft behind me burst
a savage, piercing scream, as it might be of some goblin sentry :
