14+ THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
" Who ! who ! who-o-o-oo are you ? " How that boy's heart did beat,
and how he ran, almost llew, cannot be told. It was still a long way
from home, but this was gained at last. He rushed into the house
(the folks were up-stairs), and, without reporting to them, he immedi-
ately threw himself face downward upon the lounge, and sobbed his
fright away, as little people often sensibly do. And now, if better
late than never, let it be honestly confessed : that boy for years enter-
tained a very owlish creed, built upon his own experience. He be-
lieved in a peculiar graveyard Strix. In fine, it may as well come
out he was a spiritualist, in the strictest, spookiest sense.
The owls are intensely carnivorous. The diminutive ones will
feed largely upon insects, and some of the large kinds will eat them
occasionally. But Nature has made them for prowlers, and as such we
find them fond of flesh, fowl, and fish. So immense is their destruc-
tion of the smaller rodents, that they are worth millions to the agri-
culture of our country. They are the feathered Nimrods of the
night. Even the American hare, the rabbit wrongly called, falls an
easy victim. Some of the owls can fish, too. But whether hunting,
fowling, or fishing, they lack the style of doing it which belongs to
the falcon tribe ; and when out bugging it is but a bungling business
Pig. 2. American Barn-Owl {Sti'ix flammea, Var. Americana).
compared with the professional role of the insectivorous birds. Their
angling, too, is simply upon quiet waters. They cannot brave " the
mutinous winds 'twixt the green sea and the azured vault." In com-
mon with all the Raptores^ they catch their prey with the talons, not
with the beak. In eating birds the owl prefers to tear his prey in
piecemeal, but a small rodent is swallowed entire, being usually tossed
into the air to adjust its position, so that it may fall head first into
the bird's mouth. It disappears in one astonishing gulp. A second
gulp is usually needed, as the tail is often after the first left hanging
