OUR AMERICAN OWLS.
M7
doubtless foraging for themselves for their natural prey, and return-
ing to their shelter behind my tent in the morning.
The adult great horned-owl has considerable vocal ability. At
one time it will startle the hearer with a barking like that of a doo-
at another time it will utter sounds much like half-suppressed screams,
as if of one who is getting throttled ; then it will break out into a
loud, wild, demoniacal yell of " Waugh O ! waugh O ! " startling the
woods, and almost terrifying every living thing.
I was myself greatly interested in a pair of these young owls,
taken from the nest early in March. Big, flufly things they were,
covered with thick, yellow down ; and such eaters, nay, gormandizers
is the word ! It really seemed as if nothing came amiss to their
appetites. The ojSal of chickens heads, entrails, gizzards all went
down in quick order. One thing surprised me. As we could not at
all times obtain animal food for them, my daughter thought of an
experiment. She made balls, as large as hickory-nuts, of moistened
meal, the outside being flavored with raw eggs. These they took
down quite greedily, and, when very hungry, took the meal-balls
without the flavoring. It was necessary to feed them with one's
fingers. It was amusing to hear them snap their bills when annoyed
or made afraid. The report thus made was pretty loud. They grew
finely ; but soon got killed, when off on a stray.
The little horned-owl is shown by Fig. 4. It is the Scops asio
Fig. 4. The American Screech-Cwl {Scops asio).
(Bonap.), and is variously known as the American screech-owl, the red
owl, and the mottled owl. It is but ten inches long, though that is
even two inches longer than its European relative. It ranges through
all the Atlantic States, even, up to Greenland. Nor is it driven away
by the clearing off of the woods ; and now more than ever it seeks to
be a winter denizen of the city parks, attracted, doubtless, by the
abundance of English sparrows, which afford it food. This little
