GAR-PIKES, OLD AND YOUNG. 3
Because, unfortunately, we are not sure that there are any "fish-
es." The terms "beast, bird, and fish," notwithstanding common
usage and the sanction of Scripture, are devoid of scientific accuracy.
For " beast " includes turtles and alligators, and excludes the aquatic
mammals, whales, porpoises, manatee, and dugong. "Bird" includes
bats and pterodactyls, and excludes the ostriches and penguins, which
cannot fly. So " fish " is not only held by some persons to embrace
the aquatic mammals, but also, when employed in a stricter sense, it
includes forms differing among themselves in many important points.
At any rate, the " fish-like vertebrates " present the following well-
marked groups :
1. Amphioxus lanceolatus ; the lancelet. A single genus with
perhaps a single species, but so peculiar as to have received the fol-
lowing appellations : Branchiostoma, Cirrostomi, Pharyngobranchii,
Leptocardia, Acrania, Entomocrania, Dermopteri.
2. Myzonts, or Marsipobranchii ; the hag-fishes and lamprey-eels.
3. Plagiostomes, or Elasmobranchii; sharks and skates.
4. Ilolocephala; the (7^^ma?/'a and Callorhynchus.
5. Ganoids ; the sturgeons (Acipenser and ScaphyrhyncMis) ; the
spoonbill [Polyodon) ; the mud-fish (Amia) ; the gar-pike {Lepidos-
teus) ; and the Polypterus and Galamoichthys of Africa, with many
fossil forms.
6. Dipnoans ; the mud-fishes of Africa, South America, and Aus-
tralia {Protopterus, Z/epidosiren, and Ceratodus).
All of the above were formerly, and are now popularly, regarded
as fishes.
But tlie fishes, proper, or ordinary fishes, are now called:
7. Teleosts ; the perch, salmon, cod, mackerel, and. all others not
included within the other six groups.
Some have included Amjyhioxus with the Myzonts ; others the
Plagiostomes with the Ganoids. The most natural combination
seems to be that of the Ganoids with the Teleosts ; and to this larger
group the term Pisces has been applied. But for the present it is
safer to recognize the distinctions, and to make our generalizations
more exact.
What, then, is a gar-pike ? Is it a Ganoid or a Teleost ? Curiously
enough, tlie prefix "gar" (signifying a dart or pointed weapon) is
employed to designate two fishes, of which one {Belone) is a marine
Teleost, and the other [Lejndosteus) is a fluviatile Ganoid. Both
have long jaws with sharp teeth, but in other respects they are very
unlike. It will be better to call Belone the " gar-fish " and Lepidos-
teus the gar-pike.^
The general appearance of the gar-pike is sufficiently indicated by
' These common names are very perplexing. Thus the true pike is Esox. The name
dog-fish is popularly applied to Menobranchus. a batrachian ; to Amia, a ganoid ; and to
Acanthias, a shark.
