INITIATORY FORCES. 157
tain-peak, it has often been a very slight force that has determined
the patli it has taken, and which of two villages miles apart was to
be demolished by it. The fire-alarm system in our cities uses elec-
tricity as an initiatory motion : the hammers of the tower-bells are
worked by the descent of heavy weights wound up by manual power
from time to time and the store of energy contained in the elevated
masses is instantly made available by an electric current from the
central office simply freeing a detent and allowing the weight to fall.
Many other recent inventions for working railway-signals, looms, etc.,
embody this principle. The magneto-electric machines, which are ex-
tensively employed in lighthouses and electro-plating factories, yield
electricity from the mechanical motion of a steam-engine. A small
permanent steel magnet is indispensable in the apparatus ; it induces
magnetism in soft-iron cores, and these again in others in an increas-
ing series. The power may be gigantic, and the magnet, were it not
inconvenient, might be as small as a cambric needle: yet without it
neither electricity nor light can be had. A similar illustration occurs
in the development of a current in a common galvanic battery : the
two pieces of different metals used, as zinc and copper, when quite
dry before being placed in the bath, if simply brought into contact
for a moment show opposite electric polarities which, if given a me-
chanical expression, would be a very small amount indeed. This mi-
nute force, only to be detected by the most delicate means, is the
necessary opening of the flood-gate of energy in a working battery.
And when light is desired from a group of powerful cells, it is first
requisite to use a small effort in bringing the poles together, and then
separating them at a short distance apart. The brilliant arc of light,
once across the chasm, can continue to span it ; but its force, although
so great, is unequal to leaping over it without help. These examples
show the importance of knowing the fit initiatory forces in processes
whereby one form of energy is sought to be converted into another.
It is probably for lack of such knowledge that at present we waste so
lamentable a quantity of heat, our commonest force, in changing it
into the more desirable form of electricity, light, and mechanical mo-
tion. In exceptionally favorable circumstances, steam-engines of the
best kind give but a fourth in work of the theoretical value of the
heat applied, and in obtaining an electric current from an engine fur-
ther loss occurs ; while the production in a thermo-battery of a cur-
rent from heat directly has never yet yielded as much as one-hundredih
of the force employed.
A slight and well-aimed effort may not only free an immense mag-
azine of energy, but also give it a particular direction and pilot it into
one or. another of two entirely new seas. Hydrogen and oxygen gases
in separate receivers might remain tranquil and unchanged for ages,
and it depends upon the choice of the experimenter, when he wishes
to render their energy available, whether their intense chemical force
