158 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
shall take the form of heat or give forth an electric current. In the
former case he shall connect the receivers together by suitable tubes,
apply a spark, and obtain a flame hot enough to fuse and vaporize
iron or platinum. In the other case he can use Grove's gas-battery,
and permit the elements to unite into water, producing an intense
electric curi'ent capable of working scores of miles of telegraph. The
realm of light yields us examples analogous to those given in the do-
mains of heat and electricity. In photography it has been discovered
that blue rays may begin an impression which red or yellow ones can
finish, and finish only. The power of continuance is diiferent from
the power of initiation, and depends upon it for its opportunity of use-
fulness.
The instability of equilibrium among forces brings in an element
of uncertainty, or rather incalculability, which renders prediction ex-
tremely difiicult in many fields of scientific investigation. Prof. Bal-
four Stewart, in a most instructive essay on " Solar Physics," gives us
some illustrations of this. He supposes a stratum of air in the earth's
atmosphere to be very nearly saturated with aqueous vapor ; that is
to say, just a little above the dew-point ; while at the same time it is
losing heat with extreme slowness, so that if left to itself it would be
a long time before moisture were deposited. Now, such a stratum is
in an extremely delicate state of molecular equilibrium, and the drop-
ping into it of a small crystal of snow would at once cause a remark-
able change of state. For what would happen ? The snow would cool
the air around it, and thus moisture would be deposited in the form
of fine mist or dew. Now, this deposited mist or dew, being a liquid,
and as such much more radiant than vapor, would send its heat into
empty space much more rapidly than the saturated air ; and therefore
it would become colder than the air around it. Thus, more air would
be cooled, and more mist or dew deposited ; and so on until a com-
plete change of condition should be brought about, resulting perhaps
in a shower of rain. Now, in this imaginary case, the tiniest possible
flake of snow has pulled the trigger, as it were, and made the gun go
oif has changed completely the whole arrangement that might have
gone on for some time longer as it was, had it not been for the advent
of the snow-flake. Prof. Stewart thvis points out that the presence of
a condensable liquid in our atmosphere adds an element of violence,
and also of abruptness, amounting to incalculability, to the motions
which take place. Hence meteorology must long, if not ever, remain
an incomplete science, since in its problems so many variable and un-
stable factors occur. In the course of the same essay Prof. Stewart
tells us how parallelism has been observed between three very inter-
esting classes of phenomena, namely, the periods of maximum sun-
spots, of brilliant auroral displays, and of great disturbances in the
earth's magnetism. Extended observatory records show that all three
coincide in their fluctuations ; hence endeavors have been made to
