INITIATORY FORCES. 15^
trace thera to a common source. Observations at Kew for a series of
years have detected that the proximity of Mercury and Venus to the
sun seems to control the size and direction of the solar spots ; and
therefore it appears that these planets mediately through the sun cause
our auroras and magnetic storms. There is also reason to believe
that the production of sun-spots diminishes by absorption the actinic
rays, while the thermal ones are not noticeably affected ; for to the
actinic rays the chemical or ripening effect is due. Years of minimum
sun-spots have been found to coincide very nearly witli the good wine-
years in Germany. At first sight we are startled by the supposi-
tion that a planet like Venus, which comes nearer to the earth than
it ever does to the sun, should in any way be accountable for such
enormous manifestations of energy as those which occur over the
sun's surface. But the wonder will disappear if we bear in mind that
there may be two kinds of causes or antecedents. Thus, we say that
the blacksmith is the cause of the blow which his hammer strikes the
anvil, and here the strength of the blow depends upon the strength
of the smith. But we may likewise say that the man who pulls the
trigger of a gun or cannon is the cause of the motion of the ball, and
here there is no relation between the strength of the effect and that
of its cause. Now, in whatever mysterious way Venus and Mercury
affect the sun, we may be sure it is not after the fashion of the black-
smith : they do not deal him a violent blow producing all this enor-
mous effect, but they rather pull the trigger, and immediately a very
great change takes place. And, in passing, we are here taught how
involved the relations of the parts of the universe may be. Two
planets whose direct influence on the earth by their gravitation and
light is quite inconsiderable, yet, by their indirect effects through their
action on the sun, produce very marked and varied results on the sur-
face of our globe. Many laboratory experiments, on a small scale,
illustrate the potency of initiatory forces. A pail of water, main-
tained in great stillness, may be gradually chilled several degrees be-
low the common freezing-point, when the formation of a cake of ice
instantly follows from a slight shake. A clean glass vessel may be
filled with water and slowly brought to a temperature in excess of
the ordinary boiling-point, and a feeble shock is all that is needed for
the prompt liberation of a large volume of steam. Crystallization
offers similar results. A supersaturated solution of a salt may long
remain in the liquid state until a crystalline fragment thrown in in-
stantly serves as a nucleus for extensive solidification. When such a
solution contains two salts, which begin to crystallize about the same
temperature, when a solid fragment of each kind is thrown into the
liquid, it picks out its kindred without the slightest error, and grows
thereby. A new surgical method for covering a wound with skin em-
ploys as centres of growth tiny morsels of skin supplied from else-
where. These gather together elements akin to themselves, and soon
