MESMERISM, ODYLISM, TABLE-TURNING, ETC. 161
problems of meteorology are of baffling intricacy, how mnch more so
are those of history, with their elements of ignorance, of passion, and
caprice all controlling forces vastly greater than themselves! We
have recently seen a few votes among hundreds decide the adminis-
tration of the republic for years ; and, within a decade, have beheld a
single general's timidity or treachery betray a noble army into the
enemy's hands, involving wide-spread ruin and deep national disgrace.
And how often are our own individual lives utterly changed in pur-
pose by a mere word, a smile, or a tear !
I
MESMEKISM, ODYLISM, TABLE-TUENING, AND
Si^IKITUALISM.
Br WILLIAM B. CAKl'ENTEE, C. B., M, D., LL. D., F. E. S.
II.
T was asserted, about thirty years ago, by Baron von Reichen-
bach, whose researches on the chemistry of the hydrocarbons con-
stitute the foundation of our present knowledge of f)araffin and its
allied products of the distillation of coal, that he had found certain
" sensitive " subjects so peculiarly affected by the neighborhood of
magnets or crystals as to justify the assumption of a special polar
force, which he termed Odyle, allied to, but not identical with, mag-
netism ; present in all material substances, though generally in a less
degree than in magnets and crystals; but called into energetic ac-
tivity by any kind of physical or chemical change, and therefore
especially abundant in the human body. Of the existence of this
odylic force, which he identified with the "animal magnetism" of
Mesmer, he found what he maintained to be adequate evidence in the
peculiar sensations and attractions experienced by his "sensitives"
when in the neighborhood either of magnets or crystals, or of human
beings specially charged with it. After a magnet had been repeat-
edly drawn along the arm of one of these subjects, she would feel a
pricking, streaming, or shooting sensation ; she would smell odors
proceeding from it ; or she would see a small volcano of flame issuing
from its poles when gazing at them, even in broad daylight. As in
the magnetic sleep light is often seen by the somnambule to issue
from the operator's fingers, so the odylic light was discerned in the
dark by Von Reichenbach's " sensitives," issuing not only from the
hands, but from the head, eyes, and mouth, of powerful generators of
this force. One individual in particular was so peculiarly sensitive,
that she saw (in the dark) sparks and flames issuing from ordinary
nails and hooks in a wall. It was further affirmed that certain of
VOL. XI. 11
