MESMERISM, OBYLISM, TABLE-TURNING, ETC. 163
out any indication being given to the " sensitive " of this change of
its conditions. And tlie same remark ai:)plies to the more recent
statement of Lord Lindsay, as to Mr. Home's recognition of the posi-
tion of a permanent magnet in a totally-darkened room ; the value of
this solitary fact, for which there are plenty of ways of accounting,
never having been tested by the use of an electro-magnet, whose
active or passive condition should be entirely unknown, not only to
Mr. Home but to every person present.
That " sensitives " like Von Reichenbach's, in so far as they are
not intentional deceivers (which many hysterical subjects are consti-
tutionally prone to be), can feel, see, or smell, anything that they were
led to believe that they would feel, see, or smell, was soon proved by
the experimental inquiries of Mr. Braid, many of which I myself wit-
nessed. He found that not only in hysterical girls, but in many men
and women " of a highly-concentrative and imaginative turn of mind,"
though otherwise in ordinary health, it was sufficient to fix the atten-
tion on any particular form of e-xpectancy such as pricking, stream-
ing, heat, cold, or other feelings, in any part of the body over which
a magnet was being drawn ; luminous emanations from the poles of a
magnet in the dark, in some cases even in full daylight ; or the attrac-
tion of a magnet or crystal held Avithin reach of the hand for that
expectancy to be fully realized. And, conversely, the same sensations
were equally produced when the subjects of them were led to believe
that the same agency was being employed, although nothing what-
ever was really done ; the same flames being seen when the magnet
was concealed by shutting it in a box, or even when it was carried
out of the room, Avithout the knowledge of the subject; and the
attraction of the magnet for the hand being entirely governed by the
idea previously suggested, positive or negative results being thus
obtained with either pole, as Mr. Braid might direct. "I know," be
says of one of his subjects, " that this lady was incapable of trying to
deceive myself or others present ; but she was self-deceived and spell-
bound by the predominance of a preconceived idea, and was not less
surprised at the varying powers of the instrument than were others
who witnessed the results." '
One of Mr. Braid's best " subjects " was a gentleman residing in
Manchester, well known for his high intellectual culture, great general
ability, and strict probity. He had such a remarkable power of vol-
untary abstraction as to be able at any time to induce in himself a
state akin to profoimd reverie (corresponding to what has been since
most inappropriately called the "biological"), in which he became so
completely "possessed" by any idea strongly enforced upon him,
that his whole state of feeling and action was dominated by it. Thus
it was sufficient for him to place his hand upon the table and fix his
attention upon it for half a minute, to be entirely unable to withdraw
1 "The Power of the Mind over the Body," 1846, p. 20.
