164 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
it, if assured in a detei-mined tone that he could not do so. When his
gaze had been steadily directed for a short time to the poles of a mag-
net, he could be brought to see flames issuing from them of any form
or color that Mr. Braid chose to name. And when desired to place
his hand upon one of the poles, and to fix his attention for a brief
period upon it, the peremptory assurance that he could not detach it
was sufficient to hold it there with such tenacity that I saw Mr. Braid
drag him round the room in a way that reminded me of George
Cruikshank's amusing illustration of the German fairy-story of "The
Golden Goose." The attraction was dissolved by Mr. Braid's loud,
cheery " All right, man," which brought the subject back to his nor-
mal condition, as suddenly as the attraction of a powerful electro-
magnet for a heavy mass of iron ceases when the circuit is broken.
Similar experiments to these (which I first witnessed about thirty
years ago) have been since repeated over and over again upon great
numbers of persons, in whom a corresponding state can be induced
by prolonged fixation of the vision on a small object held in the hand.
It was in the year 1850 that a new manifestation of the supposed
" occult " power first attracted public attention, through the exhibi-
tion of it by a couple of itinerant Americans, who styled themselves
"professors," of a new art which they termed Electro-Biology ;
asserting that by an influence of which the secret was only known to
themselves, but which was partly derived from a little disk of zinc or
copper held in the hand of the " subject " and steadily gazed on by
him, they could subjugate the most determined will, paralyze the
strongest muscles, pervert the evidence of the senses, destroy the
memory of even the most familiar things or of the most recent occur-
rences, induce obedience to any command, or make the individual
believe himself transformed into any one else ; all this, and much more,
being done while he was still wide awake. They soon attracted large
assemblages to witness their performances, and seldom failed to elicit
some of the most remarkable phenomena from entire strangers to
them, whose honesty could not be reasonably called in question. In
place of a few peculiarly susceptible " subjects" not always to be met
with, and open to suspicion on various grounds, those who took up
this practice found in almost every circle some individuals in whom
the "biological" state could be self-induced by the steady direction
of their eyes to one point, at the ordinary reading-distance, for a
period usually varying from about five to twenty minutes; a much
shorter time generally sufficing in cases in which the practice had
been frequently repeated. In this condition, the whole course of
thought is directed by external suggestions, the subject's own control
over it being altogether suspended. Yet he differs from the somnam-
bulist, in being av;ake ; that is, he has generally the use of all* his
senses, and usually, though not always, preserves a distinct recol-
lection of all that has taken place. There is, in fact, a gradational
