GAR-PIKES, OLD AND YOUNG.
187
sisted in the existence of two tails, an upper and a lower. These are
shown in Fig. 8, JB.
The formation of these two tails, and their significance, will be
considered further on ; for the present, we are concerned with tlioir
Structure, their relative position, and their uses. Tlie lower tail was
Fig. 8. Four Figures op the Tails op Lepidosteus at Different Stages.
.4, from a specimen t wen ly-twomillimetiYS or seveii-eip;hths inch Idiip;, enlarged four diameters.
The ventral fin (Fe) is just appearing. The median fin is being absorbed between thefourspots
referred to in Fig. 9. The lip of the tail is inclined upward, and the infra-caudal lobe is
larger. In B the primordial fin lias almost disappeared ; the dorsal (/>) and the anal (A) fins
are quite large. The infra-caudal lobe is nearly aslont' as the tip of the original tail, which has
been reduced to a slender vibratile filament. This specimen is forty-four mi'limetres or one
and three-foiiitlis inch lonsr, and the tail is enlarged two ciameterf?. C shows the tail of a
specimen three hundred millimetres or nearly twelve inches long, of natural size. The fila-
ment is still furlher reduced, nnd tbe ravs of the infra caudal lobe form the end ot the tail In
I) the fail is that of an adult, one-half natural diametei-. The filament, the oiisrinal end nf the
body, has wholly disappeared, and the infra-caud.nl lobe forms the fail. But dissection shows
the spinal axis extending along the dorsal border to a point corresponding with the previous
attachment of the filamenr. (Further description and discussion of these changes, with refer-
ences to author.^, may be found in a paper by the author, entitled "Notes on the North Ameri-
can Ganoids." "Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science,"
1875, pp. 151-193.)
evidently the caudal fin. It had several rays, and a rounded hinder
border. But it was smaller in proportion than in the adult gar, and
the middle rays were directed obliquely downward, instead of hori-
zontally backward.
The upper tail is best described as a single fleshy filament, flat-
