GAR-PIKES, OLD AND YOUNG. 189
previously examined by naturalists (so far as known to the writer),
but tliey also fui-nish the clew to the double tail, and suggest some
important paleontological considerations.
While earnestly expressing his appreciation of the value of these
little gars, the writer tinds himself compelled to exemplify the pro-
verbially ungrateful and dissatisfied nature of zoologists by regretting
that there were not more of them, and that some were not very much
smaller, or even still within the egg.
In this connection one is reminded that now, as a rule, the smallest
rather than the largest are desired by naturalists. The giants are
curiosities, and interesting as showing the capacity for growth ; but
the mysteries of development, the relations of apparently diverse
forms, and the order of geological succession, are best revealed by
the apparently most insignificant.
A good illustration of this inverse ratio between size and value is
contained in the following passage from Prof, and Mrs. Agassiz's
" Journey in Brazil : "
"Mr. Agassiz has a corps of little boys, engaged in catching the tiniest fishes,
so insignificant in size that the regular fishermen, who can never be made to
understand that a fish which is not good to eat can serve any useful purpose,
always throw them away. Nevertheless, these are among the most instructive
specimens for tlie ichthyologist, because they often reveal the relations not only
between parent and offspring, but wider relations between groups."
Of the two smallest gars, one is nearly colorless, while the other
is marked very much as are the older ones. They are 18 millimetres
(a little less than three-fourths of an inch) in length. The head is
short and flattened, with slight indications of teeth on the edges of
the jaws. With one of them the ventral fins have not appeared ;
with the other they are represented by minute white elevations. Each
pectoral consists of a fleshy lobe, surrounded by a thin fringe or
border.
Fig. 9. Smallest Gar-Pike tet obtained (Eighteen Millimetres or about Three-fourth
Inch long, enlarged Five Diameters).
The actual lon<;th is indicatecl by the line above the ficnre. There are no gcales. The head is
short. The pectoral fin (P) consists of a fleshy lobe: (i), with a thin fringe or border (F). The
ventral fins have not appeared. A median fin extends along the hinder third of the body above
aiKl the liinder half lielow. It is interrupted hy the vent (F), and presents lour darker
and more or less dilTerentiated spots. The anterior pair are evidently the beginninjis ot the
dorsal (D) and anal fins. The signification of the binder dorsal spot is nnceitam. But the
hinder spot below (C) presents rays, and is the commencement of the inlra-caudal lobe.
The hinder end of the body tapers to a point, as with Amjy/noxns,
the extremity being slightly bent downward. At the junction of the
middle with the hinder third of the body commences a delicate
median fin, colorless, and without rays for the most part, and extend-
