GAR-PIKES, OLD AND YOUNG, 191
It is so recently that all structural differences and changes were
supposed to be readily explicable upon the doctrine of final causes,
that we naturally turn first in that direction. Some transformations
certainly seem to relate very distinctly to the welfare of the individ-
ual, as when the caterpillar becomes a butterfly, and when the aquatic
larvas of mosquito and dragon-fly change their forms with their hab-
its and modes of life. So, among the vertebrates, it is obvious that
the tadpole is by no means adapted to the necessities of the frog and
the toad ; and the intermediate stages, resulting from the gradual loss
of the tail and the acquisition of legs, while perhaps not particularly
suited to either aquatic or terrestrial locomotion, seem to be required
in order to permit the development of the lungs and the accompany-
ing disappearance of the gills.
But can the transformations of the gar-pike's tail be thus accounted
for ? According to present knowledge and justifiable inference, the
Lepidosteus not only passes the whole of its life in the water, but is
also, from first to last, an active, predaceous fish, requiring all pos-
sible advantages of form and fin in order to overtake its prey.
Since no marked change occurs in the general form of the body,
we may perhaps assume that it is perfectly well adapted to the fish's
needs ; although this suggests the general inquiry as to the cui bono
of the almost infinite variations from the ideal form supposed to be
best suited to aquatic locomotion.
But do we know, or can we easily infer, any differences in the ne-
cessities or the manner of life of the Lepidosteus at different ages,
which may account for its having a tail first like a lamprey's, then
like a sturgeon's, and, finally, like that oi Amiaf
It may be suggested that the rapid and, at most, invisible vibra-
tions of the filament enable the young gar to glide stealthily upon its
prey. But the very young would seem to be even more in need of
such precaution, and with them the tail is relatively as large as in
the adult, although differently shaped. Finally, even if we conclude
that the three distinct stages of the tail are perfectly adapted to cer-
tain hypothetically unlike necessities, what shall be said of the inter-
mediate conditions? While growing, the infra-caudal lobe must be
rather a hinderance than a help to the movements of the primitive
tail; and while disappearing, the filament, being useless, must be, if
anything, an incumbrance.
Shall we, then, conclude that these changes in the appearance of a
single individual are for the sake of variety as some would explain
the great diversity of specific form and coloration among animals and
plants ?
At the present day, neither of the explanations above given is like-
ly to wholly satisfy the large class of thinkers who, whether or not
they accept any particular evolution doctrine, are inclined to believe
that there is, in many cases, a more or less exact parallelism between
