192 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the changes whicli occur in the development of an individual, the suc-
cessive forms of geological times, and the series of living forms, lower
and higher, or more generalized and more specialized.
In the smallest gar here described, and presumably in still younger
examples, the axis of tl)e body, represented by the notochord or primi-
tive vertebral column, is nearly horizontal, about midway between the
upper and the lower borders of the tail. This is likewise the case with
the lowest known vertebrate, Amphioxus ; with the forms next above,
the hag-fishes [Myxine and Bdellostoma) and lamprey-eels {Petrotny-
Z07i) ; with the larvoe (tadpoles) of frogs and toads ; and with the
adults of the aquatic and tadpole-like salamanders, Menopoma and
Menobranchus.
Finally, such a tail exists in the Dipnoans, or mud-fishes, of Africa,
South America, and Australia {Frotopterus^ Lepidosiren, and Cerato-
dus), which have some striking aflfinities with Batrachians, but are
usually regarded as fishes, and are, perhaps, the best illustration of
generalized forms.
To this variety of tail, Cope has applied the name isocercal ; Hux-
ley calls it diphycercal, and gives as an example Polyjyterus, where,
however (as in Oalamoichthys), the "end of the notochord is hardly
at all bent up." Wyman, finding this kind of tail in the embryo of a
skate, called \t protocercal, and, on some accounts, this seems the more
suitable name.
As the gars grow older, the relative length of the filament and the
infra-caudal lobe constantly changes. At first the former is the longer;
in a specimen 108 millimetres long, their tips coincide; in one 142
millimetres long, tlie lobe projects beyond the filament ; and in a
third, 300 millimetres long, the filament is much the shorter, is ragged
and attenuated, and during life was rarely employed. This second
stage, or rather series of stages, has several counterparts among liv-
ing Selachians and Ganoids. The most accurate resemblance is pre-
sented by the shovel-nosed sturgeon of the Mississippi River {Sca2:)hy-
rhynchus). The filament is excessively elongated in Chimera, and
exaggerated as to both length and breadth in the thrashing-shark
(Alopias). But, with many sliarks, the common sturgeons, and the
spoonbill {Polyod(m), the size of the infra-caudal lobe is so nearly
that of the filament as to give the whole tail a nearly symmetrical
outline, and lead zoologists to speak of the " uj^per lobe," whereas it
is really the bent-up end of the body. This kind of tail is called hete-
rocercal.
The gars above mentioned are supposed to be the young of the
Zepidosteus osseus. Just at what size the filament wholly disappears
in that species is not known. But with the smaller and proportionally
shorter species, i. platystomus, tliere is no sign of the filament when
eighteen inches in length. The tail might then be thought, at first
sight, to be symmetrical. But the longest rays are a little above the
