RELATION OF AIR TO THE HOUSE WE LIVE IN. 197
she can only recognize the laws of Nature. But science changes the
notions of man, and often reverses them. Ideas and notions based on
science enrich us, partly directly, partly indirectly, with new means
of making use of natural laws. It was not till astronomy had found
and determined celestial mechanics that the human mind was enabled
to begin that development of the mechanical element which is the
pride and the power of our period as compared with former times.
If, then, we are hopefully satisfied with endeavoring to increase
our insight, our science of the things that are, the benefit will not fail
to come, and everything is beneficial of which man learns to make
use. This requires time often a very long time as old experience
teaches.
The task of science is to lay hold of everything perceptible, and
to penetrate it the small as well as the great. The insect and its
life is just as interesting to science as the elephant, and therefore I
believe that I may occupy myself with that air which flows through
our walls, although its motion is not recognized by our sensations.
We may conclude from many facts that walls are permeable to
air. N"o one maintains that houses have water-tight walls, and every-
body knows that masonry is easily penetrated by water. Wherever
a wall is in perpetual contact with water, it becomes so soaked that
at last water comes out in drops on the other side. Certainly, where
water can pass, air must pass much more easily, because air is seven
hundred and seventy times more light and movable than water. It
is very easy to construct water-tight apparatuses and vessels, but
very difficult to make them air-tight. Still people are surprised when
they hear of a change of the air through a wall ; they see, of course,
and feel the water in the wall, but of the air in it their senses have no
direct perception.
But we have means to demonstrate to our senses the passage of
air through our building-materials ; we have only to lead the air
which comes against some large surface of wall into and through a
narrow tube. I will prove this to you by experiments ; but you have
often seen the same thing before, when you were looking at some
piece of water which had some small in- and outflow. These may be
in lively motion and driving mills, but on the whole surface the water
seems to be completely at rest. But, if we do not see any water run-
ning in and out, we declare the whole to be stagnant, and we may be
very much mistaken.
I have here a cylindrical piece of mortar, half lime, half sand, five
inches by one and two-thirds. The cylinder has been covered all over
with melted wax, which is inpermeable to air, with the exception of its
two circular ends. You see this glass funnel, with a tube. I fix it on
one circular end, where the mortar lies free, and make an air-tight
connection by wax with the waxen coat of the cylinder. If I blow
through the tube, the air must appear on the free mortar-end, pro-
