ig8
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
vided the mortar is permeable to air. It has as yet no effect on the
flame of this candle, because its velocity is not great enough. But if
I fix a funnel on the other end of the cylinder, the air which has passed
through the mortar can only escape through its narrow end, and there
you see the flame sensibly deviating. You may even succeed in ex-
tinguishing it altogether. The velocity of the air in going through
the tube must increase in proportion as the transverse section of the
tube is smaller than the mortar-surface, out of which the air escapes,
exactly as with the water of the pond and its in- and outflow. Now,
when I dip the end of one tube into water, you see and hear the air
which has passed through the mortar escape from the water. If you
make a similar arrangement with a piece of wood, or a brick, you will
see the same result.
Most kinds, also, of sandstone are so porous that water and air
easily pass through them. Solid or quarried limestones ai*e scarcely
permeable to air, but, as they are mostly of irregular shapes, they re-
quire more mortar, and that is the reason why such walls are, after
all, not so much more air-tight than walls made of regular bricks and
thin layers of mortar. Observations have been taken of the average
quantity of mortar used with different building-stones. We may sup-
pose that, taking the wall as a whole, it is one-third with quarried
lime, one-fourth with tufaceous lime, one-fifth to one-sixth with bricks,
one-sixth to one-eighth with cubes of sandstone. In practice, then,
the quantity of the mortar rises with the decrease of porosity in the
building-stones, and assists in keeping the walls pervious to air to a
certain degree.
It is self-evident that the quantity of air which passes through
building-materials of a certain thickness must increase in proportion
to the surface ; two square feet must give passage to twice as much
air as one square foot. I shall speak of ventilation in connection with
this later on.
