RELATION OF AIR TO THE HOUSE WE LIVE IN. 199
The eftect of wetting porous materials is quite surprising. In pro-
portion as the pores fill with water, they become impervious to air.
The adhesion of water to stone and mortar is greater than that of air,
by as much as water is heavier than air. It is not difficult to blow
great volumes of air through dry mortar and dry bricks, but it requires
a great exertion to drive a few drops of water through the same mate-
rials. You know this cylinder of mortar {see above). Instead of
blowing air through it into water, I will suck the air out of it : you
see now the water rise in the tub and wet the surface of the mortar.
Now I'll try to blow again air through the mortar ; I cannot, with
all my exertions, because the pores of the mortar are filled with water.
This simple experiment lays bare the great hygienic disadvantage
of Wet walls ; they are air-tight, not to speak of other injurious efiects.
We all know that new houses are dreaded on account of their
humidity. In some countries there are regulations by law, and new
houses must be approved with respect to their dryness before they may
be let. But the notions about the causes of their humidity, and the
means of removing it, are very different and discordant. Allow me,
therefore, to explain how water gets into the new house, and how it is
to be got out of it.
I need not call to your mind the first steps in a building operation,
and how soon a connection is made with some abundant source of
water, and that a great deal of water is required for making the mor-
tar, etc. Let us now try to come to an estimate of this quantity of
water.
Suppose that 100,000 bricks were used for a building, each weigh-
ing ten pounds. A good brick can suck up more than ten per
cent, of its weight in water, but we will put down at five per cent,
what gets into it by the manipulations of the bricklayer. We will
assume that the same amount of water is contained in the mortar, a
quantity certainly much understated, although the mortar forms only
about one-fifth of the walls : we have thus 100,000 pounds of water,
equal to 10,000 gallons, which must have left the walls of the house
before it becomes habitable.
The two principal ways in which wet or damp walls are injurious
are : 1. By impeding ventilation and diffusion of gases, through their
pores being closed up or narrowed by water ; 2. By disturbing the
heat-economy of our bodies. Damp Avails act as bodies abstracting
heat in one direction ; they absorb heat by their evaporation, and act
like rooms which have not been warmed thoroughly ; they are bet-
ter conductors of heat than dry walls, just like wet garments, and
considerably raise our heat-losses by a one-sided and increased radia-
tion. Diseases which are known to be often caused by cold are par-
ticularly frequent in damp dwellings rheumatism, catarrh, chronic
Bright's disease, etc.
What can we do to get rid of that immense quantity, of these
