GAR-PIKES, OLD AND YOUNG. 5
osseus, has since been subdivided by some authors into Lepidosteus,
Cylindrosteus, and Litholepis, or Atractosteus ; and nearly forty spe-
cific names have been applied. One of these, Sarchirus, merely de-
notes the lobed state of the pectoral fin of the young gar (as will be
shown further on), and most of the others seem to be based upon
individual or geographical variations. Much more remains to be
learned before the exact number of species can be ascertained; mean-
time, we may safely admit the three following :
L. osseus, the bony gar, having a long and narrow snout, and
rarely attaining five feet in length ; L. platystomus, the short-nosed
gar, with a short and broad snout, as the name implies ; and X. ada-
mantinus, the alligator-gar or diamond-gar, with a short and wide
snout, but attaining a greater size than the other two, and more com-
mon in the southern part of the Mississippi Valley. Probably the
careful comparison of many individuals will oblige us to admit one or
two additional species.
Notwithstanding, however, the peculiarities by which several of the
species of Ziepidosteus may be distinguished, so many and so obvious
are the features which unite them together, and separate them from
all other fishes, that they are recogtiized by all as belonging together,
just as are the catfishes, the suckers, or the sturgeons.
Moreover, their internal structure, so far as it has been ascer-
tained, presents a remarkable uniformity, whence we may infer that
there is no important difierence in their functions or habits, except-
ing in so far as may depend upon their circumstances, their food, etc.
It is desii'able to ascertain the extent of this variation, by accurate
observation of carefully-determined examples, but on the present
occasion we must be content, although unwillingly, with the assump-
tion that what one gar has done another gar can do.'
Like most other New England zoologists, the writer had been long
obliged to content himself with dead gar-pikes, and with the some-
what unsatisfactory figures and descriptions which occur in a few
zoological works. He had gained some more vivid impressions from
the words and blackboard sketches of him who regarded " the estab-
lishment of the order of Ganoids as the most important advance which
he had brought about in ichthyology." "^
But even these privileges only increased the desire to behold the
gar alive and active, and to realize the delight expressed by the great
teacher when first enabled to observe them ujDon his journey to Lake
Superior.
' Unwillingly, because all such assumptions are very undesirable. There have proved
to be exceptions to nearly all general rules, whether of structure or of functions, as is
shown in a paper by the writer, entitled " Is Nature inconsistent ? " (The Galaxy, April,
1876.)
' Although most other zoologists have differed with Agassiz respecting the limits of
the group, the name has been generally retained.
