204 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and in our case this was believed to be undesirable. So it was de-
cided to take only large regular pieces for the erection of a large
workmen's dwelling, by which means the application of mortar could
be reduced very much. It was a pleasure to see how quickly the
building proceeded, and how much more quickly it got dry and habi-
table than other buildings, where irregular pieces and much mortar
had been used. As soon as the workmen and their families began to
live in the new building, the traces of damp began to show, and at
last the house became the dampest in the whole establishment, and
remained so. The thin layers or bands of mortar could not dispose
well of the water which was deposited from the air in the house, and
this was the worse, as the slag is not like brick and mortar, which
suck the water up, but is a vitrified substance, ou which water pre-
cipitates as on a window-pane.
But how are we to judge, in a given case, whether a house is suf-
ficiently dry ? No doubt, in every locality a practical expei-ience
establishes itself, founded on the knowledge of the usual material, the
manner of building, and the climate. But if, as in some countries,
some authority has to declai'e a house dry and habitable before it is
to be let, there will be no end of disputes between this authority and
the proprietor, because, after all, apart from the age of the building,
the verdict of the experts will be given on their subjective view, not
on definite and palpable signs. You know, already, that the absence
of damp spots means very little. Feeling by the hand the temperature
of the walls, knocking at them with a little hammer, are all of not
much good. Not a bad plan is to get from difierent places in the
house small pieces of mortar, and to have them examined as to their
contents of evaporable water, which ought not to be more than five
per cent, of the weight. But we may have fallen just on dry places
only, and get considerably deceived. Direct and comparative hygro-
metric observations would be best, but the necessary preliminary re-
searches for this kind of examination are still to be made.
But what is to be done if a new building is to be brought quickly
and surely into a condition of dryness ? I have been obliged to shake
your belief in the one means which appeared to exist, the development
of carbonic acid by burning charcoal in basins or open stoves. But
I shall try to give you something in exchange for what I have taken
from you. This something is nothing but an appeal to what Ave have
learned above. There are no means of removing the water from a
fresh building but by letting it evaporate into the air. This evapora-
tion, you know, depends on the temperature, the humidity of the air,
and its velocity.
Imagine to yourselves a moderately-sized room of 3,530 cubic feet,
and the temperature and humidity of the air at the above given mean
averages. As one cubic foot of such air is capable of taking up one
additional grain of water, the air of the whole room will take up 3,530
