2o8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ings during summer, because the difference of pressure is greater.
When, in winter, we stay in an unheated room, whose temperature is
only slightly above that of the outer air, ventilation is quite as weak
as in summer ; the air, if the windows remain closed, becomes quite
as bad by our presence, and we ought to air the room as in summer;
but we do not, because we want to protect ourselves against the
outside cold. The dwellings of the lower classes present frequently,
during the greater part of winter, this form of defective ventilation,
which gets worse with the length of the cold season. In the be-
ginning the walls are still dry and porous, and assist the ventila-
tion, so far as the wind helps them to do so ; but in proportion as
they get colder, they increasingly condense water from the air of the
house, and finally become so choked up with it that they allow no air
to pass, as you have seen in our moistened piece of mortar. Bad
doors and windows, unmended window-panes, remain often the only
routes of ventilation. Poor people, in complaining of them, are not
aware that they are the smaller of many evils, and a defect without
which they might suffer still more.
Many of you, on hearing this, may be gratified by an unexpected
personal satisfaction. Those who try to alleviate the poor man's win-
ter by gifts of fuel not only procure for him the benefit of a warm
room, but also of a better and purer air in this room. You may con-
sider this as a scientific parable, showing that in each benevolent
action there lies a further blessing, even if we had not intended it.
It follows, from these fundamental principles of ventilation, that
a great mistake is sometimes made in large dormitories. In the morn-
ing the custom is to open the windows, and to let them remain open
all day long, to be closed only just before bedtime. The poor sleepers
fancy that they are sleeping all night in a pure air. Whoever has oc-
casion to enter such a place in the morning, before rising-hour, starts
back before this "pure aii'," which had only been renewed during the
night partially and accidentally, and is so loaded with all kinds of
animal emanations that it presses with all its power on the fresh
comer. If there is no suflicient difference of temperature between
outside and inside, a partial opening of the windows during a winter
night is just as necessary as during a summer night, as far as regards
the change of the air.
The bodies of the sleepers are certainly a small source of heat,
and such large sleeping-places become somewhat warmed by the hu-
man heat flowing from the beds, but they can never be warmed through
and through, so that the walls could become warmer. The water-
vapor exhaled by the sleepers condenses against the walls, and goes
on obstructing their pores till morning. A part of this water ni.'],y
evaporate during the time that the windows are kept open, but it will
be only a part, and hence the frequent breaking out of damp spots in
such dormitories in the course of the winter.
