RELATION OF AIR TO THE HOUSE WE LIVE IN. 209
There was a belief that sleeping in the cold was a good thing ; but
I cannot find any facts proving this theory, particularly no compara-
tive observations about the wholesonieness of heated and unheatcd
dormitories. It would be safer to say that experience proves that
sleeping in the cold does not, generally, do harm. If a single person
sleeps in a large cold room with shut doors and windows, it m ill do
him no harm when he has a good bed. One person cannot deteriorate
the air of an unventilated space as much as two or more. The bed is
a garment, an apparatus, which is of great use for our heat-economy;
it prevents our feeling cold even in tlie coldest dormitory, but the bed
is no ventilating apparatus, and ventilation must be provided for in
another way. He that wants to sleep safely in the cold must have a
good bed and a large space, or bad wandows and doors, or very porous
walls, or he must keep his windows partly open in winter as well as
in summer.
You have probably now the desire to hear from me how much air
or ventilation a person wants in a stated time. After you have all the
while heard from me that everything is full of air, that air penetrates
everywhere, and that it is extremely difficult to prevent its passage,
many among you will ask: "What need is there of special contrivances,
if the air passes through each brick, through mortar, through wood ?
Would it not be rather desirable to protect ourselves against this
universal aggression of the air ? "
It is with air as with all things which we must have as with
money, of which we must not only have some, but sufficient one must
have as much as one requires. Some money is, after all, in everybody's
possession, even that of the poorest beggar.
Till some time ago, ventilation was chiefly considered in its quali-
tative aspect: we wanted change of the air, and were satisfied if there
was one aperture for it to go out, and another to come in. The ques-
tion about the quantity of this air was never put ; if it had been
known how much was really w^anted, and how it was to be procured,
that amount of ventilation which was often paraded would have
appeared beggarly. It is only during the last twenty years that we
have acquired clear ideas on this subject.
We deteriorate the air of a closed space inevitably by using it for
the maintenance of our respiration and perspiration. To which de-
gree, then, may we alter or pollute by our emanations the air of a
closed space, without going so far as to injure our health ? This leads
us to another preliminary question: What standard have we for
measuring the deterioration of the air ?
At all times people have been in the habit of making some estimate
of the pollution of the air by the smell imparted to it by the respira-
tion and emanations of the persons staying in it. This estimate is of
the same value as that we have spoken of when on the subject of the
water in the walls. The smell of a certain air need not be in any kind
VOL. XI. 14
