210 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of proportion to the use which has been made of it already for the
purposes of respiration and evaporation. Besides, smelling is a very
subjective sensation, of very ditterent excitability in different persons.
Although generally a certain rule for judging the air of a room may
be based on its smell, the decision, in doubtful cases, will always be a
subjective one. It would be a different thing if we could lay hold of
the smelling particles in the air of the room, and measure or weigh
them, and compare them with the volume of air they were taken from ;
but we have no method of doing this; everything is left to our
noses.
For this reason I considered it indispensable to look about for
some means wliich would make us independent of our subjective esti-
mate. I started from the excretion of carbonic acid, as it takes place
from the living human body ; its quantity in the air can be ascertained
easily and accurately. There is some in the open air, although very
little ; the question was, therefore, to find out its increase in a number
of inhabited rooms, with notoriously good and notoriously bad air,
and to draw a comparison. The correctness of this proceeding de-
pends on the supposition that there are no other sources of carbonic
acid but the inmates, that there are no burning flames, or tobacco-
smoking, etc. I will not say that I consider the detected carbonic acid
as the principal drawback to such air; it is, in my mind, the measure
only for all the other alterations which take place in the air simultane-
ously and proportionately, in consequence of respiration and perspi-
ration ; its increase shows to what degree the existing air has been
already in the lungs of the persons present. All other functions in
which the air participates keep in some proportion to the respiration.
A series of examinations have resulted in the conviction that one
volume of carbonic acid in 1,000 volumes of room-air indicates the
limits which divide good from bad air. This is now generally adopted
and practically proved, always provided that man is the only source
of carbonic acid in the space in question.
Suppose there is a known source of cai-bonic acid: the determining
the amount of it in a room can also be used for measuring another
element, which would otherwise defy calculation I mean the amount
of ventilation of a closed space of definite construction. Imagine to
yourselves a room with its walls, windows, and doors, its numberless
penetrable places through which the air holds ingress and egress. It
is impossible to measure the velocity of the air at each crack, to meas-
ure each little hole, the diameter of each pore, even if one had the
means of measuring such minute velocities and sections; yet still we
should like to know how much air clianges in a given space, and under
different external circumstances. The only way appeared to me to be
to mix the air of the room in question with carbonic acid to a certain
degree, then to break off this mixing, and to observe the decrease of
the acid in proportion to the air in definite times. Knowing the
