RELATION OF AIR TO THE HOUSE WE LIVE IN. 213
and crevices is of greater influence than large communications with
the outer air at a small difierence of temperature.
The roaring fire and tbe draught of the stove produced only an
increase of 700 cubic feet one-third only of the necessary ventilation
per head. I have examined a number of stoves opening into the room
for the quantity of air which they abstract while the fire burns. The
anemometer showed that it was never more than 3,105 cubic feet.
Large wards in hospitals, schools, etc., heated by one open fireplace
or stove, are sometimes wrongly believed to be well ventilated, because
one perceives the air rushing into the same. But the main point is to
know the quantity of required air and the quantity of outgoing air.
The free wall of a room of mine has been examined for its venti-
lating power. The room contained 2,650 cubic feet, and at 9.5 Fahr.
difference of temperature between outside and inside, the spontaneous
ventilation through each square yard amounted to about seven cubic
feet, or forty-three gallons per hour.
Marker and Schultze, in their researches on the siDontaneous ven-
tilation of stables, have found for one square yard of a free wall, at
9.5" Fahr. difference of tempei-ature, that the spontaneous ventilation
amounted per hour
With walls of sandstone
" " quarried limestone
" " brick
" " tufaceous limestone " 10.1
" " mud " 14.4 " "
Domestic animals, according to Marker, require a proportionately
smaller change of the air than man. Stable-air may contain up to
three per mil. carbonic acid. While man's ventilation requires 2,100
cubic feet per hour, 1,050 are sufiicient for full-grown cattle, although
their bodies and consumption of air are so much larger. The ven-
tilation of stables depends chiefly on the size and porosity of their
free walls. It has been found that the 1,050 cubic feet mentioned
above were furnished by
21.16 square feet of a free wall of sandstone.
15.33 " " *' " quarried limestone.
12.6 " " " " brick.
9 Y '< " " " tufaceous limestone.
7 " " " mud.
A stable built up of mud can therefore shelter many more animals
than one built of sandstone, etc. " As the strength of the natural
ventilation of a stable does not depend on the cubic space of the sta-
ble, but on the extent of its ventilating walls, it follows that in a
small stable a proportionately greater ventilation takes place than in
a greater one, because for each animal there is more ventilating sur-
face with equal cubic space."
to
4.7 cubic feet.
1(
6.5 " "
u
7.9 " "
i(
in 1 " "
