SPINOZA: 1677 AND 1877. 217
solitary of the Pavilioengragt grew to be in the opinion of right-
thinking theologians and philosophers !
Portraits were spread abroad exhibiting him as " bearing on his
face the signs of reprobation." A distinguished philosopher, bold as
he, but less consistent and less completely sincere, called him " a
wretch." But Justice was to have her day. The human mind, attaining,
in Germany especially, toward the end of the eighteenth century, to a
more enlightened theology and a wider philosophy, recognized in Spi-
noza the precursor of a new gospel. Jacobi took the public into his
confidence as to a conversation he had held with Lessing. He had
gone to Lessing in hopes of enlisting his aid against Spinoza. "What
was his astonishment on finding in Lessing an avowed Spinozist !
" "Ev KoX Tiav," said Lessing to him this is the whole of philosophy.
Him whom a whole century had declared an atheist, Novalis pro-
nounced a " God-intoxicated man." His forgotten works were pub-
lished, and eagerly sought after. Schleiermacher, Goethe, Hegel,
Schelling, all with one voice proclaim Spinoza the father of modern
thought. Perhaps there may have been some exaggeration in this
first outburst of tardy reparation ; but time, which sets everj'thing in
its place, has substantially ratified Lessing's judgment ; and in the
present day there is no enlightened mind that does not acknowledge
Spinoza as the man who possessed the highest God-consciousness of
his day. It is this conviction that has made you decree that his pure
and lowly tomb should have its anniversary. It is the common asser-
tion of a free faith in the Infinite that on this day gathers together,
in the spot that witnessed so much virtue, the most select assembly
that a man of genius could group round him after his death. A sov-
ereign, as distinguished by intellectual as by moral gifts, is among us
in spirit. A prince who can justly appreciate merit of every kind, by
distinguishing this solemnity with his presence, desires to testify that,
of the glories of Holland, not one is alien to him, and that no lofty
thinking escapes his enlightened judgment and his philosophic admi-
ration.
I.
The illustrious Baruch de Spinoza was born at Amsterdam at the
time when your republic was attaining its highest degree of glory and
power. He belonged to that great race which, by the influence it has
exerted and the services it has rendered, occupies so exceptional a
place in the history of civilization. Miraculous in its own way, the
development of the Jewish people ranks side by side with that other
miracle the development of the Greek zuind ; for if Greece, from
the first, realized the ideal of poetry, of science, of philosophy, of art,
of profane life, if I may so speak, the Jewish people has made the
religion of humanity. Its prophets inaugurated in the world the idea
of righteousness, the revindication of the rights of the weak a re-
vindication so much the more violent that, all idea of future recom-
