2i8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
pense being unknowa to them, they dreamed of the realization of the
ideal upon this earth, and at no distant period. It was a Jew, Isaiah,
who, seven hundred and fifty years before Jesus Christ, dared affirm
that sacrifices are of little importance, and that one thing only is
needful : purity of heart and hands. Tlien, when earthly events seemed
irremediably to contradict such bright Utopias, Israel can change fi'ont
in a way unparalleled.
Transporting into the domain of pure idealism that kingdom of
God with which earth proves incompatible, one moiety of its children
founds Christianity, the other carries on, through the tortures of the
middle ages, that imperturbable protest : " Hear, O Israel ! the Lord
thy God is one ; holy is his name." This potent tradition of idealism
and hope against all hope this religion, able to obtain from its ad-
herents the most heroic sacrifices, though it be not of its essence to
promise them any certainty beyond this life this was the healthy and
bracing medium in which Spinoza developed himself. His education
was at first entirely Hebraic ; the great literature of Israel was his
earliest, and, in point of fact, his perpetual instructress was the medi-
tation of all his life.
As generally happens, Hebrew literature, in assuming the char-
acter of a sacred book, had become the subject of a conventional exe-
gesis, much less intent upon explaining the old texts according to the
meaning in their authors' minds than on finding in them aliment for
the moral and religious wants of the day. The penetrating mind of
the young Spinoza soon discerned all the defects of the exegesis of the
synagogue ; the Bible, as taught him, was disfigured by the accumu-
lated perversions of more than 2,000 years. He determined to pierce
beyond these. He was, indeed, essentially at one with the true fathers
of Judaism, and especially with that great Maimonides, who found a
way of introducing into Judaism the most daring speculations of phi-
losophy. He foresaw with wondrous sagacity the great results of the
critical exegesis destined, 125 years later, to afibrd the true meaning
of the noblest productions of Hebrew genius. Was this to destroy
the Bible ? Has that admirable literature lost by being understood
in its real aspect rather than relegated outside of the common laws of
humanity? Certainly not. The truths revealed by science invariably
surpass the dreams that science dispels. The world of Laplace ex-
ceeds in beauty, I imagine, that of a Cosmas Indicopleustes, who
pictured the universe to himself as a casket, on the lid of which the
stars glide along in grooves at a few leagues from us. In the same
way, the Bible is more beautiful when we have learned to see therein
ranged in order on a canvas of a thousand years each aspiration,
each sigh, each prayer of the most exalted religious consciousness that
ever existed, than when we force ourselves to view it as a book unlike
any other, composed, preserved, interpreted in direct opposition to all
the ordinary rules of the human intellect.
