SPINOZA: 1677 AND 1877. 219
But the persecutions of the middle ages had produced on Judaism
the usual eflect of all persecution '. they had rendered minds narrow
and timid. A few years previously, at Amsterdam, the unfortunate
Uriel Acosta liad cruelly expiated certain doubts that fanaticism finds
as culpable as avowed incredulity. The boldness of the youno- Spi-
noza was still worse received ; he was anathematized, and had to sub-
rait to an excommunication that Ijc had not courted. A very old his-
tory this ! Religious communions, beneficent cradles of so much ear-
nestness and so much virtue, do not allow of any refusal to be shut up
exclusively within their embrace ; they claim to imprison forever the
life that had its beginnings within them; they brand as apostasy the
lawful emancipation of the mind that seeks to take its flight alone.
It is as thougli the e<^g should reproach, as ungrateful, the biid that
had escaped therefrom. The egg was necessary in its time ; when it
became a bondage, it iiad to be broken. A great marvel, truly, that
Erasmus of Rotterdam should feel himself cramped in his cell ; that
Luther should not prefer his monkish vows to that far holier vow
which man, by the very fact of his being, contracts with truth ! Had
Erasmus persisted in his monastic routine, or Luther gone on distrib-
uting indulgences, they would have been apostates indeed ! Spinoza
was tlie greatest of modern Jews, and Judaism exiled him. Nothing
more simple; it must have been so, it must be so ever. Finite sym-
bols, prisons of the infinite spirit, will eternally ])rotest against the
eflbrt of idealism to enlarge them. The spirit, on its side, struggles
eternally for more air and more light. Eighteen hundred and fifty
years ago the synagogue denounced as a seducer the one who was to
raise the maxims of the synagogue to unequaled glory. And the
Christian Church, how often has she not driven from her breast those
who should have been her chiefest honor ! In cases like these, our
duty is fulfilled if we retain a pious memory of the education our child-
hood received. Let the old Churches be free to brand with criminal-
ity those who quit them ; they shall not succeed in obtaining from us
any but grateful feelings, since, after all, the harm they are able to
do us is as nothing compared to the good they have done.
II.
Here, then, we have the excommunicated of the synagogue of
Amsterdam forced to create for himself a spiritual abode outside of
the home which rejected him. He had great sympathy with Chris-
tianity, but he dreaded all chains ; he did not embrace it. Descartes
had just renewed philosophy by his firm and sober rationalism. Des-
cartes was his master. Spinoza took up the problems where they had
been left by that great mind, bvat saw that, through fear of the Sor-
bonne, his theology had always remained somewhat arid. Oldenburg
asking him one .day what fault he could find with the philosophy of
Descartes and of Bacon, Spinoza replied that their chief fault lay in
