2 20 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
not sufficiently occupying themselves with the First Cause. Perhaps
his reminiscences of Jewish theology, that ancient wisdom of the
Hebrews before which he often bows, suggested to him higher views
and more sublime aspirations in this matter. Not only the ideas held
by the vulgar, but those even of thinkers on Divinity, appeared to
him inadequate. He saw plainly that there is no assigning a limited
part to the Infinite; that Divinity is all, or is nothing; that if the
Divine be a reality, it must pervade all. For twenty years he medi-
tated on these problems without for a moment averting his thoughts.
Our distaste nowadays for system and abstract formula no longer
permits us to accept absolutely the propositions within which he had
thought to confine the secrets of the Infinite. For Spinoza, as for
Descartes, the universe was only extension and thought ; chemistry
and physiology were lacking to that great school, which was too ex-
clusively geometrical and mechanical. A stranger to the idea of life,
and those notions as to the constitution of bodies that chemistry was
destined to reveal too much attached still to the scholastic expres-
sions of substance and attribute Spinoza did not attain to that living
and fertile Infinite shown us by the science of Nature and of history
as presiding in space unbounded, over a development more and more
intense ; but, making allowance for a certain dryness in expression,
what grandeur there is in that inflexible geometrical deduction lead-
ing up to the supreme proposition, " It is of the nature of the Sub-
stance to develop itself necessarily by an infinity of infinite attributes
infinitely modified ! " God is thus absolute thought, universal con-
sciousness. The ideal exists, nay, it is the true existence ; all else is
mere appearance and frivolity. Bodies and souls are mere modes of
which God is the substance : it is only the modes that fall within
duration; the substance is all in eternity. Thus, God does not prove
himself; his existence results from his sole idea; everything supposes
and contains him. God is the condition of all existence, all thotight.
If God did not exist, thought would be able to conceive more than
Nature could furnish which is a contradiction.
Spinoza did not clearly discern universal progress ; the world, as
he conceives it, seems as it were crystallized in a matter which is
incorruptible extension, in a soul that is immutable thought; the sen-
timent of God deprives him of the sentiment of man ; forever face to
face with the Infinite, he did not sufficiently perceive what of the
Divine conceals itself in relative manifestations; but he, better than
any other, saw the eternal identity which constitutes the basis of all
transitory evolutions. Whatever is limited seems to him frivolous,
and unworthy to occupy a philosopher. Bold in flight, he soared
straight to the lofty, snow-covered summits, without casting a glance
on the rich display of life springing tip on the mountain's side. At
an altitude where every breast but his own pants hard, he lives, he
enjoys, he flourishes there, as men in general do in mild and temper-
