SPINOZA: 1G77 AND 1877. 221
ate regions. What he for liis part needs is the glacier-air, keen ancl
penetrating. He does not ask to be followed ; he is like Tyloses to
whom secrets unknown to the crowd reveal themselves on the hei"-hts.
But be sure of this : he was the seer of his age ; he was in his own
day the one who saw deepest into God.
III.
It might have been supposed that, all alone on those snowy peaks
he would turn out in human affairs wrong-headed, Utopian, or scorn-
fully skeptical. Nothing of the kind. He was incessantly occupied
with the application of his principles to human society. The pessi-
mism of Hobbes and the dreams of Thomas More were equally repuo--
nant to him. One-half, at least, of the " Theologico-Political Trea-
tise" which appeared in 1670, might be reprinted to-day without
losing any of its ajjpropriateness. Listen to its admirable title:
" Tractatus Theologico-Politicus, continens dissertationes aliquot,
quibus ostenditur, libertatem philosophandi non tantum salva pietate
et reipublicte pace posse concedi, sed eamdera nisi cum pace reipu-
blicge ijjsaque pietate tolli non posse." For centuries past it had been
supposed that society rested on metaphysical dogmas. Spinoza dis-
cerns profoundly that these dogmas, assumed to be necessary to
humanity, yet cannot escape discussion ; that revelation itself, if there
be one, traversing, in order to reach us, the faculties of the human
mind, is no less than all else amenable to criticism. I wish I could
quote in its entirety that admirable Chapter XX., in which our great
publicist establishes with masterly skill that dogma new then, and
still contested in our own day which styles itself liberty of con-
science.
" The final end of the state," he says, " consists not in dominating over
men, restraining them by fears, subjecting them to the will of others, but, on
the contrary, in permitting each one to live in all possible security ; that is to
say, in preserving intact the natural right of each to live without injury to him-
self or others. No, I say, the state has not for its end the transformation of
men from reasonable beings into animals or automata; it has for end so to
act that its citizens should in security develop soul and body, and make free use
of their reason. Hence the true end of the state is liberty. Whosoever means
to respect the riglits of a sovereign should never act in opposition to his
decrees; but each has the right to think what he will, and to say what he thinks,
provided he content himself with speaking and teaching in the name of pure
reason, and do not attempt on his private authority to introduce innovations
into the state. For example: a citizen who demonstrates that a certain law is
repugnant to sound reason, and holds that for that cause it ought to be abro-
gated if he submit his opinions to the judgment of the sovereign, to wliom
alone it belongs to establish and to abolish laws, and if meanwhile he acts in no
wise contrary to law that man certainly deserves well of the state as the best
of citizens. ...
" Even if we admit the possibihty of so stifling men's liberty and laying
such a yoke upon them that they dare not even whisper without the approba-
