SPINOZA: 1677 AND 1877. 223
noza, the fellow-founder with Richard Simon of Biblical exegesis, was
not he the precursor of those liberal theologians who have in our own
day shown that Christianity can retain all its glory without supei'-
naturalism? His letters to Oldenburg on the resurrection of Jesus
Christ, and of the manner in which St. Paul understood it, are mas-
terpieces which a hundred years later would have served as the mani-
festo of a whole school of critical theology.
In the eyes of Spinoza it signifies little whether mysteries be
understood this way or that, provided they be understood in a pious
sense. Religion has one aim only, piety ; and we are to appeal to it
not for metaphysics, but for practical guidance. At bottom there is
but one single thing in Scripture, as in all revelation : " Love your
neighbor." The fruit of religion is blessedness, each one participat-
ing in it according to his capacity and his efforts. The souls that are
governed by reason the philosophic souls that have, even in this
world, their life in God are safe from death; what death takes from
them is of no value ; but weak or passionate souls perish almost
entirely, and death, instead of being for them a simple accident,
involves the foundation of their being. . . . The ignorant man who
lets himself be swayed by blind passions is agitated in a thousand
different directions by external causes, and never enjoys true peace of
soul ; for him, ceasing to suffer means ceasing to be. The soul of the
wise man, on the other hand, can scarcely be troubled. Possessing
by a kind of eternal necessity the consciousness of itself and of God
and of things, he never ceases to be, and ever preserves the soul's
true peace.
Spinoza could not endure his system to be considered irreligious or
subversive. The timid Oldenburg did not conceal from him that some
of his opinions seemed to certain readers to tend to the overthrow of
piety. " Whatever accords with reason," replied Spinoza, " is in my
belief most favorable to the practice of virtue." The pretended supe-
riority of coarsely positive conceptions as to religion and a future life
found him intractable. *' Is it, I ask, to cast off religion," he was
wont to say, " to acknowledge God as the Supreme Good, and thence
to conclude that he must be loved with a free soul ? To maintain
that all our felicity and most perfect freedom consists in that love
that tlie reward of virtue is virtue, and that a blind and impotent
soul finds its punishment in its blindness is this a denial of all re-
ligion?" At the root of all such attacks he traced meanness of soul.
According to him, any one who felt irritated by a disinterested relig-
ion involuntarily confessed reason and virtue to have no charm in his
eyes, and that his pleasure would lie in living to indulge his passions
if he were not restrained by fear. "Thus, then," he would add,
" such a one only abstains from evil and obeys the Divine command-
ment regretfully as a slave, and in return for this slavery expects from
God rewards which have infinitely more value in his eyes than the
