2 24 THi: POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Divine law. The more aversion and estrangement from good he may-
have felt, the more he hopes to be recomjDensed, and imagines that
they who are not restrained by the same fear as himself do what he
would do in their case that is to say, live lawlessly." Spinoza held
with reason that this manner of seeking heaven was contrary to rea-
son, and that there is an absurdity in pretending to gain God's favor
by owning to him that, did one not dread him, one would not love.
IV.
He was, however, well aware of the danger of interfering with
beliefs in which few admit these subtile distinctions. Caute was his
motto, and, his friends having made him aware of the explosion that
the " Ethica " would infallibly produce, he kept it unpublished till
his death. He had no literary vanity, nor did he seek celebrity
possibly, indeed, because he was sure to obtain it without seeking.
He was perfectly happy he has told us so ; let us take him at his
word. He has done still better : he has bequeathed us his secret.
Let all men listen to the recipe of the " Prince of Atheists " for the
discovery of happiness : it is the love of God. To love God is to live
in God. Life in God is the best and most perfect because it is the
reasonablest, happiest, fullest in a word, because it gives us more
being than any other life, and satisfies most completely the funda-
mental desire that constitutes our essence.
Spinoza's whole practical lii'e was regulated according to these
maxims. That life was a masterpiece of good sense and judgment.
It was led with the profound skill of the wise man who desires one
thing only, and invariably ends by obtaining it. Never did policy
so well combine means and end. Had he been less reticent, he would
perhaps have met the same fate as the unfortunate Acosta. Loving
truth for its own sake, he was indifferent to the abuse that his con-
stancy in speaking it entailed, and answered never a woi'd to the
attacks made on him. For his i^art, he attacked no one. " It is for-
eign to my habits," he said, " to look out for the errors into which
authors have fallen." Had he desired to be an official personage, his
life would no doubt have been traversed by persecution, or at least
by disgrace. He w\as nothing, and desired to be nothing. Ama
nesciri was his desire, as well as that of the author of the " De Imita-
tione." He sacrificed everything to peace of mind, and in so doing
there was no selfishness, for his mind was of importance to the world.
He frequently refused wealth on its way to him, and desired only
what was absolutely necessary. The King of France ofiered him a
pension ; he declined. The Elector Palatine offered him a chair at
Heidelberg. " Your freedom shall be complete," he was told, " for
the prince is convinced that you will not abuse it to disturb the estab-
lished religion." " I do not very well understand," he replied, " within
what limits it would be necessary to confine that philosophical free-
