SPINOZA: 1G77 AND 1877. 227
piety. Religion in a system such as this is not a portion of life: it is
life itself. That which is seen to matter here is not the bein"- in pos-
session of some metaphysical phrases more or less correct : it is the
giving to one's life a sure pole, a supreme direction the ideal.
It is by so doing that your illustrious countryman has lifted up a
banner which still avails to shelter beneath it all who think and -feel
nobly. Yes, religion is eternal ; it answers to the first need of primi-
tive as well as of civilized man; it will only perish with humanity it-
self or, rather, its disappearance would be the proof that deo-enerate
humanity was about to reenter the mere animalism out of which it had
emerged. And yet no dogma, no worship, no formula, can in these
days of ours exhaust the religious sentiment. We must confront with
each other these seemingly contradictory assertions. Woe to him
who pretends that the era of religions is past ! Woe to him who
imagines it possible to restore to the old symbols the force they had
when they leaned upon the imperturbable dogmatism of other days !
With that dogmatism we, for our part, must needs dispense ; we must
dispense with those fixed creeds, sources of so many struggles and
divisions, but sources no less of such fervent convictions ; we must
give up believing that it is our part to hold down others in a faith we
no longer share. Spinoza was right in his horror of hypocrisy : hy-
pocrisyis cowardly and dishonest, but, above all, hypocrisy is useless.
Who is it, indeed, that is deceived here ? The persistency of the
higher classes in unqualifiedly jjatronizing, in sight of the uncultivated
classes, the religious reforms of other days, will have but one eifect :
that of impairing their own authority at those times of crisis when it
is important that the people should still believe in the reason and the
virtue of a few.
Honor, then, to Spinoza, who has dared to say : " Reason before all."
Reason can never be contrary to the well-understood" interests of hu-
manity. But we would remind those who are carried away by unre-
fleeting impatience, that Spinoza never conceived of religious revolu-
tion as being aught else than a transformation of formulas. Accord-
ing to him, what was fundamental went on subsisting under other
terms. If he, on one hand, energetically repudiated the theocratic
power of the clergy, as distinguished from civil society, or the ten-
dency of the state to occupy itself with metaphysics, on the other
hand, he never denied either the state or religion : he wished the state
tolerant and religion free. We wish for nothing more. One cannot
impose on others beliefs one does not possess. That the believers of
other days made themselves persecutors, proved them tyrannical, but
at least consistent; as for us, if we were to act as they did, Ave should
be simply absurd. Our religion is a sentiment capable of clothing
itself in numerous forms. These forms are free from being equally
good ; but not one of them has strength or authority to expel all
others. Freedom this is the last word of Spinoza's religious policy.
