2 28 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
Let it be the last word of ours ! It is the most honest course ; it
may, perhaps, also be the most efficacious and certain for the progress
of civilization.
Humanity, indeed, advances on the way of progress by prodigious-
ly unequal steps. The rude and violent Esau is out of patience with
the slow pace of Jacob's flock. Let us give time to all. We may
not, indeed, permit simplicity and ignorance to hinder the free move-
ments of the intellect, but let us not either interfere with the slow
evolution of less active intelligences. The liberty of absurdity in
these is the condition of the liberty of reason in those. Services ren-
dered to the human mind by violence are not services after all. That
such as lay no stress on truth should exercise constraint in order to
obtain outward submission, what can be more natural ? But we, who
believe that truth is something real, and deserving of supreme re-
spect, how can we dream of obtaining by force an adherence which is
valueless except as the fruit of free conviction? We no longer admit
sacramental formulas operating by their own virtue independently of
the mind of him to whom they are applied. In our eyes, a belief has
no worth if it be not gained by the reflection of the individual if he
have not understood and assimilated it. A mental conviction brought
about by superior order is as absolute nonsense as loA^e obtained by
force or sympathy by command. Let us promise to ourselves not only
to defend our own liberty against all who seek to attack it, but, if
need be, to defend the liberty of those who have not always respected
ours, and who, it is probable, if they were the masters, would not re-
spect it.
It is Holland that had the glory, more than two hundred years
ago, to demonstrate the possibility of these theories by realizing
them.
" Must we prove," said Spinoza, "that this freedom of thought gives rise to
no serious inconvenience, and that it is competent to keep men, openly diverse
in their opinions, reciprocally respectful of each other's rights? Examples
abound, nor need we go far to seek them. Let us instance the town of Amster-
dam, whose considei-able growth an object of admiration to other nations is
simply the fruit of this freedom. In the midst of this flourishing repubhc, this
eminent city, men of all nations and all sects live together in most perfect con-
cord; . . . and there is no sect, however odious, whose adepts, provided they
do not oflFend against the rights of any, may not meet with public aid and pro-
tection before the magistrates."
"&'
Descartes was of the same opinion when he came to ask from this
country the calm essential to his thinking. Later thanks to that
noble privilege of a free land so gloriously maintained by your fathers
against all opponents ! your Holland became the asylum where the hu-
man intellect, sheltered from the tyrannies that overspread Europe,
found air to breathe, a public to comprehend it, organs to multiply its
voice, then gagged elsewhere.
