2 30 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
saw that he, too, was for that world a mirror worthy of love. He was full of re-
ligion and full of the holy spirit ; and therefore he appears to us solitary and
uaequaled, master in his art, but lifted above the profane, without disciples, and
without right of citizenship anywhere."
That riglit of citizenship you are now about to confer on him.
Your monument will be the link between his genius and the earth.
His spirit will brood like a guardian angel over the spot where his
rapid journey among men came to its end. Woe to him who, in pass-
ino- by, should dare to level an insult at that gentle and pensive figure !
He would be punished as all vulgar hearts are punished by his very
vulgarity and his impotence to comprehend the divine. Spinoza,
meanwhile, from his granite pedestal shall teach to all the way of hap-
piness he himself had found ; and for ages to come the cultivated man
who passes along the Pavilioengragt will inwardly say, " It is hence,
perhaps, that God has been seen most near ! " Contemporary Review.
---
TRANSMISSION OF EXCITATIONS IN SENSORY
NERVES.^
By PAUL BERT.
PHYSIOLOGISTS are as yet by no means agreed whether the
nerves which, from their special functions, have been termed
motor and sensor nerves, are in their essential properties identical or
different ; in other words, whether a sensor nerve can transmit excita-
tions whose result is motion, and vice versa. We do not even know
whether an excitation produced midway in the length of a nerve is
simultaneously j^ropagated in both directions, centrifugally and cen-
tripetally. The admirable experiments made by Pliilipeaux and Vul-
pian to determine these knotty questions are, as Vulpian was the first
to observe, susceptible of a different interpretation from that unani-
mously put upon them by the world of science.
Such being the state of the case, I thought it advisable to take up
again an experiment I had made in 1863,^ but which I had neglected
to prosecute, in view of the apparently far more conclusive and far
more general results obtained by the able experimenters just named.
This experiment I have now completed, and strengthened against any
objection that might have been raised against it.
If we pinch a sensor nerve at any point of its length, the pain that
is felt cleai'ly shows that the excitation is propagated in the centripe-
tal direction ; but of a centrifugal propagation we know nothing, for
the very simple reason that at the terminal extremity of the nerve
' Translated from the French by J. Fitzgerald, A. M.
"^ Comptes rendns de la Sociele de Biologie (1863), p. 179.
