EXCITATIONS IN SENSORY NERVES.
231
there is no nervous apparatus of perception. But if we can brino- this
extremity into relation with the perceptive centre, the brain we sliall
see whether there is sensation, which would imply centrifuo-al propa-
gation.
The means employed in bringing about this condition of things is
very simple indeed. I remove, for the length of two or three centi-
metres, the skin from the tip of a young rat's tail, and insert the flayed
part into the subcutaneous cellular tissue through an oi^enino- made
in the skin of the animal's back. A few stitches suffice to hold the
parts in place, and soon they adhere firmly, the rat's tail then havinw
the ansate form.
Fig. 1. Eat with Tip op Tail insektbd into the Dorsal Tissues.
Eight months later I cut the tail in two, thus leaving two caudal
stubs. Immediately after section, the doi'sal stub was manifestly sen-
sitive; and when it was pinched vigorously, the rat would squeal and
run oiF. Hence it plainly appears that, in this fragment of a tail, the
excitation of the sensor nerves is propagated from the tiiick to the
slender end, or in a direction inverse to what is held to be the normal
course. The process was about as follows : the sensor nerves distrib-
uted to the extremity of the tail, on being wounded by the removal
of the skin, united with the sensor nerves of the dorsal region, which
in like manner had been cut into. In due coiirse of time the nerve-
cicatrix became able to transmit the shocks (whatever their nature)
which an excitation produces in a nerve. When, now, we pinch the
extremity of the dorsal stub, tlie shock is transmitted along the ex-
cited caudal nerve, passes through the cicatrix, and follows the dorso-
cutaneous nerve into the spinal marrow, which carries it to the brain,
where it results in a sensation of pain.
The history of the case will be readily understood on examining
the following diagram, in which, for simplicity's sake, I have repre-
sented only one of the nerve-filaments of the tail {N C) and one of
the nerve-filaments of the back {D N).
But this sensibility of the dorsal fragment begins to grow less on
