232
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the second day after section, and soon it is gone. If, some days later,
we examine the nerves of this fragment with a microscope, we shall
find that they liave undergone the changes usual in nerves that have
been cut off from their trophic centres ; and this is true no less of the
portion concealed under the skin than of the free (and certainly liv-
ing) portion hanging from the animal's back : not a single sound nerve-
FiG. 2. . E, spinal marrow. N C, nerve-fllaraent distributed to the end of the tail. <?, its tro-
phic ganiflion. D N, a, nerve-fllament distributed to the skin of the back, lacerated in the
operation. G, its trophic j^anglion. C, the cicatrix which united the two nerves, and which
is now permeable to nervous shocks. S, point where the tail was cut in two ; a, b, arrows
showing the two directions in which sensory excitations are transmitted.
tube is to be seen in it. On the contrary, the stump of the tail, which
has retained its natural position, has every nerve sound, with not a
single diseased tube.
Thus, then, physiological facts are in agreement with histological
observations, and they both prove conclusively that the sensor nerves
which transmitted the centrifugal excitation were the normal nerves
of the dorsal stub, and that here we have neither new-formed nerves
nor nerve-fibres with ansate terminations. It is further demonstrated
and this is a fact not without interest that the relations with the
nerve-centres of perception, from which results sensation, are more
easily established than those with the trophic ganglionic centres, which
nourish the sensor nerves. Who knows but that, had I waited longer
before I cut the tail in two, the influence of the new trophic centres
would have become sufficient to maintain the nerves of the dorsal frag-
ment in their integrity, and that sensibility would have persisted after
section? Some months after the dorsal stub had become insensible, it
again regained sensibility, the diseased nerves having been regener-
ated. At first, just as I had observed in 1863, the animal refers the
impression it receives to the region of the back where the nerve-cica-
trix is : this is the reverse of the illusion observed in cases of ampu-
tation. By little and little the rat is educated, and at last recognizes
the exact point that is excited ; thus showing that our so-called innate
knowledge of the place occupied in space by every point of our bodies
is, like all our knowledge, merely the result of repeated experiences.
