PHYSICAL CONDITION OF JUPITER AND SATURN. 233
To conclude, the experiment I have just recounted shows that ex-
citation of a sensor nerve at any point of its length is propagated in
two directions, both centrifugally and centripetally. The same is
doubtless true of a motor nerve. Consequently, it is highly probable
that, as Vulpian has held, the nerves are simple conductors, differen-
tiated only by their functions, which latter depend upon the kind of
apparatus at their two extremities : for motor nerves there is a motor
nerve-cell and muscular fibre, and for sensor nerves a receiving nerve-
cell and an impressionable termination. La Nature.
--
O^ THE PHYSICAL CONDITION OF JUPITEK AND
SATURN.
By DAVID TEOWBEIDGE, Esq.
""VyOT many years ago the planets Jupiter and Saturn were re-
-L^ garded as solid bodies, their small relative density being sup-
posed to be due either to the peculiar arrangement of the materials
which compose them, or to the small specific gravity of the materials
themselves. Within a few years, however, the nebular hypothesis has
gained so strong a hold on the minds of astronomers, that the larger
planets are regarded in a very different light as respects their physical
condition from what they were a few years ago. It is now thouglit
that at least Jupiter and Saturn, and probably Uranus and Neptune,
have not yet cooled down from their heated and nebulous condition
sufficiently to be habitable globes, and that, owing to their relatively
high temperature, they have very extensive atmospheres.
It is quite possible for us to guess at the extent and density of
their atmospheres, but, unless we subject our guesses to calculation, it
cannot be said that they are of much use to us, since the planets are
too far from us to allow direct observations to settle any points in dis-
pute. Let us, therefore, assume Jupiter and Saturn to be globes of
much higher temperature than the earth's, and that this temperature
varies from the surface upward inversely as the square of the distance
from the centre of the planet. Let us further assume that gases there
follow the same law of expansion as terrestrial gases, and that this law
holds for all temperatures above 32 Fahr. With these assumptions,
it is possible for us to subject onv guesses to calculation, and thus learn
how far they are admissible.
As respects the telescopic appearance of those planets, it is plain
that we have but little evidence of an atmosphere outside the highest
cloud-layers. That their atmospheres extend above the highest clouds
is perhaps certain ; but if we attempt to explain the physical appear-
