CORRESP ONBENCE.
237
Disease" explains so many plienomena
which I have noticed, tliat I am disposed
to accept it with avidity. Nevertheless,
there seem to be some contradicting facts.
Once, when serving with a troop of cavalry,
a young and apparently healthy beef was
brought to us, which we slaughtered, and
set about cooking immediately. To our
surprise, the flesh was tainted. To the
senses of taste and smell the taint could
not be distinguished from incipient putres-
cence. A careful examination failed to de-
tect any signs of disease in the entrails or
any part of the animal. The time which
elapsed from the killing of the beef until
the flesh was tasted was only a few minutes,
certainly not half an hour. It was in Lou-
isiana, in the month of April, late in the
evening, and in cool weather ; notwithstand-
ing unprejudiced stomachs and resolute
appetites, we were obliged to desist, and
make a hungry camp.
Another instance, and much more in-
compatible with the bacterial theory of pu-
trefaction as set forth by Prof. Tyndall, I
find in Dr. Kane's narrative of his Arctic
expedition. 1 have not the work at hand
to refer to the page, but it is where, in
the early dawn of the arctic morning, he
watched several times for a reindeer which
had been indistinctly seen, in the faint light,
haunting a valley about a mile or two from
the ice-bound ship. He finally succeeded
in killing it, and his men ate one meal ; but
the carcass putrefied before they could eat
again. This, and the temperature of the
air many degrees below zero ! He goes on
to say that the sudden putrefaction of meat
in the arctics is common ; that sometimes
a bear or a deer would spoil before it could
be flayed. Can it be that there are arctic
bacteria? that in warmer countries there
are exceptional kinds which hasten putre-
faction at such a rate ? Can it be that the
cells of the flesh in certain circumstances
produce putrefaction, somewhat as the cells
of fruit produce fermentation? Or, finally,
is it so that, both in the case of Dr. Kane's
reindeer and in that of my beef, the animal
had eaten something which gave the flesh
a bad flavor, and our imagination supplied
much more than we supposed ? The facts
need some explanation, and, in the case of
Dr. Kane, are of such weight as should
challenge the general attention of observers.
M. M. Kenney.
Beenham, Texas, March 25, 18T7.
THE ORIGIN OF HONEY-DEW.
To the Editor of the Popular Science 3Io7ithli/.
Dear Sir : Mr. Darwin says, in his last
work, " Cross and Self Fertilization in the
Vegetable Kingdom," page 402 : " Many
years ago I suggested that, primarily, the
saccharine matter in nectar was excreted as
a waste product of chemical changes in the
sap ; and that, when the excretion happened
to occur within the envelopes of a flower, it
was utilized for the important object of
cross-fertilization, being subsequently much
increased in quantity and stored in various
ways. This view is rendered probable by
the leaves of some trees excreting, under
certain cUmatic conditions, without the aid
of special glands, a saccharine fluid, often
called honey-dew." In the mountains of
North Carolina there is a species of honey-
dew eagerly sought for by bees, which is
rarely seen by persons who have written of
it, and is by many supposed to be a myth ;
but Mr. Kufus Morgan, one of the best in-
formed and most successful apiarians of
that section, who has for several years ex-
amined it in all its stages, is convinced that
it is an animal, not a vegetable exudation.
In reply to my questions respecting it, he
writes :
" The phenomenon is not only well known
in my section of the State, but is of annual
recurrence. I have frequently studied it on
green leaves, generally in the month of June
or July, and invariably found it in close
vicinity to the well-known aphides, or plant-
lice, always below them, whence I concluded
they wounded the leaves and caused this
sap or ' honey ' to flow. But, on further
examination, I was fortunate enough to wit-
ness an actual shower of dew, in almost
infinitesimal globules ; and, on getting the
sunlight at the right angle, these particles
could be traced to these little creatures.
" It was a perfectly quiet day, and they
seemed to eject the globules with some
force, making them fly clear of the leaf and
fall on the leaves below. Of course, such
small particles would be wafted away by
even a gentle wind, and, not being accom-
panied by their cause, their origin would
necessarily be obscure.
" Last spring, before any leaves were
out, I witnessed a most extraordinary yield
of it on the pines. It hung in great drops,
and fell off like real dew when the branches
were shaken. At first I was mystified as
to its origin, as I could find no aphides,
which, according to my theory, ought to be
present; but on a closer inspection I found
them in abundance, not on the green, but
on the dark or woody part of the twig. As
these little insects are of the same color as
the substance on which they are found, they
are noticed only by close observers ; but
there is no doubt in my mind that the honey-
dew is an exudation from them. These in-
sects are also called ' ant-cows,' from the
fact of ants seeming to suck them, when
they are only gathering this sweet secretion.
It will be hard to convince the public of this
simple origin of the honey-dew, as, of the
hundreds with whom I conversed respecting
it last year, none would accept my views,
