238
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
except the few whom I took to the trees
and showed the philosophy of it, and even
they seemed to regret that I had spoiled a
pet delusion."
In his " Origin of Species," page 97, Mr.
Darwin, in speaking of the inability of the
hive-bee to suck nectar from the red-clover
flowers, says : " I have been assured that
when red clover has been mown, the flowers
of the second crop are somewhat smaller,
and that these are visited by many hive-
bees. I do not know whether this state-
ment is accurate, nor whether another pub-
lished statement can be trusted, namely,
that the Ligurian bee, which is generally
considered a mere variety, and which freely
crosses with the common hive-bee, is able
to reach and suck the nectar of the common
red clover."
Both of these statements Mr. Morgan con-
firms, and, acting on the fact that the Ligu-
rian or Italian bee can procure honey not
only from the red clover but other flowers
of his section, in which the nectar is inac-
cessible to the common or black bee, he has
Italianized his whole apiary by crossing the
black and Ligurian bees, and finds the cross
stronger and better honey-gatherers than
the common bee. These facts, as coming
from a practical apiarian, may be interest-
ing to the readers of Thk Popular Science
Monthly, and therefore I have ventured to
send them to you. M. B. C.
New Bebne, Nokth Cakolina.
EDITOR'S TABLE.
THE POPULAR SCIENCE SUPPLEMENTS.
TWO grecit tendencies of modern
thouglit are every year more and
more marked : one relating to its char-
acter, and the other to the form of its
expression. The thinking of the age
is taking a scientific direction, and be-
coming more profoundly imbaed with
the scientific spirit, while the leading
minds of all nations are contributing
their choicest work for periodical pub-
lication. Not only are old sciences
perfecting and new ones arising with
a rapid development of positive knowl-
edge, but the method of the movement
is steadily extendiiig to all spheres of
opinion, and influencing important ques-
tions with which it was long supposed
that science had nothing to do. It is
one of the marked efli"ects of the recent
growth and diffusion of the scientific
spirit that it is giving a new earnest-
ness and seriousness to literary effort,
bringing forward questions of univer-
sal interest into greater prominence,
and inducing in the most eminent
minds a desire to communicate more
directly and immediately with the peo-
ple, by the readiest modes of pub-
lication. Hence, in England, France,
and Germany, as well as in this coun-
try, the best thought appears in the
popular magazines. A further result
of this tendency to earnestness, in re-
cent periodical writing, is that authors
are taking the responsibility of their
work before the public, by attaching
their names to their magazine contribu-
tions. The old and vicious system of
anonymous writing in the reviews is
declining, and giving place to the open,
manly, and honest expression of the
writer's convictions. Through the op-
eration of such causes, periodical litera-
ture is acquiring a weight and influence
in our time much greater than it has
ever had before.
The Popular Science Monthly was
established in recognition of these ten-
dencies, and to make the vigorous, valu-
able, and independent intellectual work
of the age, wherever done, more ac-
cessible to American readers. "We have
drawn, for our articles, from foreign
sources, because science is of no na-
tionality, and it is an obvious dictate
of common-sense to get the best things
wherever they are to be had. This
policy has been approved by the public,
and now, after ten volumes have ap-
peared, we find our limits so inade-
quate that an increase of facilities be-
comes necessary to secure the object
for which the magazine was started.
