EDITOR'S TABLE.
239
So many excellent things have been
constantly slipping by us for which
there was no room in the pages of The
Monthly so many sterling papers
which our readers would prize, and
have often called for that we find our-
selves now compelled to resort to the
issue of supplements in order to ac-
complish the purpose at first had in
view. The volumes that we have thus
far furnished undoubtedly contain the
largest amount of varied and valuable
mental work to be found within equal
limits in any periodical of any country,
and we now intend to increase its scope
and influence by the help of these sup-
plementary issues, so as to meet the
augmenting requirements of the times,
and make this publication the com-
pletest reflection of the scientific and
philosophic progress of the age that can
be anywhere obtained. It will represent
the course of contemporary thought
on subjects of leading interest, preserve
its most permanent elements, and form
a comprehensive and independent sci-
entific library, well suited to the wants
of non-scientific people.
During the ensuing year The Popu-
lar Science Supplements will appear
once a month, containing, each, ninety-
six pages, price twenty-five cents ; and
they will contain the freshest and most
important articles that appear abroad,
of the same general character as the
past contents of The Populap. Science
Monthly. Objection has sometimes
been made that The Monthly is high-
priced, but it has been furnished as
cheaply as the nature of the enterprise
would allow. There is no maxim of
trade more sound and practical than
that value must be paid for, and that
the lowest-priced goods are always the
poorest, and but rarely the cheapest.
Quality should certainly be taken into
account in our mental nutriment if
anywhere, and The Popular Science
Monthly and its Supplements will
furnish the cheapest first-class reading
in the United States.
JEVONS OK "-CRAM."
Prof. Jevons has contributed an
article to Mind (copied into The Pop-
ular Science Supplement, No. 1), in
which he attempts a defense of " cram "
in connection with the system of com-
petitive examinations. Such is the
w'orking of that system, and so inevita-
bly does it lead to cramming, that it is
not difficult to see either that the sys-
tem must be abandoned or " cram "
defended ; and Prof. Jevons intrepidly
takes the latter alternative. We ad-
mire his pluck but condemn his logic.
Clear thinker as he is, in this brilliant
and specious paper he has simply con-
fused an important subject in tlie inter-
est of a questionable cause.
He makes his case by drawing a dis-
tinction between two sorts of "cram,"
which he calls " good cram " and " bad
cram." He says : " A candidate, pre-
paring for an important competitive
examination, may put himself under a
tutor well skilled in preparing for that
examination. The tutor looks for suc-
cess by carefully directing the candi-
date's studies into the most 'paying'
lines, and restricting them rigorously to
those lines. The training given may
be of an arduous, thorough character,
so that the faculties of the pupil are
stretched and exercised to their utmost
in those lines. This would be called
'cram,' because it involves exclusive
devotion to the answering of certain
examination-papers. I call it 'good
cram,'
" ' Bad cram,' on the other hand, con-
sists in temporarily impressing upon
the candidate's mind a collection of
facts, dateSj or formula, held in a wholly
undigested state, and ready to be dis-
gorged in the examination-room by an
act of mere memory. A candidate un-
able to appreciate the bearing of Eu-
clid's reasoning in the first book of
his 'Elements,' may learn the propo-
sitions off by heart diagrams, letters,
and all like a Sunday-scholar learning
