240
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
the collects and gospels. Dates, rules
of grammar, and the like, may be
' crammed ' by mnemonic lines," etc.
"We object to this distinction. " Bad
cram" means a great deal more than
Prof. Jevons here indicates ; and his
" good cram " is either " bad cram " or
no " cram " at all. He is mistaken in
limiting what he calls " bad cram " to
loading the memory with formula with-
out understanding principles, as in the
illustration he offers of Euclid's " Ele-
ments." It is possible to "cram" the
apprehension of a subject as well as its
verbal forms. We knew a young lady
in one of our leading academies, the
only female student in a geometry-class
of twenty, who, under the spur of fem-
inine vanity, kept her position at the
head of the class for the whole term,
giving the demonstrations every time
when the gentlemen broke down, and
having the clearest understanding of
the subject which such a prolonged
ordeal compelled, while the whole ex-
perience amounted to nothing for per-
manent effect. The boasted discipline
was a pure illusion. She lived for a
whole term in a sort of atmosphere of
geometrical excitement, and upon leav-
ing the school the mathematical fever
subsided and the geometry disappeared
like a dream. It was a case of pure
"cram." Time was not taken for di-
gestion for the deepening of acquisi-
tion and the consolidation of mental
habits. " Cram " refers not so much
to any form or kind of acquisition (al-
though some favor it more than others),
but rather to the rate of any acquisi-
tion. Its essential element is excessive
and unnatural forcing a stuffing of
mental aliment, that may be excellent
in itself, but out of relation to natural
appetite or healthy assimilation. Prof.
Jevons says that the epithet "cram"
affords an admirable " cry " for the
opponents of the examination-system;
that " it is short, emphatic, and happily
derived from a disagreeable physical
metaphor;" by Avhich he probably
means that its metaphorical use in ed-
ucation is derived from a disagreeable
physiological experience. But is its
mental application really so metaphori-
cal, after all ? One may eat so as to
keep pace with the digestive and assim-
ilative processes of the system, or he
may exceed that rate in taking food,
which is cramming. But is not mental
acquirement also based on physiological
activity, and subject to a time-rate de-
pending upon cerebral assimilation?
The " cram " of the dining-room and
the " cram " of the school-room are, at
bottom, the same thing, merely involv-
ing different physiological organs.
Prof. Jevons, indeed, yields this
point explicitly. He concedes the
physiological basis of mental culture, in
saying: "It is the very purpose of a
liberal education^ as it is correctly
called, to develop and train the plastic
fibres of the youthful brain so as to pre-
vent them taking too early a definite
'set,' which will afterward narrow and
restrict the range of acquisition and
judgment." But if it is plastic fibres
and cells that we have at last to deal
with, what escape is there from the
conclusion that true education the
leading out of the faculties must take
its rate from the measured processes
of nervous growth ?
Prof. Jevons's " good cram " is de-
fined as arduous and thorough study
directed to the winning of honors at a
competitive examination. But thorough
study, carried on under the conditions
favorable to enduring acquisition, is not
" cram " of any sort, because the term in
its essential meaning excludes thorough-
ness. We shall not deny that much
vigorous, persistent intellectual work
may be accomplished under competi-
tive inspiration, in which no " cram " is
involved; and we think Prof. Jevons
commits a harmful error in applying
the term "cram" to such study, and
undertaking to qualify it by an adjec-
tive that simply neutralizes it. Under
such an authoritative sanction, all
