EDITOR'S TABLE.
241
"cram" will become "good cram,"
and a plausible excuse be thrown over
one of the most extensive vices of edu-
cation.
Prof. Jfcvons's object is to defend
competitive examinations ; and there is
a painful significance in the fact that
he admits the system to be so involved
and bound up with the practice of
"cram," that nothing remains but to
w^est the word from its established
meaning, and give it a new and re-
spectable meaning. His tactics are in-
genious, but nothing is gained by them.
However the words are altered, the facts
will remain.
Prof. Jevons strives to strengthen
his view by carrying it out into the ap-
plication of practical life, which he
maintains to be little else than a sphere
of incessant "cram." He says: "The
actual facts which a man deals with in
life are infinite in number, and cannot
be remembered in a finite brain
In some cases we require to remember
a thing only a few moments or a few
minutes; in other cases a few hours or
days ; in yet other cases a few weeks or
months; it is an infinitesiraally small
part of all our mental impressions
which can be profitably remembered
for years. Memory may be too reten-
tive, and facility of forgetting and of
driving out one train of ideas by a new
train is almost as essential to a well-
trained intellect as faculty of retention."
He then goes on to say that the lawyer,
the physician, the merchant, " deal every
day with various combinations of facts
which cannot all be stored up in the
cerebral framework, and certainly need
not be so The practical barris-
ter 'crams 'his brief;" and "what is
' cram ' but the rapid acquisition of a
series of facts, the vigorous getting up
of a case?"
Now the upshot of all this is, that in
life we have constantly to make tempo-
rary acquisitions, and which often re-
quire vigorous exertion. But will it be
pretended that the making of temporary
acquisitions is the legitimate work of
education ? A lawyer may " cram " his
case, but if he succeeds with it he must
not have crammed his law. There is
undoubtedly a varying value in mental
acquisitions ; some are not worth retain-
ing, and others are of lasting impor-
tance. But there are facts, truths, prin-
ciples, that should be indelibly engraved
upon the minds of students: these
should be the staple of education, and
be the means of that deliberate dis-
cipline which it is the chief object of
education to impart. Our educational
system is virtually at fault in not having
yet organized a curriculum in which ac-
quisitions of permanent value are made
fundamental. Prof. Jevons says: "If
things taught at school and college are to
stay in the mind, to serve us in the busi-
ness of life, then almost all the higher
education yet given in this kingdom has
missed its mark." Exactly; and for
this reason the system is under sharp
arraignment, and a " new education " is
demanded. Prof. Jevons's assertion that
many things are not worth retaining in
the mind, naturally leads to the vital
question, "What knowledge is of most
worth ? " To make his argument good,
that knowledge may be crammed be-
cause of its worthlessness, he must
show that no knowledge is worth re-
taining, and all is to be stuffed with
a view to getting rid of it.
A BASELESS RUMOR.
The Rev. Moncure D. Conway writes
gossipy letters from London to the Cin-
cinnati Commercial, and in his eager-
ness for sensational statements, as is
usually the case with gossips, is quite
too careless of their truth. He has
started the story tliat the closing por-
tions of Mr. Herbert Spencer's " Prin-
ciples of Sociology " are so loosely and
badly written as to indicate that Spen-
cer is showing a decline of his mental
powers. This has created anxiety in
the minds of many, and we have re-
VOL. XI. 16
