242
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ceived various inquiries as to wliat
ground there is for Mr. Conway's state-
ment.
It is true that Mr. Spencer has not
been in good health, and has been com-
pelled recently to desist from labor, and
it is this circumstance that just now
operates to give point to Conway's opin-
ion; but it is to be remembered that
Mr. Spencer's health was not so good
when he began his philosophical system
in 1860 as it has been since ; while in
writing "First Principles" he was often
compelled to stop work, and go to the
country for rest and reinvigoration.
As to the evidence of mental failure
to be gathered from the work on Soci-
ology Just published, we do not observe
that anybody else besides Conway has
found it. The volume has been widely
reviewed by leading English periodicals,
and none of them, that we have seen,
share the discernment of the corre-
spondent of the Cincinnati Commercial.
On the contrary, they testify to the sus-
tained power and originality of his work,
and are more concurrent and emphatic
than ever before as to Mr. Spencer's
capacity to carry forward the gravest
and profoundest intellectual undertak-
ing of the age. It is, moreover, the
views developed toward the close of the
volume that have made the strongest
impression upon the minds of the critics.
Tliey see, in his treatment of the ques-
tions there discussed, especial indica-
tions of that wide grasp and subtile
analysis which have been so marked a
characteristic of his previous philosoph-
ical volumes. "We print elsewhere a
portion of the notice of " The Principles
of Sociology " that appeared in the Lon-
don Examiner^ and it will be seen that,
in referring to these very views, brought
out at the close of the book, the writer
remarks, " It strikes us tliat Mr. Spen-
cer here exhibits an increased power of
seizing the many influences Avhich con-
tribute to a complex result." To do
this in a vast field of comparatively un-
explored phenomena is certainly the
highest test of intellectual vigor. It is
admitted by those who have reviewed
the book most thoughtfully, that the
ideas reached and developed by Spencer
in its concluding portions are certain to
exert a powerful influence in modifying
the course of current opinion, and that
they will give a new direction to con-
troversies that will call out the best
effort of the leading thinkers of our
time.
Mr. Spencer has continued his ex-
position in a chapter to be appended to
the volume of Sociology, of which we
give in the present number of the
Monthly tlie first installment. To those
who are solicitous about his breaking
down mentally, we commend the pe-
rusal of this paper, and the conclusion
of it, which will appear next month.
Having disposed in the volume of Mr.
Max Miiller and his followers, who
were overdoing the myth-business, he
now takes up the social doctrines of
Sir Henry Sumner Maine. This able
writer maintains a theory of social de-
velopment in which the starting-point
is the patriarchal system. Mr. Spencer
holds that this view is philosophically
defective, as it assumes a certain social
condition without accounting for it, by
investigating the anterior and still low-
er conditions of social relation. Each
one will be his own judge, after reading
the argument, as to its validity against
Sir Henry Maine's view ; we call atten-
tion to it here only for the benefit of
those who are concerned about the
truth of Mr. Conway's statement.
LITERARY NOTICES.
Six Lectures on Light. Delivered in
America in 18Y2-'73. By John Tyn-
DALL, D. C. L., LL. D., F. R. S. Second
edition. New York : D. Applcton & Co.
Pp. 264. Price, $1.50.
Various opinions were passed at the
time upon Prof. Tyndall's choice of a sub-
ject for his American lectures, and also
upon his treatment of it. Some complained
