LITERARY NOTICES.
243
that he had chosen a branch of physics so
well settled as that of light, and thought
that he ought rather to have entered into
some of the exciting phases of modern sci-
entific controversy. Others complained that
he dealt with the subject in so elementary
a manner, and thought he ought to go into
it with a profundity commensurate with his
reputation, and such as would afford an
adequate excuse for his leaving home and
going so far away to instruct a foreign peo-
ple. For we may just as well acknowledge
that there was a great deal of narrowness
and illiberality in the view taken of Tyn-
dall's errand, and which was by no means
confined to the laity. There was an ill-
suppressed jealousy on the part of some of
our scientific men, which made them cap-
tious in regard to the lectures, and which
gave freight and currency to objections that
from other sources would have been regard-
ed as frivolous and unworthy of notice. It
would have been far easier for Prof. Tyndall
to have taken up some of the recent contro-
versial topics, in which the public takes so
deep an interest, and read a series of dis-
courses that would have drawn crowds to
his lecture-room, instead of encumbering
himself with tons of apparatus, and bring-
ing along experienced assistants to make
his lectures thoroughly experimental and
demonstrative for large popular audiences.
But his choice of a subject, and his method
of treating it, have been abundantly vindi-
cated. He presented the leading principles
of optics in a striking and impressive man-
ner, and as connected and interpreted by
the undulatory theory of light, with various
lessons and applications in regard to the
uses of scientific theory, and the motives of
scientific research, which the topic was so
well suited to enforce. Tyndall's American
lectures form incomparably the best popu-
lar exposition of the wave-theory of light to
be found in any language, and for this pur-
pose it will long hold its place as a standard
book. Accepting the public approval of the
work for this purpose, as evinced by the
several editions that have been called for.
Prof. Tyndall has carefully revised it, made
some important additions, and substituted
new and superior illustrations, so that the
edition which now appears, although faith-
fully presenting the lectures as they were
delivered, has very much the aspect of a
new work. He has prefixed to the volume
a fine steel engraving, by Mr. Adlard, of Dr.
Thomas Young, whose position in modern
physics he holds to be only second to that
of Newton, and in a full appendix of instruc-
tive notes and extracts he has incorporated
the addresses of President Barnard, Dr.
Draper, President White, and his own re-
marks, at the Tyndall banquet which fol-
lowed the close of his lectures in New York.
In his preface to the second English edition,
now republished here, Prof. Tyndall remarks
as follows of the object he had in view in
preparing the American lectures : " I have
sought to raise the wave-theory of light to
adequate clearness in the reader's mind, and
to show its power as an organizer of optical
phenomena. From what has been recently ,
written on such questions, it is to be inferred
that the origin, scope, and warrant of physi-
cal theories generally, constitute a theme of
considerable interest to thoughtful minds.
On these points I have ventured, particular-
ly in the second and third lectures, to state
the views which my own I'eflections have
suggested to me. To produce a systematic
treatise on light was, of course, quite wide
of my aim. My desire, rather, was to throw
into a small compass an exposition for
which I should have been grateful at a cer-
tain period of my own studies. I wished,
in the first place, as the prime condition of
all satisfactory progress, to clear the reader's
mind of all indistinctness regarding element-
ary facts and conceptions, and to whet in-
cidentally the desire for further knowledge.
I wished, moreover, for the sake of that
numerous portion of the community who
are interested in the material results of
science, to trace effects to their causes, by
showing how such results receive their
primary vitalization from the thoughts of
men with no material end in view. The
' Summary and Conclusion,' which might be
read as an introduction, is for the most part
devoted to this object."
Facts and Fancies about Fish : The New
York Aquarium. New York : D. Ap-
pleton & Co. Pp. 15.
This little pamphlet is Part I., No. 1, of
a series of popular natural history mono-
graphs by Mr. W. S. Ward, naturalist of
