244
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the New York Aquarium, and contaius a
very readable and instructive account of
the natural objects that are to be seen at
that meritorious institution. It is profuse-
ly illustrated with capital cuts by Beard,
Church, Kelley, and others. It is Mr. Ward's
purpose to publish these parts from time to
time, as circumstances warrant, with the
hope that they will meet with such a de-
mand as will lead to a periodical issue a
hope which will soon be realized if his en-
deavor meets with the success it deserves.
Essays on Political Economy. By Fre-
deric BiSTiAT. English translation re-
vised by David A. Wells. New York :
G. P. Putnam's Sons. Pp. 291. Price,
$1.25.
Among the modern political writers who
have labored to vindicate liberty of trade
and to expose the fallacies and economical
failures of protection, Bastiat in many re-
spects stands unrivaled. Other men may
perhaps have gone deeper into the philoso-
phy of the subject, or contributed more
toward the establishment of political econ-
omy as a body of scientific principles, but
no man has done so much as Frederic
Bastiat to explain and illustrate its truths,
and enforce them upon the popular mind.
A thorough master not only of the subject
but of the art of lucid, attractive, and tell-
ing statement, his economical essays are
well worth reading, if only for their literary
effect. Many writers can make reading
pleasant if allowed to choose their themes.
Political economy has long been proverbial
for its dry, statistical repulsiveness has
long been known as " the dismal science ; "
but in the hands of Bastiat it is as far as
possible from being either dry or dismal.
Mr. Wells, the editor of the present work,
gives the following account of it in his
preface to the American edition :
" This little volume is made np of a selection
from the essays of M. Bastiat, that have in a
high degree these popular and attractive charac-
teristics ; such as a presentation of the nature
of capital and interest, and the relation of the
two; a discussion, under the title, 'That
which is seen and that which is not seen,' of
the evils that always result from limiting con-
sideration of the effect of an economic law, tax,
or institution, to its immediate visible influence,
and ignoring its ultimate consequences, intro-
ducing, in so doing, the illustration which has
passed into many languages, of ' The Broken
Window ; ' also the questions of ' What is Gov-
ernment?' 'What is Money?' and the nature,
object, and function of what is popularly and
generally termed ' the law,' without reference
to any particular code or statute. So accept-
able, indeed, have these short, selected essays
proved to the public, that repeated editions of
them have been published in France, Bel;,'ium,
Uermany, Italy, England, and the United States;
and all that the editor has had to do with the
present American edition has been to revise
the previous English translation, which was ex-
ceedingly imperfect, and in some instances ab-
solutely without meaning. Where the text
which was originally written to meet the con-
dition of aflairs in France at the time of the
overthrow of the monarchy and the establish-
ment of the republic in 1848 could be changed
verbally with advantage to meet the ditferent
condition of men, laws, and things, at present
existing in the United States, such changes have
been made, English names being substituted for
French ones, dollars and cents in place of francs
and sous, and the like. A few notes pertinent
to the subject-matter of the text, and drawn
mainly from the recent economic experience of
the United States, have also been added."
The Effects of Cross and Self Fertiliza-
tion IN the Vegetable Kingdom. By
Charles Darwin, M. A., F. R. S. New
York: D. Appleton & Co. Pp. 482.
Price, $2.
The name of the author upon this title-
page is an assurance that the book is a
solid contribution to the advance of that
branch of biology which may be named
philosophical botany. It is the result of a
long series of elaborate, painstaking in-
quiries into that curious and mysterious
field of organic activity, the process of fer-
tilization in plants. The inquiry is hardly
popular, and will only have its deepest in-
terest to those who know something of the
technicalities of botany. Yet Mr. Darwin
has prefixed to the volume an excellent
chapter of introductory remarks, which will
prove generally intelligible and instructive ;
and there are but few who will read this
chapter and not be lured forward by the at-
tractive and fascinating import of the dis-
cussion. The author also adds a very im-
portant chapter of general results, in which
he states the practical bearing of the in-
quiry as respects the art of the agriculturist
and horticulturist. Ilis discussion is at the
basis of the problem and the intelligent
practice of breeding. He furthermore
points out its great theoretical significance
to the scientific inquirer, who aims to go as
