LITERARY NOTICES.
247
micro-mineralogy, micro-chemistry, biology,
histology, and pathological histology. The
work is clearly written, and its matter pre-
sented systematically and in very judicious
proportions. It contains a great number
of beautifully - colored plates, which will
prove helpful to the student. In an intro-
ductory chapter on the history and impor-
tance of microscopy. Dr. Wythe points out
the many ways in which this art has proved
useful to man in recent times. The follow-
ing suggestion, however, we had not met
with before, and we trust it will incite re-
ligious people to buy microscopes and learn
to use them : " Even theology has its con-
tribution from microscopy. The teleologi-
cal view of Nature, which traces design, re-
ceives from it a multitude of illustrations.
In this department the war between skep-
tical Philosophy and Theology has waged
most fiercely ; and if the difference be-
tween living and non-living matter may be
demonstrated by the microscope, as argued
by Dr. Beale and others, Theology sends
forth a pcean of victory from the battle-
ments of this science."
Michigan Board of Health. Fourth An-
nual Report (1876). Pp. 250. Lan-
sing : W. S. George & Co. print.
Ix addition to the journal of the proceed-
ings of the board, and sundry details of ad-
ministration, we have here a great deal of
matter of general interest : such as statis-
tics of diseases, remarks on illuminating
oils, studies of typhoid fever, etc. Among the
more voluminous essays, we may mention
papers on means of escaping from public
buildings in case of fire, vaccination, scar-
let fever, criminal abortion, water and wa-
ter-supply, ventilation of railroad-cars, etc.
Report of the Commissioners of Education
FOR THE Year 18*75. Pp. 1,189. Wash-
ington : Government Printing-OfiSce.
In the personal report of Commissioner
Eaton, which occupies the first lYO pages
of this volume, is found an instructive ret-
rospect of the history of popular education
in this country, together with a general re-
view of the present status of primary and
superior instruction, both in the United
States and in other countries ; then follow
voluminous abstracts of the reports of school
officers throughout the States and Territo-
ries of the Union ; and, finally, we have 22
tables of school statistics, giving informa-
tion with regard to such matters as normal
schools, higher schools for women, colleges,
scientific schools, public libraries, museums
of art and natural history, institutions for
the blind, deaf and dumb, and idiots, edu-
cational benefactions, etc. The value of
the information here conveyed is no doubt
very considerable, and it is much enhanced
by the addition of a good index.
How TO Camp Out. By John M. Gould.
New York : Scribner, Armstrong & Co.
Price, $1.
This is the best work of tlte kind ever
published. Mr. Gould is the author of a
" Regimental History of the War," which
received the highest commendation from the
New York Nation and Evening Post. He
has camped in every way, and, being a man
of the keenest observation and possessed
with the orderly faculty of noting down ev-
erything, has given in this book advice and
suggestion of the greatest value to those
who go on camping or tramping expedi-
tions. Sound information is given regard-
ing food, clothing, boots and shoes, knap-
sacks, tents, and huts of various kinds,
with valuable hygienic advice from Dr. El-
liott Coues's writings. A pleasant vein of
humor runs through its pages ; and to those
who never stir out of the city, the book will
be found entertaining as well as camp-pro-
voking.
SPENCER'S PKINCIPLES OF SOCIOLOGY.
The following notice of this important
work is from the review in the London
Examiner : " The appearance of Mr. Spen-
cer's first volume on ' The Principles of So-
ciology ' will be a matter of rejoicing to
that large and growing number of readers
whose minds have been deeply impressed
and roused to new reflection by the writer's
masterly exposition of the philosophy of
evolution. This feeling of joy will only be
tempered by the regret which Mr. Spencer's
readers will certainly experience on learn-
ing, from a notice appended to the volume,
that disturbed health has obliged him to
desist when about to write certain conclud-
