248
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ing chapters to this present volume, and
that, in his opinion, ' it may be some time
possibly months before he is able to re-
sume work at his ordinary, slow rate.' Still,
this regret should not unduly depress us,
seeing that we have now in our hands a
bulky volume of over 700 pages, in which
the author lays down the principal founda-
tion-lines of his scientific structure. Most
of Mr. Spencer's admirers, perhaps, have
looked forward to the doctrine of social evo-
lution as the most valuable and interesting
result of the author's labors. It is quite
natural, indeed, that many, to whom the un-
familiar conceptions of biology and the ab-
struse subtilties of psychology are some-
what repellent, should look forward to the
promised exposition of sociology, with its
more familiar ideas of industry, religion,
government, etc. To this it may be added
that, just now, there is a large concentra-
tion of scientific interest on all historical
problems, and many who were indifferent to
the first principles of matter and motion
will look with eagerness into the present
volume for its theory of social progress. It
may at once be said that all who have an-
ticipated this work will find in it ample in-
tellectual material of the most interesting
sort. The author here takes us far enough
to enable us to see how his previous vol-
umes have been leading up to a clear and
scientific conception of society and its laws
far enough, too, for us to discern the rev-
olution which the theory of evolution is to
effect in many current notions respecting
social phenomena. . . .
"Mr. Spencer's theory of primitive ideas
seems to us so much the most important
element in the volume that we have dwelt
on it at length, to the neglect of the other
parts. Of what remains, only a very few words
can be said. After completing his account
of the data of psychology, the author passes
to liis Second Part, which has for its theme
' The Inductions of Sociology.' Under this
head Mr. Spencer discusses the nature of
society as an organism, the ideas of social
growth, social structures and functions,
and the division of the social organism into
three systems of organs, namely, the sus-
taining, tlie distributing, and the regulat-
ing, answering to those of digestion, circu-
lation, and nervous coordination, in the in-
dividual organism. The analogy between a
society and a bodily organism is worked out
with remarkable ingenuity, according to the
sketch given by the author in the popular
introduction to sociology already alluded to.
Mr. Spencer succeeds, we think, in estab-
lishing the closeness of this similarity, and,
what is more, in showing how it arises from
the fundamental similarity of the processes
of evolution underlying individual and so-
cial growth. Thus, for example, the curious
analogy in the distributing systems of the
two kinds of organism between the up and
down lines of railway and the veins and
arteries, is seen, on reflection, to be some-
thing more than an accidental coincidence.
At the same time, Mr. Spencer appears to
us to have become more clearly aware of
the limits of this analogy, and of the cir-
cumstances which mark off social aggre-
gates from single, living organisms.
" After thus determining the data and
leading principles of sociology, Mr. Spencer
proceeds, in his Third Part, to deal with
social phenomena themselves that is to
say, the movements or processes which
make up social development. He begins
with the domestic relations, the account of
which brings the volume to a close. We
have no space left to follow the author in
his interesting review of the gradual devel-
opment of monogamy out of the primitive
relations of the sexes. His views on the
nature of marriaire without the tribe and
marriage within the trilje (exogamy and
endogamy), of polyandry, and polygamy,
and of their relations of coexistence Jind
sequence, rest in part on the researches and
conclusions of writers like Mr. McLennan,
while in some important particulars they
deviate from this writer's theories. It
strikes us that Mr. Spencer here exhibits an
increased power of seizing the many influ-
ences which contribute to a complex result.
The highly-interesting character of this part,
as of the whole volume, makes us look for-
ward to the continuation of this work on
' Sociology,' which, we strongly suspect, to
judge by the little progress already made,
is going to be much more voluminous than
the works on ' Biology ' and ' Psychology.'
May the author's health speedily allow
him to carry forward his great enter-
prise ! "
