2:;o
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
mass of the population have to deny them-
selves this wholesome form of nutriment.
The London Society of Arts has under-
taken the investigation of the question of
fruit-growing, and is laboring to awaken a
popular interest in the matter. In this
country fruit is cheap and abundant, yet
many of the suggestions made on the other
side of the Atlantic would not be out of
place even here. In one of the papers read
before the Society of Arts, it is stated that
only 40,000 acres of land are set apart in
England for market-gardens. Considering
what enormous crops of fruit are obtained
from this inconsiderable acreage, how shall
we estimate the product of waste lands
were they to be cultivated ? The market-
gardens, as we have seen, cover less than 60
square miles ; but the railway embankments
represent about 200 square miles of land,
one-third of which, at least, could be used
for the cultivation of fruit. The little plots
of ground attached to cottages in the country
and in villages and suburban districts might
also be utilized for fruit-growing. Road-
sides in the country might also be cultivated
profitably. The prospect of success in this
effort at enlarging the area of fruit-culture
in England is not very encouraging, owing
to the unthriftiness of the people. In this
respect they compare very unfavorably with
their neighbors, the French.
Frequency of Color-Blindness. There is
some reason for believing that writers on
" color-blindness " have in many instances
exaggerated with regard to the frequency
of its occurrence. Thus it has been stated
as a fact that no less than ten per cent, of
the railroad engine-drivers in Sweden are
unable to announce properly the color of
the signal-lamps, owing to color-blindness.
Mr. Herbert W. Page, surgeon to the Lon-
don and Northwestern Railway, is of the opin-
ion that, so far from being common, this af-
fection is extremely rare. He cites the tes-
timony of three railway examining surgeons
in support of his views. One of these, who
in the course of twenty-five years had exam-
ined many hundreds of men, writes that
color-blindness " is of excessive rarity ; " an-
other " has not found it common ; " while a
third, a surgeon of long experience, writes
that he has met with " oulv three cases of
well-marked color-blindness " among many
hundreds examined by him. In 800 men
examined by Mr. Page himself, not one in-
stance of true color-blindness was found.
Similar testimony is given by Dr. Macaldin,
of the Midland Railway.
How, then, are we to account for the
positive statements of other writers who
assert the extreme frequency of this affec-
tion ? In very many cases ignorance of
the names of colors is, doubtless, mistaken
for inability to distinguish between colors
themselves. Then, many persons are hesi-
tating and slow in their recognition of col-
ors. " Green may be spoken of as blue by
one, red as green by another, and the name
persisted in till the man be asked to com-
pare the one before him with some familiar
color, as the grass or sky, when his mis-
take will be recognized at once. I cannot
help thinking," adds Mr. Page, " that such
cases as these have often been mistaken as
instances of color-blindness. It certainly
is within my own experience, that errors of
this kind may creep in unawares unless time
and care he given to the examination of those
who are ignorant^ stupid, or nervous."
Marsh-Fevers. A substantial addition
to our knowledge of the true nature of pa-
ludic fevers appears to have been made by
Messrs. Lanzi and Terrigi, of Rome. Lanzi
has found in the cells of microscopic algae
from the Roman marshes certain dark-green
granules, which are most numerous when
the plants are farthest gone in decomposi-
tion. At length these granules fill the cells,
are black under the microscope, and the
algae emit an offensive odor. In the Cam-
pagna marshes are formed in winter, which
in spring develop algae abundantly. In
summer the water disappears, and the algae
then putrefy, the ground afterward growing
phanerogamous plants. Toward the fall of
the year the algae in the parts still covered
with water also die, and the slime at the
bottom of the marshes contains quantities
of the dark granules. The latter may also
arise from other plants in the state of decay,
even where there are no marshes. Lanzi
regards these granules as a sort of ferments.
Now, the pigment-granules found in the liv-
er and spleen of individuals suffering from
malaria have quite similar properties to
