P OP ULAR MIS CELL ANY
251
those ferment-granules, and they can be
developed quite similarly. M. Terrigi has
specially devoted himself to the means of
disinfection, which may prevent the decaying
process and development of the granules ;
he found chloride of lime, lime, and chlo-
ral, the most efficacious. With aspirators
and air-filtering apparatus he ascertained
that the germs rose to a height of fifty cen-
timetres (about twenty inches) above the
marsh-bottom, where they could easily be
carried away by the winds. M. Terrigi
found the " malaria-melanin " (as they call
it) abundant in the liver and spleen of
Guinea-pigs that had breathed the marsh-
air for some time.
How the Chinese go a-Fisbing, Under
the title "Fishing Extraordinary" a writer
in Chambers's Journal describes various
singular devices used in different countries
for catching fish. Some portions of the
narrative are calculated to put a strain upon
the credulity of the reader, as, for instance,
when we are informed that " the lakes and
rivers of China, and especially of the north,
are so abundantly stocked with fish, that in
some places the men called fish-catchers
make their living by actually seizing and
drawing them out with their hands." If
any of our readers should happen to dwell
in the vicinity of such fish-abounding
streams, they will be pleased to learn how
these fish-catchers set about their work.
Here is the modus operandi : The man goes
into the water, and proceeds, half walking,
half swimming, raising his arms above his
head and letting them drop, striking the
surface with his hands. Meanwhile his feet
^are moving on the muddy bottom. Pres-
ently he stoops with a rapid dive and brings
up a fish in his hand. His object in striking
the surface is to frighten the fish, which,
when alarmed, sink to the bottom; then
the naked feet feel them in the mud, and,
once felt, the practised hand secures them
in a moment.
Another Chinese method of fishing de-
scribed by this writer is very ingenious. It
is usually practised at night, and depends
upon a peculiar power which a white screen,
stretched under the water, seems to possess
over the fishes, decoying them to it and
making them leap. A man sitting in the
stern of a long, narrow boat, steers her with
a paddle to the middle of a river, and there
stops. Along the right-hand side of his
boat a narrow sheet of white canvas is
stretched; when he leans to that side it dips
under the surface, and, if it be a moonlight
night, gleams through the water. Along
the other side of the boat a net is fastened,
so as to form a barrier two or three feet
high. The boatman keeping perfectly still,
the fish, attracted by the white canvas, ap-
proach and leap, and would go over the nar-
row boat and be free in their native waters
on the other side, but for the screen of net-
ing, which stops them and throws them
down before the man's feet.
The rse of Anti-Ferments. To prevent
fermentation, a wine-grower in New Jersey
added to a twelve-gallon keg of new wine
about one gramme (loi grains) of salicylic
acid, or a very little more than the minimum
quantity as given by Neubauer. Soon the
wine lost its natural flavor, and acquired a
flavor something like that of camphor. A
sample of this altered nine having been sub-
mitted to Dr. Endemann for examination, he
at once referred the new flavor to the pres-
ence of salicylic ether. In a communication
to the American Chemical Society, Dr. Ende-
mann writes : " The formation of this ether
may be understood if we regard the cir-
cumstances. The wine was only one year
old, and could not be considered ripe
and ready for sale, and should therefore
have received not the minimum quantity
but rather more salicylic acid, to entirely
prevent after-fermentation. The quantity,
therefore, being insufficient, salicylic acid
came in contact with alcohol in statu nas-
cendi, which caused this abnormal action.
Wine-growers are naturally very suspicious
of chemicals, and are therefore very apt to
make the same mistake that is, they prefer
to use the minimum quantity; and I should
not be surprised if similar experiences had
followed the application of this substance
in other places."
Determination of Copper. Mr. J. M. Mer-
rick, of Boston, proposes a new method of
determining very small quantities of copper.
It is intended as a supplement to Bergeron
and I'Hote's colorimetric test, which fails to
