252
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
indicate a quantity of copper less than 0.5
milligramme. Mr. Merrick's method con-
sists simply in concentrating to a very small
bulk the solution suspected to contain cop-
per, and then depositing the copper, if pres-
ent, upon platinum, by the battery. He uses
for a depositing-cell a very small test-tube,
on a foot cut off, so as to give a vessel about
one and a half inch deep. Into this is intro-
duced the solution acidified with sulphuric
acid, and a platinum anode and cathode
each about an inch long and one-eighth inch
or less wide are hung face to face, and
very close together ; and, the circuit being
completed, very satisfactory deposits of
copper are obtained with incredibly minute
quantities of the metal. The amounts are
determined by the increased weight of the
cathode (which is provided with a platinum
wire soldered on with gold, by which it can
be hooked to a balance) and on the loss of
weight of the same after washing with ni-
tric acid. The platinum is polished and
heated red-hot before the first weighing,
and then gently heated before hanging in
the solution. The contrast in color between
deposited copper and bright platinum is, of
course, striking and characteristic. In this
way, 0:1 milligramme of copper may be,
the author thinks, safely determined ; while
for mere qualitative analysis this method
may be employed where the amount is even
smaller.
Award of the Blgsby Medal to Prof. 0.
C. Marsb. Prof. P. Martin Duncan, Presi-
dent of the Geological Society of London,
in announcing the award of the Bigsby
Medal to Prof. 0. C. Marsh for his services
in investigating the paleontology of the
Vertebrata, paid a high but well-merited
compliment to the learned Yale professor.
Said Prof. Duncan : " He has distinguished
himself by studying the fossil remains of
nearly every great group of the vertebrata
from the palaeozoic, cretaceous, and caino-
zoic strata of the New World. The field
of his research has been immense, but
it has been very correct ; and his descrip-
tive and classificatory palcontological work
indicates his effective grasp of anatomical
details, and his great power as a compara-
tive osteologist." Prof. Duncan then enu-
merated in some details the chief lines of
research pursued by Prof. Marsh, and was
followed by Mr. Hulke, himself a paleon-
tologist, who heartily approved all that had
been said by the president with respect
to the value of Prof. Marsh's services to
paleontology. " These," he said, " are so nu-
merous and important as to mark an epoch
in this line of research. The present rec-
ognition of the value of his labors will
doubtless prove an incentive to fresh work."
What is Moderate Drinking.? The ad-
vocates of total abstinence from intoxi-
cating liquors are wont to condemn even
a moderate use of stimulating drinks, on
the ground that "moderate drinking is the
parent of excessive drinking." The Lancet
questions the correctness of this proposi-
tion, but in its negative definition of what
is meant by " moderate " drinking the vota-
ries of Bacchus will find very little comfort.
" The man," says the Lancet, " who begins
the day with a ' soda-and-brandy,' has very
little respect for his constitution, and if he
does not alter his habits, they will alter his
health. Odd glasses of beer and glasses of
spirit in a forenoon do not come within the
range of moderate drinking. That is not
moderate drinking which adds fifteen or
twenty beats to the pulse, or which flushes
the face. Finally, all casual drinking is bad,
presumably, and not moderate drinking.
The system will not receive food merely as
a matter of conviviality, at all sorts of odd
hours. Still less will it receive with impu-
nity drink in this way. Drinking which
disturbs sleep, either by making it heavy
or by driving it away, is not moderate.
Moderate drinking is that which consists
with a clean tongue, a good appetite, a slow
pulse, a cool skin, a clear head, a steady
hand, good walking-power, and light, re-
freshing sleep. It is associated with meals,
and is entirely subordinated to more con-
venient and less objectionable forms of food.
That such drinking produces drunkenness,
has yet to be proved, as it has yet to be
proved to be essential to health."
Retention of Impressions by tlie Retina.
Does the retina retain in death the image
last impressed upon it? That such is the
case has been asserted, but hitherto the
evidence has not been satisfactory, to say
