POPULAR MISCELLANY.
253
the least. But recent experiments made by
Prof. Kiihne, of Heidelberg, appear to show
that the image does remain. He took a
rabbit and fixed its head and one of its eye-
balls at a distance of about five feet from a
small opening in a window-shutter. The
head was covered for five minutes with a
black cloth and then exposed for three min-
utes to a somewhat clouded mid-day sky.
The rabbit was then instantly decapitated ;
the eyeball which had been exposed was
extirpated in yellow light, then opened
and instantly plunged into a weak solution
of alum. Two minutes after death the sec-
ond eyeball, without removal from the head,
was subjected to exactly the same processes.
On the following morning the retinae of both
eyes were carefully isolated, separated from
the optic nerve, and turned. They exhib-
ited a nearly square, sharp image, with
sharply-defined edges.
Extirpation of onr Larger Mammals.
In a paper on the extirpation of our larger
indigenous mammals, published in the Penn
Monihhi^ Mr. J. A. Allen remarks that the
larger, the less sagacious, or the otherwise
more easily-captured species, have always
been the first to be destroyed. The walrus,
being hunted for its ivory and its oil, soon be-
came extinct in the Gulf of St. Lawrence ;
the bison wholly disappeared east of the Mis-
sissippi (south of Wisconsin) prior to the
year 1800 ; the moose and the caribou were
early pressed back into the remoter north-
ern forests ; and the elk everywhere quickly
disappeared before the advancing settle-
ments. Formerly abundant from the Great
Lakes nearly to the Gulf coast, its sole sur-
vivors east of the Mississippi for the last
few decades have been confined to the least
frequented parts of the Alleghanies, where
few, if any, still survive. Thirty years ago
it was abundant over nearly all of the prai-
ries, plains, and mountain valleys of the
Great West, where it is now confined within
comparatively narrow boundaries, and its
present rapid rate of decrease portends its
speedy total extirpation south of the forty-
ninth parallel. The Virginia deer, once a
common denizen of the whole eastern half
of the United States, now scarcely exists in
New England south of the forests of Maine
and Northern New Hampshire, or in New
York south or west of the great Adiron-
dack Wilderness, or anywhere in the Middle
States away from the mountains. It has
also disappeared from a large part of the
Atlantic coast-region farther southward,
and from the greater part of the area be-
tween the Great Lakes and the Tennessee
river. The bear, the panther, the gray wolf,
and the lynx, have become similarly re-
stricted. The fisher, the marten, and the
Canada porcupine, former inhabitants of
the northern parts of the northern tier of
States, as well as of the Appalachian high-
lands to or beyond Virginia, have only here
and there a few lingering representatives
in the least frequented parts of the moun-
tains, and are much more rare than formerly
in the forests of Northern New England and
the great unsettled region north of the St.
Lawrence. The same is true of the beaver,
except that it had a much more extended
range to the southward, being a former in-
habitant of Northern Florida and the mid-
dle and northern portions of the Gulf States,
and of all the intervening region thence
northward.
Psytliic Flionomcna. Mr. Sergeant Cox,
in a letter to the London Spectator, made
the assertion that no one who had inves-
tigated " psychic phenomena " ever had
"come to any other conclusion than that
they were real." To this Moncure D. Con-
way replies as follows :
" I beg to inform that gentleman that I
have for more than twenty years, both in the
United States and in England, and in the pres-
ence of well-known mediums as well as pri-
vate circles, diligently investigated the sub-
ject, and I have never seen any phenomena at
all worthy of notice, except such as indicate
the audacity of some persons and the weak-
ness of others."
Extending the Meat-Supply. One of the
most enthusiastic hippophagists of Paris,
M. Decroix, not content with advocating
the use of horse-flesh for food, now would
have people eat the flesh of diseased ani-
mals. He has made it a practice to cat
the flesh of horses killed in his service,
which had glanders or farcy, and, wheth-
er thoroughly or partially cooked, he found
no evil results to his health. Further,
