^54
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ever since 1861 he has eaten the flesh
of all animals that have died within his
reach, no matter from what disease. He
affirms that one may eat with impunity the
flesh, cooked (not putrid), of any of the
domesticated animals, no matter what they
died of glanders, typhus, hydrophobia,
etc. So far from the flesh of animals which
have died naturally having a repugnant ap-
pearance or a peculiar flavor, he states that
he has placed the two kinds side by side in
the same pan and with the same sauce, and,
in serving to diff'erent persons, many of them
connoisseurs, the meat of animals that have
died a natural death has invariably been
pronounced superior to that from the slaugh-
ter-house !
New Test of Death. The importance of
having some readily-appUed and indisputa-
ble test of the fact of death is apparent,
and many are the processes that have been
ofi"ered to determine it. Nevertheless, such
a test appears to be still a desideratum
unless, indeed, we accept that offered by
Kappeler. In the course of his researches
on the electrical stimulation of dead mus-
cles, Kappeler subjected twenty corpses to
the action of various electric currents, not-
ing the times of disappearance of contrac-
tility. In persons emaciated by chronic
maladies, it disappeared much more rap-
idly than in well-nourished individuals, or
those who had had acute disease. It dis-
appeared seventy-five minutes after death
at the quickest, and six and a half hours
at the slowest. In cases where a rise of
temperature is observed after death electric
contractility persists longest. So long as
there remains the least flicker of life the
contractions continue intact. In the most
prolonged faints, in the deepest lethargies,
in poisoning by carbonic oxide, chloroform,
etc., there is contraction so long as life
lasts. But if the muscles make no response
to the electrical stimulation, Kappeler pro-
nounces life to be extinct.
Voracity of the Tront A correspond-
ent writing from Au Sable Forks, New York,
communicates to The Monthly the follow-
ing very remarkable instance of voracity in
a trout : While he and another gentleman
were fishing in a stream near the place of
his residence, they came to a "long still
hole," into which his companion dropped a
hook and line, and immediately after pulled
up a trout measuring about nine inches.
The trout had swallowed the hook, and, in
trying to extricate it, the fish's mouth,
throat, and stomach, were found to be
almost filled with a snake. They pulled
the animal out and threw it on the bank ;
it had evidently been recently killed. " We
did not measure the snake," writes our cor-
respondent, " but each of us estimated its
length at fourteen inches. We took," he
adds, " about a dozen more trout from the
same hole, which seemed to show that this
enormous meal had not made the trout in
the least sluggish, or dulled the edge of his
appetite ; for if it had, some of the smaller
fish would have taken the bait before him."
Deaths from Inhalation of Chloroform.
In communicating to the Cincinnati Acade-
my of Medicine a list of deaths by chloro-
form occurring in that city and its vicinity,
Dr. Charles Anderson recognizes a" strange
fatality " attending the use of the drug in
Cincinnati. No other city in the United
States numbers so many deaths from this
cause ; yet, perhaps, if all the chloroform
casualties of other cities had been duly re-
corded, Cincinnati would no longer hold
this bad preeminence. The author calls at-
tention to a singular anomaly observed in
the action of this anaesthetic, viz., that
many of those who have died from chloro-
form have taken it repeatedly, and often for
a considerable lime, without any unpleasant
symptoms, whereas an attempt to give it a
short time afterward has proved fatal. Thus
one patient, who had taken it frequently
during ten years, died from forty drops ;
another had taken it a hundred times, and
had once been under its influence fcr five
hours ; the last dose, which was fatal, con-
sisted of an inhalation or two from a chlo-
roformed handkerchief. After citing other
similar instances. Dr. Anderson, whose com-
munication we find in the Clinic, express-
es the opinion that in these cases there
exists a sort of floating idiosyncrasy one
that may have hold of a man for an hour or
an instant. " It may be on him to-day," adds
the author, " and off" to-morrow ; but if, while
under its influence, he inhale the vapor of
