258 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and vermin to be caught, cattle have to be fed, the distribution of
pasturage, here in larger, there in smaller oases, will determine the
numbers of animals, and consequently of human beings, which can
keep together. In the separation of Abraham and Lot we have a tra-
ditional illustration.
Thus recognizing the natural origin of the wandering family-
group, let us ask what are likely to become its traits. We have seen
that the regulating system of a society is evolved in the course of
conflicts with environing societies. Between jDastoral hordes which
have become separate, and in course of time alien, there must arise,
as between other groups, antagonisms : caused sometimes by appro-
priation of strayed cattle, sometimes by encroachments upon grazing
areas monopolized. But now mark a difference. In a tribe of archaic
type, such ascendency as war from time to time gives to a man who
is superior in strength, will, or cunning, commonly fails to become a
permanent headship, since his power is regarded with jealousy by
men who are in other respects his equals. It is otherwise in the
pastoral horde. The tendency which war between groujis has to
evolve a head in each group, here finds a member prepared for the
place. Already there is the father, who at the outset was, by right
of the strong hand, leader, owner, master, of wife, children, and all he
carried with him. In the preceding stage his actions were to some
extent under check by other men of the tribe ; now they are not.
His sons could early become hunters and carry on their lives inde-
pendently ; now they cannot.
Note a second difference. Separation from other men brings into
greater clearness the fact that the children are not only the Avife's
children, but his children ; and further, since among its neighbors his
group is naturally distinguished by his name, the children spoken of
as members of his group are otherwise spoken of as his children. The
establishment of male descent is thus facilitated. Simultaneously
there is apt to come acknowledged supremacy of the eldest son : the
first to give efficient aid to the father, the first to reach manhood, the
first likely to marry and have children, he is usually the one on whom
the powers of the father devolve as he declines and dies. Thus the
average tendency through successive generations will be for the eldest
male to become head of the increasing group, alike as family ruler
and political ruler the patriarch.
At the same time industrial cooperation is fostered. Savages of
the lowest types get roots and berries, shell-fish, vermin, small ani-
mals, etc., without joint action. Among those who, having reached
the advanced hunting stage, capture large animals, a considerable
combination is implied, though of an irregular kind. But on rising
to th stage in which flocks and herds have to be daily pastured and
guarded, and thoir products daily utilized, combined actions of many
kinds are necessitated ; and under the patriarchal rule these become
