ON THE EVOLUTION OF THE FAMILY. 259
regularized by apportionment of duties. This coordination of func-
tions, and consequent mutual dependence of parts, conduce to con-
solidation of the group as an organic whole. Gradually it becomes
impracticable for any member to carry on his life by himself, de-
prived not only of the family aid and protection, but of the food and
clothing yielded by the domesticated animals. So that the industrial
arrangements conspire with the governmental arrangements to pro-
duce a well-compacted aggregate, internally coherent and externally
marked oif definitely from other aggregates.
This process is furthered by disappearance of the less developed.
Other things equal, those groups which are most subordinate to their
leaders will succeed best in battle. Other things equal, those which,
submitting to commands longer, have grown into larger groups, will
thus benefit. And other things equal, advantages will be gained by
those in which, under dictation of the patriarch, the industrial coop-
eration has been rendered efficient. So that, by survival of the fittest
among pastoral groups struggling for existence with one another,
those which obedience to their heads and mutual dependence of parts
have made the strongest will be those to spread ; and in course of
time the patriarchal type will thus become well marked. Not, in-
deed, that entire disappearance of less-organized groups must result ;
since regions favorable to the process described facilitate the sur-
vival of smaller hordes, pursuing lives more predatory and less
pastoral. So that there may simultaneously grow up larger clusters
which develop into pastoral tribes, and smaller clusters which subsist
mainly by robbing them.
Mark next how, under these circumstances, there arise certain
arrangements respecting ownership. The division presupposed by
individualization of property cannot be carried far without appliances
which savage life does not furnish. Measures of time, measures of
quantity, measures of value, are required. When from the primitive
appropriation of things found, caught, or made, we pass to the acqui-
sition of things by barter and by service, we see that approximate
equality of value between the exchanged things is implied ; and in
the absence of recognized equivalence, which must be exceptional,
there will be great resistance to barter. Among savages, therefore,
property extends but little beyond the things a man can procure for
himself. Kindred obstacles occur in the pastoral group. How can
the value of the labor contributed by each to the common weal be
measured? To-day the cowherd can feed his cattle close at hand ; to-
morrow he must drive them far and get back late. Here the shepherd
tends his flock in rich pasture; and in a region next visited the sheep
disperse in search of scanty food, and he has great trouble in getting
in the strayed ones. No accounts of labor spent by either can be
kept, and thei-e are no current rates of wages to give ideas of their
respective claims to shares of produce. The work of the daughter or
