26o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tlie bondwoman, who milks and who fetches water, now from a well
.at hand and now Irom one farther off, varies from day to day ; and
its worth, as compared with the worths of other works, cannot be
known. So with the preparation of skins, the making of clothing, the
setting up of the tents. All these miscellaneous services, differing in
arduousness, duration, skill, cannot be paid for in money or produce
while there exists neither currency nor market in which the relative
values of articles and labors may be established by competition.
Doubtless a bargain for services rudely estimated as worth so many
cattle or sheep may be entered into. But beyond the fact that this
form of payment, admitting of but very rough equivalence, cannot
conveniently be carried out with all members of the group, there is
the fact that, even supposing it to be carried out, the members of the
group cannot separately utilize their respective portions. The sheep
have to be herded together; it would never do to send them out in
small divisions, each requiring its attendant. The milk which cows
yield must be dealt with in the mass could not without great loss of
labor be taken by so many separate milk-maids and treated afterward
in separate portions. So is it throughout. The members of the group
are naturally led into the system of giving their respective labors
and satisfying from the produce their respective wants : they have to
live as a corjjorate body. The patriarch, at once family-head, director
of industry, owner of all members of the group and its belongings,
regulates the labor of his dependents ; and, maintaining them out
of the common stock that results, is restrained in his distribution, as
in his conduct at large, only by traditional custom and by the pros-
pect of resistance and secession if he disregards too far the average
opinion.
The mention of secession introduces a remaining trait of the patri-
archal group. Small societies, mostly at enmity with surrounding so-
cieties, are anxious to increase the numbers of their men that they
may be stronger for war. Hence sometimes female infanticide, that
the rearing of males may be facilitated ; hence in some places, as parts
of Africa, a woman is forgiven any amount of irregularity if she bears
many children ; hence the fact that among the Hebrews barrenness
was so great a reproach. This wish to strengthen itself by adding to
its fighting-men leads each grouj) to welcome fugitives from other
groups. Everywhere, and in all times, there goes on desertion some-
times of rebels, sometimes of criminals. Stories of feudal ages, tell-
ing of knights and men-at-arms who, being ill-treated or in danger of
punishment, escape and take service with other princes or nobles, re-
mind us of what goes on at the present day in varioiis j^arts of Africa,
where the dependents of a chief who treats t])em too harshly leave
him and join some neighboring chief, and of what goes on among
such wandering South American tribes as the Coroados, members of
which join now one horde and now another, as impulse prompts. And
