ox THE EVOLUTION OF THE FAMILY. 261
that with pastoral peoples the like occurs, we have direct evidence :
Pallas tells us of the Calmucks and Mongols that men oppressed by a
chief desert and go over to other chiefs. Occasionally occurring eve-
rywhere, this fleeing from tribe to tribe entails ceremonies of incor-
poration if the stranger is of fit rank and worth exchange of names,
mingling of portions of blood, etc. by which he is supposed to be
made one in nature with those he has joined. What happens when
the gi'oup, instead of being of the hunting type, is of the patriai--
chal type ? Adoption into the tribe now becomes adoption into the
family. The tw^o being one the family being otherwise called, as in
Hebrew, " the tent " political incorporation is the same as domestic
incorporation. And adoption into the family, thus established as a
sequence of primitive adoption into the tribe, long persists in the de-
rived societies Avhen its original meaning is lost.
And now to test this interpretation. Distinct in nature as are
sundry races leading pastoral lives, we find that they have evolved
this social type when subject to these particular conditions. That it
was the type among early Semites does not need saying : they, in fact,
having largely served to exemplify its traits. That the Aryans during
their nomadic stage displayed it is implied by the account given above
of Sir Henry Maine's investigations and inferences. We find it again
among the Mongolian peoples of Asia ; and again among wholly alien
peoples inhabiting South Africa. Of the Hottentots, w'ho, exclusively
pastoral, differ from the neighboring Bechuanas and Caffres in not
cultivating the soil at all, we learn from Kolben that all estates " de-
scend to the eldest son, or, where a son is wanting, to the next male
relation;" and " an eldest son may after his father's death retain his
brothers and sisters in a sort of slavery." Let us note, too, that
among the neighboring Damaras, who, also exclusively pastoral, are
unlike in the respect that kinship in the female line still partially sur-
vives, patriarchal organization, whether of the family or the tribe, is
but little developed, and the subordination small ; and further, that
among the Caffres, who, though in large measure pastoral, are partly
agricultural, patriarchal rule, private and public, is qualified.
It would doubtless be unsafe to say that under no other conditions
than those furnished by pastoral life does there arise this family type.
We have no proof that it may not arise along with direct transition from
the hunting life to the agricultural life. But it would appear that usu-
ally this direct transition is accompanied by a different set of changes.
Where, as in Polynesia, pastoral life has been impossible, or where,
as in Peru and Mexico, we have no reason to suppose that it ever ex-
isted, the political and domestic arrangements, still characterized much
or little by the primitive system of descent in the female line, have
acquired qualified forms of male descent and its concomitant arrange-
ments ; but they appear to have done so under pressure of the influ-
ences which habitual militancy maintains. We have an indication of
