262 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
this in the statement of Gomara respecting the Peruvians that " neph-
ews inherit, and not sons, except in the case of the Incas." Still
better are we shown it by sundry African states. Among the coast
negroes, whose kinships are ordinarily through females, whose various
societies ai-e variously governed and most of them very unstable, male
descent has been established in some of the kingdoms. The inland
negroes, too, similarly retaining as a rule descent in the female line,
alike in the state and in the family, have acquired in their public and
private arrangements some traits akin to those derived from the patri-
archal system ; and the like is the case in Congo. Further, in the
powerful kingdom of Dahomey, where the monarchy has become
stable and absolute, male succession and jDrimogeniture are completely
established, and in the less desjjotically governed Ashantee partially
established.
But whether the patriarchal type of family may or may not arise
under other conditions, Ave may safely say that the pastoral life is most
favorable to development of it. From the general laws of evolution
it is a corollary that there goes on integration of any group of like
units simultaneously exposed to forces that are like in kind, amount,
and direction ; and obviously the members of a wandering family,
kept together by joint interests and jointly in antagonism with other
such families, wall become more integrated than the members of
a family associated with other families in a primitive tribe, all the
members of which have certain joint interests, and are jointly in
antagonism with external tribes. Just as we have seen that larger
social aggregates become coherent by the cooperation of their mem-
bers in conflict with neighboring like aggregates, so with this
smallest social aggregate constituted by the nomadic family. Of
the differentiations that simultaneously arise, the same may be said.
As the government of a larger society is evolved during its struggles
with other such societies, so is the government of this smallest society.
And as here the society and the family are one, the development of
the regulative structure of the society becomes the development of
the regulative family structure. Moreover, analogy suggests that the
higher organization given by this discipline to the family group makes
it a better component of societies afterward formed than are family
groups which have not passed through this discipline. Already we
have seen that great nations arise only by aggregation and reaggre-
gation : small communities have first to acquire some consolidation
and structure ; then they admit of union into compound communities,
which, when well integrated, may again be compounded into still
larger communities ; and so on. It now appears that social evolution
is most favored when this process begins with the smallest groups
the families : such groups, made coherent and definite in the way de-
scribed, and afterward compounded and recompounded, having origi-
nated the highest societies.
