GROUND-AIR IN ITS HYGIENIC RELATIONS. 285
surface of the column it arrives at than the outer air on the surface
of the other columu. If tliere were no liquid in the manometer, the
moved air would finally flow out of the manometer, and, as you see,
now that I have emptied the manometer, nearly blow out this candle.
In this way I believe that I liave convinced your senses that the
air can move through porous soils.
If the air in the ground can be set in motion by the pressure of
air or wind against its surface, there can be no doubt that the same
can be effected by differences of temperature, and by diffusion, and
generally by all causes which can produce movement of gases. As
long as the air in the ground is of a different temperature or compo-
sition from the free atmosphere, there must be exchange and motion.
I will only, in order to leave no doubt on your mind, direct your
attention to several well-known facts, which can only be explained
by the change of the ground-air.
All Christian nations bury their dead in the earth, to give back to
dust what came from dust. There are burial-grounds in which a
corpse decays completely in six to seven years, and others in which it
takes twenty-five to thirty years. The regulations about a second
occupation of a ground depend on this difference, and therefore towns
with an equal population may be obliged to have burial-grounds of
very different sizes. There are other circumstances of some influence
on the process of decay, but the principal one is the amount of, and
the facility for, the change of the air in the soil. Rubble and sandy
soils do the work much quicker than marl and clay soils. Striking
experiences in this respect have been made on the French battle-
fields, chiefly near Sedan, where a Belgian chemist, Louis Creteur,
had to disinfect the large dead-pits. The bodies were buried in
chalk, quarry, rubble, sand, argillite, slate, marl, or clay soils, and
the sad work lasted from the beginning of March to the end of June.
In rubble the decay had taken place fully, but in clay the bodies were
surprisingly well kept, even after a very long time, and even the
features could be identified.
As the processes of putrefaction and decay are intimately con-
nected with the activity of certain lower organisms, which prey upon
the dead, it is sufficiently clear that these organisms must thrive dif-
ferently in different kinds of soil. A lively change of air and water
in the ground appears to be of great influence in this respect ; the
more air in the ground the richer the underground life.
Remarkable testimony as to the permeability of the ground, and
of the foundations of our houses, has been given by gas emanations
into houses which had no gas laid on. I know cases where persons
were poisoned and killed by gas which had to travel for twenty feet
under the street, and then through the foundations, cellar-vaults, and
flooring of the ground-floor rooms. As these kinds of accidents hap-
pened only in winter, they have been brought forward as a proof that
