288 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in life, put up Avith being left behind, although we had the first
start, and I have no choice left but to resign myself.
Tlie presence of carbonic acid in the soil and its periodical motion
are for the present a bare fact. Other places, with difierent soils,
must be examined under varying circumstances, and for longer pe-
riods, before an explanation can be attempted.
The first question which naturally meets us is that about the origin
of this gas. It cannot spring from the humus of the surface, because
at Munich and Dresden its quantity is smallest in the immediate
neighborhood of the surface, where the humus lies, and increases in
proportion to the distance thence. As the amount of carbonic
acid in the ground-air generally increases the nearer this is to the
ground-water, we should be at first sight inclined to assume that it
evaporates from it. Is it not a fact that the ground-water which
feeds wells and sources contains this gas ? And is it not well known
that many a well's shaft contains so much carbonic acid as to extin-
guish a burning candle at the distance of a few feet only from its
o23ening ? This assumption, however, is not justified for several rea-
sons, according to the researches and exjDeriments made at Munich :
1. There are two months in the year when the amount contained
in the upper stratiim, which is at the greatest distance from the
ground-water, is larger than in the lower. 2. I have examined simul-
taneously, at given places, the amount of the gas both in the ground-
water and in the ground-air, and have investigated whethej-, accord-
ing to the laws of diffusion and absorption, either had a suri:)lus of
the gas, and was accordingly in a condition to receive or yield some
of it. In every case the amount of carbonic acid in the ground-air
was larger by fifty per cent, than in the ground-water, so it is clear
that it is the water which receives its carbonic acid from the air, and
not vice versa.
Hereby the question about the origin of the gas is certainly not yet
answered, and would have been left equally unsettled if we had to
ask, Whence comes all the carbonic acid which is found in the ground-
water? All this water is precipitated from the atmosphere, from rain
or snow. In entering the soil as meteoric water its amount of car-
bonic acid is exceedingly small. By help of Bunsen's analytical tables
it is easy to calculate, from the quantity of carbonic acid in the at-
mosphere, and the absoi-bing power of water for this gas, that one
pint of rain-water at the average temperature and barometrical press-
ure can only contain a very small fraction of a grain of carbonic acid,
and this has been proved further by analytical experience. But the anal-
ysis of the pump-water in Munich which was poorest in carbonic acid
showed that it contained on an average l|^to \-^ grain of the free gas.
The ground-water at the places of examination stands about sixteen
feet from the surface. It is therefore evident that the meteoric water,
which is the sole source of the ground-water, must more than centuple
