GROUND-AIR IN ITS HYGIENIC RELATIONS. 289
its original jimount of carbonic acid before it reaches the wells. Thus
mucli is certain, that the source of the carbonic acid must be sought
for in the soil, and for this reason the more natural supposition is,
that the soil yields the gas and gives it to the water and to the air
simultaneously, but naturally with greater facility and in greater
quantity to the air than to the water. The sources of the carbonic
acid in the soil have now to undergo a stricter investigation ; tlie
probability is, they owe their origin to organic processes in the soil.
Allow me, now, a few more concluding and valedictory words.
In the introduction to my lectures I thought it incumbent upon
me to give you my views about popular lectures in general. Those
views necessarily excluded the possibility of disposing, in a few hours,
of any one subject of hygiene in such a manner as to impart to my
audience a thorough theoretical and practical knowledge. My hesita-
tion in selection lasted some time. I might have collected and de-
scribed the last works and tendencies in the field of hygiene, pointing
out what had practically succeeded, and what ought to be aimed at
further and there is a series of interesting points and facts, forming
a most grateful subject for lecturing ; or I might have attempted to
give you a survey, a kind of bird's-eye view of the whole domain of
hygienic science. There is a charm, in the contemplation of a grand
and beautiful distant landscape, in marking, first, the more interesting
points ; then to let the eye wander round them till it comes to the next
striking point, and to enjoy to the utmost the sight of the rich view.
I might, perhaps, have succeeded in satisfying your expectations
up to a certain point, but I thought it preferable to direct and to con-
centrate your attention mainly upon one single object which is known
to every one, and which seems to be so thorouglily examined that
many believe that there is very little to say about it the air, in its
hygienic relations to man's clothing, to his dwelling-place, and to the
soil on which he builds.
It is such a natural error to imagine that we cannot but understand
everything with which we are in continual intercourse; but, if we
take the trouble of looking a little more closely into everything of
which we make daily use, we shall soon make tlie humiliating dis-
covery that we are acting preeminently according to instinct and tra-
dition, and much less by personal understanding. Each period has its
own task, to contribute and to create something by which civilization
gains materially or ideally. But if at any one period we examine
into the daily life of its generation, we shall find a great deal more
that is inherited than self-acquired. This fact ought to make us mod-
est and zealous, but also just and thankful toward our forefathers, who
did not possess or know many things which we possess and know now.
As animals make use of Nature and her laws in a multifarious and
surprisingly appropriate manner, so does man also. Each carrier on
the road makes use of the laws of motion and friction, and of those
VOL. XI. 19
