290 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of living force and its preservation, but he does so for the most part
quite mechanically, so that he appears to think no more about it than
the beaver when he builds his hut. Man also does most things long
before he understands them, and this is part of his nature. If he
could make use of things only after having thoroughly investigated
them, his life would be a poor one, and barely possible. If we had to
study the functions of our clothing and its material before we could
put it on, we should be frozen to death long before, and no carrier
would have attempted to horse his cart before the time of Galileo and
Newton,
Here I find myself drawing a dangerous parallel. You may ask
me at once whether I believe a carrier will be a better carrier for un-
derstanding the laws of motion, and whether our clothing and our
dwellings will one day be superior to what they are now, because we
shall then have learned to understand their functions better. I leave
the answer to the future with the utmost confidence. The experience
of the past sets me completely at ease. At all times and everywhere
it has been the case that each progress in the recognition of laws, that
each new fact established, and each new method applied by science,
each new way on which science has directed us, has finally had its
practical and useful consequences. Excuse me if I continue to dwell
on this favorite subject of mine.
What men call useful is quite a relative term ; they call a thing so
as soon as they find out what use they can make of it. Of course, a
thing must exist before we recognize it, and we must become aware
of certain of its properties and relations before we can make use of
them for any practical purpose. Certainly the recognition of the laws
of motion by Galileo, Kepler, Newton, Laplace, and others, has not
brought about a revolution, or made a sensation among the carriers,
but from these recognized laws sprang and were evolved new ideas,
purified from the gross pi-imitive slag, and they led on to the railway,
etc. Other examples demonstrate still more clearly the connection
betAveen theory and practice.
Electric telegraphy, which is not only practical and useful, but al-
ready indispensable to us, had its first origin in the observations of
the anatomist Galvani, who saw the legs of frogs quiver when they
came in contact with different metals. Imagine to yourself great
practical men of the time, whether statesmen, or divines, or soldiers,
or physicians, witnessing Galvani's experiments going on year after
year ; certainly every one of them would have thought that the man
could apply himself to something more useful. But from that form
of electricity which Galvani detected there sj^rung the researches and
works of Volta, Summering, Stcinheil, Morse, and Wheatstone, to
whom we owe the whole of our telegraphic system. Place together
in your mind the quivering leg of the frog and the transatlantic cable.
After the- discovery of Columbus the Spaniards found in the sand
