GROUND-AIR IN ITS HYGIENIC RELATIONS. 291
of a river grains of a white metal, whicli was not affected by fire, and
appeared, therefore, to be a noble metal. Quantities were brought to
Europe, and the new metal received the modest name of platina (low
silver), this being a diminutive of la plata (silver). The masters of
the Mint, the gold and silver smiths, had soon formed their ideas
about the new metal ; it could neither be melted by itself, nor ham-
mered, nor rolled, nor dissolved in aqua-fortis. It was only soluble
in aqua-regia and other melted metals, but the combinations were all
brittle and discolored ; in short, it came to be considered a perfectly
useless metal, practically worth less than lead and iron. Its importa-
tion was prohibited by the Spanish Government, because there was
danger of its high specific gravity leading to its use for the adul-
teration of gold. What platina there was in the country already was
thrown into the sea by order. But Science, who makes no difference
between the useful and useless, and considers everything useful which
increases our insight into the things that are, has quietly held inter-
course with the outcast metal ; she learned how to tame the shrew,
and since Wollaston platina is considered to be one of the most pliable
and useful of metals; just what were originally considered its vices
have enhanced its value so raitch in the course of time that weight for
weight the " low silver " is paid seven times as much for as the " high
silver."
Modern times have not ceased furnishing numerous examples of
the same kind, showing that it is not the business of science to ask
for the immediate profit, for the immediate practical use. They do
not fail to come forth in time.
Science may point to the words of the Bible : " But seek ye first
the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall
be added unto you." All sciences are provinces of God's infinite
kingdom, and in them, as everywhere in God's kingdom. Justice is
dealt by Truth alone. This was my standpoint, which helped me
over the doubts I might have had concerning the utiUty of these
lectures. It seemed to me that the principal thing was not to present
to you a series of practical applications and contrivances, but a series
of truths, which carry in themselves their use and applicability, and
impose their authority in proportion as they are talked over more fre-
quently, understood more clearly, and felt more vividly.
But I wanted to tell you the whole truth about the things which
formed the subject of my lectures, and it became my duty to draw
your attention not only to what is positively known, what is com-
plete, what requires no further investigation, but also to point out
to you much greater fields of hygiene, Avhere scarcely a seed has
been sown. Otherwise I should probably have jeopardized the only
and immediate practical use which my lectures can have here, and
which I believe to be this: that the conviction may spread and take
root everywhere, that hygiene has been neglected until now, prac-
