MESMERISM, ODYLISM, TABLE-TURNING, ETC. 13
of which ordinary experience does not furnish the rationale. And
while this very continuity is maintained by some to be an evidence of
the real existence of such agencies, it will be my purpose to show you
tliat it proves nothing more than the wide-spread diftusion, alike among
minds of the highest and of the lowest culture, of certain tendencies to
thought, which have either created ideal marvels possessing no foun-
dation whatever in fact, or have by exaggeration and distortion in-
vested with a preternatural character occurrences which ai-e perfectly
capable of a natural explanation. Thus, to go no further back than
the first century of the Christian era, we find the most wonderful nar-
rations, alike in the writings of pagan and Christian historians, of the
doings of the Eastern " sorcerers " and Jewish " exorcists " who had
spread themselves over the Roman Empire. Among these the Simon
Magus slightly mentioned in the book of Acts was one of the most
conspicuous, being recorded to have gained so great a repute for his
" ma^-ic arts " as to have been summoned to Rome by Nero to exhibit
them before him ; and a Christian father goes on to tell how, when
Simon was borne aloft through the air in a winged chariot in the sight
of the emperor, the united praters of the apostles Peter and Paul, pre-
vailing over the demoniacal agencies that sustained him, brought him
precipitately to the ground. In our own day, not only are we seri-
ously assured by a nobleman of high scientific attainments that he
himself saw Mr. Home sailing in the air, by moonlight, out of one
window and in at another, at a height of seventy feet from the ground ;
but eleven persons unite in declaring that Mrs. Guppy was not only
conveyed through the air in a trance all the way from Highbury Park
to Lamb's Conduit Street, but was brought by invisible agency into a
room of which the doors and windows were closed and fastened, com-
ing " plump down " in a state of complete unconsciousness and partial
deshabille upon a table, round which they were sitting in the dark,
shoulder to shoulder.
Of course, if you accept the testimony of these witnesses to the
aerial flights of Mr. Home and Mrs. Guppy, you can have no reason
whatever for refusing credit to the historic evidence of the demoniacal
elevation of Simon Magus, and the victory obtained over his demons
by the two apostles. And you are still more bound to accept the
solemnly-attested proofs recorded in the proceedings of our law courts
within the last two hundred years, of the aerial transport of witches
to attend their demoniacal festivities ; the belief in witchcraft being
then accepted not only by the ignorant vulgar, but by some of the
wisest men of the time, such as Lord Bacon and Sir Matthew Hale,
Bishop Jewell, Richard Baxter, Sir Thomas Browne, and Addison,
while the denial of it was considered as virtual atheism.
The general progress of rationalism, however, as Mr, Lecky has
well shown, has changed all this ; and to accept any of these marvels
we must place ourselves in the mental attitude of the narrator of Mrs.
