DISCOVERY OF CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. 295
the exploits of conquering heroes, and yet pass almost unnoticed the
achievements of men of science. Few persons are at all acquainted
with the history of when and how, through a series of successive
revelations, this truly wonderful function came to be thoroughly
understood. It is a long and delightful story if followed through all
its details, which I shall, however, endeavor to cut short in relating
it to persons outside of the medical profession. We are obliged to
glance back through several centuries and make the acquaintance of
nearly a score of anatomical celebrities, who have each contributed
some observation or discovery leading to the final comprehension and
complete interpretation of God's beautiful but simple method of cir-
culating the vital fluid and keeping it ever replenished and pure.
The pathway to the climax of this discovery was not only long
but rugged, hedged in by deeply-rooted errors, and obscured by rank
prejudices ancient and wide-spread. The errors must be destroyed,
the clouds dispelled, parts carefully observed; the explorers must
work slowly and cautiously, and what is discovered must be explained.
Thus it came to pass that anatomists discovered one thing after an-
other, and little by little the light of truth dawned upon their minds,
wherewith they saw and gave the world sensible ideas of the uses of
parts, when eventually " the immortal Harvey," the crowning light,
the clear-headed philosopher, the Newton of physiology, drew the
simple chart of the double circulation. This event took place two
hundred and fifty-seven years ago, for it was in 1619 that Harvey
completed the discovery. He made no haste to tell the world what
he had done, except what the individuals of his classes learned from
his lectures, for he taught his discoveries ten full years before he pub-
lished his modest but wonderful little book " Concerning the Motion
of the Heart and Blood in Living Creatures," printed in Latin at
Frankfort-on-the-Main, in a thin quarto of only seventy-two pages, in
the year of grace 1628.
I propose to give a brief account of the antecedent errors and
discoveries to the time of Harvey that of Erasistratus, who taught
that the arteries were air-vessels ; of Galen, who demonstrated that
they are blood-vessels as well as the veins ; of Vesalius, who convinced
the world that Galen erred in declaring that holes existed in the par-
tition between the two sides of the heart; of Servetus, Columbus, and
Caesalpinus, who, quite independently of each other, discovered the
circulation through the lungs ; of Fabricius, who discovered the valves
in the veins ; of Harvey, who first comprehended the entire circula-
tion; of Asellius,who discovered the lacteals ; Pecquet, the receptacle
of the chyle ; Rudbeck, the lymphatics of the liver ; and, lastly, of
Thomas Bartholin, who discovered the lymphatics of the whole
body.
Erasistratus (300-260 b. c), a Greek physician and anatomist, of
lulis (the modern Zea), in the island of Ceos, was the grandson of the
