296 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
illustrious Aristotle, being the son of one of his daughters. It is said
that he was so fond of anatomical pursuits that he retired from his prac-
tice in Alexandria, where he had settled, the better to gratify his taste.
He wrote several treatises which are lost, and all we possess of his
writings are a few fragments preserved in the works of Galen. From
these we learn that he gave names to the auricles of the heart. He
declared that the veins only were blood-vessels, and that the arteries,
as their name implies, were air-vessels. The sole purpose of breath-
ing was to fill the artei-ies with air; the air distended the arteries
and made them beat, the air caused the pulse. The air, once in
the left ventricle of the heart, became the vital spirits. The office
of the veins was to convey blood to the extremities. Wlien the
veins carried blood only and the arteries were filled with vital spirits,
then perfect health was maintained ; but the entrance of blood into
the arteries, which he admitted to sometimes occur, was abnormal
and the source of disease fevers when it entered some noble part or
into a great artery, and inflammations when it was found in the less
noble parts or in the extremities of the arteries. Thus it is seen that
a stupendous error was established on a mighty authority. This error
Avas destroyed by Galen four hundred years subsequently to the time
of Erasistratus.
Claudius Galen (a. d. 131), next to Hippocrates the most cele-
brated physician the world ever produced, was born at Pergamus, in
Asia Minor, about the year of our Lord 131, and educated in anatomy
and medicine at Alexandria, then the most famous school in the world.
At the age of thirty-four he settled at Rome, where he distinguished
himself as a skillful practitioner, and became the physician to the Em-
peror Marcus Aurelius. The period of his death is not known, but it is
stated that he was still living in the reign of Septimius Severus. Galen
was a voluminous writer. A considerable number of his works are
lost, and yet eighty-two treatises, more or less complete, survive and
are in print. Tlie writer of this sketch felicitates himself in the pos-
session of a fine copy of the " Editio Princeps," in five ponderous folios,
printed in Greek, by the celebrated Aldine press, at Venice, 1525.
For a period of nearly fourteen centuries this vast mass more volu-
minous than the entire Bible was copied and recopied with the pens
of scribes ! Who can duly appreciate the value of the press ? Galen
proved that the arteries are blood-vessels, and thus destroyed the error
of Erasistratus. He said, when an artery is opened, blood alone
gushes out and no air. He tied an artery at two places a little distance
apart, and on opening the vessel found it filled with blood only. The
followers of Erasistratus wanted to know how the air from the lungs
entered all parts of the body, to whom Galen replied that the air
entered the lungs to cool the blood, after which it was expelled. This
theory was held so late as the last century, even by the renowned
physiologist Albrecht von Haller. Galen declared the pulse to be the
