298 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Andreas Vesalius, of Brussels. The next great actor on the
stage, comes the renowned Vesalius, the Lnther of anatomy, the bold
and defiant reformei", who, by persevering diligence and pains-tak-
ing observation, corrected the numerous errors of all his predecess-
ors, and notably those of Galen. This wonderful young man, before
he attained the age of thirty, published the most extensive, accurate,
and in every sense the most magnificent work on human anatomy the
-world ever saw ; wealth was lavished on its illustration and sumjitu-
ous publication. Jan Stephan van Calcar, the favorite pupil and
-wonderful imitator of the world-renowned Titian (not Titian himself,
as some have declared), was employed to design anatomical figures,
and the best engravers cut them in wood to adorn that massive and
splendid old folio that opus magnum, which was published in Basel,
in the year 1543, three and a third centuries ago.
It is the delight of the medical bibliomaniac to procure a good copy
of this rare book. The writer of this essay sought vigilantly for a
score of years, failing to secure it until quite recently, and then from
the library of a deceased friend, who was an ardent lover of the
medical classics. He too had sought in vain for this book, and at last,
after long rummaging the dusty and mouldy antiquarian book-stalls'
of many an ancient city in Europe, laid his hands upon a fine copy of
the "Corporis Humani Fabrica," which he ever after regarded as the
gem of his collection, as it certainly now is (almost sacred by melan-
choly association) the greatest treasure of my own. I wish we had
time to stop just here, that I might give you a sketch of the life of
Vesalius. Henry Morley, Professor of English Literature in the Uni-
versity of London, has written a lively and lovely little biography
of this great anatomist, Avhich is far more fascinating than any ro-
mance.
The great Vesalius, justly styled "the father of modern anatomy,"
subjected the septum, between the right and left cavities of the heart,
to a thorough scrutiny, and found tliat no holes existed in it, and then
had the boldness to declare the truth in spite of the previously un-
questioned authority of Galen, whose writings were sacred in the esti-
mation of all physicians. Thenceforth anatomists ceased to believe
and teach this great error which Vesalius dispelled and sw^ept away,
and thus it came to pass that the second great step was taken toward
the discovery of the circulation of the blood.
On the 27th day of October, in the year 1553, on a hill not
far from the old SavIss city of Geneva, could be seen a motley
gathering of anxious and excited men, women, and children, and
among them a goodly number of learned doctors of divinity, chiefly
Protestants, conspicuous among whom was John Calvin, all assem-
bled to witness a scene of extrem.e horror. There stood, lashed to
a post, a scholar past forty years of age, who in his time had im-
bued himself in the learning of three professions law^, divinity.
