300 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
"I have seen, I have touched, the book of Servetus ! " He then goes
on to state that it is perhaps the only copy now in existence ; that it
belonged to Colladon, one of the accusers raised uj) by the pitiless
Calvin against the unfortunate Servetus ; that this copy formerly
belonged to the celebrated English physician Dr, Richard Mead, and
was afterward purchased by the Royal Library of France at a very
high price. In it, says Flourens, Colladon has underscored the pas-
sages upon which he accused Servetus ; and that, finally, as a last
mark of undeniable authority, several pages of this unlucky volume
are scorched and blackened by fire. It was not saved from the pile
where author and work were burned together until after the confla-
gration had commenced.
In this rare book is contained the first account ever written of the
pulmonary circulation. I will not stop to quote the exact words as I
have them in translation, but will briefly state that, in plain and un-
mistakable language, he declares that all the blood is sent by the con-
traction of the heart from the right ventricle through the pulmonary
artery into the lungs, where it is changed from dark to red in color by
the atmospheric air, and thence returned to the left side of the heart
through the j^ulmonary veins which is strictly true. Servetus denied
the old doctrine of Galen, that the liver was the seat of sanguifica-
tion, and declared it to be the lungs.
Thus it is seen that, long before the day of Harvey, there was a
man of genius occupied with this great subject of the circulation of
the blood, and that man was Michael Servetus.
I will add but a word to this sketch, already too long, in explana-
tion of the occurrence of these physiological considerations in a meta-
physical treatise of this kind. Servetus was discussing the Scriptural
assertion that the soul is in the blood, that the soul is the blood
itself; and hence, as Flourens states the case, "' Since the soul is in
the blood,' says Servetus, 'to know how the soul is formed it is
necessary to know how the blood is formed ; and, to leaini this, we
must see how it moves. ' "
But Servetus was not equally clear in his views of the general or
systemic circulation. " He speaks confidently of the nerves being
continuations of the arteries, and describes, with grave precision, how
the air passes from the nose into the ventricles of the brain, and how
the devil takes the same route to lay siege to the soul." '
Realdo Columbus (1544-"77). This celebrated anatomist, one of
the best of that illustrious line which gave glory to the medical school
of Padua in the sixteenth century, was a native of the city of Cre-
mona, which is about fifty miles from Milan, in Italy. He flourished
about the year 1544, and was a pupil of the renowned Vesalius. Co-
lumbus made several important discoveries and improvements in the
knowledge of anatomy. He rediscovered the pulmonary circulation
' " Blackwood's Edlnhurgh Magazine, August, 1858, p. 151.
