DISCOVERY OF CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. 301
six yeai's after Servetus's ill-fated book was printed, and unquestiona-
bly without any knowledge of what was in it ; for it does not appear
that the discovery by Servetus was known to the world, or produced
any influence whatever upon any individual, OAving to the character
of the work in which it appeared, and to its thorough destruction by
fire.
The description which Columbus gives of the circulation of the
blood through the lungs is very complete, clear, and concise. " Be-
tween the two ventricles is the septum through which it is believed
the blood passes from the right to the left ; but this is a great mistake,
for the blood is carried by the arterial vein into the Ivmgs ; thence it
passes, with the air, by the venous artery, into the left ventricle of the
heart, which no one has yet seen."
His work, " De Re Anatomica," was published in 1559. Columbus
died in 1577.
Andreas C^salpinus (1519-1603). This third aspirant for the
glory of discovering the pulmonary circulation was born at Arezzo,
thirty-eight miles from Florence, Italy, about the year 1519. He was
an eminent philosopher, a celebrated botanist, and a distinguished
physiologist. He was for many years a professor at Pisa, and subse-
quently called to Rome, where he also jirofessed, and received the
appointment of first physician to Pope Clement VHI. He spent the
last years of his life in Rome, where he died February 23, 1603.
The great naturalist Linnaeus styled Ctesalpinus the first systematic
writer on botany, and followed his classification in many particulars,
making it the basis of his own. The history of the physical sciences
gives more than one example of the discovery of an important fact
by two or more persons, in different places and at difierent dates, each
without previous knowledge of what the other had observed. So do
we find it in this instance, Csesalpinus rediscovered the jiulmonary
circulation without knowing that both Servetus and Columbus had
each previously and independently discovered the same, for he no-
where alludes to them ; and he was too noble and honorable a man to
bedeck himself with glories not his own.
Moreover, this man was the first who ever employed the felicitous
and expressive words, " the circulation of the blood."
"This circulation,^'' said he, " which carries the blood from the
right heart through the lung into the left, corresponds perfectly with
the disposition of the parts. For each ventricle has two vessels : one
by which the blood arrives, and the other by which it departs. The
vessel by which the blood arrives at the right ventricle is the vena
cava ; that by which it leaves is the pulmonary artery. The vessels
which pour the blood into the left ventricle are the pulmonary veins ;
the vessel which affords it exit is the aorta.''''
No man can describe it more accurately. But Cnesalpinus did not
stop here. He was the first and only one before Harvey who gave the
