3o6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
strated l>y Marcellus Malpighius, who was born the very year that
Harvey's work was published, 1628.
I will conclude my long story by merely mentioning the discov-
eries of the lacteals, the receptacle of the chyle, and the lymphatics.
Harvey discovered the circulation in 1619, and published it in 1628.
Aselli discovered the lacteals in 1622 ; Pecquet the receptacle of the
chyle in 1648; Rudbeck and Thomas Bartholin the lymphatics be-
tween 1650 and 1652. This was a glorious period indeed !
Thus it came to pass that the united labors of all these worthy
men and labors they were, and worthy men were they resulted in
giving the world a simple, clear, and satisfactory solution of the
manner of the circulation of the nutrient fluids of the body.
Next all-fools-day will be the tercentenary of Harvey, when all
Christendom ought to be interested in the justice of bis claims to the
glory of consummating a discovery of so much consequence to man-
kind. No mere national pride should bias the minds of men whereby
memorials may be placed at Rome, Pisa, and Bologna, in rivalry with
that which is to be erected at Folkestone, in England, to commem-
orate the time and place of Harvey's birth.
->-
OYER-CONSUMPTION OR OYER-PRODUCTION ?
By 0. B. BUNCE.
WHY does the prevailing business depression continue ? Why
are the times so " hard ? " Why is the long-hoped-for revival
of trade so backward ? What is it that has put the times so disas-
trously out of joint ?
Every one is asking these questions, and nearly every one is ready
with an answer. Some will declare that the trouble is all of the green-
backs ; others will go so far as to affirm that the lack of greenbacks is
the cause. Almost every one will assert that over-speculation has
something to do with it : some will attribute the whole mischief to
the intense railway "craze" of a few years ago, and the consequent
losses. Not a few are confident that extravagance and over-trading
are the explanation. There seems to be no general agreement of
opinion ; even men of equal business knowledge and experience dif-
fer essentially in their views as to the genesis and remedy of the
evil, and the professors of political science are scarcely nearer of
accord.
There has recently come from an eminent English authority in
political economy an authoritative declaration in the matter. No one
will deny that Prof. Bonamy Price's essay denominated " One per
