OVER-CONSUMPTION OR OVER-PRODUCTION ? 307
Cent." ' is eminently readable ; the professor knows how to give lit-
erary grace and vivid interest to a theme commonly considered
u (jj.y . >> \^ jg further true that anything he may utter on the topic is
entitled to great respect and. consideration. At the same time there
is no reputation so exalted that the assertions and arguments made
public under its sanction should not be and may not be examined and
tested. Now, to our mind Prof. Price is often logically wrong in his
essay referred to ; we can but think that many of the reasons he as-
signs for the great business depression which now prevails in Amer-
ica, England, and Germany are fallacious and misleading, and, with
all modesty, it is our present purpose to give the reasons why.
The title of" One per Cent." is given to Prof. Price's article be-
cause one per cent, has been for some time the ruling rate of discount
in the London money-market (just as from two to three per cent, has
been for many months the quotation for call loans in Wall Street),
funds in the hands of bankers being in excess of the needs of borrow-
ers and traders. Trade is curtailed, production restricted, stagnation
is evident in every branch of industry, and this general paralysis
causes in the financial centres such a flow of money that it is offered
to loan at an almost nominal discount.
The cause of this wide-spread depression, according to Prof. Price,
is one, and one only " over-spending, over-consuming, destroying
more wealth than is produced. This," he says, " is the real fons
mail, the root of all the disorder and the suffering, the creator of the
inevitable sequence of cause and effect. Men have acted as a man
who farmed his own land and had consumed not only the portion of
the crops which were his true income . . . but had himself and his
dependents devoured a portion of the seed-corn and the breeding-
stock, had exchanged a portion of the produce which was required
for wages in the coming year for foreign luxuries, or had consumed
these necessary reserves on an excess of drainage, however valuable
in itself and ultimately enriching."
This is the core of Prof. Price's argument. The prostration of
trade has arisen from extravagance, he repeatedly declares. " The
commercial depression, so long, so monotonous, so heavy, and so dull,
came from the excessive consumption of English capital in unwar-
ranted constructions beyond savings, and unwarranted expenditure in
living by all classes, which destroyed wealth without repairing it
with new productions."
But elsewhere he says : "Up to the extent of the savings of the
nation, expenditure on railways can do no economical or financial
harm ; and these invaluable developers of wealth may on such a basis
be rationally acquired for the public good. Any outlay made out of
savings, be what it may, is innocent of mischief; it may do no good,
1 Contemporary Review, London, and reprinted here in The Popular Science Month-
ly SCPPLEMENT, No. 1.
