OVER-CONSUMPTION OR OVER-PRODUCTION ? 309
products ; but it must be a marvelously extensive over-consumption
that impairs the means for restoring them that renders it impossible
for fixed capital machinery, furnaces, shafts to be set in productive
operation.
Can Prof. Price give an instance where any civilized nation, unless
at war, or suffering from some great calamity, has impaired its capi-
tal by over-consumption ? Can he name a period when, at the end of
any year, with the exceptions mentioned, England has possessed less
wealth than at the beginning of that year ? When, in modern times,
have a people impaired their capital by over-consumption ? When
and where has extravagance brought a community to ruin ? Where
are the instances? What are the occasions? Who can produce the
statistics that will establish this theory ? Not but what there may be,
and often are, hurtful extravagance and speculative excesses ; but these
are usually special to a class. The great bocly of a people are rarely
consumers to the extent they are producers ; quietly, in a million of
minor ways, the wealth of a country increases even in times of de-
pression. We find current in the journals a paragraph which affirms
that last year the valuation of property in England, exclusive of Lon-
don, increased $14,335,000 too little, no doubt, but something differ-
ent from the destruction of more wealth than is produced. Very
rarely, indeed, if ever, has the capital of a country in normal periods
of peace been really impaired, however much distress an imperfect
distribution of labor and of profits may have caused.
Let us say here that the ordinary idea of national extravagance
meaning excessive expenditure by the people, and not governmental
expenses is peculiarly erroneous ; an assertion we confidently make,
notwithstanding the fact that Prof. Price accepts the usual theory.
He declares that " a nation is only an aggregate of individuals," that
" analysis will always resolve the action of the single man, and the
combined cooperation of a host, etc., into the same constituent parts ;"
that is to say, over-spending and over-consumption are of the same
nature, whether exhibited by an individual or a community.
Now, we think it can be shown that expenditure in the case of an
individual and expenditure in case of a large group of individuals
have certain very essential differences. When a community ex-
changes its goods for foreign luxuries to an extent to impair its pro-
ductive capital, or has invested in railways or similar enterprises so
as to reduce its working capital, it is in the position of an individual
who has lived beyond his income. But the difference between an in-
dividual and a community is, that the income of the former is abso-
lutely fixed, that of the other is wholly expansive. In truth, in an
immense number of things, a community is rich because it consumes^
abundance being the product and consequence of extensive destruction.
It is evident that the immense consumption of coal has made
coal cheap and abundant. It has rendered possible the employment
