310 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of vast capital in the erection of costly niacLinery for the working of
the mines, for tlie construction of adequate means of transportation,
thereby making remote deposits accessible, and enabling capitalists
to work the mines at the minimum of cost, which never would have
been done had not the vast consumption of coal rendered it wise and
practicable to do so. It is true the consumption of coal is increased by
cheapness ; but it is only by extravagance, so to speak, by free and
extensive use of coal, that the machinery by which it is made cheap is
put in operation. We have an immense wealth of coal because we
consume coal so extensively ; if we used but little we should have
little, and this little would be dear.
This rule works in all or nearly all our staples. Cotton fabrics
are a marvel of cheapness and abundance. The consumption and
the possibilities of extended consumption have stimulated invention
and industry so greatly that the world has become wealthy in its
supply of this staple alone. Rarely, indeed, is there a woman so
jjoor that she cannot own a calico gown ; few are the men so destitute
as to be without cotton shirts. We have this staple in almost un-
limited abundance, as the direct result of the most extended con-
sumption. It is the same thing with wool, with flax, with paper,
Avith iron, with brick, with many other things.
So peculiarly different is the operation of expenditure with a com-
munity from that of an individual, that it is worth while to trace it
still further. Let us suppose a town about to erect a grand cathedral,
or some other public structure that requires a very large quantity of
stone. At first flush it would seem as if a great deal of valuable
material would be used in a purpose unnecessary and unproductive ;
but, as a practical fact, the building-material is likely to become more
abundant and cheaper than it ever was before. The unusually large
consumption of stone would lead either to the opening of new quar-
ries or the erection of improved machinery for working the stone, and
to the construction of railways, boats, etc., for facilitating its transpor-
tation ; so that stone for building purposes would thereafter be
cheaper and more abundant as the consequence of what at first sight
appeared a wasteful consumption. In all staple things, at least, a
nation is richer because it consumes, while a man is richer by what
he saves. We are better housed, better fed, better clothed, we have
a thousand things of taste and pleasure, because our eager and de-
vouring appetites have stimulated energy, skill, invention, to their
utmost to cater for us.
We say nothing as to which is the wisest direction for consumption
to take, with all it stimulating power ; we do not deny that consump-
tion may make champagne, diamonds, silks, broadcloth, fine furniture
abundant, at the cost of more useful and desirable things. The thing
is simply that the energy, the zeal, the exertion of men are so expan-
sive, that great demand compels to great production ; and, of course,
