312 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
railway may be a foolish and unremnnerative enterprise ; but this has
to do with the individuals concerned; the community, in the supposi-
titious cases we have made, mighty let us suppose, have been better off
had the expenditures of those individuals taken some other form, if
the material and the labor had gone into something productive (let us
believe there are other good things in the world than economic pro-
duction) ; but no injury, no loss, no diminution of wealth has oc-
curred and this is the main thing. A passage quoted from Prof.
Price in the earlier part of our article affirms this.
We hear a great deal about the railroad " craze " of a few years
ago, and of the immense sums sunk in those foolish and extravagant
ventures. But the sums of money commonly mentioned are mislead-
ing. As we have fully explained, the money simply changed hands;
what was really lost by those enterprises was the goods and bullion
exported to pay for the iron purchased abroad, and the food and
clothing consumed by the laborers, over and above what their con-
sumption would otherwise have been ; in addition to which is the loss
of the misdirected energy. This was all very large, no doubt ; but far
from being what the figures commonly quoted represent it to be.
There is, moreover, no evidence that this loss was anything more than
a part of our surplus ; the assumption that it impaired our capital,
and depleted our productive resources, is wholly groundless. No
one can say, we imagine, that capital was withdrawn from any other
pursuit ; that productive industry in any direction was weakened by a
secession of its resources by this " craze." The nation was much in
the position of a merchant who has many ventures abroad, some of
which have proved disastrous. His jirofits are reduced, but his ability
to keep his numerous ships afloat is not impaired. Even had the rail-
road investments partially reduced our capital, it is really monstrous
to assume that we could not have recovered from the blow in much
less than four years of time. Whatever the cause of the business
prostration may be, it evidently is something that lies deep, some-
thing far more serious than the loss of a part of our wealth. A mer-
chant who loses all his profits is still enabled to go on ; a merchant
who loses even half of his capital is still enabled to go on : how is it,
then, that the community is so nearly at a standstill because a por-
tion of its surplus was lost ? Distinctly the railway over-specula-
tion, hurtful as it was, cannot account for the paralysis in industry
which now, four years afterward, so generally exists.
Not a few people are convinced that paper-money is the cause of
the difficulty. " Only return to specie payments," they say, " and all will
be right." All the inflation and unhealthful stimulation caused by the
greenbacks has ceased to be. It was predicted that a reaction must
come upon the return to specie payments. It has come long before.
It has come without contraction of the currency, the volume of which
has ceased to exercise that hurtful influence that was supposed to
