OVER-CONSUMPTION OR OVER-PRODUCTION ? 315
do this tlian in the heat of competition overstock the market, and
then be forced to stop the works altogether, throwing all the miners
out of employment. We should say that combination is just what is
needed so that the supply of material may be kept nearly on a par
with the demand, and the mines uniformly worked at a sustained
rate from one season to another. Spasmodic production is a dread-
ful evil. It is unfortunate for the consumer because it makes prices
uneven, and it inflicts cruel injury upon laborers and operatives, and
through them upon the whole community.
Here, then, is the evil. Speculation inflames it ; currency inflation
stimulates it ; but undilFused, unregulated, and unrestrained produc-
tion throws the whole complex machinery of trade out of order; it
stirs the whole energies of the people into producing at one pei'iod,
and arrests energies at another ; in suddenly stopping production, it
reduces consumption, and hence renders recovery the very labor
indeed of Sisyphus. The only remedy we can discover is the wise
cooperation of producers, the determination to put the production of
goods in careful and just relation to the means possessed by the
community for exchanging for them.
We hear recently a great deal of the example of France, and
Prof. Price is among those who point admiringly to her in this crisis.
Now, as every one knows, the savings of people in England, Ger-
many, and America, are deposited in banks, whence they are loaned and
become utilized as capital; in France the peasants hoard their sav-
ings in old stockings and secret corners. To withdraw from either of
the former countries so large an amount as that of the indemnity jDaid
Germany would greatly disturb trade ; but the peasants, patriotically
unearthing their hoardings of secret gold in exchange for govern-
ment bonds, enabled the state, to the surprise of all, to pay her
heavy penalty without distress or financial disturbance. But this
was an exceptional position. We are scarcely to argue therefrom that
hoarding is the true principle ; that a nation is better off" because its
work-people hide their savings, withdrawing them from public use,
rather than placing them in banks where they may become active
capital. Prof. Price attributes the successful payment by France of
the German indemnity to " the practice of one of the very greatest of
economical virtues she had saved." N"ow it was solely due to the
manner in which her savinjxs had been held. The fact seems to have
dazzled everybody. The example of the French peasant is now held
up on all sides that he lives the narrowest and most restricted of
lives; that his excessive economical spirit not only limits his comforts,
but keeps him ignorant, superstitious, dull, spiritless, hopeless (the
tragedy of the French peasant-life is only too well told in the pict-
ures of Millet) ; that he has neither intellectual life nor any grace of
art or refined civilization these facts are nothing to the economist ;
the peasant has drudged and hoarded ; he has refused himself and
