3i6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
his family ease and comfort, and hoarded ; he knows neither art, nor
literature, nor science, but he has hoarded ; he lives a life scarcely
better than that of the beast of the field, but he has hoarded ; his
savings have nourished no industries, nor rewarded any art, nor pro-
moted any intellectual end, and he himself has done his best by mere
restriction to limit the productive resources of his land but having
saved and hoarded with the instinct with which a dog hides a bone
he is held up for admiration ! This sort of thing fully explains the
shudder with which people generally hear the name of political econ-
omy. It is true, there must be economy ; there must be saving; but
there is economy and economy. The real cause of the more prosper-
ous condition of France is not starved existence but sustained and
unspeculative production. Tliere is less concentration there, less wild
overtrading ; there are more difiiision and old-fashioned relation of
production to consumption.
This equable and uniform production is like a stream that is fed
by ten thousand springs and many affluents ; it flows steadily on, calm,
perennial, beneficent : but our speculative and spasmodic production
is too much like a mountain-river, that at one season comes down in a
flood and deluges the land, at another subsides into a rivulet, and all
the land is parched.
ATMOSPHEEIC PKESSUEE AND LIFE.'
Bt Dr. PAUL BERT,
PEOFESSOE IN THE PAEIS FACULTY OF SCIENCES.
THE great influence that may be exerted upon living beings by
atmospheric pressure is now questioned by none, and there is
even a disposition to exaggerate its importance. If the barometric
column rises or falls a few millimetres, nervous people afiected with
the asthma perceive phenomena, whether of a beneficial or of a
noxious kind, which they do not hesitate to attribute to the weight
or to the lightness of the atmosphere. But if this were the only
cause of their sensations, then they should experience the same symp-
toms whenever they subject themselves to equal variations of pressure,
as in passing from the level of the sea to a point only a few feet above
"i
Rarefied Air. As every one knows, in propoilion as we ascend
from the sea-level, the barometric pressure diminishes at the rate of
about one centimetre per 100 metres of vertical ascent. And this dim-
inution is progressive : suppose that at the sea-level the pressure is 76
centimetres, then it will be 66 centimetres at the height of 1,123 metres
' Translated from the French by J. Fitzgerald, A. M.
