3i8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
earth, many a bold aeronaut has gone above the clouds. Only after
they have reached the height of 6,000 metres do they usually expe-
rience symptoms resembling those of mountain-sickness.
But on land these symptoms make their appearance at elevations
far lower, and differing according to locality. In the Alps, definite
symptoms first appear at 3,000 metres; in the Bolivian and Peruvian
Andes, at 4,000 metres ; higher still, in the equatorial Cordillera and
on the Himalaya. In general, the elevation at which they first appear
depends upon that of the line of everlasting snow, the lower limit of
mountain-sickness being situated a little above the snow-line. The
influence of the temperature is very evident. As for anomalies spe-
cial to circumscribed localities or to individuals, the consideration of
them would take us beyond the bounds we have set for ourselves here.
These grave and curious symptoms have been explained in many
different ways by travelers, physicians, and experimenters. As for
the native mountaineers, they solve the problem of their origin by
referring them either to supernatural intervention or to the influence
of noxious efliuvia. In the Ancles these efiluvia are reputed to be
of an antimonial nature ; in the Himalaya the cause is supposed to
be vegetal poisons given forth from flowers, mosses, etc. These hy-
potheses need not detain us.
Among the many theories more or less tenable a priori^ but none
of which will stand the test of experiment, there is one which is al-
most universally accepted, and which reckons De Saussure among its
distinguished supporters. It is known that the atmospheric pressure
on a square centimetre of surface is 1.03 kilogramme. If we multiply
this by the number of square centimetres of surface in a man's body,
the product is something enormous. Take an average case, a pressure
of say 15,000 kilogrammes. We are in equilibrium with this great
pressure, they say ; lessen the pressure, and the result is like the ap-
plication of an immense cupping-glass over the entire surface of the
body. The heart's action is now no longer sufficiently counterbal-
anced, and hence congestion and hseraoi-rhage of the mucous mem-
branes and of the skin, engorgement of the blood-vessels of the face,
cerebral troubles, and the rest.
It is amazing to find a theory so plainly at variance with element-
ary physical laws accepted by eminent men. What would be the
result if we had to bear upon the surface of the body a pressure of
15,000 kilogrammes, and if every variation of the barometer added
or subtracted from this sum one or two hundred kilogrammes ?
Another theory, first offered by De Saussure, is far more worthy
of attention. " On the top of Mont Blanc (4,810 metres)," says he, " the
air is nearly one-half less heavy than at the sea-level ; hence it results
that if, in a given time, we pass through our lungs a given volume of
air, that volume will represent only about one-half the weight of the
same volume of the air to which we are accustomed. Hence there
