MESMERISM, ODYLISM, TABLE-TURNING, ETC. 15
evidence of their higher marvels has invariably broken down when
submitted to the searching tests imposed by the trained experts whom
I maintain to be alone qualified to pronounce judgment upon the
matter.
Nothing is more common than to hear it asserted that these are
subjects which any person of ordinary intelligence can investigate for
himself. But the chemist and the physicist would most assuredly
demur to any such assumption in regard to a chemical or physical
inquiry; the physiologist and geologist would make the same protest
against the judgment of unskilled persons in questions of physiology
and geology; and a study of mesmerism, odylisra, and spiritualism,
extending over more than forty years, may be thought to justify me
in contending that a knowledge of the physiology and pathology of
the human mind, of its extraordinary tendency to self-deception in re-
gard to matters in which its feelings are interested, of its liability to
place undue confidence in persons having an interest in deceiving, and
of the modes in which fallacies are best to be detected and frauds ex-
posed, is an indispensable qualification both for the discrimination of
the genuine from the false, and for the reduction of the genuine to its
true shape and proportions.
And I further hold, not only that it is quite legitimate for the in-
quirer to enter upon this study with that " prepossession " in favor of
the ascertained and universally admitted laws of Nature which believ-
ers in spiritualism make it a reproach against men of science that they
entertain, but also that experience proves that a prepossession in favor
of some " occult " agency is almost sure to lead the investigator to the
too ready acceptance of evidence of its operation. I would be the last
to affirm that there is not " much more in heaven and earth than is
known to our philosophy ;" and would be among the first to welcome
any addition to our real knowledge of the great agencies of Nature.
But my contention is, that no new principle of action has any claim
to scientific acceptance, save upon evidence as complete and satisfac-
tory as that which would be required in any other scientific investi-
gation.
The recent history of Mr. Crookes's most admirable invention, the
radiometer, is pregnant with lessons on this point. When this was
first exliibited to the admiring gaze of the large body of scientific
men assembled at the soiree of the Royal Society, there was probably
no one who was not ready to believe with its inventor that the driving
round of its vanes was effected by light ; and the eminent physicists
in whose judgment the greatest confidence was placed, seemed to have
no doubt that this mechanical agency was something outside optics
properly so called, and was, in fact, if not a new force in Nature, a new
modus operandi of a force previously known under another form.
There was here, then, a perfect readiness to admit a novelty which
seemed so unmistakably demonstrated, though transcending all previ-
