ATMOSPHERIC PRESSURE AND LIFE. 319
must result insufficient respiration, or, more accurately sjjeaking, in-
sufficient absorption of oxygen." " The quickening of the respiration,
which tends to offset the evil, is insufficient," says Martins, " for it
would have to be twice as frequent, and have double amplitude, in
order to compensate the diminution in the quantity of air inspired."
Finally, Dr. Jourdanet adds that, " the pressure being reduced, tlie
oxygen must be dissolved in the blood in a less proportion : " hence a
pathological state analogous to anjemia, and which he calls anoxy-
hoemia.
These ideas have been met with many objections. In reply to De
Saussure it was said that the atmosphere, even at half-pressure, con-
tains a great deal more oxygen than is needed for respiration ; and in
reply to Jourdanet that, according to the researches of Fernet, oxy-
gen in the blood being in the state of combination, and not of solu-
tion, its quantity does not depend on barometric pressure.
My own experiments show that De Saussure and Jourdanet are
right. They further prove the sagacity of Jourdanet in recognizing
in the inhabitants of the Anahuac plateau the injurious influence of
low pressure which, thougli not perceptible in the state of health, re-
veals itself on the slightest attack of disease. I need not detail here
the long series of experiments which have led me to conclude that
the symptoms following diminished pressure, whether slowly or rapid-
ly applied, are simply the result of a diminution of the oxygen in the
blood ; in a word, that they are nothing but a sort of asphyxia in the
midst of the " pure and invigorating mountain-air."
Still I may repeat here an experiment which can be performed
wherever we have a pneumatic apparatus; this experiment clearly
proves that the lessening of the barometric pressure is of no account,
mechanically, in the production of the phenomena. These are the re-
sult rather of chemico-physical action, the blood not being sufficiently
charged with oxygen.
We place a sparrow in the pneumatic bell-glass A (Fig. 1), which
communicates with the manometric tube C E, The pressure is gradu.-
ally lessened by means of the tube B. WJien the manometer shows
only 30 centimetres' pressure in the bell-glass, the bird gives pretty
serious evidence of suflfering ; at 20 centimetres it totters, reels, and
falls upon its side ; at 18 centimetres it struggles violently, and would
die in a few seconds, were I to leave it in this situation. So I quickly
place at a an indicator, to show the height attained by the mercurial
column, and, opening the cock Z>, I introduce into the bell-glass not
air, but oxygen from the India-rubber bag 0. At once the bird be-
comes himself again. I let it breathe a little while, and again I
diminish the pressure as before. But now we reach 30 centimetres,
25 centimetres, without difficulty ; not till we reach 20 centimetres
does the bird appear to show some little signs of discomfort; Ave
reach 13 centimetres, a', a pressure much less than before, and yet the
