326 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ments, he could not wander away, and this they have done by strap-
ping upon his back a compressed-air receiver which works very
ingeniously. Divers who fish in this way for coral, pearls, sponges,
etc., descend to the depth of forty metres, and the air they breathe is
under a pressure of five atmospheres.
The apparatus used in erecting bridge-piers is a great improvement
on the old diving-bell. The discovery of the principle involved in
these is due to M, Triger, who, in 1841, applied it to the construction
of mine-galleries under the Loire. Nothing can be simpler than this
principle : it is employed by children when they amuse themselves by
blowing into a half-submerged tube, and causing the air to issue in
bubbles. The apparatus, reduced to its simplest expression, may be
described as follows : A tube of the length proposed for the pier is let
down to the bottom of the river. It is capped with a chamber, into
which is forced compressed air. This air expels the water from the
lower end of the tube, and passes out just as in the child's play. The
workmen can then, by means of a system of doors, as seen in Fig. 5,
descend to the bottom, and there dig for the foundation of the pier.
As the soil is removed, the tube descends by its own weight ; it is
lengthened by the addition of successive sections, till the solid rock
is reached. The cylinder is now filled with beton and the pier is
complete.
In these apparatus workmen have also been subjected to pressures
as high as five atmospheres.
Now, both among divers and workmen in these tubes, symptoms
have been noted often so serious as to terminate fatally. First there
is an intolerable itching, called by the workmen " the fleas " {puces) ;
then violent pains in the muscles and joints which have done most
work ; paralytic symptoms, particularly in the lower limbs, which
often are persistent and fatal; finally, sudden death. Of 160 men em-
ployed on the foundations of the St. Louis (Missouri) Bridge, thirty
were seriously attacked, and twelve died.
You are welcome to all the hypotheses invented by the fertile
minds of physicians to explain these redoubtable troubles. Quite as
a matter of course, we find here, first of all, the njechanical explana-
tion: "When a man enters the tube," says one author, "he \& flat-
tened out!"" {aplati). Very likely, indeed, if we admit that at the
pressure of three atmospheres 4,500 kilometres more weighs upon
our body. But, happily, we are saved from this fate by elementary
physics.
The workmen in the tube at Kehl had a saying, as is usual among
workmen everywhere; it is one full of acuteness and depth: "You
pay wlien you leave." It is decompression and not compression that
does the mischief.
But how does decompression act? Very simply indeed. Herein
this glass jar is a rat subjected to ten atmosphei'es. I now turn a
