328 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
law; on the normal pressure being restord, the gases with which it was
supersaturated pass into the free state. It is like drawing the cork of
a bottle of beer. The oxygen combines on the spot, but the nitrogeii
is at once set free, and carries with it carbonic acid in becoming dis-
engaged. Death is explained by the arrest of the circulation.
But it must not be supposed that the action of compressed air is
harmless. If we subject a sparrow to a pressure of twenty atmos-
pheres, it will, after a few minutes, be seized with tremors, increasing
to most violent convulsions convulsions stronger than those of teta-
nus or of strychnine-poisoning and the bird soon dies. These terrible
symptoms are not the result of compression, as I have been able to
prove by two experiments. In the first place, they can be produced
at the pressure of five atmospheres, provided pure oxygen be used
instead of air, which latter has no special efiect at this pressure.
Secondly, they do not make their appearance if the air subjected to
twenty atmospheres' pressure is very poor in oxygen.
Thus it is the oxygen that is to blame. Oxygen at too high a
degree of tension destroys animal life. Long I hesitated to character-
ize as a poison the " nursing father " of everything that lives, but
there was no help for it. Oxygen, which gives us life, slays also,
when administered in too strong a dose. I have had to study thor-
oughly this paradoxal poison to determine the difierent efiects of
varying doses, and its action upon our tissues.
Here a new surprise awaited me. Having seen a sparrow killed
by oxygen, I supposed that this agent must have accelerated organic
combustion, thus consuming all the material which goes to maintain
the animal heat. But great was my astonishment when the ther-
mometer indicated in animals laboring under strong convulsions a fall
of several degrees in the temperature. The analysis of other phe-
nomena confirmed this first observation, and led me to the strange
conclusion that oxygen in excess kills by interfering with, arresting,
the intra-organic oxydation.
The effects of this powerful agent begin to be distinctly felt at the
pressure of about five atmospheres. Perhaps they might be noticed
at a lower pressure, and I am inclined to attribute to this cause the
unfavorable symptoms presented by workmen who have spent several
months in compressed air ; but this is a complex problem. In any
case, if the necessities of industry subject men to pressures higher than
six atmospheres, they will be in danger not only at the instant of de-
compression, but even from the effects of the compression.
Oxygen at a high tension kills not only the higher animals : it
acts alike on vertebrates and invertebrates, animals aerial and aquatic,,
plants and animals, big and little, even microscopic organisms. Its.
effects upon the latter are highly interesting.
From the admirable researches of Pasteur it appears that the
phenomena of fermentation are of two kinds. One set of phenomena
