332 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Genius is a natural force which possesses a value only in so far as
work has been expended in developing and applying it ; this work
produces values by consuming values.
All mental labor is at the same time brain-labor. The brain con-
sumes a certain amount of food-material. Of course, all the other
involuntary bodily movements which go on simultaneously with the
brain-movements, as also the necessary periods of rest, must be taken
into account in estimating the value of the products of mental labor.
Here, too, a definite amount of food-substances gives a definite
quantity of (mental) work. Das Ausland.
ON HEEEDITY IN NERVOUS DISEASES.
By EUGENE DUPUY, M. D.
THE facts which I propose to consider in this paper have been
brought to light by means of the experimental method. They
are very interesting, both physiologically and psychologically viewed.
I shall occupy myself with the physiological aspects only, and their
bearing on human pathology. Psychology is beyond my province.
Moreover, I conform myself to the saying of Montaigne, that deduc-
tions are very difficult to draw in psychological science, for ''' comtnent
cognoit on la semblance de ce de quoi on ne cognoit point Vessence? " ^
Most of the facts observed, of hereditary transmission of nervous
disorders, were put on record many years ago by my eminent friend
and teacher Dr. Brown-Sequard. Some I have observed, together
with him, during the years that I was his assistant, and others I have
discovered quite lately.
The disorders which were inherited had all been artificially in-
duced in animals for the sake of experimentation. Very great care
was taken in all cases to avoid causes of error, and I am positive that
they were got rid of completely.
It will be seen that lesions which affect not onlv nutrition of
parts, but also the higher functions of the nervous system, can be de-
veloped by hereditary tendencies, when artificially provoked, through
those nerves which minister to organic functions belonging to the
so-called sympathetic system.
It is well known that a system of nerves exists in all animals
which have a circulation, and which apparently has no other functions
but to control the blood-vessels, to regulate the flow of the blood
through them. This nervous system is called, therefore, the vaso-
motor system; it is also termed the sympathetic.
' How can one know the like of that of which one knows not the essence ?
