336- THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
But another specially interesting fact with regard to epilepsy is
this, tliat, a few days after the operation, whether made on the spinal
cord or the sciatic nerve, it is found that an area of skin on the same
side with the nerve destroyed or the spinal cord injured, which is
limited by the line extending from the anterior extremity of the
eye to the end of the nose, thence, comprising the upper lip, running
along the neck to the shoulder, and then in a straight line to the
posterior extremity of the ear, and, lastly, to the posterior angle
of the eye, by degrees loses certain faculties and acquires new
ones. The sensation of pressure, of squeezing, of heat, cold, or elec-
tricity, of pain in a word, all disappear ; only the faculty of feeling
tickling persists, and that appears exaggerated. In an experiment
which I made some years ago, this effect followed within two hours
of the operation on the upper spinal cord.
It is seen at the same time that tickling this zone gives rise at
first to involuntary twitchings in the muscles of the jaw, of the eyes,
and of the nose, on the same side ; by degrees those twitchings be-
come more strong and more general, then they manifest themselves on
the other side also, and after a few weeks the animal has regular con-
vulsions after each tickling of the zone, which lastly culminate in a
regular attack of epilepsy, of which the features are the following:
When the attack begins, the head is drawn first, and with great vio-
lence, at times toward one shoulder, at times toward the other. This
has been explained by the contraction of the muscles of the neck.
The mouth is drawn open by the same cause, and the muscles of the
face and of the eyes, which had twitchings, now contract violently
also. At this period it would appear that the muscles of the larynx
are contracted to some extent. At all events, it appears that the vo-
cal cords are contracted, for not unfrequently the animal utters an
inarticulated, unnatiiral, sharp cry, which may be taken for the pas-
sage of air through the obstructed larynx. It then falls. The mus-
cles of the legs are contracted stifi*, those of the chest are thoroughly
so ; very soon all the muscles are the seat of convulsions. Respira-
tion, which was in no little degree impeded during the time that
the muscles of the chest were rigid, now becomes more frequent but
very irregular. After a while the animal recovers, and remains in
a state of stupidity for some time. It "is not unfrequent to observe
in these epileptic seizures fits of insanity if I may use such a term
when speaking of Guinea-pigs, but that word only will make my
meaning understood. When these animals have been su..ering for
some months, it is seen that they have fits without apparent provoca-
tion ; that is to say, spontaneously.
When they recover from the epileptic taint, all the phenomena
observed about the zone of skin in the neck and face recur in the re-
verse order ; that is to say, all the different sensations return by de-
grees, at the same time that the hair of that region falls, and new
