ON HEREDITY IN NERVOUS DISEASES. 337
hair grows gradually. The fits become shnple convulsions, then mere
twitchings, and lastly the animal can no longer be distinguished from
another healthy one but by the fact that it has only one toe at one of
its hind-legs, when the operation has been performed on the sciatic
nerve ; and nothing whatever remains when the origin of the disease
was a prick in the spinal cord.
All these different facts, of which I have just spoken, are the
characteristics of an epileptic seizure in our own species. That zone
of skin about the neck and face is the analogue of those areas of the
body of the epileptic from which sensations of all possible natures
and kinds arise a short time before the attacks, and which are called
by the general name of " aura."
To make the analogy greater, let me say that, just as in man,
when such an " aura " is discovered to start from such a part of the
body that it can be acted upon directly, so as to be removed, the dis-
ease is cured, so also, if that zone, of which I have spoken, in the
Guinea-pig be cauterized, the fits do not occur the animal is cured.
I have given these details with some minuteness, because they
show still more strongly the eflfects of hereditary transmission of
the disease. All the young of Guinea-pigs thus made the subject
of experiment do not become epileptic; Dr. Brown -Sequard has
observed several. I have had occasion to observe only a very few,
and I have been able to learn that the young are born healthy,
apparently. Sometimes almost always, in fact they are born with
only one toe in the hind-leg ; that is the case when the parent had
lost its toes in the manner that I have already stated. Perhaps
two months or more after their birth they become adult very rapid-
ly the same phenomena develop in those young as in their par-
ents ; to use the words of Dr. Brown-Sequard himself, "we see the
gradual increase of the aiFection, the diminution of the sensibility in
the zone, just as with the parent, the coming of a period of complete
attacks of epilepsy, and then the loss of hair, and the gradual diminu-
tion of the nervous complaint." Now, it is to be observed and this is
the important feature in this transmission of disease that in the
parent operated upon the cure, when it is spontaneous (that is, when
it does occur without any treatment, which is the case when the
sciatic nerve and not the spinal cord has been divided), only super-
venes because the alteration in the nerve is- cured : if it has been sec-
tioned, the two ends meet again and are reunited after a few weeks ;
if it has been torn away, the parts still remaining attached to the outer
heal together; we can therefore understand how, the cause of the dis-
ease, i. e., the alteration of a nerve, being removed, the disease, i. e.,
epilepsy, also disappears. But in the young which have inherited the
taint no such explanation obtains. Their nerves have not been oper-
ated upon, not torn nor cut. How are we to explain their cure,
and this fact, which is, as I have said, the peculiar feature of this
VOL. XI. 22
