338 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
heredity, that the cure in the parent which has so characteristic
stages should have exactly the same stages in the young as to cir-
cumstances and time?
I have said that I would only deal with this subject of heredity in
its physiological aspects, but I cannot refrain from recalling to the
attention of the reader that such facts in the human species need to
be studied by psychological physicians, because they occur in insane
patients, as is well known. Those alterations of the ears of which I
have spoken at first are frequently met with in the ears of demented
patients ; physicians call them baematoma. I have satisfied myself that
it is even more frequent than suspected in the inmates of asylums.
That state of stupor, or stupidity, and of insanity, in the Guinea-pig,
is of very frequent occurrence in the human epileptic. I could tell a
long story of similar phenomena observed in our own species.
I believe that, if any conclusion can at present be drawn from those
facts, a physiologist or a physician will state that it is not a disease
which is inherited, which is transmitted, but the power to develop
such a disease. On the one hand, a physiologist is bound to ac-
cept that the disease was originally developed as a consequence of
an anatomical alteration of a certain organ or nerve-cell or fibre ; and
on the other he is bound to consider that the same disease or conse-
quence develops itself in a young one which has no such circumstances
of anatomical alteration of a certain organ or nerve-cell or fibre at
least detectable by any means of investigation at present employed.
This question of heredity is one of the most vexed, and I shall not
say much more about it at present ; but as I have stated that I am
sure that there were no causes of eiTor in the facts themselves or the
deductions drawn from them, I take this opportvmity to say that
Mr. Galton has committed a grave error, in his very remarkable
paper on "Heredity" published not very long ago, in which he
stated that the Guinea-pigs which had epilepsy without alteration
induced in their nervous system may have acquired the disease by
imitation, just as, it is well known, is too frequently the case in the
human species.
First, all the children or adults who happen to live with epileptic
patients and witness their paroxysms do not develop epilei^sy ; only a
very few do so. This fact would show, therefore, that those who do
develop epilepsy have some tendency ; but the argument of Mr. Galton
does not hold good with regard to the first two series of facts wliich I
have reported, and specially in the case of the Guinea-pigs which in-
herit epilepsy. How will he account, on the strength of his hypothesis,
for the fact that, out of a couple of hundreds of young which were
born from epileptic parents during the lapse of several winters in Dr.
Brown-Sequard's laboratory in Paris, and which I have very studi-
ously watched, only three became epileptic, although all lived to-
gether and all witnessed the fits of their parents, and only those three
