THE MATERIAL RESOURCES OF LIFE. 339
developed the malady which were born toeless ? I regret, on closing
this pajDer, not to be able to take the psychological aspect of the ques-
tion, because it is very interesting in a forensic point of view, and as
bearing on the question of responsibility.
THE MATEEIAL EESOUECES OF LIFE.'
By albert B. PRESCOTT.
TO be able to live, in any way known to us, it is indispensable to
have a body. And, as living bodies come by growth and con-
tinue by nourishment, it is first necessary to have materials whei*eof
bodies can be made and renewed and kept in warmth and strength.
Just these materials, with permission of the reader, we will try to take
account of, as resources of life. Life is not maintained " by bread
alone ; " other needful resources being known to physical science, and
still other resources greater than all being recognized by their results
in life ; but we have the bread alone, as enough, certainly, to be con-
sidered in the present article.
Living things are in very deed made of "the dust of the earth ;"
but it is by no means all of the dust of the earth that serves this
purpose. We have to distinguish between substances out of which
organized instruments of life can be made, and a much larger number
of substances never used in the making of these instruments.
We have it in mind that matter is made up of sixty-three simples.
At all events, the earth's crust and air are constituted, substantially,
of these sixty-three sorts of atoms, and, as a good many of the same
are already revealed in the sun and stars by the spectroscope, it is
likely that they are the chief elements in the universe of matter. Of
the sixty-three, certain elements, found only in very small quantities,
appear to be of subordinate importance in that part of the universe
under our immediate observation, Avhatever purposes they may fulfill in
other earths or in the centre of our own, or at other epochs. Others
of the elements bear an important part in the structure of the globe
or in the uses of mankind, but are not organizable materials, and they
are not in our present consideration. Of the sixty-three, only four-
teen or fifteen swij^les, about one-fourth of those known to us, are used
in the construction of plants and animals. These, then, are before us,
as the elemental resources of life.
It will be understood that the tissues are not built directly of these.
fourteen elements, but of their chemical compounds. Each one of
these compounds is a definite substance in external character distinct
from its constituents, as, in a familiar example, water is distinct from
1 An address given before the Detroit Scientific Association, December 13, 1876.
