THE MATERIAL RESOURCES OF LIFE. 341
in the sense of exchangeable value, in society ; even though needed as
they are in more constant supply than those of the other class. The
resources which are barely adequate are those which come to be objects
of personal possession ; they are the things of which mine and thine
are declared, and it is because of them that title-deeds are drawn and
prices-current established. The substrata of jjoverty and of riches
rest in the chemical elements.
With the detinition of each class in mind, let us now consider the
supply of some of the more important of the elemental resources.
From the fourteen, let us take at least three elements of each class,
as representatives. For the redundant resources, we will take carbon,
oxygen, and hydrogen. Then, for the adequate resources, we will
examine nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium.
Carbon is the one element never left out of an organic compound.
Its atoms are not only constituents, they are corner-stones of all the
organic molecules. In the human body, thirteen parts in a hundred,
or forty per cent, of the solids, are carbon. Looking for its supply, we
see that it is obtained for the organic world by the plants, and from
the carbonic-acid gas of the air. It is taken from the air chiefly by
the leaf of the plant. How much carbon is taken from the organic
mould of the soil and from acid carbonates, through the roots, is pei*-
haps not fully settled ; but we are well assured that the main and sure
resource of the plant for this element is the air. The sifp2)li/, then, is
as abundant and impartial as the open air itself. The carbon-material
forms but a small part of the air, it is true, only about five parts in
10,000; nevertheless, it is enough, at least for the average rate of
vegetable nutrition. Carried around the globe in the viewless air to
every plant alike, the carbon-atoms are supplied for the framework of
every cell in plant and animal. A dwarfed shrub or rootless lichen,
clinofing to the crevices of a naked rock on a frigid shoi*e, has at hand
a good supply of the same resource that is furnished to a luxuriant
palm spreading from a tropic soil.
And the carbon-supply in the air is not a reservoir diminishing,
however slowly, from age to age ; biit, to be sure, it is a returning
fountain, replenished from the exhalations of animals and the decom-
posing remains of all organized bodies. In Nature's economy, the
same carbon-atoms are used over and over again as material for or-
ganization. This perpetual replenishment, a thrifty provision against
future exhaustion, is one not peculiar to carbon, but it is a provision
made in good degree for every one of the elemental resources of life,
whether redundant or only adequate in its immediate supply.
That plants feed upon the carbonic acid of the air is known to the
school-children, and has been known to men for a hundred and one years
at least. Priestley, whose discoveries were celebrated in the chemical
centennial at Northumberland, Pennsylvania, two years ago, placed it
on record very clearly that " air vitiated by animal respiration is a pab-
