342 THU POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ulum to vegetable life." This was but the next year after Priestley's
discovery of oxygen itself; yet to this day there lingers in our com-
mon thought an undefined impression that the carbonic acid of the
air is just an impurity, tolerated because there is only a little of it,
but an impurity that it were as well to be rid of altogether. Now, if
the redundant resources of life were at our human disposal, we might
be in danger, some day, in the sheer forgetfulness of self-regard, of
throwing away as an impurity the very foundations of sustenance.
Some one, perhaps, would set forth that this gas when not diluted is
immediately fatal to human life ; another woixld declare, " Once a poi-
son, always a poison ; " and another would ask why we should imperil
our own health for the sake of the plants.
Oxygen was named next, among the primary resources, redundant
in supply. It is a prominent constituent of all living tissues, forming
seventy-two parts in a hundred of the human body with its fluids. It.
is taken in two conditions : first, in combination, chiefly by the j^lants ;
second, iu the elemental state, by animals. In combination, it is taken
by the plants from carbonic-acid gas, just noticed as a source of car-
bon ; from Avater, to be considered as a source of hydrogen ; and, in
smaller quantities, from a considerable number of other substances.
The greater part of the oxygen in animal tissues is obtained in the
products elaborated by the plants.
But for all animal life the most imperative demand is for oxygen
in the elemental state.
The other elemental resources are available only in their com-
pounds; oxygen does its best service when alone. The others serve
life as materials for its bodily tissues ; oxygen has an additional duty,
the maintenance of operations giving warmth and strength. The
activities of life consume various materials, but most constantly of all
they demand a raw material of inorganic nature, a simple material in
its primitive condition. This supply of elemental oxygen, a necessity
for all animal life, is a necessity that is imminent in direct proportion
to vital activity, and for man is absolutely imperative. When supplied
with oxygen, we can subsist days without other food ; when deprived
of oxygen, life fails in a few minutes. It is scarcely a figure of speech
to say that the breath is the life. The energy of oxygenation is told
in every stroke of the heart. The food that is eaten does not raise an
iota of bodily strength without the help of the pound and a quarter
of pure oxygen that is daily inhaled. To breathe poorly is to faint ;
to eat richly and breathe poorly is to sufibcate and perish.
The supply of elemental oxygen is certainly impartial and bountiful
without reservation. It is more than given it is pressed upon us ; to
escape from it is a work of toil and difiiculty. No one is poor from
want of it, or rich from gain of it. Were it furnished for pay, all
that a man hath would he give for an hour's supply of it. The poor,
taken together, fare best in its use; while the wealthy, in their elabo-
