THE MATERIAL RESOURCES OF LIFE. 345
Chemical art has not done anything toward the appropriation of
this obstinate element. Nothing nitrogenous can be made of nitrogen.
The manufacturers depend on gatherings from tlie sparingly distrib-
uted nitrates of the earth. As machinists have dreamed of perpetual
motion, sleeping chemists may dream of an invention to bring atmos-
pheric nitrogen into use, that all the barren places may be made fertile,
and the whole earth flourish as a garden of fatness. But for this
dream to realize the proportions of a fair probability it is quite essen-
tial that chemistry should be well asleep.
The chief commodities bearing nitrogen are nitre or saltpetre
(potassium or sodium nitrate), and ammonia. In Hindostan, the rich
soil-mould, warm and alkaline, becomes thinly crusted with nitrate,
which is gathered and brought to market as East India nitre. Gun-
powder, gun-cotton, and nitro-glycerine, as well as chemical products,
are made with it. In the War of 1812, America was thrown upon her
own sources for gunpowder-material, and enough nitre was found in
the cave-deposits of the Southwestern States. Then France was
hemmed in by hostile armies, and had neither nitre nor cave-deposits,
but it was after the work of "Lavoisier of immortal memory," and
the government put trust in chemistry. Berthollet and the rest soori
justified the trust in the perfection of the "nitre-plantations" beds
of farm-refuse with wood-ashes exposed to the air.
These products, soil-nitre and compost-nitre, and the ammonia
obtained as a by-product in the manufacture of illuminating gas,
serve their several purposes in the arts and applications of man, but
their limited quantities do not warrant their addition to the soil for
the increased growth of food. Now, unlike these common supplies,
the earth possesses a special resource for nitrogen in combination,
anomalous in being fully mineralized and remarkable in being both
concentrated and extensive, a chain of mines full of nitre. On the
Pacific coast of South America, extending from the fourth to the
fortieth degree of south latitude, about 2,400 miles along the slope
of the Andes to the sea, in Bolivia, Peru, and part of Chili, there has
been found a line of deposits of sodium nitrate, the "Peruvian nitre."
The beds are of variable thickness, covered by one to ten yards' depth
of earth and half-formed sandstone. The dry soil of the most of this
rainless country is pervaded, in some degree, with this deposit. The
mummied remains of the old Peruvian people are embalmed with it
by the earth in which they were buried ; and its crystals glisten on
those ghastly relicts which were jjresented in the Peruvian depart-
ment of the Centennial Exhibition, and those brought to this country
by Dr. Steere. It has been estimated that in the province of Tarapa-
ca, within fifty square leagues, the quantity of the nitre is not less
than 63,000,090 tons. The appi'opriation of this vast resource has
been taken up rather slowly, but has much increased for ten or
twelve years past. Vessels laden with it go to the coasts of manu-
