THE MATERIAL RESOURCES OF LIFE, 347
of a continent, and then, shedding their water on the Andes, leave
their ammonia (it may be supposed) to find its way by some means
to the valleys of the western slope.
Again, these same mountain-valleys of Peru may claim to have
given the world still another token of unexampled sources of nourish-
ment, in the growth of the cinchona-tree^ bearing the richest stock of
nitrogenous bases in the vegetable world. It seems, indeed, more
than a coincidence that this narrow, rainless, wind-nurtured slope of
land should send to all the earth three such eminent resources as
Peruvian nitre, Peruvian guano, and Peruvian bark.
Another of the materials adequate for no more than the needs of
life is phosphorus. This element so far differs from nitrogen that it
is not found uncombined in Nature, and if separated by art it immedi-
ately enters into combination on exposure to the air. It occurs chiefly
as phosphate of lime, taken from the mineral kingdom by plants and
also by animals. The hard part of bone is about nine-tenths phos-
phate, and phosphorus is an element of molecules organized into mus-
cle and nerve.
The proportion of phosphates in the crust of the earth below
organic remains is very slight, insufiicient for the support of the
higher forms of vegetable or animal life. It has been concentrated
and gathered into the soil by the selective agency of the organic
world, as it continues to be concentrated from the soil by each indi-
vidual plant, and from vegetable products by each individual animal.
Nearly all the phosphorus accessible on the planet has been a constit-
uent of living bodies. Its proportion in the soil is a main factor in
the growth of cereal grains. Ah-eady, and with the stretch of land
to the westward, bone-earth and phosi^hatic guanos are well known in
American markets. When phosphates fail at the root of the plant,
grain fails at the mill ; and when, from waste at the mill, phosphates
fail in the bread, the bones and the teeth fail in growing bodies. The
improvidence that leaves excretory phosphates to be washed away to
the salt sea, farther from the reach of life than they were in the primi-
tive rocks, is an improvidence that prepares an inheritance of poverty
for after-generations. And the ruthlessness that permits the j)urvey-
ors of food to sift phosphates from the food of men does its part to
enfeeble the present generation.
There remains to notice another representative of the adequate
resources, potassium. The statements made as to the supply of phos-
phorus, with some reservation, become true for potassium. Certain
of the rocks contain a proportion of it, but from insolubility this is
slowly available, and is insufficient for the needs of higher organic life.
The soils contain more, because the organic world has gleaned for
the soil. Potassa and soda are two alkalies which replace each other
in the laboratory at theconvenience of the chemist, but, in the choos-
ing of the living cell, one of these is always taken and the other left.
