THE ZODIACAL LIGHT. 349
material resources of life. Seeing the value of a knowledge that
goes below the surface of things, in 1852 he wrote his conviction that,
" ere long, a knowledge of the principal truth of chemistry will be ex-
pected in the political economist and statesman, as it already is held
indispensable to the manufacturer and physician." And, seeing the
meanings and the mysteries that cluster around the primary forms of
matter, he wrote at another time : " It is not the mere practical utility
of these truths which is of importance. Their influence upon mental
culture is most beneficial; and the views acquired by knowledge of
them enable the mind to trace, in the phenomena of Nature, proofs
of an infinite wisdom for the unfathomable depths of which language
has no expression."
THE ZODIACAL LIGHT.*
By Pbofessor C. E. BRAME, A. M.
THE purpose of this contribution is to draw attention to a phe-
nomenon which has received too little notice, and has been
strangely neglected by astronomers, but wiiich, in fact, if the conclu-
sions of the author of the work under review are coi-rect, is to the
inhabitants of the earth one which emanates from a very near and
remarkable cosmical body.
The third volume of "The United States Japan Expedition"
records a series of observations on the zodiacal light, which were made
by Rev. George Jones, A. M., chaplain in the United States Navy,
from April 2, 1853, to April 22, 1855, during which time he accom-
panied that expedition sent out by the United States Government,
under the command of Commodore M. C, Perry. It also contains the
observations and theories of other astronomers, particularly those
made by the celebrated Dorainicus Cassini, a distinguished savant of
the seventeenth century, attached to the Royal Observatory at Paris,
who was the greatest cosmologist of that age.
The deductions of our author are 1. That the zodiacal light is
emitted by a nebulous ring, with the earth for its centre; that is, there
is a ring of nebulous matter around the earth ; 2. That 00 is the full
width of the stronger light, and 90" its full width including the dif-
fused light; 3. That it is on both sides of the ecliptic; 4. That it may
be seen in some latitudes under favorable circumstances, forming a
continuous arch across the heavens; 5. That it must rotate on a com-
> Third volume, United States Japan Expedition. " Observations on the Zodiacal Light
from April 2, 1853, to April 22, 1855 ; made chiefly on board the United States Steam-
frigate Mississippi, during her Cruise in the Eastern Seas and her Voyage homeward ; with
Conclusions from the Data thus obtained." By Rev. George Jones, A. M., Chaplain, U. S.
Navy.
