350 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
mon centre, and seems full of commotion within itself; 6. From ob-
servations made then and afterward at Quito, in South America, that
it is not entirely dependent on light reflected from the sun, but must
shine partly by its own light.
These conclusions are given to the public with much diflidence,
and with strong arguments to support them, based on a large accumu-
lation of facts ascertained by the most careful observation.
Our chaplain became intensely interested in this investigation, and
has recorded three hundred and twenty-eight observations on stereo-
typed star-charts, published with the volume. Sometimes, when un-
able from sickness to go upon deck, he was carried in his cot, that he
might have an opportunity of noticing this intensely interesting phe-
nomenon. As the voyage was one which circumnavigated the globe,
he had a most favorable opportunity to prosecute his examination ;
and his recorded statement embraces a most minute and faithful ac-
count of his observations in neai'ly every longitude, and over a tract
extending from 41 49' north to 53 48' south latitude.
After the return of the expedition he sought the earliest occasion
to go to Quito, in South America, which is directly on the equator,
where he saw the light extending in one continuous arch across the
heavens. During his residence there he published several articles in
Silliman''s Journal on " The Zodiacal Light," which gave additional
interest to the subject.
If anything since then of importance has appeared in any scientific
journal on this subject, we have not met with it. Having for over
twenty years considered it, and being anxious that more information
and more confirmed conclusions should be arrived at concerning it,
we invite the attention of the learned and observing to the considera-
tion of this subject. We believe that there is no physical truth which
stands isolated, but every new discovery in physical science opens the
way for other truths and discoveries. If naturalists can spend days
and weeks in examining and commenting on a new discovery in
botany or zoology ; if foreign countries are visited, forests and moun-
tains traversed, to bring to light some hitherto unknown plant ; if it
is a triumph for a naturalist to discover a new species of microscopic
animalcula surely it is not time wasted to direct attention to a cos-
mical body so interesting as the zodiacal light.
Astronomical science is full of attractive interest to every lover of
Nature. It is not astonishing that the study of the heavens is the
oldest natural science. At an early period of the world's history the
human eye and intellect were directed, with absorbing interest, to the
azure arch above us, amid whose vast expanse orbs of grandeur are
unceasingly running their wonderful courses. The stars, beaming
with inextinguishable brilliancy, are known to be oceans of flames and
centres of worlds, though apparently but points of light. The planets
were known to the ancients to be more identified with our world than
