356 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
would emit a light of the same intensity the whole way from the base
to the apex. But another law of optics, that the strength of light is
inversely as the squares of the distances of the object affording the
light, would here make its application ; and this ring, at our zenith,
being by that supposition about 140,000,000 miles nearer to us, than
at the base, we should then have the zodiacal light far more intense
at the apex than at the base ; all of which is entirely opposite to the
facts of the case.
He offers, now, as a last conclusion, the hypothesis of a nebulous
ring with the earth for a centre. He makes certain deductions from
the examination of the preceding theories.
"They are 1. That the substance giving us the zodiacal light must be
equally near to us in all its parts, inasmuch as the lateral changes of the light,
i. e., the changes of boundaries, have a uniform character and mostly a parallel-
ism in their whole extent from apex to base ; 2. That no part of this substance
can be very remote from us, inasmuch as the outlines of the Mght were clearly
and sensibly affected by my own position on the globe, and even by my change
of position in a single night ; and, 3. That the laws of reflected light require an
arrangement or a shape of this nebulous matter which will give us, at the base
of the zodiacal light, larger angles between the lines of the incident and re-
flected light than at other portions, and also a regular decrease of such angles
from the base to the apex of the light, as produced by such a shape. These
three requirements appear to.be fully met by an hypothesis which, if the theo-
ries examined are untenable, is now the only one remaining to us.
" The hypothesis is that the zodiacal light is a ring around the earth.
" The thought is a somewhat startling one, yet startling only from its novelty ;
for it is entirely in accordance with what we know of our sister planet (Saturn),
and also with the whole of Laplace's celebrated theory of the formation of
globes."
We will not take up time and space with quoting his application
of that theory in explaining some of the phenomena of this light.
Avoiding the consideration of these topics, we will proceed to apj^ly
the result of Bouguer's experiments on reflected light to this case.
In the annexed diagram he takes an observation made on the 4th
of September, 1854, as an example, for the reason that it is a simple
one, and one also in which the spectator is near the plane of the eclip-
tic. It was made in latitude 22 18' north, longitude 114 10' east.
The sun rose at 5^ 48". The stronger light was at S'' SO'" to 4'' SO"",
the diffuse light at S*" 45'. Sun's longitude 161 35'. The horizons at
4'' 30", S*" 30", 2'' 30", and l*" 30", and at midnight, are given, together
with the line of the spectator's vertices, as well as his positions O, o, etc.,
at 4^ 30" and S** 30". A, B, C, F, are the boundaries of the zodiacal light
at 4'' 30", and E, F, G, at S*" 30" ; the apices C and G are carried a lit-
tle above the more condensed portions of the ring; but the reader is
at liberty to suppose them to be at any other part, as he may think
best. The direction of the sun is given ; and S', S", S'", S"", S'"", are
supposed to be rays of light proceeding from that luminary.
