358 THi; POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
" We find in the above table a strong argument for such a ring around the
earth. The figures, taking either of the two columns, for water or for glass,
correspond in a very striking degree with the varying intensity of the zodiacal
light from the base upwai'd, as we have it on any clear morning or evening when
the ecliptic is at a high angle with the horizon, and when, consequently, the
nebulous figure is not brought angularly to our eye. They also correspond to
what is, indeed, almost synonymous with what has been stated namely, to the
fact that at 4" 30" the zodiacal light at the horizon is far greater at its base than
it is at 3" 30" ; at 3" 30"" than it is at 2" 30", etc., back to midnight. Any person
who has ever looked attentively at tbis light when making a high angle with the
horizon will see at once the coincidence between the proportions of the figures
in the above table, showing the number of reflected rays, and what has been
always presented to the eye. If the reader will also carry these lines of incident
and reflected light beyond the midnight horizou-line, to any point there of the
nebulous ring, he will see how we may easily get what is referred to in my
charts under the German name of Gegensdtein, i. e., dim light seen, when the
circumstances are favorable for it, in those portions of the sky opposed to the
sun. This hypothesis shows also very clearly how I could have the zodiacal
light above both horizons at the midnight hours, as I was often able to do, and
it harmonizes fully with the strength of the light as then presented to the eye.
While there are some things still left unexplained, I have yet not been able to
see anything in this hypothesis antagonistic to the facts of the zodiacal light.
On the contrary, almost all of them are explained by it; and they all, as I can
perceive, fully harmonize with it through the whole of the manifold change
which the light underwent, either from the changes of the ecliptic toward any
fixed point, or from my numerous and great changes of latitude during our
cruise.
" If we could have a zodiacal light of an undoubted character produced by
t\iQfull moon, not only would the question before us be set at rest, but the ring
would be shown to be within the orbit of the moon, and how near we came to
a case of the kind on the evening of February 14, 1854, the reader will decide
for himself. . . .
" This ring must, according to the laws of matter, rotate on its centre ; and
it must be full of commotion within itself. The existence of j)uIsations seems
scarcely to admit of a doubt, recorded as they have been by observers in such
distant quarters of the globe."
In conclusion, we would say that two simultaneous observations,
made in equatorial regions for instance, one by an observer at Quito,
and another by an observer on the island of Sumatra, iu which both
observations presented the zodiacal light stretching as an arch across
the heavens from east to west would, it seems to us, demonstrate
the fact that it is a ring around the earth. Now, if observations taken
in almost every space of 15 of longitude have been made and its
existence demonstrated, does not that amount to about the same
thing ?
We leave the subject, inviting information and discussion from all
who are informed in regard to this long-neglected phenomenon.
