DR. BALFOUR STEWART. 359-
DE. BALFOUR STEWAET.
AMONG English physicists Dr. Balfour Stewart holds a dis-
tinguished place for the originality and extent of his experi-
mental researches, the grasp of his subtile and comprehensive inqui-
ries, and the boldness and freedom of many of his speculations.
He was the son of a merchant, and was born in Edinburgh,
November 1, 1828. At the age of fourteen he went to the University
of St. Andrews, and afterward to that of Edinburgh, from which he
graduated. During his college course he paid a great deal of atten-
tion to pure mathematics, and is credited with having rediscovered,
independently of books. La Grange's method of deaUng with the dif-
ferential calculus. After leaving college he spent four years in a mer-
cantile house, and was for two or three years in Australia ; but his
father's preference that he should be a merchant did not coincide with
his own inclinations, and he at length determined to devote his life to
physical science.
On his return from Australia, he was so fortunate as to secure the
friendship of the late Principal Forbes, and became his assistant in
Edinburgh for three years, 1856-'57-'58.
Dr. Stewart has been Director of the Magnetic Observatory at
Kew, where he has made numerous and important magnetical observa-
tions in connection with the eminent physicist, Mr. Warren De la Rue,
He is Professor of Physics in Owens College, Manchester, a Fellow of
the Royal Society of Great Britain, of the Astronomical and Meteoro-
los:ical Societies of London, and of various learned bodies on the
Continent and in the United States. He received the degree of
LL. D. from Edinburgh University, and in 1868 the Rumford Medal
of the Royal Society for his researches in light and heat.
Dr. Stewart has been a very active worker in the scientific field,
and is the author of many publications, especially in the branches of
meteorology, magnetism, and solar physics, of which the following
are the most important :
Papers connected with Heat and Light. 1. An Account of Some
Experiments on Radiant Heat, involving an Extension of Prevost's
Theory of Exchanges (Transactions of Royal Society, Edinburgh,
1858). 2. Researches on Radiant Heat, Second Series (Transactions
of Royal Society, Edinburgh, 1859). 3. On the Light radiated by
Heated Bodies (Proceedings of Royal Society, London, 1860). 4. On
the Nature of the Light emitted by Heated Tourmaline (Proceedings
of Royal Society, London, 1860). 5. Internal Radiation in Uniaxal
Crystals (Proceedings of Royal Society, London, 1861). 6. Report
on the Theory of Exchanges (British Association, 1862).
Papers connected with Meteorology., Magnetism^ and Sun-spots..
