362
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
CORRESPONDENCE.
MIND-EEADING BY THE EAR.
To the Editor of the Popular Science Monthly.
SINCE the publication of my article on
" Physiology of Mind-Reading," in the
February number of your Monthly, I have
received the following, which, as presenting
a new phase of the subject, is of much in-
terest.
There are three general methods of mind-
reading by the touch, by the eye, and by
the ear. My article was devoted only to the
method and modifications of the method in-
troduced by Brown by the touch. Mind-
reading by the eye that is, watching the
movements and changes of the features, or
of the hand or fingers is done every day
by all of us, and is frequently utilized with
great success by mediums. Mind-reading
by the eav, as described in the first experi-
ment noted in the following letter, is not so
well known. The author of the letter, who
does not wish to have his name used, is also
an expert in the art of mind-reading by the
eye or by the touch.
The "general physiological principle is
the same in all these methods of mind-
reading namely, the detecting by the op-
erator, through some one of the senses, of
the unconscious muscular or bodily move-
ments of the subject, through mind acting
on body. Gkorge M. Beard, M. D.
Dr. George 31. Beard
Dear Sir : I was much interested in
your article on the "Physiology of Mind-
JReading," as I have paid more or less at-
tention to the subject, in an amateur way,
for eight or ten years past, and I think that
I can give you some new "developments."
While your theory is undoubtedly cor-
rect, you describe certain conditions as
"essential" which I have found by fre-
quent successful practice to be unnecessary.
Thus you say that the connection between
the subject or subjects must be such "as
easily to allow the sense of muscular tension
to be communicated." The operator or
medium " must be in physical connection
with the subject." Again, "where the con-
nection of the operator with the subject
is made by a wire, so arranged that mass-
motion cannot be communicated, . . . the
operator does just what he would do by
pure chance and no more." In reply to this,
I would say that I am in the habit of re-
peating Brown's tricks of finding hidden
objects, designating persons and things
thought of, etc., without any physical con-
tact whatever, while I am blindfolded, pre-
cisely as Brown was in his public perform-
ances.
The only condition I require of the
subject is, that he shall follow me at a
distance of about three or four feet, as I
grope my way apparently at random, keep-
ing his mind fixed upon the object. I am
able to tell, by close attention, when he fol-
lows me readily, and when reluctantly ; in
this way I cautiously map out the direction
in which he tends to follow me most readily.
When I approach the vicinity of the object
thought of, he shows no inclination to move
in any one direction. There is, of course,
a certain element of uncertainty in the find-
ing of a small object under these circum-
stances, but the proportion of failures is as-
tonishingly small. I reached this result by
a succession of experiments, first through
a rigid rod, then through a wire, then a
stretched string, then a string with a loop.
I then worked without contact not blind-
folded. I would walk backward, holding
out my right forefinger, and directing the
"subject" to hold his right forefinger, at a
distance of six inches (this would convey to
most people the impression of two terminal
poles of a battery or electrical machine),
and he would often have an imaginary
pricking, as of sparks at the finger-tip. I
would then proceed around the room, and
when moving in the right direction the
hiatus would be rapidly closed between the
two fingers.
I can almost invariably distinguish an
intentional or accidental indication from an
involuntary one, and I do not find that
keeping the "arm perfectly stiff" interferes
very seriously. The indications are not con-
fined to muscular contractions or relaxations
of the arm, but it is a sympathetic move-
ment of the whole body.
It is a curious fact that subjects who
naturally work well will be very slightly
influenced by the explanation of the ap-
parent mystery. You may assure them that
every correct movement you make is only a
translation of their own, and they will de-
clare positively that they are trying to move
in the opptmte direction, and, in fact, they
often do hold back with their feet, while
giving the most positive indications with
their arms.
I have found that a large majority of
well-educated people have an innate bias
for mysteries, and prefer to refer these
" phenomena " to animal magnetism, auras,
psychic or odic force, or any incompre-
