MESMERISM, ODYLISM, TABLE-TURNING, ETC. 21
and the universal consent of mankind, any evidence is inadequate to
the proof, which is not complete, beyond suspicion, and absohitely in-
capable of being explained away."
Putting aside for the present the discussion of these asserted mar-
vels, I shall try to set before you briefly the essential characters which
distinguish the state of somnambulism (whether natural or acquired)
on the one hand from dreaming, and on the other from the ordinary
waking condition. As in both these, the mind is in a state of activity;
but, as in dreaming, its activity is free from that controlling power of
the will by which it is directed in the waking state ; and is also re-
moved from this last by the complete ignorance of all that has passed
in it, which is manifested by the " subject " when called back to his
waking self, although the events of one access of this " second con-
sciousness " may vividly present themselves in the next, as if they had
happened only just before. Again, instead of all the senses beino-
shut up, as in ordinary dreaming sleep, some of them are not only
awake, but preternaturally impressible ; so that the course of the som-
nambulist's thought may be completely directed by suggestions of any
kind that can be conveyed from without through the sense-channels
which still remain open. But, further, while the mind of the ordinary
dreamer can no more produce movements in his body than his im-
pressions on sense-organs can affect his mind, that of the somnambulist
retains full direction of his body (in so far, at least, as his senses serve
to guide its movements) ; so that he acts his dreams as if they were
his waking thoughts. The mesmerized or hypnotized somnambule
may, in fact, be characterized as a conscious automaton, which, by
appropriate suggestions, may be made to think, feel, say, or do, almost
anything that its director wills it to think, feel, say, or do ; with this
remarkable peculiarity, that its whole power seems concentrated upon
the state of activity in which it is at each moment, so that every
faculty it is capable of exerting may become extraordinarily intensified.
Thus, while vision is usually suspended, the senses of hearing, smell,
and touch, with the muscular sense, are often preternaturally acute,
in consequence, it would seem, of the undistracted concentration of
the attention on their indications. I could give you many curious in-
stances of this, which I have myself witnessed, as also of the great ex-
ertion of muscular power by subjects of extremely feeble physique ;
but as they are all obviously referable to this one simple principle, I
need not dwell on their details, preferring to narrate one which I did
not myself witness, but which was reported to me on most trustworthy
authority, of a remarkable manifestation of a power of imitative vocal-
ization that is ordinarily attainable only after long practice. When
Jenny Lind was singing at Manchester, she was invited by Mr. Braid
to hear the performances of one of his hypnotized subjects, an illiterate
factory-girl, who had an excellent voice and ear, but whose musical
powers had received scarcely any cultivation. This girl, in the hyp-
