THE CLIMATIC INFLUENCE OF VEGETATION. 387
population lays violent hands upon it. In Northern Africa, Dalmatia,
and the larger islands of the Grecian Archipelago, the same evil has
made terrible advances. The Mediterranean Sea, once a forest-lake
of paradise, is now a dead sea, surrounded by dusty and burning
coasts, often for hundreds of miles withovit a vestige of organic life.
The present appearance of the Troad, the neighborhood of Lake
Tiberias, the valley of the Euphrates, and other districts tliat were
once teeming with population, can actually make us doubt if there
ever was such a thing as an original desert. On the plateau of Sidi-
Belbez, in the very centre of the Sahara, Champollion traced the
course of former rivers and creeks by the depressions in the soil and
the shape of the smooth-washed pebbles. He also found tree-stumps,
now almost petrified, and covered by a six-foot stratum of burning sand.
"And so the astounding truth dawns upon us," he says, "that this
desert may once have been a region of groves and fountains, and the
abode of happy millions. Is there any crime against Nature which
draws down a more terrible curse than that of stripping our Mother
Earth of her sylvan covering ? The hand of man has j)roduced this
desert, and I verily believe every other desert on the surface of this
earth. Earth was Eden once, and our misery is the punishment of
our sins against the world of plants. I'he burning sun of the desert is
the angel with the flaming sword xcho stands betioeen us and paradise.''^
That the inhabitants of these artificial deserts have failed to rec-
ognize the cause of their misery implies a degree of infatuation and
mental blindness which may appear even more incredible to future
generations than the thousand years' belief in witchcraft and the pa-
tient submission of 80,000,000 able-bodied men to a iuo-ffler-wuild of
priests. Even frogs and fishes become uneasy if the plug-hole of their
tank is opened and their life-element begins to ebb away; and it
should be supposed that, without any scientific aids to reflection, the
sheer instinct of self-preservation could have suggested the simple
remedy before the evil attained its present j>roportions.
But this blindness of the Latin races and the devotees of Islam, if
not justified, is at least partly explained by the fatalism of their reli-
gion. Their belief in supernatural agencies, and a meddlesome Provi-
dence that ruled the world in spite of man, naturally produced indif-
ference to all physical sciences whatever. The three Semitic religions
have done more to divorce man from Nature than all his inborn vices
and the "necessary decay of civilized races" that is so often preferred
as an explanation. "Though our mortal eyes have failed to penetrate
the depths of heaven," says Erasmus, " we have succeeded in losing
sight of our own earth." If this earth was a vale of tears, and heaven
our proper home, all attention to earthly affairs seemed so much lost
time, and in the souls of men who were taught to consider their nat-
ural feelings as antagonistic to tlie will of God the warning voice of
instinct was raised in vain.
