388 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Much more unaccountable seems our own indifierence to the disap-
pearance of our forests, since our science Las demonstrated to the sat-
isfaction of all rational and semi-rational beings including seme very
conservative rulers of Western Europe that an animal flayed, or a
tree stripped of its bark, does not perish more surely than a land de-
prived of its trees.
The Duke of Burgundy's rule, " One-third to the hunter, two-
thirds to the husbandman," expresses about the most desirable pro-
portion of woodlands and cultivated fields. In a country blessed with
such a plethora of Avoods as the United Stales between the Atlantic
and the valley of the Mississippi could boast of less than a hundred
years ago, the work of " clearing " could therefore be pursued within
very liberal limits, not only without injury, but with positive benefit to
the climate, inasmuch as it would counteract excess of moisture and mi-
asmatic tendencies. But in some of our Southern and Central States this
limit has already been passed. The State's of Ohio and Indiana, and the
southern parts of Kentucky and Michigan, so recently a part of the
great East-American forest, have even now a greater percentage of tree-
less area than Austria and the North-German Empire, that have been
settled and cultivated for upward of a thousand years. The northern
borders of Ohio are kept comparatively fertile by the neighborhood of
the great lakes, but the central regions, and many of the river-counties,
begin to suffer from drought, and see their springs fail in every sum-
mer. The " Blue-Grass " region of Kentucky, once the pride of the
West, has now districts of such a barren and arid nature that their
stock-farmers are moving toward the Cumberland Mountains, because
the creeks and old springs dried up, and their wells became too low
to furijish water for tlieir cattle.
Wherever tobacco and cotton are cultivated, the work of ruin has
made rapid advances, and in all the southeastern counties of Virginia
and North Carolina, and throughout Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia,
and South Carolina, the traveler may ride for hours without seeing
more than four or five trees in a group; droughts are becoming more
and more frequent, and the locust, that ominous pioneer of the desert,
has made its appearance.
The climatic influence of arboreal vegetation must be more gener-
ally understood, before siich legislative measures as the importance of
the subject demands, can be hoped for. In the economy of Nature
forests perform innumerable functions which no artificial contrivance
can imitate, and of which the following are only the most important:
Woods, in the first place, are the water-reservoirs of Nature, and
hold in the network of their roots and their moss-carpet the moisture
which is intended to supply our water-courses in the season of mid-
summer heat. One acre of full-grown beech-trees absorbs and dis-
penses as much humidity as twenty acres of grape-vines and tobacco,
and more than two hundred acres of cereals.
