THE CLIMATIC INFLUENCE OF VEGETATION. 389
Forests produce rain. Under the influence of vertical sun-rays trees
exhale the aqueous vapors which their leaves linve absorhed from the
atmosphere, and in contact with tlie night-air or any stray current of
lower temperature, these vapors discharge rain-showers even in mid-
summer, and at a great distance from the sea.
By moistening the air woodlands also moderate the extremes of
heat and cold. It is seen on the sea-shore how beneficently humidity
operates in allaying the severity of winter, and in summer the evap-
oration of dew and rain gives us cool breezes when they are most
needed. By the extirpation of forests the climate of the entire OrMs
Homaniis has been changed from the summer temperature of West
Virginia to the furnace-heat of New Mexico and Arizona.
Besides this, the forest by shade in summer and fuel in winter
protects us directly against the vicissitudes of temjierature, and at the
foot of high mountains interposes a mechanical barrier between the
valleys and avalanches in the north, and floods in the south. The
water-torrents, which not only flood and damage the lowlands, but
carry their fertile soil away, are imbibed or detained by extensive
forests. Joseph II. of Austria was right to attach heavy penalties
to the destruction of the " Bannwalder," the woods on the Alpine
slopes, that protect the valleys from avalanches, and to propose that
in wars, even d Poutrance, the trees of a country should be spared by
international agreement.
Our woods are also the home and shelter of those best friends of
man, the insectivorous birds. A country destitute of trees is avoided
by birds, and left to the ravages of locusts and other insects, which,
as we saw on our own continent, always attack the barren and naked
districts. Our locust-swarms devastated the " Great "West," i. e., the
treeless expanse between the Mississippi and the Rocky Mountains,
but spared the woodlands of the Alleghanies and the timber-regions
of the Pacific slope.
The exhilarating influence of a woodland excursion is not alto-
gether due to scenic effects and imagination. Forests exhale oxygen,
the life-air of flames and animal lungs, and absorb or neutralize a
variety of noxious gases. Scirrhous affections of the skin and other
diseases disappear under tlie disinfecting influence of forest-air. Dr.
Brehm observes that ophthalmia and leprosy, which have become
hereditary diseases, not only in the valley of the Nile, bvit also on the
table-lands of Barca and Tripoli, are utterly unknown in the well-tim-
bered valley of Abyssinia, though the Abyssinians live more than a
hundred geographical miles nearer to the equator than their afflicted
neighbors.
The traditions of the "blessed islands of the West," the " Garden
of the Hesperides," probably referred to Madeira and the Cape- Verde
Archipelago, which, according to De Gama's description, must have
come nearer to our idea of terrestrial paradise than any other region
