390 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of this earth. " The ills that flesh here is heir to," he says, " are only
thi-ee: wounds, the efiects of poison, and decrepitude the latter
rarely makes its appearance before the completion of the ninetieth
year." Since the Portuguese have felled their glorious forests for the
sake of madeira (building-material), these islands have become hot-
beds of disease.
The valley of the Guadalquivir, us late as a century before the dis-
covery of America, supported a population of 7,000,000 of probably
the healthiest and happiest men of Southern Europe. Since the live-
oak and chestnut groves of the surrounding heights have disappeared
this population has shrunk to a million and a quarter of sickly wretches,
who depend for their sustenance on the scant produce of sandy barrens
that become sandier and drier from year to year.
It would be exaggeration to say that the barrenness of a treeless
country is an evil without remedy. Nature is always ready to assist
in any work of regeneration, and there is no desert so void and naked
that it might not be reclaimed in the course of half a century. The
Khedive of Egypt has wrested land from the sand-wastes as the Hol-
landers win it from the sea, and by a cheaper process than the build-
ing of extensive dikes. By planting date-palms and olive-trees, Egypt
has added many hundred square miles to her arable surface, and, as
Baker-Pasha assures us, her annual rainfall has almost doubled.
Between Karnak and Soodan the rain-gauge shows now a yearly aver-
age of sixteen inches, where nine inches was the maximum before
1820. And not only the limits of these tree-plantations, but also
the adjoining districts, have been benefited ; on the table-land of
Wady-Halfa the present temperature is not nearly as oppressive as it
was within the memory of men now living, and currant-bushes and
wild-mulberries have sprung up where they never grew before. In
France, too, the Government has reclaimed the Landes^ a sandy steppe
on the southwestern coast, by planting willows and bay-trees ; and
even Algeria has been improved by the persistent tree-culture of the
French colonists.
But how slow and laborious is this work of restoration, and how
easily might we forestall its necessity if we would begin in time ! A
legislative act to jDrotect the woods of all the upper ridges in hill-
countries, and of a certain percentage of acres, say fifteen in a hun-
dred, in the plains, would be an effectual guarantee against evils which
otherwise will assuredly overtake us, and speedier than Europe, on
account of the compact shape of our continent, that deprives us of the
advantages of a marine climate.
Let us remember that the aphorism of the greatest physician of
modern times applies to other organisms as well as to the human body.
" Timely prevention," said Dr. Radcliffe, " not only saves us from dis-
eases, but from those greater evils the remedies.''''
