EDUCATION AS A SCIENCE. 395
where, how, and wliy, we are wrong, is the teacher's most indispen-
sable function.
3. The only mode of arriving at a new constructive combination is
to try and try again. The will initiates some movements ; these are
found not to answer, and are suppressed ; others are tried, and so on,
until the requisite combination has been struck out. The way to new
powers is by trial and error. According as the first and second con-
ditions above given are realized, the unsuccessful trials are fewer. If
we have been well led up to the combination required, and if we have
before us a very clear idea of what is to be done, we do not need
many tentatives; the prompt suppression of the wrong movements
ultimately lands us in the right.
The mastei-ing of a new manual combination as in writing, in
learning to swim, in the mechanical arts is a very trying moment
to the human powers; success involves all those favorable circum-
stances indicated in discussing the retentive or receptive faculty.
Vigor, freshness, freedom from distraction, no strong or extraneous
emotions, motives to succeed are all most desirable in realizing a
difficult combination. Fatigue, fear, flurry, or other w^asting excite-
ment, does away with the chances of success.
Very often we have to give up the attempt for a time ; yet the
ineffectual struggles are not entirely lost. We have at least learned
to avoid a certain number of positions, and have narrowed the round
of tentatives for the next occasion. If, after two or three repetitions,
with rest-intervals, the desired combination does not emerge, it is
a proof that some preparatory movement is wanting, and we should
be made to retrace the approaches. Perhaps we may have learned
the prerequisite movements in a way, but not with sufficient firmness
and certainty for securing their being performed in combination.
Alternation^ and Remission of Activity. In the accustomed
routine of education, a number of separate studies and acquirements
are prosecuted together ; so that, for each day, a pupil may have to
engage in as many as three, four, or more, different kinds of lessons.
The principles that guide the alternation and remission of our modes
of exercise and application are apparently these :
1. Sleep is the only entire and absolute cessation of the mental
and bodily expenditure ; and perfect or dreamless sleep is the greatest
cessation of all. Whatever shortens the due allowance of sleep, renders
it fitful and disturbed, or promotes dreaming, is so much force wasted.
In the waking hours, there may be cessation from a given exer-
cise, with more or less of inaction over the whole system. The greatest
diversion of the working forces is made by our meals ; during these
the trains of thought are changed, while the body is rested.
Bodily or muscular exercise, when alternated with sedentary men-
tal labor, is really a mode of remission accompanied with an expendi-
ture requisite to redress the balance of the physical functions. The
