EDUCATION AS A SCIENCE. 397
is simply laborious to the indulgence of a taste or liking, is the fruition
of life. To emerge from constraint to liberty, from the dark to the
light, from monotony to variety, from giving to receiving, is the ex-
changing of pain for pleasure. This, which is the substantial reward
of labor, is also the condition of renovating the powers for further
labor and endurance.
To come closer to the difficulty in hand. The kind of change that
may take place within tlie field of study itself, and that may operate
both as a relief from strain and as the reclamation of waste ground,
is best exemplified in such matters as these : In the act of leai'ning
generally tliere is a twofold attitude observing what is to be done,
and doing it. In verbal exercises, we first listen and then repeat ; in
handicraft, we look at the model, and then reproduce it. Now, the
proportioning of the two attitudes is a matter of economical adjust-
ment. If we are kept too long on the observing stretch, we lose the
energy for acting ; not to mention that more has been given us than
we are able to realize. On the other hand, we should observe long
enough to be quite saturated with the impression; we should have
enough given us to be worthy of our reproducing energy. Any one
working from a model at command learns the suitable proportion be-
tween observing and doing. The living teacher may err on either
side. He may give too much at one dose ; this is the common error.
He may also dole out insignificantly small portions, which do not
evoke the sense of power in the pupils.
When an arduous combination is once struck out, the worst is over,
but the acquisition is not completed. There is the further stage of
repetition and practice, to give facility, and insure permanence. This
is comparatively easy. It is the occupation of the soldier after his
first year. There is a plastic process still going on, but it is not the
same draft upon the forces as the original struggles. At this stage,
other acquirements are possible, and should be made. Now, in the
course of training, it is a relief to pass from the exercises tliat are en-
tirely new and strange, to those that have been practised and need
only to be continued and confirmed.
Before considering the alternations of departments of acquisition,
we may advei't to the two different intellectual energies called, re-
spectively, Memory and Judgment. These are in every way distinct,
and in passing from the one to the other there is a real, and not
merely an apparent, transition. Memory is nearly identical with the
retentive, adhesive, or plastic faculty, which I have assumed to be
perhaps the most costly employment of the powers of the mind and
brain. Judgment, again, may be simply an exercise of discrimination ;
it may also involve similarity and identification ; it may further con-
tain a constructive operation. It is the aspect of our intellectual
power that turns to account our existing impressions, as contrasted
with the power that adds to our accumulated stores. The most de-
