2 2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
notic state, followed the Swedish nightingale's songs in different lan-
guages both instantaneously and correctly ; and when, in order to test
her powers, Mademoiselle Lind extemporized a long and elaborate chro-
matic exercise, she imitated this with no less precision, though unable
in her waking state even to attempt anything of the sort. Now, I wish
you to compare this case with another, which was reported about the
same time upon what seemed equally unexceptionable testimony.
When Miss Martineau first avowed her conversion to mesmerism, the
extraordinary performances of her servant J were much talked of;
and, among other marvels, it was asserted tliat she could converse,
when in her mesmeric state, in languages she had never learned, and
of which she knew nothing when awake the particular fact being ex-
plicitly stated that Lord Morpeth had tested this power and had found
it real. Now, you will readily perceive that, supposing the testimony
in these two cases to have been exactly the same, its probative force
would have been very different. For the first of them, though unpre-
cedented, presented no scientific improbability to those who were pre-
pared, by their careful study of the phenomena of hypnotism, to be-
lieve that the power of imitative vocalization, like any other, might
be intensified by the concentration of the " subject's" whole attention
upon the performance. But it seemed inconceivable that an unedu-
cated servant-girl could understand what was said to her in a lan-
guage she had never learned ; still more, that she should be able to
reply in the same language. And the only possible explanation of
the fact, if fact it was, short of a miracle, may have lain either in her
having learned the language long before and subsequently forgotten
it, or in her being able by "thought-reading" (which is maintained
by some, even at the present time, to be one of the attributes of the
mesmeric state) to divine and express the answer expected by Lord
Morpeth. But the marvel was entirely dissipated by the inquiries of
Dr. Noble, who, being very desirous of getting at the exact truth,
first applied for information to a near relative of Miss Martineau, and
was told by him that the report was not quite accurate ; for, on
Lord Morpeth putting a question to J in a foreign language,
J had replied appropriately in her own vernacular. Her compre-
hension of Lord Morpeth's question, however, appeared in itself suf-
ciently strange to be suggestive of some fallacy ; and having an op-
portunity not long afterward of asking Lord Morpeth himself what
was the real state of the case. Dr. Noble learned from him that when
he put a question to J in a foreign language she imitated his
speech after a fashion by an unmeaning articulation of sound.
On the lesson which this case affords as to the credibility of testi-
mony in regard to what are called the "higher phenomena " of mes-
merism, I shall enlarge in my succeeding lecture, and at present I
shall only remark that it was shown by careful comparison between
the phenomena displayed by the same individuals, when " mesmerized '*
