400 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The general laws of retentiveness equally apply to emotional
growths. There must be repetition and concentration of mind to
bring about a mental association of pleasure or of pain with any ob-
ject. But there are peculiarities in the case such as to demand for it
a supplementary treatment. Perhaps the best way of bringing out
the points is to indicate the modes or species of growths, coming
under emotion and volition, that most obtrude themselves upon the'
notice of the educationist.
I. We may quote first the associations of pleasure and pain with
the various things that have been present to us, dui'ing our experiences
of delight and suffering. It is well known that we contract pleasur-
able regards toward things originally indifferent that have been often
present to us in happy moments. Local associations are among the
most iamiliar examples ; if our life is joyous, we go on increasing our
attachments to our permanent home and neighborhood; we are
severely tried when we have to migrate ; and one of our holiday de-
lights is to revisit the scenes of former pleasures. A second class of
acquired feelings includes the associations with such objects as have
been the instruments of our avocations, tastes, and pursuits. The fur-
nishings of our home, our tools, weapons, curiosities, collections, books,
pictures all contract a glow of associated feeling, that helps to pal-
liate the dullness of life. The essence of affection, as distinguished
from emotion, is understood to be the confirming and strengthening
of some primary object of our regards. As our knowledge extends,
we contract numerous associations with things purely ideal, as with
historic places, persons, and incidents. I need only allude to the large
field of ceremonies, rites, and formalities, which are cherished as en-
larging the surface of emotional growths. The fine-art problem of
distinguishing between original and derived effects consists in more
precisely estimating these acquired pleasures.
The educationist could not but cast a longing eye over the wide
region here opened up, as a grand opportunity for his art. It is the
realm of vague possibility, peculiarly suited to sanguine estimates. An
education in happiness pure and simple, by w^ell-placed joyous asso-
ciations, is a dazzling prospect. One of Sydney Smith's pithy sayings
was, " If you make children hnppy now, you make them happy twenty
years hence, by the memory of it." This referred, no doubt, to the
home-life. It may, however, be carried out also in the school-life;
and enthusiasm has gone the length of supposing that the school mny
be so w^ell constituted as to efface the stamp of an unhappy home.
The growth of such happy associations is not the work of days ; it
demands years. I have endeavored to set forth the psychology of the
case ("The Emotions and the Will," third edition, p. 89), and do not
here repeat the principles and conditions that seem to be involved.
But the thread of the present exposition would be snapped, if I were
not to ask attention to the difference in the rate of growth when the
