EDUCATION AS A SCIENCE. 403
assign its elements, with a view to define them. The iinconventional
liandling of moral culture by Bentham and James Mill is strongly
illustrative of this part of the case. Mill's view of the moral sense
is the theory of thorough-going derivation ; and, in delineating the
process of moral education, he naturally follows out that view. He
takes the cardinal virtues piecemeal ; for example : " Temperance
bears a reference to pain and pleasure. The object is, to connect with
each pain and pleasure those trains of ideas which, according to the
order established among events, tend most effectually to increase the
sum of pleasures upon the whole, and diminish that of pains." The
advocates of a moral faculty would have a different way of inculcating
temperance which, however, I will not undertake to reproduce.
It will not be denied, as a matter of fact, that tlie perennial mode
of insuring the moral conduct of mankind has been punishment and
reward pain and pleasure. This method has been found, generally
speaking, to answer the purpose ; it has reached the springs of action
of human beings of every hue. No special endowment has been needed
to make man dread the pains of the civil authority. Constituted as
we are to flee all sorts of pain, we are necessarily urged to avoid pain
when it comes as punishment. Education is not essential to tliis effect
any more than it is essential to our avoiding the pains of hunger, cold,
or fatigue.
Those Avho demur to the existence of a special faculty, different
from all the other recognized constituents of mind feeling, will, or
intellect are not to be held as declaring that conscience is entirely a
matter of education ; for, without any education at all, man may be,
to all intents and purposes, moral. What is meant by the derivative
theory of conscience is, that everything that it includes is traceable
to some one or other of the leading factors of our nature : first of all to
will or volition, motived by pain and pleasure, and next to the social
and sympathetic impulses. The cooperation of these factoi's supplies
a nearly all-powerful impetus to right conduct, wherever there is the
external machinery of law and authority. Education, as a third fac-
tor, plays a part, no doubt, but we may overrate as well as imder-
rate its influence. I should not be far out in saying that seventy-five
per cent, of the average moral faculty is the rough and ready response
of the will to the constituted penalties and rewards of society.
At the risk of embroiling the theory of education in a controversy
that would seem to be alien to it, I conceive it to be necessary to make
these broad statements, as a prelude to inquiring what are the emo-
tional and volitional associations that constitute the made-up or ac-
quired portion of our moral nature. That education is a considerable
factor is shown by the difference between the children that are neg-
lected and such as ai-e carefully tended ; a difference, however, that
means a good deal more than education.
When the terrors of the law are once thoroughly understood, it
