4o6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
erse Nordland and Finmark, cross lakes and rivers, and gnaw through
hay and corn stacks rather than go round. They infect the ground, and
the cattle perish which taste of the grass they have touched ; nothing
stops them neither fire, torrents, lakes, nor morasses. The greatest
rock gives them but a slight check ; they go round it, and then
resume their march directly without the least division. If they meet
a peasant they persist in their course, and jump as high as his knees
in defense of their progress. They are so fierce as to lay hold of a
stick and sufi"er themselves to be swung about before they quit their
hold. If struck they turn about and bite, and will make a noise like
a dog. Foxes, lynxes, and ermines, follow them in great numbers,
and at length they perish, either through want of food or by destroy-
ing one another, or in some great water, or in the sea. They are the
dread of the country, and in former times spiritual weapons were ex-
erted against them ; the priest exorcised them, and had a long foim
of prayer to arrest the evil. Happily it does not occur frequently
once or twice only in twenty years. It seems like a vast colony
of emigrants from a nation overstocked, a discharge of animals from
the northern hive which once poured forth its myriads of human
beings upon Southern Europe. They do not form any magazine for
winter provision, by which improvidence, it seems, they are compelled
to make their summer migration in certain years, urged by hunger.
They are not poisonous, as vulgarly reported, for they are often eaten
by the Laplanders, who compare their flesh to that of squirrels."
M. Guyon disposes of the theory that these migrations are influ-
enced by approaching, severe weather, since the one witnessed by
himself took place in the spring; also the superabundance of food
during the previous autumn precluded all idea of starvation. He
therefore adopts a third view, that excessive multiplication in certain
years necessitates emigration, and that this follows a descending
course, like the mountain-streams, till at length the ocean is reached.
Mr. R. Collett, a Norwegian naturalist, writes that in November,
1868, a ship sailed for fifteen hours through a swarm of lemmings,
which extended as far over the Trondhjems-fjord as the eye could
reach.
I will now relate my own experience of the lemming during three
migrations in Norway, and in a state of captivity in England. The
situation of Heimdalen, where I reside during the summer months, is
peculiarly well suited for observation of their migrations, lying as it
does at an elevation of 3,000 feet, and immediately imder the highest
mountains in Scandinavia; and yet, excepting during migration, I
have never seen or been able to procure a specimen. It was in the
autumn of 1867 that I first heard the peculiar cry of the lemming,
guided by which I soon found the pretty animal backed up by a stone,
against which it incessantly jerked its body in passionate leaps of
rage, all the while uttering a shrill note of defiance. Tlie black, bead-
