TEE NORWEGIAN LEMMING. 407
like eyes seemed starting from their sockets, and tbe teeth shone
wliite in the sunliglit. I hastily snatched at the savage little creat-
ure, but it sprang completely round, fastened its teeth sharply in my
hand, and taking advantage of my surprise escaped under a large
stone, whence I could not dislodge it. A Norwegian friend who ac-
companied me by no means shared my feelings of satisfaction at the
sight of a lemming. " We shall have a severe winter and no grass
next spring, owing to those children of Satan ! " was his comment on
the event. However, it was many a month before I saw another;
then, on lifting a flat stone, I found six in a nest of dried grass, blind,
and apparently but just born. In a few days the whole fjeld became
swarming with these pretty voles ; at the same time white and blue
foxes made their appearance, and snowy owls and many species of
hawks became abundant. My dogs, too, were annoyed by the rash
courage of the new-comers, which would jump at their noses even
when slowly drawing on game, so that they never spared a lemming,
though they never ate them till last year, when I observed that they
would eat their heads only, rejecting the body, although they de-
voured the common field-mouse to the end of his tail. As the season
advanced and snow covered the gi'ound, the footprints and headless
carcasses told plainly how hard it must be for a lemming to preserve
its life, although there can be no doubt that its inherent pugnacity is
its worst enemy. In this country we fail to conceive how much active
life goes on beneath the snow, which in more northern latitudes forms
a warm roof to numerous birds, quadrupeds, and insects, which are
thus enabled to secure an otherwise impossible sustenance. At the
same time, as I have already noticed, a fearful struggle for existence
is carried on during the long autumnal nights, before the snow has be-
come a protection rather than a new source of danger to all save pre-
daceous animals. It was a curious sight, when the whole visible
landscape was an unbroken whiteness, to see a dark form suddenly
spring from the surface and scurry over the snow, and again vanish.
I found that some of the holes by means of which this feat was exe-
cuted were at least five feet in depth, yet even here was no safety, for
the reindeer often kill the lemmings by stamping on them, though I
do not believe their bodies are ever eaten.
During the autumn I noticed no migration, or rather there was
only an immigration from some point to the eastward, and in the sub-
sequent migrations of 1870-'7l, and 1875-"76, I still found the same
state of things. The animals arrived during early autumn, and im-
mediately began to breed ; there was no procession, no serried
bands undeterred by obstacles, but there was an invasion of tem-
porary settlers, which were speedily shut out from human view
by the snow, and it was not till the following summer that the
army, reenforced by five or six generations, went out to perish like
the hosts of Pharaoh. On calm mornings my lake, which is a mile
