4o8
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in width, was often thickly studded with swimming lemmings, every
head pointing westward ; but I observed that when my boat came near
enough to frighten them they would lose all idea of direction, and
frequently swim back to tlie bank they had left. When the least
wind ruftied the water every swimmer was drowned ; and never did
frailer barks tempt a more treacherous sea, as the wind swept daily
down the valley, and wi*ecked all who were then afloat. It is impos-
sible not to feel pity for these self-haunted fugitives. A mere cloud
passing over the sun affrighted them ; the approach of horse, cow,
doo-, or man, alike roused their impotent anger, and their little bodies
were convulsively pressed against the never-failing stone of vantage
{see Fig. 1), while they uttered cries of rage. I collected 500 skins,
with the idea of making a rug, but was surprised to find that a por-
tion of the rump was nearly always denuded of hair, and it was long
before I discovered that this was caused by the habit of nervously
backing up against a stone, of which I have just spoken. As this
action is excited by every appearance of an enemy, it seems surpris-
ing that a natural callosity should not take the place of so constant a
lesion ; possibly, however, the time during which this lesion occurs is
too short to cause constitutional change.
Early in the autumn, and just a year after their arrival at Heim-
dalen, the western migration commenced anew. Every morning I
found swarms of lemmings swimming the lake diagonally, instead of
diverging from their course so as to go round it, and mounting the
steep slopes of Heimdals-lio (Figs. 2 and 3) on their way to the coast,
Fig. 2. Plan of Heimdalen drawn to scale, in which the course of the Lemrainge, indicated by
the arrow*:, is seen to crops Lake Heimdalsvand and the Fwift river Leirungen, both of wliicli
might be avoided by a slight dUour. The river is of glacier origin, very cold and very rapid.
where the harassed crowd, thinned by the unceasing attacks of the
wolf, the fox, and the dog, and even the reindeer, pursued by eagle,
hawk, and owl {see frontispiece), and never spared by man himself,
yet still a vast multitude, plunges into the Atlantic Ocean on the first
