MATCHES. 413
doubt, thei-efore, they commit themselves to the Atlantic in the belief
that it is as passable as those lakes and Ijoixls which they have already
successfully dared, and that beyond its waves lies a land which they
are never destined to reach.
The submerged continent of Lemuria, in what is now the Indian
Ocean, is considered to afibrd an explanation of many difficulties in
the distribution of organic life, and I think the existence of a Miocene
Atlantis will be found to have a strong elucidative bearing on subjects
of greater interest than the migration of the lemming. At all events,
if it can be shown that land existed in former ages where the North
Atlantic now rolls, not only is a motive found for these apparently
suicidal migrations, but also a strong collateral proof that what we
call instincts are but the blind and sometimes even prejudicial inheri-
tance of previously-acquired experience. Popular Science Review.
-^-
MATCHES.
By JOHN A. GARVER, A.B.
AN article in The Popular Science Monthly of last November
gave an interesting account of the early history of fire, showing
how that important element was obtained in primitive times. We will
now consider the development of the modern art of extemporizing
fire. In a match-making age those crude and ancient processes are
regarded with curiosity, but that they ever possessed any practical
value is scarcely realized ; while the use of our prompt and cheap
devices for producing combustion has grown to be such a matter of
course that a thought is hardly given to the time when they did not
exist. During the whole of the last century, however, and in the early
part of the present century, the invention of a safe and trustworthy
agent for furnishing fire was regarded as one of the great wants of
the age ; and fifty years ago a tinder-box was as much an indispen-
sable article of household economy as is the well-filled match-safe to-
day. The sulphur-match now in use is not so old as our railroads, and
but a few years ago there occurred frequent examples of burns caused
by the explosion of the match and the projection of its burning pieces.
Among the more civilized nations, the tinder-box, with the flint
and steel, became known in the fourteenth century, and continued to
be used, notwithstanding the other methods, down to the invention
of the lucifer-match. The tinder was formed by the partial combus-
tion of a linen or cotton rag, and, being ignited by striking a spark
upon it from the flint and steel, communicated its fire in turn to the
match.
When phosphorus was first discovered, two hundred years ago, it
