414 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
was utilized in London by rubbing it between two pieces of brown
paper. A tire was produced in this way, which lighted a splint tipped
with sulphur. Another early method was to put a piece of phospho-
rus in a vial and stir it with a hot iron wire, after which the vial was
corked tightly for use. As the phosphorus was partially burned in
the contined portion of the air, the interior of the vial became covered
with oxide of phosphorus. When a light was desired, a sulphur-
tipped splint was dipped into the bottle, a portion of the phosphorus
adhered to it, and, being brought into the air, the chemical action
between the two substances caused a flame which lighted the splint.
When chlorate of potash is mixed with loaf-sugar, a drop of sul-
phuric acid let fall on the compound will produce a brilliant flame.
This principle involved the next stage in the development of the
match. The end of the splint was tipped with the mixture, colored
with vermilion, and ignited in a little bottle containing asbestus and
sulphuric acid. The various ingredients were then put into a hand-
some metal case, and the patent was ready to take its place among the
wealthy; for, at first, a single case of a hundred sold for four dollars
and seventy-five cents. There were certain drawbacks to the practical
use of this invention, as the acid would become weak by absorbing
moisture from the air, and the match, instead of producing the brilliant
flame expected, merely smouldered and spurted the acid about, to the
detriment of good clothes and a peaceful disposition. As a stroke of
economy, such a wetted match was occasionally put back among the
rest for future use ; but, coming in contact with one more energetic,
it ignited the latter, and thus the whole collection was lighted at once
and shot out in all directions. From this dip-splint, oxymuriate match,
or instantaneous light-box, as it was variously termed, lucifers trace
their lineal descent.
John Walker, an Englishman, is generally supposed to have in-
vented lucifer-matches in 1829. The first real friction-match was
made in England in 1832, and was a compound of chlorate of potash
and sulphuret of antimony. It was ignited by strong compression
between two pieces of sand-paper, and, as a natural consequence, the
heads frequently flew ofl"in all directions. A year or two later, phos-
phoi'us was substituted for the antimony; the matches were called
"congreves," and the composition continued to be improved by using
other constituents for part of the chlorate of potash.
The ease with which phosphorus is ignited by friction has caused it
to be employed universally in the manufacture of matches. The partic-
ular proportions and the exact ingredients which make x;p the head
of the match are jealously guarded by the manufactui'ers, each one
claiming some advantage over the others. From one-twelfth to one-
tenth is laid down as the best proportion of phosphorus to be em-
ployed. Glue, gum, or similar substances, are used for causing the com-
position to adhere to the splint. The use of glue is objectionable, as it
