MATCHES. 415
carbonizes and prevents combustion. In preparing the compound, the
muciko-inous substance is dissolved in water till it assumes the consist-
ency of thin sirup. After it is heated, the phosphorus is added in
small pieces, and thoroughly incorporated by rubbing till cold. If it
were left in this condition, however, the mass, upon becoming cold,
would prevent the admission of air and hinder combustion. Some
additional substance is necessary to supply the oxygen to it, such as
red-lead, saltpetre, or chlorate of potash. ' Coloring-matter is also
usually put into the solution : vermilion, if the tips are to be red ;
Prussian blue, if they are to be blue, etc. In making sulphur-matches,
the ends of the splints are first dipped into melted sulphur, and after-
ward touched to the surface of the phosphorus-paste. In lighting such
a match, the process is as follows : the coating of the head is broken
by friction, the phosphorus is kindled, and the heat of its combustion
decomposes the salts ; these, in their decomposition, evolve oxygen,
which provides the fuel, increases the heat, and causes the ignition of
the sulphur, which in turn inflames the wood. The temperature re-
quired for kindling matches varies from 150 to 160 Fahr. The
sulphur is what causes the peculiar brimstone-odor. Instead of sul-
phur, stearin, stearic acid, or paraffin, is used in the better kinds of
matches. They burn more readily than the sulphur-matches, as the
fatty matter and wood take fire together, while in the others the sul-
phur must first be consumed before the wood is ignited. The matches
soaked in fatty matter also burn with a clearer and brighter light, and
are free from the disagreeable odor due to the sulphur. A coating of
varnish is sometimes employed to protect the head from moisture.
Before a box of matches can be sold, it has passed through about
forty diftereat processes, twenty for the matches and as many for the
box. The wood used for the splints is commonly white-pine, free from
knots. Other woods are also occasionally employed, as beech, birch,
willow, poplar, and cedar. Much of the wood for this purpose is
brought from Canada, and the match-manufacture is assuming such
large proportions that it is making serious inroads into the supply of
clear white-pine timber needed for other purposes. Formerly, the
splints were cut by hand, and the composition was applied by the
same means. Separate factories are now commonly employed for mak-
ing the splints, and the entire labor is performed by machinery. As
the manufacturers do not allow visitors in their buildings, it is impos-
sible to describe exactly the machinery or the methods employed. By
one process, the pine-wood is reduced to two-inch planks, which are
cut into blocks the length of the ordinary match. These are put into
a small machine, which at each stroke cuts ofi" twelve splints, and at
the following stroke delivers them upon an endless chain, which car-
ries them to a sulphui--bath, where a wheel, revolving in the sulphur,
coats their ends as they pass ; farther on, a similar wheel applies the
phosphorus. In this condition the matches are brought back across
