41 6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the room, delivered in trays near the cutting-machine, and thence sent
to the packing-room. In wax-matches, or vestas, the composition is
attached to a fcAV cotton-threads immersed in a mixture of paraffin
and stearin. One or two himdred of these wicks are rolled around a
cylinder and separated by a comb. They pass through a bath of
melted wax and are afterward drawn through holes in a metal frame,
which renders the tapers smooth, cylindrical, and of the proper size
and shape. A mechanical knife cuts, at one time, all the wicks accord-
inf to the determined length, from one to one and a quarter inch,
after which the paste is applied to their ends with great rapidity.
In the manufacture of matches much trouble has been occasioned
by the use of phosphorus, as its fumes attack the teeth of the work-
men, and sfive rise to a disease known as caries of the iaw-bones.
In some of the small and poorly-managed factories the men and chil-
dren are never free from the fumes ; their clothes and breath are lu-
minous in the dark, and in the daytime "white fumes may be seen
escaping from them whenever they are seated by the fire. The phos-
phorus first attacks a decayed tooth, causing pain which constantly
becomes greater. The gums are sore, the face swollen, and the teeth
finally drop out. The suffering is excruciating, the patient finds little
relief for months or years, and, in a severe case, there is loss of one
or both jaw-bones, hindering mastication and ending in death. So
alarming did this disease become in Germany at one time that it at-
tracted the attention of the Government. No antidote has yet been
discovered ; but it can be prevented to a great extent by ventilation
and cleanliness. We have inquired of several of the leading American
manufacturers in regard to the subject, and all say that their work-
men are not troubled in this manner. No examination of their teeth is
enforced, the men being merely warned as to the consequences before
they begin their work.
Partly as a remedy for this evil, the red or amorphous i^hosphorus
was substituted for the ordinary variety. This possesses neither odor
nor taste, is not poisonous, and can be handled with safety. The dan-
ger arising from the use of matches was magnified, bacause they could
sometimes be seen in the dark, were liable to ignite on a warm shelf,
and were poisonous to such an extent that children had been killed by
using them as playthings. From red phosphorus resulted the safety-
match. Many attempts were made to form a paste with red phos-
phorus and chlorate of potash without success, and finally the paste
and phospliorus were separated. The heads now consist of a pasty
mass composed mainly of sulphuret of antimony and chlorate of pot-
ash. The red phosphorus, mixed with very fine sand or other sub-
stance, is glued to the box in which the matches are contained. It is
impossible to light such matches by friction upon any common rough
surface, though they at once burst into flame when rubbed upon the
phosphorus composition on the box. They can sometimes be lighted
