41 8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in putting a small quantity of phosphorus into the heads to make
them ignite more easily when brought into contact with the phos-
phorus on the box. This fraud has actually been carried into eftect
in Northern Germany, and, although nothing of the kind has been
discovered in this country, the fact that it may be will probably in-
crease their unpopularity. The safety-match has certainly had time to
win its way, as an old variety of it existed in Switzerland at a period
when other parts of the world wei-e still occupied with the flint and
steel. It has been claimed for these matches that they are better able
to resist moisture than other vai'ieties. The reason, however, is not
apparent, as the heads are composed of salts, which are afiected by
water in the manner of all saline substances. It may be stated as a
general rule that those matches are safest which require considerable
friction for ignition, and which, when lighted, furnish merely heat
enough to kindle the splints. The safest, probably, are those in which
a considerable part of the compound is formed of sulphur, as it re-
quires more than usual friction to light them. They are also a quiet
match, and in lighting do not scatter any part of the head about.
But they kindle slowly, and the sulphurous fumes always render them
objectionable. They can also be lighted so conveniently by rubbing
them on the Avail that a great temptation is held out to servants to
disfigure the appearance of a room in this way.
About twenty years ago parlor-matches began to be manufactui-ed
and have ever since been growing in favor. No sulphur is used in
tliem, and in their freedom from odor, their convenience and rapidity
in lighting, they have a decided advantage over all others. Their
noisy explosion is occasioned by chlorate of potash, and may be pre-
vented by substituting nitrate of potash. They are said to be superior
to the German match, owing, perhaps, to the fact that they are not
coated with varnish. They seem to have attained their greatest pop-
ularity in the Western and Southern States, and are used pretty gen-
erally among the wealthier classes. Swift & Courtney, who have
factories in four diiferent cities, manufacture about 1,500 gross of
these daily, and state that the deniand for them is constantly in-
creasing. They are nearly half again as expensive as the sulphur-
match, and grocers and retail jobbers are inclined to increase their
price. There is, however, but a small diffei-ence between the cost of
matches with sulphur and those in which stearic acid is used, as much
more sulphur is required than stearic acid. They partake of the same
danger that attends the employment of the safety-match, for if they
are tipped too profusely the burning material will scatter to some dis-
tance. They take fire easily if any one happens to step upon them,
and require to be guarded carefully where there are children. But
the danger from tlieir use is not alarming, and insurance companies
make but little distinction in their rates between these and others. It
is a mistaken idea that the invention of matches has caused much dif-
