MATCHES.
419
ference in the number of fires ; and, if a certain kind of match is pre-
ferred for its convenience, it will not be abandoned because it has an
extra element of danger. Fires may result from the overturning of a
box by a cat or dog, or by the gnawing of the ends of matches by rats
or mice ; but these occurrences are exceptional, and rarely happen.
There is said to be only one factory in America where wax-matches
are now produced. This has been established within the last few
years, is running altogether with French machinery, and is supplying
a growing demand. The makers of wax-matches do not come into
competition with other manufacturers, but find their custom among
those who are attracted especially by the novelty and pleasing ap-
pearance of the matches. Their higher cost prevents them from com-
ing into general use, and the fact that there is a monopoly in their
manufacture exerts some influence in regard to the price. Great care
is taken in the designs for the boxes, and no pains are spared to make
them ornamental and attractive. Improvements and new patents are
constantly being made in them. The most recent variety has a small
hole in the lid which acts as a candlestick. As soon as the match is
lighted, the unburned end is inserted in the lid of the box, and an
illumination is provided which lasts according to the length of the
taper. The usual wax-match gives a fine light, which continues one
or two minutes that is, four or five times as long as wooden matches.
This can be increased with their length, and a very respectable im-
promptu candle may be obtained by the contrivance referred to. Fur-
ther attractions are provided by arranging the difierently-colored
heads according to curious and artistic devices. They can be pur-
chased, having a composition resembling the parlor-match, or in the
form of safety-matches. All wax-matches must be made so that they
will take fire upon slight friction on account of the less resistance
afibrded by the body of the match ; but they are not on this account
any more dangerous than the parlor-match. Though sometimes used
by smokers, they are not well suited to this purpose, as in lighting a
cigar the fatty matter can be detected by the taste.
The Japanese have contributed their stock of curiosities to this
department also. They have a variety of paper matches, w^hich burn
Avith a small, scarcely luminous flame, forming, as the combustion ad-
vances, a red-hot ball of glowing saline matter. When the match has
been partly consumed, a succession of bright sparks shoots out from
the head, and gradually a brilliant scintillation is formed similar to
that observed in burning a steel spring in oxygen, only much more
delicate, the separate sparks branching out in beautiful forms. TJiese
matches are composed of carbon, nitre, and sulphur, and there has
been no difliculty in imitating them.
Many efforts have been made to construct the heads of matches
without phosphorus. There is a match in Germany at the present
time in which this '">inlt has been reached, but none of the cases dis-
