420 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
covered seem to be perfectly satisfactory. Dr. Jettel has made a
careful examination of the subject, and has arrived at the conclusion
that the ingredients prepared to take the place of phosphorus render
the match more difficult to ignite, while they are not perfectly harm-
less, but merely less dangerous. They are more sensitive to moisture ;
it is more difficult for the maker to secure a satisfactory result ; and
hence more expensive for the buyer. The Germans in nearly all their
matches use a much smaller proportion of phosphorus than is done
elsewhere, but the material must yet be found which will take its
place entirely.
Accidents may be occasioned by throwing half-burned. matches
carelessly aside, and allowing them to smoulder near combustible sub-
stances. Various chemical solutions have been compounded in which
the match is to be soaked, so that, as soon as it is blown out, the fiery
mass of carbon will become black. Solutions of this kind are alum,
borax, Glauber salts, or Epsom salts. Matches thus prepared are, of
course, rendered more expensive.
While so much has been accomplished in the way of getting a
quick fire without exertion, there is still room for considerable im-
provement. A safety-match has yet to be invented which will con-
tain the entire composition on its own head. A water-proof match is
desired, but has never been invented. There are firms M'hioh repre-
sent that they make water-proof matches, and the scientific journals
contain from time to time receipts to effect this purpose. But they
are not proof to water in the sense in which that is generally under-
stood. Most matches may be put into the mouth or dipped into water
for an instant, but none of them will bear a drenching or continued
exposure to a moist atmosphere. The safety-match is objectionable
for several reasons, the parlor-match from its tendency to scatter
about bits of the head, and the sulphur-match from its brimstone-odor.
Matches have been made in which camphor and frankincense were
mixed with the paste, and the wood of the match was of cedar, so
that an agreeable odor was difiiised in getting a light. So the time
may come when the fashionable match, in addition to its other excel-
lent qualities, will have such a delicate fragrance that it will be a
pleasure merely to light it.
In 1864 the Government required a one-cent stamp to be placed on
every package of matches. In anticipation of the tax a large quan-
tity had been manufactured, so that for the first two years the legiti-
mate revenue was not derived. In 1865 the receipts obtained in
this manner amounted to about $1,000,000, but since then they have
greatly increased, so that the stamp-tax now forms a large part of the
cost. In comparison with other branches of business this product of
industry probably affords the largest revenue accruing under the ex-
cise. Owing to this tax several large firms either failed or retired;
and at the present time the manufacturer of sulphur-matches, by the
