THE IMPORT OF PROTOPLASM. 423
stimulus sets free a certain amount of energy previously latent in the
protoplasm, and the energy set free takes on the form of movement.
Any living matter which, when acted on by a stimulus, thus suffers
an explosion of energy, is said to be " irritable," The irritability
may, as in the amoeba, lead to movement ; but in some cases no move-
ment follows the application of the stimulus to irritable matter, the
energy set free by the explosion taking on some other form (heat,
etc.) than movement. Thus a substance may be irritable and yet not
contractile, though contractility is the most common manifestation of
irritability.
The amoeba (except in its prolonged quiescent stage) is rarely at
rest. It is almost continually in motion. The movements cannot al-
ways be referred to changes in surrounding circumstances acting as
stimuli ; in many cases the energy is set free in consequence of in-
ternal changes, and the movements which result are called sponta-
neous or automatic ' movements. We may, therefore, speak of the
protoplasm of the amoeba as being irritable and automatic.
3. It is eeceptive and assimilative. Certain substances serv-
ing as food are received into the body of the amoeba, and, being there
in large measure dissolved, become part and parcel of the body of the
amoeba become, in fact, fresh protoplasm.
4. It is metabolic and secretoet. Pari passu with the recep-
tion of new material, there is going on an ejection of old material, for
the. increase of the amoeba by the addition of food is not indefinite.
In other words, the protoplasm is continually undergoing chemical
change (metabolism), room being made for the new protoplasm by the
breaking up of the old protoplasm into products which are cast out
of the body and got rid of. These products of metabolic action have,
in all probability, subsidiary uses. Some of them, for instance, we
have reason to think, are of value in the solution and preliminary
changes of the raw food mechanically introduced into the body of the
amoeba ; and hence are retained within the protoplasm for some little
time. Such products are generally sj^oken of as "secretions." Others,
which pass more rapidly away, are generally called " excretions." The
distinction between the two is an unimportant and frequently acci-
dental one. The energy expended in the movements of the amoeba is
supplied by the chemical changes going on in the protoplasm by the
breaking up of bodies possessing much latent energy into bodies pos-
sessing less. Thus the metabolic changes which the food undergoes
in passing through the protoplasm of the amoeba (as distinguished
' This word has recently acquired a meaning almost exactly opposite to that which it
originally bore, and an automatic action is now by many understood to mean nothing
more than an action produced by some machinery or other. In this work I use it in the
older sense, as denoting an action of a body, the causes of which appear to lie in the
body itself. It seems preferable to " spontaneous," inasmuch as it does not necessarily
carry with it the idea of irregularity, and bears no reference to a "will."
