424 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
from the undigested stuff mechanically lodged for a while in the body)
are of three classes : those preparatory to and culminating in the con-
version of the food into protoplasm ; those concerned in the dis-
charge of energy ; and those tending to economize the immediate prod-
ucts of the second class of changes by rendering them more or less
useful for tlie first.
5. It is respikatoey. Taken as a whole, the metabolic changes
are preeminently j^rocesses of oxidation. One article of food i. e., one
substance taken into the body, viz., oxygen stands apart from all
the rest ; and one product of metabolism peculiarly associated with
oxidation viz., carbonic acid stands also somewhat apart from all
the rest. Hence, the assumption of oxygen and the excretion of car-
bonic acid, together with such of the metabolic processes as are more
especially oxidative, are frequently spoken of together as constituting
the respiratory processes.
6. It is reproductive. The individual amoeba represents a unit.
This unit, after a longer or shorter life, having increased in size by
the addition of new protoplasm in excess of that which it is contin-
ually using up, may by fission (or by other means) resolve itself into
two (or moi'e) parts, each of which is capable of living as a fresh unit
or individual.
Such are the fundamental vital qualities of the protoplasm of an
amoeba ; all the facts of the life of an amoeba are manifestations of
these protoplasmic qualities in varied sequence and subordination.
The higher animals, we learn from morphological studies, are in real-
ity groups of amoebae peculiarly associated together. All the physio-
logical phenomena of the higher animals are similarly the results of
these fundamental qualities of protoplasm peculiarly associated to-
getlier. The dominant principle of this association is the physiologi-
cal division of labor corresponding to the morj^hological differentia-
tion of structure. Were a larger or " higher " animal to consist sim-
ply of a colony of undifferentiated amoeba?, one animal differing from
another merely in the number of units making up the mass of its
body, without any differences between the individual units, progress
of function would be an impossibility. The accumulation of units
would be a hindrance to welfare rather than a help. Hence, in the
evolution of living beings through past times, it has come about that
in the higher animals (and plants) certain groups of the constituent
amoebiform units or cells have, in company with a change in structure,
been set apart for the manifestation of certain only of the fundamen-
tal properties of protoplasm, to the exclusion or at least to the com-
plete subordination of the other properties.
These groups of cells, thus distinguished from each other, at once
by the differentiation of structure and by the more or less marked ex-
clusiveness of structure, receive the name of "tissues." Thus, the
units of one class are characterized by the exaltation of the contrac-
