24 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
between them, it was entirely without result ; and no other reason
for the failure could be assigned than her entire freedom from expect-
ancy. So, in another case, in which Mr. Lewis (accounted one of the
most powerful mesmerists of his time) undertook to direct the actions
of his somnambule in the next room, according to a programme agreed
on between himself and one set of witnesses, while the actions actually
performed were recorded and timed by another set, there was found
to be so complete a discordance between the programme "willed"
and the actions really executed as entirely to negative the idea of
any dependence of the latter upon the directing power of the mes-
merizer the supposed relation having obviously grown up under the
habitual repetition of a certain succession of performances (such as I
had myself frequently witnessed), which the somnambule supposed
himself expected to go through in the same order.' A converse ex-
periment, performed by Dr. Elliotson himself, satisfied him that ex-
pectancy would take the place of what he maintained to be the real
mesmeric influence. Havins: told one of his liabitxi'ees that he would
go into the next room and mesmerize her through the door, he retired,
shut the door, performed no mesmeric passes, but tried to forget her,
walked away from the door, busied himself witli something else, and
even walked into a third room ; and, on returning in less than ten
minutes, found the girl in her usual sleep-waking condition. The ex-
treme susceptibility of many of these "sensitive" subjects further
accounts for their being afiected (without any intentional deceit) by
physical impressions which are quite imperceptible to others : such
as slight differences in temperature, when two coins are presented to
them, of which one has been held in the hand of the mesmerizcr ; or
two wineglasses of water, into one of which he has dipped his finger
for a short time. But the 5e?^V/'that he has transmitted his influence
in any mode is quite sufficient to produce the result, as was shown in
an amusing case recorded by M. Bertrand, whose treatise on " Animal
Magnetism" (Paris, 1826) is by far the most philosophical work ex-
tant on the subject. Having occasion to go a journey of a hundred
leagues, leaving a female somnambule under the treatment of one of
his friends, M. Bertrand sent him a magnetized letter, which he re-
quested him to place on the stomach of the patient, who had been led
to anticipate the expected results mesmeric sleep, with the customary
phenomena, supervened. He then wrote another letter which he did
not magnetize, and sent it to her in the same manner, and with the
same intimation. She again fell into the mesmeric sleep, which was
attributed to the letter having been unintentionally impregnated by
' Mr. Lewis was challenged to this test-experiment, in consequence of his assertion
that he had repeatedly induced the mesmeric sleep, and had directed the operations of
his somnarabules, by the exertion of his "silent will," from a distance. His utter failure
to produce either result, however, under the scrutiny of skeptical inquirers, obviously
discredits all his previous statements, except to such as are ready to accept without
question the slenderest evidence of the greatest marvels.
