THE IMPORT OF PROTOPLASM. 425
tility of their protoplasm, their automatism, metabolism, and repro-
duction, being kept in marked abeyance. These units constitute the
so-called muscular tissue. Of another tissue viz., the nervous the
marked features are irritability and automatism, with an almost com-
plete absence of contractility and a great restriction of the other
qualities. In a third group of units, the activity of the protoplasm is
largely confined to the chemical changes of secretion, contractility
and automatism (as manifested by movement) being either absent or
existing to a very slight degree. Such a secreting tissue, consisting
of epithelium-cells, forms the basis of the mucous membrane of the
alimentary canal. In the kidney, the substances secreted by the cells,
being of no farther use, are at once ejected from the body. Hence
the renal tissue may be spoken of as excretory. In the epithelium-
cells of the lungs, the protoplasm plays an altogether subordinate
part in the assumption of oxygen and the excretion of carbonic acid.
Still, we may, perhaps, be permitted to speak of the pulmonary epi-
thelium as a respiratory tissue.
In addition to these distinctly secretory or excretory tissues, there
exist groups of cells specially reserved for the carrying on of chemi-
cal changes, the products of which are neither cast out of the body
nor collected in cavities for digestive or other uses. The work of
these cells seems to be of an intermediate character : they are engaged
either in elaborating the material of food that it may be the more
easily assimilated, or in preparing used-up material for final excretion.
They receive their material from the blood, and return their products
back to the blood. They may be called the metabolic tissues joar ex-
cellence. Such are the fat-cells of adipose tissue, the hepatic cells (as
far as the work of the liver other than the secretion of bile is con-
cerned), and, in general, the blood.
Each of the various units retains, to a greater or less degree, the
power of reproducing itself, and the tissues generally are capable of
regeneration in kind. But neither units nor tissues can reproduce
other parts of the organism than themselves, much less the entire
organism. For the reproduction of the complex individual, certain
units are set apart in the form of ovary and testis. In these, all the
properties of protoplasm are distinctly subordinated to the work of
growth.
Lastly, there are certain groups of units certain tissues which are
of use in the body of which they form a part, not by reason of their
manifesting any of the fundamental qualities of protoplasm, but on
account of the physical and mechanical properties of certain sub-
stances which their protoplasm has been able, by virtue of its metab-
olism, to manufacture and to deposit. Such tissues are bone, carti-
lage, connective tissue in large part, and the greater portion of the
skin.
We may, therefore, consider the complex body of a higher animal
