THE IMPORT OF PROTOPLASM. 427
the indiflerent tissues, which, being devoid of irritability, present an
eliectual barrier to the propagation of molecuhir explosions. It thus
becomes necessary that, in the increasing complexity of animal forms,
the process of differentiation should be accompanied by a correspond-
ing iutegration, that the isolated tissues should be made a whole by
bonds uniting them together. These bonds, moreover, must be of two
kinds.
In the first place, there must be a ready and rapid distribution and
interchange of material. The contractile tissues must be abundantly
supplied with material best adapted by previous elaboration for direct
assimilation, and the waste products arising from their activity must
be at once carried away to the metabolic or excretory tissues. And
so with all the other tissues. There must be a free and speedy inter-
course of material between eacli and all. This is at once and most
easily effected by the regular circulation of a common fluid, the blood,
into which all the elaborated food is discharged, from which each tissue
seeks what it needs, and to which each returns that for which it has
no longer any use. Such a circulation of fluid being in large measure
a mechanical matter, needs a machinery, and calls forth an expendi-
ture of energy. The machinery is supplied by a special construction
of the primary tissues, and the energy is arranged for by the presence'
among these of contractile and irritable matter. Thus, to the funda-
mental tissues there is added, in the higher animals, a vascular bond
in the shape of a mechanism of circulation.
In the second place, no less important than the interchange of
material is the interchange of energy. In the amoeba, the irritable
surface is physiologically continuous with the more internal proto-
plasm, while each and every part of the body has automatic powers.
In the higher animals portions only of the skin remain as eminently
irritable or sensitive structures, while automatic actions are chiefly
confined to a central mass of irritable or nervous matter. Both forms
of irritable matter are separated by long tracts of indifferent mate-
rial from those contractile tissues through which they chiefly manifest
the changes going on in themselves. Hence the necessity for long
strands of eminently irritable tissue to connect the skin and contrac-
tile tissues, as well with each other as with the automatic centres.
Similar strands are also needed, though perhaps less urgently, to con-
nect the other tissues with these and with each other. To tlie vascu-
lar bond there must be added an irritable bond, along the strands of
which impulses, set up by changes in one or another part, may travel
in determinate courses for the regulation of the energy of distant
spots. In other words, part of the irritable tissues must be specially
arranged to form a coordinating nervous system.
Still further complications have yet to be considered. In the life
of a minute homogeneous amoeba, possessing no special form or struct-
ure, there is little scope for purely mechanical operations. As, how-
