THE ELECTRIC CANDLE. 429
tern into unlike parts. Thus we have what does not exist in auy other
tissue a mechanism of nervous tissue itself, a central nervous mechan-
ism of complex structure and complex function, the complexity of
which is due not primarily to any mechanical arrangement of its parts,
but to the further differentiation of that fundamental quality of irrita-
bility and spontaneity which belongs to all irritable tissues and to all
native protoplasm.
In the following pages I propose to consider the facts of physi-
ology very much according to the views which have been just sketched
out. Tlie fundamental properties of most of the elementary tissues
will first be reviewed, and then the various special mechanisms. It
will be found convenient to introduce early the account of the vascu-
lar mechanism, and of its nervous, coordinating mechanism, while the
mechanisms of respiration and alimentation will be best considered
in connection with the respiratory and secretory tissues. The descrip-
tion of the purely motor mechanisms will be brief, and, save in a few
instances, confined to a statement of general principles. The special
functions of the central nervous system, including the senses, must of
necessity be considered by themselves. The tissues and mechanism
of reproduction naturally form the subject of the closing chapter.
THE ELECTRIC CANDLE.'
By ALFEED NIAUDET.
PUBLIC attention has been directed to Jabloshkoff's system of
electrical lighting by the use that has been made of it at the
Magasins du Louvre, in illuminating a hall recently opened. During
the past year this invention was brought under the notice of the pub-
lic by a communication addressed to the Paris Academy of Sciences,
and by an experiment made before the Physical Society. The readers
of La Nature are acquainted with the usual methods of producing
electrical light, and we here again explain their general principles,
with a view to render more intelligible the comparisons we propose
to make.
Two carbon-points, borne on suitable metallic supports, are ar-
ranged in one line, with their tips in contact. An electric current of
high intensity is made to pass into them; they may become heated,
but they will not give out light unless they be separated by a little
distance from each other. On separating them, by the hand or other-
wise, the voltaic arc appears and gives out a very strong light. This
light persists, provided the carbons are a few millimetres apart ; but,
' Translated from the French by J. Fitzgerald, A. M.
