430 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
as the carbons waste away, the distance between their tips becomes
greater, the voltaic arc is lengtliened, and soon the light goes out,
unless the points are again brought near to each other. Hence it is
seen that this rudimentary apparatus cannot support the electric light
for over a few minutes, and some contrivance had to be devised for
approximating the carbons in proportion as they waste away, and for
keeping them a very small distance apart. This is done in the lamps
devised by Serrin, Foucault, and others.
When the source of electricity is a pile or a magneto-electric ma-
chine with continuous currents, like Gramme's machine, a new dilficulty
is met with ; for here the two carbons are consumed unequally, the
positive one wasting about twice as fast as the negative. On the other
hand, machines with alternately reversed currents present this peculi-
arity, that in them the waste of the two carbons is equal.
To whatever grade of perfection such lamps may have attained,
they undoubtedly labor under sundry disadvantages. Their mechan-
ism is delicate, and necessitates very great care on the part of those
who operate them. It is not very easy to regulate them. Their main
bulk, being situated beneath the luminous point, casts an objectionable
shadow. As usually constructed, their size is such that they cannot
work over three hours without having fresh carbons put in, and this
renewal of the carbons necessitates either a temporary interruption of
the lighting or else the keeping of an extra machine, which involves
an increased outlay of money. Finally, the price of such machines is
pretty high, and can hardly be reduced.
The very great progress made during the last few years in the
construction of masrneto-electric machines has made more evident the
imperfections of the regulating apparatus.
Such was the condition of things when a Russian engineer, M.
Jabloshkoff, succeeded in dispensing altogether with the mechanism
of electrical lamps. Let us see how this lucky inventor has suc-
ceeded in overcoming the diiRculties that successively arose before
him.
First of all, he sets out with the idea that the carbons must be
placed side by side, so as to consume them simultaneously without
having continually to regulate their respective positions, just as in
stearine-candlcs the wick is consumed in proportion to the consump-
tion of stearine. The first requisite is, that the voltaic arc shall be
produced only at the tips of the carbons. For this purpose it is suf-
ficient to place between the two carbons a strip of glass, kaolin, or
any other insulating substance, somewhat wider than the carbons,
and not reaching to their tips. It might be supposed that this in-
sulating substance, while separating the two carbons, would soon
form an impassable barrier between the one and the other, and ex-
tinguish the voltaic arc by requiring it to make too great a span.
But such is not the case ; the high temperature of the voltaic arc is
