THE STATUS OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN. 433
shorten the two voltaic arcs. The cousequence is, that the second
lamp will have its proper working interfered with, while the first alone
ehould have been regulated. In other words, the solidarity of the two
apparatuses will tend to produce in each unnecessary changes of regu-
lation that will constantly result in causing the system of lamps to
work badly. But with the candle there is nothing of this kind, and,
provided that the source of electricity possesses sufl&cient tension
to produce the voltaic arcs, many may stand in the same circuit. In
the Magasins du Louvre we have seen in some instances four lights,
in others three, produced by a single machine. The sequel will show
whether we can reasonably expect to see "even a greater division of
the electric light, and whether this invention may not have still fur-
ther applications. La Nature.
<
THE STATUS OF WOME^ Al^D CHILDREN.
Br HERBEET SPENCER.
I.
PERHAPS in no way is the moral progress of mankind more
clearly shown than by contrasting the position of women
among savages with their position among the most advanced of the
civilized: at the one extreme a treatment of them cruel to the ut-
most degree bearable ; and at the other extreme a treatment which,
in certain directions, gives them precedence over men.
The only limit to the brutality women are subjected to by men
of the lowest races is the inability to live and propagate under
greater. Clearly, ill-usage, under-feeding, and overworking, may be
pushed to an extent which, if not immediately fatal to the women, in-
capacitates them for rearing children enough to maintain the jjopu-
lation ; and disappearance of the society follows. Both directly and
indirectly such excess of harshness disables a tribe from holding its
own against other tribes ; since, besides greatly augmenting the mor-
tality of children, it causes inadequate nutrition, and therefore imper-
fect development, of those which suiwive. But, short of this, there is
at first no check to the tyranny which the stronger sex exercises over
the weaker. Stolen from another tribe, and perhaps made insensible
by a blow that she may not resist ; not simply beaten, but speared
about the limbs, when she displeases her savage owner ; forced to do
all the drudgery and bear all the burdens, while she has to care for
and carry about her children ; and feeding on what is left after the
man has done : the woman's sufferings are carried as far as consists
with survival of herself and her offspring.
It seems not improbable that, by its actions and reactions, this
VOL. XI. 28
