434 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
treatment makes these relations of the sexes difficult to chanfre; since
chronic ill-usage produces physical inferiority, and physical inferiority
tends to exclude those feelings which might check ill-usage. Very
generally among the lower races the females are even more unattrac-
tive in aspect than the males. It is remarked of the Puttooahs, whose
men are diminutive and whose women are still more so, that "the
men are far from being handsome, hut the palm of ugliness must he
awarded to the women. The latter are hard-worked and apparently
ill-fed." Again, of the inhabitants of the Corea, Gutzlaff says: "The
females are very ugly, while the male sex is one of the best formed of
Asia .... women are treated like beasts of burden ; wives may be
divorced under the slightest pretense." And for the kindred contrast
habitually found, a kindred cause may habitually be assigned ; the
antithetical cases furnished by such uncivilized peoples as the Cal-
mucks and Kirghiz, whose women, less hardly used, are better look-
ing, yielding additional evidence.
We must not, however, conclude, as at first sight seems proper,
that this low statics of women among the rudest peoples is caused by
a callous selfishness existing in the males and not equally present in
the females. When we learn that where torture of enemies is the
custom, the women outdo the men when we read of the cruelties
perpetrated by the two female Dyak chiefs described by Kajah
Brooke, or of the horrible deeds which Winwood Reade narrates of a
bloodthirsty African queen we are shown that it is not lack of will
but lack of power which prevents primitive women from displaying
natures equally brutal with those of primitive men. A savageness
common to the two necessai-ily works out the results we see under
the conditions. Let us look at these results more closely.
Certain anomalies may first be noticed. Even among the rudest
men, whose ordinary behavior to their women is of the worst, pre-
dominance of women is not unknown. Snow says of the Fuegians
that he has " seen one of the oldest women exercising authority over
the rest of her people ; " and Mitchell says of the Australians that old
men and even old women exercise great authority. Then we have
the fact that among various peoples who hold their women in de-
graded positions, there nevertheless occur female rulers ; as among
the Batta people in Sumatra, as in Madagascar, and as in the above-
named African kingdom. Possibly this anomaly results from the
system of descent in the female line. For though, under that system,
property and power usually devolve upon a sister's male childi'en,
yet as, occasionally, there is only one sister, and she has no male chil-
di'en, the elevation of a daughter may sometimes result. Even as I
write, I find, on looking into the evidence, a significant example.
Describing the Haidahs of the Pacific States, Bancroft says: "Among
nearly all of them rank is nominally hereditary, for the most part by
the female line. . . . Females often possess the right of chieftainship."
