436 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tives along with other property. Sundry examples of this have been
given; and many others might be added. Smith says of the Mapu-
ches that " a widow by the death of her husband becomes her own
mistress, unless he may have left grown-up sons by another wife, in
which case she becomes their common concubine, being regarded as a
chattel naturally belonging to the heirs of the estate."
Thus recognizing the truth that as long as women continue to be
stolen or bought, their human individualities are ignored, let us ob-
serve the division of labor that resvdts between the sexes; determined
partly by this unqualified despotism of men and partly by the limita-
tions which certain incapacities of women entail.
The slave-class in a primitive society consists of the women ; aiid
the earliest division of labor is that which arises between them and
their masters. For a long time no other division of labor exists. Of
course nothing more is to be expected among such low, wandering
groups as Tasmanians, Australians, Fuegians, Andamanese, Bushmen.
Nor do we find any adv^ance in this resjject made by the higher hunt-
ing races, such as the Comanches, Chippewas, Dakotas, etc.
Of the occupations thus divided, the males put upon the females
whatever these are not disabled from doing by inadequate strength,
or agility, or skill. While the men among the now-extinct Tasma-
nians added to the food only that furnished by the kangaroos they
chased, the women climbed trees for opossums, dug up roots with
sticks, groped for shell-fish, dived for oysters, and fished, in addition
to looking after their children ; and there now exists a kindred appor-
tionment among the Fuegians, Andamanese, Australians. Where the
food consists wholly or mainly of the greater mammals, the men catch
and the women carry. We read of the Chippewas that " when the
men kill any large beast, the women are always sent to bring it to the
tent;" of the Comanches, that the women "often accompany their
husbands in hunting he kills the game, they butcher and transport
the meat, dress the skins, etc,;" of the Esquimaux, that when the
man has "brought his booty to land, he troubles himself no further
about it ; for it would be a stigma on his character, if he so much as
drew a seal out of the water." Though, in these cases, an excuse
made is that the exhaustion caused by the chase is great, yet, when
we read that the Esquimaux women, excepting the woodwork, "build
the houses and tents, and though they have to carry stones almost
heavy enough to break their backs, the men look on with the greatest
insensibility, not stirring a finger to assist them," we cannot accept
the excuse as adequate. Further, it is the custom with these low
races, nomadic or semi-nomadic in their habits, to give the females the
task of transporting the baggage. A Tasmanian woman often had
piled on all the other burdens she carried when tramping, "sundry
spears and waddies not required for present service ; " and the like
