MESMERISM, ODYLISM, TABLE-TURNING, ETC. 25
M. Bertraud with the mesmeric fluid while he was writing it. Desir-
ing to test the matter still further, he caused one of his friends to
write a similar letter, imitating his handwriting so closely that those
who received it should believe it to be his the same effect was once
more produced.
And so it was with the large number of expei'iments that were
made within my own knowledge during the twenty years' attention
that I gave to this subject, with a view to test the mesmerizer's power
of inducing any of the phenomena of this state without the patient's
consciousness. Successes, it is true, were not unfrequent ; but these
almost invariably occurred when the experiments were made under
conditions to which the parties had become habituated, as in the case
of Dr. Noble's friend. For his performances were so continually being
repeated to satisfy the curiosity of visitors, that Dr. Noble's call at
his house would have been sufficient to excite, on the part of the
" subject," the expectancy that would have thrown her into the sleep.
But when such expectancy was carefully guarded against, the result
was so constantly negative as I will not say to disprove the existence
of any special mesmeric force, but to neutralize completely the affirm-
ative value of the evidence adduced to prove it. For I think you must
now agree with me that, if " expectancy " alone is competent to pro-
duce the results, as admitted by the most intelligent mesmerizers,
nothing but the most rigid exclusion of such expectancy can afford
the least ground for the assumption of any other agency. And my
own prolonged study of the subject further justifies me in taking the
position that it is only when the inquiry is directed, and its results
recorded, by skeptical experts, that such results have the least claim
to scientific value. The disposition to overlook sources of fallacy, to
magnify trivialities into marvels, to construct circumstantial myths
(as in the case of Miss Martineau's J and Lord Morpeth) on the
slightest foundation of fact, and to allow themselves to be imposed
upon by cunning cheats, has been so constantly exhibited by even
the most honest believers in the " occult " power of mesmerism, as,
not only in my own opinion, but in that of my very able allies in this
inquiry, to deprive the unconfirmed testimony of any number of such
believers, in regard to matters lying beyond scientific experience, of
all claim to acceptance. In fact, the positions taken in regard to mes-
merism by my friend Dr. Noble, as far back as 1845,* and more fully
developed by myself a few years later on the basis of Mr. Braid's ex-
periments, and of my own physiological and psychological studies,*
have not only in our own judgment, but by the general verdict of the
medical and scientific world, been fully confirmed by the subsequent
course of events, the history of which I shall next proceed to sketch.
Fraserh Magazine.
' British and Foreign Medical Jievieio, vol. xix.
' " Principles of Human Physiology," fourth edition, 1853 ; and Quarterly Review, Oc-
tober, 1853.
