THE STATUS OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN. 437
happens witli races considerably higher, both semi-agricultural and
pastoral. A Daraara's wife " carries his things when he moves from
place to place." When the Tupis migrate, all the household stock is
taken to the new abode by the females : " The husband only took his
weapons, and the wife," says Marcgraff", " is loaded like a mule."
Similarly, enumerating the labors of wives among the aborigines of
South Brazil, Spix and Martins say, " They are also the beasts of bur-
den;" and iu like manner DobrizhoiJer writes, " The luggage being
all committed to the women, the Abipoues travel armed with a spear
alone, that they may be disengaged to fight or hunt, if occasion re-
quires." Doubtless the reason indicated in the last extract is a par-
tial defense for this practice, so general with savages when traveling ;
since, liable as they are to be at any moment surprised by ambushed
enemies, fatal results would happen were the men not ready to fight on
the instant. And possibly knowledge of this may join the force of cus-
tom iu making the women themselves uphold the practice, as they do.
On ascending to societies partially or wholly settled, and a little
more complex, we begin to find considerable diversities in the division
of labor between the sexes. Usually the men are the builders, but not
always : the women erect the huts among the Bechuanas, Cafi'res,
Damaras, as also do the women of the Outanatas, New Guinea ; and
sometimes it is the task of women to cut dowm trees, though nearly
always this business falls to the men. Anomalous as it seems, we are
told of the Coroados that " the cooking of the dinner, as well as keep-
ing in the fire, is the business of the men ; " and the like happens in
Samoa : " The duties of cooking devolve on the men " not excepting
the chiefs. Mostly among the uncivilized and semi-civilized, trading
is done by the men, but not always. In Java, according to Raffles,
" the women alone attend the markets and conduct all the business of
buying and selling." So, too, according to Astley, in Angola the
women " buy, sell, and do all other things which the men do in other
countries, while their husbands stay at home, and employ themselves
in spinning, weaving cotton, and such like effeminate business." In
ancient Peru there was a like division : men did the spinning and
weaving, and women the field-work. Again, according to Bruce, in
Abyssinia " it is infamy for a man to go to market to buy anything.
He cannot carry water or bake bread ; but he must wash the clothes
belonging to both sexes, and, in this function, the women cannot help
him." And Petherick says that among the Arabs " the females repu-
diate needlework entirely, the little tliey require being performed by
their husbands and brothers."
From a general survey of the facts, multitudinous and heterogene-
ous, thus briefly indicated, the only definite conclusion appears to be
that men monopolize the occupations requiring both strength and
agility always available war and the chase. Leaving undiscussed
the relative fitness of women at other times for fiofhtine: enemies and
