THE STATUS OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN. 439
wiflely-difFused practice. It is general with the Bhils, Gonds, and
Hill-tribes of Nepaul ; it obtained in Java before Mohammedanism
was introduced ; it was common in ancient Peru and Central Ameri-
ca; and among sundry existing American races it still occurs. Obvi-
ously, a wife long labored for is likely to be more valued than one
stolen or bought. Obviously, too, the period of service, during which
the betrothed girl is looked upon as a future spouse, affords room for
the growth of some feeling higher than the merely instinctive initi-
ates something approaching to the courtship and engagement of civil-
ized peoples. But the facts chiefly to be noted are 1. That this
modiftcation, practicable with difficulty among the rudest predatory
tribes, becomes gradually more practicable as there arise established
industries aifording spheres in which services may be rendered ; and,
2. That it is the poorer members of the community, occupied in labor
and unable to buy their wives, among whom the substitution of ser-
vice for purchase will most prevail ; the implication being that this
hioher form of marriage into which the industrial class is led, develops
along with the industrial type.
And now we are introduced to the general question, "What con-
nection is there between the status of women and the type of social
organization ? "
A partial answer to this question was reached when we concluded
that thei-e are natural associations between militancy and polygyny,
and between industrialness and monogamy. For, as polygyny implies
a low position of women, while monogamy is a prerequisite to a high
position of women, it follows that decrease of militancy and increase
of industrialness are general concomitants of a rise in their position.
This conclusion appears also to be congruous with the fact just ob-
served. The truth that, among peoples otherwise inferior, the posi-
tion of women is relatively good where their occupations are nearly
the same as those of men, seems allied to the wider truth that their
position becomes good in proportian as warlike activities are replaced
by industrial activities ; since, when the men fight while the women
work, the difference of occupation is greater than when both are en-
gaged in productive labors, however unlike such labors may be in
kind. From general reasons for alleging this connection, let us now
pass to more special reasons.
As it needed no marshaling of evidence to prove that the chronic
militancy characterizing low, simple tribes, habitually goes with po-
lygyny, so it needs no marshaling of evidence to prove that along
with this chronic militancy there goes a brutal treatment of women.
It will suffice if we here glance at the converse cases of simple tribes
which are exceptional in their industrialness, and at the same time ex-
ceptional in the higher positions held by women among them. Even
the rude Todas, low as are the sexual relations implied by their com-
