440 * THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
bined polyandry and polygyny, and little developed as is the industry
implied by their semi-settled cow-keeping life, furnish evidence : to
the men and boys are left all the harder kinds of work, and the wives
" do not even step out-of-doors to fetch water or wood, which ....
is brought to them by one of their husbands ; " and this trait goes
along with the trait of peacefulness and entire absence of the militant
type of social structure. Striking evidence is furnished by another of
the Hill-tribes the Bodo and Dhimals. We have seen that, among
peoples in low stages of culture, these furnish a marked case of non-
militancy, absence of the political organization which militancy de-
velops, absence of class-distinctions, and presence of that voluntary
exchange of services implied by industrialism; and of them, monog-
amous as already shown, we read: "The Bodo and Dhim^ils use
their wives and daughters well ; treating them with confidence and
kindness. They are free from all out-door work whatever." Take,
again, the Dyaks, who, though not without tribal feuds and their con-
sequences, are yet without stable chieftainships and military organiza-
tion, are predominantly industrial, and have rights of individual prop-
erty well developed. Though among the varieties of them the customs
differ somewhat, yet the general fact is that the heavy out-door work
is mainly done by the men, while the women are generally well treated,
and have considerable privileges. With their monogamy goes regular
courtship, and the girls choose their mates ; St. John says of the Sea
Dyaks tliat " husbands and wives appear to pass their lives very
agreeably together ; " and Rajah Brooke names Mukah as a part of
Borneo where the wives close their doors, and will not receive their
husbands unless they procure fish. Then, as a marked case of a simple
community having relatively high industi'ial organization, with elective
head, representative council, and the other concomitants of the type,
and who are described as " industrious, honest, and peace-loving," we
have the Pueblos, who, with that monogamy which characterizes their
family relations, also show us a remarkably high status of women.
For among them not simply is there courtship, and choice exercised
by girls ; not simply do we read that " no girl is forced to marry
against her will, however eligible her parents may consider the
match;" bixt sometimes, according to Bancroft, "the usual order of
courtship is reversed ; when a girl is disposed to marry she does not
wait for a young man to propose to her, but selects one to her own
liking and consults her father, who visits the parents of the youth and
acquaints them with his daughter's wishes."
On turning from simple societies to compound societies, we find
two adjacent ones in Polynesia exhibiting a strong contrast between
their social types as militant and industrial, and an equally strong
contrast between the positions they respectively give to women: I
refer to Feejeeans and Samoans. The Feejeeans show us the militant
structure, actions, and sentiments, in extreme forms. Under an un-
