THE STATUS OF WQMEiV AND CHILDREN. 443
lies having a common ancestor, and the united clusters of families form-
ing the early Aryan community. As Mommsen describes him, the
early Roman ruler, once in office, stood toward citizens in the same
relation that the father of the family did to wife, children, and slaves :
" The regal power had not, and could not have, any external checks
imposed upon it by law : the master of the community had no judge
of his acts within the community, any more than the house-father had
a judge within his household. Death alone terminated his power."
From this first stage, in which the political head was absolute, and
absoluteness of the domestic head went to the extent of life and death
power over his wife, the advance toward a higher status of women
was doubtless, as Sir Henry Maine contends, largely caused by that dis-
integration of the family which went along with the progressing union
of smaller societies into larger ones eifected by conquest. But though
successful militancy thus furthered female emancipation, it did so
only by thereafter reducing the relative amount of militancy ; and the
emancipation was really associated with an average increase of indus-
trial structures and activities. As before pointed out, militancy is to
be measured not so ranch by success in war as by the extent to which
it occupies the male population. Where all men are warriors, and the
work is done entirely by women, militancy is the greatest. The in-
troduction of a class of males who, joining in productive labor, lay
the basis for an industrial organization, qualifies the militancy. And
as the industrial class, at first consisting though it does Avholly of
slaves, increases in proportion to the militant class, the total activi-
ties of the society must be regarded as more industrial and less mili-
tant. In another way the same ti'uth is implied, if we consider that
when a number of small hostile societies are consolidated by triumph
of the stronger, the amount of fighting throughout the area occupied
becomes less, although the conflicts now from time to time arising
with neighboring larger aggregates may be on a greater scale. This
is clearly seen on comparing the ratio of fighting-men to population
among the early Romans with the ratio between the armies of the
empire and the number of people included in the empire. And there
is the further fact that the holding together of these compound and
doubly-compound societies eventually formed by conquest, and the
efficient cooperation of their parts for military purposes, itself im-
plies an increased development of the industrial organization. Great
armies carrying on operations at the periphery of a great territory,
imply a numerous working population, a considerable division of
labor, and good appliances for transferring supplies : the sustaining
and distributing systems must be well developed before large mili-
tant structures can be worked. So that this disintegration of the
patriarchal family, and consequent emancipation of women, whicli
went along with growth of the Roman Empire, really had for its con-
comitant a development of the industrial organization.
