THE STATUS OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN. 447
II.
That brutes, however ferocious, treat their offspring tenderly, is a
familiar fact ; and that tenderness to offspring is shown by the most
brutal of mankind, is a fact qiiite congruous with it. An obvious ex-
planation of this seeming anomaly exists. As we saw that the treat-
ment of women by men cannot pass a certain degree of harshness
without causing extinction of the tribe, so, here, we may see that the
tribe must disappear unless the love of progeny is strong. Hence we
need not be surprised when Mouat tells us that the Andaman-Islanders
" show tlielr children the utmost tenderness and affection ;" or when
we read in Snow's account of the Fuegians that both sexes are much
attached to their offspring ; or when Sturt describes Australian fathers
and mothers as behaving to their little ones with much fondness.
Affection intense enough to prompt great self-sacrifice is, indeed,
especially requisite under the conditions of savage life, which render
the rearing of young difficult; and maintenance of svich affection is
insured by the dying out of families in which it is deficient.
But this strong parental love is, like the parental love of animals,
very irregularly displayed. As among brutes the philoprogenitive
instinct is occasionally suppressed by the desire to kill, and even to
devour, their young ones, so, among primitive men, this instinct is
now and again overridden by impulses temporarily excited. Thus,
though attaclied to their offspring, Australian mothers, when in dan-
ger, will sometimes desert them ; and, if we may believe Angas, men
have been known to bait their hooks with the flesh of boys they have
killed. Thus, notwithstanding their marked parental affection, Fuegi-
ans sell their children for slaves; thus, among the Chonos Indians, a
father, though doting on his boy, will kill him in a fit of anger for an
accidental offense. Evervwhere among the lower races we meet with
like incongruities. Falkner, while describing the paternal feelings of
Patagonians as very strong, says they often pawn and sell their wives
and little ones to the Spaniards for brandy. Speaking of the children
of the Sound Indians, Bancroft says they " sell or gamble them away."
According to Simpson, the Pi-Edes " barter their children to the Utes
proper, for a few trinkets or bits of clothing." And of the Macusi,
Schomburgk writes, " The price of a child is the same as the Indian
asks for his dog."
This seemingly-heartless conduct to children often arises from the
tion of man and woman is more favorable to the latter than among the Lapps." After
giving evidence from personal observation, he asks the reason, saying : " Is it because
the men are not warriors ? . . . They have no soldiers, fight no battles, either with out-
side foreigners, or between the various tribes and families among themselves. ... In
spite of their wretched huts, their dirty faces, their primitive clothing, their ignorance
of literature, art, and science, they rank above us in the highest element of true civiliza-
tion, the moral element; and all the military nations of the world may stand uncovered
before them " (pp. 162, 163).
