26 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
AQUEDUCTS.
THE remains of the lofty arcades upon which the aqueducts of
ancient Rome were carried to the city have been justly classed
among the finest and most picturesque ruins of the Roman Empire.
Stretching across the plain eastward of the city, and towering high
above the landscape, they are the first objects to fix the gaze and
command the admiration of the stranger approaching the home of
the Cajsars, and to fill his mind with visions of the strength and grand-
eur of the nation which mastered the world two thousand years ago.
But these ruins speak not only of the mechanical skill and physi-
cal greatness of that vanished people, but also of their refinement
and their acquaintance with the deeply-hidden laws of hygiene ; for
they well knew what has become known to us only after a lapse of
twenty centuries, after the measurement of the heavens, and the dis-
covery of the steam-engine, that for every large city an abundant
supply of pure, fresh water is indispensable to the preservation of
health. At the zenith of her grandeur, Rome had eleven distinct
aqueducts, w^hose aggregate discharge was equivalent to a stream
twenty feet wide by six deep, with a fall six times as rapid as that
of the river Thames, The daily supply was in the proportion of
332 gallons to each inhabitant, and it was distributed to the palaces
and humbler dwellings in every part of the city, as well as to innumer-
able fountains, many public wells and large reservoirs, to the numer-
ous baths, and to several artificial lakes, where the emperors held
their naumachice, or sham naval battles. These eleven constituted
the most extensive and perfect system of aqueducts that has been pos-
sessed by any city even up to the present time. Their combined
length was over 300 miles, 50 of which were above-ground either upon
low substructures or more imposing arcades. The loftiest arcade was
that belonging to the Aqua Claudia and the Anio Novus ; it was in
one place 109 feet high.* In respect to height of arcades, however, the
aqueducts of Rome were less remarkable than several built by the
emperors, about the same time, for certain provincial cities of the em-
pire, and others of more recent times. Thus the Emperor Agrippa
built an aqueduct for the city of Nemausus (Nimes) in France, and
carried it across the river Gard upon an arcade 180 feet high, and
about 900 feet long. This splendid structure, still perfect, is now
called the Pont du Gard, and is an object of attraction and aston-
ishment to modern travelers. It consists of a triple row of arches,
which in the two lower tiers are of wide span, and in the upper one
narrow. This arcade "has no rival for lightness and boldness of
' The Roman foot was 11.6496 English inches ; 5 feet made one passus ; 1,000 passus
one mile, or 1,618 English yards.
