THE STATUS OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN. 449
everywhere we find it leading either to destruction of daughters, or to
low estimation and ill-treatment of them. Throuojh lono: ascendina:
stages of social life the desire thus arising persists ; as instance the
statement of Herodotus, that every Persian prided himself on the
number of his sons, and it is even said that an annual prize was given
by the monarch to the Persian who could show most sons living.
Obviously the social motive, thus coming in aid of the parental
motive, served to raise the status of male children above that of
female.
A reason for the care of sons implied in the passage of Ecclesias-
ticus which says, " He left behind him an avenger against his ene-
mies," is a reason which has weighed with all races in barbarous and
semi-civilized states. The sacred duty of blood-revenge, earliest of
recognized obligations among men, survives so long as societies
remain predominantly warlike ; and it generates an anxiety to have a
male representative who shall retaliate upon those from whom injuries
have been received. This bequest of quarrels to be fought out, trace-
able down to recent times among so-called Christians, as in the will
of Brantome, has, of course, all along raised the value of sons, and has
so put upon the harsh treatment of them a check not put upon the
harsh treatment of daughters whence a further differentiation of
status.
The development of ancestor-worship, which, enjoining sacrifices
to be made by each man at the tombs of his immediate and more
remote male progenitors, implies anticipation of like sacrifices to his
own ghost by his son, initiates yet another motive for cherishing sons
adds to the parental regard for children a feeling which tells in favor
of males rather than of females. The effects of this motive are at the
present time shown us by the Chinese, among whom the death of an
only son is especially lamented, because there will be no one to make
offerings at the grave, and among whom the peremptory need for a
son hence ai'ising is held to justify the taking of a concubine, though,
"if a person has sons by his wife (for daughters never enter into the
account), it is considered derogatory to take a handmaid at all." On
recalling Egyptian wall-paintings and papyri, and the like evidence
furnished by Assyrian records, showing that sacrifices to ancestors
were performed by their male descendant on remembering, too, that
among ancient Aryans, Hindoo, Greek, Roman, the daughter was inca-
pable of this function, and that sons were, therefore, required for main-
taining the family-cult we are shown how this developed form of
the primitive religion, while it strengthened filial subordination,
added an incentive to parental care of sons, but not of daughters.
In brief, then, the relations of adults to young among human
beings, originally like those among animals, began to assume higher
forms under the influence of the several desires to obtain an aider in
fighting enemies, to provide an avenger for injuries received, and to
VOL. XI. 29
