450 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
leave behind one who should administer to welfare after death : mo-
tives which, strengthening as societies passed through their early-
stages, gradually gave a certain authority to the claims of male chil-
dren, thouofh not to those of females. And thus we again see how
intimate is the connection between militancy of the men and degrada-
tion of the women.
Here we are introduced to the question, " What relation exists be-
tween the status of children and the form of social organization ? " To
this the reply is akin to one given in the last chapter; namely, that
mitigation of the treatment of children accompanies transition from
the militant type to the industrial type.
Those lowest social states in which offsj)ring are now idolized, now
killed, now sold, as the dominant feeling prompts, are everywhere the
states in which hostilities with surrounding tribes are chronic. This
absolute dependence of progeny on pai'ental will is shown whether
the militancy is that of archaic groups, or that of groups higher in
structure. In tlie latter as in the former, there exists that life and
death power over children which is the negation of all rights and
claims. On comparing children's status in the rudest militant tribes
with their status in militant tribes which are patriarchal and com-
pounded of the patriarchal, all we can say is, that in these last the
still-surviving theory becomes qualified in practice ; and that qualifi-
cation of it increases as industrialism grows.
The Feejeeans, intensely despotic in government, and ferocious in
war, furnish an instance of extreme abjectness in the position of chil-
dren. Infanticide, especially of females, reaches nearer two-thirds
than one-half; they " destroy their infants from mere whim, expediency,
anger, or indolence ; " and, according to Erskine, " children have been
offered by the people of their own tribe to propitiate a powerful chief,"
not for slaves but for food. A sanguinary warrior race of Mexico the
Chechemecas yield another example of excessive parental power :
sons " cannot marry without the consent of parents ; if a young man
violates this law .... the penalty is death." By this instance we
are reminded of the domestic condition among the ancient Mexicans
(largely composed of conquering cannibal Chechemecas), whose social
organization was highly militant in type, and of whom Clavigero says,
" Their children were bred to stand so much in awe of their parents,
that even when grown up and married, they hardly durst speak befoi'e
them." In ancient Central America family rule was similar ; and in
ancient Peru it was the law that " sons should obey and serve their
fathers until they reached the age of twenty-five."
If we now turn to the few cases of uncivilized and semi-civilized
societies that are wholly industrial, or predominantly industrial, we
find children, as wo found women, occupying much higher positions.
Among the peaceful Bodo and Dhimals, " infanticide is utterly un-
