THE STATUS OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN. 453
pies, characterized by chronic militancy, with their later states,
characterized by a militancy that had become less constant and dif-
fused, while industrialism had grown, difierences of like significance
meet us.
We have the statement of Caesar concerning the Celts of Gaul, that
fathers " do not permit their children to approach them openly until
they have grown to manhood." In the Merovingian period a father
could sell his child, as could also a widowed mother a power which
continued down to the ninth century or later. Under the decayed
feudal state which preceded the French Revolution domestic subordi-
nation, especially among the aristocracy, was still such that Chateau-
briand says, " My mother, my sister, and myself, transformed into
statues by my father's presence, only recover ourselves after he leaves
t,he room ; " and Taiue, quoting Beaumarchais and Bretonne, indicates
that this rigidity of paternal authority was general. Then, after the
Revolution, De Segur writes, " Among our good forefathers a man
of thirty was more in subjection to the head of the family than a child
of eighteen is now."
Our own histoiy furnishes kindred evidence. Describing the man-
ners of the fifteenth century, Wright says : " Young ladies, even of
great families, were brought up not only strictly, but even tyrannical-
ly. .. . The parental authority was indeed carried to an almost ex-
travagant extent." Down to the seventeenth century, " children stood
or knelt in trembling silence in the presence of theii- fathers and
mothers, and might not sit without permission." The literature of
even the last century, alike by the deferential use of "sir" and
^' madam" in addressing parents, by the authority parents assumed
in arranging marriages for their children, and by the extent to which
sons, and still more daughters, recognized the duty of accepting the
spouses chosen, shows us a persistence of filial subordination propor-
tionate to the political subordination. And then, since the beginning
of this century, along with the immense development of industrialism
and the correlative progress toward a freer type of social organiza-
tion, there has gone a marked increase of juvenile freedom ; as shown
by a greatly moderated parental dictation, by a mitigation of punish-
ments, and by that decreased formality of domestic intercourse which
has accompanied the changing of fathers from masters into friends.
Differences having like meanings are traceable between the more
militant and the less militant European societies as now existing.
Along with the relatively-developed industrial type of political organi-
zation in England, there goes a less coercive treatment of children
than in France and Germany, where industrialism has modified the
political organizations less. Joined with great fondness for, and much
indulgence of, the young, there is in France a closer supervision of
them, and the restraints on their actions are both stronger and more
rmraerous: girls at home are never from under maternal control, and
