454 'J^HE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
boys at school are subject to military discipline. Add to which that
parental oversight of marriageable children still goes so far that little
oj^jDortunity is afforded ior choice by the young people themselves.
In Germany, again, there is a stringency of rule in education allied to
the political stringency of rule. As writes a German lady long resi-
dent in England, and experienced as a teacher : " English children
are not tyraunized over they are guided by their parents. The spirit
of independence and personal rights is fostered. I can therefore un-
derstand the teacher who said he would rather teacli twenty German
[children] than one English child I understand him, but I do not
sympathize with him. The German child is nearly a slave compared
to the English child ; it is, therefore, more easily subdued by the one
in authority."
Lastly come the facts that in the United States, long characterized
by great development of the industrial organization little qualified by
the militant, parental government has become extremely lax, and
girls and boys are nearly on a par in their positions : the independence
reached being such that young ladies often form their own circles of
acquaintance and carry on their intimacies without let or hinderance
from their fathers and mothers.
As was to be anticipated, we thus find a series of changes in the
status of children parallel to the series of changes in the status of
women.
In archaic societies, without law and having customs extending
over but some parts of life, there are no limits to the powers of
parents ; and the passions, daily exercised in conflict with brutes or
men, are restrained in the relations to offspring only by the philopro-
genitive instinct.
Early the needs for a companion in arms, for an avenger, and pres-
ently for a performer of sacrifices, add to the fatherly feeling other
motives, personal and social, tending to give something like a status
to male children; but leaving female children still in the same posi-
tion as are the young of brutes.
These relations of father to son and daughter, arising in advanced
groups of the archaic type, and becoming more settled where pastoral
life originates the patriarchal group, continue to characterize societies
that remain predominantly militant, whether evolved from the patri-
ai'chal group or otherwise: victory and defeat, which express the out-
come of militant activity, having for their correlatives despotism and
slavery in military organization, in political organization, and in
domestic organization.
The status of children, in common with that ol women, rises in pro-
portion as the compulsory cooperation characterizing militant activi-
ties becomes qualified by the voluntary cooperation characterizing
industrial activities. We see this on comparing the most militant un-
