IMA GIN A TION. 4 5 5
civilized peoples with others that are less militant ; we see it on com-
paring the early militant states of existing nations with their later
more industrial states ; we see it on comparing nations that are now
relatively militant with those that are now relatively industrial. And
we are especially shown it by the fact that in primitive uncultured
societies which are exceptionally peaceful the status of children is
exceptionally high.
Most conclusively, however, is this connection shown on grouping
the facts antithetically thus: On the one hand, savage tribes in gen-
eral, chronically militant, have, in common with the predominantly
militant great nations of antiquity, the trait that a father has life and
death power over his children. On the other hand, the few uncivil-
ized tribes which are peaceful and industrial have, in common with
the most advanced civilized nations, the trait that children's lives are
sacred, and that large measures of freedom are accorded to both boys
and girls.
--
IMAGINATION.'
Bt Dr. ELLIOTT COUES, U. S. A.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN : Amid the asperities of the great
political crisis which has convulsed a nation, it is pleasant to
find the elegant repose of a salon where culture and refinement stand
like sleepless sentinels on guard against dissension ; and in the Len-
ten season when the fugitive madrigal of society is hushed in the
measured cadence of the penitential psalm, and the brilliant poppies
of fashion grow pale in the shadow of the palm it is meet that
thought should turn from outward things to the contemplation of
those within.
The few moments during which an unworthy member of the
Society is indulged to-night will be devoted to the consideration of
Imagination as one of the intellectual faculties which, if common in
some degree to all, is nevertheless, in its highest development, the
rarest, most precious, and most splendid, of human endowments. I
need not I shall not be coldly critical now, nor seek to bend your
judgment to my will ; for I must speak my aspirations, not my per-
sonal experiences, and move you from the heart, or not at all. The
subject bids defiance to the trammels of custom or precedent, and
will be bound by no conventionality.
ov facts, as simply such, I dare say I have a great and growing
contempt, perhaps less due to any familiarity I may have acquired,
than to my habitual contemplation of structures without reference to
' Read before the Literary Society of Washington, D. C, March IV, ISVY.
