456 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the materials of which they are coinjDOsed, The architect, not his
workmen the plan, not the details of its execution the design, not
the methods of its accomplishment these are within the higher view
to which intellectual insight may aspire. Let us pay tribute to the
gifted poet who taught us to contrast the insigniiicance of a fact with
the sublime signification of a truth. No one may imagine for a
moment that the imaginative faculty is an imaginary thing, or doubt
the reality of imagination, because it is immaterial and immeasurable,
inscrutable to the physical senses, unsusceptible of analysis or sjn-
thesis, triable by no test, overriding logic, outwitting piiilosophy,
laughing at science this imperious mistress of mind, tliis fertile
mother of all art !
This, that, and the other, of things unnumbered, material and
immaterial, wise and otherwise, make up the marvelous microcosm
we call Self the world where, like the sun of the planetary system,
shines the intellect with j)erfect splendor. But, as the spectrum has
dissected the solar ray, so has the understanding, by a process of self-
inflicted vivisection that seems scarcely less than divine in its insight,
pierced and resolved the mysteries of its own composition. We
know that the mind is a bundle of many fagots, the united strength
of which can never be broken, though racked on doubt and 'put to the
wheel of despair though cast beneath the car of superstition, or
consigned to the nether millstone of inhuman persecution. We know
that these mental fagots are of many kinds sturdy oak of the
scientist, pliable ash of the schoolman, sail-bearing pine of the posi-
tivist, cypress of pessimist, rose-wood of optimist, heart-wood, it may
be, for all of us ; and the one mysterious piece, so like and yet so
unlike them all. Let the rest season, nay, even blacken : this one is
changeless and ever-enduring, as fresh and as green as if cut but
to-day from the parent stem ; it buds on forever, like a wonderful air-
plant whose tendrils find nourishment wherever there is sensitized
atmosphere, and needs the grosser nurture of no vulgar mould ; this
veritable Hamamelis, witch-hazel of the mental sheaf, fitly styled the
*' divining-rod ; " for this is the magic wand of the sculptor, the
painter, the poet, the singer, the seer alike !
Technical definition of the imagination may be found in the dic-
tionaries of all civilized languages those monuments of learning and
labor which compel the most profound respect, while they excite the
liveliest emotions of gratitude and sympathy for the men who were
born to erect them. But the conventional label of the imaginative
faculty need not be recited before this Society ; nor need I enlarge
upon its manifest inadequacy beyond the requirements of formalism.
Definition is, or should be, diagnostic description ; but in what terms
may that be described which exists only in imagination ? Definition
implies limitation and boundary ; the gist of the term is the setting
of corner-stones ; but how measure off and survey that which is
