IMAGINATION.
457
boundless ? No syllogism is competent here. Let imagination seek
its own conclusions, with strong white wings that melt not even
in the dazzling light and heat of its own glorious achievements.
What care I for the crutch of logic here, or any Ariadne's thread in
a labyrinth of verbal niceties ! Enthusiasm bears too hard upon the
check-rein of sober reflection ; fancy leaps lightly ; ecstasy beckons,
and the lotos is waving over the still, cool waters of my judgment.
But expression may lawfully seek even tlie pinnacle of rhapsody, for
naught but superlatives are fitting for that which is beyond com-
parison.
We can but imagine the possibilities of this attribute of intellect ;
as its peculiarities deny comparison, and its processes scrutiny, so do
its powers defy comprehension. But what of its eflective operation
and manifest results ? What of its purposes and pleasures of its
pangs and penalties ? And what, alas ! of its perversions ? Of these
we know something, if not from our own experience, then from the
teachings of the consummate masters of expression whose thought-
laden voices strike home or, should they pass over our heads, leave
us, at least, in no doubt that something has gone over.
To a practical point first : one excellent and most useful purpose
which the imagination subserves at the hands of the gifted few whom
the higher development of this faculty makes leaders of thought and
watchful guardians of human progress, is, to put men of science on
their proper level, and to teach them to know their place.
As this may possibly be considered by some of my friends whose
generous appreciation of my efibrts in scientific lines of inquiry may
blind them to the slightness of my acquirements to be rather a
ticklish position for me to assume, let me fortify with authority as
well recognized in literature as is that of the sinewy, daring, and
brilliant gladiator of the scientific arena who stigmatized poetry as
" sensuous caterwauling." ' It has been perceived and said, in sub-
Although, in the sphere of imagination, " facts " are apt to be regarded as trouble-
some and impertinent, and looseness of statement as only a very venial transgression,
yet, for the benefit of those readers who care for accuracy, it may be stated that the
author of this celebrated phrase, that has given so much offense to artistic and poetic
minds, did not use it in the manner here stated. Prof. Huxley has never, as we are
aware, " stigmatized poetry as sensuous caterwauling." It was not poetry itself, but
only some poetry, to which he applied this eminently felicitous epithet ; and if Words-
worth were living, he would no doubt cordially indorse it. We give the memorable
passage, as it will bear frequent repeating. (Ed.)
" In these times the educational tree seems to have its roots in the air, its leaves and flowers
in the ground ; and I confess I should very much like to turn it upside down, so that its roots
might be solidly imbedded among the facts of Nature, and draw thence a sound nutriment for the
foliage and fruit of literature and of art. No educational system can have a claim to permanence
unless it recognizes the truth that education has two great ends to which everything else must be
subordinated. The one of these is, to increase knowledge ; the other is, to develop the love of
right and the hatred of wrong.
" With wisdom and uprightness a nation can make its way worthily, and Beauty will follow in
the footsteps of the two, even if she be not specially invited ; while there is, perhaps, no sight in
