IMA OnVA TION. 459
Here I would repeat with emphasis, what I intimated in the
beginning, that the microscopic eye which peers too long and too
intently upon the motes of facts which play in the sunbeam, will be
blinded to the force and beauty of the truths which both the motes
and the beam conspire to announce.
In thus insisting upon the intimate relationships which I believe
subsist between the offices of the imaginative and those of the reason-
ing faculty, I must not be misunderstood to depreciate or disparage
the mighty prowess of the latter, which I love to contemplate. Pure
reason, as expressed I had nearly said symbolized in the simple,
faultless syllogism, has nothing to fear from the sovereignty of the
imagination. It is beautiful and fearful to see that clear, cold, naked
blade, gleaming with steel-blue temper, resistlessly incisive to see
it cleave with equal ease the solid ingot of ignorance and the gossa-
mer web of illusion to see it w^ork like a giant steam-hammer,
smoothly, noiselessly, and irresistibly, whether its power be adjusted
to the cracking of an egg-shell of superfine subtilties, or the forging
of the massive links by which it is anchored secure in a storm of
error. Yet this Titan is not omnipotent ; its powers are limited; and
it is precisely at the point w^here reason hesitates that the ofiice of
imagination begins. The higher faculty takes up the story when
reason omits to point the moral, and adorns the tale that Nature tells
to man. It brings her seeming discords into one grand harmony,
and crowns the noble shaft of Science with the immortal wreath of
Art.
I speak of imagination in its full development, and in the truest,
highest, and best sense that the term can bear; and I am reminded
here to draw a broad, even if a devious and uncertain, line of dis-
tinction between this splendid faculty and mere Fancy a pert Miss,
whose wills-o'-the-wisp are too often mistaken for the head-light of the
imagination. I will not weary you with over-nice formalities of defi-
nition in a case where shades of difierence blend. Know, by their
fruits, that fancy is a parody on imagination. The play of fancy is
quips and quirks and airy nothings, and the whole mob of littlenesses
we call smart and clever. The working of imagination breathes life
into marble and canvas, inspires the drama, the poem, the symphony,
and vivifies systems of religion.
What faculty but the imaginative can conceive, what but the
power of the imagination itself can convey, the full meaning of this
soul of genius? It is creative; and, when this is said, expression
falters by the wayside of anticlimax. If there be within us one single
spark of the divine fire, this spark it is that sends " the long light
shaking" from pillar to pillar of the temple that the lesser god of the
imasfination rears to a God eternal, till it irradiates the shrine where
all men sooner or later must kneel in devotion ; and we, who now
gaze wistfully at the veil which screens the inner sanctuary from eyes
