460 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
profane, may yet be permitted to kiss the hem of a seamless garment.
Oh, the searching, the far-reaching insight of the epigram, " If there
be no God, man must invent one ! " Invention, conception, imagina-
tion, creation, are synonymous, and in one sense convertible terms.'
The pleasures of the imagination if so slight an expression may
hint at a meaning, the fullness of which is rapture or transport are
manifold, and too manifest to require subtilty of discrimination for
their recognition and explanation. These are among the things of
blessed memory, of blissful hope, and among those the reality and
universality of which are confirmed by all experience. Even those
who cuddle the bantlings of their fancy, in the fond delusion that
they nurture the offspring of the fertile mother, feel somewhat of the
charm indescribable. What, then, the serenity, what the majestic
repose, of the creators of thought after their labor, we may only
faintly imagine.
What of the pangs and penalties now what of the price to be
paid for this power ? To bring forth in travail was not the sentence
of one-half the human race alone. There have been those, indeed,
like Raphael, who have wrought the miracles of imagination in the
sunshine of the heart, to sweet music of the soul ; but oh, so few
escape the throes of thought-birth ! Physiologists tell us of a certain
mental process they call " unconscious cerebration." The operation
of the imagination unconscious of labor is better known by another
name inspii-ation ; its expression is revelation ; its mouth-piece the
seer. But rare clay, and only the finest, incases such spirits ; men
must work in the storm, in sorrow and suffering, each to his measure
of creative ability. Let us never forget, in the terrible struggle for
expression, that it is given to lips which press the sword of pain to
speak to fellow-men the words " Go thou up higher ! "
I crave your indulgence for one other thought. Authority and
responsibility go hand-in-hand with equal pace. The measure of
creative ability is the measure of accountability for its exercise, and
the measure of the penalty which perversion of the godlike faculty
entails. Like every other energy in Nature, the imagination is equally
potent for good and for evil. Let the bravest man tell me he never
shudders when he looks within, at the possibilities there disclosed.
There is power to make this earth seem nearer heaven or hell.
Whose rebellious imagination conceived it were better to reign below
than to serve above ? Sound is as full of discord as of harmony.
Light may blind us, or guide us on our way. Heat constructs and
heat destroys. The dual nature of every force wars with its opposite.
The imagination is equally potent to sanctify and to pollute. Guard,
then, this gift with fear and trembling ; gi-eat issues depend upon this
most powerful, most perilous, and most precious endowment of the
intellect. Not like the victor in history need we sigh for other
' " In seinen Gottern malet sich der Menscli." Goethe.
