AQUEDUCTS. 29
was constructed by Eupalinus, who had previously gained celebrity
by building the aqueduct at Megara. At Athens the water-supply
was drawn by subterranean conduits from Mounts Hymettus, Penteli-
cus, and Parnes, and received into reservoirs outside the city. Two
conduits came from Mount Hymettus, and passed under the bed of
the river Ilissus. Of course, it was necessary to supply fresh air to
the water flowing through these subterranean channels, and that
was done by piercing them with shafts at intervals of about fifty
yards. Subterranean channels were also used to distribute the water
through the city; they were of different forms, being round or square,
and in some of them pipes of baked clay were laid. It is somewhat
remarkable that these beneficent works were constructed by the wis-
dom of rulers who have come down to us branded as tyrants. The
tyrants Theagenes of Megara, Polycrates of Samos, and Pisistratus
of Athens, were the men who caused them to be built. Some of those
old aqueducts still continue to supply Athens with water. The aque-
duct of Syracuse which still supplies the city with an abundance of
water, and which is remarkable for having a tunnel under the sea,
between the city and the mainland, was built some time prior to the
Athenian invasion, 412 b. c, for Thucydides mentions that it was
partially destroyed by the invaders. But far more ancient than any
yet referred to is the one at Jerusalem, built by Solomon, to conduct
the water from the reservoirs, or " pools," that bear his name, to the
city, a distance of six miles. It was formed by an earthen pipe ten
inches in diameter, incased in stone and laid underground. It is still
in use.
The periodical overflow of the Nile, the Tigris, and Euphrates,
enabled the peoples of Egypt and Babylonia to store up vast quan-
tities of water in artificial lakes, of which the Mceris in Egypt is a
celebrated example, and the water was utilized as required, by sur-
face-conduits or canals.
Let us now turn back to the aqueducts of Rome, and examine
somewhat the details of construction. A recently-published work on
the aqueducts comprehetided in the archoeology of Rome, by John
Henry Parker, C. B., affords much interesting information in this con-
nection. The facts are ascertained partly from the work of Sextus
Julius Frontinus, who was superintendent of the aqueducts {curator
aquarum) under the Emperors Nerva and Trajan (a. d. 94-107), and
partly from explorations of the courses and remains of the aqueducts
made by Mr. Parker himself. Of the eleven aqueducts already
referred to, ten approached the city from the east and one fi'om the
west. Of the ten on the east, four had their sources near Subiaco, in
a spur of the Apennines beyond Tivoli ; the others took their rise in
the lower lands nearer Rome. Two of these, the Anio Vetus and
the Anio JVovus, were fed by the river Anio, as is indicated by their
names ; the others received their waters from springs or small lakes,
