THE SEWING-MACHINE IN POLITICAL ECONOMY. 483
elations of destitution and misery among seamstresses. Hood's ' Song
of the Sliirt ' expressed the public feeling. Needlewomen's Aid Asso-
ciations were started, but wliolly failed to lessen the evil. , . . The
appearance of the seioing-machine changed all this. Shirts were made
more rapidly and more cheaply than before, but the workwomen were
better paid and did not work so many hours. The hours of labor fell,
indeed, from eighteen hours a day to eleven or twelve."
The demand for hand-labor increased, because, while the machine
did the heavy mechanical part of the work, the cutting out and prepa-
ration of the materials rendered necessary more " hands," and a su-
perior aptitude and intelligence. The workers also became to a large
extent the owners of the machines worked by them at home; and as
the slavery and degradation of the needle became almost abolished,
crowds of young women were attached to machine-working by the
short hours and the high wages. It is this diversion of female labor
which lies at the root of the scarcity of domestic servants, and the ex-
traordinary rise in the wages given to such servants.
Improvements in the machine enabled it to be applied to boots,
shoes, harness, and most articles made of leather. In November,
1857, a machine of this kind was introduced at Northampton, and im-
mediately led to organized opposition by the Crispins of that centre
of the shoe-trade. This opposition was more or less successful until
February, 1859, when the manufacturers of Northampton and Stafford
formed themselves into a league, and announced that they were pre-
pared to compel the use of the machines in spite of the opposition of
the men. A strike ensued. The men were defeated; and the ma-
chines very rapidly revolutionized the whole industry of boot and
shoe making. Mr. Plummer says : " With the termination of the strike
the operatives became eager to possess machines of their own, and in
a short time there were few of the better class of workmen who were
not proprietors of one machine or more. These were worked by the
female members of their own families, or by women engaged for the
purpose." The machines put an end to the more dangerous and un-
healthy process of the work. Employers fitted up commodious fac-
tories supplied with machines, and hence has arisen the present factory
system in the boot and shoe trade, a system as beneficial to the male
and female workers as to the capitalists. It is estimated that now at
least one-half of the Northampton employers have risen by means of
machine-industry from the position of workmen.
Cheapness, rapidity of production, and excellence, led to a vastly
increased demand for boots and shoes. Wages were raised ; the work
was easier; and the buildings in which it was carried on were vastly
improved. In Leicester, in 1820, there were 150 operative shoe-
makers; in 1851 there were 1,3*75; in 1861, the machine having ap-
peared, there were 2,315 ; and in 1871 there were 5,703, or nearly four
times as many as at the ante-machine date of 1851,
