486 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ers, and in this way has cheapened production by rendering of value
the intermittent labor of whole families as it could be spared, and
when it could be easiest applied. In this respect tlie sewing-machine
has been the reverse of the former handloom. The machine-workers
have prospered because they could take the new invention into their
houses without diminishing its force. The handloomers were supei-
seded because the steam-shuttle could not be made a domestic imple-
ment. 2. The eminent suitability of female labor to the sewing-ma-
chine has secured a class of workers who have had the strongest mo-
tives to apply whatever skill and industry they possessed to increase
ihQiv piece-work wages by the extent and efficiency of production. It
maybe added, indeed, that the great results which have been obtained
are amonsr the most cogent illustrations which can be found of the
magical influence of payment by results, that is to say, of payment by
the piece ; for, happily, no other mode of payment has been possible
for sewing-machine labor.
The lesson of the whole of this gratifying and hopeful history is,
as we said at the outset, that the methods of most efficient production
are those which necessarily contain within themselves the methods of
most effectual and beneficial distribution : in other words, if we under-
stand and apply thoroughly and truly the conditions which most
cheaply, rapidly, and constantly produce wealth, we also, and as a
necessary and ^:ari ^5s5m consequence, understand and apply the con-
ditions which insure the distribution of that wealth among all the
parties concerned in the most just and beneficial manner. So far,
philosophers and philanthi-opists have spent their energies in the wrong
direction. They have sought for artificial means of what they con-
sidered more equal distribution of the products of industry, failing to
see that in the circumstances and conditions which render industry on
the largest scale most productive there are native and inherent forces
which link together production and distribution at every step.
TJie Economist.
