CORRESP ONDENCE.
487
CORRESPONDENCE.
HOW A PHILOSOPHIC SKEPTIC WAS KEC-
ONCILED TO RELIGIOUS FAITH.
IT has not been usual to regard Herbert
Spencer as a reconciler of skeptical
minds with religious verities ; nevertheless
he has labored with great power and ear-
nestness to attain this end, and there has
been varied and pointed evidence that this
labor has not been thrown away. A letter
recently published in the Chicago Times
states a quite remarkable case of reconver-
sion to Christianity, under the influence of
the study of " First Principles." There
have probably been many similar cases,
though not so conspicuous, and it is not
unlikely that there will be a great many
more. Perhaps it would be well for our
evangelical friends not to overlook this cir-
cumstance; and, when they have battered
away at hardened old disbelievers in reli-
gion with the customary weapons to no
purpose, to buy a copy of "First Princi-
ples," and, having mastered it, to try Spen-
cer's short method as a last resort. The
letter referred to relates to the return of
the late Judge Alfred W. Arrington from
what is termed " modern infidelity " to the
Christian faith, largely through the influence
of Mr. Spencer's book. The writer Mr. C.
C. Bonney was an intimate personal and
professional friend of Judge Arrington, and
was familiar with the matter of which he
writes. Mr. Arrington died in Chicago,
December 31, 186*7. The communication
to the Times is as follows. Ed. :
" Mr. Editor : The Times of last Sunday
contained a letter written by the late Judge
Arrington in 1832, about the time of his
renunciation of revealed religion. It is due
to his memory that his final return to his
early faith be as widely published. In the
memoir prefixed to his poems, published
after his decease, Mrs. Arrington sketches
briefly his religious career, showing him in
youth an eloquent preacher, in manhood a
truth-seeking skeptic, and at the close of
his life a convinced and satisfied Christian.
She says :
" ' At the early asre of eighteen years he com-
menced to preach, and at that time exhibited an
oratorio power that resembled the inspiration
of an Italian improviaalore. He drew large
audiences, and excited the greatest enthnsiagm.
He continued to preach for several years at in-
tervals, until he los^t his childhood's faith ; and,
after fruitless attempts to find peace in other
communions, ultimately abandoned revealed re-
ligion. He afterward sought in philosophy a
solution of his intellectual difficulties ; but, of
course, with only partial success. He, how-
ever, never abandoned his search for truth.
The different systems of metaphysics, from the
Indian philosophers down to the latest schools
of English positivism, were as familiar to him
as the alphabet. The principles of the physical
sciencfs were fully mastered, and their rela-
tions to each other and to human life. He
sought in every quarter for the knowledge that
would enable him to create a sound philosophy
of life and morals. ...
" ' The works of Herbert Spencer had a most
happy effect upon his mind. He studied them
with the greatest delight, and professed to find
in them the possible union of science and reli-
gion. . . .
" ' For some time previous to his last illness,
his aggressive skepticism had entirely disap-
peared, and in various ways he manifested, not
only a respect for Christianity, but a strong de-
sire for the gift of faith. This solace was, how-
ever, deuied him till he lay upon his death-bed,
when, to use his own words, "iife a flash of
light, every cloud disappeared^ and the vision of
Jesus Christ xvas vouchsafed ?.e." '
" I may add to the foregoing extracts
that alter this event he called his wife to
his bedside, and said, among other things :
' Promise me, Leora, that you will assure
my friends, especially my professional breth-
ren, some of whom may have been misled
by my skepticism, that when I returned to
my faith in the Christian religion my mind
was not enfeebled by disease, but that my
intellect was as clear and strong as ever,
and that it was not merely an assent to my
early faith, but a conviction as clear as the
light of the truth of the supreme miracle of
the incarnation. To believe that is to be-
lieve all.'
" These are the words as I recall them,
and as I believe, if his voice could reach us,
he would ask to have them given to the
public. His return from infidelity to faith
began with his reading of ' The Unknow-
able,' and particularly the chapter .on 'The
Reconciliation,' in Herbert Spencer's ' First
Principles.'
" I procured and read Mr. Spencer's
book at Judge Arrington's urgent request,
and learned its effect on his mind in subse-
quent conversations.
" Some enterprising publisher should
give us a new edition of Judge Arrington's
writings, with a more ample and detailed
sketch of his life than has hitherto appeared.
He was a man of extraordinary intellectual
