488
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
endowments, and the story of his life faith-
fully told would have all the charm of a
noble romance. C. C. Bonnet.
"Chicago, February 17, 167T."
THE SUN-SPOT PERIODS.
To the Editor of the Popular Science Monthly.
In the course of an hiquiry lately made
in reference to the periodicity of cold
seasons, and their coincidence with the
greatest prevalence of the sun-spots, I came
to the conclusion (the reverse of that reached
by most of those who have wii!.ten on that
subject) that, while there is a recognized
periodicity in the sun-spot maxima, and also
a seeming periodicity in the recurrence of
cold seasons, the cold winters, instead of
falling coincident with, oftenest occur inter-
mediate between, the maxima of the sun-
spots.
I think the coldest season of the present
century was that of 1816, while the sun-spot
maximum for that period is placed in 1817.
Another remarkably cold winter, and one
of which I have a vivid recollection, was
that of 1856 ; while the nearest sun-spot
maxima were in 1849 and 1860. Another
unusually cold winter occurred in 1866, al-
most exactly intermediate between the maxi-
mum of 1860 and that which followed.
It seems to be taken for granted that
the sun emits less heat during the time it is
partially covered with spots. But is this a
ftict Avhich is substantiated by experiment ?
It is easy to see that its light may be less ;
but light and heat, though originating and
being propagated similarly, are not identi-
cal either in their effects or in the mode of
propagation. Thin wave-undulations differ
very greatly in length and frequency.
If two liquids of different colors and dif-
ferent specific gravity, and which do not
readily mix, be poured into the same caldron,
the lighter will rise to and cover the sur-
face. If the one of the least specific grav-
ity be the lightest in color, it will reflect
light the most readily ; and, if the contents
of the caldron be agitated, so that the two
liquids be made to show at the surface al-
ternately, the reflection will be alternately
greater or less, according as each liquid
predommates at the surface.
Suppose that, instead of other agitation,
heat be applied to the bottom of the cal-
dron. Gradually, with the increase of the
heat, upward jets are produced, and the
darker liquid breaks through the lighter
surface in the act called boiling. These
dark fractures of the light surface do they
not correspond to the sun-spots ?
In its ordinary state, the body of the
snn is enveloped in, and covered by, an ex-
ceedingly bright surface, appearing to be
slightly reticulated, called the photosphere.
When this photosphere is undisturbed, we
have the maximum of light. At other times,
apparently by increased internal action, the
uniformity of this photosphere is destroyed ;
titanic forces, acting from beneath, rupture
it, and produce what to us is the phenome-
non of sun-spots.
Now, is it not logical to infer that the
increased action which ruptures the photo-
sphere is accompanied by increased heat-
radiation ? If it be, there is reason for the
cold seasons falling not coincident with, but
intermediate between, the sun-spot maxima.
Geo. AV. Chapman.
A PEETTT BIG DOG-STOPvY.
To the Editor of the Popvlar Science Monthly.
The perusal of the interesting article on
" Canine Sagacity," which appeared in the
December number of The Popclar Science
Monthly, gave me great pleasure, and caused
me to recall to memory a very remarkable
case of the same chai-acter which came under
my own observation about two years ago. I
was then practising medicine in Galveston,
Texas. One day I was called to see a patient,
Mrs.Wechsler, the wife of a German butcher.
As I entered the hall of the house where
she lived, I was met by a large black dog,
who under no consideration would let ne
pass, until Mr. Wechsler himself came to
pacify him and assure him that it was all
right. The dog then followed us into the
sick-room, and, while I was examining the
patient, the dog was watching all my move-
meiits most attentively. When I departed,
I noticed that I was followed by the dog,
who did not leave me until he had seen me
enter my office. A few days after this the
dog entered my office apparently very un-
easy about something. The thought struck
me at once that perhaps I might be wanted ;
so I put on my hat and followed the dog,
who immediately started for home, where I
found Mrs. Wechsler sick in bed, with no
one in the house to attend to her. She was
surprised at my timely call, and, when I
told her that I had been called by the dog,
she related to me what was even more as-
tonishing. She had suddenly been seized
by a violent attack of vomiting fifteen or
twenty minutes previously, when the dog
had picked up an empty tin pan and placed
it beside her bed, before rnnning for the
doctor. This dog, who was only eight months
old, had never received any kind of tiain-
ing. It is therefore evident that something
like the following train of thoughts must
have passed through his mind : Seeing me
examine the patient and prescribe for her,
he must have conceived the idea that I was
the proper person to be there when she was
sick. Having made up his mind on this
