CORRESP ONDENCE.
489
point, the next thing to be done was to find
out where I lived ; and this he did by ac-
companying me to my office. Seeing her
vomit, lie brought her a tin pan, which he
probably had seen her use for that purpose,
and then set out for my office. The dog
called for me a number of times afterward,
but never without my services were needed.
He was never told to fetch me, but deter-
mined himself when it was necessary to do
so. Yours, respectfully,
John Sundberg, M. D.
Baltimore, December 4, 1876.
To the Editor of the Popular Science Monthly.
Sir : In an article headed " Over-Con-
sumption or Over-Production? " in your July
issue, Mr. Buuce offers an answer to the
question, " Why are the times so hard ? "
taking as his text Prof. Bonamy Price's ar-
ticle, " One per Cent.," which he pronounces
to be illogical, fallacious, and based on unwar-
ranted assumptions. It is not easy to dis-
entangle Mr. Bunce's argument, but the fol-
lowing is believed to be a fair statement of
the propositions it involves :
1. That the common ideas in regard to
national extravagance are erroneous, it be-
ing something essentially diffiirent from in-
dividual extravagance.
2. That wasteful consumption has had
nothing to do with commercial distress ;
that, on the contrary, destruction produces
abundance.
3. That no part of the nation's capital
has been lost in unproductive enterprises.
4. That the real cause of the trouble is
over-production.
5. That the remedy lies in cooperation
among producers to regulate production.
A refutation of these propositions is not
the object of this letter; all that time and
space will allow is to stand them up, stripped
of verbiage, and see how they will look.
In the first place, concerning national
extravagance, after pronouncing the idea or-
dinarily held to be " peculiarly erroneous,"
Mr. Bunce says : " We think it can be
shown that expenditure in the case of the
individual, and expenditure in the case of a
large number of individuals, have certain
essential diffijrences, the difference being
that the income of the former is absolutely
fixed, while that of the latter is wholly ex-
pansive." As it stands, this proposition
must mean that wastefulness, a bad thing
in the case of the individual, becomes in
the case of an aggregate of individuals a
good thing ; it means that, each man's in-
come being fixed, he cannot safely live be-
yond it ; but, if we add together a " large
group " of these incomes, they become
" wholly expansive," whatever that may be.
and cannot be too recklessly spent ; it
means, in short, that the whole is some-
thing totally different from the sum of its
parts.
Mr. Bunce tells us that " a community
is rich because it consumes^ abundance being
the product and consequent of excessive de-
struction." And here is the proof : "It is
evident that the immense consumption of
coal has made coal cheap and abundant.
It has rendered possible the employment
of vast capital in the erection of costly ma-
chinery for working, transporting, etc. . . .
It is true, the consumption of coal is in-
creased by cheapness, but it is only by ex-
travagance that the machinery by which it
is made cheap is put in operation. We
have an immense wealth of coal because
we consume coal so extensively ! " This
rule, we are told, works in all, or nearly all,
our staples, and the conclusion is, " that
in all staple things a nation is rich because
it consumes." Was ever the operation of
the law of supply and demand so grotesque-
ly construed ? That the demand for a com-
modity stimulates the activity of supply is
most true, and, where increase is possible,
the supply is increased until the widest area
of demand is filled at a minimum cost, but
it is only by economy that this minimum
can be reached. It is surely only necessary
to remember that, no matter what the em-
ployment of capital or appliance of machin-
ery, every ton of coal moved a foot repre-
sents a given unit of force in the total sum
available for supplying human needs, and
that, when so used, it cannot be applied to
other work, in order to see the full absurd-
ity of the proposition that the nation is the
richer if the product be wastefuUy destroyed
instead of being husbanded and prudently
used !
The third point made, that no part of
the capital of the country has been lost in
unproductive enterprises, deserves, perhaps,
a little fuller attention because of the pecul-
iar reasoning by which it is sought to be
sustained. Mr. 13unce says that these works
were largely carried on by what he calls
" released energy, by labor not otherwise re-
quired," and that so far " the community is
not the poorer by a mite in consequence."
He is willing to admit that, by the purchase
ofiron abroad, etc., we have lost a part of our
" surplus," but he declares that " the as-
sumption that it impaired our capital is
wholly groundless." With such a use of
terms, it becomes needful to define what is
meant by capital in an economic sense, and
to point out the difference between it and
the capital stock and surplus of a bank or
a life-insurance company. The latter are
terms used to designate what a book-keeper
knows as the fictitious accounts which show
the amount of assets of a corporation; it is
a purely artificial division which has been
