49
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
found convenient in keeping accounts, and
has no analogue in the accumulations of a
community. The word capital, as used by
Prof. Price and economists generally, means
the nation's accumulated stock of food,
clothing, and the other necessaries of life.
So long as these commodities remain uncon-
sumed, they are called free capital ; when
they are employed to sustain laborers en-
gaged in building a warehouse, a bridge, or
a railway, the capital is said to become
" fixed," or sunk in such enterprise. If the
investment is a paying one, returning the
cost with interest, the capital is in time
released ; if it loses money, ultimately be-
coming worthless, then the capital is fixed
forever, or lost. And the true cost of these
works to the community is correctly ex-
pressed by the price paid for them, Mr.
Bunco to the contrary notwithstanding ;
for, traced to its ultimate source, the cost
of the material used is simply the amount
of labor that has been put upon it. Of the
vast amount of labor which has been so
misapplied, not one stroke can be consid-
ered as " released energy labor not other-
wise required." It was labor that was
needed elsewhere, as is plainly proved, if
proof were needed, by the sharp competi-
tion and high wages paid for it. But the
assertion that there is no labor that could
not be put to better use than to throw it
away, needs no proof. "But," he asks,
triumphantly, " how is it if the savings of
a country have been impaired that capital,
at the same moment, should be seeking in-
vestment at any rate of interest, that all
financial circles are choked with an excess
of money ? "
" When / use a word," said Humpty
Dumpty, scornfully, to Alice in Wonder-
land, "it means just what I choose it to
mean, neither more nor less." It is only by
attributing a similar mental attitude to Mr.
Bunco that tlie confusion of terms which
marks his article is to be explained. Cap-
ital has been already defined ; money, it
may be simply said, is a measure of value,
a medium, a commodity, at times a tran-
sient representative for capital, when there
is capital to represent, but either may ex-
ist without the other. The reader will
excuse these elementary definitions, as they
seem to be called for. Savings, capital,
money, it is hardly necessary to say, are
not convertible terms; and it requires no
profound reasoning to show that idle
" money " undoubtedly the immediate re-
sult of lessened trade may find its ulti-
mate cause in impaired savings. It is be-
cause savings have been impaired that
economy and retrenchment are enforced ; it
is because people cannot save, and at the
same time go on consuming high-priced
commodities with the old recklessness, that
prices fall and trade operations become re-
stricted and less profitable ; it is because
commerce no longer offers high-paying in-
vestments, that money accumulates in busi-
ness centres, and is offered, like other com-
modities, at low prices. And in view of
the fact that it is the cost and not the amount
of production that needs to be lowered in
order to renew the activities of trade, this
is a most cheering sign.
As has been said, the cause of our trou-
ble, as assigned by Mr. Bunco, is over-pro-
duction. That is to say, too much labor
has been usefully employed, too much ma-
chinery has been put in motion, too much
cotton has been spun, too much leather
made in short, not to particularize, the
wants of the people have been too freely
supplied. The economist will, of course, ad-
mit, as Mr. Bunco says, that there may be
over-production of certain things, but the
ill efl'ects resulting from undue production
of certain things would be partial and local-
ized, and would tend rapidly to correct
themselves. Nothing short of general over-
production would account for general de-
pression. And so we are brought face to
face with the proposition that there is an
unhealthy excess of industrial energy in the
world, and that it produces more of the
necessaries of life than the workers can
profitably assimilate !
A few words as to the proposed remedy.
Of course, if it be admitted that over-pro-
duction is the cause, the cure is obvious :
it is to check production, and Mr. Bunco
does not hesitate to recommend a coopera-
tion of producers for that purpose. The
adjustment of industrial activity cannot be
left to natural laws, but combinations must
be formed which shall see to it that the
forge-fires are not relit, and that the id!c
operative shall remain idle. With millions
of laborers waiting for work, this seems like
heroic treatment, but there is no way to
limit production but to limit the amount of
labor employed. And now we begin to see
how " peculiarly erroneous " have been the
commonly accepted views. The man who
makes two blades of grass grow where one
grew before ; the inventor who, by machin-
ery, increases and cheapens the aggregate
of things made ; the industrious and frugal
operative, who works long hours and saves
his earnings have hitherto been regarded
as useful members of society. But this is
all wrong; the "tramp " is your true con-
servator of public welfare. He takes a
sliare in that destruction which leads to
abundance, and he at least cannot be
charged with contributing to the evil of
over-production.
Regarding the example of France, Prof.
Price attributes the successful payment of
the indemnity to the fact that France had
" saved " accumulated. It would perhaps
have been better to sav it was because she
