EDITOR'S TABLE.
493
gravels, and sands, still lying undisturbed
ill the ancient beds ; 2. The system of pro-
found canons from 2,000 to 5,000 feet deep,
whioli score the flanks of the great moun-
tain-chains, and form such a fascinating
object of study, and not less of wonder, be-
cause the gorges were altogether carved out
since the beginning of the glacial period ; 3.
The modern rivers, mere echoes of their
parent streams of the early quaternary age.
As between these three the early quater-
nary rivers stand out as vastly the most
powerful and extensive. The present rivers
are utterly incapable, with infinite time, to
perform the work of glacial torrents. So,
too, the Pliocene streams, although of very
great volume, were powerless to wear their
way down into solid rocks thousands of
feet at the rapid rate of the early quater-
nary floods. Between these three systems
of rivers is all the difference which sepa-
rates a modern (uniformitarian) stream and
a terrible catastrophic engine, the expres-
sion of a climate in which struggle for ex-
istence must have been something absolute-
ly inconceivable when considered from the
water precipitations, floods, torrents, and
erosions, of to-day.
" Uuiformitarians are fond of saying that
give our present rivers time, plenty of time,
and they can perform the feats of the past.
It is mere nonsense in the case of the caiions
of the Cordilleras. They could never have
been carved by the pygmy rivers of this cli-
mate to the end of infinite time. And, as
if the sections and profiles of the canons
were not enough to convince the most skep-
tical student, there are left hundreds of dry
river-beds, within whose broad valleys,
flanked by old steep banks, and eloquent
with proofs of once-powerful streams, there
is not water enough to quench the thirst
even of a uniformitarian. Those extinct
rivers, dead of drought, in connection with
the great canon system, present perfectly
overwhelming evidence that the general
deposition of aerial water, the consequent
floods and torrents, forming, as they all do,
the distinct expression of a sharply-defined
cycle of climate, as compared either with
the water phenomena of the immediately
preceding Pliocene age, or with our own
succeeding condition, constitute an age of
water-catastrophe whose destructive power
we only now begin distantly to suspect."
Having given his reasons for reject-
ing the idea of uniformity in the course
of Nature, especially in Western Amer-
ica, Mr. King proceeds to connect his
view with the question of Evolution.
It is imputed to him hy the newspapers
that he arrays Catastrophe against Evo-
lution, to the destruction of the latter
doctrine ; but this is an error. He la-
bors to show the inadequacy of Mr. Dar-
win's theory of natural selection to ex-
plain organic development ; but, as we
have said, again and again, Darwinism
is not Evolution, and the most eminent
evolutionists recognize the tendency to
load the law of natural selection with
a good deal more than it can carry.
Mr. King recognizes that the principle
of the " survival of the fittest " is a
true principle that has played an im-
portant part in organic progress, but
which is supplemented by otlier agen-
cies in the general scheme of Evolution.
That Catastrophism is not regarded as
fatal to Evolution is at least true of one
of its most illustrious representatives,
for Mr. King remarks, " Huxley, per-
meated in every fibre by belief in Evo-
lution, feels that even to-day Catastro-
pliism is not yet wholly out of the
possibilities." And speaking of the
two theories of unqualified Uniformi-
tarianism and universal Catastrophism
(as held by Cuvier), Mr. King declares
that he rejects them, and says : " Hux-
ley alone among prominent evolution-
ists opens the door for a union of the
residua of truth in the two schools,
fusing them in his proposed ' Evolu-
tional Geology.' Looking back over a
trail of 30,000 miles of geological travel,
and after as close a research as I am
capable, I am impelled to say that his
far-sighted view precisely satisfies my
interpretation of the broad facts of the
American Continent."
In this conception of evolutional
geology, Mr. King is led to assign a
higher place than has hitherto been al-
lowed to what he terms "evolution of
environment," which he regards as a
distinct branch of geology that must
soon take a recognized form. He as-
sumes a property of plasticity in organ-
isms, by which they are capable of ac-
