494
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
celerated changes in response to catas-
trophic disturbances in the environment.
Upon this point he remarks :
" It is only through rapid movements of
the crusts and sudden climatic changes, due
either to terrestrial or cosmical causes, that
environment can have seriously interfered
with the evolution of life. These effects
would, I conceive, be 1. Extermination;
2. Destruction of the biological equilibri-
um, thus violating natural selection ; and,
3. Rapid morphological change on the part
of plastic species. When catastrophic
change burst in upon the ages of unilbrm-
ity, and sounded in the ear of every liv-
ing thing the words ' Change, or die,' plas-
ticity became the sole principle of salvation.
Plasticity, then, is that quality which, in
suddenly enforced physical change, is the
key to survival and prosperity. And the
survival of the plastic, that is, of the rapidly
and healthily modifiable during periods
when terrestrial revolution offers to sjjecies
the rigorous dilemma of prodigious change
or certain death, is a widely different princi-
ple from the survival of the fittest in a gen-
eral biological battle during terrestrial uni-
formity."
THE LATEST CASES OF HERESY.
The turning out of the Rev. Augus-
tus BLauvelt, of the Dutch Reformed
Church, by the Kingston tribunal, for
alleged heresy, is one of the things so
common nowadays as hardly to excite
notice, and we should probably have
heard little of this case had it not been
that the theological body saw fit to put
the trimmings on to the transaction in
a way that was not agreeable to the
reverend excommunicate. Not content
to depose Mr. Blauvelt from his charge
for non-conformity to the creed which
he had agreed to uphold, they thought
it desirable to give the proceeding an
extra touch, and so accused him of be-
traying his Master. Mr. Blauvelt says
that, when he found it impossible any
longer to accept the creed to which he
had subscribed, he would gladly have
resigned, but the polity of the society
did not allow it ; and when they found
it necessary to cut him off, he should
have recognized the propriety of it,
and acquiesced without protest. But
when they proposed to " spot " him, and
fasten on him the label of Judas, to save
other denominations the trouble of
looking into his character and belief, if
they were so inclined, he did not assent,
but appealed to a higher organization.
He thought that, if such an outrage as
that was to be perpetrated, it had bet-
ter not be done in a corner, but by the
whole responsible body in a conspicuous
place, and where dissenters, if any there
should be, might have the credit of
favoring fair play.- In the final issue,
twenty-six men voted that the society
had nothing further to do than to ex-
scind the teacher who no longer taught
approvingly. But ninety men thought
differently, and seemed deeply to feel
that every fagot, thumb - screw, and
dungeon, of the last eighteen htmdred
years, and all the instruments and
agencies of religious conformity, would
be dishonored if this writer of inde-
pendent articles in Scriiner''s Magazine
did not get an extra kick at parting
all that the law allows in ISTY.
But with these tactics of the Dutch
Reformed Church we are not much
concerned: what interests us far more
is the initial aspect of the case, or that
working of the theological polity which
at the outset binds the conscience and
fetters the thought of all who assume
the function of public teachers, in its
jurisdiction. The deeper question is
one of religious liberty, of the rights of
conscience, and the prerogative of in-
dependent expression. From this point
of view, other recent cases are of in-
terest.
The Rev. Mr. Miller, of Princeton,
got into a dangerous way of thinking
for himself, about the creed of his
church, and, not being pious and politic
enough to crush his rising queries as
instigations of the devil, had the hon-
esty to announce some conclusions
about the mystery of the Trinity which
were unpalatable to the Sanhedrim to
