30 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and were called after their builders or projectors. The waters of the
Marcian, the most prized for their purity and coldness, were collected
from several springs. For the Anio Novus, which was unfailing as
well as the most abundant of the aqueducts, the river Anio was
arrested near its source by three gigantic walls at different levels,
and formed into as many lakes, one below the other. Over these
walls the waste-water fell in magnificent cascades, one of them
over 150 feet high. The object of the lakes was to clarify the
water; for the Anio, though usually a limpid stream, is liable to
become muddy after a heavy rain. The sources of the Anio Novus
and the Aqua Claudia are over 2,000 feet above the level of the city,
and those of the Marcia and Anio Vetus are not very much lower.
Descending from such a height and for distances varying in direct
lines from 30 to 43 miles, the water would naturally acquire great
velocity and tremendous force, which it was necessary to dimin-
ish, and that was done by making numerous angles in the con-
duits. The angles were made generally at every half-mile, and were
points at whi$h reservoirs (castella), or filtering-places {piscinoi), or
both, with accompanying air - shafts, were built. These were sur-
mounted by small towers. As an additional means of breaking the
force of the water, the bottoms of the conduits were given a succes-
sion of short undulations. The conduits, reservoirs, and filtering-
places, were lined with a cement called ojms signinum, which is so
compact that it will resist a hard tool. The art of making it has been
lost. The conduits, always covered, were carried on arcades only
where it was necessary to cross a valley or a plain above its level ; for
the rest of their way they ran in places upon the surface of the
ground, but mostly below it. Thus of the 58 miles of the Anio
Novus, 49 were underground. No two aqueducts were on the same
level, and so, where their courses converged, it was both possible
and convenient to carry one conduit upon another, because it was
forbidden by law to erect a building within a certain number of
feet on either side of an aqueduct; hence Ave find the Aquae Mar-
cia, Tepula, and Julia, carried from their ^Doint of convergence one
above the other on one arcade, and the Aqua Claudia and Anio
Novus on another. Each of the conduits was differently shaped,
some having arched, others angular roofs. Besides the small reser-
voirs referred to as occurring at the angles of the conduits, there
were larger ones at longer intervals. The ruins of one of these,
belonging to the Aqua Marcia, are still to be seen near Carciano. It
is a huge subterranean chamber divided by an arcade in the middle.
Between five and seven miles from Rome were the great filtering-
places to which most of the aqueducts converged. The waters, how-
ever, were not mingled, for each aqueduct had its separate chambers,
thougli it was always within the power of the attendants (aquarii)
to turn the water from one aqueduct into another at will. Of these
