EDITOR'S TABLE.
495
which he was accountable ; whereupon
they suspended him from the author-
ized ministerial function.
And now there comes report of
another case of specially remarkable
features, in Scotland. A distinguished
divine has been condemned by his
church for heresy in contributing a
valuable and important article to an
influential publication. The great issue
comes out here in a conspicuous and
somewhat startling way. It is useless
to deny that the most remarkable thing
about this age is the activity of inquiry,
and the progress of knowledge. More
and more, people will scan their tradi-
tions, overhaul their opinions, and in-
vestigate their truth ; and every subject
upon which they can hold opinions is
undergoing this inexorable revision.
The consequence is, that errors are
sifted out, beliefs that fail to stand the
test are gradually corrected, and knowl-
edge is steadily extended. These pro-
cesses are so real and so rapid that
great works, which represent the gen-
eral state of thought at one time, in a
few years require extensive readjust-
ment. The eighth edition of the " En-
cyclopfedia Britannica," which was
published in 1857, was a comprehensive
and faithful representation of the state
of general thought at that time. But
the numerous and important advances
of knowledge made since have left it
so far behind that it became necessary
to reconstruct it. This is now being
done, and several volumes have ap-
peared. Among other subjects to be
dealt with was the Bible ; and, strange
to say, there has been a great deal of
progress and modification of opinion
in regard to the origin, interpretation,
and history, of this important work,
within the last twenty years. The edi-
tors were responsible before the world
for the honest and faithful treatment
of the subject. There could be no
flinching from the duty of a thorough
statement upon the subject here, any
more than in the departments of physical
science. Very naturally the ablest and
best-equipped student was sought to
deal with so delicate and critical a sub-
ject. Prof. Eobertson Smith, of the
Theological Seminary at Aberdeen, was
selected for the duty. It cannot for a
moment be supposed that a gentleman
of position and ability, such as would
be chosen for this work, and writing
for the thinkers of the world in so
distinguished a publication as the "En-
cyclopjedia Britannica," would fail to
treat the subject with the severest care,
in the genuine spirit of truth- seeking,
and with all the honor of the most
elevated scholarship. And such is the
character of the essay. It is written
with masterly ability, and is so full of
interesting and impoi'tant information
with which evei'ybody should be famil-
iar, that we shall print it in full in the
next number of The Popular Science
Supplement. Yet the Free Church of
Scotland has been thrown into con-
sternation by the article, and Prof.
Smith has been summoned before the
General Assembly and suspended, and
it is reported that he is to be formally
" tried." Meantime, the world will be
interested, and will assiduously read the
essay.
Now, we call attention to the con-
trasted policy of Science in the same
circumstances. If we turn to the arti-
cle " Chemistry," in the " Encyclopae-
dia Britannica," we shall see that here
also great advance is indicated. There
has, in fact, been a revolution so radi-
cal and complete, that those familiar
with the old statement may find them-
selves bewildered by the novelty and
strangeness of the presentation. Yet
nobody hears about any perturbation
or alarm in the chemical world, or
about Prof. Armstrong being arraigned
before the Chemical Society and sus-
pended for heretical teaching.
Obviously there are here two intel-
lectual procedures, which are not only
different, but antagonistic. On the one
hand, there is recognition that truth is
