496
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
the supreme end to be sought ; that it
is yet but partially known ; that doubt
respecting its received forms, and the
subjection of them to the most inex-
orable tests, is an imperative duty ; and
that tlie noblest mental occupation of
man is the free exercise of his powers
in questioning received beliefs, on any
and all subjects, and attaining to clear-
er, more elevated, consistent, and valid
opinions. It is the office of Science to
push destructive criticism to the utter-
most limit, in every direction of thought,
in the steadfast faith that truth will
thereby be the gainer, and views more
and more clearly established, against
Avhich destructive criticism will be pow-
erless.
Accordingly, in every thoroughly
managed scientific school in the world,
the students are taught, first of all, to
be dissatisfied with things as they find
them are trained to skeptical habits
in regard to all that of which the proof
is not perfect ; and are, moreover, es-
pecially required to enforce this disci-
pline upon themselves by questioning
the evidence of their own results, and
by welcoming from any quarter the
hostile criticism that shall overthrow
the conclusions they suppose themselves
to have established. This is, perhaps,
an ideal to which but few scientific stu-
dents fully attain, both because of its
essential difliculty, and because scien-
tific education is as yet but a very par-
tial influence in moulding the mind ;
while the whole force of current and
traditional culture is thrown in favor
of a very difi'erent system of Ideals,
ethics, and objects, in the work of men-
tal cultivation.
It is very difi'erent in the religious
sphere. Theology is older than science,
and, by the mass of the people, is re-
garded as a thousand times more im-
portant. Theological teachers have
been the great pioneers of education in
the past, and are still overwhelmingly
in the control of it. Among the presi-
dents of our colleges, where there is
one man of science there are ten doc-
tors of divinity. A system of educa-
tion dominated by theology is one
which embodies the theological spirit
in its methods of culture. What that
spirit is, as respects freedom of thought,
and the duty of its teachers in the for-
mation of their opinions, we have seen
in the recent treatment, by large and
authoritative bodies, of Blauvelt, Miller,
and Smith. Truth was not permitted
to be their object. The right of private
judgment, and the consequent right of
the free expression of its results, were
made crimes to be punished. The lib-
erty to doubt, and from that starting-
point to go on to something more true,
is not only not encouraged, but is pro-
hibited.
The newspapers, indeed, say, in
commenting upon Mr. Blauvelt's case,
that the ecclesiastical decision was right,
inasmuch as he had violated his en-
gagements with the Church : he agreed
to teach certain things, and was bound
by his contract. Possibly ; but we pro-
test against this degradation of the func-
tion of the teacher, especially on the
most important subjects, to that of
merely carrying out the literal stipula-
tions of a bargain. Commerce may re-
quire this, but it is not favorable to the
attainment of religious truth. Where
would the Protestant Reformation have
been, if this theory of religious con-
tracts had been strictly adhered to?
And what is the meaning of religious
liberty, if those who teach religion are
not to be allowed to think ? Moreover,
as men can no more help thinking than
breathing, what is to become of the re-
ligious conscience, if they are not al-
lowed to utter what they think ?
But granting that men must fulfill
their obligations, the deeper question
then arises as to their right to assume
such obligations. The theological policy
being fixed, what right had either Blau-
velt, Miller, or Smith, to subject him-
self to it, so that by the legitimate
and independent exercise of his own
