LITERARY NOTICES.
497
mental faculties he should be liable to
be cast out of his communion as an
heretical culprit ? What right had
they, or what right has any man, to
assume that a statement of doctrine
at any time is final, and to enslave
themselves to its life-long acceptance ?
This question is one for theological stu-
dents, and if the decisions at Kingston,
Princeton, and Aberdeen, are to be
taken as indicating the authorized policy
of the orthodox world, the young man
who contemplates entering that field of
labor should make up his mind whether
he is prepared to cut himself off from
the spirit of the age, to abjure the pur-
suit of truth, and sink into the office of
a mere passive repeater of cut-and-dried
formulas, prescribed to him by the
powers to which he contracts allegiance.
He must understand that the less he
can have to do with science the safer it
will be for him. Its spirit will rebuke
him at every step. He will have, more-
over, to iearn that theological science,
so called, is a misnomer and a mockery.
Where the scientific element enters,
movement begins, and progress ensues.
It implies intellectual activity, free
questioning, escape from error, and ad-
vance to new conclusions, and upon all
this, from present indications, there re-
mains the interdict of theological au-
thority, paralyzing free thought, just as
it did centuries ago.
We print an essay of Dr. Cones, the
naturalist, which will sufliciently vindi-
cate scientific men from the imputation
of not doing honor to the regal faculty
of imagination. No brain-cracked poet
could go further in rhapsodical glorifica-
tion of the image-making power of the
mind than this devotee of observation
and induction. What more can be
asked to disprove the alleged arrogance
of scientists, and to establish their char-
acter for humility, than for one of their
eminent representatives to go over into
the midst of the guardians of all that is
most exalted and ennobling in intel-
lectual effort, and say to them, "One
excellent and most useful purpose which
the imagination subserves at the hands
of the gifted few whom the higher de-
velopment of this faculty makes leaders
of thought, and watchful guardians of
human progress, is, to put men of sci-
ence on their proper level, and to teach
them to know their place?" Various
queries might arise at this point, but as
the doctor evidently went over to the
literary society to unbend, and have a
frolic of fantasy in their direction, he
probably thought it not worth while to
take his logic along, and spoil the fun.
And so nothing remains but to improve
his wholesome lesson.
LITERARY NOTICES.
The Cyclopedia of Education : A Dictiona-
ry of Information for the Use of Teach-
ers, School-Officers, Parents, and Others.
Edited by Henry Kiddle and Alexan-
der J. ScHEM. Pp. 868. Price (cloth),
$5. (Sold by subscription.) New York :
E. Steiger,
It is a curious fact that, while the edu-
cated class in England and this country have
been for a hundred years making cyclopae-
dias on all sorts of subjects for other peo-
ple, they have only j\ist now succeeded in
getting one for themselves. Lawyers, doc-
tors, clergymen, architects, engineers, and
farmers, all have their alphabetical summa-
ries of special knowledge for ready refer-
ence, until such works have long since come
to be indispensable ; but only this year have
we 3rst got a cyclopaedia of education in
the English language that will give teach-
ers, school-boards, and all interested in the
subject, available and easy command of the
wide range of information which bears upon
the vocation of instructor. The explanation
of this tardiness is not obvious, for no sub-
ject is more amenable to this mode of treat-
ment, and certainly none more imperatively
requires it. But it does not much matter
how long the work was delayed, now that the
want has been so adequately and admirably
supplied by the work before us. The editors
have been equal to their formidable task,
VOL. XI.
-32
