498
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and have laid out the enterprise on a com-
prehensive and judicious plan, and have
brought their own ability and experience,
aided by tlie best talent in the country, to
the execution of it.
There is difficulty, in our space, in re-
viewing a work so elaborate as this, and so
packed with attractive statements that one
is tempted to read it through like a history ;
and all we can do is to convey to our read-
ers some idea of the quality and scope of its
contents. Among the subjects systemati-
cally and prominently treated are : 1. The
Theory of Education and Instruction, em-
bracing, under numerous headings, a state-
ment of the principles that have been ar-
rived at by scientific inquiry and practical
experience for guidance in the work of
teaching. These results apply to all the
grades of instruction and training, from the
Kindergarten up to the university. 2. The
Organization and Management of Schools,
including discipline, class-teaching, and the
art of instruction, or the general subject of
school economy. These topics are consid-
ered with the fullness that their obvious
importance requires. 3. Careful attention
is given to the administration of schools
and school systems, embracing supervision,
examination, school hygiene, school archi-
tecture, etc. 4. State Policy in relation to
Education, a subject of peculiar importance
in this country, not only because of the ex-
tent of legislative control over the subject,
but because of the diversity of government
action in the different States. 5. Much space
is devoted to the history of education, both
the general history of school methods and in-
stitutions in different parts of the world, and
particularly the history of the school systems
in the different States and Territories of this
country. 6. Biographical Notices of Emi-
nent Educators form a distinct and very at-
tractive branch of the work. 7. The Statis-
tics of Education, or the data of its extent
and progress, are comprehensively presented.
8. The subject of Educational Literature
forms a very interesting feature of the work,
and is ably handled. Of this the editors
say : " As the immense mass of material to
be condensed within the compass of a single
volume has necessitated the greatest possi-
ble brevity, references are made throughout
to standard works on educational science.
as well as to statistical works, affording
more detailed information. It is believed
that this will prove one of the most valuable
features of the work."
Besides these leading topics, which are
treated methodically in their various as-
pects, a great number of miscellaneous sub-
jects pertaining to human culture are so
fully presented as to enrich the volume and
greatly to increase its efficacy as a reference-
book for the teacher. The perusal of vari-
ous articles, which may be taken as repre-
sentative, has satisfied us of the painstaking
assiduity and excellent judgment of the
editors in carrying out the project. They
are not only the first in this country to do
the work, but they have evidently done it
so well that there will be no necessity of
again attempting it. "The Cyclopaedia of
Education " should be in every library, and
in the hands of every teacher. We may
add that the work is handsomely printed,
neatly and substantially bound, and forms
an inviting volume that is not too unwieldy
for habitual reference. It is sold exclusive-
ly to subscribers, and can be had only from
the special subscription agents, or from the
publisher.
Reconciliation of Science and Religion.
By Alexander Winciiell, LL. D.
New York : Harper and Brothers.
Pp. 403. Price, $2.
The question of the relations of sci-
ence and religion receives a new treatment
in this interesting volume. Though the
title of his book brings into prominence
the idea of peace, or of a terminated con-
flict, yet the work itself, it must be said, is
mainly occupied with the antagonism. The
warfare is historic and a living struggle of
to-day; the reconciliation a promise of the
future. But, in respect to the questions at
issue. Dr. Winchell claims to take a non-
partisan attitude, favorable to a calm and
fair survey of the field of controversy. At
any rate, he does not try to end the strife
by belittling it. The opposition between
religion and science is not illusive ; he rec-
ognizes its reality, its extent, its impor-
tance, and its difficulties. He seems, in-
deed, to regard it as a part of the great
system of conflicts and counteractions in
Nature, such as attraction and repulsion,
