LITERARY NOTICES.
499
polar antagonism, centripetal and centrifu-
gal forces. The intellect which gives origin
to science, and the sentiment of faith, or
instinct of worship, which gives origin to
religions, work in opposite spheres, and
work against each other by action and re-
action in historic periods, which the writer
designates as psychic cycles. IIow deep is
this necessity of contest, and how wide its
field of operation, in the author's opinion,
may be gathered from the following open-
ing passage of Chapter II. : " I have at-
tempted to show that the essential natures
of the religious and the intellectual forces
in man foreordain a species of antago-
nism ; that this perpetual antagonism is
not, nevertheless, an abnormal condition,
but a grand example of the universal econ-
omy of God, who has ordained antagonism
as the condition of progress in the natural
and the moral worlds. I have deduced
from the necessary relation of the ethical
and cognitive powers a necessary series of
oscillations in the relative dominance of re-
ligious and intellectual influences in the
lives of men ; and have indicated that the
exponent of these oscillations has been, as
it must be, a series of alternating periods
of religious and of intellectual activity and
progress. Such alternations, since the an-
tagonizing forces belong to humanity as
such, must characterize the history of all
nations, all races, and all times."
He then proceeds " to show that the
facts of the religious and intellectual his-
tory of the human race illustrate and con-
firm these deductions, and become in real-
ity a broad inductive basis on which these
propositions may be rested as valid gener-
alizations. A prolonged and attentive
study of the facts which make up the re-
ligious and intellectual history of our race
has caused my attention to be directed
to the following facts subsidiary to the
general induction: 1. Religious faith re-
cedes from its normal condition to one of
abnormal subordination, or advances to
one of abnormal supremacy ; 2. Intellect
from its normal condition either advances
to a haughty dictatorship or falls into a
condition of servitude ; 3. These move-
ments of faith and intellect are reciprocal
and responsive; 4. The direction of the
movement is determined by the initiative : if
faith lead in activity, a religious phase suc-
ceeds ; if intellect take precedence, reli-
gious pretensions shrink, and an intellectu-
al phase succeeds. The two phases com-
plete a psychic cycle." Four of these
psychic cycles are traced in the course of
Christian history.
This is an original and ingenious con-
caption by which Dr. Winchell is enabled
to group and arrange the elements of his
discussion, historic, religious, philosophic,
and scientific, in a very instructive manner
for his purpose, and on this account the
exposition is certain to be read by general
students with interest and profit. Dr.
WinchelFs work will do especial service,
among religious readers, by making the
whole discussion, as we might say, a piece
of natural history ; that is, he treats it in
both its aspects, as a part of the method
and phenomena of Nature. While holding
to the inspiration of the Bible, and the su-
pernatural claims of Christianity, as mat-
ters of his own special faith, he neverthe-
less holds to the validity of the universal
religious sentiment in man, and which is as
much a subject of rational inductive in-
quiry as are the physical sciences them-
selves. We can hardly overrate the gain
thus secured, by bringing the whole inquiry
into the scientific sphere, and conducting
it in the broad judicial spirit which genuine
science always imposes.
In one respect, we think Dr. Winchell's
work is open to critical objection : it fails
to state, as fully as the subject requires,
the bearing of the doctrine of Evolution
upon the questions in issue. He gives a
cautious adhesion to the biological aspect
of this theory in the following passage from
the preface : " In reference to the much-
mooted scientific question of the derivative
origin of species, the reader will detect in-
dications of a growing faith. A certain
class of proofs has been accumulating at a
rapid rate ; and the author's present con-
viction is, that the doctrine of the deriva-
tion of species should be accepted."
Now, if the doctrine of descent, as here
referred to, is to be accepted at all, it is
on the ground of its truth ; and, if it be
true, it does not stand alone or as a propo-
sition with which we have no further con-
cern than simply to approve or reject it.
