500
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
If the origin of species by derivation is es-
tablished, it goes a great deal furt.her and
gives us the origin of many more things. It
must be taken as an indication of the plan
of Nature, of which man is a part, so that
the career of humanity is at once brought
under the law of development. If there
be truth in evolution, we are bound to go
by it ; and if man's religious nature has had
an unfolding, like the other elements of his
being, that fact must certainly be of the
greatest moment in determining the rela-
tions of religion and science. As to har-
mony or conflict, the question at once
arises at what stage it is taken, and what
are the traits of that change in which
man's religious progress consists. Dr.
Winehell, as we have said, afiBrms the uni-
versality of the religious element in man,
and deduces its validity from its universal-
ity, but he ought to have eliminated from
it the transitory, or what can be outgrown,
and told us what there is about it that is
essential and permanent, and to be finally
harmonized with science. He enumerates
the following as the grand fiicts common to
the religious faiths of the world : 1. A Su-
preme Being, the author of all things in ex-
istence ; 2. A revelation of the Supreme
Being either in sensible things or in the
intelligence of inspired men ; 3. A system
of worship which is either instinctive
and aimless, or intended to propitiate the
Deity and win happiness for the worshiper ;
4. Prayer, the universal cry of humanity in
distress ; 5. Future existence ; 6. Moral
responsibility ; 1. A system of future re-
wards and punishments ; 8. A priesthood
charged with the direction of religious
ceremonies, and clothed with a special in-
vestiture of divine authority and power.
He says : " These facts I find to be the con-
stants in the varying faiths of mankind.
I will add that two other facts reveal them-
selves in most, of the religious systems of
the world both the greater and the less.
These are : 1. A belief in the efficacy of
vicarious expiation ; 2. An expectation of
a Redeemer."
These are, no doubt very widely-spread
beliefs, but they have had very different
meanings among different races, and at
different times. In this field, preeminent-
ly, we are familiar with the decay of the
vital core of beliefs, and the conversation of
their formulas, but what we want most to
know is, the laws of change, transformation,
and expansion of religious ideas, in relation
to man's intellectual development what
falls away and what survives. Dr. Winchell
recognizes the progress, and gives us the
final result, in a form so generalized, that we
can only find the constants just named by
some stretch of implication. He says : " The
next psychic cycle, it seems to me, will wit-
ness a synthesis of thought and faith a
recognition of the fact that it is impossible
for reason to find solid ground that is not
consecrated ground ; that all philosophy and
all science belong to religion ; that all truth
is a revelation of God ; that the truths
of written revelation, if not intelligible
to reason, are nevertheless consonant with
reason ; and that divine agency, instead of
standing removed from man by infinite in-
tervals of time and space, is, indeed, the
true name of those energies which work
their myriad phenomena in the natural
world around us. This consummation at
once the inspiration of a fervent religion
and the prophecy of the loftiest science is
to be the noontide reign of wedded intellect
and faith, whose morning rays already
stream far above our horizon."
TcRKEY. By James Baker, M. A. New
York : Henry Holt & Co. Pp. 496. Price,
$4.
The problem of the Turkish Empire, the
great anomaly in European civilization, has
long occupied the attention of those inter-
ested in international politics an interest
greatly heightened, of late, by the Russian
invasion of Turkey, and the threatened com-
plication of other states in the struggle.
To those whose solicitude about the Orien-
tal question leads them to inquire into the
condition of the people most deeply con-
cerned the present volume will be eminently
welcome. We lately called attention to Mr.
Wallace's admirable book on " Russia."
Colonel Baker's volume gives us a corre-
sponding picture of Turkish life and char-
acter, the political institutions, religious
peculiarities, and material resources of the
empire. The book is full of very interesting
information upon this class of subjects,
much of which is fresh, and calculated to
