LITERARY NOTICES.
503
cotton cloth, and represents, by a series of
symbols, events in which the Dakotas were
concerned, beginning about the year 1800.
Each year is represented by a symbol,
the meaning of which is explained in the
text. The symbol for 1800 is thirty black
lines, representing that thirty Dakotas were
killed that year. The symbol for 1801 is
the head and body of a man covered with
red blotches ; that year the small-pox broke
out in the nation. In 1869 the sun was
eclipsed; the symbol representing it is a
black disk. The calendar is of value as
" an attempt, before unsuspected among the
nomadic ti'ibes of American Indians, to form
a system of chronology."
The Dkvelopment of the Animal Kingdom :
A Paper read at the Fourth Meeting of
the Association for the Advancement of
Woman. By Grace anna Lewis. Pp.21.
This paper is an attempt to show that
there exists an " order of relationship" in
the animal world, and that, beginning with
the lowest organisms, there has been, up to
the highest forms, an " order of develop-
ment." The facts Avhich recent paleonto-
logical researches have brought to light are
used by the author with considerable skill
in illustration of her subject.
Personal Immortality, and Other Papers.
By Josie Oppenheim. New York :
Charles P. Somerby. Pp. 98. Price,
This little work is by an avowed free-
thinker, who, in a few pages of prefatory
remarks, tells us in a very candid way why
she thinks such a book is needed, and what
she hopes to accomplish by it. Then fol-
low discussions of " Personal Immortality,"
" Materialism," " Prayer," etc. The spirit
of the writer is good, and, whether readers
a,2;ree with her views or not, they cannot
deny her sincerity or fail to be gratified by
her tolerance.
Western Diptera. By C. R. Osten-Sacken.
From the Bulletin of the United States
Geological and Geographical Survey,
Vol. III., No. '2. Pp.' 164.
Very little was known of the diptera of
the Pacific coast until the publication of
this report. Collections were made by the
author in California during the years 1875
and 1876, not only along the low plains,
but on plateaus of the Sierra Nevada region,
at elevations of from 6,000 to 8,000 feet
above the level of the sea. The present
volume is a survey of the collections made,
which the author says are, after all, but a
small fragment of the fauna collected dur-
ing a limited season. The descriptions of
famihes and species are full and clear, and
the volume, which comprises 165 pages,
will be prized as a valuable contribution to
American entomology.
Report on the Mineral Wealth, Climate,
AND Rainfall, and Natural Resources,
OF the Black Hills of Dakota. By
Walter P. Jenney, E. M., Geologist in
charge. Pp. 71.
This report, published in 1876, comprises
Chapters V., VI., and VII. of the forthcom-
ing final report of the exploration of the
Black Hills, made under direction of the
Commissioners of Indian Affliirs, in 1875.
The area of the Black Hills is stated to
be nearly 6,000 square miles, about two-
thirds of which area is in Dakota, the re-
mainder in Wyoming. They are separated
from the main chain of the Rocky Moun-
tains, and surrounded by level or rolling
plains. The mineral and agricultural re-
sources, climate, rainfall, water, forests,
etc., of the Black Hills region are presented
in considerable detail. A good map accom-
panies the report.
First Annual Report of the Ohio State
Fish Commission. Columbus : Nevins
& Myers, State Printers. 1877.
In this report is given a detailed and
very interesting account of what has been
done by the Ohio State Fish Commission to
promote the culture of fish in that State.
Hatcheries have been established at Cas-
talia Springs, Toledo, Cleveland, and Kel-
ley's Island, at all of which places the
hatching of fish has been successfully car-
ried on. The report is greatly enhanced in
value by numerous illustrations, which are
accompanied by very full descriptions,
copied from the manuscript of Prof. Jor-
dan's forthcoming report on the zoology
of Ohio. The report includes a catalogue
of the fishes of the State.
