P OP ULAR MIS CELL ANY.
S^S
orous Mammals. By Elliott Coues. Pp.22. Bul-
letin of the United States Entomological Com-
mission. No. 2. Pp.14. Washington: Govern-
ment Printing-office.
The Plants of Wisconsin. By G. D. Swezey.
Beloit: I'ree jh'ess print.
POPULAR MISCELLANY.
Scientific Associations for 1877. The
French Association for the Advancement of
Science will this year hold its sessions in
August, at the city of Havre, under the
presidency of Dr. Broca, the eminent ar-
chaeologist. The Geological Society of Nor-
mandy will give an exhibition of the geo-
logical and paleontological products of that
ancient province.
The annual meeting of the British Asso-
ciation will be held at Plymouth, on Au-
gust 15th ; Prof. Allen Thomson, President.
The officers of the Association hope to be
supported by the personal assistance and
written contributions of philosophers of
other countries, and they undertake to make
preparation for the reception of the distant
friends and associates who may give notice of
their intention to be present at the meeting.
The officers of the American Associa-
tion for the next meeting, which is to be
held at Nashville, Tennessee, commencing
on Wednesday, August 29th, are Prof. Si-
mon Newcomb, President; Prof. Edward
C. Pickering, Vice-President of the Physical
Section ; Prof. 0. C. Marsh, Vice-President
Section of Geology and Natural History ;
Prof. N. T. Lupton, chairman of the Chemi-
cal Subsection ; Prof Daniel Wilson, chair-
man of the Subsection of Anthropology ;
R. H. Ward, chairman of the Subsection of
Microscopy; A. R. Grote, General Secre-
tary ; F. W. Putnam, Permanent Secretary ;
William S. Vaux, Treasurer.
Sliad in the Oliio River. Mr. Spencer
F. Baird, of the United States Fish Commis-
sion, in a letter to the editor of Forest and
Stream, states that he has received a few
specimens of a genuine white shad, four
pounds in weight, taken from the Ohio River
at Louisville, Kentucky a direct result
from the efforts made by the commission to
stock the western rivers with shad. The
letter gives a brief account of the work
done by the commission toward introducing
the shad into the waters of the Western
States, beginning with 1872, when Seth
Green planted 30,000 young shad in the
Alleghany at Salamanca, New York, and
25,000 in the Mississippi near St. Paul.
Later in the same year, the Rev. Mr. Clift
placed 200,000 in the Alleghany at Sala-
manca, and a small number in the Cuya-
hoga and in the White River at Indian-
apolis. The same gentleman carried 2,000
young shad as far west as the Platte, at
Denver. In 1863 about 160,000 shad were
placed in the Greenbriar and New Rivers
in West Virginia, and about 55,000 in the
Monongahela in Pennsylvania and the Wa-
bash in Indiana. Mr. Baird has been in-
formed that for some considerable time
forty to fifty shad have been taken daily at
Louisville by a drag seine said not to ex-
ceed thirty or forty yards long, and that in
the shoaler water of only three or four feet,
while the regular steamboat-channel is ten
or twelve yards deep and 250 yards wide.
A Remarkable Salt-Bed at Godericb, On-
tario. Dr. T. Sterry Hunt gave, at the late
meeting of the Institute of Mining Engi-
neers, an account of the layers of rock-salt
in the geological strata of Goderich, Onta-
rio, as developed by a boring recently made.
The paper has been published in the Engi-
neering and Mining Journal, from which we
quote some particulars regarding two of the
most important rock-salt beds reached in
the course of the boring. A bed of rock-
salt of exceptional purity was found at the
depth of 1,060 feet, and another bed, not
so pure, at the depth of 1,092 feet. Of
these, the former is 25 feet thick and the
latter 34 feet ; they are separated from each
other by a layer of less than seven feet of
rock, and for practical purposes may be
regarded as one. The amount of foreign
matter contained in the twenty-five-foot
bed is singularly small, being less than a
quarter of one per cent. Its remarkable
purity is seen on comparing this with
the best commercial salts. Thus, Cheshire
rock-salt contains of foreign matter 2.67
per cent., and the famous rock-salt of Car-
dona, Spain, 1.45 per cent, of impurities.
The salts got by evaporation from sea-
water and from brines, with which our mar-
kets are in great part supplied, contain nearly
