5
o6
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
as much impurity. " From data gathered by
me," says Dr. Hunt, " and published some
years since in a ' Report of the Geological
Survey of Canada,' it appears that the amount
of foreign matters in Turk's Island salt is
2.34 ; in Saginaw salt, 2.00 ; in Syracuse
solar salt, 1.15 ; and in the boiled salt from
the same locality about 1.50 per cent. Of
the salt made at Goderich from the brines
pumped from the salt-bearing strata of the
region, three samples, analyzed by me in
1871, gave: for coarsely crystalline salt)
1.097 ; flaky medium salt, 1.282 ; and fine
salt, 1.625 per cent, of foreign impurities.
The fine salt, which is the least pure, is
made by boiling, the others by slower evap-
oration. The analysis by Dr. Goessmanu of
another sample of Goderich boiled salt gave
1.50 ; while the rock-salt from the layer of
10| feet in Division VIII. of the section
[the twenty-five-foot layer mentioned above]
contains only 0.234 per cent., or less than
one-sixth of the amount of foreign matter
found in the boiled salt made from the
Goderich brines."
ibont the English Sparrow. A spirited
but entirely courteous controvei'sy is being
carried on in the columns of our contem-
porary. Forest and Stream, about the English
sparrow. The principal questions in dis-
pute are whether this bird is useful as a
destroyer of noxious insects, worms, and the
like, and whether it banishes from its
haunts all other species of small birds.
The evidence is conflicting. Some of the
writers say of the sparrows that they are
" exceedingly quarrelsome among them-
selves," and intolerant of birds of a differ-
ent species. When a stranger-bird makes
his appearance among them, the fury of the
whole sparrow community is turned upon
him ; they chase him hither and thither,
giving him no rest until he is banished from
the ncighborliood. " They " (the sparrows)
" let the orchards go to ruin," we are told,
" for they will not cat every kind of insect."
One writer sums up the case against the
sparrows thus : 1. They have no personal
attractions except their tameuess ; 2. They
are practically useless ; they may have been
useful on their first arrival from Europe, but
they are too much pampered to be so now ;
3. They destroy fruit-blossoms ; 4. They
are often quarrelsome, and sometimes drive
away useful birds. On the other hand, we
are told that the sparrows destroy immense
numbers of larvae, especially during the
winter ; that they are not hostile to other
birds ; that they do not destroy fruit-germs.
A writer who lives in Tenafly, New Jersey,
says : " We have a few sparrows in the
yard, and find their presence makes very
little difference with the other birds. We
have sixteen varieties of birds in the yard
at this writing, viz., brown thrush, robins,
catbirds, orioles, wood - robin, bluebirds,
phoebe-bird, cuckoo, kingbird, and the rest
warblers of different kinds. We find the
most quarrelsome to be the kingbird and
black oriole. These last are chasing almost
everything that crosses their path."
Hygiene of the Eyes. A series of ques-
tions touching the care of the eyes were
recently submitted to Dr. E. G. Loriug, Jr.,
by the Medico-Legal Society of New York.
Dr. Loring replied in a paper which has
since been published in tlie Medical Eecord.
To the first question namely, whether bad
air has any direct effect on the sight ? the
author replies that vitiated air has a spe-
cially irritating influence on the mucous
membrane of the eye ; and that bad air, as
a primal cause, may set in train morbid
processes which not only will affect the
working capacity and integrity of the or-
gan, but may even lead to its total destruc-
tion. The second question was, whether
size and quality of type may cause disease
of the eye ? According to Dr. Loring, the
smallest print which a normal eye can read-
ily recognize at a distance of one foot is
about /y inch, and at eighteen inches' dis-
tance about 3^- inch. The normal eye
should never be subjected for any length of
time to a type smaller than twice this size,
or -,\ inch, and it would be better, after
middle-life, to employ a type even a little
larger than this ; but the employment of
spectacles removes in a great degree the
necessity of a larger type with advancing
years. The finer the type, the closer the
book has to be held to the eye, and the
greater the demand on the focalizing power
and the muscles that bring both eyes to
bear at once upon the print. On the other
hand, too coarse type is wearisome to the
