POPULAR MISCELLANY.
507
eye, requiring more exertion of the muscles
that govern the movements of the eye. The
distance between the hues should be about
one-eighth inch ; nearer than this is apt to
be confusing, farther apart is also confusing.
Heavy-faced type is preferable to light-
faced. An almost imperceptible yellow tint
in the paper, "natural tint," is very desi-
rable ; pure white paper, especially if it has
a metallic lustre with bluish tinge, should
not be employed. The paper should be
thick enough not to be transparent, should
have a close, fine texture, and be free from
sponginess. To the third question whether
too long and constrained attention to one ob-
ject, without rest or variety, will cause eye-
disease? Dr. Loring replies affirmatively,
and assigns the physiological reasons. Fi-
nally, he was asked whether the angle at
which light strikes the eye is important ?
He replies that the light should not come
directly in front; neither should it come
from directly behind. It should not come
from the right side, because, in writing, the
shadow of the hand falls across the page ;
and a moving shadow over a lighted sur-
face not only reduces the quantity of light
and leads to a stooping position, but it is
also more annoying to the eye than a uni-
form reduction in the illumination of even
a greater degree. The best direction for
the light to come is from the left-hand side,
and from rather above than below the level
of the hand.
High Temperatures and Bowel-Com-
plaints. Dr. N. S. Davis, in a " Report on
Clinical and Meteorological Records " com-
municated to the American Medical Asso-
ciation, an abstract of which we find in the
Medical Record, reaches the conclusion that
the bowel affections, so characteristic of
this temperate climate, begin invariably
with the first week of continuous high tem-
perature, and that every subsequent occur-
rence of several days and nights of continu-
ous high temperature causes new attacks
to be increased in number throughout the
month of July, less in August, and still less
in September ; that it is not simply the
extreme of heat, but its duration, which
determines the number of attacks ; that
this continuous high heat, to be efficient in
producing these affections, must follow a
protracted season of cold ; and that, if we
compare these deductions directly with sta-
tistics of mortality, we shall find them to
conform in every particular in that the
higli rate of mortality follows exactly the
same line. That fact was regarded as one
of great importance in connection with sani-
tary measures which were to be adopted for
the protection of life in infants ; preventive
measures must strike with the first week of
consecutive high temperature. These con-
clusions were corroborated by quotations
from mortality-tables.
Blanniial Value of Spent Tan and Saw-
dust. From careful analyses of spent tans
and dyewoods and other similar waste ma-
terials. Prof. F. H. Storer, of the Bussy In-
stitution, reaches the general conclusion
that they contain but a very small propor-
tion of fertilizing substances, and that prac-
tically, whether they be fresh or rotten,
they have very little value as m.mure. Of
fresh sawdust, even that from hard woods,
he says that it can hardly be considered
an economical manure ; it is far inferior,
for compost, to peat. But, curiously enough,
the chemical evidence goes to show that it
is for feeding animals rather than for feed-
ing plants that sawdust might be put to
use. Fresh sawdust, even that of pine-
trees, can be used with advantage as fodder
in times of dearth. Twigs and leaves, as
the clippings of vines and hedges, or bushes
mown in pastures, are undoubtedly valuable
both as manure and forage. Autumn leaves
and the rakings of woodland, which consist
for the most part of leaves that have not
only fallen, but have bisen bleached by
rains, may be classed as somewhat inferior
to straw.
Wearing Qualities of Alumininm. The
comparative resistance of aluminium to
change of color and wear, when brought into
daily use, has been made the subject of ob-
servation by Dr. C. Winklcr,of Freiberg, who
finds, according to the Polytechnic Revieio,
that it is inferior to silver in retaining color
and lustre, being about on a par with Ger-
man-silver in these respects ; while it wears
away more rapidly than silver, but less so
than German-silver. Spoons made of all
three materials, each having exactly the
