5o8
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
same weight, were used a year under pre-
cisely similar conditions, being placed in
the same soups, sauces, sour salads, etc.,
and exposed alilve to hot, acid, and alkaline
solutions, and subjected to similar methods
of cleaning. The aluminium turned to a
dead bluish-gray color, and lost its lustre ;
the German - silver changed to a grayish-
yellow ; the silver lost only in color, retain-
ing its lustre. Weighed at the end of the
year, the silver spoon had lost 0.403 per
cent., the aluminium spoon 0.630 per cent.,
and the German - silver spoon 1.006 per
cent. For small coins. Dr. Winkler thinks
that alumhiium is to be preferred to either
nickel or silver alloys.
Is Insanit}^ on the Ineroase? Do the
conditions of human life, as they exist in
modern civilized countries, tend to an in-
crease of insanity ? A glance at the statis-
tics of the insane for any given country
would seem to require an affirmative an-
swer to this question. For instance, the
ratio of insane persons in England in the
year 1859 was 18.67 to 100,000 persons;
in 1865 it was 21. 73 ; in 1870, 24.31 ; in
1876, 26.78. In other words, there is now
one insane person to 375 of the popula-
tion, while in 1859 the proportion was
about one in 540. But, as is shown by Dr.
Henry Maudsley, in the Journal of Mental
Science, the increase is apparent only : more
insane persons are registered now than for-
merly. Again, the establishment of numer-
ous asylums, and the better care bestowed
on patients, have had the effect of prolong-
ing the lives of the insane ; this, too, will in
part account for the higher proportion of
insane shown by the statistics. The ques-
tion is incidentally raised by Dr. Maudsley,
whether we cure more insane persons nowa-
days, when we treat them well, than our
uninstructed forefathers cured when they
treated them ill. " There is," he repUes,
" no evidence that we do." Here the sta-
tistics timdd Kcem to show that, under the
old system, there was a higher percentage
of recoveries. " Yet, it would be wrong,"
remarks the author, " to attribute the lower
percentage of recoveries to the ill-success
of our present mode of dealing with insan-
ity ; it is, no doubt, owing in great part, if
not entirely, to the greater proportion of
chronic and incurable cases among those
who have been admitted during the last
twenty-five years. Formerly, acute and vio-
lent cases only were sent to asylums, and
they would yield a larger percentage of re-
coveries, as well, probably, as a larger per-
centage of deaths. Of the admissions fewer
recover and fewer die each year now than
then, the result being the steady accumula-
tion of a residue of chronic and incurable
insanity beyond what occurred then. It
is a question," he adds, " deserving atten-
tion, whether the present practice of crowd-
ing the insane of all sorts into large asy-
lums, where the interests of life are extin-
guished, and where anything like individual
treatment is wellnigh impracticable, is so
much superior to the old system in effecting
recoveries as some persons imagine."
TIic Rocky-Mountain Locust iu Manito-
bat The following notes on the appear-
ance and migration of the locust in Mani-
toba and the Northwest in the summer of
1875 are taken from a notice, in the Ameri-
can Journal of Science, of a paper on that
subject by George M. Dawson. In the year
just mentioned the hatching of locusts began
in Manitoba on May 7th, and on May 15th
it was general. The movement began in
July, and was most general during the lat-
ter half of that month and the early part
of August. The direction was southeast or
south. Other swarms of locusts came from
the south across the forty-ninth parallel,
with a wide front stretching from the
ninety-eighth to the one-hundred-and-eighth
meridian ; these arrived before the Manito-
ba broods were mature. These were the
extreme northern part of the army, going
northward and northwestward from the
States ravaged in the fall of 1874. Mr.
Dawson thinks that the planting of belts
of woodland would in time effect a general
and permanent abatement of the grasshop-
per-plague, since they usually avoid such
belts. Their journey southward was re-
gardless of the direction from which their
parents had come the preceding year ; and
those of Nebraska, Missouri, Kansas, and
Texas, flew northward and northwestward,
returning on the course of their parents,
who had flown southeastward from that
quarter. The normal direction of flight is
