P OP ULAR MIS CELL ANY.
509
toward the hatching-grounds of their par-
ents, so that two years seem to be required
to complete the migration cycle. Tlie
methods of prevention proposed are the
cultivation and preservation of forest-trees ;
the protection of the prairie-grass till the
appropriate time for destroying the young
insects by fire ; and the protection of in-
sect-catching birds.
A New Whe.it-Fnnjins in California.
Early in Mai-ch of the present year the
young wheat in certain districts of Califor-
nia began to exhibit on its expanded leaves
yellowish-white patches of fungous growth.
This peculiar species of " rust " or " mil-
dew " appears to be new to California, and
has been recognized by Mr. H. W. Hark-
ness, of the San Francisco Microscopical
Society, as the Erysiphe graminis of De
Candolle. According to Mr. Harkness, the
fungus appears on the expanded leaves in
felt-like patches, from one-sixteenth to one-
half inch in length, following the longest
diameter of the leaf equally on both sides.
It adheres with great tenacity, though, on
examining sections of the leaf and fungus,
no suckers are apparent. The leaf, at a
short distance from the culm, soon turns
brown and dries. In the earlier stages the
mycelium is observed creeping over the sur-
face, its filaments overlying one another
until it forms a felted mass. To what ex-
tent the wheat will be damaged, it is as yet
impossible to say. Adhering, as it does,
closely to the plant, it doubtless appropri-
ates the juices needed for maturing the
grain, at the same time excluding air and
sunlight from the tissues. Its visible ef-
fect is a weakening of the stalk, thus favor-
ing decay.
A New Measure of Geological Time.
The amount of solid matter abraded from
the land and carried to the sea as sediment,
or in suspension, has often been estimated
by geologists, and the importance of this
suspended matter as an agent of geological
changes has been fully recognized. But
less attention has been bestowed upon the
soluble matter washed out of the earth by
every fall of rain and added to the waters
of the ocean. This subject has been studied
by Mr. T. Mellard Reade, whose results, as
I set forth in his presidential address to the
Liverpool Geological Society, we find sum-
marized in the Nineteenth Century as fol-
lows : The author's first problem was to
estimate the total quantity of solid material
removed in the course of one year, by the
solvent action of rain, from the entire sur-
face of England and Wales, supposing the
mean rainfall to be thirty-two inches. It
is worthy of note that the variation of rain-
fall in different parts does not affect the
quantity of dissolved matter to anything
like the extent that might have been an-
ticipated. True, the hilly districts of the
west, in Cumberland, Wales, Cornwall, and
Devon, intercept a large quantity of rain ;
but, then, these collecting-grounds are com-
posed of old rocks, ranging from Cambrian
to Carboniferous ; and such rocks are, to a
great extent, insoluble. On the other hand,
in the southern and eastern counties the
rainfall is much less than in the west ; but,
then, the rocks belong generally to Second-
ary and Tertiary formations, and are toler-
ably soft and soluble. A kind of compen-
sation is thus established, the total quantity
of solid matter carried off in solution in a
given time being much the same in one
river as in another. Roughly speaking, it
may be said that where the rainfall is great-
est the solubility is least ; where the rain-
fall is least the solubility is greatest. It is
needless to follow the details of the calcu-
lation by which the author is finally led to
the conclusion that about 8,370,630 tons
of solids are annually removed in solution
by the rivers of England and Wales. Dis-
tributing the denudation equally over the
country, the total area being 58,300 square
miles, we obtain a general lowering of the
surface to the extent of .000077 of a foot in
a single year ; in other words, it would re-
quire 12,978 years to reduce the surface of
England and Wales by one foot through
the solvent action of rain alone. Fewer
data exist for extending this interesting
inquiry to the Continent of Europe, and
fewer still when we pass to other parts of
the world. But, making the best of avail-
able data, and proceeding on the principle
that " Nature, on the whole, averages the
results," Mr. Reade feels justified in assum-
ing provisionally that about one hundred
tons of rocky matter will be dissolved by
