510
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
rain from every English square mile of the
solid surface of the earth in the course of a
year. All this dissolved matter, however
far it may be transported by rivers, ulti-
mately runs down into the sea. If, then,
as commonly supposed, the sea contains
only what has been washed out of the land,
the results previously attained may help us
to form some crude idea of the length of
time which has been needed to give the
ocean its present composition. Not to be
irksome, we may pass over an array of fig-
ures and a number of provisional assump-
tions, in order to reach conclusions of gen-
eral interest. These conclusions are, that it
would take, in round numbers, 20,000,000
years to accumulate the quantity of sul-
phates of lime and magnesia contained in
the vast bulk of the ocean, but only 480,000
years to renew the carbonates of lime and
magnesia; with reference, however, to the
latter constituents, it must be borne in
mind that a vast quantity of carbonate of
lime is constantly being removed from sea-
water for the supply of the hard parts of
shell-fish, crustaceans, corals, and other ma-
rine animals, and consequently the amount
calculated as present in the ocean is far
from indicating the total quantity which is
poured into it. But what are we to say of
the chlorides, especially the chloride of
sodium, which is the prime constituent of
sea-water? The ocean contains so much
of this salt, and the rivers usually so little,
that we are driven to conclude from the
author's calculations that it would take
200,000,000 years to renew the chlorides in
the ocean !
Geological Changes in Colorado. It is
noted as an interesting fact by Dr. A. C.
Pealc, in the American Journal of Science,
thnt Colorado, which now possesses the
highest mass of mountains in the United
States, and whose mean elevation is higher
than that of any other State or Territory,
was also one of the highest areas of the
North American Continent in Palaeozoic
time. In very early time in Coloi'ado there
was archsean land rising above the Palseo-
zoic sea. As the Carboniferous age pro-
gressed, this land diminished by encroach-
ment of the sea, due to subsidence of the
land. This subsidence continued through
Triassic, Jurassic, and Cretaceous time, into
the early Tertiary. At the close of the Lig-
nitic there was a physical break, followed by
a subsidence (at least locally) and subse-
quently by elevation, after the deposition
of the Miocene strata. The elevation of
the Rocky Mountains, as we now see them
in Colorado, is the result of an elevation
commencing in early Tertiary time and con-
tinuing through the period, accelerated per-
haps at the close of the Lignitic, and the
deposition of at least Lower Miocene strata.
This elevation is probably still going on.
The Bnilding System of Philadelphia.
A paper on " A Building System for Great
Cities," published in the Penn Monthly,
contains an account of what may be called
the Philadelphia system, of separate houses
for families of very moderate means arti-
sans, and even laborers. There are three
primary forms of houses, viz., the two-story
four-roomed house, the two-story six-roomed
house, and the three-story eight-roomed
house, the value of which is respectively
$1,200 to $2,500, $2,500 to $3,800, and
$3,000 to $5,000. They are always of brick,
erected on stone-walled cellars not less than
seven feet deep, fourteen by twenty-eight feet
for the smallest houses, fourteen to sixteen
by forty-two to forty-five feet for the six-
roomed and the eight-roomed houses. All
these are built in contiguous rows or blocks
with a common wall between them. Since
the inauguration of the system, which scarce-
ly dates before the year 1862, building has
made rapid progress. In 1867 it began to be
specially active, and since that time an aver-
age of 4,500 houses yearly has been erected,
of which 2,500 were two-story and 2,000
three-story. The writer of the paper in the
Penn Monthly has learned, from a personal
inspection of a district near the southern
border of the city of Philadelphia, that three-
fourths of the dwellings that have been
erected two years or more are owned by
those who live in them. In a space less
than a mile square, and containing 4,000
dwellings, the proportion of vacant houses
was less than two per cent. Certainly more
than one-half of these dwellings were owned
by their occupants, and often entire blocks
of thirty or forty houses would show over
ninety per cent, so owned.
