514 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
married only for a part of each week. Of these genera and species
of families, those varieties which are found in advanced societies
are the most coherent, most definite, most complex. Not to dwell on
intermediate types, we see, on contrasting with the primitive kind of
family group that highest kind of family group which civilized peo-
l^les present, how relatively high is its degree of evolution. The
marital relation has become perfectly definite ; it has become extreme-
ly coherent commonly lasting for life ; in its initial form of parents
and children it has grown larger the number of children reared by
savages being comparatively small ; in its derived form, comprehend-
ing grandchildren, great-grandchildren, etc., all so connected as to
form a definable cluster, it has grown relatively large ; and this large
cluster consists of members whose relationships are very heteroge-
neous.
Again, the developing liuman family fulfills, in increasing degrees,
those traits which we saw at the outset are traits of the successively-
higher forms of reproductive arrangements throughout the animal
kingdom. Maintenance of species being the end to which mainte-
nance of individual lives is necessarily subordinated, we find, as we
ascend in the scale of being, a diminishing sacrifice of individual lives
in the achievement of this end ; and, as we ascend through the suc-
cessive grades of societies with their successive grades of family, we
find a further j^rogress in the same direction. Human races of the
lower types, as compared with those of the higher, show us a greater
sacrifice of tlie adult individual to the species ; alike in the brevity of
that stage which precedes reproduction, in the relatively heavy tax
entailed by the rearing of children under the conditions of savage
life, and in the abridgment of the period that follows : women espe-
cially, early bearing children and exhausted by the toils of mateimity,
having a premature old age soon cut short. In superior family tyjjes
there is also less sacrifice of juvenile life: infanticide, which in the
poverty-stricken groups of primitive men is dictated by the necessi-
ties of social self-preservation, becomes rarer ; and juvenile mortality
otherwise caused decreases at the same time. Further, along with
the diminishing sacrifice of adult life, there goes an increasing com-
pensation for the sacrifice that has to be made : more prolonged and
higher pleasures are taken in rearing progeny. Instead of states in
which children are early left to provide for themselves, or in which,
as among Bushmen, fathers and sons quarreling try to kill one an-
other, or in which, as Burton says of the East Africans, " when child-
hood is past, the father and son become natural enemies, after the
manner of wild beasts," there comes a state in which keen interest
in the welfare of children extends throughout parental life. And
then to this pleasurable care of offspring, increasing in duration as
the family develops, has to be added an entirely new factor the
reciprocal pleasurable care of parents by offspring : a factor which,
