DOMESTIC RETROSPECT AND PROSPECT. 515
feeble where the family is rudimentary and gaining strength as the
family develops, serves in another way to lessen the sacrifice of the
individual to the maintenance of the species, and begins, contrari-
wise, to make the maintenance of the species conduce to the more
prolonged life, as well as to the higher life, of the individual,
A fact not yet named remains. Evolution of the higher types of
family, like evolution of the higher types of society, has gone hand-
in-hand with evolution of liuman intelligence and feeling. The gen-
eral truth that there exists a necessary connection between the nature
of the social unit and the nature of the social aggregate, and that
each continually moulds and is moulded by the other, is a truth which
holds of domestic organization as well as of political organization.
The ideas and sentiments which make possible any more advanced
phase of associated life, whether in the family or in the state, imply a
preceding phase by tlie experiences and discipline of which they
were acquired; and these, again, a next preceding phase; and so
from the beginning. On turning to the last part of the " Principles
of Psychology" (edition of 1872), containing chapters on " Develop-
ment of Conceptions," "Sociality and Sympathy," "Ego-Altruistic
Sentiments," " Altruistic Sentiments," the reader will find it shown
how the higher forms alike of intellect and feeling, made possible
only by the social environment, evolve as this environment evolves
each increment of advance in the one being followed by an increment
of advance in the other. And carrying out this doctrine he will see
that since altruism plays an important part in developed family life,
the higher domestic relations have become possible only as the adapta-
tion of man to the social state has progressed.'
In considering deductively the connections between the forms of
domestic life and the forms of social life, and in showing how these
are in each type of society related to one another because jointly
related to the same type of individual character, it will be convenient
to deal simultaneously with the marital arrangement, the family struct-
ure, the status of women, and the status of children.
Primitive life, cultivating antagonism to prey and enemies, brute
or human daily yielding the egoistic satisfaction of conquest over
alien beings which prove to be weaker, daily gaining pleasure from
acts which entail pain maintains a type of nature which generates
coercive rule, social and domestic. Brute strength glorying in the
predominance which brings honor, and unchecked by regard for others'
welfare, seizes whatever women fancy prompts, adding to them and
changing them at will. And children, at the mercy of this utter self-
* As included in the general theory of the adaptation of organic beings to their cir-
cumstances, this doctrine that the human mind, especially in its moral traits, is moulded
by the social state, pervades social statics ; and is especially insisted upon in the chapter
entitled " General Considerations."
