5i6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ishness, are preserved only when and as far as the instinct of parent-
hood predominates. Clearly, then, weakness of the marital relation,
indeiiuite incoherent forms of family, harsh treatment of women, and
infanticide, ai'e inevitable concomitants of militancy in its extreme
form.
The advance from these lowest social groups, hardly to be called
societies, to groups that are larger, or have more structure, or both,
implies increased cooperation. This cooperation may be compulsory
or voluntary, or it may be, and usually is, partly the one and partly
the other. We have seen that great militancy implies predominance
of compulsory cooperation, and that great industrialness implies pre-
dominance of voluntary cooperation. Here we have to observe that
it is deductively manifest, as we have found it inductively true, that
the accompanying domestic relations are in each case congruous with
the necessitated social relations.
The individual nature which exercises that despotic control and
submits to that extreme subjection implied by pronounced militancy
in developing societies, no less than the fostering of egoism and re-
pression of sympathy by a life devoted to war, inevitably determines
the arrangements within the household as it does the arrangements
without it. Hence the disregard of women's claims shown in stealing
and buying them ; hence the inequality of status between the sexes
entailed by polygyny ; hence the use of women as laboring slaves;
hence the life and death power over wife and child; and hence that
constitution of the family which subjects all its members to the eldest
male.
Conversely, the type of individual nature developed by voluntary
cooperation in societies that are predominantly industrial, whether
they be peaceful, simple tribes, or nations that have in great measure
outgrown militancy, is a relatively-altruistic nature. The daily habit
of exchanging services, or giving products representing work done
for money representing work done, is a habit of seeking such egoistic
satisfaction as allows like egoistic satisfactions to those dealt with.
There is an enforced respect for others' claims ; there is an accom-
panying mental representation of their claims implying, in so far,
fellow-feeling ; and there is an absence of those repressions of fellow-
feeling involved by coercion. Necessarily, the type of character thus
cultivated, while it modifies social actions and arrangements, modifies
also domestic actions and arrangements. The discipline which brings
greater recognition of the claims of fellow-men brings greater recog-
nition of the claims of women and children.. The practice of con-
sulting the wills of those with whom there is cooperation outside
the household, brings with it the practice of consulting the Avills of
those with whom there is cooperation inside the household. The
marital relation becomes changed from one of master and subject
into one of approximately-equal partnership ; while the bond becomes
