32 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Frontinus. The number of open reservoirs was afterward increased.
Heavy penalties were inflicted for dipping a dirty vessel into one of
these reservoirs. Of the total supply, a little over one-third was
given to the public, and the remainder divided pretty evenly between
private and imperial purposes. The wealthy had water brought into
reservoirs within the courts of their residences, whence it was raised
to the upper stories in buckets worked by windlasses. This method
of supplying the upper stories is in use at the present time. The Ro-
mans had no pumps. Why the water was not conveyed upward in
pipes does not appear, except that in regard to the more elevated
parts of the city it was probably not brought in at a high enough
level. They possessed lead pipes of diflferent sizes, and stopcocks of
bronze and silver, for these have been found in various places; and
that they were perfectly familiar with the principle of liydraulics,
that water may be returned to its original level, is proved not only
by the construction of the filtering-places already described, but also
by the fact that they actually applied the principle on a stupendous
scale. Besides, there is a work of Vitruvius extant which recognizes
and gives directions for conveying water on this principle. An aque-
duct constructed by the Emperor Claudius, for the ancient city of
Lugdunum (now Lyons), possessed two inverted siphons, by which
the water was carried across deep valleys. There is no doubt that
they were acquainted, too, with the poisonous action of lead on water;
but, if that deterred them from raising the water, it shows they were
more careful in guarding against unhealthful influences than we mod-
erns are, for lead pipes are in general use to distribute water through
our houses to-day.
The aqueducts were placed under the care of a curator aqiiarum^
and afterward, in the time of Diocletian, under several magistrates,
called consulares aquarum. The actual attendants numbered 700, and
were divided into the familia publica and the familia Ccesaris. The
former, 240 in number, were paid by the state; the latter, 460, by the
emperor. With regard to the cost of building the aqueducts, it seems
to have been defrayed, in the majority of cases, out of government
funds ; but it is recorded in an inscription on the Porta Maggiore, a
gate of the city over which the conduits of the Claudia and Anio
Nevus were carried, that those two aqueducts were built by the Em-
peror Claudius at his own expense. Tliis gate affords a clew to the
reason why arcades instead of solid walls were used to cany the aque-
ducts across the plains : it was not solely for economy's sake, nor for
beauty's ; but while those considerations, no doubt, w^ere entertained,
the main object was, to avoid interference with the freedom of travel.
The aqueducts were all destroyed in the Gothic wars under Vitiges
and Totila, but the most important of them Avere restored either by
Belisarius or Narses. These, however, fell gradually into decay, and
ultimately became useless. Pope Paul III. (1540) restored to use the
