DOMESTIC RETROSPECT AND PROSPECT. 517
less that of legal authority and more tliat of affection. Tlie parental
and filial relation ceases to be a tyranny which sacrifices child to par-
ent, and becomes one in Avhich, rather, the will of the parent subordi-
nates itself to the welfare of the child.
Thus the results deducible from the natures of militancy and in-
dustrialness correspond witJi those which we have found are, as a
matter of fact, exhibited. And, as implying the directness of the
alleged connections, I may here add an instance showing tliat in the
same society the domestic relations in the militant part retain the
militant character, while the domestic relations in the industrial part
are beginning to assume the industrial character. Commenting on
the laws of inheritance in ancient France, as affecting children of
different sexes and different ages, Konigswarter remarks that " it is
always the feudal and noble families which cling to the principle of
inequality, while the ideas of equality penetrate everywhere into the
rotwihres and bourgeoises families." Similarly Thierry, speaking of
a new law of the thirteenth century, equalizing rights of pi*operty be-
tween the sexes and among cliildren, says : " This law of the hour-
geoisie^ opposed to that of the nobles, was distinguished from it by
its very essence. It had for its basis natural equity."
And now we come to the interesting question, " What may be in-
ferred respecting the future of the domestic relations ? " We have
seen how the law of evolution in general has been thus far fulfilled in
the genesis of the family. We have also seen how, during civilization,
there has been carried still further that conciliation of the interests of
the species, of the parents, and of the offspring, which has been going
on throughout organic evolution at large. Further, we have noted
that these higher traits in the relations of the sexes to one another
and to children, which have accompanied social evolution, have been
made possible by those higher traits of intelligence and feeling pro-
duced by the experiences and disciplines of progressing social states.
And we have, lastly, observed the connections between special traits
so acquired and special types of social structure and activity. Assum-
ing, then, that evolution will continue along the same lines, let us
consider what further changes may be anticipated.
It is first inferable that, throughout times to come, the domestic
relations of different peoples inhabiting different parts of the earth
will continue to be iinlike. We must beware of supposing that de-
veloped societies will become universal. As with organic evolution,
so with super-organic evolution, the production of higher forms does
not involve extinction of all lower forms. As superior species of
animals, while displacing certain inferior species that compete with
them, leave many other inferior species in possession of inferior habi-
tats, so the superior types of societies, while displacing those inferior
types occupying localities they can utilize, will not displace inferior
