5i8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
types inhabiting barren or inclement localities. Civilized peoples are
unlikely to expel the Esquimaux. The Fuegians will probably sur-
vive, because their island cannot support a civilized population. It is
questionable whether the groups of wandering Semites who have for
these thousands of years occupied Eastern deserts will be extruded
by societies of higher kinds. And perhaps many steaming malarious
regions in the tropics will remain unavailable by races capable of
much culture. Hence the domestic, as well as the social, relations
proper to the lower varieties of man are not likely to become extinct.
Polyandry may survive in Thibet ; polygyny may prevail throughout
the future in parts of Africa ; and, among the remotest groups of hy-
perboreans, mixed and irregular relations of the sexes will probably
continue.
It is possible, too, that in certain regions militancy may persist,
and that along with the political relations natural to it there may sur-
vive the domestic relations natural to it. Wide tracts, such as those
of Northeastern Asia, unable to support populations dense enough to
form industrial societies of advanced types, will perhaps remain the
habitats of societies having those imperfect forms of state and family
which go along with offensive and defensive activities.
Omitting such surviving inferior types, we may here limit our-
selves to types carrying further the evolution which civilized nations
now show us. Assuming that among these industrialism will increase
and militancy decrease, Ave have to ask what are the domestic rela-
tions likely to coexist with complete industrialism.
The monogamic form of the sexual relation is manifestly the ulti-
mate form ; and any changes to be anticipated must be in the direc-
tion of completion and extension of it. By observing what possibili-
ties there are of greater divergence from the arrangements and habits
of the past, we shall see what modifications are probable.
Many acts that are normal with the uncivilized are, with the civ-
ilized, transgressions and crimes. Promiscuity, once unchecked, has
been more and more reprobated as societies have progressed ; abduc-
tion of women, originally honorable, is now criminal; the marrying
of two or more wives, allowable and creditable in inferior societies, has
become in superior societies felonious. Hence, future evolution, along
lines thus far followed, may be expected to extend the monogamic
relation by extinguishing promiscuity, and by suppressing such crimes
as bigamy and adultery. Dying out of the mercantile element in
marriage may also be inferred. After wife-stealing came w^ife-pur-
chase; and then followed the usages which made, and continue to
make, considerations of property predominate over considerations of
personal preference. Clearly, wife-purchase and husband-purchase
(which exists in some semi-civilized societies), though tliey have lost
their original gross forms, persist in disguised forms. Already some
