DOMESTIC RETROSPECT AND PROSPECT. 521
disadvantages entailed by their constitutions, and so to equalize the
lives of the sexes as far as possible.
In respect of domestic powei-, the relative position of women w ill
doubtless rise ; but it seems improbable that absolute equality with
men will be reached. Legal decisions from time to time demanded
by marital differences, involving the question which shall yield, are
not likely to reverse all past decisions. Evenly though law may bal-
ance claims, it will, as the least evil, continue to give, in case of need,
supremacy to the husband, as being the more judicially-minded. And,
simihirly, in the moral relations of married life, the preponderance of
power, resulting from greater massiveness of nature, must, however
unobtrusive it may become, continue with the man.
When we remember that up from the lowest savagery civilization
has, among other results, brought about an increasing exemption of
women from bread-winning labor, and that in the highest societies
they have become most restricted to domestic duties and the rearing
of children, we may be struck by the anomaly that at the present
time restriction to indoor occupations has come to be regarded as a
grievance, and a claim is made to free competition with men in all
out-door occupations. This anomaly is traceable in part to the abnor-
mal excess of women ; and obviously a state of things which excludes
many women from tliose natural careers in which they are dependent
on men for subsistence justifies the demand for freedom to pursue
independent careers. That any hinderances standing in their way
should be, and will be, abolished must be admitted. At the same time
it must be contended that no considerable alteration in the careers of
women in general can be, or should be, so produced ; and, further,
that any extensive change in the education of women, made with the
view of fitting them for businesses and professions, would be mischiev-
ous. If women comprehended all that is contained in the domestic
sphere, they would ask no other. If they could see all that is implied
in the right education of children, to a full conception of which no
man has yet risen, much less any woman, they would seek no higher
function.
That in time to come the political status of women may also be
raised to something like equality with that of men, seems a deduction
naturally accompanying the preceding ones. But such an approxi-
mate equalization, normally accompanying a social structure of the
completely industrial type, is not a normal accompaniment of social
types still partially militant. Just noting that the giving to men and
women equal amounts of political power, while the political respon-
sibilities entailed by war fell upon men only, M^ould involve a serious
inequality, and that the desired equality is therefore impracticable
while wars continue, it may be contended that though the possession
of political power by women would possibly improve a society in
which state-regulation had been brought within the limits proper to
