DOMESTIC RETROSPECT AND PROSPECT. 523
While an average increase of juvenile freedom is to be anticipated,
there is reason to think that here and there it has already gone too
fai'. I refer to the United States. Besides in some cases unduly
subordinating the lives of adults, the degree of independence tliere
allowed to the young appears to have the effect of bringing them for-
ward prematurely, initiating them too early in the excitements proper
to maturity, and so tending to exhaust the interests of life before it is
half spent. Such regulation of childhood as conduces to full utiliza-
tion of childish activities and pleasures, before the activities and pleas-
ures of manhood and womanhood are entered upon, is better for off-
spring at the same time that it is better for parents.
How far is parental authority to go? and at what point shall
political authority check it ? are questions to be answered in no satis-
factory way. Already I have given reasons for thinking that the
l)Owers and functions of parents have been too far assumed by the
state; and that probably a reintegration of the family will follow its
present undue disintegration. It seems possible that from the early
form in which social and family organizations are compulsory in char-
acter, we are passing through semi-militant, semi-industrial phases, in
wliich the organizations of both state and family are partly compul-
sory, partly voluntary, in character ; and that, along with complete
social reintegration on the basis of voluntary cooperation, will come
domestic reintegration of allied kind, under which the life of the fam-
ily will again become as distinct from the life of the state as it origi-
nally was. Still there remain the theoretical difficulties of deciding
how far the powers of parents over children may be cariicd ; to what
extent disregard of parental responsibilities is to be tolerated ; when
does the child cease to be a unit of the family and become a unit of
the state. Practically, however, these questions will need no solving ;
since the same changes of character which bring about the highest
form of family will almost universally prevent the rise of difficulties
which result from characters of lower types proper to lower socie-
ties.
Moreover, there always remains a security. Whatever conduces
to the highest welfare of offspring must more and more establish itself
through the replacing of children of inferior parents reared in inferior
ways by children of better parents reared in better ways. As lower
creatures at large have been preserved and advanced through the
insti'umentality of parental instincts ; and as in the course of human
evolution the domestic relations originating from the need for pro-
longed care of offspring liave been assuming higher forms ; and as the
care taken of offspring has been becoming greater and more enduring ;
we need not doubt that, in the future, along with the more altruistic
nature accompanying a higher social type, there will come I'elations
of parents and children needing no external control to insure their
well-working.
