524 THE POPULAR SCIEXCE MONTHLY.
One further possibility of domestic evolution remains. The last
component to show itself among the feelings Avhich hold the family to-
gether, the care of parents by offspring, is the one which has most
room for increase. Absent in brutes, small among primitive men, con-
siderable among the partially civilized, and tolerably strong among the
best of those around us, filial affection is a feeling that admits of
much further growth, which is needed to make the cycle of domestic
life complete. At present, the latter days of the old whose married
children live away from them are made dreary by the lack of those
remaining pleasures to be derived from the constant society of de-
scendants ; but the time will come when this evil will be met by an at-
tachment of adults to parents which, if not as strong as that of aged
parents to children, approaches it in strength.
Further development in this direction will not, however, occur
under social arrangements which jjartially absolve parents from the
care of offspring. A stronger feeling to be displayed by child for
parent in later life must be established by a closer intimacy between
parent and child in early life. No such higher stage is to be reached
by walking in the ways followed by the Chinese for these two thou-
sand years. We shall not rise to it by imitating, even partially, the
sanguinary Mexicans, whose children, at the age of four, or sometimes
later, were delivered over to be educated by the priests. We shall
not improve family feeling by approaching toward the arrangements
of tlie Koossa-Caffres, among whom " all children above ten or eleven
years old are publicly instructed under the inspection of the chief."
This latest of the domestic affections will not be fostered by retro-
grading toward customs like those of the Andamanese, and, as early as
possible, changing the child of the family into the child of the tribe.
Contrariwise, such a progress Avill be achieved only in proportion as
both moral and intellectual culture are carried on by parents to an
extent now rarely attempted. When the unfolding minds of children
are no longer thwarted, and stunted, and deformed, by the mechan-
ical lessons of stupid teachers when instruction, instead of giving
mutual pain, gives mutual pleasure by ministering in proper order to
faculties which are severally eager to appropriate fit knowledge pre-
sented in fit forms when, with a wide diffusion of adult culture,
joined with rational ideas of teaching, there goes a spontaneous un-
folding of the juvenile mind such as is even now occasionally indi-
cated by exceptional facility of acquisition when the earlier stages
of education passed through in the domestic circle have become, as
they will in ways scarcely dreamed of at present, daily aids to the
strengthening of sympathy, intellectual and moral, leaving only the
more special cultures to be carried on by others ; then will the latter
days of life be smoothed by a greater filial care, reciprocating the
greater parental care bestowed in earlier life.
