THE OBSERVATORIES OF ITALY. 543
planets, and the principal stars, and can even observe stars down
to the tenth magnitude by means of a peculiar device for bright
wires.
Observatory of Milan : Director, M. Schiaparelli ; Astronomer,
M. Celoria. The Milan Observatory is one of the most ancient of
Italy, its foundation in the Brera Palace having been established in
1760. Among its directors have been the celebrated astronomers Bos-
covich, Oriani^, Cesaris, and Carlini. The Ephemeris of Milan has long
been distinguished for its accuracy, and for the memoirs published in
connection with it by Oriani, Cesaris, and Schiaparelli. The obser-
vatory contains two halls, one for the equatorial and one for the me-
ridian-circle. The equatorial, by Merz, was mounted in February,
1875. It has an aperture of 218 millimetres (8.58 inches), and a focal
length of 3.20 metres (125.99 inches), and its objective is of such an
excellence that a magnifying power of 700 diameters is habitually
used. It is to be devoted to a reobservation of Struve's double stars.
The meridian circle is by Starke, and has an aperture of four inches
and a focal length of five feet.
Observatory of Turin : Director, M. Dorna ; Assistant, M. Char-
rier. The present observatory of Turin was constructed in 1820, and
until 3 864 it was under the direction of the illustrious Plana; since
that time it has formed part of the university, and is under the charge
of the Professor of Astronomy. Its instruments are : 1. A meridian-
circle by Reichenbach, with a circle one metre (39.37 inches) in diam-
eter, and a telescope by Fraunhofer, twelve centimetres (4.74 inches)
in diameter. This excellent instrument is used for observations of the
sun and stars for the determination of the time, which is given to the
city by means of a time-ball. 2. A comet-seeker of twelve cen-
timetres (4.74 inches) aperture and eighty-two centimetres (32.28
inches) focal length, mounted in a small dome. 3. A repeating circle^
by Ertel, used for purposes of instruction. 4. An equatorial of 117
millimetres (4.61 niches) aperture and 1.82 metres (71.65 inches)
focus, which will be used by Dr. Cliarrier for spectroscopic observa-
tions of the solar protuberances. A larger equatorial is soon to re-
place this.
In terminating these short notes I must formulate in a few words
the reflections which my visit to so many institutions has suggested
to me. The simple enumeration of the instruments would ill suffice
to judge of their importance. It is not sufiieient that an observatory
should be provided with numerous or powerful instruments : it is fur-
ther necessary that these instruments should be at, the service of ac-
complished astronomers earnest in the pursuit of their studies, and
having no other desire than to achieve a name in science. In all these
respects the observatories of Italy leave the most satisfactory impres-
sion upon the visitor. Thanks to ibis universal ardor, no moment is
