546
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
less fine radial striae where the smoke has been swept away. These
may be seen very well by holding the glass plate up to the light if it
has not been too tliickly smoked.
The marks thus made are very beautiful and. symmetrical, and it
will be found, if the glass be uniformly smoked, that the same-sized
drops of the same liquid falling from the same lieight will produce
almost exactly similar marks : while if the height be changed the
mark on the lampblack will be somewhat changed; and it is a fair
inference, if eacli drop makes almost exactly the same complicated,
symmetrical mark, that the splash of each drop takes place in almost
exactly the same way.
The glimpse that may be caught of the drop in the way described
is obtained when the drop is really almost stationary, having flat-
tened itself out on the plate, and being on the point of contracting
aoain to its orioinal form.
That a drop if so flattened out will recover itself, is seen on press-
ing down a drop of mercury with the finger, or a drop of water with
a piece of black-lead or other substance to which it does not adhere.
Fig. 5.
Fig. 6.
On removing the pressure the drop springs back to its old form ; the
force which causes this being exerted by the curved surface of the
liquid at the edge of the flattened drop, on the liquid within. The
flatter the drop becomes the greater is the curvature of the edge, and
the greater the corresponding pressure tending to restore it to its
original globular form. The extent to which a drop that has fallen
on a plate will spread out depends on the velocity with which it strikes
the plate, i. e., on the height of fall ; so that as long as the drop returns
to the globular form the whole phenomenon of the splash may be re-
garded as an oscillation similar to that of a pendulum ; the velocity of
the liquid outward being checked, overcome, and finally reversed by
the ever-increasing pressure of the curved edge, just as a pendulum
has its velocity checked, overcome, and finally reversed, by the action
of gravity.
It is only when the height of fall is very great that the liquid flics
off in all directions and the splash ceases to be an oscillation ; this
