CIVILIZATION AND MORALS.
551
intrinsic in man (as between his ruling faculties and the organs whicli
they rule, or between his reason and his will, on the one hand, and his
affections, appetites, and senses, on the other), the field of moral inves-
tigation enlarges, but is still limited. There seem to be two forms
in which the absoluteness of quality that we are searching after in
human conduct is found appertaining to these intrinsic relationships.
We have it, I think, in the qualities that we call truthfulness and
courage, and I do not perceive it in any others within this category,
except such as are no more than modifications and combinations of
these, with tlieir opposites. I cannot now go beyond this mere state-
ment of a conclusion, unless it be to suggest that such distinguisliable
moral qualities as patience, fortitude, resignation, and so on, are modi-
fications of the radical quality of courage ; while another order of
qualities, like temperance, chastity, and sincerity, have their root in
truthfulness, or integrity, which may be the better name. Out of
these two radicals there may be derived, I think, by combination and
modification, all the qualities which I should classify as the moral
qualities of the personal order.
The final set of relationships to be investigated is that which
exists between the individual man and his fellow-men ; and here the
field of moral study opens to its widest dimensions. These social
relationships are varied, numerous, and highly complicated by inter-
mixture. It might be supposed that we should have to divide them
into two principal groups, embracing 1. Such relations as exist be-
tween man and man individually ; and, 2. Such relations as exist
between the individual man and his fellows at large, in the united
body which we call society; but it will be found that a man's relations
to society are only the sum of his relations to the several members of
it, and that society, in fact, is nothing more to him than a congrega-
tion of the persons between whom and himself he comes to recognize
that there are relations of human fellowship existing. Nothing new,
as a true factor in morals, is introduced by social organization not
even by the institution of government ; because that is a mere ar-
rangement for defining (sometimes arbitrarily and incorrectly) the re-
lations between individuals. These relations between individuals,
then, are what we have to examine, and they seem to divide them-
selves as follows :
1. The relationship in which one man stands toward another simply
as a living creature. This is identical with the relation existing be-
tween man and brute animals, in the conduct incident to which we
discovered no moral quality except that of cruelty and its unnamed
opposite ; and we need not go far in human history to find social states
and circumstances in which no other relationship than this is often
recognizable between men, and under which no other moral quality
<3an often exist in the conduct that is incident to it.
2. The relationships which one man sustains to another as a human
