552 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
fellow. These latter are partly direct and partly indirect or second-
ary relations.
Tbe direct relationships in this case are those of a man to the con-
crete />erso/i of his human fellow. These direct relationships are sim-
ple and not very numerous, in fact, although they assume countless
variations of circumstance and form. Some of them are special, like
the relations that exist between parent and child and between hus-
band and wife ; some of them ai-e limited, like the relations that exist
between the sexes; and some of them are common and universal. In
the conduct which is incident to these relationships there has seemed
to be a great variety of distiuguishable qualities of the absolute sort,
and we iiave a lengthy catalogue of names in the nomenclature of
morals to represent them ; but I am disposed to believe that, after all,
there are only two radical qualities (with their opposites) to be found
in this sphere of Imman conduct. These are benevolence and justice.
All the rest, which appear upon the surface as distinguishable moral
qualities, I conclude to be either variations of these in degree and by
circumstance, or else the resultant of some blending of them with the
moral qualities of the other order. Such blending is necessarily in-
cessant, because the relationships under which man is acting are al-
ways mixed. Mr. Lecky has given the name of the "amiable virtues"
to a considerable group of these moral qualities, such as charity, gen-
erosity, magnanimity, mercifulness or clemency, kindness, and so on,
every one of which would seem to have its root in benevolence, or in
benevolence and justice combined, and to be merely circumstantial
modifications of the same essential quality. Then we have, appertain-
ing to this relationship, such qualities as fidelity and honor if the
two are really distinguishable and both of these are clearly produced
by an intermixture of the absolute personal quality of truthfulness
with the absolute social quality of justice. Whatever else there may
be of distinguishable moral qualities appearing to be incident to the
direct relations of human fellowship, I am sure that they will be found
reducible to the two radicals of benevolence and justice, or to their
combination with those other radicals courage and truthfulness
which we found to have an intrinsic source in the constitution of man,
as qualitative factors in human conduct.
The indirect or secondary relations that exist between man and
man as human fellows are those which extend to something additional
to the person to things, that is, which have become recognizably
identified with the person. In these relationships the whole notion of
"property" is involved. The idea of "property" is the idea of a
special relation existing between a certain man and certain things, in
recognizing which we necessarily recognize 1. That our own relations
to those things are modified by it ; and, 2. That it introduces a ncAV set
of relations between ourselves and the man, which are indirect, be-
cause the things in question are intermediate in them. Not only tan-
