CIVILIZATION AND MORALS. 553
gible but intangible things become thus associated with tlie person-
ality of our fellow-man, and give rise to these indirect relationships.
His opinions and beliefs, his friendships and his reputation, tlje objects
of liis affections, the franchises that he acquires under the artificial
institutions of society, are all examples of the intangible things which
become intervening subjects and objects in many of the relationships
that a man sustains toward his fellow-men. The indirectness of the
relationships thus created is productive of great complexity in them,
and gives rise to much confusion of moral notions with reference to
the conduct that is incident to them. Out of all the complications
that arise, however, there is not one distinctly new quality evolved.
We distinguish in this region of conduct such absolute characteristics
as those of honesty (under many names) and tolerance, but they are
all of the composite class, and have their root, for the most part, in
justice and truthfulness intermingled, with benevolence sometimes
imparting its amiable tone to them.
As the result of our survey, then, we have discovered but four ab-
solute qualities in human conduct that are simple and radical, while
we have traced a very few of the numerous qualities that are com-
posite, or derived, to the relationships out of which they arise. We
have :
Of radical qualities of the personal order courage and truthful-
ness.
Of radical qualities of the social order benevolence and jixstice.
Of derived and composite qualities of the personal order temper-
ance, chastity, fortitude, patience, etc., with their opposites.
Of derived and composite qualities of the social order two
classes, viz. :
1, Incident to direct social relationships : charity, generosity, mag-
nanimity, mercifulness, kindness, fidelity, patriotism, etc., with their
many-named opposites.
2. Incident to indirect social relationships : honesty in all its forms,
and with all its opposites, which are numerous in the nomenclature of
morals.
Having acquired, so far as this, a partly definite notion of morals,
we may now return to take up the conception of civilization, and bring
the two sets of ideas into conjunction.
I did not venture to say of civilization that it is " a certain degree
of progress " in the state of man, because there are those who deny
that the cumulative succession of changes, in man and society, which
appear in the process called civilization, are, on the whole, progressive
chancces. Their denial, moreover, has reference entirely to the moral
features of the process. They do not question the fact that human
history, in the civilized communities, is a liistory of intellectual de-
velopment and advancement. Tliey concede the largest claims that
can be made as to the growth of knowledge among men ; as to the
