\ CIVILIZATION AND MORALS. 555
ing trader of old, who fetched and carried between Babylon and Tyre ?
Such questions as these are not easy to answer, and very few persons
will be willing to meet them with affirmations, in any jjositive and
unqualified way.
We are brought, then, face to face with the fact that there are cer-
tain directions in which the process of civilization appears to be much
more certainly a process of moral development, as evinced in human
conduct and character, than it does in others ; certain particulars of
conduct, that is, in which the fact of moral progress is nindeniable,
and certain others in which, at least, it is open to doubt. Now, this
is assuredly a fact of great significance. For the inference is plain
that, if the progress of the race in intellectual culture and in social
organization is attended with a certain moral development in some
particulars of conduct more distinctly than in others, there must be
reasons for this difierence, and most likely they will be found in some
bearing which the one process of culture has upon the other. It is to
pursue this suggestion a little that I have taken the subject up.
The moment we pause to reflect upon the diflference in question,
one fact concerning it arrests attention. It is this : that the particu-
lars of conduct in which the moral advancement of the human race is
most obvious and indisputable are exactly and entirely those which
we have seen to be incident to the direct relations of human fellow-
ship, and that the qualities developed are entirely those which apper-
tain to that relationship, having their root in benevolence and justice
alone. On the one hand, charities, friendships, institutions of kindly
helpfulness, and all generous, gentle amenities of social intercourse ;
on the other hand, charters, ordinances, constitutions defined equi-
ties and broad determinations of personal rights : these are plainly
the greater moral fruits of civilization which show signs of approach
to ripening, as yet, and they all lie within the domain of those direct
relationships which exist between man and man as human fellows, and
which connect themselves with nothing else.
This fact leads us quickly to the recognition of a second one, which
becomes just as plain on examination namely, that the particulars
of conduct in which the moral advancement of mankind appears most
questionable are exactly and entirely those which we have seen to be
incident to the indirect relations of human fellowship ; to the relations,
that is, which involve some intermediate thing, through which the
line of relationship to our fellow is drawn. These take in, as has been
said, all the relationships in which "property" is concerned, era-
bracins: the whole organization of trade and of labor under hire : and
they also take in a great part of the political relationships that arise
out of the institutions of government. Now, it is undeniably in these
spheres of conduct that the moral effects of civilization present the
most discouraging appearance. Are men as honest in work and trade
as they were in more primitive times? Is there not more trickish-
