556 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ness, more cheating, more fraud, more overreaching, more adultera-
tion, more sham, more outside pretension and inside falsity ? Are
they as true in political action to the state in which they have united
and incorporated themselves ? Is there as much genuine patriotism ?
Is there not more political corruption and neglect of political duty ?
These are certainly the questions which stagger the optimist most.
Here, then, we discover that the particulars of conduct between
which the widest difference of progress in moral culture appears are
precisely those that we have already separated by one of the broad
differences that were found when we classified the relations to which
human conduct is incident. It is natural to conjecture that the one
difference may connect itself with the other. It becomes still more
natural when we perceive that the characteristic difference which dis-
tinguishes the two sets of relationships in question has been widened
by the process of civilization. On one side, the direct^ primary rela-
tions that exist between men, in their purely personal attitude toward
one another, have been steadily pressed into greater intimacy and
closeness, at every step of advance wliich has been made in the diffu-
sion of knowledge and in the social organization of the race, while
they have been more and more generalized in the same operation.
On the other side, as the industrial, commercial, and political mechan-
ism of society has acquired more complexity and greater extension,
the indirect or secondary relations, which involve the fact of ])ropertv,
etc., have been all the time undergoing variation and multiplication,
and have been shaped into forms of greater remoteness, as between
the persons and the things that are concerned together in them. The
effect in the one case has been to set out the relationships in question
more clearly, to define them more distinctly, and to render them more
easily recognizable as they widen ; and it is within the sphere of this
effect that we have the jDrogress of moral culture most marked. In
the other case the effect has been to obscure most of the relationships
in question, and to render the clear perception of them more difficult
as they lengthen out; and it is within the range of this effect that we
find most doubtful evidences of moral growth in the process of civili-
zation.
From this I shall now venture a generalization, to see whether it
will be justified by further scrutiny of the moral history of mankind,
and I offer it in the following propositions :
1. That moral notions, or notions of rightness in conduct, are
formed in the mind by the perception of certain relations to which
human conduct is incident ; that they are exactly akin in nature,
therefore, to mathematical notions, and have their genesis in the
operation of the same faculties ; that there is no more need, in conse-
quence, of a special " moral sense " to account for tliem than there is
need of a distinct mathematical sense to account for the perceptions
and reasoning processes of arithmetic and geometry.
