CIVILIZATION AND MORALS. 557
2. That " Tightness " in conduct is just as absolute a quality as
" straightness " in mathematical lines (from which it takes its name),
and can no more depend for its existence upon the "utility" that is
found in it, or upon its coincidence with the experience of liappiness
among men, than the existence of the quality of straightness in mathe-
matical lines can depend upon the utility with which it serves the
architect and the engineer, and coincides with the necessities of me-
chanical art.
3. That our moral notions of right and wrong, w^ith reference to
each particular of conduct, are distinct and complete in exact propor-
tion to the clearness and fullness of our perception of the relations
which that particular of conduct appertains to ; that their influence
in the guiding of our conduct depends upon the distinctness w^ith
which they have thus been formed; but that our obedience to the
guidance they offer depends upon something else, which we shall
have to investigate hereafter.
Let me illustrate these propositions as briefly as possible :
It seems to be historically certain that man's cognition of the
alter ego, or other " self," with Avhich he finds himself associated in
existence at every turn, is slowly acquired at the beginning of it, and
that his conception of that other "self" (or fellow-man) is formed
gradually by the projection upon it of ideas that have grown in his own
self-consciousness. There are social states still existing, as I have said,
in which one man's cognition of another seems to be very slightly
difierent from his cognition of brute creatures, and we may take these
to repi'esent one of the primitive stages of human development. But
progress occurred in the evolution of consciousness, until the attri-
butes of the subjective "self," which it had cognized first, became
more or less perfectly projected upon an objective " self," and one
man recognized in another a repetition of the same fact of existence
which he found in his own being ; in other words, he arrived at the
recognition, more or less perfectly, of a human fellow. At this stage
moral notions and sentiments had their beginning, exactly as mathe-
matical notions began when two external objects were distinguished
from one another, and yet cognized together as two instead of one.
There would follow some perception of a relation between this con-
scious "self" and that other cognized "self," and it would be per-
ceived as the definition of a rule of conduct between them, just as surely
as there followed in the other case a perception of the relation in posi-
tion that exists between one object and another, and which conditions
every act that involves the two. In both instances the fundamental
idea generated by the perception must be the idea of a line a " line
of conduct " in the first, a " line of motion" or a " line of position "
in the second and the quality of " rightness " which attaches to the
conception of the one is identical in kind with the quality of " straight-
ness " that attaches to the other.
