558 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The golden rule of conduct, " Do unto others as ye would that
they should do unto you," is strictly analogous to a mathematical
definition ; or, rather, it is the translation of such a definition into the
language of morals. It is not only the formula of an equation, but it
is precisely equivalent to the definition that we give of a right line
when we say that only one such line can be drawn between two
given points, and that to attempt to project another in reverse direc-
tion is only to repeat the first. It simply states the recognition of a
corresponding fact namely, that the line of right conduct projected
from ray " self" to another " self," which I have cognized, is such that
no different line can be projected from that other self to me. What
the line of right as projected to me from my fellow is, I am taught
by my consciousness of the demands that exist in my own being.
In this way men first acquired, perhaps, the notions of right which
produced a certain imperfect respect for life and liberty among them,
and also a certain respect for property, according to the primitive
idea of property, which was a narrow one. But, of course, these
notions were restricted to the small social range within which the re-
lations of human fellowship had become even indistinctly recognized.
How limited that range was at the beginning, it is impossible to say ;
but our earliest knowledge of the human race finds it everywhere
bounded by associations of kinship. The patriarchal family, the clan,
the gens^ the tribe, seem to have always, at a certain stage in the
development of humanity, circumscribed for each man his recognition
of other men as human fellows, and his perception of the relations
which he sustains to them as such. Within that close circle of recog-
nized relationships, however, we can find in the primitive states of
society almost as perfect a determination of moral rights and obliga-
tions, so far as many particulars of conduct are concerned, as we find
in the civilized communities of the present day. We know that,
among the Indian savages of our own time, theft and murder within
the membership of a tribe are condemned as distinctly, almost, as
they are among ourselves; but as between tribe and tribe, or between
Indian and white man, neither killing nor stealing connects itself with
any apparent sense of wrong. The fact seems to have been the same
in all the earlier tribal forms of society, and when the succeeding
Ibrm was reached, in the organization of the political state, the larger
boundaries of that social corporation still circumscribed the moral
notions of its citizens just as rigorously.
In the ancient Gentoo laws of India, which show admirable no-
tions of honesty as between the subjects of the laws, we find pre-
scriptions for dividing the booty of robbers who had plundered any
contiguous but alien people. "If any thieves," says the ordinance,
"by the command of the magistrate, and with his assistance, have
committed depredations upon and brought booty from another ^jro'O-
ince, the magistrate shall receive a share of one-sixth of the whole," etc.
