ABORIGINAL POTTERY. 581
warp when twisted being about one-eighth of an inch, and the woof
from one-twelfth to one-tenth of an inch in diameter. It will be ob-
served that the twist of the warp is continuous, while that of the woof
terminates at, or is lost in, the warp.
The finest specimen I have has ten threads of warp to the inch,
with a woof or filling of from thirty to thirty-four. Fig. 2 is a portion
of it, showing the texture, which, though exceedingly close in the
filling, is plainly impressed on the clay, even showing the twist of the
threads and the crimping of the cloth as bound round the vessel.
The exception referred to is a square-mesh net. The squares are
one-fourth of an inch ; the threads in thickness about equal to No. 6
sewing-cotton ; and the knots at the corners of the meshes are very
distinctly marked.
Fig, 3. represents the first piece that I found giving any idea of
the union of the bandage, which in this case appears to have been by
the intervention of a stick to which the threads were fastened.
Fig. 4 is a piece of the rim of a vessel where the bandage has been
united by twisting.
Fig. 5 is a similar piece, showing where two pieces of cloth of dif-
ferent texture have been united, and the obliquity of the threads to
the rim caused by the hemispherical form of the vessel.
Fig. 6 shows varieties in the pattern of the cloth.
On none of the specimens do I find impressions of cloth woven as
delineated by Mr. Foster (p. 225), as cloth from the mounds of Butler
and Jackson Counties, Ohio.
Most of the fragments of the large vessels are of a leaden-clay
color, and, where reddened by heat, it is more on the inside than on
the outside. Some specimens that 1 found in the woods showed signs
of the action of fire on the portions projecting above the ground, from
the frequent burning of the woods. Where reddened by heat, most
of the markings have been thrown off".
This and other considerations lead me to doubt a burning or bak-
ing process ever having been applied to them, and I do not think it
would have been possible in open fires. The unequal heat would have
caused unequal expansion and contraction, and consequent cracking.
It is evident that they are composed of a cement of siliceous clay
and slightly-calcined shells. None of the pieces will stand a high
heat and afterward moisture. I have heated to redness large pieces,
that, on fracturing, I found to contain portions of coarsely-pounded
shells (flakes as large as one-fourth of an inch frequently occurring).
On cooling, they were about the color of common salmon-brick ; when
moistened, they at once fall to pieces by the slacking of the shell-lime;
and when exposed to the air they gradually waste away, the lime
only slacking and causing disintegration as it absorbs moisture from
the air.
