586 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in the destruction of those in which it is imperfectly or abnormally
developed, and the preservation of those individuals which exhibit
any advantageous variation.
In order to place the phenomena of instinct upon the same footing,
with reference to natural selection, as is held by other manifestations
of life, it is only necessary to show that instincts vary, and that these
variations may become hereditary.
Not a great many years ago the statement that instinct varies
among animals of the same species would have been met by a flat
denial, but no one at all acquainted with the subject would probably
now be found to disj)ute it. A fcAV examples may not be out of place,
however.
The oriole now builds its hanging-nest with the pieces of string,
horse-hair, yarn, and carpet-ravelings, which are to be found in abun-
dance about houses and barns ; and I have seen a nest into which
three fish-lines, with their hooks and sinkers, several yards of kite-tail
from a telegraph wire, and a shoe-string, were interwoven. Of course,
it is not natural for the bird to use such material as this, but the odds
and ends furnished by man are much better fitted to its needs than
the grass and fibres used by its less civilized ancestors. This change
certainly shows power to improve in accordance with changed condi-
tions ; but it may perhaps be said that it is not an example of change
in an instinct, but simply in a non-hereditary habit. The fear of man,
shown by almost all the smaller animals, is in many cases newly
acquired, for in regions uninhabited by man it is not shown, and it is
only as the animals of such regions learn, by generations of persecu-
tion, that man is highly and peculiarly dangerous, that they come to
avoid him ; yet this fear is truly instinctive, for it is shown by the
^'oung as well as by the adult. The testimony of travelers as to the
tameness of animals in regions where they have never been persecuted,
is well known. For instance, Darwin, in his " Journal " of the voyage
of the Beagle, says : ".This disposition is common to all the terres-
trial species of the Galapagos Islands, namely, to the mocking-thrush,
the finches, wrens, tyrant fly-catchers, the dove, and carrion-buzzard.
All of them often a^^proached sufiiciently near to be killed with a
switch, and sometimes, as I myself tried, with a cap or hat. A gun
here is almost superfluous, for with the muzzle I jDushed a hawk oflT
the branch of a tree. One day, while lying down, a mocking-thrush
alighted on the edge of a pitcher made of the shell of a tortoise,
which I held in my hand, and began very quietly to sip the water ;
it allowed me to lift it from the gi-ound, while seated on the vessel.
I often tried and very nearly succeeded in catching these birds by
their legs. Formerly these birds appear to have been even tamer
than at present. Cowley (in the year 1684) says that ' the turtle-
doves were so tame that they would often alight upon our hats and
arms, so that we could take them alive, they not fearing man until
