36 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and Sixth Avenues, Fortieth and Forty-second Streets. Its walls are
45 feet high, and they inclose a little more than 4 acres. The water
is brought down in five lines of iron pipe, two of which are 30 inches
in diameter, two three feet, and one four feet. The distributing-pipes,
ramifying throughout the city, are about 340 miles long. The " mains "
are laid near the sidewalks on either side of the streets, and at every
crossing are provided with branches for supplying the adjacent build-
ings. These branches are provided with stopcocks for turning off the
water when necessary. The higher parts of the city lying north of
Manhattan Valley are sujiplied from a tower and reservoir recently
built on high ground near One Hundred and Seventy-third Street and
Tenth Avenue, to which the water is raised by powerfid pumps. The
reader will have been struck with the similarity between this aqueduct
and those of ancient Rome ; it remains to be shown that there is one
other point of resemblance, in the air-shafts that are built at intervals
of a mile. They rise 14 feet above the ground, and, like the old
Roman ones, are in the form of towers. Every third one is provided
with a door and way of access into the conduit. But the conduit is
without the filtering-places and the angles. The condidt does, indeed,
make several curves of 500 feet radius, but these are for changing the
course of the aqueduct to avoid obstacles, instead of for breaking the
force of the water, which in fact is unnecessary, the inclination being,
as already shown, insignificant. The level of Croton Lake is about
115 feet above that of Manhattan Valley, and when the old reservoir in
Central Park was yet building, the citizens of New York were afibrded
the magnificent spectacle of a vertical column of water shooting up
over 100 feet from the bottom of the valley.
In connection with our subject, though not strictly belonging to
it, may be mentioned the fact that canals are in many places carried
across valleys and rivers upon bridges. Examples have long existed
on the Languedoc Canal in France. The first in England was the Bar-
ton Bridsce, which carries a canal across the river Irwell 39 feet above
the surface. It was constructed by Brindley, for the Duke of Bridge-
water. Says a contemporary English writer : " It was commenced in
September, 1760 ; and in July of the following year the spectacle was
first presented, in this country, of vessels floating and sailing across
the course of the i-iver, while others in the river itself were passing
under them." The Lancaster Canal has one of five arches of 72 feet
span each, and 65 feet high, across the river Lune. Later and more
celebrated examples, though, are those of Pont-y-Cysylte and Chirk
in Wales. The former, constructed by Mr. Telford, " is justly cele-
brated for its magnitude, simplicity of desgin, and skillful disposition
of parts, combining lightness with strength in a degree seldom at-
tempted. It consists of cast-iron arches resting on pillars of stone ;
the length is 1,000 feet, the number of arches 19, and the height
126 feet." In this country these bridges are numerous, there being
