INSTINCT AND INTELLIGENCE. 587
such time as some of our company did fire upon them, whereby they
were rendered more shy.' Dampier also, in the same year, says that
a man in a morning's walk might kill six or seven dozen of these
doves. At present, although certainly very tame, they do not alight
upon people's hats, nor do they suffer themselves to be killed in such
large numbers. It is surprising that they have not become wilder ;
for these islands, during the last hundred and fifty years, have been
much visited by buccaneers and whalers ; and the sailors, wandering
through the woods in search of tortoises, take a cruel delight in
knocking down the little birds."
Darwin also says that at Terra del Fuego a certain species of
goose, which is much hunted by the natives, is so wild that it
is a very difficult matter to kill even one, although in the Falk-
land Islands, where it is not often disturbed by man, a sportsman
may sometimes kill more in a day than he can caiTy home. This
goose is not migratory ; but a bird of passage, the black-necked
swan, brings with it to the Falkland Islands the wisdom learned
in more dangerous regions, and is very hard to obtain. Darwin
ends with the following comments : " From these several facts we
may, I think, conclude, first, that the wildness of birds with regard
to man is a particular instinct directed against him, and not de-
pendent on any general degree of caution arising from other sources
of danger ; secondly, that it is not acquired by individual birds in a
short time, even when much persecuted, but in the course of succes-
sive generations it becomes hereditary. With domesticated animals
we are accustomed to see new mental habits or instincts acquired, and
rendered hereditarj^ ; but with animals in a state of nature it must
always be most difficult to discover instances of acquired hereditary
knowledge. In regard to the wildness of birds there is no way of
accounting for it except as an inherited habit ; comparatively few
young birds, in any year, have been injured by man in England, yet
all, even nestlings, are afraid of him ; many individuals, on the other
hand, both at the Galapagos and at the Falklands, have been pursued
and injured by man, but yet have not learned a salutary fear of
him." If instincts have been acquired gradually by natural selec-
tion like modifications of structure we should expect to find that,
like other adaptations, they are in many cases more or less imperfect.
We were formerly taught that instinct difiers from intelligence inas-
much as it is an infallible guide and perfect in its results. If we
have sliown that it admits of improvement, we need not argue its
imperfection ; but a few examples of the failure of instinct may not
be out of place. Migratory birds often return too early in the season,
and perish from lack of food. The instinct which leads insects to lay
their eggs upon or near food which is proper for the larvae to which
the eggs will in time give rise, although the adult insect may feed
upon something quite different, is a very wonderful and beautiful
