INSTINCT AND INTELLIGENCE. 591
Of the actions which organisms perform in order to accomplish a
purpose, some, like those to which I have called your attention, are to
be placed above, others below instinct. Many of the actions of plants,
such as turning the leaves toward the light, the tendency of the roots
to grow downward, and. the closure of the flowers at night, remotely
resemble instinctive actions. In some the resemblance is more per-
fect the groping of tendrils for support, for instance. Prof. Gray
gives the following account of this action : " When a twining stem
overtops its support, the lengthening shoot is seen thrown over to one
side, and usually outstretched. One might suppose that it had fallen
over by its weight, but it is not generally so. If turned over, sa-y to
the north, when first observed, it will probably be found reclining to
the south an hour or two later, and, an hour later again, turned north-
ward : that is, the end of the stem sweeps round in a circle con-
tinually like the hand of a clock. It keeps on growing as it revolves ;
but the revolving has nothing to do with the growth, and indeed is
often so rapid that several complete turns may be made before any
increase in length could be observed. The time of revolving varies
in different species. It also depends upon the weather being slow or
imperceptible when it is cold, and more rapid when it is warmer.
Sometimes it stops when everything seems favorable, and starts again
after a while. The hop, bean, and morning-glory, ai'e as quick as any.
In a sultry day, and when in full vigor, they commonly sweep round
the circle in less than two hours. They move by night as well as by
day. This sweeping is the cause of the twining. The stem sweeps
round in order that it may reach some neighboring support ; as it
grows it sweeps a wider and wider space, that is, reaches farther and
farther out. When it strikes against any solid body, like the stalk
of a neighboring plant, it is stopped ; but the portion beyond the con-
tact is free to move as before, and, continuing to move on and to
lengthen, it necessarily winds itself round the support, that is, twines."
The sudden closure of the leaf of the Venus's-flytrap, as soon as it is
touched by an insect, and the excitement of the glandular hairs upon
its surface, still more closely resemble the instinctive actions of ani-
mals, and we here find the power to distinguish between different
foreign bodies, for Darwin has shown that, although the leaf will close
upon a small piece of meat, it is not excited by contact with a small
piece of glass. In animals we meet with a large class of what are
called reflex or automatic actions, and these are perhaps a little
nearer to true instinctive actions than most of those performed by
plants. Such are the actions of the various organs concerned in di-
gestion, which are passive until the presence of food calls them into
action, when they at once begin their work. A little higher are those
actions which may be performed or controlled by volition, although
they are usually automatic ; such as winking to protect the eye from
injury, and the act of throwing out the arms when in danger of fall-
