592 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ing. These are commonly spoken of as instinctive actions, but it is
impossible to separate them from the class last spoken of. A little
higher than the reflex actions are the truly instinctive ones, as a
type of which we may take the actions of some very young chickens,
experimented upon by Mr. Spalding. In a paper read before the
British Association, this experimenter says : "-Chickens hatched and
kept in the dark for a day or two, on being placed in the light nine
or ten feet from a box in which a brooding hen was concealed, after
standing chirping for a minute or two, uniformly set off straight to
the box, in answer to the call of the hen, which they had never seen,
and never before heard. This they did, struggling through grass,
and over rough ground, when not able to stand steadily on their legs.
Ao-ain, a young hawk was made to fly over a hen with her first brood
of chickens, then about a week old. In the twinkling of an eye most
of the chickens were hid among the grass and bushes; and scarcely
had the hawk touched the ground, about twelve yards from where
the hen had been sitting, when she fell upon it, and would soon have
killed it outright. A young turkey gave even more striking evidence.
When ten days old it heard the voice of the hawk for the first time,
and close beside it. Like an arrow frcm a bow it darted oflT in the
opposite direction, and crouched in a corner, and remained for ten
minutes motionless and dumb with fear." These examples will serve
as illustrations of pure instinct, and we wull pass now to actions which
are superior, but obviously similar, to the instinctive ones. Ac-
tions which are frequently repeated become habitual, and habits of
long standing become so firmly fixed that the actions are performed
unconsciously, and, as it were, instinctively.
Most of us can remember the labor and pains which were required
in order to learn to write: the comparatively easy acquisition of the
art of making down-strokes, and the tendency, which we adhered to
so obstinately, to form all our letters with down-strokes, and to fill
in the curves and shading afterward. Any one who has watched a
child writing has observed the necessity under which it labors for
counting the bends to distinguish an m from an n, and the tax which
an hour's writing inflicts upon all its bodily and mental powers. Con-
stant practice soon renders writing habitual, and the necessary mus-
cles act mechanically, so that we are able to give all our attention to
the intellectual part of the process, while the writing is done without
any effort or attention. A well-drilled soldier performs the proper
evolution at the Avord of command, although he may be so preoccu-
pied or so fatigued as to be perfectly unconscious of his actions.
Such habits are remarkably persistent, especially when they are ac-
quired early in life, and they have nothing to distinguish them from
instinctive actions except that they are unconscious.
They are often performed involuntarily, and even in opposition to
a previous determination. Street-car horses soon learn to stop and
