INSTINCT AND INTELLIGENCE.
59:
start at the sound of the car-bell, and I once saw an obstinate horse,
which had resisted every other means of persuasion, start at the
sound of the bell and get the car fairly under way before he had time
to think what he was doing.
Every one remembers the story of the old pensioner who received
the command "Attention " from a by-stander while he was returning
from market with his dinner in his hand. At the word of command
lie instantly and mechanically dropped his dinner in the mud, and took
the proper position. Occasionally in man, and quite frequently in
other animals, these habits of long standing are transmitted to the
next generation, and, as they are then independent of individual ex-
perience, they are true instincts. Although the art of writing is not
inherited, the particular style of handwriting is very often hereditary.
The act of pointing or setting in dogs would be a great disadvantage
to wild animals, and there is every reason to believe that it has been
very recently acquired by a few breeds of domestic dogs ; yet it is
frequently inherited in its highly-developed form, and the transmis-
sion of a slight tendency in this direction appears to be general. The
following seems to be an instance of the appearance in the second
generation, as an instinct, of an acquired habit. A correspondent of
Nature says :
" A few years ago I bought in Skye a perfectly uneducated Skye-terrier.
The first accomplishment which I taught him was that of ' sitting up ' an
accomplishment which he had great difficulty in acquiring. This was not owing
to any stupidity on his part, for when he had once passed over this pons asino-
rum of dog-performances, he proved to be a very clever animal, and learned
many other tricks with great ease. He appears never to have forgotten the
pains which were taken to teach him his first trick, and to have judged there-
from that there is great merit in sitting up. Not only does he rely upon this as
a last resource to move me to take him out, or not to whip him, but he judges
that it must soften the heart of an India-rubber ball. Sometimes, when an-
noyed at his playing with this, his favorite plaything, I have placed it on a
chimney-piece, and turned ray attention elsewhere.
" On looking round again, I have seen my dog sitting up to the India-rubber
ball, evidently hoping that it would jump down and play with him again. My
dog is now the father of a family, and one of his daughters, who has never
seen her father, is in the constant habit of sitting up, although she has never
been taught to do so, and has never seen others sit up. She is especially given
to this performance when any other dog is being scolded.
" Whether this is an instance of helping a fellow-animal, of which Mr. Dar-
win gives so many curious examples, or whether the dog simply hopes to avert
the storm from her own head, the fact appears to me patent that this dog has
inherited the impression that sitting up has some special virtue for turning away
wrath."
A little higher than the habitual actions are tliose which are so
complicated, or occur so rarely, or depend upon such delicate combi-
nations of conditions, that they never become habitual that is, they
VOL. XI. 38
