594- THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
are never performed without thought, although we may be able to
group them into classes, and to guide our conduct by general rules or
principles, either established by experience or accepted upon the
authority of others. The resemblance between these actions and
the instinctive ones is recognized in common speech, for we often hear
it said of a person who is guided in the main, in this way, by general
rules, and is often unable to assign any reason for a particular course
of conduct, that he or she is a person of fine natural instincts.
The actions of the sailor, who guides his movements by the weath-
er reports from the Government Signal-Office, without understanding
or caring much about the way in which the reports are made out, are
still more rational, and further removed from instinct, although they
evidently fall into the series, and have much in common Avith those
actions last mentioned. Finally, the actions of " Old Probabilities "
himself belong to a still higher class, and are eminently rational.
Reviewing the ground which we have passed over, we find that
living things present us with a series of more or less related ac-
tions.
First, we have the mechanical and reflex actions of plants and
animals ; then the instinctive action, then the hereditary habit, then
the acquired habit ; next the action governed by a general rule,
established by experience; and finally the rational action.
Great as seems to be the difierence between the two extremes of
this series when considered by themselves, it is possible to pass from
one to the other through a series of intermediate actions, without the
necessity for any great jump in any part of the series ; and it is plain
that, great as are the differences between them, they all have some-
thing in common. Let us try to discover what this something is.
All the actions which we have been examining are alike in this, that
they are directed to the accomplishment of a purpose. The root
grows downward in order that it may reach water. The leaf turns
with the sun in order that it may receive a greater supply of heat.
The fly-trap closes upon its prey and pours forth its secretion in
order that it may be supplied with food. The vine twines in order
that its long, slender stem may be supported. The digestive organs
perform their various functions that the body may be nourished and
its waste supplied. The eyelids close in order that the eye may be
shielded from danger.
The chick instinctively seeks its mother that it may be protected
and fed ; and it hides from the hawk to save its life. The dog begs
and the soldier goes through his manual to escape punishment, or to
gain a reward or approbation, or perhaps from a combination of all
these motives with still higher ones, but in any case to accomplish a
purpose. The sailor watches the weather-predictions and regulates
his actions accordingly, in order that his voyage may be finished as
safely and quickly as possible. And the signal-officer publishes his
