INSTINCT AND INTELLIGENCE. 595
predictions in order that the public may be informed as to the proba-
bilities of change.
It may be said that in the last two or three cases the purpose is
intelligently appreciated, and that they are thus separated by a sharp
line from the others ; but this distinction gradually shades off and
disappears as an action becomes habitual, and as soon as the habit
becomes hereditary it may be entirely wanting.
The well-drilled soldier goes through with his evolutions without
a thought as to his reasons for doing so, and nearly every middle-aged
business-man of methodical habits probably recollects finding himself
at his place of business on a holiday without knowing how or why
he came there. One characteristic of these various actions is, then,
that each has a purpose. Another is that, although the object of the
action is the accomplishment of a purpose, the cause of the action is
a change, external to the organism and distinct from the purpose.
The leaf of the Venus's-flytrap closes, and the digestive organs
of an animal do their work, not because food is needed, but because
they are excited by the presence of a foreign body. The dog points
because he scents a particular odor, not because he wishes to do his
duty. The soldier assumes his position because he hears the word of
command, etc. The actions which are the subject of our present lect-
ure stand, tlien, in a double relationship. They are excited by cer-
tain external changes, and they have for their object the accomplish-
ment of a purpose. Herbert Spencer has expressed this dual rela-
tionship in a simple formula. According to him, these and all other
peculiarly vital actions consist in "the adjustment of internal rela-
tions to external relations." This is not very lucid when stated ab-
stractly, but perhaps an example will help to make it clear. If I
kick a stone, I may move it a greater or less distance, and set up some
slight molecular cliange within it, and hurt my foot, perhaps. If I
kick a dead dog, the result is the same ; but, if the dog is alive, I shall
find that all these results follow, and something more. The molecu-
lar change in the nerves of the dog gives rise to or excites a series of
actions adapted to meet my attack and to prevent further injury.
There is a relation, external to the dog, between the kick and a dispo-
sition to do him further violence ; and there is an internal relation in
the dog between the sensation caused by the blow and a desire to
escape the violence which is to follow ; and whether he crouches and
supplicates, or puts his tail between his legs and runs, or returns my
attack, he simply adjusts internal relations to external relations.
There is a relation between a downward direction and the presence of
water in the ground, and to this relation the roots of the plant re-
spond.
There is a relation between the presence of a foreign body in the
stomach and food to be digested ; and accordingly, when the stom-
ach is excited by the sensation of contact with a foreign body, it be-
