596 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
gins its work that is, there is an adjustment between the internal
relation of a certain sensation to the digestive process and the exter-
nal relation between the presence of foreign matter in the stomach
and food.
There is a relation between the sudden approach of a body toward
the eye and danger to that organ, and to this relation the nerves and
muscles are adjusted. There is a relation between a peculiar "cluck"
and the presence of the mother-hen, and to this I'elation the cliick
responds. There grows up in the mind of the soldier a connection
between the word "attention" and a particular attitude, and when he
feels the sensation caused by the command, he at once, and uncon-
sciously, performs the muscular movements necessary to assume that
position; that is, there is an adjustment between the internal relation
of a certain sensation to certain muscular movements and the exter-
nal relation of a certain command to the necessity for assuming a
given position. The sailor learns that there is a relation between cer-
tain signals and stormy weather, and to this relation his actions are
adjusted. Finally, General Meyer finds that there is a relation between
low barometric pressure in certain parts of the country and a liability
to storms in other regions, and to this external relation he adjusts his
actions.
The kind of external change to which an organism may respond
of course varies greatly in diiferent cases, both in constancy and com-
plexity. The Venus's-flytrap is adjusted only to relations between
objects on the surface of the leaf and in contact with it, but an animal
with even rudimentary organs of sense may respond to changes which
occur at a distance. Even the simple capacity to distinguish light
from darkness is enough to enable an animal to perceive a distant
body between it and the sun, and to adjust its actions accordingly.
As we ascend to creatures having more developed eyes, we find an
increase in tlie sphere of surrounding space throughout which external
relations can establish corresponding internal relations. A slight con-
vexity of the epidermic layer lying over the sensitive tract first serves,
by concentrating the rays, to render appreciable less marked varia-
tions in the quantity of light, and thus brings into view the same
bodies at a greater distance, and smaller or less opaque bodies at the
same distance. From this point upward, through the various types
of aquatic creatures to the higher air-breathing creatures, we trace,
under various forms and modifications, a complicated visual apparatus
and a widening space through which the correspondence extends. It
is needless to go into details. Hypotheses and illustrations aside, it
is obvious that from the polyp, which does not stir till touched, up
to the telescopic-eyed vulture or the far-sighted Bushman, one aspect
of progressing life is the greater and greater remoteness at which visi-
ble relations in the environment produce adapted relations in the
organism. The extension of the correspondence in space does not end
