INSTINCT AND INTELLIGENCE. 597
with the perfecting of the senses. In creatures of comparatively ad-
vanced organization there arise powers of adjusting inner relations to
outer relations that are far too remote for direct perception. The mo-
tions by which a carrier-pigeon finds its way home, though taken a
hundred miles away, cannot be guided by sight, smell, or hearing, in
their direct and simple forms. Chased animals, that make their way
across the country to places of refuge out of view, are obviously led
by combinations of past and present impressions which enable them
to transcend the sphere of sense. And thus also must it be with creat-
ures which annually migrate to other lands.
In man, this secondary process of extension is carried still further,
Tliough the correspondences he effects by immediate perception have
a narrower range than those of some inferior creatures, and though
in that species of indirect adjustment just exemplified he is behind
sundry wild and domesticated animals, yet, by still more indirect
means, he adjusts internal relations to external relations that are im-
mensely beyond the appreciation of lower beings. By combining his
own perceptions with the perceptions of others as registered in maps,
he can reach special places lying thousands of miles away over the
earth's surface. A ship, guided by compass, and stars, and chronom-
eter, brings him from the antipodes information by which his pur-
chases here are adapted to prices there. From the characters of
exposed strata he infers the presence of coal below, and thereupon
adjusts the sequences of his actions to coexistences a thousand feet
underneath. Nor is the environment through which his correspond-
ences reach limited to the surface and the substance of the earth. It
stretches into the surrounding sphere of infinity. It was extended to
the moon when the Chaldeans discovered how to predict eclipses; to
the sun and nearer planets when the Copernican system was estab-
lished ; to the remoter planets when an improved telescope disclosed
one, and calculation fixed the position of the other; to the stars when
their parallax and proper motion were measured ; and, in a vague
way, even to the nebulae when their composition and forms of structure
were ascertained. At first sight, no two things could seem to have
less in common than the tendency of a sprouting potato to grow tow-
ard the light, and the preparations made by human beings for such a
rare, and distant, and complicated event as a transit of Venus ; yet
each is, objectively considered, an adjustment of internal relations to
external relations, and the two phenomena are so well connected
by intermediate forms that there can be no doubt of their rela-
tionship.
Physiologists are gradually proving the statement that these and
all other vital changes are, in ultimate analysis, changes in the proto-
plasm of the body, and that they are not brought about by any pecul-
iar vital force, but are the direct outcome of the physical and chemi-
cal structure of the protoplasm itself; so that vital changes, considered
