598 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
simply as changes, must not be regarded as peculiar, and fundament-
ally unlike the changes of inorganic matter.
Vital changes cannot, however, be regarded as changes simply
standing by themselves, for, if we overlook their adjustment to the
accomplishment of a purpose, we omit their most essential character-
istic.
In so far as the contraction of a muscle is simply a change, it is
without doubt purely physical ; but in the adjustment of this change
to a relation between external changes, in its adaptation to a purpose,
we have something which has no parallel except in living things, and
perhaps some of man's contrivances, such as the automatic governor
of the steam-engine. Living things are distinguished from those
which have not life by their adjustment, and life consists in this ad-
justment. Small as this difference seems when stated abstractly,
and unimportant as it appears to be when we contrast such an organ-
ism as an amoeba, with its simple and almost mechanical power of
retracting its pseudopodia upon irritation, and such a highly-com-
plex and changeable inorganic being as the ocean, yet, considered not
in itself but in its adjustment to external relations, this power in the
amoeba separates it very widely from all inorganic forms of existence,
and connects it with the highest manifestations of life ; for the series
of adjustments of which that of the amoeba is one of the simplest may
be traced almost without break up to the most rational actions of
man. A vorticella contracts and folds down its circlet of cilia when
touched, because there is a connection between violent contact and the
presence of danger ; and this recognition of a connection between the
changes of the external world is knowledge of the order of Nature, and
this, in its higher form, is experience, and experience implies memory,
and memory and experience are forms of consciousness. Thus we
are able to understand the meaning of such expressions as that of
Haeckel, that living things are distinguished from the not living by
the possession of memory. It seems best to restrict the use of such
purely subjective terras as memory and experience to the higher
forms of conscious life, but we must not overlook the fact that the
existence of an adjustment between internal and external relations
implies something fundamentally like the memory of higher animals.
Finally, I wish to call attention to the fact that natural selection
is constantly acting through the law of the survival of the fittest, in
such a way as to bring each organism into more and moi'e perfect
harmony with its environment ; that is, it is constantly bringing about
a more and more exact, definite, and perfect adjustment betw^een ex-
ternal and internal relations. If this adjustment constitutes vitality,
and if natural selection furnishes an explanation of the manner in
Avhich the adjustment has been brought about, have we not, in the
laAV ,of natural selection, an explanation of the origin of life ? not
of course of the origin of the matter of life, nor of the changes of
