ON THE HABITS OF ANTS. 39
since its weight has been increased twenty-seven times by the sun's
attraction.
We have hitherto considered the mutual attraction of two bodies,
but now let a third be introduced, as, for instance, in the case of A
and F, let G be placed at equal distances from A and F, and let the
relative masses of A and F be as stated before in this paper : then will
the force which measures the mutual attraction of F and G be equal
to four times the force which measures the mutual attraction of G
and A, or, in other words, F will attract G with four times the force
that A will attract G. Lastly, let G's mass equal A's mass, and let
G be placed at double the distance from F that A has been placed :
then, according to the second law of gravitation, the units of force
which measure the m^utual attraction of A and F will be four times
the force which measures the mutual attraction of G and F.
ON THE HABITS OF ANTS.
By SIK JOHN LUBBOCK, Bart.
THE anthropoid apes no doubt approach nearer to man in bodily
structure than do any other animals ; but when we consider the
habits of ants, their social organization, their large communities,
elaborate habitations, their roadways, their possession of domestic
animals, and even in some cases of slaves, it must be admitted that
they have a fair claim to rank next to man in the scale of intelli-
gence. They present, moreover, not only a most interesting but also
a very extensive field of study. In this country we have nearly
thirty species ; but ants become more numerous, in species as well
as individuals, in warmer countries, and more than seven hundred
kinds are known. Even this large number certainly is far short
of those actually in existence.
I have kejDt in captivity nearly half of our British species of ants,
and at the present moment have in my room more than thirty nests,
belonging to about twenty species, some of which, however, are not
English. No two species are identical in habits, and on various
accoTints their mode of life is far from easy to unravel. In the first
place most of their time is passed underground ; all the education of
the young, for instance, is carried on in the dark. Again, ants are
essentially gregarious ; it is in some cases difficult to keep a few alive
by themselves in captivity, and at any rate their habits under such
circumstances are entirely altered. If, on the other hand, a whole
community is kept, then the greater number introduces a fresh element
of difficulty and complexity. Moreover, within the same species, the
individuals seem to differ in character, and even the same individual
