SCIENCE AND WAR. 603
the Vienna arsenal is engaged in the manufacture of heavy guns of
the same character. Never was a more energetic step taken. A new
cannon of some sort was held to be absolutely necessary to uphold
the prestige of the army, and a commission having been intrusted
with the selection of an arm, pronounced without delay in favor of the
scheme brought forward by General von Uchatius. In October, 1874,
the first round was fired from a Uchatius gun, and a twelvemonth
afterward the sweeping reform which was to introduce an entirely
new artillery throughout the Austrian service was decided upon.
Government sanctioned an expenditure of 1,800,000 to be spent in
two years, and General von Uchatius was directed to give all the
assistance in his power toward the fulfillment of the design.
The Uchatius gun is made of so-called steel-bronze. Chilled bronze
would be a better name, since Uchatius casts his metal in a chilled, or
metal mould, in the same manner, pretty well, as Sir William Palliser
produces his famous chilled projectiles. Bronze, as everybody knows,
has been a favorite metal with gun-founders from the earliest days,
and in the East, especially, magnificent castings of this nature have
been produced. About ninety per cent, of co})per and ten of tin is
the mixture commonly employed in making ordinary bronze, and eight
per cent, of tin is the proportion preferred by Uchatius. The diffi-
culty in casting bronze, as those who have any experience know full
well, is that of securing homogeneity, soft particles of tin becoming
isolated in the mass, and giving rise to tlie defect known as "tin-
pitting." Whether we have lost the secret of bronze-casting, or whether
in former times they were more skillful at the work, certain it is that
founders of the present day are unable to secure so uniform an alloy
as formerly. This was very apparent when some eight or ten years
ago our own , Government adopted, for a brief time, bronze artillery.
The addition of a small percentage of phosphorus did not mend mat-
ters, and the highest authorities on the subject were at a loss to sug-
gest an effective remedy. Our bronze guns, too, had another defect
which could not be overcome. After firino; the bore became afiected,
and the weapon, as it was termed, " drooped at the muzzle." These
were the two defects indeed that led mainly to the abandonment of
the bronze gun in this country, and they are, too, the difficulties which
General von Uchatius appears to have overcome. He has got rid of
" tin-pitting," and his guns do not " droop at the muzzle."
Uchatius found that by subjecting the alloy in a liquid form to
considerable pressure, he was enabled to secure a perfectly homoge-
neous mass, a result which was also furnished, he discovered, when he
had gone a step further, if the molten metal was rapidly cooled. Steel-
bronze is apparently made much in the same way as the toughened
glass of which we have heard so much lately. After being cast in a
mould, the alloy is thrust into a reservoir of oil, heated to a high
temperature, so that the metal suddenly cools, but only down to a cer-
