6o6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
clear this vexing but important subject. Scientific methods are un-
thought of, and scientific conclusions either ignored or denounced as
cold, hard, and unsympathetic. They never trouble themselves about
ascertaining wliat it is possible to do under the circumstances^ but,
without a minute's consideration, set up their Utopian standards of
right, and at once proceed to bend everything in that direction.
Should they deem it right to reverse the course of the Mississippi, we
might almost expect to see them undertake the impossible task, care-
less of all disastrous consequences. They have wasted power by ask-
ing what ought to be done, instead of inquiring what can be done.
If ever this problem receives an accurate solution, it will come
from viewing it pliysically rather than morally. As the bone and
sinew of man is the stored energy of sunbeams, so property or capital
is the same energy re-stored after being unlocked as Avork. As the
former is the potential energy of physical life, so the latter is the po-
tential energy of social life. Any attempt at viewing the matter by
ignoring this law of the conservation of energy, Avhich is at the foun-
dation of social order, can only result in false opinions and lead to
dangerous measures.* When men were savages, and bone and sinew
ruled, he who had most physical power was chief. Now, a vaster
magazine of energy is accumulated in capital, and whoever has most
of it rules. This is but a plain statement of fact. The power is there
lodged by the very constitution of society, and no attempts at realiz-
ing the dream of communism can wrest it away. What can the man
of muscle do ?
In early stages of human development, the accumulation of bodily
vigor and strength was the main object of life. Natural and sexual
selection conspired to pick the strongest, best-formed specimens, while
driving the weak and worthless to the wall. Strategy soon com-
peted with strength, and, when victor, intellect was picked with it.
From among all the strategic devices of intellect property was selected
as the fittest, and society became a necessity for its protection. As
at first men found that such life as they sought could only exist when
bodily waste was balanced or overbalanced by accumulation, so now
we cannot long maintain physical health if nutrition fails to keej) pace
with waste. Some form of phthisis may take hold of us and increase
the waste beyond the normal, or our supply of food may be with-
held, and we die of inanition. Social life is subject to two just such
sets of dangers. In a machine we have friction and interference an-
swering to similar ideas. These must each be brought to the minimum
if we would have things work smoothly.
Are working-men, as a class, frugal and provident ? Do they
curb self-gratification, and make present sacrifice for future advan-
tage ? HoAV many mechanics or day-laborers calculate their annual
waste of means on such unnecessary articles as tea, coffee, tobacco,
' Whcti this was penned the writer did not suspect it would be so quickly verified.
