THE LABOR-QUESTION. 607
beer, whiskey, etc, ? How many, instead of selecting plain, whole-
some, cheap food, spend their extra dollars on pastry, rare fruits and
vegetables, etc. ? The business done in this line by the grocers and
bakers of the lower wards of New York will answer this. I have
eaten at the tables of rich and poor in many States, and my expe-
rience teaches me that, as a rule, the well-to-do mechanic lives better
than many merchants, bankers, and professional men, as long as his
wages hold out. The same prodigality is manifested in dress and
ornament. They will make any sacrifice to ape the rich or vie with
each other. Servant-girls often dress better than their mistresses.
Who will calculate the dollars wasted by that mechanic's family, be-
fore sickness or accident drove him to the poor-house? How much
did he throw away on rent, that he might live in a better house than
he was well able to afford? How many dollars were spent on thea-
tres, balls, sociables, fairs, or excursions, that might have been saved?
How much did superstition extort from him ? These are a feAv of the
many avenues through which his hard-earned wages escaped. Add
to these the physician's bills, for attending to himself and family when
overwork and uncleanliness brought on sickness ; and, last though
not least, consider the number of mouths he is himself the cause of
havino- to till, and the number of backs to clothe. If his income had
overbalanced this expenditure, when the crisis arrived he would have
been safe. With how many of our present paupers and tramps was
this the case ? Are the careful to be forced to bear the load of the
careless? Self-restraint is more important to the poor man than
legislation. This will sjive him a fitness for the battle of life, while
that but unmans and effeminates him.
Again, are these men now out of employment the best types of
laborers or mechanics, and the most trusty and efficient servants
their employers had ? Are they the honest, careful, thoughtful work-
ing-men who labored most earnestly for their employers' interests?
Are those who have been retained the stupid and dishonest ? the
unpi-ofitable servants ? Are they but why proceed ? The case is
only too clear against the unemployed, as a class. Of course, there
are exceptions. Unavoidable circiimstances have doubtless thrown
adrift the worthy. When a crisis comes, employers will retain those
who have labored most faithfully and honestly for their interest.
All others must lose employment. The improvident at once become
paupers, demanding a living from their already heavily-burdened but
careful fellow-workmen. If, during the age of muscle, lazy, puny
men with diseased bodies, brought on by excess and vice, had de-
manded of the stalwart and vigorous that they must carry them on
their backs, even though at their own peril, what could have been
thouo;ht of them ?
An array of unemployed men is clamoring for work, and the sym-
pathetic urge their claims, "Fate is dealing hard with them," say
