6o3 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
they ; " can we not alleviate their distress ? " They would invoke state
aid in behalf of these social failures, and thus increase the burdens
upon the employed, forgetting that " the last straw breaks the camel's
back." Tliey would increase the number of officials, and lose thou-
sands of dollars of the people's money by theft, while only tens or
hundreds were bestowed as charity. They forget that the poor mill-
ions who are the consumers are the real tax-payers. All experience
has shown that only abortive effort and theft can be hoped for when
the state interferes. It is already overloaded with such work, and its
officers are men subject to temptation where cash is concerned. A
change of these has been advocated, but this would only be a change
of thieves. No one class has a monopoly of morality. There are
moral and immoral men in all classes ; and, unfortunately, men of
light specific gravity are more apt to swim in the sea of politics than
their more solid fellows. Shall we, then, resort to an indiscriminate
bestowal of alms ? Statistics have again and again shown that, in
the direct ratio of alms-giving, there is an increase of pauiDcrism and
crime. The easier you make the pauper's life, the more of that re-
straint you remove which now hinders many from choosing pauper-
ism as a profession. If you have money to spend upon them, de-
mand an equivalent in work of some kind for every cent bestowed.
This leaves them with a spark of manly feeling, and satisfies your
desire to relieve their wants. I have seen philanthropic men and
women refuse to purchase a cane, toy, or newspaper, from a really
suffering and needy person in the street, because they either did not
want the article offered or would not be troubled with it ; and I have
tlien seen them go a few steps and drop as much money as would have
made the purchase into the hat of a professional beggar, who was less
worthy and less needy. It was hard to escape the conclusion that
the sympathetic feeling which could only be satisfied by giving with-
out requiring aught in return was here tinctured with the unhallowed
self-righteousness of the Pharisee.
In these unemployed workmen we have a vast amount of energy
wasting itself in uselessness or crime. In the bank-vaults lie unused
large stores of the potential energy of society. Rich and poor are
suffering from the inactivity. "What is the cause of this ? The capi-
talists will make no new investments, as they will not pay. Business
is stagnant. People refuse to purchase. Such is the general cry, and
over-production takes the blame. Over-production of what ? How
can an over-pro.duction of wheat and potatoes produce an over-pro-
duction of everything else ? How happens it that all the industries
appeared to collapse together ? Was there over-production in all ?
Has each person in these United States got all the clothing and arti-
cles of comfort and luxury he can possibly desire ? How can over-
production be chargeable with this state of affairs, when, by a little
thought upon the matter, we might see that the evidence points to
