THE LABOR-QUESTION. 611
violence, to maintain high prices upon their wares. No more have
working-men this right when selling their labor. When they find it
necessary to employ each other, they are just as exacting as tlie capi-
talists in demanding well-done work at low rates.
The capitalist will gladly welcome all unemployed laborers when
the prices of his goods can be regulated by the demand for them, in-
stead of, as now, by the high wages he is compelled to pay his men
and high prices for his raw materials. He will have no fear of over-
gtockino; the markets of a world where men's wants are so numerous
and insatiable. But it will not do to let him toy with men's wages
at every whim he has. Men must seek for the highest remuneration
without combination, compulsion, or restriction. Business-men must
seek the highest prices in the same way. Excessive selfishness on
the part of employe, as well as employer, lies at the root of the mat-
ter. When this is toned down, and each works for the other's interest,
things will go better with both. Till then we may expect to see mis-
ery, and hear the wail of want from many quarters. Relieve this by
giving the laborer something to do, however trifling, and not by alms.
Ask the state to do nothing, or you will impose extra burdens upon
the worthy, and sink them to pauperage. Teach working-men to live
more economically, and practise self-restraint. Advise them to com-
pete with each other in doing the most and best work they possibly
can for their employer while in his employ. Teach them that they
bring down their own wages, and that this is not their employer's
doings. Show them that, if the wages descend slowly and steadily, it
will avoid a crash of business, and, making goods correspondingly
cheap, do them good rather than harm in the end. Train them into
that true spirit of freedom and faith that will enable them to allowfel-
low-workmen, who are in need, to sell their labor for what they choose.
Teach the employers to work for the interests of their men. Teach
them to be less avaricious in demanding high profits for themselves.
Teach them to give the working-men the highest wages the market
will allow. Teach them to be honest and truthful with each other,
and the public. Teach each class these points, and the highest sub-
stantial advantages to the working-class will soon be realized as a liv-
ing fact. The present and past troubles are the legitimate fruits of our
social immorality. The poor are not the only sufferers. Things, as
they now exist, are about the best possible to our present stage of
development. With improvement of men's natures will come a cor-
responding improvement of society. All that we can do is to search
after the laws governing such matters, and remove obstructions from
the way. With this done, leave all else to the vis medicatrix naturm.
