SKETCH OF PROFESSOR SIMON NEW COMB. 613
associated with any brilliant discovery or achievement in astrononi}-,
he has, nevertheless, secured as great a reputation as was ever gained
by an American astronomer, and is quoted abroad as among the high-
est authorities in mathematical astronomy. Perhaps the secret lies
in the unity of purpose which has characterized all his efforts. His
special field has been that of " exact " astronomy the prediction of
the motions of the heavenly bodies from their mutual gravitation
the perfection of the tables and other data, from which the " Nautical
Almanac " is prepared, in order that the navigator and surveyor may
be enabled to find their positions by sea or land. When the late
Admiral Davis founded the "American Nautical Almanac," some
twenty-five years ago, the tables and other materials for its construc-
tion were extremely imperfect, but Prof. Newcomb's studies have all
tended to their improvement.
Prof. Newcomb gained a European reputation while still a com-
puter at Cambridge, by his paper " On the Secular Variations and
Mutual Relations of the Orbits of the Asteroids." The question of
the correctness of Olher's theory, that these bodies resulted from the
explosion of a single planet, had never been decided, because no one
had ever investigated the changes which their orbits had undergone
in past ages. This was done in the paper we have mentioned, and it
was shown that the orbits could never have intersected in a single
point, unless they had in the mean while been deranged by some un-
known cause.
Since his appointment in the navy his most considerable works,
outside of his duties at the observatory, have been the "Investiga-
tion of the Orbits of the Two Outer Planets, Uranus and Nieptune,"
accompanied by elaborate tables, which were at once adopted in all
the nautical almanacs of Europe and America. In the preparation of
these " tables," Prof. J. Henry, his kind and firm friend of now more
than twenty years, took great interest, and gladly assisted him by
supplying him with funds from the Smithsonian.
In 1867 the observatory published his "Investigations of the Dis-
tance of the Sun," leading to the value of the Solar Parallax now
most generally adopted, namely, 8", 84 8.
In 1870 he visited Europe to observe the total eclipse in the Medi-
terranean, and was everywhere received with the highest distinction
in scientific circles.
He took an active part in procuring the great telescope for the
Washington Observatory, and was in charge of it during the first
year or two after its erection, investigating with it the satellites of
his two favorite planets, Uranus and Neptune.
When Congress authorized the organization of parties to observe
the late transit of Venus, Prof. Newcomb was appointed one of the
commission to prepare the plans for those parties, and to arrange for
the complete execution of those plans, after the return of those parties
