6i4 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
to the observatory. From the first meeting of this commissiou Prof.
Newcomb has acted as secretary thereof. Prof. Newcomjb's most
recent labors have been on the motion of the moon, and the possible
variability of the sidereal day, on which subject he has published
several fragmentary discussions. Hansen's tables of the moon have
deviated from observation for several years past in a remarkable
manner, and he has accounted for the changes by an acceleration in
the rotation of the earth on its axis. It is now considered that he
has proved the actual existence of this acceleration beyond reason-
able doubt.
In February, 1874, he was the recipient of the gold medal of the
Koyal Astronomical Society of Great Britain. The presentation was
jjreceded by an address by the president, Prof. Cayley, in which,
after giving an account of several of Prof. Newcomb's most important
contributions to mathematical science, he says : " They exhibit all of
them a combination, on the one hand, of tnathematical skill and power,
and, on the other hand, of good hard work, devoted to the furtherance
of astronomical science." Thus, though belonging to the younger
generation of astronomers, Prof. Newcomb has received his full share
of honors, both at home and abroad. Graduating as B. S. at Har-
vard University, in 1858, he is now, at home, member of the National
Academy of Science, and of the American Academy of Arts and Sci-
ences, in Boston. In 1 876 he was elected President of the American
Association for the Advancement of Science, and presides at its
annual meeting, in Nashville, in August of this year. In 1874 he
received the honorary degree of LL. D. from the Columbian Uni-
versity, at Washington, and in 1875 the same honor from Yale.
Abroad, he was, in 1872, elected associate member of the Royal Astro-
nomical Society of Great Britain ; in 1874, corresponding member
of the Institut de France ; in 1875 he received the honorary degree of
Ph. D. from the University of Leyden, at its three-hundredth anniver-
sary. Also in that year he was made a member of the Imperial Acad-
emy of Sciences of St. Petersburg, member of the Royal Swedish
Academy of Sciences, and member of the Royal Bavarian Academy
of Sciences.
