COBRESP ONDENCE,
615
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the Popular Science ilonthly.
SIR : In the last number of The Popular
Science Monthly Mr. E. R. Leland re-
plies to my article in the July issue entitled
" Over-Consumption, or Over-Production ? "
misstating some and misconceiving other of
my arguments. It would be an infringe-
ment on your space for me to follow Mr.
Leland through all his assertions, and at
best I should be only repeating arguments
already made. But Mr. Leland attempts to
formulate my theories, and, as I think I can
do this more accurately than he, permit me
to reaffirm what I have said in this com-
pact form, which will be the briefest and
most satisfactory method of meeting Mr.
Leland's reply :
1. The resources of Nature are gratui-
tous ; they are practically exhaustless ; and,
as the activity of capital and the energy of
labor are not fixities, large consumption or
demand (Mr. Leland talks of wasteful con-
sumption as if the word " wasteful " were
mine) stimulates the energy of capitalists,
leads to the application of improved ma-
chinery, brings about better transportation,
so that as a result all, or nearly all, products
are proportionately increased in abundance
because of extended consumption, and the
possibilities of consumption. Mr. Leland
says : " That the demand for a commod-
ity stimulates the supply is most true, and,
where increase is possible, the supply is
increased until the widest area of demand
is filled at a minimum cost, but it is only
by economy that this minimum can be
reached." We repeat Mr. Leland's words
" most true." But large consumption is
a powerful agent in securing minimum of
cost in production ; it brings in competi-
tion, it leads to the invention of machinery
and improved methods of production or
manufacture in fact, minimum of cost is
never reached except in those things that
are in general use. Consumption or de-
mand leads, therefore, as a rule, not only to
greater abundance, but to greater cheap-
ness. But I do not mean, and I did not
speak of, wasteful destruction, which Mr.
Leland dwells upon so much, but of use.
Waste is foolish, in the first place, because
it confers no good upon any one ; and, sec-
ondly, because it is only the certainty and
regularity of legitimate use that exercise a
healthful stimulus upon production. Waste,
that destroys machinery, permits bridges to
go into decay, destroys roads, lets grain
rot in its storehouses, burns up cities, ex-
hausts the reserves of capital, is direful ;
but wse, which is the means of setting mill-
ions of busy hands to work, is another
thing. I know the economists say that
capital alone determines the fact of produc-
tion, demand merely governing the direc-
tion it shall take ; but is it not clear that,
if we reduce consumption to its minimum,
production will shrivel up ?
2. The extravagance of an individual
has some essential difference from the ex-
travagance of a whole community. Of
course, one bankrupt multiplied ten thou-
sand times simply gives us ten thousand
bankrupts. It was scarcely necessary for
Mr. Leland to point this out. But a com-
munity considered as a unit has for its re-
sources the boundless wealth of Nature,
which, as we have already seen, increases
with the demands made upon it, so that
liberal use makes rather than reduces abun-
dance. This proposition hangs upon the
first ; if that is true, this is true. By ex-
travagance I simply meant free use, not idle
destruction ; and what I wished to show is,
that Nature yields her treasures in increas-
ing proportion to the activity that demands
them, so that we are richer in coal, iron,
fabrics, food, etc., because our wants are
many, our demand eager, our use of these
things abundant. It is perfectly true that
if the wealth of a community is simply the
aggregate incomes of its members, then the
whole must partake of the nature of its
parts ; but there is a kind of wealth that
accrues to the individual and does not to
the community as a whole, such as rcid., for
instance, which, enriching some, is a tax upon
others, and no addition whatever to the sum
total of the wealth of the community; and
in like manner there is wealth which ac-
crues to the whole, but is not a part of an
individual's income.
3. Mr. Leland makes me affirm that no
part of the nation's capital has been lost in
unproductive enterprises. There have been,
as all know, immense losses in foolish rail-
road and speculative enterprises ; but I con-
sider these losses to have fallen upon our
surplus rather than our reserves ; that our
ability to keep all our machinery in motion,
to run our mills, erect warehouses, build
ships, construct railroads really needed, do
all forms of legitimate productive labor, is
not impaired while, according to Prof.
Price, it is impaired, and this is the reason
of our business distress. I can detect no
evidence that business cannot revive be-
