6i6
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
cause of insufficient capital, the difficulty
being rather that capital is Iviug idle.
4. I am accused of attributing the busi-
ness depression to over-production, whereas
I distinctly said speculative over-production
over-production brought about by cen-
tralization of wealtli and vast appliances
of machinery, which under artificial stimu-
lus produces an excess at one period, and
tlien at another, stopping all production,
turns hosts of workmen into the streets
idle and empty-handed, followed conse-
quently by a great reduction of consump-
tion.
5. I laid no stress upon cooperation to
regulate production, merely mentioning it
as the only remedy I could suggest. Such
cooperation is doubtless impracticable ex-
cept to a limited extent. The fear is, there
is no remedy, and that we shall have as,
indeed, has been frequently predicted con-
tinually our intermittent periods of over-
trading and speculation, offset by those of
prostration and suffering. The elimination
of speculation and other" crazes" that is,
the maintenance of production in legitimate
and healthful relation to consumption is,
as I think, indisputably the only remedy ;
but how this is to be brought about is more
than I can say. Economists, surveying the
broad field over long distances of time, are
contented to say that these periods are but
perturbations ; that production in the end
iloes adjust itself to consumption. While
this is true, our concern is how to reduce
the intensity and duration of these pertur-
bations.
There are other points that call for an-
swer in Mr. Leland's letter; he gives me
some elementary instruction as to the mean-
ing of capital and of money ; and he de-
cries the fact of " released labor ; " but
it seems unnecessary for me to take your
space merely to vindicate my opinions or
to establish my knowledge of elementary
principles your readers can have no con-
cern in these matters. The thing is, to get
at the truth of the causes of our business
distress, and those interested are referred
to the article of Mr. David A. Wells than
whom there is no better authority in the
last North American Review, wherein we
are told that the community is suffering to-
day, " strange as the proposition may at
first thought seem, not because we have
not, but because we have ; not from scarci-
ty, but from abundance ; " that is, not from
impaired capital, according to Prof. Price;
and that " the only remedy is the creation
of more wants or demands for our products,
and, as a consequence, more and enlarged
employments for our labor." That is to
say, it is not by the community economical-
ly reducing consumption to its minimum
that a revival of trade is to come, as we
hear asserted on every side, but by the crea-
tion of new wants, by the stimulus of con-
sumption. This is the essential basis of
my aTgument.
With respect, yours, etc.,
0. B. BUNCE.
"THE TIDES."
To the Editor of the Popular Science Monthly.
The article on " The Tides," in the July
number of your Monthly, would be amus-
ing had it not appeared in a scientific peri-
odical of high standing ; but, when such
erroneous and ill-digested views are set
forth in a reputable journal for public in-
struction, they call for a public notice which
they do not at all deserve.
The author of the article referred to has
unfortunately adopted the errors of state-
ment and conception generally found in our
text-books of natural philosophy, prepared
by authors of no authority, for our public
and preparatory schools. I have had occa-
sion recently to examine several such books
on the subject of " Centrifugal Force," so
called, and have found very few that are
not in error. If the author of " The Tides "
had expended a portion of the time devoted
to the elaboration of his subject in an ex-
amination of the basis of his explanation
centrifugal force he could not have reached
conclusions at variance with the simplest
fundamental principles of physics.
Newton's first law teaches that a body,
once set in motion, will continue to move
on with uniform velocity in a straight line
forever if left to itself. To produce circu-
lar motion a constant force directed toward
a fixed point must be applied in addition to
the original force. The fixed point then
becomes the centre of revolution. The
original impulsive force (or continued force
acting during a finite time), and the constant
force directed toward the centre, are the
only forces concerned in uniform circular
motion. " Centrifugal force " expresses
merely the resistance of a body to deflec-
tion from a straight line in which it tends to
move, according to Newton's first law of
motion. It is its inertia with reference to
motion in a specified direction toward the
centre. If only that which produces or
tends to produce motion or change of mo-
tion is force, then there is no such force as
"centrifugal force;" for the only motions
that a body moving in a circle has are tan-
gential, due to the original impulsive force,
and the radial toward the centre, due to the
constant centripetal force. If the centripe-
tal force ceases to act, the body moves on
tangentially, in obedience to the tangential
force; if its motion of rotation ceases, it
falls toward the centre. It can take no
other direction of motion unless some force,
additional to those required for uniform cir-
