CORRESP ONDENCE.
617
cular motion, is impressed upon it. " Cen-
trifugal force" is a misnomer a convenient
fiction to represent resistance. Resistance
or inertia only opposes motion ; it never
produces it ; and is, therefore, not force.
Hence any explanation of phenomena that
assigns " centrifugal force " as the real
cause in producing motion or change of
motion is wholly erroneous, and subversive
of Newton's first law. No such resort to
" centrifugal force " is necessary in the ex-
planation of the tides.
I must confess entire ignorance of the
experimental demonstration that bodies
weigh more or are heavier at midnight than
at any other hour of the twenty-four. If
that be true, and the cause assigned by Prof.
Schneider a sufficient explanation, then the
lunar midnight should produce the same ef-
fect as the solar. On this point allow me
to quote from Sir William Thomson and
Prof. P. G. Tait's " Treatise on Natural Phi-
losophy," vol. i., page 662. The authority
of these physicists must be acknowledged :
" Hence as the moon or anti-moon (an im
aginary moon 180 from the real one) rises
from the horizon to the zenith of any place
on the earth's surface, the intensity of appar-
ent gravity is diminished by about bijootnni
part ; and the plummet is deflected toward
the point of the horizon under either moon
or anti-moon by an amount which reaches
its maximum value when the altitude is 45.
The corresponding effects of solar influence
are of nearly half these amounts."
Does Prof Schneider mean to subvert
Newton's third law that action and reaction
are always equal ? If he can prove that the
centripetal force for any point of a revolv-
ing body is greater or less than its reaction,
the " centrifugal force," he will certainly
disprove Newton's law, and compel a recon-
struction of most, if not all, mechanical
propositions.
His statements respecting the value of
" centrifugal force " (properly centripetal
force or acceleration toward the centre) as
depending on the radius of curvature are in-
correct. It is not unconditionally true that
" in a short curve the centrifugal force is very
great." On the contrary, if the time of revo-
lution is constant, the " centrifugal force "
varies directly as the radius, increasing as
the radius increases. If the velocity of ro-
tation is constant, " centrifugal force " va-
ries inversely as the radius, increasing as
the radius decreases. Neither of these con-
ditions is met in the comparison of the revo-
lutions of the earth and the moon in their
orbits, since neither times nor velocities are
the same in the two orbits. In fact, the
acceleration of the earth (and, therefore, of
the moon) toward the sun is about -,'0^0 of
an inch ; while that of the moon toward the
earth is a little less than -y^^ of an inch a
second. The acceleration of the earth tow-
ard the common centre of gravity of earth
and moon is only a small fraction of the
moon's acceleration toward the same point.
These accelerations are the measures of " cen-
trifugal force." Hence, according to Prof.
Schneider's theory, the solar tide should be
many times greater than the lunar.
My amazement reaches a climax when I
read, near the close of the article in ques-
tion, that " centrifugal force acts in a line
tangent to the earth's orbit; " or, " in a di-
rection at right angles with the radius-vec-
tor." Really, Mr. Editor, your compassion
should have saved Prof Schneider from mak-
ing such an egregious blunder.
In reference to the true explanation of
the tides, the length of this communication
will allow me to add only that, if Prof.
Loomis, in his admirable " Treatise on As-
tronomy," had applied to the tides the same
explanation and figure, mutatis mutandis,
that he uses in estimating the amount of
the sun's disturbing effect on the moon's
motion, no uncertainty would remain in the
mind of teacher or student respecting the
cause of the tides.
H. S. Carhart.
Northwestern TJiavERSiTT,
EvANSTON, Illinois, July 2, 1877.
.\
"THE ZODIACAL LIGHT."
To th e Editor of the Popular Science Monthly.
Prof. Brame's article on " The Zodiacal
Light," in The Popular Science Monthly
for July, may make a recent observation
of that phenomenon of interest. About
eight o'clock in the evening of July 3d my
attention was called to a peculiar appear-
ance of the sky. The sun had been below
the horizon about an hour. From the point
in the horizon where it was last seen a
broad band of pink or rose-colored light
followed the ecliptic across the sky to the
opposite horizon. Its south limit was sharp-
ly defined its intensity nearly the same
from horizon to horizon. Its north limit
was not determinable, the pinkish light ex-
tending nearly or quite to the horizon, fill-
ing the entire northern sky. The southern
sky from the ecliptic was of the normal
blue color, with the exception of a single
streak of a darker blue, extending from the
point where the sun sank below the horizon
about 90 into the southern sky, making an
angle of say 30 with the southern limit of
the rose-colored light, or the ecliptic.
There were none of the auroral charac-
teristics. The light was steady, and the
entire exhibition as described lasted for
twenty minutes, when it all faded away
gradually, leaving a perfectly clear sky, with
only a trace of the pink in the west.
Charles A. Morey.
"Winona, Minnesota, July 5, 1877.
