6i8
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
To the Editor of the Popular Science Monthly.
Reading an item, attributed to a writer
in Science Gossip, on the " Food of the
Water-Tortoise," in the " Popular Miscel-
lany" of your July number, showing that
that reptile appears " to have a special rel-
ish for the food of the cat," it occurred to
me that I might also relate a fact which
came under my own observation bearing
upon this subject : During last summer I
found an ordinary snapping-turtle {Chelydra
sei'pentina) in a field adjoining my residence,
and near a brook which empties into Boone
River, a few rods below. It was a vicious
old fellow, and more than ordinarily curious
to me from the fact that it had more than a
hundred leeches clinging to its shell and
various portions of its skin. I had some
suspicions that my captive had committed
depredations upon my young black Cayuga
ducks ; but dishking to murder it " in cold
blood," I let it go, and it speedily disap-
peared in a deep hole in the brook. Some
days afterward, while passing near the
place, I heard a duck squawling and splash-
ing in the water, and went at once to learn
the cause. I found that this same turtle
had seized one of my ducks by the foot,
and was trying to drag her under the water
tor " carnivorous purposes ! " The duck
was full-grown, and would have weighed
five or six pounds, but would soon have
been killed if I had not rescued it. I got
hold of the bird and drew her to the shore,
but the turtle held on, till I was able to
secure him. Of course, he caught no more
of my ducks.
But this reminds me of another inter-
esting fact. These black Cayuga ducks
said to have descended from ancestors capt-
ured at Cayuga Lake, New York, by reason
of long domestication and highfeeding have
come to have very heavy bodies and short,
small wings. Owing to the disuse of the
latter, they have become so far atrophied
that " well-bred " birds are quite incapable
of flight. In the summer of 1875, one of
my half-grown ducklings had the misfortune
to lose one of its legs. After some days'
absence it hobbled home from the river on
one foot, the other having no doubt been
torn off by one of these same predacious
turtles. The little bird speedily recovered
from the injury, though it never attained the
full size of its mates. It hopped about quite
briskly on its single foot, using its wings to
surmount obstacles or increase its speed.
The consequence was that its wings grew to
such size and length that it was capable of
flying twenty or thirty rods, and possibly
much farther. It could rise easily out of the
water, and once on the wing was able to
clear the bank and a high fence in all, a
quite abrupt rise of fifteen or twenty feet
and thus speedily reach home, while its
mates were slowly w^addling through the
grass. My flock of ducks showed in a striking
manner the result produced by the long dis-
use of their wings ; while the unfortunate
one-legged bird as strikingly evidenced how
rapidly " compulsion to more diligent use"
produced a very decided and important
modification of the wings, increasing their
strength, as well as the length of the feath-
ers. Charles Aldhich.
Webstee City, Iowa, July 6, 1877.
EDITOR'S TABLE.
SPECTROSCOPIC DISCO VER Y OF OXYGEN
IN THE SUN.
CELESTIAL chemistry has taken
another stride forvrard. In a
paper recently read before the Ameri-
can Philosophical Society, and printed
in the American Journal of Science
and Arts, Dr. Henry Draper announces
the discovery of oxygen gas in the sun,
the fact being arrived at and verified
by a long course of spectroscopic ob-
servations.
Viewed in any of its numerous as-
pects, this discovery is of immense in-
terest. Whether as an extension of our
knowledge of solar physics, solar chem-
istry, and the nature of the spectrum
itself, or as throwing further light upon
the constitution of the universe ; wheth-
er as bearing upon cosmical theories
that have attracted much attention, or
as a triumph over the difficulties of com-
plicated experiment, or, finally, as an
illustration of hereditary genius in sci-
ence, where a line of research opened
brilliantly by the father nearly half a
century ago, has been pursued with
equal brilliancy to this crowning result
however regarded, this exploit of the
younger Draper must command un-
qualified admiration.
As has been repeatedly shown in our
