EDITOR'S TABLE.
621
SEELYE ON CIVILIZATION AND RELI-
GION.
TnE inaugural address of Prof. J.
H. Seelye, upon assuming the presi-
dency of Amherst College, has at-
tracted the marked attention that was
to have been expected from the eminent
scholarship and versatile accomplish-
ments of the author. The interest,
moreover, has been especially height-
ened by the intrepidity evinced in his
choice of a subject. President Seelye
did not shrink from the responsibilities
of the occasion. Taking the helm of a
leading orthodox institution for the
education of young men, founded "we
are told " as a breakwater to Harvard,
which had been captured by Unitarian-
ism," and, therefore, as a bulwark of
evangelical faith, he addressed himself
to one of the great vital issues which
have been forced upon modern theology
and made prominent by the later ad-
vances of scientific thought. His sub-
ject is the relations of religion to civ-
ilization and to education.
President Seelye's argument has
been interpreted as an assault upon the
doctrine of evolution, and by his ad-
mirers as an annihilation of it. The
Christian Intelligencer, for example,
says, " It has fallen like a bomb into the
camps of skepticism ; " and has a star-
tling significance " in this day of theo-
logical enervation and cowardice before
a dogmatic evolutionism." Again, the
writer says : " He first of all joins issue
with the superficial and unsupported
notion that there is ' an inherent law
of progress in human nature by which
it is constantly seeking and gaining for
itself an improved condition,' and eon-
tends, on the contrary, that there is a
'law of deterioration.' Most acutely
and eloquently does he prick this bub-
ble, blown of sentimentalism and con-
ceit, which has so long been suffered to
pass unchallenged, and even been has-
tily adopted by Christian thinkers."
Now, with this estimate of the ad-
dress we can hardly agree. If evolu-
tionism be a bubble, we doubt if it has
been reserved for President Seelye to
prick it ; and if the address be a bomb-
shell, there are grounds for thinking
that it is the president's own party that
must beware of the explosion. His po-
sitions are : 1. That the historic phe-
nomena of national decay disprove the
doctrine of evolution ; 2. That what-
ever progress there has been is due to
the supernatural. He says :
" No historical fact is clearer than that
human progress has never revealed any
inherent power of self-perpetuation. Arts,
languages, literature, sciences, civilizations,
religions, have in unnumbered instances de-
teriorated and left a people to grope in the
shadow of death whose progenitors seem to
rejoice in the light of life."
Again :
" It was not the construction of his house
that taught man to build his temple, but
exactly the other way. The same is true
with sculpture, painting, poetry, and music.
It was a religious impulse which gave to
all these their first inspiration. The oldest
monuments we possess of any of these arts
are associated with some religious rite or
faith. But, more than this, we must also
notice the undoubted fact that the arts have
grown in glory just as the religious senti-
ment has grown in power."
In brief
" The supernatural is the Alpha as well
as the Omega of human thought."
These are favorite ideas with Presi-
dent Seelye, which he has expounded
elsewhere, and we shall perhaps get his
view more sharply before us by quoting
briefly from an earlier statement, also
made with deliberate care. In the arti-
cle on "Darwinism," in "Johnson's
New Universal Cycloptedia," he says :
" The history of men is full of instances
of deterioration. If we weigh it simply by
number, whether of years, or of nations, or
of individuals, degeneration and decay vast-
ly preponderate. Where is the civilization
now of Tyre, and Carthage, and Babylon,
and Nineveh ? and where are the arts which
built the Great Pyramid and Baalbec ? All
over the world we have evidence of a ten-
dency among nations and men to sink away
from civilization into barbarism, but history
