622
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
does not show an instance of a nation rising
by its own efforts from barbarism to civili-
zation. . . . The incontestable fact is, that
human nature reveals no inherent impulse
to improve or perfect itself. History gives
unnumbered cases of a downward tendency,
but not a single instance of a self-evolved
progress. The lamp which lights one nation
in its advancement has been always lighted
by a lamp behind it. Civilization is never
indigenous ; it is an exotic plant wherever
found. This is the simple truth of history,
which makes all such discussions as Mr. Dar-
win's respecting the descent of man as false
to fact as they are abhorrent to philosophy."
President Seelye's inference that be-
cause nations decay there is no evohi-
tion of humanity, does not appear to be
conclusive. The considerations alleged
as making the doctrine of Darwin's dis-
cussions "false to fact" seem to us to
be in harmony with it, and the natural
consequence of it. President Seelye
appeals to the historic phenomena of
deterioration, disintegration, and decay
among nations and civilizations as dis-
proving the principle of development ;
but how is decay made possible except
by previous growth, and how can a
community degenerate unless it has first
been organized and unfolded ? The con-
clusion is certainly logical that before
civilizations can dissolve they must first
be evolved, so that to aflnrm a " law of
deterioration " is necessarily to imply
a previous "law of evolution.'' In the
normal course of Nature the effete and
outworn must pass away. The spent
molecules of our tissues have to be
eliminated, that more vitalized particles
may replace them. Individuals when
they get old and useless die out of the
community, that their younger and more
vigorous successors may carry on the
work. On the larger scale, but in the
same way, nations die out as civilization
progresses; while civilizations them-
selves are spent in the larger advance-
ment of humanity. "We may brood with
morbid sentiment over excretion, de-
cay, and death, until there seems to be
nothing else ; yet these are normal
things, and are simply the correlates and
the consequences of growth and life.
President Seelye declares that in the
past career of humanity " degeneration
and decay vastly preponderate ; " ho
should have explained how that can be
how there could be a fall without a
previous rise to make it possible. If
he means that much the greater num-
ber of nations and civilizations come
apparently to naught, we have simply
to say that this is the law in the realm
of life : the eggs that are wasted and the
seeds that are scattered and lost vastly
preponderate over those that mature.
Nature is profuse in the waste of life,
and sacrifices multitudes where but
few are perfected. But is not this
ruthless and wide-spread destruction
only a part of Nature's policy for the
attainment of grand results ? The evo-
lutionists afiirm continuity of influence
in the sphere of life, and that some of
the nations and civilizations which de-
chne and die pass on the impulses which
they have gained to reappear in suc-
ceeding and higher stages of national
and racial development. President Seel-
ye recognizes this principle of continu-
ity in saying, " The lamp which lights
one nation in its advancement has been
always lighted by a lamp behind it."
National advancement is here conceded,
and also a series of advancements, each
depending upon a preceding one. But
is there nothing gained by accumulated
experience ? Is there no general prog-
ress resulting from the advancement of
nations in succession and under different
circumstances? If the dissolution of
states and the decay of civilizations do
not break the continuity of those agen-
cies by which man is civilized, how can
they hinder that gradual improvement
of the process and heightening of the
effects which evolution implies as the
consequence of prolonged, varied, and
accumulated national experiences ?
If we try President Seelye's logic in
a more special case, its quality will,
perhaps, be more apparent. " Behold,"
