EDITOR'S TABLE.
623
he might say, "tlie orchards of the
world ! They deteriorate and decay, and
nothing remains of them at last but
withered branches, dead trunks, and
rotten stumps. Where are the orchards
mentioned by Pliny, the orchards of the
middle ages, the old Indian orchards,
or even the orchards of the Revolution ?
The history of apples does not show an
instance of an orchard growing by its
own efforts. The vitality which impels
one orchard in its growth has always
been kindled from the vitality of an
orchard behind it. This is the simple
truth of history, which makes all such
discussions as Mr. Darwin's respecting
tlie descent of the golden pippin from
the sour and miserable crab as false to
fact as they are abhorrent to pomology."
In regard to the second and main
position of President Seelye's address
respecting the relations of religion to
civilization, it is chiefly interesting from
the indications it affords of the ration-
alistic tendencies of New England or-
thodoxy. "We by no means object to
the prominent part which he assigns to
religion in promoting the progress of
man ; and are only agreeably surprised
at the catholicity of his position. The
president says that " human nature
reveals no internal impulse to improve
and perfect itself; " this he maintains
is duo to an external impulse, to a
power above man, which he assumes to
be the agency of supernatural religion.
But the transition from barbarism to
civilization has taken place on an ex-
tensive scale. President Seelye asks,
" "Where are now the civilizations of
Tyre and Carthage, of Nineveh and
Babylon?" His question implies that
they once existed, and his hypothesis
of their origin is that they were the
product of religious inspiration and su-
pernatural agency. It will be hardly
claimed that those ancient and extinct
civilizations were due to the Christian
religion ; but if not, then they were
caused by other religions potent with
genuine inspirations and supernatural
in their elevating influence. Yet is it
not the essence of orthodoxy that it is
the only true faith, and that all other
so-called religions are delusions, im-
postures, and heathenish superstitions ?
The implication of the inaugural ad-
dress contravenes evangelical theology
by assuming that there are other reli-
gions than that professed in New Eng-
land, which are genuinely attested as
of supernatural influence by their civil-
izing impulses, and which have been in
operation whenever and wherever there
has been any improvement in the con-
dition of humanity. Now, this recog-
nition of the universality of genuine
religious influences, as opposed to the
exclusive claims of any particular sys-
tem, we understand to be the broad
ground of rationalism ; and, if Amherst
orthodoxy can accept it, we shall cer-
tainly be the last to complain. "We only
hope, however, that tliis surrender,
horse, foot, and dragoons, to ultra-ra-
tionalism, is not to be considered as a
bomb-shell in the camp of evolution.
It is a serious question whether
President Seelye has not here put a
strain upon the claims of supernatural-
ism which endangers them. Grant-
ing the universality of the religious
agency, he must explain why it is not
always efficient in the work of ele-
vation. The president points impres-
sively to the phenomena of national de-
generacy and decay. Viewed as a part
of the order of Nature, these phenom-
ena are explicable ; but, from President
Seelye's point of view, what reason is
there why all that had been gained
should be thus thrown away ? His
theory that true religious influences are
coextensive with all phases of human
progress is an important step in the lib-
eral direction; and his further assump-
tion that the rhythmic successions of
progress are due to an intermittent su-
pernaturalism can have little other ten-
dency than to eliminate the supernatu-
ral from the investigation of the sub-
ject. "Why should President Seelye
