624
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
stop half-way, and, having taken latitu-
dinarian ground in regard to the extent
of true religious influences, why should
he not complete the work of rational-
ization by recognizing the religious ele-
ment as a necessary and indestructible
part of the constitution of human na-
ture ?
The question of the agencies by
which man has been civilized or failed
to become so, and which determine his
present advancement or retrogression,
involves forces which do not belong to
an imaginary sphere of mystical ca-
price, but to the orderly course of nat-
ural things which it is the proper office
of Science to explore. The religious
agency must submit to this ordeal, and
be dispassionately studied in its laws
of action in connection with and in
the same way as all the other agencies
which enter into the great result, and
which are just as divinely ordained as
that to which theologians are wont to
ascribe everything, and of which they
claim to be the special guardians. Pres-
ident Seelye reechoes the old assump-
tion, although in a manner which shows
how far his law of decay has already
taken effect upon orthodoxy under
the liberalizing influence of Science.
But if the reader desires to obtain a
better idea of the progress that the sci-
entific method has really made in its
application to the study of civilization,
and to contrast its results with those
of preceding methods, let him carefully
read the opening article of the maga-
zine in his hand.
LITERARY NOTICES.
NoMisMA ; OR, Legal Tender. By Henri
Cernuschi. New York : D. Appletou &
Co. Price, $1.25.
This book contains the testimony given
by M. Cernuschi, the well-known French bi-
metallist, before the United States Monetary
Commission in February last, together with
several of his essays reprinted from other
sources. Although the work of an ardent
advocate of a double standard, defending
his views with ability, the book is not one
which would afford much comfort to .he sil-
ver party of this country. "We commend
it to them for perusal ; they will find well
stated the extent of the mischief which
would come from the adoption of the double
standard by the United States, unless a simi-
lar step be taken by all commercial nations.
From it also the greenback-men might learn
that a prime essential of good money is that
its issue be an automatic issue which no one
can control something independent of hu-
man agency and this, of course, is an attri-
bute that paper-money can never possess.
As to the merits of a bi-metalhc system, if it
could be made universal if the same ratio
between gold and silver, and the same mint
laws, could be established the world over
it is a question upon which a great deal is
to be said on both sides, and certainly M.
Cernuschi puts his side of the case very
strongly. But we cannot help thinking
that, practically, it is of about as much im-
portance to us as a question of lunar poli-
tics. The prospect of England, for exam-
ple, abandoning the single gold standard is
too remote for this phase of the question to
be taken into present account. It is an in-
teresting economic speculation, and nothing
more.
It may be added that M. Cernuschi pro-
poses to make silver just as good as gold for
all purposes of money ; worth just as much.
He has, therefore, little in common with our
silver-men : they would cease to care about
the " dollar of our fathers " if it were made
as good as gold ; they want it only because
it is worth less, and can be made the means
of forcing a composition upon their credit-
ors at something less than one hundred
cents.
Scientific Basis of Delusions. By G. M.
Beard, M. D. Pp. 47. New York:
Putnam's Sons. Price, 50 cents.
The author, in the introduction to this
little work, tells us that it is preliminary to
a " work on the Philosophy of Delusions,
which will aim to unfold in detail the phe-
nomena of the Involuntary Life, including
Trance, and to give practical suggestions
for the reconstruction of the principles of
evidence in their application to history and
