ON THE HABITS OF ANTS. 41
with very large jaws. These latter are generally supposed to act as
soldiers, and the size of the head enables the muscles whicli move the
jaws to be of unusual dimensions, though the little ones are also very
pugnacious. Tiiis differentiation of certain individuals so as to adapt
them to special functions seems to me very remarkable ; for it must
be remembered that the difference is not one of age or sex.
The food of ants consists of insects great numbers of which they
destroy of honey, honey-dew, and fruit ; indeed, scarcely any animal
or sweet substance comes amiss to them. Some species such, for
instance, as the small brown garden ant ascend bushes in search of
aphides. The ant then taps the aphis gently with her antennas, and
the aphis emits a drop of sweet fluid, which the ant drinks. Some-
times the ants even build covered ways up to and over the aphides,
which, moreover, they protect from the attacks of other insects. Our
English ants do not collect provision for the winter indeed, their
food is not of a nature which would admit of this. Some southern
species, however, collect grain, occasionally in considerable quantities.
Moreover, though our English ants cannot be said exactly to lay ujd
stores, some at least do take steps to provide themselves with food
in the future. The small yellow meadow ant {Lasius Jlavus), for
instance, lives principally on the honey-dew of certain aphides which
suck the roots of grass. The ants collect the aphides in the nest,
not only watching over them themselves, but, as I have been able
to satisfy myself, even over their eggs an act which one is much
tempted to refer to forethought, and which in such a case implies a
degree of prudence superior to that of some savages. Besides these
aphides, many other insects live in ants' nests. If they are to be
regarded as domestic animals, then ants have more domestic animals
than we have. The majority of these ant-guests are beetles. Some
of them as, for instance, the curious little Claviger are quite blind,
and are only found in ants' nests, the ant taking just as much care
of them as of their own young. It is evident, therefore, that in
some way they are useful or agreeable to the ants. The subject,
however, is one as yet but little understood, and very difficult to
study. Grimm and Lespes consider that some of these beetles secrete
a sweet fluid like the aphides, and from analogy this seems probable.
Other creatures which habitually live in ants' nests, like the little
Beckia albinos or the blind woodlouse {Platyarthrus), perhaps make
themselves useful as scavengers.
Nor are ants without their enemies. In addition to birds and
other larger foes, if you disturb a nest of the brown ants at any time
during the summer, you will probably see some very small flies
hovering over them, and every now and then making a dash at
some particular ant. These flies belong to the genus Phora^ and to
a species hitherto unnamed, which Mr. Verrall has been good enough
to describe for me. They lay their eggs on the ants, inside which
