LITERARY NOTICES.
)25
to logic to science and to law." In the
present voluiiie he proposes a new theory
of trance, and considers its bearings on hu-
man testimony. Trance whether natural
as somnambulism, or self-produced as by
so-called " trance-speakers " results from
activity of a portion of the brain-substance
while the remainder sleeps : this is the " In-
voluntary Life." In this state men see
visions, receive revelations, and have ecsta-
sies, after the manner of Mohammed, the
mediaeval saints, and Swedenborg.
Oriental Religions and their Relations
TO Universal Religion. China. By
Samuel Johnson. Boston: Osgood &
Co. Pp. 975. Price, $5.
The author of this work is an Oriental
scholar of fine accomplishments, and a philo-
sophical student of theology in a very broad
and liberal sense. He isa transcendentalist,
and like Emerson and Ripley he formerly
preached, but like those worthies he out-
grew the function of pulpit teacher, but
only to devote himself more assiduously to
the pen. Starting with the religious prob-
lem of humanity, and treating it with the
freedom and boldness of the transcenden-
talist, Mr. Johnson was soon carried be-
yond the narrow boundaries of the faith he
had inherited, and was powerfully drawn to
the consideration of those ancient religions
of the East which are celebrated alike for
their antiquity, the vast multitudes of their
believers, and the philosophical interest of
their doctrines and dogmas. This line of
inquiry had such fascination for Mr. John-
son, and seemed so full of promise as a
source of enlargement and a more catholic
spirit to Christian thinkers, that he resolved,
twenty years ago, to devote himself to the
exposition of the Oriental faiths in connec-
tion with the life of the Eastern peoples, for
the advantage of English readers.
In 1872 he published the first volume
of this research on the " Faiths, Religions,
Philosophy, and Life of India," as a contri-
bution to the natural history of religion.
His point of view was rational and scien-
tific, and he delineated the characteristics
of the Hindoo mind, its traditions and social
forms, its piety and morality, and the specu-
lative principles, ethics, and humanities of
Buddhism, with a deep sympathy for the
vol. XI. 40
human elements involved, but with the same
disciplined coolness of temper with which
Herschel explored the heavens, and Lyell
investigated the crust of the earth. " I have
written," he says, " not as the advocate of
Christianity or any other distinctive relig-
ion, but as attracted on the one hand by the
identity of the religious sentiment under all
its great historic forms, and on the other by
the movement indicated in their diversities
and contrasts toward a higher plane of uni-
ty on which their exclusive claims shall dis-
appear."
The second volume in the same line of
study HOW appears, and is devoted to China.
This is especially opportune, now that we
have the Chinese problem upon us in so im-
minent a form on the Pacific coast. The
Californians will deal with it in the light of
race-prejudice, and in its passionate and
sordid aspects ; but the intelligent mind of
the country will desire to inform itself re-
garding the real character of this extraordi-
nary people. To all who are thus inclined
Mr. Johnson's volume will be full of grave
instruction. It is not a mere superficial de-
lineation of Chinese life, such as a traveler
would give us who had been Impressed by
its sensuous aspects, but it is an analysis of
the Chinese mind, an ethnic study, and the
survey of a civilization. Education, govern-
ment, language, literature, history, and
poetry, are taken up systematically in the
division of " structures," and an immense
amount of most important information is
here compactly presented. It is of but lit-
tle use to talk to Americans about educa-
tion anywhere else in the world ; yet, as we
are rapidly sliding into the Chinese system
of education by state control, our people
might profitably look into the working of
that system where it has had prolonged
trial and worked out its legitimate conse-
quences.
Mr. Johnson has not failed to point an
incidental moral in this direction. He says :
" Chu-tsze defines learning as imitation
conformity to a prescribed standard ; and
in these schools even organization holds an
inferior place to the mere act of ' repeating
after the teacher, each by himself, in a
shrill voice, rocking to and fro.' This per-
fect image of automatism is not without re-
semblance to the arrangements into graded
