626
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
classes, so much admired in our Western
school systems, and to those arts of 'read-
ing in concert ' which are believed to have
such virtue in our democratic culture.
" It would in fact be difficult to imagine
a better outward symbol of the mental status
produced by these processes of an excessive
organization, so widely admired in the pub-
lic schools of America. They tend to de-
stroy all possibility of original force. Bead-
ing, for instance, is becoming reduced to
as purely mechanical a conformity to pre-
scribed tone, time, and emphasis, as the
Chinese custom of repeating words after the
teacher has produced without any organi-
zation whatever. Chinese boys, rocking
out their parrot tones, eagerly copying the
master, or ' backing the books,' do but
openly confess, in their noisy routine of
imitation, the mental slavery which our pre-
vailing system disguises under the varnish
of a ' drill.' ' Reading in concert ' has
played its part in the Chinese system also,
with effects upon voice and manner which
we need not cross the hemisphere to find in
full operation.
" Concerning ' imitation ' as a principle
of culture, let us add that, false as it is, its
moral quality at least is higher when it fol-
lows, as in China, a type that does not
change with human caprice, than when it is
subject to arbitrary crudities and idiosyn-
crasies imposed on the pupils by individual
teachers. In both cases, however, the real
ultimate reference is to an all-powerful au-
thority in that public sentiment and com-
mon belief of which these educational sys-
tems are meant to be the expression. And
when this public control has become all-
pervading, as it steadily tends to be, whether
as Chinese tradition of ages, or American
fashion of the hour, its effect through bnl-
fafion, in leveling and trimming young minds
into a dull, self-satisfied uniformity, is in-
disputable. In the course of ages it has
cast all Chinamen in one mould, and made
their intellectual productions as monotonous
as their physical type. The warning is for
us, even at the opposite pole of social and
political character."
Of moral education the author says :
" More prominent than rote-work in the
programme of the school system is respect
for moral laws as eternal and divine. Mod-
esty and humility; reverence for the old;
the evil of war and the wickedness of cruel-
ty and conquest ; the love of truth, purity,
and self-restraint ; delicacy of feeling, de-
votion to duties, fidelity to functions are
the burden of this popular teaching, the
very substance of text and precept. I be-
lieve, not only that the whole series of read-
ing-books used in the schools of China does
not contain a single impure precept, but
that there is scarcely one noble conception
of duty and humanity that cannot be found
represented in the daily recitations of these
children of a grand ethical literature, who
are taught to prize it, not with slavish super-
stition, but for the naturalness of its ideal.
Nor does this textual teaching fail of a
practical basis in the home. It would be
difficult to find any treatise on home educa-
tion more admirable than the ' Instructions
of the Sacred Edict,' whose utilitarian wis-
dom is here overflowed by teuderest senti-
ment."
In regard to Chinese education in man-
ners, Mr. Johnson remarks : " As the moral
relations are expressed in a concrete ideal,
in which no change is supposed possible, so
they are embodied in rites and ceremonies
which share their sacredness. As the child
learns ideas in the form of actual written
characters, so he conceives duties in the
form of strictly-regulated actions. Hence
the prime importance of the ' proprieties '
in education. They are not aft'ectations,
but recognized as the natural order of con-
duct, the virtue of behavior. . . . The au-
thority of fixed rules of behavior, while
scarcely more absolute than that of fashion
in Western society, is not, like fashion, de-
tached from the highest law of ethics and
faith, but is strictly identical with it. To
the Chinese, their ceremonial is simply man
in his manifold relations. Its minute rules,
which appear to exhaust the possibilities of
prescription, are believed to express man's
normal relations to the universe. They
seem, in fact, to have historically grown out
of the national consciousness of these rela-
tions, instead of being imposed by arbitra-
ry authority or transient will. What they
correspond with in Western life is not our
etiquette, red tape, or religious formalism,
but such conformities as are admitted by
all of us to be natural, proper to all right
