LITERARY NOTICES.
627
performance of functions, and therefore of
highest import. These conformities would
of course differ from those of -the Chinese,
being based on more complex relations and
wider knowledge of Nature, and hence more
open to changes of detail ; but their ethical
ground is really the same. Thus the minute
ritual of Chinese filial piety consists in rou-
tines of conduct which are recognized as
beyond all question the best, and indeed
the only, ways in which an ideal love and
reverence can be fulfilled. It is sufficiently
clear, from the spirit of these prescriptions,
that this minuteness itself is simply an en-
deavor to inspire the whole of domestic life
with real reverence and love."
After a bi'oad sketch of the Chinese
character and quality, Mr. Johnson passes
to a study of the Chinese sages, their doc-
trines and influence, and the national beliefs
on religious subjects, the development of
Chinese Buddhism, missionary experiences,
and closes his work by a presentation of
the philosophy, metaphysics, arid anthro-
pology, that prevail in China. We cannot
here even attempt to give the author's con- '
elusions upon many important topics which
he considers, and will only say that while
he evidently has great respect for much
that is to be found in the institutions and
ideas of this great division of the Oriental
world, he is by no means an undiscrimi-
nating admirer of everything Chinese. Of
course they are benighted heathen, and we
send missionaries to instruct them in better
religious ways. This attitude, however, is
not altogether favorable to a just judgment
of the Chinese character, and Mr. Johnson
has done an excellent service in correcting
our prejudices and giving us truer views of
the faith and life of so large a portion of
the human family.
A Hand-book of Descriptive Astronomy.
By George F. Chambers, F. R. A. S., of the
Inner Temple, Barrister-at-Law. New
York : Macmillan & Co. Pp. 938. Price,
$10.
This is in all respects a most excellent
book on astronomy, clear, full, splendidly
illustrated, carefully accurate, and in a high
degree popular. The first edition was issued
ten years ago, and a third being now called
for, the author has thoroughly revised it and
added two hundred pages of new matter,
bringing it sharply up to the time. His rea-
son for making the book is thus stated;
" There is a lack of works in the English lan-
guage which are at one and the same time
attractive to the general reader, serviceable
to the student, and handy, for purposes of
reference, to the professional astronomer ;
in fact, of works which are popular without
being vapid, and scientific without being un-
duly technical." In regard to the present
edition Mr. Chambers says : " There is
scarcely a single page which has not been
to a greater op less extent dressed up, or in
some way amended, with the object of mak-
ing its statements more accurate in sub-
stance or intelligible in diction. The most
important changes will be found in the chap-
ters dealing with the sun, sidereal astron-
omy, and astronomical instruments. The
descriptions of clusters and nebulse have
been made more numerous, and the lists of
objects critically revised one by one actu-
ally at the telescope, so as to make that por-
tion of the work more completely than for-
merly a vade mecujn for the mere star-gazer,
who is an astronomer simply in the respect
that he is the owner of a telescope. Indeed,
it has been chiefly with this idea in view
that so much additional matter has been
introduced into the chapters relating to
astronomical instruments. The ' Practical
Hints ' and suggestions have been gathered
from so many sources, and embody the col-
lective wisdom and experience of so many
men, that they cannot fail to deserve atten-
tion. I believe also that this volume now
stands alone in its full description, so far as
regards the wants of amateur observers, of
the mounting and use of reflecting tele-
scopes."
List of Elevations, principally in that
Portion of the United States west of
THE Mississippi. By H. Gannett, M. E.
Washington : Government Printing-Of-
fice. Pp. 164.
This fourth edition of the work named
above embodies the results of its author's
continued labors down to 1877. It con-
tains profiles of nearly all the railroads in
the region west of the Mississippi ; eleva-
tions of many thousands of points ; mean
heights of the States and Territories ; slopes
of the principal streams in the West, etc.
A map of the United States, in approximate
