628
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
contours ef 1,000 feet of vertical intervals,
and embodying all the results of the au-
thor's researches on elevations, accom-
panies the work. We are informed that,
" to express still more clearly the facts
brought out by the map, it is the intention
of the Survey (Hayden's) to make shortly
a relief model of the United States on the
basis of this map."
Influence of Physical Conditions in the
Genesis of Species. By J. A. Allen.
(From the Radical Review.) Pp. 33.
Mr. Allen, in enforcing his thesis that
the " conditions of environment " are the
principal factors in modifying species, ad-
duces some very instructive examples of
the progressive enlargement of certain
peripheral parts of animals as we go from
the north to the south. Thus the ears of
wolves, foxes, some deer, and hares, are
larger in southern than in northern indi-
viduals of the same species. In birds, the
enlargement of the bill, claws, and tail, is
specially noticeable the bill being pecul-
iarly susceptible of variation. This, the
author remarks, accords with the general
fact that " all the ornithic types in which
the bill is remarkably enlarged occur in the
intertropical regions." A similar progres-
sive change southward is remarked in the
color of animals, especially birds.
The Geology of the Eastern Portion of
THE Uintah Mountains. By J. W.
Powell. Washington : Government
Printing-office. Pp. 217.
The region described in this report by
Prof Powell comprises three great geologi-
cal provinces, designated respectively the
Park Province, the Plateau Province, and
the Basin Province, succeeding one another
in this order from east to west, and all lying
east of the Sierra Nevada and west of the
great Plains. The whole region is one of con-
siderable geological interest, as presenting
on a large scale three great categories of
facts, namely, those relating to displacement,
degradation, and sedimentation. The forma-
tions here studied have an aggregate thick-
ness of 50,000 feet, and embrace strata of
the Palaeozoic, the Mesozoic, and the Ceno-
zoic ages. The volume is fully illustrated
with plates and woodcuts, and accompanied
by an atlas of colored maps.
Geographical Surveys west of the One-
Hundredth Meridian. By Lieutenant
G. M. Wheeler. Pp. 355. With Il-
lustrations. Washington : Government
Printing-Office.
During the year ending June, 1876,
Lieutenant Wheeler's Survey was organized
in two divisions, designed to operate, the
one in California, and the other in Colorado
and New Mexico. The volume before us,
besides the general report of Lieutenant
Wheeler, and the executive and descriptive
reports of the officers in charge of the Cali-
fornia and Colorado divisions, contains sev-
eral special reports by scientific men at-
tached to the survey, among which we may
mention, as possessing a direct popular in-
terest, reports by Dr. Loew on alkaline
lakes and mineral springs in Southern Cali-
fornia, and on the physical and agricultural
features of the same region ; a report by
Dr. Yarrow on ethnological researches made
near Santa Barbara ; an analysis by A. S.
Gatschetof eleven Indian dialects ; last, but
by no means least, Lieutenant Bergland's
report on the operations of a party com-
missioned to determine the feasibihty of
diverting the Colorado River for purposes
of irrigation.
Precursory Notes on American Insectiv-
orous Mammals. By Dr. Elliott Coues.
(From Hayden's "Reports.") Pp. 22.
Washington: Government Printing-Of-
fice.
The insectivorous mammals here de-
scribed belong to two families, namely :
Talpidw, or moles, and Soricidce, or shrews.
Of moles the author recognizes four good
genera as existing in America, namely:
Scalops, Scapanus, Condylura, and Uroiri-
chus. Urotrichus is the only one of the
four known to be common to both hemi-
spheres. Of European genera of Soricidce
only one, Sorex, is known to occur in Amer-
ica ; Marina is the most characteristic
American genus. The third and last of the
American genera is JVeosorex.
Report of the Philadelphia Board of
Health for the Year 1875. Pp. 351.
We have specially to commend this vol-
ume for the many neat graphic charts which
it contains. Statistical tables are always
dry and confusing, but when they are cast
