632
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
which mention is made of the result of ex-
cavations in " the Carpenteria." These ex-
cavations led to the discovery of a large
mass of human bones, domestic implements,
trinkets, and other objects, which were at
first supposed to be "prehistoric." The
ardor of the explorers was, however, much
dampened when they found among the
treasure-trove such modern articles as
glass beads and glass wine-bottles, and the
conclusion was inevitable that the curiosity-
seekers had simply struck " a big graveyard
of the native population, whom the mission-
ary padres found and taught here eighty or
one hundred years ago." A letter of in-
quiry having been addressed to Mr. Hubert
H. Bancroft, author of " The Native Races
of the Pacific States," that gentleman ex-
pressed in the following terms his opinion
of the supposed prehistoric character of the
Carpenteria "find:"
" There is no evidence whatever in Cali-
fornia of a race older or more civilized than
that found by Europeans a cetitury or so
ago. In Mexico and Central America the
case is very diflFerent. There are a few ma-
terial remains in Northern Mexico, Arizona,
and New Mexico, but nothing, so far as I
have been able to discover, north of these
points."
Rare Minerals in Colorado. Writing of
rare minerals found in Colorado, Mr. T. F.
Van Wagenen, in the Engineering and
Mining Journal, says that thallium, in-
dium, and cadmium, have lately been de-
tected in ores from that State. Of the
rarer metals there have been found in Colo-
rado, besides the three mentioned above,
nickel, cobalt, selenium, tellurium, uranium,
bismuth, molybdenum, and platinum, and
there is scarcely a doubt that columbium,
thorium, titanium, and vanadium, will be
recognized as soon as proper search is
made. A belt of tellureted veins is be-
lieved to traverse the entire State from
north to south. Two years ago, sylvanite
and altaite were found in San Juan County.
The principal locality for bismuth-ores is in
Geneva, where two mines are being worked
that carry a considerable quantity of schir-
merite. Sulphide and carbonate of bismuth
occur on Sugarloaf Mountain, Boulder Coun-
ty. Nuggets of native bismuth are common
in the upper gulches of the Blue Valley ; the
same metal has been found also in the Ar-
kansas Valley. Nickel-ore, ranging from two
to five per cent., has been found in three
localities. Among the mineralogical curiosi-
ties of the tellurium belt may be mentioned
a telluride of mercury found in the Mountain
Lion mine. Native mercury and amalgams
of both gold and silver have also been found
at several points along this belt.
The Vienna Scientific Club. In January,
1876, the project of founding a Scientific
Club in Vienna was considered at a meeting
of the Geographical Society of that city. It
was very favorably received by the members,
and measures were taken to carry it into
execution. Before many weeks the club was
organized, and suitable quarters provided
for it in the house occupied by the Austrian
Association of Engineers and Architects.
There the club finds ample accommodation
for the social gatherings of its members, as
also for its regular Thursday-evening meet-
ings for scientific discussion, and its more
public entertainments. In March, the num-
ber of members was nearly 700, and it was
steadily increasing. The yearly dues of
members of the club amount to only sixteen
florins less than eight dollars and there
is an entrance-fee of five florins. The club
has a growing library and reading-rooms,
with a very large number of periodicals,
scientific and literary, on file. If such clubs
as this, and equally inexpensive, were found-
ed in our large American cities, they would
afford a much-needed means of communica-
tion between workers in different branches
of science. Further, they would give some-
thing like organization to the body scientific,
and perhaps add weight to scientific opinion.
Steel-Bronze Cannon. Uchatius's inven-
tion of "steel-bronze" cannon rests, says
Nature, on the observation that all metals
(lead and zinc excepted) gain an increase
of elasticity, after undergoing a continuous
weighting above their first limit of elastici-
ty. Later experiments by the inventor of
the steel-bronze cannon appear to show
that even homogeneous bronze is capable
of a great increase of its elasticity through
simple stretching without condensation. It
is only a stretching of the vnetals above
