POPULAR MISCELLANY.
633
their limit of elasticity, whereby the mole-
cules, brought to a state of flow, glide over
each other, and assume a wholly new po-
sition more favorable to resistance, that
causes the increase of elasticity. A simple
condensation produces merely an increase
of the absolute solidity and diminution of
the tenacity, but no real increase of elas-
ticity. The limit of elasticity may be raised
nearly to the breaking consistence, so that,
in many cases, it is six and seven times the
original. Mere stretching for a short time
is of little use ; the tension must last a con-
siderable time. It is also well to apply a
gradually-increasing weight.
Properties of White Paint. As the re-
sult of hundreds of experiments in carbon-
ate of lead and hydrate of lead, both sepa-
rately and mixed, Messrs. Wigner and Har-
land, of the British Society of Public Ana-
lysts, reach the conclusion that a white
paint, to be efficient, and to possess both
the powers of laying on readily and easily,
and by its opacity hiding the color be-
neath, must consist of an admixture of hy-
drate and carbonate of lead in a certain
definite proportion. The true proportion
would appear to be three equivalents of
carbonate of lead and one equivalent of hy-
drate. The experiments further show why
zinc-white, carbonate of magnesia, and other
metallic oxides and carbonates, do not yield
good paints. In the case of white-lead a pos-
itive chemical compound has been formed,
and the seventy-five per cent, or there-
abouts, of carbonate of lead present has
been dissolved in the chemical compound,
and so a paint has been formed which pos-
sesses a covering power in excess of any
other compound known. Until some means
can be devised by which oxide of zinc or
some other substance can be dissolved in
the same way, so as to form a paint pos-
sessing characters somewhat different from
a mere emulsion, it is vain to expect that
they can equal good white-lead.
Cliange of Tint in Flowers. The change
of tint in flowers of Ipomoa purpurea (morn-
ing-glory) under the influence of atmos-
pheric moisture was the subject of a com-
munication by Prof. D. S. Martin to the
New York Academy of Sciences. The phe-
nomenon was observed in dark-blue flowers
of this plant, and it was found to occur
under two aspects, viz., 1. A reddening of
the general blue color when the air is
charged with moisture ; and, 2. The produc-
tion, by drops of rain, of sharply-defined
spots upon the blue, which are at first red,
and then bleach to white. Prof. Martin
was led to examine the subject experimen-
tally, by testing the flowers with acids and
with ammonia-water. The result was such
as was to have been expected with vege-
table blues, that is to say, the ammonia had
no effect, while the solutions of acids (ox-
alic, tartaric, and carbolic) produced the red
coloring easily. Tried upon the pink varie-
ty of flowers, the acids had no effect, and
the ammonia produced a strong blue color,
which ere long passed away by evaporation.
It is therefore evident, the author concludes,
that this effect is due to some acid sub-
stance dissolved or absorbed by atmospher-
ic water. If the latter is diffused through
the air without precipitation, a general red-
dening of the blue corollas appears; if it
falls upon them as rain and stands for a
while, every drop produces a sharp spot
that passes from red to white.
Barflfs Method for preserving Iron. A
method proposed by Prof. Barff for pre-
venting the corrosion of iron consists in
producing upon the surfaces of the iron
articles to be protected a coating of the
black or magnetic oxide of iron. This he
does by raising the iron articles, in a suit-
able chamber, to a temperature of from
500 to 1,200 Fahr., and then passing
steam into this chamber, keeping the arti-
cles for five, six, or seven hours, as the case
may be, at that temperature, in an atmos-
phere of superheated steam. At a tempera-
ture of 1,200 Fahr., and under an exposure
to superheated steam for six or seven hours,
the iron surface becomes so changed that it
will stand the action of water, even though
it be impregnated with the acid fumes of the
laboratory. When the process is carried on
at a lower heat, the iron articles will resist
any amount of moisture with which they
may come in contact in a house or building ;
but they will not permanently resist the ac-
tion of the weather out-of-doors. The rea-
son of this is, that only a thin film of the
