POPULAR MISCELLANY.
635
the use of the various kinds of baths wards
off disease, or that washing in cold watei"
prevents catarrh, rheumatism, etc. As long
as " water manipulation " is accompanied by
an agreeable general sensation and no erup-
tion on the surface of the skin occurs, it
may be pursued as a pastime ; but when it
produces great itching or eruption on the
skin, the bathing and washing must cease.
The consequences of friction, douches, hot
vapor, shampooing, etc., sooner or later
show themselves in the shape of permanent
redness, a sensation of burning or itching,
and the production of nodules and furuncles,
which precede the formation of pustules and
abscesses. Prof. Hebra speaks as follows
of the employment of water in the treat-
ment of skin-diseases :
"Its employment is contraindicatcd in
all sensitive, irritable persons whose skin is
liable to prolonged redness, the production
of rashes, and itching ; in all cutaneous af-
fections accompanied by acute swelling and
serous infiltration ; and in all chronic der-
matoses in which the horny layer of the
epidermis either through the effects of
disease or of remedies has been removed,
exposing the layer beneath. Thus it is not
proper to employ water soon after using
stimulating substances externally, as ar-
senic, iodic mercury, etc. By avoiding
water and employing starch or other inert
powder, the healthy state of the surface
will be much sooner restored. Water, on
the contrary, is indicated in those diseases
where its macerating and irritating eifecta
are useful, namely, in chronic dermatoses,
such as psoriasis, lichen, ichthyosis, old
eczema, prurigo, etc. Water also exerts
the most beneficial effects when different
secretions the products of inflammation,
and the remains of dead tissue have to
be removed, as in abundantly-suppurating
wounds, ulcers, and gangrene. It is useful
also in favoring the formation of new epi-
dermis in pemphigus, and after extensive
destruction of the skin by burns or caustic
substances."
Domestication of thfe Wild-Turkey. The
following observations on the habits and
domestication of the wild-turkey we take
from a paper of similar title by J. D. Caton,
published in the American Naturalist. Mr.
Caton commenced domesticating the wild-
turkey about ten years ago, his original
stock having been procured from the eggs
of the wild hen ; it has been twice replen-
ished in the same way. The young birds
from the wild-turkey's eggs, when brought
up in close intimacy with the human fam-
ily, become very tame, but they are afraid of
strangers, and when anything excites their
suspicion they take wing and are off like
a flock of quails. The young turkeys breed
freely when a year old. Mr. Caton is now
raising the eleventh generation of the do-
mesticated wild-turkey, and says that the
breed has not deteriorated either in size or
in reproductive powers. But they have
changed in form and in the length of the
legs ; the body is shorter and more robust,
and its position is more horizontal. As re-
gards color but little change was observed
in the first or second generation ; after that,
the tips of the tail-feathers and tail-coverts
began to lose the soft chestnut-brown of
the wild-turkey, and to become lighter ; the
changeable purple tints of neck and breast
assumed a greenish shade ; the bristles on
the naked portions about the head became
more sparse or altogether disappeared ; the
blue about the head and the purple of the
wattles became bright -red; the pinkish-
red of the legs became dull or changed
to brown. These changes of color were
seen in the first year of the bird's growth,
but in its second these marks of degenera-
tion would in most individuals, especially
the cocks, disappear, and the plumage
would show the thorough-bred wild-turkey.
Each succeeding generation shows these
changes to be more pronounced, but each
year as the bird grows older the shades of
color of the wild parent become more dis-
tinct. But Mr. Caton has hens now three
or four years old with brown legs and on
whose feathers the white has very consider-
ably superseded the cinnamon shade, and
he is satisfied that without a fresh infusion
of wild blood in the course of fifteen or
twenty years more but few individuals would
show the distinctive marks of the wild-tur-
key to any considerable extent.
The habits of the wild-turkey are not
so rapidly changed as the form and color-
ing, still they too change. The wild-turkey
cock by the time he is five months old seeks
