636
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
a perch well up in the largest trees in his
range, and as he grows older he is disposed
to roost higher and higher, till he is fre-
quently found at the very apex of the tallest
tree. This habit is scarcely impaired by
domestication in the second and third gen-
erations, but after that the birds grow less
and less ambitious of high places, till at last
they come down to about the level of the do-
mestic turkey. The timidity characteris-
tic of the wild-turkey is eradicated very
slowly. When the wild-turkey in the forest
voluntarily leaves her nest, she always cov-
ers it carefully with leaves. This is done
with less care by the first descendants of the
wild hen, and each succeeding generation
becomes more careless in this respect.
Prof. Thorston on onr Domestic Metals.
The statement is made by Prof. Robert
H. Thurston that this country has for years
been importing cast-iron, while domestic
products of equal and even greater intrinsic
value sell at lower price. Other similar
instances of unwisdom are cited by Prof.
Thurston, as, for example, the fact that we
are importing boiler-plate at eleven cents a
pound, when we can purchase American
steel, vastly superior in all respects for the
special purposes to which the former article
is applied, at eight cents. Again, we im-
port vast quantities of foreign steel tools,
when at Pittsburg and elsewhere we make
steel fully its equal. In New England and
Pennsylvania we have ores from which is
made the finest cast-iron ordnance in the
world. In Ohio we make a metal for car-
wheels such as is never seen in Europe, and
of such tenacity and elasticity that foreign
engineers listen incredulously when it is
described. Our Lake Champlain ores make
an iron fully equal to Swedish for conver-
sion into steel ; and around Lake Superior
and in Missouri we have deposits from which
comes Bessemer metal far superior to the
phosphorus-charged metal we import. New
Jersey supplies us with zinc which meets
with no competition as a pure metal, and
which can be used without purification even
for chemical purposes ; and our native cop-
per is absolutely free from admixture with
injurious elements. It is time that these
facts should be known, and that the people
should disabuse their minds of the idea that.
because a commodity is " imported," it is
therefore of greater intrinsic value than a
domestic product.
The Deterioration of Silli Fabrics. The
complaint is frequently heard that the silk
fabrics now manufactured are by no means
as lasting as similar fabrics manufactured
twenty or thirty years ago. That this com-
plaint is justified, the Wareliouseman and
Draper admits, and then points out the
causes of the deterioration. Adulteration
of silk on a large scale, and systematically,
began about eighteen years ago, soon after
the Bilk-worm disease had made its appear-
ance in the silk-producing countries of Eu-
rope, when raw silk rose from twenty-one
and twenty-two shillings sterling per pound
to as much as sixty shillings. In order to
keep down the price of the manufactured
goods, foreign materials were introduced,
and these were often in excess of the silk.
"It would be curious," says a writer on the
subject of " weighting " silks, " to follow one
pound of China or Italian silk through its
various processes in reaching a silk dress.
The silk is sent to the dyers, and the first
process is boiling off". All silk in its natural
state has a certain amount of gum in it ; this
must be boiled off, and, when this is done,
sixteen ounces are reduced to twelve. It is
then dyed black, and the process of weight-
ing commences. The twelve ounces is sent
to the manufacturer, varying from twenty-
four to fifty-two ounces. I have to-day seen
silk dyed and weighted in Lyons up to fifty-
two ounces. Very large dye-works exist in
Lyons for the purpose of doing this busi-
ness ; and it is done to perfection."
Fatality of Inebriety. In an article on
the "Duration, Mortality, and Prognosis of
Inebriety," by Dr. T. D. Crothers, published
in the Quarterly Journal of Inebriety, we
are informed that the mortality of this dis-
ease has been estimated at from 96 to 98
per cent., or less than four per cent of re-
coveries. Under treatment in asylums the
lowest estimate has been placed at 33 per
cent., and from that up to 62 per cent.
This excessive mortality is due, according
to Dr. Crothers, to profound degenerations,
produced by alcohol, and the peculiar con-
ditions of low vitality, impaired and per-
