42 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the larvae live. Other species of the genus are in the same way para-
sitic on bees. On the 14th of October last I observed that one of
my ants had a mite attached to the underside of its head. The mite,
which is still in the same position, is almost as large as the head.
The ant cannot remove it herself. She has never come out of the
nest, so that I could not do it for her, and none of her own com-
panions from that day to this have thought of performing this kind
office.
In character the different species of ants differ very much from
one another. F. fusca, the one which is preeminently the enslaved
ant, is, as might be expected, extremely timid ; while the nearly
allied F. cinerea has, on the conti'ary, a considerable amount of
individual audacity. F. rufa, the horse ant, according to M. Forel,
is especially characterized by the want of individual initiative, and
always moves in troops; he also regards the genus -Fonnzca as ^the
most brilliant, though some others excel it in other respects, as, for
instance, in the sharpness of their senses. F. jjratensis worries its slain
enemies ; F. sanguinea never does. The slave-making ant (P. intfescens)
is, perhaps, the bravest of all. If a single individual finds herself
surrounded by enemies, she never attempts to fly, as any other ant
would, but transfixes her opponents one after another, springing
right and left with great agility, till at length she succumbs, over-
powered by numbers. 31. scabrinodis is cowardly and thievish ;
during wars among the larger species they haunt the battle-fields
and devour the dead. Tetramorium is said to be very greedy ;
Myrmecina very phlegmatic.
In industry ants are not surpassed even by bees and wasps. They
work all day, and in warm Aveather, if need be, even at night too.
I once watched an ant from six in the morning, and she worked
without intermission till a quarter to ten at night. I had put her to
a saucer containing larvae, and in this time she carried off no less than
a hundred and eighty-seven to the nest. I once had another ant,
Avhich I employed in my experiments, under observation several
days. When I came up to London in the morning, and went to
bed at night, I used to put her in a small bottle, but the moment she
was let out she began to work again. On one occasion I was away
from home for a week. On my return I let her out of the bottle,
placing her on a little heap of larvae about three feet from the nest.
Under these circumstances I certainly did not expect her to return.
However, though she had tlius been six days in confinement, the
brave little creature immediately picked up a larva, carried it off
to the nest, and after half an hour's rest returned for another.
We have had hitherto very little information as to the length of
life in ants. So far, indeed, as the preparatory stages are concerned,
there is little difficulty in approximately ascertaining the facts
namely, that while they take only a few weeks in summer, in some
