POPULAR MISCELLANY.
637
verted cell-action, commonly preceding this
disorder. The inebriate is literally in a
toxic condition, in which all the organs are
both unduly depressed and exalted, or in a
state of suspended activity, bordering on
paralysis. The mortality of the inebriate is
further increased by the favoring conditions
which bring on inflammatory affections, as
pneumonia, pleurisy, gastritis, diseases of
the kidneys, etc. Severe bodily injuries, too,
have generally a fatal termination in in-
ebriates. The existing degenerations seem
to intensify the lesion and its effect, and re-
duce the resisting power of Nature to its
minimum. The fatality of inebriety is in-
creasing, and its complications are becom-
ing more profound and general.
Uses of the Antennse of Insects. In
working on the problem as to the use
of the antennae of insects, Mr. L. Trou-
velot, as he states in the American Natu-
ralist, procured a large number of but-
terflies of Limenitis disippus, and with
about a dozen of these tested the truth of
a statement to the effect that a butterfly
deprived of its antennae, on being thrown up
into the air, falls heavily to the ground with-
out spreading its wings. All these butter-
flies took flight, but there was a certain
hesitation in their movements. The author
next carefully covered with thick Indian-ink
the eyes of several individuals ; when this
coating was dry they were allowed to go
free. They could fly, and, though blind,
avoided hurting themselves by dashing
against any hard object. Both antennse hav-
ing been cut off from a blinded butterfly,
the insect when thrown up fell heavily.
Another butterfly, blinded and with antennae
removed, was set at liberty on a table.
Then with a small brush a drop of sweet-
ened water was held very near the mouth,
head, spiracles, etc. The insect remained per-
fectly still ; but, when the stumps of the au-
tennaj happened to be touched, it unrolled its
proboscis and searched for the sweet liquor.
The next insect was treated like the last,
save that a drop of thick gum-arabic was
allowed to dry on the stumps of the antennae.
The insect could not use its wings, and was
insensible to the touch of sugar-water on
the sealed stumps. Experiments showed
that insects deprived of their antennje do not
copulate. The author next cut off the an-
tennae of ants, and then let) them go free
with their comrades ; these mutilated ants
did not seem to recognize their fellows, nor
did they follow the same path, but kept
moving in a circle. The author, in sum-
ming up the results of his experiments,
says that the sense located in the antennae
is not merely that of touch, hearing, or
taste, nor a combination of all these : it
appears to differ essentially from any of
man's senses ; it is a " kind of feeling or
smelling at a great distance."
Moss-Copper. The term " moss-copper "
is used to designate accumulations of fila-
mentous copper found in cavities, in pigs of
certain kinds of regulus. This moss-cop-
per appears to be formed at a comparative-
ly low temperature, and it has actually been
produced at a temperature far below red-
ness, by W. M. Hutchings, who gives in the
Chemical News an account of his interest-
ing experiments. He fused a button of
regulus, one-quarter of a pound in weight,
under borax in a clay crucible, and then
poured the molten mass into an iron mould.
After it had cooled in the mould for some
time, so that it had been quite solidified for
some minutes, it was broken in two by a
blow with a hammer. It had now cooled
below redness, even in the centre. At the
moment of fracture the surfaces exposed
were perfectly clean and lustrous, but after
a minute or two they became slowly cov-
ered with a growth of minute copper fila-
ments, which increased till in some places
it resembled a coarse velvet. After three
or four minutes one of the halves was again
broken in two, and again the exposed sur-
face was lustrous. The piece was now just
cool enough to hold in the hand, yet the
moss-copper slowly began to appear here
also, though not so abundantly as before,
and only in patches.
Fanna and Flora of the Florida Keys.
L. F. de Pourtales, in Tlie Naturalist, s\^a\-
izes the Florida Keys as a curious example,
though on a very small scale, of a land of
comparatively modern origin, which has re-
ceived its fauna and flora from two differ-
ent and very distinct sources the West
Indies and the North American Continent
