642 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
to it in baptism the name Dathyhius Haeckelii^ he of course could not
have foreseen that the poor neophyte would, like another Icarus, in a
very short time become a biological celebrity, ascending to the heaven
of terrestrial fame, and then before the end of its first decennium
tumbling down into the gloomy Hades of mythology. Let us see,
then, whether it is really dead, and whether it has ever existed at all.
And supposing we have to admit its merely mythological ai)parition-
existence, let us see what consequences result for the Moneres.
I. History of the Moneres. In tlie spring of 1864 I observed in
the Mediterranean, at Villafranca, near Nice, little floating globules
of slime, one millimetre or half a line in diameter, which interested
me very much. Under the microscope each of these globules looked
like a little star, its centre consisting of a far smaller, structureless
globule, while from the outer surface radiated several thousand
exceedingly fine threads. Close examination with high powers
showed that the whole body of the star-shaped thing consisted of
simple albuminous cell-substance sarcode, or protoplasm ; and that
the threads radiating on all sides from the surface were not perma-
nent organs, but constantly variable, in number, size, and shape.
They were seen to be changing and non-persistent processes of the
central protoplasmic body, like the " false feet," or pseudopodia,
which constitute the only organs of the Rhizopods. But while in
the Rhizopods cell-nuclei are scattered through the protoplasm, and
hence their bodies, morphologically considered, are made up of one or
of many cells, nothmg of the kind is to be seen in the protoplasmic
globules observed at Villafranca. For the rest, no difference was to
be found between the two with resj^ect either to the motions of the
filaments or to the manner in which they were employed as organs of
touch for sensation, or as organs of nutrition for taking in food. To
complete the natural history of the little protoplasm-globule, wdiich I
had studied with great minuteness, all that was still needed was a
knowledge of its mode of propagation. In this, too, I was finally
successful. After some time the little creature broke up into two
halves by simple division, and each of these went on living like the
original one. Thus I had learned the whole life-cycle of what I had
to regard as one of the simplest organisms conceivable, and I gave it,
in recognition of its fundamental significance, the name of Proto-
genes primordialis, "first-born of primeval time." An accurate
description of it was published by me in vol. xv. of the Zeitschrift
fur loissenschaftUche Zoologie (p. 360, Plate XXVI., Figs. 1 and 2).
The very next year two distinct, extremely simple organisms, very
closely resembling Protogenes, were described by the distinguished
microscopist Cienkowski. In vol. i. of the Archiv filr mikroskopische
Zoologie (p. 203, Plates XII.-XIV.) he published very interesting
" Contributions to the Knowledge of Monads." Among the various Pro-
tista here associated by Cienkowski under the old, ambiguous term
