644 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ered of different morphological constituents, of ' organs ; ' but, on the contrary,
as all the molecules of the structureless carbon compound of the living albumen
of which they consist are equally capable of performing the various life-func-
tions, it is plain that the idea of an organism can be educed only dynamically or
physiologically from vital movement, and not statically or morphologically from
the composition of the body out of ' organs.' "
For some years after this the circle of our experiences with these
strange " organisms without organs " was considerably widened.
During my voyage to the Canary Islands in 1866-'67 I very naturally
directed my whole attention to these organisms, and was so fortunate
as to discover many new forms of Moneres. On the white calcareous
shells of a remarkable Cepbalopod [Spirula Peronii), found in thou-
sands on the coasts of the Canaries, I have sometimes noticed nu-
merous little red points, which under the magnifying-glass looked like
ornamental stai's, and, when highly magnified, like orange-red proto-
plasmic disks or globules, from the circumference of which radiated
numerous tree-shaped filaments, with branches. Closer observation
showed that these (comparatively colossal) protoplasmic bodies, too,
were unnucleated and structureless, and that they propagated after
the same manner as Protomonas, the globular, encysted body break-
ing up into a great number of little fragments. To this new genus
of Moneres I gave the name of Protomyxa aurantlaca^ and it is
figured in Plate I. of the " Natural History of Creation." I then,
during the same year (1867), found a like magnificent Moneres form
in the mud of the harbor of Puerto del Arrecife, the port-town of the
island of Lanzarote, and to it gave the name of Myxastruin radians.
Its distinguishing mark is this, that the fragments or spores into
which the globular body breaks up in the act of propagation arrange
themselves in lines radiating from the centre of the globule, and exude
spindle-shaped, siliceous envelopes, from which the young Moneres
afterward drops out.
On the strength of all these observations, I, in 1868, published in
the Jenaische Zeitschrlft fur Naturvnssenschaft an extended " Mono-
graph of the Moneres " (vol. iv., p. 64, Plates II. and III.). In this
monograph both my own observations and those of others are set
forth at length and discussed. At that time the number of known
genera of Moneres was seven. By later observations it has been in-
creased to sixteen, as is stated by me in my " Supplement to the Mon-
ograph of the Moneres" {Jenaische Zeitschrift fur Naturwissenschaft,
1877, vol. vi., p. 23). The diiferences between these Moneres come
simply from the fact that the soft, slimy mass expands and moves in
difierent forms, and that the asexual propagation (by division, spore-
formation, etc.) takes place in different ways.
II. History of JBathyhiics. The great interest possessed by the
Moneres morjihologically as well as physiologically was further height-
ened when, in 1868, the foremost zoologist of England, the celebrated
