ON THE HABITS OF ANTS. 43
species, as our small yellow meadow ants, the autumn larvae remain
with comparatively little change throughout the winter. It is much
more difficult to ascertain the length of life of the perfect insect, on
account of their gregarious habits, and the difficulty of recognizing
individual ants. It has, however, generally been supposed that
they live about a season, and this is probably the case ; but I have
still some workers of F. cinerea, which I captured at Castellamare
in November, 1875, and some of F. sanguinea and F. Jusca since
September in that year. They must now, therefore, be at least a
year and a half old. I have also some queens of F. fusca which
have been with me since December, 1874, and still seem in perfect
health. If they lived mucli longer, and could compare their ex-
periences, ants would, from their immense numbers, even in temper-
ate regions, contend with mankind on no such very unequal terms.
The behavior of ants to one another differs very much according
as they are alone or supported by numerous companions. An ant
which would run away in the first case, will fight bravely in the second.
It is hardly necessary to say that, as a general rule, each species
lives by itself. There are, however, some interesting exceptions.
The little Stenamma Westwoodii is found exclusively in the nests of
the much larger F. riifa and the allied F. pratensis. We do not
know what the relations between the two species are. The Stenammas,
however, follow the Formicas when they change their nest, running
about among them and between their legs, tapping them inquisi-
tively with their antennae, and even sometimes climbing on to their
backs, as if for a ride, while the large ants seem to take little notice
of them. They almost seem to be the dogs or rather cats of the
ants. Another small species, Solenopsis fugax, which makes its
chambers and galleries in the walls of the nests of larger species, is
the bitter enemy of its hosts. The latter cannot get at them,
because they are too large to enter the galleries. The little Sole-
7iopsis, therefore, are quite safe, and, as it appears, make incursions
into the nurseries of the larger ant, and carry ofi* the larvse as food.
It is as if we had small dwarfs, about eighteen inches to two feet
long, harboring in the walls of our houses, and every now and then
carrying otf some of our children into their hoi'rid dens.
Most ants, indeed, will carry oif the larviB and pupae of others if
they get a chance ; and this explains, or at any rate throws some light
upon, that most remarkable phenomenon, the existence of slavery
among ants. If you place a number of larvae and pupae in front of
a nest of the horse ant, for instance, they are soon carried off; and
those which are not immediately required for food remain alive for
some days, though I have never been able to satisfy myself whether
they are fed by their captors. Both the horse ant and the slave ant
{F. fusca) are abundant species, and it must not unfrequently occur
that the former, being pressed for food, attack the latter and carry off
