650 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ginning of things, turned out to be an artificial product of gypsum precipi-
tated by alcohol from sea-water, in which it is held in the state of solution.
"Wherever fresh specimens of the ooze have been examined on shipboard, no
traces of 'Batliybius' have been found. The audience were fairly startled when
Prof. Mobius, by simply mixing alcohol with a glass of sea-water, caused Ba-
thybius to appear before their eyes."
Verily, this is a remarkable kind of logic. Because spirits of wine
mixed with sea-water precipitates gyj^sum, therefore Bathybius-ooze
kept in spirits of wine is precipitated gypsum ! And this demonstra-
tion " fairly startled " the members of a German Association of
Naturalists ! That strong spirits of wine mixed with sea-water pro-
duces a light, flocculent gypsum precipitate is known to every one
that has preserved marine animals in spirits of wine. But so, too, is
it known to every man who, like Huxley and myself, has closely ex-
amined the Bathybius-ooze collected by the Porcupine Expedition, that
the Moneres-like, albuminous bodies found therein consist actually of
alhuminous substance and not of gypsum. Carmine stains them red,
nitric acid and iodine yellow ; sulphuric acid decomposes them, and
they give all the other reactions of protoplasm^ which is not the case
with gypsum, as every one knows.
If we finely pulverize certain kinds of chalk, or chalky marl, we
obtain a fine white flour, that might easily be mistaken for the re-
markable Radiolarian ooze found by the Challenger Expedition in a
limited area of the Pacific (and there only), at a depths ranging from
12,000 to 26,000 feet. This Radiolarian ooze, which I am at present
engaged in studying, consists almost exclusively of the most beautiful
and varied forms of siliceous Radiolarian shells. But with the naked
eye we cannot distinguish this dried ooze a wonderful microscopic
museum of Radiolaria from pulverized chalk-marl containing not a
single Radiolarian shell. I now propose that at their meeting in Mu-
nich next September (187*7) the Naturalists' Association exjierimental-
ly demonstrate that these enormous Radiolarian dejiosits, discovered
by the Challenger Expedition at the bottom of the Pacific, have no
real existence. "The experiment is a very simple one." Let the
lecturer bray in a mortar, in sight of the assembled naturalists, a bit
of chalk-marl containing no Radiolaria. The white powder so ob-
tained does not contain a single Radiolarian ; therefore the Pacific
ooze (consisting exclusively of Radiolarians) does not exist, since these
two substances cannot be distinguished from each other by the naked
eye quod erat demonstrandum. We are confident that this striking
experiment will "fairly startle" the beholders, and make an end of
Radiolarian ooze.
IV. A Critique of the Moneres. From the foregoing, we think
it clearly appears that the non-existence of Bathyhixis is not proved.
Nay, it is highly probable that the observations of Wyville Thom-
son and Carpenter and Bessels on the movements of living Bathybius
