BATHYBIUS AND THE M ONERS. 651
were correct. We will, however, for the nonce, suppose the contrary
to be the fact, and will grant that Bathybius is not a Moneres, nor even
an organism. Does it follow from this that the Moneres too have no
existence ? Or must we say that, as the familiar great sea-serpent of
fable does not exist, therefore there is no such thing as a sea-serpent?
We know that there are many sea-serpents belonging to the family of
the viviparous and highly-venomous Hydrophidm {Hydrophis^ Pla-
tiiriis, ^pysurus^ etc.), which chiefly inhabits the Indian Ocean and
the Sunda Archipelago, but none of which attain any considerable
size.
It were useless here again to quote my own researches which have
demonstrated the existence of upward of a dozen diiferent species of
Moneres, some living in fresh, others in salt water. I would, however,
state that these observations have since been repeated and confirmed by
a number of competent investigators. Some of these Moneres appear to
be very widely distributed in fresh water, as for instance the genera
Protamoeba and Vampyrella. Pt'otamceba agills and Vampyrella spiro-
yyrce may be observed almost any summer at Jena. P. primitiva and
V. vorax have been seen by sundry observers in very diverse locali-
ties. Other new Moneres forms have been quite recently discovered by
Cienkowski and Oskar Grimm. When the attention of microscopists
has been more generally directed to these extremely simple organisms,
we may hope that our knowledge of them will be considerably widened
and deepened.
Whether Bathybius is or is not a true Moneres, at all events we
already know with certitude a number of true Moneres whose funda-
mental importance is quite independent of Bathybius. We know that
even now there exist in the waters of our planet a number of very low
forms of life, which ai'e not only the simplest of all actually observed
organisms, but even the simplest imaginable of living things. Their
whole body, in the fully-developed and reproductive condition, con-
sists of nothing but a little mass of structureless protoplasm, whose
changing, variable processes all at once discharge the various life-
functions movement, sensation, transmutation of matter, nutrition,
growth, and reproduction. Morphologically considered, the body of a
Moneres is as simple as an inorganic crystal. We cannot distinguish
in it separate jDarts ; or, rather, each part is equivalent to each other.
These facts and their far-reaching consequences apply to all Moneres
without exception with or without Bathybius ! and hence it does
not affect the theory at all whether Bathybius exists or not.
When we describe these Moneres as " absolutely simple organisms,"
we of course only express their morphological simplicity^ the absence
of distinct organs. Chcmico-physically, they may be highly compos-
ite ; indeed, we must in any case ascribe to them, as to all albumi-
nous bodies, a highly - complex molecular structure. Many regard
the slime-like albuminous body of Moneres as a single chemical albu-
