652 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
men combination, while others see in it a multitude of such combina-
tions ; others, again, regard it as an emulsion or intimate blending of
albuminous and fatty particles. For a general biological view of the
Moneres this is of subordinate interest; for, however the case may be,
the creature is at all events, /rom the anatomical point of view ^ per-
fectly simple an organism without organs. It proves incontro-
vertibly that life does not depend on the cooperation of different or-
gans, but on a certain chemico-physical constitution of amorphous
matter on that albuminous substance which we call sarcode or pro-
toplasm a nitro-carbon compound in the semi-fluid state.
Hence, life is not a result of organization, but vice versa. Amor-
phous protoplasm gives rise to organized forms. Having already, in
previous writings, called attention to the high importance of the Mo-
neres from this and other points of view, I can here only refer to those
papers. At present I must content myself with pointing out the im-
portance of the Moneres in connection with the great question of the
origin of life. The oldest organisms, sprung by spontaneous genera-
tion (Urzeugung) from inorganic matter, must have been Moneres.
It is precisely the general importance of the Moneres for the
solution of the greatest of biological problems that makes them a
stumbling-block and a scandal to the opponents of the doctrine of
evolution. These men, of course, take every opportunity to dispute
the existence of Moneres, exactly as was done in the case of Eozobn
Canadense, the much-disputed oldest fossil of the Laurentian forma-
tion. The most experienced and competent students of the class
Rhizopoda at their head Prof. Carpenter, of London, and the distin-
guished anatomist Max Schultze, of Bonn, deceased are firmly con-
vinced that the American Eozoon is a genuine Rhizopod a Polytha-
laminm, near akin to Polytrema. I have myself for several years
made a special study of Rhizopods. I have minutely examined sev-
eral fine preparations of Eozoon made by Carpenter and Schultze, and
I have not the slightest doubt that it is a genuine Polythalamium, and
not a mineral.
But, just because of the extraordinary fundamental importance of
Eozoun, and because the discovery of that fossil adds several millions
of years to the earth's organic history, making the j)rimitive Silurian
formations to appear recent by comparison, and rendering a great ser-
vice to the doctrine of evolution, therefore it is that the opponents of
that doctrine so stoutly aflirm that it is not of organic origin at all,
but purely mineral. But as the high importance of Eozoon was placed
in its proper light by these unavailing attacks of ill-informed opponents,
so is it, too, with the Moneres with or without Bathybius. The true
Moneres remain, forming an immovable foundation-stone of the doc-
trine of evolution. Kosinos.
