MOLECULAR MAGNITUDES. 653
MOLECULAR MAGNITUDES.
By L. R. CUKTISS.
IN entering upon an analysis of the subject of atomic and molecular
masrnitudcs, it is desirable that we should have as clear an idea of
the immeasurably small in Nature as possible. To the astronomer the
size and relative distances of the celestial bodies are real magnitudes,
and so also, to the molecular physicist, the magnitudes verging upon
the infinitely small are just as much of a reality. The billionth part
of an inch is just as much of a fact as a billion miles.
The mathematical definition of a point consists in stating it as a
locality without length, breadth, or thickness ; but we receive no very
concise idea of the definition until we proceed graphically, and make
a dot with a pencil or otherwise, which shall possess limited dimen-
sions of length and breadth ; then, by the metaphysical process of
abstraction, we dispense with the linear dimensions of length and
breadtli, and thus purify our conceptions concerning physical magni-
tudes, and place ourselves in a way of realizing the entity or real ex-
istence of the invisibly small in Nature.
In the animal kingdom are found myriads of forms so minute that
their bulk is reckoned by less than the millionth part of a cubic inch,
yet each one is endowed with organs of sense or assimilation sufficient
to serve the purpose in their sphere of life. The vegetable kingdom,
also, oflTers abundant specimens of microscopic forms, calculated to
excite our admiration by the beauty and minuteness of their organisms.
Such is notably the case in several forms of Diatoinaeece. The striated
markings of Pleurosigma fasciola aggregate to 64,000 to the inch,
while Amphipleura pellucida often exhibit striae exceeding 100,000 to
the lineal inch. And yet the skeletons of these minute organisms are
composed mainly of silex, the silex again being made up of silicon
and oxygen. Notwithstanding the almost infinitesimal magnitudes
of the organic world, human skill is able to compete in the matter
of minuteness. Platinum wire has been drawn so fine as to rival
in minuteness the smallest fibre of the spider's web. Gold has been
deposited upon the surface of other metals, and drawn to such ex-
treme thinness that a thousand-millionth part of a grain exhibited
the visible characteristics of the metal. The oscillations of the hori-
zontal pendulum can be measured to the sottuWoo V'^'^^ *^^ ^"^ inch,
by the aid of a small mirror, a beam of light, and a graduated
scale for reading the vibrations. Nobert, with a mechanical skill un-
surpassed, has repeatedly ruled with a diamond-point upon glass the
nineteenth band of his test-plate, consisting of lines less than the
^ ^ a'o Q ^f ^" va.Q\\ apart, and it is claimed that he has succeeded in
