MOLECULAR MAGNITUDES. 655
that the magnifying of any object while in motion will exhibit that
motion increased in velocity just as many times as the diameter of the
object is augmented. Suppose we had at our command an instrument
competent to amplify the atoms to the one-fiftieth of an inch in diam-
eter : in the case of the hydrogen-atom the necessary magnifying
power would be 10,000,000 diameters, under which power the atoms
would have their motions enhanced by the same multiple, and we
should then be called upon to examine an image the fiftieth part of
an inch in diameter plunging across the field of vision five hundred
million times faster than the flight of a cannon-ball.
It follows, since human skill is incompetent to penetrate by any
mechanical means into the internal structure of matter, that we shall
be compelled to direct our labors to other modes of investigation if
we would know more of the atomic structure of matter, possessing as
it does a minuteness far surpassing the analytical power of the micro-
scope ; in fact, so hopelessly ultra-microscopic as to elude all other
processes except that of mathematics and experimental investigation.
The question of the infinitely large and the immeasurably small
has engaged the attention of philosophers since the days of Democ-
ritus. Modern investigators are, however, in possession of experi-
mental data that aid them in arriving at facts with ever-increasing
accuracy. We have the atomic theory first placed upon a substantial
basis by Dalton, which treats of the atomic constituents of matter,
and gives to each atom a definite size and weight, and establishes the
proposition that atoms combine to form molecules, and that molecules
aggregate to masses. We have also the kinetic theory of gases,
which has been placed upon a purely mathematico-scientific footing,
as has also the department of hydro-kinetics ; and experiments within
these departments are accumulating evidence concerning the atomic
and physical structure of matter.
The kinetic theories are based upon the conception that these
particles or atoms are in constant motion among themselves ; and it
assumes, also, that their movements have an infinite series of veloci-
ties in all conceivable directions, but with varying degrees of inten-
sity. This idea of atomic and molecular motion puts us in possession
of an important factor for determining the causation of all physical
phenomena. Of course we do not presume to say that the atom is
the primordial or ultimate constituent of matter, for there are many
evidences to show that the present list of sixty-five elements of mat-
ter may not be elementary at all, but isomeric compounds of one or
more simpler constituents.
The question might here be asked, '' Hoav does the physicist know
anything of the relative size of atoms and their vibratory motions?"
The answer is : by mathematical deductions, based upon the behavior
of gases ; by experimental evidence, principally in the domain of ra-
diant heat ; also in the interdifiusion of liquids and gases. Researches
