656 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in these departments have determined, with a great deal of certainty,
that the atoms and molecules of matter do not touch each other, and
that the various velocities they may assume under different condi-
tions are the causes of all the phenomena of light and heat. And,
moreover, it has been determined by the most refined experiments,
with special instruments of precision, that these atoms have a definite
size and weight, and, under special conditions, a definite velocity and
momentum. The pressure of gases has also been defined as the re-
sultant of the molecular bombardment or impact of these flying pro-
jectiles against the sides of the containing vessel.
Some molecular data have been tabulated from the calculations of
Clausius, Maxwell, Thomson, and others, but the figures given are
wholly beyond human comprehension. Thus the number of atoms in
one cubic inch of hydrogen-gas, at the temperature of freezing water
and under the pressure of one atmosphere, is given in the neighbor-
hood of three hundred millions of millions of millions, each atom pos-
sessing an initial velocity of over a mile per second, covering nearly
eighteen billions of oscillations in different directions in the same sec-
ond of time. That is to say, each particle of hydrogen, while moving
at the rate of seventy miles per minute, has its course wholly changed
something like 17,700,000,000 times in every second. Sir "William
Thomson concludes, from the data given by Clausius, that the diam-
eter of the gaseous molecule is somewhere between the ^-g U o ^^^
the -g ooooooou ^^ ^" inch, and as the density of known liquids and solids
is from 500 to 16,000 times that of common air, he concludes that the
distance from centre to centre of contiguous molecules in solids is
less than the o^o,?,,,^^ and greater than the stottoVoToo of an inch ;
and he illustrates by supposing "a drop of water to be magnified up
to the size of the earth, each molecule to be amplified in the same pro-
portion, these molecules will then be less in size than cricket-balls,
but larger than small lead-shot."
Imagine the particles of the air we breathe flying about at the rate
of eighteen miles per minute a velocity exceeding that of a cannon-
ball a velocity which, if the particles were all moving in one direc-
tion, would constitute a tornado ten times more violent than any ter-
restrial hurricane ! How is it, then, that we can survive the incessant
bombardment of such a storm of projectiles ? Simply because the
particles are moving in all directions, so as nearly to counterbalance
each other's momentum. Were it not that the molecules are continu-
ally changing their direction by executing a sort of carrom upon their
neighbors, the interdiffusion of liquids and gases would be almost in-
stantaneous. If the molecules could project in straight lines without
interference with each other, the opening of a bottle of perfumery
would permit the diffusion of its odor to the distance of many hundred
feet sooner than you could open and recork the bottle, or, in some
instances, about one-third of a mile in one second of time.
