68o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The important truth that it has been sought to reach by these con-
siderations is, that organic evolution is but one of the minor manifes-
tations of universal evolution. It occurs at a stage of the process
when the struggle between the contending forces is very great, if not
at its greatest. It is the immediate product of that struggle, and
cannot exist when either the one or the other greatly predominates.
The force to which we universally ascribe all possibility of life is the
force which is tending to disintegrate the matter of the globe by ab-
sorbing the motion of the sun. The force which constitutes evolution
proper is that which bears down all life and reduces the face of Na-
ture to a desert waste. The interaction of these two forces, where
they are suitably proportioned, effects the organization of portions of
the matter on the globe, and organization itself is life. The period of
greatest organic perfection on a planet is therefore very different from
the period of its greatest cosmical perfection, which corresponds with
that of complete equilibration. Cosmical evolution is the histoi-y of
the universe, organic evolution is a transient episode in the life of a
paltry planet. We can only console ourselves with the belief that,
but for this trifling digression of Nature, no being would have existed
capable of formulating the laws of the universe.
Organic evolution must not, however, be restricted to the mere
span which the life of an individual represents. To fully comprehend
its scope, the conception of the organic aggregate should be extended
to embrace all the life, past, present, and future, on the globe. The
mysterious process of reproduction, unknown to all other aggregates,
has the effect of binding all livinsf organisms into one continuous
whole, and giving to all terrestrial life the stamp of unity. The indi-
viduals of a race or species do not represent so many distinct aggre-
gates. The qualities of antecedent forms, whether inherited or ac-
quired, are transmitted to subsequent forms, thus conserving, as it
were, all the organization previously evolved. Although the dissolu-
tion of the individual aggregate takes place, the work of evolution
which has been going on within it is passed on to a new generation, to
be there continued and again transmitted. The individual, therefore,
becomes of comparatively small importance. The real organic aggre-
gate is the race. The race alone is capable of receiving and preserv-
ing all the products of organic evolution. Ontogenetic development is
lost sight of in the march of phylogenetic development. The individual
is merged in the species, the species in the genus, the order, the class,
and all are finally swallowed up in the tout ensemble of organized exist-
ence. Organic being, as such, is the final term to which the generaliza-
tion must be carried before the true scope of organic evolution can be
adequately grasped by the mind. Individuals perish and are decom-
posed ; species become extinct ; genera, families, and whole classes,
are swept from the earth. The broadest divisions into which the
organic kingdoms of Nature have been classified have each their
