44 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
some of their larvae and pupae. Under these circumstances it occa-
sionally hajjpens that the pupae come to maturity in the nests of the
horse ant, and nests are sometimes, though rarely, found in which
with the legitimate owners there are a few F. fuscas. "With the horse
ant this is, however, a very rare and exceptional phenomenon ; but
with an allied species, F. sanguinea, a species which exists in our
southern counties and throughout Europe, it has become an estab-
lished habit. The F. sanguineas make periodical expeditions, attack
neighboring nests of F. fusca, and carry oiF the pupae. When the
latter come to maturity, they find themselves in a nest consisting
partly of F. sanguineas^ partly of F. fuscas the results of previous
expeditions. They adapt themselves to circumstances, assist in the
ordinary household duties, and, having no young of their own species,
feed and tend those of the F. sanguinea. But though the F. san-
guineas are thus aided by the F. fuscas, they have not themselves lost
the instinct of working. It seems not improbable that there is some
division of functions between the two species, but we have as yet
no distinct knowledge on this point, and at any rate the F. sangui-
neas can " do " for themselves, and carry on a nest, if necessary,
without slaves.
In another species, however, Polyergus rvfescens, which is not
British, this is not the case. They present a striking lesson of the
degrading tendency of slavery, for they have become entirely depend-
ent on their slaves. Even their bodily structure has vmdergone a
change : their mandibles have lost their teeth, and have become mere
nippers deadly weapons, indeed, but useless except in war. They
have lost the greater part of their instincts : their art, that is, the
power of building ; their domestic habits, for they take no care of their
own young, all this being done by the slaves ; their industry they
take no part in providing the daily supplies ; if the colony changes
the situation of its nest, the masters are all carried by the slaves to
the new one ; nay, they have even lost the habit of feeding. Huber
placed thirty of them, with some larvae and pupre, and a supply of
honey, in a box.
"At first," he says, " they appeared to pay some little attention to the
larvsB ; they carried them here and there, but presently replaced them. More
than one-half of the Amazons died of hunger in less than two days. They had
not even traced out a dwelling, and the few ants still in existence were languid
and without stren|plh. I commiserated their condition, and gave them one of
their black companions. This individual, unassisted, established order, formed a
chamber in the earth, gathering together the larvae, extricated several young
ants that were ready to quit the condition of pupas, and preserved the life of
the remaining Amazons." '
This observation has been fully confirmed by other naturalists.
However small the prison, liowever large the quantity of food, these
' Huber, " Natural History of Ants."
