PESSIMISM AND ITS ANTIDOTE. 683
guished, and the nation settles down to decay. Cromwell and his
Puritanism introduce Charles II. and licentiousness. The Pilgrim
Fathers, Washington, and other great men, lay with solemnity and
greatness of mind the foundations of the United States, and is its his-
tory hitherto a satisfactory result ? Nation after nation, Egyptian,
Persian, Jewish, Grecian, Roman, Arabian, and Celtic, shoot into blos-
som in order to rot back into forgetfulness.
And if we take regard of the individual units that are always
swarming by the millions into the world, what vast quantities get
blasted out before they have well begun to cry, not to speak of the
possible units frustrated of birth. And of those surviving the perils
of the outset, how all get bruised and damaged sooner or later, till
death comes and snuffs out the smoky tallow-lights ! People made a
great fuss at the time about the late William King Thompson, of Brook-
lyn, New York, ship-exploder, as if he had done something more than
usually wicked, but now it is seen for the mere trifle it is. Say he ex-
ploded half a dozen ship-loads of men, was there, out of the six human
cargoes that flew successively all at once into ten thousand pieces, as
much as one individual that properly speaking ever lived, or lived
other than the most insignificant sensational existence? At every
change of the temperature of the atmosphere from heat to cold are
not many thousands of aerial midges summoned, on very shojt notice
indeed, from their gay discursions to face the solemnities of eternity ?
Animal existence is cheap as dust, the earth and stones only requiring
some little mixing and kneading in order to turn off endless batches
of men and women.
Consider the tens of thousands always being born in our large
cities, who by bad j^arentage, bad conception, foul air, foul food, and
all manner of evil influences, get at once summarily stamped and sealed
off to depravity and perdition. Think how in all our towns are houses
where choice human cattle are kept, fed, and dressed, their soundness
attested (on the Continent) by qualified officials ; and how your choicest
human cattle, rejoicing in their spiritual culture, throng into these
shows to inspect and purchase. And in this enlightened age we know
this is Nature all the world over, and Nature must be obeyed.
We are proud of the present age as the triumph of trade and
mechanism. And we know the high genius and aim of trade. Trade
thinks only on a good balance, and is proud of a good balance, be it
got out of the follies and vices of men or in whatever way. Trade is
thinning the country, crowding the towns, swelling dukes' incomes,
fattening distillers and brewers, disfiguring and reducing the human
physique^ blighting the tenderness of relations between man and man,
checking you off the values of the different sorts of intellect and in-
spiration. And, thanks to the extreme nicety of our mechanical ar-
rangements, we are cut down into the most fractional existences. As
if the disjecta membra left on a field of battle were made to spin into
