684 ^^-^ POPULAR SCIUNCE MONTHLY.
some sort of galvanic life ! In the higher provinces, too, your intel-
lectual men are distributed into departments and sub-departments as
writers or speakers, while life in the walks of fashion is a game of
consumption and show. And when on the part of busy men the day's
arduous endeavors toward the continuance of sublime human life are
accomplished, and leisure is left for reflection, then a glass of beer, a
pipe, cards, coffee and cake, a game at billiards or whist, a novel from
the circulating library, is illimitable scope for the spiritual faculties.
And if we turn to our highest spiritual institutions we see equal
signs of prosperity. At all our famous universities droves of young
men called " students " are invited to profane the holiest names and
symbols under the pretext of studying them, as if the first and fore-
most condition to intellectual activity or " study" were not a certain
degree of spiritual faculty, of purification of the heart. The towns
where they are collected for spiritual culture they defile more scanda-
lously than any other class which makes no pretensions to spiritual
culture.
Even if we single, out of the whole range of human history, the
few men of genius whom we are constrained to regard as the eminent-
ly favored and endowed of our race, we find what a broken career has
been allotted to the most of them. Have not many of them, possess-
ing courage to inspire, intelligence to enlighten, sensibility to refine
the world, sickened under the languor of neglect or got embittered at
the endless contradictions and misrepresentations of their fellows, dy-
ing at last as unfortunate men, unhappy to themselves, unbeneficial to
their contemporaries? What an evil is the not unfrequent depravity
of genius, and which under happier circumstances might have been a
great salutary influence instead ! Might not the tremendous forces of
Swift, for example, have been turned to better account than left to
explode in shocks of half diabolic hate in earlier days, and in madness
at the end ? Think of the generous human heart, brave will, and clear
head of Burns, a man of quite transcendent powers, yet fain to slink
past on the shady side of the street, left to bleed so Avretchedly to
death in the midsummer of his days. ContemiDlate the great intellect
and great heart of Lessing, a man of thrice excellent mother-wit and
eftectiveness, disposing with a lordly air of the whole literature of
Europe, awakening with his clarion-voice his slumbering nation to
new intellectual conquests, yet himself imprisoned for so many of his
best years in the stifling library-dust of Wolfenbtittel, isolated there
in the midst of an unhealthy swamp ; the world such a dish of skimmed
milk as to be incapable of any sense of honor. Was not Lessing's
child a boy of remarkable sense, who no sooner came into the world
than, seeing his mistake, made out of it double-quick ? Is it not prob-
able that many brave souls, braver and better perhaps than any known
to fame, have gone down to silence unregarded, the world's stupidity
being more than a match for the gods themselves ? Think of good
