PESSIMISM AND ITS ANTIDOTE. 685
Edgar in " King Lear," and had he been left to die a maniac, would
that, think you, have been untrue to fact ?
Even the one or two to whom Fate has been most propitious, a
Shakespeare, a Goethe, have not they too suffered from the bruises or
flattery of Fortune, fallen at any rate far short of the fullness and
balance a happier age and education might have conducted them to ?
People are indeed fond of raising monuments and holding cente-
naries (to the so-called honor ! ) of great men, but do you think there is
any significance at the bottom of it ? Very little indeed. The fathers
kill the prophets, and the sons garnish their sepulchres.
In the face of these facts and considerations how disgusting to
hear the universal cant about " public opinion ! " The shoemaker's
opinion may indeed have some value on the matter of boots, the tai-
lor's on that of clothes ; but what opinion can the masses, all ab-
sorbed in the question of simple existence, have about government
and education and religion ? At best they are capable of a total
heart-belief in names^ of dying as martyrs for names. Dean Stanley
admits that most of the noble martyrdoms have been in attestation
of peculiar combinations of letters of the alphabet. See the intellect
and heart of Scotland wrangling, down into the latter end of the
nineteenth century (and into how many later centui'ies ?), as to whether
little children at school shall learn how to define eflTectual callinsf and
distinguish between justification, adoption, and sanctification !
And all men shall be immortal ? Each despicable unit must needs
be an immortal and independent soul ? Came from God ? And God
sends by special appointment such swarms of immortal souls, often in
such questionable way, sinto the world ? And if you are really eter-
nal the one way, before., you must also be so the other Avay, behind?
What, then, of your being a thousand years ago ? And you do seem
to carry the air of eternity about you, sleeping and digesting and
pottering about nothing as you do ! Is not each individual man,
according to Darwin and Haeckel, but the temporary inheritor and
transmitter of the qualities of his ancestors, modified by the impres-
sions received during his own tenure of life from intercourse with
people, reading, etc. ? And how can the self-same life be held at one
and the same time by each individual successive link in an endless
chain, seeing the life devolves but in succession, and that each link in
the chain sparkles into existence and luminousness only during the
short term of actual possession ?
It is no use arguing that men are left to their own free-wills, and
have themselves to blame for their fates, when the whole complaint is
simply that men have no free-wills to be left to, but are total slaves.
And yet not a poor devil desecrating the earth but, under very possi-
ble circumstances, through a kinder providence and better influences,
might have been saved in the first place from being born a devil.
Where, then, is the moral government of the world, the ideal tendency
