686 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of things, the high and lofty destinies, and all that ? Schopenhauea-
and Bahnsen, earnest thinkers, arrive, after exhaustive examination
and mature deliberation, at the conclusion that the world is not the
best but the worst conceivable, the best possible issue for it annihila-
tion, man's greatest misfortune birth, his greatest happiness death.
And yet the everlasting impossibility of accepting this as a final
statement proves unquestionably its partiality proves there must be
quite a ditFerent and broader verdict. Duni sxnro spero ; respiration
is aspiration. Life is hope, is struggle upward and onward. Healthy
and robust life can set no final goal to its endeavors and hopes, but
carries deep in its bosom the promise of quite an infinity of inheri-
tance dim and unconscious perhaps, yet latently warm and unques-
tioning.
Despair is death, declension from once recognized higher ideas is
degeneration, violation of principles of honor and justice once recog-
nized is inevitable injury. In the active furtherance of spiritual or
universal ends alone has man solid and complete satisfaction. What
is the meaning of the universal Jeremiad from the beginning of time
till now but "the fall," the declension from the necessary justice and
goodness ? Down to the last stage of depravity the man is never at
home in his depravity. It is always c^epravity, and not native bad-
ness. The man's unsightliness, alienation from himself and his fel-
lows, inward sense of bankruptcy and ruin, is an eloquent, pathetic
sermon in behalf of the true. Injustice, selfishness, disavowal of
obligations, seizure of others' property, never enriched or profited a
man, but has always been so much inward contraction, induration,
plethora, deliration always so much disease involving so much pain,
demanding so much expiation.
The subordination of self in the pious recognition of the eternal
laws (= religion) and the adequate willing execution of the same
(= art) that alone is life, and a man is more or less according to the
measui'e of his possession of this life. In the name of God, which is
our highest expression of the world, is recognized something higher
than our utmost sense of the just, good, and beautiful. If, then, our
hearts go out in fervent, irrepressible longings of love toward the great
men who have met on this planet the most unhandsome reception, if
we demand that the heavy debt of love and esteem which was due to
Lessing, for example, but never paid, be at last made good to him,
that this excellent spirit, which out of a full heart would radiate to the
quickening and enlightening of his country and Europe, do not strike
his beams into emptiness, but that he himself also be gladdened by
the warm reflection of his own light is there, are we to suppose,
nothing in tlie heart of things, nothing in the primal intellect and
heart corresponding to this unsubduable demand on the part of our
remote individual consciousness ? Shall the mother-sun be less warm
