PESSIMISM AND ITS ANTIDOTE. 689
For indeed we prize life not by the sum of our possessions, but
only by the rate and steadiness of pur growth. " Not the possession,"
says Lessing, " or fancied possession of the truth, but the endeavor
after it, determines a man's value. If God held in his right hand the
sum total of truth, and in his left the ever-inextinguishable desire
after truth, though linked with the condition of everlastingly wander-
ing in error, and called to me, ' Choose,^ I should humbly close with
the left and answer: ' Father, give me this ; the truth pure and simple
is for thee alone.' "
But if we will have cleared to ourselves at the highest court what
it is that imparts to error, crime, and tragedy, their powerful attrac-
tion, so that they are indispensable to high poetry and music and art,
we shall find it is only because they constitute a dark background to
heighten the play of the lightnings, to glorify the splendor of the
sun. The trial and sorrow and humiliation serve to bring out in dis-
tincter outline the faith and serenity and triumph which, as in St.
Paul, are more than a match for all the powers of darkness. Our
conviction of the dominance and necessity of moral law is so deeply
grounded, that the storm and earthquake threatening its upheaval only
summon into livelier consciousness our inexpugnable confidence. Let
the heavens fall. Though the earth be removed, God is our refuge.
It is the conscious or unconscious conviction of every sound man
that truth is better and more beautiful than any delusion that
a man's well-being is the measure of his conformity to truth. Does
a man find his hitherto solid philosophy impugned, his most holy
religion out of joint with new emerging facts, he will not shut his ears
to the severe reason. Does Science come and knock from under his
feet the ground of immortality on which he had rested, it may help
only to startle him out of his egoism startle him on to some firmer
footing. He must feel the immortality in the present, and not post-
pone it to the future. Only he who has eternal life in him(= intellect-
ual recognition of, and hearty identification wath, eternal law) is eter-
nal. If Darwinism is true, and a man's spiritual supremacy is also
true, the two facts will square with each other. For mind and Nature
are the type and impression, in perfect correspondence to each other.
The harshest exception is, when properly understood, no exception
but a confirmation of the beautiful law. Depth and wholeness of
vision will always be song and piety, be Dante and Shakespeare, never
skepticism and mockery. The reconciliation of the spirit with Fate
and Nature is a grace which rests sweetly and unconsciously in the
heart of simple goodness, but is also the crowning grace of the bold-
est intellect which has pierced deep enough. Plato, Shakespeare,
Milton, Newton, Kant, Goethe, and Schiller, are reverent worshipers,
and walk in the sanctuary above arm-in-arm with Christ and the
apostles. We see, in the " Nathan der Weise," how the brave Lessing
received before death in fullest measure the gift of reconciliation.
VOL. XI. 44
