ON THE HABITS OF ANTS. 45
stupid creatures will starve in the midst of plenty rather than feed
themselves. I have had a nest of this species under observation for
a long time, but never saw one of the masters feeding, I have kept
isolated specimens for weeks by giving them a slave for an hour or
two a day to clean and feed them, and under these circumstances
they remained in perfect health, while but for the slaves they would
have perished in two or three days. I know no other case in Nature
of a species having lost the instinct of feeding.
In P. rufescens^ the so-called workers, though thus helpless and
stupid, are numerous, energetic, and in some respects even brilliant.
In another slave-making species, however, Strongylognathus, the
workers are much less numerous, and so weak that it is an unsolved
probtem how they contrive to make slaves.
Lastly, in a fourth species, Anergetes atratulus^ the workers are
absent, the males and females living in nests with workers belonging
to another ant, Tetraynoriutn ccespitum. In these cases the Tetra-
moriums, having no queen, and consequently no young of their own,
tend the young of the Anergetes. It is, therefore, a case analogous
to that of Polyergus, but it is one in which slave-owning has almost
degenerated into parasitism. It is not, however, a case of true para-
sitism, because the Tetramoriiims take great care of the Anergetes.^
and, if the nest is disturbed, carry them off to a place of safety.
M. Forel, in his excellent work on ants, has pointed out that very
young ants devote themselves at first to the care of the larvae and
pupae, and that they take no share in the defense of the nest or
other out-of-door work until they are some days old. This seems
natural, because at first their skin is comparatively soft ; and it
would clearly be undesirable to undertake rough work or run
into danger until their armor had had time to harden. There
are, however, reasons for thinking that the division of labor is
carried still further. I do not allude merely to those cases in which
there are completely different kinds of workers, but even to the
ordinary workers. In L. flavus, for instance, it seems probable that
the duties of the small workers are somewhat different from those
of the large ones, though no such division of labor has yet been
detected. In F. fusca I made an observation which surprised me
very much. In the autumn of 1875 I noticed an ant out feeding
alone. The next day the same ant was out by herself, and I could
easily recognize her because by some accident she had lost the
claws of one of her hind-feet. My attention being roused, I watched
the nest for some weeks, and saw this same ant out repeatedly, but
no other. This winter I have kept two nests under close observation
that is, I arranged with my daughters and their governess. Miss
Wendland, most conscientious observers, that we should look at the
nest once every hour throughout the day, and this has been done
since the middle of November, with a few exceptions not enough
