THE MODERN PIANO-FORTE. 693
may at once be made fuller, rounder, sweeter, harder, more brilliant
and penetrating, or more sympathetic. It is vain to hope that they
will be mellowed or otherwise improved with age or use.
For it is a common experience that piano-lortes differ greatly in
the ability to retain their good qualities, even though subjected to
the same conditions. It is also noteworthy that, although many in-
struments may be made precisely similar, and by the same workmen
at the same season of the year, all other known things being also equal,
they will differ in their charactei'istics, as children of the same family
mysteriously differ from one another, although retaining many marked
points of resemblance. It should, therefore, not cause surprise that
among the 30,000 piano-fortes annually produced in the States some
will be found so admirably balanced, so happily constituted, and
adapted to endure great " wear and tear," as to survive mutilation,
railway-accidents, extremes of heat and cold, dampness and dryness,
and yet remain surprisingly vigorous and strong. Engineers and
others acquainted with the conduct of iron in suspension-bridges,
for instance which does not uniformly granulate, will not be sur-
prised to learn that three strings struck uniformly with the same ham-
mer may break at widely different periods, after losing their tenacity
from the insidious nature of vibrations, and then from thermal changes
rather than blows. But hei-e we are not merely speaking of the
strings, but of the piano-forte in its entirety as consisting of a great
number of mutually-depending parts, cooperating to a common end
and the harmonious working of all.
To trace the gradual development of the piano-forte, from all its
various archetypes, would occupy too much space. It is sufficient
here to point out that virginals, spinets, clavichords, hai'psichords,
and various new forms of old types of similar instruments, were found
incapable of further improvement. In the "struggle for existence"
they failed to compete with the piano-forte, which, although at first
far inferior, has finally survived them all. During the past fifty
years, modern science has materially aided in enlarging its powers,
especially in America ; and it now claims our attention as the ulti-
mate result of a long series of modifications superimposed on modifi-
cations which have led to what Mr, Herbert Spencer might designate
as " an immense increase in the harmony between the organism and
its environment."
European piano-fortes introduced by the early settlers here soon
became useless. The dry land-winds of the interior, the moist sea-
breezes of the coasts, the violent and sudden thermal changes, could
not be endured. A new species had to be produced, for this one failed
to become acclimated. The problem to be solved in those days was
by no means an easy one. It was as difficult to improve upon the
then existing piano-forte as it is to increase the capabilities of those
we possess now. But the indomitable jjerseverance of sturdy souls
