694 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
led them to face the difficulties resolutely, and devise " new internal
relations " to meet " new external relations ; " to bring about, as" it
were, a closer " corresj)ondence between the organization and its en-
vironment." They learned that the " degree of life varied with the
degree of correspondence ; " that along with complexity of organiza-
tion there goes an increase in the number, in the range, in the spe-
cialty, in the complexity of " adjustments of inner relations to outer
relations," in what may perhaps be termed "the evolution of the
piano-forte."
Their first, rather uncouth-looking instruments, with enormously
large, solid wooden frames, appeared as an "unmixed breed," and
therefore so far stable. They did not succumb so readily to the
climate, and even presented peculiarities that attracted attention in
Europe. The native woods of which they were made were found
to be better adapted to the climate; polish was used even for the
sound-boards, in preference to varnish, which evaporated, and other
slight changes were adopted with great benefit. Yet still the requi-
site degree of strength could not be obtained from wood alone, and
the comfortable classes using pile carpets, heavy curtains, soft cush-
ions, and other warmth-retaining substances in their drawing-rooms,
demanded a piano-forte that could make itself heard in the presence
of so many deadeners of sound. Iron was then employed in combina-
tion with wood, but, the action of the two materials being by no means
uniform under constantly-changing conditions, the desired equilibrium
was not gained. In some instances the transverse swelling of the
wood fractured the iron plates. Although tliis " mixed constitution "
failed to meet the requirements then, the combination is now better
understood.
The first intention of the application of iron of the liarp-shaped
metallic rinor was not to enable the instrument to endure the constant
strain of the strings. It was supposed that the metal would expand
and contract uniformly with them, in the severe changes of this cli-
mate, and that in this manner the instrument would remain longer in
tune, although the actual pitch might vary.
In 1837 the highly-skillful American maker, Mr. Jonas Chicker-
ing, conceived the bold idea of constructing a frame entirely of iron,
and in the same year made his first square piano-forte in this way.
In 1840 he produced the first grand piano-forte Avith an entire iron
frame all in one casting. By this remarkable invention the piano-forte
gained in truth an " iron constitution," competent to bear the atmos-
pheric changes of this climate, and to it all subsequent successes are
referred.
It was a great achievement to obtain a frame capable of resist-
ing the enormous strain of the strings, but this advance imperatively
led to innumerable variations being made in various details, for the
attainment of an equilibrium, without which the promised gain could
