696 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
judicious sprinkling, ostensibly to allay dust, might thus successfully
compete with a good instrument during an ordinary public exhibition,
although it would soon prove worthless.
Varnish is now used for sound-boards and cases, both here and in
England.
The constitution of the English piano-forte enables it to bear the
English climate, in which the humidity is more uniform. When
brought here it breaks down. But even the American piano-forte can
only to a certain extent bear the trials from climatal changes to which
it is subjected, and for a very limited space of time in some parts of
the States, as, for instance, the Rocky Mountains. If a good instrument,
made with native woods, seasoned for two years in the open air, and
kiln-dried for three months at 130 Fahr., be removed in winter, while
the thermometer is at zero, and placed in a heated concert-room, the
sudden rise in the temperature, causing dampness, would affect the
glue as well as the wood-work. But when organic derangements are
not caused, a host of minor ailments set in which impair and gradually
destroy a j^iano-forte. The metals corrode, the strings break, the pins
liolding the wires relax their hold, and then turn round (in inferior in-
struments), the felt on the hammers becomes worn, the damper actions
rattle, the various centres loosen, the hammers (that deliver the blow
before the key is fully down, and then immediately retire from the
string, to allow it to vibrate and take up such a position as to deliver
a number of consecutive blows with rapidity) may act with irregu-
larity, or without the requisite vigor, and moths may attack the felt
and cloth. Although many of such ailments yield to treatment, yet
they are unmistakable signs of general decay. In forming an estimate,
however, of the longevity of a piano-forte, one should reflect on his
growing insusceptibility to sensuous ijnpi'cssions, and not institute
comparisons with newer instruments of greatly-enhanced capabili-
ties. It is well also to point out that sometimes articles of furni-
ture, free to vibrate, wall do so in sympathy with certain notes of the
instrument, and thus make a supposed defect. Articles, such as a
stiletto in a metal sheath, or a glass globe on a gasalier, are not
readily detected in the act of responding.
On comparing piano-fortes by various makers it is well also to
bear in mind the special peculiarities of each. The makers of the
Erard piano desire to produce a brilliant, ringing effect, and do not
destroy the numerous, tingling overtones which succeed the cessation
of their primaries. Sensitive artists, who desire an achromatic quality,
object to these, although they are intended to add a kind of harmonic
halo or lustre to the general tone, which in a crowded drawing-room
might appear dull and lifeless wanting in radiance and animation.
The Broadwood makers strive for the formation of a full, organ-like
tone. The Collards are successful in obtaining flute-like and liquid
tones, which in the treble are remarkably sweet and dulcet. The Ger-
