700 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
pound tones of the organ, sustained with equal energy, caused the
imperfections of the concords to be markedly apparent. They could
not be ignored, as when occurring with the evanescent tone of a
piano-forte. The super-harmonics, or summation-tones, disagreeing
with each other, developed, in common with difference-tones, a mass
of attendant dissonances, which even the employment of a double
foundation (sixteen-feet manual stops) and powerful pedal-organ, etc.,
could barely hide.
The music of the Church was then as calm and free from passion
as the sculptures of Phidias; no exciting dissonances held the listener
spellbound until they were resolved. The organ-builders, accord-
ingly, produced instruments that were solemn, sedate, serious and
grave, forcible and powerful, without betraying passion or the flut-
terings of private, personal emotion. To use this temperament would
be to destroy these features, which the piano-forte-makers did not
desire to retain. They sought brilliancy and contrast for secular
requirements, and were at once manifestly gainers by the system ;
while the organ-builders were compelled to reflect very seriously on
matters of ritual and their own reputations.
To make this clear : Let the length of a stretched string be repre-
sented by unity, and |- or -^^-^ the octave. Now, three major-thirds
are less than an octave ; for f X f X f = -f^. Again, let | or J^Ve
represent the octave, and it will be seen that four minor-thirds are
greater than an octave ; for | X f X f X f = i^V
The contraction of the minor-thirds, therefore, by one-fourth of the
ratio 625 to 648, caused a further depression of the significant note in
the minor-chord, by which it became more gloomy and depressed ; and
the expansion of the eloquent major-third by one-third of the diesis, or
ratio of 125 to 128, caused the expression of joy in the major-chord to
be exaggerated or intensified, or even over-excited, when compared
with the peaceful, contented, restful character of the pure harmony.
These violent contrasts affected the quality of the tones, not indi-
vidually, but when heard in combination. The general character of
the tone-tint was thus greatly modified.
That the ear is much more sensitive to imperfections of intervals
with simpler ratios is proved by the uneasiness experienced while a
violinist tunes his strings to the interval of a fifth (|). Twelve such
fifths exceed the octave by an interval having the ratio of 524.288 to
531.444. Each successive fifth must, therefore, be contracted one-
twelfth of this interval (or diascMsma) , that the series may be bound-
ed by a perfect octave ; and in this manner the tonal system of keys,
which is in reality a slowly-ascending infinite spiral, practically takes
the form of a circle. This fact must be borne in mind if one would
satisfactorily account for many laws of art. The ideal purity which
enraptures the creative artist is ncA'er realized ; for all performances
are marked by the imperfections attending human efforts.
