702 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
note, say " D " on the piano-forte, which has to do duty for all the
various kinds of " D," as well as those of " C double-sharp " and " E
double-flat," must be so attuned as to form a happy mean between
them.
If, then, in the extremely simple case given above, drawn from
the triune system of scales and chords, exemplified in the most insig-
nificant compositions, one may be led to doubt and difticulty, it is easy
to understand that violinists and others prefer to follow blind rules,
leading them to make, for instance, all notes with sharps, higher than
their enharmonic equivalents in flats, and vice versa, in elaborate com-
positions, that would involve calculations of extreme complexity ; or,
in such cases, to follow their own subjective feelings rather than seek
justification by mathematical proofs, especially when performing
alone their own parts, and thus not called upon to act in conformity
with others. In such cases, notes depressed, and having a downward
tendency, are more depressed ; and notes raised, which are aspiring,
are made more elevated. The interval C : G flat would therefore be
contracted, and that of C : F sharp enlarged in the following (fre-
quently-heard) expressions :
G-flat F. F-sharp G.
C D-flat and C B.
The " C " in the first progression is also virtually a raised note, and
the " C " in the second a depressed note, as may be seen by reference
to the scales indicated by the terminating chords. The laws which
musicians obey, consciously or unconsciously, in the ordinary routine
of composition and performance, are very fascinating, and will ere long
be systematized.
The three scales given above prove that the chord of A-minor,
formed with two notes from the chord of C, differs in altitude from
the chord of A-minor formed from the chord of the parallel A-major,
by depressing the third ; and also that the minor-third from the sec-
ond to the fourth note of a scale is smaller than the remaining minor-
thirds. These facts seem to have escaped the attention of all writers
on harmony, who bewilder students with elaborate arguments respect-
ino- the so-called " chord of the added sixth," that undermine their
own theories.
Having now drawn attention to the use of the piano-forte, its evo-
lution, longevity, ailments, etc., and compared it with the violin with
reference to its vitality; having also shown some of the singular facts
that are the common experience of piano-forte makers and tuners
respecting the human ear, and the system of temperament, which has
not been a hinderance to the course of modern art let us now con-
sider that remarkable phenomenon, the " peculiarity of the key," which
remains, or is acknowledged to remain, by most candid persons, even
now that equal temperament is universal, and that the pitch has been
gradually raised.
