THE MODERN PIANO-FORTE.
703
111 the English translation of Bombet's " Life of Haydn " a list of
the keys is given with their acknowledged characteristics appended.
Thus : " D-flat major. Awfully dark. In this remote key Haydn and
Beethoven have written their sublimest thoughts. They never enter
it bjit for ti'agic purposes." Again " A-flat major. The most lovely
of the tribe. Unassuming, gentle, soft, delicate, and tender, having
none of the pertness of A in sharps. Every author has been sensible
of the charm of this key, and has reserved it for the expression of his
most refined sentiments." And so on. Now, it was never supposed
that the peculiarities of the keys could be confused with the peculiar-
ities of the old modes, such as Dorian, Phrygian, etc., which led Dry-
den to say, " Softly sweet in Lydian measure ; " for all these modes
were designedly, mathematically, and markedly, dissimilar. But it
was generally supposed that the " unequal temperament," which fa-
vored some keys at the expense of others, led to the various, other-
wise unaccountable, characteristics. These, however, have remained,
singularly enough, with the "equal temperament," by which system
all the keys are equal i. e., the ratios of their intervals are precisely
similar.
This peculiarity of the key is not to be confounded with other,
accountable differences : such as induce composers to write in flat
keys for military bands to attain the greatest brilliancy, and in sharp
keys for orchestras for the same end. In these cases the greater
number of open notes (more naturally and simply formed tones), and
other such known facts, lead to a clear understanding on this point.
But in the piano-forte no such considerations can be made to account
for the subtile phenomenon. It was once supposed that the absolute
pitch employed was the cause of the difference ; but since the time
of Haydn the pitch in all countries has risen to such an extent that
the scale of A-flat characterized above has become virtually the scale
of A-natural, with which it was there compared ; but no correspond-
ing variation of opinion respecting it has been recorded. Ladies still
commonly express a decided preference for flat keys, and probably for
this reason fashionable drawing-room music is generally cast in four
or five flats although these keys may be also chosen partly because,
according to the conformation of the hand and the disposition of the
ivory keys, the chords with flats are more easily and readily con-
trolled, especially when distributed in the arpeggio style, and have
to be played with great speed, freedom, and facility. But the va-
rious attempts made to account satisfactorily for key -character
on the piano -forte have hitherto only demonstrated thnt reason
and understanding are incapable of fathoming and explaining the
matter.
The piano-forte of the present day is, as we have seen, the result
of many contributions. Posterity alone can pronounce judgment upon
it, and show in what it is deficient ; for who shall say what the " piano-
