710 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
with the Loan Collection of Scientific Apparatus at South Kensington
in December, last year, and deals with the study of Biology.
The range of topics thus indicated is wide enough to give us
samples of all the moods of Prof. Huxley's vigorous and eloquent
style. As comj^ared with his previously -published addresses and
essays, we find no diminution of power, no less artistic care in the
arrangement of materials, no less cogency of argument and stern in.
sistence on the appeal to facts rather than to a priori considerations,
nor can we detect any indication that as he grows older the author is
more timid in face of those "logical consequences" of his teaching
the bugbears of some, but the beacons of other, philosophers. Per-
hapsand this is more especially noticeable in the lectures on Evolu-
tion there is less of that playful treatment of opponents and their
transgressions that sudden but graceful discomfiture of his adversary
by the unexpected production of a quaint though close-fitting illustra-
tion which in former writings gave a pungency and aroma to Prof.
Huxley's pages no less fascinating than peculiarly their own.
In the three lectures on Evolution, the history of Nature is made
the subject of a closely-reasoned inquiry. Three current hypotheses
the Uniformitarian, the Miltonic, and the Evolutional are recog-
nized, and their respective claims to our acceptance discussed. The
paleontological evidence in favor of the hypothesis of Evolution
forms the subject of the second and third lectures, and with great
skill the opportunity is used in order to bring before an American
audience in the most forcible way two very important and interesting
American discoveries of recent date. America is, indeed, rapidly be-
coming the headquarters of paleontological research. Prof. Huxley's
own discoveries regarding the genealogical connection of birds and
reptiles form an important argument in favor of the hypothesis of
Evolution, and in placing this argument before his audience he was
able to explain to them at some length the interesting new fossil birds
obtained by Prof. Marsh, of Yale College, from the cretaceous rocks
of Western America. The structure of two of these birds, ^es^xr-
ornis and Icthyornis^ which possessed, unlike all other birds, distinct
conical teeth imbedded in their jaws, is illustrated by woodcuts in the
printed lecture. Now that the principle has been admitted, we may
hope to see an illustrated edition of some of the lectures which were
issued in preceding volumes without woodcuts.
The second American discovery which is brought to bear on the
hypothesis of Evolution, and forms, indeed, part of what Prof Hux-
ley calls the "demonstrative evidence of Evolution," relates to the
pedigree of the horse, and is also due to Prof. Marsh. Strangely
enough, America, which within the historic period is remarkable for
the absence of indigenous horses, and the fertility within her borders
of the wild-horses descended from domesticated ancestors of the Old
Woi'ld, is even more remarkable for having buried in her soil a greater
