HUXLEY'S AMERICAN LECTURES. 711
number and variety of fossil horses than any that the Old World can
show. Eohippus and Orohippus from the American Eocene deposits,
and Mesohippus from the American Miocene dejDosits, are most im-
portant links in the series (the later members of whicli are PlioJiippus,
Hqyparion, and Anchitheriinn, i'ound also in European Tertiary strata),
connecting tlie living one-toed genus Equus with a typically five-toed
ancestor common to it and other ungulate mammals. The structure
of the feet and teeth of this series of forms, which furnish demonstra-
tive evidence of the evolution of the horse by progressive modification,
is placed before the reader in its main features with great clearness,
and the description is notably assisted by a full-page woodcut.
The choice of the term " Miltonic " in place of any other for what
is sometimes termed the "Mosaic" account or hypothesis of creation,
and the statement of the reasons which have led to that choice, are
samples of a kind of serious jesting in which Prof. Huxley shows infi-
nite skill and delicacy. There is no doubt, he urges, as to Milton's
view of the history of creation, as given in his great poem. On the
other hand, were a writer to call this the " Biblical doctrine," he
"would be met by the authority of many eminent scholars, to say
nothing of men of science, who at various times have absolutely
denied that any such doctrine is to be found in Genesis." In fact, we
are told by these authorities that the six days of Genesis are six
periods that we may make just as long or as short as convenience re-
quires. " A person," says Prof. Huxley, " who is not a Hebrew
scholar can only stand aside and admire the marvelous flexibility of
a language which admits of such diverse interpretations." The term
" Mosaic," in reference to the same doctrine, Prof. Huxley also con-
siders objectionable, because "we are now assured upon the authority
of the highest critics, and even of dignitaries of the Church, that
tliere is no evidence that Moses wrote the book of Genesis, or knew
anything about it."
" You will understand," he says, " that I give no judgment it would be an im-
pertinence upon my part to volunteer even a suggestion upon such a subject.
But that being the state of opinion among scholars and the clergy, it is well for
the unlearned in Hebrew lore, and for the laity, to avoid entangling themselves
in such a vexed question. Happily, Milton leaves us no excuse for doubting
what he means, and I shall therefore be safe in speaking of the opinion in ques-
tion as the Miltonic hypothesis.'"
The Baltimore address gives us a sketch of the writer's ideal of
primary education, of university education, and especially of medical
education how to encourage research, and how best to fill vacancies
in a professoriate. He does not hold the view that " you can go into
the market and buy research, and that supply will follow demand, as
in the ordinary course of commerce." His conviction is that "the
best investigators are usually those who have also the responsibilities
of instruction." Very valuable for other universities than that of
