SPECIMENS OF EDUCATIONAL LITERATURE. 713
him to us in the aspect of a sure-footed resohite guide who, with a
firm hand, takes us up an endless variety of the peaks of social and
scientific problems, hard to be scaled. He brings his reader skillfully
up to the summit, explains tlie prospect, and carefully deposits him
again in his proper place. There are few excursions, where a little
exertion is needful, so exhilarating and profitable, so much to be rec-
ommended to the traveler among questions of the day, as those
which are accessible through the good ofiices of Prof. Huxley.
The Academy.
SPECIMENS OF EDUCATIONAL LITERATURE.
By F. W. CLARKE.
AMERICA is unquestionably preeminent in educational matters.
It has more schools and a greater variety of schools than any
other country on the face of the earth. Some of these schools are
extremely remarkable. You cannot match them elsewhere. They
thrive only upon the freest soil, untrammeled by effete convention-
alities. Throughout the West and South they spring up abundantly,
as if in proportion to the fertility of the land. The New England and
Middle States are too much tied down to routine and tradition to
produce such rare developments of the intellect. Such schools deserve
to be more widely known and more generally appreciated. We pro-
pose to help some of them to a broader fame, by printing a few
extracts from their circulars and catalogues.
First in order -let us take some clippings from a little jiamphlet
issued by a school in Faribault, Minnesota. This circular is remarkable
for its clear expression of views upon a variety of educational topics,
and for the suggestions it offers concerning real school discipline.
Here are a few of the wise regulations :
" Scholars with any contagious trouble or disease are not allowed in the
school till cleaned, or till their disease is beyond danger.
" If a snow-storm is up, the teacher takes the privilege to dismiss the school
earlier in the afternoon than it otherwise would have been.
"It is not allowed to scholars to jump on to or hang to teams except on the
way to or from school, and then only with the permission of the driver.
"Anything belonging to the school-house or to the scholars, broken, torn, or
damaged, must be paid or restored by the scholar or scholars who have done
it, as well as by those who were accessory to it.
" Where a punishment is in order it will be applied whether a scholar's parent
or any visitors are present or not."
And so on for about twelve pages. The remai-kably concise and
exact wordins: of these valuable rules must attract the attention of
every teacher. The circular closes with a four-page essay upon " The
