714 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Affairs of Education," from which a feAV slips may be culled. The
author holds that it is very unwise to be "lenient, indulgent, uncon-
cerned, or superficial, in school-keeping," and considers it extremely
wrong to resort to " a false show of unmasticated, unprepared, unfit,
and undigested accumulation of stuff and. material, producing neither
educational bone, or muscle, or nerve, and. crammed in, drummed in,
or infused, as with a funnel, in a hurry, or in the worry and flurry of
an unquiet, unconcerted school."
Who, understanding this, can doubt it ? Or who can doubt that
the confidence of the pupils in the teacher " renders them more apt
to conceive how much they are bound in gratitude to parents and
teacher, and to get aware of the depth of the contrast and abyss of
their real course and nature of action and that what it should be, and
thus makes them more studious to be grateful and to advance their
own interests as scholars ? "
The teacher of this school, like most other Germans, believes in
systematic thoroughness. " But," says he, " this does not mean that
in the system that promotes perception, thorough thinking and rea-
soning, understanding, memory, self-reliance, deceitless ennobling en-
lightenment, and well-digesting progress, a scholar gets along slowly
over the ground or through the books ; on the contrary, while it ex-
cludes headway on the skip and jump, as each point is completely
learned and mastered, it makes the next depending on this so much
easier and more quickly grasped, and in a short time, what puzzles
and discourages others, becomes to him the greatest delight ; and thus
he progresses from point to point, from page to page, from combining
to combining the known with the unknown, the former unlocking and
explaining the latter, and so he moves faster and faster, leaving the
half-tutored, unsteady fustians far back in the distance."
The last citation which I shall make from this document might be
construed into a rap at myself:
" It would be malicious folly without self-respect, to detach parts of this cir-
cular from their dependent connection with others that explain their spirit and
application, and then to pervert their true construction ; hence it is not intended
for such persons," etc.
On second thoughts, however, this passage can refer only to those
who have criticised the school and made light of its methods. " Let
the galled jade wunce, our withers are un wrung." We can only
express our admiration for such an extraordinary " Avell of English
undefiled," and for the profundity of the ideas contained in it.
Another school of peculiar interest is the Mars Hill Academy, near
Florence, Alabama. The "permanent circular" of this institution,
now before me, bears date 1872, and contains many points worthy of
quotation. The merits of the school are well emphasized by the fol-
lowing paragraph :
