7i6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
duty of man.' Within this circle is beautifully arranged the following certifi-
cate:
" ' This is to certify that M , of county, , a good, kind, obedient,
moral, studious, courteous, worthy, and honorable pupil of Mars Hill Academy,
, near Florence, Alabama, has attained a high degree of proficiency in ,
and is hereby recommended to the public as eminently worthy the confidence
and esteem of every member of any community in which h lot may e'er be
cast, if future life does not corrupt h .'
" This is surrounded by four hearts, two in red and two in green, and eight
'beautiful^ approp7'iate illustrations. The words Faith, Hope, Charity, and Heav-
en, are printed in green and red within the hearts, in Greeh, Latin, and English.
Surrounding the heart on the north is the motto, 'Labor conquers all things,' in
three languages. The name of the Institution on the south in three languages.
In large and beautiful variegated characters the name and location of the In-
stitution appear on the top and bottom of the certificate. All the space not
otherwise filled is occupied by most beautiful and appropriate passages of
Scripture. The whole is surrounded by a neat border, ends with the benedic-
tion of the Principal, and will be presented to each and every pupil, elegantly
framed, so that it may be worthy of a conspicuous place in the most fashion-
able parlor. Size of frame, sixteen by eighteen Inches."
Who, after reading this, does not long to possess just such a cer-
tificate ?
All things considered, the most remarkable specimen of educa-
tional literature yet issued is the catalogue of Neophogen College, at
Gallatin, Tennessee. This catalogue has no rival : it can never be
excelled, and probably will never be equaled. It begins with a map
of Sumner County, wherein the college is situated. Then come four
woodcuts representing "honor-students," young gentlemen, a like-
ness of the college-president, John M. Walton, LL. D., and then four
more effigies of " honor-students," young ladies. These woodcuts are
unique. The next feature of interest in this pamphlet is the page
devoted to the Faculty. Here the predominating name is Walton ;
it occurs no less than five times, although apparently but three indi-
vidual Waltons are indicated. There are also a number of blanks
indicating vacant professorships, not waiting, of course, for endow-
ments, but for men of sufficient ability to fill them. Among these
blanks we find the title of " Professor and Master, School of Phrenol-
ogy, Physiognomy, and Hygiene." What a pity that so important a
chair should be empty ! But we find some compensation for this
misfortune when we see near the bottom of the list the name of an
estimable lady inserted as "Mistress of Cuisine and Hygiene."
After a long (and to the general reader uninteresting) list of
students, with their marks for " application," " punctuality," and
" deportment " appended, we come to a few pages of text. Here we
learn much of the character and position of Neophogen. We are
informed, for example, that it is a "National University," being
" centrally located between the North and the South, the East and
