ON THE HABITS OF ANTS. 49
again and thrown away like the rest. Under such circumstances,
then, it seems that ants make no difference between friends and
strangers.
It may, however, be said in this experiment that, as ants do not
recover from chloroform, and these ants were therefore to all intents
and purposes dead, we should not expect that much difference would
be made between friends and strangers. I therefore tried the same
experiment, only, instead of chloroforming the ants, I made them in-
toxicated. This was a rather more difficult experiment. No ant would
voluntarily degrade herself by getting drunk, and it was not easy in
all cases to hit off the requisite degree of this compulsory intoxication.
In all cases they were made quite drunk, so that they lay helplessly
on their backs. The sober ants seemed much puzzled at finding their
friends in this helpless and discreditable condition. They took them
up and carried them about for a while in a sort of aimless way, as if
they did not know what to do with their drunkards, any more than
we do. Ultimately, however, the results were as follows : The ants
removed twenty-five fi-iends and tliirty strangers. Of the friends,
twenty were carried into the nest, where no doubt they slept ofi" the
effect of the spirit at least, we saw no more of them and five were
thrown into the water. Of the strangers, on the contrary, twenty-
four were thrown into the water; only six were taken into the nest,
and four of these were shortly afterward brought out again and thrown
away.
The difference in the treatment of friends and strangers was, there-
fore, most marked.
Dead ants, I may add, are always brought out of the nest, and I
have more than once found a little heap on one spot, giving it almost
the appearance of a burial-ground.
I have also made some experiments on the power possessed by
ants of remembering their friends. It will be recollected that Huber
gives a most interesting account of the behavior of some ants, which,
after being sepai-ated for four months, when brought together again,
immediately recognized one another, and "fell to mutual caresses
with their antenme." Forel, however, regards these movements as
having indicated fear and surprise rather than affection, though he
also is quite inclined to believe, from his own observation, that ants
would recognize one another after a separation of some months. The
observation recorded by Huber was made casually ; and neither he
nor any one else seems to have taken any steps to test it by subsequent
experiments. The fact is one, however, of so much interest, that it
seemed to me desirable to make further experiments on the subject.
On the 4th of August, 1875, therefore, I separated one of my nests of
F. fusca into two halves, which I kept entirely apart.
I then from time to time put an ant from one of these nests into
the othei', introducing also a stranger at the same time. The stranger
VOL. XI, 4
