720 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
After the " curriculum," in which many studies are hiid down with
numerous text-books for each, comes a list of optional studies, with
the extra prices affixed. Here we find "music on harp" quoted at
$30, and " comparative philology " at 17.50. Italian, French, Spanish,
and German, are ten dollars each ; so that comparative philology may
be regarded as given at a wholesale price. Languages are so much
cheaper in a buncli than they are singly.
But the degrees given at Neophogen afford one of the most interest-
ing items concerning the college. They are eighteen or twenty in num-
ber, and among them some are of considerable novelty. For example :
" A. M. will be given to any male, and M. A. to any female, who, after hav-
ing received A. B., shall also graduate in penmanship and book-keeping, pho-
nography and mnemotechny, comparative philology, and Anglo-Saxon, and in
French, or German, or Spanish ; and to a B. S., completing these same (preced-
ing) additional or extra studies, the degree of M. S. (Master or Mistress of
Science).
"M. E. L. (Master or Mistress of English Language), to any student gradu-
ating in the schools of humanities, and of history and moral science; and in
common-school written arithmetic, elementary algebra, geometry, and the trig-
onometries and mensuration ; in political economy and metaphysics ; in pen-
manship and book-keeping, phonography and mnemonics, comparative philology
and Anglo-Saxon.
"B. A. LL. (Bachelor (or Maid) of Ancient Languages).
" B. M. LL. (Bachelor (or Maid) of Modern Languages).
" B. M. (Bachelor (or Maid) of Music), to .any graduate in music.
" B. M. and D., in Music and Drawing.
" B. M. and D. and P., in Music and Drawing, and Painting.
" B. F. A. (Bachelor (or Maid) of Fine Arts), to graduate in the three preced-
ing, and also in wax-work."
But mere quotations cannot do full justice to this extraordinary
catalogue. I will, therefore, give only a very few more, quite hurriedly,
and leave the reader to seek for fuller details in the original document.
Under the head of "specialties" a variety of studies are given, Eng-
lish, elocution, oratory, and typography, being made especially promi-
nent. As for etiquette, tliis passage will speak for itself:
"It is not a matter of choice, but compulsion. The course of training in
etiquette is, in great part, original. It has been said that manners make the
man; if not true, they at least cannot be neglected. Here it is the theory with
continued practice. We think we have the politest students in America. The
salutation, the bow, the courtesy, the word, the tone, the look, the inflection
vocal and physical ; the attitude, the hand, the feet, the spine, and the eye, are
all observed and studied, and the students daily exercised in them."
Another passage of striking merit runs as follows :
"What has brought discredit upon diplomas of this age? What so greatly
reduced the respectability of the word graduate in this age of nostrums and
charlatanry ? Amtcer. Silly parents, and incompetent and unscrupulous teachers.
