THE PSYCHO-PHYSIOLOGICAL SCIENCES. 721
" Parents that are content to purchase the labeled casket without the jewels ;
parents that are in many cases deceived themselves, and in other cases willing to
deceive. Some reason thus: 'I have children, my children must be graduates, it
is respectable.' Croesus speaks, or intimates unmistakably, and it is done.
There must be radical reform here. Common, old-fashioned honesty demands it.
It must not be. The vital interests of our country cry aloud against it.
" We must steer aloof from making these pinchbeck and galvanized scholars.
This will be very pleasant to the eyes of all honest, earnest, and competent
teachers. We are all presidents and professors these days ; but we have an un-
controllable fancy for those noble old words, ' teacher ' and ' school.' "
The social importance of coeducation is shown thus:
"The young ladies and gentlemen are permitted, we may say required, to
have interviews in the drawing-rooms twice in each month. The refining,
elevating, and stimulating effects of these evening associations, regulated by
system and class rotation, must be seen to be appreciated."
The moment we consider that the young ladies wear "green-calico
dresses and wliite aprons" for a school-uniform, we cannot doubt the
impressiveness of these interviews. Further on we find that prizes
are given at Neophogen for "neatness," "grace," "true modesty,"
and " etiquette ; " and the names of the " fortunate winners " are
appended. The catalogue closes with two pages of " opinions of the
press." A single specimen will do to illustrate these:
"The teachers of Neophogen College have the highest national reputation,
both as teachers and authors. It is the cheapest college of the kind in the
world, and is the best one for the males and females of the North and the South.
It is located in a beautiful section of the State, which was selected with great
care." Eepublican Banner {Nashville, Tenn.)
These extracts sufficiently indicate the remarkable character of
Neophogen. Who, after reading them, can longer doubt that the
South is in earnest in this great matter of education ? Let the boast-
ful educators of New England bow their heads, and humbly confess
that they can never hope to parallel such schools as the Mars Hill
Academy and Neophogen College !
THE PSYCHO-PHYSIOLOGICAL SCIENCES.
By JOSEPH EODES BUCHANAN, M. D.
THERE has ever been, and probably for another century there
will continue to be, an " irrepressible conflict " between those
whose conceptions of Nature are limited by sensation who recognize
no existence but matter and motion, who trace all that exists to ma-
terial causes alone and a very different class of thinkers, who trace
VOL. XI.-^6
