THE PSYCHO-PHYSIOLOGICAL SCIENCES. 723
character of our daily toils, and in the too great concentration of
attention upon physical sciences, to the exclusion of those in which a
psychic element is found. The study of physical science alone is no
better preparation for psychic studies, which employ different faculties,
than the study of the counting-house ledger or the supervision of a
pork-house would be for the service of Parnassus.
A recent publication from Dr. Carpenter, embodying two lectures
on psychic subjects (mesmerism, spiritualism, etc.), presents, in the
most offensively exaggerated form, the pragmatic pretension of cer-
tain physical scientists to take charge of psychic investigations with
an air of more than papal infallibility, and an emphatic notice to all
the rest of mankind, not only that they are incapable of such investi-
gations, but that their opinions, their testimony, and even their oaths
are not entitled to claim a feather's weight before the self-created tri-
bunal of which Dr. Carj)enter is the authoritative mouth-piece.
The magniloquent insolence of such a proclamation would be
amusing enough, even if ])r. Carpenter were, as he fancies himself, an
expert of great skill ; but when he is dealing with a subject of which
he knows far less than thousands of the most enlightened people, far
less than many men of science who are his peers in intelligence and
his superiors in candor and in philosophic habits of thought, his inso-
lent assumptions of superiority and denial of their claims to veracity
and intelligence, whenever in conflict with his own theories, are all
that his most unfriendly opponent could desire in order to demon-
strate his utter unfitness for the task which he has assumed.
Passing by his ludicrous claims to a boundless superiority over
contemporary scientists who do not follow his lead, we may ask
whether he has any claims whatever to be recognized as an expert,
whose opinions on these subjects have any especial value. Eminence
as a physiologist does not imply eminence or capacity as a psycholo-
gist. It is true, physiology and psychology are coterminous sciences ;
but until recently their cultivators have kept as wide apart as the an-
tipodes. Psychology has been prosecuted as if man never htid a body
(and ultra-psychologists do not admit that there is a human body or
any other material existence whatever), while physiology has been
cultivated in the same ultra spirit of nescience, as if man had no soul.
So thoroughly does a feeble or a narrow mind, in fixing its attention
on one object, lose sight of everything else. Dr. Carpenter himself
has expressly excluded the soul from the pale of science, which is the
next thing to excluding it from cognition, and one of the most recent
voluminous and learned American works on physiology excludes it
entirely, and substitutes the physical action of the brain, as follows :
" The brain is not, strictly speaking, the organ of the mind, for this
statement would imply that the mind exists as a force, independently
of the brain ; but the mind is produced by the brain-substance "
(Flint's "Physiology of Man," Nervous System, p. 327).
