730 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
than almost any other scientific phenomena. He has reproduced the
career of Horkey with remarkable fidelity. No sincere inquirer has
ever failed, if he made proper effbrts, to obtain evidence of an active
intelligence which is not material. In my first interview with a me-
dium, over twenty-five years ago, loud sounds not raps, but sounds
like the creaking of a wooden mill were freely produced at request in
a small uncovered table in our parlor, when no person was in contact
with it or within three feet of it. On making careful examinations, the
sounds appeared to be developed in the loose marble slab which con-
stituted its top, and, by feeling the slab on both sides, I could locate
the sound and vibration with great accuracy in its centre. When no
one was touching the table, it was held down by the spirit-power,
when requested, with a force which I estimated at twenty pounds in
lifting it.
But it is entirely useless to mention any such facts to bigots of the
Carpenter class, or to sustain them by any amount of testimony ; for
to them all testimony is woi'thless concerning anything outside of
the limit which Dr. Carpenter has marked off with a grand Caidinal
Richelieu flourish, as the impassable limit where inquiry must halt and
vituperation begin.
Great is the power of the speculative scientific dogmatism which
enabled Dr. Carpenter to show in his "Physiology" that one hundred
pounds of starch would support the life of a savage as long as four
hundred pounds of venison or other game (Chapter VII. Of Food and
the Digestive Process), although it w^ould be as difiicult to convince
the unscientific savage that such an opinion is preferable to experi-
ence as to convince Crookes, Wallace, Flammarion, Hare, or even Vic-
tor Hugo, that Dr. Carpenter's ojnnions are preferable to their own
careful observations.
Worthless as this book seems as an argument, and amusing as it is
to those at whom it is aimed, it has some power for mischief the
'power of a demoralizing example the power of position and reputation
in giving a quasi-respectability to that which is philosophically silly
and ethically corrupt. The most demoralizing influence which pro-
ceeds from a thoroughly depraved society is the doctrine that all men
are knaves or fools, to which Dr. Carpenter has given his active co-
operationsaving only a few self-styled " experts " from this satanic
maxim. His unfair example is corrupting to scientific literature. The
vast amount of mesmeric facts, which coidd scarcely be summarized
and classified in the limits of his book, has been carefully ignored, and
his readers would not suspect their existence, if dependent on him for
information. Yet, as he is such a stickler for the scientific qualifica-
tions of witnesses, why could he not even allude to the testimony of
Prof. Agassiz, who ranks before the world at least as high as himself?
Pi'of. Agassiz was thoroughly mesmerized by the Rev. C. H. Towns-
hend,and his letter describing his sensations and condition during the
