50 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
was driven out, or sometimes even killed. The friend, on the con-
trary, was never attacked, though I am hound to say that I could see
no signs of any general welcome, or that she was taken any particular
notice of.
I will not trouble you with all the evidence, but will content my-
self with one case.
On the 12th November last that is to say, after the ant had been
separated for a year and three months I jnit a friend and a stranger
into one of the divisions. The friend seemed quite, at home. One of
the ants at once seized the stranger by an antenna, and began dragging
her about. At
11.45. The friend is quite at home with the rest. The stranger is
being dragged about.
12. The friend is all right. Three ants now have hold of the
stranger by her legs and an antenna.
12.15. Do. do.
12.30. Do. do.
12.45. Do. do.
1. Do. do.
1.30. Do. One now took hold of the friend, but soon seemed to
find out her mistake and let go again.
1.45. The friend is all riajht. The stranger is beiuo: attacked.
The friend also has been almost cleaned; while on the stranger the
color has been scarcely touched.
2.15. Two ants are licking the friend, while another pair are hold-
ing the stranger by her legs.
2.30. The fi'iend is now almost clean, so that I could only just
perceive any color. The stranger, on the contrary, is almost as much
colored as ever. She is now near the door, and I think would have
come out, but two ants met her and seized her.
3. Two ants are attacking tlie stranger. The friend was no
longer distinguishable from the rest.
3.30. Do.
4. Do.
5. Do.
0. The stranger now escaped from the nest, and I put her back
among her own friends.
The difference of behavior to these two ants was most marked.
The friend was gradually licked clean, and, except for a few moments,
and that evidently by mistake, was never attacked. The stranger,
on the contrary, was not cleaned, was at once seized, was dragged
about for hours with only a few minutes' interval, by one, two, or
three assailants, and at length made her escape from the nest at a time
when no other ant was out.
In most species of ants the power of smell is very keen. I placed
ants on a strip of paper, each end of which was supported on a pin.
