THE PSYCHO-PHYSIOLOGICAL SCIENCES. 731
process (February 22, 1839) is publislied in Townshend's "Facts in
Mesmerism."
As the limits assigned this essay do not admit a complete review
of this little book, it may now be dismissed, but not to oblivion, for it
is destined to survive all other Avritings of Dr. Carpenter, and to be
remembered as long as Horkey's letter against Galileo. Posterity
will be amused to think that Whately's " Historic Doubts " concern-
ing the existence of Napoleon Bonaparte, written for amusement,
were more than matched by Carpenter's doubts of the existence of
any mesmeric or spiritual facts, written in all the earnestness of
a dogmatic and infallible philosophizer. In the struggle between
stubborn vituperative materialism and comprehensive science, the
battle-ground is at the psycho -physiological junction of the two
worlds. Man, belonging to both the spiritual and the material world,
cannot be properly studied except as a psycho-physiological being,
and those who refuse to do this simply ignore anthropology. The
effort of ultra -bigoted materialists is to exclude all agencies not
thoroughly material all that is intermediate between the psychic
and the physiological to crush its students and teachers by per-
sonal or professional ostracism and accusations of lying knavery
and hallucination. The malignity of the attacks is sufficient proof
that they do not originate in the love of science or of truth, even if
they were not often distinguished by mendacity, the mildest example
of which is the late assertion of Dr. Forbes Winslow, of London, that
" this form of delusion" (spiritualism) "is very prevalent in America,
and the asylums contain many of its victims; nearly 10,000 persons
having gone insane on the subject are confined in the public asylums
of the United States." This is quite a fair example of the truthfulness
of the majority of the statements on that side of the question. The fact
is, however, that the published reports of our fifty-eight insane asy-
lums show but 412 from religious excitement, which is less than two
per cent, of the whole number, and but 59 from spiritualism, which is
twenty-six hundredths of one per cent, of the whole number in these
asylums (23,328).
Dr. Carpenter and the majority of physiologists prefer to culti-
vate physiology as a purely material science, and reduce man as neai'ly
as possible to a chemical and dynamic apparatus. I have preferred
to cultivate physiology in a more philosophic way, recognizing the
eternal man who inhabits the body, as well as the transient physical
form, and discovering a new class of facts which render our chemi-
cal and anatomical physiology far more philosophic and intelligible.
What a blind groping in the dark rigidly materialistic physiology
appears to one who has gained that full knowledge of our complex
constitution which constitutes our anthropology ! I do not mean by
this that mesmerism and spiritualism combined with mechanical phys-
iology constitute anthropology : far from it. Both mesmerism and spir-
