732 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
itualisra are rich but empirical collections of facts, in which there is
a large amount of material, hut very little that can be called philoso-
phy or satisfactory science.
Anthropology is established by investigating the centre of man's
existence the seat of his conscious life the brain, in which the spir-
itual comes into contact with the physical, and is subject to analogous
laws. In this theatre of their joint action both may be studied, and we
may find that philosophy for which the world has so long been looking
in vain, Avhich shall comprehend the entire scope of human existence.
As one of these numerous psycho-physiological discoveries which
are receiving daily confirmation from pathology, from autopsies, and
from Dr. Ferrier's interesting experiments, I would very briefly allude
to psycJiometry, a few experiments in which, if rightly conducted,
would dissipate the entire fabric of physiological materialism. The
discovery of psychometry and the introduction of the word by myself,
thirty-four years ago, have made it quite familiar to liberal minds
throughout the United States, and to some extent abroad.
The initial facts which I discovered in 1841, that all who have a
high development of sensibility are capable of feeling the influence of
any substance held in the hands, even to the extent of perceiving its
taste as well as its medicinal eflects, led to far more marvelous de-
velopments. The supposition of materialism has always been, that
when medicines aflfect the body from contact with the exterior, an
appreciable quantity of the substance must have been absorbed into
the circulation. Against this theory I guarded by placing the medi-
cines in an envelope of paper, which prevented contact with the cuticle,
and concealed the nature of the substance from the knowledge of the
subject of the experiment. In making such experiments I found that
from twenty-five to thirty per cent, of the persons tried could realize
distinct medicinal eflfects, corresponding to the nature of the medicine.
In one of my collegiate classes of medical students (in 1849, some of
whom have since occupied honorable public positions), the effects were
distinctly recognized by forty-three, whose statement w^as published at
the time. These effects would begin in the hand, ascend the arm to
the head, and rapidly diffvise over the whole body.
If the materialist supposes that the substance passed through the
dry paper to the dry hand, through its unbroken cuticle and up the
arm, I would ask, How long would it take for twenty grains of tartar-
emetic or of quinine to be exhaled through the paper ? I am not aware
that such substances when dry are ever materially diminished in
weight by being kept in dry paper.
Omitting other associated facts and philosophy for want of space,
I pass on to the consummation, that persons who realize with facility
these medical impressions can also realize psychic impressions of the
most subtle character, in such a manner as to dissipate all doubt of
the reality of this wonderful power. A manuscript from any source
