THE PSYCHO-PHYSIOLOGICAL SCIENCES. 733
retains in itself a subtle psycho-physiological emanation characteristic
of its writer; and an impressible person with a fair endowment of the
psychometric faculty, to such an extent as we would find in perhaps
one person in twenty, or, in some southern communities, one person in
five, is capable of feeling the entire mental and physical influence of
that person as perfectly as if in contact with himself, and describing
the individual as he was at the time of writing his entire mental and
physical condition. When there is a high endowment of the psycho-
metric faculty, the descriptions of characters made in this way are
more subtly accurate than those from any other source, and the sym-
pathetic impression of the physical condition is so vivid as to develop
in the psychometer the pains and morbid conditions of the writer.
In the proper performance of the experiment, the psychometer is
not allowed even to see the manuscript, which is used by placing it
on the centre of his forehead ; nor is he assisted by leading questions.
It sometimes happens that, if the character described be one with which
the psychometer is familiar, he will finally be able to recognize it, and
tell the name of the writer by the identity of the character. For exam-
ple, while writing this article yesterday, a lady, of considerable intel-
lectual reputation and elevation of character, came in, whom I knew to
possess fine psychometric powers. Thinking that I might make a suit-
able experiment upon her for the illustration of my subject, I selected
one of my autographs, and requested her to give me an example of her
powers. She knew not what autographs were in my possession, and
was not allowed a view of the manuscript, which was placed on her
forehead without being seen, and without the slightest hint or suspi-
cion of its nature. In a few moments (holding it to her forehead by
her finger) she manifested great mental excitement, and desci'ibed a
character of unusual grandeur and moral elevation. She felt like a
great leader to whom multitudes were looking up a man of com-
manding stature, of immovable firmness and strength of character,
and the loftiest philanthropy. She could hardly refrain from rising
up and striding over the floor, from intense excitement. After giving
a forcible description of the character, she said she was sure it must be
General Washington, as it corresponded to her knowledge of his char-
acter, with which she was quite familiar. I then took the paper from
her forehead, to let her see this autograph, on which she had been
pronouncing :
" To all to whom this writing shall come.
" I certifje, that William Morgan Esquire, commands a company of volun-
toors in the service of the United States of America.
" Givon at Head Qrs. at Momstown this 25tli day of Febry 1777.
" G. WASmNGTON."
Ever since my announcement of this discovery, in 1843, I have
found it the most perfect agency ever devised for the investigation
