734 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of character, and it has become well known throughout the United
States. There are as many as a score of practitioners of psychoraetry
who will send a written description of the character connected with
any manuscripts sent them, and a number of physicians who, with
great success, use their psychometric power for the diagnosis of the
condition of patients at a distance.
But experiments and investigations would be entirely useless if
Dr. Carpenter could succeed in his aim to build an impassable wall
for the exclusion of all essentially novel truths, by denying the com-
petency of scientific testimony to introduce new facts foreign to his
own cramped conceptions of Nature.
To exclude the multitudinous facts of mesmerism, including the
vast number of surgical operations and marvelous cures in which it
has been employed by Dr. Esdaile, Dr. Elliotson, and hundreds of
others of unquestionable character to exclude the facts of spiritual-
ism witnessed by millions, and to combine all the incompatible powers
of medical and clerical bigotry now, as the Aristotelians and Romish
priests combined against Galileo is a task in which his success will
hardly equal that of Lactantius in denouncing the wicked innovations
which asserted tlie existence of the antipodes.
-**^^
T
THE DECLINE OF PAKTY GOVEKNMENT.
By Professor GOLDWIN SMITH.
HE late presidential election appears likely, in its results, to
mark an epoch not only in the political history of the United
States, but in that of all constitutional countries. In the person of
the new President the American Government has come out of party
and is trying to be the government of the whole nation. Sir Robert
Peel tried the same thing in England, though in his case the " splen-
did perfidy" to party was less marked than in the case of Governor
Hayes, because the repeal of the corn laws was not more essential to
the interest of the country, which it rescued from death, than it was
to that of the Conservative party, which it rescued from hopeless
opposition to the nation and from utter political ruin. Party found a
dagger with which to stab Sir Robert Peel. President Hayes has
shown himself a strong man, but the greatest trials of his strength
are still to come. AVhen Congress meets he will have to contend both
with the resentment of the regular managers of his own party and
with the hostility of the thorough-going Democrats, who will see
their opportunity in the breach between the President and the party
which raised him to power, as the Whigs in 1846 saw their opportu-
nity in the breach between Sir Robert Peel and the Protectionist sec-
tion of his followers. Supposing, however, that President Hayes, like
