THE DECLINE OF PARTY GOVERNMENT. 735
Peel, should fail, his attempt, like that of Peel, will have a signifi-
cance which no momentary failure can annul. It announces the de-
cline of the party system, and the advent, not immediate, perhaps, but
still certain, of national government.
It is curious with what implicit faith Ave have all reposed upon
party, as the normal, permanent, and only possible mode of carrying
on a free constitution, disregarding not only the objections which
reason obviously suggests to the system and the general evidences of
its bad effects on politics and political character, but the facts which
showed plainly enough that its foundations were giving way, and that,
if this was tlie only basis of government, government was likely to be
soon left without a basis.
Burke, in his " Thoucjhts on the Cause of the Present Discontent,"
has given at once his definition and his defense of party :
" Party is a body of men united for promoting by their joint endeavors the
national interest upon some particular principle in which they are all agreed.
For my part, I find it impossible to conceive that any one believes in his own
politics or thinks them to be of any weight who refuses to adopt the means of
having them reduced into practice. It is the business of the speculative philos-
opher to mark the proper ends of government. It is the business of the poli-
tician, who is the philosopher in action, to find out proper means toward those
ends, and to employ these with effect. . Therefore every honorable connection
will avow it as their first purpose to pursue every just method to put the men
wlio hold their opinions into such a condition as may enable them to carry their
common plans into execution with all the power and authority of the state. As
this power is attached to certain situations, it is their duty to contend for these
situations. Without a proscription of others they are bound to give to their
own party the preference in all things ; and by no means, for private considera-
tions, to accept any offer of power in which the whole body is not included ;
nor to suffer themselves to be led or to be controlled or to be overbalanced, in
office or in council, by those who contradict the very fundamental principles on
which their party is formed, and even those upon which every fair connection
must stand. Such a generous contention for power, on such manly and honor-
able maxims, will easily be distinguished from the mean and interested struggle
for place and emolument. The very style of such persons will serve to discrimi-
nate them from those numberless impostors who have deluded the ignorant with
professions incompatible with human practice, and have afterward incensed
them by practices below the level of vulgar rectitude."
To form a rational and moral basis for party, to prevent party
from sinking into faction, the party leader from becoming an "im-
postor," and the " generous contention for power " from degenerating
into a " mean and interested struggle for place and emolument," there
must be, as Burke says, a particular principle on which the members
of the connection are agreed in desiring that government should be
carried on. Failing such a principle, party, and the golden haze with
which Burke, according to his manner, has surrounded it, vanish, and
leave a faction or a void.
