736 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The principle must not be a moral principle, because this would
imply an organized opposition to morality on the other side, and the
permanent existence of an immoral party ; two parties always in active
existence being plainly essential to the working of the system. You
cannot, for example, have a party of purity, because this would imply,
as its correlative and complement, a party of corruption, and it would
be a grotesque arrangement to devote half your citizens permanently
to the service and advocacy of corruption in order to maintain the
machinery of your government.
The principle must be one of expediency. Parties, in other words,
must be divided by some question of policy, about which honest men
may differ. And it must be a question of sufficient magnitude to
transcend in importance all other questions; of sufficient importance
to warrant a man of sense and a good citizen in surrendering for its
sake his private judgment on all other political subjects to the guidance
of the party leader and the exigencies of the party struggle, and in
doing his utmost to exclude from the legislature and the public service
all men, however honest, however able, however useful in general re-
spects to the country, who do not agree with him on the vital point.
We need not use the invidious term proscription ; the thing will be the
same.
Now, it is manifest, in the first place, that the occurrence of such
questions is exceptional, and not normal ; they can seldom arise in
fact except with reference to some organic change in the constitution,
such as the transfer of supreme power from the crown to Parliament,
or the change in the character of Parliament itself, embodied in the
English Reform Bill of 1832. American slavery was an issue of a
different kind and of still more transcendent importance; but it was
one lying quite beyond the pale of ordinary politics. In normal times
the occupations of legislatures and governments will be matters of
current administration, not one of which is likely to form an issue of
sufficient importance to swallow up all the rest and form a rational
ground for the division of the nation into two organized parties strug-
gling each to place its leaders in exclusive possession of the powers
of the state.
In the second place, questions of expediency, however important,
do not last forever; in one way or other they are settled and disap-
pear from the political scene. Slavery dies and is buried. Parlia-
mentary reform is carried out with all its corollaries, and becomes a
thing of the past. What is to follow ? Another question of sufficient
importance to warrant a division of the nation into parties must be
found. But suppose no such question exists, are we to manufacture
one ? That is the work to which tlie wire-pullers devote themselves
in democracies governed by party, but the results seem hardly to cor-
respond to our notion of the adamantine basis on whicli the political
edifice is to rest forever.
