THE DECLINE OF FAETY GOVERNMENT. 739
In the same way it has been assumed that the English system of
party and of cabinets, which are'committees of party, is the vital prin-
ciple of constitutional government. But party in England has been
the instrument, probably the indispensable instrument, of a chronic
revolution. By the action of the party wliich in its successive phases
has borne the names of Puritan, Whig, and Liberal, the Tudor autoc-
racy has been reduced to a limited, or rather a faineant, monarchy, and
the Tory oligarchy, once intrenched in the rotten boroughs, has been
replaced by a House of Commons elected on a more popular basis ;
supreme power, in other words, has been gradually transferred from
the crown and the aristocracy to the representatives of the people.
All this time there has been a real ground of division and a question
of importance supreme enough to warrant allegiance to a party. But
the process is now nearly complete. Other questions, of which the
name Radical is the symbol, will probably emerge, and may again
furnish grounds for the action of party. As it is, the lines between
the aristocratic and democratic parties remain, though their outline
is confused, and the democratic party is paralyzed for the time by the
Conservative reaction, caused mainly by a vast influx of wealth. But
we have an inkling at all events in the present state of things, even
in England, of the time when the materials for party will be finally
exhausted, and when we shall be obliged perforce to look out for some
other mode of working constitutional government. Bayonets have
their uses, but you cannot sit on them. Party has its use as the organ
of a pacific revolution ; but it will not supply the permanent basis of
a national government.
Even in the course of the revolution, efiected by means of party
in England, as often as the movement has been temporarily suspended
by accident or lassitude, the weakness of the system has appeared.
Between the fall of Jacobitism and the advent of the French Revolu-
tion, when there was no great party question on foot, but the offices
of state were still put up as the prizes of success in the struggle of
parliamentary factions, you had half a century of chaotic intrigue and
corruption, broken only by the short dictatorship of Chatham, whose
own conduct, in the cabals which drove Walpole into the war with
Spain, was an example, if not of place-hunting, of place-storming, of
the most flagrant kind. The boasted efficienc)^ of party, as a detector
and exposer of abuses, was then proved to be little sustained by facts;
it was seen, neither for the first nor for the last time, that two factions,
whatever their mutual hatred, may virtually combine to preserve a
privilege of plundering the community, which each hopes to exercise
in its turn.
Not only is the usefulness of party as a political instrument close-
ly connected with the peculiar circumstances of English history ; it is
closely connected also with the peculiar circumstances of an age of
unscientific politics, of combinations formed upon class interests, of
