THE DECLINE OF PARTY GOVERNMENT. 741
arrangement of the leaders and wire-pullers, irrespective of all per-
sonal connections, would be practically out of the question. Two
alternatives will present themselves to the people : either a new mode
of working constitutional government and maintaining the proper
check on the executive must be found, or the President must be allowed
to become something very like an elective dictator for a term of years.
The practice of setting up the offices of the executive as the prize
of victory in a legislative contest ^carried on by the agency of party
appears to be injurious alike to legislation and to executive govern-
ment. It is injurious to legislation, because public men are constantly
tempted to deal with legislative questions in the interest of their own
ambition, for the purpose of paving their way to office, or strengthen-
ing their position there, not with a view to the proper objects of legis-
lation; whence a number of unnecessary, premature, and dishonest
measures. All the members of the Conservative party, before 18G7,
had recorded their opinions against a large extension of the franchise
as tending to place political power in ignorant and irresponsible hands.
They, then, to keep their party in office, and at the bidding of lead-
ers who they knew had no other motive, themselves extended the
franchise to the most ignorant and irresponsible part of the popula-
tion, the populace of the towns. The practice is injurioiis to executive
government, because it excludes or ejects from office the ablest and
most trusted administrators on account of opinions respecting legis-
lative questions which in no way affect administration. It wrongly
unites, in short, two political functions which are perfectly distinct
and which mutually suffer by being bound up with each other.
It is needless to dilate upon the relations of party, its machinery,
its strategy, the press which serves it and expresses its passions, to
public morality and the general interests of the state ; the facts are
always before our eyes. But experience of a colony or of some new
covmtry is needed to make one thoroughly sensible of the effects of
this warfare upon the political character of the people, and of the ex-
tent to which it threatens to sap the very foundations of patriotism
and of respect for lawful authority in their minds.
It is supposed that the hostile vigilance of party is the gi-eat safe-
guard against political corruption, and one which, if removed, it would
be impossible to replace. But there are some countries at least in
which the indiscriminate slander in which party constantly deals
forms really a cloak of darkness for all corruption rather than a lantern
for the detection of any ; while its effect on the character of public
men is to produce general lowness of tone and brazen indifference to
accusations of every kind. The experiment has not yet been tried of
legislating definitely against the corrupt use of legislative or executive
power, which is a perfectly tangible crime (at least it is difficult to see
why the sale of a vote in a legislative assembly, or of a government
contract, is not as tangible a crime as the fraudulent breach of an or-
