742 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
dinary trust), and of instituting a tribunal for the trial of offenders.
And therefore we are still at liberty, at all events, to entertain the
belief that the sight of a single politician suffering a felon's doom by
the impartial and righteous judgment of a court of law, for the corrupt
betrayal of his public trust, would have a more salutary effect than
the interested and reckless denunciations of all the jiarty orators and
journalists in the world.
It is easy to see why, up to thj^ time, party has been the law of
politics ; but it is not easy to see why, for the future, and as reason
extends its sway over the political sphere and limits the reign of pas-
sioUj party should be the law of politics more than of any other sub-
ject. Party, we mean, organized and permanent ; such as the parties
of the Guelfs and Ghibellines, of the Blacks and Whites, of the Caravats
and Shanavests. On social and philanthropic questions, on questions
and in movements of all kinds, people combine for a particular object,
and the object having been gained they fall back into their ordinary
associations. Why should they not do the same in politics, supposing
politics to be a matter not of passion and ambition, but of reason and
of the public good? This is the answer to the argument on the side
of party that nothing can be carried without combination. It can
hardly be necessary to meet the argument that political truth can
only be hammered out by the constant collision of parties. With re-
gard to all other subjects it is supposed that while free discussion is
conducive to the discovery of the truth, party feeling and subserviency
to party are most adverse to it. But people tacitly assume that they
can have party without party feeling and the evils to which every one,
when the question is distinctly proposed to him, admits that party
feeling must lead.
Nor, again, need we dwell long on the argument that party is neces-
sary in order to keep up an interest in human affairs. Human affairs,
according to all present appearances, are likely to be interesting
enough to keep the mind of man alive and to give birth to abundance
of controversy (if that is the thing desired) for generations to come,
without our forming artificial parties for the purpose of enabling am-
bitious men to obtain exclusive possession of the power of the state.
Party is no doubt indispensable to selfish interests, which by tak-
ing advantage of the balance of factions are enabled, to an almost in-
definite extent, to compass their special objects at the expense of the
community. It is indispensable to political sharpers who, without
legislative powers or any sort of ability or inclination to serve the
public in any honorable way, find subsistence in an element of passion
and intrigue. To whom or to what else it is indispensable, no one
has yet been able definitely to say.
Burke himself, the great apologist of party, was the great apostate
from it. He called his apostasy fidelity to the Old Whigs ; but the
Old Whigs were in their graves, and the i-hetorical turn given by him
