THE DECLINE OF PARTY GOVERNMENT. 743
to his secession did not alter the fact. In the case of his defense of
party, as in many other cases, his fervid and unbridled imagination
has ei'ected a particular expedient, the necessity of a special occasion,
into a universal and everlasting law. Before him, another man had
shaken off party trammels apparently from the conviction of their
radical inconsistency with the public interest. The life of Lord Shel-
burne is in this special respect a most important, as well as in all re-
spects a most interesting, addition to political biography, and we shall
see as it proceeds whether Shelburne is entitled to the credit of hav-
ing tried to be a national statesman.
Our proposition, however, is this : that, let party, as a system of
government, be good or evil, the materials for parties are nearly ex-
hausted in the British colonies, and probably in the United States ;
that they are temporarily exhausted, and may one day be entirely ex-
hausted, in England ; while in other countries (in France and Ger-
many, for instance) the sections and subsections of opinion are too
numerous and the lines between them are too wavering to admit of
the clear division into two parties absolutely essential to the working
of the system, which, when there are three or four parties instead of
tyvo, becomes a quicksand of intrigue on which no government can be
founded. Under these circumstances it is necessary, whether we will
or not, to look out for some other foundation for constitutional gov-
ernment. The penalty of not doing so will be either confusion or the
domination of some selfish and, because it is selfish, compact and all-
powerful interest.
To determine what that foundation is to be, is probably a task re-
served for better heads than ours. But perhaps the Swiss Constitu-
tion, in its general principles, may point the way. It suggests the
regular election of the executive council by the legislature in place of
a struggle of parties to determine which side of the House shall have
the privilege of distributing the prizes among its leaders. The proper
relations between the legislature and the executive might be pre-
served by a proper rotation of elections, with any such provisions as
seemed expedient in the way of cumulative voting. The tenure of
office would of course be limited ; whether to the duration of the Par-
liament (which is the Swiss system) or to a term of years would be a
question of detail, but the advantage of a continuous executive would
be in favor of the latter plan. It does not seem that with this limita-
tion the power of the members of the executive council would be too
great, or that their responsibility would be unduly diminished ; excess
of authority, provided it be constituted in the interest of the whole
nation and accountable to the nation in case of an abuse of power, is
not the i^olitical danger which at present we have most reason to
dread. Nor does it seem that, with, say, three elections occurring
each year, the executive council could get much out of harmony with
the legislature, or fail pretty adequately to represent the j^revailing
