CORRESP ONDENCE.
749
we are disposed to overlook inaccuracies
such as tliese, lying merely on the surface.
It is otherwise wkh anything that betrays
confusion of thought in regard to the funda-
mental elements of the problem. This, it
seems to me, the writer has done in ascrib-
ing to centrifugal force a primary place in
the causation of tides. It is only as the
waters upon the earth's surface have free-
dom of motion are acted upon, therefore,
as independent of the earth's mass that
tides are possible. On the other hand, only
in so far as the waters take up by friction
and cohesion of their particles the motion
proper to the portion of the solid earth un-
derlying them, wUl they acquire the in-
creased tangential momentum which consti-
tutes the so-called centrifugal force. When
it is understood that the force in question
operates only in this indirect manner, it be-
comes plain that it ought not to be classed
with gravitation as a primary cause of the
tides, but rather with the rotation of the
earth as an important secondary factor,
necessary to be studied in tracing out the
actual operation of their real cause.
The new mode of explaining the ob-
served phenomena is, however, on the whole,
quite intelligible and satisfactory in its ap-
plication to the solar tides. It requires a
greater effort of the imagination to see ex-
actly how the same principles operate in the
causation of the lunar tides. It is easy to
understand how centrifugal force will pre-
dominate on the side of the earth opposite
the moon, and how the waters on the nearer
side will tend to insphere themselves about
the centre of gravity of the rotating system,
a point only 2,687 miles from the earth's
centre. There is some difficulty in taking
on trust the statement that the earth will
feel on the side facing the moon a centripe-
tal force equal to the centrifugal force which
is said to cause the tide on the opposite
side, when we remember that the moon it-
self is a part of the rotating system, and
must itself claim a share, however small, of
the forces, centrifugal and centripetal, whose
balancing equivalents are to be sought on
the remote side of the earth. And it is far
from clear to the tyro in mathematics why
high tide should occur directly under the
moon, where centrifugal force, acting in a
direction away from the earth's centre, is
but slight, while centripetal force, acting in
the oppo&ite direction, is at its maximum so
far as it is dependent on proximity to the
centre of rotation. Although the explana-
tion of this latter apparent paradox is by
no means difficult, it will certainly prove to
many a fertile source of perplexity.
The interest I have myself taken in ap-
plying Prof. Schneider's hypothesis to the
numerous practical problems which arise
the moment we pass in our study from hy-
pothetical tidal waves to the actual move-
ment of the waters of existing oceans, has
led me to jot down the above points in the
way of friendly criticism. For the rest, I
would rather listen to some abler critic.
A. B. Lyons, M. D.
Detroit, June 27, 1877.
THE NEW IDEAS ABOUT SPACE.
To the Editor of the Popular Science Monthly.
Dear Sir: The letter of Prof. G. B.
Halsted, of Johns Hopkins University, in
your number for July, 1877, in regard to
the imaginary geometry of Gauss, Loba-
tchewsky, and Beltrami, brings to my mind
the fact that there is no necessary truth in
many things that we have regarded (at least
we mathematicians) as necessary truths.
Sir George Airy investigated the condi-
tions under which perpetual motion might
exist (Cambridge "Philosophical Transac-
tions," 1880, vol. iii., pp. 369-372).
Newton's notion of negative density
(" Principia," book ii., sec. ii., prop, x.) is
another ease.
Laplace, in the "Mecanique Celeste,"
has indulged in a remarkable speculation as
to what the laws of motion would have been
if momentum, instead of varying simply as
the velocity, had been a more comphcated
function of it.
These things seem to overturn current
metaphysics, and that is about all the good
in them. Yet Reid, in what he calls the Ge-
ometry of Visibles, chapter xli. of his "In-
quiry," raised a question of like nature.
Hamilton, as noticed by George Lewes
(" Problems of Life and Mind," vol. ii.. Ap-
pendix), has avoided any comment.
By reason of the superb contempt which
this extraordinary man affected for mathe-
matics, I presume he thought it beneath his
notice. Your obedient servant,
Lewis Kennon, M. D.
Fort Bataed, New Mexico, Jnly 29, 1S77.
THE WOODEUFF SCIENTIFIC EXPEDI-
TION.
We give below an important letter from
Prof. W^ilder, of Cornell University, on the
Woodruff Scientific Expedition, and would
call the attention of those interested to the
assurances it contains concerning the op-
portunities for study and the facilities for
original work which the expedition is expect-
ed to afford. Prof. Wilder is a member of
the faculty of scientific instructors, and also
one of the trustees of the expedition. The
letter, as will be seen, is in response to our
inquiries :
To the Editor of the Popvlar Science ifonihly.
Sir : In answering your inquiry as to
the nature and extent of scientific work to
