750
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
be attempted on the Woodruff Expedition,
and the facilities therefor, I must premise :
first, that the published list of professors
does not include several who are expected
to conduct special departments of botany
and zoology ; second, that the faculty have
had no official conference, so that I can
speak only for myself.
My own duties will include 1. General
lectures on the habits and structure of ver-
tebrates. These will be nearly free from
technicalities, so as to be intelligible to all.
2. Special mstruction of those who may
wish to go more deeply in certain directions ;
this by superintendence of dissections, and
occasional lectures. 3. Instruction in meth-
ods of collecting, preparing, and preserving
specimens. 4. Preparation of, and research
upon, embryos, brains, hearts, and other
soft parts, which are usually neglected by
foreign collectors.
The students will provide their own dis-
secting instruments, cans, and preserva-
tives ; but, as stated on page 21 of the an-
nouncement, the management engages to
furnish a library and apparatus for instruc-
tion.
I understand such requisite apparatus
to include nets, dredges, and sounding ar-
rangements, chemical and physical instru-
ments, microscopes, diagrams, blackboards,
stereopticon, and the means of preserving
certain typical forms for illustration of lect-
ures.
To insure the fulfillment of the promises
made in the announcement, the trustees are
to control the transfer of the fees to the
director. The trustees are also members of
the faculty, and their interests are therefore
identified with those of the students.
From what I know or have heard of
those concerned in the management of the
expedition and the instruction, I feel confi-
dent that all possible facilities will be af-
forded for the acquisition of general infor-
mation, and for the pursuit of special lines
of investigation.
Respectfully yours,
Burt G. Wilder.
Ithaca, New Tokk, September 1, 1ST7.
EDITOR'S TABLE.
CARPENTER ON SPIRITUALISM.
THE recent publication of Dr. Car-
penter's little volume entitled
" Mesmerism, Spiritualism, etc., His-
torically and Scientifically Considered,"
has given a renewed impulse to the dis-
cussion of this subject, and called out
the strongest champions of the doctrines
assailed. We have been accused of un-
fairness in not opening the columns of
the Monthly for the spiritualists to
present their side of the question ; and
so we print two replies to Dr. Carpen-
ter, one English and the other Ameri-
can, by distinguished representatives of
the spiritualist party. In The Popular
Science Supplement, No, V., appears
the answer to him made by Mr. A. E.
Wallace, in the Quarterly Journal of
Science ; and in our present number
the reader will find an original con-
tribution, to the same purpose, by
Dr. J. R. Buchanan, well known for
the last thirty years as an eminent
investigator and expositor of the so-
called spiritualist phenomena. Dr. Bu-
chanan is one of those who objected
to our editorial course on this question
as one-sided and unjust. Not liking
this imputation, we offered him space
in our pages to answer Dr. Carpenter.
He accepted the offer, and we fulfill
our promise. How far his article is to
be regarded as a reply to the reasoning
of Dr. Carpenter, or as convicting him
of error, will probably be a contested
question with different classes of read-
ers ; hut he has, at all events, given us
his very decided opinion of that gentle-
man, his book, and his backers. We
fear, however, that the critic has for-
gotten, for once, that denunciatory epi-
thets, however profuse and peppery,
are not arguments. Dr. Buchanan
seems to have vividly remembered all
the hard hits that he and his coadjutors
have received from scientific writers,
and is bent upon using the opportunity
to get even with them. This is laud-
able enough, within judicious limits;
yet incontinence of vituperation is a
symptom of weakness. Besides, some-
thing is due to self-respect; and if we
thought Dr. Carpenter was the silly,
