EDITOR'S TABLE.
751
narrow-minded, muddle-headed, pre-
tentious, and insolent imbecile that Dr.
Buchanan intimates, we would try and
find better occupation than troubling
ourselves about his obsolete trash.
Dr. Buchanan opens his batteries
against the materialists, but might he
not as well have left this to some irate
theologian ? This polemical dash can-
not be effective against Dr. Carpenter,
who is certainly no materialist, either
by his own avowal, by the tenor of his
writings, or their common interpreta-
tion. On the contrary, he is a religious
man, who has written copiously and
cogently against materialism. The term
materialism, skillfully used, is no doubt
a good controvei'sial weapon for popu-
lar effect, but in the hands of Dr. Bu-
chanan it loses its edge, as he seems to
regard all science which limits itself to
the investigation of Nature in its ordi-
nary aspects as materialistic.
We cannot here go into this contro-
versy, but may briefly refer to what we
regard as one of its primary issues. At
the threshold of the subject we en-
counter the questions. What is Nature?
What are the limits of its laws ? and.
What weight, or logical force, is to be
allowed to the conception of the laws
of Nature ? When observation, experi-
ment, and reason, have concurred in
establishing a principle which may be
always verified and found to be con-
stant, what is the degree of firmness
with which it is to be held ? Science
recognizes the laws of Nature as so
fixed and fundamental that the well-
trained mind must be under an over-
whelming predisposition in regard to
them. Hence, when marvelous stories
are told of the violations of these laws,
the tendency of such minds must be to
put them aside as unworthy of atten-
tion. They cannot be entertained as
against the demonstrated uniformities
of the natural world. Much in regard
to Nature is, of course, unknown ; what
we understand may be as but a few
drops to the ocean in relation to what
we do not understand ; yet some things
are known, and with so high a degree
of certainty that we can rest in them
with profound assurance that no fu-
ture extension of knowledge can falsify
them.
Dr. Carpenter maintains, and we
think rightly, that there is a strong bias
in scientific minds in favor of the in-
flexibleness of natural laws which the
spiritualists do not share. His language
is, that "it is quite legitimate for the
inquirer to enter upon this study with
that ' prepossession ' in favor of the as-
certained and universally admitted laws
of Nature, which believers in spiritual-
ism make it a reproach against men of
science that they entertain." Both our
critics resent this imputation upon "be-
lievers in spiritualism." Mr. Wallace de-
clares it to be " unfounded and totally
false; " and Dr. Buchanan afiirms spir-
itualists to be " the foremost of all men
in insisting on the universal inviolabil-
ity of all the laws of Nature, extending
their infrangible power not only over
all physical phenomena, but throughout
the equally extensive psychic realm."
It is obvious that Dr. Buchanan here
uses terms to suit himself, as he gives to
the phrase "laws of Nature" a mean-
ing very different from its established
scientific significance. In its scientific
sense, the term " Nature " designates
that sphere of phenomena, material and
mental, of which we have constant ex-
perience, which is accessible to the hu-
man faculties, and which by its order
becomes a subject of methodical knowl-
edge ; while the laws of Nature are the
uniformities of action that are coexten-
sive with this sphere. To this tract Dr.
Buchanan annexes a "psychic realm,"
meaning thereby, not the common
sphere of mind which is already em-
braced by the term "Nature," but a
super-mundane, extra-material, preter-
natural, or spiritual world, above and
beyond the sensuous order. This su-
pernal region he claims to bring under
the operation of the laws of Nature,
