752
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and therefore to make it a part of Ma-
ture, which we hold is simply to con-
fuse all distinctions and confound the
natural with the supernatural. Dr. Bu-
chanan cannot do this in the name of
science, for science itself has only come
into existence hy marking off the nat-
ural from the supernatural, and it be-
longs by its very essence and origin to
one term of this contrasted relation.
"We cannot undo the great work of sci-
ence, and cancel all that has been gained
in the intellectual progress of mankind,
by going back to primitive times when
the natural and the supernatural were
all mixed up, and nothing was known or
suspected of such things as the laws of
Nature. It was then believ.ed that,
there exists an upper sphere inhabited
by gods who interfered as they chose
with earthly matters; the spiritualists
now believe in a corresponding ghost-
realm, inhabited by disembodied spirits,
who have still the power of meddling
with the course of terrestrial affairs.
This ultra - material realm, it is
claimed, is manifested by material ef-
fects. But it is not by those effects
which occur regularly and uniformly,
and to which we give the name of
laws, that it is the office of science to
trace out. These are not attributed to
spiritual agencies. The spirits are nev-
er alleged to be the causes of cohesion,
refraction, digestion, gravity, or any
of the matter-of-course operations that
go on around us. They are only dis-
closed to us by striking, wonderful,
exceptional, or miraculous manifesta-
tions; that is, the common order of
Nature gets along without them, and
they are only known by breaking
through it. In Nature we see with our
eyes; in the "psychic realm" men are
said to see with the backs of their
heads. In Nature tables remain at rest
upon the floor' forever unless some
definite terrestrial force is applied to
move them ; in the " psychic realm "
they travel about or rise to the ceiling
without the intervention of any earth-
ly cause. In Nature a bouquet will not
pass through the woody barrier of a
door, or the resisting masonry of a
wall ; in the " psychic realm " " a large
bunch of hollyhocks, asters, laurels,
and other shrubs and flowers," is mys-
teriously spirited into a house without
coming through the usual openings in
the usual way by which material bodies
are transferred. In Nature, if a man
unguardedly loses his balance in a win-
dow, he falls to the earth ; but in the
"psychic realm" Mr. Home "floats in
tlie air by moonlight out of one win-
dow and in at another at a height of
seventy feet from the ground." In Na-
ture, if we wish to go to a house, we
must walk there or get a conveyance
to be carried, and then can only get in-
side by the opening of some passage of
entrance ; but in the " psychic realm "
buxom Mrs. Guppy " sails through the
air all the way from Highbury Park to
Lamb's Conduit Street, and is brought
by invisible agency into a room of which
the doors and windows were closed and
fastened, coming plump down in the
midst of a circle of eleven persons who
were sitting in the dark shoulder to
shoulder."
Can those who believe these things
be said to maintain the laws of Nature ?
Certainly not, in any such sense as that
which science affirms. The spiritual-
ists say that these apparently miracu-
lous effects are not really miraculous,
but are simply the consequences of
higher laws of Nature by which the
lower ordinances of the iiiaterial sphere
are overcome. But it is clear that be-
fore the man of science can accept such
astounding propositions he must give
to the winds all those laws of the natu-
ral world which he has been accustomed
to regard as of demonstrated constancy.
In life, by all his resources, the most
gifted riian cannot suspend the opera-
tion of gravity upon a single particle
of matter by an infinitesimal fraction.
But when he dies we are taught that
his ghost can come back, and suspend
