EDITOR'S TABLE.
753
the action of gravity, in a way to ex-
cite the astonishment of whole circles.
And this miraculous prerogative, we are
told, is, itself, but an exemplification of
natural law. But, assuming the truth
of the spiritualist's view, we have sim-
ply come to an end of natural law. If
the wonders alleged be true, where is
the basis of trust in the regular course
of Nature? If the uniformities of phe-
nomena that science assumes to have
discovered can, as a matter of fact, be
disturbed by the capricious incursions
of unseen beings, then there are no
such uniformities; and the conception
of law, instead of being the most fun-
damental conviction of the scientific
mind, is an illusion to be abandoned.
Anxiety about the constancy of these
laws is, however, the last thing that
troubles scientific men, and their repose
of mind upon this subject sufficiently
accounts for their general indifference
to the claims of spiritualism.
INDICATION'S OF PROGRESS.
Ottr readers will well remember the
row occasioned last year when Prof.
Huxley said that the evidence of the
truth of evolution must be accepted as
demonstrative. "We mark with interest
the decisive indications that are accumu-
lating in confirmation of Prof. Huxley's
position. Another President of the
British Association for the Advance-
ment of Science has spoken upon the
subject, under the responsibilities of
his distinguished position, and in entire
corroboration of the avowals of former
presidents of that body for the last
dozen years in relation to this question.
His indorsement of evolutionary doc-
trine is emphatic and unqualified. Prof.
Allen Thomson has been well known
as an eminent cultivator of biology ;
but he comes forward now as a new
authority, and will be listened to with-
out the prejudice which attaches to the
names of those men who have been in
VOL. XI. 48
the thick of the fight for the last twenty
years. The topic of the presidential
address is the " Development of the
Forms of Animal Life," and we here
quote the opening passages, describing
the remarkable change in the manner
of viewing biological questions which
has taken place during the last half-
century. President Thomson says :
" In the three earlier decades of this cen-
tury it was the common belief, in this coun-
try at least, shared by men of science as
well as by the larger body of persons who
had given no special attention to the sub-
ject, that the various forms of plants and
animals recognized by naturalists in their
systematic arrangements of genera and spe-
cies were permanently fixed and unalter-
able ; tliat they were not subject to greater
changes than might occur as occasional va-
riations, and that such was tlie tendency to
the maintenance of uniformity in tlieir spe-
cific characters that, when varieties did
arise, there was a natural disposition to the
return, in the course of succeeding genera-
tions, to the fixed form and nature supposed
to belong to the parental stock ; and it M'as
also a necessary part of tliis view of the per-
manency of species that eacliwas considered
to have been originally produced from an
individual having the exact form which its
descendants ever afterward retained. To
this scientific dogma was further added the
quasi-religious view that, in the exercise of
infinite wisdom and goodness, the Creator,
when he called the successive species of
plants and animals into existence, conferred
upon each precisely the organization and
the properties adapting it best for the kind
of life for which it was designed in the gen-
eral scheme of creation. This was the older
doctrine of ' Direct Creation,' of ' Teleologi-
cal Eolation,' and of 'Final Causes;' and
those only who have known the firm hold
wliich such views had over the public mind
in past times can understand tlie almost i;n-
qualified approbation with which the reason-
ing on these questions in writings like the
' Bridgewater Treatises' (not to mention
older books on natural theology) was re-
ceived in their time, as well as the very op-
posite feelings excited by every work which
presented a different view of the plan of
creation.
" On the Continent of Europe, it is true,
some bold speculators, such as Goethe,
Oken, Lamarck, and Geoflfroy St.-Hilaire,
had in the end of the last and commence-
