EDITOR'S TABLE.
7SS
difficulties, some inconsistencies, and
much to learn, and there may remain be-
yond much which we shall never know ;
but I cannot conceive any doctrine pro-
fessing to bring the phenomena of em-
bryonic development within a general
law which is not, like the theory of
Darwin, consistent with their funda-
mental identity, their endless varia-
bility, their subjugation to varying ex-
ternal influences and conditions, and
with the possibility of the transmission
of the vital conditions and properties,
with all their variations, from indi-
vidual to individual, and, in the long
lapse of ages, from race to race.
" I regard it, therefore, as no ex-
aggerated representation of the present
state of our knowledge to say that the
ontogenetic development of the indi-
vidual in the higher animals repeats in
its more general character, and in many
of its specific phenomena, the phyloge-
netie development of the race. If we
admit the progressive nature of the
changes of development, their similar-
ity in different groups, and their com-
mon characters in all animals, nay,
even in some respects in both plants
and animals, we can scarcely refuse to
recognize the possibility of continuous
derivation in the history of their origin ;
and however far we may be, by reason
of the imperfection of our knowledge
of paleontology, comparative anatomy,
and embryology, from realizing the pre-
cise nature of the chain of connection
by which the actual descent has taken
place, still there can be little doubt re-
maining in the mind of any unpreju-
diced student of embryology that it is
only by the employment of such an hy-
pothesis as that of evolution that fur-
ther investigation in these several de-
partments will be promoted so as to
bring us to a fuller comprehension of
the most general law which regulates
the adaptation of structure to function
in the universe."
THE DECLINE OF PARTIES.
"We print the able and suggestive
essay of Prof. Goldwin Smith on " The
Decline of Party Government." He
opens an interesting question, which,
in one shape or another, is bound to
force itself more and more upon think-
ing people. The customary short logic
of the case is that we cannot have gov-
ernment without politics, and we can-
not have politics without partisanship ;
this is, therefore, a necessary thing,
which must hold the same ascendency
in the future that it has held in the
past, so that all ideas of doing without
it are futile, and all inquiries respecting
its decline superfluous. We do not sup-
pose that political parties are to cease,
or that partisans have the slightest occa-
sion for anxiety respecting their contin-
uance ; but we do not believe that the fu-
ture is to repeat the past in this matter.
The progress and diflFusion of science, the
formation of scientific habits of thought,
and an increasing faculty of observing
and reasoning directly upon the facts of
life, are going to interfere materially
with the ideas and interests of politics.
Thus far politics has been a blind and
bungling art, necessary indeed, but so
crude, loose, and wasteful in its prac-
tices, and so much a matter of rule-of-
thumb, and transient experience, and
the manipulation of men, that all idea
of far-reaching principles in the polit-
ical sphere is currently scouted. Yet
this is not the region of chaos, and
there are laws in political phenomena,
deeper than legislative enactments.
These are to be gradually worked out
into scientific expression, and in pro-
portion as this is done political parti-
sanship must undergo important modi-
fication. It may be, as Prof. Smith as-
sumes, that partisanship must decline
for lack of serious issues upon which
multitudes of men can be kept in prop-
er antagonism. But we calculate upon
a growing dissatisfaction with the meth-
\ ods by which the most valid political
