756
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
questions are dealt with. The assertion
of principles and the advocacy of meas-
ures must continue to be indispensable,
and there cannot fail to be differences
of opinion ; but partisan ethics demands
denial as well as affirmation, and denial
as a matter of policy. It provides for
opposition, and of course dreads acqui-
escence and agreement. As a work
of dealing with serious questions, this
policy cannot continue to command
respect. Indeed, there is already a
growing disgust in the community at
the emptiness and futility and hum-
bug of political partisanship. Men of
honest purposes and fair discrimination
will not go to the polls to vote unless
overborne and swept along by a fac-
titious excitement. We are told that
good men should attend primary meet-
ings, so as to rescue politics from the
corrupt hands into Avhich it has fallen.
But it is a grave question whether it
has not fallen into such hands by the
necessary laws of partisanship. What
is the chance of a plain, honest man, ac-
customed to open dealing, in a caucus
or convention against the skilled in-
triguers, the practised wire-pullers, and
the disciplined managers, who fill the
air with their cries of "reform," and
outdo everybody in their zeal to purify
politics ? The stealthy, long-headed cal-
culator beats the man of inexperience
at every tack and turn ; and party poli-
tics is peculiarly tlie field where craft,
manoeuvre, and strategy, have their un-
hindered way. This is being increas-
ingly recognized, and there is coming
with it a deepening distrust of parti-
san agency. To get everything decent
out of politics as quickly as possible is
now the open demand. Courts, schools,
prisons all tbe important agencies of
society must, it is admitted, be taken
out of politics, if their purity and efl&-
ciency are to be maintained ; and even
the chief office-holder of the nation
heads a crusade to get all the office-
holders of the country out of politics.
Citizens may be expected to imitate
this good example, and more and more
get out of politics themselves.
FURTHER ASTRONOMICAL DISCO VJERIES.
The luck of successful research seems
now with the astronomers. Last month
we announced the brilliant discovery
of oxygen in the atmosphere of the sun
by Prof. Henry Draper ; and we have
now to chronicle the equally brilliant
discovery of two satellites of Mars by
Prof. Asaph Hall, of the Naval Obser-
vatory at Washington ; aud also of a
third moon of Mars discovered ten days
later by Profs. Henry Draper and E. H.
Holden at the private observatory of the
Drapers, at .Hastings-on-the-Hudson.
We publish an interesting article, by
Prof. Daniel Kirkwood, on " Mars and
his Satellites," giving an account of the
growth of our knowledge of the planet
and the particulars of Prof. Hall's dis-
covery of his moons.
As Prof. Kirkwood remarks, the
question whether Mars had a satellite,
which has now been so remarkably re-
solved, has long interested astronomers.
How they have regarded it may be il-
lustrated by the following passage from
the third edition of Mr. Chambers's ad-
mirable " Hand-book of Descriptive As-
tronomy," published this year :
" As far as we know, Mars possesses no
satellite, though analogy does not forbid,
but rather, on the contrary, leads us to infer
the existence of one ; and its never having
been seen, in this case at least, proves noth-
ing. The second satellite of Jupiter is
only ^Jj of the diameter of the primary, and
a satellite -i, of the diameter of Mars would
be less than one hundred miles in diameter,
and therefore of a size barely within the
reach of our largest telescopes, allowing
nothing for its possibly close proximity to
the planet. The fact that one of the satel-
lites of Saturn was only discovered a few
years ago renders the discovery of a satellite
of Mars by no means so great an improbabil-
ity as might be imagined."
