54 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
One might, at first sight, be disposed to consider that the ants
with stings must have a great advantage over those with none. In
some cases, however, the poison is so strong that it is sufiicient for it
to touch the foes to place them hors de combat, or at least to render
them incapacitated, with every appearance of extreme pain. Such
species have the abdomen unusually mobile.
The species of Lasius make up in numbers what they want in
strength. Several of them seize an enemy at once, one by each of her
legs or antennae, and, when they have once taken hold, they will suf-
fer themselves to be cut in pieces rather than let go.
Polyergus rufescens, the celebrated slave-making or Amazon ant,
has a mode of combat almost peculiar to herself. The jaws are very
powerful and pointed. If attacked if, for instance, another ant
seizes her by a leg she at once takes her enemy's head into her jaws,
which generally makes her quit her hold. If she does not, the Polyer-
gus closes her mandibles, so that the points pierce the brain of her
enemy, paralyzing the nervous system. The victim falls in convul-
sions, setting free her terrible foe. In this manner a comparatively
small force of Polyergus will fearlessly attack much larger armies of
other species, and sufier themselves scarcely any loss.
Much of what has been said as to the powers of communication
possessed by bees and ants depends on the fact that, if one of them
in the course of her rambles has discovered a supply of food, a num-
ber of others soon find their way to the store. This, however, does not
necessarily imply any power of describing localities. If the bees or
ants merely follow their more fortunate companion, or if they hunt
her by scent, the matter is comparatively simple ; if, on the contrary,
the others have the route described to them, the case becomes very
difi"erent. To determine this, therefore, I have made a great number
of experiments, of which, however, I will here only mention a few.
Under ordinary circumstances, if an ant discovers a stock of food, she
carries as much as possible away to the nest, and then returns for
more, accompanied generally by several friends. On their return,
these bring others, and, in this way, a string of ants is soon estab-
lished. Unless, therefore, various precautions are taken and this, so
far as I know, has never been done in any of the previous observa-
tions the experiment really tells very little.
I therefore made the following arrangement : One of my nests
of the small brown garden ant, Lasius niger, was connected with a
board, on which I was in the habit of placing a supply of food and
water. At a short distance from the board I placed two glasses
{b b'), and on 5 I placed some food. I then connected the glass b
with the board a by three slips of paper, c, d, e, and put an ant to the
food. She carried off a supply to the nest, returning for more, and
so on. Several friends came with her, and I imprisoned them till the
experiment was over. When she had passed several times over the
