NEW STAR IN THE CONSTELLATION SWAN. 59
THE NEW STAK IN THE CONSTELLATION OF
THE SWAN/
By AMEDEE GUILLEMIN.
THE phenomenon of a new star appearing in the heavens is suf-
ficiently rare to strike the imagination of the public, as well as to
attract the attention of scientific men. On the one side, it possesses
all the interest which attaches to the unexpected, to the mysterious
unknown ; and, on the other, it raises some very important questions
as to the physical and chemical constitution of the stars, and as to the
likeness between those distant suns and our own. But now more
than ever before, more even than in the first moiety of the nineteenth
century, is such curiosity justified, inasmuch as the new means of
investigation in the hands of astronomers give promise of revealing,
at least in a great measure, the nature of the strange transformations
which give rise to these apparitions.
Before we consider the quite recent discovery made by Julius
Schmidt, diraotor of the observatory at Athens, let us make a brief
review of the apparitions which preceded it.
Every one has seen in works on astronomy the account of the
famous temporary star of 1572, which appeared during the month of
November in the constellation of Cassiopeia, all of whose phases were
observed by Tycho Brahe. Its extraordinary scintillation ; its bright-
ness, equaling and surpassing Vega, Jupiter, Sirius, and even Venus
when in quadrature, so that it was visible at high noon ; finally, its
sudden diminution and disappearance after seventeen months of visi-
bility, all conspired to give to this star an extraordinary celebrity.
In 1600 a new star appeared in the Swan, and was studied by
Kepler; then it disappeared in 1621, was again visible in 1655, and
at sundry times afterward ; it is still visible.
Thirty years after the disappearance of the new star in Cassiopeia
appeared the star in Serpentarius discovered by Brunowski in October,
1604, and which had for its observer and historian the great Kepler.
It was visible for eighteen months, and, while it did not equal in
brightness the star of 1572, it surpassed the stars of first magnitude,
and even Jupiter itself.
In 1670 a third temporary star was discovered by the Carthusian
Anthehne, in that part of the constellation of the Fox which is nearest
to /3 of the Swan. At the time of its apparition, or rather of its dis-
covery, June 20th, it was of the third magnitude. About August 10th
it was only of the fifth magnitude, and three months later it disap-
peared, reappearing on March 17, 1671, with the lustre of a star of
' Translated from the French by J. Fitzgerald, A. M.
