6o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the fourth magnitude. The temporary stars of 1572 and 1604 had
directed the attention of astronomers to the variableness of the light of
stars; and already, in 1050, Bouillaud had approximately determined
the period of Mira Ceti, or the star o in the constellation of the Whale.
Cassini, who observed sensible variations in the star of the Fox, sup-
posed that its period could be fixed at ten months ; but it was sought
for in vain in February, 1672; it did not reappear till the end of
March, being at that time of the sixth magnitude; then it disappeared
once more, and has since never been seen.
Between the star of the Fox and the star discovered on AjDril 28,
1848, by Hind in Ophiuchus (or Serpentarius), 177 years elapsed. The
star of 1848, which was of a dark yellow or reddish color, did not ex-
ceed the fifth magnitude, but the variations of its light were care-
fully studied during the whole period of its visibility. In 1850 it was
hardly of the eleventh magnitude, and this magnitude it has since
kept.
Here we may refer to the researches made since Cassini's time
into ancient writings, whether European or Chinese, which show that
many similar apparitions of new stars have been noted in chronicles
and afterward forgotten : for instance, the star of the year 125 b. c,
observed by Hipparchus, as we learn from Pliny ; another, which ap-
peared in the Emperor Hadrian's time ; the new st ar seen in the constel-
lation of the Eagle in the year 389, and which possessed a brilliancy
resembling that of Venus ; that seen in the Scorpion in the ninth cen-
tury; the new stars of the years 945 and 1264, both of which made
their appearance in very nearly the same j^art of the heavens between
Cepheus and Cassiopeia.
Before we come to the two latest temporary stars, which have
succeeded each other in an interval often and a half years, and which
are worthy of a detailed description, let us briefly state the questions
to which these apparitions have given rise among astronomers, and
the hypotheses which have been oifei*ed for their solution.
To what causes must we refer the nearly always sudden appari-
tions of these strange bodies, their variations of lustre, their inter-
mittence, as also their changes of color? Why is it that, after alter-
nations of great lustre and of paling, their light gradually faded
away, and what is the cause of their ultimate disappearance ?
A thousand conjectures have been made in the eflfort to answer
this question. Among the weightiest of these, the one which com-
pares temporary stars to variable periodic stars must be rejected at
once not on the ground that these two classes of stars are absolutely
distinct, but because the periodicity being due, either to a movement
of rotation or to occultation on the one hand, or to a phenomenon
peculiar to the star itself on the other, the first hypothesis is clearly
inadmissible for the explanation of new stars, and the secT)nd is pre-
cisely the question to be solved.
