NEW STAR IN THE CONSTELLATION SWAN, 61
Tycho Brahe, struck with the suddenness of the appearance of the
star of 1572, and its position on the edge of the Milky- Way, offered a
bold hypothesis which is now abandoned. He believed in a creation
or at least in the spontaneous incandescence of the nebulous matter
of which he supposed the Milky-Way to be composed : when the new
star vanished, the place it had occupied was void, or at least Brahe
saw, in the absence of nebulosity at that spot, the result of the con-
densation of the matter the combustion of which had produced an
appearance resembling a star. Humboldt justly compares this view,
w^hich at all events was an ingenious one, with the views held by W.
Herschel as to the transformation of nebulae into stellar masses. In
Tycho Brahe's time it was not known that the light of the Milky-
Way results from the aggregation of an indefinite number' of stars,
or stellar masses, and that it is within this immense agglomeration
and in its vicinity that tlie nebula? properly so called are rarest.
Besides, it has been proved that the stars known as " new " stars
are anything but new. In the spot where the star of 0])hiuchus made
its appearance in 1848, there had previously been a star, noted by
Lalande in Fortin's " Atlas Celeste " as a vanislied star. So, too, the
new star which appeared in May, 1866, in the Corona Borealis, and
which at the start reached the second magnitude, had been already set
down in catalogues as a star of tlie ninth magnitude ; it still possesses
the same lustre it had before it underwent, during the six months of its
apparition, the extraordinary augmentation which attracts to it the
attention of astronomers. Hence astronomers no longer believe in the
creation or in the destruction of these stars. Before the sudden in-
candescence which makes them visible, they occupied the same places,
and there they still remain after their more or less perfect extinction.
It remains to inquire into the physical causes which produce these
variations of lustre.'
Spectrum analysis has provided the first positive elements for the
solution of this problem. As late as the year 1848 this method was
as yet unknown ; but when in 1866 the variable star of the Northern
Crown [Corona Borealis) appeared, spectrum analysis was already so
developed as to be profitably applied to the observation of it. The
results obtained by Huggins and Miller in these researches were as
follows :
' It is worth while to observe the ease with which these knotty questions are dis-
posed of by persons who are wont to invoke supernatural agencies. Here is an instance
dating from the seventeenth century, but similar instances may be found in our own
time : Father Riccioli, as an explanation of the appearance of secondary stars, suggested
the idea that some stars are luminous on one side; and whenever God would "exhibit to
men some extraordinary sign, he turns toward them the luminous side (previously turned
away from the earth) by causing the star to revolve about suddenly, either by the agency
of some intelligent being, or in virtue of some faculty inherent in the star itself; then,
by making another similar revolution, it suddenly vanishes, or pales gradually, like the
moon iu its phases." The explanation offered by the learned Jesuit is both ingenious
and convenient. But, unfortunately, astronomers nowadays are not satisfied with it.
