62
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
" The spectrum of the variable star of Corona Borealis is found to consist of
two superposed spectra, the one made up of four bright lines, and the other resem-
bling the solar spectrum, each resulting from the decomposition of a group of
luminous rays independent of the light which produces the other. The continuous
spectrum, furrowed with groups of dark rays, indicates the presence of a photo-
sphere of incandescent matter, almost certainly solid or liquid, and surrounded
by an atmosphere of cooler vapors, which produce by absorption the groups of
darker lines. So far the constitution of this star resembles that of the sun ; but
it offers an additional spectrum composed of bright lines. Here, then, is a second
source of special light, and this source must le a luminous gas. Furthermore,
the two principal bright lines of this spectrum show that this gas consisted
mainly of hydrogen ; and their great brightness proves that the temperature of
the luminous gas was higher than that of the photosphere. These facts, taken
in connection with the suddenness of the outburst of light in the star, its im-
FiG. 1. Spectrum op the Variable Star in Corona Borealis. (From Euggins and Miller.)
mediate and rapid diminution of brightness, and its decline, in the course of
twelve days, from the second to the eighth magnitude, lead us to the conclusion
that the star was suddenly enveloped in hydrogen-flames. Possibly it was the
scene of some mighty convulsion, with disengagement of an enormous amount
of liberated gas. A great portion of this gas was hydrogen, which burned on
the surface of the star by combining with some other element. The light given
forth by this flaming gas was characterized by the spectrum with bright lines.
The spectrum of the other portion of the star's light probably showed that this
terrible conflagration of gas had surcharged and rendered more" vividly incan-
descent the solid matter of the photosphere. "When the free hydrogen had been
exhausted, the flame died away by degrees, the photosphere became less lumi-
nous, and the star returned to its former state. . . . We must not forget," adds
Mr. Huggins, " that light, though it travels with such great velocity, neverthe-
less requires a certain time to come to us from the star. Hence this grand physi-
cal convulsion, though new to us, was a thing of the past as regards the star it-
self. In 1866 the star had already for years been in the new conditions produced
by this violent catastrophe."
The solar protuberances had not as yet been directly analyzed in
1866 ; it was not yet known that a continuous stratum of incandescent
hydrogen envelops the bright photosphere of the sun, and that the
emission of this gas, in the form of irregular jets, undergoes in the
sun variations, phases, which are at least so far related to the sun-
spots as to be coincident with tliem. What mighty physical revolu-
