NEW STAR IN THE CONSTELLATION SWAN. 65
probably to be the result of an incandescent vapor or gas." Here it
will be seen, is a first point of resemblance to the variable star of
Corona Borealis.
A second study, made by Cornu on December 4th, enabled him to
define the bright lines of the spectrum. Three of them are the lines
C, F, and 434 of hydrogen ; a fourth line seemed to correspond to the
line D of sodium; another to the characteristic line b of magnesium.
Finally, two lines with the wave-lengths 531 and 451 seem to coincide,
the one with the famous line 1,474 (Kirchhoff's scale) observed in
the solar corona during eclipse, the other with a line of the chromo-
sphere. These results possess so high an interest that we will here
transcribe a portion of the text of M. Cornu's note :
"The spectrum of this star," he writes, "consists of a certain number of
detached bright lines on a sort of luminous ground, almost entirely interrupted
between the green and the indigo, so that the spectrum appears as though made
up of a number of separate parts. In order to study it quaUtatively, I adopted a
spectroscopic eye-piece of special construction, which utiUzes most of the light,
and allows the observer to vary its concentration. In measuring I used a direct-
vision Duboscq spectroscope. I observed only bright lines ; the dark lines, if
any there are, must be very minute, and escaped my observation, owing to the
faintness of the star's light."
In this respect the spectrum of the star in the Swan differs from
that of the star T of Corona Borealis, as may be seen from the figure
here copied from Huggins,
We omit the details of the measurements of the positions of the
lines, and pass to the results, which are stated in the following table.
The bright lines, ranged in the order of their brightness, a, ^, y, /3, ^,
?/, 0, e, are eight in number, and their wave-lengths are here given
in millionths of a millimetre :
a
S
7
iS
C
V
e
6
Lines observed
Hydrogen
661
665 (C)
588
589(2))
587*
531
532
517
....
&\h'ibMg.)
500
483
486 {F)
451
.
447
435
4U
Sodium
.
Magnesium
Coi'ona line
Chromosphere line. . . .
From this table it is seen that there is almost perfect coincidence
as regards the lines-a, ?/, and e, with three hydrogen-lines ; as regards
i3, with the line h of magnesium ; as regards 6, with the line of sodium,
or, perhaps, as Cornu suggests, with the bright line D3 of the chromo-
sphere. The y corresponds with a bright line also belonging to the
chromosphere and the solar corona; and, finally, 6 corresponds with
a line of the chromosphere. The line ^ alone stands unidentified with
any known line.
VOL. XI. 5
