66 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
" If tliia interpretation were correct, the bright lines of the spectrum of the
star would comprise exclusively the brightest and most frequent lines, of the
chromosphere."
In the extreme violet tliere is a line, the fourth of hydrogen, also
noted by Dr. Young, as one of the naost frequent in the spectrum of
the chromosphere, the wave-length of which is 410. Cornu thinks he
has often perceived this line in the spectrum of the star, hut he has
not been able to measure it. The distinguished observer closes his
account of these interesting researches as follows :
" To sura up, the light of the star seems to have precisely the same composi-
tion as the light of the sun's envelope, the chromosphere. Though the tempta-
tion is strong to draw from this fact conclusions as to the physical condition of
this new star, its temperature, the chemical reactions it must exhibit, I will make
no comments, nor oflter any hypotheses. We lack, I think, the data necessary
for reaching a profitable conclusion, or at least a conclusion that can be verified.
However attractive such hypotheses may be, we must not forget that they He
outside of the domain of science, and that, instead of being of service to science,
they are likely to hinder its progress."
The readers of La Nature will permit us to add a few reflections
of our own to those offered by our learned fellow-countryman. His
reserve we acknowledge to be very wise, but he has expressed him-
self a little too strongly. Who, after perusing M. Cornu's analysis
and the conclusions he has drawn, would not make the short step that
here intervenes between fact and hypothesis, and assert the similarity,
if not the identity, of the light of the star with that of the chromo-
sphere? True, we cannot with certaintj^ affirm that tlie apparently
continuous faint spectrum in which are seen the bright lines was also
its spectrum before it became visible to us, but that such is the case
is highly probable. We cannot say what was the cause of this sudden
development of gases, whose existence and incandescence are revealed
by the star's spectrum, just as we are as yet unable to assign the
cause of the sun's hydrogen protuberances. But is it nothing to class
together phenomena, the only difference between which seems to be
one of degree alone ? The hypotheses of Huggins and Miller, as to
the causes of the apparition of the star in the Corona Borealis, can of
course never be verified ; but no more can we verify the current
hypotheses held by astronomers and physicists with regard to the
presence of various chemical elements in the sun; we have here only
probabilities. Such hypotheses, far from being of injury to science,
are indispensable for its progress: they stimulate the observer's mind,
constantly suggest to him fresh observations, and become a hinderance
only when they are held to be demonstrated truths, and when men
refuse to give them up after they have been proved to be erroneous,
or after they have served their purpose. La Nature
