TOADSTO OL-EA TIN G. 9 3
TOADSTOOL-EATING.
By JULIUS A. PALMEE, Je.
IDG not mean in this article to consider the origin, reproduction,
nature, and extent of the family of Cryptogamous plants called
Fungi ; for I do not claim the culture of the scientist, or the disin-
terested enthusiasm of the naturalist. "Art for art's sake" is not
my war-cry. I propose to detail in popular language the experiences
of an amateur toadstool-eater who desires to encourage personal in-
vestigation of a neglected subject.
Not long since, a course of lectures was announced on " Fungi."
My call for circulars and tickets revealed the fact that the lecturer
proposed to explain all about smut in distinction from potato-rot; the
difference between blue-mould, black-mould, and white-mould, was also
to be clearly defined, for which purpose a microscope of wonderful
power had been provided. It seemed to me that, after people were
able to tell healthful food from certain poison, it would be in place to
give them a popular course on microscopic organisms.
Three years ago, I was detaching a large fungus from the famous
Liberty-Tree on Boston Common. An over-cautious stranger tapped
my shoulder and said, "My friend, that is not a mushroom ! "
" Now that looks to me like a big toadstool," exclaimed another
by-stander.
"Every mushroom is a toadstool, and every toadstool is a mush-
room," I replied, and I repeat the answer here. You might as well
call a beet a " vegetable," and every other representative, from the
garden a " plant," as to consider one fungus a " mushroom," and all
others of a thousand species " toadstools."
Yet, people cannot be blamed for ignorance where there are so
few sources of information. The difficulties experienced by the
amateur can scarcely be overrated. Excepting the writings of Dr.
Curtis, of South Carolina, I have not seen an original contribution to
American literature on this obscure topic. Even Dr. Curtis (in a
very interesting correspondence with Charles James Spragiie, de-
posited at the rooms of the Boston Society of Natural History) gives
little information regarding toadstools, devoting most of his letters
to the revelations made by the microscope. I, however, procured
from London the works whose titles I give in the note at the end
of this paper, and began the study of fungology as a science.
Still, discrepancies and obscurities will confront the student. The
descriptions are by no means exact. All these authorities describe
fungi of foreign parts, i. e., not necessarily American species. The
classification is not even harmonious, as the generic names of the dif-
ferent species vary with leading authorities, from the time of Sow-
