94 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
erby to the present. When you have placed a specimen in the proper
family, you have not in any way defined its quality, since one mush-
room may be esculent, and its twin brother poisonous. Yet, the work
of Berkeley is a book easily procured, and, having a number of colored
plates, is readily understood by persons with botanical tastes. Such
will find no study more fascinating. It is surprising how quickly the
hand and eye acquire a delicacy in analysis, impossible to communi-
cate in words. This talent is essential. No one should attempt to
gather mushrooms who has not the power to fix in his mind the exact
characteristics of any specimen, so as not to be in the least danger of
confounding it with its nearest neighbor.
The student must sweep the brain clear of various charms and tra-
ditional lore. There is no magical way of identifying good mush-
rooms; no infallible test for healthful varieties. Here are some speci-
mens of newspaper paragraphs :
"Every mushroom," says one (meaning every edible mushroom),
" should peel like a potato."
Agreed, but nearly all the fungi peel readily.
" But the stem ought to come out like an umbrella-handle."
Whole classes (many of them noxious) have free gills, which is the
only reason why the stem leaves the cap so easily.
Then, on the negative side, you will hear such attempts at classifi-
cation as the following, taken from a widely-circulated weekly:
" As a general rule, all found in damp, dark places, or on decaying
animal matter, are poisonous. Those that have a very thin cap, or the
stem growing from the side instead of the middle, should be avoided.
All milky mushrooms, with the single exception of the orange milk-
mushroom, ai'e extremely dangerous. So also are those which have
the gills of equal length, those which run speedily into a dark, watery
liquid, which taste bitter or burn the mouth, or have a fetid., sicMy
smell. If a mushroom turns a variety of colors when bruised, or is
marked by the trail of a snail, it can under no circumstances be
eaten."
Excepting, perhaps, the phrase I have italicized, the above is a
tissue of misapprehension. Damp, dark places produce the very best
mushrooms. The edible champignon (3Iarasmius oreades) has a very
thin cap. The elm-tree mushroom [Agaricus tdmarius) has an eccen-
tric stem. The brown milk-mushroom {Lactarius volenmm) is unques-
tioned, and several others are doubtless esculent. A whole family
[Mussulce) have equal gills. The maned mushroom ( Coprinus coma-
tus), most delicious, and easily recognized, turns to ink without the
addition of any fluid. The honey-colored mushroom [Agaricus mel-
leus) is very acrid raw, as are also others, equally harmless when
cooked. Several esculent Agarics turn red when bruised, and many
edible Boleti change color. I never saw a snail on a mushroom.
Presuming that the writer means to refer to slugs, I would add that
