TOADSTOOL-EATING. 95
I have often cut them out of mushrooms, rejecting only the part
they had spoiled.
I have given but one example of each inconsistency, but they mifht
be multiplied almost indefinitely. Then comes your believer in
charms : dropping salt on the mushroom to see if it turns black or yel-
low, or stirring them with a coin spoon to watch for evidences of dis-
coloration. Another rejects all which grow from wood. But no test
of any kind, in form, color, or basis of growth, will distinguish health-
ful from harmful fungi.
"What, then?" despairingly asks an inquirer "what, then, can be
done?"
Exactly what is done in every other department from domestic
economy to high art. How does Mr. Jarves tell the difference
between a painting by Leonardo da Vinci and one by Guide Reni ?
How could you explain (to one who had never seen either) the dif-
ference between a hyacinth-bulb and an onion? From essays on the
early painters, you draw conclusions which enable you to distinguish
at sight the works of two artists. In kitchen-lore, the child acquires
distinctions with its earliest lessons at the mother's apron-string.
Only by these two means can practical knowledge of the kingdom of
Fungi be increased : first, exact scientific analysis; second, the circu-
lation of arbitrary, traditional information, such as saying to igno-
ramus :
" There, sir, that is an elm-tree mushroom ; mark it well : whenever
you find one iust like it on your elm, eat it."
With a view of encouraging research, I shall make an attempt at
an original but very limited classification, and also describe a few
varieties of mushrooms. The first distinction is in the nature of the
surface bearing the reproductive bodies or spores. Pick the next
toadstool you find; look under the top or cap. You will observe
one of four things :
1. There is a series of thin i)lates set on their edges running in
to a common centre, like the spokes of a wheel. The spokes are called
the gills ; the stem corresponds to the hub. This is the largest family
of mushrooms, the Agaricini or Agarics.
2. In the place of gills, your specimen may have a substance
resembling fine sponge. It is then a pore-bearing mushroom, ge-
nerically a l^olyporus. Supposing the stem to be distinctly defined,
of ordinary length, and the pores or tubes easily separable from each
other, it is a Boletus.
3. Instead of the sponge, you may find a number of small points
or spines. It belongs then to the teeth-bearing fungi, generically
the Hydnei.
4. When you invert the mushroom, you may find neither gills,
pores, nor teeth. It may be globular. In the three other classes, the
spores are borne externally ; here they are inclosed. If young, the
