96 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
skin is filled with a substance, white, yellowish, puq^le, or black. If
old, the contents are discharged in dust at a smart squeeze. It is a
Puff-ball.
As the object of this article is to interest thosd having no knoAvl-
edge whatever of the subject, I shall not allude to other families. It
is probable that your toadstool will come within one of these four
grand divisions. If not, select another at once.
The puff-balls are the safest mushrooms for the beginner. When
you find one, with a smooth skin, perfectly white inside, it is the giant
puff-ball {Ly coper dum giganteum) in an infantile state. The color of
the skin varies from pure white to a shade almost black. If the knife
leaves a stain of yellow, it is too old to eat. Otherwise, you may eat
it without fear. There are several smaller varieties, which my wife
and I eat indiscriminately.
I believe all white puff-balls may be safely used if cooked at once.
They change very rapidly after gathering, and should only be eaten
in their freshest state. There is no poisonous fungus resembling
them.
The teeth-bearing toadstools are also safe fungi for the experi-
ments of the amateur. I have found only one variety, but Smith says
all the species of any size enjoy a good character. The spreading
hydnum [Hydnum repandum) is usually yellow, sometimes reddish,
always firm-fleshed; stem deformed, indistinct, or eccentric; and one
side of the disk, or top, is frequently much higher than the point
diametrically opposite. The peculiarity of the teeth, or spines (which
in young specimens easily rub off), is enough to distinguish it.
The Holeti can only be confounded with their twin brothers, the
JPolyporei. The latter grow mostly on wood, with abortive stems,
while the boletus of the edible kind grows from the ground, has a
distinct stem, and the tubes of the sponge are easily separable from
each other. If these tubes or pores are brown, yellowish, or green-
ish, the top being russet-color, or any shade of brown, and on cutting
the flesh it remains white, it is an edible, or at least a harmless, variety.
If the plant is brilliant-colored, red or yellow, or turns blue when
bruised, it is best to reject it. If the tubes are red at the orifice, it is
doubtless poisonous.
The Agarlcini (those with gills) cannot be thus generalized, and I
regard them as the least safe for the amateur, although it is to this
class that the celebrated individual honored by English-speaking
people with the title of " a mushroom " belongs. How can I describe
this species, it varies so widely with its circumstances?
Two varieties, the meadow-mushroom [Agarimts campestris) and
the horse-mushroom [Agaricits arvensis), run into each other by inter-
mediate types so closely that professional cooks and gardeners may
be forgiven that they entirely ignore any difference between them.
There is a theory that the horse-mushroom is propagated from spores
