TOADSTO OL-EA TING. ^g
Our symptoms were not unlike those exhibited in g, person using
tobacco for the first time. Dizziness, nausea, purging, perspiration
with alternate cold spells, all passed over us within an hour, so rapid
is the effect of the mushroom-virus. Two wineglasses of whiskey and
sweet-oil (equal parts) neutralized the poison, and in a few hours we
were no worse for the experience.
I would prescribe this remedy in all cases rather than the use of
emetics. Omit the whiskey, if you please, or substitute vinegar for
spirits, but take sweet-oil liberally in case of a mistake. I believe
the Italians eat many dangerous fungi with impunity, because, when
fresh, their properties are changed by sweet-oil; preserved, they are
neutralized by pickle. Either of these elements renders harmless the
peculiar alkali, to a superfluity of which mushrooms owd their noxious
qualities.
We must use the same discretion daily employed in selecting other
food. Who would willingly eat tainted meat? Is it so very uncom-
mon to find a goose or duck too strong to be palatable ? Who has
not been poisoned by bad oysters, stale fish, or overripe fruit ?
Because many mushrooms do not agree with the human system,
it does not follow that they are deadly poisons. I have friends who
do not jn-etend to distinguish varieties, but eat whatever has an appe-
tizing flavor. (I do not consider this safe ground, because the inabil-
ity to identify any one variety is doubtless the cause of many cases of
poisoning.) Yet, although they claim to have made their breakfast
from such obscurely known kinds as that which I afterward classified
as the smeared cortinarius {Cortinarius collinitus), I have never
known them to acknowledge any other sensation than an intense
desire to hunt for more. Julie and I had one day eaten plentifully
of the honey-colored mushroom [Agarictis melleus). On looking it
up in Greville, a well-knoAvn Scotch authority, I found the following
notice: "This species is said to be freely eaten on tlie Continent; at
least Fries quotes the authority of Trattinick for the fact. But, on
the other hand, Persoon gives it a bad character. In this he is sup-
ported by Paulet, who tried its effect upon a dog. The poor animal
died twelve hours after receiving the poisonous fungus."
Notwithstanding such a warning, it continues to be a favorite
article of diet with us to-day. I think it may be noxious raw,but
that the heat kills the virus. It must be remembered that toadstool-
eating is by no means an exact science. Fungus-eaters are daily
making discoveries. Twenty years ago the two leading authorities
of England and America, Berkeley and Curtis, considered the Copri-
nus comatus poisonous.
There are but two ways in which it is proper to cook mushrooms.
By far the majority are best broiled on a fine-wire gridiron. They
should be sprinkled with salt and (if the species is well known as an
esculent) red pepper, buttered as the fire browns them. Otherwise,
