104
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
CORRESPONDENCE.
INSECTS AND FLOWERS IN COLOEADO.
To the Editor of the Popular Science Monthly.
UNDER the above heading, in the Jan-
uary number, Mr. Meehan calls for a
list of the Hymenoptera and Lepidoptera,
abundant enough to probably act as cross-
fertilizers of flowers iu the region observed
by him namely, from Denver to Golden
City and Idaho Springs, through the South
Park to Pike's Peak, thence returning to
Denver direct.
In 1871 (the year of Mr. Meehan's ob-
servations) I spent the months of June,
July, August, and September, entirely in
the region mentioned, and devoted my time
almost exclusively to the collection and ob-
servation of Lepidoptera. In no place out-
side of the tropics have I found a better col-
lecting-ground, at least so far as diurnals
are concerned, both as to variety of species
and number of specimens. This abundance,
however, is chiefly noticeable early in the
season, as indicated by the number of speci-
mens I was able to secure in the different
months namely, 1,792 in June, 1,483 in
July, 607 in August, and only 43 in Sep-
tember.
Of insects of other orders I collected
about 3,800 specimens ; but very few of
them were Hymenoptera, as I devoted only
rainy days to the collection of insects other
than butterflies. Several species of hum-
ble-bees were observed ; these did not seem
to confine their attention to any particular
kind of flower.
At Idaho Springs, about the middle of
August, I saw hundreds of Noctuidte at-
tracted by the lights of the hotel, and cap-
tured some sixty specimens. A notewor-
thy fact is that in the Alpine regions many
NoctuidcB were diurnal in their habits. The
most abundant species was Heliothis Meadii
(Grote) ; these moths were found flying
from flower to flower, or resting upon flow-
ers both above and below the timber-line.
The white-lined sphinx {Deilephila lineata)
was also quite plentiful in some spots, and
seemed quite partial to larkspur and similar
showy flowers.
Certain diurnals of arctic types positive-
ly swarmed on many of the peaks for ex-
ample, Argynnis Helena (Edwards), and
lower down several species of IlelKcea, Phy-
ciodes, and Argynnis., were constantly to be
found at flowers.
I give a list of the more abundant but-
terflies, with the number of specimens of
each species or genus taken, classing those
occurring almost entirely at or above the
timber-line as Alpine ; those found mostly
below 11,000 feet elevation as valley species
the species in the latter class which range
above the timber-line to any great extent
are designated by an asterisk (*).
Necessarily most of the collecting was
done below the timber-line ; hence the Al-
pine species were more abundant in individ-
uals than the recorded number of specimens
collected would indicate. None of the spe-
cies are likely to have been introduced by
the agency of man.
ALPINE SPECIKS.
Colias Meadii 65
Argynnis (5 species) 190
ChionobaB (2 epecies) 25
Erebia Tyndarus, variety Callias 62
Hesperia near Centaure 16
VALLEY SPECIES.
Parnassius SmintheuB * 241
Pieris (3 species) 106
Anthocharis (2 specieB) 7ft
Colias (5 species) 339
Vanessa, Grapta, etc. (9 species) 138
Argynnis (8 species) 210
Euptoieta Claudia * (very abundant) 53
Melitaea and Phyciodes (8 species) 297
Satyridae * (7 species) 495
Lycasnidse * (21 epecies) 835
Hesperidse 219
Geometridae and Noctuidae * 318
Theodore L. Mead.
CoENELL TJniveesitt, January 20, 1877.
SINGING IN THE EAES.
To the Editor of the Popular Science Monthly.
Mr. Editor : Do the minute tones heard
in "singing" or "ringing in the ears"
have any musical relation to each other ?
" Singing in the ears " is a mingling of
minute tones, somewhat like the singing of
a tea-kettle, caused by undue pressure of
the circulation in the head, etc.
In my own case, the minute tones seem
to be octaves., and thirds, and fiftlis apart,
forming chords and progressive intervals.
In investigating the relation of music to
the physiology of audition, I find this a
very important question, demanding a mul-
tiplicity of evidence. Will those of your
readers who have information on this mat-
ter (positive or negative, but exact) write to
me? X. Y, Clark,
Box 2,260,
San Fkanoisoo, Califoenia.
FEEDING-HABITS OF WOOD-ANTS.
To the Editor of the Popular Science Monihly.
In the March number of your journal,
page 634, is a notice of the " Singular Feed-
