EDITOR'S TABLE.
^05
ing-IIabits of Wood-Ant s," wherein occurs
the statement that, if the ants were im-
mersed in water and placed on the ant-hills,
they were invariably attacked by other ants
as enemies, etc. This action is so at vari-
ance with what I have observed, that I will
mention an incident which occurred while I
was botanizing in Wisconsin last summer.
In passing by a large stump I observed that
the top was covered with large wood-ants.
They were feeding on crumbs of bread left
by some school-children. On the stump
was a depression, where the ants were in
large numbers. Procuring some water from
a lake close by, I poured it into the depres-
sion, submerging several dozen ants. The
most of them swam to the margin ; others
were in danger of drowning. What was
my astonishment to see those who had es-
caped riish into the water, seize their drown-
ing fellows, and drag them to the shore,
where they tenderly turned them over until
satisfied they were alive, when the rescuers
went back and tried to save others ! A few
were dragged out too late they were dead.
These were turned over, felt of by the an-
tennai of the rescuers, and left for dead.
In no instance was there any appearance
of violence to the wet ants by the dry ones.
The intelligence shown by these ants was
greater than I had ever dreamed they pos-
sessed, and since that time I have had a
most sincere respect for my lowly fellow-
laborers.
E. M. Hale, M. D.
Chicago, February 24, 1877.
EDITOR'S TABLE.
MENTAL OVERWORK UNDER THE COM-
PETITIVE PRIZE SYSTEM.
THE death by suicide, not long ago,
of a brilliant student of Cornell
University, Eniil Schwerdtfeger, at the
age of nineteen, has a painful interest
in connection with the subject of edu-
cation. We are glad to see that the
case has elicited some wholesome com-
ment on the part of the press, in re-
gard to the influences to which he was
subjected, and the system of culture
that supplies them ; and we think the
lesson that has been drawn ought to be
enforced upon the public mind in the
most pointed and emphatic manner.
It seems that the yoimg man had
fallen into a state of hopeless depres-
sion, after a course of successful study,
in which he had made the most re-
markable proficiency in the languages.
His mental condition reminds us of
that through which John Stuart Mill
passed, when about the same age, after
being subjected by his father to that
long and terrible discipline of acquisi-
tion which is so fully described in his
autobiography and has been curiously
confirmed by a letter lately discovered,
written by young Mill at the age of
thirteen to Sir Samuel Bentham. Af-
ter being crammed with knowledge in
the most systematic way dead lan-
guages, classical literature, history,
mathematics, and political economy
from early childhood, by poring over
books, until he became a perfect prod-
igy of erudition, he passed into a cloud
of melancholy, in which his future life
seemed vacant and hopeless. All the
fountains of impulse that had previ-
ously incited him to effort seemed
dried up in his gloomy dejection. He
went on with his work mechanically,
but without interest, while this por-
tion of his life, or what he did in it,
was afterward hardly remembered. He
subsequently described his case in the
following lines from Coleridge :
"A grief without a pang, void, dark, and
drear,
A drowsy, stifled, unimpassioned grief,
Which finds no natural outlet or relief
In word, or sigh, or tear."
He was not free from suggestions
of self-destruction which arise in such
mental conditions, as we gather from
the following remarks : " I frequently
asked myself if I could, or if I was bound
to, go on living, when life must be
passed in this manner. I generally
answered to myself that I did not think
I could possibly bear it beyond a year."
It was unquestionably a case of brain-
