io6
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
exhaustion, brought on by steady, pro-
longed, and severe mental application,
and giving rise to the morbid condition
of melancholia. His vigorous consti-
tution, however, rallied and carried
him through, although he had several
relapses afterward. His education had
been conducted as if his mind was a
chamber to be packed with knowledge,
rather than a force or activity depend-
ent upon an organ of exquisite delicacy,
which is liable to be strained, over-
worked, impaired, and broken down.
The tragical result in the case of
Schwerdtfeger was due to two causes,
from the operation of which Mill was
comparatively exempt : he had slender
health, and he was exposed to the arti-
ficial, high - pressure competitive sye-
tem which is now so much in vogue
in the sphere of higher education. He
was a poor boy, of a highly-sensitive
nature, intellectually precocious, and
with an unhappy home, from the trou-
ble of which he had only been able
to escape through absorption in books
and study. At fourteen or fifteen he
was employed in an office to translate
German works, and displayed such re-
markable faculties that a wealthy gen-
tleman thought he would give him a
chance by sending him to college. He
went to Cornell, at the age of sixteen,
and, though not prepared to enter the
university, took up his residence with
one of the professors, and was quick-
ly qualified for admission. No sooner
had he got in than he began at once to
be plied with the dangerous stimulation
of the competitive prize system. A
pecuniary reward was offered for the
best essay on the " English verb."
Our slender lad went in for it and won
the prize and the honor, while yet a
freshman, with abundant plaudits for
his remarkable production. The distinc-
tion thus early achieved had of course
to be sustained, and an extrinsic and
artificial pressure was thus brought to
bear upon the young man, who was
thereafter expected to be an honor to
the institution. He threw himself with
all the premature ambition of a pre-
cocious nature into lingual studies a
class of studies that stands highest in
the rank of collegiate scholarship, and
that, therefore, brings most applause.
It must be remembered, also, that the
ascendency of these studies has long
been defended on the ground that they
afford the most available standards of
acquisition, or the sharpest means of
marking the student's progress ; in oth-
er words, are best fitted of all subjects
for racing and winning honors. Lan-
guage after language was rapidly ac-
quired. Schwerdtfeger bought a Greek
grammar and stuck to it for ten hours a
day, as we are informed, getting on with
such proficiency that a distinguished
Greek professor, from another institu-
tion, happening to be there, was set to
examining him. After three or four
hours of it, the professor declared that
he was well prepared to enter the
classical course of any college in the
country, and was confounded when
told that Schwerdtfeger had only be-
gun Greek three weeks before. In lan-
guages he was ahead of any student who
had ever been in the university. He
gave lessons as tutor in Latin, Spanish,
German, Greek, French, and Portuguese.
Under this intense strain his health,
originally poor, grew worse, and he
ought then to have at once left the place.
There is a moral discipline in such in-
stitutions which, if violated, entails ex-
pulsion; and it is a serious question
whether there ought not to be a san-
itary discipline, equally stringent, for
the exclusion of students who damage
themselves by over-study. But when
the boy's health quite gave way under
the stimulation of college influence, in-
stead of being sent away, he was struck
by a baneful agency from without. The
Intercollegiate Literary Association of-
fered prizes before the whole country
for the best essay in Latin. The sick
boy of Cornell entered into the compe-
tition, beat aU his rivals, and won the
