EDITOR'S TABLE.
109
must Tvork the deepest and most far-
reaching revolution in human thought
of any truth to which the human mind
has ever attained. Therefore we have
taken some pains to keep our readers
informed about it. And this was the
more necessary, as the literary periodi-
cals of large circulation pass the sub-
ject by, and the larger the circulation
the more carefully is it ignored. They
value, prefer, and select that which
will "pay," and in so doing they cater,
for mercenary purposes, to the caprice
frivolity, prejudice, and ignorance of
their readers, not troubling them much
with the great and serious truths which
science is working out for the world.
It is gratifying to find that we are not
singular in our estimate of the relative
moment and significance of these two
forms of intellectual occupation. A
writer who gives elaborate considera-
tion to President "White's " Warfare of
Science" in the Westminster Review
opens with the following pungent ob-
servations :
" It has always seemed to us a matter
for some wonder that people should take
such a deep interest in the peddling events
of poor individual human existences, and
so little in the dynasty of ideas ; that they
should be content to wear their eyes out
over the driveling three-volumed account
of the loves and hates of vapid men and
women, to indulge their finest emotions
over the fifth act of some puling melodrama,
and yet be altogether indifferent to the gi-
gantic drama of truth in which the unity
of place is the world, the unity of time the
centuries, and the actors are beneficent
truths or malevolent errors. Why men
should be indifierent to these momentous
events in the past which constituted the
history of science, the history of philoso-
phy, and, in the truest sense, the history
of religion, and yet should enter with such
eager zest into the gossip of the day and the
trivialities of personal reminiscence, it is
difficult to say. But, however hard it may
be to discover the meaning of, there is no
possibility of doubting, the fact. While the
personal histories of men who have very
small claims upon our better sympathies are
read with avidity, the impersonal narrative
of truths which have paramount claims upon
our hearts and our heads are treated with
the passive contempt of neglect. Men are
much to us, while doctr-nes are little. We
like to have our truths in the flesh ; and we
are too apt, when we find a doctrine incar-
nated, to neglect the sacred revelation and
worship the man, to transfer the reverence
which is due to an idea to the individual
who is, as it were, the bearer of it. Here we
have, in epitome, the history of many re-
ligions. Men will worship the truth with
startled reverence, then tliey will worship
the ti-uth-bearer and overlook the truth in
the symbol, and forget that of which it is
the sign."
CONCERNING ''BLUE GLASS:'
We are asked why we do not dis-
course of Pleasonton and " blue glass."
Why should we? Is it not abundantly
considered by the press already ? The
object of our pages is to treat of sub-
jects that are too generally neglected ;
to give expression to those great re-
sults of discovery and scientific thought
which get but a meagre share of atten-
tion from the popular press, and we
cannot find half room enough to do this
work as it should be done. "But,
really, what do you think of Pleasonton,
and the blue-glass cure ? " is now the
obtrusive question. Well, we think
that the man is a pestilent ignoramus,
and his book the ghastliest rubbish that
has been printed in a hundred years.
He may be entirely honest, but that
is no reason why we should give atten-
tion to his egregious folly. Pleason-
ton, however, it must be confessed,
serves one important function : he
gauges for us the depth and density of
American stupidity. De Morgan says,
somewhere, that certain men appear
occasionally to play the part of " fool-
ometers" in the community, that is, to
measure the number and quality of the
fools furnished by any given state of
society. Pleasonton has done this for
us with an accuracy that leaves nothing
to be desired. Our showing in this re-
spect is on a very handsome scale, fully
commensurate with the length of the
Mississippi, the sweep of the prairies,
the glory of the Centennial Exhibition,
the grandeur of the national debt, and
