no
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the splendid proportions of our system
of education. He is a public benefac-
tor, in that he has given us another
"big thing." The interesting point
just now about " blue glass " is psycho-
logical. It is an exponent of popular
intelligence, an index of culture, a
register of common-school work, and
a test of the influence of colleges. Our
collective schools produce in the com-
munity a certain state of mind; " blue
glass" indicates it. There is evidently
a very close connection here, and the
problem deserves to be worked out.
If the Intercollegiate Literary Associa-
tion will offer an additional prize for
the best essay on the connection be-
tween the study of Latin and Greek
and the "blue-glass" mania, The Pop-
ular Science Monthly will furnish
the money for the purpose.
LITERARY NOTICES.
The English Constitution, and Other Es-
says. By Walter Bagehot, Author of
"Physics and Politics," Editor of the
Economist, etc. Pp. 468. New York :
D. Appleton & Co. Price, .$2.
As we sit down to write a notice of this
interesting volume, we are startled by the
painful intelligence of the sudden death of
its distinguished author. Mr. Bagehot was
in the prime of life and the full vigor of his
powers, as attested by the recent fertility
of his pen and the sustained character of
his intellectual work. His position as a
writer was quite unique in the literature of
our time. Strongly attracted to the study
of public affairs, and devoting himself spe-
cially in his weekly journal to the consid-
eration of economical and commercial sub-
jects, he always dealt with them in a broad,
philosophical spirit, and wrote upon them
in a style of peculiar literary excellence,
for which he was quite unsurpassed among
contemporary writers upon these topics.
Besides his contributions to the reviews,
embracing close discussions of government
policy and commercial economies, and his
admirable biographical sketches, Mr. Bage-
hot is chiefly known by his volumes on
" Physics and Politics," " Lombard Street,"
and "The English Constitution." This is
his most important work, and that by which
he will be best known in the future. The
book on "Lombard Street" is a special
study of the money question, but the " Phys-
ics and Politics," which was reproduced in
French under the happier title of " The De-
velopment of Nations," and " The English
Constitution," are of a wider interest, as
they treat, in a scientific spirit, of social
questions and phenomena that concern alike
people of all countries. Those who have
read the " Physics and Politics " will find
" The English Constitution " treated by the
same method ; the principles there devel-
oped being applied to English constitution-
al history and the structure of English so-
cial life. We cannot, perhaps, give a bet-
ter account of this work than by quoting
the preface to the new American edition :
" ' The English Constitution,' by Walter
Bagehot, has already attracted some atten-
tion in this country, but it is a work that
deserves to be much more widely and fa-
miliarly known. Its title, however, is so
little suggestive of its real character, and is
so certain to repel and mislead American
readers, that, in bringing out a new and
cheaper edition of it, at this time, some prefa-
tory words may be useful for the correction
of erroneous impressions.
" It is well known that the term ' Con-
stitution,' in its political sense, has very
different significations in England and in
this country. With us it means a written
instrument, decreed at a certain time to be
the supreme law of the land. Hence when
a book appears upon the American Constitu-
tion, if not a history of its adoption, it will
probably be a commentary upon its mean-
ings ; that is, some kind of a law-treatise,
dealing with the technical interpretations
of a legal instrument. The English, on the
contrary, have no such written document.
By the national Constitution they mean their
actual social and political order the whole
body of laws, usages, and precedents, which
have been inherited from former genera-
tions, and by which the practice of govern-
ment is regulated. A work upon the Eng-
Ush Constitution, therefore, brings us natu-
rally to the direct consideration of the struct-
ure and practical working of English politi-
cal institutions and social life.
"The American Constitution was framed
