LITERARY NOTICES.
Ill
by a convention; the English Constitution
is a growth of centuries. Books written
upon the two Constitutions are, therefore,
Ukely to differ, much as a manual of car-
pentry differs from a hand-book of physi-
ology ; the former belonging rather to the
province of constructive art, and the latter
to that of natural science. While in the
study of the American Constitution we are
occupied with the ' intentions of the fram-
ers,' the ' rules of construction,' and the
lore of lawyers, to get at the sense of a
printed tract, the study of the English
Constitution introduces us more directly
to facts and phenomena, or the laws of po-
litical activity, social change, and national
growth. These objects of inquiry obvious-
ly lend themselves to the scientific method
of treatment, which aims to trace out the
working of natural causes and inherent
principles, and hence has interest for all
' students of political philosophy. Mr. Bage-
hot's work is written virtually, if not formal-
ly, from this point of view ; it is pervaded
by the scientific spirit, without taking on
the technical forms of scientific exposition.
" With the author's inclination and ca-
pacity to regard public questions in their
scientific aspects, many readers are already
familiar through his suggestive volume en-
titled ' Physics and Politics.' ' The English
Constitution ' is a work of the same quality,
and treats its subjects very much with refer-
ence to the principles of human nature and
the natural laws of human society. It is a
free disquisition on English polititical ex-
perience ; an acute, critical, and dispassion-
ate discussion of English institutions, de-
signed to show how they operate, and to
point out their defects and advantages.
The writer is not so much a partisan or an
advocate as a cool, philosophical inquirer,
with large knowledge, clear insight, inde-
pendent opinions, and great freedom from
the bias of what he terms that ' territorial
sectarianism called patriotism.' His criti-
cism of the faults of the English system is
searching and trenchant, and his apprecia-
tion of its benefits and usefulness is cordial,
discriminating, and wise. He discusses old
traditions and modern innovations, aristo-
cratic privileges and democratic tendencies,
with an absence of prejudice that comes
from a predominant scientific temper of
mind. Taking up in succession the Cabi-
net, the Monarchy, the House of Lords, and
the House of Commons, he considers them
in what may be called their dynamical in-
teractions, and in relation to the habits,
traditions, culture, and character, of the
English people. The book, indeed, is full
of instructive episodes, and sagacious re-
flections on the springs of action in human
nature, the exercise of power by individuals
or political bodies, the adaptation of insti-
tutions to the qualities and circumstances
of the different classes who live under them,
and numerous points of political philosophy,
which are applicable everywhere, and have
an interest for all students of political and
social affairs.
" There is much in Mr. Bagehot's volume
that bears very suggestively upon the state
of things in this country. His comparison,
in various points, of the working of cabinet
government with that of presidential gov-
ernment raises questions regarding our own
system which are forced into greater promi-
nence by every decade of our national ex-
perience. But the book should be read
by Americans not only for the interesting
information it contains, and the brilliant
light it throws upon the internal polity of a
great nation from which we have derived
so much of our own institutions, but be-
cause it will exert a widening and hberai-
izing influence upon the minds of our peo-
ple, who are too apt to look upon all other
governments with a kind of bigoted con-
tempt. Our intense politics, chiefly occu-
pied with selfish and sordid interests, and
bitter personal rivalries, tend to exclude
from this sphere of thought everything Uke
science, or the large and liberal study of
political principles. Narrow views lead to
a depreciation of everything foreign that
differs from our own system and practice.
A distinguished professor in one of our
leading colleges remarked that, when the
students come up in their last year to ac-
quire some notions of political science, their
want of information relating to everything
beyond the limits of their own country
their ignorance of any thing like comparative
poUtics is to the last degree discreditable.
Such narrowness is only to be corrected by
travel and extended observation, or by culti-
vating those studies and reading those books
that will give clear and just conceptions of
the policy of other leading nations. Mr.
