112
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Bagehot's analysis of the English Constitu-
tion will be helpful to this end ; and we
doubt if there is any other volume so useful
to our countrymen to peruse before visiting
^England. It will enable Americans to under-
stand many things that at first perplex and
disgust them in an old historic country,
where all that most impresses the mind is
so different from what we are accustomed
to here.
" It remains further to say that Mr.
Bagehot's work has a charming readable-
ness that would not be suspected from its
title or subject. It is written with an easy
liveliness, a vivacious wit, and a felicity of
style, that place it high in the scale of lit-
erary excellence.
" The studies of character of Brougham
and Peel, that are appended to the present
edition, and have not before appeared in
this country, will be read with avidity, as
they not only serve to throw additional
light upon the modern politics of England,
but give us an interesting insight into the
intellectual life of two of the most conspicu-
ous men who have figured in public affairs
during the past generation."
THE SYNTHETIC PHILOSOPHY.
TnK Principles op Sociology. By Her-
bert Spencer, Author of " First Princi-
ples of Biology," "Principles of Psy-
chology," etc., etc. Vol. I., pp. 734.
New York : D. Appleton & Co. Price,
$2.50.
The sixth volume of Spencer's " Synthet-
ic Philosophy " is now before us. This great
work was entered upon with many doubts
as to its merits if executed, and many more
as to whether it would ever get done at all.
It has, however, moved slowly forward for
the last fifteen years, against obstacles, both
internal and external, which would have
ordinarily brought such an enterprise to a
stand long ago. The author's imperfect
health has been a serious and constant im-
pediment; the expensiveness of the under-
taking has greatly imperiled its continu-
ance; and the carelessness, stupidity, and
downright perversity of reviewers, or those
who undertook to interpret the system to
the public, have been little calculated to
inspirit the author in the progress of his
work. Instead of welcoming with sympa-
thy and intelligent encouragement a great
effort like this to effect a higher unity of
the different departments of knowledge,
which modern science has begun to make
possible, Mr. Spencer has been treated
rather as if he had committed some grave
offense against the interests of mankind.
We have still large classes who look upon
science with jealousy, and especially resent
any effort to make it the basis of philoso-
phy, or to develop it into a comprehensive
and authoritative body of thought; and
these classes have opposed and vilified
from the commencement Spencer's work
without scruple or reserve. It is gratify-
ing to note that this unworthy feeling is
giving way in many quarters, and is re-
placed by a growing disposition to do jus-
tice to his views ; but in other quarters the
old tactics of depreciation and misrepre-
sentation are still pursued. We refer to
the latest example. Our readers will re-
member that a year or two since the British
Quarterly Review opened its columns to a
very unmanly and vindictive assault upon
Spencer, which had no excuse even under
the largest license of decent reviewing.
That there was some animus in the writer's
mind quite apart from the fair and legiti-
mate purpose of such work, was obvious
enough at the time ; but, if there could have
been any doubt about it, that doubt is dis-
pelled by the recent course of this Quaj-terly.
In its January issue it contained another
elaborate article professing to be a review
of Spencer's " Sociology ; " but the reader
will hardly credit the statement that this
work was not even referred to in the article.
It was nothing less than an attack upon
the old "Social Statics," a book published
twenty-six years ago, and having in its
preface to the later reprints an explicit
warning to all readers that it does not con-
tain a true representation of Mr. Spencer's
present views. T!ie course of the Quarterly
was all the more outrageous, when it is re-
membered that Mr. Spencer had stated in
this preface that the subject discussed in
"Social Statics" would be reconsidered and
placed upon a broader basis in the " System
of Philosophy" upon which he has been at
work since 1860. The writer in the Review
added, in a note at the end of his article,
that at the time it went to press the volume
of Spencer's "Principles of Sociology" was
