LITERARY NOTICES.
113
not yet published a false statement, as it
had been issued in quarterly parts during
the past two years by Williams & Norgate,
of London, the publishers of " Social Stat-
ics " and all the volumes of the " Philoso-
phy." Though we may not expect in Brit-
ish Quarterly Reviewers any very high sense
of honor, there is a barefaced recklessness
in this proceeding which well illustrates the
sort of treatment that Herbert Spencer has
been receiving ever since he published the
first volume of his "Philosophy" in 1862.
The readers of The Popular Science
Monthly will hardly need to be told that
the volume now published is the first of
three which are intended to work out sys-
tematically the principles of the science of
society. We have often explained the rela-
tion of these works to the philosophical
volumes that have preceded them, and to
the "Descriptive Sociology," which gives a
comprehensive account of different types
of the social state ; and we have published
various articles, from advance-sheets of the
work itself, illustrating the quality and
scope of the discussion contained in the
volume before us. The work differs widely
and profoundly from any that has ever ap-
peared professing to deal with the subject
of social science, and it is gratifying to see
at last some cordial recognition of its great
originality, value, and importance, from the
leading critics of the English press. This
is all the more satisfactoiy, that Mr. Spen-
cer has conquered it against the steady
pressure of a powerful and long-sustained
antagonism. Having commented freely
upon the work, and given illustrations of it,
in the course of its publication, we prefer
now to furnish our readers with the view
taken of the completed volume by an influ-
ential London journal. The following is
the notice that appeared in the Pall Mall
Gazette :
" Those who have followed the develop-
ment of Mr. Spencer's ' System ' will have
no difficulty in understanding the position
held in it by the present volume. ' Hitherto
he has been occupied in setting forth the
laws of organic evolution, the ' Principles
of Biology ' having dealt with the physical
aspect of that process, the 'Principles of
Psychology ' with its mental aspects. Both
these works treat of the individual life of
the organism ; but when organisms come
into relation to each other, form societies,
and produce results which could not be
achieved except by coordinated action, we
are confronted by a new set of phenomena.
We are in presence of what Mr. Spencer
calls super-organic evolution. The task of
sociology it is now, we fear, too late to
protest against the use of one of the most
disagreeable words ever coined is to in-
terpret these new facts, to classify them,
and to render intelligible the passage from
one stage of progress to another. Among
bees, wasps, and ants, we find the first indi-
cations of cooperation, associated with a
certain degree of division of labor ; and
some of the higher types of vertebrata,
such as rooks, combine in a still more
marked manner. These instances of co-
ordinated action are, however, of slight
moment compared with the phenomena pre-
sented by human societies ; it is, therefore,
with the latter alone that sociology is con-
cerned.
" The subject is so vast and complicated
that it is difficult to treat of it without
being either dull or superficial. Mr. Spen-
cer, as those who know his writings would
expect, escapes both dangers. As in his
previous expositions, he confines himself to
a few large principles ; and these are so
clearly expressed, so systematically ar-
ranged, and supported by so immense an
array of proofs and illustrations, that read-
ers "wholly unaccustomed to philosophical
inquiry may follow his argument with in-
terest. Not even a German professor could
have undertaken to bring together without
help the enormous mass of materials which
are here utilized. Mr. Spencer has had ex-
cellent assistance in collecting facts, and he
has woven them with the skill of a master
into a consistent and suggestive theory.
"In social evolution there are two fac-
tors : extrinsic and intrinsic. The former
include all those outward influences, such
as climate, surface, flora, and fauna, which
determine human action ; by the latter are
meant the qualities of the units that make
up society. Mr. Spencer devotes only one
chapter to the extrinsic factors; but this
suffices to indicate how many favorable
conditions are necessary to the formation
of a society, and how rarely these condi-
VOL. XI. 8
