114
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tions occur. As regards the internal fac-
tors, it clearly would not be enough to pre-
sent the peculiarities of the civilized man,
who inherits acquired tendencies and is to
a large extent moulded by the society into
which he is born ; we must go back to the
time at which physical forces were not con-
trolled by intelligence, and when men lived
together only in loosely-formed groups. All
the world knows how Rousseau represented
to himself the primitive man, and there are
still, perhaps, people who affect to talk en-
thusiastically of the 'noble savage.' If we
compare this sentimental conception with
the picture drawn by Mr. Spencer, we are
furnished with a tolerably accurate measure
of the advance which has been made in the
methods of inve^'tigating such subjects.
The philosopher of to-day is not less fond
of theory than his predecessor of the eigh-
teenth century, but in his hands theory is
ne'ver divorced from fact ; it is incessantly
brought to the test of reality, and in reality
finds its only true starting-point. Hence,
while Rousseau's idea could give rise only
to a great many futile regrets and aspira-
tions, Mr. Spencer's is the basis of a thor-
oughly scientific description of the long
course through which mankind have passed
from tlie simplest to the most complex
forms of life. The primitive man is re-
garded in three different aspects : physical,
emotional, intellectual He is shown to
have been, on the average, smaller than
men now are, witli limbs inferior both in
size and structure, and a larger alimentary
system, ' adapted to a very irregular supply
of food, mostly inferior in quality, dirty,
and uncooked.' Arriving early at maturity,
he disliked change, and constitutional cal-
lousness made him insensible of evils which
at a later stage become intolerable. The
emotional characteristics of the savage are a
' wavering and inconstant disposition,' lead-
ing to an ' explosive, chaotic, incalculable
behavior, which makes combined action very
difficult,' extreme improvidence, selfishness
modified only by a desire of admiration and
by ' such fellow-feeling as results from that
instinctive love of the helpless which he
possesses in common with the inferior ani-
mals.' Intellectually the uncivilized man
is on a level with the children of civilized
parents. The perceptive faculties are keen,
the reflective scarcely at all developed ; like
children, he has a strong mimetic tendency ;
he cannot concentrate attention on anything
higher than simple facts ; he has few gen-
eral ideas, and being without any concep-
tion of natural order, he is incapable of
rational curiosity or surprise. The question
is sometimes asked, ' Why, if the human
species has been so long in existence as the
doctrine of evolution implies, did so many
ages elapse before civilization arose ? ' No
one who attentively considers these charac-
teristics of the savage, and takes into ac-
count the outward difficulties with which he
has to contend, will be surprised that man
so long remained a slave to circumstances.
The astonishing thing is, that any primitive
tribes ever lighted upon the happy combina-
tion of conditions which enabled them to
grow into progressive communities.
" In order to understand the institutions
of civilized and semi-civilized societies, we
must not satisfy ourselves with a general
description of the faculties of the primitive
man we must investigate the ideas sug-
gested to him by his experience. The chap-
ters devoted to these are by far the most
original and valuable in the present vol-
ume. It is common to judge savage con-
ceptions by a reference to our more ad-
vanced knowledge, in the light of which
they, of course, excite only surprise or
amusement. Mr. Spencer, guided by the
statements and hints of travelers, puts him-
self as much as possible in the position of
primitive men, and looks at the world with
their eyes ; and the consequence is, that he
succeeds in proving almost that their ideas
were not only natural, but the sole ideas to
whicJi the evidence within their reach could
have conducted them. One of the earliest
of their theories is that of a second self.
This arises, in the first instance, from
dreams, the experiences of which the sav-
age regards as real. He has no notion cor-
responding to that of mind ; hence, when
he dreams that he has been hunting or en-
gaged in deadly conflict with an enemy, he
never doubts on awaking that the incidents
actually took place. Others testify that he
has not moved ; but this only shows that
there must be a double which is capable of
going away and having adventures of its
own. He is untroubled by incongruities
