LITERARY NOTICES.
lis
that would perplex a more developed intel-
ligence, for the facts seem to him beyond
question, and he is familiar with many
changes in Nature the appearance and
disappearance of clouds, the blowing of the
wind, the waxing and waning of the moon
not at all less mysterious. His idea is
confirmed by occasional instances of som-
nambulism ; and the phenomena of swoon,
apoplexy, and other forms of insensibility,
are most readily explained by assuming that
the body has been temporarily deserted by
its ghost. In death the other self, which
is upbraided before its departure by the
friends of the dying man, says farewell ;
but it continues to exist, sometimes in its
old haunts, sometimes in the neighboring
woods, sometimes in the country whence
the tribe originally came. It may even re-
turn to the body, and with a view to this
contingency the latter is often carefully pro-
tected, and in many instances there are
elaborate processes for arresting decay ; if
revival is dreaded, an exactly opposite
course is pursued. In the earliest stages
of development the ghost is a copy of the
body, and may, like it, die ; but tribes a
little more advanced attenuate its substance
until at length it is completely etherealized.
It then has an enduring existence, and side
by side with the world of the living is the
more populous world of the dead. Ghosts
continue to act as ordinary men, and are
provided with food, weapons, canoes, horses,
dogs. They are the cause of every unusual
occurrence, and, entering bodies which they
find temporarily vacant, occasion epilepsy
and convulsions, delirium and insanity, dis-
ease and death. Every involuntary act,
like sneezing or yawning, is due to them ;
and the necessity of controlling them gives
rise to the class of exorcists and sorcerers.
If friendly, they inspire the possessed,
whose words are accepted as a revelation
of higher wisdom. They are, of course, re-
garded with intense awe, and worship of
them is, according to Mr. Spencer, the first
manifestation of the religious sentiment.
He goes much further than this, and finds
in ancestor-worship the origin of all wor-
ship whatever. Idols are simply rude im-
ages of the dead, which ghosts are in some
mysterious way believed to inhabit ; hence
food is given to them, and the family re-
spectfully waits that is, fasts until they
have eaten internally. A fetich is any ob-
ject in which a ghost is supposed to dwell;
and no object strikes the senses in a strange
manner without having its peculiarity at-
tributed to ghostly presence. This view
of the fetich is not' in accordance with cur-
rent ideas ; but it is confirmed by the fact
that in cases in which the ghost-theory has
not been evolved there is no fetich-worship,
whereas the latter abounds where the former
exists. But animals, plants, natural objects
and forces, are also worshiped : how can
these be in any way connected with ances-
tor-worship ? Mr. Spencer applies his prin-
ciple with unfaltering confidence even to
these phenomena. Serpent-worship is the
most general of all forms of animal-wor-
ship ; it originates in the haunting of
houses by certain kinds of snakes believed
to be possessed by the ghosts of departed
ancestors, who thus enter their old homes.
In India the cobra is a common intruder in
houses, and it is everywhere sculptured as
a god ; the Egyptian asp affords an instance
equally remarkable. Bats and owls, which
haunt caves and other burying-places, are
also taken for metamorphosed ancestors.
Some striking peculiarity will often secure
for a man the name of an animal whose
character his resembles. Unaccountable as
it seems to us, the savage who hears his an-
cestor talked of as ' The Tiger ' concludes
that he is descended from one of those
creatures ; so that the tiger naturally be-
comes an object of reverence. The like is
true of all animals, insignificant and strong
alike, the names of which are applied to
savages either in ridicule or respect by
their neighbors. In this misapprehension
of the meaning of words Mr. Spencer like-
wise finds the chief explanation of Nature-
worship and plant-worship. A man is called
Cotton or Tobacco, the Dawn, the Sea, the
Moon, or the Sun. His descendants, taking
the word literally, do not hesitate to regard
the natural power or plant, whichever it
may be, as their ancestor, and present it
with the usual ofierings. To civilized men
this seems almost incredible ; but it must
be remembered that to the savage nothing
seems impossible, because he has not at-
tained to the idea of regular sequence in
i the \\orld. And his language is so imper-
