ii6
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
feet that he has no. means of distinguishing
after a certain interval between the literal
and metaphorical application of words.
With respect to anthropomorphic deities,
Mr. Spencer argues that they are ancestors
whose qualities are idealized and expanded.
"Ancestor -worship has never before
been turned to such advantage in the inter-
pretation of so many facts ; and the ease
with which the theory works gives it a cer-
tain charm. We see no reason, however,
why Mr. Spencer should exclude every oth-
er cause in the production of early mythol-
ogies. The influences he has defined may all
act as he describes ; but they do not neces-
sarily exhaust the sources of the religion
of savages. He is as nearly angry as it is
possible for so calm a thinker to be with
' the mythologists,' who represent uncivil-
ized man as mistaking the names given to
the forces and objects of Nature for the
names of living beings. But surely this is
not more strange than the process he him-
self has expounded, since in both cases the
savage ends by finding in the outward world
qualities which exist only in his own imagi-
nation. If he is unreasoning enough to
suppose that the sun is his ancestor be-
cause his grandfather was so called, we
need feel no surprise at his regarding the
sun as alive merely on account of the effects
it daily produces ; and so of the moon, the
dawn, or the wind. Mr. Spencer will not
admit that the savage has any tendency to
ascribe life to what is inanimate ; but chil-
dren constantly do so, and he insists that
children and savages have a strong intel-
lectual resemblance. We are not arguing
for the theory which has been so persistent-
ly, if not always judiciously, advocated by
Mr. Max Miiller and Mr. Cox ; we only say
that within certain limits it may also be
true. Religious phenomena are so compli-
cated that it is improbable we shall be able
to explain them by the modifications of any
single principle.
" In several very interesting chapters
Mr. Spencer uses the analogy between so-
cieties and organic bodies to illustrate the
truth that ' social evolution forms a part of
evolution at large.' He then passes to the
domestic relations, in connection with which
he discusses the many different forms of
marriage and of maniage-ceremonies. To
persons who believe that man has an intui-
tive perception of right and wrong in the
relations of the sexes there could be no
more suggestive study than that of exogamy
and endogamy, promiscuity, polyandry,
polygyny, and monogamy. Mr. Spencer
does not so much argue against the intui-
tive theory as oppose to it the process
by which, as a matter of fact, our present
moral conceptions have been produced.
This is, indeed, the characteristic of the
whole work. Its method is throughout
constructive ; but for that reason it is much
more effective in destroying popular doc-
trines regarding the origin and growth of
many vital ideas than any amount of mere-
ly negative argument."
Electricitt and the Electric Telegraph.
By George B. Prescott. 564 Illustra-
tions. New York : D. Appleton & Co.
Pp. 978. Price, $5.
In this elaborate volume we have the
detailed story of the telegraph, in a form
suitable both for the instruction of general
readers and for the guidance of those prac-
tically engaged in the art. The illustra-
tions are copious and well executed, and all
the curious complications of telegraphic
mechanism, and the mysterious ways of
electricity that are made available to the
great end of the rapid transmission of intel-
ligence, are described clearly and fully by
the author. Mr. Prescott has been at great
pains to bring forward the valuable contri-
butions of foreign nations, especially the
Germans, who have done more in teleg-
raphy than they have had credit for, and
his work may be commended for its com-
prehensiveness as well as that thorough-
ness of treatment which is indispensable to
a first-class manual upon the subject.
Lessons in Electricity. At the Royal
Institution. By John Ttndall, F. R. S.
New York : D. Appleton & Co. Pp.
113. Price, $1.
For entering into physics through the
experimental gateway, and by the use of
simple apparatus, electricity has special ad-
vantages. Its experiments are simple, the
effects distinct and striking, and the theo-
retical pathway to principles not difficult
to follow, and well suited to exercise the
reasoning powers. Dr. Tyndall has there-
