LITERARY NOTICES.
119
A Practical Treatise on Diseases of the
Skin. By Louis A. Duhring, M. D.,
Professor of Diseases of the Skin in the
Hospital of the University of Pennsyl-
vania ; Physician to the Dispensary for
Skin-Diseases, Philadelphia; Author of
Atlas of Skin-Diseases, etc. Philadel-
phia: J. B. Lippincott & Co. Pp. 000.
Price, $6.
As a manual of dermatology for the
medical practitioner this treatise will be
found valuable and satisfactory. It is prac-
tical, thorough, and systematic, without
claiming to be exhaustive, in the erudition
of the subject, or the details of its histori-
cal literature. It presents the elements
of the subject concisely, giving all the im-
portant facts in connection with each dis-
ease treated of. In classification Dr. Duh-
ring follows the authority of the celebrated
Prof. Hebra, of the University of Vienna,
his former teacher, and to whom the pres-
ent tvork is dedicated. A special and highly-
commendable feature of Dr. Duhring's work
is the definition of the various skin-diseases,
which he has made out from the standpoint
of clinical observation with a view to its
practical usefulness, and which consists
mainly of succinct descriptions of charac-
teristic lesions and symptoms, where the
cases were not too complex and obscure to
make clear definition possible. In the sec-
tions devoted to treatment, while the author
makes due reference to all those methods
that are favorably regarded by the pro-
fession, he has also brought distinctly for-
ward those remedies and modes of treat-
ment that he has found of greatest benefit
in his own medical experience.
Skin-diseases appear to undergo grave
modifications in different geographical cir-
cumstances, so that well-executed treatises
upon the subject in one country are liable
to lose their accuracy when applied to other
countries. On this point Dr. Duhring re-
marks : " I can but incidentally refer to the
fact that disorders of the skin manifest
more or less variation in type as they occur
in one or in another part of the world.
Having had some few years ago favorable
opportunities for observing a large number
of cutaneous affections in the various coun-
tries of Europe, and since then of studying
these diseases in the United States, I can
state that in many instances they differ
materially in type as they are seen on the
two continents. Without entering into this
interesting subject, it may be remarked
that the diseases met with here resemble
more closely those of Great Britain than
those of either France or Germany. A
recognition of this fact must, I think, go
far in accounting for the discrepancies
which exist in the descriptions of certain
diseases as given by trustworthy observ-
ers."
Ancient Pagan and Modern Christian
Symbolism. By Thomas Inman, M. D.
Pp. 174. With numerous Illustrations.
New York : Bouton. Price, $3.
The exceedingly curious figures which
abound in this volume give to it nearly all
the value which it possesses. The book
contains no less than 180 woodcut figures,
together with 19 lithograph plates of full-
page size. With hardly a single exception,
they are more or less plainly symbolical of
sexuality in religion. The author has un-
doubtedly rendered a great service to stu-
dents of that particular aspect of the re-
ligious idea, by bringing together so many
interesting memorials of the wide diffu-
sion of sex-worship. His own remarks and
speculations, however, do not carry much
weight.
We reproduce some of the tilings said
by the London Examiner in reference to
Arnott's " Physics," which, in its new form,
is attracting much attention :
" It was in 1827 that Dr. Arnott took
the world by storm. The publication, in
that year, of the first volume of the ' Ele-
ments of Physics ' was probably the great-
est ' sensation ' ever made by a scientific
work, purely as an exposition. The first
edition was sold in a few days ; a second
had to be followed by a third, a fourth, and
a fifth, in as many years. If the author had
devoted himself to keeping it up by the
necessary improvements, it would have long
continued to distance all competition in its
own walk. It had an equal run in America,
and was translated into nearly all the Con-
tinental languages. The popularity of the
book was not due to any meretricious qual-
ities. There was an extraordinary profusion
of interesting examples, but these interfered
less than in almost any other popular work
with the understanding of the doctrines
