120
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in fact, were, as they ought to be, aids to
the proper end of the teacher. The best
proof of this was the number of individual
minds that were stimulated to a scientific
or intellectual career by the study of the
work. The hearty testimony borne by
Herschel and Whewell to the merits of the
' Physics,' scientific as well as expository,
was incompatible with any infusion of clap-
trap.
"It would be easy to set forth the art,
or rather the genius, of Arnott, in the com-
position of his book. He had great liter-
ary power, in the mere command of expres-
sion, and in the composition of his sen-
tences, which are both lucid and flowing.
Many scientific writers have had this much.
But he had also a thorough and unfaltering
perception of the intellectual capabilities of
an average reader, and never for a moment
presumed too much upon these. He la-
bored, with no small success, to bring the
doctrines of natural philosophy down to a
level of mind that had never before been
permeated by them ; and, if any part of
the subject was hopelessly intractable, he
passed it by.
" Besides his amassed store of popular
illustrations, stated in easy language, the
work had the further charm of a species of
sentiment or eloquence, often enough at-
tempted in connection with science, but not
often so well kept up. The author fully
complied with Plato's condition of philo-
sophical teaching to exhibit the goodness
of the divine plan of the Cosmos. His elo-
quent passages on this subject, together
with his choicest illustrations of physical
laws, were largely adopted into the com-
mon-school reading-books.
" The new editors have shown them-
selves aware of the backward state of the
exposition in many parts, and have freely
employed the power of excision and sub-
stitution. We should say, from a rough
estimate, that a full half of the work is
new. In the branches of Acoustics, Heat,
Light, and Electricity, many additions were
obviously necessary. In Mechanics, there
has been more permanence, and Arnott's
exposition is less interfered with ; but it
was essential to supplement his chapter on
Motion and Force with a view of the doc-
trine of conservation of energy, which the
author would have been delighted to han-
dle in his own peculiar way, but scarcely
touched upon even in his latest edition.
However the work of revision may have
been distributed among the three editors,
they have been successful in bringing up
the subjects to the most recent views, and"
in illustrating them by well-chosen examples
and diagrams. The work is one likely to
keep its place among treatises on a similar
scale. Extending to nearly 900 pages, it
comprises a tolerably full body of informa-
tion in all the branches, while the reader
has still the benefit of the expository genius
and eloquence that charmed and astonished
the world forty years ago, and has not yet
been superseded."
PUBLICATIONS RECEIVED.
Proceedings of the Thirty-second Annual
MeetiDg of the New York State Teachers' Asso-
ciation. 187ti. School BuUeUii, Syracuse, N. Y.
Pp. 119.
On the Atmosphere of the Sun and Planets.
By David Trowbridge, A. M. 1876. Pp. 7.
The Relations of Medicine to Modem Unbe-
lief. By Richard O. Cowling, A. M., M. D. Lou-
isville ; John P. Morton & Co. print. 1876. Pp.
11.
Report of the Committee on Naval Affairs to
the House of Representaiives on a Bill to author-
ize and equip an Expedition to the Arctic Seas.
Pp. 13.
Proceedings of the American Chemical So-
ciety. Vol. I., No. 2. J. P. Trow & Sons print.
1876. Pp. 49.
The Western Revieiv of Science and Indus-
try. Edited by Theodore S. Case. February,
1877. Vol. I., No. 1. Kansas City, Mo. Sub-
scription, $2.50 per annum.
Milk- Sickness. By W. H. Philips, M. D.
Pp. 21.
Twenty-sixth Annual Report of the Managers
of the House of Refuge, made to the Govern-
or of Maryland. Baltimore : Innes & Co. print.
1877. Pp. 28.
Check -List of the Fresh -Water Fishes of
North America. By David S. Jordan, M. S., M. D.,
and Herbert B. Copeland, M. S. Pp. 31.
Rate of Set of Metals subjected to Strain. By
Prof. Robert H. Thurston. Pp. 10.
Am I my Brother's Keeper ? Discourse be-
fore the American Public Health Association, at
the Annual.Meeting in Baltimore, November 11,
1875. By Lewis H.'Steiner, M. D. Cambridge:
Riverside Press print. Pp. 11.
Kindergarten Messenger. Published by Eliz-
abeth P. Peabody. Cambridge, 1877. Vol. I.,
Nos. 1 and 2. Pp. 32. Subscription, $1 a year.
Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural
History. Vol. XVIIL, Part IV., ApriWuly, 1876.
Boston. Pp. 103.
Seventh Annual Report of the Commissioners
of Fisheries of the State of New Jersey. Tren-
ton : J. L. Murphy print. Pp. 42.
Geocrraphical Surveys of the United States.
Remarks on Prof. J. D. Whitney's Article in
the North AmeHcan Review, July, 1875. By
Gouverneur K. Warren. Washington: Judd &
Detweiler print. 1877. Pp. 28.
