POPULAR MISCELLANY.
121
Local Deflections of the Plumb -Line near
the Forty-ninth Parallel. By Lieutenant F. V.
Greene. 1876. Pp. 13, with Diagram.
Geological Survey of Alabama, for 1876. By
Eugene A. Smith, Ph. D., State Geologist.
Montgomery. Pp. 100.
The Mechanical Engineer. An Address to
the Graduating Class of the Stevens Institute of
Technology. By R. H. Thurston, A. M., C. E.
New York : D. Van Nostrand. 1875. Pp. 34.
Notes on the Ancient Glaciers of New Zea-
land. With Map. By I. C. Russell. 1876. Pp. 12.
Bulletin of the American GeoCTaphical So-
ciety, No. 3. Containing Annual Address of
Chief-Justice Daily, delivered January 16, 1S77.
Pp. 70.
Science Lectures at South Kensington : Tech-
nical Chemistry. By Prof. Roscoe. London :
Macmillan & Co. 1877. Pp. 46. Price, sixpence.
Dynamics, or Theoretical Mechanics. By
J. T. Bottomlpy, M. A., F. R. S. E. New York :
G. P. Putnam's Sons. Pp. 142. Price, 75 cts.
Myelitis of the Anterior Horns, or Spinal
Paralysis of the Adult and Child. By E. C. Se-
guin, M. D. New York : G. P. Putnam's Sons.
1877. Pp. 120. Price, $1.50.
Essays on Political Economy. By Frederick
Bastiat. English Translation, revised, with
Notes, by David A. Wells. New York : G. P.
Putnam's Sous. 1877. Pp. 291. Price, $1.25.
The Cradle of Christ : A Study of Primitive
Christianity. By O. B. Frothingham. New
York: G. P. Putnam's Sons. 1877. Pp. 233
Price, $1.75.
The Best Reading. Edited by Frederick B.
Perkins. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons.
1877. Pp. 343. Price, $1.25-$1.75
The Chemist's Manual ; A Practical Treatise
on Chemistry. Bv Henry A. Mott, Jr., E. M.,
Ph. D. New York: D. Van Nostraud. 1877.
Pp. 625. Price, $6.
Washington Astronomical and Meteorologi-
cal Observations, made during the Year 1874, at
the United States Naval Observatory. Wash-
ington : Government Printing-Oflace. 1877.
POPULAR MISCELLANY.
Cotton-Cnitnre in Egypt, While the
Khedive is taxing to the utmost the re-
sources of his dominions iit liis desire to
subjugate liis southern neiglibors, lie must
regard as little less than providential the re-
puted discovery of a new and extraordi-
narily-productive species of cotton-plant,
the general cultivation of which in the cot-
ton-fields of Egypt will, it is said, more
than double the present annual product.
According to a correspondent of the Lon-
don Times, in the autumn of 1873, a Copt
living in the upper part of the Delta, at a
place called Berket-el-Sab, a station of the
Cairo Railway, in the province of Menuf,
noticed a plant in a cotton-field wholly dif-
ferent from the rest. He collected the pods,
separated the seed, and planted it in secret
in an. isolated plot of ground. For three
years he has carried on the cultivation, and
now there are said to be from 800 to 1,000
pounds in the country, and the seed is sold
in the public market. This seed is sold at
a price twenty-five or thirty times higher
than the common kind.
Comparing the product of this plant
with that of the old, the Times correspond-
ent remarks :
"An ardeb (270 pounds) of ordinary cotton-
seed sows on an average eight /e(/ctan (acres),
and produces four cantars (100 pounds) of cot-
ton in seed that is to say, the cotton with the
seed inside it as it comes out of the cotton-pod.
Taking this yield as the average, every ardeb
planted produces 32 cantars of ginned cotton,
and about 24 ardebs of seed. An ardeb of seed
of the new species sows, like the other, eieht
feddans ; but its yield is more than treble, and
has even been stated at fivefold. But my most
trustworthy informant only gives ten cantars per
feddan, which I may add is the amount taken by
one of the leading firms as the basis of their cal-
culations as to the efl"ect of the new plant. They
add that it is difficult to say exactly what would
be the ordinary yield, as all returns hitherto
are the result of exceptional culture on a small
scale. On this calculation of ten cantars, each
ai deb of seed would produce 80 cantars of cot-
ton in seed that is to say, over double the
amount produced by ordinary seed. At pres-
ent prices each ardeb would return about 240
in seed and cotton together, instead of 96 as
it does now. The new cotton, I am assnred on
the best authority, is of good appearance, com-
mercially speaking, and quite equal in quality
to the ordinary Egyptian cotton. The plant
grows in a different manner from the ordinary
cotton-plant. It grows to about the height of
ten feet, has a straight, vertical stem, without
branches, with very few leaves, and is thickly
studded with pods. Seventy are said to have
been gathered from the first plant discovered.
The ordinary cotton is found on a shrub some
four to five feet high, with spreading branches.
Nearly a yard must be left for air, light, and
growing-room between each shrub, whereas the
new plant, from the absence of branches, re-
quires only half the space."
Testimonials to Mr. Darwin. On the
occasion of his sixty-ninth birthday, Mr.
Darwin was the recipient of two highly-
gratifying testimonials of esteem from sci-
entific men in Germany and iu the Nether-
lands. From Germany came an album con-
taining the photographs of 154 scientific
men ; it was inscribed, " Dam Rcformator
der Naturgeschichte " (To the Reformer
of Natural History). The offering of the
Dutch savants also consisted of an album,
with photographs of 21*7 of his admirers in
the Netherlands. Accompanying the latter
