122
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
testimonial was a letter in which were set
forth in pretty full detail the labors of
Dutch naturalists before Darwin's time and
since in propagating views aliin to those
known as " Darwinian." The first name
mentioned in the letter is that of Dr. J. E.
Doornik, who in 1816 went out to Java,
and spent the remainder of his life in India.
In his published works he held that the
various modifications in which life was re-
vealed in consecutive times originated from
one another. Doornik had no influence on
the thought of his time, however, and his
theories were forgotten. In 1849 was pub-
lished a Dutch translation of the " Vestiges
of the Natural History of Creation." This
work was coldly received by the representa-
tives of natural science in the Netherlands,
but found favor with the general public,
and reached a third edition. Of the few
Dutch scientific men who early recognized
the importance of the theory of develop-
ment two are named F. C. Donders and
P. Hartiug. The former in 1848 expressed
the opinion that in the gradual change of
form consequent upon change of circum-
stances may lie the cause of differences
which we are wont to designate as species ;
and the latter in 1856 expressed similar
views.
While visiting Utrecht in 1858, Sir
Charles Lyell called the attention of the
professors of the university to a paper by
Wallace, in the Journal of the Linncean So-
ciety, and announced as forthcoming a work
by Darwin (" The Origin of Species ") which
could not fail to make some noise. Har-
ting soon after declared himself a partisan
of the development hypothesis, and in this
he was followed by another professor in the
same university (Utrecht), Miguel, Profess-
or of Botany. In the mean time " The
Origin of Species" had been translated in-
to Dutch by F. C. Winkler. The Darwin-
ian views were now enthusiastically adopted
in the Netherlands, especially by the younger
scientific men, under the lead of Emil Se-
lenka, then Professor of Zoology at Ley-
den. Groningen and Amsterdam were not
tardy in following the lead of Utrecht and
Leyden ; in short, the Darwinian theory of
development was very generally accepted
throughout the Netherlands, and Dutch
translations were published of " The De-
scent of Man " and " The Expression of
the Emotions in Man and Animals," both
by Dr. Hartogh Heys van Zouteveen. In
his reply to this letter, Mr. Darwin express-
es his " obligation for the very interesting
history contained in it of the progress of
opinion in the Netherlands with respect to
evolution, the whole of which is quite new
to me."
Ignorant Enterprise. Tlie black-slate
beds of Pennsylvania have again and again
lured sanguine coal-hunters to loss of time,
labor, and money. In that State it is the
black slate that plays the " will-o'-the-wisp "
to the eager searcher after hidden wealth ;
elsewhere it is iron pyrites being mistaken
for gold, or quartz for diamonds ; and where
natural deposits of wealth are out of the
question, men dig into the ground in search
of treasure supposed to have been buried
by famous buccaneers or noted misers.
Prof Persifer Frazer lately told, at a meeting
of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Phila-
delphia, the story of one of these searchers
for mineral wealth. A farmer of Franklin
County, Pennsylvania, had a dream, in which
he became aware of the existence of a "treas-
ure " in a certain field. On repairing to the
spot he began to dig, and " at the first stroke
of the spade," as he says, " black dirt was
turned up, and at a short distance below the
surfiice coal was found equal," in the opin-
ion of persons supposed to be experts, " to
the best Lykens Valley coal." To work the
vein, a tunnel 330 feet long was cut at con-
siderable cost. The " coal " was sent to
Prof. Frazer for analysis ; it was pronounced
to be black slate, with a small percentage
of carbon, and that chiefly graphite. It is
one of the principal objects of a geological
survey to save people from making mistakes
like this of the Franklin County farmer.
Production of Near - Siglitedness in
Scbools. The effects of school-life, in pro-
ducing near-sightedness in the pupils, have
for some time been made the subject of sys-
tematic study by Dr. C. R. Agnew, of New
York. In a recent address before the Med-
ico-Legal Society, he stated the results of
an investigation made in various schools of
Cincinnati, New York, and Brooklyn. The
number of students examined was 1,479, of
