POPULAR MISCELLANY
123
whom 630 were iu Cincinnati, 549 in New
York, and SOO in Brooklyn. Of the 630
Cincinnati pupils, 209 were from the dis-
trict-schools, and of these 83 1 per cent,
had natural, or emmetropic eyes, while 10
per cent, were near-sighted. In the inter-
mediate schools, 210 scholars were exam-
ined, and of these 80 per cent, were natural,
and 14 per cent, near-sighted. In the nor-
mal high-schools, the eyes of 210 students
were examined, and of these 78 per cent,
were emmetropic, and 16 per cent, near-
sighted. All this goes to show that near-
sightedness is a progressive disease in the
schools. The results for the other two
cities teach the same lesson.
The 549 students mentioned above as
examined in New York belonged to the New
York College. Here, in the introductory
classes, SVi per cent, were found emme-
tropic, and 29 per cent, near-sighted. In
the freshman class 421 per cent, had natu-
ral eyes, and 40 per cent, were near-sighted.
In the sophomore class no very material
difference from what was observed in the
preceding classes ; but in the junior class
37 per cent, had natural eyes, and 56 per
cent, were near-sighted. In the senior class
50 per cent, had normal eyes, and 37 per
cent, were near-sighted. The Brooklyn
students examined belonged to the Poly-
technic Institute of that city. Here, in the
o.cademic department, 56 per cent, were
emmetropic, and 10 per cent, near-sighted.
In the collegiate department ( a higher
grade), 53 per cent, were emmetropic, and
28^ per cent, were near-sighted.
Astronomipal Observations on the Rocky
MoantainSi It is stated by Prof Henry
Draper, in the February number of the
American Journal of Science, that, during
two years when he photographed the moon
every moonlight night at Hastings-on-the-
Hudson, there were only three occasions
when the air was still enough to give good
results. Out of 1,500 lunar negatives, only
one or two were really fine pictures.
Last summer, during a trip to the Rocky
Mountains, he took with him a small achro-
matic, hoping to find more steadiness of
the atmosphere at great elevations, but was
disappointed. At Salt Lake City, 4,650
feet above the sea, Capella twinkled as bad-
ly, both to the naked eye and in the tele-
scope, as he ever saw it at the sea-level.
At Fort Steele, near 7,000 feet eleva-
tion, Antares twinkled very much ; and at
Camp Douglas, 5,250 feet above the sea,
the twinkling of several stars examined
was surprisingly great.
At one point, however, he found the at-
mosphere without undulations, and the stars
shone through it with a steady light. The
central disk of Arcturus, he says, was hard
and sharply defined ; Antares near setting
hardly twinkled at all ; the moon was per-
fectly steady.
This point of observation was not far
from Fort Steele, in the main range of the
Rocky Mountains, at an elevation of 8,900
feet above the sea. Distant objects seemed
near in the transparent air. The sky was
not black, as he expected, but of a light
blue; the moon, however, was near its full.
Another trial was made at Trout Lake,
nearly 10,000 feet above the sea-level, and
the air was found to be unsteady but trans-
parent. At this point, however, intense cold,
fierce winds, and heavy snow-falls, occur,
making the location of an observatory here
undesirable.
Dr. Draper concludes that the atmos-
phere in these high regions, although more
transparent, is quite as tremulous as at the
ocean-level at New York.
luflaence of Heat on Galvanic Condnc-
tivityi Till very recently it was held to be
a law of Nature that the galvanic conduc-
tivity of all metals and metalloids is dimin-
ished by rise of temperature. It has been
shown, however, that selenium is an ex-
ception to this rule, its conductivity being
increased by heating. And now a further
exception must be made in the case of
tellurium, a body closely allied to selenium.
We have already (in vol. x., p. 115) given
an account of Siemens's researches on the
action of light on selenium ; we now present
a synopsis of the results obtained by Franz
Exner in his experiments with tellurium.
Three bars of tellurium were prepared.
Bar 1 broke before its dimensions were
determined ; bar 2 was 54 millimetres in
length and 2.6 millimetres diameter; bar 3
was 153 millimetres in length and 3.73 mil-
limetres diameter. Bar 1 was heated to 200
