124
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
Cent., and then slowly cooled. The resist-
ance increased up to 90, and thenceforward
gradually decreased. In cooling, resistance
steadily increased from 200 down to the
room-temperature. This increase was so
great that at the end of the experiment the
resistance was six times what it was at the
beginning, temperatures being equal. The
same bar having been again heated from
20 to 200 Cent., there was no turning-
point, and the resistance decreased steadily
to the end, and increased continuously
throughout in the cooling ; but at the end
the resistance was less than at the begin-
ning.
Bar 2 behaved essentially like bar 1 ; the
turning-poiut, however, was much higher,
viz., 140. With bar 3 five series of experi-
ments were made, and with quite similar re-
sults. With the first heating there was a
turning-point, which did not appear with
after-heatings. At the maximum temper-
ature, the resistance was pretty constant,
while the resistances at the beginning and
end of the experiments were very irregular.
Destrnetion of Germs at Low Tempera-
tures. Prof Tyndall, in a communication to
the London Royal Society, shows how heat,
when diseontinuously applied, though the
temperature be below the boiling-point
of water, effectually sterilizes organic infu-
sions. In all such infusions, he observes,
there is a period of latency preceding their
clouding with visible bacteria. During this
period the germs are being prepared for
their emergence into the complete organ-
ism. They reach the end of this period
of preparation successively, the period of
latency of any germ depending on its con-
dition as regards dryness and induration.
The author's mode of proceeding is this :
Before the latent period of any of the
germs has been completed say a few
hours after the preparation of the infusion
he subjects it for a brief interval to a
temperature which may be under that of
boiling water. Such softened and vivified
germs as are on the point of passing into
active life are tliereby killed ; others not
yet softened remain intact. This process he
repeats well witliin the interval necessary
for the most advanced of those others to
finish their period of latency. The num-
ber of undestroyed germs is further dimin-
ished by this second heating. After a
number of repetitions, which varies with
the character of the germs, the infusion,
however obstinate, is completely sterilized.
The periods of heating need not exceed
a fraction of a minute in duration. Sum
them up in the case of an infusion which
they have perfectly sterilized : they amount
altogether to, say, five minutes. Boil an-
other sample of the same infusion continu-
ously for fifteen or even sixty minutes, and
yet it is not sterilized, although the tem-
perature is higher and its time of applica-
tion more than tenfold that which, diseon-
tinuously applied, infallibly produces bar-
renness.
Extiaction of a Prehistorie Race. The
extinction of the partially civilized race who
once dwelt in the Rocky Mountain region
was probably the result of some great geo-
logical change. The country is naturally
arid, but doubtless when this nearly-for-
gotten people dwelt here in the numerous
cities whose ruins are still to be seen the
conditions of life were more favorable.
The annals of this interesting race have
perished with them, and the history of their
downfall is now matter for conjecture. Mr.
F. S. Dellenbaugh, of the Buffalo Society
of Natural Sciences, describes as follows
the course of events which resulted in the
extinction of the Shinunios : When the
change occurred, ' the inhabitants, not un-
derstanding the science of irrigation, be-
held their crops slowly but surely failing
every year. The inevitable result was fam-
ine. By this their hardy constitutions were
weakened, and the way was prepared for
some great epidemic that swept away thou-
sands, and left them in a melancholy con-
dition. Then the epidemic was, possibly,
soon followed by the appearance of the In-
dian, so entirely different from the Shinumo.
He was ferocious, treacherous, cunning.
Lying, cheating, stealing, murdering, were
his pastimes. Then, it is no wonder that
the Shinumo, in his emaciated condition,
was compelled to retreat before the impetu-
ous attack of such a foe. He was no war-
rior no hunter. He had depended almost
entirely on his knowledge of agriculture for
his peaceful existence. It was impossible
