POPULAR MIS CELL A NY
125
for him to act on the defensive, and at the
same time successfully till the soil. The
Indian was constantly oh the alert to sur-
prise him. He must fall back and yield
more territory to the exacting intruder.
Vanquished and discouraged, he fortified
himself in places extremely difficult of ac-
cess ; built cliff-houses ; lived in caves, and
finally became extinct. The divisions on
the south side of the Colorado fared some-
what better, for the stupendous chasms of
the river form a barrier that can only be
crossed with success at several widely-
separated points. C-onsequently, when the
Indian reached this obstacle, his easy
progress southward was interrupted. The
crossing-points, too, which of course were
well known to the Shinuraos, had been
strongly fortified by their soldiery, and
thus a double check was presented to the
invasion. The people then enjoyed com-
parative peace, till, in the course of their
nomadic wanderings, the Indians discov-
ered that there was an end to the canon
barrier, and were once more able to cope
with their antagonists under favorable au-
spices. The Shinumos were again slowly
driven back, and at the dawn of our knowl-
edge of the region we find surviving only a
mere handful of their kindred, in the Pue-
blo tribes, who were still defending their
fortress-homes, as they had been for cen-
turies."
Recent Outbreak of a Sandwieli Island
Volcano. The volcano of Manna Loa, Ha-
waii, was lately active for a few days, com-
mencing on the evening of February 14th.
A correspondent of the San Francisco
Chronicle states that the outbreak was ex-
tremely sudden and violent :
" The point of activity was the old crater on the
top of the mountain. When the eruption com-
menced, the flames suddenly burst fi-om the moun-
tain and formed a magnificent column of fire to the
height of 16,000 feet above the summit. From the
deck of the steamer Kilauea, lying at anchor at Ka-
waihae, five distinct columns of fire could be seen
belching forth from the mountain, apparently not
from the great summit crater of Mokiiaweoweo, but
from a smaller crater situated some miles distant
from it, called Pohakuhanalei. A few days after in-
telligence reached Honolulu that the fire had disap-
peared, to the great disappointment of thousands
who were preparing to start for the scene. But
soon after news came that the great pyrotechnic ex-
hibition of Nature still continued, and that the ani-
mation of the spectacle was enhanced by frequent
earthquake-shocks. It is the general opinion that
the stream of lava is flowing rapidly down the
mountain-side toward Kahuku, in Kau. When last
seen it had progressed a number of miles from the
place of its first outbreak. The illumination was so
brilliant that all jiarts of the island were lighted up.
On the 2-lth the steamer Kilauea arrived with a
party of excursionists at Kealakeakua Bay, the place
where Captain Cook met his death. There they
found that a submarine volcano had broken out
near the entrance to the harbor the preceding night.
About a mile from shore jets of red, green, and yel-
low fire leaped from the waters, interspersed with
columns of steam and spray that glowed with innu-
merable rainbows, the spectacle being one of the
grandest sights conceivable. In this locality the
water is boihng and whirling like an immense cal-
dron. Thousands of fishes are seen floating on the
surface, ready cooked for the repast of swarms of
Kanakas engaged in gathering the dainty abundance
in their canoes. Large quantities of lava are also
thrown up and float for some time on the surface.
The matter is either buoyed by the intensely boiling
water, or sustained by gases that gradually ooze
from its pores. The submarine eruption is appar-
ently from a fissure in the bottom of the sea, about
a mile in length. It reaches the shore, and is traced
inland between two and three miles. The flames
on the water were first noticed by the natives at
three o'clock on the morning of the 24th, and
created much consternation. The depth of the
water here was formerly from thirty to sixty fath-
oms ; but, if the eruption continues, very likely a
reef will be formed, which would render this bay
one of the finest harbors on the Pacific. As far as
known, no damage has yet attended the eruption."
Dow Science is advanced in Norway.
A correspondent of the London Times,
apropos of the recently-published "Life of
Thomas Edward," records an instance of
liberal encouragement extended to a Nor-
wedan naturalist. "Some years ago,"
says this correspondent, "there lived on
the wild northwest coast of Norway a cler-
gyman, with his wife, a large family, and a
small income. He possessed two great ad-
vantages over Edward a good education,
and larger opportunities for observation.
He, too, had the seeing eye, without which
all opportunities are useless, and shortly it
was known that science was being enriched
by the hard-worked parish priest. The ac-
tion of the Storthing was prompt. Though
the majority of that body are poor peasants,
and hold the purse-strings with a firm grip,
they have the virtue of being liberal when
good cause can be shown for it. They cre-
ated a professorship of zoology in the
Chiistiania University, endowed it with a
