126
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
salary equal to 1,000 in England, and ap-
pointed the clergyman to the professorship,
but without requiring either residence or
teaching. How the professor went on en-
riching science with his discoveries, how he
trained up his sons to follow in his foot-
steps, two of whom are now professors in
the Christiania University, all this is known
to scientific men, nor will they require to
be told that the name of the clergyman was
Sars."
Sir Wyviile Tlioaison on the Theory of
Evolntion. Sir Wyville Thomson said, in a
lecture to the natural-history class at Edin-
burgh University, that the great stumbling-
block, from the natural-history side of the
question, in the way of an acceptance of
the evolution hypothesis, was that any such
passage from one species to another is en-
tirely outside our experience. The horse
had evidently been the horse since the ear-
liest hieroglyphs were engraved upon As-
syrian monuments and tombs ; and the same
held for all living creatures. There was
not a shadow of evidence of one species
having passed into another during the pe-
riod of human record or tradition. Nor is
this all. We have, in the fossil remains con-
tained in the rocks, a sculptured record of
the inhabitants of this world, running back
incalculably farther than the earliest chisel-
mark inscribed by man incalculably far-
ther than man's existence on this planet;
and although we find from the record that
thousands of species have passed away, and
thousands have appeared, in no single case
have we yet found the series of transitional
forms imperceptibly gliding into one an-
other, and uniting two clearly distinct spe-
cies by a continuous bridge, which could be
cited as an undoubted instance of the ori-
gin of a species. Mr. Darwin's magnificent
theory of " natural selection " and " survi-
val of the fittest" has undoubtedly shaken
the veil by pointing out a path by which
such an end might be attained; but it has
by no means raised it. Still, even if we
never found out the precise mode in which
one species gave rise to another, there could
ba no further hesitation in accepting gen-
erally an hypothesis of evolution, and in re-
garding our present living races as the ulti-
mate twigs of a great genealogical tree
whose gradually coalescing branches we
could trace, if our information were com-
plete, to the dawn of geological time.
The Resources and Industries of Sudau^
At a late meeting of the Egyptian Geo-
graphical Society a paper on the Sudan was
read, based on information collected by the
late Munzinger Pasha. It was stated that
there are few mountain-chains in the Sudan,
but that granite ridges divide the region into
well-defined districts, usually named after
the rivers which flow through them. The
country is, as a rule, fertile. The water-
courses are mere torrents, which in sum-
mer are almost dry. The centres of popu-
lation are few, and all the large towns are
on the banks of the two Niles. Gold and
copper are found, but the wealth of the
country depends on agriculture and cattle-
breeding. The population numbers about
5,000,000, consisting of Arabs and negroes.
Industry is very much developed, and only
articles of luxury need be imported. Stiitts,
sword-blades, and leather of a very superior
quality, are manufactured. The exports are
chiefly ivory, gums, skins, etc. The peo-
ple are nearly all Mohammedans, but their
religion is mixed with numerous heathenish
superstitions.
Extermination of the Grasshoppers.
Prof. A. S. Packard, Jr., has written to the
Tribune a communication in whicli he ad-
vocates the project of affording Government
aid toward the extermination of the Rocky
Mountain locust. Locust years, he ob-
serves, are years of unusual drought, and
seasons of drought occur every seven or
eight years. In such summers the locust
breeds in untold millions, and, the supply
of food being short, they fly off hundreds
of miles. A swarm observed by Prof. Eob-
inson near Boulder City, Colorado, traveled
a distance of about GOO miles to Eastern
Kansas anti Missouri. When seen at Boulder
the swarm was on its way from the north,
and may have come from some part of Wyo-
ming. The general direction of the winds
in July and August, along the eastern slope
of the Rocky Mountains and on the Plains,'
coincides with the course of these swarms.
If we would intelligently study the causes
of the excessive increase and migrations of
the locust, we must examine the ineteoro-
losical features of the Western country, as-
