130 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Increasing rigidity of custom and growth of it into law, which goes
along with the extending governmental organization jjolding larger
masses together, affects the domestic relations along with the j^olitical
relations ; and thus renders the family arrangements, be they polyan-
dric, polygynic, or monogamic, more definite.
Can we, then, allege special connections between the different types
of family and the different social types classed as militant and indus-
trial ? None are revealed by a cursory inspection. Looking first at
simple tribes, we find among the unwarlike Todas a mixed polyandry
and polygyny ; and among the Esquimaux, so peaceful as not even to
understand the meaning of war, we find, along with monogamic un-
ions, others that are polyandric and polygynic. At the same time,
the warlike Caribs show us a certain amount of polyandry and a
greater amount of polygyny. If, turning to the other extreme, we
compare with one another laige nations, ancient and modern, it seems
that the militant character in some cases coexists with a prevalent
polygyny and in other cases with a prevalent or universal monogamy.
Nevertheless, we shall, on examining the facts more closely, discern
general connections between the militant type and polygyny, and be-
tween the industrial type and monogamy.
But first we must recognize the truth that a predominant militancy
is not so much to be measured by armies and the conquests they
achieve, as by constancy of predatory activities. The contrast be-
tween the militant and the industrial is j^roperly between a state in
which life is occupied in conflict with other beings, brute and human,
and a state in which life is occupied in peaceful labor energies spent
in destruction instead of energies sjient in production. So conceiving
militancy, we find polygyny to be its habitual accomj^animent. To
trace the coexistence of the two from Australians and Tasmanians
on through the more developed simple societies up to the compound
and doubly compound, would be tedious and is needless ; for observ-
ing, as we have already done, the prevalence of polygyny in the less
advanced societies, and admitting as we must their state of unceasing
hostility to their neighbors, the coexistence of these traits is a corol-
lary. That this coexistence results from causal connection is suggested
by certain converse cases. Among the Dorians, a division of the New
Guinea people, there is strict monogamy, with forbidding of divorce,
in a primitive community comparatively unwai'like and comparatively
industrial. Another instance is furnished by the Land Dyaks, who
are monogamic to the extent that pologyny is an offense, and who,
though given to tribal quarrels about their lands, and to the taking
of heads as trophies, have such degree of industrial development that
the men, instead of making war and the chase habitual occupations,
do all the heavy work, and some division of trades and commercial
intercourse exists. The Hill-tribes of India furnish other instances.
There are the amiable Bodo and Dliimals, without military arrange-
