1986 Griffin, Substrates of animal origin :
Coco (m, P). Used colloquially in Brazil to refer to
animal excrement, but also meaning (in Portuguese and
Spanish) the fruit of any of a number of Arecaceae.
Esterco (m, P). General term for excrement in Brazil.
Esti^rcol (m S). General term for excrement in
Spanish -speaking countries.
Estrume (m, P). Excrement of oxen, cows, horses or any
other Targe animal. Brazil.
Fezes (f, P). Used in the plural form, meaning feces or
excrement. Brazil. Carries offensive implication in
particular contexts.
Guano (m, P, S). Excrement of avian or mammalian
origin, but mostly reserved for accumulations of
excrement that result from high concentrations of
animals, whether living in natural bands or rookeries
or in artificial enclosures.
Heces (f, S). Plural form of hez , and, when used in the
plural, referring to excrement in general. Used
colloquially in derogatory contexts.
Huano (m, S). Orthographic variant of guano .
Merda (f, P). Offensive term for excrement. Brazil.
Hierda (f, S). Offensive term for excrement in most
Spanish-speaking countries; however, accepted in polite
conversation in certain areas (e.g., Loreto, Peru).
Meca (f, S). Excrement in general, but particularly
that of birds, cats, dogs or humans. Chile.
Pecueca (f, S). Excrement in general. Limited to Andean
Colombia, particularly to Cundinamarca.
Pepas (f, S). Excrement of the guinea pig ( Cavia spp. ) .
Limited to Andean Colombia. More widespread meaning is
as variant of pepita , the seed of any of a variety of
fruits, including squashes, apples, pears, etc.
P^ldoras (f, S). Excrement of rabbits, goats or other
species producing small droppings, Costa Rica. More
general meaning is pills.
Plasta (f, S). Excrement that is fresh or semi-liquid.
That which is voided in a single mass. Costa Rica,
Chile. ^
Polvaron (m, S). Excrement of horses or mules. Costa
Rica .
Pop6 (m, S). Colloquial term for human excrement.
Mexico,
Raja (f, S), Colloquial term for excrement in Central
Mexico. More widespread meaning is that of slices of a
variety of objects from firewood to fruits, roots,
stems, fish or meats.
Titica (f, P) . Excrement of birds in general. Brazil.
Tolhedeira (f, P). Excrement of birds of prey. Also
refers to vomited mass of fur, bones or teeth. Brazil.
Vidr io ingles (m, S). Animal excrement. Costa Rica.
Also used colloquially in that country in humorous
contexts .
