1986 Moldenke, Notes on CloAodzndnum 149
lent, brownish; nodes not annulate, often slightly swollen; princi-
pal internodes abbreviated, 1.5--2.5 cm. long; leaves decussate-
opposite or ternate, large, numerous, very variable in shape, ex-
stipulate, often very unequally paired (ani sophyl lous) ; petioles
slender or stout, 2.5--18 cm. long, densely short-pubescent or hir-
sute with spreading hairs, slightly canaliculate above, often col-
lapsing at both the apex and base in drying, basally somewhat am-
pliate; leaf-blades membranous, very fragile and brittle when dry,
uniformly dark-green on both surfaces or lighter beneath, often
tinged reddish or purplish, often brunnescent in drying, very vari-
able in shape, ovate-lanceolate and sagittately or hastately lobed
or oblong and hardly angular, 9--30 cm. long, 2.5--25 cm. wide, api-
cally mostly acuminate, marginally mostly rather conspicuously cili-
ate and hastately or palmately and deeply 3--5-angulate-lobed with
the central lobe much the largest, basally mostly deeply (sometimes
only shallowly) cordate or triangular-acute into the petiole apex at
the mid-point, varying from rather densely spreading-pubescent or
spreading-vil lous on both surfaces with silky multicellular hairs to
subglabrous on both surfaces, sometimes scaberulous above, often
purplish beneath, the lobes ovate or ovate-oblong and apically most-
ly acuminate or merely acute; midrib slender or stout, flat above,
prominent beneath (especially heavy basally on larger leaves); sec-
ondaries slender, 4--9 per side, arcuate-ascending, the 2 lowest bas-
al, those entering the lobes straight and extending to their very
tip, all mostly flat above and prominulent beneath; veinlet reticu-
lation firm, rather sparse, usually not conspicuous; inflorescence
terminal and axillary in the uppermost leaf-axils, forming a large,
broad, terminal, cymose or corymbiform panicle to 20 cm. long and
wide (or larger if during anthesis the corolla length is included);
peduncles 2--4.5 cm. long, densely hirsute-pubescent like the
branchlets; sympodia and inflorescence ramifications also densely
hirsute-pubescent; bracts scattered in the inflorescence, foliace-
ous, long-sti pitate, usually elliptic, 2--6 cm. long, 7--12 mm.
wide, apically acuminate, hirsute-pubescent like the leaf-blades;
bractlets and prophylla numerous, linear or narrowly elliptic, 1--
1.5 cm. long, rapidly diminishing in size upwards, pubescent; pedi-
cels very slender, 1--2 cm. long, more or less sparsely hirsute-
pubescent with glandular-capitate multicellular hairs; flowers numer-
ous, fragrant; flower-buds white; calyx campanulate, 1.6--2.5 cm.
long, somewhat inflated, dull greenish-white suffused with red, ex-
ternally glabrous or subglabrous, 5-parted to below the middle, the
lobes ovate-oblong, purple, about 1 cm, long, apically acute; corol-
la hypocrateriform, white or cream-color, the tube slender, 10--15
cm. long, about 5 mm. wide, ampliate and inflated apically from the
point of stamen insertion, straight or recurved in various angles
depending on age, externally spreading-villous, the throat finely
purple-dotted, the limb to 4 cm. wide during full anthesis, the
lobes oblong or sublanceolate, 1 .5--3 cm. long, 4--5 mm. wide, tor-
tuous, eventually reflexed, glabrous or subglabrous, dorsally with
numerous sessile glands; stamens didynamous, inserted in the corolla
tube near its mouth; filaments smooth, the enclosed portion white.
