ANOTHER LOOK AT ERAGPOSTIS TEPHPOSANTHOS (GRAMINEAE)
John R. Reeder
Herbarium, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85721
The genus Eragrostis has perplexed botanists since the time of
Linnaeus, who assigned the species to Poa. Characteristics which
serve to separate species, especially some of the annuals, are
rather subtle, and accurate determinations are often difficult for
anyone who has not had considerable experience with the group.
Koch (1974) made a significant contribution to our understanding of
the group of annuals which he studied, submerging three species
which had been recognized in the second edition of Hitchcock's
Manual (1951), and reducing a fourth to the status of variety.
His relegation of E. diffusa Buckl . and E. arida A. S. Hitchc. to
synonymy, merging the former with E. pectinacea (Michx.) Nees, and
the latter with E. tephrosanthos Schult., seems reasonable. Some
users of his treatment, however, may consider it still too conserv-
ative as they struggle to separate the above two species one from
the other and from the closely related E. pilosa (L.) P. Beauv.
It is apparent from a perusal of Koch's treatment that his deci-
sion regarding whether or not to recognize Eragrostis tephrosanthos
as distinct from E. pectinacea was not an easy one. While he did,
indeed, treat these two taxa as distinct species, he informs us
that the only difference between the two is that the pedicels of
the spikelets are appressed to the branches in E. pectinacea ,
whereas they are spreading to various degrees in E. tephrosanthos .
He adds that this character in E. tephrosanthos is expressed only
at maturity, and even then — although infrequently — most of the ped-
icels on a plant may be appressed; in E. pectinacea , he states,
the pedicels rarely diverge as much as 20°. He points out that the
distributions of these two "species" are coincident over most of
the southern range of E. pectinacea , and that their chromosome niim-
bers, flowering times, and habitats are the same. Nevertheless,
he reports that he found no evidence of hybridization between the
two. One may wonder how he can be so confident of this in view of
the fact that the one character separating the taxa (appressed vs_
spreading pedicels) is not absolute. He argues, however, that even
though the morphological difference between the two taxa is a "rel-
atively minor one," it was consistent, and he had "little difficul-
ty in separating the two."
Although a number of recent authors have accepted Koch's conclu-
sions without comment, McVaugh (1983) appears to express some skep-
ticism, and suggests that to the "uninitiated" the separation may
not be so easy. He cites an example of a specimen in which two
recognized authorities (L. H. Harvey and S. D. Koch) did not agree
as to whether it represented E. pectinacea or E. tephrosanthos \
In working with plaJits of chis complex from the southwestern U.S.
153
