156 P H Y T L G I A Vol . 60, No. 2
Some friends should have helped the author with his English summary
and German Zusammenfassung. . This study should have worldwide appeal
to botanists of many orientations, ecologists, conservationists and
geographers.
"HORMONES, RECEPTORS AND CELLULAR INTERACTIONS IN PLANTS" edited by
C. M. Chadwick & D. R. Garrod, xii & 375 pp., 55 multi-fig., 55
electronmicrographs & 20 tab. Cambridge University Press, Cam-
bridge, London & New York, N. Y. 10022. 1986. $69.50.
This is the first book published in the new series entitled "Inter-
cellular and Intracellular Communication". The 24 authors of the 12
chapters are mainly from the British Commonwealth, but 4 each are
from the U.S.A. and the Netherlands. All are advanced laboratory
scientists dealing with 1 i gand-receptor interactions of binds that
are chemically specific and exclusive as have been studied more free-
ly in animal cells not encumbered with cellulose cell-walls beyond
their plasma membranes. Auxin, gibberellin and ethylene receptors,
yeast cell recognition and adhesion in mating, pollen-stigma reac-
tions in BKcU-i'Lca. olnKataa. and R^zofa-uun, legume root-hair attach-
ments, are some of the important topics treated. Cytologists, bio-
chemists, physiologists at the advanced student and laboratory re-
search levels can certainly benefit from these papers. University
libraries and scientific laboratories should have this book even if
it does seem over-priced.
"THE RHIZOSPHERE" by Elroy A. Curl & Bryan Truelove, x & 288 pp., 57
b/w fig. incl. 39 photo., & 20 tab. Springer-Verlag, Berlin,
Heidelberg & New York, N. Y. 10010. 1985. $83.00.
This is the 15th presentation in the Advanced Series in Agricul-
tural Sciences. It is amazing how much carefully reported and ex-
plained subject matter is dealt with in this relatively small book.
The language is concise, clear and logical, making this book an ideal
source in appropriate college and university courses in ecology,
nematology, bacteriology, mycology, parasitology, zoology, botany and
agriculture. These intimate associations of soil organisms attracted
by the exudates of root tips and root hairs are of various natures
and effects. "The most common symbiotic alliances between plant
roots and microorganisms involve Rkizobium in the nodulation of leg-
ume roots, and various fungi which form either ectomycorrhizae or
vesicular-arbuscular endomycorrhizae in many plants." Although the
declared role of phytoalexins, ethylene, etc. in resistance is based
largely on in vitro studies, "efforts to manipulate the rhizosphere
for disease control are at the forefront of research activity". The
sale price of this book will probably be a barrier to many students
and low bugeted libraries.
