NOTES ON THE CYCLANTHACEAE OF SODTHERN CENTRAL AMERICA
INCLUDING THREE NEW SPECIES
Barry E. Hammel, Department of Botany, Duke University,
Durham, NC 27706. Current address: Missouri Botanical
Garden, P.O. Box 299, St. Louis, MO 63166.
Although often abundant in tropical primary forest,
the Cyclanthaceae have been poorly known for two major
reasons: they are most diverse in some of the least
explored habitats, namely the wettest areas, and the
plants are difficult to collect and thus often ignored
by collectors. The following notes and new species,
resulting from over two years of field work at La Selva
field station in northeastern Costa Rica and four field
trips specifically to study Cyclanthaceae in various
parts of Costa Rica and Panama, are presented here to
provide names for new species in the Flora of La Selva
(Hammel, 1986).
NOTES
When Harling (1958) monographed this family he
treated a total of 180 species in eleven genera. At
that time 37 species in eight genera were known from
Central America. Recent collecting, especially in Costa
Rica and Panama indicates that there are probably twice
that many species in the region. All of these will be
treated in the Cyclanthaceae for Flora Mesoamericana,
which I am preparing. No additional genera have been
found since Harling's monograph, but 29 new species
have been described (Schultes, 1959; Harling, 1963,
1972, 1973; Wilder, 1978; Grayum & Hammel, 1982;
Galeano & Bernal, 1984), four of them from Central
America .
It is not yet clear whether the increase in numbers
of species known from Central America will be due more
to newly discovered endemic species or to range
extensions from South America. In many cases this
question can only be answered by revisionary work with
a strong field orientation; nearly half of the species
in Harling's monograph were known only from the type
collection. Nevertheless, range extensions for several
distinctive species can now be indicated.
Range Extensions
Although Cvclanthus is usually treated as a monotypic
genus, the first new species in the family to be
described after 1958 was C. indivisus Schultes (1959).
This species was described from the Amazonas commisary
5
