6 P H Y T L G I A Vol . 60, No. 1
of Colombia and is distinguished by its smaller habit
and undivided mature leaves. Plants of this species
are now known from certain areas of primary forest in
Colon and Panama provinces and in the Comarca of San
Bias just north and east of Panama City. Ludovia
lancifolia Brogn., which Harling recorded only
tentatively from Central America, is now definitely
known from these same areas in Panama. Also, Ludovia
inteqrifolia (Woods.) Harl., known previously in
Central America only from Darien Province of Panama,
has now been collected from numerous sites along the
Caribbean lowlands as far north as southeastern
Nicaragua. Likewise, the monotypic genus Thoracocarpus
had been known in Central America only from Darien
Province of Panama but is now known to extend into
Bocas Del Toro Province and southern Costa Rica.
Numerous species of Asplundia , Dicranopygiu m and
Sphaeradenia , formerly known only from South America,
are also now known from Central America. These will be
dealt with in subsequent papers.
Key to the genera
For the most part Barling's genera are easily
distinguished, and probably monophyletic, however, his
monograph is not widely available. According to the
floristic treatments that are still primary sources of
names for plants of the region (i.e. Flora of Guatemala
and Flora of Panama — both published prior to Harling's
treatment) most species in Central America would be
treated as members of the genus Carludovica . The
following key, emphasizing vegetative characters of the
eight genera from Central America, should help to
correct this problem.
1. Leaf blades with 2 major lateral costae running
nearly the entire length of the blade, usually
deeply bifid nearly to the base; spadix a cylinder
of rings formed by alternating staminate and
pistillate units; plants terrestrial, usually
acaulescent CYCLANTHUS
1. Leaf blades with the 2 lateral costae (if present)
always disappearing well below the tip of the
blade, entire to deeply divided; spadix a cylinder
or sphere of tightly packed but distinct staminate
and pistillate flowers; plants epiphytic,
epipetric, or terrestrial, often caulescent
