198 P H Y T L G I A Vol. 60, No. 3
rather irregularly sinuate-dentate or subentire, basal ly rounded or
\/ery shallowly cordate (sometimes attenuate), hispid on both sur-
faces, brunnescent or nigrescent-brunnescent above in drying,
usually paler beneath; midrib distinct but not prominent above, more
densely hispid, prominent beneath; secondaries 7 or 8 pairs, more
densely hispid than the lamina, rather indistinct above, prominent
and distinct beneath, the basal pair usually arising at a more acute
angle with the midrib than the others, the next 3 or 4 pairs usually
almost straight and then gently curving along the margin, the upper-
most pair issuing from the midrib more obtusely, often almost at
right angles, then curving abruptly upwards, the looped intramargin-
al vein usually indistinct; tertiaries transverse, distinct below,
distant, more or less horizontal, the reticulations loose and rather
faint; inflorescence terminal, paniculate, thyrsoid, pyramidal, to
25 cm. long, densely yellow-hispid; bracts foliaceous. progressively
smaller upwards; inflorescence ramifications 1.5--2.5 cm. apart,
about 1.2--2 cm. long; cymes trichotomous , rather densely flowered;
peduncles with dense multicellular hairs; pedicels usually 0.5--1.2
cm. long (occasionally shorter), apically thickened, with dense
multicellular hairs; bracts and bracteoles long-linear, subulate;
calyx campanulate, 10--11 mm. long, deeply lobed, the lobes ovate-
lanceolate, 8--9 mm. long, apically acute, externally with very
long, stiff, multicellular hairs especially on the venation and
margins, ventrally glabrous, 5-veined; corolla-tube cylindric, about
13 mm. long, basally ainpliate to about 2.7 mm., apically about 1.6
"mm." wide, externally scabrid-puberulent (except basally), internal-
ly shortly and sparsely glandular-hairy, the lobes oblong or sub-
obovate, subequal , about 4.5 mm. long and 3 mm. wide, apically
rounded, the middle lobe of the lower lip somewhat narrower than the
others and apically subacute, ventrally glabrous, dorsally densely
hispid-pubescent; filaments exserted, slender, about 13 mm. long,
glabrous; anthers ovate, about 1.6 mm. long and 0.6--0.7 mm. wide,
apically blunt; style slender, about 2 cm. long, glabrous; stigma
bilobed, the lobes slender, about 1 mm. long, subulate, tapering;
ovary rounded, externally glabrous, shallowly lobed.
The species is based on HendeA-ion 250S5 fi'om a lowland forest
near the limestone hill called Bukit Sagu, Kuantan district, Pahang,
Malaya. Henderson (1933) comments that it is probably related to C.
£anQfeau)-cen4e King & Gamble "sed ramis pubescentibus pilis longis,
foliis multo latioribus, hispidis, petiolis longioribus, calyce
maiore, tubo corollae multo breviore differt". He asserts that
the type collection was collected in anthesis in October, the fruit
unknown, and the corolla yellow and calyx red-hairy.
Collectors describe this plant as a shrub or undershrub, 1--1.5
m. tall, the branches long and slender, the bark light-brown, the
petioles hairy, the leaf-blades dull dark-green and hairy above,
hairy on the green venation beneath but otherwise purple, the in-
florescence axillary and terminal, paniculate, the cymes 2--5-flow-
ered, the calyx dark reddish-brown or purple, red-hairy, pentamer-
ous, the corolla with the "petals spreading to form a half-moon"
[ fide Congdon], the stamens 4, the filaments white, elongate, curved.
