A TAXONOMIC STUDY OF LILIACEAE SENSU LATCh
I- NUMERICAL ANALYSIS
Afaf A. Badawi and Zeinab Elwan
Ek)t. Dept., Fac. of Sc., Ain Shams Univ. Cairo, Egypt.
Introduction
Liliaceae has been the center of many phylogenetic considerations,
too much debate and controversy with regard to its dehmitation and
to the taxonomic status of some of its minor taxa. The disputed delimita-
tion of this family is due to the fact that some taxonomists take different
attitudes to "the important" criteria prior to setting up their classifica-
tion. In Krause's (1930) system of classification the relative position
of the ovary was considered distinctive for the family; being superior
in Liliaceae and inferior in Amaryllidaceae. In Hutchinson's (193^*) system
the umbellate inflorescence, irrespective of ovary relative position,
was regarded as distinct for Liliaceae. Cronquist (1968) submerged Amaryl-
lidaceae in Liliaceae on the belief that none of these criteria is solely
sufficient for the separation of two families. Furthermore, the controversy
in the taxonomic status of the minor groups has, in most cases, been
relying upon relatively few characters. For instance, Hutchinson (1973)
regarded the bracteate taxa of AnguiUareae as a separate more advanced
tribe, viz Iphigenieae, so that his amended concept of AnguiUareae
included only the ebracteate taxa. A comparison between some of the
widely followed systems is presented by Becker (1973) and Traub (197'^).
In numerical taxonomy many characters are used in setting up the
classification with no overweighing of some characters before analysis.
An approach which may overcome the unavoidable defects of the tradi-
tional approaches.
Material and methods:
A cosmopolitan sample of 255 species representing [QU genera from
Liliaceae sensu Engler (1888) were selected for the purpose of this
study. This represents about 7.5% and 52.3% of the total number of
species and genera. All Engler's tribes except Calectasieae and all his
subtribes except Asphodeleae-Xeroneminae and Aloineae-Kniphofinae
are represented in this sample. All species names have been updated
in the Index-Kewensis and its supplements; these are given in Appendix 1.
It seems reasonable to employ the simplest and the least time-con-
suming techniques. The species have been investigated through herbarium
specimens recovered, prior to any investigation, by boiling (of only those
parts to be examined) in water for 5-10 minutes. Clearing in warm lactic
acid proved to be indispensable for recording several characters of
foliage and perianth leaves and gynoecia. The pollen preparations have
been made according to the method of Franks and Watson (1963). Free-
hand sections of stems and peduncles have been studied through semi-
201
