1986 Badawi & Elwan, A taxonomic nudy 203
permanent preparations stained in phloroglucinol and cone. Hcl using
glycerin jelly as a mountant.
Observations and rtumerical ar^lysis:
Fifty-four morphological and anatomical characters have been recor-
ded comparatively for all species. In numerical analysis coding is the
most critical part; there is always discordancy regarding the fate of
most characters to be coded. Therefore, a set of coded characters (see
Table 1 ) was made to cover as much as possible aspects of variations
in order to cover any operational or human error or misjudgment. However,
some criteria are so difficult to define into appropriate states. These
are left out of the computational analysis together with those characters
in which the literature was consulted to fill the gaps resulting from
lack of some parts (e.g. the fruit) from the herbarium specimens. These
characters are given in Table 2 . The coded data were analysed by an
agglomerative polythetic based on the most frequently used clustering
strategy known as the unweighted pair groups method using arithmetic
averages (UPGMA).
Results and the proposed arrangement:
The result of this analysis is given in the form of a dendrogram
in the computer print out to the species level (agglomerative analysis).
From which the hierarchical arrangement of the examined 255 species
are drawn only to the 2 5 groups level. It seems reasonable to interpret
the hierarchy at 3 different similarity levels. At 0.162 the taxonomic
groups are termed GROUPs, those at 0.655 are Groups, while those at
0.7 13 are groups.
It is of vital importance that computed results should be scrutinized
for any obvious errors or misclassification (in terms of the original
recorded characters). Hence, a few realignments have been made, incor-
porating the shift of 1 1 species. These realignments reduced the number
of Groups to 8 and the number of groups to 23.
The hierarchy of the proposed arrangement to that 25 groups level
(after realignments) is given in Diagram I. The distribution of species
in each group is given in Appendix 1.
Taxonomic evaluation of the srrariRement:
1. Internal evidence:
At all levels the groups in the present arrangement of Liliaceae
sensu lato in Appendix I and Diagram I are based on character correla-
tions as seen in Table 1. In this table the distribution of each character
subjected to computation among the 'groups' of the proposed arrangement
