204 P H Y T L G I A Vol. 60, No. 3
is given. The data matrix showing the recorded characters of individual
species can be obtained on request. The value of presenting this table
lies nnainly in its relative compactness (and hence the ease of inspection
and comparison between groups), and its consistency in showing the
distribution of all characters in different groups. From this table, com-
bination of characters on which the "groups" at the 4 GROUPs level
and at the 9 Groups level can be easily picked out.
GROUP 1 includes the examined 8 species of tribe Veratreae. Mem-
bers of this GROUP are characterized by the presence of raphides in
leaves (12); the multinerved tepals (Vll, 2) hairy tepals (19); globoid
anthers (30); and distinct styles (2^*).
GROUP II, unlike any other GROUP includes most species which
are devoid of raphides. It includes the 17 examined species of Engler's
Lilioideae-Tulipeae, 30/38 species Allioideae plus 16/36 species of Melart-
thioideae. Within this GROUP, the presence of umbellate inflorescence
(1,2), globoid anthers (30), lobed stigma (26), hairy tepals (19), uninerved
tepals (VII, 1) and distinct subsidiary cells (11) distinguish Group II-D
from Group II-B.
Most species of GROUP III are characterized by the frequent occur-
rence of raphides: in their leaves (12), tepals (18), ovaries (22) and in
style (25). GROUP III combines Group III-E which consists mainly of
Aloineae together with Group IIl-E. The latter binds most of the examined
species of Asphodeloideae and all species of Dracaenoideae, Ophiopo-
gonoideae and Aletroideae together with Liliodieae-SciUeae.
In GROUP III, the hairy tepals and ovaries, the paniculate and the
umbellate inflorescences, and the distinct styles are restricted to members
of Group III-F. This latter Group can be further distinguished from Group
III-E (Aloineae-Aloinae) on the basis of many characters (e.g. 6, 28,
29, 30 and III, 3). In otherwords this analysis emphasizes the distinction
between Asphodeloideae-Aloineae-Aloinae (Group III-E) and other tribes
of Asphodeloideae in Group Ill-F.
GROUP IV includes, among others, the studied species of Herrerioi-
deae, Luzuriagoideae, Smilacoideae and most Asparagoideae. From Table
1 the axillary position of the flowers seems to be the distinguishing
feature of the GROUP. This GROUP is subdivided to accomodate kik
species of Asparagoideae-Pariideae and 10/12 species of Melanthioideae-
Uvularieae in Group IV-G; 3/3 species of Herrerioideae-Herrerieae,
8/8 species of Smilacoideae and 5/13 Asparagoideae- Polygonateae among
others in Group IV-H; while all Asparagoideae- Asparageae (16/16 species),
the examined species of Asparagoideae-Convallarieae-Convallarinae with
5/13 species of Asparagoideae-Polygonateae are in Group IV-I. The accep-
tance of these Groups hits across Engler's Asparagoideae. However,
the tribes Asparageae and Pariideae withstand the disruption at this
level of the arrangement, while Polygonateae is seriously disrupted.
