1986 Badawi & Elwan, A taxonomic study 207
Within GROUP IV the reticulate venation of the tepals is restricted
to members of Group IV-G. The distinction of this Group (mainiv Meian-
thioideae-Uvularieae) can be further substantiated (see Table 1). Charac-
ters number 5, 16, 2k and 11,3 in Table 1 reflect some aspects of the
variations exihibited between members of Group IV-H and Group lV-1.
Eustrephus latifolius in Group IV-H possesses leafy stems; a character
which otherwise is restricted to members of Group IV-1. However, in
the former species the presence of the leafy stems is associated with
hairy tepals while in Group IV-I, their presence is associated with glabrous
tepals.
External evidence ;
A defensible taxonomic scheme must possess a certain peridictive
value. Therefore, in addition to the recorded information which was
included in the computation, more criteria were recorded for all the
species. The distribution of these characters among the Groups is given
in Table 2. The record of these features for each species is given in
Elwan (1979). Also, all known cromosomal counts for the species under
investigation have been compiled from different sources. These are:
Darlington and Wylie (1961), Ornduff (1967, 1968), Moore (1973, 197«t),
Fedorov (1976). Also the lOPB chromosome number reports presented
periodically by Askell and Love in Taxon have been consulted.
From Table 2 it is evident that the proposed arrangement gains
additional support. Thus with the exception of some Ophiopogonoideae,
Asparagoideae, Dracaena and Dianella in Group III-F, the berry type
of fruit is confined in GROUP IV. In GROUP II and GROUP III there
is a tendency towards the absence of bundle sheath. However, this tendency
is more prominent in GROUP II which comprises 30/38 spp. of AUioideae
and 17/17 spp. of Lilioideae-Tulipeae. In GROUP IV the bundle sheath
is present in most species.
At lower reaches of the hierarchy, the distinction between the
"groups" is even more sound. Within GROUP II the distinction between
members of Group II-B (which comprises Colchiceae and 4 other species)
and those of Croup II-D (which includes Lilioideae-Tulipeae among others)
can be emphasized in terms of many characters (see no. 7, 13 and 15
in Table 2). Also within GROUP III, the distinction between Group IIl-E
(mainly Aloineae-Aloinae) and Group III-F (which includes most of Asphode-
loideae, Liiioideae, Scilleae, Dracaenoideae, Ophiopogonoideae and Alteroi-
deae) can be emphasized in terms of characters no. 1, 2, 8, 11, 13 and
17 (see Table 2). Fiurthermore, within GROUP IV, the distinction between
Group H and 1 at one hand and Group G on the other (see Diagram I)
is quite clear in terms of character no. 10-13 (see Table 2).
One should also point out that some "groups" are seemingly "good"
in terms of chromosomes counts. For instance, the chromosome number
for most species is frequently in multiple of 7, 8 and 9 in all GROUPs
except in GROUP IV, where most species have x=10. The latter GROUP
includes most of Asparagoideae, Luzuriagoideae, Herrerioideae, Smila-
coideae among others. Also the distinction within GROUP II between
