1986 Badawi & Elwan, A taxonomic study 209
At nine Groups level the taxa which appear intact are: Anguiilarieae
(Hutchinson, Engier) in Group D; Gilliesieae (Engler, Melchoir) in Group
D; Asphodeieae-Anthericinae (Engier) in Group F;Asphodeieae-Eriospernninae
(Engler, Melchoir) in Group F; Engler's Asphodeloideae-Hemerocalloideae
= Melchoir's Hemerocalleae in Group F; Ophiopogonoideae (Engler, Mel-
choir) in Group F.
At four GROUPS level the taxa which appear intact are: Melchoir's
Simlacoideae - Hutchinson's Smilacaceae, Engler's Luzuriagoideae = Hutchi-
nson's Philesiaceae, Asparageae (Engler, Melchoir) in GROUP IV; and
Dracaenoideae (Engler) in GROUP III.
Some of the represented groups are seemingly homogenous in terms
of well recognized taxa; thus group I includes Verateae; group 2 includes
only Scilleae p.p; group 3 includes only Colchiceae; group 6 includes
only Anguiilarieae; group II includes only Aloineae-Aloinae; group 13
only Dracaenae p.p.; while Asparageae sensu Melchoir is in Group IV-I.
The taxa which seem to suffer most disruption and which fail to
appear in only one of the ^ main GROUPs are Scilleae, Asphodeleae,
Holonieae, Tofieldieae, Johnsonieae, Polygonateae and Lomandreae.
However, the disruption of some of these taxa may be attributed
to i) Deficiency on behalf of the machinary, ii) Any human error incor-
porated in the analysis iii) The sample under investigation represents
quite a heterogenous taxon (Liliaceae sensu lato ) so that the recorded
characters could not reflect the actual relationships among all of its
groupings. Hovever, it is hoped that the present study might contribute
to similar studies in the taxonomy of liliaceous taxa. It also may direct
the attention towards the appropriate characters necessary for mono-
graphic studies concerning particular taxa.
Acknowledgement;
We are deeply indebted to the keeper of the herbarium of the Natural
Science Museum, Stockholm, for loan of specimens. Thanks are also
due to late Prof. Vivi Tackholm, Cairo University, for her kind permission
to use all facilities at CAI. Our sincere thanks are also due to Prof. H.A.
Sneath, and M.3. Sackin, University of Leicester, England, for their
kind help in the computational analysis.
