A TAXONOMIC STUDY OF LILIACEAE SENSU LATO:
II. EVALUATION OF ENGLER'S SUBFAMILIES
Afai A. Badawi and Zeinab Elwan
Bot. Dept., Fac. of Sc., Ain Shams Univ. Cairo, Egypt.
Introduction
In our previous paper (Badawi & Elwan, 1986) a taxonomic arrangement
of 255 species representing 10^ genera of the Liliaceae sensu Engler
(1888) has been proposed. Several taxonomic treatments of the Liliaceae
are already on record (Lindely, 1853; Bentham & Hooker, 1862-1883;
Krause, 1930; Lawrence, 1951; Melchoir, 196^^; Dahlgren, 1976; Cronquist,
1968; Thorne, 1968; Hutchinson, 1973; and Takhtajan, 1980). Hardly any
two of these classifications are in full or near full agreement, and the
discrepancies between- them go as far as splitting the family into several
splinter families. Furthermore, what might be regarded as a tribe by
one author is raised to family by another or reduced into a subtribe
by a third. Therefore, it is imparative to test our proposed arrangement
against other systems. That of Engler (1888), being the most comprehensive
and dtaiied account of the family has been chosen for this purpose.
In comparing classifactory systems, hierarchical levels of the groups
(or taxa) to be compared have to be pre-determined. In this study we
have endeavoured to select levels which would lead to maximum resem-
blance between these taxa in our scheme and those in Engler's system.
COMPARISON WITH THE ENGLEREAN SYSTEM
The tabulated sort of comparison between our arrangement (Badawi
& Elwan, 1986) and that of Engler (1888) seems most profitable. Two
tables have been, therefore, constructed. Table 1 is made at the k GROUPs
level of our arrangement, while Table 2 is made at the 9 Groups level .
It is evident from Table 1 that 5 out of the 11 subfamilies of Engler's
Liliaceae are disrupted at the i^ GROUPs level. Melanthioideae is the
most disrupted; it is shared by the four GROUPs and the distribution
of its species among these GROUPs shows no concentration in any one
GROUP. These disrupted 5 subfamilies are the largest of the family
Liliaceae. The other 6 subfamilies are with relatively limited concepts;
and these were, therefore, represented by relatively few species in the
sample examined to propose our arrangement.
I. Subfamily Melanthioideae;
At the 4 GROUPs level, Veratreae, Anguillarieae, Colchiceae and
Uvularieae are homogenous, i.e. appearing in only one of the GROUPs.
The former is the only constituent of GROUP I, the latter is in GROUP IV,
while the other two tribes are in GROUP II. From these tribes only
214
