1986 Badawi & Elwan, A taxonomic study 217
Amaryllidaceae in Hutchinson's (1973) system. The relationship of these
genera to Amaryllidaceae was ascertained and proved to be based on
a number of morphological and anatomical criteria (Badawi & Elwan,
1976).
However, the main bulk of the examined AUioideae (30 out of 38
species) are in GROUP II. These are Tulbaghia (1 species), Allium (15
species), Nothoscordum (3 species), Gagea (8 species), Gilliesia (2 species)
and Miesera (I species). These genera, with the exception of Gagea are
in many treatments outside the framwork of Liliaceae, but rather in
a much definable family Alliaceae (Dahlgren, 1967; and Takhtajan, 1980).
In Hutchinson's (1973) system these genera are Arf.aryllidaceae, while
Gagea is Tulipeae. In our arrangement, GROUP II includes also the exami-
ned 17 species of Tulipeae (Table 2). This means that members of AUioi-
deae in GOUPR II share a relatively high similarity to Tulipeae rather
than to the 8 species of Alloideae in GROUP III. The taxonomic attitude
to consider Gagea as Tulipeae was ascertained on embryological and
cytological bases (Kaul et^ ah, 1969; and Sen, 1975). Also on morphological
and anatomical bases (Badawi & Elwan, 1976) suggested that Gagea
together with Tulbaghia and Gilliesia are better associated with Tulipeae.
IV. Subfamily Lilioideae:
The disruption of this subfamily hits across its two tribes; Tulipeae
(17/17 species) is in GROUP II, while Scilleae ^^0/^2 species) is in GROUP
III. Thus our arrangement reflects a pronounced distinction between
Engler's Tulipeae and Scilleae making the concept of this subfamily
rather implausible. The recognition of Tulipeae (including Gagea ) and
Scilleae as two separate but highly related groups is not debated any
more. However, Sen (1975) suggested the exclusion of Colchortus, Liyodia
and Gagea from Hutchinson's Tulipeae. He also visualized the fact that
Scilleae contains several assemblages but their relationship is not very
remote.
V. Subfamily AsparaRoideae:
The disruption of this subfamily at the ^ GROUPs level of our arrange-
ment does not reflect serious taxonomic conflict. Since 32 out of the
examined 35 species of Asparagoideae are in GROUP IV, while only
2 species of Clintonia (Polygonateae) and one species of Rhodea (Convol-
larieae) are in GROUP III (Badawi & Elwan, 1986). However, at the 9
Groups level only Pariideae and Asparageae appear intact, while Poly-
gonateae is seriously disrupted (Table 2). The latter tribe was divided
by Sen (1975) on cytological bases into 3 tribes. Clintonia and Streptopus
in one tribe, while Polygonatum , Maianthemum and Smilacina in other
tribe and Disporum in the most primitive tribe. Our arrangement (Badawi
6c Elwan, 1986) shows that Clintonia is in GROUP III, while the other
11 examined species of Polygonateae ( Streptopus , Polygonatum . Maian-
themum and Smilacina ) are in GROUP IV. In other words, our arrange-
ment indicates the distinction of only Clintonia from Polygonateae.
