BOOK REVIEWS
Alma L. Moldenke
"THE DARWINIAN HERITAGE" edited by David Kohn, xii & 1138 pp., 22 b/w
fig. incl. 5 photo. & 5 tab. Princeton University Press, Prince-
ton, New Jersey 08540. 1985. $79.50.
This wonderful, huge book includes the proceedings of the Charles
Darwin Centenary Conference held in the Florence Center for the His-
tory and Philosophy of Science in June 1982. Yes, wonderful for the
thorough, intelligent, richly documented appraisals. Being supine for
a couple of weeks gave me the chance to read this book carefully.
PART I has 14 papers on phases of the evolution of a theorist such as
"Darwin's Early Intellectual Development: An Overview of the 'Beagle'
Voyage (1831-1836)" and "Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace:
Two Decades of Debate over Natural Selection". PART II has 7 papers
on Darwin in Victorian context such as "Darwin of Down: The Evolution-
ist as Squarson-Naturalist" and "Darwin and the World of Geology".
PART III has 3 papers about comparative receptions of Darwinism in
Britain and America, in Germany, France and Italy, and in Russia.
PART IV has 7 papers on perspectives on Darwin and Darwinism including
Ernst Mayr's "Darwin's Five Theories of Evolution" -- really parts of
the whole -- about which he concludes that "It strikes me as almost
miraculous that Darwin in 1859 came so close to what would be consid-
ered valid 125 years later". A. La Vergata has produced an excellent
study in "Images of Darwin: A Hi storiographic Overview" "The BEAGLE
Collector and His Collections" makes an effective finale. Advanced
students, faculty and interested educated readers should find this
book a treasure chest of factual information and ideas.
"THE ECOLOGY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF THE FUNGAL MYCELIUM" edited by D. H.
Jennings & A. D. M. Rayner, xvi & 564 pp., 168 b/w multi-fig.
incl. 186 photo. & 31 tab. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,
London & New York, N. Y. 10022. 1984. $99.50.
This excellent book is composed of the invited papers for the Sym-
posium of the British Mycological Society held at Bath University in
1983. "Tne primary function of the mycelium is that of establishment
and spread in or on a suitable medium with concomitant absorption of
nutrients and water" and showing the following "three important phe-
nomena: (1) hyphal fusions or anastomoses, (2) perforate septa and (3)
cytoplasmic and nuclear migration". The 24 papers attack effective-
ly the "what" and the "how" of such processes as in a woodland
litter decomposer, mycorrhizal roots, rhythmic growth and fungal spor-
ulation, heterokaryosis in RhLzoctorUa ioZayu. and nuclear and cyto-
plasmic genes that determine morphology and virulence in EndothyLa
pcLfLCUiAXica.. This long ignored basic part of f.ungal organisms has now
222
