224 P H Y T L G I A Vol . 60, No. 3
This inexpensive book, with its many excellent illustrations and
interesting text, gives a fine overall yet considerably detailed ac-
count of what snakes are like as to their basic (taxonomic) charac-
teristics, size, shape, colorings, exclusive carnivory, ovi-. vivi-
and ovovi viparous reproduction patterns, means of defense, feeding,
relationships with their varied environments, geographical distri-
bution, and relationships with man. Plants, of course, feature as
food for their prey and milieu for their habitats. The final chap-
ter is a fine survey of snakes by families.
"INTRODUCTION TO MODERN MYCOLOGY" by J. W. Deacon, vii & 197 pp., 80
b/w fig. incl. 21 photos. & 15 tab. Blackwell Scientific Pub-
lications, U. K. & Halsted Press of John Wiley & Sons, New York
N. Y. 10158. 1980. $18.95 paperbound.
The author has patterned this clearly presented and up-to-date
text for undergraduate courses in the biology of fungi, related
fields and for "microbiologists, botanists and biologists in gener-
al". There are chapters on various fungal life functions, germina-
tion, genetic systems [including parasexual ity], saprophytes and
plant and animal parasites, economic importance through the produc-
tion of products like gibberillin and the causation of plant and
animal diseases. The content is completely explained and well illus-
trated. This book belongs in all public, college and university
libraries. It would make a good text in our junior colleges with
the anticipation or requirement that all contents be learned through
rather than just skimmed over as must be done with the much larger
American texts. It would also provide a short and rich source for
secondary school teachers of biology for fneir own background.
"ECOLOGY AND TROPICAL BIOLOGY" by Ian Deshmukh, xii & 387 pp., 152
b/w fig, 11 photo, pi., 5 maps & 46 tab. Blackwell Scientific
Publications, Inc., Oxford 0X2 OEL U.K. & Palo Alto, Califor-
nia 94301. 1986. $19.95 paperbound.
Because of effective comparisons of ecological conditions and
patterns between those of the temperate and tropical zones, this
text provides interesting new perspectives to students, research
workers and faculty in both the Old and the New Worlds. The first
part of the well-explained text covers the ecology of natural sys-
tems (energy flow, nutrient cycles, populations of single and dif-
ferent species, evolution, communities and tropical terrestrial bi-
omes) and the second part covers human ecology (food from foraging
to fossil fuel, populations, deforestation, desertification, nature
reserves). The author conspicuously defines terms before using
them, makes clarifying and organizing use of many figures and tables
throughout and of mathematic models in the appendix. This book is
unique because it can serve English reading libraries in agricul-
tural & technical schools, colleges & universities all over the world.
