226 P H Y T L G I A Vol . 60, No. 4
There are two basic morphological types of rock glaciers.
Tongue-shaped rock glaciers are usually ice-cored but may be ice-
cemented (Madole 1972), have a greater length to width ratio, and
originate in cirques where ice glaciers formerly occurred (White
1981) or in slight recesses on promontories or valley walls (Madole
1972). These forms have steep fronts of 38 to 50 degrees where basal
shear resistance is great (White 1981) .
Lobate rock glaciers are usually ice -cemented, have a greater
width to length ratio, and form at the base of valley walls, usually
as an extension of talus (White 1981) . These forms have steep fronts
of 40 to 55 dgrees.
On the basis of movement rock glaciers may be categorized as
active or inactive. Active tongue -shaped rock glaciers move 5-160
cm/yr depending upon size and slope angle whereas the lobate forms
move substantially less, 1-6 cm/yr (White 1981). The front slopes of
active rock glaciers are completely devoid of vegetation and form a
sharp angle with the surface of the glacier. Inactive rock glaciers
show no movement. The front slopes of the latter are covered with
turf or lichens and are rounded at the junction of slope and surface
(Wahrhaftig and Cox 1959).
In Colorado rock glaciers are reported for the Front Range,
Mosquito Range, Sawatch Range, Elk Mountains, Sangre de Cristo
Range, and San Juan Mountains. White (1973) identified 756 rock
glaciers from aerial photos of the San Juan Mountains. Rock glaciers
occur primarily above timberline.
STUDY AREAS
The San Juan Mountains are a discontinuous section of the
Southern Rocky Mountains situated along the Continental Divide in
southwestern Colorado. They are composed largely of Tertiary
volcanic tuffs and lavas that lie unconformably over metamorphic,
sedimentary and volcanic intrusive rocks of Precambrian age as well
as sediments of Paleozoic, Mesozoic, and early Cenozoic age
(Casadwall and Ohmoto 1977) . All of the rock glaciers studied are
tongue -shaped or tongue -lobate complexes and show evidence of
movement; however, isolated, stabilized areas of fines, which
support well-developed vascular plant communities are present to
some extent on all but Gilpin rock glacier.
American Rock Glacier
American rock glacier (37 ^ 54' N; 107'' 31' W) is located
approximately 15 km southwest of Lake City, Hinsdale Co. This
massive, north- facing complex of tongue and lobate units has an
elevational range of 4026-3770 m, from source to frontal slope (Fig.
1). The headwall source of the rock glacier debris consists of
volcanic aphanitic andesite, welded tuff, and biotite-quartz latite
(Lipman 1976) .
