228 P H Y T L G I A Vol. 60, No. 4
Mountains consists of 86 species representing 52 genera in 19
families of angiosperms, one species of gymno sperm, and two species
in two genera of pteridophytes . The Asteraceae, Brassicaceae , and
Cyperaceae are the leading families contributing 21%, 13%, and 8% of
the taxa, respectively. The Poaceae , which is usually among the
three leading families in most Colorado tundra floras (Michener
1964, Komarkova 1976, Webber et al . 1976, Hartman and Rottman 1985),
is replaced by the Brassicaceae in this study. Eight species found
on the rock glaciers were not found in the adjacent basins. These
include: Agrostis f iliculmis ( Agrostis idahoensis ) . Arab is lemmonii
(Boechera lemmonii ) , Draba incerta . Erigeron vagus . Penstemon
harbourii. Phlox caespitosa ssp. pulvinata (Phlox pulvinata ) .
Senecio porteri . ( Ligularia porteri ) , and Stellaria irrigua .
Vascular plant species on the rock glaciers studied occur
either in highly localized communities on stable sites or as
isolated populations of single species in unstable areas. The
community types represented are fellfield, dry meadow, moist meadow,
and krummholz . Single species populations are characteristic of rock
crevices and rock debris habitats.
Rock Debris
Because the rock glacier surface and slopes are formed of rock
debris from the headwall or source area, rock debris is the most
abundant habitat found on the five rock glaciers studied. The debris
ranges in size from large boulders, up to two m in diameter, to
cobbles and fines. There are limited areas in rock interstices and
at the base of boulders on the rock glacier that have a sufficient
accumulation of fines to support vascular plant species. These areas
become available for colonization when the surficial deposits of
rock material move down slope exposing the finer material present in
the lower strata. Creeping-stemmed species such as Erigeron vagus .
Penstemon harbourii . Senecio porteri ( Ligularia porteri ) . and
Stellaria irrigua are occasionally found among the rock debris.
Many of the rock debris habitats, especially rock interstices,
support only single species populations. Where fines and soil
accvimulation occur in flat areas at the base of boulders,
communities of low richness and no dominance are found. Some of the
common species that may occur singly or in some combination in rock
debris habitats are Androsace septentrionalis . Aguilepia coerulea,
Cerastiuin earlei ( Cerastium beeringianum ssp. earlei ) . Draba
crassifolia . Festuca brachvphylla . Potentilla diversifolia .
Saxif raga debilis ( Saxifraga hyperborea ssp. debilis ) . Senecio
werneriifolius ( Packera werneriifolia ) , Sibbaldia procumbens .
Smelowskia calycina . and Trisetum spicatum .
Rock Crevice
The rock crevice habitat includes soil-filled crevices on
solitary boulders. These crevices are formed by jointing of the rock
material. Younkin (1970) reports that the thin soils in the rock
crevices are often composed of organic matter and that the
orientation of the crevices on the rock substrate determines the
insolation factors of the particular habitat. On all of the rock
