1986 Hartman & Rottman, Flora of rock glaciers 229
glaciers the rock habitat is usually represented by a single species
population. Although speciees may occur together in this habitat,
there are no dominants. The species most frequently encountered are
Carex elynoides , Claytonia meparhiza . Erysimum capitatum var .
amoenum ( Erysimum capitatum . alpine ecotype), Festuca brachvphvlla .
Polemonium viscosum . Sa gina saginoides , Saxif raga rhomboidea
( Micranthes rhomboidea ) . Senecio amplectens var. amplectens
( Ligularia amplectens ) . Senecio amplectens var. holmii ( Ligularia
holmii ) , and Smelowskia calvcina .
Fellfield
Fellfield community sites are characterized by a high
proportion of weathered rock material (up to 80%), coarse- textured
soils, and little organic material. They occur on exposed, windswept
ridges with little or no snow cover, thus exposing the plants and
soil to severe desiccation. The highest richness of species on rock
glaciers occurs in this community. The dominants include Carex
elynoides . Chionophila jamesii , Selaginella densa . Senecio
werneriifolius ( Packera werneriifolia ) . Silene acaulis var.
subacaulis ( Silene acaulis ssp. subacaulescens ) . and Trisetum
spicatum .
Dry Meadow
This community type occurs in stable areas on convex slopes
that experience early snowmelt. Although the substrate includes some
rock fragments, soil accumulation is sufficient to permit a better
development of vegetation than the fellfield. The most frequent
dominants are Carex elynoides . Geum rossii var. turbinatum
( Acomastylis rossii ssp. turbinata ) , Phlox caespitosa ssp. pulvinata
( Phlox pulvinata ) . Saxifraga bronchialis ssp. austromontana
( Ciliaria austromontana ) , and Selaginella densa .
Moist Meadow
In striking contrast to the moist meadow communities in the
adjacent basins (Hartman and Rottman 1985), the rock glacier moist
meadows are low in species richness and minimal in occurrence, being
found only on Imogene rock glacier. They occur in depressions where
snow accumulation is greater and release is later at or near the
base of a highly stable longitudinal lobe. The dominant secies are
Salix reticulata ssp. nivalis and Sibbaldia procumbens .
Krummholz
Wardle (1974) defines timberline as the ecotone between the
subalpine zone, including both forest and ecotonal krummholz, and
the alpine zone of low growing vegetation. He describes krummholz as
a modification of the normal upright conifer growth form caused by
the severity of the habitat. In the most severe sites krummholz
conifers are reduced cushions of contorted stems that are shorn off
level with the surface of the winter snowpack. In less severe sites,
erect stems with branches only on their leeward sides rise above the
cushion to produce flagged kruinmholz . Kendall rock glacier is the
only rock glacier on which krummholz, of the mixed cushion and flag
types, occurs at approximately 3652 m elevation. Picea engelmannii
