NOTES ON RARE U. S. PLANTS FROM ARIZONA, I: INCLUDING A TALINUM
(PORTULACACEAE) NEW TO THE U.S.
L. J. Toolin, Herbarium, University of Arizona, Tucson, 85721
A number of the rarer plants in the U.S. flora are to be found only
in extreme southeastern Arizona. Most of these are Mexican
peripherals - species centered in Mexico that have limited
distributions north of the International Boundary. Of some 60 such
species in Arizona, 41 occur nowhere else in the U.S. In addition,
at least 23 endemics are native to the southeastern corner of the
state. While most of the peripheral and endemic species have been
on record for many years, little or no information on their
numbers, local distributions, habitats, or population trends has
been published. This paper is the first in a series intended to
provide some such basic information.
The area covered in this series (see Fig. 1) includes Cochise,
Santa Cruz, southern Graham and Pinal counties, and eastern Pima
County. Southeastern Arizona has long been known for the diverse
and interesting biota that it supports, deriving from the region's
geographical location, its strikingly varied topography, climate, and
the resulting diversity of habitats. Our area shares portions of
three Biotic Provinces: Sonoran, Chihuahuan, and Madrean.
Descriptions of the physical and biotic features of the region are
available elsewhere (Lowe, 1964; Brown & Lowe, 1978 (map); Brown et
al., 1982). Certain localities within the larger area considered
here harbor concentrations of diversity, including rare forms.
Typically, these localities are associated with mountainous terrain,
especially where riparian canyon habitats are present, as at
Sycamore Canyon in the Pajarito Mts. (Toolin et al., 1979).
In the following discussions, all specimens cited are deposited
at ARIZ, unless otherwise noted. I thank R. W. Kiger for identifying
the Talinum , G. Russel for providing label information from Talinum
specimens at US, and C. Sternberg for the map.
PORTULACACEAE
Talinum marginatum Greene (1912)
A low, herbaceous perennial previously known from a few scattered
collections in Mexico. The first U. S. specimen came from Ramsey
Canyon, Huachuca Mts., Cochise Co., 20 July 1980, L^ J^ Toolin 920
(ARIZ & US). The type was collected at Santa Teresa, near Tepic,
Nayarit, Mexico, by J. N. Rose in 1897. Other collections known to
me, but not seen, are from northwestern Chihuahua, near Colonia
Garcia, Townsend &_ Barber 151 , in 1899 (US); at an unspecified
locality of the Sierra Madre, Chihuahua, E^ W^ Nelson 6094, also in
1899 (US).
237
