1986 Toolin, Rare U. S. plants from Arizona 239
This species appears to be rather specialized, growing only in
open patches of thin gravel soil that are devoid of other perennial
plants. The Ramsey Canyon population consists of about 250
individuals growing in pine-oak woodland at 1800 m elevation, in
association with such annuals as Dalea filif ormis , Crotalaria
sagittalis , and Ipomoea costellata . A second population of the same
size occupies similar habitat in adjacent Carr Canyon, at 2300 m.
elevation. Both populations have maintained roughly the same
numbers over the last six years.
T. marginatum has, as now known, a very wide and disjunct
distribution. Its range covers 1000 km along the Sierra Madre
Occidental. The climates under which this species grows vary
dramatically: the Tepic region is tropical and completely frost-
free, while the Huachuca Mts. undergo long periods of freezing
weather during the winter.
The paucity of records for T\ marginatum suggests that it may
be truly rare and widely disjunct, for although it is a small plant
(to 8 cm tall), its bright yellow flowers stand out in the bare
situations in which it grows. Whether this is a true picture of the
species' distribution will, it is hoped, be determined by future
collection and a recently-initiated search of Mexican herbaria. I
have found that these plants usually produce some cleistogamous
flowers with viable seed. The ability to self-fertilize explains,
in part, the establishment and persistence of populations in widely
scattered localities.
Published descriptions (Greene 1912; Wilson 1932), based solely
on pressed specimens, are largely inaccurate and lack some details.
T. marginatum is acaulescent, the leaves and inflorescence arising
from the apex of the tuberous roots, which vary in shape from
nearly globose to fusiform. The leaves have been described as much
flattened, oblong-spatulate, obtuse, with blades 1-2 cm long. The
inflorescence is said to be shorter than the leaves. In fact the
leaves are terete, 1.5-2.5 mm in diameter, more-or-less linear, with
blades up to 6 cm long. The inflorescence commonly equals or
exceeds the leaves. The petals are mostly 2.5-3.5 mm long. This
species can be distinguished from other Arizona Talinums by its
combination of yellow flowers in a cymose inflorescence.
Specimens examined: Arizona, Cochise Co., Huachuca Mts., ridge
at west side of Ramsey Canyon, Toolin 920 & 14V7; Huachuca Mts.,
Carr Canyon, near the Reef, F^ Reichenbacher 1091 . Mexico, Sonora,
Sierra Charuco, in gravel atop boulder, H^ S^ Gentry 2303 .
