240 P H Y T L G I A Vol . 60, No. 4
LEGUMINOSAE
Dalea tentaculoides H. S. Gentry (1950).
A shrub endemic to Santa Cruz and Pima counties, known from
Sycamore Canyon, Pajarito Mts., Santa Cruz Co. (the type locality),
and the Baboquivari Mts., (including the adjacent Quinlan and Coyote
Mts.). This species appears to have lost ground in the
Baboquivaries. Several collections were made from canyons on the
west slope of the range in the 1920's and 1930's, but a 1981 survey
of those localities failed to locate a single specimen. Since the
west slope habitats have been strongly modified by livestock
grazing, the populations may have been exterminated within the last
fifty years. D. tentaculoides still occurs in the Baboquivari Mts.
region, at least on Kitt Peak (Quinlan Mts.), where several were
seen in 1984 at 1450 m elevation (G. Starr, pers. comm.), and in
Mendoza Canyon (Coyote Mts.). The shrub almost certainly grows
elsewhere in the northern end of the Baboquivaris, but its
distribution and numbers there are still poorly known. In Sycamore
Canyon, Pajarito Mts., about 100 individuals grow in partial shade
under oaks, cottonwoods, ash, and sycamores at elevations of 1125 -
1215 m. The population is distributed as scattered colonies and
individuals over a two-mile stretch of the main canyon, and in a
few side drainages. Plants bloom twice a year, in spring and in
fall.
No seedlings were found from 1980 to 1983, but a number have
been produced since then. Seedling establishment may be dependent
on summer rainfall, since the several summers preceeding 1983 were
drier than normal, while winter rainfall was average. Observations
on age distribution in colonies suggest that seedling production and
establishment are dependent on particularly favorable conditions of
erratic occurrence. In one example, five fully mature specimens
with strongly woody stems are clustered with 20 smaller, younger,
mostly suf f rutescent plants. The younger individuals are
essentially identical in height, main stem diameter, and branching.
They seem to have germinated and become established at the same
time. The lack of intermediates between the two age/size groups in
the cluster indicates that additions to the population are episodic.
Both Gentry (1950) and Barneby (1977) note that D^
tentaculoides has no close relatives. This, along with its present
limited range, implies that it is an old, relictual species.
