1986 Tool in. Rare U. S. plants from Arizona 241
Specimens Examined: Santa Cruz Co., Pajarito Mts., Sycamore
Canyon: R^ Darrow , s.n.. May 19^1 (Holotype, ARIZ); J^ M^ Kaiser
1275 ; Toolin 1389 ; U Benson 10960 ; L, N. Goodding, s.n., Ma^ 1938 .
Pima Co., Baboquivari Mts., Baboquivari Canyon: Loomis &^ Peebles
1597 ; Peebles &_ Harrison 3965 ; Kearney &_ Peebles 8543 . Quinlan
Mts., Kitt Peak: G^ Starr 762 . Coyote Mts., Mendoza Canyon: W^ E^
Niles 497.
Marina diffusa (Moric.) Barneby (1977).
Dalea diffusa Moric.
A peripheral Mexican shrub distributed from Sonora south to
Guatemala. Type from "Nova Hispania" (Mexico), collected by M. Pavon
in 1827. First collected in the U.S. in the Patagonia Mts., Santa
Cruz Co., in 1934, Kearney &^ Peebles 10054. In the U.S., this
species has a very limited range, and has not been known to number
more than about 25 adults at one time. The population is confined
to a south-facing rocky slope, in fine gravel soil derived from
decomposing granite, at 1680 m elevation. Although this shrub is
short-lived here, at its northernmost locality, reproduction seems
adequate to maintain and even increase population numbers. Each
adult produces a few seedlings in most years. Observation has
shown that population growth in this frost-sensitive plant is
limited by episodes of abnormally cold weather, as in 1978, when
all individuals were killed by a hard freeze. The population is
carried through these disasters by its reserve of seeds, which may
remain viable for several years.
Barneby (1977), describing the species as known in Mexico,
states that individuals develop persistent woody stems after
several years' growth, and that these give rise to secondary
suf f rutescent stems during the growing season. Individuals in the
Patagonia Mts. rarely live long enough to develop woody stems.
Typically, these plants produce short-lived suf f rutescent stems
each year from a more-or-less woody caudex. Plants seen as lush,
vigorous shrubs in the fall are found in the following spring with
the above-ground growth reduced to a tangle of dead branches.
Brown (1984) pointed out that for a given species (animal or plant),
suitable local sites will decrease in number towards the margin of
a species range, and that such localities will be increasingly
unfavorable. The Patagonia Mts. M_^ diffusa population seems to be
living at the very edge of its ecological limits. Barneby (1977)
mentions that this species tends to form colonies, and our M.
diffusa largely follow that pattern. Clusters of eight or so
individuals are scattered over a few hectares. Persistence of these
colonies is dependent on climatic conditions, and they come and go
rather rapidly.
