252 P H Y T L G I A Vol . 60, No. 4
The generic placement of this species is moot. It was my
original intention to treat this as a monotypic genus within the
tribe Coreopsideae, a tribe to which I would also append
Tetrachyron . Wussow and Urbatsch (1979), however, see no strong
Coreopsid connection, in spite of their detection of anthochlors
among the phenolics, plus several morphological features that
suggest this tribe. In any case, Tetrachyron oaxacana is
apparantly a remote member within its genus and tends to obscure
the taxonomic chasm between it and Galea . Indeed, I sent material
to Dr. Urbatsch, who has worked on both Galea and Tetrachyron , and
he kindly gave the following assessment (pers. comm.): the plant
concerned has the capitulescence, phyllaries, and corollas of
Tetrachyron but possesses the pappus and prismatic (?) achenes of A^
Galea ; vegetatively it is more like Tetrachyron . He concluded that , "
the species here described "looks like a toss-up". ^V/
I tend to agree that it is somewhere between these two genera
but believe that it is closer to Tetrachyron . If there is a
Goreopsid connection it would appear to be remote and possible
through the genus Goldmanella which has an involucre, achenes,
corolla and style branches more or less similar to Tetrachyron
oaxacana, but its leaves are alternate and without glandular
punctations. It is interesting to note that Greenman, in his
description of Goldmanella , states "The plant here described in the
appearance of the involucre suggests some of the Galinsogeae,
particularly Galea ..." I believe he was referring to the
Tetrachyron group of that genus, prior to its segregation by Wussow
and Urbatsch. Gertainly the hypothetical Goreopsid-connection
needs carefxil scrutiny, particularly if the tribe Gorecpsideae is
accepted in the broad sense of Turner and Powell (1977).
I am grateful to Dr. Lowell Urbatsch for his helpfiil comments
on the taxon, to Dr. Guy Nesom for the Latin diagnosis and to Dr.
L. Vorobik for the fine illustration.
LITEiy^TORE GITED
Turner, B. L. 1985. A new species of Tetrachyron (Asteraceae-
Heliantheae) from Oaxaca, Mexico. Phytologia 58: 389-391.
Turner, B. L. and A. M. Powell. 1977. Helenieae-systematic
review. In The Biology and Ghemistry of the Gompositae, Vol.
2, Heywood et. al., eds. Academic Press, London.
Wussow, J. R. and L. E. Urbatsch. 1979. A systematic study of the
genus Tetrachyron (Asteraceae: Heliantheae). System. Bot. 4:
297-318.
