BOOK REVIEWS
Alma L. Moldenke
"DEVELOPMENTAL BIOLOGY OF HIGHER FUNGI" edited by D. Moore, L. A.
Casselton, D. A. Wood & J. C. Frankland, xii & 615 pp., 141 b/w
multi-fig. incl. 184 photo. & 75 tab. Cambridge University
Press, Cambridge & London, U.K. & New York, N. Y. 10022. 1985.
$99.50.
These 27 well composed papers are from an important symposium of
the British Mycological Society at the University of Manchester in
1984. The preface orients readers to consider developmental biolo-
gy to include "not only structural form -- both vegetative and re-
productive -- but also how that form relates to an organism's eco-
logical niche Many of the most obvious, and most intellectually
challenging, morphogenic features are a direct contribution to eco-
logical performance." Some of the topics presented are: mycorrhizal
dynamics during forest tree development, dikaryon formation, devel-
opmental characteristics of agarics, biochemistry of AgafUcwi, fruc-
tification, strategies for mushroom breeding, and biological and
technical aspects of commercial mushroom breeding. This book is
needed in college and university libraries and fungal breeding and
biochemical laboratories.
"EMBRYOGENESIS IN ANGIOSPERMS. A Developmental and Experimental
Study" by V. Raghavan, xiii & 303 pp., 33 b/w multi-fig. incl.
75 photo. & 4 tab. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge &
London, U.K. and New York, N. Y. 10022. 1986. $39.50.
Herein the author has brought together in synoptic form "the most
recent knowledge on the theoretical, developmental and experimental
facets of embryogenesis in angiosperms using a systems approach
based on data from morphology, anatomy, genetics and biochemistry".
There are chapters on developmental embryogenesis, its cellular,
biochemical, pollen, somatic, experimental and applied aspects
and their significances toward some important applications in our
agriculture. This study is needed in agricultural, college and uni-
versity 1 i braries .
"THEORETICAL STUDIES ON SEX RATIO EVOLUTION" by Samuel Karlin & Sa-
bin Lessard, xv & 314 pp., 11 b/w fig. & 11 tab. Princeton
University Press, Princeton, New Jersey 08540. 1986. $47.50.
This book is the 22nd of the excellent monographs in Population
Biology edited by Robert M. May. It is especially important for
those who can follow intelligently all of the many carefully devel-
286
