1986 Moldenke, Book reviews 287
oped mathematical explanations on sex ratio theory. More than 601
of this material embodies new research. There are several models
developed for concepts and parametrization for the 2-3-loci multi-
allele sex-determining systems and some for incompatibility and
haplodiploid mixed parthenogenesis, etc. Gregor Mendel has been
identified as "a young mathematician whose statistical interests ex-
tended to the physical and biological sciences, who modeled his laws
of inheritance to be consistent with his experimental results."
This study should be of very real interest to reproductive biolo-
gists, ecologists and graduate students. University libraries
should surely have this book available.
"THE COMPLETE HANDBOOK OF GARDEN PLANTS" by Michael Wright, 544 pp.,
260 multicolor pi., 1 b/w map & 2 tab. Facts on File Publica-
tions, Inc., New York, N. Y. 10016. 1984. $18.95.
This book "bespeaks" its text as originally oriented for British
gardens (despite its hardiness zone map for the U.S. A), but because
of the longtime and widespread horticultural trade, this book should
be helpful and delightful to English-reading gardeners the world
over and to travelers on now popular horticultural, estate and gar-
dening tours. In this compact size book over 9000 species and vari-
eties are described and over 2500 are illustrated on the lovely 260
color plates. The plants are grouped practically as: evergreen and
leafy trees and shrubs, perennial climbers, border and bedding per-
ennials, bulbs, corms, tubers, rock plants, annuals and biennials
and water plants. Growing limitations and suggestions are given in
the text. Even though the first column of the S's in the index is
"irregular", this book is highly recommended especially for accom-
plishing so much in so small a space.
"SCIENCE AND CIVILIZATION IN CHINA" by Joseph Needham with the col-
laboration of Lu Gwei-Djen and a special contribution by Huang
Hsing-Tsung, Volume 6 Biology and Biological Technology, Part I
Botany, xxii & 718 pp., 89 b/w fig. & 22 tab. Cambridge Uni-
versity Press, Cambridge & London, U.K. & New York, N. Y. 10022
1986. $95.00.
And probably the title information would have been even more
elongated with articles by Georges Metailie if he had submitted on
time his articles on Chinese knowledge of plant processes, horticul-
tural techniques, gardening and the influence of Chinese flora
and botany on modern plant sciences. This wonderful historical sur-
vey starts with China's plant geography, common and learned names in
botanical linguistics from the earliest records forwards, continues
with wild food plants, explorations of the borderlands, development
of ornamental and pharmaceutical plants, information on crop im-
provement and natural pest control. Expectedly the three biblio-
graphies are widely collected: (1) Chinese and Japanese books before
