1986 Moldenke, Book reviews 289
major reptiles and amphibians it most surely is with its contribu-
tions from 19 experts on all the families of these animals. For am-
phibians their geological history is surveyed, also their living
adaptations for both water and land habitats, and their courtships,
leaping and chorusing. For reptiles true dinosaurs are distinguish-
ed from archosaurs, temperature regulation is explained by exposure
to sun and shade, and the gavial (U.S. dictionaries and genus
GavlcuLu) or gharial (Oxford dictionary and Hindi) is shown (photo)
in protective padding for transportation for safe release into the
wild. This book is emphatically recommended for all public, school,
college, and personal libraries of enthusiasts about these creatures
"THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF INSECTS" edited by Christopher O'Toole, v & 143
& x--xvi pp., 160 color photo., 3 b/w photo, 1 color map, 78
chart outlines, 14 color draw. & 96 b/w draw. Facts on File
Publications, Inc., New York, N. Y. 10016. 1986. $24.95.
Like "The Encyclopedia of Reptiles and Amphibians", this treatise
is also not a real encyclopedia, but it is likewise an excellent
survey of the world of insects and the insects of the world, as well
as a similarly developed section on arachnids and a briefer one on
myriapods. This editor and the 21 sectional expert contributors use
the phylum name UruAomia.: they are all functioning experts in their
fields who know how to write interestingly and effectively. Beetles
get their due as "the most successful group of animals on Earth,
forming almost one-third of all described animal species and about
two-fifths of all insects". The very excellent color photographs
catch dynamic, dramatic poses instead of limp-looking dead things
with pins or pin-holes in them. The use of boxed or chart forms for
certain information is an effective devise against any tedium in
reading all the substantive material in the text. This book also
belongs in school, public, college and university libraries as an
excellently presented source of information. It should be a stimu-
lating gift for any young person interested in insect life.
"ESCRITOS ETHNOBOTANICOS: Dictamo Afrodi si'acos , Plantas Irritantes o
Alergenas, Asma , Mapurite o Anamii, Diabetes" by Santiago LOpez-
Palacios, 323 pp. & 24 b/w & 1 color pi. Dep. Bot^nica y Far-
macognosia, Merida C. P. 5101, Venezuela. 1985. Paperbound.
The author, our friend of long standing, has presented a valuable
study on a worldwide scale over a long span of time from the litera-
ture and especially from South American plant sources. Such infor-
mation is now of increasingly appreciated importance for furthering
pharmaceutical and medical research for more and better disease con-
trol. He also stresses that some native medical recommendations are
only based on hearsay, that dependence on just the common plant
names may not be reliable. A printed slip of corrections of printing
errors is included; it caught some but not all of the misspellings.
The fuUpage plant plate drawings are well done and are particularly
