290 P H Y T L G I A Vol. 60, No. 4
attractive printed in green -- which is so natural for most observ-
able parts of plants.
"SPIDERS OF THE WORLD" by Rod & Ken Preston-Mafham, 191 pp., 66
color pi., 38 b/w pi. & 35 b/w multi-fig. draw. Facts on File
Publications, Inc., New York, N. Y. 10016. 1984. $17.95.
This is a very effectively developed and very attractively illus-
trated survey of both the spiders of the world and the world of
spiders. The chapters describe their classification (using the
name Krvthiopoda as the phylum designation), courtship and mating
(recording some as parthenogenetic ) , their life histories (with the
marvels of web-making and use), prey capturing, defense mechanisms,
and their relations with man. The introduction states that "Little
Miss Muffet was probably a daughter of a Thomas Muffet, a keen spider
enthusiast". The final chapter closes with "spiders and their in-
sect prey are far better equipped for survival in the long term than
man himself , it is certain that spiders will still be laying
traps for flies long after man has finally disappeared from the
earth".
"THE QUANTUM WORLD" by J. C. Pol kinghorne, xi & 100 pp. & 9 b/w fig.
Princeton University Press, Princeton, N. J. 08540; (1984 Long-
man Group Ltd., hardcover) Princeton University Press, 1984.
$6.95 paperbound.
The author was a former professor in the department of Applied
Mathematics and Theoretical Physics in the University of Cambridge
and is now an Anglican clergyman. "Two great discoveries have
transformed our view of the natural world. One is Einstein's theory
of special relativity; the other is quantum mechanics ... .much the
more revolutionary". He describes somewhat simply and Mery care-
fully "a way of thinking about the quantum world. ...and also the
beautiful structure of the microworld which has been laid bare by
the discoveries of elementary particle physics".
"CONTROL OF LEAF GROWTH" edited by N. R. Baker, W. J. Davies & C. K.
Ong, xii & 351 pp., 81 b/w fig., 2 b/w photo. & 24 tab. Cam-
bridge University Press, Cambridge & London, U.K. & New York,
N. Y. 10022. 1985. $39.50.
This neatly typed offset publication is No. 27 in the seminar
series of the Society for Experimental Biology and contains 15 pa-
pers by 24 authors including the editors. They deal with such topics
as: physical limitations of leaf cell expansion, energy transduction,
carbon relations in developing leaves, mechanisms of light-stimula-
ting leaf cell expansion, and air pollution and leaf growth with
certain compensation mechanisms increasing the relative leaf area
