1986 Moldenke, Book reviews 291
exposed to ozone and sulfur dioxide. The figures on pp. 126 and 322
are particularly well constructed. The last paper, on "The Way
Ahead", concludes that "Only by considering the whole plant can we
identify the performance criteria which the control mechanisms as-
sociated with leaf growth may be trying to satisfy". Although most
of the authors are from the British Isles, there is international
representation among them.
"TIGER -- Portrait of a Predator" by Valmik Thapar, 200 pp., 175
color & 1 b/w photo. & 2 color maps. Facts on File Publications,
Inc., New York, N. Y. 10016. 1986. $24.96.
This is an excellent nature story rendered in effective words and
in superb color photography by GUnther Ziegler and Fateh Singh Ra-
thore. It "shows and tells" of all phases of tiger life and activi-
ties, their prey, and of the other animals and plants that live in
the beautiful Ranthambhore preserve with its ancient crumbling fort.
Previously the English and maharajahs used to hunt here, causing the
surviving tigers to hunt by night, but now they roam freely in day-
light. There are appendices (1) locating (Asia), describing (subspp.
and censusing (ca. 7,000) the tigers of the world; (2) listing the
mammals, reptiles and birds of this 400 km. forest; and (3) mention-
ing 450 named plant species and a profusion of insect life. Upon
closing this book, I am sure that almost all readers will at least
dream of visiting the Ranthambhore Tiger Preserve and will open
their pockets for contributions to help the excellent nature conser-
vancy work being performed there.
"SULFUR DIOXIDE AND VEGETATION - Physiology, Ecology, and Policy
Issues" edited by William E. Winner, Harold A. Mooney & Robert
A. Goldstein, xxi & 593 pp., 148 b/w fig., 74 tab., 2 maps & 8
photo. Stanford University Press, Stanford, California 94305.
1986. $65.00.
"This volume was developed from a symposium held in Alisomar,
California in 1982" and consists of 30 papers by 50 contributors.
There are 4 papers on pollution management, 7 on sulfur dioxide ef-
fects on plant metabolism, 10 on its effects on plant growth, 7 on
plant communities, and 2 in summary. It is intended as a reference
book for those interested in sulfur dioxide-caused changes in plant
physiology and ecology. Sulfur dioxide is only one of several in-
dustrial pollutants; it has been playing its destructive role lon-
gest and most intensely, as shown on a U.S.A. map on p. 235. Olson
and Sharpe provide a rationale for the use of mechanistic mathemati-
cal modeling providing "vital links between long-term ecological,
whole-plant dose-response, and biochemical mechanism research" .This
book is needed in agricultural, horticultural and biochemical labs
and university libraries.
