292 P H Y T L G I A Vol . 60, No. 4
"GENETIC FLUX IN PLANTS" edited by B. Hohn & E. S. Dennis, xii & 253
pp., 40 b/w fig., 7 tab. & 16 photo. Springer-Verlag , Wien &
New York, N. Y. 10010. 1985. $39.00.
This is the second publication in the new Plant Gene Research
[forj Basic Knowledge and Application and should be welcomed. Sec-
tion I deals with movement of genetic information from the environ-
ment into the plants by competent and satellite viruses and viroids
and of DNA flux across genetic barriers by AgnobacXufUim. Section
II covers movement of genetic information between such plant organ-
elles as chloroplasts with mitochondria or with nuclei. Section III
has 6 papers on the movement of genetic information within plant or-
ganelles with consideration of "the very large and variable size of
the genome", repeated DNA sequences, and unstable mutations and
chromosome breakage in maize. The last chapter deals with the great
amount cf somaclonal variation (rather than presupposed uniformity)
in tissue culture and gross plant study of several vegetable crop
plants. Since this book shows where and how such research is headed
and its possible economic applications, it surely belongs in univer-
sity, college and effected laboratory libraries.
"THE EUROPEAN GARDEN FLORA - A Manual for the Identification of
Plants Cultivated in Europe, Both Out-of-Doors and Under Glass":
Volume I PteAA-dopkyta., Gymnoi,ptnmat, Ang-co-ipeAmae-Monocotyledons
(Part 1) edited by S. M. Walters, A. Brady, C. D. Brickell, J.
Cullen, P. S. Green, J. Lewis, V. A. Matthews, D. A. Webb, P. F.
Yeo & J. C. M. Alexander, xv & 430 pp., 44 b/w multi-fig. pi. &
1 European hardiness lines map. Cambridge University Press,
Cambridge & London, U. K. & New York, N. Y. 10022. 1986. $99.50.
Limited to the huge field of amenity horticulture, this publica-
tion and its anticipated Volume II (and III?) on the rest of the mo-
nocots and the dicots will prove a great boon for literate owners
of and workers in small garden spots to estate lands, from public
building grounds to parks, for nurserymen to landscape architects,
for conservatory to glass house growing laboratory staff, and for
libraries with horticultural identification questions to the labora-
tory scientists and graduate trainees doing important experimental
work on tomorrow's amenity plants with new forms, disease resistance,
gene control, etc., and for the staffs of horticultural and mixed
herbaria. Over 12,000 kinds of plants are named, fitted into oper-
able keys, described within their families, with blooming times and
cultivation tips, by a staff of 33 specialist-contributors. Since
horticultural introductions encompass much of the globe, this book
is surely destined to be a treasurehouse for English-language
readers. It should fulfill an important place in private and public
libraries as well as in those of horticultural schools and insti-
tutes, colleges and universities. This book is really a very special
and valuable publication.
