NEW TAXA OF VENEZUELAN ARACEAE
George S. Bunting
A new revision of the Venezuelan Araceae undertaken since the
publication of my Sinopsis de las Araceae de Venezuela (1979), has
demonstrated the even greater diversity of the aroids in that
country. Studies of recent collections, mostly from previously
unexplored areas of Venezuela, have revealed a number of taxa new
to science; the recogniton of other taxa has resulted from the
definitive study of some older collections. A number of the spec-
imens cited here were made available for my study by the Herbario
Nacional de Venezuela [VEN], the Herbario Ovalles of the Facultad
de Farmacia, Universidad Central de Venezuela [MYF], and the Ins-
tituto Universitar io de Tecnologia in Core, Falcon [lUTC]; others
are material resulting from my own field work. The herbarium of
the Jardin Botanico de Maracaibo is here cited as VZM.
ANTHURIUM
Anthuriun aroense Bunt., sp. nov. (Fig. I)
A. par iensi Bunt, primo adspectu maxime simile, sed foliorum
lamina tantum subcoriacea haud cart ilaginea, paribus duobus ner-
vorum lateralium e basi costae ascendent ibus vix validioribus quam
nervis lateralibus ceteris e costa abeuntibus, spadice breviter
stipitate (in ilia sessili) floribus A in quaque spira primaria
(in ilia 7) et 5 in quaque spira alterna (in ilia 12) visibilibus.
TYPUS: R. Liesner & Angel Gonzalez 982A . Epiphyte. Spathe
green, tinted with red-purple. Spadix purple-brown, becoming
greenish. Peduncle round. Primary forest; Cerro Negro, 8 km SW of
San Felipe, I0°17' N., 69° I ' W. , Sierra de Aroa, Edo. Yaracuy,
1200-1800 m, 1-2 April 1980 [Holotypus: VEN].
Anthuriun berryi Bunt., sp. nov. (Fig. 2)
A. tamaensi Bunt, simile, sed differt foliorum lamina char-
taceo-pergamena (in ilia subcoriacea) et nervatione minus promi-
nenti, nervo collectivo ad marginem approximat lore , petiolo pro-
portione breviore (respectu lamina), spatha spadiceque minore,
spatha vix oblique affixa et non decurrenti.
TYPUS: Charles W. Wood & Paul E. Berry 95. Terrestrial herb.
Stem lustrous, green-brown, pith white-pink. Petiole same color as
stem. Leaf lustrous dark green over light green. Bract [spathe?]
lustrous green flushed brownish rose. Male spathe [spadix in an-
thesis?] dark purple-brown, female spathe [spadix post-anthesis? ]
green with brownish tips on flowers. Among moist, mossy rocks in
deeply shaded quebrada; headwaters of Rio Guasare, "Campamento
Frontera V", IO''23 ' 7 .8" N. , 72°52 '45. 5" W. , on international bound-
ary, Edo. Zulia, 2700-3300 m, 20-23 July 1974 [Holotypus: VEN].
293
