DELNORTEA , A NEW GENUS OF PERMIAN PLANTS
FROM WEST TEXAS
Sergiiis H. Mamay
Department of Paleobiology, Smithsonian Institution
Washington, D.C. 20560
John M. Miller
Biology Department, The University of the South Pacific
Suva, Fiji
David M. Rohr
Geology Department, Sul Ross State University
Alpine, Texas 70930
William E. Stein, Jr.
Museum of Paleontology, University of Michigan
Ann Arbor, Michigan ^48109
In a preliminary publication Mamay, Miller and Rohr (198M)
announced the discovery of a new Permian plant locality in the Del
Norte Mountains, Brewster County, Texas. This is the youngest
record of Paleozoic plant megafossils in North America.
The Del Norte flora contains abundant leaves of a new genus,
heretofore referred to only as "gigantopteroid." Our full report on
the considerable amount of available material is yet incomplete, but
because of repeated inquiries regarding the nomenclature of this
plant we herewith propose the generic name Delnortea , with the type-
species D^. abbottii . Inasmuch as only one species is recognized, a
combined generic-specific diagnosis is presented.
DELNORTEA ABBOTTII Mamay, Miller, Rohr, and Stein, n. gen., n. sp.
Combined diagnosis; Leaves simple, petiolate, from 1.2 to an
estimated 35.0 cm long, 0.8 to 8.5 cm wide. Petioles short, thick,
with flaring, abscissed bases. Laminae symmetrical, each with a
median groove on the adaxial surface; outlines orbiculate to oblong,
elliptical, or linear; tips acute to obtuse; bases acute, rarely
obtuse; margins snallowly to deeply crenate, rarely entire near the
laminar base, and demarcated by a conspicuous, uninterrupted border
of thickened tissue. Veins pinnate, in four orders. Primary vein
(midrib) straight, stout, subterete in section, attached to the
abaxial surface of the lamina by a major adaxial portion of the
vein, beneath the median groove in the lamina. Secondary veins
strong, straight, parallel, alternate to opposite, to 1.5 cm apart,
acute, perpendicular or rarely obtuse, each vein terminating without
branching at a marginal sinus in the lamina and merging into the
345
