346 P H Y T L G I A Vol. 60, No. 5
thickened laminar border. Tertiary veins strong, straight, parallel,
numerous (less than 3-0 mm apart), broadly acute, those nearest the
midrib arising directly from the midrib; tertiaries with diffuse
endings, merging with those of tertiaries from the adjacent
secondary; tertiaries and secondaries together forming a uniform,
rigid "herringbone" pattern. Quaternary veins fine, numerous,
acute, dividing sparsely; all ultimate vein endings coalescing with
others to form a dense network of oblong meshes. Petiole and midrib
containing heterogeneous ground tissue with clusters of isodiametric
sclereids, a sclerified hypodermis and a vascular system of several
conducting bundles arranged in a semicircular arc, the arc enclosed
by a discrete boundary tissue; xylem and phloem in radial files
separated by vascular rays; tracheids with scalariform-bordered
secondary wall thickenings to uniseriate circular-bordered pits on
all walls.
Holotype: Specimen 36^416, Paleobotanical collections of the
U.S. National Museum; Mamay, Miller, and Rohr, 1984, Fig. 1A.
Locality: Del Norte Mountains, Brewster County, Texas; 1.7 km
south of Bird Mountain, southeast of Alpine (30°N).
Stratigraphic occurrence: Road Canyon Formation, Leonardian
Series, Lower Permian.
Etymology: The generic name refers to the Del Norte Mountains,
where the fossiliferous site occurs. The specific epithet
acknowledges the assistance and friendship of our late colleague,
Maxine L. Abbott.
Comments: The flared, abscissed petiole, the regularly crenate
margins, the sinal termination of the secondary veins, and the
confluence of the secondaries with the thickened marginal border of
the lamina are distinctive features that combine to separate
Delnortea from all morphologically similar fossil plants; the ease
with which hand specimens may be identified using external
characters renders Delnortea a potentially valuable stratigraphic
guide fossil. The internal anatomical details reflect an unusual
type of fossilization and entail considerable phylogenetic interest.
LITERATURE CITED
Mamay, Sergius H., John M. Miller, and David M. Rohr. 1984. Late
Leonardian Plants from West Texas: The Youngest Paleozoic
Plant Megafossils in North America. Science 223: 279-281.
