THE CHINESE MEDICINE "SHU"
4. Some Nomenclatural and Taxonomic Notes on the
Atractylodes D.C.
A.I. Baranov*
This is the last in a four-part series of papers on the
Chinese medicine"shu" , and it deals with taxonomy and nomen-
clature of the "shu" source plants.
Atractylodes DC. is not a well known group of plants in
the West. Conversely, in the Far East this genus is well
known and economically very important because its members
yield an herbal medicine extremely popular in Korea, Japan and
China. In China the four species of Atractylodes used in
traditional Chinese medicine are known under the generic name
of "shu."
The genus Atractylodes was estciblished by De Candolle in
1838. It belongs to the family Compositae , subfamily
Asteroidae and the tribe Cynarae ( Cardueae ) [1] .
Although the genus is small (not more than ten species) ,
its intrageneric taxonomy is very confused and needs a through
revisionary study. However, for various reasons this author
is not in a position to carry out such a study. Consequently,
he compiled this paper to fill the gap provisionally until a
more comprehensive account of the taxonomy of this genus can
be produced. Thus, herein will be presented seven remarks
identifying the most important deficiencies and areas
requiring improvement in the taxonomy of the genus.
1) The first two members of the genus Atractylodes were
described by C.P. Thunberg. He found the plants cultivated in
Japan (3775-1776) during his stay in that country. Thunberg
referred the plants to the genus Atractylis L . and described
two species: Atractylis lancea and A. ovata [9] .
Later, botanists found that the natural distribution of
the genus Atractylis L . is within the limits of the
Mediterranean Region. Consequently, De Candolle estciblished
in 1838 a new genus Atractylodes and transferred all East
Asian species of Atractylis into this new genus.
Certain specialists on East Asian flora do not recognize
the genus Atractylodes as a separate genus, allegedly because
it has no significant differences from Atractylis in the
P.O. Box 131, Cambridge, MA 02140, U.S.A.
347
