348 P H Y T L G I A Vol . 60, No. 5
structure of generative parts. A comparative study by this
author showed that besides the markec- differences from
Atractylis in the structure of vegetative parts, the genus
Atractylodes differs from the genus Atractylis L . as follows:
(a) The heads of Atractylis are homogamous (florets all
perfect) , while in Atractylodes DC. the heads are heterogamous
(florets are either all perfect or all pistillate with aborted
stamens) [2,5] ; (b) in Atractylis L . the receptacle is chaffy;
chaffs are oblong-ovate or linear, dissected into two lobes,
of which one is short ovate, acute; another one is very long,
awn-like, very narrow; in addition, the chaffs are ciliate and
slightly erose at the margin; (Fig. 1 d,e,f) in Atractylodes
DC. the receptacle is bristly; bristles are simple, linear,
narrow, entire, not ciliate at the margin. (Fig. 1 c) ; (c)
Anothers' appendages in Atractylis L . are very narrow, linear,
drawn out into a very long, sharp apex, very densely,
minutely, flexuously hairy (Fig. 1. g) ; in Atractylodes DC.
the appendages are oblong or narrowly ovate, sometimes lobate,
obtuse or acutish at the apex; on the surface they are rather
loosely beset with minute, straight hairs (Fig. 1 a,b) .
Thus, in this author's opinion the characteristics
described above are sufficient to recognize the genera
Atractylis L . (1737) and Atractylodes DC. (1838) as two
separate genera.
2) In the Flora USSR[1] it is said that the type species
of the genus Atractylodes DC. is A. lancea (Thunb.) DC.
However, in the ING[3] it is said about the type species of
Atractylodes DC: "Typus non designatus." The explanation for
this contradiction is found in Professor Bobrov ' s personal
letter to this author [la], in which he says that he selected
A. lancea (Thunb.) DC. as the type of the genus, for purely
formal reasons, i.e. because this species is cited first in
the protologue of the genus. No typification whatsoever of
the genus Atractylodes DC. has ever been made and this genus,
so far, has no officially designated nomenclatural type.
3) In the latest handbook of the Soviet Far Eastern Flora
[10] the authority of the genus Atractylodes is cited in an
erroneous way. It reads: Atractylodes L. , while it should
read Atractylodes DC.
4) The diagnoses of the two first species of Atractylodes ,
Atractylodes ovata (Thunb.) DC. and A. lancea (Thunb.) D.C.
are extremely short (each consists of only nine words) [9] .
Naturally, such short descriptions are unable to give any
clear idea of the species. Although these species are still
treated as two distinct species, although with a rather
