1986 Baranov, Chinese medicine "shu" 349
doubtful taxonomic status, Bobrovfla] suggests that it might
have happened that Thunberg described not two separate spe-
cies, but two cultivated varieties of one species. This
certainly should be verified. In addition, the fact that
Thunberg described these taxa from cultivated plants, dis-
proves the old notion that the type locality of the genus
Atractylodes DC. is in Japan. This in turn poses a question:
In what part of continental Eastern Asia then is the original
native area of distribution of A. ovata ?
5) Atractylodes separata Bailey listed by Hu[4] as occur-
ring in China (prov. Hupei, Szechuan) is conspecific,
according to Koidzumi[6] with A. lancea (Thunb.) DC.
6) A. japonica Koidz. ex Kitam. This species of
Atractylodes ought to be critically revised because it appar-
ently has been published with serious violations of the rules
of ICBN: (a) no formal description of this species at the time
of its publication was provided; consequently, A. japonica is
nomen nudum ; (b) the nomenclatural type of this taxon has
never been designated; (c) there are serious doubts with
regard to the relationship of A. japonica and A. ovata ; it
seems that diagnostic characteristics of both species overlap,
at least in part. Thus, it appears to be advisable for the
Japanese botanists to re-study, re-describe or re-validate the
publication of A. japonica Koidz. ex Kitam in the future.
7) A. pinnatifolia (Kom. ) S.Y. Hu. A new species of
Atractylodes proposed by Hu[4]. Taxonomic status of this
species seems to be questionable because it is described on
the basis of only one herbarium specimen. Furthermore,
separation of this taxon is based, for the most part, on the
plant's leaf shape. However, there is a general rule that in
the genus Atractylodes DC. , leaf shape cannot be used as a
diagnostic characteristics because it is extremely changeable
[1,7,8].
It is hoped that this sharing of information about the
problem with regard to the taxonomy of the genus Atractylodes
will serve as a springboard for the beginning of a revisionary
study of this genus.
The author is grateful to the late Professor E. G. Bobrov,
(Leningrad), Dr. S.Y. Hu (Arnold Arboretum, Harvard Univer-
sity) , and Dr. M. Kitagawa (Tokyo, Japan) for their valuable
help during the preparation of this paper. He is also grate-
ful to Harvard University Herbaria and Library for ma)cing
available the herbarium material and literature necessary for
the writing of this paper.
