ORIGIN OF THE EDIBLE BICOLOR-FRUITED CULTIVARS OF CUCURBITA PEPO
Harry S. Paris
Department of Vegetable Crops, Agricultural Research Organization,
Newe Ya'ar Experiment Station, P. 0. Haifa, Israel
Bicolor-fruited cultivars of Cucurbita pepo L. are those with fruit
rinds containing regions which are yellow or orange and green or
black, the borders of which regions are sharp and distinct. The
yellow/orange regions and the green/black regions are visible as
distinct yellow and as distinct green regions, respectively, of the
ovary from long before anthesis. The distribution of yellow is
generally toward the equatorial regions and the distribution of
green toward the polar regions in bicolor fruits.
The bicolor characteristic is conditioned by alleles at the B
locus other than the wild-type allele for completely green ovaries,
B+ (Shifriss, 1981). When homozygous, the B allele causes the
ovary to be completely yellow from long before anthesis, or
"precocious yellow". When heterozygous, this allele conditions
either yellow or bicolor ovaries, depending on the presence or
absence of genes extending the yellow-colored region (Shifriss and
Paris, 1981). Other "weaker" alleles of B result in less extension
of yellow, and thus, bicolor ovaries and Truits.
Cultivars and breeding lines having precociously yellow
ovaries have become more numerous since the introduction of the
first cultivar to carry the B^ allele, Golden Zucchini, in 1973.
All of these cultivars can be traced to the stabilization of B in
the ornamental cultivar Bicolor Pear by 0. Shifriss and subsequent
transfer of B to edible cultivars by himself and his students
(Shifriss, 1^65, 1981). However, these modern cultivars were
preceded by the no longer extant and almost forgotten edible
bicolor cultivars of 100 years ago, cultivars which were not
directly involved with the development of the present-day edible
cultivars carrying the B allele. My aim here is to review the
descriptions of these oFsolete cultivars, discuss how they probably
differed from modern cultivars at the B^ locus, and offer a
suggestion concerning their origin.
The most prominent of these cultivars was Cocoanut. As
pointed out by Tapley et al. (1937), this is not to be confused
with another cultivar of tlTe same name of C. maxima that was
described by Burr (1863), but rather that S'escribed by Goff (1888)
and Gregory (1893). In Gregory fruits of this cultivar are
illustrated, and the illustration is reproduced as Figure 1. From
the illustration it is clear that the fruits of this cultivar were
spherical like a pumpkin but furrowed like an acorn squash,
predominantly light colored but striped and mottled with a darker
shade in the furrows with the polar regions of the fruit of a
distinct, much darker shade. The fruits of Cocoanut were described
by Gregory as follows: "In beauty it excel Is every other variety
447
