448 P H Y T L G I A Vol . 60, No. 6
of squash. The color is an admixture of cream and orange, the
latter color predominantly in the depressions between the ribs,
while the bottom, over a circle of two or three inches in diameter
is of a rich grass-green." The illustration and description leave
no doubt as to this cultivar having been bicolor. According to
Tapley et a_l_. Cocoanut was an especially long-lived cultivar,
having 5een introduced by J.J.H. Gregory in 1869 and offered by
seedsmen until 1923.
Two other cultivars of that era can be inferred to have been
bicolor from the descriptions by Tapley et aj_. (1937). Cv. Golden
Heart was described as being similar to I!!ocoanut but heart-shaped,
golden yellow with dark green stripes along the furrows and
probably derived from Cocoanut. Cv. Illinois Beauty was described
by Tapley et al. as being furrowed but elongate, and "Skin color at
the ends is daFk green and in the center is a broad definite band
of orange-yellow."
Yet another cultivar. Variegated Bush Scallop, was suggested
by Shifriss (1955) to have been bicolor. This is one possible
interpretation of the short description of this cultivar by Tapley
et aj_. , who refer the reader to an illustration of fruits of this
cultivar in Vilmorin (1883). From more detailed descriptions by
Burr (1863) and Goff (1888) and from Vilmorin 's illustration it is
clear that this cultivar was striped, but not bicolor. Shifriss
also mentioned another scallop, called Farr's Benning White Bush.
Though there is nothing in the description of this cultivar by
Tapley et^al. to suggest it was bicolor, Shifriss (1955) stated
that it~wa?l<nown to him personally as being truly bicolor.
Possibly, the presence of green and yellow regions of the fruits
was overlooked because of the pale pigmentation of this cultivar.
The bicolor cultivars Cocoanut, Golden Heart, Illinois Beauty,
and Farr's Benning White Bush probably were homozygous for a weak
allele of B^. If they were both homozygous and bicolor, then they
almost certainly did not carry the B of modern cultivars, the B
allele having full effect (Shifriss and Pans, 1981).
C. pepo is of North American origin (Trumbull, 1876; Whitaker,
1947T. Forms of C_. pepo appeared in European herbals relatively
soon after the fiFst voyages to the New World. Pumpkin-type forms
appeared first, in the herbal of Fuchs (1542), and these soon
became common garden plants in the United Kingdom (Gerard, 1597;
Plat, 1660). Soon after their introduction, the pumpkins were
joined by scallop-type forms and an array of ornamental gourds,
warted and non-warted (Parkinson, 1640; Bauhin, 1651; Dalechamps,
1653). A bicolor form, "Cucurbita Mediocrocea", was described by
Bauhin (1651) as having both green and yellow regions, the yellow
situated at the medial region of the fruit and the extent of the
green and yellow regions varying greatly among fruits. The
fruits were in addition described as having smooth, durable, hard
rinds, suggesting a form of ornamental gourd. Both warted and
non-warted bicolor gourds were described in detail by Lamarck
