AGROSTIS ELLIOTTIANA (GRAMINEAE)
NEW TO ARIZONA AND NEW MEXICO
Charlotte G. Reeder & John R. Reeder
Herbarium, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85721
On 9 April 1986 we collected a small annual species of Agrostis
growing in moist sand along Ash Creek on the eastern edge of the
Rincon Mts . , Pima County, Arizona. Agrostis scabra Willd., a per-
ennial, is common along this small stream, and the little annual
could easily be overlooked or mistaken for young plants of the per-
ennial. Careful examination, however, revealed that the lemma of
the annual bears from below the apex a fine flexuous awn which aver-
ages 5 — 7 (-8) mm in length; in A. scabra the lemmas are awnless,
or essentially so.
We have determined this annual grass as Agrostis Elliottiana
Schultes, which seems to be the first record from Arizona. The
species was originally described as A. arachnoides by Elliott (Bot.
S.C. & Ga., 1816) based on plants from South Carolina. Later this
name was recognized to be a homonym of A. arachnoides Poir. (1810)
by Schultes (Mantissa, 1824), who named the plant in honor of its
original author.
In his monograph of Agrostis, Hitchcock (1905) cited collections
of A Elliottiana from South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Tennessee,
Illinois, Missouri, Arkansas, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Texas.
It is now known from all of the Southeastern States, and is report-
ed as having been introduced into Maine and Massachusetts, as well
as Yucatan, Mexico.
Descriptions of this delicate annual are many, often quite de-
tailed, and give a good idea of the essential characteristics of
the species. Emphasis is usually directed to the open, diffuse pan-
icle in which the slender whorled branches are naiked below, branch-
ed, bearing spikelets on the outer 1/3 to 1/2. The spikelet con-
sists of two subequal glvunes 1.5 — 2 mm long; the conspicuously
5-nerved lemma is 1.2 — 1.7 (-2) mm with a slender flexuous awn up
to 8 (-10) mm long borne below the tip (or rarely awnless). The
awn is variously described as flexuous and "scabrous" or "delicate-
ly short pilose" (Hitchcock, 1937). Small (Flora SE United States,
1903) described it as "a very finely filiform flexuous barbellate
awn." The palea is wanting or a mere scale.
Our Arizona plants fit the description in all details, and reveal
yet another interesting character: the presence of only one tiny
stamen (ca. 0.2 mm long). There seems to be no recognition of this
character in the recent literature. In fact, generic descriptions
of Agrostis, if the matter is stated at all, indicate stamens 3
(cf. Bjorkman, 196O; Philipson, 1937). If one checks earlier lit-
erature, however, he will find that Kimth (Rev. Gram., 1829) in de-
scribing the genus gives "stamina 1 — 3-" Bentham & Hooker (Gen.
PI., 1883) cited "stamina saepius 3." K\inth (Enum. PI., 1833)
453
