454 P H Y T L G I A Vol . 60, No. 6
stated for Agrostis arachnoides Elliott [= A. Elliottiana]: "anthera
subunica." Trinius (1841), however, when describing the same spe-
cies gives: "Stamina 3- Antherae lineares," even though in his gen-
eric description he indicates: "Stamina 1 — 3-" A check of the 76
species enumerated in this work shows most have three stamens; on-
ly four species are said to have but one. These include A. exarata
Trin. and A. geminata Trin. In fact, Trinius (Sp. Gram. Icon.,
1823 — 1836) illustrated these two species showing a single stamen;
most of the other taxa shown have three. In our examination of nu-
merous specimens of these two species, we consistently found three
stamens per spikelet. Often a solitary anther remains attached to
the top of the floret after anthesis, which may explain the report
of a single stamen.
The tiny stamen in our Arizona specimens is visible to one side
of the small ovary with its two stigmas. Below
are two typical pooid lodicules which are broadly
lanceolate with no vascular traces. The stamen
is unusual in that it appears to be two largely
separate anthers attached to the apex of a single ^
filament. Normally, stamens in grasses consist of ^
a filament bearing an anther with four pollen sacs. I
Since each of the two apparent "anthers" of our
little grass is comprised of two pollen sacs, it
seems reasonable to conclude that each is a half-
anther. Moreover, there is a single vascular
bundle in the filament, which seems clearly to
indicate that the androecium is, indeed, a single stamen
stamen. The dehisced stamen remains within the
floret at the apex of the mature caryopsis, indi-
cating a probable cleistogamous condition.
In any treatment of Agrostis which includes both species, one
finds A. exigua Thurber (1880) listed as a close relative of A.
Elliottiana. The area in which we found our plants in Arizona is
roughly midway in distance between the easternmost recorded range
for A. Elliottiana and the localities for A. exigua in California.
It seemed prudent, therefore, to consider that our plants might rep-
resent this latter taxon, or alternatively that the two species
could be synonjrms . In checking Thurber 's original description of
A. exigua we noted with considerable interest: ". . .upper palet not
manifest or a mere scale; stamens 1 (?)." His description is ample,
but did not appear to be greatly different from those we had found
for A. Elliottiana. Thurber's description clearly states: "Pani-
cle half the length of the plant, included and at first narrow, at
length open ..." The illustration in Hitchcock (1905) and in
Hitchcock's Manual (1951) is of a small apparently immature plant
with a narrow, contracted panicle! In the 1905 study, he sepa-
rates the two species in a very simplistic fashion:
"Awn straight. California. 9- exigua
Awn flexuous. Southeastern States. 10. elliottiana ."
In this same treatise, he quoted the entire original description of
