1986 Reeder & Reeder, kq>ioi,tu> zlUottlam '^^^
A. exigua, but did add some further notes. At the time (1905) the
species was represented only by the type (Bolander s.n.).
Hitchcock commented: "It is unusual to have a species so rare as
is indicated by a single collection in a region so well known as
California, and I suspect that the species is either introduced or
occurs farther to the south in Mexico or Central America, the spe-
cies of which region are not sufficiently well known." In the
same work, Hitchcock added this note: "Mr. Thurber at first refer-
red this to A. elliottiana , which it resembles in habit. But it
differs from that species in having the flowering glumes as long as
the empty glumes, the lobes extending into two awned teeth, and in
the stouter straight awn. The empty gliimes are only slightly acute,
1.5 mm long, equal, slightly scabrous on back. Awn scabrous,
straight, 5 — 6 mm long."
In order to determine the validity of the differences stated
above, we borrowed all of the specimens of Agrostis exigua from
UC. There were only eight, all from California. In comparing
these specimens with material of A. Elliottiana at ARIZ, which rep-
resented collections from Virginia to Oklahoma and eastern Texas,
we could find no differences to suggest that more than one taxon is
represented.
The length of lemma to glumes varies from plant to plant. In
some, the lemma appears to be about as long as the glume, whereas
in others the lemmas are slightly shorter. This difference is not
confined to plants from any specific geographic area; both condi-
tions were observed among the California plants as well as those
from the Southeast. No significant differences in conformation nor
indument were detected. The length of setae at the apex of the
lemma varies within the same collection. Mostly they are — 0.1
— 0.2 mm, but rarely attain a length of 0.3 — 0.4 mm. They are
usually quite inconspicuous, and often can be detected only under
high magnification. Although prominent setae have been used as
a character to distinguish Agrostis exigua from A. Elliottiana, we
did not find this feature to be dependable. In some of the Calif-
ornia collections, the longest setae scarcely attain a length of
0.1 mm, while setae 0.2 mm long were observed in plants from Louis-
iana and eastern Texas. Whereas lemma setae appear to average
slightly longer on the California plants, we did not find presence
or absence of setae to have any validity in segregating these taxa.
In both the Southeastern and California collections, the panicle
consists of about half the plant height, with capillary branches
which divide and bear spikelets on the outer 1/3 to 1/2. In
Hitchcock's Manual (1951). Agrostis exigua is described as a deli-
cate annual 3 — 10 cm tall. Hoover 5872 (UC) from Shasta County, CA,
consists of seven plants all with open panicles. The largest spec-
imen is 45 cm tall, and the lowest panicle branches measure as much
as 7.5 cm in length! The plants comprising Tracy 18671 (UC) from
Napa County, are rather similar to the above with a maximum height
of 23 cm.
