456 P H Y T L G I A Vol . 60, No. 6
Although the awn of Agrostis Elliottiana is described in the
literature as slender and flexuous, that of A. exigua is said to be
"straight" (Hitchcock, 1957) in the key and "straight or flexuous"
in the text! In the 1951 Hitchcock's Manual A. exigua is keyed with
the brief statement: "Awn geniculate; Pacific Coast." In the same
publication the awn of A. Elliottiana is described as ". . .very
slender, flexuous, delicately short pilose, 5 — 10 mm long." Among
the California specimens examined, we did note that awns tended to
be slightly less slender and delicate than those from the South-
east. Perhaps because they are less "threadlike," they may appear
to be somewhat straight rather than prominently sinuous. Numerous
awns on the "A. exigua" specimens are flexuous, however, and as
noted above, Hitchcock (1937) described them as "straight or flex-
uous." Moreover, Hoover noted on the label of his #226 J from
Tehama County, CA: "awn... delicate, straight or flexuous (not ge-
niculate)." In view of the fact that awnless forms of Agrostis
Elliottiana occur, the slight awn differences mentioned above are
probably of minor taxonomic significance. We found the awns of
both "species" to have rather widely spaced longer than usual spic-
ules (or 'prickle hairs' sensu Metcalfe). With a hand lens these
spicules may give the appearance of short hairs, but under high
magnification they are clearly somewhat elongated spicules.
The presence of one stamen within the floret is obviously a
crucial character, if these "species" are indeed the same. The Cal-
ifornia specimens all proved to have a single stamen, as had been
suggested by Thurber in his original description. It is identical
to those we foiind in the Arizona plants and in material from the
Southeastern United States.
In 1825 Rafinesque (Neogenyt. 4) proposed the genus Notonema,
based on Agrostis arachnoides Elliott [= A. Elliottiana] , citing
the presence of a single stamen as sufficient reason to segregate
it as a monotypic genus. In 1830 (Seringe Bull. Bot . 1: 220) he
described the genus, which was only a nom. nud. in the 1825 publi-
cation. (Cf. Merrill, E. D. 1949- Index Rafinesquianus . p. 76).
However, the transfer of the specific epithet was not published
until Jackson included it in Index Kewensis 2: 319- 1894: Notonema
arachnoides (Elliott) Raf. ex Jackson. No one since that time has
adopted Rafinesque 's genus probably because these plants so closely
resemble such \indisputed members of Agrostis as A. hyemalis (Walt.)
B.S.P. and/or A. scabra Willd. This is especially true for the
rather rare awnless form of A. Elliottiana. Gleason (in Britton &
Brown, 1952) has added this note to the A. Elliottiana description:
"Awnless forms, rarely seen in our range, may be distinguished from
A. hyemalis by the proportionately larger panicle and sharply nerv-
ed lemma and the annual habit." Two years later Shinners (F?hodora
56: 28. 1954) published forma molesta for the awnless plants and
commented on the difficulty of separating them from A. hyemalis.
To the differences enumerated by Gleason, we would add that in A.
Elliottiana the capillary panicle branches are minutely scaberulous,
and there is only one tiny stamen per floret.
