1986 Reeder 8. Reeder, AgfL06ti6 eMiotXAjCLna ^^^
While in the process of studying our Arizona collections, we re-
ceived a specimen from R. D. Worthington (UTEP) . His material from
westernmost New Mexico had been identified as Agrostis exigua by
Stephan Hatch (TAES), and verified by botanists at UC . We found
the Worthington specimen (new to New Mexico) in general to be a
good match for our Arizona collections. One difference is that some
lemmas of the New Mexico plants have unusually long setae (up to
0.4 mm). In the same inflorescence, however, one can find lemmas
with setae 0.25 nim or less. It is noteworthy, we believe, that in
our Arizona material, collected some 160 km farther west, and thus
nearer to the "homeland" of A. exigua, the maximum length of lemma
setae is 0.2 ram, whereas on many of the lemmas setae appear to be
lacking or are less than 0.1 mm long. Another almost imperceptible
difference is that the awns on the New Mexico plaints seem to be
slightly more delicate and, perforce, a bit more flexuous than is
the case with our Arizona gatherings.
For cytological studies, we fixed young inflorescences from pop-
ulations of our 7830 and 7841 in the field in the standard 3=1 ab-
solute ethyl alcohol: acetic acid mixture. Because the anthers are
so tiny (only 0.2 mm when mature) it is essentially impossible to
prepare squashes in the usual manner. We resorted to using entire
flowers, often with a bit of lemma attached. This species appears
to be diploid with 2n=14 chromosomes. Seven pairs were observed
in dividing PMC's, and we also counted 14 somatic chromosomes in
mitotic divisions in the stigma. As nearly as we have been able to
determine, this is a first count for Agrostis Elliottiana. We found
no report in the literature for either this species or A. exigua.
Under close scrutiny, we find the supposed differences between
these two "species" to be more apparent than real. Our conclusion,
therefore, is that a more realistic taxonomy results when Agrostis
exigua is treated as a synonym of A. Elliottiana. The Arizona and
New Mexico collections reported here, which are new records for
these states, serve to bridge the gap, both morphologically and ge-
ographically, between the eastern and western populations, and ex-
tend the range of A. Elliottiana from coast to coast in the USA.
Agrostis ElliottiEina Schultes, Mantissa 2: 202. 1824. Based on
A. arachnoides Elliott.
Agrostis arachnoides Elliott, Hot. S.C. & Ga. 1: 1 34 . 1816; non
Poir. 1810. Type: South Carolina, Orangebure . Bennett.
Agrostis exigua Thurber in S. Watson, Bot. Calif. 2: 275- 1880.
Type: California, foothills of Sierras, Bolander s.n.
Notonewa arachnoides Raf. (Neogenyt. 4. 1825) ex Jackson, Index
Kew. 2: 319- 1894. Based on Agrostis arachnoides Elliott.
Notonema agrostoides Raf. ex Merrill, Index Rafinesq. 76. 1949-
Error for N. arachnoides.
Agrostis Elliottiana Schultes forma molesta Shinners, Rhodora 56:
28. 1954. [for the awnless form.] Type: Texas, Wood Co.,
Mineola, Shinners 14372.
