490 P H Y T L G I A Vol. 50, No. 7
the Deccan and Carnatic, the west costal districts of Madras, Kuma-
on, and from Sikkim and Assam to Tenasserim [Burma]. Yamazaki
(1966) gives its distribution as the Himalaya Mountains, India,
Burma, Malaya, Indochina, and southern China; Badhwar & Fernandez
(1968) give it as "Himalayas from Kumaon to Sikkim and in Assam up
to an altitude of 1,200 , (4,000 ft.). Found in many other parts
of India." Amaratunga refers to it as "a roadside weed" in Sri
Lanka.
Nath (1960) records the species from the Southern Shan States of
Burma; Winit found it in cultivation in Thailand; Ridley (1911)
lists it from India, Thailand, the Malayan islands, the east coast
of Pahang, Singapore, and Perak, while the Baileys (1976) imply that
it is only originally native to the Malay Archipelago. Maximowicz
(1886) ascribes it to tropical India and Java, citing an unnumbered
Vachell collection from southern China. Fernandez-Villar (1880) re-
cords it, probably cultivated, from Panay in the Philippine Islands.
Vatke (1882) lists it as subspontaneous in garden hedges on Nosy-b^
island, off the coast of Madagascar; Bojer (1837) found it in culti-
vation in Mauritius, flowering there in April and May, giving its
original native land as "Inde orientale, Java". In Java Backer &
Bakhuizen (1965) describe it as "not rarely cultivated and locally.,
naturalized, sometimes copiously in grassy, sunny or slightly shaded
localities in settled areas".
In the Samoan Islands C. incLLcwn is reported by Christophersen
(1935) from along roadsides on Totuila, citing GaibeA 942- Fosberg
and his associates (1979) found it on Guam.
In the New World CleAodandnum Indicwn is widely distributed. Rad-
ford and his associates (1964) report it as rare in sandy soil,
waste ground, and woodlands in Charleston, Georgetown, and Jasper
Counties, South Carolina; in Georgia Duncan found it abundantly es-
tablished around long-abandoned house-sites on Sapelo Island, while
Wood (1877) records that Dr. G. M. Green found it naturalized in
fields and on waysides at Macon.
Farther south, Clewell (1985) reports the species both cultivated
and escaped in Leon and Wakulla Counties, Florida; Lakela and her
associates (1976) found it cultivated, escaped, and established in
coastal Florida, where it blooms all through the year; Phillips
(1949) also lists it as cultivated in that state. Sargent encounter-
ed "dense stands" along damp roadsides in Hardee County; Beal re-
ported it "escaping" on Merritt Island in 1927 and Cuthbert reports
it "an abundant escape" at Bradenton "and becoming a weed in culti-
vated ground, especially in groves". Wunderlin (1982) regards the
species as native to the "East Indies" and reports it occasionally
escaped from cultivation in disturbed sites in scattered localities
in central Florida.
Tracy reports the species "rather common" in Florida and along
the Gulf Coast of the U.S.A. to Alabama; Dr. D. Dale Thomas, in a
personal communication to me, reports it in low waste ground in East
Baton Rouge, Jefferson, Plaquemines, St. James, St. Mary, and Terre-
bonne Parishes, Louisiana. Ewan says that he found it "persisting
after cultivation" in the same state, "locally frequent in old vacant
