1986 Moldenke, Notes on CleAode-ndium 491
lots, evidently all escaped and thoroughly naturalized from oldtime
plantings". Langlois also speaks of it in Louisiana as "quite a
weed around dwellings:; Attabhanyo found it "associated with Jau>mi-
Yum mtuoYiii" there. Pratt speaks of it there as a "rare large shrub
along roadsides in marshy areas" and collected pollen samples pre-
served as slide 475 in the Palynological Laboratory of Louisiana
State University.
The pollen of ClzKodzndJmm indicum is described in detail by Nair
& Rehman (1962), based on U. P. NBG. 16696, slide 2658, Pollen from
I/oo^n lOiS is preserved in the Palynological Collection at the Uni-
versity of Texas.
In the West Indies this species is also widely distributed.
Gooding and his associates (1965) found it "occasional on roadsides
and in waste places" on Barbados, citing HeAb. Baib. MoA. 57S and
HeAfa. Univ. W. Jnd. 261. Duss describes it as very straight in
growth and unbranched, spreading by stolons, on Martinique, citing
OoiA 1220; on the island of Guadeloupe he reports it as inhabiting
fields, savannas, and grassy places in general up to 300 m. eleva-
tion; Fosberg (1976) reports it on St. Croix and on Dominica it is
said to be a "common weed" in banana and coconut groves. The Smiths
report that on St. Vincent it is "pretty common locally in thickets
and open fields not far from the sea". Broadway encountered it
"wild in damp and wet lands" on Tobago and it occurs in meadows on
Trinidad.
In South America it grows along canals near the seacoast in Guy-
ana, where Irwin met with it in wet reddish sand on riversides; in
French Guiana it has been found "on low swamp lands", while Lasser
and his associates (1974) report it in gardens in Venezuela.
Sweet (1826) asserts that, as C. veAticltLautum, it was introduc-
ed into English gardens in 1813 from Nepal, while Loudon (1830)
claims that, as C. 6iph.onant}uu, it was introduced as early as 1796
from the "E. Indies".
Recent collectors report finding C. indicwn growing in moist
waste places and waste ground in general, on the banks of irrigation
ditches, in deep low woods, in marshes, and on grasslands, on clear-
ed and vacant lots, in dry sandy fields, the edges of fields and
forests, the margins of rice paddies, on coastal plains and stream-
banks, in roadside thickets, in rocky woods, and in wet hammock
soil, from sealevel to 1200 m. altitude, flowering and fruiting in
every month of the year. Suwal (1969) asserts "Flowering in June";
Deb (1968) reports that in Tripura (India) it flowers and fruits
from December to July; Datta & Majumdar (1966) say that in Bengal
it flowers from April to June, while Cooke (1906) found that in Bom-
bay its normal flowering period is September and October. In the
Himalayas Badhwar & Fernandez (1968) report it flowering from June
to August. Sedgwick tells us that in Bombay it grows in a region of
80 inches annual rainfall, while Bell found it, also in the Bombay
area, where the rainfall was 120 inches per year. Bor & Raizada
(1954) assert that, in general, in India it flowers in the rainy
season and fruits in the cold season. They state that the "shrub...
grows 4--8 feet tall in Dehra, with a slender upright form which
