BOOK REVIEWS
Alma L. Moldenke
"THE MACHINERY OF NATURE -- The Living World Around Us And How It
Works" by Paul R. Ehrlich, 320 pp. & 40 b/w photo. Simon &
Schuster, New York, N. Y. 10020. 1986. $18.95.
"The very future of our society depends on whether Homo 6a.pie.n6
can learn to live without damacing thp machinery of nature so seri-
ously that it can no longer support civilization : no science,
indeed no aspect of human culture, is more important than ecology."
This book fulfills its title magnificently, interestingly and logi-
cally with cause-effect relationships established on the bases of
careful research with which 1 am familiar. The author's name alone
should sell many copies of this book to all kinds of libraries and
to individual literate, thinking readers. I feel very strongly that
secondary school biology teachers (and indirectly their students)
could profit from this reading because of all the intermeshing of
ideas and principles. Since few high school biology teachers read
PHYT0L06IA and since I want so much to encourage their reading of
this book, 1 herewith petition all kinds of biologists in the labs,
colleges and universities, after they have seen this book, to share
it or another copy, please, with these folks who train the general
public and those headed for higher education. Ecology students
should read this book after their first course or in the summer be-
fore it.
"BEGOMIACEAE Part I: Illustrated Key, Part II: Annotated Species
List" by Lyman B. Smith, Dieter C. Wasshausen, Jack Golding &
Carrie E. Karegeannes, iii & 584 pp., 1183 b/w herbaria sheet
or drawing photos. Smithsonian Institution Press, Washington,
D.C. 1986.
This outstanding publication is No. 60 in the series of Smithson-
ian Contributions to Botany, written by 2 excellent taxonomists who
composed the keys and 2 aficionados of cultivated begonias who com-
posed Part II under the tutelage of the first authors and, earlier,
Fred A. Barkley. "The last survey of BtgonlaceRe. to include all
known species was that of A. De Candolle in his Prodromus in 1864.
It has brief descriptions of 380 species Since 1864 over 1000
species have been proposed." Part I has all known taxa, exclusive
of hybrids and cultivars, keyed into 34 subkeys and then to all re-
cognized species with each illustrated by a holotype or type speci-
men photo. Part II lists alphabetically "all verified species and
varietal epithets, including complete synonymy, literature citata-
tions and geographical distributioin." BtgoruA is virtually the
whole family including additionally only 1 species of HjUULehKaYidai
and only 12 species of SymbzQOvuM..
500
