1986 Moldenke, Notes on CleJiodtndAum 63
twigs; leaf-scars mostly very prominent and corky-margined; leaves
mostly decussate-opposite, occasionally ternate, persistent or tardi-
ly deciduous; petioles very slender, 2--12 mm. long, flattened and
more or less strigillose above, otherwise glabrous; leaf-blades
thin-chartaceous or submembranous, grayish-greenish and somewhat
lustrous above, not lustrous beneath, lanceolate, 3--9.5 cm. long,
0.8--3.2 cm, wide, apically attenuate-acute or acuminate, marginally
entire, basally acute, glabrous on both surfaces, densely impressed-
punctate beneath; midrib very slender, flat or slightly prominulous
above, prominulous beneath; secondaries filiform, 5--7 per side,
arcuate-ascending, rather obscure or very slightly subprominulous on
both surfaces; vein and veinlet reticulation obscure or indiscern-
ible on both surfaces; inflorescence terminal, globose-capitate,
very densely congested, l,5--2.5 cm. in diameter, densely many-
flowered, conspicuously bracteolate, sessile, usually subtended by
1--3 leaves, occasionally proliferating and binary with one head im-
mediately above the other, the lower one then usually smaller; bracts
foliaceous, lanceolate, 1--6 subtending or scattered in the head,
usually 1--2 cm. long, 3--6 mm. wide, resembling the leaves in all
respects except size; bractlets sublinear, 2 or 3 at the base of
each flower, sessile or stipitate, 7--8 mm. long, glabrous or scat-
tered-pilose; pedicels to 2 mm. long or obsolete; flowers fragrant,
blooming all through the year; calyx campanulate-conic , about 2 mm.
long, its rim deeply 5- or sometimes 5-lobed, the lobes linear-lan-
ceolate, subequal , 3--5 mm. long, apiculate-hooked at the apex, pi-
lose; corolla infundibular, white, its tube 6--7 mm. long, glabrous
outside, slightly pilose at the mouth within, its limb 5-lobed, the
lobes about 2 mm. long, two slightly shorter than the rest, oblong,
apically obtuse; stamens 4, inserted in the upper part of the cor-
olla-tube; filaments filiform, 7--10mm. long, long-exserted , basally
slightly pilose; anthers dorsifixed, dehiscing longitudinally; style
cylindric, about 10 mm. long, glabrous; stigma bifid, the branches
apparently somewhat unequal; ovary 4-sulcate, externally glabrous;
fruiting-calyx incrassate, to about 5 mm. long and 8 mm. wide, ven-
ose, externally scattered-pilosulous, its rim deeply 5-lobed with
elongate-lanceolate lobes or else these lobes broken off; fruit dru-
paceous, subglobose, to about 1 cm. long and wide, nigrescent and
shriveled in drying and deeply sulcate, yellow and sweet when fresh,
edible, often insect-galled.
This endemic Madagascar species is based on HumbeAt i ?Q.>inJ.tA.
246S from the vicinity of Tulear, on the Fiherenana delta, at 2--10
m. altitude, in southwestern Madagascar, collected between Septem-
ber 14 and 25, 1924, and deposited in the Paris herbarium.
Collectors have encountered this plant on sand and limestone soil,
on dunes, and in sandy or calcareous alluvium and shores, at 2--50 m.
altitude, in flower in January, June, August, and September, and in
fruit in August, but it is said to flower and fruit throughout the
year. The only vernacular name reported for it is "varo". All col-
lectors who describe the color of the corolla ( viz . , VtcaKy 2846,
9/60, & 9601, Gizvt 51, HumbeAt i POAlieA 2468, Humbe.M i SuolnQte.
S344, 3'id PtKtU.e.i 12823) uniformly refer to it as "white".
