MISTAKEN IDENTITY IN ANNUAL EPAGROSTIS (GRAMINEAE)
John R. Reeder
Herbarium, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85721
The large number of incorrectly identified specimens of annual
Eragrostis in herbaria attest to the fact that this group has been
a persistent source of taxonomic difficulty. Recent studies, how-
ever, particularly those of Koch (1974, 1985), have added greatly
to our understanding of several of these puzzling species.
Examination of old vouchers on which certain state records were
based has revealed several cases of mistaken identity. As a result,
it is now evident that Eiagrostis barrelieri should be added, and
E. minor deleted for Wyoming; neither E. minor nor E. frankii ap-
pears to occur in Arizona. I am grateful to the curators at ASC ,
ASU, and RM for the loan of specimens.
WYOMING
Porter (1964) includes Eragrostis poaeoides P. Beauv. ex Roem. &
Schult. (= E. minor Host) as part of the grass flora of Wyoming.
His note indicates a single collection from the University campus
at Laramie. This record is clearly based on the following: Albany
Co., Laramie, Univ. of Wyoming campus, 7200 ft, weed in dry soil,
waste ground, 23 Aug 1957, C. L. Porter 7430 (ARIZ, RM) . The RM
specimen apparently served also as the basis for the inclusion of
E. poaeoides by Beetle & May (1971).
The above collection, in fact, represents Eragrostis barrelieri
D'.veau, a species not previously reported from the State. Two
additional gatherings of this latter species from Wyoming are at
F(M, both are from Laramie: N 7th St. between Lewis and Bradley,
weed in garden, 1 Oct 1975, S. E. Nelson s L. Nelson 1440 [deter-
mined as Eragrostis minor Host]; Parking lot corner of 11th St.
and Grand Avenue, 7 Aug 1982, G. P. Hallsten 360 [determined as E.
pectinacea (Michx.) Nees].
Porter's 1957 collection was apparently the first from Wyoming
of this introduced European weed. It was almost two decades
before it was collected again, and today seems to be knovm in the
State by only three gatherings, all from within the city limits of
Laramie. The first two collections were determined as Eragrostis
minor (syn. = E. poaeoides) ; the most recent specimen was also mis-
identified, but as E. pectinacea, another weedy species represent-
ed at RK by several collections from the southeastern part of V,'yo-
ming.
Hitchcock (ig^l) gives the U.S. range for Eragrostis barrelieri
as "Colorado and Kansas to Texas and California." The species is
not listed by Cronquist, et al (1977).
Difficulties in determining Eragrostis barrelieri and its con-
fusion with E. minor are understandable. The key in Hitchcock's
Manual is quite confusing in that it indicates that in E. barrel-
ieri the plants are not glandular on the branches nor lemmas, and
95
