96 P H Y T L G I A Vol . 60, No. 2
that the panicles are narrow. Harvey (1975), in contrast, states
correctly that the panicle is open and that the branches frequently
have glandular spots or rings. In my experience, the most consist-
ent character which serves to distinguish E. barrelieri from its
closest allies is the presence of glandular areas or rings on the
rachis below the branches. These seem always to be present, and
are often large, shining, and quite conspicuous. Frequently they
are yellowish.
Regarding Eragrostis minor in Wyoming, as indicated above, the
Porter and Nelson collections so-named actually represent E.
barrelieri . A third collection from Wyoming at RM originally det-
ermined as E. minor (Goshen Co., T26N, R64W, SW29, sandy road bed,
4266 ft, 9 July 1982, Hallsten, Skinner, & Beetle 122) is, in
reality, a small plant of E. cilianensis (All.) Vign.-Lutati ex
Janchen, a not uncommon weed in Wyoming. Many of the lemmas on the
above specimen have prominent glands on their keels. In E. minor
glands are mostly on panicle branches and pedicels, but may also
occur on margins of blade and keel of sheath. Glands are normally
rare (or absent) on the lemrias. Since all collections from Wyoming
determined as E. minor prove to be misidentif ications , the name of
this species should be omitted from any list of grass taxa occur-
ing in the state.
ARIZONA
Two cases of mistaken identity involving annual Eragrostis taxa
have come to my attention recently. One is the report of E. poa-
eoides P. Beauv. ex Roem. & Schult. (= E. minor Host) by Pinkava,
et al . (1970). One collection is cited: Navajo Co., 4 miles E of
Heber, 12 Oct I963, E. Lehto 6. D. Keil 3534. I have examined the
ASU specimens of this collection, and a duplicate at ARIZ, and the
plants are clearly E. mexicana (Hornem.) Link. Although this spe-
cies and E. minor are similar in many respects, the caryopses are
quite different. The grain of E. mexicana is bl'^int at the apex,
somewhat cubical in shape, and bears a well defined groove on the
side opposite the embryo. In E. minor in contrast, the caryopsis
is rounded at the apex, the general shape is ellipsoidal, and there
is no longitudinal groove.
Curiously, although Eragrostis minor is not listed as part of the
Arizona grass flora by Harvey (1951), a specimen at ARIZ (c. M.
Davis s.n. S.C.S. 4555, collected in 1936 near Prescott, Yavapai
Co.) bears an annotation by Harvey as E. poaeoices, and the date
12/IV/40. The specimen is somewhat immature a-.i does not have mat-
ure caryopses, but it appears to represent E. r.exicana. Another
specimen at ARIZ labeled E. poaeoides (Hardies 967, collected in
1936 in Oak Creek Canyon) is clearly E. mexicar.a. The grains are
mature and have the characteristic shape and distinctive groove.
Eragrostis frankii C. A. Keyer was reported frorr. Arizona by
Rominger, et al . (1964). The specimen cited is: Yavapai Co., SEj
Sec. 27, TI6N, R4E, Cornville Quad., ca. 3400 [ft], C. Jeffers s.n.,
Aug 1979. (DHA 39486). [The international acronvr, for the Deaver
