102 P H Y T L G I A Vol . 60, No. 2
0.5 mm wide. Ovary globose-ellipsoid, 3-4 mm diam; ovules axile,
biseriate, numerous in each locule, flattened. Fruit and seed unknown.
ADDITIONAL MATERIAL EXAMINED: ECUADOR. Loja: Catamayo, 2800 m,
1876, Andre 4534 (K); no locality, 2000-2400 m, Oct-Nov 1888, Lehmann
4851 (khCatiiayo, 1400-1600 m, Nov 1888, Lehmann 4852 (K).
Eucrosia stricklandii var. montana differs from var. stricklandii
by its pink perianth, flowering season, and, more significantly, by its
altitudinal range of 1600-2800 m. It occurs in quebradas and along
roadsides in the dry, grassy, scrub vegetation of Loja province (Fig.
1). It flowers from October-January. Variety stricklandii has red
flowers, and inhabits the seasonally dry, Ceiba forests of El Oro,
Guayas, and Manabi provinces in Ecuador (Fig. 1), always below 1000 m
elevation. Its flowering season is August-October. In other respects,
the two varieties are very much alike. Clearly, var. montana represents
a geographic and ecological segregate of the species. An illustration
of the species (var. stricklandii ) may be found in Meerow and Dehgan
(1985) as £. brachyandra MeerowT Dehgan.
Like so many species of Amaryllidaceae described in the 19th
century, the plant originally described as Phaedranassa chloracra
(Herbert) Herbert has a confusing taxonomic history. iTavenna (1969), in
a synopsis of Phaedranassa Herbert, placed P. chloracra (Herbert)
Herbert into synonomy with P. dubia (H.B.K.J Macbr. FTerbert (1837)
applied the basionym PhycelTa chloracra Herbert to the plant originally
described as Haemanthus dubius H.B.K., from the Rio Guallabamba valley
north of Quito^ Herbert listed the latter under synonomy with Phycella
chloracra , but ignored the priority of the epithet dubius .
In the same volume of Edwards' Botanical Register in which Herbert
(1845) transfered Phycella chloracra into Phaedranassa , Lindley (1845)
presented an illustration of a plant as Phaedranassa chloracra , citing
an unnumbered Hartweg collection from Saraguro in Loja Province of
Ecuador. Though he appears to have applied the name to a plant
different than Herbert's, Lindley merely repeated Herbert's description!
It is unclear whether Lindley actually saw material of the Hartweg
collections to which he referred. The accompanying figure of the plant
could as well represent several different species of Phaedranassa , a
number of which differ only cryptically from each other.
Ravenna (1969) recognized P. chloracra sensu Lindley as a valid
binomial (i.e. as P. chloracra Tindl. ). Re further chose to assign it a
new name, P_. loxana Ravenna. A detailed description accompanies the
nomenclatural change. Though precise measurements of various vegetative
and floral parts are provided in the description, no specimens are
cited, and the distribution information is vague: "Ecuador, region of
Loja" (Ravenna, 1969, p. 57).
There appears to be no specimen for P. chloracra from Loja
province among the Hartweg collections I TTave received on loan from Kew.
