A NEW COMBINATION IN PENSTEMON (SCROPHULARIACEAE)
Craig C. Freeman
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, U-42
University of Connecticut
Storrs, Connecticut 06268
Studies of the genus Penstemon in the Great Plains (Freeman,
1981) indicate the necessity of a nomenclatural change. This
change is made in advance of my treatment of the genus in the forth-
coming Flora of the Great Plains.
Penatemon glaber Pursh var. brandegei (Porter) C. C. Freeman, comb.
nov.
Pentstemon cyananthus Hook. var. hrandegei Porter in Porter
& Coulter, Syn. Fl . Colo. 91. 1874. Pentstemon brcmdegei
(Porter) Rydb . , Mem. New York Bot. Card. 1: 343. 1900.
Penstemon alpinus Torr. subsp. brandegei (Porter) C. W. T.
Penland in Harrington, Man. PI. Colo. 496, 641. 1954.
Type: UNITED STATES. Colorado. Fremont Co. (fide Pennell,
1920): "Sierra Mojado", T. S. Brandegee 930 (MO).
Penstemon glaber exhibits considerable morphological varia-
tion throughout its range, but has three reasonably distinct
varieties. Typical var. glaber occurs primarily on sandy or grav-
elly soil on the unglaclated high plains and in the foothills of
the Rocky Mountains from southwestern North Dakota and north-
central South Dakota, west to northwestern Wyoming, and south to
the panhandle of Nebraska.
Variety alpinus (Torr.) A. Gray occurs largely on the eastern
slope of the Rocky Mountains up to 3300 m (11,000 ft) elevation.
The variety is distributed from southeastern Wyoming south to
south-central Colorado. In the northern part of its range, var.
alpinus may be found on the high plains where It passes into var.
glaber.
In central and south-central Colorado, var. alpinus is ob-
served to intergrade with the more southern var. brandegei. The
latter Is found on the eastern slope of the southern Rocky Moun-
tains at elevations to 1700 m (5500 ft) , and is encountered sporad-
ically in the foothills and on the high plains. Variety brandegei
is distributed from south-central Colorado, south to northeastern
New Mexico, and in parts of Colfax and Union Cos., New Mexico, it
is locally common.
The three varieties of Penstemon glaber can be distinguished
105
