2 P H Y T L G I A Vol . 60, No. 1
examples of such substrate terms being misinterpreted
as the name of some other kind of substrate or as the
name of a nearby village or other landmark.
In order to ameliorate this situation and provide
a working list of terms for students of neotropical
coprophilous floras, the following abridged glossary is
offered. These terms were compiled from the author's
own notes made over a period of 25 years while engaged
in field work in Latin America and from information
solicited from colleagues living in or knowledgeable
about Latin America and whose collaboration is
recognized elsewhere in this paper.
The glossary makes no pretensions to completeness
nor to the degree of accuracy which ohilologists would
require. Each term is identified by gender, masculine
(m) or feminine (f), and language, Creole (C),
Portuguese (P) or Spanish (S). Notes are provided which
give some notion of the regionality of each entry and,
in some cases, additional meanings associated with a
particular term.
Abono (m, S). General term for fertilizer. Note that in
Portuguese this term means a bonus or warrant.
Bolitas (f, S). Excrement of somewhat spherical shape,
as that of rabbits, sheep or goats. Chile.
Boniga (f, S). Excrement, especially that of cattle,
but used locally to refer to that of any large animal.
Of general use. Not common.
Bonigo (m, S). Orthographic variant of boniga .
Bosta (f, P, S). Excrement of domestic animals,
especially of large herd animals or, occasionally, of
wild species. Common term, particularly in Northern
South America.
Boyo (m, S). Excrement of humans. Chile.
Buffiga (f, S). Orthographic variant of boniga . This is
the form encountered in Central Mexico, often used in
reference to the dried dung of cattle.
Caca (f, C, P, S). General term for the excrement of
mammals, including that of humans. Common term
throughout Latin America.
Cacarrutas (f, S). Excrement of small size, as that of
mice, rats or insects. Of general use throughout Latin
America.
Caga^on (m, S). Excrement of large size, as that of
mules, horses or cows. Common in Northern Latin
America .
Cirre (m, S). Excrement of goats. Extremely local in
occurrence. Apparently limited to Northeastern Mexico
and likely represents a phonic variant of the Spanish
word sir le , meaning the excrement of sheep and goats.
