A NEW SPECIES OF wg)J?jLA (ASTHViCEAE-HELlANTOEAE)
FRCW NBUVO LEON, MEXICO
B. L. Turner
Department of Botany, Univ. of Texas, Austin TX 78713
Recent collections among the precipitous upper limestone
ridges of the east-facing Sierra Madre Orientale overlooking the
city of Monterrey has revealed the following novelty. It is placed
in the genus Wg^elj.^ with some hesitation since it might equally be
placed in the genus ^g.pj..JLj,a (sensu H. Robinson, 1984) because it
has "a constricted apical crown bearing all the pappus elements,
having little or no wing on the achene, and having sterile rays."
Agpj^^a is supposedly distinguished f rc«n W^gJ.i^ by its pistillate
but sterile ray florets and largely wingless achenes. "OTe present
species, while mostly bearing sterile ray florets, does produce the
occasional ray achene which is seemingly fertile, being
distinguished from those of the disc by being nearly glabrous.
McVaugh (1984) includes the Mexican species of Aspilla
occurring in his Flora Novo-galiciana within Wed-£j--ia > conmenting
that "1t»e distinction between WgdjajLj-.a and the genus Agpj.J.j,a Hioars
is not always a clear one." A comment that appears valid to me, in
spite of Rctoinson's (1984) efforts to maintain both-
W^deJJ^ gyjerffOOttj-aDg B. L. Turner, Fig. 1
Wgdelj-g. I^lffpjda accedens sed caulibus tenuibus simplicibus
capitulis minoribus, pedunculis brevioribus, achaenis variegatis
ncaialatis, etc
Perennial erect or weakly ascending herb to 1 m high. Stems
terete, striate, mostly unbranched, stiffly hirsute with
multicellular spreading trichomes, 1-2 mm long, these interspersed
among a much shorter indument of scabrid, often glandular, hairs.
Leaves opposite, 4-8 cm long, 2-3 cm wide; petioles 2-6 mm long,
stiffly- hirsute; blades narrowly triangular, acutely tapering onto
the petioles, 3-nerved from above the base, coarsely and evenly
hispid on both surfaces, the margins minutely crenulate to
irregularly and coarsely dentate, darkening upon drying, the upper
surface more so. Heads 3-6 in terminal or axillary cymules, the
peduncles 2.0-4.5 cm long. Involucres campanulate, 7-8 mm high, 5-
12 mm wide; bracts about equal, in 3 series, the outer-most broadly
ovate to obovate, leafy, 4-6(7) mm long, 3-4 mm wide coarsely
hispid, the middle and inner-most broadly obovate, scarious and
yellowish-erose above, puberulent to glabrous. Chaff somewhat
shorter than the subtended florets, yellow above, purplish below,
with a prominent purple mid-nerve and bright yellow appendages.
Ray florets 8, pistillate, fertile or often not so; corollas
yellow, the ligules 6-7 mm Icaig, 3.0-3.5 mm wide. Disk florets 30-
125
