130 P H Y T L G I A Vol . 60, No. 2
et floribus erectis, si ex vivo ut ex sicco erecti in C. Sag^aex..'
Synge (1956) says that it was introduced into cultivation in England
in f843 from the West Indies. Roig found it cultivated as an orna-
mental in Cuba, The corollas are described as having been "yellow"
on KIUjJlyi i KltUp 2008 and MofUon 4274 and by all authors who refer
to the color and as "brilliant yellow" on Ekman 12644.
Gibbs (1974) reports negative results, with blue fluorescence,
from the Juglone test of the leaves, stems, and roots of this plant.
Common and vernacular names reported for it are "bois-de-cabri a
grandes fleurs", "large yellow-flowered aegiphila", "oviedo",
"oviedo amariUo", "oviedo bianco", "oviedo de flor blanca" and
"ovieda flor blanca".
It may be noted here that AlcUn 4SS exhibits especially large
leaves. A sheet of ["fUghX 3176 in the British Museum herbarium con-
sists of a branch with holly-like leaves, re-annotated as probably
bignoniaceous, which probably represents a species of Pi&jxdoca.Kp'Ld-
-Lum.
Alain (1974) distinguishes the Cuban species of CleJiodzndAum known
to him as follows:
1. Spinose shrubs or vines; cymes axillary C. acwtejcutim.
la. Unarmed shrubs or herbs; cymes axillary or terminal.
2. Large herbs, with broad membranous leaves.
3. Leaf-blades basally deeply cordate; corollas scarlet
C. 6pzcA.oiyi66imum.
3a. Leaf-blades basally only shallowly cordate; corollas white.
4. Leaf-blade margins mostly dentate, the teeth large and con-
spicuous, pilose on both surfaces; corollas doubled
C. phLZipP'Lnum f. nuLtiptex.
4a. Leaf-blades marginally mostly entire or minutely denticu-
late, glabrescent; corollas simple C. lindZ^yl.
2a. Shrubs; leaf-blades mostly narrow, coriaceous.
5. Leaf-blades mostly more than 5 cm. long, apically obtuse or
rounded, basally subcordate, marginally entire or with a few
irregular teeth.
6. Corollas yellow, pubescent, the limb small, not spreading;
leaf-blades mostly obovate or oblanceolate.c. Qia.ndi{,lofLum,
6a. Corollas white, glabrous or glabrescent, the limb spread-
ing, narrow; leaf-blades obovate to elliptic or oblong-
lanceolate.
7. Leaves subsessile or with a petiole to 1 cm. long, the
blades mostly basally subcordate.
8. Leaf-blades obovate to oblanceolate, apically mostly
obtuse to cuspidate C. aibzyae..
Ba. Leaf-blades lanceolate to oblong-lanceolate, apically
acute to rounded C. nipzn&e.,
7a. Leaves petiolate (the petioles sometimes very short),
basally mostly rounded (subcordate in c. catCyLcola. and in
some forms of c. tindzyUximm) ■
9. Leaf-blades glabrous on both surfaces or puberulent on
only the veins beneath.
10. Inflorescence mostly longer than the subtending
