LITERARY NOTICES.
!33
results which he reached were at once ac-
cepted as valid advances in the fields of Phys-
ics, Chemistry, and Physiology. But, in re-
gard to the study of the radiations and the
new results attained in that field, matters
took a different turn. There was a long se-
ries of quiet preliminary inquiries that paved
the way for the splendid demonstrations of
spectrum analysis, but which were unappre-
ciated and thrown into the shade after that
brilliant discovery. A new epoch seemed to
be suddenly created, and men cared little to
know who had gone before and prepared
for it. Unfortunately, this condition of things
was favorable to the misappropriation of re-
sults gained by pioneer laborers. As the
conductors of the " Philosophical Magazine "
were of course aware of what had appeared
in their pages, and were familiar with the
early history of this train of researches, we
had not much doubt that they would speak
to the point when the time came. Our read-
ers will observe that in the subjoined notice
of Dr. Draper's work they have done so,
thus decisively confirming the positions
that we have formerly taken in regard to
the priority of Dr. Draper in the investiga-
tions that led up to spectrum analysis.
Dr. Draper here brings together the
scattered memoirs and essays that he has
written during the past forty years on sub-
jects connected with radiation and radiant
energy. They are thirty in number, and,
for the most part, are simply reprints ; but
in a few cases the original memoirs are
condensed, and in one or two cases the
article here given is the substance of a
considerable number of detached articles.
Most of them have already appeared in our
pages ; the earliest of them, on subjects re-
lating to photography, appeared in 1840.
" I have endeavored," the author tells us,
" to reproduce these memoirs as they were
originally published. When considerations
of conciseness have obliged me to be con-
tented with an abstract, it has always been
so stated, and the place where the original
may be found has been given. Sometimes,
the circumstances seeming to call for it, ad-
ditional matter has been introduced ; but
this has always been formally indicated
under the title of ' Notes,' or included in
parentheses" (p. x.).
It is probably known to our readers
that Count Rumford made a donation to
the American Academy of Arts and Science
(similar to that which he made to the Royal
Society) for rewarding discoveries and im-
provements relating to light and heat made
in America. The Academy has been rather
chary of bestowing its honors, and had only
awarded its Rumford Medal four times be-
fore it made the award in 1875 to Dr. J.
W. Draper " for his researches in radiant
energy." This circumstance has deter-
mined the selection of articles in the pres-
ent volume. It comprises the researches
on which the award was founded.
The President's statement of the grounds
of the award is given in the Appendix, and
may be summarized as follows :
(a.) Independent discovery of Moser's
images.
(b.) Measurement of the intensity of
chemical action of light, by exposing to
the source of light a mixture of equal vol-
umes of chlorine and hydrogen.
(c.) Application of Daguerreotype pro-
cess to taking portraits.
(d.) Application of ruled glasses and
specula to produce spectra for the study
of the chemical action of light.
(e.) Investigation of the nature of the
rays absorbed by growing plants in sun-
light.
(/.) Discussion of the chemical action
of light, and proof that rays of all wave-
lengths are capable of producing chemical
changes.
(g.) Researches on the distribution of
heat in the spectrum.
And, finally, an elaborate investigation,
published in 1847, by which he established
the following facts, which we will give in
the words of the award :
1. All solid substances, and probably liquids,
become incandescent at the same temperature.
2. The thermometric point at which sub-
stances become red-hot is about 977 Fahr.
3. The spectrum of an incandescent solid is
continuous ; it contains neither bright nor dark
fixed lines.
4. From common temperatures, nearly up to
977 Fahr., the rays emitted by a solid are invisi-
ble. At that temperature they are red ; and the
heat of the incandescing body being made con-
tinuously to increase, other rays are added,
increasing in refrangibility as the temperature
rises.
5. While the addition of rays, so much the
more refrangible as the temperature is higher,
