*34
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in taking place, there is an increase in the in-
tensity of those already existing. The award
then proceeds as follows : Thirteen years after-
ward Kirchhoff published his celebrated memoir
on the relations between the coefficients of emis-
sion and absorption of bodies for light and heat,
in which he established mathematically the same
facts, and announced them as new.
We are, of course, aware that this is
rather a burning question ; but, whatever
may be thought of the justice of these
claims, there can be no doubt that the fact
of their having been made on behalf of Dr.
Draper by so distinguished a body as the
American Academy of Arts and Science
ought to be known, and that its judgment
will receive at least respectful consideration
whenever the early history of spectroscopic
science comes to be written. And it is im-
possible not to draw attention to this fact in
a notice, however brief, of Dr. Draper's vol-
ume ; for, plainly, one of the motives of its
publication is to assert his claims to priority
of discovery in regard to the points above
quoted. In fact, the four memoirs which
bear 'directly on the subject of spectrum
analysis are printed first in the volume,
and are followed by a note in which Dr.
Draper complains, though in very decorous
language, that he has received considerably
less than justice at the hands of M. Kirch-
hoff; and, by way of showing that he has
tangible grounds for complaint, he makes
the following quotations (p. 85) from M.
Jamin's " Cours de Physique," in which re-
sults that he had previously established are
formally attributed to M. Kirchhoff:
M. Kirchhoff has deduced the following im-
portant consequences :
Black bodies begin to emit at 977 Fahr. red
radiations, to which are added successively and
continuously other rays of increasing refrangibil-
ity as the temperature rises.
All substances begin to be red-hot at the same
temperature in the same inclosure.
The spectrum of solids and liquids contains
no fixed lines.*
Now, it may be said with very little qual-
ification that what is here attributed to M.
Kirchhoff is to be found distinctly stated in
the first memoir in the volume before us,
which was published by Dr. Draper in 1847.
By experimenting with a strip of platinum
heated by the transmission of a current
* The above quotation is, we presume, to be
found on pp. 463, 464, vol. iii., edition of 1866. If
so, it is not exactly a quotation, but is made up
whose force could be regulated, he ascer-
tained that the temperature at which red
rays are first radiated is 977 Fahr. He
also ascertained that platinum, brass, anti-
mony, gas-carbon, and lead became incan-
descent at the same time with the iron bar-
rel in which they were gradually heated, and
that the apparent exceptions presented by
chalk, marble, and fluor-spar were due to
phosphorescence. By raising the tempera-
ture of the platinum wire and analyzing
with a prism the light emitted, he proved
that the length of its spectrum gradually
increased with the temperature until at
2130 Fahr. the full spectrum of daylight
was attained ; and it is clear that he re-
garded the result thus obtained as being gen-
erally true. That the spectrum of the in-
candescent platinum contained no dark lines
had indeed come out only incidentally in the
course of the investigation ; still it was not
by any means a point seen but not observed ;
for, in consequence of observing it, he re-
sorted to a comparison of the spectra of in-
candescent platinum at different tempera-
tures with the spectrum of daylight in order
to determine their extent, instead of fixing
their extent by the dark lines of the spectra
themselves, which he had ascertained to
be non-existent. On the whole, the above
statement breaks down at nearly every point.
What is therein referred to M. Kirchhoff was
certainly ascertained before by Dr. Draper.
Whether Dr. Draper was the first person to
observe all these points is a very different
question, and one we would by no means
prejudge ; indeed, without going beyond the
limits of the first Memoir, it is pretty plain
that the temperature of incandescence was
known with considerable accuracy before
Dr. Draper's experiment with the platinum
wire ; and it certainly was believed (if not
proved) that the temperature was the same
for all bodies.
Habit and Intelligence. A Series of Es-
says on the Laws of Life and Mind.
By Joseph Joiin Murphy. New York :
Macmillan & Co. Pp. 583. Price, $5.
The first edition of this work appeared
of parts of a much larger statement. We may
also observe that Memoir I. of the present vol-
ume is not in all respects an exact verbal reprint
of this Memoir published in our " Journal "' for
May, 1847. This does not, however, affect the
point at issue.
