LITERARY NOTICES.
*35
nearly ten years ago. It was favorably re-
ceived, and the author has been encouraged
to pursue still further the line of thought
there opened. This second edition is so
nearly rewritten as to be practically a new
work. Several chapters have been removed,
and others condensed and modified, while
much new matter has been added. It is
obvious that there are two chief elements
in this change : first, the progress of the
subjects, or the increase of our actual knowl-
edge concerning them ; and, second, the au-
thor's own progress in mastering them. He
is occupied by the most tangled and ob-
scure of modern investigations, upon many
of which the intellect of the world has but
just fairly entered ; these he discusses from
an independent point of view, putting forth
his own conclusions freely and fully. These
are such as to merit attention ; and the
reader who desires to be thoroughly up in
modern biological and psychological discus-
sion will find much in Mr. Murphy's vol-
ume to repay attention.
The National Dispensatory : Containing
the Natural History, Chemistry, Phar-
macy, Actions, and Uses of Medicines,
including those recognized in the Phar-
macopoeias of the United States and
Great Britain. By Alfred Stille, M.
D., LL. D., Professor of the Theory and
Practice of Medicine and of Clinical
Medicine in the University of Pennsyl-
vania, etc., and John M. Maisch, Ph. D.,
Professor of Materia Medica and Botany
in the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy,
Secretary to the American Pharmaceuti-
cal Association. In one very handsome
octavo volume of over sixteen hundred
closely-printed pages, with over Two
Hundred Illustrations. Extra cloth, $6.-
75 ; leather, raised bands, $7.50. Phila-
delphia : Henry C. Lea.
The range of the sciences connected
with materia medica and therapeutics is not
only a very wide but also an ever-shifting
one, growing by constant accessions of facts
and material, condensing by sifting and dis-
carding, and appropriating all that which
has proved of real and more than ephemeral
value. Pharmacopoeias and compendiums
of materia medica, in order to keep pace
with both accessions and restrictions, and
with general progress, have therefore to be
revised or rewritten from time to time.
In the United States, where there as yet
is no legally authorized Pharmacopoeia, and
the existing one is but the voluntary work
of delegates from a number of medical and
pharmaceutical societies and colleges, the
"United States Dispensatory," of Profes-
sors Wood and Bache, for more than forty
years has been the unrivaled standard in
this special and important branch of the
healing art, and as such has, to a very large
extent, overshadowed the " Pharmacopoeia."
Since the appearance of the fifth decennial
revision of the " United States Pharmaco-
poeia " in 1873, and the failure of the " Unit-
ed States Dispensatory " to embrace in time
its improvements, alterations, and additions
in the way of a new commensurate edition,
the want became more and more patent
of a new critical digest, supplementing the
Pharmacopoeia, representing the advanced
state of materia medica, and discarding
the bulk of obsolete material. The an-
nouncement some years ago that Professors
Stille and Maisch, of Philadelphia, had en-
gaged in the preparation of such a work
was therefore received with the more satis-
faction and confidence, as both authors are
recognized authorities in their respective
departments. The result of their joint labor
has now made its appearance in the above-
named volume, containing 1,540 pages, 88
pages of indexes, and 201 illustrations.
The practical importance of the objects
of this work, the elaborate and comprehen-
sive treatment of the immense material,
embracing the natural history, chemistry,
pharmacy, and the actions and uses, of the
entire domain of the present materia medi-
ca, in a concise and lucid style, and com-
mensurate with the advanced state of the
kindred sciences, make the " National Dis-
pensatory" at once a complete digest of
its kind in the English language and a cred-
itable publication of the American press.
Without entering in detail upon a critical
survey of this voluminous work, of its many
excellencies and comparatively slight and
few shortcomings, it affords us special plea-
sure, in justice to its intrinsic value, its im-
portance, and its prospective usefulness, to
add our unqualified approval of the master-
ly way in which the authors have accom-
plished their task, and have succeeded in
furnishing for general use, and to the pro-
fessions of pharmacy and medicine in par-
