POPULAR MISCELLANY.
139
over the foregoing ; this superiority the au-
thor calls in question. Even as regards
knowledge and power, the advance which
some claim as a characteristic of humanity
is effected by exceptional individuals who
arise in certain races under favorable cir-
cumstances only, and is quite compatible
with long intervals of immobility and even
of decline. Besides, it is not proved that
the lower animals are literally incapable of
progress. To enforce this point the author
quotes certain interesting observations made
by the writer of a work entitled " Flowers
and their Unbidden Guests," who had for
months been in the habit of sprinkling pow-
dered sugar on the sill of his window, for a
train of ants which passed in constant pro-
cession from the garden to the window.
" One day he took it into his head to put
the powdered sugar into a vessel, which he
fastened with a string to the transom of the
window, and, in order that his long-petted
insects might have information of the sup-
ply suspended above, a number of the same
set of ants were placed with the sugar in
the vessel. These busy creatures forthwith
seized on the particles of sugar, and, soon
discovering the only way open to them, viz.,
up the string, over the transom, and down
the window-frame, rejoined their fellows on
the sill, whence they could resume the old
route down the wall into the garden. Be-
fore long the route over the new track from
the sill to the sugar by the window-frame,
transom, and string, was completely estab-
lished, and so passed a day or two without
anything new. Then one morning it was
noticed that the ants were stopping at their
old place, the window-sill, and again getting
sugar there. Not a single individual any
longer traversed the path that led thence
to the sugar above. This was not because
the store above had been exhausted, but
because some dozen little fellows were work-
ing away vigorously and incessantly up aloft
in the vessel, dragging the sugar-crumbs to
its edge, and throwing them down to their
comrades on the sill."
The Earthquake of Kovember 18, 1878.
Of the earthquake of November 18, 1878,
Professor Nipher, of the University of St.
Louis, says that it was felt over an area of
fully 150,000 square miles, the region dis-
turbed forming an ellipse, with its major
axis reaching from Leavenworth to Tusca-
loosa, a distance of over 600 miles. The
minor axis extended from near Clarksville,
Arkansas, to a point midway between Cairo
and St. Louis, a distance of 300 miles. The
region of greatest disturbance was along
the Mississippi from Cairo to Memphis.
Here the shocks were universally felt ; the
walls of buildings could be seen to move,
and strong frame houses creaked as when
every joint is strained by a strong wind.
At Ironton, Missouri, the shock was so se-
vere as to alarm some of the occupants of
brick houses. Along the Missouri from
Glasgow to Lexington the shock was also
severe, awakening many families, who
thought a heavy wind-storm was in prog-
ress. The shock appears to have been felt
first at Glasgow at 11 h. 23 m. (St. Louis
time). The shock traveled rapidly along the
axis of the ellipse, reaching Cairo at 11 h.
48 m., and Memphis at 11 h. 50 m. At Lit-
tle Rock it was distinctly felt, although not
observed at Clarksville, which is thirty
miles farther up the river.
Physiological Effects of Arsenic. The
physiological effects of arsenic have lately
been studied anew by Gies, who adminis-
tered minute doses of the poison daily for
four months to pigs, rabbits, and fowls.
The daily dose for a rabbit was 00005 to
0-0007 of a gramme, for a pig 0005 to 0-05,
and for a fowl 0-001 to 0"008. In all these
animals the weight of the body increased,
and the subcutaneous fat was augmented.
In young growing animals the bones de-
veloped considerably, both in length and in
girth, and they presented the peculiarity
that, wherever in the normal state spongy
tissue exists, it was superseded by compact
bone. Moreover, just as Weigner found to
be the case in animals supplied with small
doses of phosphorus in their food, a com-
pact layer of bone was found immediately
beneath the epiphyseal cartilages of the long
bones. This effect was apparent after the
arsenic had been given for nineteen days,
and where only 002 to 0"035 gramme had
been taken. It was observed that animals
fed in the same stable presented the same
appearances in the bones, which Gies refers
to the air being laden with the arsenic elimi-
