140
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
nated by the lungs and skin of the animals
under experiment, for he found that the
same changes were observable in animals
kept in a cage, the bottom of which was
strewed with arsenic. Besides the changes
in the bones, the heart, liver, kidneys, and
even the spleen, underwent fatty degenera-
tion. The young of animals fed with ar-
senic were invariably born dead, though
they attained a large size, and presented
remarkable hypertrophy of the spleen, and
incipient changes in the bones.
What shall wc eat ? Dr. E. C. Angell,
author of a paper in " The Sanitarian " en-
titled " Alimentation in Health and Dis-
ease," would make wheaten food and not
beef the basis of alimentation. In a natu-
ral and rational system of dietetics wheat
and the allied seed-foods, including beans,
lentils, peas, and rice, must, he holds, take
the place now usurped by animal foods,
including, besides flesh-meats, butter, cheese,
eggs, and milk. Next should come the ap-
petizing, juicy fruits, and then the plant-
foods, which are neither seeds nor fruits,
and which are generally styled vegetables.
After these come the various animal foods,
and last of all the stimulating spices, bever-
ages, and other food adjuncts. According
to Dr. Angell, " the true life-giving and men-
tal, moral, and physical force - producing
bread is neither more nor less than sound,
ripe wheat when deprived of its thin outer
silicious husk, coarsely ground and mixed
with water, and subjected to just that de-
gree of kneading and baking which will
suffice to prepare it for mastication, insali-
vation, and the subsequent action of the
gastric juice." The dough should be knead-
ed into rolls a little larger than the largest
macaroni, and when baked the product
gets the name of " sticks." In these
" sticks " we have every nutritious element
of the grain, with no fermentation, no cryp-
togamic vegetation, no deleterious chemical
or mineral ingredients. We have, further-
more, a substance that must be chewed, as
it can not be swallowed without due mas-
tication and insalivation, and consequently
its digestion is insured. Attrition, or cold-
blast wheat, coarsely ground and unbolt-
ed, contains all the natural nutritive ele-
ments of the wheat. Besides this, it pos-
sesses the mechanical properties which dis-
tend the intestines, promoting their peri-
staltic action; it is therefore antidotal to
dyspepsia. For children it is specially val-
uable, and its substitution for common
bread, and the use of fruits instead of flesh-
food, until the deciduous teeth shall have
given place to the permanent denture, would
be of incalculable benefit and would con-
tribute to the production of good teeth.
" The early loss of these organs," says Dr.
Angell, "is conclusive evidence that the
prevailing system of dietetics is radically
wrong."
Government Aid to Artisan Schools. In
England government aid is given toward
the support of science schools for artisans
and mechanics, a sum of money being
granted to the teacher according to the
number of students whom he succeeds in
getting through the government examina-
tion. Furthermore, in order to encourage
the students, valuable prizes are presented
to those who obtain first-class certificates
at the examinations, which, it may be added,
are not competitive, that is to say, if every
student succeeds in obtaining the requisite
percentage of marks, all obtain what are
termed Queen's prizes. If the class be one
in which scientific apparatus is required,
the Government pays half the cost of such
apparatus. Already above 50,000 young
men attain a respectable proficiency in one
or more branches of practical science ev-
ery year. In " Chambers's Journal," from
which the foregoing particulars are taken,
we find the following interesting account of
the rise and progress of one of these science
schools for young artisans : " In the town
in which this school is situated, a few
spirited young men determined to have a
class during the winter. Their scheme at
first met with some opposition, but the
young men were bent on extending to their
town the advantages which the Government
of the country hold forth to the industrial
classes to educate themselves ; and, ere the
first days of winter had gone, the class be-
came an accomplished fact. The difficulty
experienced in obtaining the requisite in-
struments for the class was got over partly
by means of the aid from Government, and
partly by the ingenuity of the young men
