POPULAR MISCELLANY.
141
themselves, who constructed several of the
more expensive pieces of apparatus. A
great deal can be done in tbis way. At the
very lowest computation, one half of the
apparatus might be extemporized by the
teacher, and, if (as was done in the town
under consideration) the construction of
every article were carefully explained to
the students, it would give them a grasp
and familiarity with the subject which they
could not otherwise obtain. The subject
being entirely new to every one of the
students, their attention was kept up, and
their interest in the work never allowed to
flag, by an unsparing use of the apparatus
in performing as many experiments as pos-
sible. It turned out, however, that those
students who were likely to fail at the
government examination would do so not
because their information was defective,
but because of their inability to put their
thoughts into writing. From want of prac-
tice they experience so much difficulty in
arranging their facts in intelligible sen-
tences, that one half of their available time
has passed before they have completed the
answer to the first question on the exami-
nation paper. This difficulty was got over
by giving the students questions to work
at home, and having a written examination
every month during the course of the ses-
sion. The result proved the efficacy of this
arrangement. Nearly sixty students have
been examined in the first stage of the
subject, and there has not been a single
failure."
Japanese Archaeology. Tn a report of a
lecture by Professor E. S. Morse, published
in the " Tokio Times," we find the follow-
ing list of human bones found in the kitchen-
midden at Omori, their presence, together
with other circumstances, indicating, in the
opinion of the Professor, that the locality
was once inhabited by cannibals (see " Pop-
ular Science Monthly," vol. xiv., p. 257) :
Right humerus ; length of fragment, 195
millimetres ; proximal end gone. Left
humerus ; length of fragment, 215 mm. ;
both ends gone. Left humerus ; length of
fragment, 160 mm. ; both ends gone. Right
ulna ; length of fragment, 200 mm. ; distal
end gone. Right ulna ; length of fragment,
180 mm. ; both ends gone. Right radius ;
length of fragment, 80 mm. ; upper portion
only. Right femur ; length of fragment,
150 mm. ; proximal end and portion of
shaft only. Right femur ; length of frag-
ment, 270 mm. ; both ends gone. Right
femur ; length of fragment, 280 mm. ; both
ends gone. Right femur ; length of frag-
ment, 107 mm. ; upper portion of shaft.
Right femur ; length of fragment, 304 mm. ;
articular surfaces broken; child. Left fe-
mur; length of fragment, 160 mm.; shaft
only. Left femur ; length of fragment, 270
mm. ; great trochanter and head and distal
end gone; child. Left femur; length of
fragment, 85 mm. ; lower portion only ;
articular surface gone ; child. Right tibia ;
length of fragment, 135 mm. ; upper portion
of shaft. Right fibula ; length of fragment,
205 mm. ; both ends broken. Fifth right
metatarsal ; length, 65 mm. ; distal articu-
lar surface partially gone. Left lower max-
illary. Left parietal.
now the Humming-Bird feeds. Mr. A.
R. Wallace's account of the way in which
the humming-bird takes its food, whether
nectar or insects, would appear to be er-
roneous in the light of the observations
made by W. H. Ballou, of Evanston, Il-
linois. According to Wallace, " the tubu-
lar and retractile tongue enables the bird
to suck up honey from the nectaries of
flowers, and also to capture small insects ;
but whether the latter pass down the tubes,
or are entangled in the fibrous tips and
thus drawn back into the gullet, is not
known." Mr. Ballou's observations are re-
corded in the " American Naturalist." He
attracted to his house two humming-birds
by a saucer of sirup placed on the window-
sill, to which the birds would come every
day to satisfy their hunger. They always
alighted on the edge of the saucer, and
lapped the sirup as a dog laps water. The
question whether insects " pass down the
tubes or are entangled in the fibrous tips
and are thus drawn back into the gullet"
was also solved by Mr. Ballou. Insects too
large to pass through these tubes being
placed in their way, the birds were observed
to take them as readily as smaller ones.
The insects were evidently secured by ad-
hesion to the saliva of the tongue-tips, and
thence drawn into the gullet. The author
