14*
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
thinks that the tubes of the tongue connect
with the lungs rather than with the diges-
tive passage. These interesting observa-
tions were abruptly terminated one day by
the coming of a third " hummer" a male
who drove the others from the window,
and, in a fit of rage, darted at one of them,
and thrust his bill well through its body ;
both then fell to the ground dead.
Wines as Iatoxicants. Supposing two
wines, a white wine and a red, to contain
the same proportion of alcohol, may the
one be more intoxicating than the other ?
That such is the case appears from a com-
munication to the London " Spectator " by
Samuel James Capper, who declares it to
be an incontestable fact that in all white-
wine districts, and of course in all cider-
producing countries, drunkenness is much
more prevalent than where red wine is
grown. Mr. Capper quotes the observa-
tions of a lady who was in the habit of
spending six months of the year in a cha-
teau on the Loire, while the other six
months were spent on an estate near Di-
nan. " She assured me," writes Mr. Cap-
per, " that the difference in the matter of
sobriety was most marked between the
peasants on the Loire, whose habitual bev-
erage was red wine, and the Normans and
Bretons, who drink cider, to the exclusion
of everything else, even water." He adds
that " in the Pays de Vaud the abundant
supply of white wine is admitted by all
thoughtful inhabitants to be a great curse.
Very few laboring men attain old age, their
nervous systems breaking down entirely,
through their intemperate use of the prod-
uct of the smiling vineyards that line the
shores of Lake Leman. An hotel proprie-
tor of great experience assured me that he
found it better in every way to supply his
servants and laborers with a cheap red wine
from France than to let them drink the
white wine of the country." Mr. Capper
accounts for the difference in the effects of
red and white wine by the fact that the
former is very rich in tannin, which is ab-
sent in the latter. The tannin exercises an
astringent influence, and clones the pores of
the stomach, thus preventing the alcohol
from going straight to the brain, as it does
in the case of white wine.
Grief in a Chimpanzee. That the chim-
panzee is capable of feeling grief, regret
for the death of a companion, Mr. A. E.
Brown holds to be proved by the beha-
vior of the surviving one of a pair of those
animals kept for some time in the Zoologi-
cal Garden of Philadelphia. The animals
had been very much attached to each
other ; they never quarreled, and, if occa-
sion required one to be handled with any
degree of force, the other was always pre-
pared to take its part. After the death of
the female, her consort made many at-
tempts to rouse her, and when this was
found to be impossible his rage and -grief
were piteous. Tearing the hair, or rather
snatching at the short hair on his head, had
always been one of his common expressions
of extreme anger, and he was now seen to
do this frequently; but the ordinary yell
of rage which he set up at first finally
changed to a cry before unheard by the
keeper, and which may be represented by
hah ah ah ah ah, uttered somewhat
under the breath, and with a plaintive
sound like a moan. He made repeated ef-
forts to awaken his dead companion, lift-
ing up her head and hands, pushing her
violently, and rolling her over. After the
body had been removed from the cage he
became more quiet, and remained so as
long as his keeper was with him, but, catch-
ing sight of the body once when the door
was opened, and again when it was carried
past the front of the cage, he became vio-
lent, and cried for the rest of the day. The
day following he sat still most of the time
and moaned continually ; but this gradually
passed away, and from that time forward
he has manifested a sense of a change in
his surroundings only by a more devoted at-
tachment to his keeper and a longer fit of
anger when he leaves him.
Sensibility of the Eye to Light. A high-
ly interesting series of experiments on the
sensibility of the eye to light is described
by Charpentier, in a communication to the
Paris Academy of Sciences. With the aid
of a special apparatus for graduating at
will the intensity of the incident rays, he
finds that if the intensity be gradually in-
creased from zero the sensation is devel-
oped after a certain minimum degree has
