NOTES.
H3
been reached. But, if the intensity of the
stimulus be now as gradually diminished,
the eye will continue to perceive it till it
has fallen to one third or one fourth of
the original minimum. In producing the
initial sensation a certain amount of light
has, so to speak, been wasted in putting
the machinery in motion. Further, if the
eye has been carefully shielded from the
light for some minutes before performing
the experiment, it will be capable of per-
ceiving light which is fifty or even one
hundred times less intense than that re-
quired to produce a luminous sensation.
This enormous difference is equally manifest-
ed whether monochromatic or white light
be employed. Now, if we apply a similar
test to the sensation of color, we find that
for the chromatic as for the luminous stimu-
lus a certain minimum is needed to produce
the sensation, which still continues to be ex-
cited when the intensity of the stimulus is
progressively diminished. So far, the two
sensations, of light and color, obey the same
law. But if we proceed to compare the
sensitiveness of the eye in full activity with
that of the eye which has been allowed a
period of absolute rest, we no longer find
any such increase in its susceptibility to
the chromatic stimulus as was observed in
the case of light. This result is altogether
opposed to the current opinion that the
sensation excited by white light is really
a resultant of the simultaneous development
of several determinate color sensations ; it
shows, on the contrary, that the sensation
of light is altogether independent of that of
color, and really a simpler kind of reaction
on the part of the visual apparatus.
" Oil on the Troubled Waters." The
fishermen of the Shetland Isles, as we learn
from a writer in " Chambers's Journal," are
wont, when in utmost peril during a storm,
to throw oil on the waters to still them.
They crush in their hands the livers of any
ling or cod they may have caught, and keep
throwing them astern and around them.
" The effect," we are told, " is magical.
The waves are not lessened in size ; but
they no longer break, and it is only from
their breaking close to the boat and so
being dashed in upon her and filling her
that there is danger. The rapidity with
which the oil spreads over a considerable
space of sea around is marvelous, and
scarcely to be credited except by one who
has witnessed the phenomenon." An ex-
pedient so simple might often be of invalu-
able service in saving life and property.
The difficulty and peril, for instance, of
launching a boat from a sinking ship in a
storm are mostly caused by the wind break-
ing the waves over the boat and filling her
or dashing her against the vessel's side.
" The danger of such a mishap would un-
questionably be greatly lessened by throw-
ing overboard some oil, which ought always
to be kept handy. Boats also going from
one ship to the assistance of another in dis-
tress, and life-boats on their way to a wreck,
and boarding it, might often with very great
advantage use a little oil, if its effects were
only better known. Another case in which
oil might be of the greatest service is when
a man accidentally falls or is washed over-
board. Life-buoys are thrown into the sea,
the ship is brought to as quickly as possible,
boats are lowered and a search made ; but,
before all this can be done, the vessel has
run a considerable distance, and, although
the poor struggler in the water may be a
good swimmer and able to keep afloat for
some time, the great difficulty is to find the
exact spot where he is to be sought for. A
life-buoy or a man's head is a small object
to descry among heaving waves and white
foam. If life-buoys were constructed so as
to contain a small portion of oil in a little
receptacle or India-rubber bag attached to
them, to be punctured with a knife before
being thrown overboard, the effect would
be not only to prevent the sea from break-
ing over the castaway, so making it easier
for him to keep afloat, but would indicate
to the searchers almost the exact spot
where to look for him."
NOTES.
The commonly received theory of dew is
that it results from the condensation of the
moisture of the air by contact with surfaces
of a lower temperature. This theory is re-
jected by Professor Stockbridge, of the Mas-
sachusetts Agricultural College. He holds
dew to be the vapor from the soil condensed
by the cooler air, and states as follows the
results of his experiments: 1. The vapor of
the soil is much warmer at night than the
air, and would be condensed by it. 2. Va-
