! 4 4
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
por from the soil is soon diffused and equal-
ized in the whole atmosphere, but in the
largest proportion when evaporation is tak-
ing place near the surface of the soil; and,
other things being equal, plants nearest the
earth have the most dew. 3. Dew under
haycocks, boards, and like objects on the
ground, could receive it from no other
source.
Professor Baird has dissipated the
cloud of mystery which from olden time
has veiled the mode of propagation of the
eel by his finding the ripe ovaries of the
animal. It appears that what Professor
Baird shows to be the ovary of the eel has
been known under the name of "eel-fat."
This " fat," under the microscope, is seen to
consist of egg-cells, of which a single fish
may contain as many as 9,000,000.
At a meeting of the Baltimore Academy
of Medicine, Dr. McSherry recounted the
case of a lady who took cold two years ago,
from sleeping in damp sheets, and has ever
since been devoid of the sense of smell.
Her sense of taste is also impaired to such
a degree that she can not distinguish be-
tween different sorts of meats and vegeta-
bles. Pepper she recognizes by its pungen-
cy. The hearing is acute. Another physi-
cian present cited the case of a lady who
lost the sense of smell several years ago,
from catarrhal trouble. She is unable to
distinguish the different kinds of food and
drink. Her mother met with the same loss
after typhoid fever, and never recovered
from it. In another case the sense of smell
was lost after illness, that of taste being re-
tained.
An examination of the blood of Cephalo-
poda by Fredericq shows that in the oxidized
state corresponding to that of our arterial
blood, this liquid is of an intense blue color,
and that as it loses its oxygen it grows
pale. It contains a substance analogous to
hemoglobine, in which a metal plays the same
part as iron in the blood of superior animals,
but in the cephalopod the metal is copper.
A Spanish technical journal, the " Gaceta
Industrial," pronounces American-made car-
tridges to be superior to all others, the su-
periority being due in part to the alloys
used in the manufacture, in part to the ma-
chinery, and in part also to the skill of the
workmen. Foreign governments have sent
experts hither to study the methods in use
in our factories, but the result has been un-
satisfactory.
In 1872 the population of the city of
Tokio (formerly Yedo) was 595,905 souls.
It has since nearly doubled, for the last cen-
sus shows it to be now 1,030,771. The num-
ber of houses is 236,961, or one house per
4 - 37 of the inhabitants.
A woman in England having received an
injury on the leg which caused a profusely
bleeding wound, applied a poultice of tobac-
co to the injured part. Soon the patient ex-
hibited alarming symptoms, and a physician
being called, found her extremely prostrated :
there were dimness of sight, dizziness and
confusion of thoughts, nausea, and vomit-
ing. The poultice was removed, an antidote
(strychnia) and stimulants administered, and
the patient slowly improved.
The yearly consumption of quinine in
the United States is computed at 800,000
ounces ; at an average price of $2.50 per
ounce, this represents an annual outlay for
this drug of $2,000,000. Of opium the an-
nual consumption, whether as a medicinal
agent or as an intoxicant, is 220,000 pounds,
costing, at four dollars per pound, rather
less than one million dollars.
The cremation method of disposing of
dead bodies is not making very rapid prog-
ress toward universal acceptance either in
England or the United States. The medical
press of the former country appears to be
opposed to the practice. The celebrated
crematory at Washington, Pennsylvania, the
only one in the United States, has, we learn
from the " Medical and Surgical Reporter,"
been converted into a factory for canning
fruits !
In the present year occurs the eighteenth
centenary of the destruction of Pompeii and
Herculaneum by an eruption of Mount Ve-
suvius. It is intended to commemorate this
event in a becoming manner next November,
and invitations have been issued to the most
eminent Italian archaeologists to be present
on the occasion.
The honey mesquite is one of the prin-
cipal forest trees of Texas. It is a short,
spreading tree, attaining an average trunk-
diameter of eighteen inches. It belongs to
the Lec/uminosw, and bears pods nine to ten
inches long, containing beans imbedded in
a sweet pulp. Both the beans and the pulp
are eaten by the Indians, and they form
good fodder for horses. The wood is very
hard and durable.
In the summer of 1877 some remains of
an old Roman bridge viz., a number of oak
piles and beams were found in the bed
of the Neckar, at Heidelberg. Some of the
piles were drawn with the iron points or
shoes which had been used to drive them
into the ground, and these shoes were found
to be of the same shape and strength as
those used at the present day for like pur-
poses. Of the seven piers which supported
the roadway of the bridge, five were found
in situ at equal distances (thirty-four and a
half metres) from each other.
