THE CONDITION OF WOMEN. 1+7
individual differences are so overshadowed by the much more con-
spicuous resemblances due to heredity with which they compare
about as the green buds at the tips of the twigs of a large tree com-
pare with the hard wood of the trunk and branches, the growth of
previous years and they are so fluctuating and inconstant, that their
importance may easily escape attention. Careful observation shows,
however, that every characteristic may vary : those distinctive of the
class or order as well as those which mark the species or variety. The
variations may manifest themselves in the adult, or at any other
period in the life of the individual. Even the eggs have individuali-
ties of their own, and among many groups of animals the eggs of the
same parent, when placed under precisely similar conditions, may
differ in the rate and manner of development. Although most of
these individual differences are transient, and disappear within a few
generations, there can now be no doubt that those which tend to brino-
the organism into more perfect harmony with its environment, and
are therefore advantageous, may be established as hereditary features,
through the action of the law of the survival of the fittest ; and it is
hardly possible to over-estimate the value of the evidence which pale-
ontology and embryology now furnish to prove that all hereditary
characteristics, even the most fundamental, were originally individual
variations.
The series of hereditary structures and fnnctions which makes up
the life of an organism is constantly being extended by the addition
of new features, which at first were individual variations, and are
gradually built into the hereditary life history. In this way newly
acquired peculiarities are gradually pushed further and further from
what may be called the growing end of the series, by the addition of
newer variations above them. It can also be shown that from time to
time the peculiarities at the other end of the series, the oldest heredi-
tary features, are crowded out of the life of the organism, and dropped,
so that an animal which is hisrh in the scale of evolution does not re-
peat, in its own development, all of the early steps through which its
most remote ancestors have passed. The series of hereditary charac-
teristics, thus growing at one end and fading away at the other, gradu-
ally raises the organism to new and higher stages of specialization, and
its evolution by variation and heredity may be compared with the
growth of a glacier.
The slight individual differences are represented by the new layers of
snow added by the storms to the deposit which fills the valley in which
the glacier arises. The snows which are soon blown away are those
variations which, being of no use, soon disappear ; while the snow
which remains in the valley, and is gradually converted into ice, repre-
sents those individual differences which are seized upon by natural
selection, and gradually rendered hereditary and constant. The long
stream of ice stretching down to lower regions, and made up of the
