THE CONDITION OF WOMEN. Hg
stages in the developmental process are sufficiently alike in different
animals to admit of a comparison between them, the stage at which
impregnation takes place is not fixed, but variable. In some cases the
ovarian egg remains without change until it is impregnated ; and the
first step in the developmental process, the disappearance of the ger-
minative vesicle, is the immediate result of the union of the spermatozoa
with the ovum. In other cases the germinative vesicle disappears, and
the egg then remains inactive until it is impregnated ; and this is fol-
lowed at once by segmentation. In still other cases segmentation takes
place without impregnation. Other eggs develop still further ; and,
finally, there are many animals whose unfertilized eggs not only com-
mence, but complete the developmental process, and give rise to adults
which may in turn produce young in the same way : and this may go
on indefinitely, without the intervention of a male. The queen bee is
able to lay fertilized or unfertilized eggs at will, and they are equally
alive and capable of development.
These facts show conclusively that the essential function of the
male element is not the vitalization of the germ.
Turning now to another aspect of our subject, we find that among
plants, and among all the lower and simpler groups of animals, new
individuals are produced by the various forms of asexual generation,
as well as sexually. , In certain animals, such as the tunicates, this
form of generation is highly specialized, and the stolon from which
new individuals are budded off is a highly complex structure, which
contains cells or tissues derived from all the essential organs and sys-
tems of the parent, and from these the corresponding organs and sys-
tems of the new individual are derived. As a rule, however, the
process of budding is very simple : a mass of unspecialized cells at
some definite point upon the body of the parent, animal or plant, be-
coming converted into a new individual, instead of contributing to the
further growth of the old. Among the lower animals, such as the
hydroids and sponges, the process is still more simple, and cells may
become converted into a bud at almost any point upon the body of the
parent. That the process of reproduction by budding is not in any
way absolutely distinguished from the process of ordinary growth by
cell-multiplication, is shown by the fact that an accident may deter-
mine which of these processes is to result from the activity of a given
cell.
Comparison shows that there is, on the one hand, no essential dis-
tinction between ordinary growth and reproduction by budding, and,
on the other hand, none except the necessity for impregnation to dis-
tinguish asexual from sexual reproduction. All these processes are
fundamentally processes of cell-multiplication. As none of the ani-
mals with which we are thoroughly familiar reproduce asexually, we
are unable to make any very exact comparison -of the results of the
two processes of reproduction in animals ; but among plants such com-
