iSo THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
parison can be made without difficulty, and will be found to show that
variation is much more marked and common in plants raised from
fertilized seed than in those raised by budding. A marked bud-varia-
tion is of very rare occurrence, but in many cases the tendency of
plants raised from seeds to differ from the parents is so great that
choice varieties are propagated entirely by buds. It is almost hope-
less to attempt to propagate a choice variety of grape or strawberry
by seeds, as the individuals raised in this way seldom have the valua-
ble qualities of their parents, and, although they may have new quali-
ties of equal or greater value, the chances are of course greatly against
this, since the possibility of undesirable variation is much greater than
the chance of a desirable sport. There is no difficulty, however, in
perpetuating valuable varieties of these plants by asexual reproduction.
Putting together these various propositions that the evolution of
life has been brought about through the combined action of the law of
heredity and the law of variation ; that in all except the simplest or-
ganisms the process of sexual reproduction by ova which have been
acted upon by the male element is met with ; that the ovum is alive,
and capable of development in itself, and that the essential function
of the male element is something else than the vitalization of the
ovum ; that the process of sexual reproduction differs from the process
of asexual reproduction only in the occurrence of impregnation, while
the result of the former process differs from the result of the latter in
its greater variability we seem warranted in concluding that the
ovum is the material medium through which the law of heredity mani-
fests itself, while the male element is the vehicle by which new varia-
tions are added. The ovum is the conservative, and the male element
the progressive or variable factor in the process of evolution of the
race as well as in the reproduction of the individual. The adequate
statement of the evidence upon which this generalization rests, or
even a full statement of the generalization itself, with its qualifications,
would be out of place here, but the facts which have been given seem
to be sufficient to warrant its use as one step in our argument in regard
to the relations of the sexes. From this as our basis we will now
trace the evolution of sex.
Among the lowest organisms, animal and vegetable, multiplication
is usually by the various forms of asexual generation, budding or
fission, or cell-multiplication an organism which has by ordinary
growth increased in size beyond the limit of exact harmony with its
environment, dividing in this way into two, like each other as well as
like their parent. In this way the preservation of the established
characteristics of the species' heredity is provided for, but in order
that progress should take place, by the preservation of favorable vari-
eties, variation must also be provided for. This is accomplished by
the process which is known as conjugation : two protoplasmic organ-
isms approach, come into contact, and a transfusion or mixture of the
