THE CONDITION OF WOMEN. 1$1
semi-fluid contents of their bodies takes place. The result of this
process is the production of new individuals which, deriving their pro-
toplasm from two parents which are not exactly alike, are themselves
different from either of them, and have individual peculiarities which
are, it is true, the resultant of the peculiarities of the parents, but
which are nevertheless new variations.
In the simplest forms of conjugation the functions of both parents
appear to be identical, but in organisms which are a little more spe-
cialized we find male and female reproductive bodies, and the offspring
is the result of the union of the male element of one individual with
the female element of another ; that is, we have true sexual reproduc-
tion in its simplest form.
Among the lower animals and most plants both sexes are united
in the same individual, but the law of physiological division of labor,
the principle that an organ or organism, like a machine, can do some
one thing better and with less expenditure of force when it is specially
adapted to this one thing than when it is generally adapted for sev-
eral functions, would lead to the preservation by natural selection of
any variations in the direction of a separation of the sexes, and we
should therefore expect to find among the higher animals what we
actually do find : the restriction of the male function to certain' indi-
viduals, and the restriction of the female function to others. From
this time forward the male is an organism specialized for the produc-
tion of the variable element in the reproductive process, and the
female an organism specialized for the production of the conservative
element. We soon meet with structural peculiarities adapted to aid
and perfect the performance of these respective functions ; and the
various organs, habits, and instincts by which, among the higher ani-
mals, the rearing of young is provided for form one of the most inter-
esting chapters of natural science. On a priori grounds we should
expect a still greater specialization to make its appearance. Since the
male organism has for its function the production of the variable re-
productive element, and since variations which originate in a male
have their perpetuation especially provided for, it would clearly be of
advantage that the male organism should acquire a peculiar tendency
to vary, and any steps in this direction would accordingly be seized
upon by natural selection and perpetuated. The female organism, on
the other hand, having for its function the transmission of the estab-
lished hereditary features of the species, we should expect the female
to gradually acquire a tendency to develop these general characteris-
tics more perfectly than the male. The male organism would thus
gradually become the variable organism, as well as the transmitter of
variations, and the female organism would become the conservative
organism, as well as the originator of the conservative element in re-
production.
The study of the higher forms of life shows that this specialization
