152 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
has actually taken place in many cases, and that, in nearly all cases in
which the sexes differ in peculiarities not actually concerned in repro-
duction, the male has varied more than the female. The amount of
variation which any organism has lately undergone may be learned in
two ways by a comparison of allied species, and by a comparison of
the adult with the young. In a genus which comprises several species
the characteristics which these species have in common are due to he-
redity from a common ancestor, and are therefore older than features
which are confined to any one species. Now, it is a well-known
ornithological law that the females of allied species of birds are very
much more alike than the males, and that in some cases where the
females can hardly be distinguished the males are very conspicuously
different so much so that there is not the least danger of confound-
ing them. Countless examples will present themselves to anyone who
is at all familiar with birds, and those who are not can at once find
ample proof by glancing through any illustrated work on ornithology
Gould's " Humming-Birds," for example.
The greater variability of the male is also shown by a comparison
of the adult male and female with the immature birds of both sexes.
Since the growing animal tends to recapitulate, during its own devel-
opment, the changes through which its ancestors have passed, substan-
tially in the order in which they first appeared, it follows that, in cases
where the sexes are unlike, the one which is most different from the
young is the one which has varied. Now, it is only necessary to com-
pare the nearly full-grown young of our domestic fowls with the adult
cock and hen, to perceive that the adult hen agrees with the young of
both sexes in lacking such male characteristics as the highly ornament-
ed tail-feathers, the briliant plumage, the distended comb, the spurs,
and the capacity to crow. Countless similar illustrations might be
given to show the great tendency of the male to vary, but the above
are sufficient for the purposes of our argument. As both sexes usually
retain the more general specific and generic characteristics, and are
alike as far as these are concerned, it is a little more difficult to show
the conservative constitution of the female than it is to prove the male
tendency to vary. Among the Barnacles there are a few species the
males and females of which differ remarkably. The female is an
ordinary barnacle, with all the peculiarities of the group fully devel-
oped, while the male is a small parasite upon the body of the female,
and is so different from the female of its own species, and from all
ordinary barnacles, that no one would ever recognize, in the adult
male, any affinity whatever to its closest allies. All of the hereditary
race characteristics are wanting : the limbs, digestive organs, and
most of the muscles and nerves have disappeared, as they are not
needed by a parasitic animal ; and the male is little more than a re-
productive organ attached to the body of the female. It is only when
the development of the male is studied that we obtain any proof of its
