THE ORIGIN OF WORLDS. 3
directions. This rule will evidently need but slight modifications, when,
instead of being so extremely unequal, both bodies have the same rela-
tion of size as that subsisting between our earth and moon, or even such
as is represented in our diagram. In this case, however, the lesser body
would bear a somewhat greater disturbing influence ; but its dismem-
berment, though of a paroxysmal and a very extensive character, would
be confined to the side next the primary. On losing a large portion of
its mass, the satellite would swing into a wider orbit ; its distance from
the primary would for a long period be increased by tidal action, and
many ages must elapse before they again became near enough to give
occasion for a like convulsive rupture. The incorporation of a large
celestial body with a greater one around which it previously revolved
would thus be effected by a number of paroxysms, and would not be
completed before many billions of years.
The intermittent character of these rare events would be very de-
cided, except, perhaps, when the subordinate body were, like a comet,
composed of a profusion of exceedingly rarefied gas surrounding a small,
dense, central nucleus. Such differences of density as may be naturally
expected in the internal and superficial matter of a satellite would tend
to give the convulsive dismemberment a somewhat reduced scale, and
to make it recur after less remote periods of time. But this influence
would be more than counterbalanced if the incorporating body were
solid, as the planetary structure would be preserved for a longer time ;
but, when the rupture took place, the ruin would be more extensive.
Indeed, in the cases most likely to occur, the doomed planet would meet
its fate in successive stages, of which the number and magnitude may be
estimated with tolerable accuracy. If our moon were made to revolve
about 4,500 miles beyond our atmosphere, its coalescence with our
globe would be inevitable, and it would take place by about six or eight
paroxysmal stages extending over a vast immensity of time. Two or
three times the number of such terrific convulsions may be expected in
the union between Algol and the large planet which causes his varia-
bility ; and the same estimate will serve for the binary systems or the
physically double stars when after long ages they become close enough
for the incorporation of the less with the greater.
It is the terrific conflict of matter on such rare and stupendous
events, that awakens the power which is mainly concerned in giving
birth to worlds. Large primary planets would be called into being if
one or both of the celestial objects undergoing these violent stages
of combination had the rank of a sun. The vast mass of matter pre-
cipitated to the greater body on these occasions would sweep along its
equator with furious velocity. But on the subordinate one, especially
in its equatorial regions, the more superficial parts would slide over the
internal nucleus in an opposite direction, in consequence of the tidal
action, which in the new orbit must be powerful enough to produce not
merely waves, but even progressive movements at the rate of many
