STUDY OF PHYSICS IN SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 159
of a central and international observatory '? The place might be the
common property of all the civilized nations which might agree to its
acquisition ; for, we repeat, it must be neutral ground, a position inde-
pendent of all political power, and under guarantee of all the states of
the civilized world. The 180th degree would traverse Cape Prince of
Wales, where it projects into Behring Strait, and this and the island
of Unalashka in the Aleutian Archipelago are the only points where it
would touch land. The United States, following the example of Italy,
might cede to the republic of science this cape or a part of Unalashka,
to be the site of an observatory in correlation with that of Levanzo.
--
THE STUDY OF PHYSICS IN THE SECONDARY
SCHOOLS.
By JOHN TKOWBKIDGE,
AS9ISTANT PROFESSOR OF PHYSICS IN HARVARD UNIVERSITY.
PHYSICS is a comprehensive term for the laws of the physical
universe, and is gradually superseding the old term natural phi-
losophy which held together in a disconnected manner various facts in
mechanics, light, heat, sound, electricity, and magnetism. Under the
head of Natural Philosophy most of us were taught that a body fall-
ing from the vertex of an inclined plane acquires the same velocity
as it would if it rolled down the plane. A considerable knowledge
of mathematics was required to prove this fact, and the youthful
mind could hardly see the bearing of it when it was demonstrated.
We were shown what we learned to call the falling machine of At-
wood, which proved simple laws with such ponderousness of structure
and complexity of appliances that even the name of the machine made
more impression upon the memory than the laws of which it was the
servant. The brightest boys could prove that the square of the ve-
locity of a falling body was equal to twice the acceleration of gravity
multiplied by the height through which it had fallen, and the rest of
us mutely followed the rule, and substituted in a formula which was
forgotten as soon as the exigencies of school life were over. We also
carried away vague recollections of a pump which worked by means
of a curiously constructed valve. We had forgotten whether the cen-
ter of gravity is where the center of pressure is applied, or where
specific gravity exerts itself. We remembered a tuning-fork, an elec-
trical machine, and a big electro-magnet which lifted the smallest boy
in school, and that was all that we remembered of natural philosophy.
At that very age most of us, if not all, were curious about air and
water, the motions of the earth and the moon, the light of the stars,
