STUDY OF PHYSICS IN SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 161
erally hard-worked in other ways. It is easy to theorize on the subject
of teaching science, especially physical science, in the second grade of
schools, but one should not forget the wearing nature of routine work
which is apt to deaden one's enthusiasm. One can not expect a teacher
to hold weekly talks with his pupils on force, or to rely upon treatises
which are merely descriptive, or to be patient with apparatus which,
by frequent use, seems almost puerile, without giving him also a com-
paratively rigid standard in the shape of a book by which he can ad-
vance in a more or less mechanical manner. Many teachers, therefore,
comply with the letter of the law, and with one of the many text-books
called Natural Philosophy shorten the popular exposition of the subject
to a minimum and demand a certain number of problems under the
lever, the screw, the inclined plane, and the pendulum. This mechani-
cal teaching succeeds to a certain extent with the bright boys of some
methematical tendencies ; but it fails with the great majority, who
speedily get a disgust for the whole subject. To add to the teachers'
difficulties, many of them have not a sufficient knowledge of the sub-
ject to enable them to courageously reject the descriptions of machines
with which many text-books are filled, in which the principles are lost
sight of in a multiplicity of levers, pulleys, and connecting pieces.
In teaching a language or a branch of mathematics in a grammar
school, one has all his materials ready at hand, a certain author, a
certain dictionary, a grammar. In teaching physical science, almost
every text-book requires to be supplemented by some apparatus
which is not provided with the text-book, and contrivances must be
resorted to, and judgment must be used in regard to aids in teach-
ing upon which experience seems to be very indefinite. There are
wide limits in regard to the cost of this or that piece of apparatus, and
difficulties in deciding between instrument-makers. Very often there
is no one available to repair an instrument, and the instruction has an
added tendency to become mechanical.
On the other hand, there are enthusiastic teachers who are imbued
with the modern popular method of teaching physics by the aid of a
lime-light stereopticon. Small appropriations are saved until an ex-
pensive instrument can be obtained ; and what may be called a college
course in physics is inaugurated in the second grade of schools. It is
a laudable ambition to desire to illustrate the subject of physics by
the method of projections ; but the policy of expending from one to
two hundred dollars for a lime-light for the use of a grammar or even
a high school is questionable.
Professor Mayer, in his excellent little books on the experimental
study of light and sound, shows how a water lantern can be con-
structed for three dollars, which answers every purpose ; and if there
is no sunlight one of the many forms of kerosene lanterns is admira-
ble for showing diagrams, the deflections of a galvanometer, crystalli-
zations, and minute experiments which a class could not otherwise see
TOL. XT. 11
