162 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
to advantage. With the aid of such a cheap method of projection, a
grammar school master can give quite an extended course in physics
with simple apparatus. He can draw his own diagrams on smoked
glass, fixing the drawing by exposing it to the vapor of alcohol, which
is evaporated from a shallow dish ; and for the money which is ex-
pended for a lime-light apparatus enough apparatus can be bought
which, supplemented by a water or a kerosene lantern, would illustrate
a full course of elementary lectures on physics. In many school col-
lections of apparatus, a few expensive instruments will be found : an
air-pump ; a Holtz electrical machine ; a large induction coil. One
or two of such instruments form the rallying point of the department
of physics, and are accompanied by meager and disjointed apparatus.
The student collects, so to speak, his thoughts about the picture of a
complicated machine ; his ideas of the pressure of gases or rarefied air
are complicated by the imperfect remembrance of certain valves. Elec-
tricity of high tension means something evoked by an electrical ma-
chine. These pieces of apparatus which I have mentioned form a
salient point of attack upon the system of instruction in physics too
common in many schools. A good air-pump is difficult to keep in
order, and finds its true place only in the private laboratory of an in-
vestigator, or in a college collection of apparatus. In the secondary
grade of schools some form of Sprengel's pump, or, where there is an
available head of water, an aspirator, will illustrate varying pressures
sufficiently well. The new Holtz machine which schools are anxious
to possess can only serve as a toy, for the theory of its working is
very hard to comprehend even by those who have studied the subject
in mature years.
The modern view of the physical universe is that there is no such
state as rest : the particles of a gas are in an incessant state of motion,
and it can be maintained that when a stone rests upon a table it is not
at rest ; for it is forced downward by the action of gravitation through
a very small distance, and the elasticity of its support tends to move
it upward through the same distance. The term statics is apt to be
misleading, and the best- writers on science of to-day begin treatises
on natural philosophy with the subject of dynamics or forces in mo-
tion. In no subject, however, is the division into statics and dynamics
so illogical as in the subject of electricity. In most schools a stu-
dent begins the study of this subject with frictional electricity and
the electrical machine. An advanced student in a university pursues
the opposite plan, and approaches the subject, even if it be for the
first time, from the standpoint of the voltaic cell, and traces the devel-
opment of the force up to the point of the generation of electricity
similar to that produced by an electrical machine. Very little knowl-
edge can be obtained from the exhibition of toys like dancing pith-
balls, insulated stools, miser's plates, and apparatus for obtaining
shocks.
