STUDY OF PHYSICS IiV SECONDARY SCHOOLS. 163
The method of instruction in physical science, therefore, in the
secondary grades of schools, seems to me to be too costly and not
sufficiently logical. The remedy does not consist in curtailing the
amount of attention paid to the subject in the lower schools, or in
relegating it to a more advanced period of education. It is more rea-
sonably embraced in leading teachers to seek simpler methods of in-
struction, simpler apparatus, and to avoid abstruse conceptions, and
the solution of mechanical problems for which mere formulas are
given. It would be well, also, if the best students are led to experi-
ment themselves, and are stimulated to observe. This is hardly pos-
sible in crowded grammar schools ; but the excellent little treatises of
Professor Mayer on experimental physics would lead many children,
under proper encouragement from their teachers, to try simple experi-
ments at home.
An ideal method of teaching physics in the secondary grade of
schools would consist in developing the whole subject from the stand-
point of motion, insisting upon the larger facts, correlating them as
far as possible, and neglecting special applications and special facts.
A number of interesting experiments can show that work must be done
in all cases to produce work, and that motion can be changed into heat,
and heat into motion. The student's mind should be tempted to take,
at the very beginning of his study of the subject, an extended view of
the application of the law of the conservation of energy. "While treat-
ing the subject of force, a little descriptive astronomy can be given
which will aid in stimulating the imagination. The subjects of heat
and acoustics can be taught purely under the head of mechanics, with
a variety of most interesting and simple experiments. I am inclined
to place the subject of electricity and magnetism under the same head ;
and, beginning with the fact that electricity is generated by a voltaic
cell, I should trace its simple manifestations until they conduct one to
the law that all motion can be converted into electricity, and that elec-
tricity can be entirely converted again into heat and light. Having
then shown that light can be produced by motion, the undulatory the-
ory can be cautiously introduced. As a review of the subject of phys-
ics, one could take as a text the impossibility of perpetual motion, and
enforce it with a variety of illustrations. The utility of the study of
physics in the grammar schools is often questioned, and indeed the
larger question of the value of scientific training except to the few in
the world at large is often mooted. There is no doubt that the study
of the humanities, in which the great story of men's deeds in the past
is recorded, will always prove the most fascinating to the majority ;
and it can be maintained with reason that those subjects which readily
excite an interest in the largest number will prove the readiest means
of intellectual training. Science is regarded by many scholars merely
as a practical branch of human knowledge, and, although its great
value in contributing to the good of the world is acknowledged, yet
