164 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
its study is regarded as inferior in intellectual results to that of lan-
guage or philosophy. It can not be denied, however, that the study
of physical science gives a certain definiteness to our modes of think-
ing, even if it will not be granted that it affords a better method of
intellectual training than philological study. It supplies a tonic which
minds much accustomed, from the exclusive study of language, to
take things for granted and to look no further than the grammar and
dictionary stand much in need of, and also corrects a certain credu-
lity and superstition which is rampant, even in our time, and to which
it is well to devote a few words in connection with the subject of
scientific training. There is a strong undercurrent of superstition
and belief in supersensible or wonderful and not-to-be-explained mar-
vels which makes its way beneath the crust of society. Occasionally
it bursts forth in so-called manifestations of spiritualism and animal
magnetism, or belief in mesmerism and clairvoyance. There is hardly
a family of which some member has not applied to a clairvoyant for
relief in diseases which the regular practitioner has failed to treat
successfully. A literary education does not cope successfully with
the insidious advances of this form of ignorance ; for the very ele-
ment of education which can do so is not generally cultivated among
even so-called liberally educated persons. This lost element is the
spirit of investigation. The students who come to a physical labora-
tory for the first time can be rapidly classified into three classes : 1.
Those who can reason from A to B over what may be termed a
straight line with considerable ease. 2. Those who naturally reverse
their process of reasoning and test the way from B to A; this is a
rarer class of minds. Copernicus was unable to explain the motions
of the planets by supposing that all the visible stars revolved around
the earth ; he reversed his process of reasoning, and explained the
facts by supposing the earth to turn and the stars to remain at rest.
Kant, in his " Critique of Pure Reason," speaks of the revolution which
he had brought about in philosophy, and likens it to the logical process
which led Copernicus to his discovery. "Hitherto," he says, "it had
been assumed that all our knowledge must regulate itself according to
the objects ; but all attempts to make anything out of them a priori,
through notions whereby our knowledge might be enlarged, proved,
under this supposition, abortive. Let us, then, try for once whether
we do not succeed better with the problems of metaphysics, by assum-
ing that the objects must regulate themselves according to our knowl-
edge, a mode of viewing the subject which accords so much better with
the desired possibility of a knowledge of them a priori, which must
decide something concerning objects before they are given us." In
practical matters this process of reversals is often exemplified ; the
inventor of the sewing-machine finds that his needle will not work with
the eye at one end, and accordingly reverses its position and is suc-
cessful. 3. The third class comprises those who may be said to think
