THE UNITED STATES LIFE-SAVING SERVICE. 187
Fig. 6. Lyle Gun.
rying a twenty-four-pound, elongated projectile, with a maximum
range of 473 yards. The Lyle gun, which has superseded these, is of
bronze, smooth . bore, weighing 185 pounds, with a cylindrical line-
carrying shot weighing seventeen pounds, and a range of 695 yards.
The reduction in weight over the lightest previous ordnance is 110
pounds, and the increase in range over the old eprouvette is 274 yards.
Other advantages of the Lyle gun are its strength, owing to the
tenacity and ductility of its material, its freedom from corrosion, and
its exemption from the erosive action of gases, there being little wind-
age, and from wear by the projectile, this being nearly the length of
the bore. The projectile has a shank protruding four inches from the
muzzle of the gun, to an eye in which the line is tied a device which
prevents the line from being
burned off by the ignited
gases in firing. The shot-
line is made of unbleached
linen thread, very closely
and smoothly braided, is
waterproofed, and has great
elasticity, which tends to in-
sure it against breaking. The
lines in use are of varying thicknesses, according to circumstances,
ranging from one eighth to three eighths of an inch, and their length
varies from 500 to 700 yards. The shot-line is carried in a faking-box
a wooden chest with handles for convenience in carrying. There
are two or three sizes in use, the dimensions of the largest being about
three feet long by one and a half wide, and a foot deep. Connected
with it is a frame, a little
larger than the box, with a
row of wooden pins set ver-
tically into its four sides. A
false bottom, which is a tab-
let of wood pierced with
holes corresponding to the
pins, is let down over them
until it reaches their bases,
and rests upon the frame.
In disposing the shot-line,
the faker begins at the cor-
ner, and coils it in successive diagonal loops or fakes over the pins,
layer above layer, until the line is completely rove. The box is
then let down over the pins, and fastened at each end to the
frame. It is now ready for transportation to the scene of a wreck.
When brought there, it is turned upside down, disclosing the false
bottom, with the frame superimposed upon it. Two men, one at each
end of the box, release the fastenings, and, each pressing his foot upon
Fig,
7 Method op withdrawing Frame and Pins
from Shot-Line in Faking-Box.
