4 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
leagues a second. From well-established principles and from facts made
known by recent experimental researches of Edlund and Zollner, it is
evident that immense currents of electricity would circulate around each
mighty orb, but in different directions. On the most stupendous scale
the two suns, or the sun and its great planetary attendant, would thus
acquire magnetism, but have opposite polarities ; and, in moving around
their common center of gravity, they would exert over a wide domain
the peculiar phenomenon which is but feebly manifested by a rotating
horseshoe magnet.
Though the calorific effects of the encounters of great spheres have
monopolized the attention of modern scientists, many facts show that
mechanical action of the most extreme violence is attended with a larger
conversion of energy into electricity and magnetism, and that in the case
under consideration these forces must be developed on a more gigantic
scale than heat and light. On the fall of a meteorite to the sun after a
long course through his atmosphere on November 1, 1859, a disturbance
occurred in terrestrial magnetism so quick and remarkable as to excite
much attention at several stations of Europe and America. Even this
circumstance alone would give grounds for a very high estimate of the
magnetic agency called into being, if an amount of matter more than a
thousand times that contained in our globe were hurled almost horizon-
tally over a solar surface with a velocity of two or three hundred miles
a second.
The consequences of the movements of the two great bodies, with
the new properties which they assume in these convulsive stages, may
be accurately traced by the aid of scientific principles for which Arago
furnished a basis in 1825. Observing that, in the neighborhood of
copper, water, glass, and other substances, a magnetic needle had its
oscillations curtailed in the same manner as if it encountered the resist-
ance of a medium, he endeavored to unravel the mystery by additional
experiments, and was finally led to the discovery of magnetism of rota-
tion. The researches which he commenced were continued successfully
by Babbage, by Sir John Herschel, and others ; it was found that a
horseshoe magnet rotating around its axis would impart its circular
motion to disks of copper with which it had no connection ; but the
inquiry was carried still further by Faraday, who proved all the effects
on the electrical development attending the movement. Reasoning
from what is known of such kinds of action, it is evident that the rapid
revolution of the two great magnetized orbs could not sensibly affect
the motion of preexisting planets nor even of asteroids in the solar sys-
tem ; but it would alter much the courses and velocities of meteorites
and meteoric dust ; and it would be likely to make its influence felt in
whirling the nebulous matter supplied by comets or separated from the
equator of the greater central sun. At that theatre of violence, the
matter would be dissociated perhaps into the sub-elements of Lockyer,
and it would be quickly spread around, along the equatorial plane; so
