Fig. 9. Crotch, Hawser, and Sand-Anchor.
THE UNITED STATES LIFE-SAVING SEE VICE. 189
made of two pieces of wood, three by two inches thick and ten feet
long, crossed near the top, so as to form a sort of X, and bolted to-
gether, is erected, and the
shore end of the hawser is
drawn over the intersection.
A sand-anchor, composed of
two pieces of hard wood, six
feet long, eight inches wide,
and two inches thick, crossed
at their centers, bolted to-
gether, and furnished at the
center with a stout iron ring,
is laid obliquely in a trench
dug behind the crotch. An
iron hook, from which runs
a strap of rope, having at its
other end an iron ring called
a bull's-eye, is now fastened
into the ring of the sand-
anchor. This strap connects
by the bull's-eye with a double pulley-block at the end of the hawser
behind the crotch, by which the hawser is drawn and kept taut. The
trench is solidly filled in, and the imbedded sand-anchor, held by the
lateral strain against the side of the trench, sustains the slender bridge
of rope constituted by the hawser.
If there are a large number of persons to be saved, the life-car is
used. This is a covered boat of galvanized sheet-iron, eleven feet
four inches long, four feet eight inches wide, and three feet deep,
weighing 225 pounds, which
will hold six or seven per-
sons. It is covered with a
hatch, and has a few per-
forations made in the top
from the inside, which ad-
mit air, while their raised
edges exclude water. It is
suspended on the hawser
by bails and rings, to which
are also attached the haul-
ing-lines, all these ropes being arranged to it before the hawser
is fastened behind tbe crotch. It is evident that, by pulling on one
part of the hauling-line, the life-saving crew can send out the sus-
pended life-car to the vessel above the surface of the sea, and, when
it has received its load, draw it back to the shore by pulling on the
other part. Its use has been uniformly successful, 201 persons hav-
ing been saved by it from the immigrant ship Ayrshire at its first
Fig. 10. Life-Car, with Hawser and Hahling-Lines.
