THE UNITED STATES LIFE-SAVING SERVICE. 191
cordage, the difference in weight between the two with their append-
ages amounting to over 500 pounds. It consists of a common circu-
lar life-preserver of cork, seven and a half feet in circumference, to
which short canvas breeches are attached. Four rope lanyards fast-
ened to this circle of cork meet above in an iron ring, which is at-
tached by a strap around a block, with composition sheaves, and is
Fig. 12. Using the Breeches-Buoy with Hauling-Line without Hawser and Traveling
Block.
called a traveler. The hawser passes through this block, and the sus-
pended breeches-buoy is drawn between ship and shore by hauling-
lines, like the life-car. At each trip it receives but one person, who
gets into it, sitting, holding to the lanyards, sustained by the canvas
saddle, with his legs dangling below, and is pulled swiftly ashore.
When there is imminent danger of the breaking up of the vessel,
and great haste is required for the rescue, the hawser is sometimes dis-
pensed with, one part of the hauling-line being used for the buoy to
travel upon.
The apparatus having to be drawn by the men where horses are not
accessible, a hand-cart is provided for this purpose, strongly built, with
large wheels having five-inch tires to keep them as much as possible
from sinking into the sand. The surf-boat is dragged in the same way
on its carriage.
A medicine-chest is furnished for each station. It contains wine
and brandy, mustard plasters, volatile salts, probangs, and a few other
simple remedies and appliances for reviving exhausted persons or aid-
ing to restore those apparently drowned, printed directions for the use
of which are pasted within the lid of each chest. A method of resus-
citation is published in the regulations of the service, which is also
practically taught to every member of the crews by the visiting sur-
geon. The method is that of Dr. Benjamin Howard, of New York,
with certain modifications by Dr. John M. Woodworth, late Supervis-
ing Surgeon-General of the U. S. Marine Hospital Service. Its ex-
treme simplicity of application and great general utility merit for it
a particular description. It begins with the attempt to arouse the
patient, who must not be removed, unless there is danger of his freez-
ing, but his face exposed to the fresh air, the mouth and nostrils wiped
