THE UNITED STATES LIFE-SAVING SERVICE.
!93
gradually increased from four to fifteen times in a minute, and with
the regularity observable in the natural motions of breathing which
are thus imitated. If natural breathing is not restored in three or four
minutes, the patient is turned a second time upon the stomach in an
opposite direction from that in which he was first turned, the object
being to free the air-passages from any remaining water. The artificial
Fig. 14. Tiie Position and Action of the Operator in producing Artificial Respiration.
respiration is then resumed and continued if necessary from one to four
hours, or until the patient breathes, and when life appears the first short
gasps are carefully aided by the same method. From the first, if as-
sistants are present, the limbs of the patient are rubbed, always in an
upward direction toward the body and with firmness and energy, the
bare' hands being used, or dry flannels or handkerchiefs, and the fric-
tion kept up under blankets, or over dry clothing. The warmth of the
body is also promoted whenever possible by the application of hot flan-
nels to the stomach and armpits, and bottles or bladders of hot water,
or heated bricks, to the limbs and the soles of the feet. As soon as
breathing is established, the patient is stripped of all wet clothing,
wrapped in blankets only, put to bed comfortably warm, but with a
free circulation of fresh air, and left to perfect rest. For the first hour
a little hot brandy-and-water, or other stimulant, is given every ten or
fifteen minutes, and as often afterward as may be expedient. After re-
action is established the patient is in great danger of congestion of the
lungs, and unless perfect rest is maintained for at least forty-eight
hours he may be seized with difficulty of breathing, and death ensue if
immediate relief is not afforded. In such cases a large mustard plaster
is placed upon his chest, and, if he gasps for breath before the mustard
takes effect, his breathing is assisted by the careful repetition of the ar-
tificial respiration. In connection with this process the surfmen are
VOL. XT. 13
