i 9 8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ing it, perhaps for a nefarious purpose. You write a document of the
most private character ; you shut it up in a locked drawer ; it affects
the character of many persons ; it would be treason to morality to
publish that document in the newspapers. There is nothing to hinder,
so far as we know the laws of this newly invented spirit world *
there is nothing to hinder any disembodied spirits who are about from
getting access to the paper, and having it published in the newspa-
pers. But here I say on the other hand and this is the result of ex-
perience it has been shown that this can not be done.
Having alluded to the incident of a 100 note being left in a sealed
envelope in the Bank of England, the owner having promised to give
it up to any spiritualist who could tell the number, but for which no
application was received, Professor Gairdner proceeded : It was in
some way or other impossible, apparently, for the spirits, greater or
less, although it was asserted that they were able to reveal the secrets
of one man's heart to another, to read the number of that note in these
circumstances. I say that it was not only in fact impossible, but I say
this, that, had it in fact been possible, it would have shown a state of
matters which, humanly speaking, would have been subversive of the
divine order. It would have entirely destroyed that system of law
by which we know that, in a way which is absolutely wonderful and
absolutely inscrutable, spirit does communicate with matter, .as we
know, every day of our lives in this world. The state of mind of the
persons who come prepared to believe these things who come to the
investigation of them with previously established ideas, who regard
doubt or hesitation as I would say, a sin, but let us rather say an
error, and a sure way of keeping manifestations back, while open-
mouthed credulity is the only frame of mind in which to come to the
investigation ; the state of mind of such persons who, I believe, may
be numbered in thousands, and possibly in millions, in this country
and in America is, to my idea, a diseased state of mind. I admit
fully that many of these persons are apparently able to conduct their
own affairs. I freely admit that many of them are very moral and
well-intentioned persons. I am equally inclined to believe that this
Mr. Allan Kardec, within certain limits which I can not attempt to
define, was a truthful man. But that does not hinder me from be-
lieving that there is disease at the bottom of these things, and it is a
disease of the faculty of wonder, by which that faculty, intended for
the noblest purposes in the organization of the human mind, is per-
verted to some of the lowest of all purposes, and even to the abetting
* The preceding portion of the lecture shows by extracts from the works of spiritual-
ists, and especially of Allan Kardec, that according to these authorities lying, mischiev-
ous, and impish spirits everywhere abound, and are permitted to play their pranks freely
for the delusion of those who are willing to 1>c deluded ; whereby the thorough going
'spiritualist finds no difficulty in explaining, according to his theory, proved instances of
absurdity or imposture.
