OF THE FACULTY OF WONDER. i 99
of trickery. One other thing I had on my lips to say the other night,
but I did not say it then, and I am not quite sure that I should do so
now ; therefore I can only indicate it very slightly. It is that this
conclusion as to the diseased nature of these manifestations, so far as
the mind of the recipient is concerned, was impressed upon me at a
very early period during the epidemic of manifestations of electro-
biology as it was called then in 1851 in Edinburgh. I had a dear
friend, since dead, and dead under circumstances that no injury to
him or any one else can be brought about by telling the story. He
was of a bad constitution originally. He had entered on the study of
medicine, and with such ardor had he taken up the branch of physi-
ology that I regarded him as likely to be one of the greatest physi-
ological inquirers of the day. I had not only respect for him as one
of my pupils, but I had for him a feeling of regard and love. He was
drawn into the vortex of Dr. Gregory's drawing-room exhibitions, and
his case appears in Dr. Gregory's book ; I knew it was disease ; I felt
it was disease. He was made to go out- of himself ; he was made to
wander here, there, and everywhere ; he was made to converse with
all the philosophers of ancient Greece with Aristotle, with Socrates,
and with Plato, and to tell what they said to him. He then took a
somewhat serious illness, and I became his medical attendant, and for
a time he was under my care alone. The persons who had obtained
this strange influence over him still kept coming about him, but at last
I had to forbid their presence. He got over his illness, and became
so far better, and they then again attempted to catch him, but failed.
Their power had gone, or almost gone, and only the poorer class of
manifestations could be produced, and ultimately none of them could
be produced, and for a considerable time after that he continued in
better health. But the essentially diseased character of the whole
thing was plain from this, that within a year or two he showed mani-
festations of actual insanity. The poor fellow excited my sympathy,
and I made an effort to save him. I took him to London, got him to
apply himself to histology, and tried to excite all his better and scien-
tific predilections. But the morbid tendency was too strong, and ulti-
mately he ended his days within the walls of an asylum. I do not
mean to say that Dr. Gregory made him mad. That would be wrong.
I do not think that was so, because he was better for a good while
after that, but I mean to say that the tendency of these things in a
constitution hereditarily predisposed to insanity is to insanity, or as
Shakespeare has put it in the mouth of King Lear, when conscious
that he is himself upon the giddy verge, " That way madness lies."
