200 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ARE EXPLOSIONS IN COAL MINES PREVENTABLE?
By FRANCIS R. CONDER, C. E.
THE heaviest tax that can be imposed upon a nation is one that is
paid in human lives. From whatever point of view the subject
may be regarded, this conclusion is irresistible. If we look at it ac-
cording to purely economical considerations, we may obtain very
remarkable results. It has been estimated that an actual money cost
of 300 is incurred in raising a boy, cradled among the poorest classes,
from birth to manhood. It does not require us to ascend very high in
the social scale before we find that this estimate must be trebled. If
we take what we may call the cost price of the human unit at any
definite time, say at 500 on arriving at maturity, the producing power
of the unit in question will bear some relation to that sum ; the more
costly and careful education producing, as a rule, the more valuable
result, as to productive power. If the laborer who earns 14s. or 15s. a
week adds 50 per annum to the wealth of the country, the physician,
the scientific military or naval officer, the barrister, or the engineer,
may look forward to the time when his yearly labor will be worth
more than a hundred times that amount, even if appraised only by the
price he is actually paid for his time. Taking any producing indi-
vidual, whether valued at 50 or at 5,000 per annum, at any period
of his career, no income tax to which he can be subjected can approach
in its pressure the extravagant tax of death, For the payment of that
tax at once annihilates the total earning power of which there was,
until that moment, a fair mathematical expectation.
The tax upon human life which is caused by war is one as to which
philosophers and philanthropists have long written, and as to which
generation after generation has complacently declared its own advance
on its barbarous ancestors ; although generation after generation has
too often seen increasing holocausts offered on the altar of battle, with
continually less and less excuse the word justification it is too often
but a mockery to use. We have seen, not so very long ago, that peace
has its death tax as well as war. And we wish to call attention to a
tax of this nature which, as far back as statistics have been collected,
appears to be paid in this country with a grim and appalling regu-
larity.
Regularity, that is to say, when viewed in the light of statistical
returns. From any other point of view the deaths of which we speak
occur with the most frightful and unexpected caprice. There may be
a period of months during which none of the calamities which quietly
occur are brought under public notice. Then there may be a terrific
telegram, and an announcement in the largest letters used by the daily
press, " Frightful calamity at a coal mine sixty lives lost ! " Again,
