THE ORIGIN OF WORLDS. 5
that the electro-magnetic power would be favored with a good conductor
for extending its control to great distances, and its effects can be traced
without having recourse to any unwarranted assumptions respecting the
passage of electricity through an absolute vacuum or through interstel-
lar space.
The operation of such an agency in the heavens is shown by re-
searches of a different character. M. Gaston Plante, of Paris, has been
led by experimental evidence alone to ascribe the form of the spiral
nebulae to electro-magnetic action ; as their peculiar features correspond
exactly to that which he produced by powerful electric currents under
the controlling influence of a magnet. But the influence of the same
forces is strongly impressed on the form of another class of nebulous
objects. By investigations similar to those of Laplace in regard to the
possible extent of the solar atmosphere, it may be proved that a rare
gas surrounding a dense nucleus and with a uniform rotation could not
be compressed in a greater degree than to show a thickness two thirds
of its equatorial dimensions. Yet in many nebula? with a central con-
densation the greater diameter is more than four times the less, and this
would seem to indicate the operation of some force like dynamic elec-
tricity acting along the plane of the equator of these rarefied objects.
The evidence on this point will seem stronger when we recollect that
observation gives only an inadequate picture of the effects of this cause ;
as, in consequence of the position in which they are viewed, planetary
nebula? scarcely ever exhibit the full amount of their ellipticity or com-
pression.
Other facts assist in revealing the nature of the forces at work in
these celestial curiosities. Judging from peculiarities they present in
the spectroscope, Lockyer and Frankland have concluded that several
of the nebula? must possess an exceedingly low temperature. Yet it is
difficult to conceive that such cold, rarefied masses could be self-luminous,
or that they could be visible to us even when surrounding a central sun,
for gases have but a very feeble power of reflecting light. The diffi-
culty, however, may be removed by supposing that the visibility of
these nebula? depends on the passage through them of electricity devel-
oped in some dark or bright binary system on the incorporation of the
lesser with the greater orb. In this way an explanation may be found
for the mysterious and unaccountable variations in the brightness of
these objects. From the careful observations of Hind, D' Arrest, and
other astronomers, it has been shown that, in a few cases, nebula? have
declined in light so as to become invisible, but reappeared after a time ;
thus exhibiting changes equally fatal to the ideas that they are congre-
gations of stars or collections of fire-mist gradually cooling and condens-
ing into planetary systems. But the mystery will be removed when we
regard their light as dependent on the electro-magnetic action already
described ; for in its latter stages, especially when the tides on the
smaller member of the binary were drawing to a close, there would be
