EXPLOSIONS IN COAL MINES. 2 c 7
This points to the inquiry, What is the true source of light ? From
what materials, as matter of principle, and apart from any question of
the state of the science of illumination at the moment, is artificial lisht
more certainly to be obtained ?
To that question the reply is simple. We know, as matter of
chemistry, what kind of combustion produces the greatest amount of
light, as we also know what produces the greatest amount of heat.
The two are by no means identical. Light can not be produced with-
out the liberation of heat. On the other hand, a very high degree of
heat can be developed when, little or no light is produced. As matter
of principle, this is the key to the question now to be reviewed.
We need not at the moment step aside to inquire into the future
of the electric light. As to the cost at. which that elegant source of
concentrated brilliancy may be maintained, we are in the way of hav-
ing experimental proof. The first great trial in London, that of the
Jablochkoff candles at Billingsgate Market, has proved a failure, as
regards both the quantity and the quality of the light produced, as
well as with reference to the cost of production, and has in conse-
quence been abandoned. But, be the cost of producing an equal quan-
tity of light by the new or the old fashioned process of combustion
the greater, the former is out of the question as far as coal mines are
concerned. A brilliant light at the bottom of the shaft would of course
be a great desideratum. But no one who has studied the plan of the
workings of a coal mine can fail to be aware that nothing will super-
sede the miner's lamp. Each man who works at the face must be pro-
vided with his own light ; and no general illumination, were such
possible, would make up for the want of this. In vast underground
caverns, such as that of the Peak, in Derbyshire, or such as those of
some of the Cheshire salt mines, a brilliant and concentrated light
may, no doubt, be extremely effective. But in speaking of the work-
ing of collieries, whether in the " long wall " system or on any modifi-
cation of the " pillar and stall," we must look to such a lamp as each
miner can carry for himself.
In speaking of illumination, we are as yet without any unit of
light. Our measurements in this respect are made pretty much by
rule of thumb. The sperm candle, burning or supposed to burn at the
rate of one hundred and twenty grammes per hour, is our nominal unit.
In ascertaining the illuminative power of gas, two of these candles are
used by way of measure. But there is no check as to the accuracy of
their consumption. The use of a screen made diaphanous in one por-
tion by a little grease enables the analyst to form a very accurate
appreciation of the illuminative power of two lights. The screen is
placed between the two, and moved backward or forward until the
spot caused by the grease vanishes, which is the case when the inten-
sity of the transmitted is exactly equal to that of the reflected light.
By accurately measuring the distances, and applying the rule that the
