208 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
intensity of the radiant center is inversely proportionate to the square
of the distance from the screen, a very reliable comparison is attain-
able. But the weak point is the variable and ill-defined character of
the unit of comparison. In the French experiments this defect is to a
great extent avoided by the use of a Carcel lamp, which not only is
intended to consume a given quantity of oil per hour, but is further
weighed at the commencement and at the close of each observation, so
that a correction is made in case of any variation in the actual com-
bustion. Still, the Carcel lamp is an arbitrary unit. It is equal to
about 9/6 English standard sperm candles ; but when we have said
that, we have only compared one arbitrary unit with another. In the
case of the unit of heat, although it has been arrived at in terms of
capacity (as regards the water heated) and of Fahrenheit's thermome-
ter, which is in itself an arbitrary scale, it so happens that the Joule
equivalent is exactly equal to the quantity of heat that is liberated by
the combustion (if chemically perfect) of half a grain of carbon. If
we take the same unit for the measurement of light, it must further
be specified that the combustion of the carbon must be so effected as
to produce carbonic acid and not carbonic oxide, and that it must take
place in atmospheric air, and not in pure oxygen, or any other medium.
That being borne in mind, it is probable that the combustion of a defi-
nite quantity of carbon would prove a better measure of light than
any that has yet been tried. It would, at all events, link the phenom-
ena of luminiferous to those of calorific combustion, and afford a
ready means of detecting waste of illuminative power.
Various analyses have been given of ordinary coal-gas. Indeed,
not only does that gas vary according to the quality of the coal from
which it is- produced, but it differs according to the process by which
it is produced from coal of the same quality. Experts are divided,
for example, as to the degrees of heat at which it is best to effect the
distillation of coal-gas. But for our present inquiry it is enough to
assume the composition of coal-gas as analyzed by Mr. Vernon Har-
court, who gives the proportions of fifty-eight per cent, of carbon and
twenty-three per cent, of hydrogen. The details are given by Mr. D.
K. Clark, in his invaluable work, the " Manual of Rules, Tables, and
Data for Mechanical Engineers." Of this gas thirty cubic feet, at the
temperature of 62 Fahr., weigh one pound. And the heating power
of one pound of this gas (chemically speaking) is given by the same
analyst at 22,684 British units of heat, of which sixty- three per cent.
is due to the combustion of the hydrogen, and thirty-seven per cent,
to that of the carbon. It thus follows that coal-gas is far more highly
effective as a fuel than it is as a source of illumination. Other analy-
ses give a yet higher proportion of hydrogen, the heat-giving element.
There is, however, a mineral fuel in which this distribution of the
elements is very different. Petroleum is a natural fluid, consisting of
hydrogen and carbon, which has been distilled in the great laboratory
