EXPLOSIONS IN COAL MINES. 209
of nature, and which exists in large qxiantities in various parts of the
world. It is, comparatively speaking, a very recent discovery. The
first well was sunk in Pennsylvania in 1858. The first " flowing well,"
or bore hole from which the rock oil flows naturally, dates in 1861.
From that date the annual production has increased with marvelous
rapidity. In 1878 it was computed that several hundred million gal-
lons were annually raised, although only about one-half per cent, of
the 2,000 square miles of area in which the mineral oil is to be found
was then worked. The oil is also known to exist in Virginia, in Ohio,
in Kentucky, in California, in Canada, in South America, in China, in
Japan, in Java, on the north coast of Africa, in Italy, France, Austria,
Wallachia, Turkey, and Russia. There is every reason to suppose
that an unfailing supply might be obtained by boring in the valley of
the Jordan, in which rapid stream masses of bitumen are often found
borne down to the salt waters of the Dead Sea. On the shores of the
Caspian it is found in such abundance that it is used as fuel for steam-
ers. At Cheeriley, about twenty-five miles to the west of Kertch, it
is stated by Mr. Ross * that there are five wells owned by an English-
man, two of which produce about one hundred and thirty-five barrels
of petroleum daily. Bitumen and bituminous shales producing oil are
to be found in every country of Europe, and there is good reason to
suppose that the existing stores of the liquid mineral are no less ample
than those of the solid beds of coal.
As to cost, the crude petroleum oil is sold at the mouth of the wells,
in Pennsylvania, at from 10s. to 15s. per ton, or from \d. to f d. per
gallon. The refined petroleum at New York is worth about Qd. per
gallon, but half of this is the price of the casks or other vessels that
contain it. If a large and steady demand were to set up, it would be
easy to construct ships of which the hold should be composed of a
series of air-tight compartments, in wrought iron, into which the oil
might be turned directly by means of mains, like gas or water mains
in our cities, and from which it might be pumped on its arrival in the
Thames or in the Mersey. The cost of the delivery of this liquid fuel
may thus be expected to be, hereafter, less per ton than that of coal.
It only needs the first expense, that of sinking the shaft. It will then
mine itself, raise itself, carry itself, and may be made to load itself on
shipboard. As to the cost of the process of refinement, we are with-
out adequate information. But, in the event of a brisk demand for the
refined oil, there can be little doubt that the usual course of manufac-
turing industry would be followed, and that an economical method
would be applied.
It is thus of interest to compare the respective properties of coal,
coal-gas, and petroleum, both as regards their lighting and their heat-
ing capacities, as far as the present state of definite scientific informa-
tion attainable will allow us to do so.
* "Minutes of Proceedings of the Institution of Civil Engineers," vol. xl., p. 150.
vol. xv. 14
