212 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
For luminif erous purposes we have seen that there is no comparison
between the consumption of crude coal and that of coal-gas. Allowing
the mean proportion of 10,000 cubic feet of gas to the ton of coal
which we have before taken, the consumption of an ordinary gas-
burner, whether an argand or a fish-tail, is about five cubic feet per
hour, giving a light of from twelve to sixteen candles, according to
the richness of the gas. If we take Mr. Vernon Harcourt's analysis,
thirty cubic feet, or one pound of gas, contains 4,060 grains of carbon.
Five cubic feet therefore contain 67 - 6 grains, which will be the hourly
consumption of pure carbon in an ordinary gas-light.
Petroleum, however, contains from eighty-two to eighty-seven per
cent, of carbon, and from eleven to fifteen per cent, of hydrogen.
Averaging this at eighty-four per cent, of the former and thirteen of
the latter, a pound of petroleum contains 6,080 grains of carbon and
910 grains of hydrogen. Its luminif erous power is thus almost exactly
fifteen times that of coal-gas, taking equal weights. Its calorific power,
supposing a perfect combustion, will be ten per' cent, less than that
according to Mr. Vernon Harcourt's estimate, and less than half that
of the highest estimate given by Mr. Clark.
It is thus as clear as any deduction from chemical data can be, that
while the economy in the use of coal-gas as a source of heat is so great
as to render it worth while to keep up the distillation of this product,
as now carried on, for calorific purposes alone, even exclusive of its use
for a light, for the purposes of illumination petroleum offers an im-
mense advantage over coal-gas, its illuminating powers being as much
as fifteen-fold. And when we are speaking, not of an organized sys-
tem of fixed lights, but of the convenience of a hand lamp, the price
and the illuminative value of petroleum indicate it as the source of the
economical light of the future. In fact, its light-giving power is ten
per cent, more than that of either tallow or olive-oil, and four per
cent, more than that of wax, weight for weight, notwithstanding the
great difference in price.
The question of the miner's safety, then, resolves itself into the
construction of a petroleum lamp, which shall have the safety of the
" Geordie," while giving the light of one, or even of tAvo or three fish-
tail burners of gas, and which shall be so made as neither to empty nor
to be extinguished if laid on the side.
It is desirable, in an inquiry of this nature, to avoid anything that
assumes the appearance of advertisement, or of an attempt to introduce
anything of a commercial bearing. For that reason less must be said
than honestly and fairly might be said as to the principles on which
such a lamp may be unquestionably constructed. Two or three patents
exist, which would require due consideration. It is always, indeed,
doubtful how far recent patents will stand the test of thorough inves-
tigation. The latest patents for electric lighting are now found, in
many cases, to be reproductions of methods long since introduced and
