6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
occasional interruptions in the production of electricity and in its pas-
sage into space.
In ascribing to meteors an important part in the train of events
which these widely extended forces are capable of producing, it is not
necessary to adopt the extravagant estimates which were made of the
numbers of these vagrant bodies in order to support a recently exploded
theory in regard to the origin of celestial light. According to some
eminent scientists, the amount of meteoric matter which falls to the
sun's surface every year would increase his diameter annually about
two hundred and forty feet, and it would exceed the mass of Mars. But
from their occasional falls to the earth, and from other facts, it may be
safely concluded that the number of meteors which become tenants of
the solar dominions in the course of one or two millions of years, would
afford material enough to form a planet as large as the earth, even if
half their numbers could be made to unite into one bodv, instead of
being allowed to rove indiscriminately through the system and to fall
to the larger spheres. Now, the arrangement necessary for such a union
would arise in our supposed binary system from the movement of the
two suns in their magnetized condition around their common center of
gravity. The powerful display of electro-magnetism succeeding each
stage of dismemberment would gradually bring the majority of all the
wandering meteors into the same plane, and give them orbits of a larger
size and constantly approaching nearer to a circular form. Though
constantly declining, this force must, during many thousand centuries,
exert a predominant sway over meteors and comets, collecting them on
the verge of the binary system in such numbers and in such a regular
array that their aggregation into one body, though long deferred, would
be inevitable. A nucleus once formed would increase by appropriating
matter from the zone which it traversed, and, though at first much re-
tarded in its growth, it would after many thousand revolutions attain a
planetary size. Being largely composed of gaseous matter and there-
fore very sensitive to the resistance of a space-pervading medium, the
newly formed planet would contract its large orbit; and room would be
thus made for bringing into being another mundane structure when,
after the lapse of millions of centuries, another paroxysmal stage of
incorporation awakened electric energy and prepared the way for a new
coalition of the vagrant matter of the celestial regions. After number-
less ages the recurrence of the dismemberment would give existence to
another planetary orb, and increase the mass of the preexisting ones.
Accordingly, the verge of a solar system must be considered as the birth-
place of all its primary worlds.
It is evidently in this external zone, where solar attraction is most
feeble, that we may hope to find the most favorable conditions for the
union of small into large masses. In the asteroidal region two spheres
of granite, having each a diameter of one hundred miles, could not con-
trol the velocity with which they would sweep by one another on meet-
