2i 4 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
CHEMISTEY IX ITS BELATIONS TO MEDICINE*
By IEA KEMSEN,
PROFESSOR OF CHEMISTRY IN THE JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY.
IF we look back over the field of chemistry, we find that we can
easily discern well-characterized periods in its development. At
first, in this subject, as in all others, came the period of chaos, during
which relations of similar facts were not recognized nor suspected. No
defined object was in view; and the development during this period
was due almost entirely to accidental observations of facts which
presented themselves to men in pursuing their ordinary occupations.
Gradually we find that a certain class of men began to make use of
chemical facts, as far as they were then known, for a very definite
purjDose. This was, to convert ordinary base metals into that metal
which possessed the greatest value gold. This purpose gave a pow-
erful incentive to the study of chemical phenomena, and, under the
influence of the natural passion which affected a comparatively large
number of men, the subject of chemistry grew apace. But the impos-
sibility of accomplishing the great problem of the alchemists became
more and more apparent. No gold was made from baser metals, and
no genuine philosopher's stone was discovered ; no panacea for all dis-
eases was revealed. A reaction in scientific opinion then began, which
led to very much modified views concerning the purpose of chemistry,
until about the time of Paracelsus, who was both physician and chem-
ist, we find that the opinion prevailed very generally, among those
who were most active in investigating chemical phenomena, that the
changes which take place in the animal body, under normal conditions,
are nothing but chemical changes ; that a disturbance of these normal
changes causes the different varieties of disease; and, finally, that the
treatment of disease nvust consist in administering such chemical sub-
stances as would restore the normal conditions. Paracelsus started
these ideas, and others developed them, until they took the exaggerated
form comprised in the above statements. According to these ideas,
medicine was considered as a branch of chemistry, very much as met-
allurgy is now considered as a branch of chemistry. Hence the physi-
cians of the date of which I am speaking i. e., from the early part of
the sixteenth until some time in the seventeenth century regarded
chemistry as the one important subject for those who were to deal with
disease. Without a knowledge of this subject they could not com-
prehend the processes of life; without it they could not understand
disease; without it they could not intelligently administer remedies.
* From the Animal Address delivered before the Medical and Chirurgical Faculty of
Maryland.
