zi8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
mitted us to take a survey of the field, we should find that the proof
could be made conclusive.
But the discovery of new substances to be used as remedies does
not furnish the only bond of connection between medicine and chem-
istry. Nor is it by any means the most important one. For, as the
tendency of the present generation of physicians is, I think, to rely
less and less upon the action of drugs and chemicals, and to pay more
and more attention to the circumstances surrounding the patient, so
the discovery of purely remedial agents is becoming day by day of less
importance, and the accurate study of those substances which we all
necessarily make use of air, water, food in its various forms is be-
coming the great problem in medicine. Thank Heaven ! the day of
the old woman who knows what is " good for " everything is waning.
She exists still in a thousand forms, sometimes in skirts and sometimes
in trousers, but the natural growth of modern ideas will eradicate her,
though the process will take generations for its completion.
What is pure air ? What is pure water ? What food is appropri-
ate ? These are questions which can only be answered by him who is
versed in chemistry. The very fact that discussions are still going on
in regard to these subjects indicates clearly that they can not be an-
swered easily, and yet no one doubts their fundamental importance.
For years men were satisfied with the belief that an increase in the
amount of carbonic acid, beyond a certain point, was the cause of the
evil effects experienced in breathing "foul ah-." The old familiar
stories that have been told to prove the injurious character of the gas
are still told in lectures on chemistry, and text-books of chemistry, and
in medical books without number. Still, as most of you probably know,
it has long since been proved by direct experiment, beyond the possi-
bility of a doubt, that the amount of this gas may be increased to one
twentieth of the volume of the air without producing any serious or
even disagreeable effects upon those who breathe the air thus contami-
nated. This is true, however, only when the carbonic acid is mixed
with the air as a pure substance. If introduced in the ordinary way,
by the breathing process, different results are obtained, and it is
found that, under these circumstances, the quantity of carbonic acid
can not exceed one part in 1,000 of air without serious effects upon
those who breathe the air. The two results, apparently, do not har-
monize, but, when we recognize the presence of other substances, of
organic matters, in the air, which are given off from the body together
with the carbonic acid, and in quantities proportional to the quantities
of the latter, we can readily see that there may be some connection be-
tween the amount of the carbonic acid present and the fitness of the air
for breathing purposes. Such organic matters can easily be detected
in the air, and they have recently been found by a method which indi-
cates the possibility of determining their quantity, though such deter-
minations are, at present, far from possible. Air was passed through
