CHEMISTRY IN ITS RELATIONS TO MEDICINE. 219
a heated tube, and then passed into alcohol for the purpose of retaining
the products formed by heating the organic substances. The alcohol
gradually changed its color and became dark brown. This experiment,
though exceedingly imperfect, at present points, I think, to the possi-
bility of estimating the purity of air by a direct determination of the
quantities of those constituents which probably are the really injurious
ones; while, at present, for the want of a more reliable method, we
are obliged to be satisfied with determining the quantity of carbonic
acid, and then drawing conclusions with reference to the amount of
the organic matters present.
Various attempts have been made to simplify the determination of
the amount of carbonic acid in air, so that even those who are not
skilled in chemical manipulation might have a ready means for pro-
nouncing upon the quality of air. The simplest of the methods proposed
is the minimetric process of Lunge, which has been used to some extent
in this as well as other countries. To show you, however, in what
an unsatisfactory state this matter of air analysis still is, I will simply
say that experiments undertaken, within a few months, by Hesse,*
have shown that Lunge's minimetric process does not give reliable
results, and hence conclusions reached from determinations made by
this method are not to be regarded as final.
Another point still in dispute concerns the presence of carbonic
oxide in the air. This lower oxide of carbon is undoubtedly poisonous,
and can not be taken into the lungs without serious effects. The pres-
ence of only a small proportion of this gas will suffice to produce death.
Now, if it could be shown that there are certain causes at work which
apparently tend to introduce the gas into our dwellings and other
buildings, alarm would naturally follow. Some years ago St. Claire-
Deville, the French chemist, discovered that certain metals, when
heated to red-heat, are porous for certain gases. This he found to be
true of cast iron with reference to carbonic oxide. It is well known
that in our coal-fires there is always formed a large quantity of car-
bonic oxide; and, further, that stoves and furnaces not uncommonly
become red-hot. Putting these facts together, men became alarmed.
Stoves and furnaces were regarded with horror. In the eyes of many
they were looked upon as poison-generators of a very dangerous kind.
Active diseases were, in some cases, believed to have their origin in
the presence of carbonic oxide in the air ; and, in cases in which ac-
tive disease did not show itself, lassitude, headache, and other similar
symptoms were supposed to be caused by the gas. There was a fashion,
in some places, and particularly among those who prided themselves
on " keeping up with the times," of referring every bodily affection to
carbonic oxide when no other cause could be thought of, very much as,
in days gone by, every disease which was not understood was classed
under the general head " trouble with the liver."
* " Zeitschrift fur Biologie," Bd. xiii., 395.
