220 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY..
What basis of facts hare we for this alarm about carbonic oxide ?
Two chemists, within a very short time, have gone to work to deter-
mine the amount of the gas contained in the air in places where it was
assumed to be present in considerable quantity. And with what re-
sults? Why, the specter vanished. In vain they sought for it in
this corner, in that, in the chimney, in the hot-air passages but it was
not there. There seems to be nothing left for the carbonic-oxide
alarmists but to yield, and set about looking for another cause.
The special experiments to which I refer were carried out by
Gottschalk in Leipsic, and Vogel * in Berlin. Gottschalk, in a pamphlet
entitled " Ueber die Nachweisbarkeit des Kohlenoxyds in sehr kleinen
Mengen, und einige Bemerkungen zu der sogenannten Luftkeizungs-
frage," describes a process by means of which he could detect, as he
shows by direct experiment, 0*22 part of carbonic oxide in 1,000 parts
of air. He was commissioned by the authorities of the city of Leipsic
to apply this process to the examination of the air in two of the public
schools in the city. Two different kinds of hot-air furnaces were em-
ployed in these schools, and it was supposed that the air of the rooms
was certainly contaminated with carbonic oxide. The experiments,
however, proved that, if present at all, the gas could not be detected
by a method capable of determining with certainty the presence of '22
part in 1,000.
Yogel's experiments are not so delicate as those of Gottschalk, but
still they are interesting for other reasons. His method consists in
shaking the air under examination with water which contains a drop
or two of blood, and then examining the liquid by means of a pocket-
spectroscope. If '4 per cent, of carbonic oxide be present the result
is plainly perceptible in the spectrum of the light which has passed
through the blood. The authorities of the city of Berlin commissioned
Vogel, together with two other well-known experts, to examine the air
of a number of schoolrooms in the city, with particular reference to
the presence of carbonic oxide. The conclusion was simply that none
of the gas could be detected by the blood method. Vogel argues
further that a quantity of carbonic oxide in the air which can not be
detected by his method can not act poisonously upon the concentrated
blood of the human lungs.
Of course the experiments described do not prove conclusively that
air is not sometimes rendered unwholesome by carbonic oxide, but
they at least prove that this gas is not so widely distributed as it has
been supposed to be for some time past.
Another constituent of the air which has from time to time at-
tracted considerable attention is ozone. This has been supposed to be
a health-giving principle in the atmosphere, and magical properties
have been ascribed to it. The vitality of men is known to be subject
to marked variations. On a cool, clear, bracing day the man is not
* " Bcrichte der deutschen chomiscben Gesellschaft," xi., 235.
