CHEMISTRY IN ITS RELATIONS TO MEDICINE. 221
what he is on a warm and murky day. The quantity of ozone in the
air also varies. Perhaps our moods, our " spirits," are dependent upon
ozone. Give us ozone enough, and the world will be happier and
healthier. These are some of the ideas which have been advanced.
Possibly there is some connection between these two very unlike
things. Certainly much more accurate experiments than any which
have thus far been made, are called for to prove the connection.
In the light of many experiments it appears exceedingly probable
that one of the most important constituents of the air is aqueous vapor,
and that variations in its quantity beyond certain limits are productive
of serious results. The influence of carbonic acid, carbonic oxide, or
ozone, upon the value of air is almost nothing as compared with the
influence exerted by the moisture. This is a point that does not or-
dinarily receive the amount of attention which it deserves. A reliable
hygrometer should be as frequently used in a dwelling as a reliable
thermometer. It is undoubtedly a very difficult thing to regulate the
amount of moisture in the atmosphere of dwellings, but more could be
done than is done. The methods now adopted for this purpose are
mostly exceedingly imperfect. Further, the importance of doing every-
thing to regulate the amount is not sufficiently recognized, at least by
the people at large.
As regards the water we drink, every one knows that cases are very
common in which it becomes polluted in one way or another, and that
disease results from its use. Innumerable chemical examinations of
drinking-water have been made, and large numbers of methods pro-
posed for the analysis. Some of the methods have been shown to be
utterly unreliable; others to be questionable; very few indeed to give
results which can be regarded as at all valuable. It is about as diffi-
cult at the present day to say what pure water is as it is to say what
pure air is. Papers upon papers are written on the subject of water
analysis. Some of these are based upon experiments performed; some
are simply critical. Out of the mass of literature we gather some
truths. One that stands out prominently is this, that the presence of
chlorine, of organic matters, of ammonia, and of so-called " albumi-
noid ammonia," indicates that the water containing them is very prob-
ably contaminated through sewage, cesspool, privy, or barnyard ref-
use. By the later methods of analysis, the estimations of the quanti-
ties of the substances mentioned have become comparatively simple
processes, so that now it is undoubtedly possible to pass a fairly reli-
able judgment upon the value of a given specimen of water. It is,
however, still quite impossible to determine by chemical methods
whether the typhoid-poison is present in water or not, just as it is still
impossible to determine whether in the air there is present that indefi-
nite something known as " malaria." There is still a great deal to be
done in order that a close connection between disease and the condition
of drinking water may be established. The open questions are to a con
