222 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
siderable extent chemical questions, and they must be answered by the
chemist. But new methods must be introduced of a more refined nature
than most of those in use at present, and these methods will probably
be discovered in paths leading far away from the field of mediicne
proper.
There is a deep question of great importance to the physician in-
volved in the study of food: What food should this or that person in-
dulge in ? Every physician knows that the whole subject of food is
at present in an indefinite, unsatisfactory condition. Fashions change
in regard to kinds of food considered advisable. Now it is raw beef,
now milk, now certain vegetables, etc. Of course, there is always a
good reason to be given for the advice, whatever it may be, but it is
certain that a good firm basis is still wanting for an understanding of
the needs of the body under different conditions. Here is a great field
for investigation; and Voit, of Munich, is doing what it is possible for
a man to do in this direction.
But, aside from the deeper question which chemistry must answer
as to the requirements of the body in the way of food, another ques-
tion, which presents itself at once to the physician and chemist, con-
cerns the adulterations of food. Very little of a general character can
be said in this connection. It is, of course, the duty of the physician
to see that the food partaken of is what it ought to be. That adulter-
ation of various kinds of food is a frequent occurrence can not be
doubted. In despotic countries, inspectors of food are appointed, and
heavy penalties are imposed upon those who sell adulterated articles.
We can hardly hope ever to have such strict regulations in regard to
these matters in this country. The free-born citizen, especially if he
be a manufacturer or dealer in suspected articles, naturally rebels
against interference with his rights; and the manufacturer is not to
be treated lightly. His voice is loud in the halls of legislation; and,
what he does not want, the average legislator is pretty sure not to
want. The relations with reference to food adulterations are simi-
lar to those existing with reference to fertilizers. The value of many
fertilizers depends upon the amount of phosphoric acid and ammonia
contained in them. I know that in some places there are chemists who
habitually find considerably more phosphoric acid and more ammonia in
any given fertilizer than it actually contains. If a young chemist dares
to find the amounts actually present, and to state the results, the manu-
facturer discards them, and takes the highest and false ones obtained
by the initiated chemist. This can only be characterized by the name
swindling. The public must submit. The manufacturer's interests
are not to be trifled with. Looking at the subject of food adultera-
tions from the standpoint of the public, it can only appear highly de-
sirable that some action should be taken by our State governments
looking to vigorous interference with the traffic in impure and injurious
substances.
