THE ORIGIN OF WORLDS. 9
both bodies were ten times as great, the conflict of the invading mass
would be about 100,000 times as violent, and a correspondingly greater
amount of energy would be converted into electric, magnetic, and calo-
rific forces. Accordingly, great suns, in passing through their most ter-
rific scenes, call forth a world-making power of the greatest vigor ; and
will not only give birth to larger spheres, but also send them forth in
wider orbits.
But the size and mass which a world attains must depend mainly on
the numbers of meteors and comets frequenting the solar dominions
while it was in the course of formation. At the birth of Jupiter this
vagrant matter was more than usually abundant, and it served to give
the planet a predominance over the other members of the solar family.
It is very probable that the minute and the rare tenants of space are
very numerous in the Milky Way ; but this abundance of chaotic mate-
rial, though calculated to increase the size of worlds, must shorten their
term of existence, as the increase which suns obtain in mass and attrac-
tion would have the same effect as a resisting medium in abridging the
lives of their planets. Events involving the mortality of worlds would
thus become more frequent ; and it is worthy of remark that it was in
or near this part of our universe that most of the temporary stars have
sent forth their sudden display of brilliancy. In such a region a planet
of large size in closing its career by incorporating with a sun would be
attended by an electro-magnetic energy sufficient to give birth to an-
other planetary member of considerable magnitude on the outer zone
of the solar system, so that the existence of worlds would not be wholly
dependent on the union of double suns.
But even in our own part of the celestial domain there are to be
found evident marks of the occurrence of one of those stupendous events
to which I have ascribed the appearance of temporary stars, and which
are so intimately connected with the birth and death of worlds. On com-
paring the observations of Carrington and Spoerer with those of Vogel
and Young, it appears that for the sun's equatorial zone the time of ro-
tation is scarcely twenty -two days, while it is nearly four weeks for the
parallel of fifty degrees. So great and unexpected a difference in the
diurnal motion of its parts proves that our central luminary must have
at some past time received a large mass, which had a direct motion over
his equator, and was finally precipitated to his surface. Whether the
incorporating mass was a planet, or the last remains of the great com-
panion which cooperated in giving being to the solar family, the effects
deserve attention so far as they show the present working of a power
which has been long in a declining condition. The movement of one
zone of matter over another having a different velocity of rotation
must be a source of solar magnetism, and this force may be therefore
regarded as much weaker than it was a million years ago, but much
stronger than it will be in very distant future ages.
Yet, even in its reduced state, this magnetic agency is not without
