THE HISTORY OF GAMES. 22Q
liege." By the ninth century the game of chugdn had established it-
self in the Eastern Empire, where its name appears in the barbarous
Greek form T^vKavi^eiv. In the Byzantine descriptions, however, we
find not the original mallet, but a long staff ending in a broad bend
filled in with a network of gut-strings. Thus there appear in the East,
as belonging to the great sport of ball-play on horseback, the first
shapes of two implements which remodeled the whole play-life of
mediseval and modern Europe, the chugan being the ancestor of the
mallets used in pall-mall and croquet, and of an endless variety of
other playing clubs and bats, while the bent staff with its network
was the primitive racket. The fine old Persian drawing of a match
at chugan, which is copied by Ouseley in his " Travels in the East," jus-
tifies his opinion that the horseback game is the original. We should
not talk of polo as being " hockey on horseback," but rather regard
hockey as dismounted polo, and class with it pall-mall, golf, and many
another bat-and-ball game. Indeed, when one comes to think of it,
one sees that no stick being necessary for the old foot-game of hurl-
ing, none was used, but, as soon as the Persian horsemen wanted to
play ball on horseback, a proper instrument had to be invented. This
came to be used in the foot-game also, so that the Orientals are famil-
iar both with the mounted and dismounted kinds. The horseback
game seems hardly to have taken hold in Europe till our own day,
when the English brought it down from Munniepoor, and it has now
under the name of polo become a world-wide sport again. But the
foot-game made it way early into Europe, as appears from a curious
passage in Joinville's " Life of St. Louis," written at the end of the thir-
teenth century. Having seen the game on his crusade, and read about
it in the Byzantine historians, he argues that the Greeks must have
borrowed their tzy canister ium from the French, for it is, he says, a
game played in Languedoc by driving a boxwood ball with a long
mallet, and called there chicane. The modern reader has to turn this
neat and patriotic argument upside down, the French chicane being
only a corruption of the Persian chugdn ; so that what Joinville ac-
tually proves is, that before his time the Eastern game had traveled
into France, bringing with it its Eastern name. Already, in his day,
from the ball-game with its shifts and dodges, the term chicane had
come to be applied by metaphor to the shuffles of lawyers to embar-
rass the other side, and thence to intrigue and trickery in general.
English has borrowed chicane in the sense of trickery, without know-
ing it as the name of a game. Metaphors taken from sports may thus
outlast their first sense, as when again people say, " Don't bandy words
with me," without an idea that they are using another metaphor taken
from the game of hockey, which was called bandy from the curved
stick or club it was played with.
In France, the name of crosse, meaning a crutch, or bishop's cro-
sier, was used for the mallet, and thence the game of hockey has its
