2 3 2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
book of mystic diagrams. When this combination of a number of
two-faced lots is used by gamblers, this perhaps represents the earlier
stage of gaming, which may have led up to the invention of dice, in
which the purpose of variety is so much more neatly and easily at-
tained. The first appearance of dice lies beyond the range of history,
for, though they have not been traced in the early periods in Egypt,
there is in the Rig- Veda the hymn which portrays the ancient Aryan
gambler stirred to frenzy by the fall of the dice. It is not clear
even which came first of the various objects that have served as
dice.
In the classic world girls used the astragali or hucklebones as play-
things, tossing them up and catching them on the back of the hand ;
and to this day we may see groups of girls in England at this ancient
game, reminding us of the picture by Alexander of Athens, in the
Naples Museum, of the five goddesses at play. It was also noticed
that these bones fall in four ways, with the flat, concave, convex, or
sinuous side up, so that they form natural dice, and as such they have
been from ancient times gambled with accordingly. In India Nature
provides certain five-sided nuts that answer the purpose of dice. Of
course, when the sides are alike, they must be marked or numbered,
as with the four-sided stick-dice of India, and that which tends to
supersede all others, the six-sided Jcubos, which gave the Greek geome-
ters the name for the cube. Since the old Aryan period many a broken
gamester has cursed the hazard of the die. We moderns are apt to
look down with mere contempt at his folly. But we judge the ancient
gamester too harshly if we forget that his passion is mixed with those
thoughts of luck or fortune or superhuman intervention which form
the very mental atmosphere of the soothsayer and the oracle-prophet.
With devout prayer and sacrifice he would propitiate the deity who
should give him winning throws ; nor, indeed, in our own day have
such hopes and such appeals ceased among the uneducated. To the
educated it is the mathematical theory of probabilities that has shown
the folly of the gamester's staking his fortune on his powers of divina-
tion. But it must be borne in mind that this theory itself was, so to
speak, shaken out of the dice-box. When the gambling Chevalier de
Mere put the question to Pascal in how many throws he ought to get
double-sixes, and Pascal solving the problem started the mathematical
calculation of chances, this laid the foundation of the scientific system
of statistics which more and more regulates the arrangements of so-
ciety. Thus accurate method was applied to the insurance-table,
which enables a man to hedge against his ugliest risks, to eliminate
his chances of fire and death by betting that he shall have a new roof
over his head and a provision for his widow. Of all the wonderful
turns of the human mind in the course of culture, scarce any is more
striking than this history of lots and dice. Who, in the middle ages,
could have guessed what would be its next outcome that magic sunk
