io THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
control through a wide range of space. If the loss of meteors which
become a prey to the attraction of great spheres be replenished by the
entrance of new ones into our system, the new visitants from ultra-plane-
tary space would, in consequence of a resisting medium, be found in the
greatest numbers along the line of the sun's progressive motion. The
arrangement seems, however, to be modified by the sun's magnetism,
which, by favoring direct motion in the plane of his equator, gradually
leads to the meteoric array which is manifested in the appearance of
the zodiacal light. That this light is reflected by innumerable meteors,
is an opinion which has long been maintained, and which has been con-
firmed by late observation ; but it is only from the physical considera-
tion which I have presented, that we can account for the permanence
of a phenomenon depending on the presence of objects of so minute
and perishable a character. To the same cause may be ascribed the
direct motion of the comets of short periods of revolution. These
effects will give some idea of what might be accomplished by solar
magnetism when, as in the cases I have considered, it becomes many
million times more powerful than that of our sun, and when it is favored
with all the conditions for arranging chaotic matter for a transforma-
tion into worlds.
THE GKOWTH OF THE WILL.
By ALEXANDEK BAIN,
PROFESSOR OF LOGIC IN THE UNIVERSITY OF ABERDEEN.
I DESIRE to offer a few observations in reply to the paper by Pro-
fessor Payton Spence, in the August number of the " Popular
Science Monthly,"* on my theory of the growth of the Will.
By a calculation of the chance coincidences of the muscles of the
human body, Professor Spence appears to reduce to an utter absurdity
any theory that makes the will depend upon trial and error. At the
same time, he finds in the doctrine of evolution an easy way out of the
difficulty.
1. My first remark is, that I from the first assumed a large number
of instinctive connections among our organs, not perhaps so large a
number as may now seem requisite, but still so many as to reduce
greatly the random tentatives in new acquisitions. In my chapter on
instinct (" The Senses and the Intellect," and mental science) I described
under reflex actions and primitive combined movements, numerous in-
stinctive groupings of considerable complexity on which the will can
build its subsequent powers. I set no limit to the number of such in-
stincts ; only, I did not refer to any that were not more or less immedi-
ately apparent. I reasoned out the locomotive rhythm in the human
* " Voluntary Motion," by Prof. Payton Spence, M. D.
