WHALES AND THEIR NEIGHBORS. 239
air which is entangled or mechanically suspended in the water. At-
mospheric air containing the vitalizing oxygen for the renewal and
purification of the blood is the great desideratum on the part of all
animals, high and low alike. And the gill and lung, therefore, differ
simply in the manner and method in which the blood in each is
brought in contact with the air, and not in the essential details of their
work. The whales are known to " blow," and the act of " blowing "
is simply the act of breathing to be more particularly noticed here-
after. Thus, a whale or seal would be drowned as certainly as an
ordinary quadruped would be asphyxiated, were its periodical access
to the atmosphere prevented ; and the curious fact may here be men-
tioned that there are also certain abnormal living fishes notably the
climbing perch and qphiocephali of India which, to use the words of
a writer, are as easily drowned as dogs when denied access to the air.
There is little need to particularize any of the remaining characters
which demonstrate the whale's relationship to mammals, and its differ-
ence in structural points from the fishes. The young whale is thus
not merely born alive, but is nourished by means of the milk-secretion
of the parent, and this last evidence of direct connection with higher
animals might of itself be deemed a crucial test of the place and rank
of the whales in the animal series.
But, granting that in the whales we meet with true quadrupeds, it
may be well to indicate the chief points in which they differ from their
mammalian brethren at large. It may be admitted, at the outset, that
they present us with a very distinct modification of the quadruped
type. Their adaptation to a water-life is so complete, in truth, that it
has destroyed to a large extent the outward and visible signs of their
relationship with mammals. The body is thoroughly fish-like and
tapers toward the tail, where we meet with a tail-fin, which, however,
is set right across the body, and not vertically as in the fishes. This
latter difference, indeed, is a very prominent feature in whale-struc-
ture. The limbs, as already remarked, are represented by the two
fore-limbs alone. No trace of hinder-extremities is to be perceived
externally, and the anatomical investigation of the skeleton reveals at
the best the merest rudiments of haunch-bones and of hind-limbs in
certain whales, of which the well-known Greenland whale may be
cited as an example. A distinct character of the whales has been
found by naturalists of all periods in the " blowholes " or apertures
through which the whale is popularly supposed to " spout." Thus we
find on the upper surface of the head of a Greenland whale a couple
of these " blowholes," or " spiracles," as they are also called. These
apertures exist on the front of the snout in the sperm whales, while in
the porpoises, dolphins, and their neighbors the blowhole is single, of
crescentic shape, and placed on the top of the head. It requires but
little exercise of anatomical skill to identify the " blowholes |' of the
whales with the nostrils of other animals ; and it becomes an interest-
