240 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ing matter to trace the adaptation of the nostrils to the aquatic life
and breathing habits of these animals.
There are natural history text-books still extant in which a very
familiar error regarding the " blowing " of the whales is propagated
an error which, like many other delusions of popular kind, has become
so fossilized, so to speak, that it is difficult to convince believers of its
falsity. A manual of natural history, of no ancient date, lies before
me as I write, and when I turn to the section which treats of the
whales, I find an illustration of a Greenland whale, which is represented
as lying high and dry on the beach, but which, despite its stranded
state, appears in the act of vigorously puffing streams of water from
the blowholes on the top of its head. To say the least of it, such an
illustration is simply fictitious, and might safely be discarded as of
purely inventive kind, were it only from the fact of its supposing a
whale to be provided with some mysterious reservoir of water from
which it could eject copious streams, even when removed from the sea.
The common notion regarding the "blowing" of the whale appears to
be that which credits the animal with inhaling large quantities of wa-
ter into its mouth, presumably in the act of nutrition. This water was
then said to escape into the nostrils and to be ejected therefrom in the
act of blowing. The behavior of a whale in the open sea at first sight
favors this apparently simple explanation. Careering along in the full
exercise of its mighty powers, the huge body is seen to dive and to
reappear some distance off at the surface, discharging from its nostrils
a shower of water and spray. The observation is correct enough as it
stands, but the interpretation of the phenomena is erroneous. Apart
from the anatomical difficulties in the way of explaining how water
from the mouth could escape in such large quantities, and so persist-
ently into the nostrils, there is not merely an utter want of purpose in
this view of the act of " spouting," but we have also to consider that
this act would materially interfere with the breathing of the animal.
Hence a more rational exjdanation of what is implied in the " blow-
ing" of the whales rests on the simple assertion that the water and
spray do not in reality proceed from the blowhole, but consist of
water forced upward into the air by the expiratory effort of the ani-
mal. The whale begins the expiratory or " breathing-out " action of
its lungs just before reaching the surface of the water, and the warm
expired air therefore carries up with it the water lying above the head
and blowholes of the ascending animal. That this view is correct is
rendered highly probable, not merely by the observation of the breath-
ing of young whales and porpoises kept in confinement, but also by
the fact that the last portion of the " blow " consists of a white silvery
spray or vapor, formed by the rapid condensation of the warm air
from the lungs as it comes in contact with the colder atmosphere.
The water received into the mouth escapes at the sides of the mouth,
and does not enter the nostrils at all.
