242 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and scales of these animals. To what conclusion, then, does this same
principle lead us respecting the nature of the baleen-plates in the mouth
of the Greenland whale and its allies ? To a sufficiently certain, but
at the same time startling thought, is the reply of the comparative
anatomist.
If we examine the structure of the human mouth, or that of animals
allied to man, we find that cavity to be lined by a delicate layer named
epithelium. This epithelium consists really of a modification of the
upper layer of the skin, and we see this modification familiarly in the
difference between the skin of the face and the layer which is infolded
to form the covering of the lips and the lining membrane of the mouth.
No tissue is more familiar to the student of physiology than epithe-
lium, composed as it is of epithelial cells or microscopic elements, which
in one form or another are found in almost every important tissue of
the body. The epithelium is a delicate tissue, as usually seen in man
and vertebrate animals ; but in some instances it becomes hardened by
the development of horny matter, and may then appear as a tissue of
tolerably solid consistence. In the mouth of a cow or sheep, the epi-
thelium of part of the upper jaw is found hardened and callous, and
there forms a horny pad against which the front teeth of the lower jaw
may bite in the act of mastication. It is exactly this epithelial layer,
then, which becomes enormously developed in the whalebone whales
to form the baleen-plates just described. That this is actually the case
is ascertained by the development of the baleen-plates, as well as by
their situation and relations to the gum and palate. And the recital
becomes the more astonishing- when we consider that, from cells of
microscopic size in other animals, structures of enormous extent may
be developed in the whales. The baleen-plates possess a highly impor-
tant office. They constitute a kind of huge strainer or sieve, the pos-
session of which enables the whale to obtain its food in a convenient
fashion. Whether or not Biblical scholars and commentators agree in
regarding the " great fish " which wrought' calamity to the prophet
Jonah as a special creation, and as an entirely different animal from
the whale of to-day, the plain fact remains that a whale has a gullet
of relatively small size when compared with the bulk of the animal.
Fortunately, however, the faith of rational mankind is not pinned to
literal interpretation of the untoward incident chronicled in Jonah,
and, whale or no whale, it is curious to learn that the largest of ani-
mals may in a manner be said to feed on some of the most diminutive
of its fellows. In the far north, and in the surface-waters of the Arctic
seas, myriads of minute organisms, closely allied to our whelks, and
like mollusks, are found. Such are the " Sea-butterflies," or Pteropoda
of the naturalist : little delicate creatures which paddle their way
through the yielding waters by aid of the wing-like appendages spring-
ing from the sides of the head and neck. These organisms are drawn
into the mouth of the Greenland whale in veritable shoals, and as the
