WHALES AND THEIR NEIGHBORS. 243
literal flood of waters streams out of the sides of the mouth, the " sea-
butterflies" are strained off therefrom, the savory morsels being re-
tained by the fringed edges of the baleen-plates, and thereafter duly
swallowed as food.
An interesting speculation yet remains, however, regarding the
origin and first development of these peculiar whalebone-structures.
Advocates of the doctrine which assumes that animal forms and their
belongings arise by gradual modifications of preexistent animals may
be reasonably asked to explain the origin of the baleen-plates of the
whales. Let us briefly hear what Mr. Darwin, as the spokesman of
the party, has to say in reply to such an inquiry. Quoting a remark
of an opponent regarding the whalebone, Mr. Darwin says, if the
baleen " ' had once attained such a size and development as to be at
all useful, then its preservation and augmentation within serviceable
limits would be promoted by natural selection alone. But how to
obtain the beginning of such useful development ? ' In answer," con-
tinues Mr. Darwin (in his own words), "it may be asked, why should
not the early progenitors of the whales with baleen have possessed
a mouth constructed something like the lamellated beak of a duck.
Ducks, like whales, subsist by sifting the mud and water ; and the
family (of ducks) has sometimes been called Criblatores, or sifters."
Mr. Darwin's reference to the duck's bill is peculiarly happy. The
edges of the beak in these birds are fringed with a beautiful series of
horny plates named lamellce, which serve as a straining apparatus as
the birds grope for their food amid the mud of ponds and rivers.
These plates are richly supplied with nervous filaments, and doubtless
also some as organs of touch. Mr. Darwin is careful to add that he
hopes he may not " be misconstrued into saying that the progenitors
of whales did actually possess mouths lamellated like the beak of a
duck. I only wish to show," he continues, " that this is not incredible,
and that the immense plates of baleen in the Greenland whale might
have been developed from such lamella? by finely graduated steps, each .
of service to its possessor."
In these last words, which we have italicized, lies the strength of
Mr. Darwin's hypothesis. Nature will preserve and develop useful
structures alone, and will leave the useless and unneeded to perish
and decay. This, indeed, is the keynote of natural selection. Mr.
Darwin next proceeds to examine in detail the plates and lamella? in
the bill of a shoveler duck. He describes the horny plates, one hun-
dred and eighty-eight in number, which " arise from the palate, and
are attached by flexible membrane to the sides of the mandible." He
further notes that these plates " in several respects resemble the plates
of baleen in the mouth of a whale." If the head of a shoveler duck
were made as long as the head of a species of whale in which the
baleen-plates are only nine inches long, the duck's lamella? would be
six inches in length. The head of the shoveler is about one eighteenth
