244 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of the length of the head of such a whale, so that the difference in size
between the duck's lamellae and the imperfect baleen-plates of this
whale is not markedly disproportionate, after all. After the examina-
tion of the beaks of various species of swimming-birds, Mr. Darwin
arrives at the conclusion that " a member of the duck family with a
beak constructed like that of the common goose, and adapted solely
for grazing, or even a member with a beak having less well-developed
lamellae, might be converted by small changes into a species like the
Egyptian goose (which partly grazes and partly sifts mud) this into
one like the common duck and, lastly, into one like the shoveler,
provided with a beak almost exclusively adapted for sifting the water ;
for this bird could hardly use any part of its beak, except the hooked
tip for seizing or tearing solid food. The beak of a goose, as I may
add," says Mr. Darwin, " might also be converted by small changes
into one provided with prominent recurved teeth, like those of the
Merganser (a member of the same family), serving for the widely
different purpose of securing live fish."
Mr. Darwin next endeavors to apply the moral of this interesting-
sketch of probable modification of the bills of ducks to the case of the
whales. If the stages of modification in these animals are hypotheti-
cally so clear, may not the case of the whalebone-bearing whales be
susceptible of like explanation ? A certain whale (JETyperoddon) be-
longing to a small group known popularly as the "beaked whales,"
from the possession of a prominent beak or snout, has no true teeth,
but bears rough, unequal knobs of horny nature in its palate. Here,
therefore, is a beginning for the work of selection and development.
Granted that these horny processes were useful to the animal in the
prehension and tearing of food, then their subsequent development
into more efficient organs is a warrantable inference if the order of
living nature teaches us aright. From rudimentary knobs, a further
stage of development would lead to an increase in which they may
have attained the size of the lamellae of an Egyptian goose, which, as
already remarked, are adapted both for sifting mud and for seizing
food. A stage beyond, and we reach the shoveler's condition, "in
which the lamellae would be two thirds of the length of the plates of
baleen," in a species of whalebone whale {Balamojjtera) possessing a
slight development of these organs. And from this point, the further
gradations leading onward to the enormous developments seen in the
Greenland whale itself, are easily enough traced. Hypothetically,
therefore, the path of development is clear enough. Even if it be re-
marked that the matter is entirely one of theory, not likely to be ever
partly verified, far less proved at all, we may retort that any other ex-
planation of the development of the organs of living beings, and of
living beings themselves, must also be theoretical in its nature and
as insusceptible of direct proof as are Mr. Darwin's ideas. But the
thoughtful mind must select a side, and choose between probabilities ;
