2 4 3 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
wholesale slaughter by man, in 1768, just twenty-seven years after it
was first discovered by the voyager Behring on a small island lying off
the Kamtchatkan coast. The Rhytina was a great unwieldy animal
of some twenty-seven feet in length, and about twenty feet in circum-
ference. It fell a ready prey to Behring and his crew, who were
-located on the island for several months; the work of extermination
being duly completed by subsequent voyagers who visited the island.
The manatees are no strangers to London, since in 1875 one of these
animals was to be seen disporting itself in the seal-tank in the gardens
of the Zoological Society at Regent's Park. This specimen, a female
of immature age, was brought from the Demerara coast, and was the
first living specimen which had been brought to England, although
attempts had been made in 1866 to procure these animals for the gar-
dens at Regent's Park, one specimen, indeed, dying just before reach-
ing Southampton. A member of the Manatee group, obtained from
Trinidad, was recently exhibited in London, and the public, interested
in the curious in zoology, were thus enabled to interview a living mem-
ber of the Siren group, while comparative anatomists, in their turn,
have been afforded a rich treat from the fate which awaits rare and
common specimens having, as we write, overtaken the illustrious vis-
itor in question.
The manatees and dugongs possess bodies which, as regards their
shape, may be described each as a great barrel " long drawn out." No
hinder limbs are developed, this latter peculiarity distinguishing them
from the seals, and relating them to the whales. The hide is very
tough, sparsely covered with hair, and most nearly resembles that of
the hippopotamus. The "flippers," or paddle-like limbs, are placed
far forward on the body, and on the edge of the paddle rudimentary
nails are developed ; while concealed beneath the skin of the paddle
we find the complete skeleton of an arm or fore-limb. The tail is
broad, horizontally flattened, like that of the whales, and forms an
effective propeller. These animals are vegetable feeders, the Zoologi-
cal Society's specimen having exhibited a strong partiality for lettuce
and vegetable-marrow. In a state of nature the sea-cows crop the
marine vegetation which fringes their native shores. The remaining
outward features of interest in these creatures may be summed up by
saying that no back fins are developed ; that the eyes are very small
and inconspicuous; and that, although the anterior nostrils are never
used as " blowholes," they can be closed at will like the nostrils of the
seals a faculty of needful kind in aquatic animals. To the technical
anatomist, the sea-cows present strong points of resemblance to some
of the hoofed quadrupeds. The anatomical examination of these ani-
mals has shown that their peculiarities are not limited to their out-
ward appearance and habits. It is not generally known, for example,
that the neck of the vast majority of mammals consists of seven ver-
tebrae or segments of the spine. Man thus possesses this number in
