WHALES AND THEIR NEIGHBORS. 249
common with the giraffe, the elongation of whose neck is produced
not by introduction of new vertebra?, but by the great development
of the normal number, seven. The manatees, however, present a very
remarkable exception to this most general of rules, in that they pos-
sess only six vertebrae in their necks. The only other exceptions to the
rule of seven, as the normal number of neck-vertebra? in quadrupeds,
are found in one species of sloth which has six vertebra? like the mana-
tee, and in another kind of sloth which possesses nine. Then, also,
the manatees possess a heart of very curious conformation, its apex or
tip being widely cleft or divided a feature much more plainly marked
in these animals than in the elephants and seals, whose hearts, anatomi-
cally speaking, are also divided. The manatees possess well-developed
molars or grinding teeth, but have no front teeth in the adult state.
Like the whalebone whale, however,- the young manatee bas front
teeth, these again disappearing before birth, and presenting us once
more with examples of rudimentary organs which possess a reference
" to a former state of things."
What evidence is at hand respecting the remote ancestors of the
whales and their neighbors ? is a question which may form a fitting
conclusion to these brief details of the family history of the group.
The geological evidence shows us that the whales are comparatively
"recent" forms, speaking geologically, and dealing notwithstanding
the word " recent " with very remote and immense periods of time.
Among the oldest fossil whales we find one form in particular (Zeug-
lodon) which had teeth of larger kind than are possessed by any
living whale, this creature being by some authorities regarded as link-
ing the whales with the seals. The fossil remains of Zcuglodon and
its neighbors first occur in Eocene rocks that is, in the oldest forma-
tions of the Tertiary series, and in rocks of relatively " recent " nature.
These remarkable creatures were as gigantic as their living representa-
tives. One species is known to have attained a length of seventy feet.
Their remains are of such frequent occurrence in the " Jackson Beds "
of the United States, that Professor Dana remarks: "The large ver-
tebra?, some of them a foot and a half long and a foot in diameter,
were formerly so abundant over the country in Alabama, that they
were used for making walls, or were burned to rid the fields of them."
The teeth of this curious monster of the vasty Eocene deep were of
two kinds, and included front teeth of conical shape, and grinders or
molars ; the latter exhibiting a striking peculiarity in that they were
formed each of two halves, or teeth united by their crowns, but sepa-
rated at their roots. Zeuglodon appears to connect the whales and
their neighbors with the seals and walruses, and thus in one sense may
be said to constitute, if not a " missing link," at least an intermediate
form of anomalous kind, when viewed relatively to the existing ceta-
ceans. According to the geological evideuce at hand, we may assume
that the modifications which have produced the existing whales and
