THE GROWTH OF THE WILL. n
subject, notwithstanding that it can not be manifested at birth, as in
the case of quadrupeds.
2. When I composed " The Senses and the Intellect," the doctrine
of evolution was not before the world in any shape. I made no at-
tempt to frame an hypothesis to account for our instincts ; I assumed
them as I found them, and described the progress of the individual ac-
quisitions as they appeared to my observation. In my subsequent
writings I have made ample use of the hypothesis, so far as I think it
agrees with the facts. I may refer more particularly to the third edi-
tion of " The Emotions and the Will," published not long ago. In
" Mental and Moral Science " I allow for the probability of hereditary
acquisitions in reference to the various relations summed up in the
knowledge of space.
3. My theory of the will, as first conceived, was the expression of
the facts as I was able to view them at the time. I regarded as ac-
quisitions everything that appeared to need teaching in some shape or
other ; as, for example, speech. I inquired what were the powers that
existed in the absence of teaching, and what were those that came into
being only by teaching, or by some sort of experience or acquirement. I
may have misconceived the scope of the two departments ; but, to the
best of my knowledge at the time, I endeavored to appreciate the ex-
tent of each. I saw that an infant at the end of a few months could
perform simple articulations, as wa, na, bo, bit, and that on these could
be based the instruction in speech. I did not consider that the artic-
ulations could be tanght ; I was inclined to believe that they might be
stumbled on by random tentatives. I now proceed to remark on Pro-
fessor Spence's reductio ad absurdiim of that operation.
4. When the Professor talks of the number of muscles that must
come into play in pronouncing the letter A, and of the enormous un-
likelihood of a child stumbling on the right one in a few months, he
leaves out of account various circumstances. For one thing, the com-
binations are absolutely limited by mutual conflict ; only such group-
ings as can go together are to be allowed. How far this would reduce
the possible number of trials I do not say, nor do I mean to affirm that
the number would not remain very large ; still his figure would be very
seriously reduced. I will take a more patent example than speech,
namely, the movement of the eves. We know that six muscles are at
work; and, allowing several gradations of energy to each, say four,
there are twenty-four elements to play upon in every variety of combi-
nation. But now, instead of summing the arithmetical possibilities of
union among these elements, let us survey the outcome. Of course in
many of the combinations, as when two opposing muscles were equally
stimulated, there would be no result ; there would be simply a shock
of painful collision. When the stimuli are unequal, there would be
motion in some one course up, down, right, left, slanting, curved.
The possibilities now are not so very formidable : the eye can only
