254 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tion of savage man during his lazy hours is to stretch himself on the
ground in the sun, with his eyes closed, and with his back propped,
where possible, by a slight mound or the wall of his hut. Any person
who has lived much among negroes or South Sea Islanders must have
noticed how constant is this attitude with men, women, and children,
at every stray idle moment.
Nor must we forget the peculiar manner in which human mothers
must necessarily have carried their infants from a very early period
in the development of our race. During the first eighteen months of
life the human infant must always be held, or laid, more or less upon
its back ; and this position will probably tend to check the develop-
ment of hair upon the dorsal and lateral regions.
Next, let us ask what is the actual distribution of hair upon the
body of man. Omitting those portions where the ornamental use of
hair has specially preserved it, the most hairy region is generally, so far
as my observations go, the fore part of the leg or shin. Obviously this
is a region very little likely to come in contact with external objects.
On the other hand, the most absolutely hairless places are the palms of
the hands and the soles of the feet, after which come the elbows, and
at a long interval the knees and knuckles. The back is very hairless,
and so are the haunches. But the legs are more hairy than the body,
both in front and behind, though less hairy on the calf than on the
shin. Now, it will be obvious that both by day and night we rest more
upon our backs and haunches than upon our legs, the latter being free
when we sit down on a chair or bench, doubled in front of us when we
squat on the ground (the normal position of savages), and thrown about
loosely when we lie down. Especially might we conclude that this
would be the case with early races, unembarrassed by the weight of
bedclothes. As for the arms, it is noticeable that they still retain the
ordinary mammalian habit in being hairier on the back than on the
front ; and this also is quite in accordance with our present suggestion,
because the same differentiating causes have not worked upon the arm
as they work upon the back and legs. The peculiar position of the
anterior extremities in man, together with the erect posture, makes the
arms come much more frequently into frictional contact with the body
or clothing on their inner than on their outer surface. Hair grows
most abundantly where there is normally least friction, and vice versa.
As for the hair which frequently appears upon the chest of robust
Europeans and others, I shall return to that point at a later stage. It
may be noted, however, that while the first joint of the fingers is hairy,
the second joint, answering to the callosity of the gorilla, is generally
bare.
As man, then, gradually assumed the erect attitude and the re-
versed habits of sitting and lying down which it necessarily involves,
it seems to me that he must have begun to lose the hair upon his back.
But such a partial loss will not fully account for his present very hair-
