A PROBLEM IN HUMAN EVOLUTION.
257
upon the chin and lip, and while we can admire an African or a North
American Indian with a smooth and glossy cheek, we turn with dislike
from thin and scanty hair either in a European, a negro, or an Asiatic.
It seems to me that in every case the general aesthetic feeling of the
whole human race is the same ; but that in one tribe circumstances
have made it easier to produce one type of beauty, while in another
tribe other conditions have determined the production of another type.
Thus, in a negro, a very black and lustrous skin, clear bright eyes,
white teeth, and a general conformity to the normal or average negro
features are decidedly pleasant even to Europeans when once the or-
dinary standard has become familiar ; * while in a European the same
eyes and teeth are admired, but a white skin, a rosy complexion, and
moderate conformity to the ideal Aryan type are demanded. Each is
alike pretty after its own kind, though naturally the race to which we
each ourselves belong possesses in most cases the greatest attractive-
ness to each of us individually.
Of course, both in the beard of man, and in the general hairiness
of his body, as compared with woman, allowance must be made for
that universal tendency of the male to produce extended tegumentary
modifications, which, as Mr. Wallace has abundantly shown, depends
upon the superior vigor of that sex. Yet the period when the beard
first shows itself and the loss of color in the hair of both sexes after
the reproductive period is past clearly stamp these modifications as
sexual in origin.
It must be remembered also, in accounting for the general loss of
hair on both back and front of the body, that the older ancestral hered-
ity would tend to make the chest bare, and the newer acquired habits
would tend to produce like results upon the back. " In the adult male
of the gorilla," says Du Chaillu, " the chest is bare. In the young
males which I kept in captivity it was thinly covered with hair. In
the female the mammae have but a slight development and the breast
is bare." All this helps us to see how the first steps in the sexually
selective process might have taken place, and also why the trunk is on
the whole more denuded than the legs. As for the exceptional fact
that the arms are hairier on the back than in front, besides the func-
tional explanation already given, we must recollect that the anthropoid
apes have long hair on the outer side of the arms, which has probably
left this slight memento of its former existence on the human subject.
Eschricht has pointed out the curious fact that alike in man and the
higher quadrumana this hair has a convergent direction toward the
point of the elbow, both from above and from below.
Finally, it may be noted that the hairless condition of man, though
* The mutilations of the face and other parts, which often make savages so ugly in
our eyes, though not in their own, are due, as Mr. Herbert Spencer ha's shown, not to
{esthetic intentions, but to originally subordinative practices, as marks of subjection to a
conquering king or race.
VOL. XT. 17
