262 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
a reputation as his could not have been sustained ; but it was in no
small degree due also to the peculiar originality of his character, both
intellectual and moral, and to the absolutely tireless energy of his versa-
tile mind.
" Those who remember Cambridge some ten or fifteen years ago will
readily call to mind his fame while an undergraduate there. From
the time when he came up to the university, with the high reputation
which he had won while a schoolboy, to the time he left it some eight
years afterward to become Professor of Mathematics at University
College, London, he was more universally known and discussed among
all classes at the university, whether undergraduates, graduates, or
dons, than any of his contemporaries. He was indeed at all times a
contrast to the normal type. At first, when fresh from school, he ap-
peared as an ardent High Churchman, but he gradually became known
as a devoted follower of Mr. Herbert Spencer, and as the champion of
those views with which his name has since been identified. But, what-
ever was the precise phase of thought in which he might be, there was
the same brilliant though paradoxical style of asserting and defending
his beliefs which made him the terror of authorities and the delight of
younger men. He never was in any sense the head of a party there. He
was far too eccentric and original to have many followers or imitators.
But no one had a wider circle of intimate friends, and no one could
be in intimate intercourse with him without being deeply influenced
by his views ; and it was at that time chiefly by his direct influence
on those personally acquainted with him that he produced his effect on
the university. But the many-sidedness of his character caused this
direct personal influence to be much more widely extended than would
have seemed possible to those unacquainted with him. Gifted with an
almost equal love for science, mathematics, history, and literature
we may even add gymnastics he was the center of a knot of devotees
of each of these studies, each of whom welcomed him as a comrade and
regarded with jealousy his attention to other subjects as being likely
to seduce him from the true bent of his genius into less important and
congenial studies. And no doubt it was a fortunate thing in this in-
stance that the arrangements for retaining the ablest men at the Eng-
lish universities are so imperfect, that Professor Clifford found no cer-
tainty of sufficient scope for his energies there, and resolved to leave
that abode of learned leisure, and come to London, to become a mathe-
matical professor, inasmuch as it was this that prevented him from
wasting his life in desultory essays in a great variety of directions. No
doubt all of these would have shown a power which would have made
them remarkable, but they would have been dearly purchased by the
sacrifice of the far greater and more abiding results that followed the
concentration of his energies on the one or two subjects to which he
devoted himself after his departure from the university.
" When resident in London the same qualities that had won him so
