SKETCH OF PROFESSOR CLIFFORD. 2 6 3
many friends at Cambridge still stood him in good stead, and he
rapidly drew round him a large circle of warm friends and admirers,
among whom might be found almost all the best known names in sci-
ence or literature. This power of winding the affections of those who
were most worthy of friendship was due mainly to the peculiarly win-
ning gentleness and tenderness which characterized him, and made it
impossible to resist the charm of personal intercourse with him. Al-
though the nature of his opinions and his style of championing them
raised him countless enemies among those who knew him only from
his writings and lectures, yet there was no school of thought among
the members of which he did not possess some intimate friends. How-
ever widely their opinions might differ, it seemed to be quite impossi-
ble for any one to feel hostility toward him after becoming personally
acquainted with him. The versatility of his mind aided this greatly,
for it gave to his conversation a charm which was quite peculiar, and
which was felt alike by the most different classes of minds. There
was no subject from which he used not to draw apt illustrations or
expressive metaphors, which came clothed in language as quaint and
as original as it was appropriate. Whatever he discussed seemed to
become full of suggestiveness. These qualities gave great additional
value to his mathematical lectures.
" With his style of teaching, the most valuable part of the instruc-
tion was the indirect effect of the lessons ; the actual matter in hand
was distinctly subordinate to the general training in the fundamental
ideas and principles of the subject which its discussion enabled him
to give. Everything was treated from the point of view in which it
least needed the aid of artificial methods and conventions, so that
its direct connection with the broad underlying principles common
to a whole class of subjects might be immediately perceived. This
dislike to artificial methods was almost a passion with him. He had
great faith in the superiority of this style of teaching, and always
maintained that it was the easiest as well as the best, a proposition to
which the experience of most teachers would not lead them to assent.
Perhaps it was his own special power of clear exposition which en-
abled him to succeed so well in thus handling his subjects in their most
general form, instead of starting from simple and particular cases, and
only taking up more general theorems after the simpler ones had been
mastered by his pupils ; but, whether or not this was the case, it is
certain that he had all the success in his teaching that he could desire.
" It is a signal proof of the beauty of Professor Clifford's personal
character that, in forming an estimate of him, one should so naturally
and inevitably think first of his general qualities, and only in the sec-
ond place of his claims to fame as a mathematician. For it was in the
latter character that he first gained his great reputation, and it is
in that that his claims to genius are the strongest. No one of his
contemporaries ever approached Professor Clifford in his marvelous.
