264 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
power over the intricate and abstruse branches of mathematics to
which he gave his main affections, and to find his equal we should
have to look among veterans whose names will for ever be identified
with these subjects. Such was his prodigious grasp over the phantoms
that people these remoter regions of thought, that while little more
than a boy he seemed fit to take his place among the masters of these
studies. And there can be no doubt that, if the innate restlessness of
his nature would have permitted him to accept the quiet of a mathe-
matician's life, he might have left behind him what would have en-
titled him to take rank as one of our greatest mathematicians. But it
is hard to forego the pleasure of using powers which one is conscious
of possessing, and the temptation to which the versatility of his mind
subjected him was wellnigh fatal to his reputation as a specialist. Ev-
ery now and then something would turn his energy into these lines,
and he would show by some fragment what magnificent work he was
capable of doing ; but it was for a long time doubtful whether he would
ever do justice to himself in this respect, and by more continuous ap-
plication to some special subject produce results worthy of his powers.
As time went on, however, this changed ; during the last few years
there were fewer signs of the old desultoriness, and both in his ' Ele-
ments of Dynamic ' and his various mathematical papers there were
abundant traces of the concentration of effort which alone was needed
to secure success. But, alas ! this was only too speedily succeeded by
the leisure of the sick-bed. Perhaps it was the feeling of decaying
strength which first made Professor Clifford limit the sphere of his
efforts, and seek to finish some of his many projects, instead of form-
ing new ones. Whether this was so or not, it was not the less a gain
to the world, though even now what we possess should be considered
only as indications of what his powers would have been when fully
developed. Few, if any, have done such brilliant work and yet died
leaving us to feel that it must be taken only as the promise, and not
as the measure, of their powers.
" But what the mathematical world lost in this want of specializa-
tion of Professor Clifford's powers was gained by the general educated
public. His powers as a scientific expositor were as remarkable as
his mathematical abilities. His talent did not lie in experimental illus-
tration ; on the contrary, he seldom, if ever, resorted to it. Nor did
he ever condescend to the nurse-like prattle by which some scientific
lecturers make themselves comprehensible to the meanest intellects
but to those only. There was not a sentence, or a scientific statement,
in one of Professor Clifford's lectures of which he need have been
ashamed in an address to the most scientific or learned society."
