P OP ULAR MIS CELL AN Y.
287
very distant from those of the Zambesi, but
which soon takes a north and south direc-
tion. Only the upper course of this stream
was hitherto known to Europeans. It was
supposed that farther down it turned to the
west and flowed into the Atlantic as the
Owambo or Cunene. Pinto has now prob-
ably made the discovery that the Cubango
is a tributary of the Zambesi. However
this may be, our knowledge of the interior
of Africa has been considerably enlarged by
Pinto's journey.
On reaching the Transvaal Territory the
explorer sent the following dispatch to the
King of Portugal: "I ain now six days'
journey from the Indian Ocean, and on the
point of completing my march across Afri-
ca from the west coast. I have struggled
against hunger and thirst, wild beasts, sav-
ages, floods, and drought, and have happily
surmounted all these obstacles. My records
are safe, and consist of twenty geographical
charts, three volumes of important coordi-
nates, meteorological notes, three volumes
of sketches, and a voluminous journal. I
have lost several men. Complete study of the
upper Zambesi, sixty-two cataracts and rap-
ids. Plan of the cataracts. The natives
fierce ; unceasing wars. The secret of the
Cubango. Serpa Pinto."
Strength of Hard and Soft Steel. It has
hitherto been supposed that a soft bar of
steel can longer resist the disintegrating
action of strains and shocks than a hard
one, but experiments made by W. Metcalf,
of Pittsburg, appear to prove the contrary
to be the fact. His attention was first called
to this matter by the constant breaking of
steam-hammer piston-rods. Made of ordi-
nary steel, they lasted but six months, an
iron rod lasting but half as long. Then
lower and lower steels were tried, and broke
in about five months. In an emergency, a
rod of comparatively high steel was em-
ployed, and this, which it was supposed
could not serve for more than a week or
two, held out for more than two years. This
result led Mr. Metcalf to investigate the
whole subject systematically, and a lot of
small steel connecting-rods were tested in
a special machine. The test required was,
that a machine should run 4-| hours at a
rate of 1,200 revolutions per minute, un-
loaded, before the connecting-rod broke.
These rods were unforged in the middle, and
consisted of a piece of round bar with a
head welded on each end. " The mode of
rupture was," says Mr. Metcalf, " as a rule,
the same in all cases ; the rod heated at the
middle, where the vibrations met, as they
were imparted by rotary motion at one end,
and by reciprocating motion at the other,
and by alternating strains of compression
and extension. In some cases the rod be-
came slightly red-hot at the middle before
rupture. After heating, the next thing ob-
served was the raising or loosening of the
surface scale of the middle. Soon after this,
rupture began, first at the surface and grad-
ually extending to the center. The break-
ing was gradual in every case, no piece break-
ing suddenly, even of the highest steel. The
first trial was with "53 carbon steel: mean
time of six trials, 2 hours 9^ minutes. Sec-
ond trial, - 65 carbon steel : mean time of six
trials, 2 hours 57 minutes. Third trial,
85 carbon steel : mean time of three trials,
9 hours 45 minutes, and the trials were
stopped." A set of twelve connecting-rods,
made from special ingots, was then pre-
pared. These were tested with the follow-
ing results :
The '30 C ran 1 hour 21 minutes, heated
and bent before breaking.
The '49 ran 1 hour 28 minutes.
The -53 ran 4 hours 57 minutes, broke
without heating.
The -65 ran 3 hours 50 minutes, broke
at weld where imperfect.
The '80 ran 5 hours 40 minutes.
The -84 ran 18 hours.
87 C broke in weld near the end.
96 C ran 4 hours 55 minutes, and the
machine broke down.
The whole twelve were not tested, because
the machine was needed for other works,
and, when Mr. Metcalf returned to complete
the experiment, it was discovered that the
foreman of the shop had picked up the un-
broken specimens, put them into machines,
and sent them off". Enough was done, how-
ever, to show that the maximum of strength
to resist vibration was not found among the
ductile steels. Mr. Metcalf gives some other
data concerning the performance of steel
suspension-rods in a bridge that corroborate
his views, which are practically novel.
