288
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
NOTES.
In a cave near Decatur, Ohio, were re-
cently found, imbedded in ashes, fragments
of human bones, pieces of pottery, also bones
of wild animals, shells, etc. According to
a correspondent of the " Marietta Register,"
the human jawbones found in this cave are
very large, and have the teeth well pre-
served. They have one tooth back of the
" wisdom-tooth." All the long bones were
broken or split a probable indication of
cannibal practices.
A curious fact in the history of the
yellow-fever epidemic last year, in New
Orleans was, that in the Fourth District,
the death-rate of males was seventy per cent,
greater than that of females, though the
sanitary census of 1877 showed that the
female population of the district exceeded
the male by 1,261. The comparative im-
munity of the negro race appears from the
faet that while the white population of the
district (29,482 souls) lost 569 persons by
death, the black population (6,883 souls)
lost only 29. If the negroes had died in
the same ratio as the whites, they would
have lost about 130.
As an illustration of the sudden extreme
alternations of temperature in northern Da-
kota and Montana, Dr. P. F. Harvey, U. S.
Army, states that in August, 1876, while on
duty with an expedition against hostile In-
dians, he saw the thermometer record 116
Fahr. in the shade at the mouth of the Rose-
bud River ; thirty-six hours afterward, the
temperature had fallen to very nearly the
freezing-point ; and, on the morning of the
second day following, he scraped hoar-frost
1'rom a log in front of his tent.
The " Examiner" notes an extraordinary
decrease in the number of students of theolo-
gy at the German universities. The decrease
is so great that is several states there has
been an insufficiency of candidates for the
pulpit. Until now Schleswig-Holstein was
an extensive nursery of theologians, but there
also a falling off by nearly 40 per cent, has
recently occurred. At Kiel there are at
present 24, at other German universities 28
students of theology from Sehleswig-Hol-
stein altogether 52. Six years ago there
were still 90 of them, while fifty years ago
there were no less than 168 students of the-
ology at Kiel alone, almost all of them Schles-
wig-Holsteiners.
Underground telegraph cables arc now
completed between Berlin and Cologne. Co-
logne and Elberfeld, Frankfort and Stras-
burg, and Hamburg and Cuxhaven ; the total
length of these lines is 1,554 miles, and the
cost about $3,000,000.
The suggestion is made in "Dingler's
Polytechnisches Journal " that air for ven-
tilation be drawn into buildings through
tubes sunk about three metres in the ground
(say ten feet). By this means it would in
winter be warmed 15' or 16 Fahr., and in
summer cooled 2U to 23 Fahr.
Peter Le Neve Foster, for twenty-five
years Secretary of the London Society of
Arts, died recently, at the age of seventy
years. A lawyer by profession, Mr. Foster
took a lively interest in various departments
of science. He was one of the first to prac-
tice, as a scientific amateur, the art of pho-
tography, and was a frequent contributor
of articles on that subject to periodicals
and cyclopaedias. He was President of the
Queckett Microscopical Club for one year,
and from 1863 to 1866 served on the Coun-
cil of the British Association.
The London Geological Society has
awarded the Bigsby Medal to Professor E.
D. Cope, of Philadelphia, in recognition of
his services to the science of paleontology.
In Brazil the coffee plantations, like the
vineyards in France, are threatened with
destruction by the ravages of a minute para-
site. The roots of the plants are found cov-
ered with knots and swellings like those
seen on the roots of the grapevine infested
by the phylloxera. In these swellings are
found minute nematode worms one fourth of
a millimetre id length when fully developed.
A single root often contains as many as fifty
million of these parasites.
The larva of the tapeworm known as
Taenia solium comes from " measly " pork,
and the mature worm has a head bearing
a crown of hooks. Tcenia mediocandlaia
is derived from beef and mutton ; it has a
larger head, which is unarmed. It has com-
monly been supposed that the former spe-
cies is more frequently found in human sub-
jects than the latter, but Professor Leidy is
of the contrary opinion. Thorough cooking
of meats is a sure preventive of the devel-
opment of these unwelcome entozoa.
An apparatus, the invention of an Amer-
ican, for carrying a line to a vessel in dis-
tress was lately tested in England. It con-
sists of a projectile weighing V2h pounds, the
necessary line included. This projectile is
placed in a gun, the wrong or heavy end
first, and on leaving the muzzle, at once
turns over, the front end becoming the rear.
In shape it is an elongated shell 12 inches
long, 3^ inches in diameter, carrying a line
tightly coiled within, which it pays out as
it flies through the air. At 22 elevation,
the distances reached by the projectile were
389, 448, and 507 yards, the deviation of
the shot and line from the target being 4|,
nine, and eight yards respectively.
