290 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
make the famous Portland cement ; and the ruthless hand of Utilitarian-
ism has not even respected the brickbat, that had served from time
immemorial only to crack the heads of opposing factions, but grinds
it up to make cement with lime. The finest glue size is made from
the waste of parchment skins. The waste gases of the blast-furnace
are now utilized to heat the blast, to generate the steam that drives the
engine that makes the blast, to hoist ores, drive machinery, etc. ; and
even the slag, that has served for years only to decorate the hillsides,
is now cast into paving and building blocks, or granulated to make
building sand, or ground for cement, or mixed with suitable chemicals
and turned into the commoner grades of glass, or blown by a jet of
steam into the finest filaments to form the curious substance called
mineral wool, now largely used as a non-conductor of heat upon steam-
pipes, boilers, roofs, etc., etc.
So, too, the enormous hills of anthracite-coal dirt, that in the coai
regions of our State have for years borne silent but eloquent testi-
mony to the crudity and wastefulness of our methods of mining coal,
now bid fair soon to disappear beneath boilers supplied with ingenious
dust-burning devices, or in the form of lumps of artificial fuel. Even
the anthracite-coal dej)osits, now so enormously valuable, were a few
years ago but so many layers of black stone, unappreciated and value-
less. The waste heat of the lime-kiln is made to generate steam, and
warm immense public buildings in England and on the Continent ; and
the " exhaust " of the steam-engine is made to do service in heating
the water fed into the boiler.
I might multiply examples like the above almost indefinitely, to
show how, with the most beneficent results, the genius of invention
has enabled us to reap advantages where none were supposed to exist,
or where, if they were suspected, they were undervalued or simply
neglected.
And now, having briefly shown, by a few typical examples, what
modern invention has done and is doing to utilize the waste products
of nature and of the arts, I shall invite you to consider with me whether
there are not waste forces in nature that can and should be turned to
useful account, or to vastly better account than we are now putting
them ; and whether we must not plead guilty to the crime of neglect-
ing to avail ourselves of exhaustless and incalculable stores of power
that simply wait to do our bidding.
Before I pass to the consideration of what I have called the
" Waste Forces of Nature " by which I mean to designate such of
the natural powers as the world of industry has thus far passed over
altogether it will be instructive for us to consider whether we are
doing what we ought to do with those that are used, and whether, with
all the inventions of our skilled mechanics and engineers, the actual
practical results that we obtain from the various sources of power
used in the industries do not fall far below what theory declares it to
