292 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
will have a value of 772 x 1*8 = 1,390 foot-pounds). Now, this much
having been gained in fixing the principle of our calculations, let us go
back to our steam-boiler, and to the coal we feed it with. It has been
experimentally determined that, if the entire quantity of heat given
off during the burning of one pound of pure coal could be applied
without loss to heating water, it would suffice to raise the temperature
of one pound of water 7,900 C. ; or, what is the same thing, differ-
ently stated, it would be sufficient to raise the temperature of 7,900
pounds of water one degree. The possible mechanical duty of the
" theoretically perfect " steam-engine is found by simply multiplying
the quantity which expresses the thermal equivalent of coal by the
quantity which expresses the mechanical equivalent of heat, and the
result would be the true value of one pound of coal burned in the
boiler in " foot-pounds." Performing this simple arithmetical opera-
tion, we obtain (7,900 x 1,390 =) 10,980,000 foot-pounds ; or, to put it
more simply, suppose we convert these foot-pounds into horse-power,
which we can do by another simple arithmetical operation of dividing
them by 33,000, and we shall have as a result that one pound of pure
coal, burned in the perfect boiler in one minute, would, if we could
apply it with absolute economy to the performance of work, exert a
force of (-^^(nf- =) 332 horse-power during one minute; or, if
burned during an hour, then one sixtieth of 332, or 5*5 horse-power.
With a perfect boiler, therefore, we ought to get 5*5 horse-power
per hour out of every pound of coal burned on the grate-bars. Now,
let us inquire, What do we get in practice ? Surely, you will say, our
scientific mechanics and engineers have succeeded in getting a goodly
percentage out of this possible figure ; and the splendid engines, of
massive construction, that work so beautifully as to excite our wonder
and admiration at their smoothness and ease of their movements, must
be very near perfection. Alas for the vanity of human expectations !
Instead of getting 5 # 5 horse-power out of every pound of coal we
burn in the boiler, the very best boiler and engine that have ever been
constructed require two and a half pounds of coal to give out one
horse-power : which means that, in spite of the vaunted progress of the
mechanic arts in our times, the best engineering talent applied to the
improvement of the steam-engine, from the time of James Watt down
to Corliss, has only succeeded in making it yield a duty of 15 per cent,
of what it ought to do, leaving an enormous margin of 85 per cent, for
future improvements.
In the foregoing remarks I have, I fear, inadvertently been unjust to
our engine-builders, for by far the greater portion of this 85 per cent,
of wasted power is chargeable directly to the steam-boiler, and but a
comparatively small proportion thereof to the engine. In considering
the question of the duty of steam-motors, however, we must take the
whole machine (engine and boiler), as a single apparatus. If our
boiler-makers could do as well as our engine-builders the two indus-
