THE GROWTH OF THE WILL. 13
clearly that a vast space of time is required to bring any acquisition
up to the point of being transmitted to a perceptible amount. So
that the time obstacle still recurs ; and Professor Spence's difficulty
of permutations and combinations recurs with it. Indeed, if his com-
putations were good as against my view of the will, it would be little
less crushing against the start of voluntary power in the race : we
should need to substitute, in order to the development of humanity,
for millions of years, millions of millions. It is evident, to me at least,
that there must be a shorter road, in both cases, than his calculations
would suppose.
6. I am quite ready to grant that our voluntary acquisitions repose
upon certain established tendencies call them instinctive or hereditary
and that the Professor is perfectly correct in describing the mature
will as a mixture of organic maturation with proper acquisition. But
I should not quite concur in his mode of expressing the proportions of
the two. I think I could show that the brain of man, while it must
contain at birth many preestablished groupings or connections, is dis-
tinguished for its flexibility, adaptation, or educability ; and that, if we
were to sum up the contents of any of our leading acquisitions, say
speech, the primordial part the supposed capacity of articulation
which the Professor thinks would need millions of tentatives, is the
base for a superstructure of enormous extent, needing nothing to ac-
count for it but the power of retentiveness operating upon these few
articulate modes. Consider the power of speaking seven languages,
and how little of this can be by any possibility transmitted, and we
must admit that, somehow or other, a vast number of connections can
be established in the lifetime of an individual ; every reasonable allow-
ance being made for hereditary tendencies.
7. In order to prove that we possess by hereditary transmission a
countless number of organized muscular arrangements, upon which our
acquisitions are based, Professor Spence adduces the instances of abnor-
mal exaltation of capacity, under trance, mesmerism, somnambulism,
and other extraordinary conditions. For my own part, I doubt whether
these phenomena have been sufficiently investigated to be turned to this
use. We may readily suppose that the hereditary tendencies may be
inflamed by mental excitement to the ancestral level ; in other words,
that I can be made to do, without the full measure of training, all that
my forefathers may have attained to. This is like the case of forgotten
memories revived in fever. But that I should bjr being mesmerized, or
by being thrown into a trance, perform feats that no one of my ances-
tors had ever been educated to perform as, for example, ballet-dancing
or rope-walking is not within the legitimate application of the law of
heredity. It would be like water rising above its source. I am not
disputing the phenomena themselves ; but I think they need some other
principles for their explanation, and, if quoted as proving the extent of
our hereditary organization, they have the defect of proving too much.
