WAS TUB FORCES. 297
trary, has seriously occupied the attention of such eminent practical
engineers and mechanics as Ericsson, and others scarcely less widely
and favorably known ; and, although up to the present time nothing
very tangible has resulted from their labors, they have at least suc-
ceeded in demonstrating, beyond reasonable doubt, that the problem
is susceptible of practical solution.
To convey some adequate notion of the incalculable floods of power
that await the bidding of the compelling genius of invention, I will
invite your attention to a very brief resume of the well-substantiated
results of scientific research applied to the subject. The French phys-
icist Pouillet, with the aid of elaborately refined apparatus, estimated
that the earth receives from the sun in each and every minute 2,247
billions of units of heat a quantity sufficient, if converted into me-
chanical force, to raise 2,247 billions X 774 pounds to the height of
one foot. To come down to figures that are less difficult of concep-
tion, let us confine our attention to that part of the solar heat that
falls upon the oceans, and to the fraction of that portion which is ex-
pended in the work of evaporating the water.
Without entering into an explanation of the modes in which the
following calculations have been made, and which would run into far
greater length than the limited time at my disposal this evening would
warrant, I will simply give you the results.
I have said, you will remember, that we would confine our atten-
tion to that portion of the solar heat that falls upon the oceans, and to
that fraction of it which is expended in the work of evaporating the
water ; in doing which alone, the sun raises during every minute an
average of not less than 2,000,000,000 tons of water to a height of
3^- miles the mean altitude of the clouds. To express this prodigious
exercise of power in more familiar form, I may put it this way, that to
continuously raise this weight of water to the height of 3^ miles per
minute would require the continuous exercise of the force of 2,757,-
000,000,000 horses per minute.
Here, then, is power enough to satisfy the most enthusiastic inventor,
and leave him plenty of margin ; and if the believers in the sun-engine
shall ever succeed in giving mechanical expression to but the merest
fraction of this superabundance, they may safely count upon creating
as profound a revolution in the world of industry as that which was
ushered in with the steam-engine.
Ericsson, who has devoted much study to this enticing problem,
has announced his unqualified belief that the sun-engine is practicable.
He has progressed so far as to lay down the general principles on
which he proposes to construct such a motor, and which he has actu-
ally put into practice in the production of an engine that runs with
great uniformity at a speed of 240 revolutions per minute, and con-
suming at this rate only part of the steam made by the solar generator
employed. From the very brief and imperfect accounts that have
