WASTED FORCES. z 99
results, and in some countries, notably in Holland, quite extensively.
From the best advices I have upon this topic I have it that there are
in that country no less than 12,000 windmills, averaging eight horse-
power each, giving a total of 96,000 horse-power.
The chief and obvious difficulties that intrude themselves against
the extensive use of the wind as a motive power for general industrial
uses are that in most locations it is intermittent in its action, extremely
variable as to its power, and quite* unreliable as to the time and dura-
tion of its manifestations.
The immense power stored up in this unfortunately unreliable agent
will appear from the statement that a wind of three miles per hour
travels 4*40 feet per second, and exerts a pressure of 0*32 to 0*44 pound
per square foot of surface opposed to its action. A wind of twenty-
five miles an hour, or what sailors would call a good stiff breeze, trav-
els 39*67 feet per second, and exerts a pressure of from 2'208 to 3*075
pounds per square foot. The prodigious energy of a hurricane, trav-
eling not infrequently at the rate of one hundred miles' per hour, is
too well known by its disastrous effects to need repetition. The power
of the wind, however, save for ship-propulsion, is utilized in but few
situations, its unreliability having caused it to be but very slightly
esteemed in comparison with water-power and steam. Of late, how-
ever, small windmills, especially designed with superior mechanical
skill, have been rapidly growing in popularity in this country, mainly
for pumping water for railway and domestic purposes, an application
for which these devices are excellently adapted; and I entertain no
doubt that there are many situations where work is to be done that
does not demand a continuous exercise of power, and where the prime
consideration to be observed is the element of cheapness, where wind-
power might be most advantageously employed. There are, again,
extensive regions of the earth, extending for ten or more degrees north
and south of the equator, where the winds blow continuously from
one direction throughout the greater portion of the year I need hardly
remind you that I refer to the region of the " trade-winds," and in
which, especially along the coast-line where their influence is not dis-
turbed by mountain ranges and other conflicting causes, the force of
the wind may be relied upon with almost absolute certainty for the
whole or the greater portion of the year. In such regions, therefore,
Nature has supplied us with an exhaustless store of energy, capable of
meeting the most extravagant demands that may be made upon it.
Even the region of the temperate zones, where the winds are variable,
our seashores have their strong- land- and sea-breezes which for nine
days out of ten may be relied upon; and even in situations where wind-
power is most unreliable, as in the interior of the continents, there is a
vast and valuable field open for some practical and generally applicable
system by which the power of the wind, at present almost universally
allowed to go to waste, may be stored up to be given out again as it
