3 02 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
lated metallic wires or cables to a great distance with but little loss,
comparatively speaking, and could thus be made to run magneto-elec-
tric engines to do the work of steam in our mills and workshops, to
ignite electric lamps, etc. A copper rod, or cable, three inches in
diameter, says Dr. Siemens, would be capable of transmitting a thou-
sand horse-power to a distance of say thirty miles an amount suffi-
cient to give the light of a quarter million of candles, and suffice to
illuminate a town of moderate size. Two eminent American investi-
gators, Professors Houston and Thomson, of Philadelphia, having just
made an investigation with the especial purpose of determining the
practicability of transmitting the power of Niagara to great distances
by means of electricity, go even further than Dr. Siemens. They
make the astonishing assertion and, what is more, they prove it that
it would be possible, should it prove to be desirable, to convey the
whole power of Niagara to the distance of 500 miles or more by means
of a copper cable not exceeding a half inch in thickness.
It is unnecessary for me to multiply examples upon this fruitful
theme of speculation, for the time admonishes me that I have already
trespassed sufficiently upon your attention, and I think I have con-
vinced you very fully that such queries as "What shall we do when our
coal-fields are exhausted ? need cause us no anxiety, for centuries be-
fore this possibility shall be realized, I opine, the world will no longer
stand in need of them.
THE GEOLOGICAL SUEYEY OF THE FOETIETH
PAEALLEL.
Bt Professor J. S. NEWBERRY.
THE geological survey of the country bordering the fortieth par-
allel of latitude was made under the direction of the War De-
partment by a party under Mr. Clarence King, who took the field in
1867. The area covered by the survey was a belt one hundred miles
wide, traversed by the Pacific Railroad between the Great Plains on
the east and the Sierra Nevada on the west, approximately between
the 104th and 120th meridians of longitude. The general object of
the survey was to connect the region of which the geological structure
has been made known through the California survey on the west with
the explored portion of the Mississippi Yalley, and thus to supply the
material for completing a section across the continent. In addition to
this it was proposed to determine by careful investigation the structure
and resources of the country lying adjacent to the Pacific Railroad,
which by the construction of this great work was opened to occupa-
tion, and was already invaded by a population eager to seize and de-
velop its hidden stores of mineral wealth.
