3 o5 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
proposed will have an important influence on the progress of geology,
especially in this country.
The publication of Mr. King's volume certainly throws a flood of
light on the complicated and hitherto somewhat chaotic geology of
our Western Territories, and it can not fail to afford important aid in
the proper orientation of both observers and observations in all the
great region west of the Mississippi.
It is evident that nothing like a thorough discussion of the facts
and conclusions contained in Mr. King's great volume of eight hun-
dred quarto pages can be given here ; but some of the most important
of his facts, and the more interesting of his generalizations, will be
briefly noticed in the succeeding pages.
Archaean. By this term, which he accepts from Dana, Mr. King
designates all the great mass of crystalline schists and granitoid rocks
which underlie the Cambrian system, and form the base of his grand
section. These are most fully exposed in the Park and Medicine Bow
Ranges of Colorado and Wyoming, and in the Humboldt and Truckee
Mountains of Nevada ; but there are also numerous minor ranges and
summits composed of granitoid rocks, especially west of Salt Lake ;
and Mr. King shows that these latter exposures are portions of a broad
pre-Cambrian land-surface which formed the western border of a great
topographical basin that reached to the Rocky Mountains on the east.
This basin was occupied by the seas from which were deposited the
Palaeozoic rocks. These latter wei'e largely derived from the erosion
of the neighboring land on the west, and formed a conformable series,
of which the estimated thickness is over 30,000 feet. The old land
which supplied the mechanical material of the Palaeozoic strata ex-
tended to an unknown distance northward, and reached southward at
least to the present head of the Gulf of California, in a region where
it was recognized by the writer, and its relations to the Palaeozoic
series of the Colorado plateau pointed out in the " Report of the
Colorado Exploration," 1861.
Mr. King divides the Archaean rocks into two great groups, of
which the first consists at base of gray or flesh-colored bedded granite,
overlain by red, massive granite, on which lie red, micaceous, bedded
granites, the whole attaining a thickness of perhaps 25,000 feet. This
group is characterized by the presence of quartz, orthoclase, and oligo-
clase feldspars, with a little hornblende and mica, the latter consisting
of biotite, muscovite, and lepidomelane. It also contains more or less
labradorite, titaniferous iron, magnetite, and graphite, the whole cor-
responding closely with the Laurentian of Canada.
The upper subdivision of Archaean rocks found in the Medicine
Bow and Park Ranges, the Uintah, Wahsatch, Humboldt Mountains,
etc. consists of true gneisses, interstratified with mica schists, often
garnetiferous, hornblende schist, sometimes with zircon, etc., all very
distinctly, often minutely stratified. The thickness of this group is in
