H THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
CLEWS IN NATURAL HISTORY.
By Dr. ANDREW WILSON.
IN the exercise of his scientific attainments, there is one aspect in
which the naturalist of to-day bears a certain likeness to the de-
tective officer. The latter is perpetually endeavoring to " strike the
trail " of the offender through his dexterity in the discovery of clews
to the movements of the pursued, and attains his end most surely and
speedily when the traces he has selected are of trustworthy kind. The
naturalist, on his part, has frequently to follow the history of an animal
or plant, or it may be that of a single organ or part in either, through
a literal maze of difficulties and possibilities. His search after the rela-
tionship of an animal may be fraught with as great difficulty as that
which attends the discovery of a " missing heir " or lost relative in
actual life ; and his success in his mission is found to depend, as does
that of the detective's work, simply on the excellence and trustworthi-
ness of the clews he possesses, and on the judicious use to which he
puts his " information received." It can not be denied, however, that
modern aspects of science and present-day tendencies in research have
largely increased the resemblance between the enforced duties of the
criminal investigator and the self-imposed task of the biologist. When,
formerly, the order of nature was regarded as being of unaltering kind
and of stable constitution, naturalists regarded animals and plants sim-
ply as they existed. There was of old no looking into the questions of
biology in the light of " what might have been," because the day was
not yet when change and evolution were regarded as representing the
true order of the world. When, however, the idea that the universe
both of living and non-living matter had an ordered past dawned upon
the minds of scientists, the necessity for tracing that past was forced
upon them as a bounden duty. With no written history to guide them,
the scientific searchers were forced to read the " sermons in stones "
which Nature had delivered ages ago. " Without clear and unmistaken
records to point the way, they had to seek for clews and traces to na-
ture's meaning in the structure and development of animals and plants;
and, as frequently happens in commonplace history, the earnest searcher
often found a helping hand where he least thought it might appear, and
frequently discovered an important clew in a circumstance or object of
the most unlikely kind.
Readers whose tastes are not materially scientific have doubtless
heard much of " missing links " of nature, especially in connection with
the gaps which exist between the human territory and ape-land. Indeed,
the phrase has come to be understood as applying almost entirely and
specifically to the absence of connecting forms between man and the apes
forms for which, in one sense, no necessity exists, inasmuch as Mr.
