GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF FORTIETH PARALLEL. 307
the Wahsatch and Humboldt Mountains, from 12,000 to 14,000 feet, in
the Park and Medicine Bow Ranges somewhat less, and in the Clear
Creek region of Colorado at least 25,000 feet. This upper group will
be recognized by geologists as closely resembling the Huronian rocks
of the East. The Archaean nucleus of the Black Hills was reported
by the late Mr. Henry Newton to be composed of two groups of crys-
talline rocks closely resembling those described by Mr. King, and Mr.
George M. Dawson found a similar double series in Manitoba and
British Columbia. Without absolute proof which it would be dif-
ficult if not impossible to obtain the inference is at least allowable
that the rocks underlying the Palaeozoic series in the far West cor-
respond to the Laurentian and Huronian Groups of the Canadian ge-
ologists, and therefore that the foundation of the western half of the
continent is essentially the same with that of the eastern ; and also
that there, as here, a broad continental surface of these older rocks
supplied by erosion the mechanical material that entered into the com-
position of the Palaeozoic sediments, which, by successive oscillations
of sea-level, were spread to varying altitudes upon its flanks.
At the close of his chapter on the Archaean, Mr. King proposes a
theory of the genesis of granite and crystalline schists, which is in
some respects new. In common with most of the geologists of the
present day, he supposes that the granites and schists are sedimentary
rocks which, having locally accumulated to great thickness, have sunk
by their own weight into the yielding crust of the earth to a point
where they have suffered more or less aqueo-igneous softening, and
then, in his view, under varying intensities of radial and tangential
pressure, they have been converted into corrugated schists or massive
granite, according to the less or greater energy of the forces acting
upon them. The evidence adduced by Mr. King to support this me-
chanical theory of the origin of granite is chiefly derived from the
facts which indicate internal and bodily movement in granite, such as
the dislocation of inclosed minerals, and the inclusion of masses of
foreign rocks.
That there has sometimes been more movement in granites than in
the schists with which they are associated and of which they can fre-
quently be shown to be the exact equivalents in a more metamorphosed
condition is quite certain ; but it is very difficult to separate here the
effects of force from those of heat. Either produces the practical plas-
ticity which we see recorded in the obliteration of bedding, and the
inclusion of foreign rocks. Granites, which exhibit the extreme phase
of metamorphism, have evidently been in a plastic state, for they have
been forced into fissures of other rocks to form veins and extruded
mountain - crests proofs of softening and movement which schists
never afford but whether this plasticity was the effect of greater
heat or greater force than the associated schists suffered, is a question
not answered by any facts yet cited. The dislocation of included min-
