3 o8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
erals indicates force ; the inclosure of blocks of foreign material, when
these blocks are masses of metamorphic schists, indicates plasticity,
but affords no test of temperature. Where the included blocks are
limestone, as in the granite of the Pyrenees described by Green ("Physi-
cal Geology," p. 322), and these blocks are externally metamorphosed,
internally unchanged, we have a record of softening and heat, but not
the heat of fusion. The coarser crystallization of granite means that it
has been more or longer softened, so that its component minerals were
free to crystallize out ; but no distortion or dislocation of these min-
erals affords stronger proof of internal movement than is furnished by
the associated schists, in which the fossils often not wholly obliterated
are quite as much distorted as any minerals in the granite. The inclu-
sion in granite of blocks of slate which have been transported some
distance from their place of origin, supplies, however, conclusive evi-
dence of movement which may even be called a flow. Cases of this
kind, which are of great interest and significance, were observed by
Mr. Newton in the Black Hills. The granite core of this mountain-
chain incloses large angular blocks of metamorphic slate which have
been torn from their connections and carried bodily upward. The
granite also shows a kind of slickenside-jointing, which proves that
when in a plastic but not fused condition it was squeezed out of a
fissure or opening in the harder overlying schists. We have here
proof that the granite in its lower position has been more softened
than the schists, and that it has been more moved ; but we have no
proof that it has been subjected to greater pressure.
In contrast with the theory of Mr. King, that granites have been
produced by great pressure, is that promulgated by Mr. H. F. Walling
(Proceedings of the American Association at the St. Louis meeting), in
which lateral pressure is practically ignored as a cause of metamor-
phism. Mr. Walling, supposing, with others, that sediments accumu-
lating along shores have sunk by their gravity, recognizing the fact
that the static equilibrium must be maintained by the rising of the
areas lightened by erosion in the removal of these sediments, attributes
mountain elevation to this ascent, and the corrugation of metamor-
phosed rocks to the lateral flow of material from the sinking to the
rising areas. There is certainly great force in the reasoning used by
Mr. Walling to show that there must be rising as well as sinking areas,
and a subterranean flow of matter from one to the other to compen-
sate for the transfer of eroded material on the surface ; but it seems
doubtful whether the traction produced by the adhesion of the solid
strata above to the moving mass below could produce slaty cleavage
and other phenomena, which we have been accustomed to attribute to
the lateral thrust produced by the crushing down of the rigid crust on
a shrinking nucleus. It is hardly necessary to say that the metamor-
phism of granite is, according to Mr. Walling, due to the subterranean
heat to which it has been exposed in its descent far below the surface.
