GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF FORTIETH PARALLEL. 309
Probably the final conclusion reached in the discussion of the origin
of granites, to which Mr. King has certainly contributed many new
and interesting facts, will be that each of the causes, heat and pressure,
should be credited with a share of the effects produced.
Palaeozoic. One of the most interesting and surprising results of
Mr. King's exploration is the discovery of a section of stratified and
unmetamorphosed strata said to be conformable throughout, reaching
from the base of the Cambrian to the top of the Carboniferous, and
attaining a maximum thickness of 32,000 feet. No section of the Palse-
ozoic rocks of equal magnitude has yet been discovered elsewhere in
the world, and the announcement will doubtless be received with some
incredulity by geologists, but the accuracy with which the measure-
ments were taken by Mr. King and his assistants, and the vindication
of his classification afforded by the fossils, which were carefully re-
viewed by Mr. Meek, Professor Hall, and Mr. Whitfield, seem to leave
no room for doubt. This great group of rocks is said, as before stated,
to have been laid down in a basin bounded on the east by the ranges
of the Rocky Mountains in Colorado, and on the west by a broad
archsean area in Nevada. In the middle rose the lofty islands of the
Wahsatch, which toward the west presented an abrupt slope of 30,000
feet, aerainst which the Palaeozoic rocks abutted. From the inclosed
character of this sea most of the sediments formed in it are mechanical,
and represent the wash from the adjacent land, but in the middle of
the section occurs what Mr. King calls the Wahsatch limestone (Lower
Carboniferous and Upper Devonian), seven thousand feet in thickness.
Although no certain measure of time is afforded by the mechanical
sediments since the rapidity with which they were deposited may have
varied indefinitely with the activity of eroding agents this great lime-
stone mass, formed as it must have been through organic agencies,
represents a lapse of time which is almost beyond the reach of the
imagination ; and if, as Mr. King states, the Palaeozoic series is essen-
tially conformable throughout the area it occupies, we have here evi- .
dence of a stability in the physical conditions of this portion of the
earth's surface, which, so far as known, is without parallel.
Mr. King gives two sections of the Palaeozoic series taken, one in
the Wahsatch Mountains and the other in Middle Nevada, which differ
only in minor details. The Wahsatch section is, however, the most
complete, as it shows the base of the Cambrian system, which is not
visible farther west ; it is as follows :
1. Permian 615 feet -
2. Upper Coal Measure limestone 2,000
3. Weber quartzite, Carboniferous, and Devonian 6,000
4. Wahsatch limestone, Carboniferous, and Devonian 7,000
5. Ogden quartzite, Devonian 1,000
6. TJte limestone, Silurian b 000
7. Cambrian silecious schists 11,000
8. Cambrian slates 800
