310 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Mesozoic. At the close of the Palaeozoic ages great changes took
place in the topography of the central and western portions of the con-
tinent, all of which are for the first time made clearly known by Mr.
King's graphic and lucid descriptions in his chapters on the "Mesozoic
Areas of the Fortieth Parallel." After the deposition of the great and
conformable series of Palaeozoic rocks in the central basin, the Archae-
an continent, which formed the western limit of these older deposits,
and which had continued dry land to the close of the Carboniferous
age, was sunk under the waves of the Pacific, and thus remained dur-
ing the Triassic and Jurassic ages long enough for the deposition of
about 20,000 feet of sediments, of which considerably more than half
belong to the Trias. Then the great fold of the Sierra Nevada was
raised high above the ocean-level, carrying with it all the table-land
of the Great Basin, which has not since been covered with salt-water.
The rocks composing the Sierra Nevada are chiefly the Jurassic and
Triassic beds, here often completely metamorphosed and converted into
crystalline slates and massive granites, in which lie the auriferous veins
that have supplied the $1,000,000,000 of gold already taken from the
California placers and quartz mines. This paroxysm, or rather period
of elevation, occurred before the Cretaceous age ; for, in all the inter-
val between the Wahsatch and the Sierra Nevada, no Cretaceous rocks
are found. On the Pacific side of the great Sierra, however, Creta-
ceous strata lie nearly horizontal, abutting against the upturned Juras-
sic and Triassic slates, and reaching to a height of some 1,200 feet
above the present ocean-level.
East of the Wahsatch a very different history is recorded, for here
the Triassic, Jurassic, and Cretaceous strata were deposited not only
in a series conformable among themselves, but apparently with the
Palaeozoic rocks below. This conformability is, however, more appar-
ent than real, for the region between the Wahsatch and the Mississippi
gives abundant evidence of elevation and subsidence during the Meso-
zoic ages ; but these changes of level were continental rather than
local, and over an area of hundreds of thousands of square miles the
surface on which the strata were deposited was so nearly level that no
want of parallelism in their planes of deposition is visible to the eye.
That great changes of level did take place in this region is evident
from the facts, first, that on the area over which the Triassic beds were
deposited, extending from the Colorado to the Mississippi, mechanical
and shallow water deposits alone prevail. No limestones occur here
in the Trias, but it is made up of great sheets of cross-stratified and
tide-swept sand of brilliant colors, chiefly bright red due to the com-
plete oxidation of their iron from aeration, and the absence of organic
matter with here and there heavy beds of gypsum, and formerly of
salt ; all the records of the intermittent action of a shallow sea. This
sea-bottom over the interval between the Rocky Mountains and the
Mississippi became dry land at the close of the Trias ; for the Jurassic
