GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF FORTIETH PARALLEL. 311
strata which occupy much of Colorado, Utah, and Nevada, scarcely
reach eastward beyond the mountains ; and the Cretaceous age was
marked by a great submergence which carried the shore - line pro-
gressively from the Gulf of Mexico to the Wahsatch, and northward,
perhaps, to the Arctic Sea, converting all the area between the Wah-
satch Mountains and the Canadian highlands into a sea, in which were
deposited in some places 2,000 feet of limestone, the slow accumula-
tion of calcareous matter from the growth and decay of marine organ-
isms.
From Mr. King's careful study of the Mesozoic rocks of Nevada,
we learn that the Trias consists of alternations of limestone and quart -
zite, which, in Star Peak, form a continuous section of over 10,000
feet. The fossils which the limestones contain show that much the
larger part of this mass belongs to the Alpen Trias of the Old World,
the Halstadt and Saint Cassian beds, and those which form the pas-
sage to the Jura.
The Jurassic rocks of Nevada are mostly shales the deposits from
water too shallow for limestones and contain few fossils. Along the
eastern margin of the Jurassic area in the Black Hills, the Jurassic
beds are more purely marine, and are far richer in fossils. The upper
portion of these beds, which are of an estuarine or littoral character,
has lately been discovered to be a vast cemetery of vertebrate animals,
some of which are of unequaled size, and in their structure of special
interest. Among these are the huge dinosaurs described by Marsh and
Cope, some of which far exceed in dimensions any terrestrial animals
before known, the largest, according to Marsh, having a length of at
least one hundred feet, and a height of twenty-five or thirty.
The uppermost member of Mr. King's Mesozoic section is the some-
what famous Laramie groxip the Lignitic formation of Dana, so
named because it contains the most important coal-beds of Colorado.
The age of this group of rocks has been much discussed by Dr. Hay-
den and Lesquereux, the distinguished fossil botanist, and it has been
represented by them to be Tertiary, on the evidence of its numerous
fossil plants ; Cope, however, found the remains of Cretaceous verte-
brates, and Meek, Cretaceous mollusks, in it ; and hence it was said to
have a Cretaceous fauna and a Tertiary flora. The writer has, how-
ever, for a long time contended that its flora was distinct from that of
the Tertiary rocks, and the proof was stronger that it was Cretaceous.
Mr. King adduces new and apparently conclusive evidence that it is
older than the Tertiary, since, like Cope, Meek, and Stevenson, he has
obtained numerous Cretaceous animal remains from it, and finds it to
underlie unconformably the Coryphodon beds, the oldest portion of the
Eocene.
Tertiary. The pictures which geology presents to us of the far
West during the Tertiary age are totally different from those which
preceded them, and, on the whole, more varied and interesting. As
