3 i2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
we learn from various sources, at the close of the Cretaceous the wide-
spread sea of that age was withdrawn from the interior of the conti-
nent, and all the interval between the Sierra Nevada and the Canadian
highlands became a land-surface; while in the lower valley of the Mis-
sissippi, and on the Gulf and Atlantic coasts of the eastern half of the
continent, the sea stood higher than before or now, for marine Tertiary
strata form a broad marginal belt reaching around the old land from
New York to and up into the Mississippi Valley. In the region of
the Plains, the Rocky Mountains, and the Great Basin, however, we
find no marine Tertiaries, but abundant evidence that, instead of the
former sea-surface, a broad continental area stretched from the Arctic
Ocean southward through and beyond the Territories of the United
States. This continent was marked by few bold topographical fea-
tures, since the Rocky Mountain system was then slowly growing, and
had attained nothing like its present magnitude. The surface was,
however, varied with low mountain-chains, broad savannas, strongly
flowing rivers, and a series of fresh- water lakes, which in magnitude far
exceeded any now on the earth's surface. The climate was mild and
genial even to the North Sea, and the land was clothed with a vegeta-
tion more luxuriant and varied than that which it now bears. Of the
magnitude of its forest growth we have evidence not only in the abun-
dant remains of trunk and leaf and fruit imbedded in the old lake sedi-
ments, but in the scattered remnants of its former grandeur seen in
the gigantic conifers of California, and in the cypress, magnolias,
sweet gums and sycamores, which' are the pride of our Eastern forests.
This fertile land also sustained a fauna corresponding in richness and
interest to its flora ; for in the Tertiary the gigantic reptiles of the
Mesozoic were succeeded by herds of mammals which far surpassed in
numbers, size, and variety of species, any mammalian fauna now living.
Their remains have been exhumed by thousands from the old lake-beds,
where, in the long lapse of ages, they had been borne by river-floods
and entombed. Thus were formed the vast charnel-houses from which
Leidy, Marsh, and Cope, have drawn the treasures they have exhibited
to the admiring scientific world. One after another of those great
Tertiary lakes were created by topographical changes which estab-
lished hydrographic basins, and, in turn, by the cutting down of their
outlets, their beds were first made dry land, and afterward deeply cut
by the many-branched draining streams, until they have formed the
Mauvaises Terres or " Bad Lands " of the West.
The Tertiary deposits, then, cf the region west of the Mississippi
are fresh-water sediments, chiefly the immediate wash of the land, con-
taining fossils which represent not only the fishes and turtles which
were their aquatic inhabitants, but the flora and fauna that lived upon
their banks.
On the west, however, this lake country was bordered by a chain
of volcanoes, which had from time to time their paroxysms of activity,
