316 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
climate is very cold, and yet the precipitation is sufficient, with the
average temperature, to form continental glaciers of equal dimensions
with any indicated by the records of the past, and, so far as we can
judge, no other condition is necessary for the extension of the glaciers
of Greenland southward to Labrador, the Canadian highlands, and the
hills of New England, than a depression of temperature sufficient to
congeal and retain the moisture which now flows away nearly as fast
as it falls. With the arrest of the flow of the St. Lawrence, for exam-
ple, and its accumulation year after year as ice and snow, it would not
require many centuries to pile the ice as high on the Canadian high-
lands as it was in the Quaternary age.
In Chapter VI., which forms a resume of the stratigraphical geology,
Mr. King refers in his graphic and felicitous way to the conditions of
deposition of the 120,000 feet of sedimentary accumulations which
form the different groups we have reviewed. The tabular presentation
of the stratigraphy (page 544), giving at one view the relations of the
50,000 feet of Archaean, 32,000 feet of Palaeozoic, 30,000 feet of Meso-
zoic, and 15,000 feet of Cenozoic rocks, is the most comprehensive
and impressive section which has ever been published, and one that
shows at a glance the magnitude of the task which Mr. King has per-
formed in the correlation and coordination of such a vast amount of
material.
In the last two chapters of his volume Mr. King discusses at great
length the genesis and relations of the Tertiary volcanic rocks, and
more briefly the classification of the mountain-ranges and lines of up-
heaval which traverse his field of exploration. These chapters, though
of great interest to the geologist, will perhaps not attract the general
reader. We would, however, specially commend them to students of
lithology and physical geology, as they contain a vast amount of val-
uable information on what have been made subjects of special study
by Mr. King. There was no part of his duty for which he was better
prepared than that he has done here ; and perhaps none in which he
has acquitted himself more creditably. The most striking generaliza-
tion which he makes in this part of the book, we are, however, com-
pelled to question. This is a new theory of the origin of vulcanism.
Most geologists of the present day believe that the crust of the earth
is thicker than was once supposed, and that its thickness is increased
by the effect of pressure which holds in coerced rigidity a zone of
greater or less depth, which is heated above the point at which it
would fuse and flow under the pressure of the atmosphere only, and
that local relief of this pressure would permit a greater or less mass
of highly heated matter below to burst into fluidity, and perhaps find
its way to the surface. Mr. King proposes erosion as a sufficient cause
for the relief of pressure and the production of volcanic phenomena ;
but some facts suggest themselves which seem to be incompatible with
this theory, viz. : 1. Erosion is so slow on an average 3,000 years
