A STUDY IN LOCOMOTION. 3 i 7
being required to remove a foot of surface that solidification by cool-
ing must keep pace with it ; 2. Volcanoes are generally not situated in
areas of erosion, but along coast-lines and on islands ; and, 3. They
are conspicuously associated with lines of fracture and elevation.
A simple explanation of the phenomena of vidcanism is suggested
by the writer, and that is the relief of pressure by slight arching of
the crust of the earth along lines of elevation, while the pressure is
maximum under the unbroken areas on either side. This unequal
pressure would cause a flow of liquid or viscous matter toward and
upward under the mountains that mark the lines of arch and fracture,
and would permit heated matter held in solidity by pressure to assume
the fluid state.
Mallett's theory, that the arching of plates of the earth's crust, and
the arrest of their motion in falling, would generate heat sufficient to
liquefy masses of rock, and produce volcanic eruptions, is rejected, for
the reasons that the strain on arches of sufficient magnitude would be
too great for the resistance of the materials composing them, and as
Mr. Fisher argues, the heat generated by this method, even if great
enough, would not be localized.
Mallett's theory wag framed to account for vulcanism in the crust of
the earth, on the supposition that the crust was very thick, as claimed
by Hopkins, Thompson, and Darwin, but Henessey and Delaunay have
clearly shown that the investigations supposed to demonstrate the
great thickness of the crust are valueless and irrelevant, as the prem-
ises assumed are not those of nature, and that we have as yet no evi-
dence of such thickness of crust as would make it impossible for vol-
canoes to be fed from a general molten mass below the earth's solid
crust.
In conclusion, we take pleasure in commending the numerous maps
and plates which embellish these elegant volumes. No other scientific
work known to us has so many, nor any more artistic or better adapted
to supplement and illustrate the text.
I
A STUDY IN LOCOMOTION*
Br Professor E. J. MAEEY.
F the interest of a scientific expositor ought to be measured by the
importance of the subject, I shall be applauded for my choice. In
fact, there are few questions which touch more closely the very exist-
ence of man than that of animated motors those docile helps whose
power or speed he uses at his pleasure, which enjoy to some extent his
* " Animated Motors : Experiments in Graphical Physiology." A lecture delivered
at the Paris meeting of the French Association, August 29, 1S78.
