318 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
intimacy, and accompany him in his labors and his pleasures. The
species of animal whose cooperation we borrow are numerous, and
vary according to latitude and climate. But whether we employ the
horse, the ass, the camel, or the reindeer, the same problem is always
presented : to get from the animal as much work as possible, sparing
him, as far as we can, fatigue and suffering. This identity of stand-
point will much simplify my task, as it will enable me to confine the
study of animated motors to a single species : I have chosen the horse
as the most interesting type. Even with this restriction the subject
is still very vast, as all know who are occupied with the different ques-
tions connected therewith. In studying the force of traction of the
horse, and the best methods of utilizing it, we encounter all the prob-
lems connected with teams and the construction of vehicles. But, on
a subject which has engaged the attention of humanity for thousands
of years, it seems difficult to find anything new to say.
If in the employment of the horse we consider its speed and the
means of increasing it, the subject does not appear less exhausted.
Since the chariot-races, of which Greek and Roman antiquity were
passionately fond, to our modern horse-races, men have never ceased to
pursue with a lively interest the problem of rapjd locomotion. What
tests and comparisons have not been made to discover what race has
most speed, what other most bottom, what crossings, what training
give reason to expect still more speed ?
Lastly, as to what is called the exterior of the horse, and his varied
paces, specialists have for long devoted themselves to this department.
The horseman is trained to distinguish between these different paces,
to correct by the education of the horse those which seem to him de-
fective, to fix by habit those which give to his mount more pleasant
reactions or a much greater stability. The artist, in attempting to rep-
resent the horse, seeks to transfer his attitudes more and more faith-
fully, to express better and better the force, the suppleness, and the
grace of his motions.
These questions, so complicated, I wish to bring before you by a
new method, and I hope to show you that the graphic method makes
light of difficulties which seem insurmountable, discerns what escapes
the most attentive observation ; finally, it expresses clearly to the eyes
and engraves upon the memory the most complicated notions. The
graphic method was almost unknown twenty-five years ago ; to-day it
is widespread. Thus, in almost all countries, recourse is had to the
employment of graphic curves as the best mode of expression to repre-
sent clearly the movement of administrative, industrial, and commer-
cial statistics. In all observatories apparatus known as registering or
recording, trace on paper the curves of variation of the thermometer,
the barometer, rain, wind, and even atmospheric electricity. Physi-
ology utilizes still more largely recording apparatus ; but I shall only
require to show you a very small number of these instruments, those
