A STUDY IN LOCOMOTION. 319
which serve to record forces, rates of speed, or to note the rhythms
and the relations of succession of very complicated movements :
1. Of the Force of Traction of the Horse, and the best Means of
utilizing it. When a carriage is badly constructed and badly yoked
the traveler is jolted, the road is injured, the horse is fatigued more
than is necessary, and is often wounded by parts of the harness.
Science and industry have long sought to discover these inconve-
niences, to find out their causes in order to get rid of them. But it
is only in our own time that great progress has been made in this
respect. When we complain of being jolted in a humble cab, we
ought to go back in thought to the time when people knew nothing
of the hanging of carriages. No roughness of the road then escaped
the traveler. A Roman emperor mounted on his triumphant chariot
was, in the midst of his glory, as ill at ease as the peasant in his cart.
Except some improvements, such as the use of softer cushions, things
went on thus till the invention of steel springs sucb as are now em-
ployed, for the leather braces of old-fashioned carriages still left much
to desire.
Does this mean that the present mode of suspending carriages by
four and even eight springs is the final step of progress ? Certainly
not. Our present springs diminish the force of jolts, transform a sud-
den shock into a long vibration ; but the perfect spring ought always
to maintain a constant elastic force, to allow wheels and axles all the
vibrations which the ground demands of them, without allowing any
of these shocks to reach the carriage itself. The search for this ideal
spring has engaged the attention of one of our most eminent engi-
neers. M. Marcel Deprez has found happy solutions to the problem of
perfect suspension ; he will doubtless soon apply these in practice.
A good suspension also saves the carriage by suppressing the
shocks which put it out of order and destroy it in a short time. Fi-
nally, suspension saves the wheel itself. On this subject let me recall
a remarkable experiment of General Morin. On a high-road, in good
condition, he drove a diligence with four horses at the trot, and laden
with ballast instead of passengers. The springs of the vehicle were
raised so that the body rested on the axles. After the diligence had
passed and repassed a certain number of times, it was found that the
road on which it was running was notably deteriorated. The springs
of the carriage were replaced and the same movements were repeated
on another part of the road ; the marked deterioration was no longer
produced. It is thus clearly proved that a good suspension is favor-
able to a good condition of the road.
But with non-suspended vehicles, in order thus to shock the pas-
sengers, disjoint the carriage, and abuse the road, force is necessary.
It is the horse which must supply this ; so that, independently of the
useful work which we demand of them, the animal supplies still other
work which gives rise to a multitude of shocks, and has only injurious
