322
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
If you wish to be convinced of the advantage of this mode of trac-
tion, yoke yourself to a hand-barrow by means of a rigid leather strap,
such as you see used in the streets of Paris or London, where too often
man is employed to drag burdens. When you have well noted the
painful shocks which this mode of traction transmits to the shoulders,
place between the strap and the barrow the elastic tractor and repeat
the experiment. After, that no doubt is possible ; the shoulders are
no longer bruised by the shaking of the pavement, and a comfort is
experienced which will evidently be experienced in the same degree
by a horse placed in conditions of elastic traction.
Ifttfcttfifc
o >c
Fig. 2. Tracing of the dynamograph for a vehicle drawn by a horse.
To obviate suffering of men and animals is unfortunately not a
motive sufficient to induce everybody to modify the old system of
harnessing. To certain minds known as positive, it is necessary to
prove that elastic traction has economical advantages, and that a horse
thus harnessed is able to draw heavier loads. This fact, which results
from the experiments you have seen, requires to be rigorously proved
by the aid of the graphic method. It is to the genius of Poncelet
that we owe the record of work expended by different motors.
Everybody knows what a dynamometer is, viz., a spring which,
yielding to tractions exerted upon it, is deformed in proportion to the
efforts developed. Let us adapt to a spring of this kind a pencil
Avhich touches a strip of paper, and let us so arrange things that the
movements of the wheel of a carriage shall impress upon the paper
a motion of translation. While the effort of traction of the horse will
communicate to the spring movements more or less extended, the prog-
ress of the carriage will draw out the paper, and from these combined
movements will result a curve (Fig. 2), which can be resolved into
a series of ordinates or vertical lines in juxtaposition, expressing by
their unequal heights the series of efforts resulting from each element
of the road traversed. The sum of these elementary efforts, other-
wise the surface of paper limited in height by the flexures of the curve,
will be the measure of the work expended. If we record in a compara-
tive manner the work done by the same vehicle harnessed with rigid
traces or supplied with elastic tractors, we see (Figs. 3 and 4) that the
area of the curve is greater, that is, that there has been more work
expended, while rigid traces have been used. In the most favorable
cases that I have met with, the economy of work by elastic traction
has been twenty-six per cent.
But, it may be objected, the recording dynamometer itself consti-
