328 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
" Mornino- Chronicle " on the Richard Carlile prosecution (January
and February). Frequent contributions throughout the year to the
" Chronicle " and " Traveller." " Westminster Review " projected.
Reads up the " Edinburgh Review " for his father's attack upon it
in the first number of the " Westminster."
1824. First number of the " Westminster " appears (March).
Contributes to the second number on the "Edinburgh Review"; to
the third on "Religious Persecution" (?) and " War Expenditure " ;
to the fourth on " Hume's Misrepresentations in his History."
1825. Principal occupation, editing Bentham's book on Evidence.
Starting of " Parliamentary History and Review " ; writes the article
on the " Catholic Disabilities " ; also, on the " Commercial Crisis and
Currency" and the "Reciprocity Principle in Commerce." Learned
German. Began morning-readings in the Society at Grote's house in
Threadneedle Street. Went with some others to the debates of the
Owenites' Cooperative Society ; founding of the Speculative Debating
Society. In the " Westminster," wrote on the " Political Economy
of the Quarterly," on the " Law of Libel " (?), and on the " Game
Laws" (?) (number for January, 1826).
1826. Utilitarian Society ceases, and readings at Grote's continue.
Speculative Society flourishing. Reviews for the " Westminster," Mi-
gnet's " French Revolution," and Sismondi's " History of France " ;
writes two articles on the Corn Laws ; replies to the " Quarterly " on
"Greek Courts of Justice." Beginning of "mental crisis."
1827. Speculative Society. Readings at Grote's (turned now .to
Logic). Articles in the " Westminster " ; review of Goodwin's " Com-
monwealth " (?) ; of Whately's Logic (in number for January, 1828).
1828. Speculative Society. Readings at Grote's, on his father's
"Analysis." Last article in "Westminster" Scott's "Life of Napo-
feon." Acquaintance with Maurice and Sterling. Read Wordsworth
for the first time. (At some later return of his dejection, year not
stated, he was oppressed with the problem of philosophical necessity,
and found the solution that he afterward expounded in the "Logic")
Is promoted from being a clerk to be assistant examiner in his office.
1829. Withdrew from Speculative Debating Society. Macaulay's
attack on " Essay on Government " produces a change in his views of
the Logic of Politics.
With regard to these nine years, I will first remark on his articles
in the " Westminster Review." He says he contributed thirteen, of
which he specifies only three : of the whole, he says generally, they
were reviews of books on history and political economy, or discussions
on special political topics, as corn laws, game laws, law of libel. I am
able to identify the greater number of them.
His first contribution is the article in the second number, on the
"Edinburgh Review," which continued the attack made by his father
