33 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
France," and Dulaure's " History of Paris "; which is not unlikely to be
Mill's. The Corn Laws is one of his subjects, and on this there is an
article of thirty pages in the twelfth number (October, 1826). In the
following number (January, 1827), there is a second article, referring
to Mr. Canning's measure recently brought forward (1826). The con-
cluding article of this number I believe to be Mill's ; it deals with a re-
cent article in the " Quarterly," on " Greek Courts of Justice," and is
in his happiest vein. It retorts cleverly upon the exaggerations of the
" Quarterly," by finding in the English legal practice abuses equal to
the worst that the reviewer discovers in the Athenian courts. In the
sixteenth number there is a review of Goodwin's " History of the Com-
monwealth," which seems to follow up the review of Hume.
The article on Whately in January, 1828, was the outcome of the
discussions in Grote's house the previous year. It is a landmark not
merely in the history of his own mind, but in the history of Logic.
His discussion of the utility of Logic, at a time when Syllogism was
the body and essence of it, hits the strongest part of the case better
than the famous chapter on the "Functions of the Syllogism"; I mean
the analyzing of an argument, with a view to isolating the attention
on the parts. The discussion of the Predicables is an improvement
upon Whately. He even praises, although he does not quite agree
with, Whately's attempt to identify Induction with Syllogism, and
gives him credit for illustrating, but not for solving, the difficulty of our
assenting to general propositions without seeing all that they involve.
His view of the desiderata of Logic is thus expressed : " A large por-
tion of the philosophy of general Terms still remains undiscovered ;
the philosophical analysis of Predication, the explanation of what is
the immediate object of belief when we assent to a proposition, is yet
to be performed ; and, though the important assistance rendered by
general language, not only in what are termed the exact sciences, but
even in the discovery of physical facts, is known and admitted, the
nature of the means by which it performs this service is a problem
still to a great extent unsolved." On the whole, it can not be said that
he had, as yet, made much progress in Logic, even with the assistance
of the debates in Threadneedle Street. The real advances apparently
remained to be worked out by his own unassisted strength during the
next twelve years. I may remark, in conclusion, that I think he
greatly overrates the value of Whately's book : " The masterly sketch
which he has given of the whole science in the analytical form, previ-
ously to entering upon a more detailed exposition of it in the syntheti-
cal order, constitutes one of the greatest merits of the volume, as an
elementary work." If, instead of merits, defects were substituted, the
sentence would be, in my judgment, very near the truth. The result
of the arrangement was singularly confusing to myself, when I first
read the book ; and the testimony of all subsequent writers on Logic
must be held as against it, for not one, to my knowledge, has ever
