16
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
planation thus afforded of the nature and origin of these disused parts
is endorsed by the fuller knowledge of their history ; while, from a
study apparently of insignificant interest, may be shown how certain of
our living neighbors, along with ourselves, have, from lower states, and
from the dawning epochs of the world, literally taken their place " in
the foremost files of time."
As most persons who have attentively looked at any common plant
can tell, four parts are included in a perfect flower. These parts or sets
Fig. l.
of organs, as seen in the wallflower, consist (Fig. 1), firstly, of an outer
covering colored green, and named the " calyx " (ca). Then comes the
blossom or flower itself, forming the "corolla" (co). Inside the corolla
we find certain stalked organs, each bearing a little head or " anther,"
filled with a yellow dust, the " pollen." These organs are the " stamens "
(st). Lastly, in the center of the flower, we note the "pistil" (p), or
organ devoted to the production of " ovules." The latter, when duly
fertilized by being brought into contact with the " pollen " of the sta-
mens, become " seeds," and are capable of growing up, when planted,
into new plants. Now, the botanist will inform us that it is a matter
of common experience to find some individual plants of a species with
well-developed petals or blossoms, and other individuals of the same
species with petals in a rudimentary condition, thus proving that the
production of imperfect parts in flowers occurs as an ordinary event
under our own eyes, and under the common conditions of plant-life.
The natural order of plants to which snapdragon belongs presents a
peculiarity, inasmuch as in most of its members one of the five stamens
is abortive or rudimentary. It should be borne in mind that the botan-
ist possesses a highly interesting and exact method of ascertaining how
many parts or organs should be represented in plants. He places his
reliance in this respect on the working of what may be called the " law
of symmetry." The operation of this law, which may be said to be
founded on wide experience, tends to produce a correspondence in
numbers between the parts in the four sets of organs of which we have
just noted a flower to be composed. Thus, when we count five parts in
the green calyx of a plant, we expect to find five blossoms or petals in
its corolla; five stamens (or some multiple of five) and five parts (or
