JOHN STUART MILL. 337
He closes the number with a political article on the measures of the
Government for the session among others, the Irish Church and the
Municipal Corporations bills. His text seems to be that the statesmen
of the generation are good in destroying, but bad in construction; and
he says that the remark applies to all the Whig reforms, and most of
all to Lord Brougham's law reforms.
In the third number (July, 1835) Mill reviewed De Tocqueville's
book, which had then appeared the review extending to forty-five
pages. It was a very full account of the book, with copious extracts,
but may be considered as superseded by the article written for the
"Edinburgh Review "in 1840, which is reprinted in the " Disserta-
tions." The number concludes with a short but energetic review of
the Parliamentary session just concluded. It is of the tone and char-
acter of all his political writings in those years ; a retrospect of recent
achievements, with a view of the present position and declaration of
the one thing needful for it a leader. He bitterly complains of the
absence of a man of action, and asks: "Why does not Mr. Grote exert
himself ? There is not a man in Parliament who could do so much, or
who is more thoroughly the people's friend. . . . O'Connell is the only
figure that stands erect." The Liberal press is too much given to truck-
ling to the Ministry. The bull must be taken by the horns ; the Tories
must be awakened by the apparition of a House of Lords Amendment
Bill.
In the fourth number (January, 1836) he had an article entitled
"State of Society in America," reviewing a number of books of
American travels, and following up the article on De Tocqueville.
It is occupied with an attempt to connect the features of American
society with the industrial position and political constitution of the
country. It may be called one of his minor sociological studies.
The fifth number is the first of the union of the " London " with
the old "Westminster," hereafter called "The London and West-
minster." It appeared in April, 183C. Mill contributes to it his
article on " Civilization," contained in the " Dissertations," and a short
political article on the " State of Politics in 1836." I never felt quite
satisfied with the article on "Civilization." The definition given at
the outset seemed inadequate ; and the remainder of the article is
principally one of his many attacks on the vicious tendencies of the
time. He regards as consequences of our civilization, the decay of
individual energy, the weakening of the influence of superior minds,
the growth of charlatcmerie, and the diminished efficacy of public
opinion, and insists on some remedies for the evils ; winding up with
an attack on the universities. To my mind these topics should have
been detached from any theory of civilization, or any attempt to extol
the past at the cost of the present. The political article is a survey
of the measures pending in Parliament. He is very much excited, as
his father was, about the spoiling of the country with unnecessary
vol. xv. 22
