JOHN STUART MILL. 339
criticisms that he has ever received. Still, when Carlyle, in his " Life
of Sterling," refers to that article as the first marked recognition he
had received in the press, he was unfairly oblivious to what Mill's
article had previously done for him.
In this number the political article has to advert to the death of
King William, and the events that followed. The Radicalism is as
strong as ever ; but the signature (E) is not Mill's, and I do not know
the author.
The next number is October, 1837. The opening chapter is the
political one, and is by Mill. Its text is the opening of the new Par-
liament of 1837. It is, if possible, more energetic and outspoken than
ever. It addresses first the Ministers, and demands of them the bal-
lot, as a special measure, and a number of other reforms, the Church
included. It addresses the Radicals in Parliament in the usual strain.
It hits the Tories very hard for their disingenuous dealing on the new
Poor Law at the elections, and demonstrates that not they, but the
Radicals, were the real upholders of the rights of property. The in-
citements to action are redoubled, as the power of the Liberals has di-
minished. I do not know of any compositions that better deserve to
be compared with the Philippics of Demosthenes than Mill's political
onslaughts in those years.
This number contained also the article on Armand Carrel. The
best part of it is, perhaps, the history of French politics from the res-
toration of the Bourbons, on which he was thoroughly informed. The
personality of Carrel is sketched chiefly from Carrel's biographers, to
which he adds the impressions made by Carrel on himself. The dis-
tinguishing aim of Carrel's political life is remarkable for its common
sense and intelligibility to mitigate the mutual hostility of parties as
a preparation for a constitutional regime. In the summing up of Car-
rel's personality Mill displays himself : " Like all persons of fine facul-
ties, he carried the faculties loith him into the smallest things / and
did not disdain to excel, being qualified to do so, in those things which
are great only to little men." This doctrine, I conceive, was held by
Mill to an erroneous excess ; the counter-doctrine of the limitation of
the human faculties he never fully allowed for. He believed in large
minds without any qualification, and saw very little incompatibility
between the most opposite gifts.
In January, 1838, appeared the first "Canada and Lord Durham"
article. In the "Autobiography " he celebrates the influence exerted by
this and his subsequent article on the return of Lord Durham, and be-
lieves that they were a turning-point not merely in the settlement of
Canada, but in the future of all our British colonies. Besides writing
these articles, Mill exercised great personal influence on Lord Dur-
ham's Canadian measures, chiefly through his secretary, Charles Buller,
who was always very open to Mill's suggestions. The present article
apologizes for not reviewing the home political situation at large, be-
