340 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
cause " a question has arisen which suspends all united action among
Radicals. . . . On this most grievous subject we shall, in the course of
this article, declare our whole opinion." He yet, however, finds it
necessary first to denounce in fitting terms Lord John Russell's decla-
ration of hostility to all reform on the first night of the session. The
discussion of the Canadian problem is in his very best style, and is as
well worth reading even now as any of his reprinted papers.
The number for April, this year, opens with one of his literary
articles, reproduced in the " Dissertations " " Alfred de Vigny." This
article is his latest and most highly elaborated attempt to philosophize
upon literature and poetry. The " Thoughts on Poetry " is his only
other paper that he has thought worth preserving. The reviews of
Tennyson and Carlyle's "French Revolution" are replete with just
criticism, but do not reach the height of philosophical explanation. In
his philosophy of style, there are many good points, but, as I conceive,
some serious omissions. I doubt if he gave enough thought to the
subject. The earlier part of the " De Vigny " article on the influence
exerted on poetry by political changes, such as the French Revolu-
tion, is, I think, very happily expressed, and is quite equal to any
other similar dissertations by our best historians and critics. It is
when he comes to state the essential quality of the poetic genius or
temperament that I think his view defective. In the first place, he
puts too much stress on the emotional quality, and too little on the
intellectual. In the second place, he is wrong in identifying the poet
intellectually with the philosopher or thinker : he regards genius,
whether in poetry or in philosophy, as the gift of seeing truths at a
greater depth than the world can penetrate. On the former of these
two heads he accepts De Vigny's emotional delineation " the thrill
from beauty, grandeur, and harmony, the infinite pity for mankind "
as the tests, or some of the tests, of the poetic nature ; but he takes no
direct notice of the genius of expression, the constructive or creative
faculty, without which emotion will never make a poet, and with
which the grandest poetry may be' produced on a very slight emotional
basis. To criticise Shelley without adducing his purely intellectual
force, displayed in endless resources of language, is to place the super-
structure of poetry on a false foundation. Shakespeare, in any view
of him, was ten parts intellect for one of emotion; and his intellect did
not, so far as I am aware, see truths at a greater depth than the world
could penetrate. Mill inherited his father's disposition to think Shake-
speare overrated ; which, to say the least, was unfortunate when he
came to theorize on poetry at large.
In August, appeared the review of Bentham, which I will advert
to presently.
The next number is December, 1838. It closes with Mill's second
article on Canada " Lord Durham's Return " vindicating his policy
point by point, in a way that only Mill could have done. It concludes:
