JOHN STUART MILL. 341
" If this be failure, failure is but the second degree of success ; the first
and highest degree may be yet to come."
The succeeding number appears in April, 1839, and contains the
last, and in one view the greatest, of Mill's political series. Liberalism
in Parliament is now at its lowest ebb : and only some new and grand
expedient can be of any avail. Departing from his old vein of criti-
cism of Whigs and Radicals, he plans the " reorganization of the Re-
form party " by an inquiry into the origin- and foundations of the two
great parties in the state. He inquires who, by position and circum-
stances, are natural Radicals, and who are natural Tories ; who are
interested in progress, and who in things as they are. I strongly
recommend this article as a piece of admirable political philosophy,
and I do not know any reason for his not preserving it, except that it
is so closely connected with the passing politics of the time. At all
events, it is the farewell to his ten years' political agitation. As this
was the year of his second bad illness, I presume the article was writ-
ten in the end of 1838, in the midst of great suffering.
After six months' interval, the next number appeared October,
1839. It contained no article of Mill's : he had been abroad the first
half of the year. The number is otherwise notable for Sterling's ar-
ticle on Carlyle, and Robertson's on Cromwell. In March, 1840, was
published the last number under Mill's proprietorship. It opened with
his " Coleridge " article.
The Bentham article both stands alone as an appreciation of Ben-
tham's work, and also forms one member of a correlative couple with
the disquisition on Coleridge. No one possessed the qualifications of
Mill for setting forth Bentham's merits and defects : we wish that he
had made still more use of his means in depicting Bentham's personal-
ity. But in the mode of dealing with the defective side of Bentham,
he undoubtedly gave offense to the Benthamite circle. He admits (in
the " Autobiography ") that it was too soon to bring forward the faults
of Bentham ; and, looking at the article now, we may be allowed to
say that a little more explanation is wanted on various points ; as, for
example, Bentham's deficiency in imagination, his omission of high
motives in his springs of action, and his aversion to the phrases
" good and bad taste." It is apparent that Mill is criticising him from
a point of view not taken by any other of Bentham's friends and dis-
ciples. When we turn to the " Coleridge " article, we find the more
explicit statement of his position, as between the great rival schools.
There we have a labored introduction to show the necessity of study-
ing the conflicting modes of thought on all questions ; we are told that,
as partisans of any one side, we see only part of the truth, and must
learn from our opponents the other part. Following out this text,
Mill endeavors to assign the truth that there is in Conservatism, when
purified by Coleridge and raised to a coherent system, or a philosophy.
It is needless to advert to the detailed illustration, but the conclusion
