342 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
is open to remark. A conservative philosophy may be, he says, an
absurdity, but it is calculated to drive out still worse absurdities. To
cut the matter short, he hopes from it, not the conversion of Conser-
vatives into Liberals, but the adoption of " one liberal opinion after
another as a part of Conservatism itself." Surely this is spreading
the snare in the sight of the bird. We may ask whether, after forty
years' trial, the Conservative philosophy of Coleridge has really borne
such fruits ; or whether the adoption of Liberal opinions by Conser-
vatives has had anything to do with philosophical consistency. Did
Mr. Gladstone's conversion follow, in any degree, from Coleridge's
philosophy ?
Be this as it may, these two articles made a temporary alienation
between Mill and his old associates, and planted in their minds a pain-
ful misgiving as to his adherence to their principles or to any prin-
ciples. There is, in the " Logic," an extract from the " Coleridge " ar-
ticle, on the essential conditions of stability in any society. One of
these conditions is, that there be something that is settled, and not to
be called in question. Grote never ceased to convert this remark into
an expression for the standing intolerance of society toward unpopu-
lar opinions.
From these two articles it is a natural transition to remark gener-
ally upon his principle in conducting the " Review " from first to last.
He aimed at a wider comprehension than had ever been allowed be-
fore in any periodical representing a sect. He sought out fresh and
vigorous thinking, and did not expect a literal adherence to his own
opinions. The " Review " abounds in editorial caveats, attached to
the articles. His principle of seeing partial truth in opposite sides
was carried out in this form. He respected real ability when combined
with sincerity ; and, as an editor, he never refused a reading to an
offered contribution ; in fact, he delighted in the perusal of young au-
thors' essays.
It was a noble experiment to endeavor to combine opposites and to
maintain a perpetual attitude of sympathy with hostile opinions. A
dissertation would be well expended in inquiring into its results. For
the present, I remark that, as real opposition can not be smoothed
down, we must still go on the old track of counter-argumentation ;
while every honest truth-seeker endeavors to do justice to the case of
an opponent. The watchword in these days of the " Review " was,
"Sympathize in order to learn." That doctrine, preached by Goethe
and echoed by Carlyle, was in everybody's mouth, and had its fling.
Mill's account of the management of the " Review," first as held by
Molesworth, and afterward by himself, leaves uncertainties on various
interesting points. He was at first sole editor, it appears, without be-
ing the avowed editor ; he does not say what this exactly meant. In
point of fact, he rather supervised than edited the " Review." The
