CLEWS IN NATURAL HISTORY. 19
tion has been extreme, but there can be no doubt that the ancestors of
the beetles with modified wings possessed fully developed appendages ;
otherwise we must regard the order of nature as being one long string
of strange and incoherent paradoxes. Mr. Darwin has given us some
instructive hints regarding the modification of beetles' wings and feet
in his remarks on the effects of the use and disuse of parts in the ani-
mal economy. Kirby, the famous authority on entomology, long ago
noted the fact that, in the males of many of the dung-beetles, the front
feet were habitually broken off. Mr. Darwin confirms the observation
of Kirby, and further says that in one species ( Onites apelles) the feet
" are so habitually lost that the insect has been described as not having
them." In the sacred beetle (Ateuchus) of the Egyptians, the tarsi
are not developed at all. Mr. Darwin remarks that necessarily we can
not, as yet, lay over-much stress upon the transmission of accidental
mutilations from parent to progeny, although, indeed, there is nothing
improbable in the supposition ; and, moreover, Brown-Sequard noted
that, in the young of Guinea-pigs which had been operated upon, the
mutilations were reproduced. Epilepsy, artificially produced in these
latter animals, is inherited by their progeny. " Hence," says Darwin,
" it will perhaps be safest to look at the entire absence of the anterior
tarsi (or feet) in Ateuchus, and their rudimentary condition in some
other genera, not as cases of inherited mutilations, but as due to the
effects of long-continued disuse ; for, as many dung-feeding beetles are
generally found with their tarsi lost, this must happen in early life ;
therefore the tarsi can not be of much importance, or be much used by
these insects."
The beetles of Madeira present us with a remarkable state of mat-
ters, which very typically illustrates how rudimentary wings may have
been produced in insects. Two hundred beetles, out of over five hun-
dred species known to inhabit Madeira, are " so far deficient in wings
that they can not fly." Of twenty-nine genera confined to the island,
twenty-three genera include species wholly unable to wing their way
through the air. Now, beetles are frequently observed to perish when
blown out to sea ; and the beetles of Madeira lie concealed until the
storm ceases. The proportion of wingless beetles is said by Mr. Wol-
laston to be " larger in the exposed Desertas than in Madeira itself " ;
while most notable is the fact that several extensive groups of beetles
which are numerous elsewhere, which fly well, and which "absolutely
require the use of their wings," are almost entirely absent from Ma-
deira. How may the absence of wings in the Madeiran beetles be ac-
counted for ? Let Mr. Darwin reply : " Several considerations make
me believe that the wingless condition of so many Madeira beetles is
mainly due to the action of natural selection, combined probably with
disuse. For during many successive generations each individual beetle
which flew least, either from its wings having been ever so little less
perfectly developed, or from indolent habit, will have had the best
