A QUESTION OF EATING. 345
Sterling, who was there also on account of chest-weakness. A letter
of warm acknowledgment to Mr. Barclay Fox, of Falmouth, for the
attention bestowed on Henry by his family, is for Mill unusually effu-
sive, and teems with characteristic traits. One not a Christian, ad-
dressing a Christian family upon death, and wakening up the chords
of our common humanity, is a spectacle worth observing.
A QUESTION OF EATING.
By WILLIAM BROWNING, Ph. B.
IT has long been considered, as by common consent a law of health,
that all food should be eaten slowly, not swallowed until well
masticated.
Some observations and experiments, however, have been recently
made which indicate strongly that this principle of slow eating, so far
as health is concerned, is not true with respect to all varieties of food.
Animals in a state of nature, as is generally recognized, tend to
accommodate themselves in the most favorable manner to their condi-
tions : if a cow naturally ruminates, why should a dog naturally take
a chunk of meat at a swallow without stopping to chew it ? It may
be said that the ruminant has a special digestive apparatus, but the
fact remains that the food is eaten as is best suited to it, and the dog,
following nature, does what is best for him, or, in other words, if it dis-
agreed with his digestion to eat rapidly, he would reform, and take it
more slowly. Following out this idea, experiments were made upon a
dog, with the following results : It the meat, before being fed to the
dog, was reduced to a hash, or cut into fine pieces, the digestion was
at best imperfect, a considerable portion of the undigested or imper-
fectly digested meat being found in the excreta. If, under the same
conditions, meat was fed to the dog in large pieces, it was bolted at a
gulp, with the result that little, if any, passed through undigested ;
compared with the result from the chopped meat, it could be called a
perfect digestion for the coarse form, as compared with a decidedly
imperfect digestion for the fine form. So far as simple experiment
goes, this must be pretty conclusive for the dog ; but can the same
hold true with respect to the human subject ?
A brief review of the first portion of the digestive process, so far
as understood with regard to man, will help in answering this ; and
first to be considered is the mouth and chewing apparatus. Says Fos-
ter : " The chief purpose served by the saliva in digestion is to moisten
the food, and so assist in mastication and deglutition. ... In man, it
has a specific solvent action on some of the food-stuffs. On fats it has
only a slight emulsifying action, and on proteids none. Its character-
