3+6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
istic property is that of converting starch into grape-sugar." * Ac-
cording to Wundt, " the mouth secretions possess, besides mechanical,
chiefly a chemical action the changing over of the starch and glyco-
gen contained in the food into sugar. The ferment body, which pro-
duces this transformation, ptyaline, is not a specific element of the
mouth-secretion, since, aside from the intestinal secretions, all tissues
and fluids of the body contain starch-ferment." f
From this it will be seen that no digestive action on meat or animal
food takes place before reaching the stomach, and that, for vegetable
food even, the action of the mouth-secretions is far from all -important.
As to the mechanical action of the mouth in preparing the food for
deglutition, this is not specially necessary for morsels of meat of the
ordinary size introduced into the mouth, while for a large portion of
the vegetable or plant products eaten and it is upon these that the
saliva exerts its chemical action mastication is necessary before they
can be swallowed. The meat-foods are in themselves sufficiently
moist, while many dried fruits, breads, and the like, in endless variety,
first need thorough reduction.
A piece of jelly the size of a walnut would give little trouble in
swallowing, since it is moist and of a yielding character, while few can
swallow a pill the size of a pea without distress. Teeth and chewing,
then, have their purpose, but, with the exception of the incisors occa-
sionally, that purpose does not include meat unless it has become
dried ; this is with respect to the food before it reaches the stomach,
but, of course, the question then arises, Would it not be in a better
condition for digestion if it had been thoroughly masticated ?
The food on reaching the stomach is kept in rotary motion by the
muscular walls, and only after a time does it begin to pass the pyloric
orifice, and then only by degrees, since the digestion farther on is a much
finer operation, and can go on but slowly. The length of time that the
digestion properly takes, is, according to the present knowledge of the
subject, several hours in fact, somewhat longer than has generally
been supposed. Now, if the meat is swallowed fine cut, it begins to
pass through very quickly, and before it has been fully acted upon by
the gastric juice. This action as regards meats consists in "dissolving
the sarcolemma from the muscular fibers, and in dissolving proteid
matters and converting them into peptones. . . . On starch, gastric
juice has />er se no effect whatever. . . . On grape-sugar and cane-sugar
healthy gastric juice has no effect." In fats alone it has a slight emul-
sifying effect, but if still in the tissue it is dissolved out. Milk is
accordingly acted on by being first curdled on reaching the stomach,
after which it is leisurely dissolved again in the desired form.
The rotary movement of the contents of the stomach is to facili-
tate the action of the gastric juice to bring the various particles and
* " Text-book of Philosophy," M. Foster, 1877.
f " Lehrbueh der Physiologie des Menschen," W. Wundt, vierte Auflage, 1878.
