THE CONDITION OF WOMEN. 347
lumps of the entire mass into contact with it as it exudes from the
stomach's walls. If the material has come from the mouth finely
ground up, a considerable portion goes over into the duodenum before
it has been properly acted upon ; but, if it has come down in coarse
lumps, these begin shortly to dissolve, passing into a more or less fluid
condition, and this can be taken care of with about the same rapidity
by the digestive apparatus following : by this arrangement no portion
of the food would be allowed to pass from the stomach unprepared for
the next step in the digestive process. All portions, then, even the
finest fibers, of a meat diet, must be acted upon by the gastric juice
before passing on ; and this action progresses best by slowly wearing
off the outside of the morsels.
Professor Ludwig has made some general experiments as to the
truth of this theory upon himself, eating coarsely-cut meat at one time
and fine at another, without at least being able to detect any ill effects
whatever from morsels as large as it was convenient to swallow.*
Many workingmen, business men, and others, almost bolt their food
without loss of excellent digestion ; we should bear in mind, of course,
that they have to chew much of their vegetable food for convenience
in swallowing, and also that the indigestion of business men occasion-
ally is due more to their nervous condition at the time.
A slight amount of chewing or mumbling serves to detect harsh
substances, as bones, and to prepare for swallowing ; foreign matters
of considerable size will, however, gradually make their way, and, if
not rough, may pass without injury. The writer once had an experi-
ence of this nature with a piece of iron an inch in length and a third
in diameter.
To conclude, then, with respect to man as well as other flesh-
eaters : it is not only not necessary, but also not best, to chew meat
of any kind to a fine condition, but to swallow it in convenient mor-
sels; this militates against hash. With regard to all non-meat food,
careful mastication is better, but hardly so necessary as has been sup-
posed.
THE CONDITION OF WOMEN FROM A ZOOLOGICAL
POINT OF VIEW.
By W. E. BKOOKS,
II.
TURNING now to another part of our subject, and bearing in mind
the fact that by far the greater part of the external relations to
which our actions are adjusted, and to which it is necessary that they
should conform, in order to secure our preservation, safety, and wel-
* Lectures of Professor C. Ludwig (Leipsic), 1878 "79.
