THE CONDITION OF WOMEN. 351
nature by intuition, or arrived at a general rule of duty or prudence
by it. These are results of slow and careful collection and comparison
of experience ; and neither the men nor the women of intuition usu-
ally shine in this department, unless, indeed, the experience is such as
they can acquire by themselves. . . . To discover general principles
belongs to the speculative faculty ; to discern and discriminate the
particular cases in which they are or are not applicable constitute prac-
tical talent ; and for this women, as they now are, have a peculiar ap-
titude." It is only necessary to change two or three words in this last
sentence in order to show its complete agreement with the demands of
our theory. Its meaning will not be altered by the following reading,
which serves to bring out more clearly its implications : To discover
general principles belongs to the progressive aspect of the mind, which
is most strongly developed in men ; to. preserve and apply the general
principles which are already established belong to the conservative
side of the mind, and for this women, as they have been made by the
evolution of the race, have and should have a peculiar aptitude. Mill
continues as follows : " I admit that there can be no good practice
without principles, and that the predominant place which quickness of
observation holds among a woman's faculties makes her particularly
apt to build over-hasty generalizations upon her own observation,
though at the same time no less ready in rectifying these generaliza-
tions as her observation takes a wider range. But the corrective to
this defect is access to the experience of the human race ; general
knowledge exactly the thing which education can best supply."
This sentence, when viewed in connection with our present theory
of the relations of the sexes, gives the key to the question of female
education for that form of education which supplies the general
knowledge which is so important for the correct application of princi-
ples to special cases is culture, as distinguished from the technical
training which looks to the discovery of new laws.
The next passage which I shall quote is of the greatest importance,
for, founded as Mill's autobiography and numerous passages in his
various works tell us it is, upon the personal experience of his life, it
contains the germ of the idea which, if fully investigated, might have
led him to entirely remodel his essay upon women ; the idea that the
sexes do not naturally stand in the relation of superior and inferior,
nor in that of independent equals, but are the complemental parts of
a compound whole. He says : " This gravitation of women's minds
to the present, to the real, to actual fact, while in its exclusiveness it
is a source of errors, is also a most useful counteractive of the contrary
error. The principal and most characteristic aberration of speculative
minds, as such, consists precisely in the deficiency of this lively percep-
tion and ever-present sense of objective fact. . . . Hardly anything
can be of greater value to a man of theory and speculation, who em-
ploys himself, not in collecting materials of knowledge by observation,
