THE CONDITION OF WOMEN 355
to come at any rate, must depend almost entirely upon education ; but,
far from holding that this conclusion will allow us to ignore or oblit-
erate the differences between the male and the female intellect, I be-
lieve that the full significance of these differences can be appreciated
only in their relation to higher education. The scope of the present
paper will only allow the space for an outline sketch of the reasons for
this belief. As the field of human knowledge widens in all directions,
as society becomes more complex, and as the points of contact between
man and his inorganic environment multiply, the amount of general
education which each individual must receive before he is in a position
to hold his own, and to guide himself rationally in all the emergencies
of life, and to enjoy his share of the benefits which our intellectual
advancement has placed within his reach, increases in a geometrical
progression, and the amount of time demanded for general liberal edu-
cation increases in the same ratio. Meanwhile the amount of special
preliminary training which must be undergone in order to fit a person
for new and original work in any department of knowledge or art in-
creases at the same rate, and makes greater and greater inroads upon
the time which is needed for general education. At present the most
important, delicate, and complicated of educational problems, the prob-
lem which each individual must meet and decide upon, and the prob-
lem which engrosses most of the thought of educational bodies, is
where to draw the line between general culture and practical or tech-
nical training.
Culture in its widest sense is, I take it, thorough acquaintance
with all the old and new results of intellectual activity in all depart-
ments of knowledge, so far as they conduce to welfare, to correct
living, and to rational conduct ; that is, culture is to the intellectual
man what heredity has been to the physical man. Culture is con-
cerned only with results, not with demonstrations, and does not look
to new advances ; while technical training is concerned with methods
and proofs, and values the results of the methods and investigations
of the past only as they contribute to new advances. Technical train-
ing looks to progress in some one definite line, one radius of the grow-
ing circle of the domain of human intelligence, and ignores the rest of
the circumference. It is to the intellectual man what variation is to
the physical man. By culture we hold our own, and by technical
training we advance to higher levels. Both are equally important to
human welfare, and the great problem of the future is how to secure
each to the greatest degree without sacrificing the other. The anal-
ogy of the rest of the organic world would seem to indicate that this
is to be accomplished by "division of labor." If the female mind
has gained during its evolution an especial aptness for acquiring and
applying the results of past progress, by an empirical method and
without the necessity for studying proofs and reasons, it would
seem especially fitted for culture, as distinct from training, while the
