35 6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
male mind is best fitted for education by that process of inductive
training by demonstration and experiment which leads to new ad-
vances. The methods employed in the general instruction of young
men and young women should not therefore be identical. With the
one the field may be very wide and the methods empirical, and with
the other the range more narrow and the methods more strictly logical.
In this way each type of mind will be developed in the manner for
which it has an especial fitness ; and we have the strongest grounds
for the belief that this method would also gradually result in the ex-
tension of that congenital acquaintance with nature which is the com-
mon stock of the race, and would thus leave more time for the special
training of those minds which are by nature best fitted to receive it.
It is unavoidable that a bald outline of a view which has such wide
implications should afford many openings for serious criticism ; but the
present article does not admit of the expansion of the idea, even if its
detailed examination could be fairly included in the province of
biology. Having traced the origin and significance of sex from its
lowest manifestations to a point where it becomes purely intellectual,
the biologist may fairly leave the subject in the hands of the psycholo-
gist.
A VISIT TO THE NEW ZEALAND GEYSERS.
By CLEMENT BUNBUKY.
THE Geyser district of New Zealand is, at some future day, to be
the great sanatorium of the southern world ; meanwhile, it is so
little known that some account of a visit lately made to it may not be
uninteresting.
While " globe-trotting " with a friend, we found ourselves in April
last year at Auckland, New Zealand, and Avere kindly invited by the
Governor to join him in a visit he was going to make, with the Com-
modore and a large party, to the geysers.
The party assembled at Tauranga, a port about a hundred and forty
miles southeast of Auckland, and the most convenient starting-point
for Ohinemutu, the headquarters of the hot-lake country. The little
town was gay with flags and triumphal arches, and crowded with
Maories looking forward to a bis: drink in return for the dance with
which they received the Governor. I was disappointed to find the
natives were broad-nosed, thick-lipped, tattooed savages, or at least so
they appeared at first sight. The men are decidedly superior in ap-
pearance to the women, and among the young people tattooing is be-
coming unfashionable.
From Tauranga to Ohinemutu is about forty miles over a good
road, except through what is called "the eighteen-mile bush," where
