A VISIT TO THE NEW ZEALAND GEYSERS. 357
the road possesses all the ills to which a bush-road is heir. About
three miles from Tauranga the road passes through the celebrated
Gate Pah, where English soldiers in a panic ran away from the Maories,
and left their officers to be killed. The Pah is well placed on the top of
a ridge looking out over Tauranga and the sea. Almost all traces of
the earthworks have now disappeared, and the cluster of gravestones
in the neglected little cemetery at Tauranga will soon be the only re-
maining evidence "of that disastrous day. About eight miles beyond
the Pah we had our first experience of a New Zealand bush. It was
magnificent. I can not say the same of the road. A great part of it
is what is called " corduroy road," that is, trunks of trees, about eight
or nine inches in diameter, were laid close together across the track,
forming a kind of loose bridge over the soft places. Some of the
trees, especially the rimu, a species of yew, here called a pine, were of
immense size and age ; in places tangled masses of red flowering
creepers completely hid the trees. The tree ferns were the perfection
of lightness and beauty, the dark-leaved shrubs setting them off to
great advantage.
At Ohinemutu we found two small hotels ; the charges were very
moderate, and the attention paid to visitors is all that can be desired.
The land here still belongs to the Maories, who refuse either to sell it
or let it ; and the hotel-keepers, who are only tenants-at-will, are nat-
urally unwilling to spend much money in building with such an in-
secure tenure. One creek of Lake Rotorua, on the banks of which
Ohinemutu stands, is filled with boiling springs, which heat the waters
of the lake for a considerable distance. This creek is a favorite bath-
ing-place, but, as it is dangerous in the dark, my friend and I tried a
natural bath, which has been inclosed by the hotel-keeper to keep out
the natives. It was as hot as we could bear it, very soft, buoyant, and
bubbling, and after our long, bumpy drive, perfectly delicious. "When
we had got thoroughly warmed through, I thought lying in the soft
bubbling water the most perfect sensuous pleasure I ever experi-
enced.
The next morning we visited the many boiling-water and mud
springs in the immediate neighborhood of the village. On a small
peninsula, between our hotel and the lake, there are a great many na-
tive dwellings, called whares (pronounced worries). A whole tribe
formerly lived there, but one night the end of the peninsula suddenly
collapsed and disappeared in the lake, destroying, of course, all its in-
habitants. There is, in the midst of the village, a large native build-
ing called the " Carved House " ; its sides are covered, inside and out,
with intricate carving, chiefly of grotesque human figures. By Maori
law, the carved figures may only have three fingers on each hand, lest
any evil-disposed persons should mistake them for caricatures of their
ancestors. This native settlement owes its existence to the many hot
springs with which the peninsula abounds, the boiling water standing
