358 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
to the natives in the place of fire, and saving them an infinity of trou-
ble with their cooking and washing arrangements. One desirable
result of the abundance of warm baths is the undoubted cleanliness of
the people.
About a mile farther along the banks of the lake, we came to what
is called the Sulphur Point. It certainly deserved its name. The
surface of the ground is literally honeycombed with pools of boiling
water and mud-holes, impregnated with sulphur or alum. The smell
was perfectly fearful. One mud-bath that we ventured into certainly
did not look tempting ; great waves of thick brown mud bubbled up
in the middle of the pool, and rolled lazily toward its sides. It was
just a pleasant temperature, very smooth and oily, and, notwithstand-
ing its appearance, decidedly a success. We next tried a pool of thin-
ner mud, and ended with a swim in the cold waters of the lake, feeling
all the better for our strange experience. All the pools have been
given stupid English names by the hotel-keeper ; the one we first
bathed in is known as "Painkiller," and enjoys a high reputation for
curing rheumatism. It was here that a young Englishman lately
nearly lost his life. A large bubble burst near his face, the poisonous
gases from which rendered him insensible ; and had it not been for a
Maori, who happened to be standing near, he must infallibly have been
drowned. The whole neighborhood is a dangerous one ; the crust of
the earth is in many places so thin that one may at any moment find
one's self standing in boiling water. The guides take so much plea-
sure in recounting all the accidents that have happened, that I felt I
should be conferring a personal favor on them if I fell in, and was
boiled sufficiently to be worth talking about in the future. The sur-
face of the ground is in places covered with masses of pure sulphur.
We lighted it in places, and it began to burn freely, and may be burn-
ing still for all I know to the contrary.
In the afternoon we saw, for the first time, a body of water thrown
any considerable height into the air. It was at a place called Whaka-
rewa-rewa, about two miles from the hotel, amid the finest hot springs
of the Rotorua district. The geyser had been dormant since 1869
until this particular week, and each day it seemed to gather strength
and volume. The mighty fountain has formed for itself a fine circular
base, about thirty feet high, of silica, roughly resembling white mar-
ble. After being quiescent for a few minutes, the water began to
leap up through the circular cavity at the top of the cone, and, rising
higher and higher at each leap, at last culminated in splendid volumes
of clear bright boiling water, thrown fully forty feet into the air.
Dense masses of steam floated from the water in mid-air, but the col-
umn of water itself fell so nearly perpendicularly that we were able to
stand as near to it as the intense heat would permit. After playing
for about five minutes, the fountain gradually subsided, to take a rest,
lasting about eleven minutes, before its next display. The geysers
