A VISIT TO THE NEW ZEALAND GEYSERS.
359
are curiously intermittent in character, and according to all accounts
are, on the whole, less active than formerly.
Two of the baths here deserve mention. One called the oil-bath
has water so oily as hardly to adhere to the skin enough to make a
towel necessary on coming out ; the other is a very warm creek open-
ing out into a fast-flowing river of cold water, and affording the most
delightful gradations of temperature between the two. All the pools
have their distinctive character : some are very active, others sullen ;
some pretty, bubbling, shallow basins, others dark deep blue of endless
depth ; some bright and clear as crystal, others milky, or of mud of
various consistency ; some blowing off steam like fifty steam-engines,
and many, alas ! very many, smelling beyond the power of words to
describe. It is curious how quickly one gets accustomed to the cease-
less sound of boiling water, or the dull, soughing sound of boiling mud
that one hears on all sides, often without being able to see the hole
whence it comes.
In the evening the natives treated us to a haJca, or dance, in
honor of the Governor. It took place in the carved house I have al-
ready spoken of, the weird, grotesque carvings of which added to the
strangeness of the scene. There were about a hundred dancers ranged
in five rows, the front one consisting of about twenty young women
gorgeously apparelled in tight-fitting red or white calico bodices, and
flaming-colored rugs worn like kilts. When the Governor entered
they greeted him with the most awful noise, shouting, yelling, laugh-
ing, and in some diabolical way imitating the noise of the beating of
tin cans, the barking of dogs, and rapid hand-clapping. From one or
two of the specimens that were translated to us, it was as well, per-
haps, that their shouts of welcome were expressed in Maori language.
The young women certainly seemed to enjoy, and to make the most
of, the opportunity for saying naughty things. The dance lasted
about an hour ; it was curious, and as a novelty amusing, but rather
monotonous. There was but little movement of their feet ; it consist-
ed chiefly of swaying their bodies and arms about, going down on
their knees, imitating rowing and gathering crops, slapping their own
legs and then their neighbors'. The men then took the place of the
women, and went through very similar performances. The whole
dance was accompanied by a noise that would have put pandemonium
to shame ; it sounded like a mixture of beating of trays, dogs fighting,
gigantic snoring, and a very full, deep bass rumbling in the throat.
At times there seemed to be a kind of rhythmic song, interspersed
with yells and short, sharp cries of " Hue, hue ! " " Ha, ha ! " " Pake-
ka ! " The young women winked and grinned and twisted about be-
yond what was strictly correct ; but they seemed to enjoy the really
hard work of the dance most thoroughly. There was always a chief
running up and down, dancing, and declaiming in the foreground,
bidding defiance to all the world apparently, but in reality, I believe,
