A VISIT TO THE NEW ZEALAND GEYSERS. 361
coming sheer down steep and rocky several hundred feet into the
water, and backed by fine mountains. At the end of the lake a stream
of warm water runs into it from the Lake Rotomahana, but the stream
is so swift that progress against it is very slow ; we therefore left the
natives to bring the boat up, while we walked on with one of them for
a guide. A walk of about a mile brought us to the top of some high
ground, whence we got our first view of the glorious white terrace of
Rotomahana.
It was a sight that never can be forgotten. It is impossible to
imagine anything more lovely than the appearance of that marvelous
marble-looking terrace, lying, set in a green frame, on the mountain-
side, and reflected again in the glassy water of the lake, as we first saw
it in the rosy light of a calm autumn sunset. To get to the terrace we
had to cross the warm stream ; the boat had not yet appeared, and we
were impatient. After a slight hesitation, the guide thought he could
carry us across. The stream was deep and swift, but the man took us
all safely over without a single false step ; only when it came to Mr.
F 's turn, the Maori wanted to have a little preliminary practice
with him on dry land first, Mr. F being about three times as big
as his porter. Captain Mair then took us under his charge to explore
the wonders of the white terrace.
The general appearance of the terrace is that of a gigantic stair-
case on the mountain-side. It is about one hundred and fifty feet in
height, and at the top nearly three hundred feet across, and fully twice
as much round the lowest steps. The steps are roughly semicircular
in form, varying from two or three to ten feet in height, more or less
smooth on their horizontal, but on their perpendicular faces carved by
the trickling water into the most delicate representations of flower and
fruit carvings, or soft, white, coral sprays. At the top there is an
immense 6aldron of pale-blue boiling water of unknown depth ; even
the steam rising from it in clouds was quite decidedly blue. This cal-
dron in all probability is the crater of an extinct volcano which has
been invaded by water. The idea that the origin of the terrace is due
to volcanic agency, and not to deposits by the water, is supported by
the fact that where the silica crust has been knocked away a formation
of coarse tufa and pumice-stone appears. The depositing power of the
water is, however, very great, and articles exposed for curiosity to its
action become very quickly covered with a delicate white coating. On
each step there are holes of various sizes filled with the most lovely
blue water, slightly milky, of the most perfect turquoise-blue, looking,
oh ! so beautiful in its coral cups. The water from the caldron pours
down, steaming and bubbling, overflowing from hole to hole, losing its
heat by degrees on the way, until it reaches the lowest steps quite cold.
These lowest steps were especially beautiful ; the pools on them were
larger and bluer than on the others, and the absence of steam left them
in perfect peaceful beauty ; the steps, too, though generally of a purer
