FOOD AND FEEDING. 385
Among articulated animals are the lobsters, crabs, and shrimps.
Among mollusks, the oyster and all the shellfish, which, as well as the
preceding animals, in chemical composition closely resemble that of
fish properly so called.
I shall not enter on a discussion of the question, Is man designed
to be a vegetable feeder, or a flesh-eating or an omnivorous animal ?
Nor shall his teeth or other organs be examined in reference thereto.
Any evidence to be found by anatomical investigation can only be
safely regarded as showing what man is and has been. That he has
been and is omnivorous to the extent of his means, there can exist no
doubt. Whether he has been generally prudent or happy in his choice
of food and drink is highly improbable, seeing that until very recently
he has possessed no certain knowledge touching the relations which
matters used as food hold with respect to the structure and wants of
his body, and that such recent knowledge has been confined to a very
few individuals. Whatever sound practice he may have attained, and
it is not inconsiderable, in his choice and treatment of food, is the
result of many centuries of empirical observation, the process of which
has been attended with much disastrous failure and some damage to
the experimenters. No doubt, much unsound constitution and procliv-
ity to certain diseases result from the persistent use through many gen-
erations of improper food and drink.
Speaking in general terms, man seems, at the present time, prone
to choose foods which are unnecessarily concentrated and too rich in
nitrogenous or flesh-forming material, and to consume more in quantity
than is necessary for the healthy performance of the animal functions.
He is apt to leave out of sight the great difference, in relation to both
quantity and quality of food, which different habits of life demand,
e. g., between the habits of those who are chiefly sedentary and brain-
workers and of those who are active and exercise muscle more than
brain. He makes very small account of the different requirements by
the child, the mature adult, and the declining or aged person. And
he seems to be still less aware of the frequent existence of notable
individual peculiarities in relation to the tolerance of certain aliments
and drinks. As a rule, man has little knowledge of, or interest in, the
processes by which food is prepared for the table, or the conditions
necessary to the healthy digestion of it by himself. Until a tolerably
high standard of civilization is reached, he cares more for quantity
than quality, desires little variety, and regards as impertinent an inno-
vation in the shape of a new aliment, expecting the same food at the
same hour daily, his enjoyment of which apparently greatly depends
on his ability to swallow the portion with extreme rapidity, that he
may apply himself to some other and more important occupation with-
out delay. Eating is treated, in fact, by multitudes much as they are
disposed to treat religious duty which eating assuredly is that is, as
a duty which is generally irksome, but unfortunately necessary to be
VOL. XT. 25
