FOOD AND FEEDING. 387
second place. The chestnut also is largely eaten by the poorer popu-
lation, hoth it and maize containing more fatty matter than wheat,
oats, and legumes.
In Spain, the inhabitants subsist chiefly on maize and rice, with
some wheat and legumes, among them the garbanzo or " chick pea,"
and one of the principal vegetable components of the national olla,
which contains also a considerable proportion of animal food in variety,
as bacon, sausage, fowl, etc. Fruit is fine and abundant; especially so
are grapes, figs, and melons. There is little or no butter, the universal
substitute for which is olive-oil, produced in great quantity. Fowls
and the pig furnish the chief animal food, and garlic is the favorite
condiment.
Going northward, flesh of all kinds occupies a more considerable
place in the dietary. In France the garden vegetables and legumes
form an important staple of diet for all classes ; but the very numerous
small land proprietors subsist largely on the direct products of the
soil, adding little more than milk, poultry, and eggs, the produce of
their small farms. The national pot-au-feu is an admirable mixed dish,
in which a small portion of meat is made to yield all its nutritive qual-
ities, and to go far in mingling its odor and savor with those of the
fragrant vegetables which are so largely added to the stock. The
stock-meat eaten hot, or often cold with plenty of green salad and oil,
doubtless the most palatable mode of serving it, thus affords a source
of fat, if not otherwise provided for by butter, cheese, etc.
Throughout the German Empire, the cereals, legumes, greens, roots,
and fruits supply an important proportion of the food consumed by the
common population. Wheaten bread chiefly, and some made from
rye, also beans and peas, are used abundantly. Potatoes and green
vegetables of all kinds are served in numerous ways, but largely in
soups, a favorite dish. Meats, chiefly pork, are greatly esteemed in
the form of sausage, and appear also as small portions or joints, but
freely garnished with vegetables, on the tables of those who can afford
animal diet. Going northward, where the climate is no longer adapt-
ed for the production of wheat, as in parts of Russia, rye and oats
form the staple food from the vegetable kingdom, associated with an
increased quantity of meat and fatty materials.
Lastly, it is well known that the inhabitants of the Arctic zone are
compelled to consume large quantities of oily matter, in order to gen-
erate heat abundantly; and also that animal food is necessarily the
staple of their dietary. Vegetables, which, moreover, are not produ-
cible in so severe a climate, would there be wholly inadequate to sup-
port life.
We will now consider the food which the English peasant and ar-
tisan provide. The former lives, for the most part, on wheaten bread
and cheese, with occasionally a little bacon, some potatoes, and per-
haps garden greens : it is rarely indeed that he can obtain flesh. To
