FOOD AND FEEDING. 389
moderate proportion, is more nutritious and wholesome than chiefly
animal food. For those whose labor is chiefly mental, and whose
muscular exercise is inconsiderable, still less of concentrated nitro-
genous food is desirable. A liberal supply of cereals and legumes,
with fish, and flesh in its lighter forms, will better sustain such
activity than large portions of butcher's meat twice or thrice a day.
Then again it is absolutely certain, contrary to the popular belief
as this is, that while a good supply of food is essential during the
period of growth and active middle life, a diminished supply is no
less essential to health and prolongation of life during declining years,
when physical exertion is small, and the digestive faculty sometimes
becomes less powerful also. I shall not regard it as within my prov-
ince here to dilate on this topic, but shall assert that the " support-
ing " of aged persons, as it ' is termed, with increased quantities of
food and stimulant, is an error of cardinal importance. These things
being: so, a consideration of no small concern arises in relation to the
economical management of the national resources. For it is a fair
computation that every acre of land devoted to the production of
meat is capable of becoming the source of three or four times the
amount of produce of equivalent value as food, if devoted to the
production of grain. In other words, a given area of land cropped
with cereals and legumes will support a population more than three
times as numerous as that which can be sustained on the same land
devoted to the growth of cattle. Moreover, the corn-land will pro-
duce, almost without extra cost, a considerable quantity of animal
food, in the form of pigs and poultry, from the offal or coarser parts
of vegetable produce which is unsuitable for human consumption.
Thus this country purchases every year a large and increasing
quantity of corn and flour from foreign countries, while more of our
own land is yearly devoted to grazing purposes. The value of corn
and flour imported by Great Britain in 1877 was no less than 63,536,-
322, while in 1875 it was only just over 53,000,000. The increased
import during the last thirty-two years is well exhibited in the fol-
lowing extract : "In 1846 the imports of corn and flour amounted to
seventeen pounds weight per head of population ; in 1855 they had
risen to seventy pounds per head ; and in 1865 to ninety-three pounds
weight per head of population. Finally, in 1877 the imports of corn
and flour amounted to one hundred and seventy pounds weight per
head of population of the United Kingdom." *
Lastly, those who are interested in the national supply of food
must lament that, while Great Britain possesses perhaps the best
opportunities in the world for securing a large and cheap supply of
fish, she fails to attain it, and procures so little only that it is to the
great majority of the inhabitants an expensive luxury. Fish is a food
of great value ; nevertheless, it ought in this country to be one of the
* "Statesman's Year Book," 1879, p. 258.
