39 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
cheapest aliments, since production and growth cost absolutely no-
thing, only the expenses of catching and of a short transport being
incurred.
Having enunciated some general principles which it is important
should first be established, I shall offer briefly an illustration or two
of the manner in which they may be applied. This brings us to the
second division of the subject, viz., the practical treatment of certain
aliments in order to render them suitable for food. Dealing first with
that of the agricultural laborer, our object is to economize his small
pittance, to give him, if possible, a rather more nutritive, wholesome,
and agreeable dish he can have but one that his means have hither-
to furnished. But here there is little scope for change ; already said
to live chiefly on bread and cheese, with occasionally bacon, two indi-
cations only for improvement can be followed, viz., augmentation of
nitrogenous matter to meet the wear and tear of the body in daily
hard labor, and of fatty matter to furnish heat and force. A fair pro-
portion of meat, one of the best means of fulfilling them, is not within
his reach. First, his daily bread ought to contain all the constituents
of the wheat, instead of being made of flour from which most of the
mineral elements have been removed. But beans and peas are richer
in nitrogen than wheat, and equal it in starch, mineral matters, and
fat, the last being in very small quantity, while maize has three times
their proportion of fat. Hence all of these would be useful additions
to his dietary, being cheaper than wheat in the market, although, the
retail demand being at present small, they may not be so in the small
shops. As an illustration of the value of legumes combined with fat,
it may be remembered how well the Erbswurst supported the work
of the German armies during the winter of 1870-'71, an instructive
lesson for us in England at the present moment. It consists of a sim-
ple pea-soup mixed with a certain proportion of bacon or lard, and
dried so as to be portable, constituting in very small compass a per-
fect food, especially suitable for supporting muscular expenditure and
exposure to cold. Better than any flesh, certainly any which could
be transported with ease, the cost was not more than half that of
ordinary meat. It was better also, because the form of the food is
one in which it is readily accessible and easily digested ; it was rel-
ished cold, or could be converted in a few minutes into good soup
with boiling water. But for our laborer probably the best of the
legumes is the haricot bean, red or white, the dried mature bean of
the plant whose pods we eat in the early green state as "French
beans." For this purpose they may be treated thus : Soak, say, a
quart of the dried haricots in cold water for about twelve hours, after
Avhich place them in a saucepan, with two quarts of cold water and
a little salt, on the fire ; when boiling remove to the corner and sim-
mer slowly until the beans are tender ; the time required being about
two to three hours. This quantity will fill a large dish, and may be
