FOOD AND FEEDING. 395
cake," pie-crust, or pastry, whether baked or boiled, consist simply of
farinaceous food rendered stronger nutriment by the addition of fatty
matter.
In the same way almost every national dish might be analyzed up
to the pot-au-feu of our neighbors, the right management of which
combines nutritious quality with the abundant aroma and flavor of
fresh vegetables which enter so largely into this economical and excel-
lent mess.
It will be apparent that, up to this point, our estimate of the value
of these combinations has been limited, or almost so, by their physio-
logical completeness as foods, and by their economical value in rela-
tion to the resources of that great majority of all populations, which
is poor. But when the inexorable necessity for duly considering econ-
omy has been complied with, the next aim is to render food as easily
digestible as possible, and agreeable to the senses of taste, smell, and
sight.
The hard laborer with simple diet, provided his aliment is complete
and fairly well cooked, will suffer little from indigestion. He can not
be guilty, for want of means, of eating too much, fertile source of de-
ranged stomach with those who have the means ; physical labor being
also in many circumstances the best preventive of dyspepsia. " Live
on sixpence a day and earn it," attributed to Abernethy as the sum of
his dietary for a gluttonous eater, is a maxim of value, proved by mil-
lions. But for the numerous sedentary workers in shops, offices, in
business and professions of all kinds, the dish must not only be " com-
plete " ; it must be so prepared as to be easily digestible by most
stomachs of moderate power, and it should also be as appetizing and
agreeable as circumstances admit.
On questioning the average middle-class Englishman as to the na-
ture of his food, the all but universal answer is, " My living is plain,
always roast and boiled " words which but too clearly indicate the
dreary monotony, not to say unwholesomeness, of his daily food ;
while they furthermore express his satisfaction, such as it is, that he
is no luxurious feeder, and. that, in his opinion, he has no right to an
indigestion. Joints of beef and mutton, of which we all know the
very shape and changeless odors, follow each other with unvarying
precision, six roast to one boiled, and have done so ever since he began
to keep house some five-and-twenty years ago ! I am not sanguine
enough to suppose that this unbroken order which rules the dietary
of the great majority of British families of moderate and even of
ample means will be disturbed by any suggestions of mine. Never-
theless, in some younger households, where habits followed for want
of thought or knowledge have not yet hardened into law, there may
be a disposition to adopt a healthier diet and a more grateful variety
of aliment. For variety is not to be obtained in the search for new
animal food. Often as the lament is heard that some new meat is not
