JULIUS ROBERT MAYER. 397
nutritious products of culinary art, with the further merit that it can
be more rapidly prepared than any other dish, must really at present
he regarded as an exotic. Competent instruction at first and a little
practice are required, in order to attain a mastery in producing an
omelet ; but, these given, there is no difficulty in turning out a first-
rate specimen. The ability to do this may be so useful in the varied
circumstances of travel, etc., that no young man destined for foreign
service, or even who lives in chambers, should fail to attain the easily
acquired art. Nineteenth Century.
-*-*-
JULIUS EOBERT MAYEK.
THE name of the remarkable man whose likeness we give in this
number of the " Monthly " is now intimately and imperishably
associated with the establishment of the most important scientific
truth that has been developed during the last hundred years the
" Conservation of Energy." It is a truth belonging exclusively to no
one man, and to no one nation, but to an epoch of scientific advance-
ment that was made by the labors of many distinguished investigators
working independently of each other in different countries. In such
circumstances it is easy to fall into error in estimating the merits of
alleged discoverers. In the first place, there may be very great differ-
ences in the positions of men as respects favorable opportunities of
making their work known. There is besides less familiarity with
what is going on in foreign countries than near by ; and there is, moie-
over, the warping influence of national prejudice by which the claims
of men are liable to be exaggerated at home and depreciated abroad.
There is undoubtedly less of this bias in science than in any other
sphere of intellectual exertion, but this sphere is by no means free
from it. It was the fortune of Mayer to suffer from all these causes,
and to such a degree that his character as an original discoverer has
been denied on very high authority. The ground was strenuously
maintained that he had no right whatever to a place among the found-
ers of the great modern doctrine of the " Correlation of Forces." This
denial led to investigation and sharp controversy, the result of which
was not only to vindicate his claims to be ranked among the discov-
erers of the new principle, but it was shown that he was probably
ahead of all others in grasping and developing it. Now that he has
passed away, it is proper to review the subject, which may prove in-
structive as a chapter of scientific history, as well as interesting in its
personal bearing. As we find the investigation thoroughly worked
out and most admirably presented in the searching controversy which
has now become memorable in the annals of discovery, we shall quote
