39 8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
freely from the materials before us so as to present to our readers as
faithfully as possible the considerations on the strength of which the
claims of Mayer first became recognized.
As regards the life of Mayer the details are meager. He was born
in Heilbronn, Wiirtemberg, November 25, 1814. He received his early
education in the gymnasium of his native town, and studied medicine
at Tubingen, finishing his course in Munich and Paris. In 1840 he
made a voyage on a Dutch freighter to Java, and spent the summer of
that year in professional practice at Batavia. Returning to Heil-
bronn he first became county wound-physician, and afterward phy-
sician to the city, and while giving the main portion of his time to
professional labors he devoted himself systematically, and with great
assiduity, to original scientific researches on the wide subject of the
" Conservation of Forces." In the revolution of 1848 Dr. Mayer took
what was called the side of order, which roused against him the antag-
onism of many of his neighbors. He believed that he had made very
important discoveries which were unrecognized and were ascribed to
others, while his scientific works were attacked and discredited in a
way that preyed upon his feelings and disturbed his mind. This was
aggravated by the loss of his children, and he fell into an excited and
sleepless condition. Being suddenly seized with a fit of delirium on
May 28, 1850, he quitted his bed and leaped from a second-story win-
dow, thirty feet high, to the street below. He recovered from the
shock, but his mind was so seriously affected that he was sent to a
lunatic asylum. Dr. Mtilburger, physician to the institution, states
that the equilibrium of his mental and emotional nature was seri-
ously affected, one of the symptoms being that, "if you conversed
with him about a scientific topic, it was very hard to keep him to the
point : his ideas were profound, it is true, surprisingly so, but they
came disconnected ; they went to the heart of the subject, but they did
not hold on to it. He was subject to occasional fits of uncontrollable
rage, and on feeling them coming on he would ask to be put in one of
the strong cells of the asylum. These fits came on only three or four
times during the four months he spent at the asylum, and they did
not last long. He had a very strong thirst for spirituous liquors, an
inclination which was the result of his mental malady, and the grati-
fication of which increased it." He was at length restored to health,
and busied himself with grape culture at Heilbronn. He died in his
native town on March 20, 1878, aged sixty-three years.
The following lucid account of Mayer's labors and judicial estimate
of his position were made by Professor Tyndall in 1871, and are so ad-
mirable that we quote them in full, in preference to anything that it
would be possible for us to write :
Dr. Julius Kobert Mayer was educated for the medical profession. In the
summer of 1840, as he himself informs us, he was at Java, and there observed
that the venous blood of -some of his patients had a singularly bright red color.
