JULIUS ROBERT MAYER. 399
The observation riveted his attention; he reasoned upon it, and came to the
conclusion that the brightness of the color was due to the fact that a less amount
of oxidation sufficed to keep up the temperature of the body in a hot climate
than in a cold one. The darkness of the venous blood he regarded as the visible
sign of the energy of the oxidation.
It would be trivial to remark that accidents such as this, appealing to minds
prepared for them, have often led to great discoveries. Mayer's attention was
thereby drawn to the whole question of animal heat. Lavoisier had ascribed
this heat to the oxidation of the food. " One great principle," says Mayer, " of
the physiological theory of combustion is, that under all circumstances the same
amount of fuel yields, by its perfect combustion, the same amount of heat ; that
this law holds good even for vital processes ; and that hence the living body,
notwithstanding all its enigmas and wonders, is incompetent to generate heat
out of nothing."
But beyond the power of generating internal heat, the animal organism can
also generate heat outside of itself. A blacksmith, for example, by hammering
can heat a nail, and a savage by friction can warm wood to its point of ignition.
Now, unless we give up the physiological axiom that the living body can not
create heat out of nothing, "we are driven," says Mayer, "to the conclusion
that it is the total heat generated within and without that is to be regarded as
the true calorific effect of the matter oxidized in the body."
From this, again, he inferred that the heat generated externally must stand
in a fixed relation to the work expended in its production. For, supposing the
organic processes to remain the same, if it were possible, by the mere altera-
tion of the apparatus, to generate different amounts of heat by the same amount
of work, it would follow that the oxidation of the same amount of material
would sometimes yield a less, sometimes a greater, quantity of heat. "Hence,"
says Mayer, " that a fixed relation subsists between heat and work, is a postulate
of the physiological theory of combustion."
This is the simple and natural account, given subsequently by Mayer himself,
of the course of thought started by his observation in Java. But the conviction
once formed, that an unalterable relation subsists between work and heat, it was
inevitable that Mayer should seek to express it numerically. It was also inevi-
table that a mind like his, having raised itself to clearness on this important
point, should push forward to consider the relationship of natural forces gener-
ally. At the beginning of 1842 his work had made considerable progress ; but
he had become physician to the town of Heilbronn, and the duties of his pro-
fession limited the time which he could devote to purely scientific inquiry. He
thought it wise, therefore, to secure himself against accident, and in the spring
of 1842 wrote to Liebig, asking him to publish in his "Annalen" a brief pre-
liminary notice of the work then accomplished. Liebig did so, and Dr. Mayer's
first paper is contained in the May number of the "Annalen " for 1842.
Mayer had reached his conclusions by reflecting on the complex processes of
the living body ; but his first step in public was to state definitely the physical
principles on which his physiological deductions were to rest. He begins, there-
fore, with the forces of inorganic nature. He finds in the universe two systems
of causes which are not mutually convertible : the different kinds of matter and
the different forms of force. The first quality of both he affirms to be inde-
structibility. A force can not become nothing, nor can it arise from nothing.
Forces are convertible, but not destructible. In the terminology of his time, he
then gives clear expression to the ideas of potential and dynamic energy, illus-
