JULIUS ROBERT MAYER. 401
strike the earth's surface, and finds that the heat generated by its collision would
raise an equal weight of water 17,356 0. in temperature. He then determines
the thermal effect which would he produced by the earth itself falling into the
sun. So that here, in 1845, we have the germ of that meteoric theory of the
sun's heat which Mayer developed with such extraordinary ability three years
afterward. He also points to the almost exclusive efficacy of the sun's heat in
producing mechanical motions upon the earth, winding up with the profound
remark that the heat developed by friction in the wheels of our wind- and
water-mills comes from the sun in the form of vibratory motion ; while the heat
produced by mills driven by tidal action is generated at the expense of the
earth's axial rotation.
Having thus, with firm step, passed through the powers of inorganic nature,
his next object is to bring his principles to bear upon the phenomena of vegetable
and animal life. Wood and coal can burn ; whence come their heat, and the
work producible by that heat ? From the immeasurable reservoir of the sun.
Nature has proposed to herself the task of storing up the light which streams
earthward from the sun, and of casting into a permanent form the most fugitive
of all powers. To this end she has overspread the earth with organisms which,
while living, take in the solar light, and by its consumption generate forces of
another kind. These organisms are plants. The vegetable world, indeed, con-
stitutes the instrument whereby the wave-motion of the sun is changed into the
rigid form of chemical tension, and thus prepared for future use. With this pre-
vision, as will subsequently be shown, the existence of the human race itself is
inseparably connected. It is to be observed that Mayer's utterances are far from
being anticipated by vague statements regarding the " stimulus " of light, or re-
garding coal as " bottled sunlight." He first saw the full meaning of De Saus-
sure's observation as to the reducing power of the solar rays, and gave that ob-
servation its proper place in the doctrine of conservation. In the leaves of a
tree, the carbon and oxygen of carbonic acid, and the hydrogen and oxygen of
water, are forced asunder at the expense of the sun, and the amount of power
thus sacrificed is accurately restored by the combustion of the tree. The heat
and work potential in our coal strata are so much strength withdrawn from the
sun of former ages. Mayer lays the axe to the root of the notions regarding
" vital force " which were prevalent when he wrote. With the plain fact before
us that in the absence of the solar rays plants can not perform the work of reduc-
tion, or generate chemical tensions, "it is," he contends, "incredible that these
tensions should be caused by the mystic play of the vital force." Such an hy-
pothesis would cut off all investigation ; it would land us in a chaos of unbridled
phantasy. " I count," he says, " therefore, upon your agreement with me when
I state, as an axiomatic truth, that during vital processes the conversion only,
and never the creation of matter or force, occurs."
Having cleared his way through the vegetable world, as he had previously
done through inorganic nature, Mayer passes on to the other organic kingdom.
The physical forces collected by plants become the property of animals. Ani-
mals consume vegetables, and cause them to reunite with the atmospheric oxy-
gen. Animal heat is thus produced; and not only animal heat, but animal
motion. There is no indistinctness about Mayer here ; he grasps his subject in
all its details, and reduces to figures the concomitants of muscular action. A
bowler who imparts to an eight-pound ball a velocity of thirty feet, consumes
in the act one-tenth of a grain of carbon. A man weighing 150 pounds, who
lifts his own body to a height of eight feet, consumes in the act one grain of
vor,. xv. 26
