4 02 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
carbon. In climbing a mountain 10,000 feet high, the consumption of the same
man would be two ounces, four drachms, fifty grains of carbon. Boussingault
had determined experimentally the addition to be made to the food of horses
when actively working, and Liebig had determined the addition to be niade to
the food of men. Employing the mechanical equivalent of heat, which he had
previously calculated, Mayer proves the additional food to be amply sufficient
to cover the increased oxidation.
But he does not content himself with showing, in a general way, that the
human body burns according to definite laws, when it performs mechanical
work. He seeks to determine the particular portion of the body consumed,
and in doing so executes some noteworthy calculations. The muscles of a
laborer 150 pounds in weight weigh 64 pounds ; but, when perfectly desiccated,
they fall to 15 pounds. Were the oxidation corresponding to that laborer's
work exerted on the muscles alone, they would be utterly consumed in eighty
days. The heart furnishes a still more striking example. Were the oxidation
necessary to sustain the heart's action exerted upon its own tissue, it would be
utterly consumed in eight days. And, if we confine our attention to the two
ventricles, their action would be sufficient to consume the associated muscular
tissue in three and a half days. Here, in his own words, emphasized in his own
way, is Mayer's pregnant conclusion from these calculations: "The muscle is
only the apparatus by means of which the conversion of the force is effected;
but it is not the substance consumed in the production of the mechanical effect."
He calls the blood " the oil of the lamp of life " ; it is the slow-burning fluid
whose chemical force, in the furnace of the capillaries, is sacrificed to produce
animal motion. This was Mayer's conclusion twenty-six years ago. It was in
complete opposition to the scientific conclusions of his time ; but eminent inves-
tigators have since amply verified it.
Thus, in baldest outline, I have sought to give some notion of the first half
of this marvelous essay. The second half is so exclusively physiological that I
do not wish to meddle with it. I will only add the illustration employed by
Mayer to explain the action of the nerves upon the muscles. As an engineer,
by the motion of his finger in opening a valve or loosing a detent, can liberate
an amount of mechanical motion almost infinite compared with its exciting
cause, so the nerves, acting upon the muscles, can unlock an amount of activity
wholly out of proportion to the work done by the nerves themselves.
As regards these questions of weightiest import to the science of physiology,
Dr. Mayer, in 1845, was assuredly far in advance of all living men.
Mayer grasped the mechanical theory of heat with commanding power, illus-
trating it and applying it in the most diverse domains. He began, as we have
seen, with physical principles; he determined the numerical relation between
heat and work ; he revealed the source of the energies of the vegetable world,
and showed the relationship of the heat of our fires to solar heat. He followed
the energies which were potential in the vegetable, up to their local exhaustion
in the animal. But in 1845 a new thought was forced upon him by his calcula-
tions. He then, for the first time, drew attention to the astounding amount of
heat generated by gravity where the force has sufficient distance to act through.
He proved, as I have before stated, the heat of collision of a body falling from an
infinite distance to the earth, to be sufficient to raise the temperature of a quan-
tity of water, equal to the falling body in weight, 17,356 C. He also found, in
1845, that the gravitating force between the earth and sun was competent to
generate an amount of heat equal to that obtainable from the combustion of
