JULIUS ROBERT MAYER. 405
correctly perceived and rightly enunciated the general law of nature
which we are here considering was a German physician, J. R. Mayer, of
Heilbronn, in the year 1842." Again, M. Verdet, an eminent French au-
thority, especially in the literature of science, in addressing the Chemi-
cal Society of Paris on the mechanical theory of heat in 1862, remarked:
" I now come to the researches which, from 1842 to 1849, definitely
founded the science. These researches are the exclusive work of three
men * who, without concert and without knowing each other, arrived
simultaneously in almost the same manner at the same ideas. The pri-
ority in the order of publication belongs, without any doubt, to the
German physician, Jules Robert Mayer, whose name has occurred so
often in these lectures ; and it is interesting to know that it was by
reflecting on certain observations in his medical practice that he per-
ceived the necessity of an equivalence between work and heat. . . .
He perceived in the act of respiration the origin of the motive power
of animals ; and the comparison of animals with thermic engines after-
ward suggested to him the important principle with which his name
will be connected for ever. . . . "VVe also find in the same memoir
(1842) a first determination of the mechanical equivalent of heat de-
duced from the properties of gases, which is perfectly exact in prin-
ciple."
How Dr. Mayer arrived at the mechanical equivalent of heat, has
been briefly referred to by Tyndall in a previous quotation. It will not
be possible here to go into the full detail of Mayer's method, but the
reader who is curious about it may consult Tyndall's " Heat as a Mode
of Motion " for a clear statement, and, for a still completer account,
vol. xxviii. of the " Philosophical Magazine," Fourth Series, page 25.
Before they had become familiar with Dr. Mayer's work, Professors
Thomson and Tait had no word for him but that cf disparagement ;
but, as his results were forced upon their attention, they were compelled
to concede something to him, and so Tait admits, in 1863, that "May-
er's later papers are extremely remarkable and excessively interesting,
and certainly deserve high credit." Yet his claim as the first to deter-
mine the mechanical equivalent of heat is still pointedly denied. In-
deed, Professor Tyndall himself does not lay the highest stress upon
this achievement of Dr. Mayer. He observes : "I must here say dis-
tinctly that I would not for an instant allow my estimate of Mayer to
depend upon his determination of the mechanical equivalent of heat.
It is the insight which he had obtained in advance of all other men
regarding the relationship of the general energies of the universe, as
illustrated in the whole of his writings, that gives him his claim to my
esteem and admiration."
Now, undoubtedly the whole is greater than a part, and Mayer's
fame has a far broader foundation than any one special result could
afford. But we think that his determination of the mechanical equiv-
* Mayer, Cokling, and Joule.
