4 o6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
alent of heat, in the year 1842, with the resources he had, and the
exactness which he attained, is one of the most marvelous exploits in
the whole history of science, is incomparably his greatest achievement,
and is sufficient alone to place him in advance of all the thinkers who
have devoted themselves to this great research. And we apprehend
that this would have long ago been conceded but for the rival claims
of Dr. Joule to this discovery. It is admitted on all hands, and even
by Mayer himself, that Joule's laboratory processes were necessary and
invaluable in completing the work, and placing this truth upon its firm
and experimental basis. With great patience and skill he worked out
the law of the mechanical equivalence of heat, as a demonstration that
all men can verify, and, by the award of the whole scientific world,
that law is permanently connected with his name. But Joule's results
were reached only in 1849, while Mayer had arrived at the same result
by other methods in 1842. What was it that both men were driving
at ? It was the working out of a great relation, or the establishment
of a universal truth of nature. . Mayer reached it, by using the data
that science had created for him. He got it first, he got it inde-
pendently, and he got it exactly, or within a small fraction of the
expression arrived at by Joule after six years of subsequent experi-
ment. Mayer was the pioneer, the revealer, the creator of the theory,
and Joule the verifier of his work. That verification was required and
has made the name of Joule immortal ; but who will compare 'it with
that master stroke of genius by which from scanty materials the great
truth was first independently seized and formulated? In 1849 Dr.
Joule fixed the exact mechanical equivalent of heat after many labo-
rious experiments, at 772 foot-pounds. Seven years previously Dr.
Mayer pursued a method which gave the mechanical equivalent of heat
as 771*4 foot-pounds.
It was alleged by Thomson and Tait, as we have seen, that May-
er's method had been adopted by the Frenchman Seguin, three years
earlier, and that he anticipated the German in deducing the mechanical
equivalent of heat. Seguin, in 1839, published a work on the steam-
engine, in Paris ; and that work contains a table on the relations of
pressures, temperatures, and mechanical effects of steam, from which
it was alleged that the mechanical equivalent of heat may be inferred.
But the widest discrepancies existed among the interpretations of
these tables by different authorities. Upon a careful investigation of
the subject Professor Tyndall found that Seguin's and Mayer's numer-
ical results did not refer to the same things at all, and that Seguin's
tables did not attempt to give the mechanical equivalent of heat.
Professor Tyndall says : " It is only necessary, however, to read the
foregoing pages to see that Mayer and Seguin are speaking of two
totally different things ; that the degrees of the one are not the degrees
of the other; that the 'temperatures correspondantes ' of the latter,
which refer to his compressed steam, are not thermal units at all, and
