JULIUS ROBERT MAYER. 407
that there is no determination whatever of the mechanical equivalent
of heat in the above table."
We have no space to go further into the particulars of this contro-
versy, which was as discreditable to the assailants of Mayer as it was
honorable to his disinterested defender. It is to be remembered that
on all occasions, and in the most emphatic way, Professor Tyndall bore
his testimony to the greatness of Dr. Joule's work, and deprecated
every construction of his efforts which assumed that he was exalting
the German at the expense of the Englishman. His demand was that
Dr. Mayer be accorded a distinguished place among the founders of
the modern doctrine of forces such a place as he was incontestably
entitled to by the scope, originality, and earliness of his work. But
his opponents would allow the German doctor no merit whatever as a
pioneer or discoverer, and no place in the circle of eminent men who
created the new epoch of dynamical philosophy. The attack, however,
upon Mayer signally failed of its intended purpose, and the parties
who made it had the mortification of seeing that their ungenerous
exertions were overruled to an end very different from that which they
had designed. After the sifting and probing which followed the
onslaught of the Scotchmen, the claims in behalf of Mayer were uni-
versally recognized as just; he was chosen by acclamation a member of
the French Academy of Sciences, and the award of the Copley medal
in 1871, the highest honor in the gift of the Royal Society of Eng-
land, was the sharp rebuke of British Science to the unworthy efforts
incited by a spurious patriotism to depreciate an illustrious foreign
savant.
Dr. Mayer, as we have intimated, was a man of much suffering,
which was undoubtedly aggravated by the neglect and injustice with
which his labors were treated ; and, when generous recognition of his
services was made, the good effect on his disordered mind was palpable.
It was while he was in the asylum, under treatment, that the Copley
medal with Tyndall's accompanying letter was put into his hands. Dr.
Miilburger, the attending physician, remarked, " I can still see him as
he entered my room, beaming with gladness, to exhibit to me this rare
distinction."
A monument is to be erected to Mayer at Heilbronn, and the scien-
tific men of different countries are adding their contributions to those
of his townsmen for the purpose of its erection.
