408
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
CORRESPONDENCE.
LETTER FROM MR. KIDDLE.
To the Editor of the Popular Science Monthly.
rriHERE seems to be nothing so capable
1 of throwing a " scientist " into a parox-
ysm of rage as the serious attempt to talk to
him of sjjirit, spirit-world, "spiritual body"
etc. In the words of Brewster, " spirit is
the last thing he will give in to " ; or, to put
it in Huxley's mild way, " supposing the
phenomena to be genuine, they do not inter-
est me." One might suppose that men whose
habits of mind are the offspring of careful
investigation and calm inquiry, would take
any class of phenomena, and at least con-
template them with scientific patience, keep-
ing their minds poised and ready to receive
more light. But no ; some favorite hypoth-
esis seems to be in danger, and our modern
philosopher, who either claims the paternity
of it, or hangs to the skirts of him thus highly
honored, has always a choice assortment of
literary missiles to hurl at the trespasser.
When a man feels that he can not meet an-
other in fair argument, he usually greets him
with such choice epithets as fool, driveliyic/
idiot, lunatic, etc., etc. How scientific ! How
worthy of a scientific journal is such mean
and cheap scurrility !
Such is the temper in which you have
chosen to assail me and my recently pub-
lished book, " Spiritual Communications,"
in the June number of " The Monthly." Of
course, I can not contend with you in throw-
ing mud ; your vocabulary of abuse is richer
and stronger than any I could possibly com-
mand ; and I acknowledge, therefore, that
you have the advantage of me in this re-
spect; but let me suggest to you that one
who claims to be a scientist should resort
to the weapons of logic, not the bludgeon
of a ruffian. Nor was even this brutal treat-
ment sufficient to satisfy your scientific in-
stincts. You seemed to think your literary
crucifixion would be incomplete unless you
brought a murderer to share my fate ; but
remember that the greatest being that ever
walked upon the surface of this planet was
crucified between two thieves ; and remem-
ber, too, who did it. " Woe unto the world
because of offenses, but woe unto that man
by whom the offense cometh ! " Your arti-
cle does, indeed, show the " survival of sav-
agery."
The editor of this book may, indeed,
claim some consideration for accredited
ability to investigate phenomena brought
to his notice, as well as yourself. What
right have you, who know nothing of the
facts and will not listen to the evidence
on which they rest to abuse me for stating
them, simply because they do not fit into your
notions, your conceits, and your theories ?
The man who refuses to investigate, or lis-
ten to the results of investigation who
shuts his eyes against the sun of truth, and
angrily protests there is no sun he is the
idiot ; or, if he continues in that course,
will soon become one. If you had read my
book, you would have seen that, instead of
setting aside all other spiritual revelations,
that which is offered in the book strengthens
and confirms the divine revelation of the
Scriptures, and is presented in that relation
to it ; but it adds to it, and makes clear
many things previously left in obscurity.
Jesus said (John xvi. 12): "I have yet
many things to say unto you, but ye can
not bear them now." Science is constantly
giving birth to new theories, as you your-
self very well know. What, for example,
is the science of chemistry now, compared
to what it was when you first called at my
school with your chart of its nomenclature ?
Why, then, should you quarrel with revela-
tion if God chooses to expand it, and give
us a little more spiritual light? Is your
soul (excuse me, your mind) so bathed with
heavenly radiance that you are afraid any
addition to it will blind you?
Still, there is one part of your article
on savagery that gives me real pleasure.
You appear to be anxious for the integrity
of " spiritual revelation." It does really ap-
pear as if you could look beyond the uni-
verse of matter to the far greater super-
sensuous world of God's creation. I con-
gratulate you and the world upon this heav-
enly change. Who knows but the millen-
nium may be at hand, when the lion will lie
down with the lamb (outside of him), and
the editor of " The Popular Science Monthly"
will be able to read " Spiritual Communica-
tions " without losing his philosophic tem-
per, and without becoming lost to all sense
of scientific and literary decency ?
I commend to you, in conclusion, the
words of Mr. Parke Godwin, which you are,
doubtless, able to recall : " Let us b.e assured
that some truth has come a good while ago,
that it is coming still, in many ways, and
will come in broader and rosier flashes in
the future, though not to him who, ostrich-
like, buries his head in the sand, or muffles
his eyes against any of its illuminations."
I have the honor to subscribe myself,
Very sincerely your friend,
Henry Kiddle.
New York, June 5, 1879.
