CORRESP ONDENCE.
409
LETTER FROM MR. BERGH.
To the Editors of the Popular Science Monthly.
On page 63*7 of your September edition,
there is an article entitled " Death to the
English Sparrow," which refers to a com-
munication in the "American Naturalist,"
written by one Dr. Elliott Coues, recom-
mending the extermination of that pretty
little creation of the Almighty, and sug-
gesting that boys be constituted their exe-
cutioners.
Who this enemy to God, through one of
his works, is, I know not whether he be a
Zulu or an American savage, I care not ;
but, since he has been permitted a space in
two of our leading menstruals, out of def-
erence to them, I have thought proper to
notice the barbarism of the sentiment ut-
tered by him.
This man dares to rebuke the Maker of
all things, by calling the innocent little be-
ing "a wretched interloper," which has no
place in the " natural economy of this coun-
try " ; and he betrays his own place in the
social and professional world by charac-
terizing all who think otherwise as " silly
old fogies," " <7a.s-ornithologists," and
" clacqueurs of the quasis."
This person, who thus arraigns his Crea-
tor, and attributes human fallibility to the
Infinite, belongs, it seems, to a profession
which should purge itself of a fellow who
has not the brains to comprehend the mean-
ing of humanity and good policy, nor yet
the fact that God has not created anything
needlessly not even Elliott Coues.
This inverted genius suggests the policy
of founding a school wherein boys niay be
educated in the practice of murder, which
of course includes all other social crimes.
It is true, he does not advise these boys
to begin by killing their parents, or other
human beings, but to commence with an
innocent little bird ; when, after an appren-
ticeship of a few years, he presumes they
will be prepared to do the heavy business
of throat-cutting, stabbing, and shooting.
This wonderful individual, when he con-
ceived this grandest idea of his life, doubt-
less had in his mind " the physical fact "
as the Honorable Mr. Sloate would say that
there is a beginning to everything ; that the
mighty Mississippi at its source is but a
tiny stream, and hence his pupils in time
would graduate from his college with all the
honors enjoyed by the most distinguished
students of crime that have ended their
days upon the scaffold.
But the refreshing tenderness of this
medical practitioner whom possibly some
innocent invalid may have unwittingly called
to his bedside is best expressed by himself.
He says: "Let the birds shift for them-
selves ; take down the boxes and all special
contrivances for sheltering and petting the
sparrows ; stop feeding them ; stop supply-
ing them with building material ; abolish
the legal penalties for killing them; let
boys kill them ; let them be trapped and
used as pigeons, or glass balls in shooting-
matches among sportsmen " !
It is said that the inventor of the guil-
lotine was the first person to perish by it.
that this modem yEsculapius would only
introduce his beautiful theory among us
here in New York for he is a resident of
a much-to-be-envied Eastern State so that
the undersigned might profit by the oppor-
tunity of making him acquainted with the
legal guillotine which he would certainly be
compelled to ascend ! Henry Bergh.
REMARKABLE LIGHTNING-STROKE.
To the Editors of the Popular Stience Monthly.
There recently occurred in our city a
case of stroke by lightning which, no doubt,
from its strange freaks, will be of inter-
est to the readers of The Popular Sci-
ence Monthly. It took place in a grocery-
store, and two persons were the sufferers.
The bolt, after tearing up the eaves of the
house, entered it on the side, leaving a
smutty stain between the cracks. It bulged
out the side of the shop for several feet, put
out the lamp, knocked down many articles
from the shelves, took off the tops of several
lamp-chimneys resting on them, completely
tore off the paper wrappers of many small
cakes of soap, and finally emerged at the
corner of the room, tearing off several
planks. In the passage of the current from
one division of the shelves to the other, it
either split the dividing boards or passed
under them, partially fusing the nails and
charring the adjacent wood. But what
makes the stroke most remarkable is the
way in which it affected the two men who
were struck. One of them, Ware, was
stunned for a few moments, had his pipe
knocked from his mouth several feet away,
and was left with a red, sore scar across his
cheek and a paralysis of his arms, which
latter remained for about two hours. Still
more strangely did it deal with the other
man, Bullard, who was resting upon the
show-case opposite Ware. The current
passed up his arm, under the armpit, down
the right side of the body to the thigh,
leaped across to the inner side of the left
leer, and passed down the leg to the foot.
O' * Til
It made a red bunch and sore mark upon
the body, singed the hair from both legs,
and left the sufferer unconscious for more
than twenty-four hours. Both have fully
recovered, with the exception of a little
soreness. In both cases we noted the spiral
direction of the current. The house was
low, in a depressed situation, and protected
with a rod. Robert F. Jackson, Jr.
Macon, Georgia, May 20, 18T9.
