4-iQ
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
PYTHAGORAS ON BEANS.
To the Editors of the Popular Science Montldy.
Dear Sirs : Allow me to give expression
to some thoughts suggested by reading the
interesting article of Dr. Felix Oswald, in
the April number of your publication. The
author commits an error when he ascribes
the forbidding, by Pythagoras, of using
beans as an article of food to a deprecating
view of it ; it was just the opposite view
that caused him to do so. I have before
me an essay, " Pythagoras, the Sage of
Samos," according to the latest researches,
written by Eduard Baltzer (in German),
who draws mainly on the " History of Phi-
losophy," by Professor Roetb, of Heidelberg.
Baltzer's work is the most successful of the
different endeavors made to furnish, from
the few fragments that have remained of
his works, a biography of the greatest of
ancient thinkers, the father of philosophy,
as he has been truly called. Beans were
forbidden for the common use of his fol-
lowers, as they were considered a specially
sacred article, and were only eaten at certain
meals that formed a part of the Pythagorean
cultus, the so-called Orphic mysteries.
The fundamental truth of preparing the
body by a pure diet and pure physical hab-
its for the growth of spiritual life, that
formed the basis for all the doctrines of
the ancient philosophers, and that has
found the most distinct expression in the
words of St. Paul, " Know ye not that ye
are the temple of God, and that the spirit
of God dwelleth in you?" etc., has become
utterly darkened to the modern perception
in its clumsy materialistic tendency the
very rudiments of instinct, the organic per-
ception of the laws of nature underlying its
structure, have been lost or utterly distort-
ed by the wrong habits of a carnivorous
race ; and the modern man, with all his
vaunted scientific acquirements, will yet
have to go begging to antiquity to gather
some crumbs of wisdom and truth. As the
earth receives the effects of solar radiation,
the source of all its organized physical life,
only after it has been modified and polar-
ized by its atmospheric medium whereby
the solar energy assumes, as it were, a
geomorphous condition just so all spirit-
ual perception in the human mind becomes
anthropomorphized, individually as well as
generically, by the physical condition of the
body ; and the clear-eyed observer recog-
nizes the cause of mental and moral anoma-
lies in the condition of the physical postu-
lates. Pessimism, as it seems to spread
like a frightening nightmare through the
race, is nothing but a spiritual perception,
polarized to distortion by a bodily medium
poisoned by tobacco and alcohol ; and ev-
ery one suffering from it can cure himself
and become an optimist by adopting a pure
Pythagorean diet, and thus armored draw
truth from the wells of divine revelation.
I feel free to say so, because, for the sake
of experiment, I have changed myself back-
ward and forward severally out of one state
of mind into the other.
Returning to our beans, I find that there
is no article of food equal to them for
gaining the physical postulate for a higher
spiritual soul-life. Wheat may be rightly
called the best brain-focd next to wheat
probably barley, but receiving a greater
share of direct sunlight than the beans,
which are surrounded by a thicker husk or
hull than the grain ; whereas the latter, re-
ceiving a greater share of indirect radiation
through their larger leaves, the grain pos-
sesses a more positive vital polarity in its
nutritive influence, and the bean a more
negative one, whereby the former favors
subjective, active, intellectual effort, and the
latter predisposes to objective intellectual re-
ceptivity, the requirement for spiritual per-
ception.
The New - Englanders, who may be
called, I suppose, the salt of the American
nation, in establishing baked beans as a
national dish, have furnished a proof of the
absolute wisdom manifested in the mysteri-
ous operations of the unconscious in hu-
man nature, as a modern pessimistic philos-
opher chooses to call the result of divine
guidance in the inner life of man.
Respectfully, Julius Ashman.
New Yoek, April 4, 1879.
EDITOR'S TABLE.
EXPLANA TIONS Til A T DO NO T EXPLAIN.
THERE is a certain class of minds
whose efforts to explain things
generally leave them more obscure than
they were before. In undertaking to
represent a question they complicate
rather than simplify it, and instead of
helping the learner to understand a sub-
ject they hinder him. This failure to
make things lucid and comprehensible
is due to various causes. Oftenest, it
comes from a total neglect of the art
of luminous writing, and it is unfortu-
nate that many scientific men are not a
little perverse about cultivating this art.
They do not, as a matter of conscience,
