EDITOR'S TABLE.
411
make any effort to enter into the state of
mind of the parties addressed, and their
expositions, therefore, often fail from
lack of adaptation. Sometimes a sub-
ject familiar to teachers of great capa-
city is still too abstruse to be grasped
by common minds. Sometimes the ex-
pounder does not understand the sub-
ject himself ; and not unfrequently hy-
potheses are invented to explain unex-
plainable things, and which serve only
to increase existing difficulties. A
marked illustration of this is afforded
by a lecture delivered not long ago be-
fore the Koyal Institution, by the emi-
nent physicist and mathematician, Sir
William Thomson, who announced as
his topic of discourse the curious sub-
ject, " Maxwell's Sorting Demons."
The lecture was mainly devoted to
an explication of the phenomena of the
diffusion of liquids and the principles
it involves. Professor Thomson bad
many tubes prepared, each containing
two liquids of different colors, to rep-
resent the progress of diffusion, while
some ingenious experiments were made
by throwing the spectra of various
solutions upon the screen with an elec-
tric light. The diffusibility of solids
and gases was also referred to, and a
just tribute paid to the memory of Gra-
ham, whose name stands most promi-
nently associated with this branch of
research.
Sir William Thomson's reasons, how-
ever, for bringing forward these phe-
nomena of diffusion were that they
stand very closely related to the pres-
ent theories and speculations concern-
ing the molecules of matter, and which
aim to account for their motions. In
diffusion, the molecules gradually in-
termingle, according to definite laws,
which are variable in different cases.
The molecules do not move capricious-
ly or irregularly, as all chemical action
and all crystallization prove. But why
do they move this way or that, and
why always go the same way in the
same conditions? This "why" is the
perplexing word of science, and when
we get down among objects the very
existence of which is hypothetical it
carries us far beyond our depth. But
Professor Maxwell thinks he gives us
aid here by inventing a host of little
demons living creatures with wills and
infallible intelligence which sort the
molecules and regulate their extraor-
dinary motions. In a very brief ab-
stract of his lecture which Sir William
Thomson has published, he thus ex-
plains the attributes and offices of these
remarkable agents :
Clerk Maxwell's " demon " is a creature
of imagination having certain perfectly well-
defined powers of action, purely mechanical
in their character, inveuted to help us to un-
derstand the " dissipation of energy " in na-
ture. He is a being with no preternatural
qualities, and differs from real living animals
only in extreme smallness and agility. He
can at pleasure stop, or strike, or push, or
pull any single atom of matter, and so mod-
erate its natural course of motion. En-
dowed ideally with arms and hands and fin-
gers two hands and ten fingers suffice he
can do as much for atoms as a piano-forte
player can do for the keys of the piano just
a little more, he can push or pull each atom
in any direction.
He can not create or annul energy ; but,
just as a living animal does, he can store up
limited quantities of energy, and reproduce
them at will. By operating selectively on
individual atoms he can reverse the natural
dissipation of energy, can cause one half of
a closed jar of air, or of a har of iron, to be-
come glowingly hot and the other ice cold;
can direct the energy of the moving mole-
cules of a basin of water to throw the water
up to a height and leave it there proportion-
ately cooled (1 Fahr. for seven hundred and
seventy -two feet of ascent) : can " sort" the
molecules in a solution of salt or in a mixture
of two gases, so as to reverse the natural pro-
cess of diffusion, and produce concentration
of the solution in one portion of the water,
leaving pure water in the remainder of the
space occupied ; or. in the other case, sepa-
rate the gases into different parts of the con-
taining vessel.
The classification, according to which the
ideal demon is to sort them, may he accord-
ing to the essential character of the atom :
for instance, all atoms of hydrogen to be
let go to the left, or stopped from crossing to
