412
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the right, across an ideal boundary ; or it
may be according to the velocity each atom
chances to have when it approaches the
boundary : if greater than a certain stated
amount, it is to go the right ; if less, to the
left. This latter rule of assortment, carried
into execution by the demon, disequalizes
temperature, and undoes the natural diffu-
sion of heat; the former undoes the natural
diffusion of matter.
This looks to us like a somewhat
ridiculous way of evading the real diffi-
culties in the explanation of molecular
motions and their effects. All nature
is supposed to be filled with infinite
swarms of absurd little microscopic
imps, which are so omniscient that
they direct the invisible and insen-
sible movements by which the whole
order of nature is determined and
maintained. When men like Maxwell,
of Cambridge, and Thomson, of Glas-
gow, lend their sanction to such a
crude hypothetical fancy as that of
little devils knocking and kicking the
atoms this way and that, in order to
explain the observed changes of natu-
ral phenomena, we may well ask, What
next ? This is a palpable case of con-
triving an artifice to explain a subject
which yet leaves the subject more ob-
scure than ever. There were difficul-
ties enough with the molecules consid-
ered alone, but when complicated with
another hypothetical order of beings
the difficulties are redoubled, for we
have now to explain the explanation.
There is a great proneness to invent
explanations which only remove the
trouble one step further away. Sir
William Thomson's hypothesis of the
origin of terrestrial life by means of
germs, brought to our planet from
some unknown source by meteorites,
is another example of explanations by
assumptions, in which nothing is ex-
plained. There is a class ot scientific
men who feel it incumbent upon them
to answer all questions. They do not
seem to appreciate the fact that there
are limits to our knowing, which had
better be honestly acknowledged, in-
stead of offering conjectures which are
mere travesties of legitimate theory,
and absurdities in science.
MR. BERGH AND THE SPARROWS.
We print an indignant letter from
Mr. Bergh the philanthropist, denounc-
ing one of our eminent ornithologists
for saying that the English sparrows
among us are interlopers, and, instead
of being protected, should be left to
shift for themselves, and be exposed to
the raids of the street boys. We have
a very high respect for Mr. Bergh and
his mission, and have never been dis-
posed to criticise his peculiarities or
find fault with the way in which he
has chosen to perform his duty. It is
enough that such a man was greatly
needed in the community, and it is not
well to raise questions of taste, or to
carp at mistakes committed in the per-
formance of a disagreeable but most
beneficent public service. We cordial-
ly approve of his practical work in
protecting animals against the infliction
of cruelty, whether from wantonness,
carelessness, or insensate stupidity. But
because Mr. Bergh's labors are impor-
tant they ought to be maintained on
proper grounds ; though, judging from
his letter, we should rather trust his in-
stincts than his logic.
As regards the sparrows, Mr. Bergh
seems not to recognize that they are at
present under indictment, and, while
we have no disposition to prejudge
their case, it certainly is not to be set-
tled on purely sentimental grounds.
The question of their treatment de-
pends upon whether or not they have
become pests and nuisances. If it is
true, as maintained by reputable natu-
ralists and those who have observed
their habits and history, that these
birds are extremely prolific, hatching
out several broods in the same season,
and that, besides this, they have been
so coddled and cared for as greatly to
