LITERARY NOTICES.
415
ever in time. Destruction but makes
room for more destruction ; and not
only is the onflowing river of life full
to its banks, but ten thousand-fold more
creatures are born than can be pre-
served. Each species reproduces at a
rate that is out of all relation to the
possible means of subsistence. If Mr.
Bergh's sparrows could multiply at their
normal rate, unchecked by the agencies
of decimation, they would take posses-
sion of the world, and humanity and
philanthropy would end together. And
so it has ever been through the count-
less ages of the earth's history ; so that
its very rocks, for miles in depth, are
filled with the fossil remains of in-
numerable tribes of creatures, which
warred with each other through geo-
logical periods, and have now utterly
perished. And it is to-day as it has
been through the immeasurable past-
millions of species scattered over the
earth's surface, from pole to pole, are
engaged in a struggle for existence, that
is carried on everywhere with unrelent-
ing severity.
From the point of view of senti-
ment alone, this is not a pleasant pic-
ture. Considered by itself, a hawk
with a sparrow in its talons is not sug-
gestive of beneficent intentions. If all
this remorseless destruction has been
beneficently designed, we must widen
our notions of beneficent design. Sci-
ence does this, by showing that out of
the universal agony Nature is slowly,
very slowly, working up to a better con-
dition of things. In the sanguinary strug-
gle the fittest survive, the ill-adapted and
less perfect are slain, and there comes
improvement. The value of this prog-
ress is to be estimated by its terrible cost.
Through the destruction of tribes with
what seems an almost infinite wanton-
ness have finally come creatures with
higher capacities of enjoyment, as well
as correlative suffering, and an order of
beings that have acquired great power
over the conditions of pleasure and pain.
In man, the last term of advancement in
the animate series, ameliorations and
modifications of his primal savage pro-
pensities have gone on, until there has
grown up a set of feelings that are kind-
ly, merciful, sympathetic, and benevo-
lent; and they have at length become
so strengthened and organized in our
nature that they are characterized as
" the humane sentiments," or the " spir-
it of humanity." These are the final
product of man's moral evolution, and,
although the reminiscences and survi-
vals of savagery in the shape of mili-
tary systems still linger, yet the kindly,
merciful, and generous emotions are
steadily gathering force in the hearts
of men, and are becoming more and
more .the predominant law of the social
state. Terrestrial life has had a tragic
history, but, when under the stern dis-
cipline of a mortal competitive strife
the primitive cannibals have been so
utterly transformed that many of their
descendants have come to find their
highest pleasure in the gratification of
the sympathetic feelings, and even to
regard the brute creation with a tender
solicitude, as evinced by the organiza-
tion of societies for the prevention of
cruelty to animals, who shall say that
the grandeur of the end does not justify
all the terrible means by w T hich it has
been attained ?
LITERARY NOTICES.
The Evolution of Man : A Popular Expo-
sition of the Principal Points of Hu-
man Ontogeny and Phylogeny. From
the German of Ernst Haeckel, Professor
in the University of Jena, author of the
" History of Creation," etc. Tn two vol-
umes, with 330 Illustrations. New York :
D. Appleton & Co. Pp. 970. Price, $5.
This work is now the great text-book of
a great subject. Darwin wrote on "The De-
scent of Man," and Haeckel, with greater
learning, writes later upon the same subject.
The interest in these volumes will mainly de-
pend, of course, upon the reader's interest in
the questions it considers. Those who wish
