416
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
to know how the problem of the origin of
man now stands in the light of science,
whether they believe in the doctrine of evo-
lution or not, will turn to this exposition of
it by one of the first of living biologists, and
thus satisfy their curiosity and post up in a
discussion which is beginning to engross a
large share of the attention of thoughtful
men all over the world. Those who accept
the doctrine of evolution and wish to be-
come familiar with its higher applications to
organic life, and whose concern with the sub-
ject is strictly scientific, will also turn to
this work to get the latest and fullest knowl-
edge that has been reached concerning the
development of man, and with no other so-
licitude than to obtain the truth. Yet the
book in its subject matter is so greatly in
advance of the intelligence and liberality
of the age that multitudes will care nothing
about it. The mass of people have but pre-
cious little curiosity as to where they came
from, or how they got here. They generally
have some belief about it, which tbey ac-
quired early, and hold satisfactory, and do
not care to have disturbed. To all such,
scientific inquiries into these questions are
mere impertinence. Then there are others
who have a strong antipathy to all these
investigations into the germ history of man.
As Professor Haeckel remarks : " If we say
that each human individual develops from
an egg, the only answer even of most so-
called educated men will be an incredulous
smile ; if we show them the series of embry-
onic forms, developed from this human egg,
their doubt will, as a rule, change into dis-
gust." It will obviously be a long time be-
fore such prejudices are overcome and there
arises a general desire to know the facts
concerning the genealogy of man, and his
real place in nature. People must appren-
tice themselves a long time to the study of
evolution among the lower forms of life, be-
fore they are willing to include themselves
in the inquiry. Meantime there are many
who are alive to the magnitude and import
of the investigation, and these will cordially
welcome a treatise from Haeckel on " The
Evolution of Man."
Professor Haeckel some years ago pub-
lished a comprehensive work on " The Nat-
ural History of Creation." It was an ex-
position of evolutionary doctrine through
the widest circle of biological phenomena,
and was of a much more general character
than the present treatise. The develop-
ment of man is, of course, confined to a con-
sideration of the genesis of the human race.
This subject, however, can not be treated
alone ; and, although it is in a certain sense
a sequel to the first work, it is nevertheless
much occupied with questions belonging to
the general domain of life. The derivation
of man is a question of kinship with the
whole series of ancestral forms. Haeckel
is so much of a pioneer in a great field, hith-
erto scantily cultivated, that he assumes
the right of forming his own terminology,
and hence we meet with various unfamiliar
words in his pages, although he always
makes them clear, and makes them contrib-
ute to the clearness of his discussion. The
present treatise, devoted to anthropogeny,
is divided into two parts : the first, ontogeny,
or the history of individual human organ-
isms, concerns itself chiefly with germ histo-
ry or embryology; and the second, on phy-
logeny, is a history of the evolution of the
various animal forms, from which man has
descended in the course of countless ages.
Phylogeny is thus a history of evolution,
and embraces the sub-sciences of paleontol-
ogy and genealogy. These terms mark out
the divisions aud scope of the work, and
show that it is occupied with the radical
problems of the subject.
Though strictly scientific, this treatise of
Haeckel's is in a remarkable degree popu-
lar in style and form. It is written with
great clearness, and with a view of render-
ing the subject attractive, and its profusion
of elegant wood cuts and colored plates
greatly enhances its interest. The time has
not come when all biologists will agree
with Haeckel as to the genealogical chain
that he has made out from man to the
moner, and much of his work may be long
held as speculative. But Haeckel strenu-
ously maintains that dissent from his array
of proofs must be due to their not being
sufficiently weighed, or to the bias of rival
hypotheses. He writes with the ardor of a
man intensely convinced, and with the lu-
cidity and grasp of one thoroughly famil-
iar with the wide elements of his subject.
The book may be commended without hesi-
tation to all who wish to acquaint themselves
