LITERARY NOTICES.
417
with what is doing for the advancement of
biological evolution.
Moore's Rural Life. An Illustrated Jour-
nal for Suburban, Village, and Country
Homes. Conducted by D. D. T. Moore.
24 pages ; $1.50 per year. 34 Park
Row, New York.
The " Rural New-Yorker," an excellent
paper, was long managed by Mr. D. D. T.
Moore, who now brings his tact, resources,
and ripened experience to the establishment
of a new enterprise which is admirably ini-
tiated, and we have no doubt will meet with
the liberal patronage it deserves. Mr.
Moore has taken pains to make the first
number (for June) of his journal represent
the ideal of what the succeeding numbers
shall be ; and does not send out a hastily
prepared sample full of apologies for defects
and promises of what he will do when the
project gets fairly under way. Moore's
" Rural Life " is splendidly illustrated and
beautifully printed, and we can give the
reader no better idea of the wide and judi-
cious variety of its contents than by enu-
merating the departments under which its
numerous articles are distributed : " Rural
and Suburban Homes," " Landscape Gar-
dening," " The Floriculturist," " The Fruit-
culturist," "The Arboriculturist," "Ento-
mological," " The Vegetable Garden,"
"Poultry and Pet Stock," "Editorial De-
partment," " Sketches of Life," " Literary
Miscellany," " Natural Science," " Our
Book-Table," " Fancy Work and Fashion,"
" Domestic and Hygienic," " Out-Door
Amusements," " Life in the Country," and
" Youn<? Folks' Life."
Report on Life-saving Apparatus. Made
by Lieutenant D. A. Lyle, Ordnance
Department, United States Army.
Washington : Government Printing-Of-
fice, 1878. Pp. 156, with 54 Plates.
The life-saving apparatus, with which
this report is concerned, are mainly guns
and projectiles designed for the purpose of
carrying a line to an imperiled vessel, or
from such vessel to the land. Numerous
experiments, made under the direction of
Lieutenant Lyle, with different kinds of
guns and projectiles, and here recorded in
full detail, will doubtless tend to increase
the efficiency of our life-saving stations.
vol. xv. 21
A Treatise on Chemistry. By H. E.
Roscoe, F. R. S., and C. Schorlemmer,
F. R. S. Volume II. Metals. Part I.
New York : D. Appleton & Co. Pp.
504. Price, $3.
We spoke of the character of this elab-
orate and sterling treatise on chemistry, in
noticing its first volume, some months ago,
and can add nothing now to what we said
then in commendation of it, except that the
present volume sustains all the promise of
the first. We are, however, happy in being
able to give the discriminating testimony of
one of our highest chemical authorities as
to the character of the present volume. Pro-
fessor Josiah P. Cooke, of Cambridge, having
been presented with a copy by the publish-
ers, thus speaks of it : "I received the book
several weeks ago, but have waited before
acknowledging the gift until I could express
an intelligent opinion upon its merits. I
find that it fully sustains the reputation of
its authors, and has the same merits which
were so conspicuous in the first volume.
The descriptions of manufacturing processes
are remarkably full and clear, and the wood-
cuts by which they are illustrated admira-
ble. The book will be a great aid in teach-
ing on that account, and I shall be able to
refer students to it with satisfaction. Anoth-
er conspicuous feature of the book is, that it
makes prominent many points in the history
of chemistry which it is not only a great
convenience to have collected, but also very
important should not be forgotten by the
rising generation of chemists. Lastly, the
mechanical execution of the book leaves
nothing to be desired and makes it a pleasure
to refer to it. I shall await the publication
of the second half of the volume with great
interest."
Thf Art of Questioning. By Joshua G.
Fitch, M. A. Syracuse : Davis, Bardeen
& Co. Pp. 80. Price, 15 cents..
This is the abridged form of a little work
published some years ago, by Professor
Fitch, when Master of the Borough Road
Training School, London, from which he
passed to the position of one of her Majesty's
Inspectors of Schools. He is an able man,
and was a skillful practical teacher. The
"Art of Questioning " will be found to con-
tain many hints and suggestions that will be
helpful in schoolroom management.
