418
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
First Steps in Political Economy. By
Joseph Alden, D. D., LL. D. New York :
Baker, Pratt & Co. Syracuse, N. Y. :
Davis, Bardeen & Co. Pp.153. Price,
25 cents.
In this little volume Dr. Alden has fur-
nished us with an invaluable common-school
manual, which can not too soon or too gen-
erally be put into the hands of American
youth. It is the best introduction to politi-
cal economy for beginners in primary schools
that we have seen, and its universal adoption
as a part of the course of elementary study
could not fail to result in ultimate wide-
spread benefit. The aim of the author has
been " to present simple elementary truths
connected with the business activities of
life," and this he has done with excellent
judgment as respects the subjects chosen and
with remarkable clearness and simplicity of
statement. There has been a good deal of
caviling recently as to whether there is or
is not such a science as political economy.
No doubt, the excess of modern controver-
sial literature over unsettled questions in
political economy has favored this skeptical
state of mind ; but any one who will look over
a little summary of elementary principles like
this of Dr. Alden's must be satisfied that
there is a broad basis of established truth on
which a strict economical science can se-
curely rest.
Notes by a Naturalist on the Challenger :
being an Account of Various Observa-
tions made during the Voyage of H. M.
S. Challenger round the World, in the
Years 1872-"76. By H. N. Moseley,
F. R. S. With a Map, Two Colored
Plates, and numerous Woodcuts. New
York : Macmillan & Co. Pp. 620. Price,
$7.50.
The opportunity afforded by a four years'
sea-saunter in a ship, and with a party
dedicated to scientific exploration, was well
improved by Mr. Moseley, as is evinced by
this goodly volume. Not by any means
that the book embodies the scientific results
of his extended observations, which when
finally worked up will appear in other
shapes, but it presents a great deal of in-
teresting scientific and semi-scientific mat-
ter in connection with a readable and varied
narrative of the experiences of the expedi-
tion. It is an especially well-executed book
of travels, by an intelligent and thoroughly-
trained observer, laboring in circumstances
especially favorable for collecting interest-
ing information. The main portion of it
was prepared for family reading, written on
board the Challenger, and sent home in the
form of a journal from the various ports
touched at. The materials have been care-
fully revised, but they take the character of
a narrative describing the scenes, the aspects
of nature, the curiosities and novelties of
animal and vegetable life, and the charac-
ters, habits, and social conditions of the
different kinds of people encountered along
the route. The volume is written in a pleas-
ant, unambitious style, but often with hu-
morous touches and lively descriptions,
which increase the attractiveness of its con-
tents. The following passages express some
of the impressions of the author, after his
return, and are given at the close of his
book :
After a voyage all over the world, there is
nothing which is so much impressed upon the
mind as the sniallness of the earth's surface.
We are apt to regard certain animals as fixed and
stationary, and to contrast strongly with their
condition that of forms possessing powers of
active locomotion. In reality we are as securely
fixed by the force of gravity as is the sea anem-
one by its base ; we can only revolve as it were
at the end of our stalk, which we can lengthen
or shorten only for a few miles' distance. We
live iu the depths of the atmosphere as deep-sea
animals live in the depths of the sea. We can,
like these, crawl up into the shallows, or we can
occasionally mount at peril in a balloon ; but the
utmost extent of our vertical range is a distance
no greater than that which we can walk in a
couple of hours horizontally on the earth's sur-
face.
The Challenger traveled, on the voyage from
Portsmouth and back to the same port, 68,690
miles, and this distance, taking into considera-
tion the time consumed from port to port, was
traversed at the average pace of only four miles
an hour, or fast walking pace. In an express
train on land the entire distance could be con-
ceived of as being accomplished in eight weeks,
and, at the rate at which a swallow can fly, in
about half that time.
The earth, considered as a comparatively in-
significant component particle of the universe,
may be justly compared to a small isolated island
on its own surface. As, in the course of ages,
such an island develops its own peculiar insular
fauna and flora, so probably on the surface of
the earth alone has the peculiarly complex de-
velopment of the element nitrogen occurred
which has resulted in the various forms of ani-
mal and vegetable life.
On the theory of evolution, it is impossible
that plants or animals of any advanced complex-
