LITERARY NOTICES.
419
ity, at all resembling those existing on the earth
should exist on other planets or in other solar
systems. It is conceivable that very low forms
of vegetable life may exist on other planets and
may have been by some means transported to
the earth ; the idea is conceivable, though high-
ly improbable. But it is quite impossible that
that infinitely complex series of circumstances
which on the earth has conspired to produce
from the lowest living forms a crustacean, for
example, should have occurred elsewhere ; still
less is it possible that a bird or a mammal should
exist elsewhere ; still more impossible, again,
that there should be elsewhere a monkey or a
man.
With regard to any future scientific expedi-
tions, it would, however, be well to bear in mind
that the deep sea, its physical features and its
fauna, will remain for an indefinite period in the
condition in which they now exist and as they
have existed for ages past, with little or no
change, to be investigated at leisure at any future
time. On the surface of the earth, however, ani-
mals and plants and races of men are perishing
rapidly day by day, and will soon be, like the
dodo, things of the past. The history of these
things once gone can never be recovered, but
must remain for ever a gap in the knowledge of
mankind.
The loss will be most deeply felt in the prov-
ince of anthropology, a science which is of high-
er importance to us than any other, as treating
of the developmental history of our own species.
The languages of Polynesia are being rapidly
destroyed or mutilated, and the opportunity of
obtaining accurate information concerning these
and the native habits of culture will soon have
passed away.
Problems of Life and Mind. By George
Henry Lewes. Third Series, Problem
the First. The Study of Psychology,
its Object, Scope, and Method. Boston :
Houghton, Osgood & Co. Pp.189. Price,
$2.
This work was left unfinished by the
author at his death last year, and it has been
edited and prepared for the press, as is un-
derstood, by Mrs. Lewes, who prefixes to the
volume this brief note : " The following
problem is published separately, in obedience
to an implied wish of the author, and has
been printed from his manuscript with no
other alterations than such as it is felt cer-
tain that he would have sanctioned. Anoth-
er volume will appear in the autumn."
Like all of Mr. Lewes's philosophical
writings, this book is worthy the attention of
those interested in the subjects he discusses,
for he had an acute and fertile mind, way-
ward if not independent, and by no means
wanting in originality. But he was too ver-
satile for preeminence. A man can not be
great in all things, nor really great in any-
thing if he dabbles in everything. Mr.
Lewes was novelist, dramatist, linguist, crit-
ic, editor, physiologist, historian of philoso-
phy, and psychologist. Much of his work
was poor, much middling, and some of it
excellent, but he left no impression upon any
one subject such as he might have made by
concentrating his powers upon it with an
exclusive devotion. He was a brilliant talker,
and an admirable story-teller ; was sought
by society, and was fond of of it, all his
striking and varied acquisitions coming
readily into play in cultivated social circles.
In the latter portions of his life he was more
secluded, and gave himself more closely to
a restricted line of serious study which re-
sulted in the publication of his maturest work,
" The Problems of Life and Mind," of which
the present volume is the last issued. He
will probably be longest known by his " His-
tory of Philosophy," but in the present
transition state of biological and psycholog-
ical theory these latter works will be found
well worth consulting. The volume now is-
sued is expository and controversial with
regard to varions important psychological
questions, but propounds little that is new,
the author being content to reargue more
fully various positions that he has heretofore
assumed. It has undoubtedly been im-
proved in style by passing through the edi-
torial hands of Mrs. Lewes.
Chemical Examinations of Sewer-Air. By
Professor William Ripley Nichols. Bos-
ton: Rockwell & Churchill print. 1879,
Pp. 20.
Dr. Nichols is careful to employ the
term " sewer-air " instead of " sewer-gas,"
inasmuch as the latter phrase gives rise to
the erroneous idea that in sewers there ex-
ists a distinct gaseous substance possessed
of marked distinguishing characteristics ;
whereas the fact is, that the gas or air of sew-
ers is a continually varying mixture of the
gases which makeup the atmosphere, blend-
ed with a relatively small proportion of cer-
tain other gases formed by the decomposi-
tion of the sewage, together with aqueous
vapor and vapor of organic compounds.
The noxious substances in sewer-air would
appear to be either minute solid particles
or else particles of vapor, and not gaseous.
