420
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Practical Physics, Molecular Physics,
and Sound. By Frederick Guthrie, Ph.
D., of the Royal School of Mines, Lon-
don. New York : Henry Holt & Co. Pp.
156. Price, 60 cents.
This is one of a series of hand-books now
being published, and which are said to be
designed for students and general readers.
The grade of these works is intermediate be-
tween the so-called Primers and the larger
works, professing to give detailed views of
the respective subjects. The author in his
preface says that his object is, to get beyond
mere word-knowledge of the subject. We
do not think he has succeeded in this with
his book. As a practical and experimental
teacher, he may take students through a
course in his laboratory and use the book,
but the guidance will be given by the instruc-
tor and not by the volume. It does not
seem to us to be at all a satisfactory guide
to that " practical work " which Professor
Gathrie says it has been the object of physi-
cists of late years to bring into their teach-
ing. Such books should be skillfully con-
structed to promote the self-help of pupils,
and we see no trace of this quality in the pres-
ent hand-book. There is a good deal of sci-
entific information in the volume, of course,
but much of it runs into mathematical ex-
pression which makes it unsuitable for gen-
eral readers and ordinary students. The il-
lustrations are indifferent, to say the least ;
the elementary experiments to illustrate
sound and waves are postponed to the close
of the volume, and no figures are given to
illustrate them. A list of the materials re-
quired to make such experiments closes the
volume. In short, the book seems to have
been produced by an inexperienced educa-
tor, though its author has evidently a good
knowledge of its subject.
Hearing, and how to keep it. By Charles
H. Burnett, M. D. Philadelphia: Lind-
say & Blakiston. Pp. 152. Price, 50
cents.
The multiplication of health-books is a
good sign. If they were not wanted they
would not be published, and if they are
bought it is to be inferred that they are read.
Attention is therefore being drawn to the
subject, and, when it is sufficiently thought
about and permanent interest in it awak-
ened, great practical good will be certain to
result. Dr. Burnett's volume is the first of a
series of 'American Health Primers," and if
the subsequent works are as good as this the
series will be valuable. The first part of his
little volume is devoted to the structure and
physiology of the ear, and it is illustrated by
excellent diagrams. The second part is de-
voted to diseases of the ear, with hints re-
garding their management, and to the care
of the ear in health. It is a judiciously
written and very useful little monograph.
The Art of Singing. By Professor Ferdi-
nand Sieber. Translated from the Ger-
man, -with the Addition of an Original
Chapter on the Hygiene of the Voice,
by Dr. F. Seeger. New York : William
A. Pond & Co. Pp. 175.
Professor Ferdinand Sieber's " Cate-
chism of the Art of Singing " is a standard
work in Germany, where it has passed
through many editions, and Dr. Seeger has
done an excellent service to the community
in translating it. His familiarity with the
structure of the vocal organs and his wide
experience in treating them when out of
order have drawn his attention to the art of
singing as related to health, and induced him
not only to render into English Sieber's val-
uable work, but to prefix to it an interesting
and instructive essay on " The Hygiene of the
Voice." Those interested in the art of sing-
ing, either theoretically or practically, will
find this volume well worth consultation.
A Popular Treatise on the Currency
Question. Written from a Southern
Point of View. By R. W. Hughes,
United States Judge of the Eastern Dis-
trict of Virginia. New York : Putnams,
1879. Pp. 222.
The author of this essay argues against
" inflation," and warmly approves the na-
tional banking system. He condemns the
demonetization of silver, and holds that
" the public debts of the world can not be
paid, nor even their interest met, in gold at
an appreciated value. . . . The legal-tender
quality," he predicts, " will ere long be re-
stored to silver throughout Europe." But,
if that quality is not restored, then "there
will be left the alternatives of diluting the
currency there with paper money, or the
civil convulsions which the Socialists and
Communists stand ready to inaugurate."
