LITERARY NOTICES.
421
Report of the Public and High, also of
the Normal and Model Schools of On-
tario, for the Year 1877. Toronto:
Hunter, Rose & Co. print, 1879. Pp.
251.
There is much in this report to which
we should like to call attention, but we can
find space only for a few passages from the
section entitled " Physical Science." " We
are pleased," write the Inspectors of High
Schools, " to be able to report that the
teaching of physical science is making real
progress in the high schools. After some
experience of the practically inoperative
and too expensive programme which was
universally in force some years ago, it was
decided by the Council of Public Instruc-
tion to limit the amount of work prescribed
in this department, with the view of having
a little done well. It was accordingly deter-
mined that only one of the physical sciences
should have a place in the programme of
lower school-work. On account of its inti-
mate connection with the other physical
sciences, and its great practical value, chem-
istry was selected, and the results have jus-
tified the policy adopted. ... In a consid-
erable number of schools enthusiasm for
chemistry is manifested by both the teacher
and his pupils. . . . The number of teachers
capable of teaching chemistry has largely
increased, and the number of pupils who
are afforded the opportunity of beginning
the study of that branch of knowledge in a
proper manner is greater than ever before."
Word and Work : or, Scientific and Mo-
saic Geogony compared. By P. G.
Robert, a Presbyter of the Diocese of
Missouri. St. Louis: W. B. Chitten-
den. 1879. Pp. 29.
The writer of this essay would be a me-
diator between Science and the Bible, but
fails to exhibit his credentials as referee
from either side. The world of science sure-
ly is not prepared to accept his exposition
of the facts of geology; and his exegesis of
Scripture passages is altogether too light
and airy to meet the approval of Biblical
scholars. As for the class of devout believ-
ers in the letter of the sacred word, they
must be shocked at the author's temerity in
explaining away the manifest meaning of the
inspired record.
The Wisconsin Tornadoes of May 23, 1878.
By W. W. Daniells, Professor in the
University of Wisconsin. Pp. 41, with
Plates.
The meteoric phenomenon described in
this pamphlet was the simultaneous occur-
rence of three separate tornadoes in a com-
paratively narrow belt of country in south-
ern Wisconsin. That there were three sep-
arate tornadoes appears evident from the
observations made on the spot by Professor
Daniells. The perpendicular velocity of the
wind in such tornadoes can be appreciated
from certain calculations made by the author
of this pamphlet. At a point in the track
of one of these three tornadoes a horse,
weighing about 1,100 pounds, was carried
over twenty rods ; in another place a horse,
of about the same weight, was carried eighty
rods. Now, a horse of this size would not
expose a lifting surface to the wind of over
fourteen square feet. To lift such an ani-
mal, then, would require an upward pres-
sure of the air of H^ = 78'5 pounds per
square foot. This pressure is produced by
wind moving with a velocity of 124*6 miles
per hour.
An Etymological Dictionary of the Eng-
lish Language, arranged on an His-
torical Basis. By Rev. W. W. Skeat,
A.M. In Four Parts. Parti. A Dov.
New York : Macmillan & Co., 1879. Pp.
176. Price, $2.50.
A knowledge of the etymology of words
is of essential importance in fixing their
meaning ; hence a work like that named
above can not fail to be useful, if only the
author brings to his task the requisite
scholarship and tact. We have read but a
few of the titles in this dictionary ; but so
excellent did they appear, both in substance
and in form, that we have no hesitation in
warmly commending the work to our read-
ers.
The Animal, Vegetable, and Mineral
Kingdoms. By Mrs. N. B. Walker.
New York: Wilbur k Hastings print,
1879. Pp. IS.
The author points out the advantages to
be derived from the study of natural his-
tory in public and private schools, and
makes some sensible observations on the
mode of interesting young pupils in such
studies.
