P OP ULAR MIS CELL ANY
425
to make all the parts interchangeable. After
two years' effort the thing was accomplished.
Lettering and numbering were abolished ;
all the component parts, even of the lock,
were got out in large numbers, and thrown
together indiscriminately. Thus was inaugu-
rated the ' uniformity system ' so called. . . .
It is not claimed that the whole credit of
the 'uniformity system' should be given to
Blanchard. . . . But to Blanchard belongs
the credit of being its forerunner and sug-
gester." And in a letter from Mr. Waters
to us this system is declared to be " wholly
of American origin," and he adds that in
Europe it is known as " the American sys-
tem."
Now, that the practical execution of the
uniformity system was facilitated by Blan-
chard's invention is readily admitted ; but
the idea itself, and the execution of it, on a
small scale, belong to an earlier period, and
to another country. The all-sufficient proof
of this is found in the following letter,
written from Paris, under the date of Au-
gust 30, 1785. The writer of this letter,
Thomas Jefferson, addressing John Jay,
says : " An improvement is made here in
the construction of muskets. ... It con-
sists in making every part of them so ex-
actly alike that what belongs to any one
may be used for every other musket in the
magazine. The Government .... is estab-
lishing a large manufactory for the purpose
of putting it into execution. As yet the
inventor has only completed the lock of the
musket on this plan. He will proceed im-
mediately to have the barrel, stock, and
other parts, executed in the same way.
The workman .... presented me the parts
of fifty locks taken to pieces and arranged
in compartments. I put several together
myself, taking pieces at hazard as they
came to hand, and they fitted in the most
perfect manner." The letter will be found
in the " Writings of Thomas Jefferson."
Insanity in Russia. The ratio of insane
persons to the whole population is extraor-
dinarily high in Russia, namely, as 1 to 450.
The causes of this have been investigated
by Dr. Finkelburg, member of the Public
Health Commission, and he has made it the
subject of a lecture. Among the working
classes he observes that the lack of physical
and intellectual education, insufficient food,
unhealthy dwellings, and a certain indolence
of mind, contribute partly to the evil. But
it is chiefly the abuse of alcoholic liquors
that fills the lunatic asylums as well as the
prisons. In the former drunkards figure to
the extent of a fifth ; in the prisons they
constitute two fifths. With regard to edu-
cated people, the causes of their insanity
are naturally very different, and they often
date from the' earliest education. Children
do not, in general, get as much rest as they
absolutely need. That a child work dili-
gently, keep its place in class, or quickly
advance in the school grades, is all that is
demanded, and people do not trouble them-
selves in the least as to whether the young
and tender brain, kept in incessant activity,
may not suddenly stop in its functions or
its growth. Rousseau insisted on a purely
negative education till twelve years of age,
and in this he was wiser than our school-
masters. The child that has lived in the
open air to this age without contracting bad
habits will have greater force of apprehen-
sion and will progress more rapidly than
another who has been fatigued by premature
work. Among adults, Professor Finkelburg
distinguishes two great classes men of
work and men of pleasure. Continual activ-
ity and the suitable exercise of all the fac-
ulties are necessary to the preservation of
intellectual and physical health, for it is the
idlers that furnish the greatest number of
hypochondriacs. But there is the excess of
the overworked man, who is liable to mental
maladies arising from fatigue of mind, joined
with material cares, absence of sleep, emo-
tions and agitations caused by a goal always
imagined but never reached. Professor Fin-
kelburg concluded by urging that every man
should try as much as possible to vary his
occupations, whatever they be, to give his
tired mind agreeable recreation, to take
walks regularly in the open air, etc., in order
to restore the equilibrium of functions of
body and mind.
Survival of Snperststions Beliefs. Here
are a few illustrations of the persistence of
superstitious beliefs. They are taken from
a paper in " All the Year Round," entitled
" Some Popular Cures." Many, if not all
of these beliefs, doubtless survive even on
