426
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
this side of the Atlantic. A cure for
whooping-cough, in use not only in Eng-
land but in North Germany, consists in put-
ting into the mouth of the whooping child
a newly-caught fish, and then letting it go
again. The cough is communicated to the
iish. Another cure for the same malady
consists in passing the child nine times
under and over a donkey. To charm away
warts, an elder-shoot is to be rubbed over
them ; then as many notches are cut on the
twig as there are warts. The twig is bur-
ied, and as it rots away the warts disappear.
There are persons still living who have been
stroked by a hanged man's hand for the
sake of dispelling tumors. In Devonshire
there is a superstition that, if a person suf-
fering from any disease throw a handker-
chief in the coffin of a suicide, the disease
will be cured as the handkerchief rots away.
In other localities, the fore-foot of a hare,
worn constantly in the pocket, is considered
a potent charm against rheumatism. A like
practice is found in this country, a horse-
chestnut taking the place of the hare's foot.
In some places the anti-rheumatic talisman
is a potato. Bread baked on "Good Fri-
day " is supposed to possess wonderful cu-
rative virtues. Such bread, it seems, never
grows moldy. It is often kept for years,
sometimes as many as twenty. It is most
effectual when taken grated in brandy.
Nor is it only for man's ailments that Good
Friday bread is medicine; it is also con-
sidered good for some of the complaints of
animals for instance, it cures " the scours "
in calves.
Climate at Great Altitudes. The " Little
Annie gold mine," in Rio Grande County,
Colorado, is doubtless the highest gold mine
worked anywhere on the globe, its elevation
being 11,300 feet above sea-level. An in-
teresting account of the climatic conditions
lure existing is given by Professor C. E.
Koliins, in the " Kansas City Review of Sci-
ence." The geographical position of the
camp is 37 28' 18" north, and longitude
106 30' west that is to say, it is in the
latitude of Syracuse, the most southerly
city of Europe ; but, owing to the elevation,
the climate is arctic. The mean annual
temperature in 1877-78 was 26-95 Fahr.,
the maximum being 69 (July), and the
minimum 24 (November). The mean
maximum was 50"4, and the mean mini-
mum 4 58 for the twelve months. Snow
fell every month except July, 1877 ; few
nights are without frost ; the fall of snow is
about twenty-four feet per year. The dry
atmosphere is scarcely ever chilly. Even
when the temperature is as low as 10,
the air is generally still. From the middle
of November to the middle of June loco-
motion is performed on snow-shoes run-
ners of the Norwegian pattern. Absolutely
cloudless days are very common. On the
11th, 12th, and 13th of August, the sun,
moon, and several stars were visible from
10 a. m. to 2 p. m. Of a lunar rainbow,
seen on the evening of August 4th, the same
year, Professor Robins says that "it ap-
peared about 9 p. M., the moon being full ;
and it lasted fifteen minutes. The chro-
matic scale was complete in the primary,
and the secondary arc was perfectly defined
around the entire semicircle. The upper
outlines of the mountains were but faintly
discovered through the blackness of the
storm, while the valley of the North Ala-
mosa was flooded under the arch by an
inundation of intense light, brighter than
that under the most brilliant aurora, but
golden." Of parhelia there are about half
a dozen striking exhibitions every year.
Meteors are frequent, but the author has
not observed cither ])araselence, aurora bo-
realis, or mirage.
The Seeds of Disease. It is believed by
Pasteur that he has discovered the germs
which produce puerperal fever and malig-
nant pustule. The primary organism which
engenders puerperal fever he describes as
presenting itself in the form of cells united
to each other in series of two, four, or six,
and each having an average diameter of
two thousandths of a millimetre. Of the
researches which have resulted in the dem-
onstration of the germs of malignant pus-
tule we take the following account from
the "Medical and Surgical Reporter":
" M. Pasteur's researches on malignant pus-
tule have proved to him that the disease
was produced by the presence of the bac-
teridium discovered in 1860 by M. Davaine,
and this demonstration was made by the
application of the method of culture which
