POPULAR MISCELLANY
427
M. Pasteur employed in 1S5Y, and which
enables him to obtain microscopic organ-
isms in a state of purity the only means
of arriving at certain results. An infinitely
small drop of the blood from a case of ma-
lignant pustule is taken, and it is sown in
the cultivating fluid constituted by a froth
of beer-yeast; a little drop of this fluid is
taken again, and sown in a new medium of
the same kind, and so on. Thus the media
of culture may be multiplied indefinitely to
a certain extent during years by the aid of
a single droplet of blood taken originally
from the case, and one may have always a
liquid the inoculation of which in certain
animals, such as the sheep or Guinea-pig,
reproduces in those animals malignant pus-
tula?. If this fluid is filtered through a
plaster filter, nothing results from the in-
oculation of the fluid parts which have trav-
ersed the filter, but, if the figurate elements
which remain on the filter be inoculated, all
conditions of the pustular disease are pro-
duced. It is the same with the cholera of
fowls, and perhaps with puerperal septicae-
mia."
Marey on Electrical Fishes. Of a com-
munication from Professor Marey to the
Paris Academy of Sciences on electrical
fishes, a brief summary is given in the
" Revue Scientifique," from which we learn
that the author employed a telephone in
studying the nature of the electrical dis-
charge of the gymnotus, and the torpedo.
Physiologists long ago pointed out certain
analogies of innervation, chemical composi-
tion, and structure observable between mus-
cles and the electrical apparatus of these
animals. It remained to be discovered
whether these analogies also exist in the
functionment of the two organs. Marey's
experiments go to show that the electrical
and the muscular functions are in reality
homologous, and that they are destined to
explain each other. The author also inves-
tigated the question whether in those spe-
cies of fishes which give the electrical dis-
charge there is to be observed a multiplicity
of electrical discharges just as a multiplici-
ty of shocks are to be observed in muscular
action. The experiments yielded affirmative
results. They were made according to the
graphic method, as also with the aid of the
telephone, the latter instrument being spe-
cially adapted for this kind of investiga-
tion, inasmuch as it gives a sound when it
is traversed by successive currents of suffi-
cient frequency.
Variable Stars. In directing attention
to a certain remarkable star, the "Acad-
emy " relates an intei'esting passage of his-
tory connected with it. A Jesuit Professor
at Ingolstadt, Christopher Scheiner, was one
of the first observers of sun-spots, having
noticed them in March, 1611. In accord-
ance with the rule of his order, he com-
municated his discovery to Budaeus, his
superior, who, being a disciple of Aristotle,
would not accept the observation as correct,
inasmuch as no such thing was to be found
mentioned in the works of " the Philoso-
pher." When Scheiner had satisfied him-
self that he had made a true observation,
he was permitted to publish the fact, but
anonymously. Accordingly, he addressed
several letters to Welser, a wealthy Augs-
burg patrician, and a great patron of learned
men ; these were printed, and copies sent
to Galilei and other astronomers. In the
autumn of 1612 Welser published three
more letters by Scheiner, under the title
"De Maculis solaribus," etc., the second
of which, dated April 14, 1612, records ob-
servations of Jupiter and his satellites from
March 29th to April 8th, among them some
observations to which Professor Winnecke,
of Strasburg, has lately drawn attention.
In order to understand why observations
of the satellites of Jupiter were mixed up
with those of sun-spots, one must bear in
mind that at that time Scheiner still as-
sumed the spots to be merely satellites of
the sun, and thus avoided inconvenient
questions respecting the purity of the sun's
light, which the Aristotelians would not give
up. While observing Jupiter's satellites he
saw something which offered, as he fancied,
a new analogy in support of his opinion ;
for on March 30, 1612, he remarked in the
field of the telescope, besides the four sat-
ellites, a fifth star, which he had not noted
the previous night. This star decreased in ,
brightness from night to night, and had, on
April 9th, already passed the limit of visibili-
ty. Scheiner, moreover, thought he had re-
marked a small amount of motion, and he
