428
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
accordingly considered the star to be a fifth
satellite of Jupiter. The statements con-
tained in his letter agree sufficiently with
the assumption that the star was or is a
variable fixed star, and the diagrams and
descriptions indicate that the conjunction of
Jupiter and of the star occurred on April
7th. By means of the geocentric place of
Jupiter computed for the date, Winnecke
has been enabled to identify the observed
star with Lalande's 18,886, a star of the
eighth or the seventh to eighth magnitude,
which, during the last half century, seems
to have varied little in brightness. Vari-
able stars, in the sense of the term as now
used, were unknown in Schemer's time, and
his description of the rapid decrease of the
star's light carries with it some proof of its
truthfulness. The spectroscopic observa-
tion of this star, with sufficiently powerful
instruments, would be very desirable. Its
place for 1855, date of the Bonner Durch-
musterung, is right ascension 9h* 29m.
212s., and declination +15 52-1'.
Identity of Hvat and Light. In a re-
cent lecture, Mr. W. H. Preece, the English
electrician, made the following interesting
remarks on heat and light: "These two,"
he said, "are identical in character, though
different in degree ; and whenever solid mat-
ter has imparted to it motion of a very high
intensity in other words, when solid mat-
ter is raised to a very high temperature it
becomes luminous. The amount of light is
dependent on the height of this tempera-
ture ; and it is a very remarkable fact that
all solid bodies become self-luminous at the
same temperature. This was determined by
Daniell to be 980, by Wedgwood 947, by
Draper 971 ; so that we may approximate-
ly assume the temperature at which bodies
begin to show a dull light to be 1,000.
The intensity of light, however, increases in
a greater ratio than the temperature. For
instance, platinum at 2,600 emits 40 times
more light than at 1,900. Bodies when
raised to incandescence pass through all
stages of the spectrum ; as the temperature
increases, so does the refrangibility of the
rays of light. Thus, where a body is at a
temperature of 250, it may be called warm ;
at 500, hot. At 1,000, we have the red
rays ; at 1,200, the orange rays ; at 1,300,
the yellow rays ; at 1,500, the blue rays 5
at 1,700, the indigo rays ; and at 2,000,
the violet rays. So that any body raised
to a temperature above 2,000 will emit
all the rays of the sun. Inversely, the spec-
troscope may thus be enabled to tell us the
temperature of the different lights, and it is
perhaps because some lights do not exceed
1,300 that we have all the rays beyond
the yellow."
A Dorse with a Load in his Stomach.
Dr. Albin Kohn recites in " Die Natur " the
particulars of the sudden death of a horse,
caused by the presence of a stony concre-
tion in the animal's stomach. The horse
was to all appearance perfectly sound and
well one morning when carrying his master
about his estate, when suddenly he fell dead.
A veterinarian opened the carcass to ascer-
tain the cause, and found in the abdominal
cavity a stone of about eight pounds' weight,
and in the wall of the stomach a hole of cor-
responding size. The stone was submitted
to Dr. Peters, of Posen, for analysis, who first
cut it into halves. Each half of the rather
round stone called by Dr. Peters " magen-
stein," i. e., stomach-stone looked very
much like a Chester cheese. The diameter
of the cut surface was from 15 to 17i centi-
metres, and concentric rings are visible in
it. At the center its texture is radiate. Dr.
Peters supposes the animal at some time
swallowed a fragment of millstone, and that
around this nucleus numerous layers were
afterward deposited. Externally the stone
is smooth, rather hard, and of a grayish-
yellow color; its composition is: ammonio-
magnesic phosphate 87- per cent., organic
matter 6^, water 1, silicic acid 1; other
salts per cent.
"Jnniping Frenchmen." It is a very
instructive narrative which Dr. G. M. Beard
publishes of the doings of the "Jumpers"
of the woods of Maine and Canada. These
jumpers are mostly half-breed French-Cana-
dian lumberers who have acquired the per-
manent habit, which they can not control,
of jumping or striking out with their hands,
when commanded to do so by any one who
chances to lie near. The habit appears to
have been acquired, in the first instance, by
tickling one another in the winter camps
