P OP UL AR MIS CELL ANY
429
where they cut lumber. The men are ex-
tremely ignorant, and one of their pastimes
is this practice of tickling one another.
When the jumpers are excited to strike or
jump, or to perform any of their automatic
acts, they present the appearance of en-
tranced persons: their faces pale, eyes fixed
and glassy, and limbs trembling. One of
these jumpers is a waiter, and when told sud-
denly to " drop it," he at once lets fall what-
ever he may have in his hand. Another has so
susceptible a stomach that he at once throws
up his meal when anyone "gags" or makes
the motion of vomiting in his presence.
The man has grown thin, and at one time
was almost starved. One man, standing on
the bank of a pond with a five-dollar gold-
piece in his hand, was told to " throw it,"
and threw the money into the water. An-
other was standing near a kettle of fish ;
being told to "jump," he leaped into the
kettle. In these acts the jumpers are abso-
lute automatons, utterly without volition or
responsibility : they are to be compared to
persons afflicted with St. Vitus's dance, hys-
teria, or epilepsy. Performances of a some-
what similar character were, last winter,
witnessed in a town of Vermont during a
revival of religion. Here the victims of
abnormal religious excitement would roll on
the floor in most absurd and undignified at-
titudes, whence the appellation of " the holy
rollers ! "
New Process for the Protection of Iron
Surfaces. A new process for protecting
iron from rust has been invented by M.
Dode. It consists in coating, either by
means of a bath or a brush, any objects in
cast or wrought iron (freed from the damp
they may contain) with a composition of
borate of lead, oxide of copper, and spirits
of turpentine. This application soon dries
on the surface of the iron, and the objects
are then passed through a furnace, which is
heated from 500 to 700 Fahr., according
to the thickness of the articles under treat-
ment, so as to bring them -to a cherry-red
heat when passing through the center of
the furnace. At this point the fusion of
the metallic pigment takes place ; it enters
the pores of the iron, and becomes homo-
geneously adherent thereto, covering the
objects with a dark coating, which is not
liable to change under the action of the
air, gases, alkaline or other vapors, nor to
scale off from the surfaces to which it has
been applied. When any considerable
depth of " inoxidation " is desired, the ob-
ject may be immersed in the composition
for the time requisite to absorb a sufficient
quantity of it. This process supersedes
painting and varnishing, and iron objects
thus heated are impervious to rust. The
cost of application is about half a cent per
superficial square foot.
The Mance Heliograph. The Mance
heliograph, an instrument for signaling by
means of reflected solar rays, is now in
use among the British forces in South Afri-
ca. The signals made by the Mance helio-
graph are visible, under favorable condi-
tions of position and atmosphere, to very
great distances, and have been read as far
as eighty and a hundred miles. It con-
sists of a specially prepared mirror, with
mechanism for reflecting the sun's rays
with absolute precision to any required
spot, notwithstanding the sun's apparent
motion. By pressure en a finger-key the
flashes are made of short or long duration,
thus adapting the instrument to the Morse
code of telegraphy. A second mirror is
provided to permit of signaling being car-
ried on irrespective of the sun's position.
The instrument intended for field service
weighs from six to eight pounds, and is
mounted on a light tripod stand. The
working parts are protected from injury
during transit, and the complete apparatus
admits of being easily carried, as it is also
efficiently worked, by one man.
Experiments in Opium-Smoking. The
Russian traveler, Dr. Miclucho Maclay,
while recently on a visit to Hong-Kong,
experimented on the effects upon himself
of smoking opium. The experiment was
made at the Chinese Club, and was under
the direction of Dr. Clouth, who made the
following notes : Mr. Maclay was in normal
health, and had fasted eighteen hours be-
fore commencing the experiment. He had
never smoked tobacco. Twenty-seven pipes,
equivalent to 107 grains of the opium used
by the Chinese, were smoked in two and
three quarter hours at tolerably regular
