430
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
intervals. The third removed the feeling
of languor caused by his long fast, and his
pulse rose from 72 to 80. The fourth and
fifth caused slight heaviness and desire for
sleep, but there was no hesitation in giving
correct replies to questions, though he could
not guide himself about the room. After
the seventh pipe the pulse fell to 70. The
twelfth pipe was followed by singing in the
ears, and after the thirteenth he laughed
heartily, though without any cause that he
can remember. Questions asked at this
time were answered only after a pause, and
not always correctly. He had for some
time ceased to be conscious of his actions.
After the twenty-fifth pipe, questions asked
in a loud tone were not answered. After
the last pipe had been smoked, he re-
marked, " I do not hear well." Forty
minutes later there was a slight return of
conciousness, and he said : " I am quite
bewildered. May I smoke some more?
Is the man with the pipe gone already ? "
Fifteen minutes later he was able to go
home, and then retired to bed. He woke
the next morning at 3 a. m. and took a
hearty meal, after his fast of thirty-three
hours. During the next day he felt as if he
had bees in a great hollow in his head, as
well as a slight headache. The organs of
locomotion were first affected, next came
sight and hearing, but Mr. Maclay is positive
that there were no dreams, hallucinations, or
visions of any sort whatever.
Descartes on the Invention of the Tele-
scope. Concerning the invention of the
telescope, Descartes, in 1637, wrote as fol-
lows: "This invention, as illustrious as it
is useful, is, to the shame of our science,
due to chance and mere experiment. About
thirty years ago there lived in Alkmaer, in
Holland, a certain Jacob Metius, who had
never studied, though both his father and
his brother were professors of mathematics.
He found his greatest pleasure in making
burning-glasses and mirrors ; and when he
was thus once in possession of a lot of
glasses of different forms he happened to
look at the same time through two glasses,
of which the one was a little thicker in the
middle than on the edge, and the other
thinner in the middle. He afterward fixed
them in a tube, and in- that way originated
a telescope, from which all the later ones
have been made, for as far as I know no-
body as yet has sufficiently explained what
form these glasses by right ought to have.
On the 17th of October, 1608, this Jacob
Metius (otherwise Adriaanz) applied to the
States-General of the Netherlands for a re-
ward as the inventor of the instrument two
years previously. But one of his own coun-
trymen had anticipated him in this applica-
tion, for Jan Lapprey (otherwise Hans Lip-
persheim) had some days before presented
to the States a similar instrument. Thus,
then, the first auihentic publication on record
of this great invention was made when Lap-
prey delivered his telescope to the States-
General."
" This Jan Lapprey," says the author of
a paper in " The Observatory," " was born
in Wesel, and followed the trade of a spec-
tacle-maker in Middelburg. On October
2, 1608, he solicited the States for a pat-
ent for thirty years, or an annual pension
for life, for the instrument he had invent-
ed, promising them to construct such in-
struments only for the Government. After
inviting the inventor to improve the instru-
ment, and alter it so that they could look
through it with both eyes at the same time,
the States determined, on October 4th, that
from every province one deputy should be
chosen to try the apparatus and make
terms with him concerning the price. The
committee declared, on October 6th, that it
found the invention useful for the conntry,
and nine hundred florins were offered to
Lapprey for the instrument. He had at
first asked three thousand florins for three
instruments of rock-crystal. He was then
ordered to deliver the instruments within
a certain time and the patent was promised
him on condition that he kept the invention
a secret. Lapprey delivered the instrument
in due time. He had arranged it for both
eyes, and it was found satisfactory."
A Carnivorous Goose. In communicat-
ing to " Nature " an account of a goose
which had learned to eat flesh, the Duke of
Argyll remarks upon the circumstance as
being extremely curious, but at the same
time notes the fact that cows are largely
fed on fish-ofl'al in Scandinavia. This car-
nivorous goose is in the possession of Mr.
