NOTES.
43i
W. Tike, of the island of Achill, Ireland,
and was hatched in 1877 by a tame eagle.
The eagle having laid three eggs, Mr. Pike
took them away, substituting for them two
goose-eggs, upon which the eagle sat, and
in due time hatched two goslings. One of
these died, and was torn up by the eagle
to feed the survivor, who, to the great sur-
prise of its foster-parent, refused to touch
it or any other flesh-meat offered by the
eagle. In course of time, however, the
goose learned to eat flesh, and now the eagle
always calls it by a sharp bark whenever
there is any fresh meat in the cage. On
hearing the call the goose hastens to the
cage, and greedily swallows all the flesh
and offal which the eagle gives it.
The Kinsj-Vttltnre. A traveler in Co-
lombia, Andre, confirms from personal ob-
servation the popular belief in that country
that the urubu (or black vulture) dreads
the king-vulture (Sarcoramphus papa), and
slinks away when that monarch of the Cor-
dilleras makes his appearance. On one oc-
casion Andre saw the carcass of a cow
covered with urubus which were greedily
devouring it. Suddenly a black point ap-
peared in the sky overhead. One of the
urubus uttered a cry, and at once all the
heads were raised to observe the enemy,
who was coming ever nearer and nearer.
In less than a minute the urubus had fled
to a respectful distance, and the king, de-
scending like a thunderbolt into the entrails
of the carcass, began his meal with avidity.
This operation took up half an hour, the
urubus in the mean time standing around
in a wide circle. They did not return to
the carcass till after the king had risen
majestically into the upper air.
The Size of Lightning-Rods. In calcu-
lating the relative sectional areas of copper
and iron lightning-rods, certain important
factors are commonly overlooked, and thus
of necessity incorrect results are obtained.
The relation usually given, that an iron rod
should have four times the sectional area of
the copper rod, is based on the fact that
copper conducts electricity six times as
well as iron, while the melting-point of iron
is about fifty per cent, higher than that of
copper, and 6 divided by l - 5 is equal to 4.
This simple treatment, as is pointed out by
R. S. Brough, in the " Philosophical Mag-
azine," is incomplete, because it neglects
these factors : 1. The influence of the rise
of temperature in increasing the electrical
resistance of the metal ; 2. The difference
between the specific heats of the copper and
iron; 3. The fact that the iron rod being
made several times more massive than the
copper one, it will require a proportionally
greater quantity of heat to increase its
temperature. Taking these considerations
into account, Mr. Brough finds that the
sectional area of an iron rod should be to
the sectional area of a copper rod in the
ratio of 8 to 3.
NOTES.
The forty-ninth meeting of the British
Association for the Advancement of Science
will be held at Sheffield on Wednesday, Au-
gust 20, 1879, under the presidency of Pro-
fessor G. J. Allman, M. D., LL. D., F. R. S.,
L. & E. M. R. G. A., Pres. L. S. General
Secretaries, Douglas Galton, P. S. Salator ;
Assistant Secretary, J. E. H. Gordon.
The American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science will assemble this
year at Saratoga Springs, New York, on
August 27th. Excursions to various points
are contemplated, and the meeting promises
io be a successful one. Officers of the
Saratoga meeting: President, George F.
Barker; Vice-President, Section A, S. P.
Langley ; Vice-President, Section B, J. W.
Powell ; chairman of Chemistry Sub-Section,
Ira Remsen ; chairman of Microscopy Sub-
Section, Edward W. Morley.
The French Association for the Advance-
ment of Science will meet this year at Mont-
pellier, on August 28th. The officers of the
Association are: President, M. Bardoux;
Vice-President, M. Krantz ; General Secre-
tary, Count de Saporta.
We have received, but too late for men-
tion in our June number, a circular announ-
cing the second session of the Chesapeake
Zoological Laboratory of Johns Hopkins
University. The Laboratory is announced
to be opened about June 20th, at Crisfield,
on the Eastern Shore of Chesapeake Bay.
One of the barges of the Maryland Fish
Commission will be fitted up as a labora-
tory, and another barge will be used as a
dormitory. As there will be room for only
