43 2
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
ten persons, none but those who are already
acquainted with the methods of zoological
work will be accepted as members of the
party. A fee of ten dollars will be charged
for the use of the laboratory outfit, Board
will cost about five dollars per week.
Mr. J. D. Putnam, Secretary of the Dav-
enport Academy of Sciences, has presented
to the editor of the " American Naturalist "
photographs of two pipes found in a mound
situated in Muscatine County, Iowa, one of
them representing an animal like a bear,
the other an elephant. Were the mound-
builders, then, contemporary with the mam-
moth on this continent ? In Grant County,
Wisconsin, there was lately discovered an
elephant-mound that is, a mound fashioned
to represent an elephant.
Heinrich Wilhelm Dove, Professor of
Physics in the University of Berlin, and
distinguished for his researches in meteor-
ology, died at Berlin, April 5th. He was
born in 1803 at Liegnitz, Silesia ; studied at
the Universities of Breslau and Berlin, and
in 1826 took the degree of Doctor at the
latter university. In the same year he be-
came Assistant Professor of Physics at K6-
nigsberg, and a few years later at Berlin,
becoming full professor in 1845. He was
the author of several important works on
meteorology, climatology, electricity, and
polarized light. A few years ago he was
appointed director-general of all the obser-
vatories of Prussia. His work on " The
Law of Storms" was translated into French
and English.
Professor J. Lawrence Smith, of Louis-
ville, Kentucky, was elected by the Paris
Academy of Sciences, on March 31st, a Cor-
responding Member in the room of the late
Sir Charles Lyell.
The National Academy, at its meeting
in April, adopted a resolution declaring that
" provision should be made by State legis-
lation for giving instruction in the princi-
ples of the metric system in all the element-
ary schools of the country, and for making
a knowledge of the system a requisite for
admission into educational institutions of
higher grade ; also that laws ahould be en-
acted by Congress, enforcing the use in the
domestic mail service of a metric unit of
postal weight identical with that already
employed in the foreign, requiring the as-
sessment of duties upon merchandise im-
ported under metric invoices to be made in
accordance with a tariff adapted to metric
denominations of weight and measure, and
expressing the weights of all coins issued
from the mints of the United States in
grammes and milligrammes, and no long-
er in grains and fractions of grains, as at
present."
A French traveler, Charnay, who has
explored the east and west portions of the
island of Java, claims to have discovered
a close affinity between the remains of the
civilization introduced by Hindoo Buddhists
and that of ancient Mexico.
In the best schools in Holland there is
always, besides the teacher, an attendant
who sees to the personal condition of each
child upon daily entering the school. The ob-
ject of this supervision is to promote among
the children a due regard to cleanliness and
tidiness, and also, as far as possible, to pre-
vent the introduction of contagious diseases.
Mr. Francis Galton advocates the use
of experiments in teaching physical geog-
raphy. Erosion of the earth's surface by
streams, the formation of sand, gravel, and
clay deposits, the formation of deltas at the
mouths of rivers, and other phenomena of
physical geography, or physiography, he
would illustrate with the aid of a can of
water and a quantity of sand, gravel, and
clay. Most of the great features of physi-
cal geography, as glacial action, mountain
formation, etc., might be effectually taught
by like simple experiments.
It has been found, by Messrs. Exner and
Goldschmidt, that the electrical resistance
of pure water uniformly decreases as the
temperature rises ; at 99 centigrade it is
about one-third of what it is at 20. A
similar result is observed with water acidu-
lated with sulphuric acid.
Professor Asaph Hall, discoverer of
the satellites of Mars, was, on May 18th,
chosen a Corresponding Member of the
Academy of Sciences of Paris, receiving
thirty-three votes in a total of forty-seven.
Among his competitors were Schiapparelli,
Respighi, and Warren de La Bue.
Four volumes of the literary and scien-
tific remains of the late Professor W. K.
Clifford are announced for early publica-
tion, viz., a volume of mathematical papers ;
two volumes of essays and lectures ; and a
small volume containing three popular lec-
tures on " Seeing and Thinking."
In a report made by the Department of
Agriculture of the Italian Government, it is
stated that borax used instead of salt in
preserving butter imparts to the butter no
flavor whatever, while it is entirely innocu-
ous. Samples of fresh butter, in which much
of the buttermilk was purposely left, have
retained their natural fine flavor without
change for three months after having been
salted with borax.
M. Paul de Soleillet recently set out
from St. Louis, on the Senegal, with the in-
tention of reaching Algeria through the Sa-
hara.
