434 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
To go on with a bare enumeration of the organic defects handed
down from parent to child would occupy many pages. Enough has
heen said to convey some idea of the magnitude of the evil. There is
no cause of grief, of misery and suffering that will hear comparison
with it. Even that of war is a mercy compared with the torments
of disease. The seventy thousand annually slain by one disease, con-
sumption, involves an amount of suffering which no battle-field can
equal. In the latter death is usually sudden, and therefore almost
painless, while death by consumption implies months of torture by the
destruction of lung tissue inch by inch.
In an age distinguished for progress and philanthropy, that such a
gigantic evil has received scarcely any attention is worthy of remark.
In large j>art is this doubtless due to the prevailing opinion that the
development of inherited tendencies to disease is unavoidable a visi-
tation upon children for the sins of the fathers, not to be averted.
Even among medical men is there a prevailing skepticism as to the
renovation of defective blood. Yet it will be admitted by the candid
among them that this doubt is not grounded on a careful study of the
subject, but on some desultory observations, and on some remarks to
be met with here and there in medical literature. In palliation this
may be said, that as a rule physicians are far more intent in discover-
ing the best means of curing than of averting disease, well knowing
that the latter is a thankless and little honored pursuit, while the for-
mer brings large returns of gratitude and reward.
If in our forty millions of people some twenty-six million inherit
some constitutional defect, the question is of deep and wide interest
whether such imperfection can be erased, and, if so, by Avhat means.
The interests involved are : a nearer extension of life to its normal
limits, greater freedom from disease and deformity ; a diminution in
the necessity for ever-growing asylums for the helplessly imperfect
and diseased ; an increase of the ratio of able-bodied men for the de-
fense of the state in time of need ; a lessened necessity for the con-
sumption of drugs and the support of forty thousand physicians ; and
an increase and perpetuation of the blood which has been our chief
glory as a nation.
The nearer the approach to physical perfection, the less likely will
be the occurrence of derangement and disease from slight causes, such
as atmospheric vicissitudes, and the greater the chances that the ter-
mination of life will be natural, or from the harmonious, progressive,
and painless decay of the body as a whole. Death by disease through
one organ is abnormal, violent, and torturing ; there should be no weak
points in the citadel of life. Men with excellent physical organizations
do not need to be ever on the watch for the preservation of their
health. They possess that buoyancy of life which carries them safely
over all the minor influences inimical to healthy action. All that is
requh-ed of them for the preservation of such a vital excellence is, that
