REMOVAL OF INHERITED TENDENCIES. 435
unfavorable influences shall not be too intense, or suffered to act upon
them for any great length of time. On the other hand, those defec-
tively organized can not overstep the bounds of the most watchful pru-
dence without incurring suffering. Only by the most minute and accu-
rate knowledge of hygiene, and unswerving attention to its require-
ments, are they enabled to avoid pain, disease, and an untimely end.
The genius of our civilization in its physiological aspect is to make
spendthrifts of us all of our vital riches. It includes no such aim as
race improvement. True, some youthful culture of the head and heart
is supposed to reach after that object. But it does not. It looks only
to immediate success in social distinctions, or to winning in competitive
struggles, not to the more remote objects of our improvement as a
race. Indeed, the instances in which physical degeneration, by the
prevailing injudicious and highly prized head-culture, is not thereby
begun, are altogether exceptional. Compare the highly educated son
with his father, and a perceptible diminution in the grade of constitu-
tional stamina is nearly always manifest. Continue the process for a
generation or two, and a progressive deterioration will ensue until
there are only sickly boys to grow up into invalided manhood.
Very few ever think of, and yet fewer ever seek after, the accumu-
lation of vital riches. Only when brought to suffering by poverty of
this kind is the mind aroused to any interest in the subject. Prior to
the inception of disease, a thoughtless squandering of vital reserve is
what our social practices systematically encourage ; and when as a
consequence corporeal structure is inharmoniously developed, when
debility, disease, and untimely death ensue, these are not regarded as
the evidences of a fatal flaw in the existing system of civilization, but
as matters of prevision which alone concern Providence and the doc-
tors. The constitutional vigor, thus so blindly spent, renders frequent
demands upon the highest resources of the healing art urgently neces-
sary. And it must be confessed that in prolonging the life of defec-
tive blood there are displayed a skill and care never before equaled.
During the more primitive phases of civilization, those of weak and
defective blood were more liable to be swept into an untimely grave
than they are to-day. Now, all such are skillfully nursed up to the
fertile period, to the multiplication and perpetuation of their kind.
The profound study, the active sympathy, and systematic charity be-
stowed upon the wrecks of our race for their cure and preservation,
when compared with the prevailing indifference as to the means of
preventing the steady increase of such helpless unfortunates, is far
from flattering to our foresight in economy and beneficent work. Vast
infirmaries, hospitals, and asylums dot the land to shelter and cure the
ever-increasing ratio who become pitifully and hopelessly bankrupt in
vital condition ; yet there is no money, no labor, light, or system
brought to bear to hinder this downward career, but very much of all
thoughtlessly we will allow to aid in its increase and perpetuation.
