CLEWS IN NATURAL HISTORY. 25
three joints or " phalanges " (1, 2, 3) composing his third finger. These
joints are well known in ordinary life as the " pastern," " coronary,"
and " coffin bones " ; and the last bears the greatly developed nail we
call the " hoof."
Thus the horse walks upon a single finger or digit the third; and
it behooves us to ask what has become of the remaining five the high-
est number of fingers and toes found in mammals or quadrupeds ? We
find that, with the exception of other two the second and fourth fingers
the horse's digits have completely disappeared. The second and fourth
fingers have left mere traces, it is true, but it is exactly these rudimen-
tary fingers which serve as the chief clews to the whole history of the
equine race. On each side of the single palm-bone of the horse's great
finger, we see two thin strips of bone (one of which is represented at
m 2 Fig. 10), which veterinary surgeons familiarly term " splint-bones."
(See also Fig. 12 A, d). But these "splints" bear no finger-bones, and
the condition of the horse's "hand" or fore-foot is therefore seen to
be of most noteworthy and curious conformation. It may, indeed, some-
times happen that the small pieces of gristle or cartilage may be found
at the base of the splint-bones, and comparative anatomists incline to
regard these gristly pieces as the representatives of the first and fifth
fingers. But the ordinary condition of the horse's hand may be summed
up by saying that the animal walks on one well-developed finger the
third and possesses the rudiments, in the form of the "splint-bones,"
of other two fingers, the second and fourth. These latter, it need hardly
be added, are completely concealed beneath the skin and other tissues
of the limb. In the hind-limb of the horse (Fig. 11), a similar modifi-
cation is observed. The thigh-bone {fe) and knee-cap (p) are readily
observed. There is but one toe the third ( l , 2 , 3 ) supported by a
single cannon-bone [nit 1 ) ; and there are likewise two splint-bones (one
depicted at m 2 ), representing the rudiments of the second and fourth
toes. The horse's heel, like his wrist, appears out of place, and is popu-
larly named his " hock." The shin-bone (t) is the chief bone of the leg,
and has united to it the other bone (ft) succeeding the thigh, named
the fibula, and which is seen in man's leg, and in that of quadrupeds at
large.
To the eyes even of an unscientific observer, who sees the skeleton
of a horse placed in a museum, in contrast with the bony frames of
other and nearly related animals, the equine type is admittedly a very
peculiar and much modified one. In place of five toes, we find but
one ; and in the matter of its teeth, as well as in other features of its
frame, the horse may be said to present us with an animal form which
appears as a literal example of Salanio's remark that
Nature hath framed strange fellows in her time.
A person of a thoroughly skeptical turn of mind might possibly de-
mand to know the exact reasons for the assumption that the splint-
