43 8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Their presence implies an unceasing and more or less violent struggle
between the tendency to an untimely death and the natural term of life.
The prolonged existence of such variations, especially when they affect
the more important organs, is scarcely possible ; progressing in acute
attacks, or through descent, either toward reversion or toward lineage
extinction. Indeed, if abnormities were in their nature as permanent
and compatible with the life of the blood as normalities, they would
cease to be such, and all distinctions between them would vanish.
Some deviations, however, from ordinary development, such as poly-
dactylism, can not be considered morbid, and are in no way incompat-
ible with the continuance of life.
Organic variability is mainly, if not entirely, an effect of changes
in condition. The increased use or disuse of any part, a change from
one climate to another, and of the quantity or quality of food, have
long been noticed to be specially influential. The various species of
domesticated plants and animals are far more variable than the same
when wild, a difference readily accounted for by the fact that the lat-
ter are far less migrant ; their nutriment and the culture of parts un-
dergo little if any change in great lapses of time. Some variations,
like that of the loss of wool which our sheep undergo when ]naced
within the tropics, are apparently grounded upon adaptation to rela-
tion, others upon adaptation to use, and others are dependent on me-
thodical selection.
One and all of these diverging tendencies are opposed by a single
conservative principle, that of reversion. The tendency of animals
long domesticated when they become feral to revert to the pristine
type might also be supposed to arise from adaptation to relation. But
the tendency is often seen when there has been no apparent change in
the conditions, as in the many and familiar instances of atavism ; and
more decisively, by the crossing of species. The experiment of the
Earl of Powis is one example of the many which evince the marked
tendency to reversion through the crossing of blood. He had some
domesticated hump-backed cattle crossed by the wild species from In-
dia, with the result, not of producing a medium grade of characteris-
tics, but of a marked reversion to the ancient.* Here, adaptation to
relation can not be regarded as effective ; only through the indelibility
of types by prolonged transmission is such a prepotency explicable.
The principle of reversion is the touchstone of the fitness for sur-
vival of blood variations normal in character. If they withstand for
indefinite generations the tendency to be supplanted by older and more
deeply fixed characters, their fitness is proved, and at the same time
they acquire prepotency for strong maintenance against fresh devia-
tions. The principle is therefore eminently conservative, and not a
mere blind tendency of the organic processes. Unlike the coarse and
obtrusive struggle for existence between independent organisms, it is
* "Animals and Plants under Domestication," vol. ii., p. 19.
