REMOVAL OF INHERITED TENDENCIES. 439
a molecular contest of refined organic principles, not visible or audible
in its details, but in general scope and outcome as manifest and benefi-
cent in its operation as its more familiar congener.
Though the conservative influence of reversion is quite apparent in
variations of a normal kind, it is far more so in those that are morbid
or abnormal. Here the struggle between the variation and the ten-
dency to the maintenance of durable types is usually so sudden, vio-
lent, and quickly decisive, that it is vividly realized. Upon the ten-
dency of deranged actions to revert into the old channels of health
does the therapeutist ground all hopes of his ability to assist in the
process. When that is manifestly impotent, no means he can bring to
bear will arrest the speedy termination of life. Cullen attributed the
tendency in disease to reversion or recovery for they are identical
to a vis medicatrix natures. The conception is little more than a
barren ideality, and does not accord with the fundamental truth that
of causes we can know nothing only of the relations of phenomena
to each other. The vis medicatrix natural has not been shown to
have any antecedent ; it is simply a name for a supposed entity, appar-
ently latent until disease appears. According to the views here ad-
duced, it is resolvable into the general principle manifest in all kinds
of organic life : the strong tendency to the maintenance of characters
which a great lapse of time has proved are the most fit. If this gen-
eralization be truly grounded, it adds another to some more notable
in which modes of action once considered as produced by independent
forces were really transmutations of one.
The frequency with which the principle of reversion gains the
mastery in attacks of acute disease is one of the most striking phases
of vital action. Form and function are seen to revert to their old
types and channels of action as if they had never nearly perished.
The struggle against abnormal variations is violent, continuous, but
not prolonged. Either the abnormity or reversion quickly gains the
mastery ; in the former case the end is dissolution, in the latter health.
In some instances the morbid variation is slow, insidious, or mild in
nature ; the struggle is then less conspicuous, ' more prolonged, but
never suspended. When the abnormal variation gains the mastery, it
does not survive or establish its fitness by indefinite perpetuation, and
so acquire the prepotency of reversion. Untimely death is the signal
and sequel of its mastery, and until this or reversion gains supremacy
no peace or continued harmony of action is possible. True, blood
affected by a morbid variation chronic in its nature often displays
sluggish and varying fortunes in its struggle with reversion for mas-
tery ; favoring conditions now giving reversion the ascendancy, then
unfavorable conditions impart a renewed energy to the unhealthy ten-
dency. Yet a marked lineage struggle for survival is rarely very ex-
tendedthe compass of a single life's observation not unfrequently
witnessing its close.
