44o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Morbid variations of structure and function present three leading
phases of action, the acute, chronic, and diathetic. The primary causes
of each are the same, a faulty personal hygiene and an unfavorable
environment, but a derivative cause very generally predominates in
the heritage of a defect or taint in the blood. In acute variations the
struggle between the tendency to death and the tendency to reversion
is usually short and severe, but decisive. The contending forces are
often so nearly equal that a very little will turn the scale one way or
the other. Chronic variations only differ from acute in this, that they
are milder, or are more tolerable to the vital autonomy. The same
inherent principle struggles in each for the restoration of health, al-
though the process is not so impressively realized in the chronic as in
the acute form, by a rapid and well-defined course. What dissimilar-
ity there is in the two series of actions is wholly one of time and de-
gree, not of nature, the struggle between the tendency to health and
the tendency to disease presenting almost every conceivable phase of
activity, and lasting from a day to months or even years.
As no one can say precisely when acute diseases end and chronic
begin, the distinction being arbitrary and accepted for convenience,
no more can any one say exactly when a slow disease is changed into
a diathesis. In fact, there are no sound reasons in support of the
opinion that such a change ever sharply occurs ; but there are in sup-
port of this, that a slow disorder is often gradually toned down until
it merges into a diathesis, when it is then known as a predisposition.
During the gradual disappearance of a slow disease one of untutored
and gross perceptions may decide recovery to be complete, while the
acute adept may be able to discern the manifestations of the disorder
subsequently for months. Indeed, there is scarcely any room for
doubt that, if our senses were far more acute, a diathesis or tendency
to some special disease would be disclosed in definite signs of imper-
fection, or of disorder. A diathesis is often seen gradually merging
into development, and development into a diathesis, and the frequency
with which this is seen to recur in the same person gives tone to the
conclusion that the letter state is only a very mild or occult phase of
the former. Any ordinary observer, with a predisposition to some dis-
order, is aware that very slight exciting causes usually serve sufficiently
to increase the imperceptible imperfection as to bring it within the
cognizance of the senses. But there is yet more indubitable evidence
that a series of morbid changes may be going on in the body of which
no cognizance can be taken. During the incubative stages of scarlet
fever, measles, small-pox, and syphilis, the contagium of each has a
definite period of maturative action before the signs of disease are in
any way apparent. When a wave of cold air sweeps over a continent
it develops in one a pneumonia, in another a rheumatism, in another a
fever or an attack of neuralgia, upon the great majority no bad effects-
whatever. Can it be doubted that some definite imperfection which
