REMOVAL OF INHERITED TENDENCIES. 443
only made obvious now and then before development by some mild
aggravating cause, such as, when toward dyspepsia, by slight sensa-
tions of discomfort after hearty meals ; when toward tuberculosis, by
frequent signs of catarrh after ordinary weather-changes.
Not so much by plain evidences to the senses as by mental analysis
can the reality of a struggle between a diathesis and reversion to the
normal type be apprehended. Yet it is only the vis medicatrix
naturae of medical writers carried from the very obvious in acute dis-
ease to the less perceptible in chronic, and to the imperceptible in the
diathetic. Although the opinion is very generally entertained that
those who inherit a diathesis should be careful as to their mode of
life, what effect there is on practice is commonly more injurious than
beneficial. This arises from the lack of expert supervision, and the
sway of some popular traditions as shallow as they are unsound.
More frequently does their observance act as aids instead of hindrances
to the development of an inherited dyscrasia. Then the observance
of the true conditions which favor reversion in an inherited diathesis
require no little judgment, self-denial, patience, and intelligence. In
acute disease the physician and nurse see that the conditions of re-
version are duly observed. Reputation, love, and alarm are all brought
to bear for their enforcement. In a diathesis none of these are evoked
until the development of all its signs renders the fact apparent that the
fatal work has reached its culminating stage. The diathetic subject
while in good health is himself indifferent and incredulous as to his
danger. For the young to be always as careful of their health as an
invalid, in other words, not to live and do as the careless multitude,
presupposes unusual self-denial and discretion. Obstacles like these
not only thwart the principle of reversion, but contrariwise strengthen
and evolve abnormal variations.
Advantage being carefully taken of reversion in acute disease, less
so in chronic, and scarcely at all in diathetic, that the eradication of
unfortunate inheritances should have received so little credence is the
natural outcome of the prevailing ignorance or neglect of the condi-
tions. It is well, however, to bear in mind that this prevailing belief
is simply and wholly the result of antecedents as they are and have
been, not as they might and should be.
The instances in which the operation of the law of reversion has
had anything like an unimpeded sway are far more commonly casual
than designed. Circumstances render a change of environment and
habits of life necessary or desirable, and these may happen to include
its favoring conditions, or they may not. Those who recover from the
tendency to an abnormal inheritance through intelligent design ought
to be found, if anywhere, in the ranks of the medical profession, and
especially among those of them who have given the science of health
no little attention. A work assigned me by the American Medical
Association brought some statements under my eye which confirm this
