444 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
inference in the most unmistakable manner. I select a few examples
in reference to the tuberculous diathesis, at once the most prevalent,
the most liable to be transmitted, and, according to the prevailing
opinion, the least amenable to preventive measures.
A quite old and widely known physician makes this statement :
" My father and mother were cousins. Father had haemoptysis at
twenty-eight, and was supposed dying of consumption, but recovered,
and died in his sixty-seventh year of cancer of the stomach. He had
cicatrices in his lungs. Mother died of phthisis late in life, having
given birth to six children. These are all alive. No consumption in
any of them, nor in twenty-seven grandchildren and fourteen great-
grandchildren."
Another highly reputable physician writes : " On maternal side
evident tendency to tuberculosis. My only brother I had no sister
died of phthisis, aged twenty-six. I had haemoptysis, with cough,
repeatedly, between the ages of twenty-two and thirty-five. Wife
healthy, and gave birth to five children ages between thirty and forty-
eight. None of them, nor eight grandchildren, have exhibited any
signs of pulmonary consumption."
Another writes : " Consumption on father's side, having lost one
if not two sisters by the disease. Mother died of it in her forty-third
year. Six children were born to them all alive and healthy, the
youngest past his fiftieth year. They are all free from any signs of
tuberculosis, as are also thirty-one grandchildren and eleven great-
grandchildren."
Yet another writes : " Father died of paralysis, mother of con-
sumption ; also one of her brothers. Grandmother also died of what
is presumed to have been the same disease. Of seven children, vary-
ing from forty to sixty, none have shown any pulmonary disease."
These statements are made by physicians well known for their
interest in sanitary science. Through their knowledge and influence,
they and their kin have been able to take a wise advantage of the
power of reversion. As there are hundreds of thousands throughout
the land who have this fearful taint in their blood, a knowledge of the
true conditions for its renovation becomes of great importance. It is
not within the scope of this paper to enter upon details, but this much
may be said, that intelligent and unwavering hygienic observances all
through life, but especially from birth to adolescence, constitute the
cardinal requisites. Not the hygiene, however, taught in almanacs, in
gossipy newspapers, or by itinerant sensational lecturers, but by the
most accomplished scientists. A thorough mastery of its principles
and details, so as to secure a correct application of them at the va-
rious periods, emergencies, and contingencies of life, is absolutely neces-
sary. In short, those with an unfortunate inheritance like those
suffering from an attack of disease need the knowledge of an expert to
enable them to take a wise and full advantage of the principle of re-
