THE STORY OF THE NOVEMBER METEORS. 445
version. If this be attained, and applied vigilantly and continuously,
there is, I have no doubt, far more probability of recovery from an
unfortunate inheritance than from an attack of ordinary disease. The
chief peril in the latter condition lies in the severity of the struggle,
the ground of safety in the former in its mild prolongation, whereby
the law of reversion can have unimpeded opportunity through the
long and steadfast application of favoring conditions to restore the
body to its pristine vigor. The thought may occur that not many
have the requisites alleged to be needful for the restoration of defec-
tive blood. Yet even this has an outcome not to be deplored,. High
intelligence, and a will subordinate to it, will survive ; while feeble
minds and groveling instincts will carry the blood on to overt disease,
to untimely death, and to extinction.
THE STOKY OF THE NOVEMBER METEORS.*
By G. JOHNSTONE STONEY, F. K. S.
WHEN observers band together to watch every quarter of the
sky, and to keep on the lookout through the whole night, the
number of meteors that present themselves is very great. In this way
it has been ascertained that upward of thirty on the average, which
are conspicuous enough to be seen without instruments, come within
the view of the observers stationed at one locality. And it is com-
puted that telescopic meteors must be about forty or fifty times as
numerous as those visible to the naked eye.
These results may be obtained from observations made at one
station ; but when concerted observations are carried on at different
stations several other facts of interest come to light. By simultaneous
observations at distant stations, it has been discovered that the height
of meteors above the surface of the earth usually ranges from one
hundred and twenty down to twenty miles, the average height being
about sixty miles ; that the direction of their flight is toward the earth,
either in a vertical or in a sloping direction ; and that their speed in
most cases lies between thirty and fifty miles a second.
We thus arrive at the conclusion that visible meteors are phenomena
of our own atmosphere ; and as the atmosphere reaches a height, at
most, of one hundred and fifty miles, and is, therefore, but a thin film
over so vast a globe as the earth, it is obvious that the spectators at
any one place can see only a very small portion of the meteors which
dart about through all parts of this envelope. After making allow-
ance for this, we are forced to conclude that no fewer than 300,000,000
* Lecture before the Royal Institution, February 14, 18*79.
