446 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of these bodies pass daily into the earth's atmosphere, of which about
seven millions and a half are large enough to be seen with the naked
eye on a clear night, and in the absence of the moon.
From the direction and swiftness of their flight, it is manifest that
meteors are visitors from without. They plunge into our atmosphere,
and the resistance to which they become then suddenly exposed must
raise them to a temperature which exeeds that of the most intense
furnace. The heat is enough first to melt and then to dissipate in
vapor the most refractory substances, and it only now and then hap-
pens that even a part of a meteor escapes this fate, and reaches the
ground. They are for the most part lost in vapor ere they get within
several miles of us. The difficulty, indeed, is not to account for their
incandescence, but to see why they do not emit a greater flood of
light where the heat must be so intense. And, in fact, they can not
be other than very small bodies, or they would be much brighter.
The average weight of those visible to the unassisted eye appears to be
under an ounce, and the telescopic ones, of course, are much lighter.
Meteors may be distributed into two very obvious classes casual
meteors, which dart irregularly through the sky, and meteoric showers,
which stream into our atmosphere in one definite direction, and at
stated intervals of time. We are concerned at present with the me-
teoric showers. Many such are known to exist, of which the principal
are the August shower, through which the earth passes every year
upon the 9th, 10th, and 11th of August, and the great November
shower, which is discharged upon the earth three times in a century.
The November meteors are those about which most is known, and it
was of these, therefore, that the lecture chiefly treated.
To make their history intelligible, it is necessary to explore, in
some degree, the regions from which they come. For this purpose
your attention is called to this great diagram, every hundredth of an
inch upon which represents a distance in nature equal to the interval
between the earth and the moon.* The distance from the earth to
the sun on this diagram is a decimetre, that is, four inches'; and, on
the same scale, the nearest fixed star would have to be placed at a
distance of twenty kilometres, or upward of twelve miles.
In these vast celestial spaces, there are no rails over the rough-
nesses of which the train must be made to rattle, if it is to move at all ;
there are no wheels to be worn out ; there is no air in which a wind
must be produced, or through which noise will be propagated. The
music of the spheres is not a sound audible to the ear, and an impedi-
ment to motion : it is harmless, it is altogether good, it is the pleasure
of the human mind when it understands the great works of nature.
There is no thundering along through the heavens. All is silence and
peace round the planets as they swiftly glide. Bodies which sweep
* The scale of the diagram exhibited was rather more than forty times the scale of
the accompanying woodcut.
