448 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
But if it escapes the earth, and continue its course along its orbit, it
loses speed for the next sixteen years, until it passes the farthest part
of its orbit at its slowest pace, which is about a mile and a third per
second. In each revolution its velocity oscillates between these ex-
tremes. Its orbit is so vast that it takes thirty-three years and a quar-
ter to get round it.
Such is a good picture of the course pursued by each member of
the great November swarm. There are countless myriads of meteors
in this mighty group, each one moving independently of the rest, each
one fulfilling its own destiny. Tbey form, together, an enormous
stream of meteors, the dense part of which appears to be about 100,000
miles in width, and of immense length. The orbit along which they
travel was represented on the diagram by an ellipse of 207 centimetres,
or close upon seven feet, long i. e., by an oval about as long and
broad as the hall-door of a house ; and the length, breadth, position,
and motion of the swarm in 1865, before it reached the earth, would
be represented on the same scale by a thread of the finest sewing-silk,
about a foot and a half or two feet long, creeping inward along the
orbit, the rear of the column having been between the orbits of Jupiter
and Saturn, and the front of it nearly as far in as the earth's orbit.
The actual train which is thus represented was so amazingly long that
even moving at the rate of twenty-seven miles a second, it took upward
of two years to pass the point where its path crosses the earth's orbit.
The earth passes this point on the morning of the 14th of November in
every year. The head of the dense part of the stream seems to have
reached the same point early in the year 1866. The earth was then in
a distant part of its orbit, but on the following 14th of November we
came round to the place where the great stream of meteors was pour-
ing across our path. The earth then passed through the swarm, just
as you might imagine a speck, too small to be seen by the eye, to be
carried on the point of a fine needle in a sloping direction through the
thread which represents the meteors. The earth took about five hours
to pass through the stream ; and it was Europe, Asia, and Africa,
which happened at the time to be moving forward. Accordingly, it
was upon this side of the earth, on that occasion, that the meteors
were poured, and they produced the gorgeous display in our atmos-
phere which many here must remember. In 1867, when we came
round again to the same place, the stream of meteors was still there,
America, this time, chanced to be the part of the globe which was
turned in the right position to receive the shower. In 1868 the mighty
swarm had not passed, and in subsequent years, when we came round
to the proper place, we still found ourselves among outlying stragglers
of the great procession.
In 1799 Humboldt was traveling in South America, and on the
morning of the 12th of November in that year the November shower
was poured out over the New World. Humboldt's description of this
