2 6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
bones of the horse are in reality the rudiments of the fingers we have
represented them to be, and might further demand proof positive of
their nature. Fortunately, geology and the science of fossils together
come to our aid, with as brilliant a demonstration of the steps and
stages of the degradation of the horse's fingers as the most sanguine
evolutionist could hope to see. From Mother Earth, whose kindly
shelter has sufficed to preserve for us the remains of so many of. the
forms of the past, we obtain the means for constructing a genealogical
tree of the equine race, by methods of certain kind, and through the
exhibition of fossils, each bearing an impress of its history, which, to
use Cuvier's expression, " is a surer mark than all those of Zadig."
Our theoretical journey backward into the ages begins with the
Recent or last-formed deposits those which lie nearest the outer sur-
face of our earth. The Recent or Quaternary period forms a division
of the Tertiary period, that is, the latest of the three great epochs into
which, for purposes of classifying fossil forms by their relative ages,
the geologist divides the rock-formations. The Tertiary rocks, com-
mencing the list, with the last-formed or uppermost strata, begin with
the Quaternary or Recent deposits ; next in order succeed the older
Pliocene rocks ; then come the Miocene formations, and lastly succeed
the Eocene rocks. These last are the oldest of the Tertiary period,
and lie in natural order upon the Cretaceous or Chalk Rocks, which
themselves belong to an entirely different and anterior (Mesozoic)
period in the history of our globe. The first fossil that is, the last-
deceased horses we meet with are found in the Quaternary and Plio-
cene, or the last-formed deposits of the Tertiary system. Between
these earlier Pliocene horses and our own Equidae there are no material
differences ; and the limbs of these forms may therefore be diagramma-
tized as depicted in Fig. 12, AA 1 ; the cannon-bone in all of these
figures being marked a ; the splint-bones dd ; the "pastern" and
"coronary" bone b, e, and the "coffin-bone"/.
But near the beginning; of the Pliocene formations of the Old
World, and in the oldest of the Miocene rocks which lie below them,
we find a member of the horse famity which differs in certain important
respects from the horses of the Recent period, and from those of to-day.
The fossil horses alluded to are found not merely in Europe, but in the
Sewalik Hills in India, and they must therefore have possessed a very
wide range of distribution. When first discovered, M. de Christol called
this species of horse Hipparion, a name which has been still retained
for it, amid that constant alteration in zoological nomenclature which
is the labor of the foolish and the sadness of the wise among us. What
are the chief peculiarities of Hipparion ? Briefly stated, in the larger
development of the "splint-bones" (Fig. 12, CC), which, according
to Owen, must have " dangled by the side of the large and functional
hooi (or third toe) like the pair of spurious hoofs behind those forming
the cloven foot in the ox." This conformation, continues Owen, " would
