THE STORY OF THE NOVEMBER METEORS. 449
shower seems first to have fixed the attention of scientific men upon
the subject. But he contributed still more to the advance of our
knowledge by the success with which he insisted that nearly all such
phenomena are periodic, and that therefore there is reason to hope
that the causes of them are discoverable. Shortly after, the periodic
character of the August meteors was established ; and when the next
return of the November meteors to the earth took place, when there
was a magnificent display of them exhibited to Europe in 1832, and a
still more impressive spectacle seen in America in the following year,
the attention of scientific men was thoroughly aroused.
In England meteors began to be systematically observed, and in
this way all that knowledge about them has been acquired which was
referred to in the beginning of the lecture. In France the records of
antiquity and the annals of distant nations were ransacked ; and by
this most useful antiquarian search, no less than ten visits of the No-
vember swarm, previous to the shower observed by Humboldt in 1799,
have been brought to light. But the first great step toward gaining a
knowledge of their orbit was made by Professor H. Newton, of New
Haven, in America, who published in 1864 two memoirs, in which he
discussed all the accounts that had been collected, extending back to
the year a. d. 902. He found, by comparing the dates of the old ob-
servations with the modern ones, that the phenomenon is one which
recurs three times in a century, or, more exactly, that the middle of the
swarm crosses the earth's path at intervals of thirty-three and a quar-
ter years. He further showed that meteors which thus visit the earth
three times in a century must be moving in one or other of five orbits
which he described ; and that therefore, if means could be found for
deciding between these five orbits, the problem would be solved. The
five possible orbits are the great oval orbit which we now know the
meteors actually do traverse every thirty-three and a quarter years ; a
nearly circulat orbit, very little larger than the earth's orbit, which
they would move round in a few days more than a year ; another
similar orbit in which their periodic time would be a few days short
of a year ; and two other small oval orbits lying within the earth's
orbit. But we owe even more to Professor Newton. He also pointed
out how it was possible to ascertain which of these orbits is the true
one, although the test he indicated was one so difficult of application
that there was at the time little hope that any astronomer would at-
tempt it. Fortunately, our own Professor Adams, of Cambridge, was
found able to grapple with the difficulties of the problem, and willing
to encounter its immense labor, and to him we owe the completion of
this great discovery.
A comparison of the dates of the successive showers which have
been recorded shows that the point where the path of the meteors
crosses the earth's orbit is not fixed, but that every time the meteors
come round they strike the earth's orbit at a point which is twenty-
TOL. xv. 29
