450 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
nine minutes (i. e., nearly half a degree) farther on in the direction in
which the earth is traveling. In other words, the meteors do not de-
scribe exactly the same orbit over and over again : their path in one
revolution is not exactly the same as their path in the next revolution,
although very close to it. Thus, their path in a. d. 126 was that
which is represented by the strong oval line in the diagram, but, in the
seventeen centuries which had since elapsed, it has gradually shifted
round into the position represented by the dotted ellipse. This kind
of motion is well known to astronomei's, and its cause is well known.
It would not happen if the sun were the only body attracting the
meteors, but arises because the planets also draw them in other direc-
tions ; and although the attraction of the planets is very weak com-
pared with the immense power of the sun, still they are able to drag
th meteors a little out of their course round the sun, and in this way
occasion that shifting round of the orbit of which we are speaking.
Now, in the case of meteors which are really traveling in the large
orbit, this shifting of the orbit must be due to the attraction of the
planets Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and the Earth, while, if they had
traveled in any of the four smaller orbits, the planets that woidd be
near enough and large enough to act sensibly upon them would be the
Earth, Venus, and Jupiter. Accordingly, if any one could be found
able to calculate how much effect would be produced in each of the
five cases, the calculated amount of shifting of the orbit could be
compared with the observed amount, which is 29' in thirty-three and a
quarter years, and this would at once tell which of the five possible
orbits is the true one.
These papers of Professor Newton's were published in 1864. Be-
fore the computations which he had indicated could be attempted, it
was necessary that the direction in which the meteors enter the earth's
atmosphere should be known much more accurately than it then was,
in order to enable astronomers to compute the exact forms and posi-
tions of the five possible orbits. This observation, then, was of the
greatest importance in 1866, and it was on this account that all the
astronomers on that occasion devoted nearly all their efforts to deter-
mining with the utmost precision the exact point of the constellation
Leo from which the meteors seemed to radiate. This important direc-
tion was ascertained during the great meteoric shower on the morn-
ing of the 14th of November, 1866, and immediately after Professor
Adams and his two assistants in the Cambridge Observatory set to
work at their arduous task. This great calculation required the solu-
tion of a problem in mechanics which had never before been at-
tempted, and involved an immense amount of tedious labor. Amid
all these difficulties Professor Adams triumphed ; and after months of
toil he was able to announce in the following March that, if the meteors
are moving in the large orbit, Jupiter would produce a shifting of the
orbit in each revolution amounting to 20', the attraction of Saturn
