THE STORY OF THE NOVEMBER METEORS. 453
in possession of this link if our ancestors had made sufficiently full
observations ; and our posterity will have it when they compare the
observations they can make with those which we are now carefully
placing on record for their use. They will then know whether the
rate at which the stream is lengthening out is such as to indicate that
a. d. 126 was the year in which this process began. If so, Le Ver-
rier's hypothesis will be fully proved.
Another episode in the eventful history of these meteors is also
known with considerable probability. It has been already mentioned
that a comet is traveling along the same path as the meteors. It is
moving a very little slower than they, and is at present just at the
head of the procession which they make through space. Another
comet is similarly moving in the track of the great elliptic ring of
August meteors. In 1867 the lecturer ventured to suggest an im-
portant function which these comets seem to have discharged. Picture
to yourselves a mass of gas before it became connected with the solar
system, traveling through space at a distance from the sun or any
other star. Meteors would now and then pass in various directions,
and with various velocities, through its substance. For the most part
they would go entirely through and pass out again ; but in every such
case the meteor would leave the comet with less velocity than it had
when approaching it. And in some cases this reduced velocity would
be such that the future path of the meteor would be an ellipse round
the comet. Whenever this was once brought to pass, the meteor
would inevitably return again and again to the comet, each time pass-
ing through some part of its substance, and at every passage losing
speed. After each loss of speed the ellipse it would next proceed to
describe would be smaller than the one before, until at last the meteor
would sink entirely into the gas and be ingulfed by it. In this way
meteor after meteor would settle down through the comet, and, in the
end, just such a cluster would be formed as came across the planet
Uranus in the year 126, or, if such a cluster existed originally within
the mass of gas, it would in this way be augmented. As the comet
swept past the planet, its outlying parts would seem to have grazed
his surface, and in this way the gas was probably somewhat more re-
tarded than the meteors ; and in the centuries which have since elapsed
the meteors have gone so much ahead of the comet that they are now
treading on his heels and on the point of overtaking him, while prob-
ably the gas has again brought together a smaller cluster of the
meteors.
The question now arises, How the deserts of space which extend
from star to star come to be tenanted here and there by a patch of
gas or an occasional meteorite ? Light has been thrown on this in-
quiry by discoveries made with the spectroscope in modern times and
by observations during eclipses. These have revealed to us the fact
that violent outbursts occur upon the sun, and doubtless on other
