454 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
stars, so swift that the up-rush must sometimes carry matter clear
away into outer space. Imagine such a mass consisting in part of
fixed gas and in part of condensable vapors ejected from some star.
As it travels forward the vapors cool into meteorites, while the fixed
gas spreads abroad like a great net, to entangle other meteors. In
some cases both might travel together ; in others the gaseous portion
would be retarded before it passed beyond the neighborhood of the
star, and the denser meteors would get ahead. But even so in the
lapse of ages other meteors would be caught, so that in any event a
cluster would at length be formed. Now, the reasonable suspicion
that this is the real origin of meteors has received striking confirma-
tion from the discovery of the late Professor Graham, that meteoric
iron contains so much hydrogen occluded within it as indicates that
the iron had cooled from a high temperature in a dense atmosphere of
hydrogen precisely the conditions under which the vapor of iron
would cool down while escaping from a large class of stars, including
our sun.
We have now traced an outline of the marvelous history of these
Arabs of the sky. We have met with outbursts upon stars sometimes
of sufficient violence to shoot off part of their substance. We have
found the gaseous portion sweeping through space like a net, and the
vapors that accompanied it condensed into spatters that have consoli-
dated into meteorites. We have seen this system traveling through
boundless space, with nothing near it except an occasional solitary
meteor, and we have seen it in the long lapse of ages slowly augment-
ing its cluster of these little strangers. As it wandered on it passed
within the far-spreading reach of the sun's attraction, and pei'haps has
since been millions of years in descending toward him. Its natural
course would have been to have glided round him in a curve, and to
have then withdrawn to the same vast abyss from which it had come ;
but, in attempting this, it became entangled with one of the planets,
which dragged it out of its course and then flung it aside. Immedi-
ately, it entered upon the new course assigned to it, which it has been
pursuing ever since. After passing the planet the different members
of the group found themselves in paths very close to one another, but
not absolutely the same. These orbits differed from one another very
slightly in all respects, and among others in the time which a body
takes to travel round them. Those meteors which got round soonest
found themselves, after the first revolution, at the head of the group ;
those which moved slowest fell into the rear, and the comet was the
last of all. Each succeeding revolution lengthened out the column,
and the comet soon separated from the rest. Fifty-two revolutions
have now taken place, and the little cloud has crept out into an
extended stream, stretching a long way round the orbit, while the
comet has fallen the greater part of a revolution behind. We can
look forward too, and see that in seventeen centuries more the train
