THE RE-EDUCATION OF THE ADULT BRAIN. 455
will have doubled its length, and that ultimately it will form a com-
plete ring round the whole orbit. When this takes place, a shower of
these meteors will fall every year upon the earth, but the swarm will
be then so scattered that the display will be far less imposing than it
now is.
Such is the history of one of the many meteoric streams which
cross the path of the earth. There are several of these streams, and
no doubt the story of every one of them is quite as strange. And if
there are several streams of meteors, which come across that little line
in space which constitutes the earth's orbit, what untold multitudes
of them must be within the whole length and breadth of the solar
system ! Perhaps it may even turn out that the mysterious zodiacal
light which attends the sun is due to countless hordes of these little
bodies flying in all directions through the space that lies within the
earth's orbit.
THE RE-EDUCATION OF THE ADULT BRAIN.
By WILLIAM SHAEPEY, M. D., LL. D., F. E. S.,
EMERITUS PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON.
MRS. H , the subject of the following case, is about twenty-
four years of age,* of a pale complexion and slender make.
She was married in July, 1823, and, with the exception of occasional
headaches to which she, in common with some of the rest of her family,
was subject, and slight bowel complaints, she previously to that time
enjoyed good health, both of body and mind. After her marriage she
resided in England till the end of April, 1824, when, in consequence of
ill health, she was brought here by her husband, on a visit to her friends
who live in this neighborhood,! and with whom she had passed a great
part of her previous life. From her husband's account, it appeared
that for about three months after their marriage she enjoyed perfect
health and spirits, but that after that time she complained a good deal
of pain in her stomach and bowels ; her appetite was bad, she began
to lose spirits, imagining herself unequal to the concerns of the house,
though her family consisted only of herself and her husband ; and
now also it was observed that she slept more than usual. The medi-
cal gentlemen consulted, believing some of her complaints might be
owing to an affection of the liver, administered mercury in small quan-
tities and applied leeches to the temples in considerable numbers, with
a view to relieve an uneasy feeling of lightness which she complained
of in her head ; but these remedies proved of little or no avail, and
for some time before leaving England, excepting a laxative which she
* This was written in 1824. f Arbroath, Forfarshire.
