THE RE-EDUCATION OF THE ADULT BRAIN. 457
any means that could be thought of ; and from that time forth, except-
ing a few short intervals, she remained in a state of constant sleep till
the beginning of August. Her condition was now singular enough.
She still made an attempt to get out of bed when she required to go
to stool ; when food was presented to her lips with a spoon, she readily
took it into her mouth and swallowed it, and in this way she was fed
as long as the torpor continued ; when she had taken what appeared a
sufficiency, she closed her teeth as a sign she was satisfied, and if im-
portuned to take more, turned away her mouth from the spoon. She
appeared also to distinguish different tastes, for she gave an evident
preference to some sorts of food and obstinately refused others. She
sometimes even, to all appearance, judged of the nature of the food or
medicines offered to her, by the sense of smelling ; and, when the latter
were such as possessed a strong odor, she would often close her mouth
in a determined manner before they touched her lips.
By this time the startings in her sleep had left her ; and although
the expressions she uttered when in that state were, with some slight
additions, nearly the same as formerly, yet her manner of speaking was
now indicative of satisfaction and not of fright. She often even sang
to a simple but cheerful air nearly the same words which she used for-
merly to cry out with every appearance of the greatest terror.
The torpor continued nearly in the same degree till the end of July,
with occasional intervals of waking, which happened at uncertain
periods, but generally at the distance of a few days from each other,
and were occasioned by pain experienced in some part of her body.
The first of these took place after she had been ten days in a continued
state of torpor ; it was caused by severe griping from laxative medi-
cine. She awakened in great suffering, crying out, " Pain ! pain ! "
" Die ! die ! " and placing her hands on the abdomen. She was
relieved by means of warm fomentations ; but she, notwithstanding,
kept awake for some hours after, during which time she answered no
question, in however loud a voice it was put to her, and recognized
nobody except one old acquaintance, whom she had not seen for more
than twelve months. She looked steadfastly in this person's face for
a few seconds, apparently occupied in trying to remember his name,
which at length she found out and repeated again and again, at the
same time taking him by the hand as if overjoyed to see him ; but
when questioned regarding him, she answered only by calling out his
name, which she continued to repeat for some time after she had fallen
asleep, in addition to what she usually said. In the course of the next
eight days she was twice roused from her sleep by a similar cause, but
not so completely ; the same individual was still the only person she
knew ; among others she did not recognize even her own husband,
who happened then to be in Scotland.
The next interval of waking took place three or four days after-
ward ; it appeared to be occasioned by pain in the head. She cried
