458 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
for some time, then awoke, complaining of pain, with her hand on the
fore part of her head, on which also she placed the hand of a person
near her and pressed it down firmly with her own ; after thus com-
plaining for two or three hours, she fell asleep. The same thing
happened on the next and the two or three succeeding evenings, nearly
at the same hour, but each time with less complaint. Other circum-
stances about this time showed that she was suffering considerable
uneasiness in her head. She was very impatient in the erect posture,
and, when lifted out of bed, would not put her feet to the ground, but
drew up her legs to her body, as if to force those who held her to lay
her down again. This, however, was not the case when she required
to be taken up for the purpose of making any evacuation. She gener-
ally also preferred to lie on her face, and always with her head very
low, with both hands firmly clasped over it, exactly on the part to
which she had formerly referred the peculiar feeling already mentioned,
and showed much uneasiness when they were removed, unless the
pressure was continued by the hand of another person.
After this, the torpor continued for some time without being inter-
rupted ; but in the mean time the symptoms of pain in the head, and
the uneasiness in the erect posture, gradually wore off, and Mrs. H
now no longer talked in her sleep. Her bowels were kept open by
laxative medicine, which now did not operate so severely as to wake
her. She had, since the beginning of June, had a blister applied to the
nape of the neck, and three to the head at different periods ; sinapisms
to the feet were also had recourse to, and two or three times electric
shocks were passed through her arms. These remedies, like other
painful stimulants, caused her to complain much ; and one of the
blisters, which was sufficiently large to cover the whole scalp, made
her open her eyes ; but their effects were merely temporary, leaving,
to all appearance, no permanent impression on her complaint. Lest
there might be any serous effusion within the cranium, digitalis was
used along with the sweet spirit of niter, in such quantity as greatly
to augment the flow of urine. By its operation her pulse was reduced
so low as forty-four in a minute ; and, while using it, she appeared to
suffer from sickness at the stomach, during which she often put her
fingers into her mouth, as if wishing for something to eat or drink ; and
she was subject to what seemed an oppressive feeling in the region of
the heart, with a peculiar interruption to her breathing, which came
in paroxysms ; all which symptoms left her after discontinuing the
medicine.
Toward the latter end of July, the torpid state, which had suffered
no more intermissions, was become on the whole not quite so deep ; at
least Mrs. H now gave signs of being more conscious of anything
that was done to her. She smiled and seemed pleased on receiving par-
ticular sorts of food, and when her eye was opened, or any part of her
face touched with a finder, her whole countenance became suffused with
