THE RE-EDUCATION OF THE ADULT BRAIN. 459
a blush of redness. Some short time after, it became possible to awake
her by opening her eyes, and holding anything before them likely to
catch her attention, such as a glass of water, a cup, or the like. When
awakened in this way, which succeeded best at the times she was
getting her food, she generally laughed a good deal and seemed much
delighted, and she always bestowed her whole attention on the vessel
in which her food or drink was contained, and the person who held it;
she, however, did not speak, and paid no attention whatever to the
questions put to her. One day about this time, viz., on the 1st of
August, in consequence of her usual medicines failing in their effect,
she had two or three laxative clysters, and then a small dose of croton-
oil, which produced very copious evacuations, but at the same time
caused so much griping as to wake her. When suffering from this, she
took hold of the blankets of her bed, twisted them in her hands, and
applied them over the abdomen, looking wistfully all the while in the
faces of the attendants, as if she had recollected the fomentations
which had formerly given her relief, and wished them to be had
recourse to on the present occasion ; her wish was complied with, with
the effect of removing the pain, which seemed to give her great satis-
faction. In two or three days after this the torpor was much dimin-
ished, and she could be awakened with great ease. She likewise began
to take a great liking to the young woman who waited on her, so much
so that, when awake, she would hardly allow her to be a moment out
of her sight. Now also she would sometimes let herself cautiously
down on the floor from her bed, and creep to the fireside, where she
would lay herself quietly down on the hearth-rug, as if she wished to
enjoy the warmth of the fire.
At length, after progressively improving for some days, she was by
the third week in August almost free from torpor, and slept little more
than a person in health. During all this period, except that her feet
were sometimes cold, the temperature of her body was very nearly
natural. Her face was for the most part pale, but sometimes a little
flushed, and the pupil of the eye uniformly contracted on exposure to
the light. Her pulse, which had been rendered slow by the digitalis,
was observed to be rather higher for some time preceding her recov-
ery than it had been even before the use of that medicine. She had
undoubtedly lost flesh during her illness, but at this time she was not
so thin as she had been a short time before. The catamenia had not
appeared since the month of May ; but, with the exception of con-
siderable loss of strength, her bodily health was now on the whole
tolerably good.
On her recovery from the torpor she appeared to have forgotten
nearly all her previous knowledge ; everything seemed new to her,
and she did not recognize a single individual, not even her nearest
relatives. In her behavior she was restless and inattentive, but very
lively and cheerful ; she was delighted with everything she saw
