CLEWS IN NATURAL HISTORY. 29
" special creation " of the horses does not look well, it must be con-
fessed, in the face of the gradual and obvious modification exhibited
by the series of fossil horses, which leads without a break from Eohippus
to the modern horse. At most, it may be said, there is but a choice of
probabilities offered us. And in the adoption of a scheme of develop-
ment, and in face of the facts laid before us, it is hard to see any
grounds whereon the special-creation theory can be maintained, or the
theory of progressive development and evolution denied. For if evo-
lution is the law of the horse's history, it must logically follow that it
represents the scheme of nature throughout : since the uniformity of
nature, in which we are bound to believe, and to which we are bound
to appeal, would utterly negative the idea that evolution should hold
good for the horse, and be inapplicable to any other living thing. Be-
cause the missing links are not so completely supplied to us in other
cases as in the horse, we are not on that account entitled to assume that
the theory of development is invalid. We may not see an oak-tree
grow inch by inch, but we are as positive as our mental nature will
admit, that the oak was once an acorn, and that there has been a pro-
gressive growth and increase which might not be apparent to us were
we to watch the tree for weeks together. Applying this reasoning to
the case before us, it would be as illogical to deny that the order of
nature was that of development, as to insist that the oak was created as
it stands. The extent of human knowledge, and the duration of human
existence, are together inadequate to enable us to discern the progress
of this world's order after the fashion whereby, from a lofty elevation,
we may trace every winding of a stream. But the probabilities of the
case are as overwhelmingly for progressive development, as the direct
evidence at hand exemplified by the horse's pedigree tells against
special and independent creation having been the way of the First
Cause in the making of the world and its living things.
The entire scheme of scientific discover}' thus depends very largely
upon the use made of the hints which nature is continually presenting
to the searcher, and on the correct interpretation of the facts he is for-
tunate enough to elicit in his search. The study of the rudiments of
animal and plant structures may well exemplify, from the importance
of its results, the value of gathering up the veriest fragments of knowl-
edge. For, as Mr. A. R. Wallace has remarked regarding rudimentary
organs, " There must be a cause for them ; they must be the necessary
results of some great law." And again are this author's words most
appropriate when he says : " Many more of these modifications should
we behold, and more complete series of them, had we a view of all the
forms which have ceased to live. The great gaps that exist between
fishes, reptiles, birds, and mammals (that between reptiles and birds is
now wellnigh obliterated) would then, no doubt, be softened down by
intermediate groups, and the whole organic world would be seen to be
an unbroken and harmonious system." Gentletna7i i s Magazine.
