AGNOSTICISM IN HUXLEY'S HUME. 483
two straight lines, we perceive, without any mediate proof, that they
can not inclose a space. Our commentator on Hume has equally mis-
understood the nature of this necessity. He speaks of three kinds of
necessity. The first is one merely requiring the consistent use of
language : " The necessary truth A = A means that the perception
which is called A shall always be called A." This throws no light on
our convictions. The second, " The necessary truth that ' two straight
lines can not inclose a space,' means that we have no memory, and can
form no expectation of their so doing." The instance he gives is a
good example of an intuitive truth seen at once, and necessarily be-
lieved ; but it surely implies vastly more than merely that we have no
memory, and can form no expectation of two straight lines inclosing
a space ; it means that we perceive that, from the very nature of
things, two such lines can not inclose a space. He has a third case
of necessity, " The denial of the necessary truth that the thought now
in my mind exists, involves the denial of consciousness." This is also
an example of a self-evident, necessary truth, but it is so because we
have an immediate knowledge of ourselves as existing.
6. Hume's doctrine of causation takes a double form ; the one ob-
jective, the other subjective. These two are intimately connected, and
yet they should be carefully separated. Hume held that objective
causation is only invariable antecedence and consequence. This is a
doctrine contradicted both by metaphysical and physical science. It
seems very clear to me that our intuitions, looking on objects, declare
that they have power. This is implied in the axiom that we know
objects as having properties ; and what are properties but powers ?
Then modern science has established the doctrine of the conservation
of energy ; namely, that the sum of energy, actual and potential, in
the world is always one and the same. Causes are not causes simply
because they are antecedents ; they are antecedent of the effects be-
cause they have power to produce them.
It would be preposterous in so short a paper as this to dive into
all the sub'tilties of the subjective question as to whether our belief in
causation is intuitive, or is derived from a gathered experience. The
settlement of this question will depend on the way we settle the one
started under the last head, as to whether there are not truths which
shine in their own light. If there be such truths, then causation is un-
doubtedly one of them. When we see a thing produced, a new thing,
or a change in an old thing, we look for a producing cause having
power in its very nature, and ready to produce the same effect in the
same circumstances.
7. By his doctrine, defective as I reckon it, Hume undermined the
argument for the Divine existence. There is evidence in his life, in
his correspondence, and in his philosophic writings, that, like John
Stuart Mill, in a later age, he looked with a feeling of favor upon the
seeming evidence for the existence of a designing Mind in the uni-
