AGNOSTICISM IN HUXLEY'S HUME. 485
than can be advanced in behalf of the assassination of Julius Crcsar,
or the best-authenticated occurrences in ancient times. They show,
secondly, that there is an accumulation and a combination of evidence in
favor of the life and mission of Jesus Christ : in the prophecies uttered
ages before ; in the results that followed the propagation of the gospel ;
and, above all, in the fitness of Christ's work to remedy the acknowl-
edged evils in the world, and in its adaptation to the felt wants, moral
and spiritual, of man. It might be shown that the cumulated evidence
in behalf of the Christian revelation is not unlike that brought to jDrove
the uniformity of nature.
10. Professor Huxley has nothing original to advance on the sub-
ject of moral good. Neither of them holds the selfish theory of morals.
Both hold that man has a native instinct which leads him to sympa-
thize with his neighbor, and to be pleased at seeing him happy. So
far both are right; but, on the very same ground on which it is shown
that there is a disposition in our nature to promote the pleasure of
others, it can be shown that there is a principle in our nature which
leads us to approve of what is good and condemn what is evil.
We are now in a position to. discover and comprehend what ag-
nosticism is, as expounded by its eminent living philosopher. Not-
withstanding the meaning of the term, it is claimed by the whole
school that there is knowledge gradually accumulating. According to
our professor there are sensations, there are pleasures and pains, and
among these are relations of coexistence, of succession, and similarity.
By observing these we may form science, which is systematized knowl-
edge. He who is master of the sciences is a learned man, and may
be very proud or vain of his acquirements. Professor Huxley, as be-
ing acquainted with a number of the sciences, is undoubtedly possessed
of much knowledge.
What, then, it may be asked, is defective or fault-worthy in the
philosophy of agnostics ? Its error lies in its avowed fundamental
principle that we know only impressions, or, as Kant expresses it, ap-
pearances, and do not know things either mental or material. All that
we know are impressions impressions recalled and impressions corre-
lated. The correlations constitute the various sciences.
There are savants who have a large acquaintance with these impres-
sions and their correlations. But all the while they know nothing and
never can know, or come nearer knowing, the things thus appearing
and thus correlated as appearances if, indeed, there are any things.
It is not positively asserted that there are things, but it is certain, ac-
cording to Kant, followed by Spencer, that there are, unknown and
unknowable by man with his present faculties. It is curious to find
the metaphysical Hume and the physical Huxley at one on this point.
In one sense Huxley is entitled to deny that he is a materialist.
He believes as little in the existence of matter as he does of mind.
