486 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
But he does claim that the impressions which we call mental are pro-
duced by those we call material, namely, cerebral action. So far he is
a materialist, and the undoubted tendency of his philosophy is materi-
alistic he makes matter the basis even of mental action. He is not
like Hume a skeptic, for he does not affirm that there are no things :
all that he says is, that if they exist we can not know them ; or, rather,
that things known to us are merely impressions in the shape of sensa-
tions of sensations remembered and correlated. He is not an atheist,
not he ; he only says that we have no proof of the existence of God.
He is simply an honest agnostic not believing in mind, or in matter,
or in God. What is the tendency of such a system ?
1. It makes us feel that we are in a world of illusions. I say illu-
sions, and not deceptions ; for, as Nature does not profess or promise
anything, it can not be charged with intentional deception. But then
we may be deceiving ourselves or deceiving others ; and agnostics
show that we are doing so. I maintain that it strips us of many of
our natural beliefs beliefs which men have entertained in all ages and
countries. The great body of mankind believe that they themselves,
and the objects they have to deal with, are more than impressions, and
that they are realities in a real world ; that there is matter that is solid,
that there is mind that thinks and feels, that we all possess a soul, and
that our neighbors also have souls. I am prepared to show that these
convictions are valid ; that we have the same evidence of a self think-
ing, and of body resisting our activity, as we have of the existence of
impressions. But suppose these convictions removed, and how do we
feel, and what have we left us ?
Will we be apt to set a higher value on life when we know it to be
a mere bundle of impressions with unsubstantial ideas growing out of
them ? Will we take a deeper interest in our neighbors when we have
come to believe (theoretically, for to believe this practically is impos-
sible) that they too are a mere congeries of appearances? Will we be
disposed to do more for the world when we regard it as a set and
series of phantasmagoria bound by rigid uniformities of likeness, co-
existence, and succession ? Will we be more likely to feel that life is
worth living for, and that it is our duty to work for its good, when we
contemplate it as in fact a mere series of images which do not reflect
any reality ? Will not one hindrance to self-indulgence be removed
when we are made to acknowledge that sensations and pleasures are
realities, and that there are no others ? Will not one hindrance to
self-murder, which we may be tempted to commit when in trouble, be
removed when we are sure that we are merely stopping a series of sen-
sations ? Will the regret of the learned murderer be deepened when
he is told that he has merely laid an arrest on a few pulsations ? Will
the seducer be more likely to be kept from gratifying his lust when
the highest philosophy teaches him that the soul of his victim is a
mere collection of nerves ? Is the youth who has run in debt less like-
