AGNOSTICISM IN HUXLEY'S HUME. 487
]y to rob his master when he is assured that both he and his master are
mere throbs in the vibrations which constitute life ? Agnosticism
never can become the creed of the great body of any people ; but
should it be taught by the science and philosophy of the day, I fear
its influence on the youths who might be led, not to amuse themselves
with it, but by faith to receive it, would be that they would find some
of the hindrances to vice removed, and perhaps some of the incentives
to evil encouraged.
2. Thus far as to the influence of the philosophy on common mo-
rality. It is allowed that the system undermines all belief in the super-
natural. All who know anything of it know this. But some do not
realize it. The creed destroys the foundation of all religions, even the
rationalistic, not only supernatural but natural theism, not only Chris-
tianity but every form of deism. Last century Franklin could say :
" Here is my creed : I believe in one God the Creator of the universe ;
that he governs it by his providence ; that he ought to be worshiped ;
that the most acceptable service we render him is doing good to his
other children ; that the soul of man is immortal, and will be treated
with justice in another world respecting its conduct in this. These I
take to be the fundamental points in all sound doctrine " (from letter
by Hon. J. Bigelow in " New York Observer," July 3, 1879). But the
superstition which clung to Franklin in the eighteenth century is all
dissipated by the philosophy of this century.
Shrewd men have long seen and often said that, if Christianity be
set aside, deism will soon follow. We see this already realized. Ag-
nostics feel an avowed pleasure in pointing out the positive contradic-
tions involved in every form of natural religion. All who adopt the
system should know that they must be prepared to part with all the
consolation that can be derived from religion, natural or revealed, and
from all the restraints which it lays on evil conduct. Some may be
rejoicing in agnosticism because it relieves them from all ghostly ter-
rors ; but it does not therefore follow that their happiness will be
increased. I am aware that speculative beliefs do not always lead to
corresponding practice ; but their tendency is to do so, and when they
do not it is because they are counteracted by opposing principles good
or evil. I am sure that agnosticism, when it has time to work, will be
followed by important consequences. I am not to be charged with
the fallacy of arguing that, because a system is charged with bad
results, it must therefore be false. I am showing that the system is
false, and thus leads to prejudicial consequences false to our nature,
false to the ends of our being.
