488 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
THE AGE OF CAVE-DWELLERS IN AMEEICA.
By E. T. ELLIOTT.
THE various writers and thinkers on the subject of pre-historic man
generally concede that the races of to-day have radiated over the
globe from some point in Asia. Indeed, the traditions of different
nations lead to the conclusion that this point of dispersion was located
in the high central regions of that country. There, apparently, the
dog, horse, and ox were first domesticated, and can at the present time
be found in their natural, wild state. Hudson Tuttle says, in his " Ar-
cana of Nature," that " man originated near the equator, where the
climate was better adapted to his defenseless condition and food abun-
dant."
This conclusion seems to be based upon the impression that the
different zones of the earth occupy the same relative positions now
that they have always done, and can hardly hold good in view of re-
cent developments. Colorado, an almost unexplored country, compara-
tively speaking, to the scientific world will be apt to change the logical
reasonings that have so far been advanced upon this interesting subject.
Seiior Altamirano, of Mexico, the best Aztec scholar living, claims
the proof is conclusive that the Aztecs did not come to Mexico from
Asia, as has been long universally believed, but that they were a race
originated in the unsubmerged parts of America, as old as the Asiatics
themselves, and that that country may even have been peopled from
this. From the ruins recently found, the most northern of any yet
discovered, the indications of improved architecture, the work of dif-
ferent ages, can be traced in a continual chain to Mexico, where they
culminate in massive and imposing structures, thus giving some proof
by circumstantial evidence to Altamirano's reasoning. But now, as to
the antiquity of American man as shown by the yet recent discoveries
in Colorado.
First it will be necessary to glance at the glacial period for an
instant, or rather at the geological spring following it, when the warm
rays of the sun turned the ice-covered crust of earth into a vast sheet
of water, with only the extremely high ground left exposed above
its surface.
From the evidences of the rocks and the deposits of the mountain
valleys it is fair to deduce the conclusion that, as in time the waters
gradually receded, the first part of America to assume any dimensions
was the backbone of the continent, or that elevated portion known as
the Rocky Mountains, which had probably never at this period been
entirely covered with water, thus affording a long, continuous stretch
of dry ground on which man and beast could live and wander as they
listed.
