THE AGE OF CAVE-DWELLERS IN AMERICA. 489
At this period, it has been stated by many and believed by most,
that the present line of the equator was where man originated and
flourished, because of the warmth of the climate and abundance of
easily procurable food. Yet the evidences in Colorado are opposed to
this belief, for here were the tropics also.
The existing specimens of perfectly-preserved petrified palm-trees
show this, so also do the petrified remains of gigantic turtles peculiar
to tropical waters alone. The Asia theorists also offer the nativity of
the horse as a strong argument in their behalf, claiming that man and
horse developed at about the same time. If this claim has any weight,
it more than settles the point in favor of America, for the fossil re-
mains of horses with three toes to each foot have been found in Colo-
rado, and the examination of any hoof of a horse in embryo will show
this to have been one of the earliest stages in the existence of that
animal. This evidence goes beyond the researches of the supporters
of the Asia theory, for their conclusions are based upon the fact of
the existence of the wild horse of the present time.
These evidences of tropical life in Colorado, it must be remembered,
are found at an altitude of ten thousand feet, or near the present snow
line. As the waters gradually receded, they left the valleys and parks
throughout the mountains immense lakes, until a trickling and over-
flowing outlet wore its way into a deep canon through solid granite,
and liberated the pent-up waters of each.
The San Luis Valley, in which Del Norte is situated, is in the
southwestern part of Colorado, and is from sixty to seventy miles
broad by about three hundred miles long, and the outlet for drainage
is now the beautiful snow-born Rio Grande.
Hearing one day in December, 1877, that a gentleman acquaintance,
in wandering over the foot-hills, about three and a half miles from Del
Norte, had found a small arrow-head of chalcedony, it aroused my
curiosity, and I at once called upon him that I might see it. He
showed me a beautiful specimen of elegant workmanship, made with
great care and accuracy as to dimensions, but evidently intended for
an ornament, being too small and delicate for any other actual use.
The present Indians never work in chalcedony, and I felt sure
some discoveries might be made by visiting the spot ; so, calling to-
gether a couple of friends, we mounted our horses and had a delight-
ful canter over the floor-like valley until we reached the base of the
hill on top of which the specimen had been found. We dismounted,
tied our horses, and began climbing up and up for several hundred
feet above the valley, pausing now and then to breathe and enjoy the
magnificent view extended at our feet the valley stretching away
like an ocean of molten gold, with its autumn-tinted grasses, a hun-
dred miles to the north and seventy miles to the east, where it came
to an abrupt ending against the solid bases of the majestic peaks com-
prising the Sangre-del-Christo range of mountains. No foot-hills inter-
