CHLORAL AND OTHER NARCOTICS. 493
bier of water, and swallowed the large dose so prepared. He was
found insensible, with the bottle and glass by his bedside. He did
not fully regain consciousness for sixty hours, but finally made a good
recovery.
The occurrence of this experience led me into a new line of re-
search, namely, to find out what was the best mode of maintaining
life while the body is under the influence of a deep sleep from the
hydrate. This new research disclosed that the great object of treat-
ment should be to sustain the animal temperature. I found that, like
alcohol, the tendency of chloral hydrate is to reduce the vital fire, and
that of two animals under chloral, one in a warm, the other in a cold
atmosphere, the recovery of the one in the warm and the death of the
one in the cold atmosphere could be reduced to a matter of positive
system or rule. I had soon to publish that lesson, and to indicate
that there were dangers ahead in respect to the use of chloral hydrate,
which dangers would have to be scientifically combated.
Within a year after the introduction of chloral hydrate into medi-
cal use another new truth dawned on me. One morning the friends
of a gentleman called on me, bringing a bottle of chloral hydrate and
a copy of a medical paper containing a lecture of mine relating to the
action of the drug. They had noticed for some time past that the
gentleman, about whom they were anxious, had been very peculiar in
manner, exhibiting signs resembling those of intoxication from alcohol,
but with more than alcoholic somnolency. He was an alcoholic, and
sometimes he was apt to have spells of inebriation ; but the phenom-
ena more recently observed were somewhat different. Watching him
closely as their alarms increased, they detected that he was in the
habit of dosing himself with some substance which he kept in a series
of bottles, of which he had seventeen or eighteen in stock, and one of
which they brought to me. The bottle they brought contained chloral
hydrate, and it turned out that all the bottles contained, or had con-'
tained, the same. By and by this gentleman came to me himself, and
confessed that he was in the habit of taking the chloral three or four
times in the twenty-four hours. He took it at first, after reading my
lecture on its medicinal uses, in order to procure sleep. It answered
his purpose so well that he became induced to repeat the process, and
in a little time got what he called his new craving. He presented a
series of special symptoms from the chloral which had some of the
characters of jaundice and some of the characters of scurvy. These
symptoms were additional to the signs of brain and nervous disturb-
ance caused by the chloroform derived from the chloral, and they were
easily accounted for. The chloral, in undergoing decomposition with-
in the body, divides into two products, the one chloroform, the other
an alkaline formate, a soluble salt, which makes the blood unduly
fluid, and acts much in the same manner as I found again by direct
experiment with it that common salt does, or the mixture of pickling
