494 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
salts used for the preservation of dead animal tissues that are preserved
by the process of salting.
Here, then, was another history of danger from the use of chloral
hydrate, a neAV condition of disease to which I drew attention very
speedily, and to which I gave the name of chloralism. It is a matter
of deep regret to have to report that since the name was given to the
disease chloralism has become rather wide-spread. It has not yet
spread far among the female part of the community. It has not yet
reached the poorer classes of either sex. Among the men of the mid-
dle class ; among the most active of these in all its divisions com-
mercial, literary, legal, medical, philosophical, artistic, clerical chlo-
ralism varying in intensity of evil has appeared. In every one of the
classes I have named, and in some others, I have seen the sufferers
from it, and have heard their testimony in relation to its effects on
their organizations effects exceedingly uniform, and, as a rule, ex-
ceedingly baneful.
The history of chloralism is of interest to the scholar of history as
showing how easily a simple scientific discovery may be misapplied
when its misapplication ministers to some luxurious desire or morbid
inclination of mankind. I give the account at first hand, drawing
upon no other experience than my own, an experience which dates
from the first commencement of the disease, and which, during all the
period, has been probably, in this country, as comprehensive as any in
respect both to instances of acute and of slow mischief from this one
cause. I could fill easily all the space allotted to me in the present
essay by mere narration of observed facts on this topic, were that my
object. My object does not lie in that direction, useful and practical
though it might be. Let the reader simply remember that from a cer-
tain scientific basis of research something specifically social, and either
moral or immoral in its tendencies, has occui-red in a brief space of
time, and that a singular mental phenomenon has been developed among
the most cultivated representatives of a highly cultivated people, and
the impression I wish now to indicate by the brief narrative recorded
above is supplied.
This is not the first time in the history of mankind that the same
kind of history has been written. There is a previous history, from
which dates a great deal that is curious in romance and poetry, and
which even to Shakespeare afforded a world of wonder and of story.
The ancient physicians, dating from Dioscorides himself, tell of the
use of a wine made into a narcotic by mandragora. From the leaves
and from the root of the Atropa mandragora the ancient physicians
prepared a vinous solution which in many respects had the same prop-
erties as the chloral hydrate of to-day. This wine, called "morion,"
was given to those who were about to be subjected to painful surgical
operations or to the cautery, so that, ere the sensitive structure was
