30 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
DIETETIC CURIOSITIES.
By FELIX L. OSWALD, Ph. D., M. D.
II.
TTTE know from the accounts of Sir John Ross, Captain Kane, and
V V other Arctic explorers, how persistently the Esquimaux prefer
walrus-blubber and whale-oil to the most seductive products of the
vegetable kingdom, but the fervor of their devotion was only realized by
the Rev. Mr. Hansen, the Moravian missionary, who prepared a dying
Esquimau for the glories of the New Jerusalem. "I am sure you are
right," said the departing brother, " but, tell me, are there many wal-
ruses in heaven ? " " None at all, as far as I know," Mr. Hansen replied,
not without astonishment at the question. The weary eyelids opened to
emit a look of intense reproach. "And you couldn't tell me that be-
fore ? No heaven that for me, then an Esquimau can not subsist with-
out walrus ! "
The peptic stimulus of a high latitude, as recognized by Dr. Boer-
haave, may justify such preferences ; but Greenlanders, carried down to
our temperate climate and even to the eternal summers of Cuba, still
insisted on their daily blubber-ration with a firmness worthy of a better
cause. Ferdinand Renz, the European Barnum, found it to his advan-
tage to gratify the national taste of his Greenlanders. He had at-
tempted to wean them from their traditional grease, and nearly suc-
ceeded, as he flattered himself, when his managers reported an enormous
deficit of tallow-candles, which he found had been devoured by the box-
ful in the silence of night by the bereaved children of the North.
Nowhere is indifference to the quality of food carried further than
in the rural districts of Russia. Black, sour bread, salt pork, cabbage,
and quass, or fermented cabbage-water, are the nectar and ambrosia of
the Slavonic boor, who in times of scarcity will content himself with a
diet that would drive Munster and Connaught to desperation. Quass,
their popular tipple, is described as resembling a mixture of stale fish
and soap-suds in taste, yet has next to beer probably more votaries
than any other fermented stimulant.
Assassm, assassinate, and their derivatives come from hasheesh, the
Arabian word for hemp. A decoction of hemp-leaves, filtered and
boiled down, yields a greenish-black residuum of intensely bitter and
nauseous taste a stuff not very likely, one should think, to tempt a
normally constituted human being. Yet this same hasheesh, Dr. Nachti-
gal assures us, can marshal a larger army of victims than either gun-
powder or alcohol ; and only the originator of the opium-habit, he thinks,
will have an uglier score against him on the day of judgment than the
Sheik-al-Jebel, who, tradition says, first introduced the hasheesh-habit.
