CHLORAL AND OTHER NARCOTICS. 495
touched, the sick man was in a deep sleep during which the operation
was performed without the consciousness of feeling, not to say of pain.
The sleep would last for some hours. From this purely medical or sur-
gical use of morion, the application of it extended. Those who were
condemned to die by cruel and prolonged torture were permitted to
taste its beneficence and to pass from their consummate agony through
Lethe's walk to death. A little later and the wine of mandragora was
sought after for other and less commendable purposes. There were
those who drank of it for taste or pleasure ; and who were spoken of
as " mandragorites," as we might speak of alcoholics or chloralists.
They passed into the land of sleep and dream, and waking up in scare
and alarm were the screaming mandrakes of an ancient civilization.
I have myself made the " morion " of that civilization, have dis-
pensed the prescription of Dioscorides and Pliny. The same chemist,
Mr. Hanbury, who first put chloral into my hands for experiment, also
procured for me the root of the true mandragora. From that root I
made the morion, tested it on myself, tried its effects, and re-proved,
after a lapse of perhaps four or five centuries, that it had all the prop-
erties originally ascribed to it. That it should have come into use as
a narcotic by those who first tasted it for its narcotic action, and that
they should have passed into mandragorites, is not more surprising than
that other and later members of the human family should have become
chloralists. The effects produced by morion subjectively and objec-
tively are so much like those from chloral that they may be counted
practically as the same. I have put these two examples of the action
of two similar toxic agents in parallel positions, because they are re-
markable as showing how, at most distant and distinct eras of civili-
zation, a general practice in the use of these agents sprang out of a
special practice relating to their use, a maleficent out of a beneficent
purpose. If I wished to extend the comparison, I might place opium,
ether, chloroform, and chlorodyne under the same category.
Mandragora, opium, chloral, ether, chloroform, chlorodyne, are
medical agents used in the first instance mechanical^, and used in a
second instance socially, and by habit in certain instances, for the pur-
pose of making the mind oblivious, or, in other and more frequently
used words, for securing repose or rest. These agents do not stand
alone in respect to the list of toxicants which are assumed to be useful
to mankind. To them must be added many others which have not
necessarily had an origin from medical science or art, but have sprung
into general use from their first application. Under this head may be
included the commoner members of the chemical families known as
the alcohols : hasheesh from the Canabis indica (Indian hemp), yerba
de nuaca, or red-thorn apple, almanitine, coca, absinthe, arsenic, to-
bacco.
It will be seen that the toxical agents are a numerous class, and,
if I had chosen to refine, I might have added some further. In one
