496 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
notable instance, and in one or two less notable, nitrous-oxide gas, the
gas now so commonly used by dentists as an anaesthetic, has been re-
sorted to as an habitual stimulant and narcotic ; but the rarity of its
use prevents the necessity of doing more than referring to it in this
place, and once perhaps again in the sequel. Of the other agents it
may be said, in limine, respecting the extent of their use, that the
alcohols and tobacco stand first on the list in our civilized life. Next
after these come opium, absinthe, chloral hydrate, chlorodyne, ether,
and chloroform. The other substances are local in the range of their
employment. Hasheesh is an Eastern luxury ; amanitine a Kamtchat-
kan luxury ; arsenic a Styrian luxury ; red-thorn apple a luxury of
the Indians of the Andes, under the sweet influence of which they
enter into communion, as they believe, with the spirits of their de-
parted dead the best excuse I have ever heard given for the use of
any of these indulgences whatsoever.
As we cast our minds back upon this long list of toxical instru-
ments for the delight of man, we are struck with the widely apparent
difference that seems to exist between them. The difference, however,
is not so great as it may seem, for between the physiological action of
one and the other there is an analogy of action in certain particulars
which is singularly striking. As a rule, the key-note of the action
of these agents, if I may use such a simile, is through one particular
element where many elements enter into their composition. Where
nitrogen is present as an element, a definite line of action of the agent
is marked out ; when a hydrocarbon radical is dominant that is to
say, when such a radical forms the chief part of the compound the
influence of that is most definite ; while the influence of one disturbing
principle on another may be most clearly traced in other cases as a neu-
tralizing influence, one influence reacting upon the other.
We have at hand many instances of this kind for illustration. Al-
cohol and tobacco are the most ready examples. In the alcohols, which-
ever one of the family of alcohols we may take, from the least danger-
ous wood-spirit, through the more dangerous grain-spirit, up to the
much more dangerous potato-spirit, there is one agency at work, a hy-
drocarbon radical, methyl, ethyl, amyl, according to the alcohol used,
which, with different degrees of intensity, plays the same part, pro-
ducing similar series of phenomena. In tobacco we have a less deci-
sively known combination at work, but we have in that combination
the element nitrogen, the introduction of which causes a new develop-
ment of nervous phenomena, the analogous action of which can be
traced through some other complex organic compounds containing the
same element nitrogen. In chloroform, again, we have a hydrocar-
bon radical playing nearly the same part as the radical methyl of
methylic alcohol, but with chlorine interposing to modify the simple
narcotic action of the radical, and greatly to increase the danger of
