CHLORAL AND OTHER NARCOTICS. 497
the compound in its effect on the living body. Physiological re-
search has not yet reached, by vital analysis of action, a perfection of
knowledge on the subject now in hand. Such analysis is yet in its
early days. At the same time a general line of research has been made
out, and some results have been obtained which are of direct practical
value. Other facts have also been elicited which at first sight are sur-
prising, but which lose their singularity when they are correlated with
pure chemical physical demonstrations. I found, for example, in one
of my researches, that two chemical substances which are isomeric in
constitution that is to say, are composed of the same elementary
forms in the same proportions, but under different arrangement pro-
duce entirely different phenomena on the animal body. These isomeric
substances are the formiate of ethyl and the acetate of methyl.
The agents used by man for his dreamy delights have thus a varied
influence on his nature. They are often rudely classed together as
luxuries ; but the luxuriousness which they foster may be fathoms wide
until they so far interfere with vital function as to reduce its activity
in a notable degree. Then there is something in common between
them, just as there is something in common when, being carried a
little further, they stop life altogether.
For this is interesting respecting them, in the most potent sense.
They all kill when we let them have full play. This is obviously the
reason why they are called toxicants and intoxicants. They bear re-
semblance in action to the poison which once in the history of a past
civilization sped on the tip of an arrow from a discharged bow.
The toxicants have variation of action in their early stages. Al-
cohols excite the mind and quicken the pulses before they depress.
Opium excites before it depresses. Tobacco does not in the strict
sense excite, but depresses and soothes from the first, so that there are
stages, which some persons always feel, when alcohol is antidotal to
tobacco. Among those persons who are total abstainers from alcohol
few are found who can bear tobacco in the most moderate use of it.
Under tobacco the heart seems rapidly to run down in power, and
alcohol is called for to whip it up again, also as it seems. The fact is,
that the heart is not the organ primarily concerned at all, but the
minute vessels at the termination of the arterial circuit. These minute
vessels are under a nervous influence by which the passage of blood
through them is regulated, and which influence is readily modified by
very refined causes acting through the organic or emotional nervous
centers. The effect of tobacco on these minute vessels, through the
nervous system, is to cause contraction of them as a primary fact, so
that the face of the person affected becomes pale and the surface of
the body cold, while the heart labors to force on the supply of blood
until its own vascular system comes under the influence : then the
stomach involuntarily contracts, and, after a time, the voluntary
vol. xv. 32
