498 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
muscles, deprived of blood, convulse tremulously, or pass into active
convulsions, as in tetanus. Alcohol, on the other hand, through its
influence on nervous functions, relaxes the vessels of the minute cir-
culation, sets free the heart, reduces the muscular power, and in every
particular counteracts the tobacco. When a person receives a stun,
or is shocked by some intelligence, or sight, or sound, that thereby
stuns him, so that, like Hamlet, he is bechilled
" Almost to jelly by the act of fear,
Stands dumb and speaks not,"
he is for the moment in the same state as the man who first tries to
smoke tobacco, and who, with pallid face, cold surface, and reeling
brain, is to his sense and feeling stricken with all but mortal suffering
and prostration. In each of these cases alcohol, for a moment, acts as
an antidote not necessarily as the best antidote, but as a fair one.
When, therefore, we see a man smoking and drinking, quaffing off the
cup of wine or spirit to quiet the qualm which would otherwise be in-
flicted by the fumes of the cigar or the pipe, we really observe the
facts of a most excellently though innocently devised physiological
experiment on a living animal. The man, unconsciously to his knowl-
edge, if not to his sensation unless he be a physiologist is inducing
a balance in the tension of his arterial circuit.
In process of time the nervous system, becoming accustomed to
these influences, one or both, in a certain degree tolerates them, for a
period. The tolerance while it lasts is an advantage to the habit, and,
if the habit were a necessity, it would be a blessing. But the advan-
tage is not permanent. In the end the nutrition of the organic parts
which are under the influence of the same nervous regulation is sure to
suffer, and in many organizations to suffer rapidly and fatally.
It is probable, if not as yet provable, that all the agents named
above produce their specific effect by the influence they exert over the
automatic, self -regulating nervous function. In my researches on the
action of some substances on the minute circulation, I have been able
to differentiate their action by this general rule. The alcohols, the
lighter alcohols, including common alcohol, relax the vessels ; nicotine
constringes ; chloroform, by virtue of the chlorine in its composition,
constringes ; opium relaxes, then constringes ; ether relaxes ; absinthe,
after a time, constringes ; chloral hydrate first constringes, and after-
ward relaxes. From these differences of action the differences of phe-
nomena in the persons affected are explainable. In like manner the
ultimate deleterious effects of these agents on the nutrition of the
body are explainable. It is a necessary result, for example, that under
the long-continued use of alcohol the constantly relaxed and congested
vessels should assume a new character and local function ; that the
parts depending on them for their supplies of blood should be changed
from the natural structure to unnatural but definable, and now well-
