5 oo THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
There is a fact of singular interest in relation to the intoxicants I
have now described or named, and which before I proceed further
should be carefully noticed. The fact is this : That when the agents
produce a definite effect upon a living body, whether it be a human
body or the body of an animal that possesses desires and likings, there
is caused in that body, after a number of times of practice, a craving
or desire for the agent that produced the effect. In man this is so
marked that the most repugnant and painful of lessons connected with
the first subjection to the agent is soon forgotten in the acquired after-
sense of craving or desire. It really matters little which of the in-
toxicants it is that is learned to be craved for ; the craving for it will
continue when it has struck an abiding impression. We know this
fact well from the wide experience that has been gained of it in the
cases of alcohol, tobacco, opium, chloral, hasheesh, absinthe, and arsenic.
More incongruous things could scarcely be ; incongruous to the senses,
to the sensibilities, to the methods of taking, to the result of them ;
yet the craving for any one of them as it is may be established. The
devotee to one will laugh at the devotee to another ; each one will
consider the other almost insane, and yet each will follow his own
course.
Still more curious is it that the substances craved for, which lie
quite outside the natural wants of healthy life, may be extended to any
number. There is in truth hardly a substance to which the craving
may not cling. The distinguished Dr. Huxham had under his observa-
tion a man who, after a little practice in the habit of taking it, had a
craving for the salt now called bicarbonate of ammonia. The man
chewed this salt and swallowed it in the same way as he might have
swallowed peppermint lozenges. The effect of the salt was to produce
extreme fluidity of the blood of the man, so that he became scorbutic,
and to cause loosening of his teeth. It also reduced his strength, and
even placed his life in jeopardy ; and yet his craving for the ammonia
remained unappeased until his danger was so great that the noxious
thing had to be withheld altogether. The great Sir Humphry Davy
gives another, and it may be still more remarkable, experience in rela-
tion to himself. When he was making his wonderful researches with
nitrous-oxide gas, he commenced, at first for the mere sake of experi-
ment, to inhale the gas in free quantities. By this process of inhala-
tion he obtained the most delicious of visions. Space seemed to him
illimitable, and time extended infinitely, so that coming out of one of
these trances he exclaimed: " Nothing exists but thoughts ; the universe
is composed of impressions, ideas, pleasures, and pains ! " In course of
time Davy, by the frequent repetition of the process of inhalation, be-
came so infatuated that he could not look at a gasholder, could not look
at a person breathing I am using his own description without ex-
periencing the urgent sense of desire to once more imbibe his favorite
gaseous nectar, and revel in his induced and artificial dreams. How
