THE FIXED STARS.
53
with automatic and periodical precision. I know of no domestic ani-
mal that can not be trained to look out for these agents when the
training is conducted with skill and with determination. Like young
children, and those persons of later life who have never tasted the
agents in any form, nor experienced the sensations which come from
them, the lower animals reject them at first, strive against them, and
evidently are much disquieted and perplexed by the results which fol-
low their use. But to err is inhuman as well as human, and so the
beasts that perish, even they err and learn to like it. In the beast as
in the man, the train of events follows the same course. The craving
becomes connected almost immediately with deterioration, and at last
the two conditions of desire and decay are spun into the same woof,
and appear as the same substance. Contemporary Review.
THE BRIGHTNESS AND DISTRIBUTION OF THE
EIXED STARS.
By HENEY FAEQUHAE.
THOSE who view and admire the starry canopy above us so fitting-
ly associated, in the oft-quoted language of a great philosopher,
with the moral nature of man can hardly fail to remark how largely
their pleasure in the grand prospect is due to the endless variety in its
brilliancy. Just as the magnificence of mundane potentates is fully
brought out only by the presence of a long train of inferiors more
modestly arrayed, so Sirius and Capella would be less splendid had
they not a multitude of lesser luminaries to heighten their glory by
contrast. And how many hundreds of twinkling points, almost lost
in the wide abyss, are there for every star of highest rank ! In the
proportion of common soldiers to captains, and of captains to corps
commanders, this silent host of heaven is not unlike the less stately
armies that tread earth instead of ether. And if astronomers have
hitherto interested themselves less in questions of precedence and
seniority than in the particular spot on the field occupied by each
individual in the great array when drawn up for review ; if, dropping
the figure, differences of luster and the number of stars of the various
grades have occupied less of their attention than the comparatively
dry details of right-ascension and declination, with all the refinements
of precession, nutation, aberration, proper motion, parallax, refraction,
etc., affecting these they are now making some amends for their
neglect. The methodical study of stellar brightness belongs almost
entirely, however, to the present century, Sir W. Herschel's first paper
calling attention to the importance of the subject having appeared in
