5 o 4 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the publication quaintly termed " Philosophical Transactions " of the
London Royal Society in 1796.
Sir "W. Herschel here mentions the number of variable stars, con-
stantly increasing under new discoveries, very naturally predicts that
closer observation will be likely to show variability in objects pre-
viously unsuspected, and recommends that careful comparisons be
made from time to time between neighboring stars all over the heav-
ens, so that any change occurring may be at once detected. The
original comparisons accompanying this paper have been of but little
use, however ; they are interesting chiefly as having been the first at-
tempt to introduce scientific methods into this unexplored territory of
the astronomical realm. They were made without the aid of any in-
strument, and consisted of such indefinite statements as " Star No.
7 about equal to No. 4, and just perceptibly fainter, or decidedly
brighter, than No. 12." The difference of brightness which Herschel
considered as "just perceptible" seems to have been from one fifth to
one fourth of a magnitude.
That his least appreciable difference should have some constant re-
lation to the traditional " magnitude " was to have been expected, bear-
ing in mind what this oldest and most universal scale of reference was
intended to express. The fixed stars were assigned to classes of bright-
ness, we learn, before the Christian era ; and the very term " mag-
nitudes," used from the first to designate these classes, shows the state
of knowledge under which the study had its origin, for, as we now
know, the apparently greater size of the brighter stars is due only to
imperfections of the eye. All visible stars all that existed, that is,
for the early astronomers of the Mediterranean were included in six
magnitudes, the first containing the dozen or score of brightest stars
in the heavens, the second perhaps twice as many ranking next to
these, and so on out in gradually increasing circles. The work of the
ancients has in this case been well preserved, no modern innovator
having been found bold enough to disturb this time-honored system
of reckoning. Still, as in the days of the " Father of Astronomy," the
two chief stars of Orion serve as examples of the first magnitude, while
his Belt and the Dipper in the northern sky furnish types of the second
order. But, while astronomy was yet in its infancy, observers had
noticed that the stars were not assorted into well-defined orders, in
which all the individuals were equally bright ; and so, in assigning to
a star its magnitude, they would often add that it was " smaller " or
" larger " than the mean of that magnitude. They thus practically
trebled the number of their classes. The same division into thirds of
a magnitude is still employed by those who judge of brightness by eye-
estimates, though some are content with dividing into halves, and some
undertake to be exact to tenths. Now, even though no scientific pre-
cision was attained, or even thought of, in this original apportionment
of visible stars among the six magnitudes, to which all later estimates
