5 o6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
as reflection easily assures us, than when the hall is filled with a bus-
tling multitude. So, though the stars give us their whole light in the
daytime, our eye, with the stimulus of an illuminated atmosphere, fails
to discover them. This law, first stated by Fechner, is, in mathemati-
cal language, the excitement of a nerve varies in arithmetical progres-
sion as the exciting cause varies in geometrical progression, or degrees
of sensation correspond to logarithms of the quantities perceived.
Since, as just shown, the scale of magnitudes is that of equal differ-
ences in sensation, it must be at the same time that of equal ratios of
light. We must thus have a constant light-ratio between each mag-
nitude and the one next it, and these magnitudes must be logarithms
of the quantities of light given, this ratio being taken as the base of
our system. In fact, one of the first discoveries in photometry was
that such a ratio actually exists ; that, for example, if each star rated
as third magnitude by good observers gives as much light as 2^- stars
of the fourth magnitude, a star of the fourth equals 2 of the fifth, and
so on. Here was a practical confirmation of the character ascribed to
ancient estimates of magnitude, and, at the same time, of Fechner's
law.
This relation affords us the means of substituting exact measure-
ment for estimates on an ill-defined scale by different observers, among
whom a perfect agreement as to standard is out of the question. The
idea that each observer has of the meaning of second or fifth magnitude
is derived entirely from tradition and confirmed by habit, very much as
are his notions of the significance of ordinary adjectives of degree
the only precaution observed being to alter the estimates of antiquity
as little as possible, a vague limitation at best. Measures with the
photometer depend no less on estimates with the eye, but the deter-
mination in them, as to the exact agreement of two lights, is subject
to far less uncertainty.
Photometers agree in this particular, whatever their differences in
mechanical construction. Seidel, of Munich, who was twelve years in
comparing the light of but 208 fixed stars, used an apparatus where
two stars seen through a telescope with divided object-glass, each out
of focus, were made of the same brightness to the eye by diffusing or
concentrating the light of one of them, its half of the object-glass
being drawn out or in. The stars thus appeared as two disks, of
different sizes but equally bright, and the amount of light given by
each was taken as proportionate to the area covered by its disk. The
same Dr. Zollner who has lately become so conspicuous in " spiritualist "
investigations, invented a much more convenient style of photometer,
with which he made some interesting researches into the comparative
light of the planets. Other astronomers, European and American,
have also used it. With one of these instruments, belonging to the
observatory of Harvard University, Mr. Peirce finished, a few years
ago, perhaps the most extensive and methodical photometric work that
