DIETETIC CURIOSITIES. 31
The effect of this hemp-extract is compared to hydrophobia : its vota-
ries are seized with rage and restlessness, and if the paroxysm is upon
them seize a knife, a stone, or anything that will serve for a weapon, and
rush out to commit indiscriminate assaults, continuing to " run amuck,"
as the Malays term it, till the stimulating power of the drug has spent
itself, or till their career is stopped by a well-aimed shot. In Batavia
and other cities of the Dutch Indies there used to be a standing reward
for the slaying of a " muck-runner," but even such a man as Ibrahim
Pasha was not ashamed to stimulate the courage of his soldiers by the
use of the detestable poison. The hasheesh-habit originated in Asia
Minor, but is now practiced throughout northern Africa down to the
Abyssinian valleys, and has spread eastward to the Malay Archipelago,
and even to Siam, where its further progress was arrested by the deter-
mined action of the Siamese Government.
A frugal diet has this additional advantage, that simple food is in
less danger of adulteration, or must at least be imitated by equally
simple and harmless substitutes. Watered milk or lard mixed with
corn-meal is certainly annoying, but hardly injurious, and is a trifle
altogether if compared with the abominations that are half consciously
consumed by the lovers of imported delicacies and expensive stimulants.
Dr. Stenhouse, of Liverpool, analyzed a suspicious sample of tea, with
the following result, published in the " Planters' Price Current " of Feb-
ruary, 1871 : The package contained some pure congou-tea leaves, also
siftings of pekoe and inferior kinds, weighing together twenty-seven
per cent, of the whole. The remaining seventy-three per cent, were
composed of the following adulterants : Iron, plumbago, chalk, china-
clay, sand, prussian blue, turmeric, indigo, starch, gypsum, catechu,
gum, the leaves of the camellia, sarangua, Chlorantes officinalis, elm,
oak, willow, poplar, elder, beach, hawthorn, and sloe.
There is hardly any article of food in general use which has not
somewhere been converted into a stimulant by the process of fermen-
tation. What else are whisky, rum, beer, etc., but fermented or distilled
bread, the bread-corn diverted from its legitimate use to produce an
artificial stimulant ? Potatoes, sugar, honey, as well as grapes, plums,
apples, cherries, and innumerable other fruits, have thus been turned
from a blessing into a curse. The Moors of Barbary and Tripoli distill
an ardent spirit from the fruit of the date-palm, the Brazilians from the
marrow of the sago-tree and from pineapples, and even the poor ber-
ries that manage to ripen on the banks of the Yukon have to furnish a
poison for the inhabitants of Alaska. Pulque, the national drink of
Mexico, is derived from a large variety of the aloe-plant, the sap of which
is collected and fermented in buckskin sloughs into a turbid yellowish
liquor of most vicious taste.
Cheese, in fact, is nothing but coagulated milk in a more or less ad-
vanced state of decay. Sauerkraut is cabbage in the first stage of fer-
mentation, which if completed yields quass, the above-mentioned Rus-
