THE FIXED STARS. 507
has yet been done. His measures included the visible stars, about five
hundred in all, of the zone between 40 and 50 of north declination
those passing overhead in the Northern United States and Canada.
The light of a kerosene lamp, in Zollner's photometer, shines through a
small round hole in a thin metallic plate, so as to form an imitation of
a star, slightly brighter than the real stars with which it is compared.
The light of this artificial star, having been polarized by passing
through one Nicol prism, is partially cut off by turning another. The
proportion of light so cut off depends on the angle of the second prism
from parallelism with the first. Having thus found the amounts of
light given by two or more stars, as compared with a fixed light, their
differences of magnitude are calculated by applying the rule involving
logarithms, alluded to above.
Owing to the labor involved in making any large number of photo-
metric comparisons, the less accurate but more convenient method of
eye-estimates has not yet been entirely superseded. It becomes neces-
sary, then, to find some way of reducing different observers to one uni-
form scale, in order to have their work available for determination of
variability and questions of distribution. Mr. Peirce, in his "Photo-
metric Researches," recently published by the Harvard College Ob-
servatory, has shown that this may be done by the simple process of
counting. When we find in any catalogue a star recorded as of mag-
nitude 4, say, though we can not tell exactly what degree of bright-
ness this figure denotes, we yet know something definite, namely, that
this observer classes the star in question as fainter than those he calls
4 and brighter than those he calls 4f. And we know something more:
if in the northern hemisphere a limited part of the heavens must be
taken for the purpose, few catalogues being complete in southern stars
he classes 200 stars in all as brighter than 4^, while he calls 25 stars
4 exactly, he means to tell us that his 4^ magnitude stars would all
fall between 200 and 225 on a list of northern stars arranged in order
of brightness. It is by considering the order which stars would follow
when so arranged, leaving entirely out of view the numbers by which
their magnitudes are expressed, that Mr. Peirce brings all observers to
a single standard of reference; for he is justified in assuming that each
of them attaches the same idea of brightness to the 50th or 150th
star in his order, as an assumption of some such nature must be made
to have their estimates of any service at all. To reduce to mag-
nitudes these numbers expressing order of arrangement, we have to
notice that equal ratios among them correspond to equal differences
in magnitude. If we take a good catalogue and find the number of
stars in it brighter than 2*0, and add to this number successively
the number between 2*0 and 30, 3*0 and 4-0, and so on, we shall
find that our series of numbers increases geometrically, the common
ratio being nearly 3f. This is a remarkable fact, but it is not difficult
to account for, on the supposition that the stars are uniformly scat-
