5 o8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tered throughout space, or that portion of space in which visible stars
are situated. In this case, the number of them out to any distance
from our solar system must vary as the cube of that distance, while
their light, supposing no important variations in real size and bright-
ness among them, is inversely proportionate, in the mean, to the square
of their distance. And since we have a constant ratio of light between
each magnitude and the next, we must accordingly have a constant
ratio of mean distance, equal to the square root of this ratio inverted,
and a constant ratio of number, equal to the cube of the ratio of dis-
tance. Mr. Peirce adopted the ratio 3f . While introducing no per-
ceptible change in the traditional magnitude-scale, except to rid it of
irregularities, this number has the convenience of being exactly the
cube of 1|-. Considering differences in brightness as due exclusively
to differences in distance, we may conclude that a star of the second
magnitude, for instance, is just half as far again from us as one of the
first, and two thirds as far as one of the third. The magnitude of any
star, then, is to be regarded as a logarithm of the number expressing
its ordinal rank, 3 being the base of the system. We may thus find
to what magnitudes the ordinal numbers, 200 and 225 in the example
given, correspond, and take these as the superior and inferior limits of
our observer's magnitude 4. The probable corrected magnitude may
be considered as half way between these limits, and we can not be
more exact than this in our reduction, because his discrimination has
not been close enough to admit of it.
There are, it will thus be seen, three ways of stating the rank
of the stars: by magnitudes or other devices to express differences
of visual sensibility, by quantities of light, and by positions on a list
arranged in order of decreasing luster. These three are reduced to
one, through Fechner's law connecting the first two, and the hy-
pothesis of equable distribution connecting the second and third.
But before accepting this hypothesis of equable distribution as part
of our knowledge, we must see how well it agrees with the facts. Ob-
servation must determine if the "ratio of light" and the "ratio of
number " have actually the mathematical relation given above. On
the scale adopted by Mr. Peirce, as we have seen, the distance of a
star should be two thirds that of one one magnitude fainter, and its
light, by the law of the inverse square, 2 times as great. But the
actual ratio of light between successive magnitudes is found by photo-
metric measurement to be not far from 2^; different observers vary-
ing from 2-3 to 2'8, but all giving values greater than the theory. By
the fact, however, that the ratio thus found is constant or very nearly
so for all grades of brightness, we are yet justified, notwithstanding
the objection from its too high value, in determining magnitudes by
counting, and so clearing individual estimates of much of their uncer-
tainty and irregularity.
The conclusion seems unavoidable that a uniform distribution of
