THE FIXED STARS. 509
stars does not hold even in the region of space immediately about
our solar system. Since the ratio of number is smaller than it should
be to correspond to that of light, the density in which the stars are
aggregated if the expression be permitted must diminish as the
distance increases. Our sun is therefore in a part of space more
closely filled than are neighboring parts. This is perhaps the most
interesting result to which the study of photometry leads us, because
it seems so strange at first sight and even more strange when we
remember that the nearest of the other suns is distant from us more
than three years' journey of light. Truly, astronomy is without a
rival in its special mission, to contradict on every point the evidence
of superficial observation. We would most naturally suppose our uni-
verse to be as we are told it appeared to a distinguished visitor, when
at once
" The golden sun, in splendor likest heaven,
Allured his eye ; . . .
.... where the great luminary,
Aloof the vulgar constellations thick,
That from his lordly eye keep distance due,
Dispenses light from far."
But this appearance of standing aloof is wholly misleading, and, more-
over, as our sun would rank by no means first among the fixed stars if
placed at the distance of the nearest of them, and would sink below
the third magnitude if removed as far as Sirius, its real insignificance
in the stellar firmament is almost as striking as its supremacy in its
own planetary system. The reflection is an interesting one, how
lamentably the grandest of poems must have suffered had its author
been compelled to regard the true proportions of the sidereal universe;
but for the true lover of nature, it may be hoped, the glory of the Al-
mighty handiwork will not be lessened through the disappearance from
fancy of the universal sovereignty of the sun along the track made for
it centuries ago by the vanished delusion that our earth was the un-
moved center of all things.
It is very certain that an equable distribution could not hold
throughout all space (for an infinite number of stars impartially scat-
tered would, however vast the distances among them, give us a heaven
shining like the sun in every part, with heat to correspond) unless,
owing to the presence of innumerable dark bodies, or to a discontinuity
in the luminiferous ether itself, as some physicists have suggested,
light from remote distances is wholly or partly cut off before reaching
us. But to this view, though it would agree with all the facts, that of
a limitation of our firmament of stars, in extent and number, is gener-
ally preferred. That such a limitation exists we have other reasons
for believing : prominent among these is the system of distribution
which a census of the heavens brings to light. We could not expect
