5 io THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
an infinite universe of stars to show everywhere such a uniformity of
plan.
How the fixed stars are actually distributed through space, an in-
quiry into which we are led by study of their number and brightness,
it has been but recently found worth while to consider. So long as
they were believed to be simply lights set in a hollow revolving struc-
ture that divided the waters beneath from the waters above ; so long as
the idea of the " firmament " retained the association with solidity
that now only remains in the word ; so long as the " spangled heavens,
a shining frame" was a reality of opinion and not an unmeaning
archaism of poetry this question was never heard. No significance
could attach to it, and it excited no curiosity. But when this solid
celestial framework was broken up by the discovery of the earth's
rotation, and its lights scattered afar on the deep ocean of unbounded
space, when contemplation of the beautiful adjustments and propor-
tions of our solar system had suggested the hope of discovering the
same harmonies throughout the universe, it began to be asked if some
of these far-distant orbs, or perhaps the mighty whole, our sun and its
attendant planets included, were not connected in a system of similar
character. Kant was one of the first to advance this idea. The elder
Herschel, contenting himself with a working hypothesis to give form
to his observations, supposed our firmament to be a mighty cluster of
stars equally distributed within finite limits, so that the number visible
in the field of his great reflector at any pointing would show the ex-
tent of occupied space in that direction ; and he undertook to gauge
the depths and discover the shape of this cluster by counting tele-
scopic fields in different parts of the sky. The elder Struve consid-
ered the density of the stars as varying with the distance from the
Milky Way, as does that of the atmosphere with its distance from the
earth's surface ; being equal in parallel plans.* Argelander, of Bonn,
relieved his laborious task of cataloguing over 300,000 northern stars,
by investigation into the subject ; Mr. Proctor has devoted to it nu-
merous memoirs and popular lectures, and speaks of it as his chief
incentive to the labor of constructing his set of twelve star maps ;
Mr. Peirce gives it considerable space in his " Photometric Researches."
From these sources we have a few conjectures and a few facts.
The richest parts of the sky, in bright and faint stars alike, are
almost all about the Milky Way. This stream of suffused light fol-
lows, with some irregularities, the course of a great circle ; and to-
ward the plane of this circle, passing not very far, perhaps, from the
sun, stars at all distances appear to become more densely packed. The
Milky Way itself is evidence of this for the faintest magnitudes ; and
Herschel's star-gauges, from which he inferred for our cluster the
shape of a disk or lens, give the comparison in a numerical form.
* Professor Newcomb's account of these researches and speculations, in hia " Popular
Astronomy," pages 462-476, is full and interesting.
