THE FIXED STARS. 5 ! 3
ences of climate and of individual eye-sight affect this considerably.
Argelander, and after him Heis, catalogued all the stars visible to
their eyes ; their numbers, for the whole northern hemisphere, Avere
2,350 and 3,936 respectively. Heis, must therefore, have seen stars
at least four tenths of a magnitude fainter than Argelander's faintest.
La Caille's eye must also have been sharper than the average ; and, if
Mr. Proctor had thought to apply the test of enumeration to the dif-
ferent magnitudes in different parts of the sky, this explanation would
doubtless have occurred to him, and nothing have been heard of his
remarkable " rich region." His observation is valuable, certainly ; but
only by showing the undeveloped state of the whole subject, and the
precautions necessary before venturing conclusions on it.
The search for a common center, about which the uncounted mil-
lions of stars composing the galactic cluster may revolve, has tempted
many investigators, but it can not be said as yet to have proved alto-
gether successful. Madler, by calculations from the proper motions
of stars in different parts of the heavens, sought to locate it among
the Pleiades ; some later astronomers have preferred the Sword of
Perseus ; Mr. Maxwell Hall has just decided, and informed the As-
tronomical Society of England, that the universe turns about the
South Elbow of Andromeda. The proof advanced is always incom-
plete, resting on assumptions not generally admitted ; and when we
remember that the gravitative force exerted by the fixed stars on one
another is so small that to keep the nearest of them from falling to
the sun, supposing no counterbalancing attractions, an angular velocity
of but one second of arc in eighty years is needed ; that the proper
motions to be explained are often far larger than this ; that the dis-
tance of the attracting center must be many times that of the near-
est fixed star ; and that the heavens give no sign of any preeminent
body or group of bodies to which we may ascribe the enormous attrac-
tive power necessary to control these motions the skepticism of many
astronomers as to the universal center seems excusable.
It must be admitted, then, that but little of the true character of
our sidereal system is known to us, and that all speculation upon it
rests as yet on a very insecure foundation. But, as the sudden devel-
opment of spectrum analysis has shown, matters of pure conjecture
to-day may become entirely settled to-morrow ; and it may reasonably
be hoped that the secrets of this domain, if due interest be taken in
them, will not much longer elude the search of scientific explorers.
TOL. xv. 33
