FOOD AND FEEDING. 515
Still it is not quite so widely appreciated as it deserves to be in the prep-
aration of many a small dish of fish, fowl, and meat, to say nothing of a
grilled mushroom, either alone or as an accompaniment to any of them.
And it may be worth while, perhaps, remarking that the sauce par ex-
cellence for broils is mushroom ketchup; and the garnish cool lettuce,
watercress, or endive. And this suggests a word or two on the impor-
tant addition which may be made to most small dishes of animal food
under the title of " garnish." Whether it be a small fillet, braised or
roasted, or a portion thereof broiled; a fricandeau, or the choice end
of a neck of mutton made compact by shortening the bones; or a
small loin, or a dish of trimmed neck cutlets, or a choice portion of
broiled rumpsteak; a couple of sweetbreads, poultry, pigeon, or what
not the garnish should be a matter of consideration. Whether the
dish be carved on the family table, as it rarely fails to be when its
head is interested in the cuisine, or whether it is handed in the pres-
ence of guests, the quality and the appearance of the dish greatly de-
pend on the garnish. According to the meat, may be added with a
view both to taste and appearance, some of the following purees of
sorrel, spinach, and other greens, of turnips, and of potatoes plain,
in shapes, or in croquettes; cut carrots, peas, beans, endive, sprouts,
and other green vegetables; stewed onions, small or Spanish; cucum-
bers, tomatoes, macaroni in all forms; sometimes a few sultanas boiled,
mushrooms, olives, truffles. In the same way chestnuts are admirable,
whole, boiled, or roasted, and as a pur'ee freely served, especially in
winter when vegetables are scarce; serving also as farce for fowls and
turkeys. While such vegetables as green peas, French and young
broad beans, celery and celeriac, asparagus, seakale, cauliflower, spin-
ach, artichokes, vegetable marrows, etc., are worth procuring in their
best and freshest condition, to prepare with especial care as separate
dishes.
It is doubtful whether fish is esteemed so highly as an aliment as
its nutritious qualities entitle it to be, while it offers great opportunity
for agreeable variety in treatment. As a general observation, it may
be said that in preparing it for table sufficient trouble is not taken to
remove some portion of the bones; this can be advantageously done
by a clever cook without disfiguring or injuring the fish. Sauces
should be appropriately served : for example, the fat sauces, as hollan-
daise and other forms of melted butter, are an appropriate comple-
ment of hot boiled fish, while mayonnaise is similarly related to cold.
These and their variations, which are numerous, may also accompany
both broiled and fried fish, but these are often more wholesome and
agreeable when served with only a squeeze of lemon-juice, and a few
grains of the zest, if approved, when a fresh green lemon is not to be
had, and it rarely can be here. But the juice of the mushroom is
preferred, and no doubt justly, by some. Endless variations and addi-
tions may be made according to taste on these principles. But there
