5 i6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
is another no less important principle, viz., that the fish itself often
furnishes a sauce from its own juices, more appropriate than some of
the complicated and not very digestible mixtures prepared by the
cook. Thus " melted butter " which is regarded as essentially an
English sauce when intended to accompany fish, should not be, as it
almost invariably is, a carelessly made compound of butter, flour, and
water; but in place of the last-named ingredient there should be a
concentrated liquor made from the trimmings of the fish itself, with
the addition of a few drops of lemon-juice, and strengthened if neces-
sary from other sources, as from shell-fish of some kind. Thus an
every-day sauce of wholesome and agreeable quality is easily made;
it finds its highest expression in that admirable dish, the sole with
sauce au vin blanc of the French, or, as associated with shell-fish, in the
sole d la normande. Some fish furnish their own sauce in a still sim-
pler manner, of which an illustration no less striking is at hand in the
easiest but best mode of cooking a red mullet, viz., baking it, and se-
curing the gravy of delicious flavor which issues abundantly from the
fish, chiefly from the liver, as its only sauce.
Passing rapidly on without naming the ordinary and well-known
service of cold meats, fresh and preserved, poultry and game, open
or under paste in some form, to be found in profusion on table or side-
board, and in which this country is unrivaled, a hint or two relating
to some lighter cold entrees may be suggested. It is scarcely possible
to treat these apart from the salad which, admirable by itself, also
forms the natural garnish for cold dishes. A simple aspic jelly, little
more than the consomme of yesterday flavored with a little lemon-peel
and tarragon vinegar, furnishes another form of garnish, or a basis for
presenting choice morsels in tempting forms, such as poultry-livers,
ox-palates, quenelles, fillets of game, chicken, wild fowl, fish, prawns,
etc., associated with a well-made salad. On this system an enterpris-
ing cook can furnish many changes of light but excellent nutritious
dishes.
On salad so much has been written, that one might suppose, as of
many other culinary productions, that to make a good one was the
result of some difficult and complicated process, instead of being-
simple and easy to a degree. The materials must be secured fresh,
are not to be too numerous and diverse, must be well cleansed and
washed without handling, and all water removed as far as possible.
It should be made by the hostess, or by some member of the family,
immediately before the meal, and be kept cool until wanted. Very
few servants can be trusted to execute the simple details involved in
cross-cutting the lettuce, endive, or what not, but two or three times in
a roomy salad-bowl ; in placing one saltspoonful of salt and half that
quantity of pepper in a tablespoon, which is to be filled three times
consecutively with the best fresh olive-oil, stirring each briskly until
the condiments have been thoroughly mixed, and at the same time
