FOOD AND FEEDING. 517
distributed over the salad. This is next to be tossed well, but lightly,
until every portion glistens, scattering meantime a little finely chopped
fresh tarragon and chervil, with a few atoms of chives, over the whole.
Lastly, but only immediately before serving, one small tablespoonful
of mild French vinegar is to be sprinkled over all, followed by another
tossing of the salad.* The uncooked tomato, itself the prince of
salads, may be sliced and similarly treated for separate service, or
added to the former, equally for taste and appearance. Cold boiled
asparagus served with a mayonnaise forms a dish, of its kind, not to
be surpassed. At present ranking, when the quality is fine, as an ex-
pensive luxury, there is no reason why, with the improved methods of
cultivating this delicious and wholesome vegetable, it should not be
produced in great abundance, and for less than half its present price.f
As to the manifold green stuffs which, changing with the season, may
be presented as salad, their name is legion ; and their choice must be
left to the eater's judgment, fancy, and digestion, all of which vary
greatly.
The combination of dishes to form a meal now demands our con-
sideration. The occupations of man in a civilized state, no less than
the natural suggestions of his appetite, require stated and regular
times for feeding. But the number of these set apart in the twenty-
four hours differs considerably among different peoples and classes.
Taking a general view of the subject, it may be said that there are
three principal systems to which all varieties of habit may be reduced.
From an English point of view, these may be regarded as
1. The Continental system of two meals a day.
2. The system of provincial life (Great Britain), or four meals.
3. The system of town life (Great Britain), or three meals.
1. In the Continental system, the slight refreshment served in the
early morning, in the form of coffee or chocolate, with a rusk or a
morsel of bread, does not amount to a meal. It is only a dish, and that
a light one, and not a combination of dishes, which is then taken. At
or about noon a substantial meal, the dejeuner, is served ; and at six
or seven o'clock, an ample dinner. Such is the two-meal system, and
it appears to answer well throughout the west and south of Europe.
2. What I have termed the provincial system consists of a sub-
stantial breakfast at eight or nine, a dinner at one or two, a light tea
about five, and a supper at nine or ten. It is this which is popular
throughout our own provincial districts, and also among middle-class
society of our northern districts throughout both town and country.
The habits also of the great German nation correspond more to this
than to the first-named system.
* A salad for five or six persons is supposed.
f On this subject, and also on salad culture, see " The Parks and Gardens of Paris,"
by W. Robinson, F. L. S., p. 468, et seq., second edition. Macmillan, 1878.
