5 i8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
3. The prevailing system of London, and of the numerous English
families throughout the country whose habits are formed from partial
residence in town, or by more or less intimate acquaintance with town
life, is that of three meals daily. In general terms the breakfast takes
place between eight and ten ; the lunch from one to two ; the dinner
from half-past six to eight.
In all cases each meal has its own specific character. Thus, here,
breakfast is the most irregular in its service, and least of all demands
general and intimate coherence of the party assembled. Individual
interests concerned in the letter-bag, in the morning news, in plans for
the day, in cares of coming business, etc., are respected. Provision
for acknowledged dietetic peculiarities on the part of individuals is
not forgotten, and every one comes or goes as he pleases.
At lunch the assembly is still somewhat uncertain. Thus some
members of the family are absent without remark ; intimate friends
may appear without special invitation ; while those less intimate can
be asked with small ceremony. Occupations of pleasure or of busi-
ness still press for pursuit during the afternoon, and the meal for such
may not be too substantial. It should suffice amply to support ac-
tivity ; it should never be so considerable as to impair it.
The last meal of the three, dinner, has characters wholly different
from the preceding. The prime occupations of the day are over ; the
guests are known and numbered ; the sentiment is one of reunion af-
ter the dispersion of the day of relaxation after its labors, sports, or
other active pleasures. Whatever economy of time may have been
necessary in relation to the foregoing meals, all trace of hurry should
disappear at dinner. A like feeling makes the supper of the "pro-
vincial " system a similarly easy and enjoyable meal. And all this is
equally true of dinner, whether it unites the family only, or brings an
addition of guests. General conversation : the events and personal
incidents of the day, the current topics of the hour, are discussed in a
light spirit, such as is compatible with proper attention to the dishes
provided. All that follows late dinner should for the most part be
amusement it may be at the theatre, an evening party, or a quiet
evening at home. There should be ample time, however, for every
coming engagement, and security for some intervening rest for diges-
tion. Dinner, then, is the only meal which as the greater includes
the less need be discussed in the third part of our subject, which
claims to treat of custom and art in combining dishes to form a repast.
^Vith the requirements and under the circumstances just specified, it
should not be a heavy meal, but it should be sufficing. ~No one after
dinner should feel satiety or repletion, with a sense of repugnance at
the idea of eating more ; but all should still enjoy the conviction that
a good meal furnishes delightful and refreshing occupation.
Dinners are of two kinds the ordinary meal of the family, and
the dinner to which guests are invited. There is a third dinner in
