FOOD AND FEEDING. 519
this country, of common too common occurrence, viz., the public
dinner, which is essentially a British institution, and can not be passed
by in silence.
The late dinner should never include children. It is a meal which
is in every way unsuited to them, and they are quite unfitted to take
part in its functions ; besides, the four-meal system is better adapted
to their requirements of growth and digestion in early life. A family
dinner may usually consist of a soup, fish, entree, roast, and sweet ; the
entree may even be omitted ; on the other hand, if the meal is required
to be more substantial, a joint may be served in addition after the
fish ; but this should be very rarely necessary. A dish of vegetables
may be advantageously placed before or after the roast, according
to circumstances ; and supplementary vegetables should be always at
hand.
The rationale of the initial soup has often been discussed : some
regard it as calculated to diminish digestive power, on the theory that
so much fluid taken at first dilutes the gastric juices. But there ap-
pears to be no foundation for this belief ; a clear soup, or the fluid
constituents of a puree, disappear almost immediately after entering
the stomach, being absorbed by the proper vessels, and in no way
interfere with the gastric juice Avhich is stored in its appropriate cells
ready for action. The habit of commencing dinner with soup has
without doubt its origin in the fact that aliment in this fluid form in
fact, ready digested soon enters the blood and rapidly refreshes the
hungry man, who, after a considerable fast and much activity, sits
down with a sense of exhaustion to commence his principal meal. In
two or three minutes after taking a plate of good warm consomme",
the feeling of exhaustion disappears, and irritability gives way to the
gradually rising sense of good-fellowship with the circle. Some per-
sons have the custom of allaying exhaustion with a glass of sherry
before food a gastronomic no less than a physiological blunder, in-
juring the stomach and depraving the palate. The soup introduces at
once into the system a small installment of ready-digested food, and
saves the short period of time which must be spent by the stomach in
deriving some portion of nutriment from solid aliment, as well as
indirectly strengthening the organ of digestion itself for its forth-
coming duties. Few will be found to dispute the second place in
order to fish, although this arrangement is in some quarters an open
question : its discussion, however, can scarcely be regarded as with-
in the limit of our space. The third dish should consist of the chief
meat, the joint, if desired ; if not, one of the smaller dishes of meat,
such as fricandeau, cutlets, filet, or sweetbread, before spoken of,
well garnished, will be appropriate, and to many preferable. Next
the well-roasted bird of game or poultry accompanied or followed
by salad, and a dish of choice vegetables. Then one light simple
sweet, for those who take it, and a slight savory biscuit or morsel of
