524 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
But marked by a special character are some dinners, Avhich may be
either small or large, in relation to the number of guests, but which
are necessarily limited as regards the variety of aliments served. I
refer to dinners at which either turtle or fish predominates. In accord-
ance with a principle already enunciated, a bowl of substantial stock,
containing four or five broad flakes of the gelatinous product, often
miscalled " fat," which alone represents the turtle in the compound, is
not a judicious prelude to a dinner ai-ranged according to the orthodox
programme, and offering the usual variety. A lover of turtle indulges
freely in the soup, both thick and clear, making it in fact an important
installment of his repast ; and he desires, with or without some slight
interlude, to meet the favorite food again in the form of an entree.
After so substantial a commencement, the dinner should be completed
chiefly by poultry, and game if in season, and for the most part by
dishes which are grilled or roast, in contrast to the succulent morsels
which have preceded.
The fish dinner, also an occasional departure from daily routine, is
acceptable, and gratifies the taste for that delicate and pleasant food
in considerable variety. But, if so indulged, very few dishes ought to
appear subsequently. It is a curious fact that the traditional bacon
and beans, which appear toward the close of a Greenwich whitebait
dinner, should afford another illustration of undesigned compliance
with the natural law referred to at the outset, the bacon furnishing
complementary fat to supply its notable absence in fish.
The enjoyment of a curry and when skillfully made it is almost
universally admitted to be one of the most attractive combinations
which can be offered to the senses of taste and smell is only possible
at a limited repast. When freely eaten, very little is acceptable to
the palate afterward, exhausted as it is by the pervading fragrance of
the spice and other adjuncts. Hence a curry should form the climax
of a short series of dishes leading up to it : when presented, as it
sometimes is, among the entrees of a first course, it is wholly out of
place.
Here we may appropriately take a rapid glance at the characteris-
tics of the feast where the guests are few in number.
The small dinner-party should be seated at a round or oval table,
large enough for personal comfort, small enough to admit of conversa-
tion in any direction without effort. The table should of course be
furnished with taste, but is not to be encumbered with ornaments,
floral or other, capable of obstructing sight and sound. A perfect
consomme, a choice of two fish, a filet or a Chateaubriand, a gigot or a
fricandeau ; followed by a chaudfroid, a crhne de volatile garni, a
roast and salad, a choice vegetable, and an iced sovfjie or charlotte ;
and in summer a mac'edoine of fresh fruits in an old china family
bowl, if there is one ; and, lastly, a savory biscuit, accompanying
vegetables and appropriate wines, may be regarded as furnishing a
