526 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
current, containing the products of leaf -action, passes back from the
leaves, and is distributed for the uses of the tree. As wood grows
older it grows darker, particularly in the center of the stem or heart.
This darkening is due to the deposit within the fibers ; and when a
tree reaches maturity the fibers are so filled as no longer to join in the
general circulation. Now, this inner or heart wood is less liable to
decay than the outer or sap wood, and sap, as is well known, is the
agent of destruction. Sap is water with sugary, saline, albuminous,
mucilaginous, and gummy matters dissolved in it, and such solutions
ferment easily and rapidly. Fermentation is a state of vegetable
matter in which the various molecules, sugary, oily, albuminous, etc.,
exert their peculiar attractive and repulsive powers, forming new com-
binations, which at first change and at length destroy the texture of
the substance of which they were formerly a part. Every one knows
the smell of pure, fresh wood. If you bore into wood in which the
sap has just begun to ferment, you get a vinous smell, which is soon
followed by the smell of putrefactive decay, unless means are taken to
arrest the chemical changes that are in progress. This decomposition
of wood containing sap is ordinary rot or wet-rot. It is the most
general and the most fatal cause of decay in wood ; but it has at-
tracted less attention than the more startling but less common evils of
dry-rot, and the destruction of timber by insects.
The seasoning of wood, whether naturally or artificially, is simply
the evaporation of its sap. Decay can not occur in well-seasoned
wood if it is kept dry. It matters little whether wet is applied to
timber before or after the erection of a building : it can not resist the
effect of what must arise in either case ; for heat and moisture will
produce putrid fermentation. In basement stories with damp under
them, dry timber is but little better than wet, for if it is dry it will
soon be wet, and decay will only be delayed while the timber is ab-
sorbing moisture ; and the amount it receives will depend upon the
closeness of the deposit within its fibers. This moisture dissolves the
substances held in solution by the sap, and fermentation begins, with
its usual train of consequences.
Dry-rot is one of these consequences. Ordinary decay must have
begun before dry-rot sets in. When the moisture in wood begins to
ferment, whether it be the natural sap, or the water absorbed by sea-
soned timber, the conditions are ripe for the inroads of dry-rot, which
can no more occur without moisture than wet-rot. The immediate
agent of destruction, in this case, is of vegetable origin. It takes its
name from the dust to which it reduces timber. That degree of moist-
ure which is favorable both to natural decay and to the growth of
plants is essential to the process of dry-rot. The vegetation that pro-
duces it belongs to the natural group of fungi. This group is made
up of plants having distinct vegetative and reproductive systems, and
their best known representative is the common mushroom. If you ex-
