DRY-ROT IN TIMBER. 527
amine the mold on which this singular plant is seen to grow, you will
find it penetrated with delicate, whitish, interlacing filaments which are
the vegetative system of the plant. This part of a mushroom is called
the mycelium, and from it arises the reproductive portion which grows
above ground. But the only part of this above-ground portion that is
essential, and that is found in all fungi whatever, is just that part
which escapes ordinary observation. Everybody has seen the umbrel-
la-like cap with the radiating vertical plates on its under surface. These
plates are covered by a membrane which has the same office as the
seed-vessel of the higher plants. It bears the minute reproductive
bodies of the fungi, analogous to common seeds, and called spores.
The only parts of a mushroom which are common to all fungi are
the mycelium or thready, interlacing portion which grows underground,
and the minute, microscopic spores which are cellular in structure and
so small that thousands of them are required to form a body the size
of a pin's head. The fungi differ among themselves in many ways ;
but mycelia and spore production always occur in them, and are their
essential characters. Every plant of which this mycelium forms a
part, spreading its web throughout the substance on, or in, which it
grows, belongs among fungi. Most of the species are either quite in-
visible, or else their parts are so small as to be indistinguishable. But
some sort of reproductive organs exist, and spores are always produced.
The mycelium is often so minute as to traverse living plants and the
pores of solid wood. It grows rapidly and causes quick decay. Po-
tato-rot, the yeast- and vinegar-plants, mildews, rusts, and smuts of
grain, and molds of all kinds, are part of this immense group of
plants that lives upon decay and fills the air with its countless myriads
of spores. These subtile, germinal particles are lodged everywhere.
They are light as vapor and abound in air, in water, in dust, in sand,
ready, when warmth and moisture favor, to burst into life. As has
been said, the dry-rot fungi flourish upon the products of wet-rot.
Different stages of decay produce food of different qualities, adapted
to different species of fungi. One species takes up the process where
another leaves it, and carries it further and further forward.
Dry-rot may begin its ravages in the interior of timber as easily as
upon the surface. As atmospheric dust is filled with the spores of
fungi, they may be conveyed by rain into the earth, absorbed by the
roots of vegetables, and diffused with the sap throughout the whole
plant. There are numerous species of dry-rot fungi adapted to differ-
ent conditions of life and presenting different aspects. Nor are they
restricted to timber. They may flourish in the earth, where they pre-
sent a perfectly white mycelium, branching and interlacing like roots ;
and when workmen are employed on grounds which are affected by the
dry-rot fungi their health is often disturbed. A few years since, while
a London builder was putting up some houses at Hampstead, his men
were never well. He afterward learned that the ground was affected
