528 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
by rot, and that, within one year after the house was erected, all the
basement floor was in a state of premature decay. In cases of dry-rot,
where the mycelium passes through substances from the external sur-
face, it separates into innumerable small branches ; when it proceeds
from slime in the fissures of the earth, the mycelial fibers shoot in every
direction and are very much tangled. Arising from the roots of trees,
they look at first like hoar frost, but soon show regular toadstools.
When they grow in very damp situations, they feel fleshy and extend
equally around a circular space which they wholly cover unless obsta-
cles interpose.
Excessive damp is unfavorable to this fungus, and its growth is
more rapid in proportion as the situation is less damp, until the proper
point for the growth of vegetation is reached. When the fungus ex-
tends to dry situations, its effects are more destructive to the timber
on which it grows : it is very fibrous, and in part covered with a light-
brown membrane perfectly soft and smooth. It is often of great mag-
nitude, projecting from the timber in a white spongeous excrescence,
on the surface of which a profuse humidity is frequently observed.
Sometimes it forms only a fibrous, thin- coated, irregular web on the
surface of the wood. Excrescences of a fungiform appearance are
often protruded amid those already described, and are evidences of a
very corrupt state at the spots whence they spring. Sometimes they
arise in several fungiforms, each above the other, without any distinc-
tion of stem ; and in some corrupt states the small acrid mushroom is
generated.
But there are two or three species of fungi that are chiefly con-
cerned with the process of dry-rot. The Merulius lachrymans (often
called the dry-rot) is a most formidable enemy of timber. When the
section of a piece of wood attacked internally by dry-rot is examined
through a microscope, and minute white threads are seen interlaced
and matted together all through its substance, and when this cottony
texture effuses itself over the surface of the timber, and in the center
of it a gelatinous substance forms which gradually becomes tawny and
wrinkled and sheds a red powder on the white, downy surface, you
have the Merulius lachrymans. But, long before this last stage of
growth is reached, the interior of the wood has perished. As soon as
the cottony filaments are seen upon timber internally affected, we may
be sure that an apparently solid beam may be crumbled to dust be-
tween the fingers. In his botanical description of this plant, Dr.
Greville says it is " soft, tender, at first very light, cottony, and white ;
veins appear, at length, which are of a fine orange or reddish brown,
forming irregular folds, usually so arranged as to appear like pores,
but never anything like tubes, and, when perfect, distilling drops of
water." Hence the term lachrymans. The folds or pores here spoken
of are the reproductive portion of the plant. They are covered by the
hymenium or spore-bearing membrane, which sheds its red powder
