DRY-ROT IN TIMBER. 529
upon the white mycelium. In this fungus the stem is entirely absent,
and the cap is attached by its back. In the different species we may
find the reproductive or spore-bearing portion in the form of a cup,
or a goblet, or a saucer ; of an ear, a bird's nest, a horn, a bunch of
coral, a button, a rosette, a lump of jelly, or a piece of velvet. The
Merulius is found in cellars and hollow trees, sometimes several feet
in width.
Another fungus, the Polyporus hybridus, is an especial enemy of
oak-timber. It is described by Berkley as " white, mycelium thick,
forming a dense membrane or creeping branched strings ; hymenium
breaking up into areae, pores long, slender, minute." This species makes
great havoc in the navy. At one time it is said, in the memoirs of
Pepys, thirty new wooden ships in the British navy, "for want of
proper care and attention, had toadstools growing in their holds as v big
as one's fists, and were so decayed that the planks dropped from their
sides." In the beginning of this century, three 74-gun ships of the
Royal Navy decayed in five years ; three others in seven years ; and
a 100-gun ship in six years. Fungi have been seen growing between
the timbers of a man-of-war strong enough to force a plank half an
inch from the ship's side.
But, without attempting to discriminate among the fungi causing
dry-rot, it may be stated generally that, in timber that has been only
superficially seasoned, this disease often arises internally, and has been
known to convert the entire substance of a beam, excepting an inch or
two at the surface, into fine, white, and thread-like vegetation, which
forms a thick, fungous coat at the ends of the beam, otherwise appear-
ing perfectly sound. This has often been observed in large girders of
yellow fir, which have seemed sound on the outside. Major Jones,
R. E., states of a building in Malta, that " the timbers had every ex-
ternal appearance of being sound, but on being bored with an auger
they were found internally in a total state of decay."
The first symptoms of dry-rot in timber are swelling, discolora-
tion, moldiness, and a musty smell. As the disease advances the fibers
shrink lengthwise and break, presenting many deep fissures across the
wood ; finally, the cohesion of the wood is utterly destroyed, and at
the least disturbance it crumbles to powder. Before it has time to
destroy the principal timbers in a house, it gets behind the skirtings,
dadoes, and wainscotings, drawing in the edges of the boards, and
splitting them both horizontally and vertically. When cleared of the
fungus they look like wood that has been charred. Though affected
but a short time, a slight pressure will break them asunder : and, when
examined, the fibrous fungus will be seen closely attached to the de-
cayed wood.
Timber that is floated down rivers and conveyed from place to
place in ships is very liable to this disease. It is said of the exports
of timber from Canada to England, that few cargoes in the log arrive
vol. xv. 34
