538 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
whenever I put any three of the five together, I arrive at very nearly
the same typical face.*
The process is one of pictorial statistics, suitable to give us generic
pictures of man, such as Quetelet obtained in outline by the ordinary
numerical methods of statistics, as described in his work on " Anthro-
pometric." He procured the measurements of the limbs of a large
number of person of both sexes and of various ages, and of the dis-
tances between such points on the surface of the body as are sufficient-
ly defined to measure from. From these numerical data he calculated
and laid down upon paper the average positions of those points, and
therefrom constructed sketches of the typical man at various periods
of his growth, like Flaxman's drawings or Retsch's outlines. By the
process of composites we obtain a picture and not a mere outline. It
is blurred, something like a damp sketch, and the breadth of the blur
measures the variability of individuals from the central typical form.
It may be objected that the contribution from each portrait, when
there is a multitude of them, is so small that, in the great majority of
cases, it might perhaps leave no trace at all in the generic portrait, or,
at all events, on the photograph ; consequently, that the result may
not be what it professes, but is, perhaps, due to a comparatively small
portion of the components, in which the lights and shades happen to
be sufficiently marked to create a decided impression. I therefore
tried a simple experiment, which leaves no doubt that this objection is
unfounded under even very exceptional circumstances, so far as the
photographs are concerned, and, therefore, a fortiori, as regards com-
posite results by purely optical means. I contrived a small apparatus
to be held in one hand. It had a receptacle behind for sensitized
paper, in front of which was a hole closed by a shutter, that sprang
back when I pressed my finger on a catch, and closed at the moment
that I released the pressure. In the other hand I held a chronograph,
in which the hand that marked quarter-seconds began to travel the
instant I pressed a catch, and stopped when I released it. I worked
these two instruments simultaneously, holding one in each hand. The
chronograph readings gave me the sum of the successive short periods
of exposure of the sensitized paper, and I could watch the length of
each of them. Thus provided, I made several experiments, and can
testify to the identity of the tint made by one thousand short expos-
ures with that made by a single exposure of the same length of time
as all the thousand put together. "What differences there were, lay
well within the limits of error in experimenting.
Composite portraits are, therefore, much more than averages, be-
cause they include the features of every individual of whom they are
composed. They are the pictorial equivalents of those elaborate sta-
* I exhibited many photographic composites at the Royal Institution on the 25th of
April. Some were transparencies thrown upon a screen, others were made before the
audience by converging magic lanterns.
