GENERIC IMAGES. 539
tistical tables out of which averages are deduced. There can not be
a more perfect example than they afford, of what the metaphysicians
mean by generalizations, when the objects generalized are objects of
vision, and when they belong to the same typical group, one important
characteristic of which is that medium characteristics should be far
more frequent than divergent ones. It is strange to notice how com-
monly this conception has been overlooked by metaphysicians, and
how positive are their statements that generalizations are impossible,
and that the very idea of them is absurd. I will quote the lucid
writing of Sir W. Hamilton to this effect, where he epitomizes the
opinions of other leading metaphysicians. I do so the more readily
because I fully concede that there is perfect truth in what he says,
when the objects to be generalized are not what a cautious statistician
would understand by the word generic.
Sir "W. Hamilton says : *
Take, for example, the term man. Here we can call up no notion, no idea,
corresponding to the universality of the class, or term. This is manifestly im-
possible. For as man involves contradictory attributes and as contradictions
can not exist in one representation, an idea or notion adequate to man can not
be realized in thought. The class man includes individuals, male and female,
white and black and copper-colored, tall and short, fat and thin, straight and
crooked, whole and mutilated, etc., and the notion of the class must therefore
at once represent all and none of these. It is therefore evident, though the
absurdity was maintained by Locke, that we can not accomplish this; and, this
being impossible, we can not represent to ourselves the class man by any equiva-
lent notion, or idea. All that we can do is to call up some individual image
and consider it as representing, though inadequately representing, the generality.
This we can easily do, for as we can call into imagination any individual, so we
can make that individual image stand for any or for every other which it resem-
bles, in those essential points which constitute the identity of the class. This
opinion, which, after Hobbes, has been in this country maintained among others
by Berkeley, Hume, Adam Smith, Campbell, and Stewart, appears to me not
only true but self-evident.
If Sir W. Hamilton could have seen and examined these composite
portraits, and had borne in mind the well-known elements of statistical
science, he would certainly have written very differently. No doubt,
if what we are supposed to mean by the word man is to include women
and children and is to relate only to their external features and mea-
surements, then the subject is not suitable for a generic picture, other
than of a very blurred kind, such as a child might daub with a paint-
brush. If, however, we take any one of the principal races of man
and confine our portraiture to adult males, or adult females, or to chil-
dren whose ages lie between moderate limits, we ought to produce a
good generic representation.
It will, I trust, be quite understood that, although for the sake of
* " Lectures," ii., 297.
