540 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
brevity I chiefly confine my remarks to visual representations, they are
intended to apply equally to all the senses.
A generic image appears to be nothing more than a generic por-
trait stamped on the brain by the successive impressions made by its
component images. Professor Huxley, from whom I have borrowed
the apt phrase, has expressed himself to a similar effect in his recent
"Life of Hume," page 95. I am rejoiced to find that from a strictly
physiological side this explanation is considered to be the true one, by
so high an authority, and that he has, quite independently of myself,
adopted a view which I also entertained, and had hinted at in my first
description of composite portraiture, though there was not occasion
at that time to write more explicitly about it.
When I am adjusting portraits to make a composite, and at the
moment when the adjustment is being effected, I always experience a
quick sense of satisfaction curiously analogous to that which is felt
on the first recognition of a doubtful likeness of any kind. I have
the same disagreeable feeling of the existence of a puzzle which I
can not make out, accompanied by the conviction that the puzzle is
on the point of being solved. In the next instant coalescence takes
place between what is seen and what was recollected. I am as sure
as it is possible to be on such grounds as these, that the analogy be-
tween catching the coincidence of two similar portraits when optically
superposed and that of the coincidence of a visible object with a past
impression or with a preexistent general idea is true and not meta-
phorical only.
It is very instructive to note the first appearance of a generic
image, and to watch the way in which the mind carves images out of
the medley of its available material. It can not grasp an image of
any complexity unless the elements of which it consists form a con-
gruous composition, that is to say, one whose parts are connected by
such easy lines of association that the mind runs rapidly over the
whole of it, and takes it all in by what seems to be a single glance.
Generic images begin, at least according to my own experience, by
being exceedingly imperfect and vague because they are very com-
prehensive. Then limitations commence, each of which is the cause
of a more distinct picture being formed, and so the mind runs first
through genera, then through species, continually seeking more con-
gruity and clearer definition, but at each step with a loss of compre-
hensiveness. If allowed to do so, it descends to individuals. Let us,
as an example, call up a generic image of a clergyman preaching. I
first see a pulpit of somewhat undefined height? with a vague figure in
it. This figure becomes white, in a surplice ; a competing figure in a
black ground temporarily yielding place. Then I see various acces-
sories suitable to the surplice, such as Gothic architecture, ritualis-
tic decorations, and the like. After this the interiors of particular
churches begin to present themselves, but, as I wish to confine my
