544 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
mental images should sometimes closely resemble these portraits ex-
cept in one important respect ; namely, that the effect produced by the
huge bulk of ordinary facts is never in proportion to their numbers.
Consequently, we find that undue consideration is inevitably given
in generic images to all exceptional cases. When the exceptions in
excess are balanced by those in deficiency, the value of the average
will not be affected, and there is always a tendency toward that result.
The fault that remains wholly uncorrected is, that the great prevalence
of mediocre instances is overlooked, and the number and importance
of the deviations are largely over-estimated. The tendency of the
mind of the child and of the savage, and in all branches of knowledge
in their prescientific stage, is necessarily toward the marvelous and the
miraculous.
The generic images that might arise in a mind superhumanly logi-
cal and active would be subject to no other error than this, but in the
human mind it is not so. Some of the images in every presumed ge-
neric group are sure to be aliens to the genus and to have become
associated to the rest by superficial and fallacious resemblances, such
as common minds are especially attentive to. Again, the number of
pictures that are blended together is sure to fall far short of the whole
store that would be available if the memory were immeasurably
stronger than it is, and more ready in its action. Knowing also as I
do, from considerable experience of composites, what monstrous and
abortive productions may result from ill-sorted combinations of por-
traits, and how much care in selection and nicety of adjustment is
required to produce the truest possible generic image, I cease to won-
der at the numerous shortcomings in our generalizations and at their
absurd and frequent fallacies. The human mind is a most imperfect
apparatus for the elaboration of true general ideas. Compared with
the mind of brutes, its powers are marvelous ; but for all that they
fall vastly short of perfection. The criterion of a perfect mind would
be the power of always creating vivid images of a truly generic kind,
deduced from the whole range of its past experiences.
General impressions are the faint traces left by generic images, and
have all their defects, as well as others, due to their own want of defi-
nition. They are never to be trusted. Unfortunately, when general
impressions are of long standing they become fixed rules of life, and
assume a prescriptive right not to be questioned. Consequently, those
who are not accustomed to original inquiry entertain a hatred and
horror of statistics. They can not endure the notion of submitting
their sacred general impressions to cold-blooded verification. But it is
the triumph of scientific men to rise superior to such superstitions, to
devise tests by which the value of beliefs may be ascertained, and to
feel sufficiently masters of themselves to discard contemptuously what-
ever may be found untrue. Nineteenth Century.
