34 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
" Flesh-food imparts courage, but also aggressive moods and bad temper,
with intervals of gloom and hypochondria ; excessive use of pork can
produce a mental nausea, known to the Hungarians as the Tzbmor, which
may lead to insanity and suicide. The ichthyophagous tribes of northern
Siberia are rendered stupid and sluggish by an exclusive diet of fish.
Fish and fowl in moderate quantities and in combination with vegeta-
ble food, produce no appreciable injurious effects. The influence of ripe
fruit is benign, exhilarating without the eventual reaction that always
follows alcoholic excitement. Milk, too, especially the rich milk of sheep,
has an assuaging, mildly cheering effect even on hypochondriacs and
dyspeptics. Pure fat of any kind exercises a calming influence on ex-
cited passions, but if long continued as an article of diet tends to som-
nolency and lassitude. Strong cheese operates as a sedative and a
check to the activity of the brain-functions makes us stupid in other
words, and can also result in a half-physical, half-psychical dejection not
dissimilar to the Tzomor.
" Wheat-bread is neutral, a most excellent though not all-sufficient
article of food, and, like a blank sheet of paper, serves as a foil to
whatever you may combine it with, while sour rye-bread is a tonic
and reacts on the temper in a feeble way. Eggs, raw or soft-boiled,
are more nourishing than meat, stimulate muscular activity, and pro-
duce reflective rather than vindictive moods. Sugar alone, or prepon-
derating in made dishes, causes vague uneasiness in some and mer-
riment and wantonness in other constitutions, but moderately com-
bined with farinaceous substances and fat, is inferior only to fruit as
an alimentary corrective. Potatoes and the legumina (beans, peas,
and lentils), inasmuch as they are farinaceous, are a legitimate article
of food, yet not as healthy as the cereals. They lack the brain-forming
elements, and, though like bread they might sustain life, they would
operate depressingly produce weariness and ennui, without the addi-
tion of saccharine and sub-acid food.
" The nervousness and peevishness of our times are chiefly attributa-
ble to tea and coffee ; the digestive organs of confirmed coffee-drinkers
are in a state of chronic derangement, which reacts on the brain, pro-
ducing fretful and lachrymose moods. Fine ladies, addicted to strong
coffee, have a characteristic temper which I might describe as a mania
for acting the persecuted saint. Chocolate is neutral in its psj'chic
effects, and is really the most harmless of our fashionable drinks. The
snappish, petulant humor of the Chinese can with certainty be ascribed
to their immoderate fondness for tea. Beer is brutalizing, wine im-
passions, whisky infuriates, but eventually unmans.
"Alcoholic drinks combined with a flesh and fat diet totally sub-
jugate the moral man unless their influence be counteracted by violent
exercise. But with sedentar3' habits they produce those unhappy flesh
sponges which may be studied in metropolitan bachelor-halls, but better
yet in wealthy convents. The soul that mav still linger in a fat Austrian
