54 6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the Orleans branch deeply affects all French politics ; and the un-
timely death of the Prince Imperial is a still more important factor in
tbem.
Mr. Huxley, criticising these speculations of Hume in his recent
volume, expresses the opinion that monarchies in our day are less
likely to fall into discredit through inherent drawbacks or through
the competition of republics than through their " tendency to become
slightly absurd." The maintenance of kingship is undoubtedly de-
pendent in great part on the majesty of kings ; but this majesty is
preserved with increasing difficulty. The purple robe has not only
become frayed, but the wearer is sometimes under a strong temptation
to exchange it for a dressing-gown. It is hard to say what is the
safest general behavior for a royal personage. If monarchy retires
into seclusion, people nowadays ask what is the good of it, and grum-
ble at its costliness. If it associates itself with the tastes which are
conventionally regarded as most respectable, by cultivating art, sci-
ence, or letters, it incurs the repugnance of the multitude to whom
these tastes are a symbol of pedantry or effeminacy. If, on the other
hand, it simply enjoys itself, it becomes the prey of that overdone
morality which is always affected by the dealers in malignant gossip.
No doubt the Prince who died the other day in Paris was a good ex-
ample of the class of idiosyncrasy which endangers monarchy. There
was nothing remarkable about him save his exceptional rank and the
historical dignity of his name. The type is perfectly well known
that of the foreign prodigal who wastes his substance in the city in
wdiich pleasure has become a business ; and not simply a business, but
a business conducted on the strictest commercial principles. But, if
the heirs-apparent of thrones were often seen in the circles frequented
by the last Prince of Orange, there would be a rapid decline of that
kingly majesty which when it wholly disappears leaves (as Mr. Hux-
ley justly says) little but absurdity behind it. The question between
monarchies and republics would then be reduced to a simple question
of their respective convenience ; and, in countries governed as ours
is, the question of convenience is very likely to end in turning on a
mere calculation of cheapness or cost.
It is plain from Hume's language that the commonplaces of his day
were all in favor of republics. There is in fact hardly a single writer
of the time who does not praise them, though they all assume that a
superhuman amount of diffused public virtue is necessary for their
conduct. As we before said, the only known republics were petty or
anomalous oligarchies ; and the eulogies in fashion were in reality
taken from classical panegyrics on Greek and Roman republics, pro-
foundly misunderstood. There are countries which have severely suf-
fered from this enthusiasm founded on ignorance. France owes to it
the most fearful as well as the most absurd of her experiences during
the first Revolution, and she is hardly free even now from some of
