MONARCHY AND ITS DRAWBACKS. 547
its evil effects. The over-estimate of the republican form of gov-
ernment based on classical commonplace has, among other things, pre-
vented our knowing what may be said for or against its establishment
in the older parts of the world. French republics have up to this
time chiefly failed because too much was expected from them. If we
look to facts for our guidance, we have few to rely upon except those
furnished by the comparatively short history of the group of States
making up the American Union. Now, the spectacle of the United
States suggests not that a republican government is what it was
deemed to be by most Englishmen in 1793, but that it is a govern-
ment hardly worth the trouble of adopting in 1879. It is neither a
Utopia of bliss nor a den of assassins and thieves, but simply a set of
institutions like another, with advantages and drawbacks keeping the
scales nearly evenly poised. The attractions which it had for think-
ers of the once famous Utilitarian school plainly arose from miscalcu-
lation. They argued that the interests of a community were the in-
terests of the greatest number of men in it ; and that therefore every
government which rested on the votes of this greatest number, and
did not disturb their verdict by collateral influences, would be sure
by the nature of the case to promote the true interest of the nation.
It has turned out in practice that few men out of a community will
give attention to the interests of the community, and that fewer still
can see or understand them. Thus the experience of republican gov-
ei'nment in America has ended in a great deal of disillusion. It is not
that men may not be happy and prosperous under republics, but that
they are not happier or more prosperous than under many of the forms
of monarchy. A people living under republican institutions is plainly
not wiser, nor more virtuous, nor more peaceable for its government ;
nor is this government cheaper or less clumsy in its practical working
than others. A certain amount of social ease and independence is
attributed to American society by those who have observed it ; but it
does not appear to have any greater respect or regard for cultivation
than the ordinary society of older countries. On the whole, if mon-
archy and republicanism come into competition, and the victory be
decided by the results of experience, there is no particular reason why
republicanism should prevail. The probability is, however, that, if the
throne were to give place to the presidential chair in a country like
ours, the substitution would not be caused by any deliberate prefer-
ence for republican institutions, but by the aggregation of some or all
of those drawbacks on monarchy which we have noticed until they
have become intolerable. Pall Mall Budget.
