54 8 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
GEOGKAPHICAL EVOLUTION*
By Professor AKCHIBALD GEIKIE, F. E. S.
I.
IN the quaint preface to his " Navigations and Voyages of the Eng-
lish Nation," Hakluyt calls geography and chronology " the sunne
and moone, the right eye and the left of all history." The position
thus claimed for geography three hundred years ago hy the great
English chronicler was not accorded by his successors, and has hardly
been admitted even now. The functions of the geographer and the
traveler, popularly assumed to be identical, have been supposed to con-
sist in descriptions of foreign countries, their climate, productions, and
inhabitants, bristling on the one hand with dry statistics, and relieved
on the other by as copious an introduction as may be of stirring ad-
venture and personal anecdote. There has, indeed, been much to jus-
tify this popular assumption. It was not until the key-note of its
future progress was struck by Karl Ritter, within the present century,
that geography advanced beyond the domain of travelers' tales and
desultory observation into that of orderly, methodical, scientific prog-
ress. This branch of inquiry, however, is now no longer the pursuit
of mere numerical statistics, nor the chronicle of marvelous and often
questionable adventures by flood and fell. It seeks to present a lumi-
nous picture of the earth's surface, its various forms of configuration,
its continents, islands, and oceans, its mountains, valleys, and plains,
its rivers and lakes, its climates, plants, and animals. It thus endeav-
ors to produce a picture which shall not be one of mere topographical
detail. It ever looks for a connection between scattered facts, tries to
ascertain the relations which subsist between the different parts of the
globe, their reactions on each other and the function of each in the
general economy of the whole. Modern geography studies the distri-
bution of vegetable and animal life over the earth's surface, with the
action and reaction between it and the surrounding inorganic world.
It traces how man, alike unconsciously and knowingly, has changed
the face of nature, and how, on the other hand, the conditions of his
geographical environment have molded his own progress.
With these broad aims, geography comes frankly for assistance to
many different branches of science. It does not, however, claim in any
measure to occupy their domain. It brings to the consideration of their
problems a central human interest, in which these sciences are some-
times apt to be deficient ; for it demands first of all to know how the
problems to be solved bear upon the position and history of man and
of this marvelously ordered world wherein he finds himself undisputed
lord. Geography freely borrows from meteorology, physics, chemistry,
* A Lecture delivered at the Evening Meeting, March 24, 1879.
