GEOGRAPHICAL EVOLUTION. 549
geology, zoology, and botany ; but the debt is not all on one side.
Save for the impetus derived from geographical research, many of these
sciences would not be in their present advanced condition. They gain
in vast augmentation of facts, and may cheerfully lend their aid in
correlating these for geographical requirements.
In no respect does modern geography stand out more prominently
than in the greater precision and fullness of its work. It has fitted
out exploratory expeditions, and in so doing has been careful to see
them provided with the instruments and apparatus necessary to enable
them to contribute accurate and definite results. It has guided and
fostered research, and has been eager to show a generous appreciation
of the labors of those by whom our knowledge of the earth has been
extended. Human courage and endurance are not less enthusiastically
applauded than they once were ; but they must be united to no com-
mon powers of observation before they will now raise a traveler to
the highest rank. When we read a volume of recent travel, while
warmly appreciating the spirit of adventure, fertility of resource, pres-
ence of mind, and other moral qualities of its author, we instinctively
ask ourselves, as we close its pages, What may be the sum of its addi-
tions to our knowledge of the earth ? From the geographical point of
view and it is to this point alone that these remarks apply we must
rank an explorer according to his success in widening our knowledge
and enlarging our views regarding the aspects of nature.
The demands of modern geography are thus becoming every year
more exacting. It requires more training in its explorers abroad, more
knowledge on the part of its readers at home. The days are drawing
to a close when one can gain undying geographical renown by strug-
gling against man and beast, fever and hunger and drought, across
some savage and previously unknown region, even though little can
be shown as the outcome of the journey. All honor to the pioneers
by whom this first exploratory work has been so nobly done ! They
will be succeeded by a race that will find its laurels more difficult to
win a race from which more will be expected and which will need to
make up in the variety, amount, and value of its detail, what it lacks
in the freshness of first glimpses into new lands.
With no other science has geography become more intimately con-
nected than with geology, and the connection is assuredly destined to
become yet deeper and closer. These two branches of human knowl-
edge are, to use Hakluyt's phrase, " the sunne and moone, the right eye
and the left," of all fruitful inquiry into the character and history of
the earth's surface. As it is impossible to understand the genius and
temperament of a people, its laws and institutions, its manners and
customs, its buildings, and its industries, unless we trace back the his-
tory of that people, and mark the rise and effect of each varied influence
by which its progress has been molded in past generations ; so it is
clear that our knowledge of the aspect of a continent, its mountains
