55 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and valleys, rivers and plains, and all its surface features, can not be
other than singularly feeble and imperfect, unless we realize what has
been the origin of these features. The land has had a history, not less
than the human races that inhabit it.
One can hardly consider attentively the future progress of geog-
raphy without being convinced that, in the wide development yet in
store for this branch of human inquiry, one of its main lines of ad-
vance must be in the direction of what may be termed geographical
evolution. The geographer will no longer be content to take conti-
nents and islands, mountain-chains and river valleys, table-lands and
plains, as initial or aboriginal outlines of the earth's surface. He will
insist on knowing what the geologist can tell him regarding the growth
of these outlines. He will try to trace out the gradual evolution of a
continent, and may even construct maps to show its successive stages
of development. At the same time he will seek for information re-
garding the history of the plants and animals of the region, and may
find much to reward his inquiry as to the early migrations of the fauna
and flora, including those even of man himself. Thus his pictures of
the living world of to-day, as they become more detailed and accurate,
will include more and more distinctly a background of bygone geo-
graphical conditions, out of which, by continuous sequence, the present
conditions will be shown to have arisen.
I propose this evening to sketch in mere outline the aspects of one
side of this evolutional geography. I wish to examine, in the first
place, the evidence whereby we establish the fundamental fact that the
present surface of any country or continent is not that which it has
always worn, and the data by which we may trace backward the
origin of the land ; and, in the second place, to consider, by way of
illustration, some of the more salient features in the gradual growth
of the framework of Europe.
The first of these two divisions of the subject deals with general
principles, and may be conveniently grouped into two parts : 1. The
Materials of the Land. 2. The Building of the Land.
The Materials of the Land. Without attempting to enter
into detailed treatment of this branch of the subject, we may, for the
immediate purpose in view, content ourselves with the broad, useful
classification of the materials of the land into two great series, (a)
Fragmental and (b) Crystalline.
(a.) Fragmental. A very cursory examination of rocks in almost
any part of the world suffices to show that by far the larger portion of
them consists of compacted fragmentary materials. Shales, sandstones,
and conglomerates in infinite variety of texture and color, are piled
above each other to form the foundation of plains and the structure of
mountains. Each of these rocks is composed of distinct particles, worn
by air, rain, frost, springs, rivers, glaciers, or the sea, from previously
existing rocks. They are thus derivative formations, and their source,
