GEOGRAPHICAL EVOLUTION. 553
nifera, sometimes of siliceous radiolaria or diatoms. Over other areas
vast sheets of clay extend, derived apparently from the decomposition
of volcanic detritus, of which large quantities are floated away from
volcanic islands, and much of which may be produced by submarine
volcanoes. On the tracts farthest removed from any land the sedi-
ment seems to settle scarcely so rapidly as the dust that gathers over
the floor of a deserted hall. Mr. Murray, of the Challenger staff, has
described how from these remote depths large numbers of sharks' teeth
and ear-bones of whales were dredged up. We can not suppose the
number of sharks and whales to be much greater in these regions than
in others where their relics were found much less j)lentifully. The
explanation of the abundance of their remains was supplied by their
varied condition of decay and preservation. Some were comparatively
fresh, others had greatly decayed, and were incrusted with or even
deeply buried in a deposit of earthy manganese. Yet the same cast
of the dredge brought up these different stages of decay from the
same surface of the sea-floor. While generation after generation of
sea creatures drops its bones to the bottom, now here, now there, so
exceedingly feeble is the rate of deposit of sediment, that they lie
uncovered, mayhap, for centuries, so that th^ remains which sink to-
day may lie side by side with the moldered and incrusted bones that
found their way to the bottom hundreds of years ago.
Another striking indication of the very slow rate at which sedi-
mentation takes place in these abysses has also been brought to notice
by Mr. Murray. Among the clay from the bottom he found numerous
minute spherical granules of native iron, which, as he suggests, are
almost certainly of meteoric origin fragments of those falling stars,
which, coming to us from planetary space, burst into fragments when
they rush into the denser layers of our atmosphere. In tracts where
the growth of silt upon the sea-floor is excessively tai'dy, the fine par-
ticles, scattered by the dissipation of these meteorites, may remain in
appreciable quantity. In this case, again, it is not needful to suppose
that meteorites have disappeared over these ocean-depths more numer-
ously than over other parts of the earth's surface. The iron granules
have no doubt been as plentifully showered down elsewhere, though
they can not be so readily detected in accumulating sediment. I know
no recent discovery in physical geography more calculated to impress
deeply the imagination than the testimony of this meteoric iron from
the most distant abysses of the ocean. To be told that mud gathers
on the floor of these abysses at an extremely slow rate, conveys but a
vague notion of the tardiness of the process. But to learn that it
gathers so slowly that the very star-dust which falls from outer space
forms an appreciable part of it, brings home to us, as hardly any-
thing else could do, the idea of undisturbed and excessively slow accu-
mulation.
From all this evidence we may legitimately conclude that the pres-
