554 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ent land of the globe, though formed in great measure of marine forma-
tions, has never lain under the deep sea ; but that its site must always
have been near land. Even its thick marine limestones are the depos-
its of comparatively shallow water. Whether or not any trace of
aboriginal land may now be discoverable, the characters of the most
unequivocally marine formations bear emphatic testimony to this prox-
imity of a terrestrial surface. The present continental ridges have
probably always existed in some form, and as a corollary we may infer
that the present deep ocean-basins likewise date from the remotest
geological antiquity.
(b.) Crystalline. While the greater part of the framework of the
land has been slowly built up of sedimentary materials, it is abundantly
varied by the occurrence of crystalline masses, many of which have
been injected in a molten condition into rents underground, or have
been poured out in lava-streams at the surface.
Without entering at all into geological detail, it will be enough for
the present purpose to recognize the characters and origin of two great
types of crystalline material which have been called respectively the
Igneous and Metamorphic.
1. Igneous. As the .name denotes, igneous rocks have risen from
the heated interior of the earth. In a modern volcano, lava ascends
the central funnel, and, issuing from the lip of the crater or from lateral
fissures, pours down the slopes of the cone in sheets of melted rock.
The upper surface of the lava column within the volcano is kept in
constant ebullition by the rise of steam through its mass. Every now
and then a vast body of steam rushes out with a terrific exjdosion,
scattering the melted lava into impalpable dust, and filling the air with
ashes and stones, which descend in showers upon the surrounding coun-
try. At the surface, therefore, igneous rocks appear, partly as masses
of congealed lava, and partly as more or less consolidated sheets of
dust and stones. But beneath the surface there must be a downward
prolongation of the lava column, which no doubt sends out veins into
the rents of the subterranean rocks. We can suppose that the general
aspect of the lava which consolidates at some depth will differ from
that which solidifies above-ground.
As a result of the revolutions which the crust of the earth has un-
dergone, the roots of many ancient volcanoes have been laid bare. We
have been as it were admitted into the secrets of these subterranean
laboratories of nature, and have learned much regarding the mechanism
of volcanic action, which we could never have discovered from any
modern volcano. Thus, while on the one hand we meet with beds of
lava and consolidated volcanic ashes, which were undoubtedly erupted
at the surface of the ground in ancient periods, and were subsequently
buried deep beneath sedimentary accumulations now removed, on the
other hand, we find masses of igneous rock which certainly never came
near the surface, but must have been arrested in their ascent from be-
