556 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
SKETCH OF PROFESSOR DANIEL VAUGHAN.
WE have already printed in our May number a brief sketch of the
life of Professor Vaughan, with the particulars of the painful
circumstances attending his death, and a list of his more important sci-
entific papers. That sketch comprises the history of Vaughan's life,
so far as it is known, and there remains nothing more to add to it.
It is not a little singular that among the property which he left
only one piece of unpublished MS. was found. Remarking on this
fact, Mr. Richard Nelson writes in the " Cincinnati Commercial " :
"As early as 1857 he had occasion to complain that one of his discov-
eries had been claimed by a prominent scientist. That made him sus-
picious, and, as a result of his solitary life, suspicion, like a disease,
grew upon him to that extent that at one time his intimate friends
feared it would overpower his giant intellect. To prevent the recur-
rence of the annoyance he afterward chose to store away in his won-
derfully capacious and retentive memory facts, principles, and figures,
till the opportune moment of publication arrived, and then, instead of
sending his manuscript to the publishers, he had his articles printed
and simultaneously mailed to the publishers and distinguished scien-
tists in various parts of the world. These are the printed articles
found among his effects."
The unpublished MS. mentioned above was on " The Origin of the
Asteroids," and is marked by all the best characteristics of the author's
style. While extremely brief, it treats the subject thoroughly. This
paper is printed in our August Miscellany.
We have been called upon to qualify somewhat the statements
made in the " Monthly " reflecting upon the citizens of Cincinnati for
neglecting this man in his poverty, and leaving him to die in want.
It turns out that Vaughan was a man destitute of common sense in the
matter of taking care of himself, and that he was perverse in not allow-
ing others to assist him. With his penury he was eccentric, and care-
fully secluded himself from attention, so that it was difficult to find
him. It is said there were many who would gladly have assisted him,
and that, too, in a way not to wound his feelings, if he had given them
the opportunity, but that he obstinately refused to receive assist-
ance. He was probably intractable in this respect, for which there
may have been much excuse, for he may have felt that he was entitled
to something better than charity, and, if he could not get what was his
due, he would not take pittances. Perhaps, if there had been more
solicitude about him, more might have been done for him ; but it is
quite probable that Cincinnati is not worse than other cities in its want
of active sympathy for the suffering.
