EDITOR'S TABLE.
557
EDITOR'S TABLE.
THE BENNETT EXPEDITION TO THE
NORTH POLE.
THE unknown spaces of the earth's
surface are being rapidly narrowed
by the enterprise of indefatigable ex-
plorers. Some considerable patches re-
main that have not been penetrated,
but their collective area is relatively
small. There is a large region in the
interior of Australia that has not been
traversed, owing to the absence of water
and vegetation. Central Africa is tne
field where the geographical discoverer
has recently made his most brilliant
conquests, both by narroAving the out-
line of the unknown region, and by the
importance of the knowledge that has
been gained. Less than half a century
ago inner Africa was supposed to be in
a great measure an arid and unproduc-
tive desert; but the explorations of
Livingstone and Stanley have proved
it to be well watered, fertile, and dense-
ly populated. There has been less suc-
cess with Arctic exploration, though it
has been vigorously pushed for the last
fifty years. Latitude 83 26' is the
northernmost point hitherto reached
by any explorer. This leaves an im-
penetrated blank surrounding the north
pole which at the narrowest point is
about 800 miles across. There is little
promise of any commercial utility that
can come from getting access to this
frigid region, but it is enough that it
is a mystery which the whole civilized
world has determined, if possible, to
clear up, and in doing this the rivalries
of national enterprise have been called
into active play.
It is fortunate for geographical prog-
ress that the proprietor of the " New
York Herald," Mr. James Gordon Ben-
nett, not altogether satisfied with the
excitements of yacht-racing, has devel-
oped an ambition in the direction of
exploring unknown tracts of the earth's
surface. He has spent a good deal of
money on mid-Africa with highly sat-
isfactory results, and now turns the
princely revenues of his newspaper into
a channel for the promotion of Arctic
research. It is an expensive business,
as the cost of Arctic expeditions has
increased from $30,000, three hundred
years ago, to $4,166,665 for the Frank-
lin expeditions of 1848-'54. Mr. Ben-
nett, after furnishing the necessary
funds, and preparing the expedition, has
made it a national affair by request-
ing the United States Government to
take charge of it. By act of Congress it
has been put in control of naval offi-
cers, and is cared for by the Navy De-
partment. Besides these peculiarities
of the project, it is novel as being the
first Arctic expedition fitted out from
the west coast of the continent, and
which proposes to push forward to
the north pole by the way of Behring
Strait. According to Lieutenant De
Long, commander of the Jeannette,
which carries the exploring party, no
vessel has penetrated farther north by
this route than latitude 71. Beyond
that parallel the explorers will encoun-
ter a hitherto unobserved region.
A new element comes into play in
this venture which has been thus far
regarded by Arctic navigators as one of
peril. In the other routes that have
been taken to reach the pole the cur-
rents set downward, so that if the ad-
venturers have to abandon their ship and
take to the ice they have a chance of
being brought back, as wasmarvelously
exemplified by the ride of Tyson's party.
But on the Pacific side there is a cur-
rent of water known as the Kuro Shiwo,
or Japanese Warm-Stream, a branch of
