558
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
which is known to enter the Arctic Sea
through Bearing Strait, and is believed
to emerge on the other side through
Baffin's Bay. The drift of ice on this
side is consequently northward, and the
danger is that it will cut off the retreat
in case of accident to the ship by which
the party is compelled to take to the
ice.
Of course the object of the expe-
dition is to reach the north pole, but,
even if it fails, there are subsidiary ob-
jects also to be accomplished. It may
be expected, at any rate, that the un-
known Arctic area will be reduced in
dimensions, and there will be the op-
portunity of scieutific observations in
places as yet unexplored. The magnetic
conditions north of the magnetic pole
will be examined. There will be geo-
logical and mineralogical observations,
and information collected with refer-
ence to the fauna and flora of the Arc-
tic regions. Systematic attention will
also be given to meteorology, in the
hope of getting further data for eluci-
dating the laws of storms.
The scientists of the Western coasts,
as is very natural, have taken a deep in-
terest in this first Arctic expedition from
their side, and that has so many special
features of importance. A meeting of
the Academy of Sciences in San Fran-
cisco was convened June 16th, for the
special purpose of giving a reception to
Lieutenant De Long and the staff of the
Bennett expedition. A paper on Arc-
tic exploration was read by Dr. A. B.
Stout, and remarks were made upon
various connected topics by gentlemen
present. Lieutenant De Long spoke,
but only to say that he had very little
to say in regard to what they were go-
ing to do. They did not sufficiently
know themselves, and hoped to be bet-
ter qualified to talk satisfactorily upon
their return. Mr. Charles Wolcott
Brooks made some interesting observa-
tions regarding the ethnological possi-
bilities of the Arctic regions which we
here subjoin: "In offering his word of
kind encouragement, he remarked that
men who use obstacles as stepping-
stones to success are apt to win ; and
he but expressed the universal desire
of all ethnologists that Lieutenant De
Long and his brave comrades should
overcome every barrier that the Frost
King might impose as an obstacle to
their success. As ethnologists, we all
feel great interest in the existence of
an Arctic Continent, and earnestly de-
sire to know if it is, or can be, inhabited.
In a world governed by mathematical
law, whose every atom is geometrically
correct, and subject to mathematical
proof, we may reasonably judge of the
unknown by what we can see, cautious-
ly using the great law of analogy as our
guide. If we should judge of the ulti-
mate atom, or the most distant orb in
space, we may study for that purpose
some object around us, or our globe
taken as a whole. He who has watched
the organization of crystalline forms
under electric currents has seen the
operation of the same law which has
formed the solid part of the earth we
live on. In its early and plastic condi-
tion it was a sphere like the dew-drop,
but, with the constant currents of or-
ganizing magnetism, it has assumed a
crystalline form, and to-day its solid ex-
terior, were its oceans emptied and re-
moved, would present the polyhedron.
If we carefully examine the almost uni-
versal features of all land known to us,
we find a prevailing form wherever we
turn. Each territorial area of magni-
tude seems to have an appendage trend-
ing southward. Thus, south of the large
continent of North America, we find that
leg-of-mutton or pend (Toreille form of
South America. Beneath Europe rests
a similar shaped area of land in the
continent of Africa, and south of Asia
is Australia and the Polynesian or Spice
Islands. The same relative position
of land is general among many island
groups, and all peninsulas seem also to
point southward, such as Kamtchatka,
Alaska, Lower California, Florida, Nova
