EDITOR'S TABLE.
559
Scotia, Hindostan, etc., and all such
forms have larger bodies of land to their
north. Now, if we apply this rule, by
turning the north pole of a globe to-
ward us, we readily see at a glance that
Greenland, which is known to us, may
bear to an unknown Arctic Continent
the same relation that South America
does to North America, or Africa to
Europe. Hence it is perfectly logical
to infer, by the great analogy of nature,
that an Arctic Continent exists beneath
the north pole, extending three and a
half to four degrees south from the
northern axis of the world. As previ-
ous Arctic expeditions have advanced
to 83 26' north latitude or within 394
miles of the pole the distance thence
to such a continent would not exceed
150 to 180 miles. This intervening
space, however, is quite difficult to trav-
erse, as it is represented to present a
very rough surface. If the sea, during
the height of a gale, when waves run
mountains-high, were instantly frozen,
it would present much the appearance
here encountered. Now, for ethnolo-
gists, the question is, Can an Arctic Con-
tinent be inhabited, should one exist?
This may be met by the already ex-
pressed surmise that the latitude of 78
is about the point of lowest mean tem-
perature. The earth is about thirty -
seven miles more in diameter at the
equator than from pole to pole, having
enlarged at one point and flattened at
another, because of its revolving motion.
Now, it is well known that lower tem-
peratures are encountered as we ascend
great altitudes, and the depression at the
poles may, by lessening the distance of
the surface from the earth's center, af-
ford a warmer temperature, which will
enable the hardy Esquimaux, Ainos, or
some hyperborean race, to exist upon an
Arctic Continent. Should such prove
to be the case, and our good friends dis-
cover any races there to us unknown,
we shall look to them to resurrect us a
specimen skull of some departed inhabi-
tant."
THE PRINCE IMPERIAL.
Much regret is expressed at the sad
end of the late descendant of the Na-
poleons and heir-apparent to the throne
of France ; and much sympathy has also
been awakened for the exiled and wid-
owed mother now made childless. The
bereaved woman is entitled to the same
sympathetic consideration as any other
poor widow who has lost an only child ;
for, though in her case there may be a
peculiar bitterness in the crushing of
ambitious hopes, she has yet the miti-
gations of royal condolence, and the
assurance that her griefs are shared by
sympathetic multitudes. As for the
dead Prince, we might say that his
premature cutting off is just as deplo-
rable as the killing of other young sol-
diers in the common fortunes of war.
But is this quite true ? At any rate,
if it is a blessed thing to lay down one's
life for one's country, is not the amiable
young Prince to be deemed fortunate,
for certainly his death is the greatest
boon that it would be possible for
the French nation now to receive ?
Again, according to the code of military
honor, he is to be congratulated in hav-
ing lost his life in war, whether his
country benefited or lost by it ; and es-
pecially so as the other Napoleons have
died peacefully and ingloriously in their
beds, while it has been reserved for the
last of the line to perish, if not on the
field of battle, at least by violence and
in war. Belonging to a race of adven-
turers, he fitly died as an adventurer ;
and, although the manner of his going
was not very dignified, history will still
be able to say that one Bonaparte was
sacrificed to the vocation to which they
were all devoted.
There is, however, one aspect of
this transaction that may be referred
to as an illustration of the selfish bru-
tality of the common ethics of war.
"When the military system is arraigned
as the great anomaly of civilization,
and war as the most stupendous curse
of humanity, we are told that nations
