560
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
must defend themselves, and that war
is therefore a necessary evil, to be
avoided whenever possible, and always
mitigated to the utmost in its suffer-
ings and its horrible waste of life. And
yet when men go into it in cold blood
as a business, regardless of its justice,
and purely for the promotion of a self-
ish ambition, their conduct still meets
with unbounded applause. It is said
to be to the credit of the young Prince
that he generously offered his services
to England to fight the Zulus ; but what
business had this young Frenchman
with the Zulu war? What had these
distant Africans ever done, that he
should desire to join in the work of
killing them? He not only mixed up
with what was none of his concern, but
he espoused the cause of the wanton
aggressor, for a greater outrage was
never perpetrated than this British in-
vasion of the Zulu people. But it is in
accordance with military traditions and
usages for ambitious men to seize any
opportunity of making their mark.
The Count of Paris came over to have
a hand in our own glorious civil war,
took sides, and went into the business
of killing Southerners for the noble pur-
pose of acquiring military prestige that
might commend him to the French, and
thus increase his chances of being ac-
cepted for the throne of that nation.
The Prince Imperial "went to war"
for the same purpose, that he might
make a military name, and thus im-
prove his chances of getting control of
the French army at some future crisis,
and play the despot like his predeces-
sors. He followed a detestable prac-
tice for a villainous purpose, and got
his just reward.
"AMERICA'S PLACE IH HISTORY."
Under this title, Mr. John Fiske,
of Cambridge, Massachusetts, formerly
lecturer on Philosophy in Harvard
University, has prepared a course of
popular lectures which will be found
worthy the attention of such associa-
tions as can appreciate first-rate intel-
lectual work. Mr. Fiske is author of
the " Cosmic Philosophy," and a thor-
ough student of the modern tenden-
cies of thought. He gave these lectures
in Boston not long ago, and they made
so excellent an impression that he was
called to repeat them in London, and
left early in June for that purpose.
Mr. Fiske is well prepared by his phil-
osophical and historical studies to give
to the problem he has taken up an ori-
ginal and independent treatment. Fa-
miliar with the principles of social evo-
lution, and having given much attention
to the study of races, and to ethno-
logical interactions in the progress of
modern society, he is well prepared to
handle the large and complex ques-
tions involved in the settlement of
America, the organization of colonial
institutions, the establishment of the
American Eepublic, and the develop-
ment of free government on this con-
tinent. The prospectus of this course
of lectures is before us, and it is rich
in topics that must deeply interest all
thoughtful Americans. These are the
sort of lectures that deserve encour-
agement and are worth working for.
Tiie senior editor of this magazine
also proposes to betake hiimelf some-
what to his old business of lecturing
during the coming season. For par-
ticulars address E. L. Youmans, office
of "The Popular Science Monthly,"
New York.
LITERARY NOTICES.
The International Scientific Series, No.
XXVII. The Human Species. By
A. De Quatrefages, Professor of An-
thropology in the Museum of Natural
History, Paris. New York : D. Apple-
ton & Co. Pp. 498. Price, $1.75.
The accomplished French anthropolo-
gist has here produced a remarkably at-
tractive book. It is written with all that
clearness and vivacity of manner for which
