5 82 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
natural science so highly valued by you and by me, as authorities in
this province. In order to be able to speak with authority concerning
any phenomena, one must possess a thorough critical knowledge of the
same. Authorities in the present case, therefore, are only such per-
sons as either possess mediumistic powers or, without claiming to be
bearers of such properties, are able to produce phenomena of the same
nature. As an authority I would therefore acknowledge Mr. Slade,
if he possessed scientific credibility, and also by all means Herr
Bellaihini, prestidigitateur in Berlin, who, as is well known, has de-
clared in favor of Mr. Slade, if I could premise in his case that he had
a conception of the scientific scope of this question. The only person
of whom this is true, and who, at the same time, has successfully imi-
tated many of the Slade experiments, is Dr. Christiani, assistant in the
Physiological Institute in Berlin. Dr. Christiani, however, declares his
experiments to be mere pieces of jugglery. Now, Herr Christiani is
certainly not able to imitate all of Mr. Slade's experiments ; but he
only professes to be an amateur in a field which Mr. Slade cultivates
professionally.
I come to my second question : What influence may we concede to
outside authority upon our own knowledge f In the immensely pre-
ponderant majority of the things which we hold for certain, we all
follow the authority of other men ; we know only a proportionally
small number of facts from our own investigation. Yet all that we
owe to foreign authority passes for the more certain the more it agrees
with our observation. If a new fact is communicated to us, the inves-
tigation of which we are not ourselves in a position to control, then,
at least according to the principles hitherto authoritative in science,
two criteria must be satisfied, if we are to hold the same to be true :
First, it must be confirmed by a credible person, who is master of the
field concerned ; and, secondly, it must not contradict other established
facts. Now, you will probably urge here that this second criterion is
an exceedingly fluctuating one. Indeed, various spiritualistic authors
have not failed to adduce a multitude of instances from the history of
science, in which a fact was at first rejected as false or even impossible,
and was yet at last proved to be true. But I beg to call your atten-
tion to the fact that, in all these instances, the tertium comparationis
with the case before us consists simply and solely in the fact that
something was asserted by some scholars and denied by others. This
case still occurs of course repeatedly, and the controversy is always
decided in favor of those whose observations stand in contradiction
with no other established fact. Usually, indeed, the best passport
which a discoverer gives to his new observation consists precisely in
his indication of its agreement with other facts. I have looked in
vain through the whole history of science for a case in which a scien-
tific authority came forward with the assertion of having discovered a
new fact, at the same time adding to this assertion the assurance that
