SPIRITUALISM AS A SCIENTIFIC QUESTION. 585
however, was excluded, since on that afternoon the air was perfectly
still. Several times during the seance Mr. Slade fell into convulsions
and asked me, who sat beside him, whether I felt anything, which,
however, was not the case. The other persons present occasionally
felt thrusts against their legs, and the tablet, which they held in their
hands under the table, was violently pushed away ; with myself this
did not take place. At the end of the sitting we arose, Mr. Slade laid
his hands upon ours and first lifted the table several inches from the
floor, then letting it suddenly fall again ; it was clearly perceptible
that the table was raised by a central force from beneath. With our
wish to perform some of the experiments in the presence of an observer
standing outside the circle Mr. Slade could not comply. He said that
under that condition the spirits did not obey him ; he was, moreover, a
perfectly passive observer, and must accommodate himself to the con-
ditions which he had accidentally discovered to be favorable for his
experiments. Incidentally he gave us intelligence concerning our own
mediumistic endowments ; me he declared to be a medium " of a
strong power." How he came to this knowledge he did not communi-
cate. To myself, as I will not neglect to mention, never in my life
has anything appeared or happened which might warrant such a diag-
nosis.
If you ask me now whether I am in a condition to express a con-
jecture as to how these experiments were performed, I answer, No.
At the same time, however, I must state that phenomena' of this sort
lie entirely outside the domain of the special training which I have
acquired during my scientific career. It is known to every natural-
ist that one is able to judge an experiment correctly only when one
has one's self experimented in a similar direction, and thus has an in-
sight into the conditions of the origin of the phenomena. If I were
really a medium " of a strong power," as Mr. Slade asserts, I should
perhaps be in a better condition to answer your question ; but, since
this is not the case, you will certainly find it justifiable, if I do not go
into hypotheses as to how the phenomena produced by Mr. Slade were
brought about. What was surprising to me in the matter, however,
and what will also surprise you, is that Mr. Slade also refused to give
any information of this kind. He is a medium, he is an experimenter,
and he must therefore know under what conditions the phenomena
have their origin. He asserts that he knows nothing of them, but that
his relation is a perfectly passive one. The latter, however, is plainly
untrue, since the phenomena generally appear only in the seances held
by him, and also, as a rule, in the order in which he wishes to produce
them.
But, although we can not determine how Mr. Slade performs his
experiments, I agree with you that we still may not in this case pass
the field by as one foreign to us. For, as you very justly remark,
natural science and philosophy are so actively interested in the ques-
