5 86 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tion concerning the reality or non-reality of the spiritualistic phenom-
ena that we must take some sort of attitude toward it. I confess
that, after all I have observed, this question would be for me an ex-
tremely painful one if, with you and the eminent men whose authority
you follow, I bad to regard as excluded every possible explanation of
the phenomena in a natural way in a way which leaves the universal
law of causation untouched.
As to the experiments which I saw myself, I believe that they
will not fail to produce upon every unprejudiced reader, who has ever
seen skillful prestidigitateurs, the impression of well-managed feats
of jugglery. You certainly, respected sir, as I think I may conclude
from your article, appear scarcely to have accumulated experiences in
this direction. This is perfectly intelligible in the case of one whose
time has been occupied in earnest studies. But, before you pronounced
judgment upon this question with so great precision, it would perhaps
have been not altogether out of order, if I may venture to say so, to
see and study the performances of a skillful magician. If, indeed, the
independent experimental cultivation of this field is closed to us by
the direction of our studies, we should still not neglect, before pro-
nouncing a judgment, to become acquainted with phenomena which the
most zealous disciples of spiritualism admit to have a close external re-
lation to the spiritualistic manifestations. I can not find that any one
of the experiments which I saw with Mr. Slade was above the powers
of a good juggler. If the latter has, by means of a place chosen by
himself, more extensive apparatus and assistants, more favorable con-
ditions, so, on the other hand, it is not to be denied that Mr. Slade, by
reason of the restriction to a smaller number of experiments, the fixing
of the participants to a single table, and especially the fact that he
does not need to keep to any programme, and that an experiment can
occasionally miscarry without damaging his reputation, has advantages
on his side. If the " professor of magic " now and then makes use of
glitter and parade, in order to distract attention, Mr. Slade attains the
same end, in perhaps a still more effectual manner, by means of the
subjective fits to which he is exposed.
In my absence certainly much more astonishing performances took
place than those which I saw myself. For my judgment of these per-
formances, though other observers were convinced of their trustworthi-
ness, is decisive. One who enters upon observations with this presup-
position, will naturally regard as superfluous the precautions which
another deems indispensable ; he can leave unmentioned some inci>
dental circumstances of the experiment, the knowledge of which
would essentially change the estimate of it. This does not involve
the slightest reproach against the observer ; he acts in his good faith
in the trustworthiness of his objects, in a faith which does honor to
his feelings, to the same extent that it robs his observations of con-
vincing power. Therefore, respected sir, there remains for me no
