SPIRITUALISM AS A SCIENTIFIC QUESTION. 587
other choice in regard to these observations : I prefer the authority
of Science to the authority of a few of her representatives, however
honorable, who have, in this instance, made observations in a province
which lies far from the sphere of their own special studies.
II.
Here I might conclude, passing silently over the hopes which you
attach to the reality of the spiritualistic phenomena. But your infer-
ences, philosophical, ethical, and religious, in relation to the subject,
appear to me, as I have already observed, so important that they
can not be without influence upon our attitude toward the entire ques-
tion. Permit me, therefore, to betake myself for the moment to your
own standpoint. I will assume, as you do, that the reality of the phe-
nomena is no longer to be doubted. What follows from this for our
general view of the world, for our judgment of the past and of the
future ? What effect does it have upon our moral and religious senti-
ment?
For the purpose of answering these questions, you discuss, in the
first place, the hypotheses which we can form concerning the nature
of the spiritualistic phenomena. There are three such hypotheses.
We can possibly see in the phenomena 1. Expressions of natural
forces ; 2. Operations of intelligent beings, who belong to a space of
four dimensions, and who, therefore, possess the power alternately to
enter, in their movements, our space of three dimensions, and to van-
ish from the same into the to us inaccessible fourth dimension ; 3.
Manifestations of so-called spirits or ghosts. I prefer the latter term,
because, according to philosophical usage, we understand by a spirit
( Geist) an immaterial being, while " the spirits " occasionally undergo
materialization, a property which is designated, unambiguously only,
by the German word " 6respes" (ghost, apparition). Like all who
have engaged themselves with the subject, you reject the first hypoth-
esis, since the phenomena point to arbitrary actions of intelligent
beings ; only the last two hypotheses, therefore, remain for us to con-
sider.
Here, respected sir, you believe yourself compelled to decide against
the hypothesis of intelligent beings of four dimensions and for the
hypothesis of ghosts. I will not follow you in your argument, based
upon the Kantian theory of knowledge ; I would, however, beg to call
your attention to the fact that there is no essential difference between
the two hypotheses. By a ghost we understand an intelligent being
that can suddenly appear in the world of our senses and as suddenly
disappear from it again, leaving no traces behind, but we understand
precisely the same by an intelligent being of four dimensions. Modern
mathematics, as you very well know, has advanced in its speculations
astonishingly far, and it has thereby gained the power to define with
exactness numerous conceptions, for the designation of which we had
