5 88 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
previously to employ common terms of speech. As the modern geome-
trician speaks of a " plane and in itself congruent manifold of three
dimensions," without understanding by it anything else than the space
well known to all of us, so he designates with the term " intelligent
beings of four dimensions " simply what we ordinary men are accus-
tomed to call ghosts. I believe now with you that the hypothesis
which alone is left for us is at the same time the sole hypothesis
which would be able to explain the phenomena their reality being
presupposed and we can therefore confidently make it the basis of
our further conclusions. For my own part, I should prefer the term
" intelligent beings of four dimensions," because it is more scientific ;
but for the sake of brevity I will employ the current name of ghosts.
You now put the question a question worth taking to heart
" Who are these ghosts ? " Your deductions lead you to the conclu-
sion that we have to see in them the souls of men who have died,
which possess the power to assume again, partially or fully, their
former bodily form. Although in Mr. Slade's sittings only detached
members hands and feet became visible, partly immediately and
partly in impressions, it still appears from American advices that ma-
terializations of entire bodies are not wanting. I can only assent to
this conclusion. I am also essentially determined here by the impres-
sion, to which you refer of a man's foot deformed by a tight shoe
upon a blackened tablet. The assumption that the beings of some
other world unknown to us would naturally resemble us not only in
their bodily constitution, but also in their dress, has to me only a very
slight probability. I confess, indeed, that the thought that hard-
hearted shoemakers might even in the next world continue their
attempts to improve the anatomical structure of our feet gives me
great uneasiness, while I could more easily reconcile myself to the
idea that some abiding effects of sufferings here might accompany us
into the future. Under this assumption, I count it not altogether im-
possible that a specialist might be able to conclude from the peculiar
character of the deformity as to the period in which the possessor of
the foot lived, and perhaps even as to the nation to which he belonged.
I regret that this investigation does not appear to have been thought of.
We will assume, therefore, that the ghosts belonged to our deceased
fellow men, who advise us in this way of their survival and their con-
dition after death. What significance have the phenomena, then ?
You, respected sir, believe that you must view this significance as
lying above all else in the fact that nothing could more powerfully
strengthen our faith in a supreme moral government of the world,
nothing more surely counteract the materialism and indifferentism of
the time, than the certainty of immortality. To-day, when faith has
become tottering, when, at the same time, there are no youthful races
(like the Celts, the Teutons, the Slavs) able, as at the time of the
decay of ancient civilization, " to take up the broken thread of civiliza-
