SPIRITUALISM AS A SCIENTIFIC QUESTION. 591
we can conclude from the character of their writings upon slates, can
only be described as lamentable. These writings belong throughout
to the domain of higher or lower stupidity, chiefly lower i. e., they
are absolutely without sense.
3. The moral condition of the souls seems to be relatively the most
favorable. According to all the evidence, the character of harmless-
ness can not be denied them. It shows itself particularly in the fact
that they hold it to be necessary to make excuses for proceedings of a
somewhat brutal nature, in case of becoming guilty of such as, for
instance, the destruction of a bed-screen, with a politeness which, in a
ghost, is certainly deserving of acknowledgment. This harmlessness,
therefore, gives us a right to expect something good of their other
moral qualities, concerning which nothing particular is known.
Pardon me if I seem to joke. You would misunderstand me if
you should believe that I had adduced these consequences of your
premises with any other intention than that of indicating as forcibly
as possible the earnest scientific, moral, and religious anxiety which
the views that you represent in your latest essay must necessarily
awaken.
I will not speak of how, even in the most favorable case of your
example finding no further following, the science which concerns us
both most nearly, philosophy, can not be without danger of having its
reputation severely damaged, when one of its distinguished representa-
tives, who has treated almost all of its departments and has especially
occupied himself earnestly with logical studies, now suddenly throws
overboard all principles of scientific investigation, in order to find in
the revelations of rapping spirits the means of supplementing our in-
sight into the order of the world. The specialist in scientific investi-
gation has the prerogative of a certain one-sidedness ; we justify many
a freak in his narrower field which can not abide the test of criticism.
But what is to become of philosophy, if it abandons the general prin-
ciples of knowledge, whose authority it is its office to establish for the
special sciences ? Yet even this particular interest is of subordinate
importance, compared with the serious consequences which your pro-
cedure must have, if, which God forbid, it should find more followers
in the scientific world. Whence is the scientific investigator to get
courage and perseverance for his work, if the laws of nature, accord-
ing to the prospect which you open, are approaching a point where
they shall be done away with ? And who will still be inclined to oc-
cupy himself with scientific problems, when he is allured by the hope
of obtaining an answer to the deepest and highest questions by means
of spiritualistic appearances? It is true that the disclosures already
won in this way are good for nothing. But how were it possible for
individuals and societies to spend their time in these idle occupations,
if they did not hope for better results ? A mournful intellectual deso-
lation would be the necessary consequence, if views such as you pro-
