59 2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
claim to-day should ever become the common property of the scientific
world.
This might pass, however, if that moral and religious awakening
which you hope from the spiritualistic manifestations were really to
be expected from them, according to the teachings of history and the
laws of human nature. I almost hesitate to say to you that the moral
deepening of religion has continually kept pace with the doing away
of rude representations of the divine in forms of sense, and that, along-
side weak-minded unbelief, the worst enemy of morality has always
been superstition.
These are things long well known to you. You indeed declare the
phenomena to which you refer to be realities, and therefore different
from the objects of superstition. But every superstition has done
that. Not upon whether one believes in certain phenomena or not,
but only upon the objects in which one believes, can the corrupting
effects of superstition depend. The moral barbarism produced in its
time by the belief in witchcraft would have been precisely the same,
if there had been real witches. We can therefore leave the question
entirely alone, whether or not you have ground to believe in the spirit-
ualistic phenomena. "We can content ourselves with considering the
question, whether the objects of your belief show the characteristic
signs which we find in those objects of belief which, according to the
testimony of history and of social psychology, we must call prejudicial
to the moral development of man. This question, after the intimate
relation which we have shown to exist between spiritualism and the
most corrupt forms of so-called superstition, can only be answered in
the affirmative. The reasons for this demoralizing influence, as you
as a psychologist will easily perceive, are also perfectly apparent. The
danger of estrangement from earnest work, devoted to the service of
science or of a practical calling, which I have already touched, is to be
included here, if indeed in a subordinate place. Of far greater impor-
tance are the unworthy conceptions of the condition of the spirit after
death, which these phenomena awaken, and which find their analogy
only in the so-called animism of the most degraded races. But most
pernicious of all appears to me the caricature which the spiritualistic
system, in the form in which you represent it, makes of the rule of a
higher order of the world, by making men of, at the very least, most
ordinary intellectual and spiritual endowments the bearers of super-
natural powers, thereby sealing them as the chosen instruments of
Providence. In all these features, and above all in the materialization
of the ghosts, there is betrayed a grossly materialistic tendency, of
which, as I am glad to believe, most of the German spiritualists are
not conscious. They are only the pitiable victims of exotic Shamans,
who have transplanted to Europe the animistic conceptions which
have not entirely disappeared in their home. From a philosojmer
this materialistic character of spiritualism ought not to have remained
