GEOGRAPHICAL EVOLUTION. 593
concealed. Astonishingly, however, you see in it nothing less than a
contrivance of Providence for counteracting the materialism of the
present. This is to me the most incomprehensible part of your essay.
I see in spiritualism, on the contrary, a sign of the materialism and
the barbarism of our time. From early times, as you well know, ma-
terialism has had two forms ; the one denies the spiritual, the other
transforms it into matter. The latter form is the older. From the
animism of the popular mythologies, it passes into philosophy, in order
to be by the latter gradually overcome. As civilized barbarism can
experience relapses into all forms of primitive conditions, so it is not
spared from this also.
That, in your person, philosophy too has shared in this relapse, I
count most melancholy. Above all else, however, I deplore the pos-
sible influence of your example upon our academical youth, among
whose instructors you belong. What would become of science, if pur-
suits which your views only too easily encourage should become
prevalent among our students ; if earnest work and the emulation of
scientific studies should become supplanted among them by an aimless
chase after wonders and by rapping-spirit clubs ? I have such firm
confidence in the sound sense of our youth, that I am sure these fears
will not be realized. Nevertheless, I held it to be my duty no longer
to remain a silent spectator, but to answer your challenge. I sincerely
hope, at the same time, that my answer may succeed in prompting you
to another careful consideration of the subject. Then perhaps I may
not entirely relinquish the hope that we may one day find ourselves
with a common feeling concerning this question.
With this wish, I remain, with high esteem, yours,
W. Wundt.
GEOGKAPHICAL EVOLUTION.
By Professor AECHIBALD GEIKIE, F. K. S.
II.
THE ARCHITECTURE OF THE LAND. Let us now proceed
to consider how these materials, sedimentary and crystalline,
have been put together, so as to constitute the solid land of the globe.
It requires but a cursory examination to observe that the sedimen-
tary masses have not been huddled together at random ; that, on the
contrary, they have been laid down in sheets one over the other. An
arrangement of this kind at once betokens a chronological sequence.
The rocks can not all have been formed simultaneously. Those at the
bottom must have been laid down before those at the top. A truism
of this kind seems hardly to require formal statement. Yet it lies at
VOL. xy. 38
