59+ THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the very foundation of any attempt to trace the geological history of a
country. Did the rocks everywhere lie undisturbed one above another
as they were originally laid down, their clear order of succession would
carry with it its own evident interpretation. But such have been the
changes that have arisen, partly from the operation of forces from
below, partly from that of forces acting on the surface, that the true
order of a series of rocks is not always so easily determined. By start-
ing, however, from where the succession is normal and unbroken, the
geologist can advance with confidence into regions where it has been
completely interrupted where the rocks have been shattered, crum-
pled, and even inverted.
The clew which guides us through these labyrinths is a very simple
one. It is afforded by the remains of once living plants and animals
which have been preserved in the rocky framework of the land. Each
well-marked series of sedimentary accumulations contains its own char-
acteristic plants, corals, crustaceans, shells, fishes, or other organic
remains. By these it can be identified and traced from country to
country across a whole continent. When, therefore, the true order of
superposition of the rocks has been ascertained by observing how they
lie upon each other, the succession of their fossils is at the same time
fixed. In this way the sedimentary part of the earth's crust has been
classified into different formations, each characterized by its distinct
assemblage of organic remains. In the most recent formations, most
of these remains are identical with still living species of plants and
animals ; but as we descend in the series and come into progressively
older deposits, the proportion of existing species diminishes until at
last all the species of fossils are found to be extinct. Still older and
lower rocks reveal types and assemblages of organisms which depart
further and further from the existing order.
By noting the fossil contents of a formation, therefore, even in a
district where the rocks have been so disturbed that their sequence is
otherwise untraceable, the geologist can confidently assign their rela-
tive position to each of the fractured masses. He knows, for instance
(using for our present purpose the letters of the alphabet to denote the
sequence of the formations), that a mass of limestone containing fossils
typical of the formation B must be younger than another mass of rock
containing the fossils of A. A series of strata fidl of the fossils of H
resting immediately on others charged with those of C, must evidently
be separated from these by a great gap, elsewhere filled in by the inter-
vening formations D, E, F, G. Nay, should the rocks in the upper
part of a mountain be replete with the fossils proper to D, while those
in the lower slopes showed only the fossils of E, F, and G, it could be
demonstrated that the materials of the mountain had actually been
turned upside down, for, as proved by its organic remains, the oldest
and therefore lowest formation had come to lie at the top, and the
youngest, and therefore highest, at the bottom.
