GEOGRAPHICAL EVOLUTION. 595
Of absolute chronology in such questions science can as yet give no
measure. How many millions of years each formation may have
required for its production, and how far back in time may be the era of
any given group of fossils, are problems to which no answer, other than
a mere guess, can be returned. But this is a matter of far less moment
than the relative chronology, which can usually be accurately fixed for
each country, and on which all attempts to trace back the history of
the land must be based.
While, then, it is true that most of the materials of the solid land
have been laid down at successive periods under the sea, and that the
relative dates of their deposition can be determined, it is no less certain
that the formation of these materials has not proceeded uninterruptedly,
and that they have not finally been raised into land by a single move-
ment. The mere fact that they are of marine origin shows, of course,
that the land owes its origin to some kind of terrestrial disturbance.
But, when the sedimentary formations are examined in detail, they
present a most wonderful chronicle of long-continued, oft-repeated, and
exceedingly complex movements of the crust of the globe. They show
that the history of every country has been long and eventful ; that, in
short, hardly any portion of the land has reached its present condition,
save after a protracted series of geological revolutions.
One of the most obvious and not the least striking features in the
architecture of the land is the frequency with which the rocks, though
originally horizontal, or approximately so, have been tilted up at
various angles, or even placed on end. At first it might be supposed
that these disturbed positions have been assumed at random, accord-
ing to the capricious operations of subterranean forces. They seem to
follow no order, and to defy any attempt to reduce them to system.
Yet a closer scrutiny serves to establish a real connection among them.
They are found, for the most part, to belong to great though fractured
curves, into which the crust of the earth has been folded. In low
countries far removed from any great mountain-range, the rocks often
present scarcely a trace of disturbance, or, if they have been affected,
it is chiefly by having been thrown into gentle undulations. As we
approach the higher grounds, however, they manifest increasing signs
of commotion. Their undulations become more frequent and steeper,
until, entering within the mountain-region, we find the rocks curved,
crumpled, fractured, inverted, tossed over each other into yawning gulf
and towering crest, like billows arrested at the height of a furious
storm.
Yet even in the midst of such apparent chaos it is not impossible to
trace the fundamental law and order by which it is underlaid. The
prime fact to be noted is the universal plication and crumpling of rocks
which were at first nearly horizontal. From the gentle undulations of
the strata beneath the plains to their violent contortion and inversion
among the mountains, there is that insensible gradation which connects
