596 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the whole of these disturbances as parts of one common process. They
can not be accounted for by any mere local movements, though such
movements no doubt took place abundantly. The existence of a moun-
tain-chain is not to be explained by a special upheaval or series of
upheavals caused by an expansive force acting from below. . Manifestly
the elevation is only one phase of a vast terrestrial movement which has
extended over whole continents, and has affected plains as well as high
grounds.
The only cause which, so far as our present knowledge goes, could
have produced such wide-spread changes is a general contraction of the
earth's mass. There can be no doubt that at one time our planet existed
in a gaseous, then in a liquid condition. Since these early periods it
has continued to lose heat, and consequently to contract and to grow
more and more solid, until, as the physicists insist, it has now become
practically as rigid as a globe of glass or of steel. But in the course of
the contraction, after the solid external crust was formed, the inner hot
nucleus has lost heat more rapidly than the crust, and has tended to
shrink inward from it. As a consequence of this internal movement,
the outer solid shell has been obliged to sink down upon the retreating
nucleus. In so doing, it has of course had to accommodate itself to a
diminished area, and this it could only accomplish by undergoing pli-
cation and crumpling. Though the analogy is not n very exact one,
we may liken our globe to a shriveled apple. The skin of the apple
does not contract equally. As the internal moisture passes off, and the
bulk of the fruit is reduced, the once smooth exterior becomes here
and there corrugated and dimpled.
Without entering into this difficult problem in physical geology, it
may suffice if we carry with us the idea that our globe must once have
had a greater diameter than it now possesses, and that the crumpling
of its outer layers, whether due to mere contraction or, as has been
suggested, to the escape also of subterranean vapors, affords evidence
of this diminution. A little reflection suffices to show us that, even
without any knowledge of the actual history of the contraction, we
might anticipate that the effects would neither be continuous nor
everywhere uniform. The solid crust would not, we may be sure, sub-
side as fast as the mass inside. It would, for a time at least, cohere
and support itself, until at last, gravitation proving too much for its
strength, it would sink down. And the areas and amount of descent
would be greatly regulated by the varying thickness and structure of
the crust. Subsidence would not take place everywhere ; for, as a
consequence of the narrower space into which the crust sank, some
regions would necessarily be pushed up. These conditions appear to
have been fulfilled in the past history of the earth. There is evidence
that the terrestrial disturbance has been renewed again and again,
after long pauses, and that, while the ocean-basins have on the whole
been the great areas of depression, the continents have been the lines
