GEOGRAPHICAL EVOLUTION. 597
of uprise or relief, where the rocks were crumpled and pushed out of
the way. Paradoxical, therefore, as the statement may appear, it is
nevertheless strictly true that the solid land, considered with reference
to the earth's surface as a whole, is the consequence of subsidence
rather than of upheaval.
Grasping, then, this conception of the real character of the move-
ments to which the earth owes its present surface configuration, we are
furnished with fresh light for exploring the ancient history and growth
of the solid land. The great continental ridges seem to lie nearly on
the site of the earliest lines of relief from the strain of contraction.
They were forced up between the subsiding oceanic basins at a very
early period of geological history. In each succeeding epoch of move-
ment they were naturally used over again, and received an additional
push upward. Hence we see the meaning of the evidence supplied by
the sedimentary rocks as to shallow seas and proximity of land. These
rocks could not have been otherwise produced. They were derived
from the waste of the land, and were deposited near the land. For it
must be borne in mind that every mass of land, as soon as it appeared
above water, was at once attacked by the ceaseless erosion of moving
water and atmospheric influences, and immediately began to furnish
materials for the construction of future lands, to be afterward raised
out of the sea.
Each great period of contraction elevated anew the much-worn
land, and, at the same time, brought the consolidated marine sedi-
ments above water as parts of a new terrestrial surface. Again a long
interval would ensue, marked perhaps by a slow subsidence both of the
land and sea-bottom. Meanwhile the surface of the land was chan-
neled and lowered, and its detritus was spread over the sea-floor, until
another era of disturbance raised it once more with a portion of the
surrounding ocean-bed. These successive upward and downward
movements explain why the sedimentary formations do not occur as a
continuous series, but often lie each upon the upturned and worn edge
of its predecessors.
Returning now to the chronological sequence indicated by the
organic remains preserved among the sedimentary rocks, we see how
it may be possible to determine the relative order of the successive
upheavals of a continent. If, for example, a group of rocks, which, as
before, may be called A, were found to have been upturned and covered
over by undisturbed beds C, the disturbance could be affirmed to have
occurred at some part of the epoch represented elsewhere by the miss-
ing series B. If, again, the group C were observed to have been sub-
sequently tilted, and to pass under gently-inclined or horizontal strata
E, a second period of disturbance would be proved to have occurred
between the time of C and E.
I have referred to the unceasing destruction of its surface which
the land undergoes from the time when it emerges out of the sea. As
