DIETETIC CURIOSITIES. 39
out rushed the black domino, returning like Antceus with ever-renewed
strength, it seemed, from a contact with mother earth. The burghers
of Prague looked on, wondered, admired, and finally broke out into
enthusiastic applause they began to comprehend ; it was the consist-
ent, most natural and appropriate acting out of the part which the
domino required the character role of a fat burgomaster who alter-
nates his official duties with short calls at a lunch-table and only the
fortieth call suggested superhuman powers and an investigation of the
mystery.
North America, with all its strawberry short-cakes, clam-bakes, and
railroad restaurants, is perhaps, after all, the land blessed with the most
natural diet. Healthy food, which is the not-often-used privilege
of the rich in Europe, abounds on the table of the poor farmer here.
Our five or six largest cities emulate the vice-centers of the Old World,
and have not learned yet to sin with grace and long impunity ; but the
populations of our glorious rural districts, in the valleys of New Eng-
land, on the Western table-lands, and in the paradise of the Alleghanies,
live more faithful to nature than any white men since the days of Cin-
cinnatus, in the golden age of Italy, and in consequence are healthier
and healthier-looking than any contemporary race, the peasantry of the
Tyrol and .the Swiss highlands alone excepted. There we meet our
physical superiors ; but our inferiority is not hopeless, and if we would
just fry a little less and cook more, and substitute milk for coffee, Vir-
ginia and Vermont would soon turn out boys to match the prettiest
Gemsenjiiger of the Alpenland.
Hoeing corn and wood-chopping make a hoecake with bacon or a
dish of brown beans more palatable than all the piquanteries of the
Palais Royal ; and even the hog and hominy of the poor tar-heel squat-
ter are preferable to the Irish potato-mess or the cabbage and quass
diet of Panslavonia. Exercise in open air as an aid to eupeptic beati-
tude ranks above all the " old reliable correctives " from the Paracelsian
quintessence to Hostetter's bitters. A Persian satrap asked the Spartan
ambassador for the receipt of the famous black broth of Lycurgus, but
confessed himself unable to relish it without extra spices. " The spices
you lack," remarked his guest, " are Spartan gymnastics and a bath in
Eurotas."
In Texas, Arkansas, and the Southwestern Territories, we may find
habits primitive enough to suit even a Thoreau or an admirer of the
patriarchal ages. Abraham treated his angels to a souper-dinatoire of
roast veal, barley-bread, and milk more than the Arkansas traveler
could count upon at the end of his day's journey. But the air of the
prairies, Rocky Mountain adventures, or the vicissitudes of a North
Carolina State road can make the homely symposion of a log-cabin as
sweet as an evening with Philemon and Baucis.
It has been remarked that the yearning of homesickness is never
produced by the recollection of city luxuries, but of rural diet and
