GEOGRAPHICAL EVOLUTION. 601
A curious fact deserves to be noticed here. During the convul-
sions by which the sediments of the Silurian sea-floor were crumpled
up, crystallized, and elevated into land, the area of Russia seems to
have remained nearly unaffected. Not only so, but the same immu-
nity from violent disturbance has prevailed over that vast territory
during all subsequent geological periods. The Ural Mountains on the
east have again and again served as lines of relief, and have been from
time to time ridged up anew. The German domains on the west have
likewise suffered extreme convulsion. But the wide intervening pla-
teau of Russia has apparently always maintained its flatness either as
sea-bottom or as terrestrial plains.
By the time of the coal-growths, the aspect of the European area
had still further changed. It then consisted of a series of low ridges
or islands in the midst of a shallow sea or of wide salt-water lagoons.
A group of islands occupied the site of some of the existing high
grounds of Britain. A long, irregular ridge ran across what is now
France from Brittany to the Mediterranean. The Spanish Peninsula
stood as a detached island. The future Alps rose as a long, low ridge,
to the north of the eastern edge of which lay another insular sj:>ace,
where now we find the high grounds of Bavaria and Bohemia. The
shallow waters which wound among these scattered patches of land
were gradually silted up. Many of them became marshes, crowded
with a most luxuriant cryptogamic vegetation, specially of lycopods
and ferns, while the dry grounds waved green with coniferous trees.
By a slow intermittent subsidence, islet after islet sank beneath the
verdant swamps. Each fresh depression submerged the rank jungles
and buried them under sand and mud, where they were eventually
compressed into coal. To this united cooperation of dense vegetable
growth, accumulation of sediment, and slow subterranean movement,
Europe owes her coal-fields.
All this time the chief area of high ground in Europe appears still
to have lain to the north and northwest. The old gnarled gneiss of
that region, though constantly worn down and furnishing materials
toward each new formation, yet rose up as land. It no doubt re-
ceived successive elevations, during the periods of disturbance, which
more or less compensated for the constant loss from its surface.
The next scene we may contemplate brings before us a series of salt
lakes, covering the center of the continent from the north of Ireland
to the heart of Poland. These basins were formed by the gradual
cutting off of portions of the sea which had spread over the region.
Their waters were red and bitter, and singularly unfavorable to life.
On the low intervening ridges a coniferous and cycadaceous vegeta-
tion grew, sometimes in quantity sufficient to supply materials for the
formation of coal-seams. The largest of these salt lakes stretched
from the edge of the old plateau of Central France along the base of
the Alpine ridge to the high grounds of Bohemia, and included the
