GEOGRAPHICAL EVOLUTION. 603
Europe and Asia. It was at the close of this period of extreme de-
pression that those subterranean movements began to which the pres-
ent configuration of Europe is mainly due. The Pyrenees, Alps, Apen-
nines, Carpathians, the Caucasus, and the heights of Asia Minor mark
as it were the crests of the vast earth- waves into which the solid frame-
work of Europe was then thrown. So enormous was the contortion
that, as may be seen along the northern Alps, the rocks for thousands
of feet were completely inverted, this inversion being accompanied by
the most colossal folding and twisting. The massive sedimentary for-
mations were crumpled up, and doubled over each other, as we might
fold a pile of cloth. In the midst of these commotions the west of Eu-
rope remained undisturbed. It is strange to reflect that the soft clays
and sands under London are as old as some of the hardened rocks
which have been upheaved into such picturesque peaks along the
northern flanks of the Alps.
After the completion of these vast terrestrial disturbances, the out-
lines of Europe began distinctly to shape themselves into their present
form. The Alps rose as a great mountain-range, flanked on the north
by a vast lake which covered all the present lowlands of Switzerland,
and stretched northward across a part of the Jura Mountains, and east-
ward into Germany. The size of this fresh-water basin may be in-
ferred from the fact that one portion only of the sand and gravel that
accumulated in it even now measures six thousand feet in thickness.
The surrounding land was densely clothed with a vegetation indicative
of a much warmer climate than Europe now can boast. Palms of
American types, as well as date-palms, huge Calif ornian pines (Sequoia),
laurels, cypresses, and evergreen oaks, with many other evergreen trees,
gave a distinctive character to the vegetation. Among the trees too
were planes, poplars, maples, willows, oaks, and other ancestors of our
living woods and forests ; numerous ferns grew in the underwood,
while clematis and vine wound themselves among the branches. The
waters were haunted by huge pachyderms, such as the dinotherium
and hippopotamus ; while the rhinoceros and mastodon roamed through
the woodlands.
A marked feature of this period in Europe was the abundance
and activity of the volcanoes. In Hungary, Rhineland, and Central
France, numerous vents opened and poured out their streams of lava
and showers of ashes. From the south of Antrim, also, another great
line of active orifices ran up the west coast of Scotland and by the
Faroe Islands to Iceland, whence it extended even far into Arctic
Greenland.
The mild climate indicated by the vegetation in the deposits of the
Swiss lake, prevailed even into polar latitudes, for the remains of nu-
merous evergreen shrubs, oaks, maples, walnuts, hazels, and many other
trees, have been found under the sheets of lava in the far north of
Greenland. The sea still occupied much of the lowlands of Europe.
