6o 4 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Thus it ran as a strait between the Bay of Biscay and the Mediterra-
nean, cutting off the Pyrenees and Spain from the rest of the continent.
It swept round the north of France, covering the rich fields of Tou-
raine and the wide flats of the Netherlands. It rolled far up the plains
of the Danube and stretched thence eastward across the south of Rus-
sia into Asia.
By this time not a few of the species of shells which still people
the European seas had appeared. So long have they been natives of
our area that they have witnessed the rise of a great part of the con-
tinent. Some of the most stupendous changes which they have seen
have taken place in the basin of the Mediterranean, where, at a com-
paratively recent geological period, parts of the sea-floor have been
upheaved to a height of three thousand feet. It was then that the
breadth of the Italian Peninsula was increased by the belt of lower
hills that flanks the range of the Apennines. Then, too, Vesuvius and
Etna began their eruptions. Among these later geographical events
also we must place the gradual isolation of the Sea of Aral, the Caspian,
and the Black Sea from the rest of the ocean, which once spread from
the Arctic regions down the west of Asia, along the base of the Ural
Mountains into the southeast of Europe.
The last scene in this long history is one of the most unexpected of
all. Europe, having nearly its present height and outlines, is swathed
deep in snow and ice. Scandinavia and Finland are one vast sheet of
ice, that creeps down from the watershed into the Atlantic on the one
side, and into the basin of the Baltic on'the other. All the high grounds
of Britain are similarly buried. The bed of the North Sea as well as
of the Baltic is in great measure choked with ice. The Alps, the
Pyrenees, the Carpathians, and the Caucasus send down vast glaciers
into the plains at their base. Northern plants find their way south
even to the Pyrenees, while the reindeer, musk-ox, lemming, and their
Arctic companions roam far and wide over France.
As a result of the prolonged passage of solid masses of ice over
them, the rocks on the surface of the continent, when once more laid
bare to the sun, present a worn, flowing outline. They have been hol-
lowed into basins, ground smooth, and polished. Long mounds and
wide sheets of clay, gravel, and sand have been left over the low
grounds, and the hollows between them are filled with innumerable
tarns and lakes. Crowds of bowlders have been perched on the sides
of the hills and dropped over the plains. With the advent of a mild-
er temperature the Arctic vegetation has gradually disappeared from
the plains. Driven up step by step before the advancing flora from
more genial climates, it retired into the mountains and there to this
day continues to maintain itself. The present Alpine flora of the
Pyrenees, the Alps, Britain, and Scandinavia, is thus a living record of
the ice age. The reindeer and his friends have long since been forced
to return to their northern homes.
