GEOGRAPHICAL EVOLUTION. 605
After this long succession of physical revolutions, man appears as
a denizen of the Europe thus prepared for him. The earliest records
of his presence reveal him as a fisher and hunter, with rude flint-pointed
spear and harpoon. And doubtless for many a dim century such was
his condition. He made no more impress on external nature than one
of the beasts which he chased. But in course of time, as civilization
grew, he asserted his claim to be one of the geographical forces of the
globe. Not content with gathering the fruits and capturing the ani-
mals which he found needful for his wants, he gradually entered on a
contest with Nature to subdue the earth and to possess it. Nowhere
has this warfare been fought out so vigorously as on the surface of
Europe. On the one hand, wide dark regions of ancient forest have
given place to smiling cornfields. Peat and moor have made way for
pasture and tillage. On the other hand, by the clearance of woodlands
the rainfall has been so diminished that drought and barrenness have
spread where verdure and luxuriance once prevailed. Rivers have
been straightened and made to keep their channels, the sea has been
barred back from its former shores. For many generations the sur-
face of the continent has been covered with roads, villages, and towns,
bridges, aqueducts, and canals, to which this century has added a mul-
titudinous network of railways, with their embankments and tunnels.
In short, wherever man has lived, the ground beneath him bears wit-
ness to his presence. It is slowly covered with a stratum either wholly
formed by him or due in great measure to his operations. The soil
under old cities has been increased to a depth of many feet by the rub-
bish of his buildings ; the level of the streets of modern Rome stands
high above that of the pavement of the Caesars, and that again above
the roadways of the early republic. Over cultivated fields his pot-
sherds are turned up in abundance by the plow. The loam has risen
within the walls of his graveyards as generation after generation has
moldered into dust.
It must be owned that man, in most of his struggles with the world
around him, has fought blindly for his own ultimate interests. His
contest, successful for the moment, has too often led to sure and sad
disaster. Stripping forests from hill and mountain, he has gained his
immediate object in the possession of their abundant stores of tim-
ber ; but he has laid open the slopes to be parched by drought, or to
be swept bare by rain. Countries once rich in beauty, and plenteous
in all that was needful for his support, are now burned and barren, or
almost denuded of their soil. Gradually he has been taught by his
own bitter experience, that while his aim still is to subdue the earth,
he can attain it, not by setting Nature and her laws at defiance, but by
enlisting them in his service. He has learned at last to be the minister
and interpreter of Nature, and he finds in her a ready and unrepining
slave.
In fine, looking back across the long cycles of change through which
