606 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the land has been shaped into its present form, let us realize that these
geographical revolutions are not events wholly of the dim past, but
that they are still in progress. So slow and measured has been their
march, that even from the earliest times of human history they seem
hardly to have advanced at all. But none the less are they surelv and
steadily transpiring around us. In the fall of rain and the flow of
rivers, in the bubble of springs and the silence of frost, in the quiet
creep of glaciers and the tumultuous rush of ocean-waves, in the tre-
mor of the earthquake and the outburst of the volcano, we may recog-
nize the same play of terrestrial forces by which the framework of the
continents has been step by step evolved. In this light the familiar
phenomena of our daily experience acquire an historical interest and
dignity. Through them we are enabled to bring the remote past
vividly before us, and to look forward hopefully to that great future
in which, in the physical not less than in the moral world, man is to be
a fellow worker with God. Proceedings of the Royal Geographical
Society.
SEEPENT-CHAEM.
By FELIX L. OSWALD, M. D.
THE pathology of spiritualism presents some curious parallels with
that of a well-known class of physical disorders the artificial
derangements of the alimentary process by the opium-habit, and the
abuse of alcoholic or pungent stimulants, which a French physiologist
comprises under the name of toxicolatrous affections the poison-
manias, we might call them and which, with all their characteristic
causes, symptoms, progressive stages, direct and collateral effects, find
their analogues in the half -voluntary delusion of ancient and modern
miracle-mongers.
Spiritualistic as well as spirituous propensities can be transmitted
by hereditary influences ; both are liable to be aggravated by pro-
longed indulgence, to develop the symptoms of chronic diseases, and
to end in hopeless delirium. The principal arguments against the
use of poisonous stimulants are based upon their adventitious conse-
quences. Dull headaches and red noses are mere trifles compared
with the negative effects of habitual intoxication loss of memory,
energy, and self-respect, and of the relish for healthier food and all
healthier and higher enjoyments. The worst of alcoholic blue-devils
are the ghosts of departed hopes, for an unnatural passion implies many
things, among which the hankering after a special kind of unwholesome
stimulant is only a minor item.
For the same reason, it would be a mistake to suppose that the
