SERPENT-CHARM. 607
mischief of anti-natural dogmas could be estimated by their direct
effects the propagation of a greater or smaller number of preposter-
ous tenets ; the chief bane of their influence is indirect and subjective,
rather than objective. Not external facts only, but our own vision,
they have obscured ; the victims of supernaturalism have lost their
critical faculty as well as their critical conscience their standard of
probability itself has been falsified. Like an all-pervading mist, the
poison-vapor of mysticism has obscured the light of science, and
blinded the eye of common sense to innumerable fallacies and charla-
tanries. St. Gregory Thaumaturgus is the patron-saint of all quacks
of mesmerists, fasting girls, blue glass and patent-medicine peddlers
as well as of indulgence-brokers. Mere dogma- worship might imply
connivance, rather than blindness a sort of noli -me-tang 'ere awe more
than insensibility ; but also in scientific theorems where free inquiry is
not only permitted but specially invited, the most obvious and palpable
nonsense fails to be seen and felt. For people who have been fuddled
with mysticism lose their relish for simple truth ; the old credo quod
absurdum videtur (" since it appears preposterous, I believe it") seems
to be their motto.
A very characteristic instance of this abject credulity is the ser-
pent-charm superstition. Millions of our countrymen still believe in
what they call snake-charming ; i. e., the ability of certain reptiles to
paralyze smaller animals by the magic power of their eyes, a belief
whose tenacity and extravagant absurdity nearly justify Pierre Gas-
sendi's complaint that in regard to all occult phenomena the most
supernatural theory is sure to become the popular one. Blacksnakes
overtake their prey by superior swiftness and strangle them by superior
strength ; but the fact that such sluggish creatures as the Indian cobra
and the American rattlesnake are able to capture birds and squirrels
seemed to demand an abnormal explanation, and the demand, as usual,
was equaled by the supply. Truth-loving and otherwise intelligent
persons listen gravely to stories about linnets who hopped from branch
to branch into the penetralia of a snake-infested bush, or swallows who
paused in their headlong flight, hovered with tremulous wings for a
minute or two, and then descended in a reluctant flutter toward a ditch
or hedge where the enemy lay concealed, a coiled snake with a pair of
twinkling optics that glittered like demons' eyes, while the doomed
bird came nearer and nearer, and finally saved the serpent the trouble
of swallowing it by hopping down its throat. The natives of our
Southern coast States ascribe the same faculty to lizards and toads ;
and the darkeys of the Georgia river plantations, if asked to account
for the frequent disappearance of sucking pigs, used to explain that
they had been charmed away by alligators, who, without leaving their
native element, were able to draw a pig clear across a ten-acre field by
cocking their eyes in a peculiar way ! But the arch-conjurer of our
continent is still the sneaking rattlesnake, whose power for mischief is
