612 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
by the evaporation of sal enixum or muriate of ammonia ; not because
they are ignorant of the fact that minutes and hours may intervene
between a cause and its visible effect, but because they yearn to sub-
stitute mystery for simple and intelligible truth. Not everybody could
be expected to investigate the matter by expensive and laborious ex-
periments, but all unmystified human beings could and should be able
to foresee the result in regard to the main point, or suspend their
opinion altogether rather than accept the enchantment theory. Not
their poverty but their will consents. The witchcraft delusion had
long been exposed in all its bottomless absurdity when people still
believed in weather-wizards, were-wolves, and broomstick excursions
through the chimney ; and, after ninety-eight " mediums " have been
caught in flagranti, the ninety-ninth can collect a roomful of grown-
up persons who are kind enough to think it possible that disembodied
souls could handle a fiddle-stick, or that flying beans and cherry-stones
emanate from a spirit-popgun.
Venomous serpents would disappear without the aid of St. Patrick
if they had to rely on the charm of their eyes for a dinner ; for a
rattlesnake, deprived of its chemicals, would starve as surely as a
" magic slate-writing medium " in a like predicament.
NOVELTY IN PATENTS. .
By OLIVEK E. LYMAN.
BY the statute of 1870 it was enacted that an invention, to be
patentable, must possess, among other qualifications, that of
newness or novelty. But what constitutes novelty is not defined.
The solution of the question is left to be determined according to the
circumstances of each particular case. It is this fact which makes
the question such a difficult one to be answered ; for in each case there
is generally some little element present which distinguishes it from
other cases, and makes it impossible to frame one decided rule of uni-
versal application. The question is also rendered less easy of solution
from the fact that it comes up most frequently in its most difficult
aspect in cases of infringement, where the point under discussion is,
whether the alleged invention is, or is not, substantially identical with
some prior existing thing, which has been in common use here or de-
scribed in some patent or printed publication. Yet, despite the nicety
in which this question of novelty is involved, we are not compelled to
leave it entirely unsolved. A careful study of the subject discloses
certain principles which by their application somewhat prune down
the difficulty. "We are fortunate in being able to approach the ques-
tion from two sides ; for, as was true in the case of the two-faced
