4 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
habits, and lonely scenery. I am often reminded of an honest moun-
taineer from western North Carolina who had found a position in the
land-office of his State capital. After a session of the State Legisla-
ture he was standing among the spectators that always attend the arri-
val or departure of a Southern railway-train. "Look there, Harry ! "
said his companion, " there are those representatives of yours again,
going to take the cars back to Marion, I guess. Don't they make you
feel like taking an up-train yourself sometimes ? " " Well, sir," groaned
Harry, " I can stand those delegates tolerably enough, but I tell you, if
I hear them cry out huckleberries in the morning, it makes me feel like
jumping out of bed and starting for home, sweet home, with my shirt-
tails flying ! "
" Alas," sighs Montaigne, " for my own native hills, and a straw-
berry-patch, autour duquel mon dme n^a jamais eesse Perrerf" May
they flourish, the strawberries and huckleberries and the Texas pecans,
the peanuts, chestnuts, and maple-trees, and the Chickasaw plums, may
they be blessed ! Also all johnny-cakes, corn-dodgers, and Tyrolese
dumplings, and raspberry puddings, that ever restored health to a stran-
ger or confirmed it to a native ! " And above all," says Andreas Hofer
in his last address to his countrymen, " beware lest they smuggle in the
pottage of Esau with other luxuries of the lowlands ; and let your
motto be, ' Rye-bread and freedom ! ' "
---
BODILY CONDITIONS AS RELATED TO MENTAL
STATES*
By CHAELES FAYETTE TAYLOE, M. D.
WHATEVER that thing, fact, function, or idea which we call
mind may be, or whether the brain, as is generally believed, is
or is not its sole organ of manifestation, it is universally admitted that
varying bodily conditions are accompanied by related variations of
mental states. Aphasia, insanity, imbecility, are so often found accom-
panied by certain definite pathological alterations in the b rain-sub-
stance that they are generally held to be symptomatic of such local
changes. So, also, though in a more general way, melancholia and de-
pression, as well as exaltations and excitements of the mind, are known
to depend largely on corresponding general bodily conditions of re-
tarded or accelerated physiological processes.
It is also held, though in a less definite manner, that the health of
the body may be affected, beneficially or injuriously, by certain states
* Read before the New York Academy of Sciences, Section of Biology, January 27,
1879.
