NOVELTY IN PATENTS. 613
shield, over which those two knights of old story wrangled so long,
an inspection of the subject from two points of observation decidedly
simplifies matters. The first of these methods of studying the subject
I would designate the negative, and the second the positive method.
By the negative method we deduce certain principles in regard to
cases which have at first sight a color of novelty, but are not novel, so
as to be patentable. By the positive method we arrive at certain con-
clusions in regard to what actually constitutes novelty in a patentable
sense.
I propose to discuss, first : What cases, at first sight possessing
novelty, do not actually possess novelty ? A study of cases warrants
us in accepting, as a first principle, that every change or mere substitu-
tion of a mechanical equivalent is not necessarily a patentable novel-
ty ; for it may not be substantially unlike some prior thing. We may
have, for instance, a machine, comprising, say, three distinct parts.
A man, not the inventor, substitutes for each of these parts other
equivalents, producing the same results. This is not a patentable in-
vention. Even if the products be better or cheaper, it is at most only
an improvement upon a former invention, and can be used only with
the permission of the former patentee.
I spoke above of a "mechanical equivalent." This needs to be
defined in order that we may have a clear comprehension of the above
principle. To define it, however, is not so easy. Mr. Parsons has said
that " he would be a very acute man who could certainly discern, or a
very bold man who would certainly assert, what is meant by a mechan-
ical equivalent." At the risk of being considered bold, certain judges
have, nevertheless, ventured to attack the Gordian knot. We find one
definition in Smith vs. Downing, 1 Fisher's Patent Cases, 87 : " By
equivalents in machinery is usually meant merely the substitution of
one mechanical power for another, or one obvious and customary mode
for another, of effecting a like result." This definition is not sufficient-
ly explicit. A better one is to be found in Carter vs. Baker, 4 Fisher's
Patent Cases, 409 : "When, in mechanics, one device does a particular
thing, or accomplishes a particular result, every other device known
and used in mechanics, which skillful and experienced workmen know
will produce the same result, or do the same particular thing, is a
known mechanical substitute for the first device mentioned for doing
the same thing, or accomplishing the same result. It is sufficient to
constitute a known mechanical substitute that, when a skillful mechanic
sees one device doing a particular thing, he knows the other device,
whose uses he is acquainted with, will do the same thing."
This definition not only covers those elements which come strictly
under the head of mechanics, but is also our guide in determining
what constitutes an equivalent in an " art," or a " manufacture," or a
" composition of matter." The definition of an equivalent of any sub-
stance in a composition made of several ingredients, for example, is, in
