NOVELTY IN PATENTS. 615
things as, for example, a hammer with a screw-driver inserted in
one end of the handle and an awl in the other. The absurdity of
granting a patent in such a case is very apparent, and it is no won-
der that in the case of Swift vs. Whizen, 3 Fisher's Patent Cases, 357,
a decision was given against the patentability of the very aggregation
given above as an example.
A distinction should be made between such aggregations, when the
whole is easily divisible into its component parts, and aggregations
where the individuality of the component parts is lost. I would revert
to the hammer and screw-driver as an example of what I mean by the
divisibility of the whole. The hammer can be taken by itself, the awl
by itself, and the screw-driver by itself, and used. As an example of
what I mean by the loss of individuality, take the combined glass-
cutter, screw-driver, can-opener, etc., which have been on sale in the
streets of late. Here there is but one invention in reality, and the
various parts are merged in one whole. The novelty lies in the new
combination of the glass-cutter, can-opener, etc., in such a way that
the utility of the parts would be lost by division.
We have now left to discuss the general rule that a mere alteration
in the form, size, material, or proportions of an existing device is not
such a change as to produce patentable novelty. This rule is related
to the first one given in regard to the substitution of mechanical equiv-
alents, but it is much wider in its scope. It is laid down in express
terms in the second section of the act of February 21, 1793. This
declaratory law was not reenacted in the patent act of 1836, yet ne-
cessity and justice compel its recognition. For, as was said in Winans
vs. Denmead, 15 Howard, 341 : " It is a principle which necessarily
makes part of every system of law granting patents for new inven-
tions. Merely to change the form of a machine is the work of a con-
structor, not of an inventor ; such a change can not be deemed an
invention."
A very interesting case on this point is reported in 11 Howard, 248
(Hotchkiss vs. Greenwood). It relates particularly to the substitution
of a new material. In this case a new clay knob was substituted for
a metallic knob. It was claimed that there was a patentable novelty.
But there was no new mechanical device or contrivance. The knob
was not new. The metallic shank and spindle were not new ; nor the
dovetail form of the cavity in the knob, nor the means by which the
metallic shank was securely fastened therein. The only change was
in the substitution of a clay for the former metallic knob. Judge
Nelson very properly decided that there was no such novelty in this
as to warrant the granting of a patent. " This of itself," said he,
" can never be the subject of a patent. No one will pretend that a
machine, made in whole or in part of materials better adapted to the
purpose for which it is used than the materials of which the old one
is constructed, and for that reason better and cheaper, can be dis-
