616 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tinguished from the old one ; or, in the sense of the patent law, can
entitle the manufacturer to a patent."
So much for the negative method of investigation of the subject of
novelty in patents. We have discussed many cases of apparent nov-
elty and have seen in what novelty does not consist. In accordance
with the old saw, "You tell me what you're not, and I'll tell you what
you are," we are now prepared to turn to what I have called the posi-
tive method of investigation and learn what is patentable novelty.
To answer the question, What is novel, so as to be patentable ?
is easier than the one we discussed in the first part of this paper. In
a few words, there is patentable novelty when there is a different prin-
ciple of operation ; when there is a different result in kind, or when
there is a new combination. It is for one or another of these reasons
that a patent is ever granted. There may be other grounds apparent-
ly, but a closer investigation will show them to be but another species
of the above family, and consequently to be classified with them in
their application.
The first two of the three principles enumerated can best be treated
of together. To repeat, there will be novelty when either the manu-
facture produced, or the manner of producing an old one is new. In
the former case there must be something substantially new, different
from what was before known. In the latter case the principle of the
machine must be different. And, as I have shown before, a mere
change of the form or proportions will not suffice, if both are the same
in principle, structure, mode of operation, and produce the same re-
sult. This is true even if there is some small variance in some small
matter for the purpose of evasion, or a color for a patent. There
must be some principles different from any previously known.
This opens up the ancillary and important question, What is meant
by " the principles of a machine " ?
In Whittemore vs. Cutter, 1 Gall., 478, Judge Story says : " By the
principles of a machine is not meant the original elementary principles
of motion which philosophy and science have discovered, but the
modus operandi, the peculiar manner or device for producing any
given effect. If the same effects are produced by two machines by
the same mode of operation, the principles of each are the same. If
the same effects are produced, but by combinations of machinery oper-
ating substantially in a different manner, the principles are different."
In deciding whether the principles of a machine are new, there is
one block over which we may stumble and which we should take care
to avoid. There is danger of confusing form with principle. The
question of what constitutes form and what principle is frequently a
very nice question to decide. Judge Washington, in Treadwell vs.
Bladen, 4 Wash., 706, has pointed out a road out of the confusion.
"The safest guide," says he, "to accuracy in making the distinction
is, to ascertain what is the result to be obtained by the discovery ; and
