NOVELTY IN PATENTS. 617
whatever is essential to that object, independent of the mere form and
proportions of the thing used for the purpose, may generally, if not
universally, be considered as the principle of the invention."
The third principle above enumerated, that a new combination is a
patentable novelty, is well elucidated in the case of Barrett vs. Hull,
1 Mass., 474. This was a case for the infringement of a patent granted
for " a new and useful improvement, being a mode of dyeing and fin-
ishing all kinds of silk-woven goods." Judge Story said : " A patent
may be for a new combination of machines to produce certain effects ;
and this whether the machines constituting the combination be new or
old." And in Whitney vs. Emmett, 1 Baldwin, 311, also the patenta-
bility of a new combination was upheld. What the learned Judge said
is so good an epitome of all that has been said in the second part of
this paper, that I give it, although it is merely cumulative :
" Novelty consists in producing a new substance, or an old one in a
new way, by new machinery, or a new combination of the parts of an
old one, operating in a peculiar, better, cheaper, or quicker method, a
new mechanical employment of principles already known."
The rule in regard to new combinations, as above laid down, is
most just, for the most valuable inventions consist in the combination
of known mechanical powers. It makes no matter if some of the ele-
ments are old (McCormick vs. Talcott, 20 Howard, 405) ; nor even if
every part of such invention can be found in some form or other among
the many devices of human ingenuity. As was said in Pitts vs. Ed-
mond, 2 Fisher's Patent Cases, 55, " The man who unites these powers
and produces a new and important result to society is well denominated
a public benefactor."
There is one important principle in regard to combinations which,
although not bearing directly upon the question of novelty, yet ought
to be remembered. Judge Story called attention to it in the preceding
case of Barrett vs. Hull : " It is no infringement," he said, " of the
patent to use any of the machines separately, if the whole combination
be not used, for in such case the thing patented is not the separate
machines, but the combination."
With this quotation I end the discussion of the question of novelty
in patents. I have endeavored to make my answer as satisfactory as
the difficulties of the question would allow. I have for that purpose
viewed the subject from two standpoints of opposite natures and have
enumerated and discussed certain principles of general application
which were disclosed by this double observation. The work must at
the best, however, be incomplete, for, as Mr. Parsons says, " It is ob-
viously impossible to find precise and technical rules which always
answer the question."
