FOOD AND FEEDING. 623
cal of temperate habits, is intimately associated with the cigarette or
cigar. Only by the uncultured classes of Great Britain and of other
northern nations, who appear to possess the most insensitive palates in
Europe, have smoke and alcoholic drinks been closely associated. By
such, tobacco and spirit have been sought chiefly as drugs, and are
taken mainly for their effects on the nervous system the easy but dis-
astrous means of becoming stupid, besotted, or drunk. People of cul-
tivated tastes, on the other hand, select their tobacco or their wines,
not for their qualities as drugs, but for those subtler attributes of fla-
vor and perfume, which exist often in inverse proportion to the injuri-
ous narcotic ingredients ; which latter are as much as possible avoid-
ed, or are accepted chiefly for the sake of the former.
Before quitting the subject of dining it must be said that, after
all, those who drink water with that meal probably enjoy food more
than those who drink wine. They have generally better appetite and
digestion, and they certainly preserve an appreciative palate longer
than the wine-drinker. Water is so important an element to them, that
they are not indifferent to its quality and source. As for the large
class which can not help itself in this matter, the importance of an
ample supply of uncontaminated water can not be overrated. The
quality of that which is furnished to the population of London is
inferior, and the only mode of storing it possible to the majority ren-
ders it dangerous to health. Disease and intemperance are largely
produced by neglect in relation to these two matters. It would be
invidious, perhaps, to say what particular question of home or foreign
politics could be spared, that Parliament might discuss a matter of
such pressing urgency as a pure water-supply ; or to specify what par-
ticular part of our enormous expenditure, compulsory and voluntary,
might be better employed than at present, by diverting a portion to
the attainment of that end. But for those who can afford to buy
water no purer exists in any natural sources than that of our own Mal-
vern springs, and these are aerated and provided in the form of soda
and potash waters of unexceptionable quality. Pure water, charged
with gas, does not keep so long as a water to which a little soda or
potash is added ; but for this purpose six to eight grains in each bot-
tle suffice a larger quantity is undesirable. All the great makers of
these beverages have now their own artesian wells or other equally
trustworthy sources, so that English aerated waters are unrivaled in
excellence. On the other hand, the foreign siphon, made, as it often
is, at any chemist's shop, and from the water of the nearest source, is
a very uncertain production. Probably our traveling fellow country-
men owe their attacks of fever more to drinking water contaminated
by sewage matter than to the malarious influences which pervade cer-
tain districts of southern Europe. The only water safe for the trav-
eler to drink is a natural mineral water, and such is now always pro-
curable throughout Europe, except in very remote or unfrequented
