FOOD AND FEEDING. 627
plication and confusion which often appears in culinary directions and
receipts. But the gastronomic art is a simpler one than the effusions
of some of its professors might lead the wholly uneducated to be-
lieve ; and the complicated productions originated by some of its
past and greatest practitioners are as unnecessary as are the long and
complicated prescriptions formerly in vogue with the leading physi-
cians of past time. Both were the natural outgrowth of an age when
every branch of technical education was a " mystery," and when those
who had attained the meaning thereof magnified their craft in the
eyes of the vulgar by obscuring what is simple in a cloud of pedantic
terms and processes. But that age and its delusions are passing away,
and it is high time for simplicity in the practice of cookery to take the
place of some useless and extravagant combinations and treatment
which tradition has handed down.
At the present day it appears desirable, before all things, to secure
the highest quality of all produce, both animal and vegetable ; a re-
spectable standard being rarely attained throughout our country in
regard to the products of the latter kingdom. Great Britain has long
held, and still maintains, the first place as to quality for her beef and
mutton ; in no other country in Europe I can not speak of America
is it possible to obtain these meats so tender, juicy, and well devel-
oped. The saddle, the haunch, the sirloin, and the round, so admirable
on occasions, are only in danger of suffering here, like intimate friends,
from too great familiarity with their charms. But even our standard
of quality in meat has been gradually lowered, from the closer strug-
gle, year by year, to produce a fat animal in a shorter space of time
than formerly ; a result which is accomplished by commencing to feed
almost exclusively on oil-cake at a very early period of life. The re-
sult of this process is, that size and weight are attained by a deposit
of fat, rather than by the construction of muscular fiber, which alone
is true meat ; while, as a necessary consequence, the characteristic
flavor and other qualities of fully developed beef and mutton are
greatly wanting in modern meat.
Much more unsatisfactory is the supply of vegetable and dairy
produce to our great city, particularly of the former. It must be con-
fessed that our market at Covent Garden, in relation to capabilities for
effective distribution of fresh vegetables, etc., would disgrace a town
one fifth of the size of London. Nineteen twentieths of its inhabitants
can not obtain fresh green food on any terms, and those who succeed
pay an exorbitant price. I think I am right in saying that a really
new-laid egg is a luxury which a millionaire can scarcely insure by
purchase ; he may keep fowls, and with due care obtain it, not other-
wise. The great staple of our bread, commonly called "baker's
bread," is unpalatable and indigestible ; and I suppose no thoughtful
or prudent consumer would, unless compelled, eat it habitually used
as it nevertheless is by the great majority of the inhabitants of this
