628 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
great city any more than he would select a steak from the coarse
beef whose proper destination is the stock-pot. Let any one compare
the facilities which exist in most foreign towns for obtaining the three
important articles of diet just named, with the parallel conditions
afforded by London, and the inferiority of the latter will be so mani-
fest as to become matter of humiliation to an Englishman. I do not
raise any question of comparison between our own markets and the
Halles Centrales of Paris, covering as they do nearly five acres of
closely utilized space, with enormous vaults beneath, in direct com-
munication by tram-road with the railways ; nor of the well-stocked
Marche St. Honore, and others of less note. To many among the
thousands of tourists who frequent the public buildings of Paris, an
early morning survey of the fish, flesh, dairy produce, vegetables, fruit,
and flowers, which the Halles Centrales display, and the scarcely less
remarkable exhibition of Parisian and provincial life brought together
there, present one of the most interesting and truly foreign spectacles
which the city affords.
To the long list of needed reforms I have ventured to advocate in
connection with this subject, I must add the want of ample and acces-
sible markets in various parts of London, for what is known as coun-
try produce. I do this not only in the interest of the millions who,
like myself, are compelled to seek their food within the limits of
Cockayne ; but also in the interest of our country gardeners and
housewives, who ought to be able to supply us with poultry, vege-
tables, and eggs, better than the gardeners and housewives of France,
on whom at present we so largely depend. We may well be grateful
to these small cultivators, who by their industry and energy supply
our deficiencies ; but the fact that they do so does not redound to the
credit of our countrymen.
No doubt, as regards security, liberty, locomotive facilities, etc.,
Cockayne is a tolerably comfortable and pleasant place to live in ;
nevertheless, it is certainly true that greater intelligence, more enter-
prise, and better organization perhaps of the cooperative kind are
much required, in order to improve not only the sources and quality of
our food, but also some of our manners and customs in relation to
selecting, preparing, and serving it. Nineteenth Century.
**
A EEMAKKABLE COINCIDENCE.
LETTER FROM DR. GEOEGE M. BEARD.
To the Editors of the Popular Science Monthly :
~TN the April number of your Journal for this year (1879), I discussed
-L the subject of coincidences as one of the six sources of error in ex-
perimenting with living human beings, and stated in substance that this
department of logic had been most imperfectly studied, and that the
