632 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
not very great. A small portion of natural science was introduced
into the secondary schools ; but, as the classical teaching was kept up
as before, the pupils were simply subjected to a greater crush of sub-
jects ; they could derive very little benefit from science introduced on
such terms. The effect on the universities was nil. They were true
to Dugald Stewart's celebrated deliverance on their conservatism.*
The public, however, were not unmoved ; during a number of years
there was a most material reduction in the numbers attending all the
Scotch universities, and the anti-classical agitation was reputed to be
the cause.
The reasonings of Combe will still repay perusal. He puts with
great felicity and clearness the standing objections to the classical sys-
tem ; while he is exceedingly liberal in his concessions, and moderate
in his demands. " I do not denounce the ancient languages and clas-
sical literature on their own account, or desire to see them cast into
utter oblivion. I admit them to be refined studies, and think that
there are individuals who, having a natural turn for them, learn them
easily and enjoy them much. They ought, therefore, to be cultivated
by all such persons. My objection is solely to the practice of render-
ing them the main substance of the education bestowed on young men
who have no taste or talent for them, and whose pursuits in life will
not render them a valuable acquisition."
Before alluding to the more recent utterances in defense of classi-
cal teaching, I wish to lay out as distinctly as I can the various alter-
natives that are apparently now before us as respects the higher
education that is to say, the education begun in the secondary or
grammar schools and completed and stamped in the universities :
1. The existing system of requiring proficiency in both classical
languages. This requirement is imperative everywhere at present.
The universities agree in exacting Latin and Greek as the condition
of an Arts Degree, and in very little else. The defenders of classics
say with some truth that these languages are the principal basis of
uniformity in our degrees ; if they were struck out, the public would
not know what a degree meant.
How exclusive was the study of Latin and Greek in the schools in
England, until lately, is too well known to need any detailed state-
ment. A recent utterance of Mr. Gladstone, however, has felicitously
supplied the crowning illustration. At Eton, in his time, the engross-
ment with classics was such as to keep out religious instruction !
As not many contend that Latin and Greek make an education in
themselves, it is proper to call to mind what other things have been
found possible to include with them in the scope of the Arts Degree.
* " The academical establishments of some parts of Europe are not without their use
to the historian of the human mind. Immovably moored to the same station by the
strength of their cables and the weight of their anchors, they enable him to measure the
rapidity of the current by which the rest of the world is borne along."
