THE CLASSICAL CONTROVERSY. 633
The Scotch universities were always distinguished from the English
in the breadth of their requirements ; they have comprised for many
ages three other subjects mathematics, natural philosophy, and men-
tal philosophy, including logic and ethics. In exceptional instances,
another science is added ; in one case, natural history, in another,
chemistry. According to the notions of scientific order and complete-
ness in the present day, a full course of the primary sciences would
comprise mathematics, natural philosophy, chemistry, physiology or
biology, and mental philosophy. The natural history branches are
not looked upon as primary sciences ; they give no laws, but repeat
the laws of the primary sciences while classifying the kingdoms of
nature.
In John Stuart Mill's celebrated address at St. Andrews, he stood
up for the continuance of the classics in all their integrity, and sud-
denly became a great authority with numbers of persons who probably
had never treated him as an authority before. But his advocacy of
the classics was coupled with an equally strenuous advocacy for the
extension of the scientific course to the full circle of the primary
sciences ; that is to say, he urged the addition of chemistry and physi-
ology to the received sciences. Those that have so industriously
brandished his authority for retaining classics, are discreetly silent
upon this other recommendation. He was too little conversant with
the working of universities to be aware that the addition of two
sciences to the existing course was impracticable ; and he was never
asked which alternative he would prefer. I am inclined to believe
that he would have sacrificed the classics to scientific completeness ;
he would have been satisfied with the quantum of these already gained
at school. But, while we have no positive assurance on this point, I
consider that his opinion should be wholly discounted as not bearing
on the actual case.
The founders of the University of London attempted to realize
Mill's conception to the full. They retained classics ; they added
English and a modern language, and completed the course of primary
science, by including chemistry and physiology. This was a noble
experiment, and we can now report on its success. The classical lan-
guages, English and French or German, mathematics and natural
philosophy, and (after a time) logic and moral philosophy, were all
kept at a good standard ; thus exceeding the requirements of the
Scotch universities at the time by English and a modern language.
The amount of attainment in chemistry was very small, and was dis-
posed of in the matriculation examination. Physiology was reserved
for the final B. A. examination, and was the least satisfactory of all.
Having myself sat at the Examining Board while Dr. Sharpey was
Examiner in Physiology, I had occasion to know that he considered it
prudent to be content with a mere show of studying the subject.
Thus, though the experience of the University of London, as well as
