634 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of the Scotch universities, proves that the classics are compatible with
a very tolerable scientific education, they will need to be curtailed if
every one of the fundamental sciences, as Mill urged, is to be repre-
sented at a passable figure.
In the various new proposals for extending the sphere of scientific
knowledge, a much smaller amount of classics is to be required, but
neither of the two languages is wholly dispensed with. If not taught
at college, they must be taken up at school as a preparation for entering
on the Arts curriculum in the university. This can hardly be a per-
manent state of things, but it is likely to be in operation for some time.
2. The remitting of Greek in favor of a modern language is the
alternative most prominently before the public at present. It accepts
the mixed form of the old curriculum, and replaces one of the dead
languages by one of the living. Resisted by the whole might of the
classical party, this pi-oposal finds favor with the lay professions as
giving one language that will actually be useful to the pupils as a
language. It is the very smallest change that would be a real relief.
That it will speedily be carried we do not doubt.
Except as a relaxation of the gripe of classicism, this change is not
altogether satisfactory. That there must be two languages (besides
English) in order to an Arts Degree is far from obvious. Moreover,
although it is very desirable that every pupil should have facilities at
school or college for commencing modern languages, these do not rank
as indispensable and universal culture, like the knowledge of sciences
and of literature generally. They would have to be taught along with
their respective literatures to correspond to the classics.
Another objection to replacing classics by modern languages is the
necessity of importing foreigners as teachers. Now, although there
are plenty of Frenchmen and Germans that can teach as well as any
Englishmen, it is a painful fact that foreigners do oftener miscarry,
both in teaching and discipline, with English pupils, than our own
countrymen. Foreign masters are well enough for those that go to
them voluntarily with the desire of being taught ; it is as teachers in
a compulsory curriculum that their inferiority becomes apparent.
The retort is sometimes made to this proposal "Why omit Greek
rather than Latin? Should you not retain the greater of the two
languages ? This may be pronounced as mainly a piece of tactics ;
for every one must know that the order of teaching Latin and Greek
at the schools will never be topsy-turvied to suit the fancy of an in-
dividual here and there, even although John Stuart Mill himself was
educated in that order. On the scheme of withdrawing all foreign
languages from the imperative curriculum, and providing for them as
voluntary adjuncts, such freedom of selection would be easy.
3. Another alternative is to remit both Latin and Greek in favor
of French and German. Strange to say, this advance upon the pre-
vious alternative was actually contained in Mr. Gladstone's ill-fated
