636 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
minds equally constituted for science, and equally incapable of taking
up two classical languages ? Should this be granted, the next question
is, Ought these two classes of minds to be treated as equal in rights and
privileges ? The upholders of the present system say, No. The lan-
guage-mind is the true aristocrat ; the science-mind is an inferior cre-
ation. Degrees and privileges are for the man that can score lan-
guages, with never so little science ; outer darkness is assigned to the
man whose forte is science alone. But a war of caste in education is
an unseemly thing ; and, after all the leveling operations that we have
passed through, it is not likely that this distinction will be long pre-
served.
The modern side, as at present constituted, still retains Latin.
There is a considerable strength of feeling in favor of that language
for all kinds of people ; it is thought to be a proper appendage of the
lay professions ; and there is a widespread opinion in favor of its
utility for English. So much is this the case, that the modern-siders
are at present quite willing to come under a pledge to keep up Latin,
and to pass in it with a view to the university. In fact, the schools
find this for the present the most convenient arrangement. It is easier
to supply teaching in Latin than in a modern language, or in most
other things ; and, while Latin continues to be held in respect, it will
remain untouched. Yet the quantity of time occupied by it, with so
little result, must ultimately force a departure from the present cur-
riculum. The real destination of the modern side is to be modern
throughout. It should not be rigorously tied down even to a certain
number of modern languages. English and one other language ought
to be quite enough ; and the choice should be free. On this footing,
the modern side ought to have its place in the schools as the coequal
of classics ; it would be the natural precursor of the modernized alter-
natives in the universities ; those where knowledge subjects predomi-
nate.
The proposal to give an inferior degree to a curriculum that ex-
cludes Greek should, in my judgment, be simply declined. It is, how-
ever, a matter of opinion whether, in point of tactics, the modern
party did not do well to accept this as an installment in the mean time.
The Oxford offer, as I understand it, is so far liberal, that the new
degree is to rank equal in privileges with the old, although inferior in
prestige. In Scotland, the degree conceded by the classical party to
a Greekless education was worthless, and was offered for that very
reason.*
Among the adherents of classics, Professor Blackie is distinguished
for surrendering their study in the case of those that can not profit by
them. lie believes that with a free alternative, such as the thorough
bifurcation into two sides would give, they would still hold their
* One possible consequence of the new Natural Science Degree may be, that the public
will turn to it with favor, while the old one sinks into discredit.
