42 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
intellectual young man of about sixteen, and he came in on a single
crutch, with the left or affected limb swinging limp and wholly useless,
and when I laid him on his back, and took hold of the leg to examine
it, I found it utterly resistless to every motion. The muscles were
wasted, soft, and without tonicity, and, there being a large outward
bending in the middle of the bone with lapping of more than two
inches, it would roll about, when touched, like a crooked stick on the
floor, and it was almost impossible to keep it still long enough to make
a diagram. The attenuation of the soft parts was so great that the
bone was easily examined, and no line of union or the slightest evi-
dence of callus being fert at the seat of the alleged second fracture,
and being assured that one of the remarkable things in the case was
that there had never been any callus, I concluded that the bone had not
been fractured at the last injury. There was no doubt that an unfrac-
tured bone had been hastily put in splints, and for a year, and up to
that time, three eminent men had been devising and using various
splints for securing apposition of a fracture which did not exist. That
it did not exist is proved by the fact that three days after his arrival
he was walking on that leg.
The explanation of this case is exceedingly simple : he thought he
had refractured his femur at the second accident. This impression
caused him instinctively and quite unconsciously to withhold muscular
action in that limb that is, he did what he ought to have done if the
limb had been fractured. It was the completeness of the control over
the muscles, the utter restraint of all muscular action, causing the to-
tally relaxed and powei'less condition, which was mistaken for a broken
bone. Of course, the trouble was purely mental. But it was not a
condition of mind of which he was in the slightest degree conscious.
He was not aware of the fact that he was restraining the muscles from
acting during this long time ; so effectually restraining them that all
spontaneity was destroyed by a direct and positive effort of the will.
He held his limb in a mental vise of such force and persistency that its
nutrition was interfered with, and it was wasted to the last degree.
And yet he did not know it. There was no shamming. His condition
\vas a great distress to him. He was also at an age when male persons
are the least liable to morbid sentiments. At any rate, I could find
none in his case. A mere explanation of his condition was not suffi-
cient to enable him to relax his mental hold en the limb. The mental
impression subordinated his will and the ordinary desire. His treat-
ment consisted in providing situations which would assist him to let go
of his leg. I caused him to take certain violent exercises with his
upper extremities. The intention was to make them so violent that
his whole attention would be required for the upper, and there would
be none left for the lower extremity. The plan succeeded. Within
three days he gave up restraining the limb let go of it ; in fact, spon-
taneity was restored, and he began to walk ; began involuntarily, and
