638 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The recent agitation in Cambridge, in Oxford, and indeed all over
the country, for remitting the study of Greek as an essential of the
Arts Degree, has led to a reproduction of the usual defenses of things
as they are. The articles in the March number of this " Review," by
Professors Blackie and Bonamy Price, may claim to be the demiers
mots.
Professor Blackie's article is a warning to the teachers of classics,
to the effect that they must change their front ; that, whereas the
value of the classics as a key to thought has diminished, and is dimin-
ishing, they must by all means in the first place improve their drill.
In fact, unless something can be done to lessen the labor of the acqui-
sition by better teaching, and to secure the much-vaunted intellectual
discipline of the languages, the battle will soon be lost. Accordingly,
the Professor goes minutely into what he conceives the best methods
of teaching. It is not my purpose to follow him in this sufficiently
interesting discussion. I simply remark that he is staking the case
for the continuance of Latin and Greek in the schools on the possibility
of something like an entire revolution in the teaching art. Revolution
is not too strong a word for what is proposed. The weak part of the
new position is that the value of the languages as languages has de-
clined, and has to be made up by the incident of their value as drill.
This is, to say the least, a paradoxical position for a language-teacher.
If it is mere drill that is wanted, a very small corner of one language
would suffice. The teacher and the pupil alike are placed between the
two stools interpretation and drill. A new generation of teachers
must arise to attain the dexterity requisite for the task.
Professor Blackie's concession is of no small importance in the ac-
tual situation. " No one is to receive a full degree without showing
a fair proficiency in two foreign languages, one ancient and one modern,
with free option." This would satisfy the present demand everywhere,
and for some time to come.
The article of Professor Bonamy Price is conceived in even a higher
strain than the other. There is so far a method of argumentation in it
that the case is laid out under four distinct heads, but there is no deci-
sive separation of reasons ; many of the things said under one head
might easily be transferred without the sense of dislocation to any other
head. The writer indulges in high-flown rhetorical assertions rather
than in specific facts and arguments. The first merit of classics is that
" they are languages ; not particular sciences, nor definite branches of
knowledge, but literatures." Under this head we have such glo wing-
sentences as these : " Think of the many elements of thought a boy
comes in contact with when he reads Coesar and Tacitus in succession,
Herodotus and Homer, Thucydides and Aristotle ! . . . See what is im-
plied in having read Homer intelligently through, or Thucydides, or
Demosthenes ; what light will have been shed on the essence and laws
of human existence, on political society, on the relations of man to man,
