THE VANILLA-PLANT.
6 43
brought first to England, thence to the Museum at Paris in 1810, and
lastly to Belgium ; it is the species whose fruit possesses the strong-
est perfume.
The vanilla throve in greenhouses, hut as it was sensitive to cold,
and did not fructify, and its flowers possessed no ornamental interest,
its culture was very limited. For a long time the only fruits which
came to Europe were from Mexico, or the Gulf of Mexico the only
points where the plant was cultivated on a large scale, and where its
fructification appeared to be insured. It remained for later experi-
menters to add to the interest attaching to this plant, while at the same
time, in some degree, augmenting the resources of the colonies.
At this time the impression made by certain recent researches on
fecundation in plants was still fresh, and the questions of hybridation
and crossing were closely studied.
It has ever since been believed that the fecundation of the vanilla
in Mexico and the neighboring countries, where that plant fructifies
normally, was brought about by the
agency of certain insects which hith-
erto do not appear ever to have been
observed performing this function.
The hypothesis is almost equivalent
to a certaintv, now that we know the
habits of the Orchidece, especially as
regards reproduction.
The right of priority in discovering
the artificial fecundation of the vanilla
has been claimed for many countries.
It belongs to England, say those who
dwell on the other side of the Chan-
nel ; but, if we are to believe the Bel-
gians, the true discoverer was Charles
Morren. Nevertheless it appears in-
disputable that Neumann, head-gar-
dener at the Paris Museum of Natural
History, was the first to obtain the results of this fructification in 1830.
From a single stock Neumann produced, in that year, over two hun-
dred vanilla fruits of excellent quality.
M. Delteil, pharmacist in the navy, in his interesting study of the
vanilla ("Etude sur la Vanille," 1874), gives a list of the works which
have been published concerning this plant, and treats of its culture in
Reunion Island particularly. He states that in 1839 Perrottet, on his
second voyage to Bourbon, made known to some of his friends among
the planters the process adopted by Neumann ; for, though the vanilla
was cultivated as a curiosity, it did not bear fruit there any more than
in Europe. Nothing appears to have come out of this suggestion ; but
the case was different with the discovery made about the same time
Vanilla planlfolia.
