644 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
by a young slave, Edmond Albius, in the service of M. Ferreol Beau-
mont-Bellier. Albius bad noticed bow his master, who had consider-
able acquaintance with natural history, used to produce hybrids by
cross-fertilization of the various flowers in his garden. Having made
like experiments himself, the young slave observed that, on touching
with a spine of palm the flowers of the vanilla, two little yellow bodies
contained within changed position, and that fructification resulted from
the contact. A new branch of commerce was henceforth created, and
vanilla-beans, previously very dear, were quickly much lowered in price.
The vanilla is a climbing plant with pulpy stem, but it can reach the
tops of high trees. In our greenhouses it attains proportions sufficiently
great to enable us to judge of its appearance. Its stem, which can be
easily made to ramify, is from two to three centimetres in diameter.
Its leaves are arranged in two rows, or are alternately distichous, as
the botanists say. In size they vary from fifteen to twenty centime-
tres, and they are slightly twisted on their short petiole, so as to appear
to be inserted obliquely. This torsion seems to be produced by the
need for the leaf of having its upper face always turned toward the
light.
Besides the roots at the base of the plant and fixed in the soil, a
multitude of adventitious aerial roots start from the stem or the
branches, after the plant has reached a certain size. These roots hang
free so long as the stem rises vertically, but become fixed in the soil
when the stem touches the ground. They start from the level of a leaf
alongside of a tendril, with the aid of which the plant climbs trees.
The stem, which in the interval between two leaves takes a direc-
tion the reverse of that taken in the next interval a zigzag is charged
with a thick* vesicating juice, which on being apjflied to the skin pro-
duces a blister.
The flowers appear in clusters at the axils of the leaves, and are
numerous ; but care is taken to leave only a small number of them on
the plant when it is desired to have fine fruit. These flowers last for
only one day, and fructification, in order to be successful, should take
place in the morning. The instrument used for this operation is a
pointed piece of bamboo. A skilled man can fecundate as many as
one thousand flowers in a morning. One month after fecundation the
fruit has attained its full size, yet it has still to remain on the plant
six or seven months more before it reaches perfect maturity.
The flowers of the vanilla have none of that richness of color so
common among orchids. They are whitish or yellowish, according to
the species to which they belong. Apart from those which are culti-
vated on account of the perfume of their fruit, the others possess only
a purely botanical interest.
A physiological detail that is worthy of mention is the attraction
of the stigmas of these flowers for the pollen offered to them. Neu-
mann the younger had frequent occasion to notice this while experi-
