THE VANILLA-PLANT. 645
meriting on the fecundation of the vanilla at the Museum ; and in a
prize essay by H. Baillon the same fact is confirmed. "When the
sky was overcast," he writes, " and the temperature rather low, I had
to penetrate into the stigmatic antrum, in order there to place the
little pollen apparatus ; but, after the sun had made pretty warm the
greenhouse in which the plant was suspended, then, provided the con-
tents of the anther were not firmly attached to the top of the pins on
which they were borne, they would become detached from it on being
brought within a certain distance from the stigma, and, being strongly
attracted, would shoot like an arrow into the cavity." This curious
observation appears to be without precedent save in this plant ; it is
certainly of a character to interest the physiologist.
Darwin has observed a strange movement of the pollinia in the
flowers of Catasetum, which, under the influence of innervation, " were
shot forth to the distance of two or three feet " ; but here the phenom-
enon is purely mechanical.
The first travelers who observed the vanilla in the wild state have
asserted that it grows in low, moist situations near the seacoast ; but
in later times it has been found in the forests, and is known to occur
in divers parts in Central America.
The number of species of the vanilla-plant is not clearly deter-
mined. Of types cultivated in Mexico there are twelve, and of these
five are reckoned as distinct species. One of these species, the Vanilla
lee, embraces six varieties. Delteil gives a list of species cultivated in
different countries ; it is as follows : In Mexico, Vanilla sativa, V. sil-
vestris, V. planifolia, and V. pompona ; in Guiana, V. .guianensis,
with yellow flowers and large fruit ; at Bahia, V. palmarum ; in Bra-
zil and Peru, Linne's V. aromatica, which possesses less fragrance
than the others. In Reunion two sorts are cultivated, both of them
apparently varieties of V. planifolia.
Under the title of vanillon is found in commerce a short, thick
vanilla-pod, produced by V. pompona, the fruit of which is of far less
value than that of the V. planifolia.
Now that the cultivation of vanilla is widely extended, the fine
quality of beans can be had at from one hundred and eighty to two
hundred and fifty francs per kilogramme. But when it is " frosted,"
i. e., covered with needles of vanillin, it may fetch a higher price. Va-
nillon is worth about one fourth as much as vanilla.
Vanilla plantations, to be profitable, require great and constant
care. The plants are multiplied by cuttings. The cuttings should
bear three or four leaves, and may be a metre or over in length.
Rainy and hot seasons are chosen by preference for planting. The
cuttings must be planted in rows apart, in a soil rich in vegetable molds
fertilized with the decaying leaves and branches of plants, especially
of the banana. Each cutting should have a prop, and the ground at
its root is to be kept moist by a heap of stones around the stem.
