646 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The best practice in these plantations is to train the plants on
espaliers reaching from one prop to another. Generally the props
are themselves plant-cuttings, which bear leaves and so shelter the
young plants from the excessive heat of the sun. In case the props
are of dead timber, the shrubs which are to afford shade must be
planted in the intervals between the vanilla-plants. In addition to
these means of shelter the plantation must be surrounded with a hedge
of shrubbery for the sake of breaking the force of the winds.
Experience has shown that a vanilla plantation should not be worked
for over seven years ; but in the mean time a new one is got in readi-
ness, so that there may be no interruption.
The vanilla harvest in Reunion occurs from May to August; in
Mexico it takes place in December. The fruits, improperly called
pods, are best when they have had good exposure to the sun, are fully
mature, but not open, and gathered in a hot, dry season.
The modes of preparation differ according to locality, but in gen-
eral they may be classed under three heads. The oldest method is
that of alternately exposing the fruits to the sun and then keeping them
in shade till they are sufficiently dry. This is the practice in Mexico
and Guiana, where vanilla of excellent quality is produced. Sometimes
they are exposed to the action of artificial heat to hasten the drying.
Another mode consists in employing boiling water, in which the fruit
is dipped for a while, and then treated with sunlight and shade as
above. Finally, the third method consists in employing an oven at
the temperature of 50 to 75 Cent. ; in this the beans are heated
from twenty-four to thirty-six hours. Among the many processes, M.
Delteil appears to give the preference to that in use in Reunion, i. e.,
that which employs boiling water, together with the subsequent treat-
ment. Excellent results are also obtained by spreading the fruit on
black cloths and exposing them to the heat of the sun.
Finally, the fruit is sent to the drying-room. Here it remains for
about a month, being looked after from time to time. The vanilla is
then packed in tin cases to prevent its becoming too dry, which would
impair its value.
CHLORAL AND OTHER NARCOTICS.
By Dr. BENJAMIN W. KICHABDSON, F. K. S.
II.
IT may be interesting at this point to particularize the character of
the influence exercised on life by certain of the agents we have now
under consideration. With the action of alcohol and tobacco we are
all so familiar it is not necessary to repeat what is known of them as
