648 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The persons who become habituated to chloral hydrate are of two
or three classes as a rule. Some have originally taken the narcotic to
relieve pain, using it in the earliest application of it for a true medici-
nal and legitimate object, probably under medical direction. Finding
that it gave relief and repose, they have continued the use of it, and
at last have got so abnormally under its influence that they can not get
to sleep if they fail to resort to it. A second class of persons who
take to chloral are alcoholic inebriates who have arrived at that stage
of alcoholism when sleep is always disturbed, and often nearly impos-
sible. These persons at first wake many times in the night with cold-
ness of the lower limbs, cold sweatings, startings, and restless dream-
ings. In a little time they become nervous about submitting them-
selves to sleep, and before long habituate themselves to watchfulness
and restlessness, until a confirmed insomnia is the result. Worn out
with sleeplessness, and failing to find any relief that is satisfactory or
safe in their .false friend alcohol, they turn to chloral, and in it find for
a season the oblivion which they desire, and which they call rest. It
is a kind of rest, and is no doubt better than no rest at all ; but it leads
to the unhealthy states that we are now conversant with, and it rather
promotes than destroys the craving for alcohol. In short, the man
who takes to chloral after alcohol enlists two cravings for a single
craving, and is double-shotted in the worst sense. A third class of men
who become habituated to the use of chloral are men of extremely
nervous and excitable temperament, who by nature, and often by the
labors in which they are occupied, become bad sleepers. A little thing
in the course of their daily routine oppresses them. "What to other
men is passing annoyance, thrown off with the next step, is to these
men a worry and anxiety of hours. They are over-susceptible of what
is said of them, and of their work, however good the work may be.
They are too elated when praised, and too depressed when not praised,
or dispraised. They fail to play character-parts on the stage of this
world, and as they lie down to rest they take all their cares and anxie-
ties into bed with them, in the liveliest state of perturbation. Unable
in this condition to sleep, and not knowing a more natural remedy,
they resort to the use of such an instrument as chloral hydrate. They
begin with a moderate dose ; increase the dose as occasion seems to
demand, and at last, in what they consider a safe and moderate sys-
tem of employing it, they depend on the narcotic for their falsified
repose.
Among these classes of men the use of chloral hydrate is on the
increase. The use is essentially a bad business at the best, and while
I do not wish in the least to exaggerate the danger springing from it
while, indeed, I am willing to state that I have never been able to
trace out a series of fatal organic changes of a structural character
from such use I have certainly seen a great deal of temporary dis-
turbance and enfeeblement from it, without any corresponding advan-
