CHLORAL AND OTHER NARCOTICS. 651
spinach, or nettles. It is commonly adulterated. M. Derheims found
it adulterated with sulphate of copper, blue vitriol, which substance is
added in order to give the required greenish color or tint, as well as to
afford a slight causticity, which to depraved tastes is considered the
right thing to taste and swallow. M. Stanislas Martin stated that
he found chloride of antimony, commonly called butter of antimony,
as another adulteration used also to give the color. Chevalier doubts
this latter adulteration, but the adulteration with the sulphate of
copper is not disputed. The proportion of essence of wormwood to
the alcohol is five drachms of the essence to one hundred quarts of
alcohol. The action of absinthe on those who become habituated to
its use is most deleterious. The bitterness increases the craving or
desire, and the confirmed habitue is soon unable to take food until he
is duly primed for it by the deadly provocative. On the nervous
system the influence of the absinthium essence is different from the
action of the alcohol. The absinthium acts rather after the manner of
nicotine ; but it is slower in taking effect than the alcohol which
accompanies it into the organism. There is therefore felt by the
drinker first the exciting relaxing influence of the alcohol, and after-
ward the constringing suppressing influence of the secondary and
more slowly acting poison. The sufferer, for he must be so called,
is left cold, tremulous, unsteady of movement, and nauseated. If his
dose be large, these phenomena are exaggerated, and the voluntary
muscles, bereft of the control of the will, are thrown into epileptiform
convulsions, attended with unconsciousness and with an oblivion to all
surrounding objects which I have known to last for six or seven hours.
In the worst examples of poisoning from absinthe the person becomes
a confirmed epileptic.
In addition to these general indications of evil there are certain
local indications not less severe, not less dangerous. The effect which
the absinthe exerts in a direct way on the stomach would alone be
sufficiently pernicious. It controls for mischief the natural power of
the stomach to secrete healthy digestive fluid. It interferes with the
solvent power of that fluid itself, so that taken in what, is considered to
be a moderate quantity, one or two wineglassfuls in the course of the
day, it soon establishes in the victim subjected to it a permanent
dyspepsia. The appetite is so perverted that all desire for food is
quenched until the desire is feebly whipjaed up by another draught of
the destroyer. In a word, a more consummate devil of destruction
could not be concocted by the finest skill of science devoted to the
worst of purposes than is concocted in this destructive agent, absinthe.
It is doubly lethal, and ought to be put down peremptorily in all
places where it is sold. Our magistrates have full power to deal with
this poison, if they had the discretion and the courage to use their
power. They could prohibit the license to all who sell the poison.
Beyond this, there is another power that ought to come into play.
