652 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Absinthe should be under the control of the Sale of Poisons Act, and
no person ought to be able to get it in any form at all without signing
a book and going through all the necessary formality for the purchase
of a poison. To move the country to a due regard for its own inter-
ests as well as for the interests of the ignorant and deluded toxico-
maniacs who indulge in absinthe, is the duty of all honest and truthful
men.
It is my business in the remaining part of this communication to
deal with a question which springs out of the practice of using lethal
agents, and with which the minds of the thinking community are
sorely exercised. The question I refer to is Whether the use of
these agents springs from a natural desire on the part of man, and of
animals lower than man, for such agents ; or whether it springs from a
perversion or unnatural provocation acquired and transmitted in heredi-
tary line, a toxico-mania, in plain and decisive language.
In respect to the idea that these agents are demanded by living
animals as necessities of their transitory existence and residence on
this earth, it must be obvious that the argument, as so stated, is based
on the desire which has been impressed on the mind of the reasoners
by the agents themselves. It is quite certain that men, and all the
lower animals, can live without the supposed aid afforded by these
substances, and that when they are not known life goes on smoothly
and happily enough in their absence. They therefore are only pleaded
for when they have made themselves felt, which looks strangely like
an artificial pleading for an artificial as apart from a natural thing.
Children do not plead for them ; men who have been educated without
them do not plead for them ; animals do not beg for them ; none ask
for them until by education they have learned to use them. At first
all rebel at them, and only after a fiery trial, during which they get
over repugnance, acquire a liking to them, after which the liking may
run into desire, and desire into infatuation.
Again, if these agents were natural for the wants of man and
animal, they would not reasonably be expected to be left so far away,
as they are left, from the immediate reach and possession of man and
animal. To secure them for man and animal they have to be pro-
duced ; to produce them, requires human ingenuity and skill, knowl-
edge, science, and in some cases, as in the case of alcohol and alcoholic
beverages, a very considerable degree of skill and an enormous amount
of skilled labor. It is true that two of these substances, absinthium
and opium, lie nearer at hand than the others, might be gathered and
utilized by men in their savage state, and might be plucked and eaten
even by beasts of the field. But the fact really seems to be that these
very simples have not come into the possession of man for the service
of the human family until by art the educated of the human race have
learned the mode of use ; while the lower animals, instead of instinc-
tively finding them out and claiming the advantages which come from
