CHLORAL AND OTHER NARCOTICS. 653
them, have instinctively avoided them with an instigation of common
sense that might happily have been imitated by their superiors in
wisdom and intelligence.
Moreover, it has generally turned out that all which is required by
man as a necessity for his existence has been in the most signal man-
ner provided for him. He is a water-engine, so water is ready at his
command ; he is a muscular-engine, so muscle-forming substance is
at his instant command ; he is a passive skeleton, so the materials for
the skeleton are at his ready command ; he is a receptive organism
through his nervous organization, so everything that is wanted for that
system is ready prepared. He requires light to bring him into visible
communion with the external world, and ere he existed the sun was
ready to give him light and to quicken him with heat and motion.
He requires sound, and there is the prepared atmosphere ready to
vibrate in obedience to his voice. These were all pre-prepared for the
man and his life. Is it possible that something more was wanting that
he, in course of ages, had to discover ? Suppose, like the lower ani-
mals, he had failed to discover, what then had been his fate ?
To my mind and I wish to be as open to conviction on this point
as any one can be I fail to discern a single opening for the use of
these lethal agents in the service of mankind save in the most excep-
tional conditions of disease, and then only under skilled and thought-
ful supervision, from hands that know the danger of infusing a false
movement and life into so exquisite an organism as a living, breathing,
pulsating, impressionable human form.
In the argument that these lethal agents are necessities, instinctive-
ly selected and chosen to meet human wants, there is no logical se-
quence. It is all confusion, assumption, apology for human weakness,
exaltation of human weakness, sanction of temporary and doubtful
pleasure, compromise with evil, and acceptance of penalties the direst,
for advantages the poorest and least satisfactory. But when we turn
to the other argument when we reason that these lethal agents induce
a physical and mental aberration which they afterward maintain
when we but whisper the word toxico-mania, as the exposition of their
influence, all is clear enough. We leave the purely natural world of
life to enter the aberrant world, and all there is as it would be to eyes
from which the scales of superstition have fallen. These agents play
no part in natural function or construction, but add a part which is
obviously an aberration. If into a steady-going locomotive-engine the
engineer infused some gallons of brandy, he would do something that
would be conspicuous enough, but he would not thereby play a natural
part in the working of that engine. He would only add a part which
would be an aberration. There might be more rapid pulsation and
motion for a brief period truly, but the pressure would be unequal, the
working-gear unsteady, and by much repetition of the same act there
might be accident, apoplexy, stroke, even in an engine, and there cer-
