654 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tainly would be a wearing-out which would lead to a limited future.
So with the body under these lethal spells ; we may add a part, or we
may take a part away, but we can not by them maintain the uniform
and natural law of life.
These agents create a desire, a craving for themselves, a new auto-
matic expression, a new sense of necessity which did not preexist, and
which never exists until it is acquired. This seems to me the most
perfect evidence of aberration. Whoever craves for anything is aber-
rant, and much craving for one thing is the most certain sign of a mad
mind. We all admit this truth when the craving becomes insatiable ;
but between the smallest persistent craving and the most lamentable
insatiate there is nothing more than degree ; the fact is the same, and
the movement along the line from the moderate toward the insatiate
is commonly too easy and continuous. Craving for purely natural
things in the midst of them is an unknown phenomenon in healthy
men. Craving for unnatural things in the midst of them is well
known ; but is that healthy ? The sane man who wants water asks
for it ; the sane animal that wants water seeks for it ; the aberrant
man clutches wine ; the aberrant animal, rendered aberrant by the
acquired craving, grows furious. No man drinks wine as he drinks
water ; there is a furor in the drinking of wine which marks a phenom-
enal disturbance, and which is distinct from the simple act of drinking
from necessity, in the act as well as in the object.
The establishment of the craving or desire for these lethal agents
in one living body is the frequent origin of the same desire in bodies
that are to be. The craving is thus sometimes begotten of a craving,
like other hereditary taints which lead to physical and mental errors
and diseases, a specific indication of aberration from the natural health
into disease, depending on hereditary constitutional tendency, and
singularly indicative of original departure from the natural life. A
still more striking illustration of the position I am now supporting is
afforded in another action of these agents. The tendency of their
action is, as a rule, toward premature physical death : the tendency is
also toward premature mental death. A sudden excess of indulgence
by any one of them, save perhaps arsenic, is all but certain to lead to
some form of acute mental derangement or stupor, more or less deci-
sive and prolonged. A gradual excessive indulgence is almost as cer-
tain to lead to a confirmed condition of aberration more or less deter-
minate. If we watch carefully the career of a man who is passing
through the course of an alcoholic intoxication, and if, after analyzing
each phase of that j^rogress, we pass into a lunatic asylum and look at
the various phases of insanity exhibited in the persons of the different
inmates who are there confined, there is no difficulty in finding repre-
sented, through certain of those unfortunates, all the shades of mental
aberration which have previously been exhibited by the single person
in the course of his rapid career from sanity into insanity and into
