CHLORAL AND OTHER NARCOTICS. 655
helpless paralysis. The wonder suggested, by such analysis of natural
phenomena, is not that forty per cent, of the insanity of the country
should be directly or indirectly produced by one lethal agent alone,
but that so low a figure should indicate all the truth.
When, then, we fairly consider the two questions now before us
whether the lethal agents are called for because they are demanded
by a law of natural necessity, a law which stands above man, and is
dominant over his nature because independent of him ; or whether
there is no such law whatever, but an error of man himself, by which
he institutes for himself a taste for lethal derangement, and, making
for himself and his heirs a new constitution, begins thereupon to jus-
tify what he has done on the basis of the constitution he has estab-
lished when, I repeat, we consider these two questions, we can, I
think, come but to one conclusion. We must, if prejudice be not too
strong, lean to the view that man makes the constitution he defends,
and that it is the lethal agent, speaking as it were through him, on
which a defense of all these agents, common or uncommon, rests for
its support.
There is one final argument which many set lip who are not con-
tent with either of the two views above described. This argument is
that, in the natural state of man and beast, the things which " wreathe
themselves with ease in Lethe's walk " are not in any sense necessary
things. On the contrary, the things are decidedly injurious, and should
not be used. At the same time, it is also admitted that the indulgence
in lethal agents is, in truth, a mania which begets a mania, and which
inflicts all kinds of follies, crimes, and miseries on the race. But, con-
tinues the argument, the mania being admitted as such, is rendered
justifiable by the circumstance that they who make it and propagate it
do not start from the natural condition. They find in the world so
much care, so much sorrow, so much misery, and their own path is
bestrewed with so many anxieties and difficulties, that they are, in
fact, diseased. All society is diseased. Therefore, to meet this vast
amount and volume of disease, remedies of a palliative kind are re-
quired. Exceptional conditions call for exceptional measures. A man
who can not sleep, owing to the cares and anxieties of his life, must take
chloral hydrate or opium to obtain sleep. A man who can not finish a
certain amount of work against time, by his own natural powers, must
whip himself up to the work by means of wine ; must force his heart
and brain on against time at all risks and sacrifices. A man who has
forced himself on against time, and has thereby obtained a momentum
which he can not arrest by ordinary means, must calm himself down
by tobacco, must literally put the reins on his heart, and pull the heart
up sharply and decisively. These remedies, at all risks of learning to
crave for them, at all risk of falling the victim to toxico-mania, must
be accepted, that the work of the world may go on at full pace.
The argument is specious. If it be a sound argument, it must be
