656 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the fact that they who, for the sake of the world, are throwing their
lives behind them as fast as they can, are doing more work and better
work than they who, keeping their lives in their hands, are content to
labor without resort to any perilous adventitious assistance. Is it so ?
Is the man who never touches a lethal weapon alcohol, opium, tobac-
co, chloral, hasheesh, absinthe, or arsenic a worse man, a weaker man,
a less industrious man, a less-to-be-trusted man, than he who indulges
in those choice weapons ever so moderately, or ever so freely ? If he
is, then my position is confessedly undermined, and toxico-mania is a
blessing, with all its curses. Contemporary Heview.
SPONTANEOUS AND IMITATIVE CKIME.
By E. VALE BLAKE.
IT is not to be expected that law-makers or the administrators of
legal justice should discriminate between spontaneous and imitative
crime ; but to the patient thinker, the medical scientist, and the prac-
tical philanthropist it is evident that the grades and distinctions of
actual criminality are almost as various as the individual criminals.
Even the word crime is very indefinite, and by no means always indi-
cates the true character of an act usually so designated. Acts inno-
cent in themselves such, for instance, as buying goods in a foreign
market and bringing them for use to this may be made a legal crime
by statute law, while other acts which are monstrous violations of
natural human rights may be and are ignored by the code, and are
perpetrated with impunity in the highest grades of civilized society.
So, also, really criminal acts may be committed, and yet crime be
absent, for the essence of crime in the individual (excluding for the
present the rights of society) lies in the intention, and this element,
through physiological and moral reasons, may be void. Indeed, could
we apply a mental and moral vivisection to the cases of individual
criminals, we should probably find unexpected variations as to the
causes and influences tending to its development ; but practically we
may summarize the whole mass of law-breakers under either one or
the other division which the title of our article indicates : and, if by
some subtile alchemy we could perceive the main dividing line sepa-
rating the criminal classes into those who act from the spontaneous
impulses of their nature and those who are led into crime mainly by
the influence of their peculiar vofiog, or social environment, we should
be in a fair way to learn how crime might be diminished, and the so-
called " dangerous classes " prevented from spreading its infection.
By spontaneous criminals we mean those who act from well-defined
motives, from avarice, revenge, the gratification of pride, vanity, or the
