SPONTANEOUS AND IMITATIVE CRIME. 657
grosser passions also those who from congenital defects of organiza-
tion have strong natural tendencies toward the commission of crime
sporadic criminals against whom it is scarcely possible for society
to protect itself, unless, like the ancient Spartans, it is prepared to
undertake the entire education of the future citizen, morally, intellec-
tually, and physically, including the ante-natal period. Some recent
investigations and social experiments have proved that, numerous as
these are, they are a small minority as compared with those of the
imitative and therefore curable class.
Alibert, the ingenious author of the " Systeme Sensible," regarded the
instinct of imitation as the primordial law of nature, which has ruled,
taught, and bound together the successive generations of the human
race in a more potent manner than any other single faculty : and our
every-day observation and experience tend to confirm the sagacity of
this remark ; and in the matter of crime it is certainly one of the per-
manent sources of its development and increase. There is one patent
fact recognized by the average mind of the community, that the record
and publication of any extraordinary crime is very certain to be fol-
lowed by one or more examples of the same description. This cer-
tainly hints at some psychical influence worthy of examination, though
it is generally dismissed with an expression as to its being a " singu-
lar fatality " such as appears to follow certain kinds of accidents by
flood or field, by land or sea.
The fotms and phases of imitation are extremely varied being
sometimes the outcome of the conscious will, but not infrequently it is
the result of an automatic sympathy with which the will has nothing
to do. In many cases imitation is simply the active form of nervous
sympathy and approaches the condition of mania. This instinct or
faculty, like all other human attributes, may be well or ill applied, but
the essential fact remains ever true that the instinct itself is irrepres-
sible, and will exercise itself in some form : and, often as it is misused,
the world could not afford to dispense with it. The race would make
small progress if every man had to begin de novo, instead of imitat-
ing the previous acquirements of bis ancestors. We may even admit,
with the French philosopher, that without the perpetual use of the
imitative faculty there could be no distinctive nationalities ; for, is it
not by successive generations imitating their parents that national
customs, usages, and languages are formed, and communities consoli-
dated so as to afford each other mutual support ? And the important
fact should not be lost sight of that the faculty of imitation is one of
the earliest developed, and has acquired strength and vigor long before
the reflective faculties or the judgment is prepared to sit in council
upon these immature tendencies ; particularly should this be remem-
bered in connection with all efforts in behalf of the weaker members
of our human brotherhood whether the young, as such, or the incipi-
ent criminal, in which this faculty often plays so considerable a part ;
VOL. XT. 42
