658 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
adding complications to the history and the frequent mysteries of
crime. What is that which we call " esprit de corps," the " spirit of
the ao-e," and other similar intangible somethings, which we know ex-
ist, but which it is difficult to embody in anything more material than
a phrase ? What these expressions indicate simply is, that certain
numbers, greater or smaller, are prepared to imitate each other, whether
it be in a crusade to the Holy Sepulchre, a Flagellant procession, or a
modern strike of Crispins or engineers.
Imitative crimes are often motiveless in the ordinary meaning of
the word, while numerically they really exceed all others ; and it is
somewhat curious that this feature of criminality has been so slightly
noticed by statisticians and others concerned in the eradication of crime.
Other causes of crime are certainly more obvious, for they lie upon the
surface ignorance, poverty, intemperance, the desire to live beyond
one's legitimate means, unrestrained passions of all kinds : these are of
course the leaders and pioneers of the great criminal army ; but the
rank and file are mainly made up of imitators, who do as they see
others do with whom they associate. Take as an illustration the
" great strike " of the railway employees some two years since, in the
States of Pennsylvania and New York and elsewhere, and separate if
you can the number of individuals who acted from conviction and de-
liberate intention with what we might call a reason however mis-
guided, and the number who burned, hacked, and hewed simply because
others were devastating and destroying. Could all of the mere imi-
tators have been eliminated from those mobs it would scarcely have
required military force to have dealt with the remainder, the few ac-
tive, intelligent leaders of that violent mode of argument.
It will probably be admitted, in most cases of mob violence, that
the mass of intimidators are ignorant, unreasoning followers, who, if
they think at all, only reflect to the extent of supposing that the pres-
ence of numbers will suffice to conceal their individual share of the
crime ; but possibly some of our readers may not be so ready to admit
that the faculty of imitation works quite as potentially in secret, where
to aid it come various suggestive faculties, such as emulation, vanity,
imagination, contrivance, secretiveness, hope, despair, and various other
emotions. The concealed imitator broods unobserved of his fellows,
and acts only when he deems himself safe from interruption.
The history of the world is full of crimes and follies committed
under the influence of the imitative instinct. In many cases so de-
void of thought are the actors in these scenes as scarcely to bring them
under the judgment of responsible human beings. It is in fact no easy
task to draw with any degree of accuracy the dividing line between
folly and crime, especially when the exalted sentiments of patriotism
or the fanaticism induced by the misapplication of religious dogma, or
fervent appeals to the emotions, are the basis of certain wild proceed-
ings ; engaged in by assemblies of the intensely nervous, led by knaves
