MATERIALISM AND ITS LESSON'S. 681
of religions. And as a matter of fact it is certain that morality has
suffered many times not a little from its connection with theological
creeds ; that its truths have been appropriated and used to support
demoralizing superstitions which were no part of it ; that doctrines
essentially immoral have been even taught in the name of religion ;
and that religious systems, in their struggles to establish their suprem-
acy, have oftentimes shown small respect to the claims of morality.
Had religion been true to its nature and function, as wide as morality
and humanity, it should have been the bond of unity to hold mankind
together in one brotherhood, linking them in good feeling, good will,
and good work toward one another ; but it has in reality been that
which has most divided men, and the cause of more hatreds, more dis-
orders, more persecutions, more bloodshed, more cruelties, than most
other causes put together. In order to maintain peace and order,
therefore, the state in modern times has been compelled to hold itself
practically aloof from religion, and to leave to each hostile sect liberty
to do as it likes so long as it meddles not by its tenets and ceremonials
with the interests of civil government. Is it not, then, fortunate for
the interests of morality that it is not bound up essentially with any
form of religious creed, but that it survives when creeds die, having
its more secure foundations in the hard-won experience of mankind ?
The inquiry which, taking a sincere survey of the facts, finds the
basis and sanction of morality in experience, by no means arrives in
the end at easy lessons of self-indulgence for the individual and the
race, but, on the contrary, at the hardest lessons of self-renunciation.
Disclosing to man the stern and uniform reign of law in nature, even
in the evolution and degeneracy of his own nature, it takes from him
the comfortable but demoralizing doctrine that he or others can es-
cape the penalty of his ignorance, error, or wrong-doings either by
penitence or prayer, and holds him to the strictest account for them.
Discarding the notion that the observed uniformity of nature is but a
uniformity of sequence at will, which may be interrupted whenever its
interruption is earnestly enough asked for a notion which, were it
more than lip-doctrine, must necessarily deprive him of his most ur-
gent motive to study patiently the laws of nature in order to conform
to them it enforces a stern feeling of responsibility to search out
painfully the right path of obedience and to follow it, inexorably lay-
ing upon man the responsibility of the future of his race. If it be
most certain, as it is, that all disobedience of natural law, whether
physical or moral, is avenged inexorably in its consequences on earth,
either upon the individual himself, or more often, perhaps, upon oth-
this life and to attain to a perfect moral repose. " Let all the sins that have been com-
mitted fall upon me, in order that the world may be delivered," Buddha says. And
of the son or disciple of Buddha it is said : " When reviled he revileth not again ; when
smitten he bears the blow without resentment; when treated with anger and passion he
returns love and good-will ; when threatened with death he bears no malice."
