MATERIALISM AND ITS LESSONS. 683
upon his fetich to change his heart in answer to prayer, as sanitary
science is impossible where he relies upon his fetich to stay a pestilence
in answer to prayer.
So far from materialism being a menace to morality, when it is
properly understood, it not only sets before man a higher intellectual
aim than he is ever likely to reach by spiritual paths, but it even raises
a more self-sacrificing moral standard. For when all has been said, it
is not the most elevated or the most healthy business for a person to
be occupied continually with anxieties and apprehensions and cares
about the salvation of his own soul, and to be earnest to do well in
this life in order that he may escape eternal suffering and gain eternal
happiness in a life to come. The disbeliever might find room to argue
that here was an instance showing how theology has taken possession
of the moral instinct and vitiated it. Having set before man a selfish
instead of an altruistic end as the prime motive of well-doing his
own good rather than the good of others it is in no little danger of
taking away his strongest motive to do uprightly, if so be the dead
rise not. Indeed, it makes the question of the apostle a most natural
one : "If, after the manner of men, I have fought with beasts at
Ephesus, what advantageth it me if the dead rise not ? " Materialism
can not hesitate in the least to declare that it is best for a man's self,
and best for his kind, to have fought with the beasts of unrighteous-
ness at Ephesus or elsewhere, even if the dead rise not. Perceiving
and teaching that he is essentially a social being, that all the mental
faculties by which he so much excels the animals below him, and even
the language in which he expresses his mental functions, have been
progressive developments of his social relations, it enforces the j)lain
and inevitable conclusion that it is the true scientific function, and at
the same time the highest development, of the individual to promote
the well-being of the social organization ; that is, to make his life sub-
serve the good of his kind. It is no new morality, indeed, which it
teaches ; it simply brings men back to that which has been the central
lesson and the real stay of the great religions of the world, and which
is implicit in the constitution of society ; but it does this by a way
which promises to bring the understanding into entire harmony with
moral feeling, and so to promote by a close and consistent interaction
their accordant growth and development ; and it strips morality of
the livery of superstition in which theological creeds have dressed and
disfigured it, presenting it to the adoration of mankind in its natural
purity and strength. Fortnightly Heview.
