THE BIRTH, LIFE, AND DEATH OF A STORM. 685
storm of wind at all. In partial confh-mation of this view, Professor
Mohn, of Christiania, points to the accidental condensation of moisture
caused by the contact of a mass of damp air with the surface of an ex-
tensive snow-field as a possible cause of a storm. About the sixty-first
parallel of latitude the glacier region of Justedal stretches for several
miles along the coast of Norway, and this has occasionally been known
to exert an influence in increasing the intensity of an existing cyclone,
and even in some instances has appeared as the center of a newly-
formed depression.
These gentlemen, moreover, rely greatly on the fact that the rain
area which accompanies every cyclonic system is roughly oval in shape,
with its longer axis extending in the direction in which the system is
advancing, and that by far the greatest amount of rain falls in front
of the storm. They do not, however, explain the fact that very heavy
rain frequently occurs on the northern side of a depression, where the
wind is easterly, and that this circumstance does not indicate a north-
ward motion of the system.
The most serious objection to this theory is, however, that first
stated, that not only do the heaviest rains not come with the severest
storms, but that frequently they are observed in times of nearly abso-
lute calm.
2. The second theory to which I shall refer is the mechanical one,
most strongly urged by Mr. Meldrum, of the Mauritius, whose investi-
gations into the weather over the Indian Ocean have led him to the be-
lief that every cyclone is generated in the intervening space between
two oppositely flowing currents of air, of which the easterly moving
stream, speaking in the most general terms, lies on the polar side of
the westerly wind. Such a disposition of the currents would be that
which would naturally arise were the cyclone once formed.
This view is called seriously in question by Messrs. Blanford and
Eliot in their discussion of recent cyclones in the Bay of Bengal, which
they have been able to study from very early stages, and in which they
fail to see evidence of the preexistence'of two, and only two, determi-
nate currents.
Another serious objection to this theory is that it does not assign a
vera causa sufficient to give the first impetus to the barometrical fall
and the rotatory movement of the air.
3. A third theory of the origin of these storms is that which is
strongly urged by M. Faye, in Paris, and is to the effect that, as inter-
fering currents in rivers give rise to vortices which extend from the
surface downward into the water, so all our water-spouts, trombes, and
even the largest tropical hurricanes must be all formed in the upper
regions of the atmosphere, and extend downward to the earth : the
force which gives them their onward motion being supplied by the
upper currents.
It is sufficient to say that this theory has not met with acceptance
