THE BIRTH, LIFE, AND DEATH OF A STORM. 687
sure over a given area, and the only reason why storms are generally
associated with cyclones is that these systems afford us the most seri-
ous instances of disturbances of atmospheric equilibrium, and conse-
quently of differences of pressure, which are met with on the globe.
At any place where an area of relatively high pressure comes into
close proximity to an area of relatively low pressure, a gale will result,
and so a storm may be due just as much to the rise of the barometer
in one region as to its fall in an adjacent district. For the same physi-
cal reason, however, that the eddies in a river extend downward, and
the water does not pile itself up in a peak, the normal disturbance of
atmospherical equilibrium is the appearance of one of these vortices
with pressure decreasing rapidly toward the center. Wherever there
is a rapid decrease there is a steep gradient, and consequently a strong
wind.
Defining the term cyclone, in its very widest acceptation, as indi-
cating a region of diminished pressure, round and in upon which the
air is moving along paths which are more symmetrical all round the
center the more perfect is the circular form of the system, we must at
once see that not every cyclone is accompanied by a storm. The fact is,
that the direction and force of the wind are regulated by the difference
of barometrical pressure over a given distance, and not in any way by
the actual height of the barometer at the station at which the storm is
felt, or by the distance of that station from the point where the baro-
metrical reading for the time being is the lowest.
This explanation of wind-motion is almost the only new principle
which has been recognized in our science during the present genera-
tion, and its practical importance is daily forcing itself more and more
into public notice with the development of weather telegraphy. It is
usually known under the name of Buys Ballot's Law, and is stated as
follows : " Stand with your back to the wind, and the barometer will
be lower on your left hand than on your right." The truth of this
law is evident to any one who looks at a weather chart ; but the Dutch
Professor, after whom it is named, though he justly claims the credit
of having persistently advocated the acceptance of this relation of the
wind to the distribution of pressure, was not by any means the first to
discover it.
The final result of all the inquiries into the question is, that on the
mean of all winds the angle between their direction and the tangent
to the isobar at the place is about 20.
These principles of wind-motion have a most important bearing on
the theory of the motion of the air in hurricanes and typhoons. The
old popular idea of these phenomena is, that the air blew round and
round the central calm in circles, so that any sailor caught in one of
these storms could at once know that when he was hove-to, if he looked
in the wind's eye, the center bore eight points to the right in the north-
ern hemisphere, and to the left in the southern ; or, what is the same
