BODILY CONDITIONS MENTAL STATES. 45
<rot through with the case. But it was all the more instructive on ac-
count of my ignorance, as will be seen in its relation ; so I give the case
more in detail than is necessary in most of these illustrations.
I found her with the right shoulder drawn forcibly upward, firmly
fixed in that position, and very sensitive to handling. Supposing that
it might be a sprain, and not wishing to treat such cases, 1 recom-
mended her to apply to the late Dr. E. R. Peaslee, which she did.
One year from the first visit she reappeared in a very sad plight indeed.
I found the shoulder drawn up still higher than before, and so firmly
fixed that the elbow could not be removed from the side of the body
more than three or four inches. She looked haggard and worn out,
and she reported her sufferings as having been and being very intense.
The history intervening between the two visits was, that Dr. Peaslee
had given her some liniments, and, after a while, seeing that she did
not regain the use of her arm, he sent her to a professional " rubber,"
who had used a great deal of disagreeable, violent, and painful manipu-
lation. Finding herself becoming steadily worse, at the end of a year
she had returned to me. I immediately sought Dr. Peaslee, and to-
gether we made a new examination. We found the large pectoral
muscle shortened and enlarged to twice its natural size, and the arm
so firmly bound down that it was with difficulty that she got her cloth-
ing on. After several consultations, we resolved to etherize her and
endeavor to stretch the shortened muscles. The plan was, to make an
apparatus which should hold the muscles we were to stretch, under
ether, in an extended position, for a certain length of time, and thus
relax them. The operation was accordingly performed, and all the
force consistent with safety to the bone was used, but without ap-
preciable effect in relaxing the great pectoral muscle. The operation
was therefore abandoned as a failure. We then considered the pro-
priety of dividing the tendon of the great pectoral ; but, as that was
a novel suggestion, a consultation was called, Dr. A. C. Post, of this
city, and the late Dr. Alden March, of Albany, being the surgeons se-
lected.
The lady had come under the influence of ether with difficulty, and
was very much prostrated by it ; so that it was over one month after
the attempted stretching of the muscle before the consultation was held
at the lady's house in Brooklyn. The lady was still in bed, but, after
explaining the case, she was got up, when, to our utter astonishment,
we found the muscles completely relaxed and the arm perfectly free to
move in every direction. Exactly three years after these events, this
lady's brother called on me one evening, saying that he had just made
an appointment with Dr. Peaslee who was on the eve of starting for
Europe to meet me at his sister's house the next evening for the pur-
pose of operating on her other arm, which had in the mean time, he
said, become affected precisely as the right arm had previously been.
It had been affected for a year, but his sister had kept the fact to her-
