BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE OF GEORGE F. BARKER. 695
December, 1871, Professor Barker delivered a lecture before the Ameri-
can Institute in New York, upon the " Correlation of Vital and Physi-
cal Forces," which attracted very general attention. The lecture was
an attempt to show that, besides the ordinary psychological definition
of mind, another and a purely physiological one might be found, which
represented mind as solely the product of brain-action, and, as such,
entirely capable of being correlated with physical forces. In 1872 he
was Vice-President of the American Association at its Indianapolis
meeting.
Having made the branch of toxicology the subject of special study,
Professor Barker was engaged quite generally in the investigation of
cases of criminal poisoning. Perhaps the most important of these
cases was the celebrated one in which Lydia Sherman was tried in
New Haven, in April, 1872, for poisoning her husband with arsenic.
Because the Wharton case, tried just before, had apparently left upon
the public mind the impression that chemical analysis in such cases
was unreliable, and hence had given the criminally disposed some
reason to believe that thejr might commit murder by poison with im-
punity, especial care was taken by Dr. Barker to present the chemical
and physiological evidence in the Sherman case in a fully conclusive
form. To the thoroughness of this preparation, and the completeness
of the chemical evidence, the conviction of the prisoner was largely
due. The chemical evidence in this trial, after correction by him, was
inserted in full, as a typical case, in the subsequent edition of Whar-
ton and Stille's " Medical Jurisprudence."
In February, 1873, he was strongly urged to accept the chair of
Physics in the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. After due
consideration and consultation the offer was accej)ted, and he removed
from New Haven to Philadelphia in April. The trustees having
placed a generous sum of money at his disposal, for the purpose of
providing the apparatus necessary for illustrating the science in a
proper manner, Professor Barker left in July for Europe, in order to
personally inspect the instruments he was about to purchase. The
result has justified this step. The collection of physical apparatus in
the university cabinet is certainly unsurpassed in this country, and in
some directions it is absolutely unique in the world.
In the fall of 1876 Professor Barker had the distinguished honor
of being elected a member of the National Academy of Sciences. In
the summer of 1878, on invitation of Professor Henry Draper, he
accompanied the Draper Eclipse Expedition to Rawlins, Wyoming,
where he studied the total solar eclipse of July 29th, as spectroscopic
observer. The most important fact obtained by him was the con-
firmation of Janssen's observation of 1871, that the coronal spectrum
contained the dark solar lines of Fraunhofer. After the eclipse he
accompanied his friend Thomas A. Edison on a trip to California and
the Yosemite. He stopped on his return to attend the meeting of the
