696 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
American Association for the Advancement of Science, held at St.
Louis. He was there elected President of the Association for the next
meeting, to be held at Saratoga, August 27, 1879.
Professor Barker has well earned his distinctions, but he is to be
congratulated on having also obtained them. He has been the recipi-
ent of many deserved honors, and now, in middle life, after a twenty
years' membership, he is called upon to preside over the deliberations
of the largest scientific body in the country, and to fill the chair that
has been occupied by all of our ablest scientific men.
Professor Barker manifested at a very early age a taste for the
sciences which he has subsequently cultivated so successfully. While
yet a boy he was intrusted with the apparatus belonging to the acad-
emies where he was at school, and converted his sleeping-room into a
chemical laboratory. As an apprentice he extended his acquaintance
with instrumental appliances, and constructed for himself in his leisure
hours a very complete set of electrical and pneumatic apparatus. The
familiarity with the use of tools, and the knowledge of the construc-
tion of instruments thus acquired, have no doubt been of the greatest
practical benefit to him in subsequent life. Indeed, it is said that,
when he went to Pittsburg as professor, much of the apparatus placed
in his hands for purposes of instruction was the identical apparatus
which he had made in Boston as an apprentice ten or twelve years
before. Though upon his graduation from Yale he made chemistry
his profession, turning his attention more particularly to its physiologi-
cal relations after taking his doctor's degree, he yet kept up his inter-
est in physics, especially in the departments of electricity and spectro-
scopy, until upon his removal to Philadelphia he made physics the
subject of his instructions, though still keeping up his knowledge of
chemistry.
Professor Barker's reputation as a chemist rests chiefly upon his
work in chemical theory, he having been among the first in this
country to appreciate the advantages of the new views, to use them
in his own work, and to teach them to his students. In physics his
spectroscopic work upon the metals, upon auroras, and upon the phe-
nomena of solar eclipses has been of high scientific value. But it is
as an instructor in science that the chief part of his time has been
spent. Not only in the class-room and the laboratory with his stu-
dents, but also in the public lecture-room, and before the largest audi-
ences, has his power of elucidation and illustration gained for him
preeminence. He has served as scientific expert in a number of noted
patent cases. He has acted as one of the chemical editors of the
"American Journal of Science and Arts" since July, 1877, having
prepared the abstracts of chemical papers which were published in
that Journal since 1868. He was editor of the " Journal of the Frank-
lin Institute " during 1874-'75 ; and he prepared, at the request of Pro-
fessor Baird, the chemical and physical notes for the " Scientific Rec-
