6 9 8
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
CORRESPONDENCE.
A COMPLAINT ABOUT THE MONTHLY.
Messrs. Editors.
WILL you permit a brief criticism of
your selections for " The Popular
Science Monthly " ? My appreciation of the
journal is sufficiently indicated in its recep-
tion and careful reading from the time it
was begun. I have for some fifty years
tried to do my own thinking not so self-
sufficiently, however, that I am not very
glad to get what true help I can from other
thinkers.
I have been attracted to " The Popular
Science Monthly " by the evident desire and
purpose of its conductors to give a fair
hearing to all views, pro or con, on any sub-
ject of general scientific interest. There is
one, however, now before the world which,
in importance to the whole human family,
can be assigned to no second place, which,
in my view, you treat in a very partisan
manner. I refer to the Harmonial Philoso-
phy, Spiritualism, or whatever it may be
called. This question, whether evolving
truths of the deepest importance to human-
ity, or a species of insanity, delusion, or im-
position, demands attention and discussion ;
for millions of people are to-day affected
more or less by its phenomena and teach-
ings, and it is spreading with a rapidity un-
realized by the indifferent observer. From
its first opening with the Fox girls near
Rochester, New York, to the present, I have
observed it closely, and often under very
favorable circumstances. To endorse it en
masse would to me be folly ; to utterly ig-
nore it, equally so.
I am fully satisfied that there are great
and most important truths involved in the
subject, which demand elimination from
what may be accompanying rubbish. Now,
when you select for " The Popular Science
Monthly " articles all, or nearly so, on one
side of this question, and from men like
Hammond, Beard, Gairdner, Trowbridge,
etc., you leave the path of true science for
that of the partisan.
To me, as well as several other readers
of the journal with whom I have communi-
cated, a fair discussion of this subject would
not only add interest, but remove a present
offense. You might lose some bigoted and
fossilized readers, but you would gain an
equal if not larger number of the less prej-
udiced.
A. L. Child, M. D.
Plattsmotith, Nebraska, May 30, 1879.
"WASTED FORCES."
Messrs. Editors.
In an article on " Wasted Forces " by
William H. Wahl, Ph. D., in "The Popu-
lar Science Monthly" for July, 1879, I note
some remarkable statements in that part
of the article which deals with the effi-
ciency of steam-engines. The writer seems
to have ignored the principal cause of
wasted heat in the steam-engine, viz., the
efficiency of the fluid, and to have aug-
mented the other losses in order, apparent-
ly, to account for the low efficiency of the
whole machine. In doing this he has given
figures, which not only leave wrong impres-
sions in the minds of those not familiar with
the subject, but he makes opportunities for
improvement seem far greater in some di-
rections than they are. I do not care to
call in question the fifteen per cent, which
Mr. Wahl gives as the greatest efficiency
yet obtained from steam-engines, but in
locomotive-engines, with which I am most
familiar, five per cent, will more nearly rep-
resent the efficiency of average perform-
ance. Granting that fifteen per cent, may
be obtained in the most economical engines,
it is to Mr. Wahl's method of accounting for
the loss of eighty-five per cent, that I ob-
ject. On page 292 one reads : " For by far
the greater portion of this eighty-five per
cent, of wasted power is chargeable directly
to the steam-boiler, and but a comparative-
ly small proportion thereof to the engine."
And again, on page 293 : " Summing up
all the items of loss in the steam-generator,
it is probable that with the best forms of
boiler which it has been possible to con-
struct, not more than twenty-five per cent,
of the theoretical thermal effect of the fuel
is utilized in the generation of steam ; and
of this twenty-five per cent., from five to
ten per cent, is lost somewhere on the
passage of the steam from the boiler to
and through the engine by condensation in
steam-pipes, and friction of the machinery,
leaving us but fifteen or twenty per cent,
actually realized in practice." As a mat-
ter of fact I have repeatedly observed from
fifty to fifty-five per cent, of the total theo-
retical number of heat-units obtainable from
the complete combustion of bituminous coal
transferred to the water and steam in the
boiler from locomotive fire-boxes, in which
the proper burning of coal is far more diffi-
cult than in stationary fire-boxes, or those
witli natural draught and ample room ; in
such fire-boxes as last mentioned, coal is
