EDITOR'S TABLE.
701
dealing with the old superstition in a
new form, and which spreads hy the law
of contagion rather than that of reason ?
There are two aspects of spiritual-
ism, one of which is entitled to the at-
tention of scientific men and the other
is not. When it is investigated by com-
petent authorities, by men qualified for
the task, it is proper to publish the re-
sults, and this we have done and are
still doing. We have given more promi-
nence in the pages of this periodical to
psychical' and psychological questions
which involve and enwrap the phenom-
ena of spiritualism have published
more papers bearing upon the philoso-
phy of the subject than any other
popular magazine either in this coun-
try or abroad.
But there is another aspect of spir-
itualism which does not deserve the
slightest regard from scientific men,
and this is exactly the aspect which is
most insisted upon by spiritualists. As
its problems are usually presented, the
man of science can not for a moment
entertain them without committing in-
tellectual suicide. Science postulates
an inflexible order of nature as the
foundation of all its work. It starts
from this principle, and assumes it at
every step, in every direction. That
which makes science possible is the
uniformities among the phenomena of
the natural world. It is its sole busi-
ness to trace out these uniformities in
time and space, which form the essen-
tial fabric of nature's order. The man
of science works them out and formu-
lates them as laws. All scientific rea-
soning, all induction, deduction, gen-
eralization, comparison, classification,
are based upon the regularity and con-
stancy of natural operations. The first
article of a scientific man's faith is
that Nature never breaks her regu-
larities, but holds true to an unalter-
able method of law. He knows that,
if he comes upon what appear as
breaks or suspensions of this order,
it is he who is at fault, and that with
further knowledge the apparent de-
rangement will disappear.
Now, the spiritualist comes to him,
challenging his first principles. He de-
nies his order of nature as being unal-
terable, and says that he knows of that
which is above nature, that is greater
than nature, that interferes with it, and
breaches all its vaunted stabilities with
infinite ease. To this the man of sci-
ence must logically reply: "I can not
waste time in listening to you. I am
limited to nature, you take your stand
outside of it, and there is no common
ground between us. You come to me
denying that which I find demonstrated
everywhere. Between your spiritual-
ism and my naturalism there is a fun-
damental antagonism ; your position is
radically anti-scientific, and so let us
keep clear of each other."
That such is the attitude of the honest
spiritualist is undeniable. He approach-
es the man of science not as an inquirer
he does not know what inquiry is
but he comes with his mind made up,
saturated with credulity, and full of
tales about what is going on in tran-
scendental spheres, psychic realms, and
the supernatural world. Witness the
harmonical philosophy of A. J. Davis,
based upon intercourse with invisible
beings ; witness Mr. Kiddle's late book
filled with alleged communications from
the spirit-world. The whole mass of
modern spiritualistic literature is made
up of revelations claiming to be super-
natural, and to constitute a modern
miraculous dispensation. The assump-
tion which underlies all this contradicts
the truth which is at the foundation of
all science. The believers in astonish-
ing revelations ask for " investigation " :
their claims have been investigated for
five hundred years, and all science is a
report against them.
The state of mind here betrayed is
simply lamentable ; in respect of intel-
ligence, it is not one whit in advance
of the veriest superstitions of the mid-
dle ages. Spiritualists are men to
