702
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
whom science teaches nothing; they
reap its material advantages, hut repu-
diate all its higher lessons. Practically
they hold to the unalterable uniformi-
ties of nature. They ply the arts of in-
dustry, telegraph around the world, trust
their lives on the flying train, and in a
thousand exposures, practically certain
that there will never be a hair's breadth
of failure in the adamantine order of
natural laws; and then they formulate
a belief in ghosts who can kick holes
through the rotten contexture of nature
anywhere ! Such beliefs are pernicious,
not only because they are intrinsically
false and absurd, but because they are
in vicious hostility to science, and are
a fatal obstruction to the advance of
rational education. That science, as the
most perfect form of knowledge, and
therefore the true basis of education,
has never had even decent considera-
tion in the New York schools, is suffi-
ciently well known ; nor is the explana-
tion far to seek, when their head turns
out to be a spiritualist, and opens his
book of revelations by the virtual an-
nouncement that he is miraculously
called of God *to arrest the course of
modern scientific thought! If it be said
that this is only the private eccentricity
of a single person, the reply is, that we
have yet to learn that it is not repre-
sentative of the power that controls
education in this city. The President
of the Board of Education is reported
to have said, when interviewed with ref-
erence to the removal of the Superin-
tendent, " The strong feeling against him
in the minds of the Commissioners who
are opposed to Mr. Kiddle, arises not so
much from any desire to interfere with
his private opinions about spiritualism,
as practically to show their disapproba-
tion of the vapid trash to which he lends
his sanction as communications from the
spirits of the departed.'" From which
we are to infer that, if the aforesaid
" communications from the spirits of
the departed " had been a little less
vapid or trashy in their form, the board
of officers who have in charge the for-
mation of the minds of the young in
this metropolis would have no objection
to them. Our objection is not merely
or mainly to the worthless character
of Mr. Kiddle's book, but that it is an
official insult to science ; and we say
that the mind which could dally with
such vagaries is not fit to guide and
shape the education of the young. We
do not suppose that the New York
Board of Education is constituted of
men who either know or care much
about science, or sound principles of
education ; but, as a new question is
forced upon them which they can not
escape, we respectfully commend to
their consideration the instructive ar-
ticle of Professor Wundt.
HARRIS ON SOCIAL SCIENCE.
Superintendent Hakris, of St. Louis,
has put forth an address on the " Meth-
od of Study in Social Science." The
subject treated is important, and we
took up his pamphlet hoping that, as
an advanced educational leader, he had
addressed himself to it with the prac-
tical view of determining the form and
place it should take as a popular study
in our American school system. We
have long felt that it was desirable to
have this done. Surely a State system
of education, upon which millions are
spent under the pretext that popular
intelligence is necessary to the main-
tenance of free government, can not
go on for ever ignoring all serious
study of the natural laws of society, or
the science of social relations. But we
were disappointed. Mr. Harris gives
us no help of the kind expected. On
the contrary, his mode of dealing with
the subject would seem to leave us no
social science at all. He, however,
speaks with an authority that is sure
to give weight to his utterances, and it
therefore becomes desirable to point
out in what respect his views are mis-
leading.
