EDITOR'S TABLE.
73
Mr. Harris begins his discourse with
an excellent presentation of the method
of the science of the present day. He
recognizes that its tendency is to pass
from the mere sensible properties of
objects to their relations by saying:
" No object can be understood by it-
self, and even the weather of to-day is
found to be conditioned upon antece-
dent weather. . . . Science sees the
acorn in the entire history of the life
of the oak. It sees the oak in the en-
tire history of all its species, in what-
ever climes they grow. . . . We must
trace whatever we see through its an-
tecedent forms, and learn its cycles
of birth, growth, and decay. . . . We
must learn to see each individual thing
in the perspective of its history. . . .
as a part of a process. . . . The ordi-
nary habit of mind occupies itself with
the objects of the senses, and does not
seek their unity ; . . . the scientific
habit of mind chooses its object, and
persistently follows its thread of exist-
ence through all its changes and rela-
tions."
All this is as true as it is well stated,
and Mr. Harris, moreover, agrees that
this method is coextensive with nature,
and is therefore properly characterized
as " natural science." But he knows
a place where it does not apply and can
not reach ; a place so far set off from
nature that it requires a new method
of study, and gives rise to a new kind
of science different from the common
kind ; and this, strange to say, is social
science. He says : " Social science deals
with man. Man has a natural being as
a mere animal, as well as a spiritual be-
ing of intellect and will. . . . Man is
not only an animal, having bodily wants
of food, clothing, and shelter, but he is
a spiritual being, existing in opposition
to nature. . . . Man as a child or a sav-
age is an incarnate contradiction ; his
real being is the opposite of his ideal
being. His actual condition does not
conform to his true nature. His true
human nature is reason; his actual
condition is irrational, for it is con-
strained from without, chained by brute
necessity, and lashed by the scourges
of appetite and passion. There is thus
a paradoxical contrast between nature
and human nature. ... As man as-
cends out of nature in time and space
into human nature, he ascends into a
realm of his own creation. . . . The
natural self must be abdicated in order
that the personal self may be realized."
This theory of human nature is not
new, but Mr. Harris certainly proposes
to make a new use of it. For thousands
of years it has been customary to divide
man into two natures: a low, gross,
corrupt, perishable, animal nature to be
reprobated and renounced ; and a high,
pure, exalted, immortal nature, chained
to the brutal part, and at war with it
through all the course of our earthly life.
This view has long been useful to theo-
logians and moralists, but Mr. Harris is
the first to reconstruct modern science
on this basis. He would hand over the
bestial, vulgar, and vilified part of hu-
manity to " natural science " ; and he
would erect the upper and nobler por-
tion into a new kind of science by a new
method ; and, as it is the more exalt-
ed portion of man which he " realizes
in institutions," the new method be-
comes that of social science.
Yet, with reference to science, low-
er and higher are all one, and man is a
unity. His higher nature is phenom-
enal, and in its constitution, mode of act-
ing, as well as in its productions, it is not
chaotic, but orderly, and is thus open
to investigation like all the other parts
of nature. That there is a profound
difference between the corporeal and
the psychical parts of man involves no
such consequences as are here assumed.
However deep may be the diversities
among the objects of study in nature,
the method of science in dealing with
them is the same ; because science, be-
ing the most valid knowing, depends
upon the laws of knowing, and not upon
the differences among the objects in-
