704
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
vestigated. A hundred years ago it
was objected that the legitimate meth-
ods of science can not be applied to
the study of living things. Science had
been created by investigations in the
inorganic sphere, and true science was
held to be limited to that sphere.
"When the inquirer left his gases, ores,
and metals, to cross the boundary and
begin a search into the nature of things
that live, he was told that life is a mys-
terious realm where vitality suspends
inorganic laws, and holds sway above
nature and in opposition to it. Yet
the province was long since conquered,
and annexed to the domain of " natural
science." The question in any case is
simply this : Are we dealing with phe-
nomena that may be observed, com-
pared, analyzed, generalized, and re-
duced to a body of principles?
Mr. Harris discredits the method of
natural science in its application to so-
ciety, as follovvs : " From the fact that
all merely natural beings whether
mineral, plant, or animal never rise
to the form of self-knowing and self-
realizing, it follows that the application
of scientific method to the explanation
of human institutions in the ordinary
form is not valid. In nature we ex-
plain the present by the past. If we
attempt to explain the institutions of
the family, society, and the state, by
the rudimentary forms found in the
childhood of the race, or, still worse,
by the habits of the higher animals as
the ape tribe, for example we shall
invert the true method for social sci-
ence. Since all of man's institutions
arise as forms of combination, which
he has made in order to realize an ideal,
it follows that the first ones, historical-
ly, are so rudimentary as scarcely to
indicate their object, Avhile the later
and latest ones contain the explanation
of themselves and of their predeces-
sors."
"We gather from this that Mr. Harris's
" Method of Study in Social Science "
is to ignore the historical aspect of the
subject, and begin with the study of the
most complex institutions. Then why
not adopt the same method in the study
of other subjects ? Fancy him address-
ing a mathematical teacher as follows :
" Since the advanced rules of arithmetic
arise as forms of combination, which
the mathematician has made in order
to realize an ideal, it follows that the
first rules are so rudimentary as scarce-
ly to indicate their object, while the
later and latest contain the explanation
of themselves and of their predeces-
sors; therefore, begin your class and
keep it occupied with problems in the
last portions of the text-book." On
the contrary, it is the law of method in
all study to proceed from the simple to
the complex, from the lower to the
higher, and to explain the more de-
veloped by the less developed. Mr.
Harris's " method " would put an end
to all embryological study; for, if so-
ciety is not to be studied historically
because its first forms " are so rudi-
mentary as scarcely to indicate their
object," is not that equally true of all
rudimentary forms ? His method is
false everywhere. Adult institutions,
like adult animals, can only be ex-
plained by beginning with their germs
and tracing the course of organization.
But Mr. Harris does not leave us to
infer the character of his new social
science ; he gives the formula of its
method in explicit terms, as follows :
" For the study of society, then, one
must seek his principle of explanation
not in the child or the savage, but in
the ideals of the prophets of humanity.
We are to understand Greek life through
a study of Homer and Plato; the mid-
dle ages through Dante and Thomas
Aquinas; modern times through Shake-
speare and Goethe."
So we are to omit the child and the
savage in the study of society ; and
Mr. Harris adds, " Above all, we must
not make the mistake of studying man
as a simple individual." But what will
then be left to study ? "We have always
