LITERARY NOTICES.
705
supposed that society was made up of
children, savages, and individuals, and
that according to the natures and attri-
butes of these units would be the char-
acter of the societies formed of them.
But this it seems is a case in which the
properties of a whole are not dependent
upon the properties of its parts. Verily
it would be an extraordinary " social
science " that should arise by omitting
the study of man as an individual, and
interpreting society by the ideals of its
literary prophets.
LITERARY NOTICES.
SPENCER'S SYNTHETIC PHILOSOPHY:
The Data of Ethics. By Herbert
Spencer. New York : D. Appleton &
Co. Pp. 288. Price, $1.50.
This little book is the first part of the
treatise on morality that will close Spen-
cer's " System of Philosophy." As explained
in his preface, it is the result of long prep-
aration, and is published not in the order
he at first designed. He says : " I have
been led thus to deviate from the order
originally set down by the fear that persist-
ence in conforming to it might result in
leaving the final work of the series unex-
ecuted. Hints repeated of late years with
increasing frequency and distinctness have
shown me that health may permanently fail
even if life does not end before I reach the
last part of the task I have marked out for
myself. This last part of the task it is to
which I regard all of the preceding parts as
subsidiary. Written as far back as 1842,
my first essay, consisting of letters on ' The
Proper Sphere of Government,' vaguely in-
dicated what I conceive to be certain gen-
eral principles of right and wrong in politi-
cal conduct ; and, from that time onward,
my ultimate purpose, lying behind all proxi-
mate purposes, has been that of finding for
the principles of right and wrong in conduct
at large a scientific basis. To leave this
purpose unfulfilled, after making so exten-
sive a preparation for fulfilling it, would be
a failure, the probability of which I do not
like to contemplate ; and I am anxious to
preclude it, if not wholly, still partially.
vol. xv. 45
Hence the step I now take. Though this
first division of the work, terminating the
' Synthetic Philosophy,' can not of course
contain the specific conclusions to be set
forth in the entire work, yet it implies them
in such wise that definitely to formulate
them requires nothing beyond logical de-
duction."
But few will deny the importance of the
work which Mr. Spencer has so long had in
view for, of all fields of thought, the ethi-
cal is in the most chaotic condition. Some
find the grounds of morality in the Ten
Commandments, and others in the rules of
the New Testament. The fear of hell is
appealed to as a motive to right conduct,
and the divine intuitions of conscience are
claimed as guides to duty. As faith in the
supernatural declines, many are left with-
out any authoritative moral guidance, while
some fall back on a prudential utility, and
others upon the interdicts of public law.
These theoretical discords are accompanied
by varying standards of right and wrong in
different states and periods of society, while
everywhere are seen the most glaring dis-
crepancies between professed moral pre-
cepts and actual moral practice.
Meantime, in other fields of thought, sci-
ence is the great reconciler of conflicting
opinions. By the establishment of compre-
hensive principles that command universal
assent, it is constantly bringing men into
better agreement ; and it has thus become
an authority that is enforcing the submis-
sion of the human mind with steadily in-
creasing power. Moral phenomena, like
mental and physical phenomena, are obe-
dient to principles of order, and are thus
amenable to scientific method ; science,
therefore, must traverse the ethical field in
its legitimate progress ; and there is no
reason to doubt that it will perform the
same benign office of illumination and guid-
ance here, that it has performed in the other
great spheres of its application.
But, if this is true, it may well be asked
why science has not long since accomplished
so desirable a work. It is because centu-
ries of preparation were required to develop
the preliminary sciences and perfect the
method of inquiry ; and because it is a task
of such difficulty that but few men could be
expected to combine the scientific quali-
fications, the patient, untiring industry,
