yo6
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and the sustained interest in the subject
necessary to deal with it adequately and
successfully. Mr. Spencer entered upon
this line of study in his youth, and has de-
voted his life to it. He has explored and
reorganized several of the great divisions
of science with reference to their ultimate
bearings upon the problem of scientific mo-
rality ; and he is undoubtedly the first to
work out the philosophical relations of the
sciences to a new system of ethical doctrine.
In this brief notice of a work that re-
quires to be thoughtfully read, we can no
more than open the subject ; and this can
best be done by anticipating certain ques-
tions that will arise at the outset in the
minds of many readers. It will be said, in
the first place : " We know something about
morality, having often heard it expounded
and applied. It lays down the regulations
of behavior. Government enforces it by
its laws, and society rests upon it. It
seems a very practical, common -sense
thing that everybody can understand, as
we must all obey its injunctions; but what
on earth do you mean by ' scientific mo-
rality ' ? "
The reply is, that " scientific morality "
is that kiud of morality which can give
valid reasons for its requirements. Science
stands in just the same relations to morality
that it does to every other kind of human
activity it explains it. Dyeing was long a
successful practical art ; but it consisted in
following a set of blind rules, and its opera-
tions were imperfect. Science explained it,
and gave principles instead of rules, which
gave the reason of many failures, and led to
greatly improved practice. In like manner
morality follows blind and arbitrary rules,
and its practice is notoriously imperfect.
Science will substitute intelligible principles
for these rules which will account for nu-
merous failures, and lead to better practice.
The question may be answered in an-
other way. It is the object of Mr. Spencer's
present work to lay the foundations of an
ethical system that shall have the validity
and authority of scientific truth, by showing
that the principles of right and wrong in
human conduct are grounded in the consti-
tution of nature. It is obvious that, until
the order and course of nature were under-
stood, such an inquiry must have been un-
successful and impossible. Science alone
explains that order, and therefore furnishes
the facts and truths that are necessary to
the investigation. But if science, by this
elucidation, has supplied the data from
which the principles of morality can be de-
rived, and its practice consequently perfect-
ed, the working out of the subject must
give us a " scientific morality."
In the next place it will be asked : " What
has morality to do with evolution ? As the
best ethical maxims go back to a high an-
tiquity, and as, according to Mr. Buckle,
while the intellect is progressive, morals are
stationary, what possible relation can the
evolution theory have to ethics ? " Mr. Spen-
cer furnishes the answer to this question at
the very opening of his book, and in a way
which shows that, if evolution be true at
all, it has everything to do with morality.
His first chapter is on " Conduct in
general," and he begins by illustrating the
truth that no correct idea can be formed of
a part without a knowledge of the whole to
which it belongs. A detached arm could
not be understood by a being ignorant of
the human body ; the moon's movements
can not be interpreted, except in connec-
tion with the movements of the solar system ;
a fragment of a sentence is unintelligible if
separated from the remainder.
Morality deals with a certain kind of
human conduct, but this implies that there
is another kind, of which moral conduct is
but a part. Again, the term " human con-
duct " implies that there is a conduct mani-
fested by creatures other than human, so
that human conduct becomes a part of a
still larger whole. Conduct is defined as
actions adjusted to ends, and is displayed
in ever- varying degrees of simplicity and
complication throughout the entire scale of
animate being. Animals low in type, in
seeking food, adjust actions to ends, and, as
we rise through the series, such adjusted
actions become more varied, combined, and
perfect, until man is reached, when the ad-
justments become far more complex and in-
volved, and the ends attained more numer-
ous, varied, and remote. Mr. Spencer says :
" Complete comprehension of conduct is
not to be obtained by contemplating the
conduct of human beings only : we have to
regard this as a part of universal conduct
conduct as exhibited by all living creatures.
Just as, fully to understand the part of con-
