LITERARY NOTICES.
707
duct which ethics deals with, we must study
human conduct as a whole, so, fully to un-
derstand human conduct as a whole, we must
study it as a part of that larger whole con-
stituted by the conduct of animate beings
in general. Nor is even this whole con-
ceived with the needful fullness so long as
we think only of the conduct at present
displayed around us. We have to regard
the conduct now shown us by creatures of
all orders as an outcome of the conduct
which has brought life of every kind to its
present height, and this is tantamount to
saying that our preparatory step must be to
study the evolution of conduct."
The second chapter is devoted to " The
Evolution of Conduct," and its import may
be gathered from the concluding passage:
" Guided by the truth that as the conduct
with which ethics deals is part of conduct
at large, conduct at large must be generally
understood before this part can be specially
understood ; and guided by the further truth
that to understand conduct at large we must
understand the evolution of conduct, we
have been led to see that ethics has for its
subject-matter that form which universal
conduct assumes during the last stages of
its evolution. We have also concluded that
these last stages in the evolution of conduct
are those displayed by the highest type of
being, when he is forced by increase of
numbers to live more and more in presence
of his fellows. And there has followed the
corollary that conduct gains ethical sanc-
tion in proportion as the activities becom-
ing less and less militant and more and more
industrial are such as do not necessitate
mutual injury or hindrance, but consist with
and are furthered by cooperation and mu-
tual aid."
The- position here assumed at the outset
that morality is a product of evolution is
illustrated and confirmed with convincing
force throughout the work. Why the moral
restraints of conduct are the latest evolved
appears by considering the nature of the
different kinds of coutrol to which men have
been subjected during the unfolding of so-
ciety. As fully explained in the " Sociology,"
society begins only in subordination to vio-
lent external restraints. The rule of the
despotic chief is the germ which develops
into the political control of human conduct.
The primitive fear of the ghost of the dead
chief develops into the superstitious dread
of unseen forms, and ultimately becomes
that powerful religious control which is so
potent in influencing the actions of men.
A later developed but definite and power-
ful form of restraint upon conduct is the
influence of public opinion, or the force of
social reprobation. The results of these
forms of external coercion are so simple,
direct, and easily conceived that they are
well fitted to act upon undeveloped natures,
and they come into play first in the order of
social progress.
The moral motive to conduct differs from
the preceding by recognizing the results that
actions naturally produce. As Mr. Spencer
remarks : " We are now prepared to see
that the restraints properly distinguished
as moral are unlike these restraints out of
which they evolve, and with which they are
long confounded, in this they refer not to
the extrinsic effects of actions but to their
intrinsic effects. The truly moral deterrent
from murder is not constituted by a repre-
sentation of hanging as a consequence, or
by a representation of tortures in hell as a
consequence, or by a representation of the
horror and hatred excited in fellow men;
but by a representation of the necessary
natural results the infliction of death-agony
on the victim, the destruction of all his pos-
sibilities of happiness, the entailed suffer-
ings to his belongings. Neither the thought
of imprisonment, nor of divine anger, nor
of social disgrace, is that which constitutes
the moral check on theft ; but the thought
of injury to the person robbed, joined with
a vague consciousness of the general evils
caused by disregard of proprietary rights.
" And now we see why the moral feel-
ings and correlative restraints have arisen
later than the feelings and restraints that
originate from political, religious, and social
authorities ; and have so slowly, and even
yet so incompletely, disentangled themselves.
For only by these lower feelings and re-
straints could be maintained the conditions
under which the higher feelings and re-
straints evolve. It is thus alike with the
self-regarding feelings and with the other-
regarding feelings. The pains which im-
providence will bring, and the pleasures to
be gained by storing up things for future
use and by laboring to get such things, can
be habitually contrasted in thought, only
