708
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
as fast as settled social arrangements make
accumulation possible ; and, that there may
arise such settled arrangements, fear of the
seen ruler, of the unseen ruler, and of pub-
lic opinion, must come into play. Only after
political, religious, and social restraints have
produced a stable community, can there be
sufficient experience of the pains, positive
and negative, sensational and emotional,'
which crimes of aggression cause, as to gen-
erate that moral aversion to them consti-
tuted by consciousness of their intrinsically
evil results. And more manifest still is it
that such a moral sentiment as that of ab-
stract equity, which is offended not only by
material injuries done to men, but also by
political arrangements that place them at a
disadvantage, can evolve only after the so-
cial stage reached gives familiar experience
both of the pains flowing directly from in-
justices and also of those flowing indirectly
from the class-privileges which make injus-
tices easy."
We are here brought to another exem-
plification of the method of scientific moral-
ity, as influenced by the doctrine of evolu-
tion. If the higher control of conduct is
derived from a knowledge of its conse-
quences, then the supreme problem of mor-
als is the study of causation in human ac-
tions. Everything here turns on the relation
of cause and effect ; and Mr. Spencer shows
conclusively that the development of the
idea of causation is one of the latest re-
sults of man's intellectual progress. The
conception of causation as necessary and
universal has even yet been reached only
by a small circle of strict scientific thinkers.
This is the radical defect of the earlier and
current moral systems. In his chapter on
" The Ways of judging Conduct," Mr. Spen-
cer proves that the religious, the intuitional,
the political, and the utilitarian schools are
here alike deficient : " They do not erect
into a method tbe ascertaining of necessary
relations between causes and effects, and
deducing rules of conduct from formulated
statements of them." Evolution, on the
other hand, implying the persistence of
forces and the continuity of effects, when
applied to ethics must give us a new method
of " scientific morality."
We have here touched only upon inci-
dental points in Spencer's work ; the funda-
mental principle of his system could have
no justice done to it in such a notice. This
idea is that pleasure and pain, in some form
immediate or remote, are at the bottom of
all good and bad, all right and wrong. The
doctrine is involved in the statement that
" there exists a primordial connection be-
tween pleasure-giving acts and continuance
or increase of life, and, by implication, be-
tween pain-giving acts and decrease or loss
of life " ; or that it is " no more possible to
frame ethical conceptions from which the
consciousness of pleasure, of some kind, at
some time, to some being, is absent, than it
is possible to frame the conception of an
object from which the consciousness of
space is absent. And now we see that this
necessity of thought originates in the very
nature of sentient existence. Sentient ex-
istence can evolve only on condition that
pleasure-giving acts are life-sustaining acts."
We think that the verdict on this book
of all candid readers will be that it accom-
plishes what it professes to accomplish it
finds for the principles of right and wrong
in conduct a scientific basis ; and, if this be
true, it is needless to say that its effect will
be to give a new impulse and a new direc-
tion to ethical studies.
The Sportsman's Gazetteer and General
Guide. The Game Animals, Birds, and
Fishes of North America ; their Habits
and Various Methods of Capture. Copi-
ous Instructions in Shooting, Fishing,
Taxidermy, Woodcraft, etc. Together
with a Glossary, and a Directory to the
Principal Game Resorts of the Country.
Illustrated with Maps. By Charles Hal-
lock, Editor of "Forest and Stream,"
etc. Fifth edition. New York : Forest
and Stream Publishing Co. 1819. Pp.
920. Price, $3.
The scope and purpose of this volume
are so fully set forth in the title that there
is no need of further particularizing its con-
tents. The " Gazetteer " is an indispensa-
ble part of the outfit of hunters and fishers
throughout the United States and the Cana-
das. In this fifth edition nothing appears
to have been omitted which should properly
have a place in such a manual. The Glos-
sary is one of the new features introduced
in this edition, and it adds greatly to the
value of the work. Here are to be found
definitions of common words in local use
throughout North America. Strangers are
