712
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Corps IT. S. A. Washington: Government
Printing-Office. 1878. Pp. 115.
On a New Base. By E. F. Smith. From
" American Chemical Journal." Pp. 8.
The Tornado of April 14, 1879, By J. L. R.
Wadsworth, M. D., and F. E. Nipher. From
"Transactions St. Louis Academy of Science."
Thevetia Iccotli and its Glucoside. By D.
Cerna, M. D. From "Philadelphia Medical
Times." Pp. 6.
Annual Announcement of the Stevens Insti-
tute of Technology. Pp.104.
Report of the Work of the Agricultural Ex-
periment Station at Middletown, Conn. Hart-
ford : Case, Lockwood & Brainard Company
print. Pp. 174.
On a Foundation for a Religion. Boston : G.
H. Ellis print. Pp. 48.
Geological Formations crossed by the Syra-
cuse and Chenango Valley Railroad. By L. M.
Underwood. Syracuse : " Standard " print.
Pp. 18.
Wandering Oainidse, or the Ancient Nomads.
By M. Kempe, M. D. Louisville, Ky. : Morton &
Co. print. Pp. 41. 25 cents.
POPULAR MISCELLANY.
American and European Archaeology.
A marked difference is observable between
Europe and America with respect to the or-
der of succession of the different prehistoric
human " periods " to one another. In fact
the succession is in the one exactly the re-
verse of what it is in the other. This dif-
ference is clearly expressed by the Rev. Ste-
phen D. Peet in an article on " The Archaeolo-
gy of Europe and America." " In Europe,''
he says, " the cave-hunter, who used bone
implements, first departed ; the fisherman
of the kitchen-midden next passed away ;
the builder of the earth-mounds followed
with his rude weapons, and the inhabitants
of the palafitte next disappeared; and last
of all the Etruscan, the builder of the rude
stone monuments. Thus Esquimau, Basque
Briton, Belgian, Celt, Saxon and Etruscan
[?], are the successors to one another,
while on this continent Quiches, Toltec,
Aztec, Mound-builders, Red Indians, and
Esquimaux are the silent throng who have
reversed the column of departure. The Es-
quimau was ruder than the Basque, and
the Basque than the Briton, and so the or-
der of departure gave place to a higher cul-
ture. In America the most civilized was
the soonest removed, and the rudest re-
mained the longest. The ancient city was de-
serted, but the pueblo remained ; the pueblo
itself changed inhabitants, but the Mound-
builder remained; the Mound-builder was
driven away, but the Red Indian continued ;
the Red Indian has disappeared, but the
Esquimau abides. The palaces of Palenque
and Uxmal and the seven cities of Cibola
are monuments of a civilization more an-
cient than the Mound-builders. The mounds
of the Mississippi "Valley were doubtless
erected by a more ancient race than the
people who occupied at the time of their
discovery. The Red Indians held an un-
bounded dominion more ancient than the
villages which they inhabited, and the Es-
quimaux may possibly have once covered
the whole land where all of these tribes so
lately roamed, but the last survivor of all is
now the rudest and wildest."
Division and Distribution of the Electric
Light. A method of dividing electric light
(not the electric current, but the light itself)
has been devised by two engineers of San
Francisco, E. J. Molera and J. C. Cebrian.
The scheme looks plausible, but the public
can afford to wait till it has been put to a
practical test. We give the inventors' own de-
scription of the modus operandi of their sys-
tem : " We take," they say, " the most pow-
erful source of light attainable, and place
it in a closed chamber (the chamber of light).
Every wall of this box is a condensing lens,
which will shape the light into a beam of
parallel rays. In this way we reduce our
source of light to several beams of parallel
rays. If we intercept one of these beams
of parallel rays of light by a reflector, the
light will be bent or reflected according to
the position of the reflector ; and it may
thus be sent into any desired direction, hori-
zontal, vertical, or any way inclined. When
the reflector intersects the whole beam of
light, this latter one will be bent totally ;
if only one fraction of the sectional area of
said beam is intersected, then the corre-
sponding fractional part of the beam will be
bent, leaving the other fraction thereof to
follow its former direction. Therefore, if
one of said beams of light is intersected at
different points of its length, by different
reflectors, intersecting different fractional
parts of its section, said beam will be di-
vided into a great number of secondary
beams, going in any desired direction, and
if these secondary beams are treated in
the same way, the main beam can be di-
