POPULAR MISCELLANY.
713
vided, subdivided, conveyed, and distributed
to any number of distant places. If we in-
close the main beam in a tube or pipe, and
every secondary beam in smaller tubes,
branching out from the larger one adjoin-
ing it, and we keep the above said reflect-
ors at the elbows and intersections, or T-
pieces, formed by all these tubes, we obtain
a net or system of ' pipes or tubes similar to
those used in the distribution of gas and
water.
" Such is our system : in front of every
side or face of our chamber of light, we
place a box or pipe inclosing the main
beams of light ; these pipes are laid along
the streets ; at every side street a smaller
pipe will branch out from the main one ; at
their junction we will place a reflector which
will divert into the side street the desired
percentage of light. And thus we can pro-
vide every street of a city with one or more
pipes carrying a known amount of light.
Then, from said street-pipes, service-pipes
will be run into every lamp-post and every
building, and at the intersection of the lat-
ter pipes with the street main we will insert
proper reflectors, the size of which will de-
termine the amount of light supplied by
every service pipe. In the same way that
at present the gas-burners of all the rooms
in a house are in direct successive commu-
nication with the gas-meter or service-pipe,
for said house, through a net of pipes laid
along ceilings and walls ; similarly in our
system, a net of properly branched - out
pipes will put in communication every room
of a building with the above-mentioned ser-
vice-pipe ; only that we will place at every
junction, occurring in said net of pipes, a
proper reflector, which will determine the
amount of light carried by the correspond-
ing pipe. Thus, the light may come into
the rooms through the ceiling or through
the walls, every room having as many out-
lets of light as desired. But the light will
enter in a beam of parallel rays ; therefore,
in order to properly shape it for uae, we
will place at every outlet of light a diffus-
ing lens, called a secondary lens, which will
send the light around in any predetermined
shape ; thus completing the system of di-
vision and distribution of light from a sin-
gle station to any or all the rooms in a city,
and with any desired intensity."
Primitive Innocence. In a letter read
at a meeting of the Academy of Natural
Science, of Philadelphia, Dr. Charles A.
Siegfried, U. S. N., writes as follows : " We
visited an island called Botel Tobago while
surveying a rock, eighty miles east of South
Cape, off Formosa. We found a race of
aborigines, probably from Malay stock.
They knew nothing of money, rum, or to-
bacco. They gave us goats and pigs for tin
pots and brass buttons, and would hang
around us all day in their canoes, waiting
for a chance to dive for something thrown
overboard. They wore clouts only; ate
taro and yams mainly, though they have
pigs, goats, chickens, and fish, and cocoa-
nuts also. Snakes abound, of the boa va-
riety, I judge. Their thatch houses are
low, with much overhang of the roof, sur-
rounded by stone walls, strongly made of
laid stone, to protect them from monsoons.
Their paddy-fields contain immense quan-
tities of taro Colocasia aroidea, my botany
says. They are peaceful and timid, do not
mark the body or deform the face or teeth,
and seem happy enough in their condition.
I found them fairly healthy. They had
axes, spears, and knives, but all of common
iron, the axe being made by imbedding the
handle, instead of the handle piercing the
iron, as with us. Their canoes are beauti-
ful, made without nails, and are ornamented
usually with geometrical lines. The hair is
worn naturally, the men partly clipping
theirs. I saw no valuable metal. They
wore the beards of goats, with small shells,
as neck ornaments."
New and Interesting Fossils. While ex-
amining the "Atlantosaurus beds" of the
Rocky Mountains, Professor Marsh dis-
covered several interesting fossils, among
them the lower jaw of a small mammal a
diminutive marsupial. This is the second
mammal known from the Jurassic in this
country. The specimen, which is from the
left side, has the larger part of the ramus
preserved, with a number of perfect teeth
in position. Most of the symphysial por-
tion is lost, and the posterior part is miss-
ing, or only faintly indicated. The jaw was
remarkably long and slender. The hori-
zontal portion is of nearly equal depth
throughout, and the lower margin nearly
