7H
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
straight. The remarkable feature in this
jaw is the series of premolar and molar
teeth. These were very numerous, appar-
ently as many as twelve in all, possibly
more. In comparing this fossil with the
forms already known, it is seen to differ
widely from any living type. Its nearest
affinities are with the genus Stylodon of
Owen, and in many respects the correspond-
ence is close.
In the " American Journal of Science,"
for September, Professor Marsh describes
two lower jaws belonging to animals ap-
parently of the same genus (Dryolestes) as
the first American Jurassic mammal ; these
remains came from the same locality and
horizon as the preceding. These new spe-
cimens furnish important characters to dis-
tinguish the genus. In one of them the
angle of the lower jaw is strongly inflected,
thus indicating its marsupial nature. The
other proves that the genus is quite dis-
tinct from Didelphys, as there were at least
four premolars. This specimen differs from
the jaws of Dryolestes prisons (the first Ju-
rassic mammal found in this country) in
being more slender, less curved, and less
compressed. Professor Marsh gave to the
species the name Dryolestes vorax. The
animal appears to have been smaller than
D. prisons.
Classification of Words by Ideas. At
the recent Philological Convention at New-
port, Mr. Stephen Pearl Andrews read an
interesting paper proposing some further
development of views previously suggested
regarding the classification of terms by the
ideas they represent, and he showed that
the process already begun is capable of
being carried to a far greater degree of
simplification than has yet been reached.
Mr. Andrews's paper was to the effect that
there are two possible ways of pursuing
the study of words, one of which only has
heretofore been brought into use, and the
adoption of the other one of which will con-
stitute a new method and a new era in phil-
ology. These two ways are 1. To study
the word, as a bundle of sounds, the body
of the word first, and in the main, and the
idea or meaning of the word in a secondary
and incidental manner merely ; and, 2. To
etudy the idea embodied in the word, as
the main thing, making the phonetic struc-
ture of the word secondary and accessory
to the word. The first of these methods
Mr. Andrews calls historical or physical,
and the second ideological or psychical.
The historical method is the current and
triumphant method, initiated by Jacob
Grimm, and now completed, in a sense, by
August Fick, in the supplement to his dic-
tionary of the Indo-Germanic language,
where he sums up the root-words as a mere
handful (50 to 500), from which all the
words (virtually) ever spoken in southern
and western Asia, and in Europe, are de-
rived. This historical method Mr. Andrews
also calls, therefore, the German method,
and he thinks it has now achieved nearly
all that it is able to do.
The ideological method has hardly yet
been begun, and remains now to be elabo-
rated. It was, however, unconsciously ini-
tiated by Noah Webster, in the introduc-
tion to his dictionary, while he was working
for a quite different purpose, and may
therefore be called, for easy distinction,
the American method. As Fick reduces
all the words we use to a mere handful, so
Webster, on the other hand, reduces the
meanings of all these words to a group of
thirty-four leading ideas, a less number than
that of Fick's root-words. Both the Ger-
man and the American method are, there-
fore, traveling on the road to lingual unifi-
cation, or, what is the same thing, to the
reduction of language to an ultimate sim-
plification. On the side of ideas this is
the same as what the metaphysicians have
sought to do, working abstractly, with their
categories.
At this point, Mr. Andrews himself
takes up the subject, on the side of ideas,
or the American method, and pushes the
simplification down to its utmost. He ana-
lyzes and further generalizes Webster's thir-
ty-four classes of ideas, reducing them all
to three grand major classes : 1. The idea
of division or apartness (of, off, fromness) ;
2. The idea of unity or togetherness (at, to,
with) ; and 3. The idea of vacillation be-
tween those two. These three ideas Mr.
Andrews identifies with the differentiation
and integration of Herbert Spencer, and with
the coaction or interrelationship between
those two ideas.
