POPULAR MISCELLANY.
715
Mr. Andrews therefore entitles his meth-
od "The Ideological Method in Philology."
His paper, which was long and elaborate,
was listened to with the closest attention
by the association throughout.
An Ironless Civilization. Mr. A. Woei-
kof, in a narrative of his travels in Yucatan
and the southeastern States of Mexico, pub-
lished in " Petermann's Mittheilungen," in-
troduces us to a so-called " civilized " people,
who are practically unacquainted with the
uses of iron. Writing about the northern
portion of the State of Chiapas, he says that
the inhabitants employ iron only in the
shape of axes and machetes, which are im-
ported from the United States. For the
distance of one hundred kilometres round
about Palenque not one blacksmith is to
be found. Not a single nail is to be seen
in their houses ; everything is held together
with cords or with vines. Even in the prep-
aration of their usual article of food tor-
tillas the apparatus they employ is equally
primitive, though in this respect they follow
the custom which is universal throughout all
Mexico and Central America. The grains
of maize are crushed between two stones,
one of which, the nether one, is rather large,
with a sloping upper surface. A woman
kneels by this stone and strews upon it some
grains of maize, over which she works to
and fro another stone of cylindrical form,
so grinding the maize. The coarse meal so
obtained is baked into flat tortilla-cakes in
the ashes. This is exactly the mode of pre-
paring meal in vogue in Central and South
Africa ; the African negroes, however, show
a higher grade of culture, inasmuch as they
understand the working of iron. Our author
caustically remarks hereupon that " the in-
troduction even of hand-mills would be, for
this country, a step of progress of far more
value than many a high-sounding political
prerogative, which can never be of any ad-
vantage to a population living in so low a
grade of civilization."
A Two-Headed Snake. H. Semler gives,
in " Die Natur," an account of a living two-
headed snake, found on the line of railroad
from San Jos6 to Santa Cruz, and now on
exhibition in the museum of the Woodward
Garden in San Francisco. It is a gopher-
snake (Pelicophis Wilksei), a species which
lives on gophers, rats, mice, and small birds.
The gopher-snake is a perfectly harmless
reptile, like all the other snakes of Califor-
nia except the rattlesnake. The two-head-
ed snake is twenty-two inches in length ;
its age can not be determined, but is not
over two or three months ; the full-grown
snake is seven to eight feet in length. Its
color is a dirty yellowish-white, with a dou-
ble row of chestnut-brown spots along the
back ; these spots are nearly square and sev-
enty-five in number. On each side is a row
of smaller spots of the same color' and
shape. On both of the necks up to the
heads are also several small spots. From
the point where the necks fork to the ex-
tremities of the jaws is one inch and a half.
The heads and necks are perfectly separate
and about one inch apart; each head and
each neck is fully formed and in every re-
spect symmetrical. Each of the heads has
two large eyes. The animal can put out
each of the two forked tongues separately
or together. The two jaws open into one
throat. As each neck is perfectly flexible,
the snake can turn each of its heads in any
direction at pleasure. It oftentimes lays its
two heads close together ; often it spreads
them as far apart as possible, or re3ts one
upon the other. It takes its food through
either mouth indifferently, and both jaws
seem to possess the same power. Some
years ago a Missouri farmer, in plowing,
found a rattlesnake which in like manner
had two fully-formed heads, and a merchant
of San Francisco avers that he observed a
similar lusus natures in a Java snake.
The Color-Sense in Savages. In order
to determine the capacity possessed by un-
cultivated races for distinguishing different
colors and shades of color, Mr. Albert S.
Gatschet prepared a series of colored paper
slips, twenty in number, insensibly blend-
ing into each other, and by personal in-
quiry ascertained the names employed by
various tribes of American Indians for des-
ignating these differences. The result, pub-
lished in the "American Naturalist," does
not throw much light on the question of
color-blindness in uncivilized men, for we
have here not a statement of what' these
Indians see in the way of color, but only of
