7 i6
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
what their idioms are able to express. Nev-
ertheless, the author's conclusions, which
apply only to seven Indian idioms, are in-
teresting; they are as follows: 1, The In-
dians distinguish as many as, if not more
shades of color, than we do. 2. No generic
term meaning color exists, and it seems that
such a term is too abstract for their con-
ception. 3. Many of their color-terms, even
the most opposite ones, are derived from
one and the same radical syllable. For
example, in the Kalapuya idiom blue is pei-
ankaf pawe-u, and yellow pe-i antk pawe-u.
4. In the Indian lists we observe some
names of mixed colors which impress the
eye by being not homogeneous. Such is
the Klamath term ma'kmakli, which is the
blue mixed with gray, as seen in wild geese
and ducks ; and gray in most of the dia-
lects means black mixed in with white, or
white with black, as in the fur of the rac-
coon, gray fox, etc. 5. In naming some
colors Indians follow another principle than
we do, in qualifying certain natural objects
by their color, and then calling iuem by the
same name, even when their color has
been altered. This we distinctly observe in
kaka'kli, yellow and green in Klamath, the
adjective having been given originally to
the color of grass, trees, and other plants.
Most frequently blue and green are rendered
by one and the same term. 6. As stated
above, Indians often follow principles differ-
ing from ours in naming colors. The Kla-
math language "has two terms for green,
one when applied to the color of plants (ka-
ka'kli), another when applied to garments
and dress (tolaliiptehi). So, too, blue, when
said of beads, is expressed by a different
word from the blue of flowers or of gar-
ments. 7. Reduplication of the word-root
is very often met with in color-names, but
the cause of this is not always the same.
In Klamath and the Sahaptin dialects it is
distribution and repetition (as of white hairs
on a darker ground in the fur of the rac-
coon) ; in Dakota it is the idea of intensity
that has produced this synthetic feature.
Draper's Researches on Oxygen in the
Snn. Professor Henry Draper, on the 13 th
of June, laid before the Royal Astronomi-
cal Society of London the evidence by which
he claims to have demonstrated the exist-
ence of oxygen in the sun. A writer in
the London " Times " (presumably Mr. J.
Norman Lockyer) acknowledges the force
of the evidence adduced by Professor Dra-
per. He says : " We think that most spec-
troscopists will admit that Professor Draper
does not pass beyond the limits of scien-
tific caution in claiming that the coincidence
shown in his photographs between the
bright lines of oxygen and bright parts of
the solar spectrum establishes the proba-
bility of the existence of oxygen in the
sun. The burden of proof, or rather of dis-
proof, should now fall on those who con-
sider that the coincidence may, after all, be
merely accidental. To us it seems that if
such evidence as Professor Draper has ob-
tained is rejected, hardly any spectroscopic
evidence can suffice to prove the existence
of an element in the sun. We certainly
have not stronger evidence in the case of so-
dium or magnesium, elements which every
physicist regards as present in the sun,
than Professor Draper has obtained in the
case of oxygen."
Telegraph Operators and Consumption.
Pulmonary consumption appears to be an
exceptionally frequent cause of death among
telegraphers, and one reason assigned for
the fact is the peculiarly strained posture
which an operator receiving messages con-
tinuously is obliged to assume in order not
to lose the characters as they are ticked
out to him from the sounder. " The opera-
tor in receiving bends his head and shoul-
der on his left side while listening to the
sounder, this position confining his left lung
and his heart in an unnatural position ; and,
being assumed day after day, month after
month, eventually brings on the dread dis-
ease consumption." But a writer in the
" Journal of the Telegraph " suggests a dif-
ferent cause for the prevalence of consump-
tion among telegraphers, viz., the original
physical insufficiency of a large proportion
of the young men who enter on this career.
He says :
" In choosing an occupation for a young
man, after he has received an education, if
his health is not good, or if he should be
of slight build, the question of his accept-
ing a position requiring bodily labor is ig-
nored entirely, and some field of usefulness
