POPULAR MISCELLANY.
717
is sought that seems to require the least
manual labor. Clerking in a store will not
answer ; it requires too much standing, and
lifting of goods, etc. Clerking of any sort
is not favored ; he does not care to enter
the professions so called ; and, in casting
about, telegraphing seems so easy nothing
to do but sit at a table and write a little
while ; then, to vary the monotony, send a
while with the key. This, to the uninitiated,
appears very inviting, and the consequence
is the young man becomes an applicant for
a position in some telegraph-office, with a
view of learning the art. This is not inva-
riably the case, of course ; but it is suffi-
ciently so to justify the statement that more
young men of delicate health seek telegraph-
ing as an occupation than almost any other
profession or trade, and the result is mani-
fest in our mortality list."
We may remark that, just as the calling
of the telegrapher seems to be an unhealthy
one, owing to causes extraneous to itself,
so newly-settled regions, as our Western Ter-
ritories, often are credited with exceptional
healthiness, to which they are not entitled.
Such regions attract vigorous, adventurous
young settlers, the very " pick and choice,"
physically, of the older settlements. Of
course, among such a population disease is
infrequent and the death-rate is low. It is
an egregious fallacy, of course, to attribute
this low death-rate to the benignity of the
climate of their new home.
Discovery of a Remarkable Cave in Alge-
ria. The " Courier," of Tlemcen, Algeria,
describes an interesting discovery, recently
made, at the cascades near that place. Some
miners had blasted an enormous rock near
the cascades, and, on the removal of the
debris, found it had covered a large opening
into a cave, the floor of which was covered
with water. Constructing a rude raft, and
providing themselves with candles, the work-
men sailed along this underground river,
which at a distance of sixty metres was
found to merge into a large lake of limpid
water. The roof of the cavern was very
high and covered with stalactites, the bril-
liant colors of which sparkled in the light
of the candles. Continuing their course, the
workmen had at certain places to navigate
their craft between the stalactites which,
meeting stalagmites from the bed of the lake,
formed massive columns which looked as
if they had been made expressly to sustain
the enormous arches. Thus they reached
the extremity of the lake, where they noticed
a large channel extending southward. This
is supposed to be a large fissure which has
baffled exploration hitherto at Sebdon, and
which connects the cascades with that lo-
cality, and thus with the mysterious sources
of the Tafna. It is possible that here they
have found an immense natural basin, sup-
plied by powerful sources, and sending a
part of its waters toward the lake, while the
rest goes to Sebdon. The workmen esti-
mated the distance underground traversed
by them at three kilometres, and the breadth
of the lake at two. They brought out with
them a quantity of fishes, which swarmed
round the raft, and which were found to be
blind.
The Fodder-Tree. It is proposed to in-
troduce into India from Jamaica the Cali-
candra saman, a fodder-yielding tree sup-
posed to be a native of the South Ajnerican
mainland. In Jamaica the tree is popular-
ly known as the guango. It is a lofty tree,
in general habit much resembling the Eng-
lish oak. The trunk is thick, generally
short, and branched a few feet from the
ground. The primary branch divisions are
often tree-like in size, measuring nine to
twelve feet in circumference at the base.
The lower branches spread horizontally,
and the upper are erect, spreading, giving
the tree a flattish, dome-shaped appearance.
Trees are not unfrequently .seventy feet
high, the diameter of whose branch expan-
sion horizontally is over thirty feet. The
shade which this tree affords is always
flecked with gleams of sunshine which flit
about as the branches wave with the
breeze. This characteristic is coupled with
the fact, which is of equal importance to
healthy vegetation, that the leaves and
leaflets rigidly close together at night, thus
permitting the fall of dew on the ground
under the branches. Grass grows freely
within the overshadowing of its ample
arms close up to its trunk. On this ac-
count alone it should be planted in pas-
tures wherever it will thrive, as a grateful
shade for cattle. But, further, it is itself
