7 i8
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
a valuable fodder-yielding tree. The fruit
when ripe is a bright brown pod six to ten
inches long, about an inch wide, and a
quarter of an inch thick, the substance of
the pod consisting of a sugary, amber-col-
ored pulp. The pods are borne in great
profusion. As they ripen they drop to the
ground, and are picked up and eaten with
much relish by all kinds of stock. The
excellent quality of this fruit as a fodder is
evident from its fattening effect stock
having access to it improve markedly dur-
ing the time it is in season. The pods can
be stored for use in winter and spring.
Another New Metal (?). We take from
"La Nature" a brief account of a new metal,
norwegium, lately discovered by Daffl in an
arseniuret of nickel, copper, and iron. Un-
like most of the new elements latterly dis-
covered, this new metal was not discovered
by the aid of the spectroscope ; indeed, Daffl
does not appear to have examined its spec-
trum. The oxide of norwegium is easily re-
duced by carbon or by hydrogen ; the metal
is white, malleable, of the hardness of cop-
per, and is fusible at a low red heat. Its
density is equal to 9'44. It dissolves readi-
ly in hydrochloric acid ; but nitric acid soon
forms a nitrate. The concentrated solution
is blue; on adding water it becomes green.
Its chemical equivalent is 196 if the oxide
is a protoxide. It is precipitated by potash,
ammonia, and carbonate of soda, and re-
dissolves in an excess of the precipitant.
Sulphuretted hydrogen gives an insoluble
brown precipitate in the sulpho-hydrate of
ammonia. At the blowpipe, with borax, it
forms a globule which is green .while hot,
but when cold, blue. The phosphorus salt
yields a yellow globule, which on cooling
becomes emerald green.
The Flight and Fall of Meteors. Pro-
fessor C. U. Shepard, in a paper on " Me-
teorites," read before the Connecticut Acad-
emy of Sciences, states the number of sup-
posed independent falls of such bodies,
whereof specimens are preserved in mu-
seums, as about three hundred and fifty,
which number is increasing at the rate of
between three and four per year. In the
northern hemisphere there are two regions
where falls of meteorites have been most
frequent. " These regions," says Professor
Shepard, "are apparently situated where
they have been similarly influenced by the
earth's magnetic polarity. The regions are
on opposite sides of the hemisphere, have
similar areas, and are in analogous direc-
tions and at similar distances from the two
terrestrial north magnetic poles." The au-
thor calls attention to the highly magnet-
ic constitution of nearly all meteorites,
and to the fact that each mass, whether"
large or small, of a detonating meteor,
maintains during its aerial flight a fixed
axial direction. He infers that " if a strong
magnetic force is found to attend these
bodies, the perplexing subject relating to
their high and variant velocities may receive
some elucidation." He thinks that the
great objection to the theory of the vol-
canic origin of meteorites, viz., that their
velocity is too great, may be obviated by
the hypothesis that acceleration may be
produced by the electro-magnetism of the
earth.
A Xatnral Well. In March last a re-
markable " sink-hole " was discovered in
Meade County, Kansas. In May it was
visited by Professor B. F. Mudge, who gives
an interesting account of it in the " Kansas
City Review of Science and Industry." This
sink-hole made its appearance in a grassy
prairie at a point forty miles south of Dodge,
and its site was formerly crossed by a wag-
on-road. This road is little frequented, but
those who passed over it early in March
saw nothing new where now the sink-hole
exists. About March 18th the road had
disappeared, and in its place was a deep
cavity. As seen by Professor Mudge on
May 5th, it had the appearance of a gigan-
tic well, sixty feet deep and 610 feet in
circumference, being nearly circular. The
walls were perpendicular, or nearly so. The
material of the soil, at least to the depth of
seventeen feet, consisted of a firm clay shale
of reddish tinge. All around the cavity
were circular cracks parallel to the rim,
from five to fifteen feet deep, and from one
to ten inches wide. These had opened at
the time of the catastrophe, and appear as
though ready to cave in ; but one of the
party that accompanied Professor Mudge
had visited the spot a month earlier, and he
