PROTOPLASM AND LIFE. 723
can be applied. You have before you a glairy, tenacious fluid, which,
if not absolutely homogeneous, is yet totally destitute of structure.
And yet no one who contemplates this spontaneously moving mat-
ter can deny that it is alive. Liquid as it is, it is a living liquid ; or-
ganless and structureless as it is, it manifests the essential phenomena
of life.
The picture which I have thus endeavored to trace for you in a
few leading outlines is that of protoplasm in its most generalized
aspect. Such generalizations, however, are in themselves unable to
satisfy the conditions demanded by an exact scientific inquiry, and I
propose now, before passing to the further consideration of the place
and purport of protoplasm in nature, to bring before you some definite
examples of protoplasm, such as are actually met with in the organic
world.
A quantity of a peculiar slimy matter was dredged in the North
Atlantic by the naturalists of the exploring-ship Porcupine from a
depth of from 5,000 to 25,000 feet. It is described as exhibiting, when
examined on the spot, spontaneous movements, and as being obviously
endowed with life. Specimens of this, preserved in spirits, were ex-
amined by Professor Huxley, and declared by him to consist of pro-
toplasm, vast masses of which must thus in a living state extend over
wide areas of sea-bottom. To this wonderful slime Huxley gave the
name of Bathybius Haeckelii.
Bathybius has since been subjected to an exhaustive examination
by Professor Haeckel, who believes that he is able to confirm in all
points the conclusions of Huxley, and arrives at the conviction that
the bottom of the open ocean at depths below 5,000 feet is covered
with an enormous mass of living protoplasm, which lingers there in
the simplest and most primitive condition, having as yet acquired no
definite form. He suggests that it may have originated by spontaneous
generation, but leaves this question for future investigations to decide.
The reality of Bathybius, however, has not been universally ac-
cepted. In the more recent investigations of the Challenger the ex-
plorers have failed in their attempts to bring further evidence of the
existence of masses of amorphous protoplasm spreading over the bed
of the ocean. They have met with no trace of Bathybius in any of
the regions explored by them, and they believe that they are justified
in the conclusion that the matter found in the dred^ino-s of the Por-
cupine and preserved in spirits for further examination, was only an
inorganic precipitate due to the action of the alcohol.
It is not easy to believe, however, that the very elaborate investiga-
tions of Huxley and Haeckel can be thus disposed of. These, more-
over, have received strong confirmation from the still more recent
observations of the Arctic voyager Bessels, who was one of the ex-
plorers of the ill-fated Polaris, and who states that he dredged from
the Greenland seas masses of living undifferentiated protoplasm.
