724 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Bessels assigns to these the name of Protobathyhius, but they are
apparently indistinguishable from the Bathybius of the Porcupine.
Further arguments against the reality of Bathybius will therefore be
needed before a doctrine founded on observations so carefully con-
ducted shall be relegated to the region of confuted hypotheses.
Assuming, then, that Bathybius, however much its supposed wide
distribution may have been limited by more recent researches, has a
real existence, it presents us with a condition of living matter the
most rudimental it is possible to conceive. No law of morphology
has as yet exerted itself in this formless slime. Even the simplest
individualization is absent. We have a living mass, but we. know not
where to draw its boundary-lines ; it is living matter, but we can
scarcely call it a living being.
We are not, however, confined to Bathybius for examples of proto-
plasm in a condition of extreme simplicity. Haeckel has found, in-
habiting the fresh waters in the neighborhood of Jena, minute lumps
of protoplasm which, when placed under the microscope, were seen to
have no constant shape, their outline being in a state of perpetual
change, caused by the protrusion from various parts of their surface
of broad lobes and thick, finger-like projections, which, after remaining
visible for a time, would be withdrawn, to make their appearance again
on some other pai't of the surface.
These changeable protrusions of its substance, without fixed posi-
tion or definite form, are eminently characteristic of protoplasm in
some of its simplest conditions. They have been termed " Pseudopo-
dia," and will frequently come before you in what I have yet to say.
To the little protoplasmic lumps thus constituted Haeckel bas given
the name of Protamceba primitive/,. They may be compared to minute
detached pieces of Bathybius. He has seen them multiplying them-
selves by spontaneous division into two pieces, which, on becoming
independent, increase in size, and acquire all the characters of the
parent.
Several other beings as simple as Protamceba have been described
by various observers, and especially by Haeckel, who brings the whole
together into a group to which he gives the name of Monera, sug-
gested by the extreme simplicity of the beings included in it.
But we must now pass to a stage a little higher in the development
of protoplasmic beings. Widely distributed in the fresh and salt
waters of Britain, and probably of almost all parts of the world, are
small particles of protoplasm closely resembling the Protamceba just
described. Like it, they have no definite shape, and are perpetually
changing their form, throwing out and drawing in thick lobes and
finger-like pseudopodia, in which their body seems to flow away over
the field of the microscope. They are no longer, however, the homo-
geneous particle of protoplasm which forms the body of Protamceba.
Toward the center a small globular mass of firmer protoplasm has
