726 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ed, we seek in vain. Yet watch it for a moment as it lies in a drop of
water beneath our microscope. Some living denizen of the same drop
is in its neighborhood, and its presence exerts on the protoplasm of
the Amoeba a special stimulus which gives rise to the movements ne-
cessary for the prehension of nutriment. A stream of protoplasm
instantly runs away from the body of the Amoeba toward the destined
prey, envelops it in its current, and then flows back with it to the cen-
tral protoplasm, where it sinks deeper and deeper into the soft, yield-
ing mass, and becomes dissolved, digested, and assimilated in. order
that it may increase the size and restore the energy of its captor.
But again, like all living things, Amoeba must multiply itself, and
so after attaining a certain size its nucleus divides into two halves, and
then the surrounding protoplasm becomes similarly cleft, each half
retaining one half of the original nucleus. The two new nucleated
masses which thus arise now lead an independent life, assimilate nutri-
ment, and attain the size and characters of the parent.
We have just seen that in the body of an Amoeba we have the
type of a cell. Now, both the fresh waters and the sea contain many
living beings besides Amoeba which never pass beyond the condition
of a simple cell. Many of these, instead of emitting the broad, lobe-
like pseudopodia of Amoeba, have the faculty of sending out long,
thin threads of protoplasm, which they can again retract, and by the
aid of which they capture their prey or move from place to place.
Simple structureless protoplasm as they are, many of them fashion for
themselves an outer membranous or calcareous case, often of symmet-
rical form and elaborate ornamentation, or construct a silicious skele-
ton of radiating spicula, or crystal clear concentric spheres of exqui-
site symmetry and beauty.
Some move about by the aid of a flagellum, or long whip-like pro-
jection of their bodies, by which they lash the surrounding waters,
and which, unlike the pseudopodia of Amoeba, can not, during active
life, be withdrawn into the general protoplasm of the body ; while
among many others locomotion is effected by means of cilia micro-
scopic vibratile hairs, which are distributed in various ways over the
surface, and wbich, like the pseudopodia and flagella, are simple pro-
longations of their protoplasm.
In every one of these cases the entire body has the morphological
value' of a cell, and in this simple cell reside the whole of the prop-
erties which manifest themselves in the vital phenomena of the organ-
ism.
The part fulfilled by these simple unicellular beings in the economy
of nature has at all times been very great, and many geological for-
mations, largely built up of their calcareous or silicious skeletons, bear
testimony to the multitudes in which they must have swarmed in the
waters of the ancient earth.
Those which have thus come down to us from ancient times owe
