PROTOPLASM AND LIFE. 729
" Hautschicht," or cortical layer, of these cells. I then suggested that
the function of these pseudopodia lay in seizing, in the manner of an
Amoeba, such alimentary matter as may be found in the contents of the
canal, and applying it to the nutrition of the hydroid.
What I had thus suggested with regard to Myriothela has been
since proved in certain planarian worms by Metschnikoff,* who has
seen the cells which line the alimentary canal in these animals act like
independent Amoebae,, and ingulf in their protoplasm such solid nutri-
ment as may be contained in the canal. When the planaria was fed
with coloring matter these amoeboid cells became gorged with the
colored particles just as would have happened in an Amoeba when
similarly fed.
But it is not alone in such loosely aggregated cells as those of the
blood, or in the amoeboid cells of the alimentary canal, or in such
scattered constituents of the tissues as the pigment-cells, or in cells
destined for an ultimate state of freedom, as the egg, that there exists
an independence. The whole complex organism is a society of cells,
in which every individual cell possesses an independence, an autonomy,
not at once so obvious as in the blood-cells, but not the least real.
With this autonomy of each element there is at the same time a sub-
ordination of each to the whole, thus establishing a unity in the entire
organism, and a concert and harmony between all the phenomena of
its life.
In this society of cells each has its own work to perform, and the
life of the organism is made up of the lives of its component cells.
Here it is that we find most distinctly expressed the great law of the
physiological division of labor. In the lowest organisms, where the
whole being consists of a single cell, the performance of all the pro-
cesses which constitute its life must devolve on the protoplasm of this
one cell ; but as we pass to more highly organized beings, the work
becomes distributed among a multitude of workers. These workers
are the cells which now make up the complex organism. The dis-
tribution of labor, however, is not a uniform one, and we are not to
suppose that the work performed by each cell is but a repetition of
that of every other. For the life-processes, which are accumulated in
the single cell of the unicellular organism become in the more complex
organism differentiated, some being intensified and otherwise modified
and allocated to special cells, or to special groups of cells, which we
call organs, and whose proper duty is now to take charge of the spe-
cial processes which have been assigned to them. In all this we have
a true division of labor a division of labor, however, by no means
absolute ; for the processes which are essential to the life of the cell
must still continue common to all the cells of the organism. No cell,
however great may be the differentiation of function in the organism,
* " Ueber die Verdauungsorgane einiger Siisswasser-Turbellarien," " Zoologischer
Anzeiger," December, 1878.
