5 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
for that length of time on crutches. The foot and ankle were very thin,
cold, and clammy, and even very gentle manipulation caused consider-
able pain. I could not make out, from all the history which I could
gather from the lady herself, with the help of her sister, who accom-
panied her, that the so-called injury had been at all serious, and I con-
cluded that what had been supposed a serious injury to the ankle had
simply been a circumstance which had established a condition of appre-
hension in regard to that locality.
A careful examination satisfied me that the lameness was in the
mind, referring to the foot and ankle, but without any sufficient injury
of the parts referred to to cause lameness. It was therefore the mind
rather than the foot and ankle which ought to be treated, and it was
the mind which I did treat, with success. There was no excessive fear
here, as there is in many cases, but simply pain on using the foot. Of
course there was the misapprehension with regard to the nature of the
case, and correcting this misapprehension was one important element
in treatment. But such correction only put her en rapport with her
treatment, but did not alter the fact that it did hurt to bear weight on
the foot. In such cases it is important to give some time for the emo-
tions to adjust themselves to what the intelligence accepts on the sub-
ject. In the mean time something was given her to do, some uses of
the foot which would fall far short of attaining the point of pressure or
motion which her experience had shown would or might be painful ;
that is, she was required to never approach the point where she had
been accustomed to expect to be hurt. Thus the element of expectancy
was gradually lessened, and finally eliminated entirely, so that in a few
weeks she could walk as well as ever. This was twelve years ago. She
has never had a relapse, and is perfectly well to-day. This is one of
the classes of cases out of which the so-called " bone-setters" make so
much capital.
The foot, ankle, knee, and hip joints are all frequently referred to
when there is no organic affection at the point indicated by the mental
impression, and I might go on almost indefinitely relating instances, if
time permitted. But it may be sufficient to indicate the frequency of
disturbed psycho-biological relations to say that I estimate that not less
than one half of all cases applying to me for relief from joint affections
belong to the class under discussion.
Before lea\ mg this aspect of the subject I think I ought to mention
the case of a little girl living in Williamsburgh, who, when she was about
three years old, saw a very lame child in the street one day, a patient
of mine, and when she returned home her family were surprised to find
her lame. The patient the child saw was affected by paralysis, but,
curiously enough, the child's lameness simulated disease of the hip-
joint. Paralysis could not be well imitated. I was consulted some two
years after the first appearance of the lameness, and her attending
physician, the late Dr. Brady, of Williamsburgh, gave me the history of
