PROTOPLASM AND LIFE. 731
to bear on one of these cells, a portion of its protoplasm may be seen
in active rotation, flowing up one side of the long, tubular cell and
down the other, and sweeping on with it such more solid particles as
may become enveloped in its current. In another water-plant, the
Vallsnerla spiralis, a similar active rotation of the protoplasm may
be seen in the cells of the leaf, where the continuous stream of liquid
protoplasm sweeping along the green granules of chlorophyl, and
even carrying the globular nucleus with it in its current, presents one
of the most beautiful of the many beautiful phenomena which the mi-
croscope has revealed to us.
In many other cells with large sap-cavities, such as those which
form the stinging hairs of nettles and other kinds of vegetable hairs,
the protoplasmic lining of the wall may send off into the sap-cavity
projecting ridges and strings, forming an irregular network, along
which, under a high power of the microscope, a slow streaming of
granules may be witnessed. The form and position of this protoplas-
mic network undergo constant changes, and the analogy with the
changes of form in an Amoeba becomes obvious. The external wall
of cellulose renders it impossible for the confined protoplasm to emit,
like a naked Amoeba, pseudoppdia from its outer side ; but on the
inner side there is no obstacle to the extension of the protoplasm, and
here the cavity of the cell becomes more or less completely traversed
by protoplasmic projections from the wall. These often stretch them-
selves out in the form of thin filaments, which, meeting with a neigh-
boring one, become fused into it ; they show currents of granules
streaming along their length, and after a time become withdrawn and
disappear. The vegetable cell, in short, with its surrounding wall of
cellulose, is in all essential points a closely imprisoned rhizopod.
Further proof that the imprisoned protoplasm has lost by its im-
prisonment none of its essential irritability, is afforded by the fact that
if the transparent cell of a Nitella, one of the simple water-plants just
referred to, be touched under the microscope with the point of a blunt
needle, its green protoplasm will be seen to recede, under the irritation
of the needle, from the cellulose wall. If the cellulose wall of the
comparatively large cell which forms the entire plant in a Vaucheria,
a unicellular alga .very common in shallow ditches, be ruptured under
the microscope, its protoplasm will escape, and may then be often seen
to throw out pseudopodial projections and exhibit amoeboid move-
ments.
Even in the higher plants, without adducing such obvious and well-
known instances as those of the sensitive-plant and Venus's flytrap,
the irritability of the protoplasm may be easily rendered manifest.
There are many herbaceous plants, in which, if the young, succulent
stem of a vigorously growing specimen receive a sharp blow, of such
a nature, however, as not to bruise its tissues, or in any way wound it,
the blow will sometimes be immediately followed by a drooping of the
