PROTOPLASM AND LIFE. 733
of resisting the entrance of coloring matter into its substance. As
many here present are aware, microscopists are in the habit of using
in their investigations various coloring matters, such as solutions of
carmine. These act differently on the different tissues, staining some,
for example, more deeply than others, and thus enabling the histolo-
gist to detect certain elements of structure, which would otherwise re-
main unknown. Now, if a solution of carmine be brought into contact
with living protoplasm, this will remain, so long as it continues alive,
unaffected by the coloring matter. But if the protoplasm be killed,
the carmine will at once pervade its whole substance, and stain it
throughout with a color more intense than even that of the coloring-
solution itself.
But no more illustrative example can be offered of the properties
of protoplasm as living matter, independently of any part it may take
in organization, than that presented by the MyxomycetcB.
The MyxomycetcB constitute a group of remarkable organisms,
which, from their comparatively large size and their consisting, during
a great part of their lives, of naked protoplasm, have afforded a fine
field for research, and have become one of the chief sources from
which our knowledge of the nature and phenomena of protoplasm has
been derived.
They have generally been associated by botanists with the fungi,
but though their affinities with these are perhaps closer than with any
other plants, they differ from them in so many points, especially in
their development, as to render this association untenable. They are
found in moist situations, growing on old tan or on moss, or decaying
leaves or rotten wood, over which they spread in the form of a net-
work of naked protoplasmic filaments, of a soft, creamy consistence,
and usually of a yellowish color.
Under the microscope the filaments of the network exhibit active
spontaneous movements, which, in the larger branches, are visible un-
der an ordinary lens, or even by the naked eye. A succession of un-
dulations may then be noticed passing along the course of the threads.
Under higher magnifying powers a constant movement of granules
may be seen flowing along the threads, and streaming from branch to
branch of this wonderful network. Here and there offshoots of the
protoplasm are projected, and again withdrawn in the manner of the
pseudopodia of an Amoeba, while the whole organism may be occasion-
ally seen to abandon the support over which it had grown, and to
creep over neighboring surfaces, thus far resembling in all respects a
colossal ramified Amoeba. It is also curiously sensitive to light, and
may be sometimes found to have retreated during the day to the dark
side of the leaves, or into the recesses of the tan over which it had
been growing, and again to creep out on the approach of night.
After a time there arise from the surface of this protoplasmic net
oval capsules or spore-cases, in which are contained the spores or repro-
