734 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ductive bodies of the Myxomycetce. When the spore-case has arrived
at maturity, it bursts and allows the spores to escape. These are in
the form of spherical cells, each included in a delicate membranous
wall, and when they fall into water the wall becomes ruptm-ed, and the
little cell creeps out. This consists of a little mass of protoplasm with
a round central nucleus, inclosing a nucleolus, and with a clear vacu-
ole, which exhibits a rhythmically pulsating movement. The little
naked spore thus set at liberty is soon seen to be drawn out at one
point into a long, vibratile, whip-like flagellum, which by its lashing
action carries the spore from place to place. After a time the flagel-
lum disappears, and the spore may now be seen emitting and with-
drawing finger-like pseudopodia, by means of which it creeps about
like an Amceba, and like an Amoeba devours solid particles by ingulf-
ing them in its soft protoplasm.
So far these young A}?iceba-\ike Myxomycetce have enjoyed each an
independent existence. Now, however, a singular and significant phe-
nomenon is presented. Two or more of these 3fyxamcebce, as they have
been called, approach one another, come into contact, and finally be-
come completely fused together into a single mass of protoplasm, in
which the components are no longer to be distinguished. To the body
thus formed by the fusion of the Myxamcebce the name of " Plasmo-
dium " has been given.
The plasmodium continues, like the simple amcebiform bodies of
which it is composed, to grow by the ingestion and assimilation of
solid nutriment, which it envelops in its substance ; it throws out
ramifying and mosculating processes, and finally becomes converted
into a protoplasmic network, which in its turn gives rise to spore-cases
with their contained spores, and thus completes the cycle of its devel-
opment.
Under certain external conditions, the Myxomycetce have been ob-
served to pass from an active mobile state into a resting state, and this
may occur both in the amcebiform spores and in the plasmodium.
When the plasmodium is about to pass into a resting state, it usually
withdraws its finer branches, and expels such solid ingesta as may be
included in it. Its motions then gradually cease, it breaks up into a
multitude of polyhedral cells, which, however, remain connected, and
the whole body dries into a horny brittle mass, known by the name of
" sclerotium."
In this condition, without giving the slightest sign of life, the
sclerotium may remain for many months. Life, however, is not de-
stroyed ; its manifestations are only suspended; and if after an indefinite
time the apparently dead sclerotium be placed in water, it immediately
begins to swell up, the membranous covering of its component cells
becomes dissolved and disappears, and the cells themselves flow to-
gether into an active amoeboid plasmodium.
We have already seen that every cell possesses an autonomy or in-
