736 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
cellular mass which serves as the first nutriment for the embryo in
the seeds of most Phanerogams. The formation of the endosperm
has been carefully studied by Strasburger in the embyro-sac of the
kidney-bean, and may serve as an example of the process of free-cell
formation. The embryo-sac is morphologically a large cell with its
protoplasm, nucleus, and cellulose wall, while the endosperm which
arises within it is composed of a multitude of minute cells united into
a tissue. The formation of the endosperm is preceded by the dissolu-
tion and disappearance of the nucleus of the embryo-sac, and then in
the midst of the protoplasm of the sac several new nuclei make their
appearance. Around each of these as a center the protoplasm of the
mother cell is seen to have become differentiated in the form of a clear
spherule, and we have thus corresponding to each of the new nuclei a
young naked cell, which soon secretes over its surface a membrane of
cellulose. The new cells, when once formed, multiply by division,
press one on the other, and so combining into a cellular mass, consti-
tute the completed endosperm.
Related to the formation of new cells, whether by division or by
free-cell formation, is another very interesting phenomenon of living
protoplasm known as " rejuvenescence." In this the whole protoplasm
of a cell, by a new arrangement of its parts, assumes a new shape and
acquires new properties. It then abandons its cellulose chamber, and
enters on a new and independent life in the surrounding medium.
A good example of this is afforded by the formation of swarm-
spores in CEdogonium, one of the fresh-water algae. Here the whole
of the protoplasm of an adult cell contracts, and by the expulsion of
its cell-sap changes from a cylindrical to a globular shape. Then one
spot becomes clear, and a pencil of vibratile cilia here shows itself.
The cellulose wall which had hitherto confined it now becomes rup-
tured, and the protoplasmic sphere, endowed with new faculties of
development and with powers of active locomotion, escapes as a swarm-
spore, which, after enjoying for a time the free life of an animal, comes
to rest, and develops itself into a new plant.
The beautiful researches which have within the last few years been
made by the observers already mentioned, on the division of animal
cells, show how close is the agreement between plants and animals in
all the leading phenomena of cell-division, and afford one more proof
of the essential unity of the two great organic kingdoms.
There is one form of cell which, in its relation to the organic world,
possesses a significance beyond that of every other, namely, the egg.
As already stated, the egg is, wherever it occurs, a typical cell, con-
sisting essentially of a globule of protoplasm enveloping a nucleus
(the "germinal vesicle"), and with one or more nucleoli (the "germi-
nal spots ") in the interior of the nucleus. This cell, distinguishable
by no tangible characters from thousands of other cells, is neverthe-
less destined to run through a definite series of developmental changes,
