PROTOPLASM AND LIFE. 739
acquainted with the further history of the embryo, I would refer to
the excellent address delivered two years ago at the Plymouth meet-
ing of the Association by one of my predecessors in this chair Pro-
fessor Allen Thompson.
That protoplasm, however, may present a phenomenon the reverse
of that in which a simple cell becomes multiplied into many, is shown
by a phenomenon already referred to the production of plasmodia in
the 3fyxomycetce by the fusion into one another of cells originally
distinct.
The genus Myriothela will afford another example in which the
formation of plasmodia becomes introduced into the cycle of develop-
ment. The primitive eggs are here, as elsewhere, true cells with nu-
cleolated nuclei, but without any boundary membrane. They are
formed in considerable numbers, but remain only for a short time
separate and distinct. After this they begin to exhibit amoeboid
changes of shape, project pseudopodial prolongations which coalesce
with those of others in their vicinity, and, finally, a multitude of these
primitive ova become fused together into a common plasmodium, in
which, as in the simple egg-cell of other animals, the phenomena of
development take place.
In many of the lower plants a very similar coalescence is known to
take place between the protoplasmic bodies of separate cells, and con-
stitutes the phenomenon of conjugation. 8pirogyra is a genus of
algje, consisting of long, green threads common in ponds. Every
thread is composed of a series of cylindrical chambers of transparent
cellulose placed end to end, each containing a sac of protoplasm with
a large quantity of cell-sap, and with a green band of chlorophyl
wound spirally on its walls. When the threads have attained their
full growth they approach one another in pahs, and lie in close prox-
imity, parallel one to the other. A communication is then established
by means of short connecting-tubes between the chambers of adjacent
filaments, and across the channel thus formed the whole of the proto-
plasm of one of the conjugating chambers passes into the cavity of
the other, and then immediately fuses with the protoplasm it finds
there. The single mass thus formed shapes itself into a solid oval
body, known as a " zygospore." This now frees itself from the fila-
ment, secretes over its naked surface a new wall of cellulose, and,
when placed in the conditions necessary for its development, attaches
itself by one end, and then, by repeated acts of cell-division, grows
into a many-celled filament like those in which it originated.
The formation of plasmodia, regarded as a coalescence and abso-
lute fusion into one another of separate, naked masses of protoplasm,
is a phenomenon of great significance. It is highly probable that,
notwithstanding the complete loss of individuality in the combining
elements, such differences as may have been present in these will al-
ways find themselves expressed in the properties of the resulting plas-
