74 o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
modia a fact of great importance in its bearing on the phenomena of
inheritance. Recent researches, indeed, render it almost certain that
fertilization, whether in the animal or the vegetable kingdom, consists
essentially in the coalescence and consequent loss of individuality of
the protoplasmic contents of two cells.
In by far the greater number of plants the protoplasm of most of
the cells which are exposed to the sunlight undergoes a curious and
important differentiation, part of it becoming separated from the re-
mainder in the form usually of green granules, known as chlorophyl-
granules. The chlorophyl-granules thus consist of true protoplasm,
their color being due to the presence of a green coloring matter,
which may be extracted, leaving behind the colorless protoplasmic
base.
The coloring matter of chlorophyl presents under the spectroscope
a very characteristic spectrum. For our knowledge of its optical prop-
erties, on which time will not now permit me to dwell, we are mainly
indebted to the researches of your townsman, Dr. Sorby, who has made
these the subject of a series of elaborate investigations, which have
contributed largely to the advancement of an important department
of physical science.
That the chlorophyl is a living substance, like the uncolored proto-
plasm of the cell, is sufficiently obvious. When once formed, the chlo-
rophyl-granule may grow by intussusception of nutriment to many
times its original size, and may multiply itself by division.
To the presence of chlorophyl is due one of the most striking
aspects of external nature the green color of the vegetation which
clothes the surface of the earth : and with its formation is introduced
a function of fundamental importance in the economy of plants, for it
is on the cells which contain this substance that devolves the faculty
of decomposing carbonic acid. On this depends the assimilation of
plants, a process which becomes manifest externally by the exhalation
of oxygen. Now, it is under the influence of light on the chlorophyl-
containing cell that this evolution of oxygen is brought about. The
recent observations of Draper and of Pfeffer have shown that in this
action the solar spectrum is not equally effective in all its parts ; that
the yellow and least refrangible rays are those which act with most
intensity ; that the violent and other highly refrangible rays of the
visible spectrum take but a very subordinate part in assimilation ; and
that the invisible rays which lie beyond the violet are totally inopera-
tive.
In almost every grain of chlorophyl one or more starch-granules
may be seen. This starch is chemically isomeric with the cellulose
cell-wall, with woody fiber, and other hard parts of plants, and is one
of the most important products of assimilation. When plants whose
chlorophyl contains starch are left for a sufficient time in darkness,
the starch is absorbed and completely disappears ; but when they
