PROTOPLASM AND LIFE. 741
are restored to the light the starch reappears in the chlorophyl of
the cells.
With this dependence of assimilation on the presence of chlorophyl
a new physiological division of labor is introduced into the life of
plants. In the higher plants, while the work of assimilation is allo-
cated to the chlorophyl-containing cells, that of cell division and
growth devolves on another set of cells, which, lying deeper in the
plant, are removed from the direct action of light, and in which chloro-
phyl is therefore never produced. In certain lower plants, in conse-
quence of their simplicity of structure and the fact that all the cells
are equally exposed to the influence of light, this physiological divi-
sion of labor shows itself in a somewhat different fashion. Thus in
some of the simple green algae, such as jSpirogyra and Hydrodictyon,
assimilation takes place as in other cases during the day, while their
cell division and growth takes place chiefly, if not exclusively, at
night. Strasburger, in his remarkable observations on cell-divisions in
Spirogyra, was obliged to adopt an artificial device in order to compel
the Spirogyra to postpone the division of its cells to the morning.
Here the functions of assimilation and growth devolve on one and
the same cell, but, while one of these functions is exercised only during
the day, the time for the other is the night. It seems impossible for
the same cell at the same time to exercise both functions, and these
are here accordingly divided between different periods of the twenty-
four hours.
The action of chlorophyl in bringing about the decomposition of
carbonic acid is not, as was recently believed, absolutely confined to
plants. In some of the lower animals, such as Stentor and other infu-
soria, the Green Hydra, and certain green planarise and other worms,
chlorophyl is differentiated in their protoplasm, and probably always
acts here under the influence of light exactly as in plants.
Indeed, it has been proved* by some recent researches of Mr.
Geddes, that the green planarias when placed in water and exposed to
the sunlight give out bubbles of gas which contain from forty-four to
fifty-five per cent, of oxygen. Mr. Geddes has further shown that
these animals contain granules of starch in their tissues, and in this fact
we have another striking point of resemblance between them and plants.
A similar approximation of the two organic kingdoms has been
shown by the beautiful researches of Mr. Darwin confirmed and ex-
tended by his son, Mr. Francis Darwin on Drosera and other so-
called carnivorous plants. These researches, as is now well known,
have shown that in all carnivorous plants there is a mechanism fitted
for the capture of living prey, and that the animal matter of the prey
is absorbed by the plant after having been digested by a secretion
which acts like the gastric juice of animals.
* " Sur la Fonction de la Chlorophyll dans les Planaires vertes," " Comptes Rendus,"
December, 1878.
