742 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Again, Nageli lias recently shown * that the cell of the yeast-fungus
contains about two per cent, of peptine, a substance hitherto known
only as a product of the digestion of azotized matter by animals.
Indeed, all recent research has been bringing out in a more and
more decisive manner the fact that there is no dualism in life that
the life of the animal and the life of the plant are, like their proto-
plasm, in all essential points identical.
But there is, perhaps, nothing which shows more strikingly the
identity of the protoplasm in plants and animals, and the absence of
any deep-pervading difference between the life of the animal and that
of the plant, than the fact that plants may be placed, just like animals,
under the influence of anaesthetics.
When the vajior of chloroform or of ether is inhaled by the human
subject, it passes into the lungs, where it is absorbed by the blood, and
thence carried by the circulation to all the tissues of the body. The
first to be affected by it is the delicate nervous element of the brain,
and loss of consciousness is the result. If the action of the anaesthetic
be continued, all the other tissues are in their turn attacked by it and
their irritability arrested. A set of phenomena entirely parallel to
these may be presented by plants.
We owe to Claude Bernard a series of interestins; and most in-
structive experiments on the action of ether and chloroform on plants.
He exposed to the vapor of ether a healthy and vigorous sensitive-
plant, by confining it under a bell-glass into which he introduced a
sponge filled with ether. At the end of half an hour the plant was in
a state of anaesthesia. All its leaflets remained fully extended, but they
showed no tendency to shrink when touched. It was then withdrawn
from the influence of the ether, when it gradually recovered its irrita-
bility, and finally responded, as before, to the touch.
It is obvious that the irritability of the protoplasm was here ar-
rested by the anaesthetic, so that the plant became unable to give a
response to the action of an external stimulus.
It is not, however, the irritability of the protoplasm of only the
motor elements of plants that anaesthetics are capable of arresting.
These may act also on the protoplasm of those cells whose function
lies in chemical synthesis, such as is manifested in the phenomena of
the germination of the seed and in nutrition generally, and Claude
Bernard has shown that germination is suspended by the action of
ether or chloroform.
Seeds of cress, a plant whose germination is very rapid, were placed .
in conditions favorable to a speedy germination, and while thus placed
were exposed to the vapor of ether. The germination, which would
otherwise have shown itself by the next day, was arrested. For five
or six days the seeds were kept under the influence of the ether, and
* " Ueber die chemische Zusammensetzung der Hefo," " Sitzungsbericht der math,
phys. Classe der k.k. Akad. der Wissens. zu Munchen," 1878.
