744 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in the same yeast a sort of servant given by Nature to effect this diges-
tion. The servant is the unorganized inversive ferment. This ferment
is soluble, and, as it is not a plant, but an unorganized body destitute
of sensibility, it has not gone to sleep under the action of the ether,
and thus continues to fulfill its task."
In the experiment already recorded on the germination of seeds
the interest is by no means confined to that which attaches itself to
the arrest of the organizing functions of the seed, those namely which
manifest themselves in the development of the radicle, and plumule,
and other organs of the young plant. Another phenomenon of great
significance becomes at the same time apparent : the anaesthetic exerts
no action on the concomitant chemical phenomena which in germinat-
ing seeds show themselves in the transformation of starch into sugar
under the influence of diastase (a soluble and non-living ferment which
also exists in the seed), and the absorption of oxygen with the exhala-
tion of carbonic acid. These go on as usual, the anaesthesiated seed
continuing to respire, as proved by the accumulation of carbonic acid
in the surrounding air. The presence of the carbonic acid was ren-
dered evident by placing in the same vessel with the seeds which were
the object of the experiment a solution of barytes, when the carbonate
became precipitated from the solution in quantity equal to that pro-
duced in a similar experiment with seeds germinating in unetherized
air.
So, also, in the experiment which proves that the faculty possessed
by the chlorophyllian cells of absorbing carbonic acid and exhaling
oxygen under the influence of light may be arrested by anaesthetics, it
could be seen that the plant, while in a state of anaesthesia, continued
to respire in the manner of animals ; that is, it continued to absorb
oxygen and exhale cai'bonic acid. This is the true respiratory func-
tion which was previously masked by the predominant function of as-
similation, which devolves on the green cells of plants, and which
manifests itself under the influence of light in the absorption of car-
bonic acid and the exhalation of oxygen.
It must not, however, be supposed that the respiration of plants is
entirely independent of life. The conditions which bring the oxygen
of the air and the combustible matter of the respiring plant into such
relations as may allow them to act on one another are still under its
control, and we must conclude that in Claude Bernard's experiment
the anaesthesia had not been carried so far as to arrest such j>roperties
of the living tissues as are needed for this.
The quite recent researches of Schutzenberger, who has investi-
gated the process of respiration as it takes place in the cell of the
yeast-fungus, have shown that vitality is a factor in this process. He
has shown that fresh yeast, placed in water, breathes like an aquatic
animal, disengaging carbonic acid, and causing the oxygen contained
in the water to disappear. That this phenomenon is a function of the
