746 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
been assigned the duty of building up structure and of transforming
the energy of lifeless matter into that of living.
To suppose, however, that all protoplasm is identical where no dif-
ference cognizable by any means at our disposal can be detected would
be an error. Of two particles of protoplasm, between which we may
defy all the power of the microscope, all the resources of the labora-
tory, to detect a difference, one can develop only to a jelly-fish, the
other only to a man, and one conclusion alone is here possible that
deep within them there must be a fundamental difference which thus
determines their inevitable destiny, but of which we know nothing,
and can assert nothing beyond the statement that it must depend on
their hidden molecular constitution.
In the molecular condition of protoplasm there is probably as much
complexity as in the disposition of organs in the most highly differen-
tiated organisms ; and between two masses of protoplasm indistin-
guishable from one another there may be as much molecular difference
as there is between the form and arrangement of organs in the most
widely separated animals or plants.
Herein lies the many-sidedness of protoplasm ; herein lies its sig-
nificance as the basis of all morphological expression, as the agent of
all physiological work, while in all this there must be an adaptiveness
to purpose as great as any claimed for the most complicated organism.
From the facts which have been now brought to your notice there
is but one legitimate conclusion that life is a property of protoplasm.
In this assertion there is nothing that need startle us. The essential
phenomena of living beings are not so widely separated from the phe-
nomena of lifeless matter as to render it impossible to recognize an
analogy between" them ; for even irritability, the one grand character
of all living beings, is not more difficult to be conceived of as a prop-
erty of matter than the physical phenomena of radial energy.
It is quite true that between lifeless and living matter there is a
vast difference, a difference greater far than any which can be found
between the most diverse manifestations of lifeless matter. Though
the refined synthesis of modern chemistry may have succeeded in form-
ing a few principles which until lately had been deemed the proper
product of vitality, the fact still remains that no one has ever yet built
up one particle of living matter out of lifeless elements that every
living creature, from the simplest dweller on the confines of organiza-
tion up to the highest and most complex organism, has its origin in
preexistent living matter that the protoplasm of to-day is but the
continuation of the protoplasm of other ages, handed down to us
through periods of indefinable and indeterminable time.
Yet with all this, vast as the differences may be, there is nothing
which precludes a comparison of the properties of living matter with
those of lifeless.
When, however, we say that life is a property of protoplasm, we
