PROTOPLASM AND LIFE. 749
ing to matter as its proper characteristics. The argument thus breaks
down, for its force depends on analogy alone, and here all analogy-
vanishes.
That consciousness is never manifested except in the presence of
cerebral matter or of something like it, there can not be a question ; but
this is a very different thing from its being a property of such matter
in the sense in which polarity is a property of the magnet, or irrita-
bility of protoplasm. The generation of the rays which lie invisible
beyond the violet in the spectrum of the sun can not be regarded as a
property of the medium which by changing their refrangibility can
alone render them apparent.
I know that there is a special charm in those broad generalizations
which would refer many very different phenomena to a common
source. But in this very charm there is undoubtedly a danger, and
we must be all the more careful lest it should exert an influence in
arresting the progress of truth, just as at an earlier period traditional
beliefs exerted an authority from which the mind but slowly and with
difficulty succeeded in emancipating itself.
But have we, it may be asked, made in all this one step forward
toward an explanation of the phenomena of consciousness or the dis-
covery of its source ? Assuredly not. The power of conceiving of a
substance different from that of matter is still beyond the limits of
human intelligence, and the physical or objective conditions which are
the concomitants of thought are the only ones of which it is possible
to know anything, and the only ones whose study is of value.
We are not, however, on that account forced to the conclusion that
there is nothing in the universe but matter and force. The simplest
physical law is absolutely inconceivable by the highest of the brutes,
and no one would be justified in assuming that man had already at-
tained the limit of his powers. Whatever may be that mysterious
bond which connects organization with psychical endowments, the one
grand fact a fact of inestimable importance stands out clear and
freed from all obscurity and doubt, that from the first dawn of intelli-
gence there is with every advance in organization a corresponding ad-
vance in mind. Mind as well as body is thus traveling onward through
higher and still higher phases ; the great law of evolution is shaping
the destiny of our race ; and though now we may at most but indicate
some weak point in the generalization which would refer consciousness
as well as life to a common material source, who can say that in the
far-off future there may not yet be evolved other and higher faculties
from which light may stream in upon the darkness, and reveal to man
the great mystery of thought ?
