7 5 o TEE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTELY.
JOHN STUART MILL.
By ALEXANDER BAIN, LL. D.,
PEOFESSOR OF LOGIC IN THE UNIVERSITY OF ABERDEEN.
III.
MY acquaintance with Mill dates from 1839, when I was a student
at Marischal College, Aberdeen. In the winter of 1838-'39,
John Robertson, who was then assisting in the Review, paid a short
visit to his native city. I had known him when I was a child, but had
not seen him for years. He asked me to meet him, and entered into
free conversation about his doings in London, and about my pursuits
and prospects. He gave me both advice and encouragement, and
spoke a good deal about Mill, whom I had never heard of, although I
may have known something of his father. On returning to London,
Robertson mentioned my name to Mill. In the summer of 1839 I
wrote a criticism of some points in Herschel's " Discourse on Natural
Philosophy," a book that had long fascinated me, as it had done so
many others. I thought Herschel occasionally weak in his metaphys-
ics, and directed my criticism to some of those weaknesses. Robert-
son showed Mill this paper. He spoke favorably of the effort, but
remarked to me afterward that the criticism was too severe, and that
the book "always seemed to him to have the characters of a first
crude attempt of a clever and instructed man in a province new to
him."
In 1840 I took my M. A. degree, and began to write for periodi-
cals. Mill had just parted with the " London and Westminster " : but
through Robertson, I got my first published article admitted into the
" Westminster " for September ; an exposition of the two scientific
novelties the electrotype and daguerreotype. In July, 1841, was pub-
lished a second article entitled " The Properties of Matter," to which I
owed the first notice taken of me by Mr. Grote. Both these articles
did me good with Mill. In the same autumn (1841) Robertson, who
was now very much at sea himself, came down to Aberdeen, and made
a long stay ; during which I had abundant talk with him, my early
friend David Masson being also of the party. Robertson occasion-
ally wrote to Mill, and at last incited me to write to him. I scarcely
remember anything of the terms of the letter, but I have preserved his
reply, dated 21st September, 1841. After my first meeting with Rob-
ertson, nearly three years previous, I assiduously perused the back
numbers of the " London " and " London and Westminster " Reviews,
as well as each new number as it appeared, whereby I became thor-
oughly familiarized with Mill's ideas, and was thus able to exchange
ideas with him on his own subjects. I was engaged for the succeed-
