JOHN STUART MILL. 751
ing winter to teach the class of moral philosophy in Marischal College,
as substitute for the Professor ; and his letter is chiefly a comment
upon this fact. Notwithstanding that he was then intently occupied
in finishing his " Logic " for the press, he wrote me several other let-
ters in the course of the winter. In the one immediately following
(October 15th), he made mention of Comte, in these terms : "Have
you ever looked into Comte's ' Cours de Philosophic Positive ' ? He
makes some mistakes, but on the whole I think it very nearly the
grandest work of this age." From the remaining letters, I can gather
that I had written him a good deal upon Whe well's writings, as well
as on Herschel, and on his own coming book. Among other things,
he sketched out for me a course of reading on political and historical
philosophy. He also criticised in detail the strong and weak points of
an article published by me in the " Westminster " in January, 1842,
with the somewhat misleading title " Toys."
As soon as the Aberdeen winter session was over, in the middle of
April, 1812, I went to London, and remained there five months. The
day after arriving I walked down to the India House with Robertson,
and realized my dream of meeting Mill in person. I am not likely to
forget the impression he made upon me as he stood by his desk, with
his face turned to the door as we entered. His tall, slim figure, his
youthful face and bald head, fair hah* and ruddy complexion, and the
twitching of his eyebrow when he spoke, first arrested the attention :
then the vivacity of his manner, his thin voice approaching to sharp-
ness, but with nothing shrill or painful about it, his comely features
and sweet expression would have all remained in my memory, though
I had never seen him again. To complete the picture, I should add
his dress, which was constant a black dress-suit, with silk necktie.
Many years after that he changed his dress-coat for a surtout ; but
black cloth was his choice to the end.
My opportunities of conversation with him for these five months
consisted in going down to the India House twice a week at four
o'clock, and walking with him a good part of his way to Kensington
Square, where his mother and family lived. I also spent occasional
evenings at the house, where I met other friends of his G. H. Lewes
being a frequent visitor. I may be said to have traveled over a good
part of his mind that summer : although he did not then give me
his full confidence in many things that I came to know afterward.
I had a very full acquaintance with his views on philosophy and
politics, as well as a complete appreciation of his whole manner of
thinking.
His "Logic" was finished and ready for press ; he had intended
that it should be out in April of that year (1812). He had submitted
it the previous winter to Mr. John Murray, who kept it for some
time, and then declined it, so that it could not be brought out that
season. He then submitted it to J. W. Parker, by whom it was
