JOHN STUART MILL. 753
Brown-Sequard, on the causes of cadaveric rigidity, and also used it
in my own book. For the deductive method, and the allied subjects
of explanation and empirical and derivative law, the examples that we
found were abundant. "When, however, I suggested his adopting
some from psychology, he steadily, and I believe wisely, resisted ;
and, if he took any of these, it was in the deductive department.
I was so much struck with the view of induction that regarded it
as reasoning from particulars to particulars,- that I suggested a further
exemplification of it in detail, and he inserted two pages of instances
that I gave him. On the last three books I had little to offer. I
remember his saying, at a later period, that the fourth book (which I
have always regarded as the cmde materials of a logic of definition
and classification) was made up of a number of subjects that he did
not know where to place.
The "Logic" has been about the best attacked book of the time ;
and the author has in successive editions replied to objections and
made extensive amendments. I have had myself full opportunities
for expressing both agreements and dissents in regard to all the main
points. Yet I could not pretend to say that criticism has been ex-
hausted, or that imperfections and even inconsistencies may not even
yet be pointed out. It is long since I was struck with the seeming in-
compatibility between the definition of logic in the introduction viz.,
the science of proof, or evidence and the double designation in the
title Principles of Evidence and the Methods of Scientific Investiga-
tion. Previous writers laid little stress on proof, and Mill took the
other extreme and made proof everything. Bacon, Herschel, and Whe-
well seemed to think that, if we could only make discoveries, the proof
would be readily forthcoming a very natural supposition with men
educated mainly in mathematics and physics. Mill, from his familiar-
ity with the moral and political sciences, saw that proof was more im-
portant than discovery. But the title, although larger than the defi-
nition, is not larger than the work ; he did discuss the methods of in-
vestigation, as aids to discovery, as well as means of proof ; only, he
never explained the mutual bearings of the two. Any one that tries
will find this not an easy matter.
The sixth book was the outcome of his long study Of politics, both
practical and theoretical, to which the finishing stroke was given by
the help of Auguste Comte. I will return to this presently.
In five months he carried the work through the press, and brought
it out in March, 1843. We may form some estimate of the united
labor of correcting proof-sheets, often one a day, of reconsidering the
new examples that have been suggested, of reading Liebig's two books,
and Comte's sixth volume (nearly a thousand pages), and of recasting
the concluding chapters. From the moment of publication, the omens
were auspicious. Parker's trade-sale was beyond his anticipations,
and the book was asked for by unexpected persons, and appeared in
TOL. XV. 43
