754 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
shop-windows where he never thought to see it. Whately spoke
handsomely of it, and desired his bookseller to get an additional copy
for him, and expose it in the window.
While the work was printing, I prepared from the sheets a review
of it, which came out in the " Westminster " in the April number, and
was even more laudatory than Mill liked. The first adverse criticism
of importance was an article in the autumn number of the " British
Critic," of nearly a hundred pages, known to have been written by
Mr. W. G. Ward, the ally of Newman and Pusey. It was a most re-
markable production, and gave Mill very great satisfaction, all things
considered. It was not so much a review of the " Logic " as of Mill
altogether. Mr. Ward had followed him through his various articles
in the " London and Westminster," and had mastered his modes of
thinking in all the great questions ; and the present article takes these
up along with the " Logic." He expresses a warm interest in Mill
himself, remarking, " An inquirer, who bears every mark of a single-
minded and earnest pursuit of truth, cheers and relieves the spirits " ;
a pretty strong innuendo as to the prevailing dispositions of so-called
inquirers. He deplores Mill's " miserable moral and religious deficien-
cies," and says if his " principles be adopted as a full statement of the
truth, the whole fabric of Christian theology must totter and fall."
Accordingly, the article is devoted to counterworking these erroneous
tendencies ; and the parts chosen for attack are the experience-founda-
tions of the mathematical axioms, the derived view of conscience, and
necessity as against free-will. Mr. Ward has continued to uphold his
peculiar tenets against the experience-school. He had afterward, as
he informs me, a good deal of correspondence with Mill, and once met
him. At his instigation, Mill expunged from his second edition an
objectionable anecdote.*
Without pursuing further at present the fortunes of the " Logic,"
I will allude to the connection between Mill and Comte, and to the
share that Comte had in shaping Mill's political philosophy. Wheat-
stone always claimed to be the means of introducing Comte in Eng-
land. He brought over from Paris the first two volumes of the " Phi-
losophic Positive," after the publication of the second, which was in
1837. It would appear that the first volume, by itself, published in
1830, had fallen dead ; notwithstanding that the first two chapters
really contained in very clear language, although without expansion,
the two great foundations that Comte built upon the Three Stages
and the Hierarchy of the Sciences. Wheatstone mentioned the work
to his scientific friends in London, and among others to Brewster, who
was then a contributor of scientific articles to the " Edinburgh Re-
* In regard to the " British Critic," he wrote, " I always hailed Puseyism, and pre-
dicted that thought would sympathize with thought though I did not expect to find my
own case so striking an example." I was told that he had written several letters in the
"Morning Chronicle" in this strain of subtile remark.
