JOHN STUART MILL. 755
view." Comte's volumes struck him at once as a good topic ; and he
wrote an article on them in the August number for 1838. Any one
knowing him would have predicted as the strain of his review an in-
dignant or else contemptuous exposure of the atheism, a fastening on
the weak points in his own special subjects, as optics, and a cold rec-
ognition of his systematic comprehensiveness. This, however, was to
leave out of the account one element his antipathy to Whewell ;
sufficiently marked in a review of the " History of the Inductive
Sciences" in the previous year. He found with joy a number of ob-
servations on hypothesis and other points, that he could turn against
Whewell, and the effect was, I have no doubt, to soften the adverse
criticisms, and to produce an article on the whole favorable to the
book, and one that even Comte himself regarded with some compla-
cency. Mill got wind of the two volumes in the end of 1837, after he
had completed the draft of his book on Induction. The " Autobiog-
raphy " gives (pp. 210-214) the general effect produced upon him by
the whole work, which he perused with avidity as the successive vol-
umes appeared ; but does not adequately express the influence in de-
tail, nor the warmth of esteem and affection displayed in the five years
of their correspondence from 1841 to 1846. In our many conversa-
tions during the summer of 1842, Mill occasionally mentioned Comte,
but not in a way to give me any clear conception of what his merits
consisted in. Among his associates at that time was William Smith,
lately dead, and known as the author of " Thorndale " and various
other works. He was a pupil of the Mills in philosophy, and occupied
himself in contributing to magazines. In the winter of that year, he
wrote a review of Comte in " Blackwood " (March, 1843), giving very
well-selected extracts ; and from these I derived my first impression
of the peculiar force of the book. I remember particularly being
struck with the observations on the metaphysical and critical stage, as
a vein of remark quite original.
It was in the summer of that year (1843) that I read the work for
myself. I was in London as before, and had the same opportunities
of conversing with Mill. We discussed the work chapter by chapter,
up to the last volume, which I had not begun when I left town. We
were very much at one, both as to the merits and as to the defects of
the work. The errors were mostly of a kind that could be remedied
by ordinary men better informed on special points than Comte ; while
the systematic array was untouched. The improvement effected in
the classification of the sciences was apparent at a glance ; while the
carrying out of the hierarchy, involving the dependence of each
science upon the preceding, first as to doctrine, and next as to method,
raised the scheme above the usual barrenness of science-classifications.
Mill had already seized with alacrity, and embodied in the " Logic,"
Comte's great distinction between social statics and social dynamics ;
and I was even more strongly impressed than he respecting the value of
