75 6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
that distinction as an instrument of social analysis. Comte, according to
his plan of pushing forward the ideas of each of the fundamental
sciences into the succeeding, had taken up the distinction in abstract
mechanics, and carried it first into biology, where it made his contrast
between anatomy and physiology structure and function. The next
step was to sociology, and led to the distinction of order and progress.
I confess that I never thought the three cases exactly parallel ; still,
however the distinction came, it was invaluable in sociology ; and
Comte's separation of the two interests social .order and social prog-
ress was a grand simplification of the subject, and a mighty advance
upon the historical and political philosophy of his predecessors and
contemporaries. The social statics he discussed briefly, as compared
with the magnitude of the topics, but indicated well enough what
these topics were ; the social dynamics enabled him to give free scope
to his doctrine of the Three Stages, and carry this out in a grand survey
of the historical development of mankind. Here, of course, he exposed
a wide front to criticism ; but, while numerous exceptions might be
taken to his interpretations of history, it was truly wonderful to see how
many facts seemed to fall in happily under his formulas. Mill, it will
be seen from the "Logic " (book vi., chapter x.), accepted the Three
Stages as an essential part of Comte's historical method, which method
he also adopts and expounds as the completion of the logic of soci-
ology. In our very first conversations, I remember how much he re-
gretted Comte's misappreciation of Protestantism ; and he strove in
the early part of their correspondence to make him see this. He also
endeavored to put him right on the specialty of England in the politi-
cal evolution.
It is curious to observe that his altered estimate of Comte never
extended to the views appropriated from him on the method of social
science. The modifications in the later editions consisted mainly in
leaving out the high-pitched compliments to Comte in the first ; none
of the quotations are interfered with. I give a few examples of these
omissions. Referring to the latest edition, the eighth, on page 490, he
writes : " The only thinker who, with a competent knowledge of sci-
entific methods in general " ; in the first edition " The greatest living
authority on scientific methods in general." On page 506, line five
from bottom, before " To prove (in short)," the first edition has " It
is therefore well said of M. Comte." In page 512, line thirteen from
top, the words " but deem them " are followed in the first edition by
" with the single exception of M. Comte." In page 513, line nine from
top, after " up to the present time," a long sentence of reference to
Comte is left out. In page 530, line fourteen from top, after " at-
tempting to characterize," there is omitted the clause "but which
hitherto are to my knowledge exemplified nowhere but in the writings
of M. Comte."
The distinction of statics and dynamics was carried by Mill into
