BODILY CONDITIONS MENTAL STATES. 53
led directly to the result as seen, but which have made no impression
on the patient's memory. Still, it seems probable also that there may
be mental influences excessively manifested over particular organs and
functions, which are determined by purely subjective causes and with-
out the intervention of external circumstance. Be that as it may, it
seems to be necessary that there should be a certain preparation a
sort of condition precedent in the mind which makes it liable to ab-
normal manifestations. Mental influence over bodily function is in it-
self a constant and therefore a normal condition of existence. But one
of the products of civilization is to exalt the mental into a too pre-
ponderating influence. In that exaltation the mind easily becomes
hyper-susceptible. It takes on, with abnormal facility, a timbre of
which it is not itself conscious, but which tends to modify biological
relations in the way, among others, which I have to a certain extent
illustrated in the preceding pages.
Now, there are various circumstances which favor modifications of
psycho-biological relations, but which do not themselves directly cause
them. Among those most frequently coming under professional recog-
nition, hysteria may be instanced as a potent influence ; but, in the
light of the facts in my experience, it is incorrect to speak of the hys-
terica] foot or the hysterical stomach or knee. We have the phenomena
exhibited in both sexes, in children of tender years and in men and
women in advanced life. Hysteria, or, more properly, imperfect sexual
hygiene in both male and female, by perturbing the system, does pro-
duce a condition favoring modifications of the mental states ; but the
phenomena under consideration are not themselves hysterical. Any
thing or any influence and they are many which can increase the
mental tension and impressionability beyond a certain normal standard,
will produce a modification of the timbre such as we see exemplified
in so many instances. Besides the peculiar cases given as illustrations,
there is a large class of what are called " simulated diseases," persons
with local sensations or pains which do not arise from or represent cor-
responding local diseases. These can not have even a passing allusion
here. Time also prevents me from entering into a discussion of the
important subject of mental influence on actual disease, even if that
aspect of my subject did not more properly belong to the medical de-
partment of biolog}\ Suffice it here to say that, as must be inferred
from the facts and arguments already adduced, no system of therapeu-
tics can be complete which does not embrace the design of controlling
psycho-biological relations in general, and with reference to chronic dis-
ease especially.
From the foregoing presentation, several important and practical
deductions may be drawn :
1. Mental culture, while it brings more physical pleasure, brings
also increased bodily susceptibility.
2. Pain, at least that which we are now considering, is but an in-
