54 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
creased degree of sensation, which, in ordinary measure, is either not
noticed or pleasurable.
3. Sensations called pains should not be mistaken for, confounded
with, or be considered the measure of disease, even when accompanied
by it.
4. All sensations, including unpleasant sensations or pains, repre-
sent mental qualities only, and these always correspond, no matter what
the exciting cause, with the capacity of the mind to be impressed ; that
is, with its rapidity and force of action.
Lastly, the individual is generally incapable of correctly estimating
the subjective value of his own sensations, whatever character they may
assume.
Intimately connected with, and in fact growing out of, the subject
of the influence of mental timbre over the functions of the body, are
many interesting questions of mental ethics which, it seems to me,
ought to be studied from a somewhat different point of view than that
from which they are commonly regarded.
As we have seen that bodily functions may be profoundly modified
under unconscious mental influence, so it will be found, when carefully
analyzed, that the product of the mental operations themselves may be
likewise modified, under peculiar subjective influences, without arousing
the consciousness. In a word, the mind may be in a condition of what
we may, illustratively, call mental allotropism, during which the laws
ordinarily controlling mental operations seem to be reversed, with cor-
responding products of intellection.
A case in point is now attracting altogether more attention than it
deserves, or would receive, if properly understood. It is stated in the
newspapers that there is a young lady living in our neighboring city of
Brooklyn who, among other surprising things which she does or omits
to do, has not eaten any food or taken any nourishment during the past
nine years. It is claimed, on the one hand, that this lady is a perfectly
truthful person, with a highly endowed moral sense, intelligent, kind,
benevolent, and shrinking from notoriety, and that her statements ought
to be taken as conclusive in regard to the facts. The absence of any
motive for propagating an unprofitable, ridiculous falsehood is held as
confirmatory of her allegations. On the other hand, it is as stoutly
maintained that she is an arrant impostor, whose sole purpose is to
acquire a transient notoriety ; and the non-acceptance of various tests,
proposed to substantiate or disprove her statements, is adduced as evi-
dence of the fraud attempted. Now I think we shall see that, in the
light of inferences from what has preceded, neither party to this con-
trovers} r is wholly right or altogether wrong. While it can not for a
moment be admitted that a person can live nine years, or any number
of years, without food, yet it would be contrary to related facts, and
illogical, to assume that she intends to deceive. It is quite within the
possibilities that this lady believes that she does not eat. And yet she
