BODILY CONDITION'S MENTAL STATES. 55
must necessarily take food. There can be no doubt of that. Let us
draw a few parallels, and see how easily such cases are explained by
very ordinary and accepted facts. Every physician has had cases of
persons who asserted that they did not sleep at all for long seasons at
a time, while the fact was that such persons did actually sleep a good
deal, as proved by being seen asleep, and by the fact that they did not
suffer in health, as they must have done if sleep had been entirely ab-
sent. But these persons, while asserting that which was not true con-
cerning an important matter, did not intend to falsify. They simply
stated what they believed to be true. Their mental condition was such
that they did not feel the impression which sleep ordinarily makes on
the consciousness. They slept, but, having no impression of sleep, they
asserted that they did not sleep. They could not, with the only evi-
dence which they possessed, the absence of any mental impression of
having slept, assert otherwise. There are other persons who, under
certain states of mind, say that they eat almost nothing at all " not
enough to keep a bird alive " while, as a matter of fact, they do eat
very well, sometimes even heartily. We see them eat enough to main-
tain them well nourished, and yet they assert that they do not eat
enough for the bodily requirements. Again, the difficulty lies, not in
the fact of eating, nor in any desire to falsify, but in the fact that, in
their peculiar mental condition, their eating, though seen by others and
by themselves, makes no impression on their minds. They state, not
what is true, but what they feel to be true. To recur to the more
typical class :
A lady, who was at once the daughter of one physician and the
sister of another, lost the use of one limb soon after a slight attack of
sore-throat. She got about on crutches for nearly a year, and when
summer came she went into the country, where she grew stout and was
in perfect bodily health, joyfully anticipating a speedy return to her
home in the city with restored powers. But suddenly the other limb
gave out, and she was brought helpless back. After I had examined
her I knew that she had all the power in her limbs which she had ever
had, but that did not make me think that she was intending to deceive
me when she asserted that she had no power to stand. Her statement
was contrary to the fact, but she had to express that which she felt to
be the fact. The parallel goes even further than this.
This person did use her limbs more or less in certain ways, and
under certain circumstances. But that fact made no impression on her
consciousness, as against the stronger impression of entire want of
power in her limbs. And so it is in all of the cases of perverted and
abnormal mental timbre, when this condition has passed a certain boun-
dary. The words spoken and the things done are dominated by the
paramount influence on, and take their quality and coloring from, the
predominating mental state of the subjects of it.
Nevertheless, while the mental timbre is an independent condition,
