60 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
bring home some of the produce for the evening's meal. They have
throughout the year a succession of fruits and vegetables either wild or
cultivated, and are thus never half-starved like the Australians. On the
whole the women are well treated and have much liberty, though they
are considered as inferiors, and do not take their meals with the men.
The children are well attended to, and the fathers seem very fond of
their boys, and often take them when very young on their fishing or
hunting excursions.
As in the case of most other savages, we have very different and
conflicting accounts of the character of the Papuans. Mr. Windsor Earl
well remarks, that whenever civilized man is brought into friendly
communication with savages, the disgust which naturally arises from
the first glance at a state of society so obnoxious to his sense of pro-
priety, disappears before a closer acquaintance, and he learns to regard
their little delinquencies as he would those of children ; while their
kindliness of disposition and natural good qualities begin to be recog-
nized. Thus many writers make highly favorable statements respecting
the Papuan character and disposition ; while those whose communica-
tions with them have been of a hostile nature are so impressed with
their savage cunning and ferocity, and the wild-beast -like nature of their
attacks, that they will not recognize in them any feelings in common
with more civilized races.
Many of the early voyagers record nothing but hostility or treach-
erous murders on the part of the Papuans. Their visits were, however,
chiefly on the northwest and southwest coasts, which the Malays have
long been accustomed to visit not only for commerce but to capture
slaves. This having become a regular trade, some of the more warlike
coast tribes, especially those of Onin in McCluer's Inlet, have been ac-
customed to attack the villages of other tribes, and to capture their
inhabitants, in order to sell the women and children to the Malays. It
is not therefore surprising that unknown armed visitors to these coasts
should be treated as enemies to be resisted and if possible extermi-
nated. Even Europeans have sometimes increased this feeling of enmity
through ignorance of native habits and customs. Cocoanut-trees have
been cut down to obtain the fruit, apparently under the impression that
they grew wild and were so abundant as to be of little value x whereas
every tree is considered as private property, as they supply an impor-
tant article of food, and are even more valued than the choicest fruit-
trees among ourselves. Thus Schouten, in 1616, sent a boat well armed
to bring cocoanuts from a grove of trees near the shore, but the natives
attacked the Europeans, wounded sixteen of them, and forced them to
retire. Commodore Roggewen, in 1722, cut down cocoanut-trees on
the island of Moa on the north coast, which, of course, brought on an
attack. At other times houses have been entered in the absence of
their owners, a great offense in the ej-es of all savage people, and at
once stamping the intruder as an enemy.
