NEW GUINEA AND ITS INHABITANTS. 61
On the other hand, Lieutenant Bruijn Kops, who visited the north-
west coast of New Guinea in 1850, gives the following account of the
inhabitants of Dorey :
Their manners and customs are much less barbarous than might be expected.
On the contrary, they give evidence of a mild disposition, of an inclination to
right and justice, and strong moral principles. Theft is considered by them as a
grave offense, and is of very rare occurrence. They have no fastenings to their
houses, yet seldom or never is anything stolen. Although they were on board
our ship or alongside during whole days, we never missed anything. Yet they
are distrustful of strangers until they become acquainted with them, as we ex-
perienced. This is probably less, however, a trait of their character than the
result of intercourse with strangers who perhaps had frequently tried to cheat
them. The men, it is true, came on board from the time of our arrival, but they
were very cautious in letting any of the things they brought for sale out of their
hands. The women were at first very fearful, and fled on all sides when they
saw us, leaving behind what they might be carrying ; but at length when they
found they had no injury to dread from us they became more familiar. Finally,
they approached without being invited, but remained timid. The children very
soon became accustomed to us, and followed us everywhere.
Eespect for the aged, love for their children, and fidelity to their wives, are
traits which reflect honor on their disposition. Chastity is held in high regard,
and is a virtue that is seldom transgressed by them. A man can only have one
wife, and is bound to her for life. Concubinage is not permitted. Adultery is
unknown among them. They are generally very fond of strong drink, but,
although they go to excess in this, I could not learn that they prepared any fer-
mented liquor, not even sago-weer or tuah (palm-wine). Kidnapping is general
in these countries, and is followed as a branch of trade, so that there is no dis-
honor attached to it. The captives are treated well, are exchanged if there are
any of theirs in the enemy's hands, or released on payment of a ransom, as was
the case in Europe in the middle ages.
My own experience of the Papuans at Dorey, in 1858, agrees with
this account ; and as I lived there for four months with only four Malay
servants, going daily unarmed into the forest to collect insects, I was
completely in their power had they wished to attack me. A remark-
able proof of their honesty occurred to me at the island of Waigiou,
where a man who had received payment in advance for red birds of
paradise brought back the money, represented by an axe, when after
trying for several weeks he had failed to catch any. Another, who had
received payment for six birds, brought me in the fifth two days before
I was to leave the island, and immediately started off for the forest to
seek another. Of course I never expected to see him again, but, when
my boat was loaded, and we were just on the point of starting, he came
running down to the beach holding up a bird, which he handed to me,
saying with evident satisfaction, "Now I owe you nothing." My
assistant, Mr. Allen, venturing along among the mountaineers of the
northwest peninsula, found them peaceable and good-natured. Drs.
Meyer and Beccari and Signor d'Albertis, penetrating inland beyond
Dorey, were never attacked or seriously opposed ; and Dr. Miklucho
