NEW GUINEA AND ITS INHABITANTS. 65
or round piece of shell on a cord, and keeping a bladder in the air
by patting it with the hands, are favorite games. They also amuse
themselves with miniature spears and bow and arrows, catching fish,
which they cook for themselves on the shore. They are left to do
what they like, and know nothing of the tasks of school, the troubles
of keeping their clothes clean, or the miseries of being washed trou-
bles that vex the lives of almost all civilized children. According to
Mr. Turner, the villages of the Motu are by no means clean, all man-
ner of filth being left about unheeded ; and, as this agrees with most
other descriptions, we must conclude that the model village already
referred to is quite exceptional in its cleanliness and order.
Mr. Turner thinks the Motu are colonists from some other land,
while he considers the Koiari of the interior to be " evidently the abori-
gines of this part of New Guinea." Mr. Stone, on the other hand, classes
them together as slightly differing tribes of the same race, the one
being a little more advanced than the other ; and he considers the whole
eastern peninsula of New Guinea to be peopled by a race of Polyne-
sian blood, who, in some far-distant time, found their way to the coast,
intermingled with the native Papuan tribes, and gradully drove them
westward. There have thus resulted a number of separate tribes, show-
ing various degrees of intermixture, the Polynesian blood predominat-
ing on the coast, the Papuan in the interior ; one small tribe alone, the
Kirapuno, being more distinctly Polynesian. How complete is the
intermixture, and how difficult it is to determine the limits of the two
races, are shown by the opinion of Mr. S. McFarlane, who says that
though he at first thought the people of Katow River and those of Red-
scar Bay to be quite distinct, the former Papuan and the latter Ma-
layan (or more properly Polynesian), yet, after five years' acquaintance
with them, he believes them to of the same race ; while he considers
the tribes of the interior to be distinct, and to be true Papuans. The
coast people he thinks to be the result of an intermixture of Malays,
Polynesians, Arabs, Chinese, and Papuans.
Dr. Comrie (of the surveying ship Basilisk) believes that all the
tribes on the northeast coast, from East Cape to Astrolabe Bay, are
Papuans ; but his description of them shows that they have a slight in-
fusion of Polynesian blood, and many Polynesian customs. One thing
is very clear, that neither in physical nor mental characteristics do these
people show any resemblance whatever to Malays, who are a very differ-
ent race from the Polynesian. The graceful figures, the woolly or curly
hair, the arched noses, the use of tattooing, the ignorance of. pottery-
making, the gay and laughter-loving disposition, the talkativeness of the
women, the lying, thievishness, and beggary, widely separate them from
the Malay ; while all these peculiarities support the view of their being
a race formed by a mixture of Polynesian men with Papuan or Melane-
sian women, the former having perhaps arrived in successive waves of
immigration, thus causing the coast tribes, and those nearest the east-
vol. xv. 5
