66 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
era end of the island, to be more distinctly Polynesian in character
than those inland and toward the west.
Returning now to the dark Papuan tribes of the remainder of New
Guinea, we find that here also there is some difference of opinion. Ow-
ing to the coast tribes being usually at war with those of the interior,
these latter have been described by them as a different race, and have
been called by the Dutch and other writers Alfuros * or Harafuras, a
term applied to any wild people living in the interior of a country, as
opposed to the coast tribes. This has led many writers to class the
natives of New Guinea into Papuans and Harafuras, terms which are
still sometimes used, but which are quite erroneous as implying any
physical difference or any distinction of race. Dr. Meyer, who has seen
much of the people of the northwest coast, considers that there is no
difference of the slightest importance between the coast and inland
tribes, but such as occur in every race. Dr. Miklucho Maclay concludes
that the Papuan stock consists of numerous varieties, with no sharp
lines of demarkation. Dr. Beccari, however, differs somewhat from
the preceding writers ; and as he explored a great range of country,
and made repeated visits to the western half of New Guinea, his opin-
ion is entitled to great weight. He thinks there are three distinct types
of Papuans. One is dwarfish, with short woolly hair, skin almost or
quite black, nose much depressed, forehead extremely narrow and slant-
ing, and with a brachycephalous cranium ; these he terms Oriental ne-
groes or Primitive Papuans. They do not now exist as a race, but are
scattered among the interior tribes, and their description accords very
closely with that of the Negritos of the Philippines and the Semangs of
the Malay Peninsula. The next are the Typical Papuans, who are most
widely spread, and present most of the characteristic features we have
already described. The last are the Mafu or Mafor Papuans who in-
habit Dorey and the shores and islands of Geelvink Bay, and are prob-
ably scattered all round the western coasts. They form the highest
type, with fine Jewish or European features, a better intellect, and a
somewhat more advanced civilization. These people divide the year
into lunar months, each with a proper name, and have names for the
four cardinal points, for many stars, and for entire constellations. Dr.
Beccari believes them to be the result of an intermixture (at a remote
epoch) of Hindoo or Caucasian blood with the indigenes of the island,
and he even traces a connection between their rude mythology and that
of the Hindoos.
A curious point of physiological detail may here be noticed as lend-
ing some support to this theory. Almost all observers have remarked
that the fully developed Papuan mop of hair is not a general feature
in any of the tribes, but occurs sporadically over a wide area, is highly
* The term is derived from the Portuguese "fora," out or outside; Alfores being ap-
plied to tribes out of or beyond the settlement on the coast (Windsor Earl's " Papuans,"
p. 62). %
