S o THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
And the inevitable reaction of words upon thought has in this case
become so complete, and has penetrated so deeply, that when an accu-
rate statement of the case namely, that muskiness, inasmuch as the
term denotes nothing but a sensation, is a mental state and has no
existence except as a mental phenomenon is first brought under the
notice of common-sense folks, it is usually regarded by them as what
they are pleased to call a mere metaphysical paradox and a patent ex-
ample of useless subtilty. Yet the slightest reflection must suffice to con-
vince any one possessed of sound reasoning faculties that it is as absurd
to suppose that muskiness is a quality inherent in one plant, as it would
be to imagine that pain is a quality inherent in another, because we
feel pain when a thorn pricks the finger.
Even the common-sense philosopher, par excellence, says of smell :
" It appears to be a simple and original affection or feeling of the mind,
altogether inexplicable and unaccountable. It is, indeed, impossible
that it can be in any body : it is a sensation, and a sensation can only
be in a sentient thing." *
That which is true of muskiness is true of every other odor. Lav-
ender-smell, clove-smell, garlic-smell, are, like "muskiness," names of
states of consciousness, and have no existence except as such. But, in
ordinary language, we speak of all these odors as if they were indepen-
dent entities residing in lavender, cloves, and garlic ; and it is not
without a certain struggle that the false metaphysic of common sense,
thus ingrained in us, is expelled.
It is unnecessary for the present purpose to inquire into the origin
of our belief in external bodies, or into that of the notion of causation.
Assuming the existence of an external world, there is no difficulty in
obtaining experimental proof that, as a general rule, olfactory sensa-
tions are caused by odorous bodies; and we may pass on to the next
step of the inquiry namely, how the odorous body produces the effect
attributed to it.
The first point to be noted here is another fact revealed by experi-
ence ; that the appearance of the sensation is governed, not only by
the presence of the odorous substance, but by the condition of a certain
part of our corporeal structure, the nose. If the nostrils are closed, the
presence of the odorous substance does not give rise to the sensation ;
while, when they are open, the sensation is intensified by the approxi-
mation of the odorous substance to them, and by snuffing up the adja-
cent air in such a manner as to draw it into the nose. On the other
* " An Inquiry into the Human Mind on the Principles of Common Sense, chap, ii.,
sec. 2. Reid affirms that " it is genius and not the want of it that adulterates philosophy,
and fills it with error and false theory " ; and no doubt his own lucubrations are free
from the smallest taint of the impurity to which he objects. But, for want of something
more than that " common sense," which is very common and a little dull, the contemner
of genius did not notice that the admission here made knocks so big a hole in the bottom
of " common-sense philosophy " that nothing can save it from foundering in the dreaded
abyss of Idealism.
