SENSATION AND SENSIFEROUS ORGANS. 91
hand, looking at an odorous substance, or rubbing it on the skin, or
holding it to the ear, does not awaken the sensation. Thus, it can be
readily established by experiment that the perviousness of the nasal
passages is, in some way, essential to the sensory function ; in fact,
that the organ of that function is lodged somewhere in the nasal pas-
sages. And, since odorous bodies give rise to their effects at consider- *
able distances, the suggestion is obvious that something must pass from
them into the sense-organ. What is this something which plays the
part of an intermediary between the odorous body and the sensory
organ ?
The oldest speculation about the matter dates back to Democritus
and the Epicurean school, and it is to be found fully stated in the fourth
book of Lucretius. It comes to this : that the surfaces of bodies are
constantly throwing off excessively attenuated films of their own sub-
stance ; and that these films, reaching the mind, excite the appropriate
sensations in it.
Aristotle did not admit the existence of anv such material films,
but conceived that it was the form of the substance, and not its mat-
ter, which affected sense, as a seal impresses wax, without losing any-
thing in the process. While many, if not the majority, of the school-
men took up an intermediate position, and supposed that a something
which was not exactly either material or immaterial, and which they
called an " intentional species," effected the needful communication
between the bodily cause of sensation and the mind.
But all these notions, whatever may be said for or against them in
general, are fundamentally defective, by reason of an oversight which
was inevitable, in the state of knowledge at the time in which they
were promulgated. What the older philosophers did not know, and
could not know, before the anatomist and physiologist had done his
work, is that, between the external object and that mind in which they
supposed the sensation to inhere, there lies a physical obstacle. The
sense-organ is not a mere passage by which the " tenuia simulacra re-
rum," or the "intentional species" cast off by objects, or the "forms"
of sensible things, pass straight to the mind ; on the contrary, it stands
as a firm and impervious barrier, through which no material particle of
the world without can make its way to the world within.
Let us consider the olfactory sense-organ more nearly. Each of the
nostrils leads into a passage completely separated from the other by a
partition, and these two passages place the nostrils in free communica-
tion with the back of the throat, so that they freely transmit the air
passing to the lungs when the mouth is shut, as in ordinary breathing.
The floor of each passage is flat, but its roof is a high arch, the crown
of which is seated between the orbital cavities of the skull, which serve
for the lodgment and protection of the eyes ; and therefore lies behind
the apparent limits of that feature which in ordinary language is called
the nose. From the side walls of the upper and back part of these
