SENSATION AND SENSIFEROUS ORGANS. 93
then it is quite possible that the particular mode of motion of the object
is reproduced in the sensorium ; exactly as the diaphragm of a telephone
reproduces the mode of motion taken up at its receiving- end. In other
words, the secondary " intentional species " may be, as the schoolmen
thought the primary one was, the last link between matter and mind.
None the less, however, does it remain true that no similarity exists,
nor indeed is conceivable, between the cause of the sensation and the
sensation. Attend as closely to the sensations of muskiness, or any
other odor, as we will, no trace of extension, resistance, or motion is
discernible in them. They have no attribute in common with those
which we ascribe to matter ; they are, in the strictest sense of the
words, immaterial entities.
Thus, the most elementary study of sensation justifies Descartes's
position, that we know more of mind than we do of body; that the im-
material world is a firmer reality than the material. For the sensation
"muskiness" is known immediately. So long as it persists, it is a part
of what we call our thinking selves, and its existence lies beyond the
possibility of doubt. The knowledge of an objective or material cause
of the sensation, on the other hand, is mediate ; it is a belief as contra-
distinguished from an intuition ; and it is a belief which, in any given
instance of sensation, may, by possibility, be devoid of foundation.
For odors, like other sensations, may arise from the occurrence of the
appropriate molecular changes in the nerve or in the sensorium, by the
operation of a cause distinct from the affection of the sense-organ by an
odorous body. Such " subjective " sensations are as real existences as
any others, and as distinctly suggest an external odorous object as their
cause ; but the belief thus generated is a delusion. And, if beliefs are
properly termed " testimonies of consciousness," then undoubtedly the
testimony of consciousness may be, and often is, untrustworthy.
Another very important consideration arises out of the facts as they
are now known. That which, in the absence of a knowledge of the physi-
ology of sensation, we call the cause of the smell, and term the odorous
object, is only such, mediately, by reason of its emitting particles which
give rise to a mode of motion in the sense-organ. The sense-organ,
again, is only a mediate cause by reason of its producing a molecular
change in the nerve-fiber; while this last change is also only a mediate
cause of sensation, depending, as it does, upon the change which it ex-
cites in the sensorium.
The sense-organ, the nerve, and the sensorium, taken together, con-
stitute the sensiferous apparatus. They make up the thickness of the
wall between the mind, as represented by the sensation "muskiness,"
and the object, as represented by the particle of musk in contact with
the olfactory epithelium.
It will be observed that the sensiferous wall and the external world
are of the same nature ; whatever it is that constitutes them both is ex-
pressible in terms of matter and motion. Whatever changes take place
