94
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in the sensiferous apparatus are continuous with, and similar to, those
which take place in the external world.* But, with the sensoriura, mat-
ter and motion come to an end ; while phenomena of another order, or
immaterial states of consciousness, make their appearance. How is the
relation between the material and the immaterial phenomena to be con-
ceived ? This is the metaphysical problem of problems, and the solu-
tions which have been suggested have been made the corner-stones of
systems of philosophy. Three mutually irreconcilable readings of the
riddle have been offered.
The first is, that an immaterial substance of mind exists ; and that
it is affected by the mode of motion of the sensorium in such a way as
to give rise to the sensation.
The second is, that the sensation is a direct effect of the mode of
motion of the sensorium, brought about without the intervention of any
substance of mind.
The third is, that the sensation is neither directly, nor indirectly, an
effect of the mode of motion of the sensorium, but that it has an inde-
pendent cause. Properly speaking, therefore, it is not an effect of the
motion of the sensorium, but a concomitant of it.
As none of these hypotheses is capable of even an approximation to
demonstration, it is almost needless to remark that they have been sev-
erally held with tenacity and advocated with passion. I do not think
it can be said of any of the three that it is inconceivable, or that it can
be assumed on a priori grounds to be impossible.
Consider the first, for example; an immaterial substance is perfectly
conceivable. In fact, it is obvious that, if we possessed no sensations
* The following diagrammatic scheme may help to elucidate the theory of sensation:
Mediate Knowledge
Sensiferous Apparatus
Immediate
Knowledge
Objects of Sense
Hypothetical
Substance of
Matter
Receptive Transmissive Sensificatory
(Sense-Organ) (Nerve) (Sensorium)
Sensations and
other States of
Consciousness
Hypothetical
Substance of
Mind
Physical World
Mental World
Not Self
Self
Non-Ego or Object.
Ego or Subject
Immediate Knowledge is confined to states of consciousness, or, in other words, to the
phenomena of mind. Knowledge of the physical world, or of one's own body and of ob-
jects external to it, is a system of beliefs or judgments based on the sensations. The
term " self" is applied not only to the series of mental phenomena which constitute the
ego, but to the fragment of the physical world which is their constant concomitant. The
corporeal self, therefore, is part of the non-ego ; and is objective in relation to the ego as
subject.
