96 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
pardon me, you were ignorant, but you did not know it. On the con-
trary, you thought you knew a great deal, and were quite satisfied with
the particularly absurd metaphysical notions which you were pleased to
call the teachings of common sense. You thought that your sensations
were properties of external things, and had an existence outside of your-
self. You thought that you knew more about material than you do
about immaterial existences. And if, as a wise man has assured us,
the knowledge of what we don't know is the next best thing to the
knowledge of what we cio know, this brief excursion into the province
of philosophy has been highly profitable.
Of all the dangerous mental habits, that which schoolboys call " cock-
sureness " is probably the most perilous ; and the inestimable value of
metaphysical discipline is, that it furnishes an effectual counterpoise to
this evil proclivity. Whoso has mastered the elements of philosophy
knows that the attribute of unquestionable certainty appertains only to
the existence of a state of consciousness so long as it exists ; all other
beliefs are mere probabilities of a higher or lower order. Sound meta-
physic is an amulet which renders its possessor proof alike against the
poison of superstition and the counter-poison of nihilism ; by showing
that the affirmations of the former and the denials of the latter alike
deal with matters about which, for lack of evidence, nothing can -be
either affirmed or denied.
I have dwelt at length upon the nature and origin of our sensations
of smell, on account of the comparative freedom of the olfactory sense
from the complications which are met with in most of the other senses.
Sensations of taste, however, are generated in almost as simple a
fashion as those of smell. In this case, the sense-organ is the epithelium
which covers the tongue and the palate ; and which sometimes, be-
coming modified, gives rise to peculiar organs termed " gustatory
bulbs," in which the epithelial cells elongate and assume a somewhat
rod-like form. Nerve-fibers connect the sensory organ with the sen-
sorium, and tastes or flavors are states of consciousness caused by the
change of molecular state of the latter. In the case of the sense of
touch there is often no sense-organ distinct from the general epider-
mis. But many fishes and amphibia exhibit local modifications of the
epidermic cells which are sometimes extraordinarily like the gustatory
bulbs ; more commonly, both in lower and higher animals, the effect
of the contact of external bodies is intensified by the development of
hair-like filaments, or of true hairs, the bases of which are in immediate
relation with the ends of the sensory nerves. Every one must have
noticed the extreme delicacy of the sensations produced by the contact
of bodies with the ends of the hairs of the head ; and the " whiskers "
of cats owe their functional importance to the abundant supply of nerves
to the follicles in which their bases are lodged. What part, if any, the
so-called "tactile corpuscles," "end-bulbs," and "Pacinian bodies" play
