io2 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY,
of a known law, acting perhaps in a peculiar and even unprecedented
manner. In such cases the phenomena cease to be residual phenomena.
But, on the other hand, some of the observed phenomena may resist
every attempt made to explain them ; they may refuse to retire from
the list of established facts, and at the same time refuse to find their
full explanation in terms of any well-established law. But, while so
doing, these phenomena may also not be opposed to the law ; they may
not be contradictory to, but simply not wholly explainable by, any
known law 'of nature.
Instances of the valuable results which have been obtained by the
exact investigation of residual phenomena are numerous in every branch
of natural science. One of the most striking is furnished by Newton's
investigation of the atmospheric velocity of sound.
Newton showed that the velocity of sound in air might be calculated
from certain theoretical considerations; a rough measurement of the
actual velocity gave him a number differing very considerably from that
which his theory required. Later and more exact experiments failed
to explain the discrepancy, but in 1816 Laplace gave an explanation of
the seemingly exceptional phenomenon, which not only sustained the
theory of Newton, but also paved the way to the modern doctrine of
the equivalency of heat and mechanical work. In the residual phenom-
enon which was left unexplained by Newton lay the germ of one of the
greatest advances made by science in recent years.
Another striking instance of the value of residual phenomena is to
be found in the history of chemical science.
From his experiments upon combustion, Lavoisier concluded that
the peculiar properties of acids are due to the presence of the element
oxygen in these bodies. But an undoubtedly acid substance was known
(muriatic acid) from which no oxygen could be obtained. Here was a
residual phenomenon a phenomenon not absolutely contradictory of
the law, that that group of bodies called acids is characterized by the
presence of oxygen, but certainly a phenomenon demanding accurate
investigation. Closer examination might have shown that the acid sup-
posed to contain no oxygen was not really free from that element, or it
might have led to the adoption of a higher generalization concerning
the nature of the group " acids," or, lastly, it might have necessitated
an entire alteration in the terms of Lavoisier's so-called law.
Chemists, however, for many years contented themselves with as-
serting that, as Lavoisier had pronounced oxygen to be the acidifying
principle, and as muriatic acid was undoubtedly a true acid, this body
must contain oxygen. But Sir Humphry Davy showed that an accu-
rate examination of the residual phenomenon presented by muriatic
acid led to a more extended and more exact knowledge of the nature
of acids, and necessitated a change in the prevalent views concerning
these bodies. The views of Lavoisier were found to express a truth,
but not the whole truth ; fresh incitement was given to research, and
