RESIDUAL PHENOMENA. 105
But the examination of residual phenomena may also help to free
investigators from that tyranny which is exerted by a number of con-
cordant results, all seemingly pointing to but one conclusion.
If experiment after experiment points to one conclusion, and if all,
with the exception of perhaps a single residual fact, is in favor of this
conclusion, it is hard to resist the temptation to ignore that fact, and
adopt what, but for it, is apparently the true conclusion. But this
method is not the scientific method. The fact must be examined. It
may be that the outstanding fact is finally reduced within the sphere
of the previously adopted hypothesis, or it may be that a new hypothe-
sis is suggested which explains this and all the other phenomena.
The great Swedish chemist Berzelius carefully examined the prop-
erties of the compounds of a newly discovered element ; he determined
the chemical and physical characteristics of this element, to which he
gave the name of Vanadium. The facts ascertained by the experiments
of Berzelius formed a concordant series ; so far as these experiments
extended, everything appeared to be in keeping with the conclusions
arrived at by him. But it was afterward noticed that the crystalline
form of certain compounds of the metal vanadium was different from
that required by the commonly accepted and, as it appeared, well-estab-
lished theories concerning the connection between crystalline form and
chemical structure. The examination, by Roscoe, of the residual phe-
nomena presented by the crystalline forms of the vanadium compounds
led to the astonishing discovery that the so-called metallic vanadium
of Berzelius was really not an elementary body, but a compound of the
true metal vanadium with oxygen. This peculiar oxide presents most
of the physical properties of a metal ; indeed, so metal-like is this
oxide that the presence in it of oxygen was entirely overlooked, even
by so careful a worker as Berzelius.
The researches of Roscoe threw a new light upon the chemical his-
tory of vanadium, and at the same time confirmed in a marked manner
the law connecting chemical structure with crystalline form.
But, lastly, the study of residual phenomena may aid in freeing our
minds from that fascinating, but surely erroneous, idea which a mere
superficial acquaintance with natural science tends so much to strength-
en, viz., that Nature is, and indeed must be, extremely simple.
The simplicity of Nature is a favorite theme with a certain class of
would-be philosophers : it is a doctrine easily accepted, but a doctrine
which has led to pernicious results.
Extreme instances of the overruling power of this idea may be found
in the fascination exerted over minds, even of the highest order, by nu-
merical analogies, that are really baseless. The seven colors of the
spectrum were supposed, even by the great master himself, to have
some mysterious connection with the seven tones of music. The num-
ber of the satellites of Jupiter added to the single satellite of the earth
leaves but one satellite for Saturn, if the perfect number six is to be
