106 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
made up ; hence Huygens concluded that Saturn could have but one
satellite.
When chemistry emerged as a distinct branch of science from the
superstitions and conceits which had so long overshadowed her, the
line of demarkation between chemical and mechanical action was made
clear and unmistakable. On this side were ranged all phenomena purely
mechanical ; on that, all phenomena purely chemical. Nature's laws
must be simple. One great fact was predicated of each class of phe-
nomena the distinction was a simple distinction. But as Nature's
facts were more thoroughly searched into, phenomena were remarked
which tended to discredit the extreme simplicity of the division into
chemical and mechanical actions ; those phenomena were passed by as
too trivial for serious notice. But the residual phenomena at last forced
themselves upon the attention of chemists ; and one great result of the
examination of these phenomena has been the discovery that the simple
classification into chemical phenomena on that side and mechanical on
this was too simple was, in fact, an artificial classification ; that there
is no sharp line of demarkation in Nature, but that a series of facts ex-
ists which bridges over the gulf formerly supposed to be fixed between
the two sets of phenomena.
The earlier study of biological science tended to show a great sim-
plicity in the vital processes occurring among all living things ; but the
more advanced study of the same science has altogether overthrown
the simplicity of the earlier scheme. Certain animals, and classes of
animals, seem deliberately to adopt strange expedients for reproducing
their kind, as if to warn us against such hasty generalizations. How
should we have imagined the possibility of fertilization for successive
generations, of hermaphroditism, or of reproduction by fissure, etc.,
being found among the methods Avhich Nature adopts for replenishing
the earth, had we contented ourselves with an examination of the com-
paratively simple methods of ordinary sexual reproduction ?
The importance of residual phenomena is undoubtedly great ; the
difficulties which attend the study of these phenomena are likewise
great.
A phenomenon, supposed to be residual, may be found on closer ex-
amination to be fully explained by some known law, acting either under
ordinary or under modified conditions. Before, therefore, attempting
to find a new hypothesis which shall explain the residual phenomenon,
it is necessary to determine the fact of the phenomenon being truly
residual. Of course, if an explanation be found for the seemingly in-
explicable phenomenon without the necessity of introducing a new hy-
pothesis, a distinct step has been made in scientific advance. If, how-
ever, the phenomenon refuse to be explained by any known law, a new
hypothesis must be found, or the old must be modified so as to admit of
an explanation being given for the hitherto inexplicable fact.
Of the new hypotheses which present themselves to the mind, which
