THE "AUTOBIOGRAPHY" OF GEORGE COMBE. 109
modified by phenomenon. Law reacts upon law. All she knows is
lawful, but all is not yet intelligible. With patience and sure faith she
advances to the goal ; the road is long, but the reward is great.
Fraser's Magazine.
THE "AUTOBIOGRAPHY" OF GEORGE COMBE.*
By ELIZA A. YOUMANS.
aEORGE COMBE has been dead twenty years, and his name is
almost forgotten. Many of his teachings, which were bitterly op-
posed when he uttered them, are now quietly accepted. His theories
of religion, of education, of the treatment of the insane and criminal
classes, are more or less approved, and even the doctrine that mind is a
function of the brain, which he, was among the first to assert, and for
which he was denounced as an infidel, has taken its place among the
data of science. But the system of phrenology to which he gave him-
self with such intense devotion is discredited by science, and, like Mr.
Combe himself, is now seldom heard of. There is much, however, in his
biography to. interest those who remember him, and who sympathized
with his career as a reformer. But it is not to the biography at "large
that we now call attention, but to a fragment of autobiography which
occupies the opening pages of the book, and embraces the period of
his childhood and early youth. For, although he was born in another
country (Scotland), and a former century (1788), yet the essential ex-
periences of the home, the play-ground, and the school, were the same
there that they are here, and the same then as now. Combe under-
stood the conditions of well-being for both mind and body, and the far-
reaching consequences of conduct. He had made his " bringing up " a
matter of serious study, and he wrote this sketch, as he spent his life,
for the good of others. We have found it by far the most interesting-
portion of a very ably-written biography. But, since we can not print
the whole of it, we give that portion which treats of his education, with
such explanations as are needed to make it intelligible.
For the benefit of our youthful readers, it may be well to state
that from 1817 to 1836, while still practicing the legal profession, Mr.
Combe kept up a fierce warfare in defense of phrenology and certain
principles of right living, which he published in a work entitled "The
Constitution of Man." This book had an immense circulation, and was
translated into the leading languages of Europe. In 1837 he retired
from his profession and gave the rest of his life to the dissemination of
his principles. He traveled in England, America, and Germany, and
* The Life of George Combe, author of " The Constitution of Man." By Charles
Gibbon. In two vols. London: Macmillan & Co., 1878. Price, $8.00.
