THE "AUTOBIOGRAPHY" OF GEORGE COMBE. 113
He was taken home in September, but such was the effect of the
unwholesome position of his father's house, of its overcrowding, and of
mistakes in his diet, that he had glandular swellings ending in suppura-
tion. His brain was strong and active, and at school would blaze away
for a few days until he was completely exhausted, when he would stay
at home and lie on the sofa three or four days till the nervous energy
was recruited. (These alternating periods of vivacity and exhaustion
continued throughout his life.) He thus records an incident of his
childhood, as an example of the influence which a passing observation
of a sensible servant may exercise on the mind of an earnest, thoughtful
child :
About this time one of my mother's servants from whom I received sincere
sympathy, observing my feeble condition, said, " O laddie, you should never
marry." Young as I was, I understood her meaning, and her remark made an
indelible impression on me.
The train of thought which, late in life, Combe gave to the world
in his essay upon " Religion and Science " was started by an incident
of his early childhood. When six or seven years old he was given a
lump of candy. The nurse-girl asked him to share it with his brothers
and sisters, which he did. The girl then assured him that God would
reward him for it. When he asked her " How ? " she told him God
would send him everything that was good. Should he get more candy ?
he inquired. Yes the girl told him, if he was a good boy. Would the
piece he had left grow bigger ? " Yes," was the reply, " God always re-
wards the kind-hearted." So the remaining piece was carefully wrapped
in paper and put in a drawer and left all night. The next morning he
examined it with eager curiosity, but no change could be discovered in
it, and he had the bitterness to find that he had been benevolent at
his own expense. His faith in the reward of virtue received a shock,
and it was a long time before he learned the true nature of Divine
rewards for good deeds.
While still a child, he saw a man and woman walking near the
verge of the highest part of Salisbury Crags. Soon an alarm was given
that the man had pushed the woman over the precipice and she was
killed. The man fled down the northeast slope of the hill and never
was discovered. Combe says his imagination was haunted by the
recollection of this scene ; and he was terrified to go to sleep lest he
should see the murdered woman's ghost. The belief in ghosts was
universal in his juvenile circle, and a sore superstition it was, for he held
" every belief to be as true as the most indubitable facts." Another
striking event of his early boyhood awakened in him a sense of the
mistakes of Government. Two sons of a poor widow, whom his
father had helped, poured forth their gratitude in every form of kind-
ness to his father's children. One of them had been to Greenland in a
whale-ship and he delighted young George with accounts of the perils
and excitements of whale-fishing. Paid spies of the press-gang g-ave in-
VOL. XT. 8
