ii 4 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
formation of his liability and his residence, and he was torn from home
and friends and forced aboard a man-of-war. Combe says :
It is impossible to describe the horror and indignation with which this
event filled me. It gave the first rude shock to my feelings of respect toward
the ruling powers. I had worshiped the King and looked upon the Lord-Pro-
vost with reverence and awe. But this incident converted me from a loyal,
trusting, Tory child, into a demagogue and reformer.
One day as he was walking along the road with one of his father's
workmen they met a tall man, in Highland costume, with a huge cap
and plumes, and a fearful-looking iron-hilted sword, who asked the
workman, " Is this your son ? " " No," said the man. " Is he a good
boy ? " " Yes, he behaves very well," said the man. " I am glad of it,"
said the soldier, laying his hand on his sword, " for it is my duty to cut
off the heads of all naughty children." Combe says, " I believed every
word of this assurance and for months dared not venture into the street
without keeping an anxious watch for this sergeant who had filled me
with unutterable horror."
These incidents may seem trivial, but they formed the staple of his
practical education. He says that " great drifts of suffering were driven
through the tenor of my life by the absence of consistent principle in
the actions and teaching of all by whom I was surrounded." And it
was the vivid recollection of this unhappiness which determined his
career as a reformer.
At the age of nine he entered the High School of Edinburgh, where
he staid four years. There were about one hundred boys in his class,
and the learning was mere memorizing. The teacher, Mr. Fraser, every
afternoon gave out lessons (Latin) to be learned for the next day. In
the morning he beo-an at the head of the class and heard each scholar
repeat the portion of grammar he had learned by heart. Next came
translation. The sons of rich parents had tutors, of evenings, who
taught them, but Mr. Fraser taught nothing. These boys were at the
head of the class, and with them the lessons went on smoothly ; but,
when the incapables were reached, " beating took the place of teaching."
By standing from twenty-five to forty-five from the head of the class
young Combe learned his lesson by hearing those above him read it,
and in this way escaped beating, except when the teacher was dis-
turbed by a noise ; then, says Combe
He held us all bonnd for each other's transgressions, and let loose upon us
a perfect storm of lashes, and never ceased till he was fairly out of breath.
The discipline waxed severer as time passed on, and in the third year it
reached its acme. In the spring of that year Mr. Fraser " stripped and whipped,"
to use his own expression, the boys at a great rate. I recollect one day seeing
fifteen boys standing at a time in the middle of the floor with their breeches
stripped down, and be taking hold now of one and now of another, threatening to
commence the " whipping." These inflictions were uniformly accompanied by
a phraseology in ntter contrast to their real chaacter. When he called on a boy
