THE "AUTOBIOGRAPHY" OF GEORGE COMBE. 115
to hold out his hand to receive a shower of palmies, it was " Here, if you please,
my dear." Whack, whack, whack ; scream, scream, scream. " It is all for the
good of your soul and your body, my dear." In the third year all this discipline
appeared to him insufficient ; and, after announcing, " I must try a severer rod
of correction, my dears," he walked to a small closet in the school, opened it amid
portentous silence, and brought out a short riding-whip, such as game-keepers
are armed with, and with which in those days they lashed the hounds. It had
a lash of knotted cord, and a short, thick handle, with an ivory whistle at the
end ; and with this " rod of correction " he commenced operations. The lash
twisted around the hand, leaving red scores on the skin, and, where the knots
struck, in some instances drawing blood.
All this torture was a substitute for teaching. There was not a map or illus-
trative object of any kind in the schoolroom ; and only on two occasions during
the four years did he ever, to my recollection, address a word to us beyond trans-
lation and grammar of the baldest description. The first of these exceptions
took place when we read the description of the bridge erected by Julius Caesar
over the Rhine, given in his " Commentaries." Our teacher had, according to
tradition, constructed a model of the bridge with his own hands, and was proud
of it. The fame of its great interest had been transmitted from class to class for
many years ; and we counted the days which should bring us to " the brig."
At last the closet was opened in profound silence, and the model brought out.
It was placed on a chair in the middle of the floor, and we began to read
the description. As there were many technical terms, he helped us by explain-
ing them, and with conscious pride pointed out each stake and beam as we pro-
ceeded, and showed us its connections and uses. The reading and expounding
lasted for several days, during which all the lessons were better learned than
usual, complete silence reigned, and not a blow was struck. We thought our-
selves in paradise. But the model was removed, monotony recommenced, and
the arm and " the tawse " were again employed to do the work of the teacher's
brain.
The noise and inattention which provoked the teacher and led to much of
this severity were the natural consequences of our condition. Fully half of the
seats stood apart from the wall, and had no backs. In summer we sat on them
from 7 to 9 a. m., from 10 to 12, noon, and from 1 to 3 p. m. ; and in winter,
from 9 to 11a. m., and 12 to 2 p. m., without any intellectual occupation, ex-
cept hearing the lessons repeated over and over again as they descended from the
top to the bottom of the class. There was suffering from an uneasy position
of the body, and nearly absolute vacuity of mind ; and this at an age when every
fiber of the brain and muscles was glowing with nervous activity. If physi-
ology and the laws of mental action had been known in those days, everything
might have been different. The silence, pleasing excitement, and general good
behavior which reigned when we had an intelligible object presented to us,
clearly indicated what was wanted to render us all happy ; but the hint was not
taken. In point of fact, there was no other rational knowledge adapted to the
young mind in our teacher's brain: ex nihilo nihil Jit* was exemplified in his
whole teaching; for the other instance of attention alluded to was due to the
occurrence of a thunderstorm, which frightened us by its darkness and prox-
imity. This led him to describe a previous storm of the same kind, which had
ended by a thunderbolt striking the front of the Royal Infirmary, quite near to
the High School of those days, and breaking the windows on that side. He gave
* From nothing, nothing comes.
