u6 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
us some account of the nature of a thunderstorm, and how after a terrible crash
the danger is past ; and thus sustained our courage till the clouds cleared away.
No other items of general information, except these two, dwell in my memory
as having been communicated during the four years of my attendance.
In 1798 or 1799 I was sent to Mr. Swanston's school, to learn writing and
arithmetic. In winter I was in his school, and Mr. Fraser's from eight in the
morning till 2 p. m., without any interval of repose ; and in summer from 7 a. m.
till 4 and often till 6 p. m., with only one hour, from 9 to 10 A. m., for breakfast.
Add to this labor lessons to prepare in the evenings, a constant feeling of inani-
tion, especially during winter, cold feet and thin clothing, with no object in
the world in my lessons to interest me, and it may well be conceived how the
state of sin and misery brought on man by the fall was to me a palpable, unde-
niable, experienced reality. A few explanations will throw light on the causes
of these sufferings. Too much cerebral action, and a close, ill-aired bedroom,
with three besides myself in it, made me in the morning low, listless, irritable,
and without appetite. My mother had been taught that oatmeal-porridge and
buttermilk were the best food for children for breakfast. The buttermilk was
bought in large quantities from dairymen's carts in the street. Frequently it
was not fresh when bought, and it daily became more acid when kept. To my
delicate stomach it often tasted like vinegar, and I revolted at the porridge. In
my mother's eyes this was fastidious delicacy of taste, and she ordered the por-
ridge to be kept for my dinner. I received a penny to buy a roll for my mid-day
sustenance. At that time the quartern loaf ranged from a shilling to twenty
pence in price, and the penny roll was a small morsel for a young, hungry,
growing boy. On going out, however, I bought the roll at the first shop there
was one close by my father's gate. I ate it dry, and had no more food till half-
past two, when I came home to dinner. My mother was not so severe as she
had threatened to be, for she gave me a dinner that I could eat; but she never
failed to have the porridge served in the morning. In all this she was actuated
by a sense of duty alone, for she was ever aiming at our welfare. Ignorance
was the rock on which her kindest endeavors were wrecked, and she was not to
be blamed for not knowing what nobody else in her rank, or, so far as I have
yet discovered, in any other rank of life, then knew. The cold feet and thin
clothing were the consequence of my own self-willed ignorance. She pressed
flannel underclothing on me, but because it irritated my excessively sensitive
skin I rejected it, and pleaded that it was good for me to learn to be hardy in
my youth, to prepare for the trials and exposures of manhood : this was listened
to, and the flannel was not forced on me. In the school, and in the "West
Ohnrch especially, in which in those days there were no stoves, I often sat
chilled like an icicle, and my only surprise is how I survived so much irrational
treatment and stupid conduct.
My constitution, which must have been originally strong, suffered permanent
deterioration from all these injurious influences. The bones were imperfectly
developed; and bent clavicles and a slight distortion of the spine, with chronic
irritability of the mucous membrane of the lungs, were the consequences. The
benches of the High School had no backs, but some of them stood close to the
walls. I suffered greatly from inability to sit upright, during the long hours of
confinement, on the seats away from the wall ; and have no doubt that then and
there the distortion of the spine was produced. I often abstained from getting
up to the third " form " because the fourth stood next the wall and supported
my back !
