THE "AUTOBIOGRAPHY" OF GEORGE COMBE. 119
leaving the yards turned round opposite the building and wished to God that I
had the command of a battery of twenty-four pounders for a day to blow the
school to atoms. For years after I left the school, when I saw my teacher
coming in the street, I took the opposite pavement.
So much for the education that had been ordered and paid for.
His estimate of his schooling for the next two years is equally interest-
ing. From the High School he went to the University of Edinburgh.
With his first teacher he studied geography and mathematics, but, as
his capacity for learning words was slender, he forgot yesterday's les-
son in learning to day's, while in mathematics the demonstrations he
repeated evaporated as fast as they were learned. But for several
months his sole fellow student in geography was a young sailor from
the middle ranks, who was very profligate, though bold and generous,
and he related to Combe the histories of his corrupt experiences. Hap-
pily, however, they had no allurements for the lad, and increased his
knowledge without subverting his morals. Of his experiences in Dr.
Hill's Latin class, he says :
I could not master the lessons, and had no assistance at home. As we were
now young gentlemen, there was no corporal punisbment, no place-taking, no
keeping-in. Those able and willing to learn were taugbt, the rest were left un-
molested, if they kept quiet and let business go on. The boys in my condition
took back seats, and let the clever boys sit in the front ones next the Professor.
He and they went on harmoniously and successfully ; Combe lis-
tened, and learned what he could. But he savs :
I must record one great benefit I derived from the lax discipline of all my
teachers in the years 1802-3. In those years my brain got nearly a complete
rest; and as I was growing rapidly this was an advantage which in its ultimate
consequences counterbalanced my losses by habitual indolence. I bad a con-
science, and in all my previous attendance at scbool it urged me to do my best,
and punished me with painful upbraidings when I sacrificed duty to pleasure,
which was not often ; and thus my nervous system had been kept on tbe stretch,.
my brain had been overtasked and my health and growth impaired. But in
these two years my brain got a rest, for my conscience was to some degree
involved in my general apathy.
We have no room for details of his Sunday training. Like all the
rest of his so-called education it was unintelligible, burdensome, dis-
couraging. He envied the cattle that had no souls, and he envied his
brother Abram, whose light disposition enabled him to throw Calvinism
to the winds, and make witty sarcasms and jokes out of the materials it
afforded. In 1802 he lost a brother, ten months old, of small-pox, and
in 1807 a sister just younger than himself, who had been ill for many
years. These events excited and bewildered him, but the example of
his parents taught him not to complain of sufferings " sent by the hand
of God."
He says that about the year 1802-'3 he first became conscious of
