120 THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the desire for fame, and used to shed tears of sorrow at the thought that
this wish could never be gratified, as he had no special talent for any
pursuit and his social position was also against him. He attributes this
feeling partly to his natural temperament, and partly to his Latin studies,
such as they were. During these years he taught his younger brothers
and sisters for one hour each evening, except Saturdays and Sundays,
for which his father paid him a small fee quarterly. As he had himself
been taught almost nothing, he had a poor idea of his performances as
a teacher, although his parents and pupils were satisfied with his efforts.
At the age of sixteen he had to face the question of a calling. He
was feeble, delicate, shabby in appearance, with no conscious bias, but
only the wish to live by honest industry. He was offered as an appren-
tice to a dealer in woolen cloth, flannel, and small wares, but the pro-
prietor, he says, " took me to the door to obtain light to view me better,
and turned me round and round : he then politely told my father that
I would not suit." On the way to the shop of another cloth-merchant
they met one of his uncles, who was told where they were going, and
what had happened at the former application. This uncle now sug-
gested to the father that they try the law, " For," said he, " you have
given George ft good education : we have a numerous connection in
town, and there is no writer among us." The father was afraid the}'
could not succeed with this idea, but it ended in his going as an appren-
tice for five years to a " writer to the Signet," one Alexander Dallas.
He had to bring a certificate from Professor Hill, of his attendance at the
college for two years. He was terribly alarmed lest Professor Hill
should decline to do this because of the utter neglect of his studies dur-
ing those two years, but was astonished at the close of the session to get
the following document :
Edinburgh, April 18, 1S04.
That the bearer, Mr. George Combe, attended the Humanity class in the
University of Edinburgh two years, and prosecuted his studies with great dili-
gence and success, is attested by
(Signed) Jo. Hill, Lit. Hum. P.
Although this certificate gained him the place, the autobiography
closes by explaining how completely his schooling had unfitted him for
it. His first experiences in the study of law were extremely painful
and mortifying. Some degree of independent judgment in the use of
words was now required, and of this he was wholly destitute. He had
to begin anew his literary education, but by unwearied industry and
perseverance he at length aroused his dormant faculties and learned
how to use them. Combe thought his helplessness was due to the
fact that at school he was taught nothing ; but children nowadays
are rendered equally helpless by over-teaching. They get abundant
instruction and but little education. Our youths leave school as inca-
pable of independent thinking as was Combe himself. With all our
boasted progress empty-headed teachers still abound, and the failure of
