CORRESP ONDENCE.
123
CORRESPONDENCE.
ON THE FEAE OF DEATH.
To the Editors of the Popular Science Monthly.
AN interesting article entitled " The
Fear of Death " appeared in " The
Popular Science Monthly Supplement " for
December. The author in one place says :
"At any rate the feelings with which we
contemplate the termination of our own
earthly life must vary indefinitely in different
individuals, and in the same individual at
different times ; and it would be a matter of
deep interest to compare our respective ex-
perience if we could bring ourselves to do
so." Having been myself quite recently
very near to the entrance of the " valley,"
and having been for a long time in the daily
habit of mentally viewing the question of
the extinction of life, it has occurred to me
that, where the subject is one in which we
all have an interest more or less, even my
small experience may be in some degree use-
ful and suggestive.
When quite young, too young in fact to
have any definite idea of what death means,
I had an extreme dread of the very thought.
At the age of six years I stood for the first
time in the presence of death, having been
brought into the room to see the body of a
deceased lady who had been very kind to
me. I was awe-stricken. I could not im-
agine what had occurred. I was told in a
subdued voice that she was dead. I did not
understand it ; I only saw that some terrible
and to me inexplicable change had taken
place in my friend, and for a long time after-
ward the mention of death filled me with
childish horror. The thought that I too
should one day be like that was unbearable.
In early manhood I had a reluctance to
think on the subject of death at all, and
whenever the repulsive idea presented itself
I dismissed it as quickly as possible.
On one occasion, when about twenty-one
years old, I accompanied, merely as a spec-
tator, a military expedition against the Tap-
ping rebels in China. During the space of
an hour or so I found myself under fire, and,
being a novice in the business of war, I felt
decidedly uncomfortable. If freedom from
apprehension of personal danger constitutes
bravery upon such occasions, then I was not
by any means brave. But during the whole
time I was not conscious of any anxiety as
to death or what may follow it ; my chief
thought was : " If I am hit, what will be the
sensation ? will it be very painful ? " The
paramount solicitude was for my body, and
if my general anxiety included any other
elements than the fear of pain, certainly that
was the predominating one. Being only a
looker-on, and having no active duties to
occupy my mind, I remember distinctly my
feelings upon that occasion.
Again, later on in life, I was caught in a
heavy blow one night on our Southern coast.
The vessel, a small schooner, was in ballast,
and we were drifting rapidly to leeward to-
ward the shoals which line the part of the
coast where we were ; we missed them by
the merest chance.
All through that night the thought of
death was present in my mind, my anxiety
increasing with every cast of the lead, which
showed the constantly lessening depth of
water. Yet here, again, the fear of the man-
ner of death was stronger than the fear of
death itself. Of course, there were feelings
of sadness connected with the thought of
being cut suddenly off from relatives and
friends, but still the chief apprehension was
concerning the hopeless and seemingly in-
evitable struggle in the breakers before
death should supervene.
As I approached middle age, the subject
of death and what may possibly succeed it
began to form more and more a part of my
studies and to occupy more constantly my
thoughts. The difficulties in the way of an
unquestioning belief in a future state of ex-
istence beyond the grave increased the more
the subject was studied, but the fear of death
was if anything lessened. I was told that
sickness and the approach of death would
alter my views in that respect, and at last I
began myself to have a curiosity to learn
whether such a result would really follow
upon the loss of health.
Not long ago I had a very severe illness,
from which I have not yet quite recovered,
and perhaps never shall. For a time my
chances of life were very small, and I real-
ized my condition perfectly ; yet, the nearer
Death approached, the less grim and repul-
sive he appeared. The principal feeling
was one of resignation, or perhaps some
would prefer to call it apathy. There was,
however, always present with the idea of
death a certain curiosity as to how the
change would be effected, and what it would
be followed by whether by annihilation of
all sensation, or by an extension of conscious-
ness of identity with a higher development
of faculties and perceptions. While the lat-
ter conception was the more pleasing, truth
compels me to say that the former appeared
to be the more probable.
The difficulty of making a mental pre-
sentment of a state of conscious identity
