124
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
apart from the body and brain seemed insu-
perable, and to believe sincerely and with-
out a doubt that which is inconceivable is,
at least in my own case, impossible.
Doubts regarding the question of im-
mortality gave me no concern as to conse-
quences. Those doubts are honest, and I
can not prevent them. I was and am con-
vinced that if what I was taught in my
youth concerning God and a future life be
true, an All-wise and All-just Supreme Being
can not condemn me for believing according
to the best light of the intellect which he
himself gave me ; while, if the doctrine of
immortality be false, then of course death
ends all. In either case there is no cause
for uneasiness. Since my partial return to
health, the wish to live has strengthened ; in
fact, now that I am able to attend to my
daily business, the state of my health gives
me more concern than it did at a time when
I was too weak to walk across the floor. On
the whole, I think that the fear of, or rather
the repugnance to death, varies directly with
the vicissitudes of health strongly devel-
oped in robust health, decreasing gradually
as death draws nearer. It is well that it is
so. J. J. F.
New York, December 22, 1ST8.
EAP.THWOEMS, Etc.
To the Editors of the Popular Science Monthly.
I had the good fortune during the past
summer to witness a remarkable display of
reason, or something quite akin to reason, in
an earthworm. I was watching a number of
them in my garden after a shower, as they
swallowed bits of dry grass and leaves, when
I observed one of very large size take hold
of a stick about six inches long. He took
hold as he reached it, by the middle, and drew
it toward his hole. But as the dirt was heaped
up near the hole, the stick soon became bed-
ded about an inch, and then resisted the per-
sistent efforts of the worm to draw it farther.
He then deliberately let go of the middle
and felt along to the end of the stick, which
he seized and drew easily to his retreat. I
watched until it had partially disappeared
in the hole, but was unable to determine the
special value of the prize. It is likely that
he desired to feed on the decayed bark of
the stick, as I have observed that these
worms almost invariably eat dried food in-
stead of green.
By the way, have you ever had your at-
tention drawn to the circulation of the Cala-
dium esculentum? You will observe at the
tip of a thrifty-growing leaf, on the upper
side, a small hole, in which you can insert
the point of a pin. Now water the plant
abundantly, and shortly you will observe a
small globule of water leap out of this hole.
Nine of these combine to make a drop, which
falls off and is replaced by another. In a
short time quite a pool of water will be
found under the plant.
E. P. Powell.
Ciinton, New Yoke, January 20, 1S79.
EDITOR'S TABLE.
MORALITY AND EVOLUTION.
IT is announced that Herbert Spencer
has ceased writing upon his " Soci-
ology," and begun the " Principles of
Morality," the last of his series; and it
is inferred from this that, having found
his " Synthetic Philosophy " overgrown
and unmanageable, he has abandoned
a part of it in order to finish the rest.
This is an entire misapprehension. He
has never had his great work so com-
pletely in command as now. His sus-
pension of labor upon the sociological
division is but temporary, and he anti-
cipates a part of the final ethical discus-
sion for reasons quite other than those
assigned. The step has been taken in
consequence of Mr. Spencer's uncertain
health, and from an apprehension that
he might break down before reaching
its concluding part. Regarding " The
Principles of Morality " as the most
important portion of his undertaking,
to which all the preceding works are
preliminary, he felt it to be of great
importance to prepare such a state-
ment of his ethical views as will show
the bearing of the previous parts of
his system upon that subject. He ac-
cordingly some months ago stopped
work upon the second volume of the
"Sociology," and began "The Data of
Ethics," the first portion or ground-
work of " The Principles of Morality."
This is now so nearly finished that it
may be expected to appear in a small
volume of two hundred and fifty pages
in the course of the spring, when Mr.
