EDITOR'S TABLE.
125
Spencer will resume the course of his
labors upon " The Principles of Soci-
ology."
The appearance of a new book upon
morals is now so common a thing as in
itself to be hardly noteworthy. But the
publication of such a work, at the pres-
ent time, by the most eminent exposi-
tor of the doctrine of evolution, and
the* only man who has dealt with that
doctrine as the basis of a comprehen-
sive philosophy which is broadly found-
ed upon the results of modern science,
and treated throughout with reference
to the ultimate establishment of the
principles of right and wrong in human
conduct such a book will be certain to
attract wide attention.
Morality, as is well known, is a sub-
ject that has been hitherto kept in very
close connection with theological be-
liefs. It has been generally taught by
the dogmatic method, and as based
upon supernatural sanctions,, so that
the theologians have come to be re-
garded as its legitimate custodians. Not
only is the inculcation of morality a con-
ceded prerogative of the pulpit, but the
regular teaching of it, in nearly all our
higher education, is also in the hands of
the divines. In an interesting and in-
structive paper published in "Mind,"*
by Mr. G. Stanley Hall, on " Philosophy
in the United States," the writer re-
marks of the three hundred non-Catho-
lic colleges in the country as follows :
u In nearly all these institutions certain
studies, aesthetic, logical, historical, most
commonly ethical, most rarely psycho-
logical, are roughly classed as philoso-
phy, and taught during the last year
almost invariably by the president."
To this it may be added that the pres-
ident is almost invariably a doctor of
divinity. These theological expound-
ers of studies "most commonly ethical "
ever insist upon the vital interdepen-
dence of theology and morals. It is
taught that they are bound up together
* Reprinted in " The Popular Science Month-
ly Supplement," New Series, No. 1.
indissolubly and are subject to a com-
mon fate, and this is the way the sub-
ject is regarded by the great mass of
people in the community.
But we are now called upon to take
into account a most important fact.
There is an undeniable and widely
spread decay of theological dogmas af-
fecting all classes of society. The old
adherence to traditional beliefs is weak-
ening, and men are falling away from
their creeds. The ancient sphere of
belief and faith is invaded by science,
and is being inexorably circumscribed.
This is notorious, and is acknowledged
by eminent religious authorities.
In a paper of remarkable candor
and significance, by the Bev. Phillips
Brooks, of Boston, in the March num-
ber of the " Princeton Review " on
" The Pulpit and Modern Skepticism,"
the writer admits that the phenome-
na of doubt " are thick around us in
our congregations, and thicker still out-
side our congregations, in the world."
This skepticism he recognizes as "a
very pervading thing. It evidently
can not be shut up in any guarded
class or classes. Life plays upon faith
every where. Ideas change and devel-
op in all sorts and conditions of men ;
and the occupants of pulpits have their
doubts and disbeliefs as well as oth-
ers." Again, "a large acquaintance
with clerical life has led me to think
that almost any company of clergymen,
gathering together and talking freely
to each other, will express opinions
which would greatly surprise and at
the same time greatly relieve the con-
gregations who ordinarily listen to these
ministers."
And again : " How many men in the
ministry to-day believe in the doctrine
of verbal inspiration which our fathers
held, and how many of us have frankly
told the people that we do not believe
it, and so lifted off" their Bible's page
the heavy cloud of difficulties and in-
consistencies which that doctrine laid
there ? How many of us hold that the
everlasting punishment of the wicked
