1 26
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
is a clear and certain truth of revela-
tion? But how many of us who do
not hold that have ever said a word to
tell men that we thought they might
be Christians, and yet keep a hope for
the souls of all God's children ? "
Dr. Brooks remarks still further:
" There must be no lines of orthodoxy
inside the lines of truth. Men find that
you are playing with them and will not
believe you even when you come in ear-
nest. I know what may be said in an-
swer. I know the old talk about hold-
ing the outworks as long as we can, and
then retreating to the citadel, and per-
haps there has hardly been a more mis-
chievous metaphor than this. It is the
mere illusion of a metaphor. The min-
ister who tries to make people believe
that which he questions, in order to
keep them from questioning that which
he believes, knows very little about the
certain workings of the human heart,
and has no real faith in truth itself. I
think that a great many teachers and
parents now are just in this condition.
They remember that they started with
a great deal more belief than they have
now. They have lost much, and still
have much to live by. They think that
their children, too, must start believing
so much that they can afford to lose a
great deal and still have something left,
and so they teach these children what
they have themselves long ceased to
believe. It is a most dangerous experi-
ment."
We have quoted these frank and
impressive passages because they will
have weight as coming from a distin-
guished religious teacher. They reveal
no secret, and state nothing that ob-
serving persons did not know before ;
but they bring out clearly the degree
to which religious dogmas are already
discredited and secretly abandoned, and
they painfully illustrate the insincerity
and duplicity that have resulted.
But what we have here to note is
simply the acknowledgment of the ex-
tent to which theology is losing its hold
upon the general mind, and untenable
articles of religious faith are being aban-
doned. It is this crumbling theological
system that has been hitherto offered
us as the foundation of morals. Ee-
ligion and morality, as we have said,
are held to be bound up in a common
fate, and to the great majority of peo-
ple religion means orthodox theology.
These will therefore naturally think
that, when their articles of faith are dis-
credited, morality must be discredited
also. We are thus forced by the criti-
cal exigencies of thought to meet the
question, Is morality to fall with the
decaying authority of supernaturalism,
or does it really rest upon another and
more immutable foundation ? In fact,
the broad issue is, Does morality belong
to the domain of theology or to the do-
main of science, and is it to be treated
by theological methods or by the meth-
ods of science ? Answers to these ques-
tions are now imperatively demanded.
It may be objected that this is an
empty requirement, as we already have a
distinctly recognized ethical science cul-
tivated by rational methods the utilita-
rian system, based upon experience, and
rejecting all theological implications. It
is true that there is a strong tendency
of thought in this direction, but it is
neither the prevailing mode of viewing
the subject, nor does it make any claim
to be based upon the results of modern
science. Mr. Sidgwick's recent book,
"Methods in Ethics," in which he un-
dertakes to examine and criticise the
grounds of ethical systems, does not deal
with the relations of modern science to
the subject, and in this respect it was
disappointing to many. Those familiar
with the drifts of recent inquiry per-
ceive that the course it has taken and
the results it has attained must pro-
foundly affect the philosophy of morals,
if indeed they do not give us a "New
Ethics"; but Mr. Sidgwick seems but
little more conscious of any such move-
ment than were Bentham and Mill. He
is not of course to be blamed, as he
deals with past systems, but his work
. is proof that no close relation between
