LITERARY NOTICES.
129
niture. He lived, sick and feeble and old,
from hand to mouth, often unable to go
abroad for food, and as badly off for helping
himself indoors. It were bad to have any
human being so utterly abandoned, and so
suffering. Here and there, at wide inter-
vals, there was a man or woman who would
have done much to modify this misery, but
it ought never to have been left to those
who could scarcely afford to curtail their
own allowance of plain clothes and victuals
for another.
His arduous literary labors were per-
formed without any compensation whatever.
(It may be said in this connection that he
has recently been paid to his satisfaction for
several essays over his name in " The Popu-
lar Science Monthly." A most pathetic in-
cident of the last one is that, the very day
before his death, he sat upon his bed and
corrected the proofs, which ought to have
been done for him, but which he would nev-
er ask any one to do, and which, if it did
not cost him his life, without doubt short-
ened his few remaining hours.)
Mr. Corry indignantly adds : " There
can be no doubt that the city has in-
curred a deep and lasting reproach by
permitting such a treasure to be de-
stroyed prematurely by disease and ac-
tual want, and that she should be told
of it, and should suffer the conse-
quences."
There is, however, this palliation for
the conduct of the Cincinnatians. Pro-
fessor Vaughan was modest, shrinking,
and unobtrusive, and kept his miseries
to himself. "He would not give his
address to his friends, nor permit them
to ferret him out and ascertain with
their own eyes his actual condition.
Nor would he make any explanation,
much less ask or accept any pecuniary
assistance." That is, he did not choose
to submit to the mortification of becom-
ing an object of charity. No doubt
there were plenty of people who would
have given alms, if it had been solicited,
but the man's self-respect would not
permit the degradation. It is said he
neglected himself, and his townsmen
merely imitated his example ; but this
is rather a cold-blooded apology for
leaving a man of genius to penury, rags,
and starvation. Read over the list of
vol. xv. 9
subjects upon which he thought and
wrote, and read the first paper in this
" Monthly," which shows the quality of
his work, and then say how much vigor
a man would have left to fight his Cin-
cinnati neighbors in the competitions
of money-making. He was incompe-
tent to make money by his very voca-
tion, and this must have been perfectly
well known. Why was not a proper
place made for Professor Vaughan, in
which he could have given his services
to the public, and been so fairly paid
for it that he could have lived in a way
to favor his best work? The answer is,
that there was not sufficient apprecia-
tion of science among the people ; and
very likely, if by special exertion he had
been put into a comfortable place, some
miserable mountebank who knew bet-
ter how to manage the public would
have got the position away from him.
LITERARY NOTICES.
Cooley's Cyclopedia of Practical Re-
ceipts and Collateral Information in
the Arts, Manufactures, Professions,
and Trades, including Medicine, Phar-
macy, and Domestic Economy : Designed
as a Comprehensive Supplement to the
Pharmacopoeia and General Book of
Reference for the Manufacturer, Trades-
man, Amateur, and Heads of Families.
Sixth edition, revised and partly rewrit-
ten by Richard V. Tuson, F. C. S.,
Professor of Chemistry and Toxicology
in the Royal Veterinary College. Vol.
I. New York : D. Appleton &^Co. Pp.
896. Price, $4.50.
The rapid development of the practical
arts in all directions in recent years has
made it lively for the book-makers, because
no sooner is a formidable treatise finished
on these subjects, no matter with what
painstaking care to bring it up to date,
than it quickly falls behind, and the author
has to set himself to work to prepare for
the inevitable new edition. Time is but
the register of change ; change brings im-
provements, and improvements antiquate
cyclopaedias. And so it begins to be under-
stood that no literature is so perishable as
that which deals with facts and solid reali-
