130
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ties. This would be discouraging for book-
makers and book-sellers, but for the cir-
cumstance that the old editions become
soon worthless, and new ones indispensable.
And it would be hard on the book-buyers,
but for the fact that the new improvements
are often so invaluable as to be cheap at
almost any cost. We can not stop the
growth of the arts in order to keep the
treatises that we hare bought perennially
fresh.
Cooley's " Cyclopaedia of Practical Re-
ceipts " is a work of high reputation, not
only for its comprehensiveness and accu-
racy, but because it has been kept faith-
fully up to the times by its successive revi-
sions ; and a careful examination of the
sixth edition shows that its standard of ex-
cellence has been strictly maintained. The
title " Receipts " is in some respects unfor-
tunate, as the work is by no means a mere
receipt-book, and it makes no clap-trap claim
on the ground that its receipts can be count-
ed by the thousand. It abounds in important
practical information of general interest in
reference to the materials furnished by com-
merce and used in the arts, their prepara-
tion, and their purity, and is very full in
illustrated directions for carrying on ma-
nipulations, and preparing numerous articles
and products of general utility. The work
is important to the chemist, the mechanic,
the manufacturer, and the householder. It
will be completed in two volumes, and the
second may be expected to appear in a few
months.
Health, and how to promote it. By
Richard McSherrt, M. D., Professor
of Practice of Medicine, Maryland Uni-
versity, President of Baltimore Academy
of Sciences, etc. New York : D. Apple-
ton & Co. Pp. 185. Price, $1.25.
Dr. McSherry has here made both a
readable and a useful little manual of hy-
giene. He has no hobbies, and does not
profess to be the author of any new theo-
ries for the preservation of health, but he
goes over the general ground of its condi-
tions as affected by education, as related to
the sexes, and as influenced by clothing,
exercise, diet, and the habitual use of stim-
ulants. Upon these topics there will be
found much fresh information, with many
judicious extracts from the best authori-
ties, derived from wide and critical reading.
The author's pages are enlivened with many
personal references, and interspersed with
acute observations calculated to please as
well as to instruct the reader. The book
will well repay perusal, and we heartily com-
mend it.
After Death, what? or, Hell and Sal-
vation, considered in the Light of
Science and Philosophy. By Rev. W.
H. Platt. San Francisco : H. Roman
& Co. Pp. 209.
This is decidedly a lively volume. It
is a sort of colloquial symposium ; that is, it
undertakes to present both sides of a con-
troverted subject, or some of the issues of
religion and science. Yet it differs from
the symposium proper, in that the discussion
is carried on conversationally, and still more
that both sides are represented by one par-
tisan. The book is written by a clergyman,
and takes the form of a debate between
a preacher and a skeptic. The skeptic
seems a kind of poor stick, made to order
for the convenience of the preacher, who
cuffs him about in a very unceremonious
way, and finally " converts " him.
The theory of the origin of the book we
are half inclined to infer may be something
like this : Rev. W. H. Platt is Rector of
Grace Church, San Francisco, which is no
doubt a sound and we trust a prosperous
orthodox establishment. It is quite likely
that, in that city of hoodlums, Chinese pa-
gans, and wicked doubters, some graceless
persons have poked fun at the Grace Church
people about their antiquated, superstitious
notions of hell. Now, even the regenerate
are liable to suffer from lingering remnants
of pride, and do not like to be made fun of;
and so, we may suppose, they turned to their
shepherd, Rev. W. H. Platt, for protection.
Whereupon, it may be further assumed,
he rose in some wrath and resolved to give
these scoffing skeptics more scientific hell
than they had ever had of the theological
sort. We vaguely conjecture this situation
from the first paragraph of the book : " The
scientist boldly asks the preacher why he
continues to preach the old-fashioned hell.
' Do you not know,' he says, ' that intelli-
gent people now laugh at your lake of fire
and brimstone, your devil with horns and
dragon-tail, and all that sort of stuff?'"
