LITERARY NOTICES.
131
The discussion is thus launched, and the au-
thor proceeds to get such abounding proofs
of hell out of the most modern science as
must raise the spirits of his desponding
flock. The advance of science does not
trouble him ; he accepts its latest conclu-
sions in the most liberal spirit, but finds
them all subservient to his purpose. After
proving immortality on scientific grounds,
I12 goes on to establish that
The law of affinity proves a hell.
The law of association proves it.
The law of growth proves it.
The law of propagation proves it.
The law of involution proves it.
The law of evolution proves it.
This is a pretty strong programme, but
what does the Rev. W. H. Piatt really mean
by " hell " ? One is led to suppose from
the way he starts off that he means to stick
to the literal, old-fashioned notion, and not
yield to any amelioration of modern theol-
ogy in regard to this important term. In-
deed, he gives a side-thrust at Mr. Beecher
by putting a passage from Beecher's San
Francisco lecture into the mouth of his
skeptic as follows : " ' Any way,' said the
skeptic, ' the old creed and religion must
give way. There is just as certainly a
change in the whole religious thought of the
race as that the sun shines. Doctrines taught
fifty years ago are neither taught now as
they then were nor believed as they then
were believed.' " This the preacher stoutly
denies. But, when he says "antipathy of
evil to good is hell," is he not making a new
definition that would have been scouted by
orthodox theologians half a century ago?
Again, he says, " ' Suffering makes all places
hell just as mental suffering is greater than
bodily suffering so its hell is worse,' said the
preacher. ' We have been taught that hell
is a locality, and so it is. The shadow and
the beam each have its place. But as a
village is nothing to an empire, to a conti-
nent, to a hemisphere ; as the center is
nothing to a circumference ; as a point is
nothing to all space, so is the placed hell
of past teachings as nothing to the unplaced
hell of science. To the evil ' all places are
hell.' Hell is in the presence of broken law,
whether in mind or matter, in time or eter-
nity.' "
A quarter of a century ago this would
have passed for flat UniversaLism.
The Reign of Gon not the Reign of
" Law." By Thomas Scott Bacon.
Baltimore : Turnbull Brothers. Pp.
400. Price, $1.50.
A prosy, unreadable book by a very de-
vout but foolish man, who is in a state of
anxious alarm at the progress of science,
and proposes to resist it by clinging with
increasing desperation to the most literal
orthodox interpretation of Scripture. We
do not by any means intimate that the au-
thor is a fool ; on the contrary, he is what is
called " learned " ; that is, he quotes strange
lingos all through his text, and has, no
doubt, been through college. He can not
be strictly said to be ignorant of nature,
but he is in a far worse state of mind than
that of simple ignorance. There would be
some hope of teaching a Digger Indian many
elementary truths concerning natural things,
because he has no fatal prepossessions re-
specting them ; but this enlightened Chris-
tain has got his head so filled with the de-
tails of a great theological system, and is
so palsied with fear lest it should be dis-
turbed, that no real knowledge of nature
can get entrance or hospitable reception in
his mind. For example, in his chapter on
our present geology and astronomy, he in-
sists that " we may yet find that God chose
to do all that work of creation in twenty-
four, or in one hundred and sixty hours of
our present time, which it is absurd to doubt
that he could do." Of what use are proofs
to an intellect in such a condition as this ?
When many years ago the fossil shells of
marine life were found on the tops of high
mountains, and the question arose how they
came there, the monks readily replied that
they were created at first in their fossil forms
with the divine intention of testing men's
faith in the power of God to do things ex-
actly as he pleased. This is now regarded
as sufficiently absurd, and is often quoted
to illustrate the stupidity of the monks ; but
their frame of mind survives in our author.
In a foot-note he says : " Indeed, it is far
more rational to think that the eternal Lord
made in a moment of time all this nature,
and with its suggestiveness to the merely
worldly mind of long processes of creation,
meaning this as one of those mysteries of
spiritual discipline which we find every-
where else, and which are greater than
all matter, thus trying and training our
