132
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
faith in
Deity !
him." What a notion of the
Health Primers: No. 1, Exercise and
Training; No. 2, Alcohol, its Use
and Abuse; No. 3, The House and
its Surroundings; No. 4, Premature
Death, its Promotion or Prevention ;
No. 5, Personal Appearance in Health
and Disease ; No. 6, Baths and Bath-
ing. New York : D. Appleton & Co.
1879. Pp. 96 each. Price, 40 cents.
The deep and widespread interest that
has of late years been taken in matters per-
taining to the preservation of health has
caused the publication, among much that
is good, of a great deal that is bad on the
subject of hygiene. This has usually ap-
peared in the shape of crude and untrust-
worthy compilations, that when made the
basis of practice have been productive of
positive injury, and have led to a general
distrust of all hygienic teaching. These
Primers originated in a desire to change
this state of things by supplying, in a form
suited to the wants of the general reader,
trustworthy information capable of practi-
cal use on the more important every-day
questions relating to personal and family
hygiene. Their preparation has been un-
dertaken by several eminent medical and
scientific men in London; the choice of
topics and critical supervision of the work
being intrusted to an able and responsible
committee.
The series, when complete, will consist
of fifteen volumes ; six of these have now
been published, and, as will be seen from
the titles given above, they are all on sub-
jects of the first importance. The writer in
every case has been selected for his special
acquaintance with the subject he was to
treat, and as a consequence each Primer is
filled with substantial and useful informa-
tion, presented in a simple and elementary
form, that brings it within the reach of the
average reader.
Some idea of the valuable practical in-
formation contained in these volumes may
be gained from the following resume of the
contents of those already published :
No. 1, on " Exercise and Training," is
illustrated, and" deals first with the "Gen-
eral Principles" of the subject ; this is fol-
lowed by " The Exercise suitable for Differ-
ent Ages, Sex, and Physical Conditions " ;
and the Primer closes with a chapter on
" Training," in which the relations of differ-
ent dietaries to exercise, the amount of ex-
ercise required, its due regulation, etc., are
considered. In No. 2, on " Alcohol," the
properties of this substance are first de-
scribed in an " Introduction " ; then come,
the forms in which it is used as a beverage ;
its effects when taken sparingly and in ex-
cess ; the diseases it gives rise to ; and its
right use, if used at all. No. 3, on " The
House and its Surroundings," opens with a
chapter pointing out the common defects
observed in houses ; treats next of site and
construction ; then of drainage ; water-sup-
ply ; closets and plumbing ; warming and
lighting ; bedrooms, kitchen, etc. ; and the
operations of purification. No. 4, on " Pre-
mature Death," begins with a statement of
the proportion of people who die before
their time ; this is followed by a description
of the principal causes of premature death ;
and, lastly, we are told what to do to se-
cure a reasonable length of days. In No. 5,
on " Personal Appearance in Health and Dis-
ease," the form and size of the body, with
their healthy variations, are first described ;
the changes that take place in the fatty
layer or tissue are next discussed ; then the
changes observed in the bony framework ;
the changes in the organs due to develop-
ment, etc. ; artificial alterations of shape ;
color and changes of color; and, lastly,
temperament and habit. No. 6 treats of
the "Physiological Action of Baths"; va-
rieties of baths ; bathing localities ; and the
uses of the bath.
Draper's Scientific Memoirs. New York :
Harper & Brothers. 1878.
We briefly noticed this interesting work
some months ago, with the intention of re-
curring to it again at a favorable opportu-
nity, to enforce some points not then con-
sidered. Meantime there has appeared a
review of the volume in the " London, Edin-
burgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine,"
that is both so authoritative and so pertinent
that we can not do better than transfer it to
the columns of " The Popular Science Month-
ly." Dr. Draper contributed numerous ar-
ticles descriptive of his important researches
to the pages of that magazine at the time
his investigations were made. Many of the
