INTRODtJCTORY LESSONS.
VU
5. Albuminous Seeds. Remove the shell-like coat of a castor bean,
and carefully split it flatwise. What at first seems to be a large plumule
proves to bo free from the rest of the kernel, and with care you may be
10
9. Sefd of W'ill.iw (,r Dig-
li'-v Mne cut ho as to show
the Ktraiglit embryo in the
center of the oily all>unien.
a and h, embryo taken out,
tliecotyledouB (M separated.
10- Seed of tlie » ahtor-bf-an .
a, the broad tliin eni>)r>o
ueaily dividing the albu-
men; 6, the embryo removed
and the leaf-like cotyledons
separated. H. Seed of i>a-
11 12
tnra (Brut,'manFia\ showing at a the bent embryo in the scanty albumen; b, the embryo taken out and
the blender cotyledons seiiarated. 12. A grain of coflfee. a, the straight embryo.
able to get it out whole (Fig. 10.) It is a straight embryo with beautifully
veined, leaf-like cotyledons, embedded in a wbite, oih' substance, which
makes up the mass of the kernel. This substance is called Alhu.mfn, a
name which ap23lies to anything inclosed with the embryo by the seed
coats. Peas, beans, acorns, nuts, and most large seeds have no albumen.
Carefully cut thin slices from a well soaked coffee grain until its embryo
appears as represented in Fig. 12. The horny, folded albumen makes
up most of the seed. A similar, but smaller embryo, may be found in
the brain-shaped, fleshy albumen of the ivy seed. The embryo of the
Tree-Datura, or Stramonium, is shown in Fig. 11.
It has slender cotyledons, folded down against a
thick radicle, the whole embedded in tough, fleshy
albumen. Take the embryo of a Morning-Glory
seed and pick the bits of transparent, jelly-like
albumen out of the j^ockets in the crumpled coty-
ledons. An attempt to flatten out the cotyledons
will probably result in something like b, Fig. 13,
which may lead 3'ou to suppose that the coty-
ledons are separately crumpled, which is not the
case. They stick closely together by their inner
faces, as do the cotyledons of other seeds you have
examined, and they are crumpled as one; but, being
notched at the end, they readily split down the
center. Buckwheat seeds will give you some trouble
13. Morning - Glory
Just appearing above the
ground with the seed coat
sticking tu the cotyle-
dons. «, th" swollen
seed; /'. embryo, with
the crumpled cotyle-
dons S|dit down the
middle in the attempt
to flatten them.
Indeed, it will
