104 NTCTAGINACKE. (fOUR-o'cLOCK FAMILY.)
DIVISION 3. APETAL^.
Order 48. ARISTOLOCHIACEiE.
Twining shrubs or low herbs with perfect flowers, the conspicuous lurid calyx valvate
in the bud and coherent with the 6-celled ovary, which forms a many-seeded 6-celled,
pod or berry in fruit. Stamens 6-12, more or less united with the style; anthers adnate,
extrorse. Leaves petioled, mostly heart-shaped and entire. Gray's Manual.
1. ARISTOLOCHIA, Toum.
Calyx tubular, inflated above the ovary. Stamens 6, the sessile anthers adnata to the
short stigma.
1. A. Califomica, Gr. (Pipe-Vine.) A twining shrub with large cordate leaves,
flowers curved like a Dutch pipe, greenish, marked with brown or purple.
2. ASARUM, Toum.
Calyx regular, 3-cleft or parted. Stamens 12, with more or less distinct filaments;
their tips usually continued beyond the anther into a point. — Stemless herbs with creep-
ing rootstocks, bearing 2 or 3 scales, then one or two leaves, and terminated by a short
peduncled-flower close to the ground.
1. A. caudatum, LindL (Wild Ginger.) The smooth broadly cordate leaves
usually mottled with white; calyx bell-shaped, the acuminate lobes spreading, brownish
purple. Common in forests; the flowers likely to be hidden under leaves.
Order 49. NYGTAGINACEiE.
Herbs with mostly opposite and entire leaves, stems swollen at the joints, the tubular
calyx corolla-like, its persistent base contracted, inclosing the 1 -celled 1 -seeded ovary,
and becoming a sort of indehiscent pod.
1. ABRONIA, Juss.
Calyx salverform, with obcordate lobes. Stamens 5, included, adnate to the tube.
Style included; stigma, capitate or clavate. Fruit 5- winged. Embryo by abortion mono-
cotyledonous, enfolding mealy albumen. Low herbs, with the opposite thick petioled
leaves xmequal, and the flowers in involucrate heads. Common on sandy sea beaches.
A viscid exudation causes sand to stick to every part of the plants.
1. A. latifolia, Esch. (Yellow Sand-Verbena. ) Eoot perennial; stems procum-
bent; leaves very thick, sub-cordate to reniform, on thick petioles; flowers orange-yel-
low, fragrant.
