POLYGONACE.E. (BUCKWHEAT FAMILY.) 105
2. A. umbeData, Lajiil). (I'ink S;in<l-\'t'il»fna.) Annual; stems clecumlifiit. !< nvcs
l)I<)n^' or ovate, attenuate at base into sleu«ler jjetioles; flowers pink.
3. A- tnantima, Xiitt. (Red Sand-Verbena.) Stouter than the hist; leaves lucader
•.vith sliortf'r petioles; involucral bracts ovate; flowers In-iglit red. From Sunta ]iari)ara
i)Uthwanl.
4. A. tragrans, Xutt, of the Columljia lliver, has white flowers.
Fi\'e other species belonging to this m esterii genus are found east of the Sierra Xeva<l;u
Order 50. POLYGONACE^.
Herbs, with alternate entire leaves, and stipules in the form of sheaths, or obsolete,
ibove the swollen joints of the stem; the flowers mostly perfect, with a more or less per-
sistent calyx, a 1 -celled ovary, bearing 2 or 4 styles or stigmas, and a single seed-
Stamens 4-12 inserted on the base of the 3-6-cleft calyx.
1. POIiYGCNUM, L.
Calyx 5 parted; the divisions petal-like, persistent in fruit, and surroumiiug the
usually 3-anglcd akene. Stamens 3 to S. Styles or stigmas 2 or 3. Herbs witli s'.nall
flowers on jointed pedicels.
Knot-weed or Yaid-grass and Smart-weed belong to this genus. About 20 species aia
found in California, of which 2 or 3 are probably introduced weeds.
2. RUMEX, L.
Calyx of 6 sepals; the three outer lierbaceous, spreading in fruit; the three inner
larger somewhat petaloitl, covering the akene in fruit (tlien called valves), and often
bearing grainlike appendages on the outside. Stamens (!. '"^tvles 3; stigmas tufted.
Introduced weeds with small greenish (lowers croM<letl and whorled in panicled racemes.
Tiie J)ocks and Sheep-sorrel are examples of this genus. Of the dozen species on
tliis coast, half are introduced weeds.
3. ZIRIOGONUM, Mirhx.
Flowers borne in a many-to-few-flowered calyx-like involucre of united bracts; the
[)edicels exserted, jointed to the flower, with bractlets at the base. Calyx coroUa-Uke;
(i-jtarted or deeply G-clett. Stamens 9. Akene triangular. — Herbaceous or somewnat
woody plants, usually with a woolly or 9<;urfy pubescence; the entire leaves without
stipules and mostly radical; juice frequently acid. Over 80 species grow west of the
Mis8issi{)pi, ot which oO are Californian, mostly Al[>ine.
ChnrUanthe. ig a similar genus, in '^liicli tbo involucreB are l-ttowerod ami rigid.
Orders A maTantarciB and Cheiiopodiacea are repreeeuted by homely introduced ciia xiative weede Many
of the latter order belong to the genus Chenopodium, viz.. Goosejoot, Lambs-quarters, I'xgwtea, Jf-rusalem
