106 PIPERACKE. (PEPPER FAMILy.)
Oak, TVormtud, etc. Salicomia (Glasswort) grows in salt marshes, and may be known by ItA lle«liy leaf-
less Jointed stems, with opposite branches. The garden Beet belongs to this order.
Order 51. PIPER ACEiE.
Herbs with jointed stems, alternate entire leaves and perfect flowers in spikes, en-
tirely destitute of floral envelopes.
1. ANEMOPSIS, Hook.
Flowers in a simple conical spadix, which is surrounded by a 5-8-leaved persistent
•colored involucre, each flower subtended by a free colored bract. Stamens G to 8, free,
growing upon the immersed ovary.
1. A. Californica, Hook. Stem simple, erect, 3 to 15 inches high, with a single
broad clasping leaf in the middle, and an axillary branchlet reduced to 1 or more petioled
leaves; radical leaves oblong-oval, cordate at base, 2 to 6 inches long; involucre 1 to IJ
inches broad, white, becoming brown. Used medicinally by the Mexicans, who call it
Yerba Mansa.
APETALOUS TREES.
The Order Betulaceae (Birch Family) is represented in California by two Birches,
which scarcely attain to the dignity of trees, and are confined to the high Sierras, and
four Alders, two of which grow in the central part of the State, viz. :
Alnus rubra, Bong. (Red Alder), and the more common
Alnus rhombifolia, Nutt (White Alder), which may be distinguished by its thinner
leaves, not rusty beneath, and more slender branches not so distinctly dotted with white.
Myrica Californica, Cham. (Bayberry), representing the Order Myricaceae grows in
moist places, and may be known by its thick oblanceolate serrate evergreen leaves and
dense clusters of small fruit, whitened by a coat of wax.
Umbellularia Californica, Nutt (Order Lauraceae), is the well-known Laurel.
Plataiius racemosa, Nutt, is the California Sycamore.
The Order Salicaceae is represented by 4 or 5 Willows; large enough to be called
trees, and 3 Poplars, viz. :
Populus tremuloides, Michx. (Quaking Asp), a small tree, with whitish bark
and round ovate leaves. In the high Sierra. The only Califomian tree, except one or
two willows, found east of the Rocky Moimtains.
P. trichacarpa, Torr. & Gr. (Cottonwood.) Petioles round; young bark brownish.
P. Fremonti, Wat. (Fremont's Cottonwood. ) Petioles flattened; young bark yellowish,
The Walnut FAinLY is represented by Juglans Californica, the California Black
Walnut.
Ten kinds of Oak Trees, and several shrubs of the same genus, with the chestnut-lik«
Chinquapin^ represent the Order Cupuliferae.
