VUl INTRODUCTORY LESSONS.
be much, easier to make out the exact shapes and positions of the em-
bryos in most albuminous seeds after they have begun to grow.
Monocotyledonous Embryos. Corn, wheat, oats, and possibly a
few other seeds in your collection, are different in plan from any yet
described. In corn the soft portion called the chit is the embryo. "Wheat
and oats have smaller but similar embryos. You cannot easily distin-
guish the parts of these embryos, but you can, at least, determine that
they have not two cotyledons. Really they have one cotyledon, and are
therefore said to be Monocotyledonous. When you study the growing
eeeds you will see how widely they differ from seeds which have —
Dicotyledonous Embryos. These are embryos, which, like the bean,
have two cotyledons. A few plants belonging to the Pine Family have
Polycotyledonous Embryos. Fig. 12 shows the embryo of the
common Willow or Digger Pine, which has more than two cotyledons in
a whorl at the top of the radicle.
The Germination of Seeds. Plant the remainder of your seeds —
those of a kind together — in boxes or pots of sand, or any kind of loose
soil you can get. Keep this little experimental garden in a warm place,
where it can get a bit of sunshine, and water it daily. At intervals of
three or four days dig up one of each kind of seed, and, after careful
examination, make drawings to illustrate the successive stages of growth.
It is of the greatest importance that you repeatedly attempt to draw
what you see; it is of the least importance that your drawings are pretty.
You will learn, among many interesting facts, that most seeds
are pushed up to the surface of the ground by the growth of the radicle.
There the seed-coats drop off (except that in seeds without albumen the
cotyledons are apt to slip out of their coats on the way up); the cotyledons
spread apart, become longer and broader, and turn green; lastly, the
plumule becomes a leafy stem. Meanwhile, roots grow from the lower
end of the radicle. Some cotyledons, like those of the pea, do not ap-
pear above ground, but send the plumule up. The seeds of Big-root —
a pest which grows in nearly every field — behave in a remarkable manner.
The nut-like seeds drop from their prickly pods in June or July, and
Boon become covered with leaves. The rains of November and December
cause them to sprout, as represented at d. The mimic radicle — really a
