INTRODUCTORY LESSONS.
IX
tube formed by the united i:)etioles,
or stems, of the thick cotyledons,
and only tipped by the radicle —
penetrates the ground to a depth,
usually, of four or five inches. The
2)lumu]e meanwhile, as shown in/*,
remains dormant in tlie bottom of
the tubular sprout. "When the pe-
tiole growth ceases, the radicle grows
rapidly by absorbing the nourish-
ment stored in the cotyledons, and
Ijecomes a tuber. Meanwhile the
plumule begius its upward growth,
splitting the petioles apart, and usu-
ally escaping from between them, as
showm in the figure below c. In this
Avonderful way the plumule bud is
deeply planted together with nour-
ishment(stored in the radicle) which,
if necessary, can be used to aid its
first growth. The reason for this curious behavior is obvious, when Wv
know that ground squirrels are fond of these seeds, and that a severe
frost will kill the young j^lant. If the seeds wait till warm weather to
sprout, hungry rodents may find them; if they germinate early, and in
the manner of other seeds, Jack Frost may nip them.*
'■-■ Dr. Asa Gray, who first experimeuted with these seeds, found them to grow as represented at a, ia
the figure [reduced one fourth from Fig. 43, Botanical Text-book, edition of 1879]. Evidently og
a>couLt of some obstruction, probably the bottom of a small pot, the sieds were elevated two or threa
inches above the surface of the soil [the dotted line S represents the surface of the ground for flgurea
a, b, and c]. My experiments with seeds planted in shallow boxes gave very diflorent results — shown
at h, which is a reduced copy of Fig. 14 of second edition. The plants came up about four inches from
where the seeds were planted, Uie plumule being pash<"d laterally that distance by the elongation of the
cotyledon petioles. Such inexplicable behavior stimulated to further observation, which resulted iu
the discovery that naturally plan:ed seeds, unhampered by boxes c r pots, usually grow as represented
at c and d. In one instance a sprout measured seven inches Irom the plumule to the cotyledonsi Tlu
hairs at e probably help the pprout to penetrate the soil, by fastening on to the surface crust. Curiouslj
<anougb, growing sprouts underground frequently avoid obstacles without touching them.
