INTRODUCTORY LESSONS.
XI V
base of the leaf. Fif,^ 40 represents a pinnately lobed leaf; Fig. 43,
palmately lobed. When leaves are deeply lobed, as in Figures 41 and 44,
they are said to be Parted. Divided leaves are cut quite to the midrib if
pinnately divided, or to the end of the petiole when palmately divided.
Cleft leaves have the sinuses between the lobes sharp as in Fig. 38. When
leaves are pinnately cleft about half way to the midrib they are said to be
Plnnatifid. If the lobes are pinnatifid it is described as Bipinnatijid. It
is common to give the number of lobes in the descriptive phrase, as pin-
nately nine-lobed (Fig. 40); pinnately eleven-parted (Fig. 41); palmately
five-lobed (Fig. 43); palmately five-parted (Fig. 44).
Compound Leaves have distinctly separate leaflets usually jointed
to a common petiole, just as simple leaves are jointed to the stem. A leaf
is Pinnate, when the leaflets grow
along o^^posite sides of the petiole
(Fig. 42); Palmate, if they all grow
from the end of the petiole (Fig.
4G). Fig. 45 represents sl pinnately
"■d-foliolate leaf; Fig. 46, palmately
3-foliolate. "When there is no odd
leaflet at the end the leaf is ab-
ruptly pinnate. Leaves may be
twice, thrice, etc., compound, that
is, the leaflets may be compound
as in some acacias.
Bracts are leaves among flow-
ers, or small undeveloped leaves
anywhere on the stem.
Stipules may be adnate to 45. Plunately 3-foliolate leaf of Bur-clover. -with
, . i! Ji i' 1 • ji Bmall stipules. 46- J'almatelyor difjltately 3-foliolate
the base OI the petiole, as in the leaf ol a true clover, the broad adnate stipules lacerate.
rose and clover (Figures 45, 4G); they may grow on the stem; or, as in
soiue i)lants of the Buckwheat Family the stipules form a sheath surround-
ing the stem at the base of the petiole. Do not mistake the first leaves
of a growing axillary bud for stipules.
Venation of Leaves. All the leaves thus far described are said
to be Netted-veined or Reticulated, because their skeletons of wood fiber
