rx
INTRODUCTOBY I.ESSONS.
resemble nets. Examine the leaves of Iris, Calla, or any that are grass-
like, and you will see why they are called Parallel-veined.
Netted-veiiied leaves grow on Exogenous stems. Parallel-veined leaves
grow on Endogenous stems. The former belong to plants which grow from
Dicotyledonous seeds; the latter to j^lants from Monocotyledonous seeds.
Flowers. Get a bunch of Mustard flowers — Wall-flowers, single
Stock, or Radish flowers will do as well. Pluck a single blossom and
note these facts: The most conspicuous part consists of four yellow
leaves; outside of these are four smaller greenish yellow leaves in pairs
not quite alike. The latter are Sepals, and together form the Calyx ; the
former are Petals, and together form the Corolla. Pull off the sepals,
observing that they alternate with the petals. Next remove the petals.
The broad part of each petal is called the hlade, the narrow part, the claw
(corresponding to the petiole of an ordinary leaf). Inside of the petals
you find six yellow-headed bodies with white stems, two of which are
shorter than the remaining four. These are the Stamens. Their stems
are Filaments ; the yellow heads are Anthers, and the yellow powder which
they contain is Pollen. In the center of the flower is a club-shaj)ed bod}^
called the Pistil. This is the young seed-pod, and by splitting it open
you may see the minute Ovules, which are the beginnings of seed. The
part containing the ovules is the Ovary ; the naked upper end of the j^is-
til is the Stigma, and the j)art connecting the stigma with the ovary is the
Style. The end of the stem
upon which the parts of the
flower grow^ is the Receptacle,
and the stem is called a Pe-
duncle. Fig. 47 will assist
you in learning these names.
A Complete Flower
must have calyx, corolla,
stamens and pistils; but, since
the office of a flower is to pro-
duce seeds, and these grow
from ovules, which pollen has
reached b}'- Avay of the stigma,
• I r 11 +14- 47- Magnified Mustard flo-wer with four of the stamens*
IL lOilOWS mat three petals and throe sepals removed.
