INTRODUCTORY LKSSONS. XXVll
the pistil, it is Inlrorse (Fij^s. 68, 71, 72, 73); and when it faces away
from the pistil, it is Exlrorse (Fig. G9).
The Pistil grows upon the receptacle, or upon a stem arising
from it, called a Stijir. (Fig. 71). In a few orders there are several or
many pistils in each flower. Usually there is but one, formed of several
simple pistils (carpels) united more or less closely. As in the other floral
organs, there are all degrees of cohesion, from a slight union of the
bases of the ovaries — rarely of the stigmas only — to such completeness
as leaves no trace of lobes in the stigma (see Fig. on p. 5). Often the
free styles tell how many carpels compose the pistil (Fig. 69). Generally
the stigmas are divided or lobed (Fig. 68). These marks wanting a cross
section of the ovary, or, better still, of the partly grown fruit, will usu-
ally shew a cell for each carpel (see the right-hand figure, p. 88b). If
the ovules (or young seeds) are in the center or grow on more than one
side of the ovary (or pod), the pistil is compound. A simple pistil is
generally plainly one-sided. A symmetrical pistil is compound.
Inferior Ovaries. "When the calyx adheres to the ovary, so as
to form, after the ovary has matured, the outer part of the fruit, it is
said to he superior, because the apparent calyx, its lobes, or cup, seem
to grow uj^on the ovary. For the same reason the ovary is said to be in-
ferior (Figs. 68, 72). There are all degrees of adhesion, from the slight
union at the base, as seen in Whipplea (Fig. 73), to the remarkable ex-
treme exhibited in the plant figured on p. 5, in which not only the ovary,
but. several inches of the style, is adherent to the calyx. When the
adhesion is only partial, it can be shown by cutting the flower vertically,
as represented in Fig. 73.
The Fruit is the ripened ovary (or set of ovaries), and all that
directly belongs to it. A dry fruit which opens in any way to let out the
seeds is called a Fod. A pod formed by the growth of a simple pistil
(one-carpeled) is called a Follicle when it splits only along the side which
bears the seeds. A Legume splits down both edges. Pods formed of
several carpels are called Capsules. Akenes are dry, indehiscent, seed-
like fruits, containing but one seed. Ulricles are distinguished from
akenes by their thin coats, which are too large for the inclosed seed.
