Z SYSTEMATIC BOTANY.
Specific Names are adjectives corresponding to the first parts of com*
mon names. They are usually descriptive of some characteristic of the
plant, as Gilia liniflora, Flax-flowered Giiia. Frequently a species is
named for the discoverer, as Gilia Bolanderi, Bolander's Gilia; often for the
country where it\"fj^ first found, or where it abounds, as Ranunculus Cali-
fornicuH, California Buttercup. Sometimes there are varieties of a species
as Trifolium barbigerum, Yar. Andrewsii, Andrews' Bearded-Clover.
Orders and Classes. Genera are grouped in Orders or Families,
and these in Classes. There are two classes of flowering plants, Exogens
and Endogens.
ANALYSIS OF PLANTS.
This whole matter of naming and classifying can be well under-
Btood only after you have analyzed many plants; i. e., you must have
carefully examined them part by part, and patiently compared their pecul-
iarities with the descriptions in the Flora until you have determined
their names. In the beginning there will be many failures; but do not
allow them to discourage you, for each victory will make tlie way easier
to other conquests.
Choose for your first studies plants with large flowers. Do not
attempt to determine the name of a plant unless you have specimens
which show the kind of inflorescence and the arrangement of the leaves
on the stem. If possible, secure specimens of the fruit and the roots.
If in any plant you cannot readily distinguish the parts of the flower and
their relations to each other, lay it aside until the study of easier plants
has given you more skill.
The first thing to be determined in analyzing a plant is the Class;
i. e.j you must decide whether it is an Exogen or an Endogen. You have
learned in the preceding lessons how the seeds and stems of these two
Classes of Flowering Plants differ. Usually, however, the leaves and
flowers sufficiently distinguish the class. In our plants, if the leaves are
parallel- veined; or, if the parts of the flower are in threes the plant is an
endogen. In other words, if there is no network of intersecting fibers
between the ribs of the leaves the plant is an endogen; if the flower has
