SYbTEMATIC BOTANY.
you readily decide that the sepals are two, and
that there ai"e live petals and five stamens. Tiie
seed po«l.s show that there is but one pistil, and
that the calyx does not adhere to the ovary; that
is, the ovary is superior. Armed with this in-
fonnation, you turn to the key where you search
under "B. Stamens 10 or less." Evidently the
correct subheads are: "1. Ovary, or ovaries, supe-
rior," etc.; "* * Pistil only one;'' ''fiJIerh.<;"
*' J Leaves montbj radical ;'' "Stamens 5, opposite the
petals; sepals 2; style 3-cleft — Portulacacete, 29."
Turning to p. 29 you find that Clai/tonia is the
only genus having 5 stamens, and that this plant
must be Claijtonia ])er/uliata.
The little plant figured al:)0ve {a) evidently an-
swers to the description of the Var. exiijua, wliich
is now considered by tlie best authority to be a
distinct species. The stem leaves are sometimes
broad and united at the base. The radical leaves
are nearly terete, as shown in the figure. This
species is most obviously distinguished from the
two varieties of the Cup-leaved Claytonia, by its
glaucous leaves. The plants are often smaller
than here represented, and rarely much larger.
Kellogg's Lavatera, or Tree Mallows, an ever-
blooming shrub, common in cultivation, is a con-
stant source of material with wliich to illustrate
the MalloMs Family. The figure at the bottom of
the page represents one of the flowers cut through
the center, so as to show the structure. The fruit
of a very common weed of the same family is also
shown. The most common native plant is Sidalcea
huinilis, described on page 32. Hollyhock, cotton,
okra and Abutilon are foreign plants of this order,
common in cultivation. The latter is a sLnib with
drooping flowers; the petals incurved, and the
stamens sticliing out (exserted).
Uppkb Fig. — a. Claytoiua exigua (entire plaut). fi. Clay-
tonia pt-rfoliata.
Lower Fig. — a. Fruit of Malva rotundifolia. b. Same,
sLowintJ the bracts of the xn^rsisteut calyx, c. Kellogg's
Lavatera. (L. assurgcutiflora.)
