10
SYSTEMATIC BOTANY.
You iiiaj' recognize in the picture on this page the
likeness of one of our most troublesome native
weeds. The jellow flowers are often smaller than
here represented, and the upper leaves are generally
narrower. Indeed, this plant, along with many
others of this coast, is provokinglj' variable in its
appearance. Pull oflf a corolla, and a single un-
divided style is uncovered. Follow this down into
the calyx, and you discover that it grows from be-
tween four seed-like ovaries. These are more easily
seen in an older calyx, as shown at a. Xow it hap-
pens that this peculiar compound ovary, together
Avith the coiled inflorescence, belongs only to plants
of the order Borraginaces. A coiled inflorescence
and a pistil with a divided style is found only in
plants of the order Hydrophyllaceie. Any plant
with a four-parted ovary and regular flowers may
be sought under the former order. Creeping Helio-
ti'ope or Blue Weed {HeUotropium t'ura^-'^afirum) is
a Borraginaceous plant with ovaries merely 4-lobed.
The Mint Family has fruit similar to that of the
Borrages (see d and e in the figure on p. 11), but the
flowers are irregular. The Verbenas are distin-
AmBinckialycopsoides. a. Calyx spread igi^e^i from the Mints by nearly regular flowers
apart to ehow the ripe akenes. , , , i t i ■ i - . t •
and a 4-lobed ovary, which tloes not spht into parts
until quite ripe. (See a in the left-hand figure on page 11.)
The plant figured at the top of the opposite page is common in open woods throughout
the Coast Eanges and the foot-hills of the Sierra Xevada. Tlie flowers are white, tinged
with purple. Each of the tliree incur\-ed petals is covered with hairs on the inner side,
and is marked near the base by a depression which is seen upon the outside as a project-
ing boss. This is called a gland, and is one of the characteristic niarks of the genus.
Since the three-cornered ovary is superior, we at once refer the plant to the order
Liliaceae. where we again read the characters given in each of the three series. The
stamens in this plant are hypogynotis, not perigj^nous, and the anthers are extrorse.
Therefore, Series I is passed. Series III is excluded, because the anthers in this plant
are not versatile. Evidently the name is to be sought under Series II, which is divided
into three sections. You now see why you should have dug up one of the plants. How-
ever, you can decide tlie genus without knowing tliat the plant is bulbous. It can not
belong to § 3, since one of the two genera under it has uml>ellate flowers, and the other
solitary flowers. In § 2, the perianth segments are similar. Our plant tlien must be sought
in § 1, and under the head "* * Perianth segments unlike," which leads to Calochortus,
