RA.NUNCULACKE. (CROWFOOT FAMILT.) 17
1. A. nemorosa, L. (Wood Anemone.) Smooth or somcwliat villons; stem*
from a slender rootstock, 3 to 12 inches high, without radical leaves, one-flowered; invo-
lucre of 3 petioled temato leaves, the divisions cuneate-oblong to ovate, incisely toothed
or lobed, or the lateral ones 2-parted, about an inch long; the 4 to 7 sepals pinkish or
white; akenes 12 to 20, oblong, with a hooked beak.
Here belongs Tlialictrum Fendleri, Englm. A smooth apetalous dioecious herb; also,
Mijosurus minimus, L. A very small herb, with a tuft of linear or spatulate entir©
radical leaves, and solitary flowers on simple scapes; called Moxiae'tail, from its long,
narrow receptacle, densely covered with small akenes.
3. RANUNCULUS, L. Butteecttp.
Sepals usually 5. Petals 3 to 18. Pistils numerous. Akenes in a head, usually flat-
tened, beaked with the persistent style.
§ 1. Aquatic herbs; petals white, with a pit at the base, the daw yellow; alcenea trans-
versely wrinkled.
1. R. hederaceus, L., var. Glabrous; stems 6 to 12 inches long, floating; leaves
commonly all floating, 3 to 8 lines wide, deeply 3-lobed, truncate or cordate at the base;:
the lobes equal, oval or oblong, the lateral ones usually with a broad notch in the apex;
submersed leaves none or rudimentary and resembling adventitious roots; peduncles
opposite tlie upper leaves, thicker than the petiole, 6 to 8 lines long; sepals a line long;:
petals 2 lines long, obovate oblong; stamens 5 to 9; akenes 4 to 6.
2. R. aquatilis, L., var. tricophyllus, Chaix. Stems long, filiform; leaves all.
submersed and cut into numerous capillary segments, which are 4 to 10 lines long; flowers
3 to 5 lines in diameter; akenes numerous in a globular head.
§ 2. Terrestrial herbs, but often growing in wet places; sepals green; petals yellow, with
a scale at the base; akenes neither wrinkled nor hispid.
* All the leaves undivided, the margins entire.
3. R. Flammula, L., var. reptans, Gr. Glabrous throughout; stems filiform, creep-
ing and rooting at the joints, 4 to 10 inches long; leaves mostly lanceolate and Mute at
each end, entire; flowers 2 to 5 lines in diameter; petals broadly obovate, one half longer
than the sepals; akenes few, in a small globular head, plump, smooth; beak very short
and curved.
4. R. alismaefolius, Geyer. Similar to the last species, but with stoutish, erect
stems, longer flowers and obtuse leaves; akenes straight-beaked.
• * Some or all the leaves temately compound.
5. R. Callfomicus, Benth. More or less hairy; stems erect, or nearly so, 12 to 18
inches high; radical leaves, commonly pinnately temate, the leaves laciniately cut into
3 to 7 parts, which are usually linear; flowers bright yellow, 5 to 10 lines in diameter;
