18 RAUNCULACEiE. (CEOWFOOT FAMILY.)
petals 10 to 14, narrowly obovate; sepals shorter than the petals, refiexed; akenes nearly
2 linea long, flat, with sharp edges; beak short and curved; heads compact, ovate or
globular.
This is by far the most common species, and usually the only one collected by begin-
ners. It varies greatly. The leaves are sometimes simply three lobed and sometimes
much cut up. [i?. Bloomeri, Wat., belongs here. See p. 122.]
G. R. macranthus, Scheele. Stems stout, 2 to 5 ft. high; flowers 14 to 18 lines in
diameter; petals commonly 5 or 6, broadly obovate, shining yellow.
ยง 3. Ahenes rough; otherwise as in ยง 2.
7. R. hebecarpus, Hook. & Am. Ilather slender, more or less hairy; flowers
minute; petals 5, not more than a line long; sepals hairy, about equaling the petals.
8. R. muricatus, L. Smooth; flowers 5 or m'bre lines in diameter; akenes large
and rough, with recurved beaks. Introduced from Europe.
4. AQUILEGIA, Toum. Columbine.
Sepals 5, regular, colored and petal-like; petals 5, produced backward (upward) into a
long tubular spur; stamens numerous, exserted, the inner ones reduced to thin scales;
pistils 5; styles slender. Flowers nodding, showy, terminating the branches.
1. A. truncata, Fisch. & Mey. Stems 1 to 3 ft. high; flowers usually red, tinged
with orange or yel]ow; leaves usually temately compound, leaflets lobed.
5. DELPHINIUM, Toum. Labksptju.
Sepals 5, colored and petal-like, very irregular, the upper one prolonged backwards at
the base into a long spur, which (in our species) contains spur-like prolongations of the
upper pair of petals. Petals 4, small and irregular. Stamens many. Pistils 1 to 5. Erect
herbs, with palmately-cleft, lobed, or dissected leaves, and racemose flowers.
1. D. simplex. Dough Canescent throughout, with a fine, short, somewhat woolly
pubescence, rarely smooth; stem stout and strict, 1 to 3 ft. high, leafy; leaves all much
dissected with linear obtuse lobes, on stout, erect petioles; racemes usually dense and
many-flowered, the pedicels often sliort and nearly erect; flowers small, blue, varying to
nearly white or yellowish; sepals 4 or 5 lines long, about equaling the stout, straight
spur; ovaries and capsule pubescent.
2. D. variegatum, Torr. & Gr. Foliage similar to the last, but the flowers much
larger, on longer pedicels, forming a short, open raceme; ovary and capsule pubescent.
3. D. deconim. Fisch. & May. Lower leaves 5-lobed, sparingly toothed, the upper
with narrow divisions. Flowers similar to the last, but the spur is usually longer, and
the ovary and capsule smooth.
4. D. Californicum, Torr. & Gr. Stems stout. 2 to 7 ft. hiah; leaves large, 3 to
