BERBERIDACEiE. (BARBEElir lAillLY.) 19
5 ck-u, the divisions variously lobed; pedicels and dull bluish llowera denBcly velvoty
pubescent.
D. nudicaule, Torr. & Gr. Distinguished by its red flowers.
6. ACONITUM, Toum- Monkshood.
Sepals 5, colored and petal-like, very irregular; the upper one arched into a hood oi
helmet, which conceals the spur-like blades of the upper pair of petals. General appear.
ance similar to Delplunium.
1. A. Colunibianum, Xutt. Sufficiently characterized by the generic description-
Rare.
7. P^ONIA, L.
Sepals 5, herbaceous. Petals 5 to 10. Stamens inserted on a fleshy disk. Pistils
2 to 5. Fruit leathery follicles. Perennial herbs with compound leaves.
1. P. Brownii, Dougl. Leaves thick, 1-2-temately compound, the leaflets temately
and pinnately lobed, glaucous; petals leathery, dull, dark red, about equaling the sepals.
Order 2. BERBERIDACEiE.
Shrubs or herbs, with compound alternate exstipulate leaves; flowers remarkable for
having the bracts, sepals, petals and stamens before each other, instead of alternating.
Low shrubs, with rigid pinnate leaves and small yellow flowers Berberis. 1
A fern-like herb, with white flowers Vancouveria. 2
1. BERBERIS, L. Barberiit.
Sepals, petals, and stamens 6 each, with 3 or 6 bractlets. Carpel 1, forming a berry.
Smooth shrubs, with yellow wood, and yellow flowers in bracteate racemes.
* Leaflets pinnately veined.
1. B. repens, Lindl. Less than a foot high; leaflets 3 to 7, ovate, acute, 1 to 2^
inches long, not shiny above; short racemes terminating the stems.
2. B. Aquifolium, Pursh. 2 to 4 ft. high; leaflets 7 or more, the lower pair distant
from the stem, 1^ to 4 inches long, shining above, spiny; racemes chiefly clustered in
Bubterminal axils.
3. B. pinnata. Lag. Like the last species, but the leaves more crowded, and the
lower pair of leaflets near the base of the petiole; usually 5 to 7 leaflets.
* * Leaflets palmately nerved.
4. B. nervosa, Pursh. Simple stems but a few inches high; leaves 1 to 2 ft. long.
of 11 to 17 leaflets.
