20 PAPAVERACE^. (POPPY FAJULY.)
2. VANCOUVERIA, Morren & Decaisne.
Sepals and petals 6 each, reflexed, with 6 to 9 bractlets. Stamens 6. Carpel 1 ; tho
stigma cup-shaped. A slender perennial herb, with radical 2-3-temately compouDd
leaves, and the open paniculate raceme upon a naked scape.
V. Iiexandra, Morr. & Dec. The long petioled leaves rising like the fronds of a
fern, leaflets 1 to 2 inches broad, petiolulate, obtusely 3-lobed, the margin thickened;
the minute flowers on a scape exceeding the leaves.
Ordee 3. NYMPH-ffiACEiE.
Aquatic perennial herbs, with peltate or deeply cordate leaves; solitary axillary perfect
flowers on long peduncles. Stamens numerous.
Water-Shield. [Brasenia peltata, Vuvsh..) May be found in ponds. Its elliptical, pel-
tate, floating leaves (green above and brownish-red beneath) and its jelly-coated stems
characterize it quite well enough.
The Yellow Pond-Lily {Nuphar polysepalum, EngL ) is more common.
The Order SarraceniaceaB is represented by the remarkable Darlingtonia Califomica,
or California Pitcher Plant, which grows in cold swamps in the northern part of the
State, from Mount Shasta to near the coast.
Frankenia grandifolia grows in saline soils, and may be known by its opposite sessile,
obovate, or linear oblanceolate, small leaves, with revolute margins; and by its small,
pink flowers. It may be distinguished from a Silene, which at first it seems to be, by its
fewer (4 to 7) stamens and sessile flowers.
The Order FrankeniaceaB should come next to Caryophyllacece. Fremontia Califor-
nica, belonging to the Order StercuIiacesB, which is allied to the Malvacese, is most
conveniently described here also. It is a small tree, bearing conspicuous yellow flowers
in the axils of usually broadly cordate, lobed leaves. The apetalous flowers are some-
times 2 or 3 incheo across.
The Order Capparidaceae is represented in Santa Barbara County, and southward, by
JsoTTieris arborea, a low shrub, bearing bracteate racemes of yellow flowers, the pistils
conspicuous on account of their long stipes. The flowers of this plant are apparently
like those of the Cmciferae, and its proper place is next tc that order. Capers are ob-
tained from a cultivated plant of this order.
The Order Styracaceae is represented by Styrax Cali/om^'ca, a pretty shrub, bearing
clusters of nearly rotate white flowers, in which the garaopeL-Nlous corolla is cut down to
the short- tube which is adnate to the tube formed by the starnens: Calyx truncate
