20b PAPAVERACE^. (POPPY FAMILT.)
twice as many free petals in two sets, indefinite, usually numerous, free stamens, and a
compound pistil. In EschschoUzia the sepals are united, and the stamens adhere to the
claws ot the petals.
This small but interesting order of plants, with the exception of one species, is con-
fined to the northern hemisphere. Fifteen species, belonging to eleven genera, are natives
of the United States, and several European species have become naturalized. Esch-
scholtzia and Platystemon are the most widely distributed of the California genera.
Romncya CouUeri is a lialf slirubby plant, ■with smooth piunatifid leaves and very large white flowers
(3, i, or even 6 inches across) , a native of the coast from San Diego to Santa Barbara County.
Jrctomecon is another white-flowered plant, with somewhat hairy, nearly entire leaves; the petals
l^ersistent; found in south Kevada and Utah.
Canhya, a rectntl}- discovered plant of south-east California, is the smallest of the order, being
scarcely an inch in height. The Huiall white petals are persistent.
Papaver Somniferum, a native of Asia, furnishes opium, which is the dried juice of the plant. A
variety of this species is cultivated in this State for the seeds, from which is expressed poppy oil, used
by artists. This oil is also used as a substitute for olive oil in the preparation of salads, etc.
* Herbs with entire leaves, the uppermost ichorled or oj^j^osite, sepals 3.
filiform stigmas 6 to many (pistil hollow) Platystemon. 1
Flat stigmas 3 Platystigma. 2
* *
Herbs ivith divided or lobed leaves.
Slightly lobed stigma, style distinct; sepals 2 Meconopsis. 3
Filiform stigmas unequal; sepals united to form a conical cap Eschscholtzia. 4
Entire plant bristly with prickles; sepals 3, each with a horn .... Argemone. la
* * * Shrub with entire leaves.
Buds globular; stigmas 2 Dendromecon. 5
la. ARGEMONE, L,
Sepals 2 or 3, spinosely beaked. Petals 4 or 6. Stamens numerous, with linear
anthers. Leaves sinuately pinnatifid, prickly toothed.
1. A. liispida, Gr. (Chicalote). Erect, armed M'ith rigid bristles and prickles; leaves
3 to 6 inches long; flowers, nearly white, 2 to 4 inches in diameter; capsule IJ inches
long.
1. PLATYSTEMON, Benth. Cream-Cups.
Sepals 3. Petals 6. Stamens many, with flattened filaments and linear anthers.
Torulose carpels at first united; stigmas free.
1. P. Calif oriiicus, Benth. Slender, branching, 6 to 12 inches high; villous, with
spreading hairs; leaves 2 to 4 inches long, sessile or clasping, broadly linear, obtuse.
