ciiuciFi-RiL:. (mdstard family.) 23
ยง 2. Pod indehiscent, 1-celled.
Pod orbicular, winged with a thin broad margin; flowers minute. .. Thy s a no carpus. 9
Pod long, pithy; seeds large; flowers large, veiny Raphanus. 10
1. CARDAMINE, L.
Pod linear, with somewhat thickened margins, merely pointed or beaked above; valves
flat, nerveless. Seeds in ono row somewhat flattened, wingless; cotyledons flat, accum-
bent. Sepals equal. Petals white or pinkish.
1. C. paucisecta, Benth. Stems from small deep-seated tubers, erect, 8 to 18 inches
high; leaves various; the upper deeply lobed or parted, the lower often simple; petals
6 to 9 lines long; pods 1 to 1^ inches long.
2. ARABIS. L.
Pod linear; valves l-nerved, not strongly. Seeds in 1 or 2 rows, flattened; cotyledons
accambent. Sepals short or narrow, rarely colored. Petals with a narrow claw, white,
rose-colored, or purple.
1. A. blepharophylla, Hook. & Am. Stems often tufted 4 to 12 inches high;
leaves strongly ciliate, sometimes sparingly sinuate-toothed, the lower obovate or broadly
spatulate, the cauline oblong, sessile; petals bright purple, 6 to 9 lines long.
2. A. Breweri, Wat. Cespitose, canescent, with dense stellate pubescence; stems 2 to
10 inches high; petals 1 to 4 lines long, deep rose-color; sepals purplish; pods spreading
or recurved.
3. CHEIRANTHUS, L.
Pod elongated, compressed; valves l-nerved or carinate. Seeds in one row, flattened,
cot winged; cotyledons accumbent, or rarely oblique. Calyx not colored, the outer sepals
strongly gibbous. Stigma with two spreading lobes.
1. C. asper, Cham. & Sch. Ptather sparingly pubescent with appressed 2-parted
hairs; stem simple erect, leafy, 1 to 3 ft. high; leaves spatulate or oblanceolate, the lower
long petioled, entire or sinuate-toothed; sepals broad 4 to C lines long, half the length
of the bright yellow or orange petals; pods 1^- to 2 inches long.
4. ERYSIMUM, L.
Pod 4-angled by the prominent mid-nervo of the valves, not stipitate; cotyledona
incumbent or oblique. Sepals, petals and stigma like the last.
1. E. asperuiQ, DC. Similar to the last; sepals narrower; petals usually creamy
white to yellow.
5. BRASSICA, L. Mustakd.
Pod nearly terete or somewhat 4-sided, pointed with a long conical beak. Seeds in
