24- CEUCIFEB^. (MUSTAED FAMILY.)
ono row globose; cotyledons infolding the radical Lateral sepals usually gibbous.
Petals yellow.
1. B. campestris, L. Smooth; lower leaves pinnately divided, with a large ter-
minal lobe; the upper leaves oblong or lanceolate, with a broad clasping base; pods 2
inches long or more.
2. B. nigra, Boiss. Larger; leaves all petioled; pods less than an inch long.
Not to be confounded with Sisymbrimn ofEcinale, Scop., which has runcinately
pinnatifid leaves, small yellow flowers and closely appressed, subulate sessile pods half
an inch long; or, with S. acutangulum, DC, similar to the last, but the pods on short
pedicels, erect and over an inch long. The last are called Hedge Mustards.
6. TROPIDOCARPUM, Hook
Pod linear, flattened, often 1 -celled by the disappearance of the narrow partition.
Seeds in two rows, minute; cotyledons incumbent. A low hirsute branching annual,
with pinnately divided leaves, and yellow, solitary axillary flowers.
1. T. gracile, Hook- Stems weak; petals 1^ to 3 lines long, broad; pods 6 to 20
lines long, pointed at both ends.
7. CAPSELLA, Moench. Shepherd's Pubse.
Pod obcordate, much flattened, many-seeded; cotyledons incumbent. Slender and
mostly smooth annuals, with minute flowers.
1. C. Bursa-pastoris, Moench. Somewhat hirsute at base; radical leaves mostly
runcinate-pinnatifid, the cauline lanceolate, clasping.
2. C. divaricata, Walp. Very slender; pods elliptic-oblong; ia more rare.
8. LEPIDITJM, L. Peppebgrass.
Pod orbicular or obovate, emarginately 2-winged at the summit; the cells 1 -seeded.
Low herbs, with pinnatifid or toothed leaves, and small white flowers; the petals in
some species wanting, and the stamens only 2 or 4.
1. L. latipes, Hook. Stems stout, simple 1 to 3 inches high, surpassed by the
irregularly and coarsely pinnatifid leaves; racemes capitate, in fruit an inch long or less;
sepals very unequal; pod strongly reticulated, the acute wings nearly as long.
2. L. oxycarpum, Torr. & Gr. Stems simple or branched 3 to 6 inches high;
smooth; raceme lax, elongated; pod smooth, rounded, nodding, the broad acute teeth
short and divergent; petals none.
3. L. nitidum, Xutt. Similar to the last, but larger; petals present; pods smooth
and shining, acutely margined.
4. L. Menziesii, DC. Hispid; petals none; pods not margined, except by tht
rery short teeth at the summit.
