V10LACE5:. (violet family.) 25
Var. ',?) Btrictnim, Wat. Sepals green, persistent; fruiting raccmea crowded eylin-
dric-capitate, the pedicels erect, low and spreading. This plant seems to be a separate
•pecies. It has been found in San Francisco, by Misa Annie Hughes.
9. THYSANOCARPUS, Hook.
Pod 1 -celled, 1 -seeded, plano-convex, mostly pendulous on slender pedicels. Flowers
minute, white or rose-colored.
1. T. curvipes. Hook. Six inches to two feet high; the upper leaves clasping by a
broad auricled base; pods densely tomentose or smooth, 2 to 4 lines in diameter, the wing
entire or crenate, veined and often perforate, emarginate at the top and tipped with the
purple style. The perforate-wing form called Lace-pod.
2. T. laciniatus, Nutt. Smaller and more slender; the cauline leaves scarcely
auricled at the base; pods obovate, cuneate at the base, 2 to 3 lines long.
Var. crenatus, Brewer. The broader wing deeply crenate or fringed. Fringe-pod.
3. T. radians, Benth. Pods round, 4 to 5 lines in diameter, scarcely emarginate,
with a broad entire translucent wing conspicuously marked by radiating nerves.
4- T. pusillus, Hook- May be known by its minute pods hirsute with hooked haira.
10. RAPHANX7S, L. Radish.
Ck)arse introduced annuals.
1. R. sativTis, L., has a pointed 2-seeded pod.
2. K. Haphanistnun, L., has a necklace-shaped pod, long beaked, l-9-86eded.
Oeder 7. CISTACE^.
Flowers perfect and regular. Sepals 5, persistent; and two of them smaller, wholly
exterior, and bract-like. Petals 5, usually ephemeral. Stamens indefinite, with filiform
filaments; anthers short. Style one. Capsule 3-valved.
1. HELIANTHEMUM, Toum.
Petals broad. Stamens numerous (about 20). Style short; stigma 3-lobed. Low
branching herbs, or somewhat woody; flowers yellow, opening only once, in sunshine.
1. H. Bcoparium, Nutt. Much branched, hairy or smooth, about a foot high; leave*
narrow, 4 to 12 lines long, alternate; flowers on slender pedicels, one or several termin-
ating the branches; petals 4 lines long.
Oeder 8. VIOLACEiE.
Herbs distinguished by the irregular one-spurred corolla of 5 petals, 5 stamens, adnata
»»*troBe anthers conniving over the pistil, which has a club-shaped style with a one sided
