*2G V10L-\.CKiE. (VIOLET FAMILY.)
•tigma, a one celled ovary, formmg a capsule, which splits at maturity into three part*.
Represented only by the familiar genus
1. VIOLA, L.
Sepals unequal, auricled at the base. Petals unequal, lower one spurred. Anthera
nearly sessile, often coherent, the connectives of the two lower bearing spurs which are
Inclosed by the spur of the petaL (See Addenda. )
• Leaves undivided.
•i- Flowers not yellow y or orange,
1. V. canlna, L., var. adiinca, Gr. Flowers violet or purple. Low stems sending
out runners; leaves ovate, often somewhat cordate at the base, obscurely crenate; stipules
foliaceous, narrowly lanceolate, lacerately toothed; spur as long as the sepals, curved;
lateral petals bearded.
Var. longipes, Wat. The obtuse spur straight.
2. V. ocellata, Torr. & Gr. Stems nearly erect, 6 to 12 inches high; leaves cordate
to cordate-ovate, acutish, conspicuously crenate; stipules small, scarious; upper petals
white within, purple-brown without, the others pale-yellow veined with purple.
-{--{- Flowers ycUow, tinged with purple.
3. V. pedtinculata, Torr. & Gr. Stems with a decumbent or procumbent base;
leaves rombic -cordate, with truncate or abruptly cuneate base, obtuse, coarsely crenate;
stipules foliaceous, narrowly lanceolate, entire or gashed; showy flowers on peduncles
exceeding the leaves; petals 6 to 9 lines long, the upper tinged with brown on the outside,
the others veined with deep purple; lateral petals bearded; capsule smooth.
4. V. axirea, Kellogg. Leaves ovate to lanceolate, cuneate or sometimes truncate
at base, obtuse, coarsely crenate; stipules foliaceous, lanceolate, laciniate; peduncle but
little longer than the leaves; petals 4 to 6 lines long, as in the last, but lighter yellow;
capsule pubescent.
5. V. Nuttallii, Pursli. Leaves oblong-ovate to oblong, attenuate into a long
petiole, entire, or obscurely cinuate; stipules entire; peduncles usually shorter than the
leaves.
■*--*-■?- Flowers yellow.
6. V. sannentosa, DougL Leaves rounded-cordate, reniform, or sometimes ovate,
finely crenate, usually punctate with dark dots. Flowers small.
• • Leaves divided or lobed; Jlowers yellow, tinged with brown-purple.
7. V. lobata, Benth. Distinguished by its stout stems and large palmately 5 to
9-lobed leaves. Flowers large.
8. V. chrysantha, Hook. Stems short; leaves bipinnatifid, with narrow seg-
ments. Flowers large, like V. pedtmctilata, but the lateral petals are not bearded.
