{JAl.\OlU\LL.,i LA.. (l'i:^K 1 A.MILV ) 27
Order 9. POLYGALACEiE.
Herbs or ehrubs, with simple entire exstipulate leaves, remarkable for the papilio-
fxaceous-looking flowers. In our genus the ovary is 2-ceIled.
1. POLYGALA, Toum.
Sepals 5, very nnequal, the 2 lateral ones large and petal-like. Petals 3, united to
each other and to the stamen-tube, the middle one hooded and often crested or beaked.
Stamens 6 to 8, the filaments united below into a split sheath, adnate at the base to the
petals. The 2-celled ovary forms a capsule flattened contrary to the partition, notched
or retuse above.
1. P. cucuUata, Benth. Stems slender from a woody base, 2 to 8 inches high; leaves
Bmooth, oblong-lanceolate or ovate-elliptical, ^ to 1 inch long, short petioled; flowers
rose-color; outer sepals 2^ lines long, rounded-saccate at the base; the wings broadly
spatulate, 4 to 6 lines long.
2. P. Califomica, Nutt. Stouter; flowers greenish white.
Order 10. CARYOPHYLLACEiE.
Herbs with regular and mostly perfect flowers, persistent calyx, its parts and the petals
4 or 5 and imbricated or the latter sometimes convolute in the bud, the distinct stamens
commonly twice as many as the petals, ovary 1 -celled with a free central placenta. Stems
usually swollen at the nodes. Leaves opposite, often united at the base by a transverse
line, in one group with interposed scarious stipules. Styles 2 to 5, mostly distinct.
Fruit a capsule opening by valves, or by teeth at the summit. Flowers terminal, or in
the forks, or in cymes.
Many species in this order are difficult to determine.
* Sepals united into a 4:-5-toothed calyx. Petals long-clawed.
Petals with bifid appendages Silene. 1
* * Sepals distinct; petals without claws.
Petals bifid; capsule cylindric Cerastium. 2
Petals bifid capsule globose Stellaria. 3
Petals entire; capsule globose Arenaria. 4
Stipules present; styles 5 Spergula. 5
Stipules present; styles 3 Lepigonum. 6
1. SIIiENE, L.
Calyx tubular, cylindrical to campanulate, 5-toothed, lO-nerved. Petals 5, with nar*
