28 CAETOPHYLLACE^. (PINK FAMILY.)
row claws; the blade mostly bifid or many-cleft and usually crowned with 2 scales at
the base. Stamens 10; styles 3, erect. Capsule dehiscent by 6, rarely 3 teeth.
1. S. Gallica, L. Hairy; leaves spatulate, 1 to I| inches long; calyx oblong-
cylindric, becoming expanded by the growth of the ovoid capsule; flowers small, rose-
colored, in one-sided close racemes; petals entire, slightly twisted.
2. S. Calif ornica, Durand. Glandular-pubescent; stems 6 inches to 3 ft. high,
lax, leafy; flowers large, deep scarlet, few at the ends of the branches; calyx 7 to 10 lines
long; petals deeply parted with bifid segments, the lobes 2-3-toothed or entire, with
often a lateral one.
3. S. Douglasii, Hook. Stems simple few-flowered; leaves narrowly oblanceolate
to linear, an inch or two long; calyx oblong-cylindric, often inflated, 5 to 7 lines long;
petals rose-color or nearly white; 8 to 10 lines long, bifid with broad obtuse lobes; claw
broadly auricled; capsule oblong-ovate, long stiped.
2. CERASTIUM, L. Mouse-eak Chickweed.
Sepals 5. Petals 5, emarginate or bifid. Stamens 10. Styles 5, rarely less. The
curved capsule dehiscing by twice as many teeth as there are styles. Flowers white.
1. C. pilosum, Ledeb. Erect, rather stout, more or less densely pilose; leaves
oblong- lanceolate, | to an inch or more long, acute, almost sheathing at the base; flowers
from ^ to 1 inch in diameter.
C. AKVEN8E, L., has do-wny acute leaves.
C. vuLGATUM, L., lias ovate or obovate obtuse leaves; flowers clustered.
3. STELLARIA, L. Chickweed.
Sepals 5, rarely 4. Petals as many, 2-cleft. Stamens 10, or fewer by abortion. Low
iierbs with minute white flowers and 4-angled stems.
1. S. media, L. Weak and spreading, rooting at the lower joints; the ovate leaves
less than an inch long on hairy petioles, or the upper ones sessile; stamens 3 to 10.
Introduced from Europe.
2. S. nitens. Nutt. , has small sessile lanceolate leaves and narrow shining sepals
surpassing the minute petals.
3. S. littoralis, Torr., is rather a stout hairy plant, with ovate leaves; flowers in
a terminal cyme. May be found on the sea-shore.
4. ARENARIA, L. Sandwort.
Distinguished chiefly from Stellaria by the entire petals and usually by the tufted
stems and subulate rigid leaves. In our species the 3 valves of the capsule are entire;
bracts foliaceous.
1. A. Douglasii, Torr. & Gr. Slender, much branched, 3 to 6 inches high; lea vet
