30 HYPERICACKE. (ST. JOHn's-WORT FAMILY.)
1. C. Menziesii, Hook. Smooth, branching from the base, the stems ascending;
leaves linear to oblanceolate, 1 to 3 inches long, the lower on slender petioles; sepals
keeled, the calyx 4-angled in the bud; petals broadly obovate, red to purple, 2 to 6 lines
lorg. One of the most abundant of open ground early flowers.
2. CLAYTONIA, L.
Petals 5, equal. Stamens 5. Style 3-cleft. Capsule and seeds as in Calandrinia^
Ra,dical leaves numerous; cauline perfoliate, or a pair,
1. C. perfoliata, Donn. Stems 2 to 12 inches high; radical leaves long-petioled,
broadly rhomboidal, or deltoid, or deltoid-cordate, ^ to 8 inches broad, obtuse; the cauline-
pair usually united to form an almost orbicular perfoliate leaf, concave above; the laac-
raceme of small pinkish flowers nearly sessile in the leaf-cup.
Var. parvifloia, Torr. Radical leaves linear, or linear-spatulate.
Var. spatliulata, Torr. Eadical leaves linear; the cauline pair distinct or partly
united on one side, ovate to lanceolate. Low and slender.
Var. exigua, Torr. Low, radical leaves narrowly linear or filiform; the cauline-
distinct, linear.
2. C. Siberica, L. Stems 6 to 15 inches high; radical leaves lanceolate to rombic-
ovate or nearly orbicular, long-petioled; the cauline pair ovate or varying from lanceolate
to spatulate-obovate, sessile, distinct; raceme loose; the rose-colored or white petals 2 to
4 lines long.
3. LE-WISIA, Pursh.
Petals 8 to 16, large and showy, rose-colored. Stamens numerous (40 or more). Style
3 to 8-parted nearly to the base. Low acaulescent fleshy perennials, with fusiform roots,
and short 1 -flowered scapes.
1. L. redlviva, Pursh. Leaves densely clustered, linear-oblong, subterete, 1 or 2
inches long, smooth and glaucous; scape jointed in the middle, bearing on the joint 5^to
7 subulate verticillate bracts; petals sometimes white, 8 to 16 lines long.
Order 12. HYPERICACEiE.
Herbs or shrubs, with opposite entire punctate leaves, no stipules and perfect flowen
with 4 or 5 petals and numerous stamens, the fruit a septicidal many-seeded capsule.
Calyx of 4 or 5 persistent sepals. Filaments mostly in 3 sets. Styles 2 to 6, usually
distinct.
1. HYPERICUM, L. St. John's-wobt.
Sepals and petals 5. The numerous stamens in three bundles. Ovary 1 to 3-celled,
the ovules, growing on the parietal placentae. Flowers cymose, yellow.
