GERANIACE^. (GERA^'^JM FAMILY.) 33
•tfpular glands very small; flowers in close terminal clusters; petals about 3 lines long;
capsule globose.
4. L. Califomicum, Cr. Smooth, glaucous, 6 to 18 inches high; stipular glanda
conspicuous; flowers in small cymes or the lower solitary; petals 4 lines long, capsule
acute, shorter than the calyx.
5. S. spergTilinum, Gr. Smooth, 6 to 15 inches high; leaves without stipular
glands; pedicels 3 to 6 lines long, and mostly solitary; sepals slightly glandular, minute;
capsule obtuse, exceeding the calyx slightly.
Order 15. GERANIACE-ffi.
Flowers perfect on axillary peduncles, regular (in our species) and symmetrical, the
parts in fives. Stamens mostly in two sets, those alternate with the petals sometimes
sterile. Ovary deeply 5-lobed, with a prolonged axis, or 5-ceUed.
§ 1. Carpels 5, one'Seeded, separating at maturity from the long central axis; the style*
forming long twisted tails.
Fertile stamens 10; tails of the carpels not bearded Geranium. 1
Fertile stamens 5; tails of the carpels bearded Erodium. 2
§ 2. Carpels 5, one-seeded, Jleshy, distinct Limnantlies. 3
§ 3. Carpels combined into a 5-celled ovary Ozalis. 4.
1. GERANIUM, L. Cranesbill.
Stamens 10 with anthers, a gland behind the base of each of the shorter 5; filaments
bearded at the base. Ovary 5-lobed; style 5-lobed at the top; the roundish-oblong carpels
splitting away from the persistent beaked axis. Leaves palmately lobed and mostly
opposite, scarious stipules; swollen- jointed stems.
1. G, Carolinianum, L. Difi"usely branched, pubescent; leaves 1 to 2.\ inches in
diameter, palmately 5-7-parted, the divisions cleft into linear lobes; petals rose-colored
equaling the awned sepals, 2 or 3 lines long; carpels hairy; tails half an inch long.
G. incifium, Nutt., with large purple flowers, grows in the Sierra Nevada, and ia
Humboldt County.
2. ERODIUM, L'Her.
Characters as in the last; but the filaments dilated, the 5 opposite to the petals sterile-
and scale-like; carpels attenuate to a sharp bearded base; the tails long bearded on the
inner side. Leaves commonly pinnate and bipinnately parted or lobed; peduncles-
umbellately 2-several-flowered with a 4-bracted involucre at the base of the pedicels;
floM'ers small.
1. E. cicutarium, L'Her. (Filaria or Pin-Clover.) Hairy, much branched,
o
