34 RUTACE^. (orange FAMILY.)
decumbent; leaves pinnate tlie leaflets laciniately pinnatifid with narrow acute lobes^
tho opposite leaves unequal ; the long peduncles in the axils of the smaller leaves bearing
4 to 8-flowered umbels; the slender pedicels at length reflexed, the fruit still erect; the
bearded carpels with spirally twisted tails.
2. E. moscliatum, L'Her. (Musky Filaria.) Similar to tho last but of a lighter
green and the leaflets uneqiially and doubly serrate, not pinnatifid. Gives out a musky
odor when wilted.
8. E. macrophyllum, Hook. & Am. Leaves reniform-cordate, 1 to 3 inches
broad; sepals broad, 5 to 6 lines long.
3. LIMNANTHES, R. Br.
Glands 5, alternating with the petals. Stamens 10. Style 5-cleft at the apex. An-
nual low diffuse herbs, with pungent juice, growing in wet places; leaves pinnate,
without stipules; flowers yellowish-white or rose-colored, solitary on axillary peduncles.
1. L. Douglasii, R. Br. Glabrous, yellowish green, weak and succulent stems;
leaflets incisely lobed; peduncles at length 2 to 4 inches long; sepals lanceolate, 3 to 4
lines long, half the length of the oblong or obovate, emarginate or truncate petals.
Var alba, Hartweg. Villous sepals; shorter, white petals.
4. OXALIS, L.
The parts of the flower in fives. Stamens 10; the filaments dilated and united below.
Capsule columnar or ovoid, beaked with the short style. Low herbs with sour watery
juice; leaves alternate or radical, digitately trifoliolate, leaflets obcordate.
1. O. Oregana, Xutt. (E,ed wood Sorrel. ) Acaulescent, rusty-villous; rootstock
creeping; leaflets broadly obcordate, 1 to 1^ inches broad; petioles 2 to 8 inches long;
scapes equaling or exceeding the leaves, mostly 1 -flowered; petals 6 to 12 lines long, white
or rose-colored, often veined with purple.
2. O. comiculata, L. (Yellow Sorrel.) Distinguished by its slender branching
stems, and smaller yellow flowers.
Order 16. RUTACEiE.
Pellucid or glandular-dotted aromatic leaves, along with definite hypogjTious stamens
and definite seeds characterize this order, although some of the orange-tribe have many
stamens.
1. PTELEA. L. Hop-tree.
Flowers polygamous. Sepals, petals and stamens 4 or 5; ovary with a short, thick
