EHAMNACEiE. (BUCKTHORN FAMILY.) 35
Btipe, 2-colled; style short; fruit a broadly winged orbicular samara, 2-Beeded. Flower*
email, greenish-white, in terminal cymes or compound corymbs.
1. P. angustifolia, Benth. A shrub 5 to 25 ft. high, with chestnut colored punc-
tate bark; leaves 3-foliolate.
Order 17. CELASTRACEiE.
Suffiiciently characterized by the genus
1. EUONYMUS, Toum.
Sepals and petals 4 or 5, widely spreading; Stamens as many very short on an angled
disk; ovary immersed in the disk, 3-5-valved, colored, often warty. Fruit a red ariL
Shrubs, with 4-angled branches, opposite petioled exstipulate serrate smooth leaves, and
flowers in loose cymes on axillary peduncles.
1. E. occidentalis, Nutt. 7 to 15 ft. high; leaves ovate to oblong-lanceolate,
acuminate, serrulate, 2 to 4 inches long; peduncles 1-4-flowered; flowers dark reddish-
brown, 4 to 6 lines in diameter, the parts in fives.
Order 18. RHAMNACE-ffi.
Shrubs or small trees, with simple undivided leaves, small and often caducous etipulei,
and small regular flowers, the stamens borne on the calyx and alternate with its lobes;
ovary 2 to 4-celled. Flowers often apetalous; a conspicuous disk adnate to the short tube
of the calyx; petals often clawed; style or stigma 2-4-lobed; fruit berry-like or dry, con-
taining 2 to 4 seed-like nutlets.
Calyx and disk free from the ovary; filaments short; fruit berry-like Rhamnus. 1
Calyx and disk adherent to the ovary; filaments long; fruit dry Ceanotlius. 2
1. RHAMNUS. L.
Small greenish flowers; calyx 4-5-cleft, with erect or spreading lobes, the campanulate
tube persistent; petals 4 or 5 or none, on the margin of the disk; claws short; stamens 4
or 5; leaves evergreen.
ยง 1. Flowers dioecious^ apetalous, solitary or fascicled in the axils,
1. R. crocea, Nutt. Much branched, 3 to 15 ft. high; leaves coriaceous, oblong
or obovate to obicular, 3 to IS lines long, acutely denticulate, usually yellowish brown or
copper-colored beneath; fruit red.
ยง 2. Flowers mostly perfect in pedunctdate cymes.
2. R. Californica, Each. Spreading 4 to 18 ft. high; leaves ovate-oblong to ellip-
