36 EHAMNACE^. (BUCKTHORN FAMILY.)
tical, i to 4 inches long, denticulate or nearly entire; petals very small, broadly ovate»
emarginate; fruit blackish-purple.
2. CEANOTHUS, L.
Calyx 5-cleft; the lobes acute; disk thick adhering to the tube and to the ovary; petals
on long claws, hooded; stamens 5; filaments long-exserted; ovary 3-lobed; style short,
3-cleft. The small flowers are in showy thyrsoid orcymose clusters. Species difficult.
§ 1. Leaven S-nerved.
1. C. thyrsiflorus, Esch. (California Lilac. ) Smooth, 6 to 15 ft. high; branches
strongly angled; leaves rather thick, oblong to oblong-ovate, 1 to 1^ inches long, usually
smooth and shining above, canescent beneath; flowers bright blue in dense compound
racemes, terminating the long and somewhat leafy peduncles.
2. C. integerrimus, Hook & Am. Slender, 2 or 3 ft. high; branches round, usually
warty; leaves thin, bright green, ovate to ovate-oblong, 1 to 3 inches long; thyrse large,
white-flowered.
3. C. dentatus, Torr & Gr. Low, not rigid; leaves small glandular-serrate,
fascicled, the margin strongly vmdulate or revolute, somewhat resinous; flowers blue, in
small roundish clusters.
4. C. sorediatus, Hook & Am. Rigid; inflorescence pubescent; leaves silky on
the nerves, ^ to 1^ inches long; flowers blue in shortly peduncled simple racemes ^ to 2
inches long.
5. C. divaricatus, Nutt. Grayish, usually spinose; leaves small, not tomentose
beneath; flowers light blue or white, in nearly simple often elongated racemes, 1 to 4
inches long; fruit resinous.
C. C. incanus, Torr & Gr. Spinose; leaves hoary beneath with a very minute
tomentum, cuneate to cordate at base; flowers in short racemes, white; fruit resinously
warty. A straggling shrub along creeks.
§ 2. Leaves pinnately veined.
7. C. papillosus, Torr. & Gr. More or less hispidly villous or tomentose, 4 to 6
ft. high; leaves glandular-serrulate, and the upper surface glandular-papillose, narrowly
oblong, 1 to 2 inches long on slender petioles; flowers blue, in close clusters or short
racemes, terminating slender naked peduncles; fruit not resinous.
§ 3. Leaves small, often opposite, very thick, with numerous straight lateral veins; stipule*
mostly large and warty; Jlowers in sessile or shortly peduncled axillary clusters; fruii
larger, with 3 horn-like or warty prominences below the summit.
8. C. crassifolius, Torr. Erect 4 to 12 ft. high, the young branches white with a
rillous tomentum; leaves somewhat spinosely-toothed or rarely entire and revolutely
margined; flowers light blue or white, in dense clusters.
