SAPINDACE.E. (BUCKEYE FAMILY.) 37
d. C. cuneatus, Nutt. Similar to the last, but less tomentose; leaves cuncate-
obovate or oblong, rctusc above, on slender petioles; flowers in looser clusters.
10. C. rigidus, Nutt. Erect, 5 ft. high, the branchlets tomentose; leaves 2 to 6
lines long, cuneate-oblong or broadly obovate, few toothed above, very shortly petioled;
flowers bright blue.
Order VITACEiB has but one representative; the well-known California wild grape»
Vitis Califomica, Benth., which is common on the woody banks of streams.
Order 19. SAPINDACEiE.
frees or shrubs, mostly with compound or lobed leaves, with unsymmetrical or irregular
flowers; the order best characterized under its suborders.
Under the order proper belongs
1. iESCULUS, L. Buckeye.
Leaves opposite, palmately 4-7-foliolate. Calyx tubular, unequally 5-toothed. Petals
4 or 5, unequal, with claws. Stamens 5 to 7, exserted and often unequaL Ovary
3-celled; style long. Fruit a large leathery 3-valved pod.
1. .as. Californica, Nutt. Leaflets, usually 5, smooth, oblong-lanceolate, acute,
obtuse at base, slenderly pctiolulate, serrulate, 3 to 5 inches long; flowers in a close
finely pubescent thyrse which is 6 to 12 inches long; calyx 2-lobed, the lobes scarcely
toothed; petals white or pale rose, half an inch long or more; stamens 5 to 7; anthers
orange colored. Fruit pear-shaped, 1^ to 2 inches long, containing, usually, one seed.
Sub-order. ACERINE.E,
Flowers polygamous or dioecious, regular, often apetalous. Ovary 2-lobed and 2-cell'.\l,
each 1-seeded cell producing a wing. Leaves opposite without stipules.
2. ACER, Toum. Maple.
Leaves palmately lobed. Calyx colored. Petals, usually 5. Stamens 3 to 12 inserted
with the petals on a lobed disk. Styles 2. Fruit divaricately 2-winged.
1. A- macrophyllum, Pursh. (Large-leafed Maple.) A tree 2 or 3 feet in
diameter; leaves C to 10 inches in diameter, deeply 3-5-cleft; flowers fragrant, yellow,
in crowded pendulous racemes; fruit densely hairy; the smooth Mings 1.^ inches long.
2. A. circinatum, Pursh. (V'ine-Maple.) A shrub or small tree; leaves 3 to 5
inclies broad, 7-9-lobed, lobes sharply serrate; flowers in corymbs loosely 10-20-flowered,
on fclender 2-leaved branchlets; sepals red or purple, exceeding the greenish petals; fruit
•mooth.
