38
LEGUMINOS^. (pea FAMILY.)
3. NEGUNDO, Moench. Box-Eluer.
Flowers dioecious. Calyx minute. Petals and disk none. Stamens 4 or 5. Ovary
and fruit as in Acer. Trees; leaves pinnate; sterile flowers on clustered capillary pedi-
cels, the fertile in drooping racemes.
1. N. Califoniicum, Torr. & Gr. Usually a small tree; leaves 3-foliolate, villous:
leaflets ovate or oblong, acute, 3 or 4 inches long, the terminal largest and 3-o-lobed or
coarsely serrate, the lateral ones coarsely serrate; fruit pubescent; wings slightly
spreading.
In the figure a represents the fruit of Acer ma-
croi^liylliim, b the wider spreading samara of Acer
circinatum, and c the closer wings of Negundo
Calif or nicuin. The first has hairy carpels; the
second is smooth, and the last slightly hairy.
Order ANACARDIACE-ai is represented
by the well-known Poison Oak or Rhus diversiloha,
a slender, sometimes climbing, shrub, resembling
the eastern Rluis toxicodendron, which is also often
called Poison Oak, but is more commonly known
as Poison Ivy. The eastern Sumac belongs to the
same genus. There are three other species of
Rhus in the State. The Pepper tree {Schinxs
moUe), so commonly cultivated as an ornamental
shade tree, belongs to this order.
Oeder 20. LEGUMINOSiE.
The single and simple free pistil becoming a legume in fruit, the alternate leaves with
stipules, and in our genera, the papillionaceous corolla with 10 stamens, mark this order,
one of the largest and most important in the vegetable kingdom.
Flowers irregvilar. Calyx 3-o-cleft or toothed, persistent. Corolla of 5 petals, the
upper larger and always external, covering the lateral pair in the bud, and these cover-
ing the lower pair, which are more or less united, forming a keel which encloses the
stamens and pistil. Filaments 10, rarely 5, commonly united ai'ound the pistil, either
all united or nine and the upper one free. Ovary forming a pod with a single row of
seeds attached to one side; style usually inflexed or curved. In Cercis the upper petal is
small and enclosed by the wings. In Amoi'pha there is but one petal.
Suborder Caesalpineae is marked by the upper petal enclosed, and distinct stamens.
Suborder Mimoseae has regular flowers and usually many conspicuous stamens.
