58b
I^EQUMINOS^. (pea FAMILY.)
Fig. A. At a is seen a single flower of Lupinus Dou-
gWsii; b, the same with the upper and Bide petals r©-
moved, shuwiug the united pair of long-clawed, lower
petals and the base of the stamineal tube.
Fig. B. a. The same flower with all the petals r©-
moved, showing the united stamens, 5 of which have
shed the poUen and crinkled down. b. The fitamens as
they appear in a bud. The shorter stamens of the bud
become the longer stamens of the flower, c. Anther of
a long stamen in a magnified, d. Anther of a long
stamen in b (short In a) magnified.
■order, the species •within the United States numbering about 150, nearly all of which
belong west of the Rocky Mountains. We have about 25 kinds of clover; only 3 or 4
species are natives of the East. Hosackia, numbering 28 species in our whole country,
25 of which grow here, is not represented in the East at all. On the other hand, the
large genus Desmodium, numbering in the East 19 species, has no representative west of
the Kocky Mountains. Pickeringia is probably not found beyond the boundary of Cali-
fornia. The great Australian genus Acacia, numbering there nearly 300 species, is
represented iu Southern California by a small tree {A. Gregjil), and in the East by an
herb. Possibly 30 species are cultivated for shade trees. Honey Mesquit, or Algaroba
{Prosopis juVJloru) and Screw-pod Mesquit, or Tornilla {P. pubescens), are small trees of
Southern California. Prosopis and Acacia belong to the Suborder Mimoseae. All the
plants here described (except Cercis) belong to the Suborder Papilionaceae, which is dis-
tinguished by flowers, like those of the pea, as before described.
Cercis, which, by mistake, is not described in the proper place, belongs to the Sub-
order Caesalpineas, in which the side petals enclose the upper one and the stamens are free.
§ 1. Stamens distinct.
Leaves digitately 3-foliolate. Herbs; yellow flowers Thermopsis.
Shrub; purple flowers Pickeringia.
Leaves imequally pinnate; shrubby; 1 petal Amoiplia.
§ 2. Stamens all united into a sheath.
Anthers of two forms; leaves digitate, more than three leaflets Lupinus.
Anthers all alike; leaves pinnately 3-foliolate Psoralea.
§ 3. Stametis diadelphous {2 sets, 9 and 1).
* Leaves 3-foliolate; pods small.
Flowers capitate. Corolla persistent Trifolium.
Flowers in axillary racemes or spikes. Pod globular, wrinkled Melilotus.
Flowers in axillary spikes. Pod one-seeded Psoralea.
Pod spirally coiled or reniform Medicago.
