ONAGRACEiE. (EVENI.Nu i i.iMI.u^.l, iAMILY.) til
5. GODETIA, Spacli.
Distinguished from CGnothera by the anthers not versatile, and flowers not yellow,
• Flowers in a strict, mostly compact spike; capsule ovate to oblong; stems leafy.
Petals tlcep purple G. purpurea. 1
Petals rose-colored with a spot G. lepida. 2
Petals bluish-purple, 3 to 5 lines long G. albescens. 3
* * Flowers in usually a loose spike or raceme, mostly nodding in the bud; capsule linear;
leaves distant.
-h- Capsule sessile; stigma-lobes purplish.
Ovary and capsule short, villous, 2-costate G. quadrivulnera, 4
Capsule puberulent, not costate G. teneila. 5
-f- T- Capsule pedicellate, not costate, stigma-lobes mostly yellow G. amcua. 6
Small, hispid ." G. hispidula. 7
Small, petals 2-lobed G. biloba. 8
1. G. purpurea, Wat. ^Mostly very leafy, a foot or two high, puberulent, the
ovary densely villous; leaves oblong to oblong-oblanceolate, an inch or two long, entire,
sessile; flowers mostly in a leafy terminal cluster; petals 4 to G lines long; style shorter
than the stamens; stigma-lobes very short, purple; capsule G to 9 lines lung, not costate.
2. G. lepida, Lindl. Canescently puberulent, the stem usually white and shining.
Easily distinguished by its flowers; the rose-colored petals with a dark spot near the top
9 to 12 lines long.
3. G. albescens, LindL Smaller leaves than the last, and much smaller almost
blue flowers. Rare.
4. G. quadiivulnera, Spach. Puberulent, ovary and capsule more or less villous;
stems usually slender, a foot or two high; leaves linear-lanceolate or linear, sessile or
attenuate to a short petiole, entire or slightly denticulate, an inch or more long; petals
deep-purple or purjjlish, 3 to G lines long; stigma-lobes short, purple.
5. G. teneila, Wat. Chiefly distinguished from the last by the capsule, which ia
8 to 14 lines long, with nearly flat sides.
G. G. amcena, Lilja. Petals and purple anthers, frequently rather villous, varying
from nearly white to rose-color, with more or less of purple, 8 to 15 lines long; capsule
attenuate at each end.
7. G. hispidula, Wat. Is about a span high, often but 1-flowered; leaves narrowly
linear; puri)le petals, C to 12 lines long.
8. G. biloba, Wat. Petals 2-lobed. Foot-hills of the Sierra Nevada.
6. CLARKIA, Pursh.
Petals ♦, with claws, entire, purple. Stamens 8. Stigma with 4, at length spreading^
