62 LOASACE^. (MENTZELIA FAMILY.)
Boraetimes unequal lobes. Capsule linear, 4-angled. Annuals, witli erect brittle stems
and alternate leaves on short petioles.
1. C. elegans, Dougl. Stems from 6 incbes to 6 feet high; leaves broadly ovate to
linear, repandly toothed; petals rhomboidal; stigma-lobes equal; capsule nearly sessile.
2. C. rlioniboidea, Dough Is smaller; leaves petioled; claws of the petals
toothed; capsule short, pediceled.
7. EUCHARrDIUM, Fisch. & Mey.
Distinguished from Clarhia by the filiform calyx tube prolonged above tho ovary, and
stamens only 4.
1. E. concinuum, Fisch. & Mey. Closely resembles Clarhia rhomboidea in habit
and foliage, calyx-tube an inch long; petals 3-lobed. Common.
8. BOISDUVALIA, Spach.
Petals 4, obovate-cuniform, sessile, 2-lobed, purple to white. Anthers not versatile. —
Leaves alternate, simple, sessile; the small flowers in leafy spikes; our species villous.
1. B. densiflora, "Wat. Canescent; 6 inches to 2 ft. high; leaves lanceolate to
linear-lanceolate, mostly denticulate, 1 to 3 inches long; the floral leaves usually short
and broad; flowers in usually a close terminal leafy spike or numerous short lateral spike-
lets; petals 3 to 6 lines long.
2. B. Torreyi, Wat. Eather slender, a span or two high; leaves 4 to 9 lines long;
the floral leaves scarcely smaller; flowers very small.
9. Circaea, Pacilica, Asch. & Magn. In moist woods. Distinguished by its small
indehiscent pear-shaped fruit covered with bristles and thin ovate opposite leaves.
Order 25. LOASACE-S3.
Herbaceous plants with either stinging or jointed and rough-barbed hairs; no stipules,
calyx tube adnate to the 1-celled ovary. Stamens usually very numerous.
1. MENTZELIA, L.
Calyx cylindrical to ovoid; the persistent limb 5-toothed. Petals 5 or 10. Stamens
numerous, inserted below the petals on the throat of the calyx; filaments free or in clus-
ters opposite the petals, filiform or the outer petaloid. Style 3-cleft, the lobes often
twisted. — The leaves are alternate, mostly coarsely-toothed or pinnatifid; flowers white
to yellow or orange. (See Addenda.)
1. M. albicaulis. Dough Slender, 6 to 12 inches high or more; leaves linear-lance-
olate, pinnatifid with numerous narrow lobes, the upper leaves broader and often lobed
