CORNACE^. (dogwood FAMILY.) 63
at the base only; flowers near the ends of the branches; petals 5, spatulate or obovate 2
to 3 lines long; capsule G to 9 lines long.
2. M. gracilenta, Torr. & Gr. Stems similar to the last; petals obovate, abruptly
acuminate, an inch long; capsule 12 to 15 lines long.
3. M. laevicaulis, Torr. & Gr. Stout 2 or 3 ft. high; leaves lanceolate 2 to 8 inches
long; flowers sessile on short branches, very large, light yellow; petals acute, 2 to 2^
inches long.
Order CUCTJRBITACE^ is represented by Megarrhiza Marah, Wat. (Big-
Root). The cucunibcr-like vines, often 10 or even 30 ft. long; the sterile flowers white
in racemes 4 to 12 inches long; the fruit ovate oblong, more or less covered with weak
spines inclosing several nut-like seeds. M. Californica, Torr., has stifi'er spines on
smaller fruit; the fertile flowers without abortive stamens.
Order FICOIDEiE is represented by Mesembryanthemura asquilaterale, Haw.,
a very fleshy herb, with opposite three sided leaves 1 to 3 inches long and solitary red
flowers; the petals numerous, linear. On the sea shore Mollugo verticellata, L., will
scarcely be noticed.
Order 26. UMBELLIFERiE.
Herbs with small flowers in umbels, stamens and petals 5, borne on a 2-ceUed ovary
which in fruit splits into a pair of dry usually flat indehiscent carpels. Since the generic
distinctions depend upon characters of fruit and seed difficult of determination, the plants
of this order are not here described.
Order ARALIACE.3Ej is represented by Aralia Californica, Wat. (Spikenard.)
Grows in woods, along streams. Herbaceous stems, 8 to 10 ft. high; the white flowers
in panicles a foot or two long and more.
Order 27. CORNACEiE.
Trees or shrubs, rarely herbs, with simple entire mainly opposite leaves, no stipules,
and flowers in cymes, capitate clusters or spikes; the petals and stamens 4, epigynous;
calyx adnate to the 1-2-celled ovary, which becomes a drupe or berry.
1. CORNUS, L.
Flowers perfect. Calyx minutely 4-toothed. Petals 4, oblong or ovate. Stamens 4,
with slender filaments. Style slender; stigma capitate or truncate. Fruit ovoid or
oblong.
• Flowers greenish, in a close head, surrounded by an involucre of If. to G large, white, petal-
like bracts.
1. C. Nuttallii, Audubon. Usually a small tree; the involucre of yellowish or
