G-k CAS'IliJOLiACEiE. (HONEYSUCKLE FAMILY.)
white, often reddish bracts, 1^ to 3 inches long, abruptly aci;tc. Fruit a large cluster of
crimson berries.
2. C. Canadensis, L. Stem simple, lierbaceous, 3 to S inches high; leaves in a
whorl of 6 at the top, and a pair below; the 4 bracts 4 to S lines long.
* * Flowers white or cream colored, cymose, not involucrate.
3. C. Californica, C. A. Meyer. A shrub, 6 to 15 ft. high, with smooth, purplish
branches; leaves ovate acute, obtuse at the base, 2 to 4 inches long, lighter colored
beneath, with loose, silky hairs; flowers in small, dense, round-topped cymes.
4. C. glabrata, Benth. Bark gray; leaves oblong to narrowly ovate, acute at each
end, alike green on both sides; flowers in open, flat cymes.
GARRTA ELLIPTIC A, DougL and G. J'reniOKfii, Torr., dioecious shrubs, belong here. The ever-
green coriaceous leaves are opposite on the ^-angled branchlets, the ehort petioles connate; the apcta-
lous flowers in axillary aments. Leaves of the former elliptical, undulate margins; the 8taminat»'
aments long ; leaves of the latter ovate to oblong, not undulate, lighter green.
DIVISION 2. GAMOPETAL^
Order 28. CAPRIFOLIACEiE.
In our species shrubs with opposite leaves, no stipules, the calyx adherent to the
2-o-ceIled ovary, the stamens as many as the lobes of the rotate or tubular corolla.
Corolla rotate, regularly 5-lobed; white Sambucus. 1
Corolla bell-shaped, regularly 4r-5-lobed, pinkish Symplioricarpus. 2
Corolla tubular, irregular Lonicera. 3
1. SAMBUCUS, Toum. Elder.
Calyx teeth corolla lobes and stamens 5. Stigmas 3 to 5. Berries really drupes.
Shrubs whose rank shoots are filled with a pith, half an inch in diameter. Leaves
pinnately 5-11-foliolate. Flowers small, in large compound cymes.
1. S. glauca, Xutt. Cyme flat, 5-parted; fruit black, with a white bloom.
2. S. racemosa, L. Cyme ovate or pear-shaped; fruit bright red. Rare.
2. SYMPHORICARPUS, Dill. (Snowberry).
Calyx 5-toothed, occasionally 4-toothed, persistent. Corolla nearly or quite regular,
from open campanulate to salver-forra, 5-4-lobed. Stamens as many as the lobes of the
corolla, inserted on its throat. Fruit globular, white. — Low shrubs, with oval or ob-
