RUBIACEIEL. (maDDER FAMILY.) C5
iQDg leaves, mostly entire; and 2-bracteo' k*e flowers in axillary and terminal clusters;
rarely solitary.
1. S. racemosus, Mich. Erect, smooth; corolla very villous vrithin.
2. S. mollis, Nutt. Low, diffuse or decumbent, softly pubescent; leaves small;
corolla slightly villous.
2. LONICERA, L. Honeysuckle.
Corolla tubular, the tube commonly gibbous at the base and irregularly lobed, Stamena
6 inserted ou the tube of the corolla. Style filiform; stigma capitate.
1. Ij. hispidula, Dougl. Stems disposed to twine; leaves mostly oval, the lower
short petioled, the upper pairs commonly connate; foliaceous stipule-like appendages
between the leaves common; flowers sessile in a terminal head, pink or yellowish; berries
red or orauge. Variable.
2. L. involucrata. Banks. An erect shrub, 4 to 10 ft. high; leaves ovate-oblong
to broadly lanceolate, short-petioled; flowers a pair on axillary peduncles; below them a
conspicuous involucre of 4 bracts, tinged with red or yellow; berries purple-black-
Oeder 29. RUBIACEiE.
Known by having opposite entire leaves with intervening stipules, or whorled leaves
without stipules, along with an inferior ovary and regular 4-o-merous flowers; the teeth
of the calyx sometimes wanting. Stamens alternate with the lobes of the corolla an<i.
borne on its tube, distinct.
1. CEPHALANTHUS, L. Button-bush,
Flowers in a dense spherical head. Calyx inversely pyramidal, 4-5-toothed. Corolla
with a long, slender tube and a small 4-cIeft limb. Stamens 4, borne on the throat of the
corolla, short. Style very long and slender. — Shrub with opposite leaves and stipules^
or in whorla of 3 or 4. Peduncles axillary; flowers white.
1. C. occidentalia, L. Leaves ovate or lanceolate, 3 to 5 inches long; flower heads
an inch in diameter.
2. GALIUM, L. Cleavers.
Limb of the calyx obsolete. Corolla rotate, 4-parted, rarely 3-parted. Styles 2.
Ovary 2-lobed. Fruit twin, biglobular. Herbs, sometimes woody at the base, with
square stems, whorled leaves and minute flowers.
Leaves in fours, hispid, ovate G. Califomicum, 1
Leaves in fours and pairs, smooth G. Nuttallii, 2
Leaves mostly in whorls of eight G. Aparine, 3
