CAMPA^XLACE^. (bELLFLOWER vamtt.v) C7
of which grow withia tlic limits of this Flora. Although the flower heads are frequently
large, the separate flowers, with but few exceptions, are too small to be examined with-
out the aid of a microscope skillfully used. The order is, therefore, far too difficult for
the beginner.
ORDlElB LOBELIACEiE. Dovoninr/ia elegans, Torr., and D. pulcheUa,ToTT., are two beautiful plants
(the flowers resembling the cultivated Lobelias) Bometimes cultivated under the name Ca'Tifowta, which
properly belongs to an endogenous herb. The former has light blue flowers; the latter, deep azure-
blno; both with white or yellowish centers. May be found in wet places.
Ordeb 32. CAMPANULACEiE.
Herbs with alternate leaves without stipules and regular flowers, having the calyx
adnate to the ovary, distinct stamens {5, rarely 4) inserted with the corolla, alternate
with its lobes. — Calyx persistent. Stamens with introse anthers, opening in the bud.
Style single, it-s upper portion beset with hairs which collect the pollen, its summit 2-5-
lobed or cleft.
* Ovary and capsule long and narrow.
Capsule opening at the top; calyx-lobes long Githopsis. 1
Capsule opening by 2 or 3 holes on the sides Specularia. 2
* * Ovary and capsule short and broad^ or globular.
Capsule bursting indefinitely; calyx-lobes broad Heterocodon. 3
Capsule opening on the sides by 3 to 5 holes; calyx-lobes narrow Campanula. 4
1. GITHOPSIS, Nutt.
Plowers all alike. Cal3rx wath a clavate 10-ribbed tube, and 5 long and narrow folia-
ceous lobes. Corolla tubular-camiDanulate, 5-lobed. Filaments short, dilated at the base.
Ovary 3-celled; stigmas 3. Capsule strongly ribbed, crowned with the rigid calyx-lobes
of its own length or longer, opening between them by a round hole.
1. G, specularioides, Nutt. An inch to a span high; leaves lanceolate-oblong or
linear, sessile, coarsely toothed; flowers erect, deep blue, usually with a white center;
the ovate lobes of the corolla about equaling the rigid calyx-lobes.
2. SPECULARIA. Heister.
Flowers in our species of two kinds; the lower and earlier usually with no corolla,
Calyx-tube prismatic or elongated-obconical ; the lobes 5, narrow. Corolla short and
broad, rotate when fully expanded, 5-lobed. Stigmas 3 or 2. Capsule opening by round
holes on the sides.
I. S. biflora, Gr. Stems slender; leaves sessile, ovate or oblong, crenately toothed, the
upper reduced to lanceolate bracts; flowers 1, rarely 2, in each axil, nearly sessile; the
