68 ERICACEiE. (heath FAMILY.)
lower mostly apetalous, "with 3 or 4 short calyx-lobes; the upper with 5 longer calyx»
lobes, which are shorter than the blue or purple corolla. Capsule with openings near
the top.
2. S. perfoliata, A. DC. Stouter, with clasping cordate leaves.
8 HETEROCODON, Nutt.
Flowers of two sorts. Stamens and styles as in Campanula. Capsule 3-angled.
Otherwise sufficiently characterized in the synopsis.
1. H. rariflorum, Nutt. A delicate annual, with leafy filiform stems, diffusely
branching; the thin leaves clasping by cordate bases, coarsely toothed. Corolla blue.
4. CAMPANULA. Toum. Bellflower.
Flowers all alike. Calyx-lobes narrow. Corolla campanulate or near it, 5-lobed.
Stamens 5; filaments dilated at the base. Capsule 3-5-celled, opening on the sides or
near the base by 3 to 5 small uplifting valves leaving round holes.
1. C. prenanthoides, Dur. A foot or two high; stems several-flowered; leave»
ovate-oblong or lanceolate, sharply serrate, sessile, or the lower short-petioled; lobes of
the blue corolla narrowly lanceolate, widely spreading; style long exserted; capsul©
5-ribbed.
Order 33. ERICACEiE.
Woody plants or perennial herbs, with symmetrical and mostly regular flowers; the
stamens as many or twice as many as the petals or lobes of the corolla, and inserted with
but rarely upon it; the anthers 2-celled, and the cells opening by a terminal pore; the
ovary with as many cells as the divisions of the corolla or calyx; the seeds small. Corolla
generally gamopetalous, sometimes of distinct petals, the insertion and that of the sta-
mens hypogynous, or when the calyx is adnate epigynous around an annular disk. Styl&
single. Leaves simple.
Sub-order 1. VACCINIBJB.
Shrubs. Ovary wholly or partly inferior. Fruit a berry, crowned with
the vestiges of the calyx-teeth '. . Vaccinium. 1
Sub-order 2. ERICINE.2J.
Shrubs or trees. Calyx free. Corolla gamopetalous (in our own species). Stamens
hypogynous. Anthers introse in the bud.
