PLUMBAGINACE^. (LEAD WORT FAMILT.) 71
6. CHIMAPHIIiA, Pursh. Pipsissewa.
Corolla of rotately spreading, orbicular and concave petals. Stamens 10. Style very
short, inversely conical, nearly immersed in the depressed ovary; stigma broad, its border
somewhat 5-crenate.
C. umbellata, Xutt. A nearly herbaceous evergreen, 6 to 18 inches high; the usually
whorled leaves oblanceolate, bright green; peduncle bearing 3 to 7 white or flesh-colored,
waxy flowers. — Mt. St. Helena, JIlss E. Sicett.
7. PYROIiA, Toum.
Corolla of 5 concave and converging petals. Stamens aa in Chimaphila. Style gen-
erally long; stigma 5-lobed or 5-rayed. — Low and smooth perennial herbs, with broad
and petioled leaves, close to the ground, and more or less scaly-bracted scape bearing a
simple raceme of white, greenish or rose-colored, nodding flowers.
1. P rotundifolia, L. Leaves orbicular, varying to round-obovate or round-reni-
form, on slender, naked petioles; scape 6 to 1-4 inches high; probably our plants are of the
Var. bracteata, Gr. A large form, with leaves 2 or 3 inches long; scape often over a
foot high.
2. P. picta, Smith. Leaves thick, coriaceous; pale, sometimes purplish below; com-
monly blotched with white, ovate to obovate and lanceolate-oblong, on short petioles, 1
to 2 inches long; smaller than the last.
8. PTEROSPORA, Nutt.
Calyx deeply 5-parted, short, persistent. Corolla withering-persistent, globular-ovate,
with contracted mouth; the 5 very short lobes, recurved. Stamens 10, included, short;
stigma 5-lobed,
1. P. andromedea, Nutt. A stout, purplish-brown or chestnut-colored and
clammy-pubescent herb, 1 to 3 ft. high; raceme long, many-flowered; corolla white, 3
lines long.
BARCODES SANQUTNEA, Torr. The Snow Plant of the Sierra Nevada belongs here.
Order 34. PLUMBAGINA CE-ffi.
Chiefly maritime herbs, with regular flowers, the parts in fives; the stamens opposite
the petals. Calyx tubular or funnel-form, 5-plaited, 5-toothed. persistent. Corolla in
our genera with the long-clawed petals scarcely vmited. Stamens adnate to the base of
the petals.
Plowers in a globose head on a simple scape Armeria, 1
Flowers on a brandling scape , Statice. 2
