72 PRIMULACE^. (PEEffiBOSE FAMTT.Y.)
1. ARMERIA, WiUd Thkift.
Calyx scarions, funnel-form. Styles 5, filiform. Stemlesa perennials, "with linear
grass-like leaves in close tufts, the naked scape bearing a head of rose-colored flowers.
1. A. vulgaris, Willd. Scapes a foot or two high. On sandy hills along the
coast.
2. STATICE, L. J^Iaesh-Roskmary.
Flowers in small spikes or clusters, crowded at the extremities of a branching scape;
their structure nearly as in Armeria. Leaves commonly with a broad blade, tapering
into a petiole.
1. S. Limonium, L. Leaves obovate-oblong ; spikelets 2-3-flowered. Salt
marshes.
Oeder 35. PRIMULACEiE.
Herbs, with perfect, regular flowers, well marked, by having the stamens as long aa
the lobes of the corolla, and opposite to them, inserted on its tube, a single entire style
and stigma, a one-celled ovary, and capsular fruit. Calyx 4-8-cleft, commonly 5-cleft,
hypogynous. — Leaves simple; stipules none. In GIuux the corolla is wanting; stamens
on the calyx alternate with its lobes.
* Flowers umbellate on a naked scape.
Corolla deeply 4-5-parted, the lobes reflexed Dodecatheon. 1
* * Flowers axillary, on leafy stems.
Corolla 5-9-parted, rotate Trientalis. 2
Corolla 5-parted; prostrate stems Anagallis. 3
Corolla wanting; calyx colored Glau^ 4
1. DODECATHEON. L.
Calyx deeply 5-cleft, the divisions reflexed in the flower, afterwards erect over the
ovate or oblong capsule. Corolla with a very short tube, a dilated, thickened throat and
an abruptly reflexed 4-5-parted limb; its divisions long and narrow, entire. Stamens
inserted in the throat of the corolla, erect, cohering around the slender exserted style. —
Acaulescent j^erennial smooth herbs, with a tuft of radical leaves. Corolla purple, pink,
or rarely white. Frequently the parts are in fours.
1. D. Meadia, L. Leaves varying from obovate to lanceolate, entire or toothed;
scape 3 to 15 inches high; tmabel, 2-20-flowered. A variable species. Ours is chiefly
the
Yar. brevifolimn, with leaves round-obovate or spatulate, less than an inch to an
inch and a half long.
