ASCLEPI.\DA.CE^. (mILZWEED FAMILY.) 73
2. TRIENTAIilS, L. Stak-flower.
Calyx and wheel-shaped corolla about 7-parted. Filaments slender, spreading. — Low
and glabrous perennials, with simple stems, which bear a whorl of leaves at the summit,
in their axils slender peduncles supporting star-shaped, white or pinkish flowers.
1. T. Europaea, L., Var. latifolia, Torr. Stems 4 to 8 inches high, springing
from a little tuber.
3. ANAGAIjLIS, Toum. Pimpernel.
Divisions of the rotate 5-parted corolla broad. Capsule globose. — Spreading, prostrate
herbs, with opposite or whorled leaves and axillary flowers.
1. A. arvensis, L. Leaves ovate, sessile, shorter than the peduncles, sometimes in
threes; flowers scarlet, purple, or nearly salmon-colored, rarely blue.
4. GLAUX, L. Sea IMilkwort.
CtJyx campanulate, 5-cleft; the lobes ovate, petal-like. Filaments rather shorter than
the calyx. Style filiform; stigma capitate.
I. G. maritima, L, Low, glabrous; branching stems 3 to 9 inches high, leafy to
the top; leaves commonly opposite, fleshy, oblong, half an inch or less long, minutely
dotted; flowers axillary, almost sessile, white or purplish.
Order OLEACE.Sj is represented by Fraxinus Oregana, Nutt., the Oregon Ash.
Order APOCYNACE.33 is represented by Apocynum cannabinum, L. (Indian
Hemp.) An herb with milky juice, tough bark, opposite entire exstipulate leaves, regular
flowers, the sepals, petals and stamens five, the latter borne on the corolla alternate with
its lobes and conniving around the stigma. The commonly sessile, oblong leaves often 3
or 4 inches long. The greenish- white small flowers in close cymes. A. aiidroscBTnifoliuTn^
L., has smaller ovate leaves, conspicuously petioled; flowers rose-colored.
Oedeb 36. ASCLEPIADACE^.
Herbs with milky juice, no stipules, and regular flowers, with the parts in fives, except
that there are two carpeb with distinct ovaries and a common stigma to which the sta-
mens are attached; the latter (in our genera) with hood-like appendages. Leaves entire,
generally opposite, sometimes whorled. Flowers usually in simple umbels. Fruit a
pair of follicles. Seeds almost always with a coma of silky down.
1. ASCLEPIAS, L. Milkweed.
The calyx and corolla deeply 5-parted; the small divisions reflexed; filaments short,
crowned behind each anther with a conspicuous hood from the cavity of which
rises the subulate and usually falcate hern; anthers with thin scarious tips inflexed
