74 GENTIANACEJE. ( GENTIAN FAMLLT. )
over the truncate summit of the stigma, their wing-like edges meeting and projecting
between the hoods; pollen in 10 wax-like masses. Follicles ovate or lanceolate. Seeds
numerous, flat, downwardly imbricated all over the large, soon detached placenta; the
upper end with a long tuft of down (coma). — Hoods in our species erect and not exceed-
ing the stamens and stigma.
1. A. fascicularis, Decaisne. Smooth, slender, 1 to 5 ft. high; leaves in whorls of
3 to 5, or some in pairs, linear and linear-lanceolate; flowers white or whitish; horns
longer than the hoods.
2. A. vestita, Hook & Arn. White-woolly; leaves opposite, ovate-lanceolate or
oblong-lanceolate, almost sessile; umbels almost sessile; flowers about half an inch long,
the hoods flesh-colored.
2. GOMPHOCARPUS, E. Br.
No horn to the hood of the stamens; otherwise as Asclepias.
% 1. Hoods saccate, pointless, lower than the anthers, opening domnthe back, as if 2-valved.
1. G. tomentosus, Gr. White-tomentose, closely resembling Asclepias vistitia;
etem acutely angled; leaves ovate or oblong (about 4 inches long); corolla greenish -white
o^ purplish.
2. G. purpurascens, Gr. Canescently puberulent; stems 4 to 12 inches high;
leaves ovate and somewhat cordate, an inch or two long; flowers small; the corolla red-
purple; the hoods white.
§ 2. Hoods erect, open dovm the front, somewhat surpassing the anthers.
3. G. cordifolius, Benth. Green and smooth, 2 or 3 ft. high; leaves ovate or ovate-
lanceolate, with cordate clasping base, opposite, rarely in threes, 2 to 5 inches long;,
flowers large; corolla dark red-purple; the hoods purplish.
Order 37. GENTIANACEiE.
Glabrous herbs, with colorless, bitter juice, entire opposite and sessile leaves, no sti-
pules, perfect and regular flowers, stamens as many as the lobes of the corolla and alternate-
with them, inserted on the tube, the anthers free from the stigma; ovary 1-celled; style
one or none; the stigmas commonly two. Calyx persistent.
§ 1. Corolla withering-persistent. Leaves opposite or whorled, entire, sessile.
Corolla salver-form, red; calyx 5-parted Erythrasa. 1
Corolla short, salver-form, yellow j caylx 4-toothed Microcala. 2
Corolla funnel-form, blue Gentiana, 3
§ 2. Corolla deciduotis. Leaves alternate, with sheathing petioles.
Flowers borne on a naked scape , Menyanthes, 4
