POLEMONIACE^. (GILIA FAilLLT.) "^3
1. ERYTHR-EJA, Pers.
Stamens inserted on the throat of the corolla; filaments slender; anthers oblong or
linear, twisting spirally after shedding the pollen. Style filiform; stigma wedge-shaped
or fan-like. Capsule oblong, tapering upward. — Corolla occasionally only 4-parttd.
1. E. trichantha, Grise. A span or less high, branched; lobes of the rose-red corolla
lanceolate, fully half the length of the tube at the time of expansion, 3 or 4 lines long;
calyx-lobes filiform, 3-angled.
2. E. Muhleubergii, Grise. Two inches to a span high, simple or branched; leaves
oblong, half an inch long; lobes of the corolla oval, very obtuse, becoming oblong,
rose-red.
2. MICROCAIiA, Link.
Anthers round-cordate. Stigma peltate-dilated, at length separating or separable into
2 plates.
1. M. quadrangularis, Grise. An inch or two high, filiform, simple and 1-flowered,
or branched at the base, witli 1 to 3 pairs of minute oval or oblong leaves; peduncles
naked, square; calyx short, square; corolla saffron-yellow.
3. GENTIANA, L. Gentian.
Calyx 4-5-toothed or cleft. Corolla 4-5-lobed, often with plaited and toothed folds in
the sinuses. Stamens included; anthers sometimes cohering. Style none or very shci'l;
stigmas 2, thin and flat.
1. G. alBnis, Grise., var. ovata, Gr. A span to a foot or two high; leaves ovate
or oblong; flowers mostly 5 or more, in a leafy thyrsus; corolla blue, an inch or more in
length; appendages mostly 2-cleft or 2-4- cuspidate, shorter than the round-ovate lobes.
4. MENYANTHES, Toum. Buckbean.
The campanulate corolla densely white-bearded on the upper surface, the lobes •with
the margins turned inward in the bud,
1. M. trifoliata, L. The alternate leaves long petioled, 3-foliolate; scape termi-
nated by a short raceme of white or pinkish flowers; anthers dark- brown, sagittate. — In
•hallow water or on wet ground.
Ordeb 38. POIiEMONIACEiE.
Chiefly herbs with simple or divided leaves, and no stipules; all the parts of the regu-
lar flower five, except the pistil, which has a 3-celled ovary and a 3-lobed style. Calyx
imbricated in the bud, persistent. Corolla convolute in the bud. Stamens on the corolla
alternate with its lobes distinct; anthers introse. — In Gilia the cells of the ovary and the
stigmas arc occasionally reduced to two.
