- r
76 POLEMONIACE^. (gILIA FAMILY.)
Leaves various but never simply pinnate with entire leaflets Gilla. 1
Leaves simply pinnate; leaflets linear to ovate; corolla short Polemonium. 2
1. GILLA- Ruiz & Pav.
Corolla funnel-form, salver-form, or sometimes short-campanulate or rotate, regular.
A polymorphous genus, the sections having almost generic dififerences.
Series I. Stamens attached to the corolla at unequal heights.
Mostly \dscid-pubescent or glandular; all but some of the lower leaves alternate; sta-
mens exserted. § Collomia.
Series II. Stamens equally inserted, but sometimes with unequal filaments.
* All of tlie leaves opposite, at least on the main stems, sessile and pcdmately parted or
rarely entire. {Seeds mucilaginous in water.)
Corolla from short funnel-form to almost rotate; the lobes obovate; filaments slender;
anthers oval. Low or slender, loosely and mostly small flowered annuals; the leaves
with filiform or setaceous divisions, appearing as if whorled. In ours, the flowers on
filiform pedicels, loosely paniculate. § 1. Dactylophyllum,
Corolla salver-form, but the tube shorter than the calyx, the broad cuneate-obovate
lobes slightly crenulate, strongly convolute in the bud; stamens inserted low on the
corolla tube, included; erect, smooth; leaves entire or 3-o-divided. § 2. Linanthus.
Corolla salver-form, with usually a filiform elongated tube, and the throat sometimes
abruptly dilated; stamens inserted in the throat; anthers short. Erect annuals, with
leaves as in the last, and the flowers in a terminal capitate cluster. § 3. Leptosiphon.
* * All the leaves alternate and palmately parted.
Corolla similar to § 3. Stems woody; leaves much fascicled in the axils, 3-7 parted,
rigid; flowers sessile, solitary or few at the ends of short branches. § 4. Leptodactylon,
• * * All, or all hut the lowest leaves alternate and pinnately compound, cleft or toothed,
or rarely entire.
Flowers capitate-glomerate or densely clustered, leafy-bracted; bracts and calyx-lobes
often laciniate, rigid acerose or spinulose-tipped. Corolla slender tubular- funnelform,
with small oblong lobes; cells of the ovary and stigmas sometimes only 2. Annuals,
mostly viscid-pubescent, never white- woolly, with once or twice pinnatifid leaves, their
lobes commonly pungent; the bracts sometimes palmately cleft. § 5. JSfavarretia.
Flowers, inflorescence, etc., nearly as in § 5; but the anthers always exserted; corolla
salver- form, more conspicuous; plants all white-woolly, not viscid. § 6. Hugelia.
Flowers capitate-glomerate, or panicled, or scattered, usually bractless; corolla (blue,
