POLEMONL\CE^. (gILIA FAMILY.) 77
purple or violet) from funnel-form to campanulate or almost rotate; stamens included or
not surpassing the corolla lobes; leaves most pinnately incised. § 7. Euqilia.
§ Collomia, [See p. 138.]
* Leaves simple, sessile, entire, lower ones often opposite. *
la. G. grandiflora, Gr. Erect, a foot or two high; leaves linear to lance-ovate;
calyx-lobes broad and obtuse; corolla buff or salmon-color, narrow- funnel-form, an inch
long. The showy flowers are in leafy-bracted heads. — Sonoma County, Lake County,
E. Brooks. Collomia grandijlora, Dougl. of 4th Ed.
16. G. gracilis, Gray. A span or two high, in age much branched; the flowers at
length somewhat scattered; leaves lanceolate or linear, or the lowest oval or obolate,
an inch or less long; corolla rose-purple, turning bluish, less than half an inch long,
narrow. Collomia gracilis, Dougl. of previous editions.
* * Leaves, deeply cleft or compound, the lower petioled; sterna loosely branched.
Ic. G. divaricata, Nutt. A span to 3 ft. high; lower leaves simply pinnately parted
into linear lateral lobes, or the terminal lobe oblong and toothed, upper leaves 3-5-
divided; corolla pink or purplish, its slender tube about half an inch long, twice or
thrice the length of the calyx; capsule globular, 3-seeded. Collomia gilioides, Benth.
Id. G. Sessei, Don. A span or two high, diffuse; leaves mostly pinnately parted or
the upper pinnatifid, and the lobes incised or cleft; the upper most often entire and
broader, subtending the capitate-clustered flowers; corolla purplish, half an inch long;
stamens very unequally inserted. Collomia heterophylla, Hook.
§ 1. Dactylophyllum. Benth.
1. G. liniflora, Benth. From a few inches to over a foot high; leaves with nearly
fiUform divisions an inch long; corolla white, rotate, when fully open, 10 to 6 lines across,
5-parted down to the very short tube.
Var. phamaceoides, Gr., is similar but smaller; the (sometimes pinkish) corolla half
an inch across, or less.
2. G. pusilla Benth. Small, 2 to 6 inches high; leaves less than half an inch long,
shorter than the scattered pedicels; corolla nearly white, or purplish with a yellow
throat, 1^ to 2 lines long, little exceeding the calyx.
Var. Califomica, Gr., has a corolla 3 lines long, twice the length of the calyx; the
throat often brownish. The most frequent form.
3. G. Bolanderl, Gr. Very like the last, but the tube of the blue or purple tinged
corolla longer and narrower (3 or 4 lines long).
4. G. aiirea, Nutt. Diffuse, 2 to 4 inches high; divisions of roughish leaves nar-
rowly linear, 3 lines long; peduncles shorter or but little longer than the flowers; corolla
usually yellow, short, funnel-form half an inch or less across; the roundish -obovate lobea
about the length of the obconical throat and the short proper tube.
