78 POLEMONIACKE. (GHJA FAMILT.)
Var. decora, Gr. Corolla white or pale violet, with or without a brown-purple
throat; peduncles longer.
§ 2. Linanthus, Endl.
5. G. dichotoma, Benth. A span to a foot high, remotely leaved; flowers nearly
sessile in the forks, or terminating the branches; calyx-tube white scarious; the teeth
gi'een; corolla white; the lobes from half to nearly an inch long; the tube sometimes
purplish.
§ 3. Leptosiphon, EndL
6. G. densiflora, Benth. A span to 2 ft. high; leaves in somewhat distant apparent
whorls; tube of the white or rose-purple corolla about equaling the villous-hirsute bracts
and calyx; its lobes nearly half an inch long, obovate.
7. G. androsacea, Steud. Erect or spreading, 3 to 12 inches high; corolla lilac,
rose, pink or almost white, with a yellow or dark throat; its tube about an inch long.
Var. rosacea, Gr., is a dwarf tufted form with many rose-red flowers.
8. G. micrantha, Steud. Slender, about a span high; tube of the corolla very
slender, 9 to 18 lines long; the lobes 2 or 3 lines long, from yellow to cream color and pale
purple, or whitish.
9. G. tenella, Benth. Low and mostly depressed; tube of the corolla 6 to 9 lines
long, the rose colored or pink lobes barely a line and a half long, the throat yellow;
bracts and leaves hispidulous-ciliate.
10. G. ciliata, Benth. More rigid and hirsute than the preceding, a span to a foot
high; tube of the rose-colored or purple, or in age whitish corolla, little if at allexaerted
beyond the very hirsute or hispid-ciliate bracts and subtending leaves, the lobes only a
line and a half long.
§ 4. Leptodactylon, Hook & Am,
11. G. Calif omica, Benth. Two or three feet high, with spreading rigid branches;
corolla rose-color or lilac, an inch and a half in diameter.
§ 5. Navarreiia, Gr.
* Stamens included in the throat of the corolla,
12. G. squarrosa, Hook & Am. Eigid, rather stout, becoming muon branched,
very glandular- viscid, fetid with the odor of a skunk; upper leaves and bracts spinescent;
corolla blue, 4 or 5 lines long.
• * Stamens more or less exserted; corolla slender ^ Sto6 lines long. Leaves twice pinnatifid.
13. G. cotulaefolia Steud. Rather stout and rigid, a foot or much less in height;
villous pubescent and minutely glandular; upper bracts spinescent; tube of the violet or
whitish corolla hardly longer than the calyx; capsule usually 1-seeded. Exhales the
pdor of Antkemis cotula (Mayweed).
14. G. ini-.ertexta, Steud. At length difiusely much branched, a span high, neithei
