HTDROPnYLLACEiE. (WATERLEAF FAMILY.) 81
1. NEMOPHILA, Nutt.
Calyx 5-parted. Corolla rotate-campanulate, deeply 5-lobed, the throat appendaged
with 10 internal plates or scales. — Tender herbs with diffuse and procumbent stems, and
pinnately lobed or divided leaves, more or less hirsute.
* Leaves mostly alternate; stems long and weak, beset with stiff reflexedhristles.
1. N. aurita, Lindl. Leaves large, with auriculate dilated and clasping base or
winged petiole deeply piunatitid into 5 to 9 retrorse lobes; corolla violet, 5 to 12 linci ia
diameter.
* * Leaves opposite not auricled at base,
2. N. maculata, Ijenth, Leaves lyrately pinnatifid into 5 to 9 short lobes, or the
uppermost only 3-lobed; corolla white, with a violet spot at the top of eacli lobe, over
an inch across.
3. N. insignis, Dougl. Leaves sunilai to the last; corolla bright blue, its scales
short and roundish, partly free.
4. N. Menziesii, Hook & Am. Leaves less divided than the last; corolla from
light blue to white and sprinkled with dots toward the center, its scales narrow and ad-
herent by one edge.
• * * Upper leaves often alternate, mostly longer than the peduncles, and slender-petioled,
many only 3-5-lobed, one-sided.
5. N. parviflora, Dougl. Slender and weak; corolla 2 to 5 lines across, light blu«
or white.
2. ELLISIA, L.
Calyx 5-parted, Corolla campanulate, short in proportion to the calyx; scales minute
or obsolete. Stamens and style not exserted.
1. E, chrysanthemifolia, Benth. Stem 1 or 2 ft. high, erect, branched; leaves dis-
Bected into very many small and short divisions; flowers, small, white; capsule remark-
able, viz. : the mostly four ordinary rough seeds enclosed between the placentae, while,
between each placenta and the valve which it lines, is hidden a single thin, meniscoidal,
smooth seed.
3. PHACELIA, Juss.
Calyx deeply 5-parted, the divisions usually narrow and similar; corolla from almost
rotate to narrow- funnelform; commonly with appendages upon the inside of the tube in
the form of 10 vertical plates, approximate in pairs between the bases of the fdameuts,
or adnate to the fdaments, one on each side. Stamens equally inserted low down or at
the base of the corolla. Herbs, mostly hirsute or hispid and branched from the base;
with simple or compound alternate leaves, or the lower opposite and more or less scor-
pioid infloresence. Corolla never yellow except in the throat. Ovules and seeds 4 in all
except the last species. (See Addenda, )
