82 HYDEOPHYIiLACE^ . (WATEELEAF FAMILY.)
* Leaves simple and entire, or with a pair or two of similar and smaller leaflets or lobes.
1. P. circinata, Jacq. f. A span to a foot or two high from a stout root, hispid and
the foliage strigose, either green, gi-ayish or canescent, with a soft pubescence; leaves
from lanceolate to ovate, acute, the lower tapering into a petiole and some bearing lateral
leaflets; inflorescence in dense scorpioid hispid spikes, crowded; corolla dull or bluish
white; filaments nmch exserted. — A very variable species; usually many stems from one
root; some with large entire, ovate green leaves only.
2. P. Brevceri, Gr. Foliage and habit similar to the last, but smaller and more
slender, from an annual root; leaves seldom an inch long, many of them 3-5-parted, the
lanceolate lateral lobes ascending; corolla smaller (scarcely 3 lines long), blue or violet;
filaments not exserted.
* * Leaves simple^ rounded, cordate, lobed and serrate.
3. P. malvaefolia, Cham. Stout, loosely branching, hispid with stinging hairs;
leaves 2 inches or more in diameter; spikes solitary, or in pairs; corolla 3 to 6 lines long,
dull white or bluish; stamens much exserted.
• * * Leaves once to thrice pinnatifid or pinnately compound, oblong in general outline.
Calyx bristly hispid, its lobes not rarely unequal. Annuals, tJie species dijicult to dis-
criminate.
4. P. tanacetifolia, Benth. Erect, 1 to 3 ft. high, roughish, hirsute or hispid;
leaves 9-17-divided in narrow once or twice pinnately parted or cleft divisions, all sessile
or nearly so; the scorpioid spikes clustered; the short pedicels erect or ascending; corolla
usually of a dirty mottled white or bluish; stamens and style much exserted; calyx lobea
not twice the length of the capsule.
5. P. ramosissima, Dougl. Straggling, somewhat viscid above; leaves pinnately
5-7-divided or parted into linear pinnatifid-incised divisions; the short pedicels soon
horizontal; stamens and style moderately exserted; calyx lobes more than twice the
length of the globular capsule; flowers bluish.
6. P. cilia ta, Benth. A span to a foot high; leaves rarely divided but incised or
cleft and toothed; spikes simple or in pairs; stamens usually not surpassing the open
corolla; calyx lobes ciliate with glandular bristles; corolla blue.
* * * • Leaves entire, or the lower 1-2-lobcd, not cordate, the veins parallel or converging, as
in P. circinata; no glandular pubescence ; calyx with long hairs; seeds more than 4'
7. P. divaricata, Gr. Diffusely spreading, a span or more in height; leaves ovat6
or oblong; style 2-cleft at the apex only; corolla violet, about 10 lines in diameter.
4. EMMENANTHE, Benth.
Distinguished from Phacelia by the persistent yellow or cream-colored corolla-
