BOERAGINACE^. (bOEKAGE FAMILY. ) 83
1. E. penduliflora, Benth. A span to a foot high; somewhat viscid; leaves piiin&<
tilid; pedicels filiform, abont half an inch long, equaling the nodding corolla.
5. ROMANZOFFIA, Cham.
Stamens unequal; style filiform. Low perennial herbs, with the aspect of saxifrages;
the leaves mainly radical, round-cordate, or reniform, crenately 7-11-lobed, long petioled.
1. R. Sitchensis, Bong. Scapes weak, a span long, bearing several pink or pur-
ple, varying to white flowers; corolla veiny.
6. ERIODICTYON, Benth.
Calyx deeply 5-parted. Corolla funnel-form to salver-form. Stamens included. — Low
ehrubs; the leaves alternate, of rigid coriaceous texture, the finely reticulated veinleta
conspicuous on a fine woolly ground, at least underneath, their margins beset with rigid
teeth.
1. E. glutinosum, Benth. (Mountain Balm, or Zerba. Santa.) Smooth, glu-
tinous with a resinous exudation, 3 to 5 ft. high; leaves ranceolate, 3 to 6 inches long;
cymes in a naked panicle; corolla tubular, funnel-form, violet or nearly white, half an
inch long.
E. tomentosum^ Benth., grows farther down the coast. It Is larger with Bznaller almost Balver-form
flowers; densely villous.
Obdee 40. BORRAGINACEiE.
Mostly roughly pubescent herbs, with alternate entire leaves without stipules, scor-
pioid inflorescence, and perfectly regular o-androus flowers; the ovary of 4 lobes or
divisions around a central style, ripening into seed-like nutlets. Calyx free, 5-parted
or 5-cleft, persistent. Corolla with a 5-lobed limb commonly imbricated in the bud.
Stamens distinct, inserted in the tube or throat of 1 he corolla alternate with its lobes.
The one-sided and coiled apparent spikes or racemes straighten as the blossoms develop.
All our species except the first belong to the true Borrage Tribe.
* Fruit not prickly.
Corolla with plaited sinuses; stigma sessil'j Heliotropium. 1
Corolla yellow. Bristly-hispid plants Amsinckia. 2
Corolla white Eritrichium. 3
* * The nutlets prickly ^ bur-like.
Flowers sky-blue (rarely white) in bracteate racemes Echinospermum. 4
Flower purple, blue and violet in a pcduncled raceme Cynoglossum. 5
Flowers minute; nutlets winged, or boat-shaped Pectocarya. 6
