84 BOERAGINACE^. (BORRAGB FAMILT.)
1. HELIOTROPIUM, Tourn.
Corolla with plaited sinuses. Filaments short or none; anthers connivent and some^
times cohering. Style entire or none; stigma a fleshy ring or the edge of a peltate or
umbrella-shaped disk. Fruit dry, splitting into 4 nutlets.
1. H. Curassavicum, L. A smooth and somewhat glaucous succulent herb with
spreading or prostrate stems; leaves oblanceolate, an inch or two long; flowers crowded,
white or blue; stigma sessile, flat-topped. Blackens in drying.
2. AMSINCKIA, Lehm.
Corolla salver-form, or somewhat funnel-form, more or less plaited in the bud at the
sinuses, with the tube exceeding the calyx, lobes rounded. Filaments short. Style fili-
form; stigma capitate-2-lobed. Nutlets ovate-triangular. Hispid annuals with oblong-
ovate to linear leaves, and yellow flowers in at length loose scorpioid spikes or racemes,
without bracts, except sometimes the lowest.
* Nutlets rough, the back convex,
1. A. spectabilis, Fisch. & Mey. Erect, a span to a foot high; leaves mostly linear;
tube of the bright orange-yellow corolla, two or three times the length of the linear,
rusty-hispid calyx, nearly half an inch long; the throat enlarged, and the expanded limb
a third to half an inch in diameter.
2. A. intermedia, Fisch. & Mey. Erect, usually a foot or two high; leaves linear
or only the lower lanceolate; corolla bright yellow, 3 or 4 lines long; its tube a little
surpassing the calyx-lobes; the limb 2 or 3 lines in diameter.
3. A. lycopsoides, Lehm. Loosely branched, soon spreading, sometimes decum-
bent, sparsely hispid with bristles, which on the leaves have conspicuous pustulate bases;
leaves from lanceolate to ovate, the margins usually undulate; upper flowers mostly
bractless; corolla light yellow, about 4 lines long; the throat little enlarged; the limb 2
or 3 lines in diameter. Passes into
Var. bracteosa, Gr., a smaller-flowered decumbent form, with most of the flowen»
bracteate.
* * Nutlets nearly flat on the back, coarsely granulate.
4. A. tessellata, Gr. About a foot high, rather stout, coarsely hispid, the bris-
tles of the calyx rusty; corolla orange-yellow, 3 or 4 lines long, the throat plaited, the
tube rather longer than the obtuse calyx-lobes; nutlets broadly ovate, thickly covered
with warty granulations closely fitting like the blocks of a pavement.
* * * Nutlets at maturity, whitish, smooth and polished.
5. A. verrucosa, Hook & Am. Sparsely bristly; leaves linear to ovate-lanceolate;
corolla light yellow, 4 or 5 lines long, and the limb narrow; nutlets shaped like a grain
of buckwheat.
