BORRAGINACE^. (BORRAGE FAMILY.; 85
Var. grandiflora, Gr. Kobust, more hispid and large flowered, the limbs broader;
calyx lobes often combined, so as to appear as 3 or 4.
3. ERITRICHIUM, Schr.
Most obviously distinguished from AmsincTcia and the nearer Echinospermum by its
usually smaller white flowers, with shorter corolla tube. The species difficult of deter-
mination.
1. E. Californicum, DC The slender stems decumbent, a span or more long;
the leaves narrowly linear; stems flowering from near the base; flowers almost sessile,
mostly %vith leaves or bracts, at length scattered; the corolla only a line long; calyx open
in fruit. Passes into
Var. subglochidiatmn, Gr. Slightly succulent; lower leaves inclined to spatulate,
nutlets somewhat barbed. Wet ground.
2. E. Scouleri, A. DC. Slender, erect a span to a foot high; leaves narrowly linear
(1 or 2 inches long); flowers in geminate or sometimes paniculate slender naked spikes,
most of them bractless; pedicels not more than a line long; calyx erect in fruit; corolla
surpassing the calyx, the limb almost rotate, 2 to 5 lines in diameter. — Seems to pass
into the next.
3. E. Chorisianum, DC. At first erect, soon spreading or decumbent; larger leaves,
2 to 4 inches long; flowers in lax, usually solitary racemes, many of them leafy-bracted;
pedicels sometimes filiform and 2 to 9 lines long; corolla more funnel-form, its limb 3
to 5 lines in diameter. — This may be a wet ground form of the last, which grows on dry
ground.
4. E. fulvTim, A. DC. A span to a foot high, slender branched from a leafy base,
pubescent; leaves linear, or the lower lanceolate or spatulate; spikes at maturity nearly
filiform, bracteate only at the base; calyx, etc., densely clothed with rusty or fulvous
hairs; caXys. deciduous, only the lower part remaining under the fruit; corolla limb 2
lines across.
5. E. canescens, Gr. Stouter and larger than the last; the pubescence whitish,
not rusty; leaves linear; calyx hardly deciduous.
6. E. oxycaryum, Gr. [May be known by the solitary ovate-acuminate, smooth,
•hining nutlet enclosed in the persistent bur-like calyx; corolla 2 lines wide.
4. ECHINOSPERMUM, Swartz.
Calyx lobes spreading or reflexed in fruit. Corolla short, salver-form, and with con-
spicuous arching crests at the throat. Short filaments, style, etc., as in Eritrichium.
Nutlets with barbed prickles.
1. E. floribundum, Lehm. Rather strict, 2 ft. or more high, or sometimes smaller;
teaves from oblong to linear-lanceolate; racemes numerous, usually geminate; the tri-
