86 CONVOLVULACEiE. (M0RNI2yG GLORY FATVITT.Y.)
angular nutlets armed with prickles on the margins; limb of the rotate corolla 2 to 6
lines in diameter, blue, rarely white.
5. CYNOGLOSSUM, Toum.
Chiefly distinguished from the preceding by the broad large leaves, the bractlesi
racemes and the nutlets clothed over the whole back with stout barbed prickles.
1. C. grande, DougL About 2 ft. high, pubescence soft; radical and lower stem
leaves ovate oblong, usually rounded or cordate at the base, long petioled; panicled
racemes or cymes small, on a long naked terminal peduncle; corolla tube exceeding the
calyx; its limb blue to violet, with usually purple crests; 3 to 5 lines wide.
6. PECTOCARYA, DC.
Structure of the minute white flowers similar to the preceding; nutlets widely spread-
ing in pairs, horizontal, oblong or almost linear, surrounded by an incurved wing-like
border which is toothed, the apex beset with hooked bristles.
1. P. penicillata, A. DC. Very slender, diffusely branching, spreading, with nar-
row linear leaves, and small flowers scattered the whole length of the stem, on very short
pedicels; nutlets only a line long.
Oeder 41. CONVOLVULACEiE.
Herbs, usually twining or trailing, with alternate leaves (or scales) and regular perfect
flowers; the stamens as many as the lobes or angles of the corolla and alternate with
them (5, rarely 4); the free persistent calyx of mostly distinct imbricated sepals; ovary
2-3-celled; capsules generally globular; seeds 1 to 4. Inflorescence axillary.
Corolla plaited in the bud; style single Convolvidus. 1
CoroUa S-cleft; styles 2. Cressa. 2
Twining parasites, leafless, yellowish Cuscuta. 3
1. CONVOLVULUS, L
Corolla campanulate or short and open funnel-form, with a 5-angulate or obscurely
5-lobed border, deeply plaited down the sinuses in the bud. Stamens included. Style
filiform; stigmas 2, in ours flat, from linear toovaL (See Addenda.)
* A pair of bracts close to the calyx, enveloping it.
1. C. Soldanella, L. Maritime, low, smooth; stems a foot or less in length, trail-
ing; leaves reniform entire or obscurely angulate-lobed, an inch or two broad, long
petioled; corolla pink, purplish, or nearly white.
