CONVOLVULACEiE. (mORNINQ GLORY FAillLY.) 87
2. C. occidentalis, Gr. Mostly smooth; stems twining several feet high; leaves
from broadly ovate-triangular with a deep and narrow basal sinus to narrowly lanceolate-
hastate; the posterior lobes often 1-2-toothed; peduncle elongated, not rarely 2-flowered
within the bracts; these ovate or rarely oblong, commonly surpassing the enclosed calyx;
corolla white or pinlcish, 1 to 1^ inches broad; stigmas linear.
3. C. Califomicus, Choi. Minutely and rather densely pubescent, a span or less
high, or with trailing stems a foot long; leaves from ovate or obovate and obscurely
hastate to triangular-hastate, the basal lobes sometimes 1-2-toothed, long-petioled; pe-
duncles shorter than the petiole; bracts oblong or oval, about equaling the sepals, or
shorter; corolla white, cream-color or flesh-color, IJ to 2 inches long.
4. C. villosiis, Gr. Densely silky-villous or woolly; corolla cream colored, an inch
long.
* * iVo calyx-like bracts; sometimes a -pair of leaves close under tlie Jlower or a pair of
bracts at some distance below it.
5. C. luteolus, Gr. Stems twining several feet long; leaves triangular-hastate or
sagittate, the basal lobes sometimes 2-lobed; peduncles bearing a pair of linear or lan-
ceolate entire bracts, a little below the flower; a second flower occasionally from the
axil of one of them; corolla pale yellow or purplish, an inch or more in length; stigmas
linear.
2. CRESSA, L.
Corolla deeply 5-cleft; the oblong or ovate lobes more than half the length of the
somewhat campanulate tube. Stamens and the 2 distinct styles exserted. Stigmas
capitate.
1. C. Cretica, L. A span or two high, silky-villous and hoary ; leaves very
numerous, 2 to 4 lines long, almost sessile; flowers ecasile or nearly so in the upper axils;
corolla 2 or 3 lines long, white. — On saline or alkaline soiL
3. CUSCUTA, Toum. Dodder.
Calyx 5-4-cleft or parted. Corolla campanulate or short-tubular, the spreading limb
5-4-parted. Styles in our species 2, distinct. Seeds genninating in the soil, but the
thread-like, branching, leafless, yellowish or reddish twining stems becoming parasitic on
the bark of herbs or small shrubs; being attached by means of suckers. Flowers small,
cymose or densely clustered, white or whitish.
* Capsule depressed-globose,
1. C. Califomica, Choisy. Flowers pedicelled in loose few-flowered cymes; lobes of
the calyx acute; lobes of the corolla lanceolate-subulate, delicate white; no scales below
the stamens.
Var. breviflora, Engel. Flowers scarcely over a line long; calyx lobes equaling the
corolla-tube.
