88 SOLANACIL^. (potato FAMILY.)
Var. longiloba, EngeL Flowers 1^ to 2^ lines long; calyx-lobes often with recurved
tips; capsule mostly only 1 -seeded, enveloped by the withered corolla.
* * Capsule pointed^ capped or enveloped hy the withered corolla.
2. C. salina, Engel. Flowers 1^ to 2J lines long delicate white; corolla lobes often
overlapping, denticulate; capsule surrounded but not capped by the corolla, usually
1 -seeded. — Growing in saline marshes, usually on Salicomia.
3. C. subinclusa, Dur. «& Hilg. Flowers sessile or nearly so (at length in large
clusters), 2^ to 4 lines long; lobes of the corolla short, the tube somewhat urn-shaped,
only partly covered by the fleshy, usually reddish calyx. — The most common species
growing on coarse herbs and shrubs.
Order 42. SOLANACEiE.
Herbs or shrubs, with alternate leaves and no stipules, regular 5-merous flowers on
bractless pedicels, a single style and a 2-celled ovary; the fruit a many-seeded berry or
capsule.
This small order of, perhaps, not more than a dozen species west of the Sierra Nevada,
and less than 70 in North America, is remarkable for the diversity of properties exhibited
by its members, and the almost universal use by man of several of its species. At first
view, the classification seems absurd which puts fiery Cayenne pepper and insipid egg
plants, the wholesome tomato and deadly night-shade, nutritious potatoes and poisonous
tobacco together in one family. A careful examination shows that these seemingly very
different plants are much alike after all. The four most important plants of this order —
potato, tobacco, red or Cayenne pepper, and tomato — are natives of tropical America,
and were consequently not used in the Old World before the sixteenth century. The
following ornamental plants of the order are common in cultivation: Jerusalem Cherry
{Solanum Pseudo-Capsicum), a small shrub, with red berries; Jasmine Solanum {S. Jas-
minoides), a shrubby climber, with a profusion of nearly white blossoms a little smaller
than those of the potato; the well-known Matrimony Vine [Lycium vulgare); Tree
Datura or Stramonium {Datura arhorea), with hanging flowers six or seven inches in
length; Cestrum, a shrub with drooping tubular red flowers in terminal bunches; and
Petunia, with funnel-form corollas of various colors.
Solanum JTanti, Gray, grows along the coast from Santa Barbara Bouthward, and has been reported
from Lake County. It is more berbaceons than .S. umbelliferum, and may be distinguished with the aid
of a lens by its simple glandular hairs, instead of the branching hairs of the latter species.
Physalis or Ground Cherry may be found in cultivated ground. Its berries are enclosed by an
inflated calyx.
Datura Meteloides, DC, grows on the Salinas River and southward. The flowers are white or violet
tuiged, and 6 to 8 inches long, with a wide border; the capsule nodding.
