SCROPHDLARIACEiE. (FIGWORT FAMILY.) 89
most important American genera are Pentstemon, 75 species, found, with one exception,
only in North America, and mostly within the limits of the United States between the
Rocky Mountains and the Sierra Nevada; Mimulus, represented in other countries, but
most largely in North America, where there are 30 species, about two thirds of which
grow in California, west of the Sierra Nevada, only 2 species reaching the Atlantic
States; Orthocarpus, 24 species, all North American, except one, and west of the
Mississippi, 16 belonging to California; Gerardia, 24 species, mostly in the Atlantic
States, and none reaching the Rocky Mountains; Castilleia, 23 species, 2 Asiatic, 3 in the
Atlantic States, and S or 9 in California; Pedicularis, a large genua, mostly in the arctic
regions and on high mountains of the temperate zone, 28 American species; CoUinsia, 15
species, all Califomian, except two, which grow in the Mississippi Valley. Several
showy species of shrubby Veronicas are cultivated. This large genus, numbering 40
species in New Zealand alone, is represented in the United States by only a few obscure
herbs. Digitalis, commonly cultivated under the name of Foxglove, has run wild about
Humboldt Bay and in the Willamette Valley.
Many plants belonging to the genera Pentstemon, Collinsia, and Mimulus are culti-
vated on account of their beautiful flowers. Pentstemons are mostly confined to hilly or
mountainous districts. Collinsias grow everywhere. Most species of Mimulus prefer
moist places, but the only shrubby species, M. gliUinoatis, grows on dry, rocky hillsides.
Two species of Verbascum (Mullein) are found In the State, but probably not "witliln our limits; r.
Thapsui, L.. ■with •woolly decurrent leaves and F. virgatum. Withe., distinguished by nearly smooth not
decurrent leaves and violet bearded filaments.
* Leaves mostly alternate; corolla personate.
Corolla spurred at base Linaria. 1
Corolla gibbous at base Antdrrhiuuixi. 2
• * Leaves opposite or whorled.
Corolla erect, the anterior lobe reflexed, the other 4 erect, a scale in the throat on
the upper side Scrophulciria. 3
Corolla declined, the middle lower lobe infolding the stamens and style , . . Collinsia, 4
Carolla with a fifth sterile filament on the upper side Pentstemon. 5
Stigma 2-lipped or disk-like Mimulus. 6
* * * Corolla rotate or short-campanulate.
Calyx 5-toothed; corolla campanulate .Limosella. 7
Calyx 4-parted; corolla 4-lobed, rotate Veronica. 8
• • • * Corolla tubular; the upper lip erect or incurved, laterally compressed, usually en-
closimj the ascending stamens.
Corolla narrow with almost obsolete lower lip Castilleia. 9
Corolla with saccate lower lip of 3 lobes Orthocarpus. 10
