90 SCROPHULARIACKE. (fIQWOET FAMILY.)
Lips of corolla, both short; the lower 3-crenulate Cordylanthus, 11
Upper lip of the corolla arched; many large radical leaves Pedicularis. 12
1, LINARIA, Toum.
Calyx 5-parted. Corolla with the throat nearly closed; the bas« in front (below) pro-
longed into a spur.
1. L. Canadensis, Dnm. (Toad Flax.) Smooth; leaves linear, alternate on the
erect flowering stems, but smaller and broader ones often opposite or whorled on the
procumbent shoots; flowers blue in a tenninal raceme.
2. ANTIRRHINUM, Toum. Snapdeaoon,
Like Linaria, except that the corolla has a saccate protuberance instead of a spur. In
ours the upper lip is spreading and the lower lobes deflexed.
1. A. glandnlosum, Lindl. Glandular and viscid; leaves lanceolate, mostly sessile;
flowers in a dense spike or raceme, half an inch or more long, pink with yellowish
palate.
9.. A. vagans, Gr. Very diffiise, often glandular, branchlets frequently prehensile;
leaves short, lanceolate to ovate; flowers scattered, purplish blue, half an inch long.
Var. Bolanderi, Gr. Has broader and thinner leaves, those on the prehensile branch*
lets orbicular.
3. A. Brewerl, Gr. Has smaller flowers, only 3 lines long; style strongly deflexed.
3. SCROPHULARIA, Toum. Figwoet.
Calyx deeply 6-cleft, the lobes broad. Corolla short, with an oblong tube unequally
5-lobed, 4 erect, the two upper the longer. Stamens 4, inserted in pairs, low down on
the corolla tube, a rudiment of the fifth stamen in the form of a scale above. Coarse
herbs, with inconspicuous flowers.
1. S. Califomica, Cham. Nearly smooth, 2 to 6 ft. high, with deltoid or truncate-
ovate doubly toothed opposite leaves; flowers small greenish or lurid red (rarely yellow)
in a terminal thyrsus.
4. COLLINSIA, Nutt.
Calyx deeply 5-cleft. Corolla with the tube gibbous or saccate on the tipper side,
commonly declined, conspicuously bilabiate; the upper lip 2-cleft, and its lobes recurv-
ing; the lower 3-lobed and larger, its side lobes pendulous-spreading, the middle one
folded into a keel-shaped sac and including the declined stamens and style. Stamens in
pairs, with long filaments, anthers round-renif orm. A gland at the base of the corolla on
the upper side answers to the fifth stamen. — Beautiful annuals with simple opposite or
whorled leaves, all but the lower sessile; pedicels solitary or whorled in the axils of leaves
which diminish to small bracts above.
