n
INTRODUCTORY LESSONS.
jour first lessons from plants which have larger beginnings. You should
first study —
2. The Plant in the seed. Get many kinds of large seeds, such as
peas, beans, squash-seeds, bucke^^es, castor beans, corn, etc. Put them
in water that they may become soft enough to be readily separated into
their parts. In a day or two starchy seeds, such as peas or beans, will be
in good condition.
3. First take a bean and make drawings showing the outlines as seen
sidewise and edgewise. Any marks that seem to be found on all beans
must be put down in the drawing, but do not bother about the shading.
These attempts to represent what 3'ou see will lead to the discovery of
certain marks on the concave edge of the bean, the meaning of Avhich
you may sometime learn by studying the growth of the seed in the pod.
After 3^ou have thus studied the outside of the seed, slit it along the back
with a sharp knife and take out the kernel. It readily splits into halves
which are held together near one end by a short stem. Upon breaking
them apart the stem sticks to one half, and you discover growing from the
inner end a pair of tiny embracing-leaves. Make another drawing and
compare it with Fig. 7. Presently it will be
clear to you that this entire kernel is a little (ff\%k\ /M
plant. The plant in this dry apparently' lifeless
first stage of its existence is called —
4. The Embryo, or Germ. This, as you have f liilihliiil!'/ \\1
seen, is made up of the stem, or Radicle ; the
thick parts called Cotyledons, and the two-leaved 7 8
~ One cotyledon of a bean witb
IT Ti; 7 mi I p • • 7. One cotyledon of a bean with
bud, or rlumuie. ihe emwyo or a pea is Sim- the radicle and large plumule. 8.
•1 I 1 1 1 (. 1 1 i. xi 1 1 • Embryo of a peanut, o, inner side
liar to that 01 a bean, but the plumule is more of one cotyledon with the radicle
decidedly a bud. Fig. 8 represents the straight same^'"'"'''"' '' '"''' "'^" "' '""'
embryo of a i3eanut. The radicle is not bent around against the cotyle-
dons as in the pea, and bean, and the plumule shows two divided leaflets.
The cotyledons of the squash are thin and the plumule is scarcely visible.
Lupine, though its seeds resemble beans, has a long radicle and a minute
plumule. The buckeye seems to have a long radicle, but since it splits
nearly to its point, where 3'ou will find a large plumule, it is evident that
the apparent radicle is mostly made up of the cotyledon stems (petioles).
