SCROPHULARIACE^. ( FIG WORT FAMILY. ) 91
• Floicers i<kort-pediceled or nearly sessile, verticillate,
1. C. bicolor, Benth. A foot or more high; leaves oblong-lanceolate, the upper
asnally ovate-lanceolate and sessile by a nervose veined base; pedicels shorter than tho
acute lobes of the calyx; the lower lip or the corolla violet or rose-purple and the upper
paler to nearly white; the saccate throat very oblique to the true tube, fully as broad as
long; gland short. — The most showy species, with flowers nearly an inch long.
2. C. tinctoria, Hartw. Foliage, etc, like the preceding; generally more viscid-
pubescent; flowers almost sessile; corolla yellowish, cream-color, or white, usually with
purple dots or lines; upper lip very short. — East side of Sacramento Valley.
3. C. bartsiaefolia, Benth. Puberulent and somewhat glandular; leaves from ovate-
oblong to linear; flower-whorls 2 to 5, rarely only one; the lateral lobes of the lower lip
emarginate or obcordate; gland elongated. Flowers nearly as large as the preceding,
purplish, pale violet, or whitish; upper lip with a transverse callosity at the origin of the
limb.
4. C. Greenei, Gr. Upper lip of the violet purple corolla about half the length of
the lower, crested below with a pair of callous teeth on each side connected by a ridge.
Corolla 5 lines long. — Lake County.
* * Flowers on slender pedicels, solitary or umhellate-whorled.
6. C. sparsiflora, Fisch. & ^Mey. Slender; upper leaves linear-oblong or linear-
lanceolate, merely opposite or the upper minute floral bracts in threes; pedicels solitary
in the axils, longer or shorter than the flower which is 4 to 8 lines long; corolla mostly
violet; the upper lip and the middle lobe of the lower commonly yellowish and purple-
dotted; cal^'x usually purple-tinged.
7. C. parviflora, Dough Low, at length dififuse about a span high; the blue, or
partly white flowers solitary or 2 to 5 in a whorl, 2 to 4 lines long; Btigma cleft, gland
capitate, short-stipitate.
5. PENTSTEMON, Mitch.
Calyx 5-parted. Corolla with a conspicuous mostly elongated or ventricose tube; the
limb more or less bilabiate; upper lip 2-lobed; the lower 3-cleft, recurved or spreading. —
The conspicuous sterile filament strongly marks the genus, remarkable for its many beau-
tiful species. (See Addenda. )
1. P. Menziesii, Hook. Tufted at the woody base, a span to a foot high; leaves oval
or ovate, a half to an inch long; corolla about an inch long, pink-red; anthers with the
diverging cells long- woolly. Mt. St. Helena, Mrs. M. L. Swett.
2. P. corymboaus, Benth. A foot or two high, soft-pubescent or nearly smooth,
leafy to the tip; corolla scarlet, an inch long; anthers smooth; steril filament, bearded
down one side.
3. P. breviflorus, LindL 3 to G ft. high, with long, slender, flowering branches;
torolla yellowish with flesh-color, striped within with pink, about half an inch long; the
bpper lip beset with long viscid hairs; sterile filament naked.
