92 SCEOPHULAKIACE^. (FIGWOKT FAMILY.)
4. P. Lemmoni, Gr. Is smaller and may be distinguished from the last by ita
yellow bearded sterile filament.
5. P. heterophyllus, Lindl. Stems 1 to 5 ft. high from a woody base; leaves lan-
ceolate or linear; corolla an inch or more in length, ventricose, rose-purple or pmk chang-
ing to violet, an inch or more in length. Difficult to distinguish from the next. — Coast
Range.
6. P. azureus, Benth. Usually smaller than the last; the larger corolla azure blue
changing to violet; the base sometimes reddish; the expanded limb sometimes an inch
broad. — Sierra Nevada.
6. MIMULUS, L.
Calyx mostly plicately o-angled. Corolla funnel-form, with the included or rarely
exserted tube bilabiately 6-lobed; the lobes roundish, more or less spreading or the
upper turned back; a pair of ridges running down the lower side of the throat. The
anthers often approximate in pairs, their cells divergent. The lobes of the stigma com-
monly petaloid-dilated or peltate-funnelform. — Flowers axillary on simple peduncles;
commonly showy.
1. M. tricolor, LindL Stem, when beginning to flower, only a quarter of an inch
high, at length 3 inches. Corolla about 1^ inches long, with a long exserted slender
tube, a short funnelform throat, and similar nearly equal lobes; pink, with a crimson
spot on the base of each lobe, a yellow stain along the lower lip. Leaves sessile.
2. M. Douglasii, Gr. Similar to the last; leaves contracted into a petiole; lower
lip of the corolla much shorter than the erect upper one or even obsolete; the throat
more ample. Stem from a ^ to 6 inches high.
3. M. glutinosus, Wendl. A brittle-stemmed shrub, 2 to 6 ft. high, with thick
glutinous-sticky leaves and mostly buff or salmon-colored flowers, but running into
varieties with red, red-brown, or scarlet flowers.
4. M. cardinalis, Dougl. Villous, with viscid hairs; the large leaves ovate, the
upper often connate; corolla frequently 2 inches long; the tube hardly exceeding the long
calyx, the limb very oblique, scarlet. — Along water courses.
5. M. luteus, L. Mostly smooth, varying greatly in size from a foot to even 4 ft.
high; leaves ovate oval or cordate; corolla deep yellow, usually spotted within, and
the base of the lower lip blotched with brown-purple, from 1 to 2 inches long. Moist
ground.
6. M. inconspicuus, Gr. Smooth, 2 to 7 inches high; the ovate or lanceolate
leaves sessile, a half inch or less long; corolla 5 lines long, yellow or rose-color; calyx
teeth very short.
7. M. moschatus, Dougl. (Musk Plaint.) Very villous and usually musk-scented j
stems spreading and creeping; flowers yellow. — Our form is chiefly
Var. longiflonis, Gr., with very clammy leaves and flowers an inch long, scarcely
musky.
