SCROPHDLARUCEiE. (FIGWORT FAMTLT.) 93
8. M, pilosus, Wat. A span to a foot high, much branched, soft, villous and
•lightly viscid, many flowered from near the base; leaves lanceolate to narrowly oblonp^
•essile, entire; calyx tube not prismatic; corolla yellow, obscurely bilabiate, 3 or 4 lines
long, usually a pair of brown-purple spots on the lower lobe.
7. LIMOSELLA, L. Mudwort.
Calyx campanulate. Corolla rotate-campanulate, nearly regular. Style short; stigma
thickish. — Diminutive annuals, with narrow fleshy leaves in clusters around the 1-flow-
ered scapes. Flower small, white or purplish.
1. L. aquatica, L. An inch to a span high, growing in brackish mud or in fresh
water.
8. VERONICA, L.
The lower lobe and sometimes the lateral ones of the rotate corolla sometimes smaller
than the others. Stamens 2, one on each side of the upper lobe of the corolla. Cap-
sules compressed. Flowers small (a line or two broad), in racemes or spikes, or solitary
in the axils; blue, purplish, or white.
1. V. Americana, Schw. Stems a span to two feet long; leaves ovate or oblong,
serrate, rather succulent, short-petioled, an inch or two long, opposite. Flowers in axil-
lary racemes, bluish, with purple stripes. Common in damp places.
2. V. peregrina, L. A span or more high, all the upper leaves alternate, linear-
oblong; flowers minute, in the axils of the leaves, and mostly narrow bracts; capsule
©bcordate.
9. CASTILLEIA, Mutis. Painted-Cup.
Calyx tubular, more or less cleft in front or behind, or both; the lobes 2 and lateral, or
4. Corolla tubular, laterally compressed, especially the long upper lip (galea) ; the lower
lip very short or minute, 3-tootlied, and somewhat saccate below the short teeth; the
tube usually inclosed in the calyx. Stamens 4, inclosed in the galea; anthers 2-celled,
the long cells unequal, the outer fixed by the middle, the inner ones smaller, pendulous.
Style long; the capitate stigma sometimes 2-lobed. Herbs, sometimes woody at the base,
with mostly alternate, sessile leaves, the floral ones or their tips, as well as the calyx
lobes, commonly petaloid and colored red, yellow, or white. Flowers in terminal, simple,
leafy spikes.
1. C. afBnis, Hook. & Arn. Annual; a foot or two high; leaves narrowly lanceo-
late, entire; the upper floral bracts usually broader, the apex toothed, red; spike with
scattered, frequently pedicellate flowers below; calyx red; an inch long, its front fissure
hardly twice as deep as the back one, the narrow lobes acutely 2-cleft; corolla 1 to IJ
Inches long, exserted so as to expose the callous lip; the galea about equal to the tube,
yellowish or tipped with red.
2 C. latifolia, Hook «& Am. Perennial (as are all the following); branching from
