94 SCROPHULAEIACKE. (fIGWORT FAMILY.)
the base, 1 or 2 ft. high, villous-hirsute and viscid; leaves oval, obtuse, half an inch or
more long, some above 3-5-lobed and red; calyx 2-cleft to the middle, the lobes entire or
emarginate, almost equaling the corolla; corolla 8 lines long, the short teeth of the lip
inflexed.
3. C. parviflora, Bong. A span to 2 ft. high, villous-hirsute above; leaves variously
cleft into linear or lanceolate lobes, or sometimes the cauline are mainly entire and nar-
row; calyx lobes oblong and 2-cleft at the apex or to below the middle; corolla an inch or
less long; only the upper part of the narrow galea exserted — A variable species. As in-
the preceding species, the bracts and calyx are usually colored red or crimson, but some-
times varying to yellow or even white.
4. C. miniata, DougL Commonly 2 ft. high, strict, often slender; leaves lanceolate
or linear-lanceolate, almost always entire, the broad floral ones of the close spike some-
times incised or 3-cleft, usually bright red, rarely whitish; calyx lobes lanceolate, acutely
2-cleft; corolla over an inch long, exserted, exposing the short ovate teeth of the lip.
5. C. foliolosa. Hook. & Am. Densely white- woolly, the matted hairs loosened with
age; many-stemmed from a woody base; leaves narrowly linear, an inch or less long,
crowded below and fascicled in the axils.
10. ORTHOCARPUS, Nutt
Chiefly distinguished from Castilleia by the upper lip of the corolla (galea) which but
little, if at all, surpasses the usually more conspicuous and inflated 1-3-saccate lower
lip.
§ 1. Ci^STiLLEioiDES, Gr. — Lower Up of the corolla simply or somewhat triply saccate^ and
hearing 3 conspicuous teeth; the galea hroadish or narrow; stigrna capitate; anthers aU
2-celled; bracts with colored tips.
* Filaments smooth; galea straight or nearly so, naked, narrow; the Up moderately
ventricose; its teeth erect.
1. O. attenuatus, Gr. Slender, strict, a span or two high, mostly simple; leaves
linear and attenuate, often with a pair of filiform lobes; spike slender; lower flowers-
Bcattered; bracts with slender lobes barely white-tipped; corolla narrow, half an inch
long, white or whitish; narrow teeth of the purple-spotted lip nearly equaling the galea.
2. O. densifloms, Benth. Erect or difiusely branched from the base 6 to 12 inches
high; spike dense, many flowered, at length cylindrical, or lowest flowers rather distant;
bracts 3-cleft, about equaling the flowers, their linear lobes purple and white; corolla
from 8 to 12 lines long, the tips usually purplish, the teeth of the lip shorter than the
galea.
3. O. castilleioides, Benth. At length diffuse and corymbosely branched; leaves from
lanceolate to oblong, usually laciniate; the upper and the bracts cuneate-dilated and
incisely cleft, green or the obtuse tips whitish or yellowish; spikes dense, short and thicki
corolla nearly an inch long, dull white or purplish- tipped; lip ventricose-dilated.
