BCR0PHULARIACEJ2. (FIGWORT FAiTILT.) 95
• • Filaments pubescent ; galea densely red-bearded ; the obtuse tip incurved.
4. O. purpurascens, Benlh. Bracts and corolla usually crimson to rose-color.
Distinguished by the bearded, hooked galea, and large stigma.
§ 2. Tkiphtsaria, Benth. — Lower lip of the corolla conspicuously 3-saccate, and very much
larger than the slender galea, its teeth small, the tube jH'iform; stigma capitate, some-
times 2-lobed; bracts like the leaves and not colored.
5. O. pusillus, Benth. Small and weak or diffuse, branched from the base, 3 or 4
inclies high; leaves 1-2-pinnatifjd, and bracts 3-5-parted into filiform divisions; flowers
scattered, inconspicuous, shorter than the bracts; corolla purplish, 2 or 3 lines long; lip
moderately 3-lobed; galea soon exposing the stamens.
C. O. floribundus, Benth. Slender, erect, 4 to 12 inches high; spike many-flowered,
dense above; corolla white or cream-color, half an inch long; the tube twice the length
of the calyx; stamens about the length of the soon open galea; the lip with 3 divergent
oval sacs, their scarious teeth erect.
7. O. erianthus, Benth. Erect, a span or more high, much branched, pubescent;
corolla sulphur-yellow, -with the slightly falcate galea brown-purple; tube G to 8 lines
long, liliform, densely pubescent, thrice the length of the caljTc; the lip of 3 globular-
inflated sacs, 1 to 2 lines long; the galea subulate, inclosing the stamens more strictly
than the preceding.
Var. roseus, Gr. Corolla rose-purple, shorter.
8. O. faucibarbatus, Gr. Nearly smooth, less branched, and leaves -with coarsex'^
divisions than the last; corolla with smaller sacs and less beard within the lip; th«
straight galea pale.
9. O. lithospertnoides, Benth. Hirsute above; stem 4 to 12 inches high, strict,
mostly simple, very leafy; bracts of the dense many-flowered spike about equaling ths'
flowers; corolla an inch or less long, cream-color, often turning pale rose-color; sacs 3
lines deep; the teeth inconspicuous; anthers 2-celled.
11. CORDYLANTHUS. Nutt.
Calyx of an anterior and a posterior leaf- like division, or the former wanting. Corollw
tubular, a little enlarging upward; tlie lips short and of nearly equal length; the lower
very obtusely and crenulatcly 3-toothed; the upper straight and compressed, witli th*»
apex incurved. Style mostly hooked at the tip. — Branching annuals with alternate nar-
row leaves either entire or 3-o-partcd; the floral ones not brightly colored. Flowers one
to each bract, dull-colored, yellowish or purplish; the corolla not much exceeding the
calyx.
§1. Adenosteoia, Gr. — Calyx 2-leaved; fiowers short pediceled ornearly sessile, siU-
tended by 2 to 4 bractlets; floral leaves and bracts tipped with a gland.
1. C. filifolius, Nutt. A foot or two high; leaves filiform; the lower entire, t' t
