"96 OBOBANCHACE^. (bBOOM-RAPE FAMILY.)
upper 3-5-parted, the floral with cuneate base and ciliate margins; corolla purplish, G to
9 lines long.
2. C pilosus, Gr. Larger, soft- villous and hoary; the floral leaves 3-toothed at the
ti]); corolla yellowish with some purple, less than an inch long.
§ 2. Hemistegia, Gr. — Calyx 1 -leaved ; Jlowers xvitliout bractlets, each sessile in the axil
of a claspi7iy bract; no glands at the tips of the leaves,
3. C. maritimus, Nutt. Leaves smooth, somewhat fleshy, all entire; flowers in a
capitate spike ; corolla dull-purplish; pairs of filaments very unequal. — Li salt marshes.
4. C. mollis, Gr. Stamens only 2, with smooth filaments; the upper leaves toothed
or pinnatifid. — Salt marshes.
12. PEDICULARIS, Toum.
Calyx 2-5-toothed, irregular. Corolla strongly bilabiate; the galea arched and laterally
compressed; the lip 2-crested above, 3-lobed. Stamens 4, inclosed in the galea; anthers
transverse, equally 2-celled.
1. P, densiflora, Benth. Nearly smooth, stout, becoming a foot or more high;
leaves broad-lanceolate in outline, twice-pinnatifid or pinnately parted, and the divisions
irregularly and sharply incised or toothed; the upper bracts of the dense elongated spike
or raceme simpler; calyx-teeth, 5; corolla red or scarlet.
Order U. OROBANCHACE-ffl.
Root-parasitic herbs, destitute of leaves and green color. Distinguished from Scroph-
ulariacecB by the 1 -celled ovary.
1. APHTLLCN, J^Iitch.
Calyx 5-cleft, or 5-parted, regular or nearly so. Corolla tubular and curved, almost
re-mlar, or bilabiate. Stamens included; cells of the anthers deeply separated from below
upward, mucronate at base. Stigma peltate or bilamellar. — Low pale orbrownisl\ herbs;
the flowers yellowish or purplish.
* Scapes or peduncles naked; corolla with an almo.^i regular 5-lobed border.
1. A, unifloniin, Gr. Coralla about an inch long, bluish puqDle, violet-scented.
2. A. fasciculatum, Gr. Scaly stem rising out of the ground 2 or 3 inclies, bearing
many peduncles; lobes of the calyx not longer than the tube; flowers dull yellow or
purplish. •
* Stems rising above the ground; Jlowers bracteate; corolla plainly bilabiate.
3. A. Gomosuin, Gr. Low, branching at or near the surface of the ground; flowers
