LABIATE. (mint FAMILY.) 99
• Perennial, in tufts from a procumbent and almost woody base.
1. M. villosa, Benth. Soft-pubescent or villous a foot or two high; leaves ovate,
often with a few obtuse teeth, being G to 10 lines long, petioled. Sometimes nearly
«mooth.
* * AnnxLal; leaves entire or undulate,
2. M. tindulata, Benth. A span to a foot or more high; leaves from oblong
■patulate to nearly linear with a narrowed base, obtuse, undulate-margined, about an inch
long; bracts and calyx villous; corolla rose-color. Has the odor of Peppermint.
3. M. Breweri, Or. A span or more high; leaves oblong or ovate, pinnately veined,
the larger an inch long; bracts broadly ovate, cuspidate, whitish-scarious, the outer
pinnately and the inner nervosely 7-9-ribbed; corolla rose-purple.
•i. M. Douglasii, Benth. Loosely branched; leaves lanceolate, an inch long, taper-
ing into the petiole; the silvery white or purple-tinged bracts mostly transparent, with a
strong marginal vein connected with the midrib by pinnate veins. — Strong-scented; co-
rolla deep rose-color.
5. MICROMERIA, Bentk
Calyx not gibbous. Corolla short; upper lip erect, flattish, entire or emarginate;
lower spreading, 3-parted. — Low plants, sweet-odorous, with small axillary flowers.
1. M. Douglasii, Benth. Yerba Buena. Perennial herb, with long slender creej>-
Ing and trailing stems; leaves round-ovate, thin, sparingly toothed, short petioled, an
inch long or less; flowers mostly solitary on a long filiform 2-bracteolate peduncle; co-
rolla purplish or white, 4 lines long.
2. M. purpurea, Gr. Erect, much branched; leaves lanceolate, acuminate, sparsely
«errate; flowers in umbel-like clusters; corolla purple-blue, 2 lines long.
6. POGOGYNE, Benth.
CaljT cleft to below the middle; the 2 lower teeth longer; corolla straight, tubular-
funnelform, with short lips; the erect and entire upper lip and the three lobes of the
spreading lower one oval and somewhat alike. Stamens with the upper shorter pair
eometimes sterile; the anther cells parallel and pointless. Style somewhat exserted,
bearded above. — Low annuals, .sweet-aromatic; with oblong or oblanceolatcd leaves nar-
rowed into a petiole; flowers mostly crowded and interrupted spicate; bracts and calyx
hirsute-ciliate; the corolla blue or purplish.
"• Stamens nil four with anthers; style conspicuously bearded above, and its subulate lobes
almost -iqual; corolla G to 9 lines lonq; flowers densely crowded into an oblong cyUndri-
cal spike, which is conspicuously white-hirsute with the long, stiff, ciliatt hairs of tlu
calyx.
I. P. Douglasii, Benth. Rather stout, a span to a foot high; leaves veiny, some*
