100 LABUT^. (MIN'T family.)
times sparingly toothed; bracts linear, acute; lower lobes of the calyx mnch longer than
the others.
2. P. parviflora, Benth. Smaller; bracts mostly obtuse; corolla 5 or 6 lines long.
• * Upper stamens sterile; style sparingly hairy y its lobes very unequal; Jiowers barely 2 lines
long.
3. P. serp 7lloides, Gr. Stems 3 to 6 inches high; leaves obovate-oval or spatulate,
'2 or 3 lines long; lower flowers remote and often solitary; the upper usually interruptedly
Bpicate.
7. SPHACBLE, Benth.
Calyx thin, membranaceous and reticulated. Corolla with 5 broad, rather erect lobes,
the lower one longest. Anther cells diverging. Somewhat shrubby, veiny-leaved.
S. calycina, Benth. Villous-pubescent or tomentose, leafy, 2 to 5 ft. hi^h; leaves 2
to 4 inches long, ovate or oblong crenate or serrate, or almost entire; the floral, ovate-
lanceolate, sessile; flowers an inch long, mostly solitary in the upper axils, purplish or
lead-color.
8. SALVIA, L. Sage.
Calyx bilabiate. Corolla deeply 2-lipped, the upper lip erect, straight or falcate,
2-lobed, the lower spreading or drooping, its middle lobe sometimes notched or obcor-
date. In our species the upper lip of the calyx is longer than the lower, 3-2-toothed; the
lower 2-parted; the teeth spinulose; corolla ringent.
1. S. carduacea, Benth. Wliite-woolly with cobwebby hairs; stems nearly naked,
ijurrounded at the base with thistle-like leaves;" head -like false whorls 1 to 4, an inch or
more in diameter, about equaling the involucre of spiny-toothed bracts; corolla 10 to 12
lines long, blue or purple.
2. S. ColumbariaB, Benth. (Chia.) Soft pubescent; flower whorls lor 2; involu-
crate bracts, sometimes purplish; corolla 3 or 4 lines long, blue; leaves not spinescent.
9. AUDIBERTIA, Benth.
Sufficiently distinguished from <S'aZy^a in the synopsis. — Mostly hoary perennials, her-
baceous or shrubby; with rugose-veiny, crenulate, sage-like leaves, and densely capitate-
glomerate flowers.
1. A. grandiflora, Benth. Stems 1 to 3 feet high from a somewhat woody base;
lower leaves 3 to 8 inches long; floral ones broadly ovate and membranaceous; corolla an
inch and a half long; purple-crimson; stamens much exserted-
2. A. hiimilis, Benth. A span high, cespitose; leaves mainly radical; spike of 3 or
4 small, sessile, head-like clusters; corolla half an inch longer less, bluish purple.
3. A. stachyoides, Benth. Shrubby, 3 to 8 feet high; style and stamens littl©
exserted; coroila about as the last.
