LABIATJK. (:inNT FAMILY.) 101
10. SCUTELLARIA, L. Skullcap.
Calyx, with two entire lips and a gibbous projection on the back, closed after flower-
ing. Corolla, %\'ith an elongated and curved ascending tube, a dilated throat, an erect
archetl or galeate upj)er lip, with which the lateral lobe3 appear to bo connected; the
anterior lobe appearing to form the whole lower lip. — Herbs, not aromatic; with single
axillary, rather conspicuous flowers.
1. G. angustifolia, Pursh. A span to a foot high; leaves about an inch long; the
radical ones often roundish or even cordate; corolla blue or violet, an inch long, with a
Blender tube; lower lobe villous inside. — Ours is mainly
Var. canescens, Or. A form with soft, hoary pubescence, and the tube of tlie
corolla bent so as to throw the upper part backward.
2. S. Califomica, Gr. Puberulent; stems 8 to 20 inches high, slender; leave*
from lanceolate-oblong to oval-ovate; the lower an inch or more long, often serrate; upper
gradually reduced to half an inch or less; lips of the yellowish corolla about equal.
3. S. tuberosa, Benth. Soft, pubescent or villous; stems slender, erect and short,
or trailing a foot in length; the filiform subterranean shoots bearing tubers; leaves mostly
ovate, coarsely and obtusely few- toothed or entire, 5 to IS lines long; corolla deep blue
or violet.
11. BRUNELLA, Toum. Self-heal.
Calyx-lips closed in fruit. Corolla with ascending tube, open lips, and slightly-con-
tracted orifice; upper lip arched and entire; lower 3-lobed, its middle lobe drooping,
rounded, concave, denticulate. — Low perennials, the flowers crowded in a terminal ob-
long or cylindraceous head or spike.
1. B. vnlgaria, L. A span to a foot or more in height; leaves ovate or oblong, slen-
der-petioled; corolla violet, purple, or rarely white; calyx purplish.
12. STACHYS, L, »
Corolla with cylindrical tube not dilated at the throat; the upper lip erect and concave
or arched; the lower spreading, its middle lobo larger. Stamens ascending under the
upper lip; filaments naked; anthers approximate in pairs, 2-celled. — Herbs, not aro-
matic, with flowers clustered, capitate, or scattered, often spicate at the end of the
branches; flowers sessile or nearly so.
• Corolla white or whitish; the tijpper Up bearded or woolly on the back; herbage tomentose
or soft hairy.
1. S. ajugoides, Benth. A span to a foot high; silky- villous with whitish hairs;
leaves oblong, very obtuse, crenately serrate, 1 to 3 inches long, the upper sessile; flow-
ers about 3 in the axils of the distant upper leaves, and loosely leafy-spicate at the Bunv
mit. — Moist ground.
