102 VEBBENACEiE. ( VERVAIN FAMILT.)
2. S. albens, Gr. Soft-tomentose with whitish wool, 3 to 5 ft. high; leaves mostly
cordate at base, obtuse, crenate, 2 or 3 inches long; flowers several or many in capitate
clusters which usually exceed the small floral leaves and form an interrupted spike; corolla
white with purple dots on the lower lip,
3. S. pycnantha, Benth. Very hirsute, with long and mostly soft spreading hairs,
not white, two feet high or more; flowers in a dense cylindraceous naked spike (an inch
or two long), exceeding the small bract-like floral leaves except in the lowest and some-
times rather distant clusters; corolla white or cream-color, with purple on the lower lip. (?)
* * Corolla purple, the upper lip hairy on the hack; pubescence somewliat hispid; no tomentum.
4. S. bullata, Benth. Stem retrorsely hispid, especially on the angles, 1 to 3 ft.
high; leaves somewhat rugose, nearly all petioled, 1 to 2 inches long; flowers usually 6 in
the false whorls, these rather distant, forming a narrow interrupted spike; lower lip of
the corolla fully as long as the tube, 4 or 5 lines long, the upper half as long. — Variable.
* * * Tube of the rose-red corolla twice as long as the calyx, 6 to 9 lines long.
5. S. Chamissonis, Benth. Stem 2 to 5 ft. high, stout, mostly rough-hispid, ^rith
retrorse rigid bristles; leaves 2 to 5 inches long; lips of the corolla pubescent outside. —
Wet ground.
13. TRICHOSTEMA, L. Blue-curls.
Calyx campanulate and almost equally 5-cleft. Corolla with short or slender tube and
an almost equally 5-parted limb. Stamens with long capillary curved filaments, some-
times cohering at the base. — Strong scented herbs; with entire leaves, and blue or purple
corolla and stamens. In ours the flowers are in cymose axillary clusters, somewhat
raceme-like in age; the corolla about 5 lines long, and the stamens twice as long or more.
1. T, lazum, Gr. Minutely soft pubescent, about a foot high, simple or loosely
branched from the base; leaves rather distant, lanceolate or oblong-lanceolate, tapering
into a petiole at the base; flower clusters distinctly peduncled, usually forked and in
age equaling the leaves; corolla almost smooth.
2. T. lanceolatmn, Benth. Leafy; leaves much longer than the intemodes, lance-
olate or ovate-lanceolate, sessile by a broad base, 3-5-nerved, an inch or less long; flower
clusters nearly sessile, short, one-sided; corolla somewhat pubescent. — Its odor sicken-
ing, tarry.
Order 46. VERBENACEiE.
Herbs or shrubs differing from Labiates mainly in the ovary and fruit, which is undi-
vided and 2-4-celled, at maturity either dry and splitting into as many 1-seeded nutlnts,
or drupaceous, containing as many little stones.
