134 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
miscarried. Here — if there is anything in the direct infection theory
— the unused germ-cells of the zebra had a better chance than usual
of reaching the ova from which future offspring are to arise, yet neither
of the two foals which this mare subsequently produced to a thorough-
bred horse "in any way suggests a zebra."
The above is the record of the successful experiments which have
been tried at Penycuik, with a view of throwing light on the existence
of telegony in the Equidae. Experiments have also been made with
other animals, such as rabbits, dogs, pigeons, fowls, and ducks. Space
allows us to quote but one. Six white doe rabbits, all of which
had borne pure white offspring to white bucks, were crossed with wild
brown rabbits. The result was forty-two young rabbits, all of a bluish-
black color, which in a very short time turned to a brown. These, at
the time of writing, were about half grown, and Professor Ewart. teiis
us that it is almost impossible to distinguish them from a full-blooded
wild rabbit kept in the same inclosure. The half-breeds, however,
were tamer and slightly lighter in color.' The mother does next bred
with white bucks again, and in every case bred true. The pure white
young showed no trace of throwing back to a previous sire.
A phenomenon somewhat similar to telegony, and one which seems
at present quite unexplained, is that a hen which has been crossed
with a cock of another breed often lays eggs whose shell is no longer
like that of its own breed, but in color, and frequently in texture,
resembles that of the breed with which it has been crossed. When one
calls to mind that the shell is deposited by a special shell-gland which
is in no way connected with the ovary, but is a part of the quite
distinct oviduct, and that the change in the color of the eggshell
must be caused by some change brought about in this gland by cross-
fertilization, we begin to recognize how mysterious and inexplicable
are many of the problems which affect breeding.
Throughout his account of his experiments Professor Ewart is
extremely cautious in claiming to prove anything, but we think he has
justified his claim to have shown that telegony by no means always
occurs, as many breeders believe. His experiments so far support the
view of Continental mule breeders, that telegony, if it takes place,
occurs very seldom. But the experiments are not complete, and it is
much to be hoped that they may be continued. If it should subse-
quently appear that out of fifty pure-bred foals from dams which have
been previously mated with the zebra no single instance of telegony be
found, the doctrine may surely be neglected by breeders; and if in the
experiments which are now being carried out with various other mam-
mals and birds telegony does not occur, the doctrine may be relegated
to the 'dumping-ground' of old superstitions. The present state of
the matter may be summed up in the professor's own words: "The
