138 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
quite young, if caught napping in the paddock, the facility with which
he, as it were, rolled on to his feet and darted off was wonderful."
The writer can fully confirm all the praise Professor Ewart lavishes
on his pets; in truth, Eomulus has been well described as a "bomrie
colt with rare quality of bone . . . and with the dainty step and the
dignity of the zebra." Remus, the offspring of the Irish mare, has
been from the first more friendly than his half-brother; he objected less
to the process of weaning, and, if he survives, promises to be the hand-
somest and fleetest of the existing hybrids.
• On the whole, the hybrids are unusually hardy; only two have been
lost — one, a twin, which died almost as soon as it was born, and another
which lived some three months and then succumbed. It is only fair
to say that the dam of the latter, who was only three years old when
the hybrid was born, had been much weakened by attacks of the
strougylus worm, and that she was the victim of close inbreeding.
Both the zebras and the hybrids which have been under observation at
Penycuik show a remarkable capacity for recovering from wounds.
Accidental injuries heal with great rapidity. On one occasion the sur-
viving twin was discovered with a flap of skin some five inches long
hanging down over the front of the left fetlock. The skin was stitched
into its place again, during which operation the little hybrid fought
desperately and cried piteously; but it soon recovered, the wound
healed, and now scarcely a scar remains. There was no lameness and
no swelling either at the fetlock or above the knee. About a year ago
four hybrid colts and three ordinary foals were attacked by that scourge
of the stable, the strongylus worm. One of the latter died and another
was reduced almost to a skeleton; the hybrids, though obviously affected,
suffered much less than the others and soon recovered. It is further
noticeable that the hybrids suffer less from colds and other slight ail-
ments than the mares and horses among which they live.
There is no doubt that it is a comparatively easy matter to breed
these hybrids, and that they are not only extremely attractive animals
to the eye, but hardy and vigorous, possessed of great staying powers,
and promising to be capable of severe work.
From what we have said, it is evident that the Penycuik experi-
ments are of the highest interest, both practical and theoretical, and the
public spirit and self-devotion shown by the Edinburgh professor in
carrying them out can not be too widely recognized.
