COLONIES AND THE MOTHER COUNTRY. 139
COLONIES AND THE MOTHER COUNTRY. (T.)
By JAMES COLLIER.
WE may conceive a country, with its colonies and dependencies
grouped round it at unequal distances and in different direc-
tions, as a giant organism, which has its laws of growth' and develop-
ment, its phases of expansion, activity and decay, like all other
organisms. We see it enlarging in mass, but to the last remaining
amorphous, or assimilable to no known forms. We observe the heart
and brain fostering, helping and sometimes hindering, directing, con-
trolling and guarding the evolution of the nearer or remoter portions.
We perceive on scrutiny threads of relationship being woven, new
nervous, muscular and circulatory systems being developed, which
connect the extremities with the center and unite both into an organic
whole. We are struck at times with the rupture of the mass and the
permanent separation of parts of it; at times we are impressed by
an unexpected augmentation in previously unknown areas, as if to
repair the loss of the old. We witness the extremities reacting on the
original nucleus, to some extent remodeling the heart and brain and
thus creating a type of organism unprecedented in Nature. And we
find that of a limited number of such colossal types, ever battling for
predominance, one or another gains an ascendency and the rest are
reduced to a secondary rank, or, being lopped of their colonial ex-
tensions, cease to be world-wide organisms and shrink into the merely
national organisms from which they sprang.
Snails put out their feelers as they go. The bolder insects and
the more adventurous birds fly small or great distances in search of a
feeding ground; some are carried out to sea, and become involuntary
'discoverers' of new lands.* The social organism puts out its feelers
and extends in mass. The community pushes out its scouts, and a
portion of it, at longer or shorter intervals, follows their lead. Thus
the mother country discovers many of the territories it colonizes.
Cadiz was unknown to the Eastern world till a Phoenician merchant
ship was blown thither. The West African coast and the mouth of
the Rhone were discovered by the Carthaginians. Libya (west of
Egypt) was a terra incognita to the Greeks till a Greek sailor who had
been driven on its inhospitable coast informed the emigrant Theraaans
of its existence. The Portuguese discovered the Azores. The Span-
* Examples of insects aie given in Darwin's 'Journal,' and of birds in Wallace's 'Malay
Archipelago.'
