140 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
iards discovered the West India Islands, Mexico, Peru and Florida.
France discovered the country lying along the basin of the St. Lawrence
and the valley of the Mississippi. Holland, through an English navi-
gator, discovered the Hudson River and the future site of New York.
England, through another alien, discovered the New England coast and
that of Virginia; it discovered, or rediscovered, vast Australia, New
Zealand, Tasmania and other South Sea islands; in quite recent years it
discovered the sources of the Nile. All these countries have been or
are about to be colonized by the peoples that discovered them.
Discovery is chiefly the work of private enterprise. It was Phoeni-
cian and Greek traders who explored the northern and western coasts
of Africa, of Spain, of Gaul, and of Britain. Scandinavian mariners,
Norman and English fishermen, discovered North America. Spanish
adventurers found the Canaries. The host of travelers have explored
on their private account. Yet there are animals, like Mr. Thompson's
Lobo, the wolf, and Spot, the crow, able generals and leaders of large
bands, who seem to direct exploratory movements. So after a while
governments lend their aid when they have ends of their 'own or
their aid is needed. The two most memorable exploring expeditions of
modern times, and the most momentous in their results, were either in
great part or wholly equipped by their respective governments.
Two of the vessels of Columbus were impressed ships, and the equip-
ment proceeded from the Castilian treasury, the third being fitted out
by merchant mariners of Palos. The expedition of Captain Cook,
which practically added a new continent to the globe, was altogether a
state enterprise, and its celebrated commander was not, like Columbus,
its designer and organizer, but only its director. The Portuguese
discoveries of the Azores and the Cape were also state-aided. From
this time forward Spanish and Portuguese adventurers received a royal
license to discover, and the South American continent, with Mexico
and Peru as its brightest jewels, was discovered by just such adven-
turers. Where a government refuses itself to discover, it may, like the
States-General of Holland, assure to the enterprising a terminable
monopoly of trade with newly discovered lands, and to this assurance
the exploration of New York and its neighborhood and the discovery
of Connecticut were due. Merchant companies have naturally a keen
eye to the main chance, but those English and Dutch merchants can
not be accused of timidity who chartered Cabot, Gilbert, Hudson and
other daring mariners to seek a northwest passage to the East. Kings,
in their private capacity, newspaper proprietors and rich individuals,
from generous motives, sometimes equip and support explorers like
Stanley and Winwood Eeade.
Geographical, like scientific, discovery is often accidental. Phoe-
nician and Greek traders, Spanish adventurers, Norman and English
