COLONIES AND THE MOTHER COUNTRY., 141
fishermen were blown by a succession of gales to Cadiz and Gyrene, the
Canaries, Mexico and Newfoundland. Diaz was storm-carried south-
ward to the Cape, where two shipwrecked mariners long afterward in-
duced the Dutch to settle. Columbus, Cabot and Hudson sought a
passage to India or China. The day comes, however, when chance gives
way to a systematic art of discovery. The voyage of Columbus was the
first where the end was deliberately aimed at and patiently worked up
to. Under Ferdinand the Catholic maritime discovery was raised to an
art. A board of eminent Spanish navigators, with Vespucci at its
head, sat to construct charts and trace out routes for projected voyages.
The primary object of Cook's first voyage was astronomical, and he was
scientifically equipped for discovery on that, as of course also on the
two later voyages, whose sole end was the one so gloriously gained.
Prior discovery confers an indefeasible title to occupy as against any
other colonizing power. Misled by a false statement, a British man-of-
war entered the Mississippi presumably to take possession of Louisiana,
but turned aside on being informed of the earlier French occupation.
In the thirties two naval expeditions were exploring at the same time
in Spencer Gulf, South Australia. Though the French gracefully
yielded the pas to the prior English ship, they left a mark on a number
of -points that still bear French names. There seems to be now no
doubt that Brazil had been discovered and rediscovered by Spanish
navigators before the Portuguese carbajal set foot on it, but, owing
to an international agreement, the discoverers ceded their claim.
Discovery does not necessarily issue in colonization. The more
or less mythical discoveries of the coasts of North America and Aus-
tralia in the ninth and sixteenth centuries interest the antiquarian
rather than the historian. They resemble the so-called anticipations
of scientific discoveries — Cesalpino's, of Harvey; Vico's, of Wolf and
Niebuhr; Swedenborg-'s, of Kant; and a host of guessers, of Darwin.
As proof alone is discovery in science, so only exploration is discovery in
geography. For lack of this essential element even well-certified dis-
coveries are apt to be fruitless. Tasman's frightened glimpse of New
Zealand and his more careful coasting of Tasmania left durable marks
on both countries, but only in nomenclature. They led to nothing.
No Dutch settlement seems ever to have been made south of New
Guinea; no northern nationality is more conspicuously absent among
the colonizers of the South Seas. The earlier Portuguese discovery of
the Cape of Good Hope was regarded as that of a halfway house
to a more distant goal; they stopped to recruit, then hurried off
to rich Cathay. The French left their names to a dozen headlands and
rivers on the coast of Western Australia, but, though they often excited
the suspicions of New South Wales, they made no attempt to settle.
Discovery, to assure sovereignty over the discovered country,
