COLONIES AND THE MOTHER COUNTRY. 143
quest. It surrendered, in 1854, its sovereignty over the Boers of the
Orange River. That surrender was condemned by British governors,
is still condemned by historians, and was disliked by the wealthier and
more intelligent Boers; how wise and just it was is shown by the
jealousy with which the republic has since watched over its independ-
ence. To its eternal honor — or rather to that of Gladstone — it nobly
gave back the Transvaal to its stalwart farmers. France long relin-
quished Algeria and Madagascar, which her missions and commercial
stations in the seventeenth century gave her a prescriptive right to
occupy two centuries later. It refused to support De La Tours, and
abandoned Labourdonnais and Dupleix. Through mere inertia Portu-
gal has let slip from her hands a grand inheritance. The Dutch re-
pressed the extension of their colony at the Cape. Java flourishes, but
Dutch New Guinea lies rotting.
A species, extending beyond its original habitat, has often to
battle with lower species already in possession of that portion of the
earth or water. So, except in rare cases, occupation means the neces-
sity of conquest. The Puritans, as they advanced into the interior, had
to fight for the possession of New England. The nomadic Australian
blacks offered no resistance to the earliest settlers, but as they were
driven inward they disputed, and are still fiercely disputing, every foot
of territory. As the indigenes rise in the scale, have clearings and
cultivate the soil, the resistance increases. No savage peoples have
cost the invaders so much in disturbance, blood and treasure as the
Indians, Maoris, Kaffirs and Algerian Arabs. Mashonaland was occu-
pied by the Chartered Company without firing a shot or losing a life,
but it had soon to fight for possession. The incessant turmoil, though
the waves of it spread to the remote mother country, affects the settlers
mainly. The blood shed is both colonial and metropolitan. The
]S'orth American settlers fought their own hard battles; though British
troops engaged, to their cost, with the Indians, it was against these as
allies of the French; in recent years the British garrison in Canada has
been employed against the half-castes. In New Zealand colonial volun-
teers joined with the regular troops to defeat the Maoris, and 'the
former were sometimes found the more efficient.
The most picturesque conquests in history were effected by private
enterprise. Mexico was conquered by local recruits. Pizarro was au-
thorized to conquer Peru in the name of the Spanish crown, and, besides
various other encouragements, he received a modest sum from the
Spanish treasury. But it was again by local recruits, not one of them
furnished by the Spanish Government, that the conquest was made and
maintained. Algeria has a very different story to tell. The troops em-
ployed in effecting a difficult conquest spread over thirty years were
French from first to last. In general, it may be said that where there
