144 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
have been regular campaigns and pitched battles the metropolitan
troops bear the brunt of the fighting. Where there is a guerrilla war-
fare, as with the Australian blacks, it is carried on by the colonial
police or by the settlers, sometimes with the aid of the natives them-
selves. The Carthaginians built up their empire by native auxiliaries.
The French and English conquered Canada with the Hurons and Iro-
quois as auxiliaries. The English mastered New Zealand with Maoris
for allies, and defeated the Kaffirs with the help of the Fingoes (a
related variety of the Bantu race). Ehodesia was won by a force half
Kaffir. Peruvians aided Pizarro. India has been made British by
armies of which four fifths were Indian. A people, like a man, con-
tributes to its own subjugation. The expense is likewise distributed.
Fifty years of intermittent war with the Kaffirs cost Great Britain
twelve million pounds, and it may safely be assumed that a no smaller
sum was expended in New Zealand. The colonists honorably bear their
share. The premier of the latter colony told a London audience in
jubilee year that it was now cheerfully paying the interest on a debt
of eleven millions incurred in "holding the colony for the empire."
After a Kaffir war Cape Colony was saddled with a debt of three or
four millions. Other losses fall more directly on the settlers. Prob-
ably none have borne such disasters and so much suffering as the early
colonists of North America. The destruction of property in a single
New Zealand campaign amounted to £150,000, and the farmers on the
frontiers of Cape Colony have suffered far more severely, as those on the
frontier of Queensland are suffering now. If blood and money, poured
forth like water, can furnish conquest with a valid title to territory, not
a few British and French colonies have been justly annexed.
The expansion of an organism or a species is determined also by
its struggle with other equal organisms or species which conflict with
it. The hardest fight is with individuals of the same or similar
species. So are rival colonizing powers usually more formidable oppo-
nents to the acquisition of a country than its indigenes. The Car-
thaginians were robbed of some of their colonies by the more numerous
Greeks, and the Greeks of many of theirs by the all-conquering Romans.
The Swedes lost a colony to the Dutch. The short but decisive strug-
gle between the Dutch and the English was followed by the loss of the
Dutch colonies in North America and the West Indies. In the eight-
tenth century, after every great war a group of colonies fell into the
hands of the victorious power. The West India Islands and those of
the Indian Ocean were for many years tossed as in a game of battledore
and shuttlecock between France and England. The possession of Can-
ada was a bone of contention between the two countries for several
decades. Seeley even maintains that the hundred years' war ending
in 1815 was a long rivalry between France and England for the New
