FUTURE OF THE NEGRO IN THE SOUTH. 147
THE FUTURE OF THE NEGRO IN THE SOUTHERN STATES.
By Professor N. S. SHALER,
" HARVARD UNIVERSITY.
WHATEVER danger there may be of serious conflict between the
negroes and whites in the Southern States — at most but slight
— is likely to arise from the fact that the old class of slaveholders,
men accustomed to hold a caretaking relation to the lower race, is pass-
ing away. Already the greater number of the white people know the
blacks only as they are known by the Northern folk. Race prejudice,
which in the days of slavery was hardly more than formal, finding
expression mainly in certain rules as to the behavior of the inferior
class, is likely to increase in proportion as the two peoples become
parted from one another in interests. If the present movement to dis-
franchise the negroes should lead to their general and permanent
separation from political life, or if in elections they should again array
themselves as they did immediately after the war — under the lead of
white adventurers against the property interests of the commonwealth —
then there may be disaster. The aim of the statesman — of every citizen
in his quality of a statesman — should be to make the present political
separation of the races, as far as possible, temporary. Their effort should
be to develop in the blacks the qualities which may make them safe
holders of the franchise, and to give that trust to all who become
worthy of it. We may at once put aside all the futile expedients for
other dispositions of the negroes than the simple plan of adopting
them into our national life. The ancient project of returning them to
Africa, the suggestions that they should be deported to some part of the
American tropics, or be segregated in some one of the Southern States,
are all too impracticable to deserve a moment's attention. They
must be dismissed, if for no other reason, because the labor of the negroes
is needed where they now dwell. Their exodus would mean the com-
mercial ruin of half a dozen great States. It is hardly necessary to
suggest that any such action would involve a trespass upon the rights
of both the whites and blacks too great to be thought of in our day.
Assuming that the only thing to do with the negroes is to shape
them so that they may be fit for the place of citizens, the question is
as to the steps which may be taken to attain this end. It is evident
that it cannot quickly be done. Acting on the basis of our experience
with immigrants from Europe, a majority of Congress concluded that
all the negro needed to convert him from the slave to the truly free man
