148 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
was the ballot. We failed to see that between the primitive station of
our race, two thousand years ago, and its present state there lay twenty
centuries of toil and pain, spent in winning the state of mind of the
citizen. We mocked the African with the gift of the franchise. We
have now to begin where we should have begun thirty -five years ago,
with measures that are proportionate to the need — with a system of
education that may serve to develop the saving qualities of the race.
What should this education be?
To most of us education begins with an alphabet and goes on to
an indeterniined limit of things that are to be had from books. The
method is naturally esteemed, for we behold that the useful citizen
comes forth from such teaching. Yet, logically, we might as well
attribute the shape and quality of the body to the clothes it bears.
The real education of our race, that which gives the most of its value
to the trifle of instruction we give our children, is clearly a matter of
race experience; of training in the generations of deeds since it began
to pass from primitive savagery. First came the lessons in the art of
continually laboring. Fortunately this lesson of labor the negro either
brought with him, or learned so well in the generations of slavery that
it is safely acquired. Next came the training in the occupations above
the plane of simple agriculture — the industries of the forge, the loom,
the ship and of military service and with it the habits of associated
action. Along with these came the development of the commercial
sense with the enlargements of view it gives, and from this the common
sense of public affairs that makes a democracy possible. We assumed
all this race training in the African when we cast him the ballot. Now
that he has failed to profit by our folly, we begin to doubt whether
there is, after all, the making of a citizen in him. A reasonable view
of the facts leads us to conclude that he can be made a valuable citizen,
provided he has a fair share of real help in the task of becoming such.
The first need of the negro is the conviction that his salvation
depends upon himself. So long as he is deluded by the hope that some
great external power is to lift him to the social and economic level of
the whites, there is no chance that he will come to depend on himself
for advancement. From this point of view, at least, it is advantageous
that the attention of this country is for the time turned^away from them
in a search for other, and less practicable endeavors, to lift lowly
peoples to the Saxon's estate. The next is that the negroes be as
rapidly as possible employed in varied craft work — work in which they
may receive a larger training than the toil the fields afford. The
simple yet valuable lessons of the soil-tiller they have had. For the
greater number of their race, particularly those of the Guinea type,
this grade of employment is as high as they may be expected to attain.
Yet somewhere near one-third of the people of their color are fit for em-
