FUTURE OF THE NEGRO IN THE SOUTH. 149
ployments demanding more skill and, because of that skill, giving a
better intellectual station. The mechanical employments of the day
are ever gaining in their culture-giving powers. The complication of
the machines which are used, and the mysterious nature of the powers
which they apply, seem to make them more effective means of enlarge-
ment than the old simple tools. Those who have observed the process
by which the horse-car driver of a decade ago has been converted into
the motor-man of to-day have had a chance to see what the control of
energies may do for them. I feel safe in saying, from the basis of
personal experience with the negroes, that somewhere near one third of
them are ht to be trained for mechanical employment of a fairly high
grade. They will need more instruction than the average whites, but
they will have a keen interest in their work, and are more likely than
the whites to lead up their children in their own trades. For such
employment the types which, for lack of a better name, I have termed
the Zulu and the Semetic are clearly well fitted. Here and there in
the South we find these people of the abler stocks already so employed.
There seems no reason to believe that there is at present enough
race prejudice in the South to oppose any effective resistance to negroes
entering on any such employment as that of the engineer. It is true
that among the women operatives in spinning and weaving mills there
has been such objection already found as to make it impossible to em-
ploy the negro and white in the same rooms. It is, however, im-
probable that there would be any opposition to having the black women
engaged in the industry, provided the personal association with the
whites was not required. Whatever resistance it would be necessary
to overcome in order to make the negro free to engineering employ-
ments would proceed from the poor white class or from Northern loom
operators who brought to the South the obdurate hatred of the negro
which is so strong in the regions where he is rarely seen. The old
slave-holding class, and those who inherit their motives, will, I am
convinced, welcome the effort to open such places to well-trained blacks.
As an evidence of the state of mind of this ruling class, I may relate an
experience of a year or two ago in one of the most remote corners
of the extreme South:
I was lodged for some days in a small rustic inn whereto came,
in the evening, a dozen men of the planter class to spin yarns, smoke
and drink. They had all been Confederate soldiers — some of them
were the very remnants of war. Willingly they allowed the talk to
be led to the question as to the future of the black people. They
showed their interest in all the forms of trade schooling that could be
given them, and their contempt for the results of the literary education
which they have received. Repeated reference was made to the great
work that Booker Washington was doing at Tuskegee, and for it there
