150 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
was nothing but praise. One of the men dwelt with pleasure on the
fact that in the nearest large town two negroes, trained at Tuskegee,
were doing all the contract building, having 'run out' some cheap, ill-
trained whites who had long been in the business. This talk was
clearly not shaped for Northern ears, for the double reason that the
Southern folk are not in the least moved to such deception, and also
because I was with them as one of their own people. Very many such
occasions for learning the temper of the ex-slaveholder class have
convinced me that at present, and until the Southern conditions are
assimilated to those of the North, there will be no difficulty in develop-
ing the technical skill of the blacks arising from the disinclination of
the people when they are thus employed. It is true that the old slave-
holder, with his care-taking humor towards the blacks, is passing away;
but his motives are likely to be continued in his descendants at least
for some generations.
There are at present in the South many thousand places for which
it would be easy to train negroes — places which would give them a
liberal education of the kind most needed by their race. It is not too
much to reckon that each year, in the development of the industries of
that region, adds some thousand chances which can not well be
filled from the native white people, but are likely to go to men brought
from elsewhere. Every opportunity to establish a family supported by
a skilled mechanic is of value. With even five per cent of the male
negroes thus employed, the prospects of their future would be greatly
benefited. The means for attaining this end are not difficult to find.
What is needed is an extension of the system followed at Tuskegee,
where youths are trained with the intent that they shall be made ready
for high-grade manual labor, the general schooling being limited to
what is necessary to ensure success in such practical work. A system
of trade schools for negroes, sufficient to supply the present demand
for skilled mechanics, is now the gravest need of the South.
It has been suggested that the troops which are required for the
Federal service in tropical lands might well be recruited from the
negroes. It has indeed been proposed that these soldiers should be
permitted to take their families with them so that they might become
permanently and contentedly established in Luzon and elsewhere in the
colonies. There is no doubt but that the abler negroes, when properly
officered, make excellent soldiers — at least as infantry men. The expe-
rience had with them during the Spanish War makes this point perfectly
clear. It may also be reckoned that they would endure tropical
climates better than the whites. It may further be said that the ex-
istence of a large and well respected force of blacks in the Federal army
would unquestionably add to the social position of the negroes in the
estimation of both races. Again, the return of these men to their
