FUTURE OF THE NEGRO IN THE SOUTH. 151
homes, after their period of service, would be advantageous. Their
training and experience would make them of much value to their
people.
There are, however, certain signal disadvantages which would arise
from the employment of negroes as soldiers. In the first place, it would
tend to remove from the body of the folk the abler men — those to whom
we should mainly look for the uplifting of their race. This evil,
great in the case of all levies, would be most serious in this case; for
the reason that, while with white troops the rank and file are not
commonly by nature leaders of their society, they would be so with
black recruits. If the choice could be made of the Guinea type, this
loss would not be serious; but it certainly would fall to the more
militant stocks — those to which we have to look for advancement. In
the next place, we must see that the negro does not need the training
in passive obedience and mere order of life that the common soldier
receives. He has had that already in quite sufficient measure. He
now should have the lessons of individual responsibility — of control of
his life from within — lessons that civil life alone can give. Therefore,
the well-wisher of the race will be inclined to oppose this project
of recruiting our armies from the negroes of the Southern States. If
it is determined to enlist them it would be best to limit the age of
the recruits to' about twenty years, and the period of active service to
five years, so that the men may be returned to civil life young enough
to enter on ordinary employments.
At present it is most desirable that the negroes of the South should
be induced to save money, for until that habit is formed, there is little
chance of lifting them in the economic scale or of developing in them
the business sense, which is one of the corner-stones of civilization. It
is probable that more could be done in the way of correcting the faults
and stimulating the latent capacities of the race by developing this
motive than by any other means. It is difficult to suggest any effective
system by which this end can be attained. The general conditions of
the South make rural savings-banks impossible. The receipts, at least
for many years, would be too small to render the business remunerative.
The only practicable method appears to be that of a Federal system
operated through the post-offices. The institution of such a system
appears to be justified by the two conditions: the exceeding need of
snch a provision and the impossibility of doing the work except through
the postal machinery of which the Federal Government holds a monop-
oly. It may be said that this method has proved successful under other
governments, and that it has been for some time established in Canada.
In our own country it is clearly demanded, in all rural communities,,
though nowhere else so gravely as in the Southern States.
In looking over the latent possibilities of the negro people, the
