THE COMING TOTAL ECLIPSE OF THE SUN 3
to Farragut's flagship, the Hartford, with Captain Yates. In ear-
lier days Admiral Dewey commanded this ship, and the expedition
was fitted out while he was in charge of the Bureau of Equipment
at Washington. The same fine courtesy that has become so well
known to his countrymen was at that time extended to all the
members of the expedition.
The cloudiness along the track of the eclipse in the Southern
States on the 28th of May, 1900, is evidently a matter of much im-
portance not only for all astronomers, but for non-professional
spectators. If it could be foretold, with the same precision as the
astronomical data give the time and the place of the occurrence
of the eclipse, that the day itself will be fair or cloudy, or that
certain portions of the track will be clear while others will be ob-
scured, it would be of great benefit. The cost of these scientific
expeditions is very great, since it is necessary to transport many
heavy and delicate pieces of apparatus into the field, including tele-
scopes, spectroscopes, polariscopes, and photographic cameras, and
set them up in exact position for the day of observation. The expe-
dition to Cape Ledo, West Africa, in 1889, carried out a large
amount of material, prepared it for work during the totality, and
then entirely lost the sun during the critical moments by a tem-
porary obscuring of the sky through local cloud formations. There
had been some clouds at the station during the forenoons for sev-
eral days preceding the eclipse, but the sky was usually clear and
very favorable during the middle of the afternoons. The totality
came on at three o'clock, and photographs of the sun were taken
at first contact about 1.30 p.m.; clouds thickened, however, and
totality was entirely lost, while the sun came out again for the last
contact at 4.30 p. m. This was a very trying experience, and of
course could not have been avoided by any possible precautions.
Some astronomers have thought that the advance of the moon's
shadow is accompanied by a fall in temperature, and that cloudiness
is more likely to be produced from this cause.
Soon after the West African eclipse Professor Todd, of Am-
herst College, proposed that more systematic observations be made
for the probable state of the sky along eclipse tracks, with the
view of at least selecting stations having the most favorable local
conditions. The method was tried in Chili, April, 15, 1893, and
in Japan, August 8, 1896, with some success. Heretofore the
available meteorological records, which were originally taken for
other general purposes, had been consulted, and some idea formed
of the prevailing tendency to cloudy conditions. In accordance
with the improved method, the United States Weather Bureau has
been conducting special observations on the cloudiness occurring
