THE PHYSICAL GEOGBAPHY OF THE LANDS. 157
THE PHYSICAL GEOGEAPHY OF THE LANDS.
By Professor W. M. DAVIS.
HARVARD UNIVERSITY.
THE most important principles established in physical geography
during the ninetenth century are that the description of the
earth's surface features must be accompanied by explanation, and that
the surface features must be correlated with their inhabitants. During
the establishment of these evolutionary principles, exploration at home
and abroad has greatly increased the store of recorded facts; the more
civilized countries have been in large part measured and mapped; the
coasts of the world have been charted; the less civilized continents
have been penetrated to their centers. This harvest of fact has been an
.indispensable stimulus to the study of physical geography; yet it can
not be doubted that the spirit which has given life to the letter of the
subject is the principle of evolution — inorganic and organic. This is
especially true of the geography of the lands.
The century has seen the measurement of higher peaks in the Hima-
layas than had been previously measured in the Andes. The Nile has
been traced to its source in the lakes of equatorial Africa, verifying the
traditions of the ancients; and the Kongo has been found to cross
the equator twice on its way to the sea. Facts without number have
been added to the previous sum of knowledge. But at the same time, it
has been discovered that the valleys of mountain ranges are the work of
erosion; that the product of valley erosion is often seen in extensive
piedmont fluviatile plains; that waterfalls are retrogressively worn away
until they are reduced to the smooth grade of a maturely established
river; and that interior basins are slowly filling with the waste that is
washed in from their rims upon their floors. Here are explanatory
generalizations, involving, yet going far beyond matter of direct ob-
servation. Such generalizations in geography correspond to the recog-
nition in astronomy that planetary movements exemplify the law of
gravitation; they are the Newton as against the Kepler of the subject.
The sufficient justification of the demand that has now arisen for ex-
planation and correlation in the study of land forms is found in the
repeated experience that until an explanatory description of a region
can be given, one may be sure that some of its significant elements
pass unnoticed; and until the controls that it exerts on living forms are
studied, one may be confident that its geographical value is but half
