158 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
measured. A sentence from Guyot's Earth and Man may here be
taken as a guide: "To describe, without rising to the causes, or de-
scending to the consequences, is no more science than merely and
simply to relate a fact of which one has been a witness." There could
hardly be devised a more concise and searching test of good work than
this quotation suggests. The causes, in so far as the physical geography
of the lands is concerned, have been learned chiefly through the study
of geology; yet it does not by any means follow that all geologists
are possessed of such knowledge of these causes as will constitute them
geographers. The consequences have been learned through the study
of evolutionary biology; yet a distinct addition to the usual discipline
of biology is required in order to apprehend its geographical correla-
tions. The limited space allowed to this article will require that
further consideration of the consequences be excluded, in order to give
due consideration to the causes.
One of the preparatory steps in the century's advance was taken
by the German geographer, Eitter, who, near the beginning of the cen-
tury, advocated a new principle that may be illustrated by the change
in the definition of geography from "the description of the earth and its
inhabitants" to "the study of the earth in relation to its inhabitants;"
but advance beyond this beginning was for a long time obstructed by
certain ancient beliefs. Theological preconceptions as to the age of the
earth and the associated geological doctrine of catastrophism, although
attacked by the rising school of uniformitarianism, were then domi-
nant. They gave to the geographer a ready-made earth, on which the
existing processes of change were unimportant. Furthermore, the be-
lief in the separate creation of every organic species led to the doctrine
of teleology, which maintained the predetermined fitness of the earth
for its inhabitants, and of its inhabitants for their lifework. All this
had to be outgrown before geographers could understand the slow de-
velopment of land forms and the progressive adaptation of all living
beings to their environments. Yet the beginning that Ritter made was
of great importance, and it would have led further had it not happened
that for many decades professors of geography in Europe brought
chiefly a historical training to their chairs, to the almost entire neglect
of physical geography. In the last thirty years there has been a re-
action from this condition in Germany and France, but Italy, with
many professors of geography in her universities, still for the most part
follows historical methods.
Id the victory of the uniformitarians over the catastrophists began
the fortunate alliance of geography with geology, which was long after-
wards happily phrased by Mackinder: "Geology considers the past in
the light of the present; geography considers the present in the light
of the past." Instead of believing in cataclysmic upheavals and in
