THE PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY OF THE LANDS. 161
Gran, Theiss, Temes, Aluta, Sereth, and Pruth. Many of these are large
streams with other important tributaries. The Danube drains upwards
of 300.000 square miles of country."
A decided advance over earlier books in the way of rational or
explanatory treatment is found in the works of Peschel and Eeclus; it
is to the former that a reaction against the historical treatment of
geography in Germany is largely dne; while the latter is to be credited
with an enlarged attention to the detail of land forms; but the books of
neither of these authors recognize the systematic evolution of land
forms. The same may be said of various other treatises which approach,
but do not yet reach, the ideal that seems to be in sight. One of the
chief responsibilities of the geographer— the description of landscape —
can not be fully met by students who accept the principles set forth in
these books as their guides; for in spite of the increasing attention
given to the lands in modern books, and in spite of the greater number
of forms recognized, the combination of all forms in a well-organized
whole is not yet accomplished.
It seems to have been against the empirical method of such books as
Ansted's that Huxley protested in his 'Physiography,' urging its re-
placement by a more educative method. He wrote:
"I do not think that a description of the earth, which commences
by telling a child that it is an oblate spheriod, moving around the sun
in an elliptical orbit, and ends without giving him the slightest hint
towards an understanding of the ordnance map of his own country, or
any suggestion as to the meaning of the phenomena offered by the
brook which runs through his village, or of the gravel pit whence the
roads are mended, is calculated either to interest or to instruct. . . .
Physiography has very little to do with this sort of Physical Geogra-
phy. My hearers were not troubled with much about latitudes and
longitudes, the heights of mountains, depths of seas, or the geographical
distribution of kangaroos or Compositae .... I endeavored to
give them .... a view of the 'place in nature' of a particular
district of England — the basin of the Thames — and to leave upon their
minds the impression that the muddy waters of our metropolitan river,
the hills between which it flows, the breezes which blow over it, are not
isolated phenomena, to be taken as understood because they are famil-
iar. On the contrary, I endeavored to show that the application of the
plainest and simplest processes of reasoning to any one of these
phenomena suffices to show, lying behind it, a cause, which again sug-
gests another; until, step by step, the conviction dawns upon the learner
that, to attain to even an elementary conception of what goes on in his
own parish, he must know something about the universe; that the
pebble he kicks aside would not be what it is and where it is, unless
a particular chapter of the earth's history, finished untold ages ago, had
VOL. LVII.— 11
