162 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
been exactly what it was. . . . Many highly valuable compendia
of Physical Geography, for the use of scientific students of that sub-
ject, are extant; but in my judgment most of the elementary works I
have seen begin at the wrong end, and too often terminate in an
ominum gatherum of scraps of all sorts of undigested and unconnected
information; thereby entirely destroying the educational value of that
study which Kant justly termed the 'propaedeutic- of natural knowl-
edge.' " (Preface to 'Physiography,' 1878).
Here we find clear recognition of the need of introducing a consid-
eration of causes, just as was urged by Guyot; and furthermore a
recognition of the need of linking together in their natural relations all
the items which together constitute the content of the subject. It
may, however, be contended that the attempt to combine in a single
course of study the elementary principles of chemistry and physics, of
geology and astronomy, along with those of physical geography, is not
practicable from an educational point of view; such a combination will
not secure either the clear knowledge or the strong discipline that can
be derived from systematic courses in two or three of these subjects,
presented separately. Text-books like Hinman's 'Eclectic Physical
Geography' and Mill's 'Eealm of Nature,' in both of which a broad
range of other than geographical subjects is covered, do not seem to-day
to be in so much favor as those books which attend more closely to the
true content of our subject. Indeed, with respect to physical geog-
raphy, considered from the scientific and educational point of view, a
report on College Entrance Eequirements, recently published by our
National Educational Association,* presents the best definition and out-
line of the subject that has yet appeared. It advises the omission of
irrelevant matter, however interesting such matter may be in itself.
The principles of physics and the succession of geological formations
with their fossils, the classification and distribution of plants and
animals must be taught elsewhere; but much profit may be had from
terrestrial phenomena by which the principles of physics are illustrated,
and from the consequences of past geological changes in determining
present geographical conditions, and especially from the physiographic
controls by which the distribution of organic forms is determined.
The general scheme under which all land forms may receive ex-
planatory description must consider chiefly the movement and erosion
of the earth's crust. Deformation offers a part of the earth's crust
to be worked upon. Various destructive processes of erosion work
upon the offered mass, and the streams, with their transported waste,
follow the depressions in the carved surface. So important is the ele-
ment of erosion, and so leading is the part played by rivers in erosive
* Proceedings, 1899, 780-792 ; also in the Journal of School Geography, September, 189S.
