THE PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY OF THE LANDS. 163
work, that Mcliee would gather all laud forms under a classification
determined by their drainage systems.* Others have preferred a classi-
fication based, first on peculiarities of structure as determined by accu-
mulation and deformation; and, secondly, on the progress of erosion;
but in either scheme, the erosive work of rivers is so important that a
sketch of the progress of the physical geography of the lands towards a
systematic classification of its items may well follow the order in which
valleys have been explained, branching off, as occasion may require,
from the leading theme of rivers that flow under a normal humid
climate to special conditions of erosion under an arid or a frigid climate.
The progress which has made the physical geography of the lands what
it is to-day is more the work of geologists than of geographers; and
the chief reason for this is the indifference of many geographers to the
physical side of their subject; an indifference that was .undoubtedly
favored by the cultivation of historical geography in continental Europe,
and by the acceptance of the traveler or explorer as a full-fledged
geographer in Great Britain. In the United States, it is only in the
latter part of the century that the physical geography of the lands has
gained a scientific standing, and the advantages that it now enjoys
are geographical grafts upon a geological stock.
The emancipation of geology from the doctrine of catastrophism
was a necessary step before progress could be made towards an under-
standing of the lands. The slow movements of elevation and depres-
sion of certain coasts in historic time were of great importance in this
connection. Studies of geological structures at last overcame the belief
in the sudden and violent upheaval of mountain chains, which, under
the able and authoritative advocacy of Elie de Beaumont, held a place
even into the second half of the century. But even when it came to
be understood that mountains and plateaus have been slowly upheaved,
it still remained to be proved that the valleys and canyons by which
they are drained were produced by erosion, and not by fractures and
unequal movements of elevation. Advance was here made on two
lines. Along one, a better understanding was gained of the forms
producible by deformation alone; along the other, sea currents, floods
and earthquake waves, to which the earlier observers trusted as a means
of modifying the forms of uplift, were gradually replaced by the slow
action of weather and water. Processes of deformation were found to
act in a large way, producing massive forms without detail — broad
plains and plateaus, extensive domes, straight cliffs and rolling corru-
gations; and thus it was learned that the varied and detailed forms of
lofty mountain ranges and dissected plateaus must be ascribed almost
entirely to the processes of erosion. But it should be noted that in
* Xat. Geogr. Magazine, i, 1889, 27-36.
