1 64 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
exceptional instances land forms initiated by deformation, so recently
as to have suffered as yet only insignificant sculpture, may exhibit much
irregularity. The most striking example of this kind, an example of
the very highest value in the systematic study of land forms, is that
afforded by the diversely tilted lava blocks of Southern Oregon, as
described by Russell.*
Turning now to the second line of advance, it is noteworthy that so
keen an observer as Lesley insisted, as late as 1856, that the peculiar
topographical features of Pennsylvania, which he knew and described
so well, could have been produced only by a great flood. But the
principles of the uniformitarians were constantly gaining ground
against these older ideas; and after the appearance in England of
Scrope's studies in Central France and of Greenwood's polemic
little work on 'Rain and Rivers' (1857), victory may be said to have
been declared for the principles long before announced by Hutton and
Playfair, which, since then, have obtained general acceptance and ap-
plication.
Yet even the most ardent uniformitarians would, in the middle of
the century, go no further than to admit that rain and rivers could
roughen a region by carving valleys in it; no consideration was then
given to the possibility that, with longer and longer time, the hills must
be more and more consumed, the valleys must grow wider and wider
open, until, however high and uneven the initial surface may have been,
it must at last be reduced to a lowland of small relief. The surface of
such a lowland would truncate the underground structures indifferently;
but when such truncating surfaces were noticed (usually now at con-
siderable altitudes above sea level, as if elevated after having been
planed, and therefore more or less consumed by the erosion of a new
system of valleys), they were called plains of marine denudation by
Ramsay (1847), or plains of marine abrasion by Richthofen (1882).
To-day it is recognized that both subaerial erosion and marine abrasion
are theoretically competent to produce lowlands of denudation; the
real question here at issue concerns the criteria by which the work of
either agency can be recognized in particular instances. In the middle
of the century, not only every plain of denudation, but every line of
escarpments was held by the marinists to be the work of sea waves; and
it was not till after a sharp debate that the bluffs of the chalk downs
which enclose the Weald of southeastern England were acepted as the
product of ordinary atmospheric weathering, instead of as the work
of the sea. Whitaker's admirable essay on 'Subaerial Denudation,'
which may be regarded as having given the victory in this discussion to
the subaerialists, was considered so heterodox that it was not acceptable
*4th Ann. Rep. U. S. Geol. Survey, 1883.
