POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
from May 15th to June 15th in each of the three years 1897, 1898,
and 1899, for the morning hours of the eclipse — between 8 a. m.
and 9 a. m. A tabular form was sent through the local offices to
such observers as were willing to act as volunteers in making these
records, and their reports have been studied to discover how the
cloudiness behaves along the eclipse track at that season of the
year. Each of the three years gives substantially the same con-
clusion — namely, that there is a maximum of cloudiness near the
Atlantic coast in Virginia, extending back into North Carolina,
and also near the Gulf coast in Louisiana and in southern Missis-
sippi, while there is a minimum of cloudiness in eastern Alabama
and central Georgia. The following table will serve to make
this plain:
The Prevailing Cloudiness of the Sky along the Eclipse Track.
Virginia
North Carolina
South Carolina
Georgia
Alabama
Mississippi . . .
Louisiana
General sky.
Sky near the sun.
40.3
38.0
32.4
29.9
26.4
24 . 9
16.4
14.7
18.2
17.7
30.8
29.2
32.9
27.7
The significance of these figures is shown by transferring them
to a diagram, given on Chart II, which indicates the average cloudi-
ness prevailing over the several States where they are crossed by
the track. The marked depression in the middle portions, espe-
cially over Alabama and Georgia, indicates that the stations in
these districts make a much better showing than those nearer the
coast line. The reasons for this difference are probably many in
number, but the chief feature is that the interior of this region,
especially over the higher lands of the southern reaches of the
Appalachian Mountains, which are from six hundred to one thou-
sand feet above the sea level, is somewhat freer from the moisture
flowing inland from the ocean at that season of the year. The
table shows also two divisions, one for the " general sky," wherein
the relative cloudiness was noted in every portion of the visible
sky, and for the " sky near the sun," where the observation was
confined to the immediate vicinity of the sun. The two records
agree almost exactly, except that the sky near the sun averages a
little lower than the general sky. This indicates that although the
sun will be seen in the morning hour of May 28th, when it is only
from thirty to forty degrees above the horizon, yet this is not an
unfavorable circumstance. The low altitude, on the other hand,
