GAS AND GAS METERS. 189
simple, measuring cubic feet with as much deliberation as is required
to deal water out of a cask by means of a pint dipper. Its percentage
of error is the same at all pressures and under all loads within its
capacity, and it measures cubic feet of gas regardless of whether that
gas be expanded or compressed.
And so we are obliged to realize, as another fallacy is exposed, that
the meter does not spin around most energetically under the higher
pressures, cheerfully and accommodatingly serving its masters by add-
ing a mythical cubic foot or two to the count at each revolution.
It remains, then, to consider the error of the meter. The custom
is, in New York at least, not to set a meter that registers fast — that
registers a greater volume of gas than actually passes through it. If
it is found to be slow, however, and not more than three per cent.,
it is allowed to go out. As a result, the meter, when first placed,
always favors the consumer, sometimes to the extent of recording only
ninety-seven feet of gas for each one hundred feet actually passed.
Owing to the aging of the mechanism and the drying out of the
leathers, there exists a tendency to increase the registry for each cubic
foot passed. In this way a slow meter may become a fast meter after
a period of active service. From the meager data at my disposal, it
would appear that every meter should be called in for a thorough over-
hauling and readjustment at periodic intervals of from three to five
years.
Assuming that there are several million gas meters in Greater New
York alone, it is but natural to expect that out of this vast number,
in spite of any reasonable care that may have been exercised in their
adjustment originally, many will be found subsequently to be defective
— some because of mechanical injury, some through sheer old age.
Unfortunately, it is not possible as yet to obtain a convincingly large
array of figures; but in the Borough of Brooklyn, where there are in
service nearly a quarter of a million meters, and where complaints
against them have been studiously encouraged by the authorities, one
hundred and eighty-seven meters have been carefully tested. Here are
the results:
,..,.. , 42 between 3 and 10 per cent.
114 fast, average 3 per cent (recording 103 cubic feet for each J
more than 10 per cent,
between 3 and 10 pei
69 less than 3 per cent.
100 cubic feet actually passed)
I HI
f more than 10 per cent.
i 13 between 3 and 10 per cent.
52 slow, average 2% per cent (recording 97% cubic feet for I gg ]egg thftn g pef cent
each 100 cubic feet actually passed) | J_
