THE SUN'S DESTINATION. 191
THE SUN'S DESTINATION.
By Professor HAROLD JACOBY,
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY.
THREE generations of men have come and gone since the Marquis
de Laplace stood before the Academy of France and gave his
demonstration of the permanent stability of our solar system. There
was one significant fault in Newton's superbly simple conception of an
eternal law governing the world in which we live. The labors of
mathematicians following him had shown that the planets must trace
out paths in space whose form could be determined in advance with
unerring certaint}' by the aid of Newton's law of gravitation. But
they proved just as conclusively that these planetary orbits, as they
are called, could not maintain indefinitely the same shapes or positions.
Slow indeed might be the changes they were destined to undergo;
slow, but sure, with that sureness belonging to celestial science alone.
And so men asked: Has this magnificent solar system been built
upon a scale so grand, been put in operation subject to a law sublime
in its very simplicity, only to change and change until at length it shall
lose every semblance of its former self, and end perhaps in chaos or
extinction?
Laplace was able to answer confidently: No. Nor was his answer
couched in the enthusiastic language of unbalanced theorists who
work by the aid of imagination alone. Based upon the irrefragable
logic of correct mathematical reasoning, and clad in the sober garb
of mathematical formulae, his results carried conviction to men of
science the world over. So was it demonstrated that changes in our
solar system are surely at work, and shall continue for nearly countless
ages; yet just as surely will they be reversed at last, and the system will
tend to return again to its original form and condition. The objection
that the Newtonian law meant ultimate dissolution of the world was
thus destroyed by Laplace. From that day forward, the law of grav-
itation has been accepted as holding sway over all phenomena visible
within our planetary world.
The intricacies of our own solar system being thus illumined, the
restless activity of the human intellect was stimulated to search beyond
for new problems and new mysteries. Even more fascinating than
the movements of our sun and planets are all those questions that relate
to the clustered stellar congeries hanging suspended within the deep
blue vault of night. Does the same law of gravitation cast its magic
