192 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
spell over that hazy cloud of Pleiads, binding them, like ourselves,
with bonds indissoluble? Who shall answer, yes or no? We can only
say that astronomers have as yet but stepped upon the threshold of
the universe, and fixed the telescope's great eye upon that which is
within.
Let us then begin by reminding the reader what is meant by that
Newtonian law of gravitation. It appears all things possess the re-
markable property of attracting or pulling each other. Newton de-
clared that all substances, solid, liquid or even gaseous, from the
massive cliff of rock down to the invisible air — all matter can no more
help pulling than it can help existing. His law further formulates
certain conditions governing the manner in which this gravitational
attraction is exerted; but these are mere matters of detail; interest
centers about the mysterious fact of attraction itself. How can one
thing pull another with no connecting link through which the pull
can act? Just here we touch the point that has never yet been ex-
plained. Nature withholds from science her ultimate secrets. They
that have pondered longest, that have descended farthest of all men
into the clear well of knowledge, have done so but to sound the depths
beyond, never touching bottom.
This inability of ours to give a good physical explanation of gravi-
tation has led numerous paradoxers to doubt or even deny that there
is any such thing. But fortunately we have a simple laboratory ex-
periment that helps ns. Unexplained it may ever remain, but that
there can be attraction between physical objects connected by no visible
link is proved by the behavior of an ordinary magnet. Place a small
piece of steel or iron near a magnetized bar, and it will at once be so
strongly attracted that it will actually fly to the magnet. Any one
who has seen this simple experiment can never again deny the possi-
bility at least of the law of attraction as stated by Newton. Its
possibility once admitted, the fact that it can predict the motions of
all the planets, even shown to the minutest details, transforms the possi-
bility of its birth into a certainty as strong as any human certainty can
ever be.
But this demonstration of Newton's law is limited strictly to the
solar system itself. We may indeed reason by analogy, and take for
granted that a law which holds within our immediate neighborhood is
extremely likely to be true also of the entire visible universe. But
men of science are loath to reason thus; and hence the fascination of
researches in cosmic astronomy. Analogy points out the path. The
astronomer is not slow to follow; but he seeks ever to establish upon
incontrovertible evidence those truths which at first only his daring
imagination had led him to half suspect. If we are to extend the
law of gravitation to the utmost, we must be careful to consider the
