THE SUN'S DESTINATION. 193
law itself in its most complete form. A heavenly body like the sun
is often said to govern the motions of its family of planets; but such
a statement is not strictly accurate. The governing body is no despot;
'tis an abject slave of law and order, as much as the tiniest of attendant
planets. The action of gravitation is mutual, and no cosmic body can
attract another without being itself in turn subject to that other's
gravitational action. If there were in our solar system but two bodies,
sun and planet, we should find each one pursuing a path in space under
the influence of the other's attraction. These two paths or orbits
would be oval, and if the sun and planet were equally massive, the
orbits would be exactly alike, both in shape and size. But if the sun
were far larger than the planet, the orbits would still be similar in
form, but the one traversed by the larger body would be small. For
it is not reasonable to expect a little planet to keep the big sun moving
with a velocity as great as that derived by itself from the attraction
of the larger orb. Whenever the preponderance of the larger body is
extremely great, its orbit will be correspondingly insignificant in size.
This is in fact the case with our own sun. So massive is it in com-
parison with the planets, that the orbit is too small to reveal its actual
existence without the aid of our most refined instruments. The path
traced out by the sun's center would not fill a space as large as the
sun's own bulk. Nevertheless, true orbital motion is there.
So we may conclude that as a necessary consequence of the law of
gravitation every object within the solar system is in motion. To
say that planets revolve about the sun is to neglect as unimportant the
small orbit of the sun itself. This may be sufficiently accurate for
ordinary purposes; but it is unquestionably necessary to neglect no
factor, however small, if we propose to extend our reasoning to a con-
sideration of the stellar universe. For we shall then have to deal with
systems in which the planets are of a size comparable with the sun;
and in such systems all the orbits will also be of comparatively equal
importance.
Mathematical analysis has derived another fact from discussion
of the law of gravitation which perhaps transcends in simple grandeur
everything we have as yet mentioned. It matters not how great may
be the number of massive orbs threading their countless interlacing
curved paths in space, there yet must be in every cosmic system one
single point immovable. This point is called the Center of Gravity.
If it should so happen that in the beginning of things, some particle
of matter were situated at this center, then would that atom ever
remain unmoved and imperturbable throughout all the successive
vicissitudes of cosmic evolution. It is doubtful whether the mind of
man can form a conception of anything grander than such an im-
movable atom within the mysterious intricacies of cosmic motion.
