194 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
But in general, we can not suppose that the centers of gravity in
the various stellar systems are really occupied by actual physical bodies.
The center may be a mere mathematical point in space, situated among
the several bodies composing the system, but nevertheless endowed
with the same remarkable property of relative immobility.
Having thus defined the center of gravity in its relation to the
constituent parts of any cosmic system, we can pass easily to its char-
acteristic properties in connection with the inter-relation of stellar
systems with one another. It can be proved mathematically that our
solar system will pull upon distant stars just as though the sun and
all the planets were concentrated into one vast sphere having its center
in the center of gravity of the whole. It is this property of the center
of gravity which makes it preeminently important in cosmic researches.
For, while we know that center to be at rest relatively to all the planets
in the system, it may, nevertheless, in its quality as a sort of con-
centrated essence of them all, be moving swiftly through space under
the pull of distant stars. In that case, the attendant bodies will go
with it — but they will pursue their evolutions within the system, all
unconscious that the center of gravity is carrying them on a far wider
circuit.
What is the nature of that circuit? This question has been for
many years the subject of earnest study by the clearest minds among
astronomers. The greatest difficulty in the way is the comparatively
brief period during which men have been able to make astronomical
observations of precision. Space and time are two conceptions that
transcend the powers of definition possessed by any man. But we can
at least form a notion of how vast is the extent of time, if we re-
member that the period covered by man's written records is registered
but as a single moment upon the great revolving dial of heaven's dome.
One hundred and fifty years have elapsed since James Bradley built the
foundations of sidereal astronomy upon his masterly series of star-
observations at the Boyal Observatory of Greenwich, in England. Yet
so slowly do the movements of the stars unroll themselves upon the
firmament, that even to this day no one of them has been seen by men
to trace out more than an infinitesimal fraction of its destined path
through the voids of space.
Travelers upon a railroad can not tell at any given moment whether
they are moving in a straight line, or whether the train is turning upon
some curve of huge size. The St. Gothard railway has several so-called
'corkscrew' tunnels, within which the rails make a complete turn in
a spiral, the train finally emerging from the tunnel at a point almost
vertically over the entrance. In this way the train is lifted to a higher
level. Passengers are wont to amuse themselves while in these tunnels
by watching the needle of an ordinary pocket compass. This needle,
