A BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF AN INFANT. 197
A BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF AN INFANT*.
By CHARLES DARWIN.
[Child-study lias recently become a most active department of psychol-
ogy. It is the serious pursuit of men of science and the fad of women's
clubs; a late accession to the magazines devoted to it comes from Japan.
In spite of this wide-spread zeal, few of the followers of child-study have
ever heard of one of the most valuable contributions to it. And in spite
of the eminence of the author, Darwin's observations on the mental growth
of his child are practically unknown to most zoologists and psychologists.
It is a witness to the breadth of Darwin's interests that he should have
been among the few men who anticipated by a generation or more what is
now so wide a movement in psychology. His retention of his notes for
thirty-seven years before publishing them is thoroughly characteristic. In
this respect there is a notable difference between Darwin and the present-
day enthusiasts for child-study.]
MTAINE'S very interesting account of the mental development
• of an infant, translated in the last number of Mind (p. 252),
has led me to look over a diary which I kept thirty-seven years ago
with respect to one of my own infants. I had excellent opportunities
for close observation, and wrote down at once whatever was observed.
My chief object was expression, and my notes were used in my book on
this subject; but as I attended to some other points, my observations
may possibly possess some little interest in comparison with those by
M. Taine, and others which hereafter no doubt will be made. I feel
sure, from what I have seen with my own infants, that the period of
development of the several faculties will be found to differ considerably
in different infants.
During the first seven days various reflex actions, namely sneezing,
hickuping, yawning, stretching, and, of course, sucking and scream-
ing, were well performed by my infant. On the seventh day, I touched
the naked sole of his foot with a bit of paper, and he jerked it away,
curling at the same time his toes, like a much older child when tickled.
The perfection of these reflex movements shows that the extreme im-
perfection of the voluntary ones is not due to the state of the muscles
or of the co-ordinating centers, but to that of the seat of the will. At
this time, though so early, it seemed clear to me that a warm, soft hand
applied to his face excited a wish to suck. This must be considered
as a reflex or an instinctive action, for it is impossible to believe that
* Reprinted fiom Mind, July, ls77.
