iq8 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
experience and association with the touch of his mothers breast could
so soon have come into play. During the first fortnight he often started
on hearing any sudden sound, and blinked his eyes. The same fact was
observed with some of my other infants within the first fortnight.
Once, when he was 66 days old, I happened to sneeze, and he
started violently, frowned, looked frightened, and cried rather badly;
for an hour afterwards he was in a state which would be called nervous
in an older person, for every slight noise made him start. A few days
before this same date, he first started at an object suddenly seen; but
for a long time afterwards sounds made him start and wink his eyes
much more frequently than did sight; thus, when 114 days old, I shook
a pasteboard box with comfits in it near his face and he started,
whilst the same box when empty or any other object shaken as near
or much nearer to his face produced no effect. We may infer from
these several facts that the winking of the eyes, which manifestly serves
to protect them, had not been acquired through experience. Although
so sensitive to sound in a general way, he was not able even when 124
days old, easily to recognize whence a sound proceeded so as to direct
his eyes to the source.
With respect to vision — his eyes were fixed on a candle as early as
the 9th day, and up to the 45th day nothing else seemed thus
to fix them; but on the 49th day his attention was attracted by
a. bright-colored tassel, as was shown by his eyes becoming fixed and the
movements of his arms ceasing. It was surprising how slowly he
acquired the power of following with his eyes an object if swinging at
all rapidly; for he could not do this well when seven and a half months
old. At the age of 32 days he perceived his mother's bosom
when three or four inches from it, as was shown by the protrusion of his
lips and his eyes becoming fixed; but I much doubt whether this had
any connection with vision; he certainly had not touched the bosom.
Whether he was guided through smell or the sensation of warmth or
through association with the position in which he was held, I do not
at all know.
The movements of his limbs and body were for a long time vague
and purposeless, and usually performed in a jerking manner; but
there was one exception to this rule, namely, that from a very early
period, certainly long before he was 40 days old, he could move his
hands to his own mouth. When 77 days old, he took the
sucking bottle (with which he was partly fed) in his right hand,
whether lie was held on the left or right arm of his nurse, and he
would not take it in his left hand until a week later, although I tried to
make him do so; so that the right hand was a week in advance of
the left. Yet this infant afterwards proved to be left-handed, the
tendency being no doubt inherited — his grandfather, mother, and a
