A BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF AN INFANT. 199
brother having been or being left-handed. When between 80 and
90 days old, he drew all sorts of objects into his mouth, and in
two or three weeks' time could do this with some skill; but he often
first touched his nose with the object and then dragged it down into
Ins mouth. After grasping my finger and drawing it to his mouth,
his own hand prevented him from sucking it; but on the 114th day,
after acting in this manner, he slipped his own hand down so that
he could get the end of my finger into his mouth. This action was
repeated several times, and evidently was not a chance but a rational
one. The intentional movements of the hands and arms were thus
much in advance of those of the body and legs; though the purpose-
less movements of the latter were from a very early period usually
alternate, as in the act of walking. When four months old he often
looked intently at his own hands and other objects close to him, and
in doing so the eyes were turned much inwards, so that he often
squinted frightfully. In a fortnight after this time (i. e., 132 days old),
I observed that if an object was brought as near to his face as his
own bands were, he tried to seize it, but often failed; and he did not
try to do so in regard to more distant objects. I think there can be
little doubt that the convergence of his eyes gave him the clue and
excited him to move his arms. Although this infant thus began to
use his hands at an early period, he showed no special aptitude in
this respect, for when he was two years and four months old, he
held pencils, pens, and other objects far less neatly and efficiently than
did his sister, who was then only fourteen months old, and who showed
great inherent aptitude in handling anything.
Anger. — It was difficult to decide at how early an age anger was
felt; on his eighth day he frowned and wrinkled the skin round his
eyes before a crying fit, but this may have been due to pain or distress,
and not to anger. When about ten weeks old, he was given some rather
cold milk, and he kept a slight frown on his forehead all the time
that he was sucking, so that he looked like a grown-up person made
cross from being compelled to do something which he did not like.
When nearly four months old, and perhaps much earlier, there could
be no doubt, from the manner in which the blood gushed into his
whole face and scalp, that he easily got into a violent passion. A
small cause sufficed; thus, when a little over seven months old, he
screamed with rage because a lemon slipped away and he could not
seize it with his hands. When eleven months old, if a wrong plaything
was given him, he would push it away and beat it; I presume that the
beating was an instinctive sign of anger, like the snapping of the jaws
by a young crocodile just out of the egg, and not that he imagined
he could hurt the plaything. When two years and three months
old, he became a great adept at throwing books or sticks, etc., at any
