A BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF AN INFANT. 201
Here surprise was the chief cause of the amusement, as is the case
to a large extent with the wit of grown-up persons. I believe that
for three or four weeks before the time when he was amused by a face
being suddenly uncovered, he received a little pinch on his nose and
cheeks as a good joke. I was at first surprised at humor being appre-
ciated by an infant only a little above three months old, but we should
remember how very early puppies and kittens begin to play. When
four months old, he showed in an unmistakable manner that he liked
to hear the pianoforte played; so that here apparently was the earliest
sign of an aesthetic feeling, unless the attraction of bright colors, which
was exhibited much earlier, may be so considered.
Affection. — This probably arose very early in life, if we may
judge by his smiling at those who had charge of him when under two
months old; though I had no distinct evidence of bis distinguishing
and recognizing any one, until he was nearly four months old. When
nearly five months old he plainly showed his wish to go to his nurse.
But he did not spontaneously exhibit affection by overt acts until a
little above a year*old, namely, by kissing several times his nurse who
had been absent for a short time. With respect to the allied feeling of
sympathy, this was clearly shown at six months and eleven days by his
melancholy face, with the corners of his mouth well depressed, when his
nurse pretended to cry. Jealousy was plainly exhibited when I fondled
a large doll, and when I weighed his infant sister, he being then
fifteen and one half months old. Seeing how strong a feeling jealousy
is in dogs, it would probably be exhibited by infants at an earlier age
than that just specified, if they were tried in a fitting manner.
Association of Ideas, Reason, Etc. — The first action which ex-
hibited, as far as I observed, a kind of practical reasoning, has already
been noticed, namely, the slipping his hand down my finger so as to
get the end of it into his mouth; and this happened on the 114th day.
When four and a half months old, he repeatedly smiled at my image and
his own in a mirror, and no doubt mistook them for real objects; but
he showed sense in being evidently surprised at my voice coming from
behind him. Like all infants, he much enjoyed thus looking at him-
self, and in less than two months perfectly understood that it was an
image; for if I made quite silently any old grimace, he would suddenly
turn round to look at me. He was, however, puzzled at the age of
seven months, when being out of doors he saw me on the inside of a
large plate-glass window, and seemed in doubt whether or not it was
an image. Another of my infants, a little girl, when exactly a year
old, was not nearly so acute, and seemed perplexed at the image of a
person in a mirror approaching her from behind. The higher apes
which I tried with a small looking-glass behaved differently; they
placed their hands behind the glass, and in doing so showed their
