A BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF AN INFANT. 203
old. At the age of eleven and a half months, he could readily imitate
all sorts of actions, such as shaking his head and saying "Ah" to any
dirty object, or by carefully and slowly putting his forefinger in the
middle of he palm of. his other hand, to the childish rhyme of "Pat
it and pat it and mark it with T." It was amusing to behold his
pleased expression after successfully performing any such accomplish-
ment.
I do not know whether it is worth mentioning, as showing some-
thing about the strength of memory in a youug child, that this one,
when three years and twenty-three days old, on being shown an en-
graving of bis grandfather, whom he had not seen for exactly six
months, instantly recognized him and mentioned a whole string of
events which had occurred whilst visiting him, and which certainly
had never been mentioned in the interval.
Moral Sense. — The first sign of moral sense was noticed at the age
of nearly thirteen months; I said, "Doddy (his nickname) won't give
poor papa a kiss, — naughty Doddy." These words, without doubt, made
him feel slightly uncomfortable; and at last, when I had returned to
my chair, he protruded his lips as a sign that he was ready to kiss me;
and he then shook his hand in an angry manner until I came and re-
ceived his kiss. Nearly the same little scene recurred in a few days,
and the reconciliation seemed to give him so much satisfaction that
several times afterwards he pretended to be angry and slapped me, and
then insisted on giving me a kiss. So that here we have a touch of the
dramatic art, which is so strongly pronounced in most young children.
About this time it became easy to work on his feelings and make him
do whatever was wanted. When two years and three months old, he
gave his last bit of gingerbread to his little sister, and then cried out
with high self-approbation, "Oh, kind Doddy, kind Doddy." Two
months later he became extremely sensitive to ridicule, and was so
suspicious that he often thought people who were laughing and talking
together were laughing at him. A little later (two years and seven and a
half months old) I met him coming out of the dining-room with his
eyes unnaturally bright, and an odd, unnatural or affected manner, so
that I went into the room to see who was there, and found that he had
been taking pounded sugar, which he had been told not to do. As he
had never been in any way punished, his odd manner certainly was not
due to fear, and I suppose it was pleasurable excitement struggling
with conscience. A fortnight afterwards I met him coming out of the
same room, and he was eyeing his pinafore, which he had carefully
rolled up; and again his manner was so odd that I determined to
see what was within his pinafore, notwithstanding that he said there
was nothing, and repeatedly commanded me to "go away," and I found
it stained with pickle- juice; so that here was carefully planned deceit.
