CORRESPONDENCE.
207
statesman unless he lives at least a suf-
ficient number of years to acquire the
development of an adult, and to have
the opportunity of developing his abil-
ities and distinguishing himself. If
great men were great from their in-
fancy, and if we had the means of as
certaining this fact, then, and only then,
would the method used be correct.
It is ordinarily stated that the aver-
age duration of life is somewhere be-
tween thirty-three and forty years, and
Mr. Thayer considers that in the pres-
ent century it has moved forward to-
wards the latter figure. What this
means is that if we were to keep a
record of the age at death of all Ameri-
cans who are to be born within the
first ten years of the coming century,
we should find that their average age
at death would be some thirty odd
years. But this number can by no
means be used as a standard with which
to compare the average age at death of
men of distinction, or indeed of any
other class of men selected according
to a standard which involves on their
part the attainment of mature years.
If we were investigating the longevity
of twins, or of persons with supernum-
erary toes, or indeed of persons pos-
sessing any quality which one could de-
tect in new-born infants, and if we
could determine the average life-period
of this class of persons and find that
it markedly exceeded the average of
the entire community, we should be en-
titled to conclude that twins, or persons
who have supernumerary toes, are
blessed with a greater longevity than
the average man. But so long as men
who are to acquire distinction bear no
traces upon them of this power until
they exhibit their powers and actually
gain distinction, it is obvious that we
are concerned with their longevity only
from that moment when they have
entered, or have become promising can-
didates for that class of selected indi-
viduals whose longevity we are investi-
gating. Proceeding on this basis, I tried
to determine the age at which, on the
average, men of genius had accom-
plished a work sufficient to entitle them
to be so denominated. This investiga-
tion was instigated by Mr. C. S. Peirce,
then in charge of courses in logic at the
Johns Hopkins University. Under his
leadership a small company, of whom I
was one, proposed to study certain
traits of great men, and for this purpose
we tried to select the three hundred
greatest' men of all times. The work
was never carried on to completion, so
that the final selection of the names,
and particularly their use in the present
connection, must rest on my sole re-
sponsibility. I mention these facts
mainly to indicate the general repre-
sentative character of the list which I
used. I take from my previously pub-
lished article the following essential
facts: Omitting all doubtful names,
about two hundred and fifty names re-
main, presenting a list which most per-
sons would agree to be fairly representa-
tive of the greatest men of all times. Of
these again I selected at random those
about whom it was easiest to fix the
age at which they had done work which
would entitle them to a place on this
list, or work which almost inevitably
led to such distinction. It is a date about
midway between the first important
work and the greatest work. The av-
erage of over sixty such ages is thirty-
seven years; which means that, on the
average, a man must be thirty-seven
years old in order to be a candidate for
a place on this list. The real question,
then, is, How does the longevity of this
select class of thirty-seven-year-old men
compare with that of more ordinary in-
dividuals? The answer is given by the
expectation of life at thirty-seven years,
which is twenty-nine years, making the
average age at death sixty-six years.
And this is precisely the age at death
of these sixty great men; showing that,
as a class (for these sixty may be con-
sidered a fair sample) great men are
not distinguished by longevity from
other men."
It will thus be seen that my own
conclusion is entirely opposed to that
I of Mr. Thayer. But this opposition
