208
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
rests not upon a difference of data, but
upon a difference of logic. To my mind
the enumeration of ages at death of any
number of great men cannot prove un-
usual longevity unless we take into
consideration and can determine the
number of years which, on the average,
a person must have lived in order to
become a candidate for the class under
consideration. The comparison with
the average age (that is, the period of
about thirty-five or more years) is not
only false; it is essentially absurd; for
it would become possible only if we had
among poets, and painters, and musi-
cians, and historians, and scientists, and
generals a goodly number who suc-
cumbed to the diseases of early infancy,
or to some of the ills that juvenile flesh
is heir to.
It may be well to illustrate at this
point just what conclusions may be
drawn from the data which Mr. Thayer
and other writers have presented. The
first conclusion is that it takes a consid-
erable length of time to become eminent
— on the whole a very natural and com-
prehensible statement. And with regard
to the astronomers previously men-
tioned it is even possible to go farther;
for these astronomers have been di-
vided into four degrees of eminence, and
it is found that astronomers of the first
rank are longer-lived than those of the
second, and these in turn are longer-
lived than those of the third class, and
these in turn are longer-lived than
those of the fourth class. Therefore,
the author concludes, the greatest as-
tronomers have been most favored with
length of years, and adds, as practical
advice, "Be an astronomer and live
long." Now, of course, the true con-
clusion is that it takes longer to ac-
complish work which will entitle one
to pre-eminence amongst astronomers
than to do work which will only
achieve moderate distinction. And the
practical conclusion would read, "Live
long enough to become great as an as-
tronomer and you will probably, with
the ordinary expectation of life, have
a good chance of completing your three
score and ten." In the same way Mr.
Thayer's list of nineteenth-century
celebrities might fairly be said to sug-
gest the conclusion that in the present
century one must already have labored
for a goodly number of years before
one's name would be selected by a stu-
dent of the longevity of great men. So
far, then, these facts have an interest-
ing interpretation.
It may also be worth while to note
that if all the men whose longevity is
to be compared are of a comparable
class (that is, comparable with regard
to the attainment of years which they
assume), then the longevity of different
groups of celebrities may be compared
with one another. Thus it is possible to
compare the longevity of musicians
with that of scientists (of about equal
eminence), and according to Mr.
Thayer*s lists the scientists lived ten
years longer than the musicians. The
same conclusion appears in my own
study, in which the scientists appear
amongst the longest-lived, and the
musicians amongst the shortest-lived
men of genius. This conclusion must
not be pressed too far, but in a gen-
eral way it certainly is a bit of evi-
dence worthy of consideration as prov-
ing that distinguished scientists live
longer than distinguished musicians. It
would be wrong to draw rigid conclu-
sions from comparisons of small groups,
and therefore it is better to contrast
the average age at death of the various
men studied in as large and as general
classes as possible; e. g., as men of
thought, men of feeling and men of ac-
tion. All of the studies with which I
am acquainted point to the conclusion
that men of thought live longer than
those who achieve distinction through
unusual qualities of their emotional na-
tures.
We may now approach the question,
whether or not it is possible to pi'ove
that the men of distinction of the nine-
teenth century are longer-lived or short-
er-lived than their every-day contempo-
raries. It would be possible to do this
had we statistics of the age at death of
