CORRESPONDENCE.
209
the various professions; and again, had
we these deaths classed according to the
distinction which the individuals at-
tained. In addition to this it would
be necessary to ascertain (with some
rough approximation, as I have at-
tempted to do with regard to the great-
est men of all times) the age at which
they had accomplished sufficient work
to entitle them to be enrolled in their
special class. To take concrete in-
stances, let us suppose that we wish to
investigate the longevity of American
lawyers. Now to be a lawyer in name
only requires the candidate to have
lived twenty-one years, and the average
number of years which the average per-
son of twenty-one years of age will con-
tinue to live is about forty; so that the
mere fact that a man is a lawyer would
bring his average age at death up to
sixty-one years. I find in MulhalFs
Dictionary of Statistics the statement
made that the lawyers of Frankfurt die
at the average age of fifty-four years,
while merchants live to be fifty-seven
years old. I know nothing about the
authority of these figures, and am using
them for illustration only. Assuming
all the data to be correct (and twenty-
one seems not too high an age for this
purpose), this would seem to suggest
that the ordinary lawyer of Frankfurt
is not favored with abundance of years.
In passing, it is interesting to note that
these Frankfurt statistics of lawyers
and merchants and other classes show
a uniformly lower age at death than
those of the more eminent representa-
tives of their professions. This is just
what we should expect; for to be in-
cluded in the one group one must have
lived only long enough to prepare and
establish one's self as a lawyer or as a
merchant; while for the other group
one must in addition have had oppor-
tunity to cultivate one's ability to a
riper fruitage, and in a keen, and often
long competition gain public recogni-
tion. It thus follows that the average
longevity of the most distinguished law-
yers will be greater than that of ordin-
ary lawyers, because it takes longer to
VOL. LVII.— 14
enter the more select class. But this
argument, like many others, should not
be pressed too far; innate ability may
accomplish in a brief period what for
more moderate powers is the work of
many years. Nonetheless, in the study
of comparative longevity it is the aver-
age that is significant; and it is the
fluctuation of the average that we aim
to discover. Thus, in the investigation
of the longevity of an unwholesome oc-
cupation, such as would be accepted by
a life insurance company only at special
rates, we should expect to find the age
at death of such individuals less than
that of other classes involving an equal
period of apprenticeship; but, of course,
not less than that of the 'population as
a whole.' And, to continue with the
main argument, if we wish to investi-
gate the longevity of shoemakers we
should again have to decide upon some
age at which on the average a person
has probably already acquired the dex-
terity requisite to be a shoemaker.
Even if we fix this so low as ten years,
at which time the expectation of life
is forty-eight years, it would bring the
average age at death of shoemakers to
fifty-eight years. It has thus become
extremely obvious that if we compared
these ages at death with the average
life-period it would be just as easy to
prove that lawyers and shoemakers and
merchants enjoy exceptional longevity,
as to prove that great men do. The aver-
age longevity is low because of the very
large infant mortality, which enters into
the composition of this average. When
once the first ten years of life are passed
the further expectation of life increases
quite slowly. Roughly speaking, for
every ten years between ten and fifty
years the added expectation of life is
but three years for each decade. We
therefore see that in the very nature
of things no one class of adults can pos-
sibly live as much as thirty years
longer than 'the population as a
whole.' The differences with which we
are dealing are differences of a finer
order, of a small number of years, and
being slight differences, must be sub-
