210
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
stantiated by a relatively large number
of cases; the cases, moreover, must be
collected in a wholly unobjectionable
manner; that is, in a manner in which
the principle of selection bears no in-
fluence upon the longevity. To my
knowledge adequate statistics which ex-
hibit the relative longevity of different
classes do not exist, and they certainly
do not exist with regard to great men.
We may therefore conclude that the
facts which have thus far been col-
lected are not opposed to the conclu-
sion that great men enjoy favorable
longevity, but they certainly have not
established or contributed to the es-
tablishment of this fact. While it is
not impossible to collect material which
may serve as corroborative evidence of
the longevity of great men, it seems
probable that we must be content with
evidence of a far inferior character.
Although I regard Mr. Thayer's
argument concerning longevity as en-
tirely fallacious, I find myself in sym-
pathy with his main contention. It
seems to me that much of the evidence
which has been brought forward to as-
similate greatness with degeneracy is of
questionable value and that the logical
force of such evidence has been very
much overrated. That genius and in-
sanity are related is probably capable
not of demonstration, but of a moderate
degree of substantiation; but this evi-
dence must be both judiciously col-
lected and judiciously interpreted. It
cannot be presented in a popular form
without subjecting it to the danger of
serious and harmful misrepresentation.
In the same way the question of degen-
eracy and its bearing upon modern life
has been frequently misstated, so that
statements of protests such as Mr.
Thayer offers are both opportune and
likely to have a wholesome effect. But
the present concern is only with the re-
lation of longevity to greatness as an
indication of the absence of degeneracy.
That long life is inconsistent with a gen-
eral degeneracy may be admitted; but
that great men exhibit this quality to
any unusual degree has certainly not
been proven.
Joseph Jastkow.
University of Wisconsin.
SCHOOL REFORM.
School teachers and educational re-
formers undoubtedly take themselves
and their ideas too seriously. Accord-
ingly one rejoices to see an eminent man
put his own affairs aside for a moment
and discuss educational theories in a
humorous vein. Even ridicule should
be welcomed if it can relieve the sombre
earnestness of the educational platform
and press. Professor Munsterberg, in
the Atlantic Monthly for May, has done
pedagogy this service by subjecting the
elective system and professional train-
ing for high-school teachers to consider-
able good-natured ridicule. His article
is so readable that one is led to suppose
that it was written to be read, not to be
believed. Moreover, Professor Munster-
berg's eminence as a psychologist should
not be taken as a sign that he thinks he
knows aught of education. He has him-
self warned us against the illusion that
psychology can derive truth about
teaching, or that the psychologist can
inform the teacher or anything of value.
It may be that the wholesome matters
of fact, as well as the brilliant imagina-
tive criticism of this article are only
play. The very strenuousness of the
teacher's nature, however, will probably
lead him to try to extract some new
gospel of reform from Professor Miin-
sterberg's lightest pleasantry; conse-
quently it seems wise to consider the
article as a serious argument and pro-
vide a possible antidote for it.
Professor Munsterberg contends that
it is unwise to give high-school teachers
special professional education apart
from knowledge of the subjects which
they are to teach; that it is folly to re-
place a prescribed course of study by an
elective system; that the salvation of
our schools depends upon the scholar-
ship of the teachers and the attitude of
parents. As the reformers agree heart-
ily with this last claim (unless it is
