CORRESPONDENCE.
211
made an exclusive aim), and as its
meaning is so vague that almost any-
thing can be urged as a corrolary to it,
it may be dismissed. The first two con-
tentions are about concrete matters of
educational practice which need to be
thought over. If professional prepara-
tion is a waste of time, there is every
reason why we should omit it; if a pre-
scribed course of study is better for the
boys and girls, we can conscientiously
lessen the expense and labor of adminis-
tration in many schools.
The argument on the first point is,
briefly, that Professor Miinsterberg's
teachers were good teachers and that
they had no notion of even the vocabu-
lary of educational theories. But ob-
viously that may not have been the
secret of their success. A majority of
the high-school teachers in New Eng-
land have had no professional training,
yet no one has observed that they are
superior to those of their class who
have. The argument is really a bare
assertion of an unverified guess. It is
the hap-hazard opinion of an eminent
psychologist who perchance is trying to
furnish evidence of his previous theory
that psychology does not give one
knowledge about teaching. It is worth
while to note here a certain interesting
aspect of human nature. Training in
one sphere of intellectual activity need
not bring ability in other spheres. The
habit and power of observation or rea-
soning acquired in connection with
chemistry need not make a man a good
observer or reasoner in politics or phi-
lology.- So we should not be surprised
that a man eminent for his scientific
habits as a psychologist should, on a
question in another field, offer imagina-
tive hypotheses without an attempt to
verify them, or to collect pertinent evi-
dence or to eliminate factors outside
those he discusses. We may be allowed
to feel sorry. If a scientist wishes to
really clear up the question of the value
of professional training, why does he
not find representatives of the classes,
'teachers with professional training' and
'teachers their equals in other respects,
who have replaced the effort after pro-
fessional training by equal effort after
further scholarship,' and compare the
work of the two classes? If other fac-
tors enter to disturb such an investiga-
tion, why not carefully look at the facts
to ascertain their influence? Until he
does so his dicta will stand as mere
opinions. It would be a blessing if
scientific men would use the weight of
their reputations, not to bolster up their
after-dinner opinions about things in
general, but to teach the public scien-
tific methods of studying them.
Apart from the danger of offering
pedagogy an unproved opinion as a fact,
it seems poor economy to leave a ques-
tion in such shape that only the opinion
of another eminent man on the opposite
side is required to destroy the result
you have attained. Precisely this has
occurred in the case of Professor Miin-
sterberg's contributions to educational
discussion two years ago. Another emi-
nent man, Professor Dewey, has recently
squarely denied what Professor Miin-
sterberg affirmed. It only remains for
some equally eminent German professor
to rise and declare that his teachers
were bad and that they had no pro-
fessional training, or that his teachers
were good and had it, and Professor
Miinsterberg's effect is neutralized.
Professor Miinsterberg's argument
against the elective system is more
complex. He regards the elective sys-
tem as partly a concession to the ob-
vious need of fitting young people
earlier for their occupations in life and
partly an attempt to use the likes and
dislikes of children as a guide to what
is good for them. This is a very narrow
view. The elective system has been in
part the result of the progress of science
and the consequent conviction that the
scientific study of things and human af-
fairs should be a part of one's educa-
tion. The elective system furnished a
compromise by which such studies
found a place in the college and school
curricula. If the student is left to
choose among them, instead of having a
new prescribed course made out on the
