SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.
213
SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.
CHEMISTRY.
The general interest which has been
aroused the last few years in physical
chemistry is reflected in the number of
books which have appeared in this de-
partment. Some of these dwell more
upon the older physical chemistry, de-
voting but relatively little space to the
later developments, while others are
chiefly concerned wi^th the newer phases
of the subject. Perhaps the most satis-
factory book which has appeared along
this line is Walker's 'Introduction to
Physical Chemistry' (Macmillan). No
attempt is made to exhaust the field
but the subject is well covered. Espe-
cially commendable is the clearness of
the book, which will render it useful to
students. The non-mathematical treat-
ment of the subject will also commend
it to many who use it as an introduc-
tion to physical chemistry. A book of
narrower scope is Dr. H. C. Jones's
'Theory of Electrolytic Dissociation and
Some of Its Applications,' from the press
of the same publishers. The author
gives first a short review of the develop-
ment of physical chemistry up to the
days of van't Hoff, and then surveys
the origin of the theory of electrolytic
dissociation, its proofs and some of its
applications. While making no pretense
to cover the whole field of physical
chemistry, the author furnishes a very
readable account of the most important
of the later generalizations. It is a
book which should be read especially by
those chemists and physicists who are
working in other fields, that they may
gain a fair view of the electrolytic dis-
sociation theory written by one thor-
oughly competent for his task. Biolo-
gists, too, will find the latter part of the
book, treating of the applications of the
theory to animal and plant life, of espe-
cial interest. Dr. Jones, with S. H.
King, has also translated Biltz on 'Prac-
tical Methods of Determining Molecular
Weights.' This is a successful attempt to
gather together the best of the different
methods of real value, and it is very
satisfactorily carried out, presenting a
good guide book for students.
In the production of text-books of
general chemistry, there seems to be a
little lull, very few books having ap-
peared in recent months. The first part
of what promises to be a somewhat orig-
inal work on inorganic chemistry, by
Dr. Sperber, has appeared. After the
introduction on general chemical laws,
the elements of the seventh group (chlo-
rine, etc.), are first considered, and then
their hydrogen compounds; the sixth
group (oxygen, etc.) and its hydrogen
compounds; fifth group (nitrogen, etc.),
etc. The method used is purely induc-
tive, each subject being introduced by
experiments from which the underlying
principles are developed.
A third edition of Elliott and Fergu-
son's 'Qualitative Analysis' has appeared
which is a considerable improvement
upon the previous editions. The princi-
pal merit of this book, is in the opinion
of many its greatest drawback. In
clearness and minuteness of directions
it is hardly equalled by any manual of
qualitative analysis, and thus it is a
particularly easy book for the instructor
to use, especially with a large class. But
this, on the other hand, cannot fail to
encourage mere mechanical work on the
part of the student and to discourage in-
dependence. With large classes, how-
ever, it is a difficult problem how best
to cultivate individuality of work.
A little manual of 'Analysis of White
Paints,' by G. H. Ellis, will prove of
value to chemists to whom now and
