214
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
then paint samples are brought for
analysis. It is a collection of notes by
a chemist who has had much experience
along this line.
In the field of applied chemistry quite
a number of books have come out lately,
the most useful of which is probably the
seventh volume of 'The Mineral Industry.'
The field of mineral resources and indus-
tries of the world is very thoroughly sur-
veyed, and the volume is brought as
closely down to date as possible. In this
respect it has a great advantage over
the corresponding publication of the
United States Government. Among the
subjects which are treated very thor-
oughly in the present volume are cal-
cium carbid, fire brick and paving brick,
coal mining methods and their economic
bearing, progress in the metallurgy of
copper and of gold, notes on the prog-
ress of iron and steel metallurgy (by
Henry M. Howe), sulfuric acid, progress
in ore dressing (by Robert H. Richards).
It is a book necessary to the teacher,
of great value to the economist and of
much interest to the general reader.
The second edition of McMillan's "Elec-
tro-metallurgy* is a considerable im-
provement on the former edition, and is
brought well down to date. The greater
part of the book is devoted to the elec-
tro-deposition of metals, and is thorough
and satisfactory. It is, however, unfor-
tunate that the treatment of electro-
metallurgical ore-extraction should be
very inadequate, this whole subject, to-
gether with electro-refining, being con-
fined to a single chapter of thirty pages.
Lange's 'Chemische-technische Un-
tersuchungsmethoden' is passing through
its fourth edition, of which the second
volume is just out. This treats of metals
and metallic salts, fertilizers, fodders,
explosives, matches, gas manufacture,
ammonia and coal tar and inorganic
colors. The book aims at exhaustive
treatment, and while some subjects are
in parts weak, as is naturally the case
where there are many different authors,
it is as a whole the best work in its
field.
A book in a new line is H. and H.
Ingle's Chemistry of Fire and Fire Pre-
vention' (Spon and Chamberlain). The
book takes its origin from lectures de-
livered to an audience of insurance men.
After three chapters on the history and
theory of combustion, various industries
more or less connected with fire are
taken up; coal gas, dust explosions, fuel,
illuminants, explosives, oils, volatile
solvents, paints and varnish making,
textile manufactures, spontaneous com-
bustion, are some of the subjects treated.
The last chapter is a quite useful one
on fire prevention and extinction. The
book contains much useful information
and should prove of very considerable
value outside of the rather limited au-
dience to which it is addressed.
ZOOLOGY.
The past few months have witnessed
the publication of many important
works on zoological subjects, and among
these it may not be amiss to note first
Kingsley's 'Text-Book of Vertebrate
Zoology,' since it adopts a new method,
that of showing the bearing of embryol-
ogy upon the morphology of vertebrates,
and in turn, of morphology upon their
classification. Its object is stated to be to
"supplement both lectures and labora-
tory work, and to place in concise form
the more important facts and generali-
zations concerning the vertebrates," and
the author has succeeded in crowding a
large amount of information into the
439 pages of the work. The illustrations
are numerous, and for the most part
very good, comprising some figures that
have appeared in other text-books and
some that are the outcome of Dr. Kings-
ley's own work. It is to be noted that
in place of many of the standard Euro-
pean forms that have done morphologi-
cal duty for years, we have such Ameri-
can types as Acanthias, Necturus, Am-
blystoma and Sceloporus, a change for
which we are duly grateful.
Parker and Haswell's admirable
'Manual of Zoology' has been revised
