SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.
217
the guidance and furtherance of re-
search. The first volume issued, deal-
ing with the metabolism and sources
of energy in plants, is cyclopedic in
its completeness of review of investiga-
tions in this phase of the physiology
without cumbering its bibliographical
lists with titles of unimportant papers.
In general, subjects yet under contro-
versy are set forth with judicial fair-
ness, and the author has made himself
familiar with the work of Russian,
English and American botanists in a
manner not practiced by some of his
contemporaries. The translation of this
work by Dr. Ewart (Clarendon Press)
has given opportunity for the correction
of any slight omissions in the bibliogra-
phy, and the completed book must be
regarded as of the greatest value not
•only to the botanist but to the animal
physiologist who would cover the do-
main of that illusive subject known as
"general physiology."
ANTHROPOLOGY.
Probably the most striking sign of
the increasing interest in the study of
primitive man is the organization of
well-equipped expeditions for the inves-
tigation of prehistoric remains and par-
ticular groups of existing savages. Of
the latter class, the Cambridge expedi-
tion to Torres Straits, under the leader-
ship of Professor A. C. Haddon, has re-
turned to England, and various prelim-
inary reports of the results of its work
have already appeared. A new depar-
ture in the scheme of work of this ex-
pedition was the introduction of psy-
chological observations under experi-
mental conditions among the natives.
The tests which were made were nec-
essarily simple, but covered a fairly
wide field. They included tests of vis-
ual acuteness, color vision and color
blindness, acuteness and range of hear-
ing, appreciation of tones and differ-
ences of rhythm, tactile acuteness and
localization, estimation of weights, sim-
ple reaction-times to visual and audi-
tory stimuli, estimation of intervals of
time, memory and a number of tests of
a more general character.
The detailed results have not yet ap-
peared, but it is evident that there is
much of interest to be expected. For
example, of about two hundred and
fifty individuals of different tribes
tested for color blindness, not a case
was found, except on one island, where
three out of eight subjects suffered from
ordinary red-green blindness. Reaction-
times are said to be shorter than among
the uneducated classes of European peo-
ples, but no figures have as yet ap-
peared. A fact, important if true, is
the reported lack of suggestibility
among the natives of the region. This
is directly opposed to the general ob-
servations of most ethnographers and
seems hardly probable. On all points
the detailed reports are needed.
On this side of the world public at-
tention has been called particularly to
the admirable plans of the Jesup North
Pacific Expedition, which has been at
work for the past three years on the
northwest coast of America and the
opposite coast of Asia. During the year
just past the first published accounts of
its results have begun to appear in a
series of handsome monographs from
the American Museum of Natural His-
tory in New York. Professor Franz
Boas, the director of the expedition-,
furnishes the first two memoirs, one on
'Facial Paintings of the Indians of
British Columbia' and the other on the
'Mythology of the Bella Coola Indians.'
The first named is of importance be-
cause of its bearing on the evolution of
decorative designs. The Indians of the
northwest coast differ from most other
primitive groups in the matter of deco
ration by their failure to develop geo
metric designs and their tendency to re-
tain realistic portrayals with certain
characteristic modifications. In the
adaptation of the decorations to the
human face the problem has been diffi
cult and a large number of examples
are given showing the method of solu
tion. The memoir on Bella Coola myth
