218
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ology is the first account of the com-
plex conceptions of these Indians which
can lay any claim to completeness. The
Bella Coola conception of the universe is
interesting. They believe in five worlds,
one above the other, of which the mid-
dle one is the earth. Above this are
spanned two heavens and beneath, two
underworlds. In the upper heaven re-
sides the supreme deity, who interferes
little with the affairs of men; in the
lower heaven dwell the Sun and all the
other deities who are more intimately
connected with mankind. The first un-
derworld is inhabited by ghosts who
may rise to the first heaven and be sent
again to earth, and in the second under-
world dwell the ghosts of those who
have died a second death; from this
there is no return. Other memoirs in
the series are 'The Archaeology of Lyt-
ton, B. C.,' by Harlan I. Smith, de-
scriptive of the work of the expedition
in that line; 'The Thompson Indians of
British Columbia,' by James Teit, which
is an exhaustive ethnographical account
of that tribe, and 'The Basketry Designs
of the Salish Indians,' by Livingston
Farrand, in which is shown the develop-
ment of geometric designs from realistic
forms among the Indians of the Salish
stock, a development which contrasts
sharply with that of the neighboring
stocks described by Boas.
With the results of field-work pour-
ing in and the constant modifications of
theory brought about thereby, it be-
comes a task practically impossible to
write a general 'Anthropology' which
will not be out-of-date before it issues
from the press. Nevertheless, from time
to time the attempt is made and one
of the latest ventures is 'Man, Past and
Present,' by Mr. A. H. Keane (Univer-
sity Press, Cambridge). It is a general
classification and description of the
races of man which is open to the same
objections as to validity of classification
as can be offered to any work on the
subject at the present stage of knowl-
edge. At the same time it contains
much information in compact form, is
not technical and will doubtless be use-
ful. Of similar scope is 'The Races of
Man,' by J. Deniker, which has just ap-
peared in English form (Scribner's Con-
temp. Sci. Series). This work, also com-
pact, is somewhat more technical than
Keane's and also more accurate. It con-
tains an appendix with brief tables of
measurements and indices adapted for
quick reference.
Of more special studies, unquestion-
ably the most important work of the
year is Messrs. Spencer and Gillen's 'The
Native Tribes of Central Australia'
(Macmillan). This extraordinarily min-
ute account of the customs of the tribes
with which it deals has already begun
to attract the attention which it de-
serves. The problems upon which it
throws light are numerous, but prob-
ably that of most general interest is
Totemism, with its many social and re-
ligious bearings. The origin of this
well-known savage custom has been a
puzzle and heretofore not even a plausi-
ble suggestion has been made toward
its solution. Messrs. Spencer and Gil-
len's account of the totemic ceremonies
of the Arunta tribe, however, points ir-
resistibly toward a definite economic
origin, an attempt to preserve and in-
crease the totemic animals and objects
for the good of the tribe. The under-
lying relation between the clansman and
his totem, as well as the social relations
between the members of a clan, with the
rules regarding marriage and the result-
ant modification of the family organiza-
tion, are all analyzed with quite ex-
ceptional skill and in this and other
fields the book is destined to become a
classic.
