THE PB OGRESS OF SCIENCE.
219
THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE.
Dr. Wolcott Gibbs presented his
resignation from the presidency of the
National Academy of Sciences at the re-
cent Washington meeting, and the occa-
sion permits the publication of his por-
trait and a few words in reference to his
great contributions to science. Born in
New York City in 1822, Dr. Gibbs grad-
uated from Columbia College fifty-nine
years ago. He studied abroad under
Liebig, the founder of the first chemical
laboratory, occupied a chair in the Col-
lege of the City of New York, and was
for twenty-four years Rumford pro-
fessor at Harvard University. He be-
came professor emeritus in 1887, and
established a private laboratory at
Newport, where he has continued his re-
searches. Dr. Gibbs is one of the great
chemists of the world. He is the only
American honorary member of the Ger-
man Chemical Society. Among other
important ideas, his suggestion that the
electrolytic deposition of copper be used
as a means of quantitative analysis is
one which has grown to a remarkable
extent. There are now a number of vol-
umes devoted solely to the amplifica-
tion of this idea, which has been ap-
plied to numerous substances. Many
other methods of quantitative analysis
have been improved and simplified un-
der his guidance, but perhaps his great-
est work is his extended experimental
study of complex salts, especially the
cobaltamine compounds, and a great
number of singularly complicated
bodies, containing some of the rarer
elements. Most of these substances are
of no practical value, but they are of
great theoretical interest, because they
are only partially explained by the
present theories of molecular structure.
While the resignation of Dr. Gibbs from
the presidency of the Academy is doubly
regretted because it is owing to the fact
that his health no longer permits the
strain of the office, chemical science will
profit all the more from his exclusive
devotion to research.
The meetings of the National Acad-
emy of Sciences held annually at Wash-
ington during the third week of April,
pass without the general attention that
they deserve. For the Academy meets
not only to listen to special scientific
papers, but also as the official scientific
adviser of the Government. As knowl-
edge increases in range and exactness,
it is evident that expert advice becomes
more and more necessary, both for the
enactment of legislation and for carry-
ing it into effect. It may, indeed, be
fairly claimed that the advisory or ex-
pert department of the Government
should rank coordinate with its legis-
lative, executive and judicial branches.
The National Academy has on occasion
been called to investigate scientific ques-
tions — thus it has recently presented a
report to the Department of the Interior
on a policy for the forested lands of the
United States — but it has been of less
service in this direction than was in-
tended by the act of incorporation or
than sound policy dictates. This limita-
tion to the usefulness of the Academy
seems to depend in part on the small
membership, and the fact that it con-
sists of the most eminent rather than
the most efficient men of science of the
country. The Academy has less than
one hundred members, only one fourth
as many as the Royal Society. Pro-
fessor Jastrow shows in the present
number of this journal that men of
science do not become eminent until
rather late in life, and the members of
the Academy are apt to be somewhat
lacking in initiative. University profes-
sors are now selected chiefly from
