220
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
younger men of promise, who are ex-
pected not only to attain scientific emi-
nence, but also to possess executive abil-
ity and to exert personal influence. The
National Academy needs a membership
of this character, and has fortunately
to some extent obtained it within recent
years. Thus the members elected at the
present meeting are Prof. James E.
Keeler, director of the Lick Observa-
tory; Prof. Franz Boas, of Columbia
University and the American Museum
Natural History ; Prof. Henry F. Osborn,
also of Columbia University and the
American Museum, and Prof. Samuel
L. Penfield, of Yale University.
There is perhaps no objection to re-
garding the National Academy of
Sciences as a quasi hereditary upper
house, whose functions are largely con-
servative, while the active duties on
behalf of science devolve on a more
democratic body— The American Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science.
This association meets at Columbia Uni-
versity, New York City, during the last
week of the present month, and with it
some fifteen special societies devoted to
different sciences. The association cele-
brated its fiftieth anniversary in Bos-
ton two years ago, when about half of
its nearly two thousand members were
present, and there is every reason to
hope that the New York meeting will
be as largely attended. The members
will be welcomed by Governor Roose-
velt and President Low, and after listen-
ing to addresses by the vice-presidents,
will divide into nine sections, before
which special papers will be presented.
The address of the retiring president,
Mr. G. K. Gilbert, of the United States
Geological Survey, will be given at the
American Museum of Natural History
on Tuesday evening, while the president,
Prof. P. S. Woodward, of Columbia Uni-
versity, will preside at the general ses-
sions. The American Association has
during its long history performed a use-
ful service in bringing men of science
together and in attracting the attention
of the general public to scientific work,
but in some respects it has been less in-
fluential than its sister associations in
Great Britain, Germany and France. This
has been in some measure due to the
large area of the country and the heat of
the summer, making it difficult for men
of science to come together, but it prob-
ably represents chiefly a certain lack of
organization of science in America.
With the growth of university centers
and of scientific work under the Govern-
ment, the number of men of science has
greatly increased, while with the estab-
lishment of special societies and journals
their means of intercommunication have
improved. There is every reason for the
support of an association which can rep-
resent the whole body of scientific men
and forward the scientific movements
that are of such importance to the coun-
try. The membership of the association
is of two classes, fellows and members.
The former are selected from those who
are actively engaged in advancing
science, while all those who are inter-
ested in science are eligible for member-
ship. Those who would like to have
their names proposed for membership
may address the local secretary of the
New York meeting, Prof. J. McKeen
Cattell, Columbia University, or the per-
manent secretary, Dr. L. O. Howard,
Department of Agriculture, Washing-
ton. D. C.
A very ambitious project is on the
stocks for the foundation of an 'Inter-
national Association for the Advance-
ment of Science, Arts and Education.'
It will be remembered that there was
last year an interchange of visits be-
tween the British Association meeting at
Dover and the French Association meet-
ing at Boulogne. Arrangements were
then made resulting in the appointment
of general committees for Great Britain
and France, and it was decided to hold
an international assembly at Paris dur-
ing the Exposition. Prof. Patrick Ged-
des, secretary of the British Group, has
since visited the United States, and a
general committee has been formed with
Dr. W. T. Harris. United States Oom-
