THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE.
missioner of Education, and Prof. R. S.
Woodward, president-elect of the Amer-
ican Association, as vice-presidents. M.
Bourgeois, late French Minister of Edu-
cation, is the general president, and M.
Greard, rector of the University of
Paris, is president of the French Group.
The plans for the Assembly this sum-
mer are based directly on the Paris Ex-
position. It is proposed to establish
headquarters on the grounds of the Ex-
position, in the buildings of the Univer-
sity of Paris and at other places, where
those interested in the scientific aspects
of the Exposition and in the scientific
and educational congresses may meet
and receive information and guidance.
Special visits to the Exposition and
other excursions, special lectures and
entertainments, special summaries of the
work of the congresses, etc., are prom-
ised. The Association is not, however,
limited to the Paris Exposition, but pro-
poses a permanent organization for the
holding of assemblies and the organiza-
tion of relations between men of science
of different nations. Those interested in
the Paris Assembly may secure further
information from Mr. Ely, secretary of
the American Group, 23 East Forty-
fourth street, New York City.
The Government of the United States
does more to develop the resources of
the country and advance science than
any other nation. On these objects the
sum of over $8,000,000 is spent annually
and over 5,000 officers are employed.
Yet in one direction it has fallen far be-
hind the great European nations. Our
Department of Agriculture, our Geo-
logical Survey and many other agencies
surpass in range and efficiency the simi-
lar institutions eleswhere, but the ap-
plications of physics and chemistry to
the arts have not enjoyed equal advan-
tages. The Physikalische - Technische
Reichsanstalt, the national physical
laboratory of the German Empire, es-
tablished under the direction of von
Helmholtz, is conducted at an annual
cost of $80,000, and there is in addition
a German bureau of weights and meas-
ures on which the sum of $36,000 is an-
nually expended. For similar purposes
Great Britain spends annually $62,000,
Austria, $46,000, and Russia, $17,500,
whereas, our office of Standard Weights
and Measures receives the meager appro-
priation of $10,400. We are very glad
to learn that the Secretary of the Treas-
ury has submitted an amendment to the
pending sundry civil bill, creating in
place of the present office a National
Standardizing Bureau. According to the
amendment the functions of the bureau
shall consist in the custody of the stand-
ards; the comparison of the standards
used in scientific investigations, engi-
neering, manufacturing, commerce and
educational institutions with the stand-
ards adopted or recognized by the Gov-
ernment; the construction when neces-
sary of standards, their multiples and
subdivisions; the testing and calibration
of standard measuring apparatus; the
solution of problems which arise in con-
nection with standards; the determina-
tion of physical constants and the prop-
erties of materials when such data are
of great importance to scientific or man-
ufacturing interests and are not to be
obtained of sufficient accuracy else-
where. Provision is also made for the
erection of a laboratory and its equip-
ment, and for the employment of an
adequate staff, with a director, whose
salary shall be $6,000 per annum.
It is satisfactory that the Secretary
of the Treasury should recommend a
reasonable salary for the director of the
proposed bureau. Men of science are, as
a rule, but poorly paid, and the officers
in the scientific departments of the Gov-
ernment receive in many cases salaries
that are a small part of what they could
earn as physicians or lawyers. There is,
of course, danger that if salaries are
large, the offices will be sought by 'prac-
tical* politicians, and it is probably the
part of wisdom to offer the best facili-
ties for research rather than large sal-
aries. Still, if the scientific man has
the salary of a clerk, he will be ranked
in the same class by legislators and ex-
