POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
ecutive officers. Ihe small salaries of-
fered at Washington also lead to the
continual loss of those whose services
are of the greatest value to the Govern-
ment. Thus, the recent call to the pres-
idency of the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology of Dr. Henry S. Pritchett,
Superintendent of the United States
Coast and Geodetic Survey, is a serious
blow to the bureau and to science at
Washington. Dr. Pritchett's scientific
attainments and executive ability will
find ample scope at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, where he
worthily succeeds Presidents Rogers,
Runkle, Walker and Crafts. But he was
also greatly needed in the Coast and
Geodetic Survey, where, after the ex-
cellent administration of Dr. T. C. Men-
denhall, there had been an unfortunate
interregnum of three years. During the
past three years, however, the work of
the Survey has been placed on an ex-
cellent basis by Dr. Pritchett, and there
is every reason to believe that the
ground gained will not be lost.
The transition of Dr. Pritchett from
the professorship of mathematics and as-
tronomy in Washington University to
the superintendency of the United
States Coast and Geodetic Survey and
now to the presidency of the Massachu-
setts Institute., calls attention to the
fact that the only promotion possible to
men of science or university professors
is an executive position. The type of
the German Gelehrte, still current in lit-
erature and on the stage, is not common
in America. The modern methods of
advancing science — the laboratory, the
observatory, the museum, the expedi-
tion, with their complex equipment —
demand administrative ability of a high
order. Science has been able to supply
presidents, not only to the great tech-
nical schools, but also to Harvard, Johns
Hopkins, Stanford and other universi-
ties. Still, it is unfortunate that the
man of science can not look forward to
promotion in the direction of his own
work. He becomes a college professor
or the like at a comparatively early age
with a moderate salary. He has now as
a motive the increase of his reputation,
rather likely to degenerate into vanity,
and the nobler motive of contributing to
the advance of science and of civiliza-
tion. But these motives appeal differ-
ently to different men — in any case,
they bake no bread and educate no
children. The average salary of scien-
tific men can not be greatly increased;
there must be a certain relation between
supply and demand, and the average
earnings of other professional men are
also small. But the lawyer may look
forward to becoming a judge, the phy-
sician to a large city practice, the
clergyman to a bishopric, etc. In Ger-
many a university professor may look
forward to being called to Berlin, to be-
coming a Hofrat, a Geheimrat and a
'von.' It seems that we need in each
American university one or two chairs
with very large endowments, the occu-
pation of which would be a special
honor.
The French Academy of Sciences
and French Science have lost two of
their most distinguished representatives
in the deaths of Joseph Bertrand and
of Alphonse Milne-Edwards. Bertrand
was born in 1823, and was somewhat of
a prodigy when a boy, having published
a paper on the theory of electricity
when but sixteen years old, and being
the author of numerous mathematical
papers before he was twenty-one. His
original contributions to mathematics
and mathematical physics are of great
importance, and he was the author of
standard works on algebra, on arithme-
tic and on the calculus. As permanent
secretary of the Paris Academy of
Sciences he was continually engaged in
administrative work, preparing obituary
notices, acting as judge in the annual
awards of its prizes, etc. He also con-
tributed a large number of biographies
and other articles to non-technical jour-
nals. Milne-Edwards, born in 1835, was
a son of the eminent zoologist, Henri
Milne-Edwards, and the grandson of
Bryan Edwards, the historian and mem-
