THE PROGRESS OE SCIENCE.
223
ber of the British Parliament. Milne-
Edwards published important researches
in paleontology and in zoology, espe-
cially in relation to birds, and was at
the time of his death professor of zool-
ogy at Paris and director of the Jardin
des Plantes.
In the deaths of the Duke of Argyll
and Prof. St. George Mivart, Great Brit-
ain loses two men of a type more com-
mon there than in the United States,
Argyll was a man of great wealth,
whose interests in science were only sec-
ondary, but who did much directly and
indirectly for its advancement. His
work, 'The Reign of Law,' published
some twenty-five years ago, has been
widely read, and he is the author of
many books and articles concerned with
the natural sciences. Mivart, although
trained as a barrister, became perhaps
a professional man of science, but he
never occupied a regular university posi-
tion. He published numerous contribu-
tions to comparative anatomy and zool-
ogy, but is perhaps best known for
books and articles on general scientific
subjects. Just before his death, it will
be remembered, he was excommunicated
from the Roman Catholic Church owing
to articles which were supposed not to
be in conformity with its tenets. Both
Argyll and Mivart represented an atti-
tude towards the doctrine of evolution
which may be regarded as now practi-
cally extinct.
Two lectures have been recently de-
livered by Prof. James Dewar at the
Royal Institution on the subject of
liquid and solid hydrogen. These lec-
tures have been illustrated by experi-
ments and have attracted the attention
of the most distinguished chemists and
physicists of England. It is easy to un-
derstand such interest in the subject
when we consider that even Clerk Max-
well thought it improbable that hydro-
gen would ever be liquified, and yet
Dewar was able to exhibit not only
liquid, but solid, hydrogen to his audi-
ence. Briefly recapitulated, the steps in
the condensation of what were formerly
called the permanent gases are these : in
1878 Cailletet, in Paris, and Pictet, at
Geneva, by suddenly expanding gases
which had been compressed to a high
degree and cooled to a low temperature,
succeeded in obtaining these gases in the
shape of a mist or of a transitory liquid
jet. In 1884 Wroblewski and Olszewski
at Crakow obtained oxygen and nitro-
gen as static liquids. By expanding
hydrogen from a compression of 190 at-
mospheres in a vessel cooled by liquid
air evaporating under diminished pres-
sure, this gas was obtained as a mist
or momentary froth, though it was af-
firmed by Olszewski that he observed
the liquid hydrogen in colorless drops
and as a liquid running down the sides
of the tube. In May, 1898, Dewar ob-
tained hydrogen as a static liquid by al-
lowing compressed hydrogen, cooled in
a bath of boiling air, to escape rapidly
at a jet, the liquid hydrogen being col-
lected in a doubly isolated vacuum ves-
sel. This liquid hydrogen is a colorless
liquid, with a specific gravity of 0.07
or less than one sixth the weight of
liquid marsh gas, the lightest liquid
hitherto known. This is better realized
by saying that while one gram of water
has the volume of one cubic centimeter,
one gram of liquid hydrogen has a vol-
ume of over 14 c. c. The boiling point
of hydrogen is — 252° C. or 21° above
the absolute zero, and by boiling in a
vacuum the temperature of 15° can be
obtained. Very recently by slowly
evaporating, very perfectly isolated
liquid hydrogen, solid hydrogen was ob-
tained by Dewar as a white mass of
solidified form, of the lowest tempera-
ture ever obtained, — 258° C.
Among the most suggestive results
obtained through recent work in experi-
mental embryology are those of Prof.
Jacques Loeb, of the University of Chi-
cago, on the chemical fertilization of the
eggs of sea-urchins without participa-
tion of the male element. There has for
some time been reason to suspect that
cell-division, both in tissue cells and in
