224
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the egg, is incited by chemical stimulus;
and several observers before Loeb had
shown that when unfertilized sea-
urchin eggs are treated by the addition
to the sea-water of various substances,
such as strychnine or chlorides of
sodium or magnesium, they may under-
go some of the preliminary changes of
development and may even segment.
Loeb was able to induce complete and
normal development by first bringing
the eggs for about two hours into a mix-
ture of sea-water and a weak solution
of magnesium chloride, and then trans-
ferring them to normal sea-water. Eggs
thus treated segmented and underwent
a development which, though somewhat
slower than usual, was otherwise nor-
mal and produced perfect larvae. This
effect can not properly be called fertili-
zation in the ordinary sense of the word,
but is rather to be regarded as artifi-
cially induced parthenogenesis. It points
unmistakably, however, to the possibil-
ity, or rather probability, that in nor-
mal fertilization the spermatozoon in-
cites the egg to development by bring-
ing to it certain definite chemical sub-
stances; and Loeb gives reasons for the
view that these substances are probably
in the form of ions, concluding that
these and not the nucleins are essential
to the process of fertilization. A highly
suggestive new field for work is opened
by these experiments.
Astronomers can not bring the phe-
nomena they study into the laboratory
or test the behavior of the heavenly
bodies under artificial conditions. They
have to be satisfied with such oppor-
tunities as nature gives, even though
she bestows them as meagerly as she
does solar eclipses. Consequently, the
total eclipse of the forenoon of May 28th
has been the object of much preparation.
Most of the important astronomical ob-
servatories in this country will have
parties stationed along the path of the
eclipse from New Orleans to Norfolk,
Va. Many European parties will ob-
serve the eclipse in Portugal, Spain and
North Africa. It has been pointed out
by Prof. R. W. Wood and Mr. A. L.
Rotch* that there are several important
physical observations to be made apart
from the astronomical observations on
the sun's corona described by Professor
Bigelow, in the May number of this
magazine. Just before and after totality
alternate bright and dark bands are ob-
served sweeping across the country. It
is hoped that by the cooperation of a
number of observers more complete and
exact data concerning this phenomena
may be gathered and its explanation
found. The changes in the wind noted
during eclipses will also be observed to
ascertain whether the sudden cooling of
the atmosphere by the passage of the
moon's shadow is a sufficient explana-
tion of the so-called 'eclipse wind.'
Those who know nothing about theories
of the corona or of the 'eclipse wind'
will be interested in the more obvious
phenomena and in some cases, in the op-
portunity to take such a photograph as
can not be duplicated in this country
until 1918. The most favored ones are
those who live in the fifty-mile belt of
the total eclipse, but the sun will be
seen nine tenths covered in the eastern
and southern States, and will be six
tenths covered to those in the least fa-
vorable locality of the United States,
the extreme northwest. The proper
methods of observing and photographing
the corona were described in Professor
Bigelow's article on the eclipse in the
May number of the Popular Science
Monthly.
* In ' Science,' Apr. 27th and May 11th.
