THE COMING TOTAL ECLIPSE OF THE SUN. 9
tern, being, of course, strongest near the sun. The belief is gradu-
ally growing among scientists that the earth, the sun, and the
planets are all magnetic bodies, and have these bonds of connection
between them- in addition to the Newtonian gravitation. This is
a most fascinating field of research, and, though full of difficulties,
yet attracts the attention of many who are convinced that one of
the most pressing duties of the hour is to clear up the problems
connected with the transmission of energy from the sun to the
earth in other forms than the ordinary or sunlight radiation. It
is entirely probable that the secular variations of the weather
changes from year to year, and even from month to month, are
bound up with these solar forces, and that the solution of these
questions will carry with them much information of practical use
to civilized man.
The coronas of the past forty years are shown on Chart III,
taken from the report of the eclipse of 1896 (August 9th), by A.
Hansky. It arranges the coronas in the eleven-year period so far
as the dates at which the eclipses occurred permit this to be done,
and by comparing them in vertical lines the similarity is at once
seen for the respective quarters of phases of the period. The fore-
cast there given for 1900 is seen to resemble 1867, 1878, and 1889,
but it differs in orientation from that on Chart IV, which was pre-
pared by the author. The four coronas on the left in Chart III
are taken at the sun-spot maximum, and the appearance is that
of total confusion in the NoRTH
structure of the rays; the
second and the fourth col-
umns are for the sun's
medium intensity at about
halfway between the maxi-
mum and the minimum,
and they show a system of
polar rays taking on struc-
tural form, the second col-
umn being at a Stage of di- S, axis of sun ; C, C, poles of the 'solar corona.
minishing and the fourth
at one of increasing solar activity; the third column gives the
corona when the spots are at a minimum of frequency and the sun
is in a comparatively quiescent state, wherein the polar rifts are
very distinct and the equatorial wings or extensions greatly de-
veloped.
The successful observation of a solar corona depends upon three
conditions: the selection of the instrument, its proper mounting,
and the photographic process, regarding each of which a few sug-
SOUTH .
irt IV. — Bigelow's Forecast of the Cobona or
May 28, 1900. E, earth's axis ; K, axis of ecliptic :
