228 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
since been made. They may be said to form the basis of our present
knowledge of the region which they included in their scope.
Herschel's work may be described as principally in the nature of an
exploration. He had no instruments for accurately determining the
positions of stars. In the latter field the first important contributions
after Lacaille were made by Sir Thomas Brisbane, Governor of New
South Wales, and Eumker, his assistant, at Paramata. Johnson, of
England, about 1830, introduced modern accuracy into the construction
of a rather limited catalogue of stars which he observed at St. Helena.
About the same time the British Government established the observa-
tory at the Cape of Good Hope, which has maintained its activity to
the present time, though, at first, its means were extremely limited.
About the middle of the century the Government of New South Wales
established, first at Williamstown and then at Melbourne, an observa-
tory which has worked in the same field with marked success.
An American enterprise in the same direction was that of Captain
James M. Gilliss, who, in 1849, organized an astronomical expedition
to Chili. The principal motive of this enterprise was the determining
of the solar parallax by observations upon Venus and Mars near the
time of their nearest approach to the earth. As these observations
would take but a small part of his time, Gilliss determined to take with
him instruments for determining the positions of the stars. He es-
tablished his observatory at a point near Santiago, where he continued
his observations for nearly three years. He was a practical observer,
but an untoward circumstance detracted from the value of his work.
His observatory was built upon a rocky eminence, a foundation which
seemed to afford the best possible guarantee of the stability of his
instruments. He made no attempt to reduce his observations till after
his return home. Then it was found that the foundation, through the
expansion and contraction due to the heat of the sun, was subject to a
diurnal change which made it extremely difficult to derive good results
from his careful work. It was not until 189G, more than thirty years
after his death, that the catalogue of the stars observed by him was at
last completed and published.
We do not derogate in any way from the merit of these efforts in
saying that they could not lead to results comparable with those of the
score of richly equipped northern observatories which the leading
nations and universities of Europe had endowed and supported for
more than a hundred years. Only within the last thirty years has it
been possible to bring our knowledge of the southern heavens up to
a satisfactory stage. Now, however, the progress of southern astron-
omy, if we may use the term, is such that in several points our knowl-
edge of the southern heavens surpasses that of the northern ones. If
we measure institutions by the importance of the work they are doing,.
