CHAPTERS ON THE STABS. 229
there are several in the southern hemisphere which must to-day be
placed in the first rank.
The history and work of the Cordova Observatory are of special
interest. In 1870 Dr. B. A. Gould, who might fairly be considered
as the father of modern American astronomy, conceived the idea of
establishing an observatory of the first class in South America. He
found the President and Governor of the Argentine Republic ready to
support his scheme with a liberality well fitted to impress us with a
high sense of their standard of civilization. In a year or two the
observatory at Cordova was in active operation. A statement of its
work belongs to a subsequent chapter. Suffice it to remark here that
Dr. Gould continued in active charge until 1885, when he returned
home, and was succeeded by Thome, the present director.
A few years after Gould went to Cordova, Gill was made director
of the Royal Observatory at the Cape of Good Hope. The rapid growth
of this institution to one of the first rank is due no less to the scientific
ability of the new director than to the unflagging energy which he
has devoted to the enlargement of the resources of the institution.
The great fact which he sought to impress upon his supporters was
that the southern celestial hemisphere was as large as the northern,
and therefore equally worthy of study.
In any general review of the progress of stellar astronomy during
the past twenty years, we should find Harvard University before us
at every turn. What it has done will be seen, perhaps in an im-
perfect way, in subsequent chapters. Not satisfied with the northern
hemisphere, it has established a branch at Arequipa, Peru, in which its
methods of observation and research are extended to the south celestial
pole. Its principal specialties have been the continuous exploration of
the heavens. Celestial photography, photometry and spectroscopy sum
up its fields of activity. For more than ten years it might be almost
said that a sleepless watch of the heavens has been kept up by an all-
seeing photographic eye, with an accuracy of which the world has
hardly had a conception. The completeness with which its work has
been done has recently been shown in a striking way. Our readers are
doubtless acquainted with the singular character of the minor planet
Eros, whose orbit passes through that of Mars, as one link of a chain
passes through another, and which comes nearer the earth at certain
times than any other celestial body, the moon excepted. When the
character of the orbit became established, it was of interest to know
whether the planet had ever been observed as a fixed star at former
oppositions. Chandler, having computed the path of the planet at the
most important of the oppositions, beginning with 1892-94, communi-
cated his results to Director Pickering, and suggested a search of the
Harvard photographs to see if the planet could be found on them. The
