230 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
result was the discovery of the planet upon more than a score of plates
taken at various times during the preceding ten years. New stars
were formerly supposed to be of very rare occurrence, but since the
Harvard system of photographing the heavens has been introduced,
no less than three have been known to break out.
The great revelations of our times have come through the applica-
tion of the spectroscope to the measurement of motions in the line
of sight from us to a star. No achievement of the intellect of man
would have seemed farther without the range of possibility to the
thinker of half a century ago, than the discoveries of invisible bodies
which are now being made with this instrument. The revelations of
the telescope take us by surprise. But, if we consider what the thinker
alluded to might regard as attainable, they are far surpassed by those
of the spectroscope. The dark bodies, planets, we may call them,
which are revolving round the stars, must be forever invisible in any
telescope that it would be possible to construct. They would remain
invisible if the power of the instrument were increased ten thousand
times. And yet, if there are inhabitants on these planets, our astrono-
mers could tell them more of the motions of the world on which they
live than the human race knew of the motions of the earth before
the time of Copernicus.
The men and institutions which have contributed to this result
are so few in number that it will not be tedious to mention at least the
principal actors. The possibility of measuring the motions of the stars
in the line of sight by means of the spectroscope was first pointed out
by Mr. now Sir William Huggins. He actually put the method into
operation. As soon as its feasibility was demonstrated it was taken up
at Greenwich. In these earlier attempts, eye methods alone were used,
and the results were not always reliable. Then spectrum photography
was applied at the astrophysical observatory at Potsdam by Vogel.
Thence the photographic method soon spread to Meudon and Pulkova.
But, as often happens when new fields of research are opened, we find
them ablaze in quarters where we should least expect. The successful
application of the method requires not only the best spectroscope, but
the most powerful telescope at command. Ten years ago the most pow-
erful telescope in the world was at the Lick Observatory. Mr. D. 0.
Mills put at its eye end the best spectograph that human art could
make at that time, the work of Brashear. It is Campbell, who, with
this instrument, has inaugurated a series of discoveries in the line in
question which are without a parallel.
A mere survey of what has been done in the various lines we have
mentioned would be far from giving an idea of the real significance
of the advance we are considering. Cataloguing the stars, estimating
their magnitudes, recording and comparing their spectra and deter-
