CHAPTERS ON THE STARS. 23 1-
mining their motions, might be considered as, after all, barren of
results of the highest human interest. When we know the exact
position of every star in the heavens, the direction in which it is
moving and the character of its spectral lines, how much wiser are we?
What could hardly have been foreseen fifty years ago, is that these
various classes of results are now made to combine and converge upon
the greatest problem which the mind of man has ever attempted to
grasp — that of the structure of the universe. The study of variable
stars has suddenly fallen into line, so to speak, so that now, it is uniting
itself to the study of all the other subjects to give us at least a faint
conception of what the solution of this problem may be.
One of the principal objects of the present chapter is to make a
comparison of these various researches, and discuss the views respect-
ing the constitution of the stars individually, as well as of the universe
as a whole, to which they lead us. But there are a number of details
to be considered singly before we can combine results in this way. Our
early chapters will therefore be devoted to the special features and
individual problems of stellar astronomy which have occupied the minds
of astronomers from the beginning of their work to the present time.
Keeping these details in mind, we can profitably proceed to the con-
sideration of the general conclusions to be drawn from them.
We may begin by refreshing our memories on some points, an
understanding of which must be taken for granted. What are famil-
iarly known as the heavenly bodies belong to two classes. Those nearest
to us form a sort of colony far removed from all the others, called the
solar system. The principal bodies of this system are the sun and
eight great planets with their moons, revolving round it. On one
of the planets, small when compared with the great bodies of the uni-
verse, but large to our every-day conceptions, we dwell. The other
planets appear to us as stars. Four of them, Venus, Mars, Jupiter
and Saturn, are distinguished from the fixed stars by their superior
brightness and characteristic motions. Of the remaining three, Mer-
cury will only rarely excite notice, while Uranus and Neptune are as
good as invisible to the naked eye.
The dimensions of the solar system are vast when compared with
any terrestrial standard; A cannon shot going incessantly at its utmost
speed would be a thousand years in crossing the orbit of Neptune from
side to side. But vast as the dimensions are, they sink into insignifi-
cance when compared with the distance of the stars. Outside the solar
system are spaces which, so far as we know, are absolutely void, save
here and there a comet or a meteor, until we look far outside the region
which a cannon shot would cross in a million of years.
The nearest star is thousands of times farther away than the most
distant planet. Scattered at these inconceivable distances are the bodies
