CHAPTERS ON THE STARS.
233
■evident by Fig. 1, where S represents the position of a star, re-
garded as a luminous point, while A and B are screens placed at such
a distance that each will receive the same amount of light from the
star. If the screen B is twice as far as the screen A, its sides must be
twice as large as those of A in order that it shall receive all the light
that would fall on A. In this case its surface will be four times the
surface of A. It is then evident that any small portion of the surface
of B will receive one fourth as much light as an equal portion of
surface A. Thus an eye or a telescope in the position B will receive
from the star one fourth as much light as in the position A, and the
star will seem one fourth as bright.
The fact is, however, that the stars are very unequal in their actual
brightness, and in consequence the apparent magnitude of a star gives
us no clue to its distance. Among the nearer of the stars are some
scarcely, if at all. visible to the naked eye, while among the brighter
ones are several whose distances are immeasurably great. A remark-
able example is that of Caropes, the second brightest star in the heavens.
For these reasons astronomers are obliged to content themselves,
in the first place, with determinations of the actual amount of light
that the various stars send to us, or their apparent brilliancy, without
regard to their distance or actual brilliancy. The ancient astronomers
divided all the stars they could see into six classes, the number ex-
pressing the apparent brightness being called the magnitude of the star.
The brightest ones, numbering in all about fourteen, were said to be
of the first magnitude. The fifty next in brightness were said to be of
the second magnitude. Three times as many, an order fainter, were of
the third magnitude. The progression was continued up to the sixth
magnitude, which included those which were barely visible.
As the stars are actually of every degree of apparent brilliancy,
no sharp line of demarkation could be drawn between those of one
magnitude and those of the magnitude next higher. Hence, different
