234 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
observers made different estimates, some calling a star of the second
magnitude which others would call of the first, while others would
designate a star of the third magnitude which others would call of the
second. It is therefore impossible to state with absolute numerical pre-
cision what number of stars should be regarded of one magnitude and
what of another.
An idea of the magnitude of a star can be readily gained by the
casual observer. Looking at the heavens on almost any cloudless
evening, we may assume that the two, three or more brightest stars
which we see are of the first magnitude. As examples of those of the
second magnitude, may be taken the five brightest stars of the Dipper,
the Pole Star and the brighter stars of Cassiopeia. Some or all of
these objects can be seen on any clear night of the year in our latitude.
Stars of the third magnitude are so numerous that it is difficult to
select any one for comparison. The brightest star of the Pleiades
is really of this magnitude, but it does not appear so in consequence
of the five other stars by which it is surrounded. At a distance of
15° from the Pole Star, Beta Ursa Minoris is always visible, and may
be distinguished by being slightly redder than the Pole Star; it lies
between two fainter stars, the brighter of which is of the third and the
other of the fourth magnitude. The five readily visible but fainter
stars of the Pleiades are about of the fourth magnitude. Of the fifth
magnitude are the faintest stars which are easily visible to the naked
eye, while the sixth comprises those which are barely visible with
good eyes.
Modern astronomers, while adhering to the general system which
has come down to them from ancient times, have sought to give it
greater definiteness. Careful study showed that the actual amount
of light corresponding to the different magnitudes varied nearly in
geometrical progression from one magnitude to another, a conclusion
which accords with the well-known psychological law that the intensity
of sensation varies by equal amounts when the exciting cause varies in
geometrical progression. It was found that an average star of the
fifth magnitude gave between two and three times as much light as an
average one of the sixth; one of the fourth gave between two and three
times as much light as one of the fifth; and so on to the second. In
the case of the first magnitude, the diversity is so great that it is
scarcely possible to fix an average ratio. Sirius, for example, is really
six times as bright as Altair, which is commonly taken as a standard
for a first magnitude star. To give precision to their estimates, modern
astronomers are gradually seeking to lay the subject of magnitudes on
an exact basis by defining a change of one unit in the magnitude as
corresponding to an increase of about two and one half times in the
amount of light.
