CHAPTERS ON THE STARS. 237
most that can be done is to bring abont the best attainable agreement
between the two systems in the general average of all the stars.
Fortunately the differences between the colors of the stars are by
no means so great as those between the colors of natural objects around
us. All the stars radiate light of all colors; and although the difference
is quite appreciable either by the eye or by the photograph, it is not
so great as it would have been were the variations in color as wide as in
the case of terrestrial objects.
Two comprehensive surveys of the heavens, intended to determine
as accurately as possible the magnitudes of all the brighter stars, have
recently been undertaken. One of these is the Harvard photometry,
commenced by Professor Pickering at the Harvard Observatory, and
now extended to the Southern Hemisphere by the aid of a branch
establishment at Arequipa, Peru.
The instrument designed by Professor Pickering for his purpose is
termed a meridian photometer, and is so arranged that the observer
can see in the field of his telescope a reflected image of the Pole Star,
and, at the same time, the image of some other star while it is passing
the meridian. By a polarizing apparatus the image of the star to be
measured is made to appear of equal brightness with that of the Pole
Star, and the position of a Nicol prism, which brings out this equality,
shows the ratio between the magnitudes of the two stars.
The other survey, with the same object, is now being made at the
Potsdam Astrophysical Observatory, near Berlin. In the photometer
used by the German astronomers the image of one star is compared with
an artificial star formed by the flame of a candle. The work is per-
formed in a more elaborate way than at the Harvard Observatory, and
in consequence, only that part of the heavens, extending from the
equator to 40° north declination, has been completed and published.
A comparison of the. results thus obtained with those of Professor
Pickering, shows a curious difference depending on the color of the
star. In the case of the reddest stars, the estimates are found to be
in fairly close agreement, Pickering's being a little the fainter. But
in the case of the white or bluish stars, the estimates of the German
astronomers are more than one fourth of a magnitude greater than those
of Pickering. This corresponds to an increase of nearly one fifth in the
brightness. Whether this difference is to be regarded as purely psycho-
logical or due to the instruments used, is an interesting question which
has not yet been settled. It is difficult to conceive how different in-
struments should give results so different. On the other hand, the com-
parisons made by the Germans make it difficult to accept the view that
the difference is due purely to the personality of the observers. There
are two German observers, Drs. Midler and Kempf, whose results agree
with each other exactly. On the other hand, Pritchard, at Oxford,
