238 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
made quite an extensive photometric survey, using an instrument by
which the light of one star was cut down by a wedge-shaped dark glass,
whereby any gradation of light could be produced. A comparison
shows that the results of Pritchard agree substantially with those of
Pickering. It is quite possible that the Purkinje phenomenon may be
the cause of the difference, the source of which is eminently worthy
of investigation.
This fact simply emphasizes the lack of mathematical precision in
photometric measurements of star light. Even apart from this differ-
ence of color, the estimates of two observers will frequently differ
by 0.2 and sometimes by even 0.3 of a magnitude. These differences
correspond roughly to 20 or 30 per cent in the amount of light.
It must not be supposed from this that such estimates are of no
value for scientific purposes. Very important conclusions, based on
great numbers of stars, may be drawn even from these uncertain quan-
tities. Yet, it can hardly be doubted that if the light of a star could
be measured from time to time to its thousandth part, conclusions of
yet greater value and interest might be drawn from the measures.
We have said that in our modern system the aim has been to so
designate the magnitudes- of the stars that a series of magnitudes in
arithmetical progression shall correspond to quantities of light ranging
in geometrical progression. We have also said that a change of one
unit of magnitude corresponds to a multiplication or division of the
light by about 2.5. On any scale of magnitude this factor of multipli-
cation constitutes the light-ratio of the scale. In recent times, after
much discussion of the subject and many comparisons of photometric
measures with estimates made in the old-fashioned way, there is a
general agreement among observers to fix the light ratio at the number
whose logarithm is 0.4. This is such that an increase of five units
in the number expressing the magnitude corresponds to a division of the
light by 100. If, for example, we take a standard star of magnitude
one and another of magnitude six, the first would be 100 times as
bright as the second. This corresponds to a light ratio slightly greater
than 2.5/
When this scale is adopted, the series of magnitudes may extend in-
definitely in both directions so that to every apparent brightness there
will be a certain magnitude. For example, if we assign the magnitude
1.0 to a certain star, taken as a standard, which would formerly have
been called a star of the first magnitude, then a star a little more than
2.5 times as bright would be of magnitude one less in number, that is,
of magnitude 0. The one next brighter in the series would be of
magnitude —1. So great is the diversity in the brightness of the stars
formerly called of the first magnitude that Sirius is still brighter than
