240 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
PEEVENTIVE INOCULATION. (II.)
By Dr. W. M. HAFFKINE,
DIRECTOR-IN-CHIEF, GOVERNMENT PLAGUE RESEARCH LABORATORY, BOMBAY.
TN a previous paper I reviewed briefly the history of preventive inocu-
-*- lation and described the results of my attempts to secure a 'virus
fixe' in the case of cholera. It will be remembered that the two vaccines
finally obtained protected guinea pigs successfully against all possible
forms of cholera infection.
It was now necessary to ascertain whether the same protection
could be given to man which was observed in animals. For this purpose
it was essential to first of all prove the perfect harmlessness of the
operation. This was established by very careful observations of medical
men and scientists who were inoculated in Europe soon after the results
of the above investigations were published. The inoculation causes a
rise of temperature and general discomfort, which lasts one or two days,
and some pain at the seat of the injection, which disappears in a few
days. The fever and discomfort induced are, on the whole, shorter in
duration, though often more intense, than those caused by vaccination
against smallpox. The effect disappears within a few days and the indi-
vidual returns to his usual condition of health.
The next and all-important stage was to devise an experiment or a
series of experiments on man so as to test the efficiency of the method
against cholera attacks. This part of the investigation could only be
done in a cholera-stricken country, where opportunities would arise of
comparing the incidence of the disease in inoculated and uninoculated.
Such opportunities are limited. Except in certain parts of India and
China, cholera appears in localities unexpectedly and does not last long.
In the places where the disease is endemic the cases are scattered over
large areas. These features rendered the demonstration of the effect
of the vaccine a matter of particular difficulty. In 1893 I went to
India, and in the course of a year inoculated some twenty-three thou-
sand people in the northern parts of the country; but no cholera ap-
peared in their midst to show whether the vaccine was of value or not.
In the spring of 1894 the inoculations were introduced into Bengal,
and, with the assistance and co-operation of Prof. W. J. Simpson, of
King's College, London, at that time Health Officer of Calcutta, and
of his staff, efforts were made to induce the inhabitants of the hustees
of Calcutta to get themselves inoculated. These bustees are isolated
villages consisting of groups of mud huts inhabited by the poorer class..
