PREVENTIVE INOCULATION. 241
Owing to the consumption of water from the ponds or tanks belonging
to these villages, the inhabitants of the bustees are subject to periodic
visitations of cholera. It was in one of these bustees that the first
observation was made as to the effect of the cholera vaccines.
The spring is essentially the cholera season in Calcutta. About the
end of March two fatal cases of cholera and two cases of choleraic
diarrhoea occurred in Katal Bagan Bustee, in a population grouped
around two tanks. This outbreak led to the inoculation of one
hundred and sixteen persons in the bustee out of about two
hundred. After the inoculation there occurred nine more cases of
cholera, seven of which proved fatal, and one case of choleraic diar-
rhoea. All the ten cases occurred among the uninoculated portion of
the inhabitants, which formed the minority, none of the inoculated
suffering. The results were more interesting when analyzed in detail.
Some of the cases had occurred in families in which some of the mem-
bers had been inoculated and others not, and the disease selected the
non-inoculated members, sparing the inoculated. Thus, in one house
six members out of eight had been inoculated. The attack, a fatal one,
occurred in one of the remaining two. In another house eleven mem-
bers out of eighteen were inoculated. The eleven members remained
free while four out of seven not inoculated were attacked.
Upon these observations the Calcutta municipality felt encouraged
to vote funds for the continuance of the inoculations in an experi-
mental farm, and appointed for that purpose a special staff. In 1896
the result of two years' observations were embodied by the health
officer in a report to the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. It recorded
a most satisfactory state of affairs. During the time under observation
some eight thousand persons were inoculated. Cases of cholera oc-
curred in seventy-seven huts in which some members of the family
had been previously inoculated and others not. Comparing the inci-
dence of the disease in the two groups, a striking advantage was found
to be with the inoculated. I made an analysis of the cases according
to the time which had elapsed between inoculation in each of these huts
and the occurrence of cholera in them, and the following results were
found. During the first four days after inoculation, apparently before
the vaccine had time to produce its full protective effect, there were
proportionately 1.86 times fewer deaths among the inoculated than
among the non-inoculated members of the families. In a second period,
extending from the fifth to the four hundred and twenty-ninth day —
i. e., for fourteen months — there were 22.62 times fewer deaths among
the inoculated; while in the last period — that is, between the four
hundred and thirtieth and seven hundred and twenty-eighth day after
the inoculation — there were only 1.54 fewer deaths among the inocu-
lated, the immunity having evidently gradually disappeared. The net
VOL. LVII.— Ifi
