PREVENTIVE INOCULATION. 243
intense power of destroying cholera microbes, but exhibited no prop-
erties capable of counteracting the effect of their toxic products — no
'antitoxic properties.' Combined with those of previous experimenters
these results tended to prove that two kinds of immunity could be
produced separately, and it became incumbent to devise a plan which
would secure not only a lowering of susceptibility to the disease, but
also a reduction in the case mortality.
For that purpose it seemed rational to attempt the treatment with
a vaccine containing a combination of bodies of microbes, together with
their toxic products. I intended to test this plan experimentally in
the cholera districts; but, plague having broken out in Bombay, the
Government of India commissioned me to inquire into the bacteriology
of that disease, and I determined that the knowledge gained in the
cholera inoculations should be applied and tested in the preparation
of a prophylactic against the new epidemic.
The experiments I had in view involved manufacturing a material
on a large scale, and operating on it for weeks continuously. To do
this it was essential to find a way of recognizing plague growth with
certainty, so as to enable the officers engaged in the manufacture to
control the process and know exactly when they were handling the
proper stuff, and when an admixture and invasion of extraneous growth
took place. When this was solved, a drug was prepared by cultivat-
ing the plague microbe in sterilized broth, to which a small quantity
of clarified butter or of cocoanut oil had been added. The plague
bacilli attach themselves to the drops of butter or oil floating on the
surface, and grow down into the depth of the liquid, forming a peculiar
threadlike appearance. While doing so they secrete toxic matter,
which is gradually accumulated in the liquid; at the same time a large
amount of microbial growth comes gradually down from the surface of
the liquid and collects at the bottom of the flask. When shaken up
the whole represents the desired combination of the bodies of microbes
and of their toxic products. The process is continued for a period
of five to six weeks. As the microbes of plague had been very little
studied before, and as their exact effect on the human system was
unknown, I decided not to use for the treatment living microbes, but
to use at least at first 'earbolized' vaccines, though the result of the
treatment might be less favorable or less lasting than that which could
be expected from living vaccines. Tbe microbes in the above plague
growth were accordingly killed by heating them at a temperature
ranging from 65° to 70° C, and then mixed with a small proportion
of carbolic acid, to prevent the drug from subsequent contamination
and decomposition. The dose of the prophylactic was regulated by
measuring up the quantity to be injected. The requisite amount is
determined by the degree of fever which it produces. The febrile
