244 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
reaction varies in different individuals, but a temperature reaching 102°
and above in at least thirty per cent of those inoculated has been found
to indicate a good material. In the cholera, rabies and smallpox
vaccines, the microbes being employed in a living state, it was essential
to fix the strength of the vaccine, for otherwise it was impossible to
predict the behavior of the microbe when injected into the system.
In the case of the plague prophylactic the activity of the microbes
is arrested before it is inoculated, and the effect can be regulated, as
mentioned above, by simply measuring up the doses in the same way
as is done with any chemical drug.
The expectation formed when devising the plan for the plague
prophylactic has been very fortunately justified, and an advance on the
results from the cholera vaccines was obtained; but I can not yet say
certainly whether this favorable result is indeed due to the particular
provisions which I had made for obtaining it.
The effect of the plague prophylactic was first tested at the Byculla
Jail, in Bombay, when the epidemic reached that establishment. From
the first day after the inoculation till the end of the outbreak there
were in the jail twelve cases and six deaths among one hundred and
seventy-two uninoculated inmates, and two cases, with no deaths, among
one hundred and forty-seven inoculated. A year later, almost exactly a
similar result was observed when the plague attacked the so-called
Umarkhadi Common Jail, in Bombay. In this case after the inocula-
1 ion i here were ten cases and six deaths among one hundred and twenty-
seven uninoculated inmates, and three cases, with no deaths, among
one hundred and forty-seven inoculated. These and other observations
show that the vaccine for the plague begins to exercise its effect within
some twenty-four, hours after inoculation; that it is useful even in the
case of persons already infected; that it is therefore applicable at any
stage of an epidemic. Numerous* further observations were soon col-
lected on the working of the system.
At the small village of Uudhera, of the Baroda feudatory state,
where plague broke out, inoculation was applied to a half of each
family, the other half remaining uninoculated. After that there were
twenty-seven cases and twenty-six deaths among sixty-four uninocu-
lated, and eight cases, with three deaths, among seventy-one inoculated
of the same households, the proportionate difference in mortality being
over eighty-nine per cent. There followed observations on a far
larger scale, demonstrating that the mortality of the inoculated, com-
pared to that of the non-inoculated, was on an average between eighty
and ninety per cent less. Sometimes this reduction reached ninety
per cent. In the Punjaub, in a village called Bunga, there occurred, in
two hundred and eighty-one not inoculated, ninety-seven cases of
plague and sixty-five deaths, while among seventy-four inoculated there
