PREVENTIVE INOCULATION. 247
body if we are to be inoculated against all diseases? and with this other
one, How do you expect us to make a living if you try to keep all of us
alive? The humorous form of these questions usually permits of their
dropping out of the conversation without a reply. The earnest answers
are, however, obvious. The efforts of the bacteriologists in combating
diseases are at present directed to a twofold aim: their prevention, by a
prophylactic treatment, and their cure. The advantage of a curative
treatment is that it is to be applied to a relatively small number of per-
sons, to those who actually fall victims to an attack; while that of the
preventive treatment is in the greater certainty with which safety and
protection are secured by it. The relative position of the two treat-
ments will, in practice, differ in different diseases — namely, according to
the prevalence and fatality of a given disease, and according to the
merits of the two treatments as they stand at the time. In diseases in
which the risks of being attacked are smaller, or the consequences
of an attack less serious, or for which a very effective and sure curative
treatment has been discovered, the majority of people will prefer
lo M r ait for an actual attack rather than to undergo the discomfort
of a preventive treatment; in diseases, on the contrary, in which the
chances of being attacked are great, or in which the fatality is higher,
the sequels of an attack more serious, and for which a successful and
not very troublesome preventive treatment has been found, large num-
bers will undergo preventive inoculation. But, even in the latter case,
a mutual co-operation between the two methods will exist always, as
there will always be a number of people, either among those who have
neglected to protect themselves by inoculation, or among those in whom
the inoculation has proved unsuccessful, who will fall victims to an
attack and require the benefits of a curative treatment, be those at the
time little or great.
The answer to the second question is of course to be expected rather
from the politico-economist, the wise administrator, the civilian, than
from the bacteriologist. In any case it is clear already that if we are
ever to be told that we must thin our ranks, we shall prefer not to
leave the task in the hands of the indiscriminating microbe, but to
have some voice in the matter ourselves. Inoculation marks only the
conquest of another force which henceforth we shall be glad to control.
Bombay, India, March, 1900.
