248 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
COLONIES AND THE MOTHER COUNTRY. (II.)
By JAMES COLLIER.
THE growth of the relations between a colony and the mother coun-
try closely follows the development of the relationship between
an organism and its offspring, or (in higher species) between parents
and children. When an infnsorian subdivides into two cells, the new
cell produced swims away and henceforth leads an independent life.
Most of the Phoenician and most of the earlier Greek colonies were
social infusoria which parted from the parent organism by segmenta-
tion and had no further relations with it. As we rise in the animal
scale ,i new relationship, that between mother and young, and a new
instinct, the maternal, come into existence. These begin as low down
as the mollusks, and expand and heighten, though not without strange
lapses, in both insects and birds as species develope; but we need not
trace the evolution here. Let it suffice to note that there are successive
degrees of specialization; a site is chosen suitable for depositing and
hatching eggs; means are found for making them secure; a shelter
is built for them; they are deposited near substances adapted to nourish
the young; special food is prepared for them; they are reared through
food disgorged or brought to them. The accession of the male to the
family marks the dawn of the paternal instinct; it appears earliest
among fishes. This evolution is repeated in the history of colonies,
where, however, the maternal and paternal offices melt into one another
insensibly.
The mother country founds and nurtures colonies. Most of the
earliest colonies are the work of adventurous bands or navigating
merchants or fishermen, who seek their own habitats, carry with
them their own equipment and fight their own battles. Then the
metropolis settles its surplus or discontented citizens in territories
previously chosen, provides them with all that is necessary for
their start, and often nourishes them during the infancy of the
colony. Hispaniola was a state colony manned with miners and
artisans who were provided with tools, and this at the cost of
a loan and a draught from the confiscated property of the Jews.
Nor was it until gold began to be found in large quantities that the
receipts equalled the expenditure on the young colony. Louisiana was
founded and fostered with a royal munificence that conferred on it
"more than was contributed by all the English monarchs together for
the twelve English colonies on the Atlantic." Georgia was a one-man
