250 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
progress of the colony. Companies likewise expend large sums in many
colonies. French and English companies embarked on American, In-
dian, African and island adventures at ruinous loss. Law's company
withdrew from Louisiana, the New Zealand Company from New Zea-
land, and the Canterbury Association from Canterbury with a balance
on the wrong side of the account. Wealthy individuals bear their part.
Mr. Rhodes annually subsidizes the British Central African Protecto-
rate, and King Leopold the Congo Free State. Colonial bishoprics
have also been endowed and colonial cathedrals built, largely with the
aid of voluntary contributions by sympathizers in the mother country.
The mother state sometimes gives the colonies the benefit of her
financial good name. In 1869 England withdrew her regiments from
New Zealand when the colony was still at war with the Maoris, and
to salve the wounded feelings of the colonists she agreed (under pres-
sure) to guarantee a loan of a million in aid of emigration and public
works. Before the Canadian Pacific Railway could be completed the
Imperial Government had to guarantee a loan of £3,600,000. Mr.
Rhodes proposes (unsuccessfully, it now appears) that the Imperial
Government, which contributed £200,000 to the cost of a railway from
Kimberley to Bnluwayo, should guarantee a loan of an enormous
amount for the continuation of the African trunk railway from Bnlu-
wayo to Lake Tanganyika.
The mother country supports or aids its self-governing colonies
through its capitalists. In order to execute public works — roads,
bridges and railways — to assist immigration, to build fortresses, and
sometimes to pay the interest on previous loans, all the colonies have
habitual recourse to the British Stock Exchange. There are good
reasons for this. The colonies have little capital of their own, for all
their money has been used up from day to day. The English investor
has an almost unlimited amount — the savings mainly of one industrious
century — and he is prepared to lend it at a lower rate of interest than
would content the colonial capitalist. Of over two thousand millions
sterling which John Bull has out at usury all over the world, the total
public and private indebtedness of the seven Australasian colonies
alone, with a population of four millions, is stated to exceed three hun-
dred and twenty millions, or at the rate of eighty pounds per head of
these daring colonists. One half of this sum is due from colonial
governments for the purposes already named. The half of it, due from
banks, building companies, mercantile associations and mortgage
agencies, excites no misgivings; these institutions can always go bank-
rupt, as many of them did in the financial collapse of 1891-'93. But
it is not open to a British colony to file its schedules, or at least so we
used to think; and so the Times said till the oldest of British colonies
went bankrupt the other day. At all events, it is harder, and we con-
