THE COMING TOTAL ECLIPSE OE THE SUN 11
the most important feature is the focal length or the size of the
telescope. Since the photographic image of the corona will not
bear magnifying without dispersing the available light, and thus
blurring out the details of the picture, which is the most important
feature to retain to the utmost, one can not use a short telescope
and at the same time a magnifying eyepiece to enlarge the image
by projection on a screen or on a photographic plate. The only
alternative in order to get an image of large diameter is to use a
long-focus lens. The effect of a difference of focus upon the image
of the corona is well shown on Chart V, which gives a small corona
(1) taken with a four-foot lens (Barnard), (2) with a fifteen-foot
lens (Pickering), and (3) with a forty-foot lens (Schaeberle). The
diameter is proportional to the focal length, but the difference of
effect upon the details is very important. In the small picture the
details of the corona near the sun are completely lost in the gen-
eral light, while the coronal extensions from the middle latitudes
are seen at a great distance from the sun — as much as one million
miles; at the same time the polar rifts are distinctly marked, so
that the pole or central line from which they bend is readily lo-
cated. On the second picture the details of the polar rays are
better brought out, but the extensions are shortened. In the third
the region near the sun's edge has many interesting details very
clearly defined, while all the extensions are gone. It is evident
that each lens has its advantage, according to the details sought,
and they ought all to be employed in the eclipse. The reproduc-
tions on paper by no means do justice to the original negatives,
which make the distinctions even more pronounced than shown on
Chart Y.
Some amateur observers have telescopes but no mountings suit-
able for eclipse work, and many astronomical telescopes have good
equatorial mountings at home which are yet unavailable in the field
,for lack of proper foundations and supports. The ordinary tele-
scope balanced near the center, with the eye end subject to all sorts
of motions which may happen through jarring and rough handling
in the hurry of shifting photographic plates, makes a very poor
eclipse apparatus. All telescopes of any length should be held
firmly at each end, so as to be perfectly steady, since the least
vibration ruins a coronal picture devoted to delicate photographic
effects. There are two ways of accomplishing this, and only two.
Dispensing with an equatorial mounting, the lens must be set per-
manently on a base, and light reflected from a mirror must be
utilized, which shall be concentrated on a plate also placed on a
fixed base. This is the method employed by Schaeberle in Chili,
April 16, 1893, to obtain No. Ill of Chart V. There is no objec-
