COLONIES AND THE MOTHER COUNTRY. 251
template this enormous pile of public indebtedness in young and scant-
ily peopled communities with the same feelings as made alarmists
foresee impending ruin in the growing augmentation of the gigantic
public debt of the United Kingdom. It is commonly said that while
the imperial debt has been accumulated as the cost of "just and neces-
sary wars," or of wars that were neither just nor necessary, the colonial
debt has been contracted for the execution of reproductive public
works. This is not altogether so. Eleven million pounds of the public
debt of New Zealand were contracted to carry on war with the Maoris,
who were defending their territory. The Seven Years' War, which was
begun on the part of England to gain possession of the Ohio Valley and
thus increase the extent of her colonies, doubled her public debt.
Where is the difference between the two classes of expenditure? Then
most of the self-governing colonies have expended large sums in fortify-
ing ports, some in partly supporting a fleet, and one at least in pur-
chasing war ships of its own. Nor has all the remainder been repro-
ductively expended. The building of schools is a wise way of spending
money, one's own or another's, but it can not be called a materially
reproductive way. Governors' and ministerial residences, parliamentary
and departmental buildings, are indispensable, but they can not be
called 'assets,' especially if built of perishable and inflammable timber.
Even railways, most profitable of public works, are not always true
assets. In many of the colonies they are light railways, and when
traffic increases and a higher speed is required they will have to be built
over again and new rolling stock procured. Not a few of them, too,
are 'political railways,' running through a sparsely populated country
no-whither, and built to capture votes. Roads are only less valuable,
but they were made (sometimes by graduates and men of scientific ante-
cedents who were afterward cabinet ministers) at the wage rate of from
two guinas to four pounds ten per week, and are an inadequate return
on the outlay. Last century British loans were issued as prizes to
friends of ministers, and a much reduced amount found its way to the
treasury. Deduct an analogous, though not quite similar, item of waste
in colonial loans, add this to all the other non-reproductive elements,
and the genuinely reproductive proportion will shrink considerably.
Every one of the colonies, even with the fee simple of territories only
less than Europe in extent in their hands, would have sunk under the
increasing burden. Happily or not, the ever-growing wealth of Eng-
land has so cheapened money that the interest charge on the whole
Australasian indebtedness sank in five years (1890-'96), mainly through
conversion of loans, from fourteen millions to twelve and a quarter.
It may be added that the colonies which have borrowed most recklessly
have not been the most populous or those with largest resources, but
rather the socialistic colonies with big schemes on hand.
