252 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
A father may assist his son by supplying him with the capital needed
to carry on his business. Thus it is entirely with the mother country's
money that the first colonial banks are founded. As the colony grows
wealthier and the business of the banks extends, colonial shareholders
purchase stock in it, but the number of British shareholders remains
considerable. A typical example is that of the Bank of New Zealand,
from two fifths to one half of whose shares are (or in 1888 were) held
in the United Kingdom. In the older or wealthier colonies of New
South Wales and Victoria the number of English shareholders may be
smaller, though still large. A still larger proportion of the shares of
the great colonial steamship companies, amounting possibly to three
fourths or nine tenths of the whole, is held (chiefly by commercial men
and firms) in Great Britain. Many commercial undertakings in all the
colonies are engineered entirely by English capital (not included in the
two thousand millions). The Canadian transcontinental railway; rail-
ways, electric tramway lines and silver mines in Tasmania; the Mid-
land Railway and also copper mines in New Zealand; the gold mines in
western Australia to such an extent that much more English capital is
said to pour into that colony than gold flows out of it — are only a few
colonial enterprises that would never have been undertaken but for
the mother country's aid. Some of these are lucrative, others not;
some have been abandoned, and others belong to a still darker class.
"Uncounted millions of capital have been raised in the central money
market of London, only to be fooled away in ill-conceived and mis-
directed enterprises abroad," says Lord Brassey. Nor are the losses
confined to questionable undertakings. Two great Australasian banks
have frittered away their entire capital of four and three millions, re-
spectively, and it may he assumed that the British investor has borne
one half of the losses. Of half a dozen smaller colonial banks a similar
tale might be told. Father and son have to share in one another's
adversit}', as in one another's prosperity.
The socialistic movement in England has lately so strongly reacted
on the relations of the Imperial Government with the colonies that the
Secretary of State is believed to be willing to employ the resources of
the empire to assist backward colonies. He has invited English capital-
ists to aid the declining West Indies, and a leading firm has offered to
invest a million in the sugar industry if a guarantee of sufficient returns
is given. The constitution of the projected Australian Federation
contains a novel analogous provision, permitting the commonwealth to
aid its needy provinces. The growing unity in the social organism as a
whole is accompanied by an increasing unity in its component parts.
The mother country continues to defend its colonies, as animals
defend their young and parents their children. But the polyp does
not defend its offspring, nor did the earliest colonizing powers succor
