COLONIES AND THE MOTHER COUNTRY. 253
their colonies. While not even the armed persuasion of Cambyses
could induce Tyre to make war against Carthage, neither seems to
have helped the other in its need. Carthage fought savagely for
her Sicilian colonies, but in her own interests, not in theirs. Though
the ties between a Greek metropolis and her colonies were closer, the one
did not invariably defend the other. Corcyra refused the aid her
daughter city Epidaurus sought, and the latter had to find it in the
grandmother city of Corinth, who considered it her colony no less than
that of Corcyra. The Dorian city was celebrated for her typical
Greek patriotism, and she gladly assisted Syracuse to expel her Car-
thaginian conquerors. Rome fought for her colonies while her power
lasted. France and England fought for their colonies, or rather for the
possession of them, all through the eighteenth century. Spain has just
fought for her last colonies, but as much against the colonists as against
the foreign state that came to set them free. The mother country is
also at the cost of keeping her colonies in a state of defence. The
sum of £9,000 was in 1679 annually expended on the maintenance of
English soldiers in Virginia and two West Indian colonies, and £1,000
on the fortifications of New York. Troops were often dispatched to as-
sist the American colonies in special expeditions. The colonial military
expenditure of Great Britain in 1859 amounted to nearly £1,200,000.
In compliance with the findings of a Royal Commission, repeatedly re-
affirmed by resolutions of Parliament, to the effect that the self-govern-
ing colonies ought to suffice for their own military defense, the troops
were finally withdrawn in 1873, but she still maintains a garrison at
Halifax and in. Natal and a fleet in Australian waters, to which last the
adjacent colonies contribute a fraction. Most of the self-governing
colonies have at their own cost erected fortresses, and they maintain a
defensive force. Two of them have stationary ships of war. They are
willing and eager, moreover, to aid the mother country when she is in
difficulties. When England was embroiled in Egypt or danger threat-
ened in India and South Africa, several of these colonies offered to send,
and one actually sent, troops to engage in wars in which they were not
directly concerned. The head and the extremities are sometimes at
variance because their interests conflict. The heart of such an empire
is one. A stride has been taken toward organic unity.
Animals evolve special organs for the nursing of their young, and
all colonizing countries seem to have created special departments
for the supervision of their colonies. As the lacteal glands are only
modified skin-glands, are in certain lower genera (the Monotremata)
at first without teats and only in higher species develop into true
mamma?, so the colonial department in the mother country is
originally a mere adaptation of existing agencies. A rather perfect
example of this stage is presented by the earliest of modern colonizing
