254 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
powers. The Casa de la Contratacion de las Indias, established soon
after the discovery of South America, was organized in 1503. It granted
licenses, equipped and despatched fleets, received merchandise for ex-
port and cargoes imported and contracted for their sale. It controlled
the trade with Barbary and the Canaries and supervised the shipping-
business of Cadiz and Seville. Taking cognizance of all questions
concerning marine trade, it was advised by two jurists. It also kept the
Spanish government informed of all that concerned the colonies. It
was a general board of colonial marine trade, and such it remained
even when, a few years later, its more important colonial functions
were absorbed by a higher department.
Where the colony has been founded by a commercial or by a coloniz-
ing company, the mother country controls the colony through the
directors of the company; the office of the company is pro tanto the
Colonial Office. Yet the later colonial department, as an organ of
government, is not a development of these shipping, commercial or
colonizing boards. It is a delegation of the sovereign authority. This
is at first exercised directly by the sovereign as it was notably by
Isabella and Ferdinand. It is next delegated, like almost all functions
of the ruler, to his privy council, which assigns the business of col-
onies to a committee, which again may be set apart as an independent
administrative body. The Spanish Council of the Indies, the separate
English privy council for colonial affairs contemplated in the first Vir-
ginian charter, the Council of ISIine appointed by the States-General
of the Netherlands, the Swedish royal council, were such bodies. Their
powers are everywhere the same. The superintendence of the whole
colonial system is entrusted to them. They have supreme jurisdiction
over all the colonies. They appoint and may recall viceroys, governors-
general, governors and other local officers. They can veto laws and
ordinances made by colonial rulers or legislatures. They frame con-
stitutions for the colonies and enact laws. Through the governors
and other officers sent out by them, they minutely supervise and in-
cessantly interfere with the whole internal administration of each col-
ony. The tendency of this supreme council is to divorce itself ever-
more from the privy council and become independent, till at last it
is transformed into a ministerial department. Yet an amicable rela-
tionship (such as sometimes survives the divorce court) long remains.
The Colonial Committee of the privy council in England was sum-
moned as late as 1819, and the Judicial Committee still hears appeals
from colonial courts of justice. The government of the common-
wealth was naturally averse to the king's council, and a body of
special commissioners (Cromwell and Pym and Vane among them)
was appointed to govern the colonies.
The Eestoration did not at once return to the old system. On the
