MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. 257
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AT THE MASSACHUSETTS
INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY.
By Professor GEORGE F. SWAIN.
WITH the enormous progress in the arts and sciences which has
characterized especially the last half of the nineteenth century,
education has kept well abreast, although its progress has been grad-
ual and it is not always easy to recognize the great advances that
have been made. In the sciences, a discovery is made or a machine
invented that in the course of a few years forms the basis of a new
industry, gives occupation to thousands and places within the reach
of almost every one conveniences previously attainable only by the
few. In education no such sudden revolutions occur, and great changes
are introduced by degrees without producing any commotion or any
surprise. From the days of Erasmus and Eabelais, if not earlier, educa-
tional reformers have urged the importance of studying things rather
than books about things, of cultivating the hand and eye as well as
the mind, of training the perceptive powers, of cultivating a habit of
observation and discrimination, and of developing the faculty of judg-
ment. Yet, notwithstanding all that has been said and written, pro-
gress in this direction has until recently been very slow. Carlyle,
apparently looking at the matter almost from the old scholastic stand-
point, expressed the opinion that the true university of modern times
was a great library; books, not things, should be studied. It would
conform more to the modern point of view to say that the true univer-
sity of the twentieth century is a great laboratory. Even the function
of a library in our modern institutions of learning is perhaps more that
of a laboratory than that of a mere storehouse of facts and opinions.
It is perhaps not too much to say that the development in the
direction indicated has been greatest in our own country; that the
United States have taken the lead in the revolution against the old
method of teaching, and that at the present time the higher schools
of this country are examples of the best practice and the highest
development of the laboratory method. It may, therefore, be of in-
terest to give the readers of this magazine a brief account of the school
which has in these respects been one of the foremost, if indeed it
has not led the schools of this country, the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology.
With the development of the natural sciences and the growth of
the constructive arts, natural science long ago gained a place in the
VOL. LVII.— 17
