MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. 259
furnishing a supply. Manufacturers and leaders of industrial enter-
prise soon found that they could not afford to do without the services
of young men trained in scientific principles. In this way, by reversing
the usual law of supply and demand, these schools contributed power-
fully to advance the technical development of the country, far indeed
beyond the measure that may be inferred from the mere number of
their graduates.
The Massachusetts Institute of Technology was chartered in 1861,
and first opened to students in 1865. Its claim to recognition as a
leader in the development of technical education may perhaps be
summarized as follows: It was the first school in the world to institute
laboratory instruction in physics and chemistry to students in large
classes as a part of the regular course of each candidate for a degree;
the first to equip a mining and metallurgical laboratory for the in-
struction of students by actual treatment of ores in large quantities;
the first to establish a laboratory for teaching the nature and uses
of steam, and a laboratory for testing the strength of materials of
construction in commercial sizes; and the first in America to establish
a department of architecture. Later still, it was the first school in
America to establish distinct and specialized courses of study in elec-
trical engineering, in sanitary engineering, in chemical engineering
and in naval architecture.
The success of the school has been commensurate with its progres-
siveness. It stands to-day the largest, most complete school of its class
in the United States, and one of the largest in the world. The number
of its students is 1,176, the number of its teachers, including lecturers,
175. Excluding lecturers, the number of students per teacher is only
8.7, a ratio which is a good general index of the. character of the in-
struction. The students come from 40 States and Territories of the
Union and from 12 foreign countries.
Before passing to a more detailed description of the work of its
various departments, some general characteristics of the school should
be mentioned. The first is the great variety of its courses and the
specialization of its instruction. It is a college of general technology,
embracing almost every branch of study which finds application in
the arts. There are thirteen distinct courses of study: Civil and
topographical engineering, mechanical engineering, mining engineer-
ing and metallurgy, architecture, chemistry, electrical engineering,
biology, physics, general studies, chemical engineering, sanitary en-
gineering, geology and naval architecture. These several departments
mutually support and reinforce each other, and allow a specialization
of the instruction which would be impossible in a smaller college with
a less numerous staff of instructors. Thus, at the Institute of Tech-
nology, there are not only professors of civil engineering and of
