MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. 261
in the case of many similar schools, is the fact that a not inconsiderable
amount of general training has from the beginning been required of
every candidate for the degree. In some technical or scientific schools
there are no liberalizing studies, aside from those of a professional
character. The faculty of the institute have insisted that such studies
should be incorporated to a considerable extent in the curriculum of
every course, recognizing the fact that few students in technical schools
are graduates of colleges, and that the aim of the Institute should be
first of all to graduate broadly trained men. Aside from the courses
in liberal studies, a broad spirit is shown in the technical courses them-
selves. The study of general principles is always the chief end in
view, and to it are strictly subordinated the acquirement of all knacks,
tricks of the trade or merely practical rules.
These characteristics of the Institute were impressed upon it from
the beginning by the master hand of its founder and first president,
William B. Sogers. President Rogers aimed to establish 'a compre-
hensive, polytechnic college' which should provide a 'complete system
of industrial education.' It is now generally recognized that a com-
plete system of industrial education would consist of three parts: First,
manual training schools, for developing the eye and hand, not with
the object of producing artisans, but for training alone. Second,
trade schools for special training in the technique of the different
trades. Third, higher technical schools for training in the fundamental
principles of the sciences, and fitting men in the broadest way to be-
come leaders in the application of the sciences to the arts. Manual
training is now generally recognized as a desirable addition to every
scheme of public instruction and a powerful adjunct to every technical
school. It was not indicated in the original scheme of the Institute,
but was added in 1877 through the wisdom of President Runkle, as
a result of the exhibition in Philadelphia of the results obtained
in Russia by instruction of this kind. Trade schools, for the training
of artisans, were never included in the scheme of President Rogers,
and are not now, either in America or Europe, considered suitable
adjuncts to so-called technical schools, although they are very desirable
as special and independent institutions. The original plan for the
Institute contemplated simply a school of the last-named kind, together
with provision for evening lectures, to which outsiders should be ad-
mitted, and which it was expected would be of benefit to artisans; and
also the establishment of a museum of arts, and of a society of arts
which should hold regular meetings and which should be the medium
for the communication to the public of scientific discoveries and in-
ventions. It may be as well to state here that the museum of arts
was never established except in so far as the separate departments of
the Institute have accumulated collections; but that the society of arts,
