THE PSYCHOLOGY OF CRAZES. 285
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF CRAZES.
By Professor G. T. W. PATRICK,
UNIVERSITY OF IOWA.
A WELL-KNOWN" Washington newspaper correspondent, writing
of the recent Congress of the Daughters of the American
Revolution and its disorderly meetings, says: "It is the unanimous
opinion of those who have attended the congress that, while the
Daughters of the American Revolution, individually, are nearly all
intellectual, refined and attractive women, collectively they are an
uncontrollable mob." Why is the social conduct of human beings
different from their conduct as individuals? This is the problem of the
new science of social psychology. The following study of crazes and
epidemics is offered as a slight contribution to this science.
By way of preface it might be said that a good deal of the confusion
as to the subject matter of social psychology would be avoided if it
were understood that this science is not the study of any mysterious
entity called £ the social mind,' nor the mere study of those individual
traits that make men social beings, such as imitation and suggestibility;
but rather the study of the peculiar and characteristic behavior of the
mind of the individual when under the influence of the social afflatus.
Under this influence we do indeed find that he becomes a different
being, and that his mental processes must be formulated by different
laws; and we are convinced that, as thus understood, social psychology
is just as distinct and legitimate a branch of study as is the psychology
of the child or the psychology of sex.
Now, in what ways is the behavior of man as a social being different
from his behavior as an individual? To answer this question in part, let
us examine his behavior in mental epidemics and crazes. I select these
because they illustrate in somewhat extreme form the influence of the
social afflatus.
If, for the sake of comparison, we first consider the normal individ-
ual as such, we find that he is a perceiving, remembering, associating,
judging, reflecting, reasoning being; that he is subject to certain
feelings, emotions, desires and impulses, prompting him to action; that
his action is more or less deliberative, and, when it finally occurs, is
the result of a set of motives determined by the man's character, which
in turn is the outcome of his heredity and education and his general
ability to appreciate and reflect the moral ideals of the social order to
