286 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
which he belongs. If now we study this man in respect to his mental
development, whether from the savage or the child, we find that the
direction of change has been away from imitative, impulsive action,
towards thought, reflection, deliberation. He continually makes more
use of memory and, anticipating the future, regulates his action in the
light of his past experience. This change from the imitative and
impulsive to the reasoning man accompanies the development of
the higher brain centers, particularly of the cerebral cortex, upon
which depend the all-important functions of memory and association.
As an experiment it is quite possible to reduce this highly developed
reasoning being in a single moment to a condition resembling his primi-
tive state by means of hypnotism. In hypnosis there is a temporary
paralysis or sleep of the higher brain centers, upon which depends
deliberative, rational action, and, the lower (older) centers alone being
active, the subject becomes a mere ideo-motor machine acting out
every suggestion. In various related states of automatism, where there
is any spontaneity at all, the mentality and morality of the subject are
of a lower type and may be called reversionary in character, owing, no
doubt, to the fact that those brain centers which represent the most
recent acquirements of the race are temporarily out of the circuit.
If again we study the mind of the child, we find that it presents
many points of likeness to the mind of the hypnotic subject and to the
mind of the primitive man. We learn from biology that the child
is to some extent a recapitulation of the life of the race, passing
through in his individual development the stages of race development.
Physiologically speaking, the higher brain centers and the centers for
association, which are late acquirements of the race, are last developed
in the child. We are therefore not surprised to find that the child,
like the savage and the hypnotic subject, is imitative, impulsive, non-
reflective, incapable of much abstract thought, deliberation or reason-
ing, and that he acts with a view to immediate rather than remote ends.
If now we turn to the behavior of the normal adult man in mental
epidemics and crazes of all kinds, from the Crusades to the Massacre
of St. Bartholomew, from the tulip mania in Holland to the Dewey
welcome in New York City, we observe that his behavior is to some
extent similar to that of the hypnotic subject, and the child, and the
primitive man. The general character of mental action in epidemics is
as follows: Men become imitative beings and their actions are deter-
mined by suggestion from the actions of others. Memory and the
association of ideas are inactive, and there is an inability to reason and
an indisposition towards deliberation and calm reflection. Past experi-
ences are disregarded, remote consequences are not seen and behavior
is impulsive and spasmodic. Feeling is very strong and every kind of
emotion is apt to be exaggerated. Calm observation is also lacking and
