THE PSYCHOLOGY OF CRAZES. 287
mental images may be mistaken for objective reality, as in the case of
the hallucinations that are frequent in these phenomena.
The moral peculiarities of an epidemic are of a similar kind. Under
the influence of a craze, the moral character of a people suffers a
reversion to a primitive type. In times of epidemic waves the moral
standards of the crowd approach those of the savage. We observe the
exhibition of primitive instincts, such as cruelty, revenge and blood-
thirstiness, together with changeableness, fanaticism, self-sacrifice and
enthusiastic devotion to a leader. All these moral traits were well
illustrated in the Revolution crazes in France and in the persecution
of witches in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. Even in our
own times a striking example of the primitive character of the morality
of a people under the influence of social excitement was seen in the
battle-cry of our American sailors in the recent Spanish war, 'Remember
the Maine/ the ethical motive being a precipitate impulse to seek re-
venge. An instance like this can not be explained upon the theory that
it represented the actual individual morality of the sailors participating
in the battles, for it was echoed and apparently endorsed by the press
throughout the country and upon the platform and even in the pulpit.
It is hardly conceivable that an Englishman of noble birth should
openly boast of his joy in being revenged upon an enemy; yet collective
England is wild with delight when 'Majuba Hill is avenged!'
We are thus led apparently to the theory that, for some reason not
yet evident, under the influence of social excitement, something takes
place in the brain of the individual not unlike the action of hypnotism,
by which the higher centers representing the more recent moral and
mental acquirements of the race are temporarily paralyzed, reducing
the subject in a greater or less degree to the condition of the child and
of the primitive man. The observation of certain physical phenomena
which often accompany mental epidemics tends to confirm this theory
and at the same time to suggest a possible explanation. Epidemics of
the more extreme kind are apt to be accompanied by great muscular
excitability, varying all the way from mere extreme mobility, such as
shouting, jumping and throwing the arms, to convulsions like those
of epilepsy. The dancing manias of the fourteenth and fifteenth cen-
turies furnish the best illustrations of this, although these phenomena
did not equal in intensity the frightful physical convulsions during
the religious revivals in Kentucky at the beginning of this century.
The particular character of these muscular movements is determined
by imitation and suggestion. The movements themselves are no doubt
due to congestion and irritation of the motor centers, or at least to a
rapid overflow of nervous discharges at these centers, an accompani-
ment of the excessive emotion which attends all mental epidemics. In
such a condition of the nervous system, thought, reasoning, memory and
