THE PSYCHOLOGY OF CRAZES. 289
barking like dogs, fainting, crying, singing, praying and cursing.
Sometimes whole companies were seized with uncontrollable laughing
fits, called the holy laugh. At a meeting in East Tennessee, six hun-
dred began jerking at one time. In many instances sensibility
would be lost and the extremities would be cold, while the face was
flushed. In some places the sufferers were laid out in rows and squares
in the churchyard until they should recover. From a medical point of
view we should call this epidemic chorea, but its more exact physiology
I have already referred to. When closely examined, the phe-
nomena lose a part at least of their mysterious character. We must
remember that religious emotions are powerful, deep and ancient. The
effect, furthermore, is increased by the general epidemic excitement,
by the element of large and unwonted gatherings of people, by imita-
tion, by the stimulating music and by the fearfully exciting power of
human shrieks and wild cries and prayers. Such a nervous condition
induced in an individual must have two results: first, the escape of the
unusual nervous excitement in motor channels, giving rise to the
choreic movements; and second, the paralysis of the higher brain cen-
ters, resulting in various hypnotic phenomena and reversionary morality
and mentality.
Many of these scenes were repeated in the great revival that swept
New York and the Middle States, beginning in the year 1832. In
these meetings preachers who kept cool and reasoned logically were not
listened to. There was rather a demand for the wild, impetuous,
vociferous, physically impassioned oratory of the rude man. As an
example of reversionary morals in this epidemic, we may notice the
fact mentioned by Albert Ehodes that in response to visions many men
put away their own wives and took others from their neighbors.
From the psychological point of view perhaps the most instructive
of all epidemics is the demonophobia or witchcraft mania which raged
from the end of the fifteenth to the end of the seventeenth centuries.
The savage's fear of demons and of unseen supernatural agencies lurking
in every forest and moor now took hold of the modern world and turned
the people, not into brutes and devils as we figuratively say, but simply
into the original savages from which they came, whose basal instincts
they still carried in their lower nervous centers, to be brought out under
the influence of a social craze. The ecclesiastical authorities, both
Roman and Protestant, led in this homicidal frenzy, while sedate
judges, learned jurors and wise legislators lent their zealous aid. It
spread in true epidemic form all over the Continent and into England
and Scotland, even to America. Distinguished jurists declared that
ordinary methods of trial should not be used for this offence, for so
difficult is it to bring proof of the crime of witchcraft, that out of
a million of witches not one could be convicted if the usual course of
