290 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
justice were followed. One contemporary of undoubted authority wrote
that he saw a list of three thousand witches that had been put to death
during the time of the Long Parliament alone. In this reign of
demonophobia the psychological phenomena of the craze are well illus-
trated. The exciting cause was a widespread contagious and epidemic-
fear. The result was a recrudescence of the barbaric instincts of
cruelty, torture and homicide, accompanied by a loss not merely of
reasoning power, but apparently of common sense, so that intelligent
men seemed to believe that old women blasted the crops in the fields and
the offspring of animals, and raised storms and whirlwinds. The
cruelty characteristic of the savage is again noticed in this case. In
the witchcraft persecutions, the victims were commonly weak women,
particularly the more helpless old and young, while the character of
the inflictions was such as is peculiar to primitive people, viz., torture
and burning alive. The perfidy of the savage is also noticed, as in
innumerable instances the victims were led to believe that they would be
spared if they made a confession, and were then put to death. To
elude a legal requirement that torture should not be repeated, the most
horrible tortures were 'continued' from day to day.
The psychology of crazes is clearly seen in certain of its aspects in
the homicidal manias that have swept over communities or whole
countries at frequent intervals in the world's history. The homicidal
impulse itself is one of the most primitive and basal of all impulses.
The reason for this is apparent. The history of man has been a history
of warfare and of struggle for existence. It has been man against man,
tribe against tribe, nation against nation. Habits like these are not
quickly unlearned, and reversion to them in times of social disturb-
ance is not strange. In the massacre of St. Bartholomew we -have a
typical instance of the homicidal mania. The necessary conditions
were, first, great emotional excitement caused by religious fanaticism
acting as an inhibitory agent upon the higher brain centers and allow-
ing the primitive impulses to act unchecked; second, the removal of
external and customary restraints, effected in this case by the royal
decree; and third, the mental effects of imitation and suggestion.
These conditions being all supplied, the French people resolved them-
selves speedily into assassins and cut-throats, and enjoyed a homicidal
debauch. Begun in Paris, the massacre spread in true epidemic form
throughout France, until fifteen or twenty thousand people had
perished.
These homicidal manias have, of course, been very frequent in
history. The decivilizing influence of the craze is, however, most per-
fectly illustrated in the various scenes of the French Revolution. Here
the overturning of the social and religious order itself acted in part as
the unsettling and emotionally exciting cause. The usual results fol-
