THE PSYCHOLOGY OF CRAZES. 291
lowed. The effect of social excitement in paralyzing the intellect was
shown in this case in the wholesale and useless destruction of women
and children. Furthermore, this reversion to the manners of the savage
carries with it its appropriate mood. The slaughterers are not like
demons, as we imagine demons to be, but rather like thoughtless chil-
dren. There is merriment and much gayety, and there is dancing and
singing around the corpses, and seats are arranged for the ladies, who
are eager to enjoy the spectacle; and finally the victims are made to
pass through a double row of executioners, who carve them into pieces
gradually, so that all can saturate themselves with the sight of the
bloodshed.
Although in some cases wars may be coolly planned by the people's
leaders for personal or political reasons or for purposes of national
conquest, still they all depend for their successful issue upon the
homicidal impulse in the masses of people. This is called .the war spirit
and is always of an epidemic character. It may have any degree of
ferocity or mildness. It has a tendency to be periodic, so that if it has
slumbered for a considerable period a very slight cause is sufficient to
awaken it. A mere boundary line in Venezuela, in which this country
had but a remote interest, was sufficient a few years ago to excite this
war spirit in a milder form, when a curious craze for a war with Great
Britain flowed like a wave across this country.
Any war will furnish instructive material to the student of social
psychology. In the late Spanish-American war, for instance, we all
felt the war spirit which flowed in epidemic form across the country
and engulfed it. The first motive of the war, the altruistic desire to
free an oppressed people, was of the ideal glittering kind, well fitted to
excite the emotions of the masses. A dramatic event further fans this
emotional flame, and at once the aggregate personality of the nation
is in a condition of automatism, where primitive instincts, such as
revenge and lust for the paraphernalia of war, are no longer checked
by the more lately acquired moral principles. Congressmen, editors,
members of peace societies, ministers of the gospel, forget their long
and patient efforts to establish means for settling national differences by
arbitration and join lustily in the war cry, and the psychologically
curious spectacle is presented of a great nation, priding itself as a leader
in the world's morals, giving to the appeal of a weaker nation for the
arbitration of a dispute the answer of shot and shell. Although the
motive of blood for blood is a moral motive belonging to a bygone age
and in individual ethics has long been outgrown, yet collectively, under
the influence of the war craze, we revert to it, and it is shamelessly
proclaimed from platform and editorial room and vigorously applauded
by the people. We have seen that cruelty and the persecution of the
weak by the strong were among the reversionary symptoms of the social
