•9-
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
epidemic in many instances. We may notice curiously enough a trace
of these qualities here, where the fact that our enemy was a greatly
inferior power does not detract in our eyes from the brilliancy of our
victories, though in the ethics of the individual such a circumstance
would put us to shame. In all this we proceed strictly in accordance
with international law, but international law itself is only international
custom and is the mere expression of the wonted behavior of the aggre-
gate personality, particularly in times of war. As such it does not
represent the highest ethical development of man, but that lower stage
of development to which he reverts in times of social excitement. From
this point of view it is possible to understand why international ethics
is so far behind individual ethics. Personal disputes were once settled
by brute force as international disputes are now settled. There is no
reason to doubt that the latter will, somewhat later in the history of
civilization, be settled by courts of arbitration and enforced by a
system of police as the former now are.
The considerations now before us show the futility of peace con-
gresses in that part of their work which contemplates the enforced
substitution of arbitration for war. Peace congresses are not social
movements. They spring from the efforts of individual men, leaders
in social reform. They belong to the upward ethical movements led
by individuals, the slow, painful climbing towards higher moral and
intellectual standards. These congresses may meet and discuss arbi-
tration and perfect an international program, but they labor in vain, for
they forget that social man has a double personality and that the per-
sonality that meets and deliberates in the peace congress is not the
personality that, under the influence of the war craze, thrills with
emotion and acts from ancient and deep rooted impulses and motives.
When the war spirit sweeps over a country the social personality passes
into a condition not unlike that of hypnosis and is ruled by a different
set of moral principles. It should not be understood from this that
peace congresses are useless. They are a part of an educative system
whose influence in the end will be strong enough to react upon the
secondary social personality and determine its behavior.
Among crazes of a different kind, we may notice financial crazes
as an interesting type, falling under the same laws as those mentioned.
Both in panics and in speculative manias we observe again a species of
hypnotization. In the case of the latter the ordinary business shrewdness
which characterizes the dealings of the individual in a normal state
and which depends upon the activity of late developed association tracts
in the brain, is to a large extent lost. The memory is impaired and
what in general we may call prudence is lacking.
The psychology of the speculative mania is very simple. There is
first, greed, furnishing the necessary emotional excitement; then imita-
