PHASES OF THE EARTHS DEVELOPMENT. 295
SOME PHASES OF THE EAETH'S DEVELOPMENT IN THE
LIGHT OF RECENT CHEMICAL RESEARCH.
By Professor EDWARD RENOUP,
JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY.
IN the following pages an effort is made to apply some of the results
of recent chemical research to the earlier- history of the earth.
It is hoped that the main facts brought out may be readily grasped by
those who have never studied chemistry, and that each link in the
chain of events will be made evident to those who have mastered the
rudiments of this science.
Chemical action involves change of composition. Substances more
or less complex may be broken down into simpler substances, or from
several simpler substances a complex substance may be built up. From
the complex ore of copper found in nature the simple element copper
is obtained. From the elements sulphur and oxygen and the simple
substance water the complex sulphuric acid is built up. Within the last
few years the high temperature of the electric arc — the heat generated
by a powerful electric current playing between two carbon poles —
has been employed in bringing about chemical changes which do not
occur at ordinary temperatures nor at those obtainable by burning fuel.
The electric furnace is used industrially to make calcium carbide from
lime and coke, carbon silicide (carborundum) from coke and sand, and
the metal aluminum from its compounds.
Chemical changes at high temperatures have long been an object of
research, but it was not until the introduction of the electric furnace
that it was possible to command temperatures high enough to make
exhaustive studies. In the last few years several chemists, especially
Moissan, of Paris, and his pupils, have done systematic work with the
aid of the arc furnace. The furnace used in the laboratory for high
temperature work is a small and simple apparatus; Moissan's furnace is
a block of quick lime a little longer and wider than a page of this
magazine and about three inches thick. A rectangular cavity is cut
on the upper surface of this block. A similar block forms the cover.
In opposite grooves between the top and bottom piece are placed the
carbons, such as are used in ordinary arc lights. The arc plays across
the cavity in such a manner that the substance to be heated is not
brought into the arc itself, which is vaporized carbon, but below it.
The cavity thus represents a tiny reverberatory furnace; the arc heats
the roof and sides to an intense heat, which is radiated on the open dish
