296 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
or closed crucible or tube containing the substance heated. This is the
simplest form of laboratory furnace. Various modifications are' used,
but in all the size is small and the arrangement simple. A powerful arc
plays in the smallest possible cavity with the object of attaining the
maximum of temperature, expense and duration of material being sec-
ondary considerations. Lime and magnesia are the best materials, be-
cause they are at the same time the most refractory substances available
and are poor conductors of heat. A furnace top one and one half inches
thick may be heated by so powerful an arc that the melted quick lime
drips from the inner surface, while the outer surface is scarcely warm to
the touch of the hand. • Moissan has utilized in these little furnaces cur-
rents of electricity of varied strength, the lowest being that given by a
four horse power dynamo, the highest that generated by three hundred
horse power. The highest temperatures obtained were about 3,500°
centigrade (6,300° Fahrenheit), with the heat constantly increasing;
the limit to the obtainable temperature — as far as the experimental evi-
dence showed — was merely the lack of any known substance refractory
enough to bear the heat; for at the temperature mentioned quick lime
and magnesia not only melt but are changed into gases, so that the fur-
nace was filled with the vapors of its own material.
The effect of the heat on single substances is very interesting.
Refractory metals, such as iron, manganese, uranium, platinum, melt
rapidly and then become gaseous; the most refractory non-metallic
elements, silicon, boron, carbon, are also changed into the gaseous
form. Very refractory compounds are broken down into simpler ones.
Magnesium pyrophosphate yields phosphorus, magnesium oxide and
oxygen. Asbestos — a magnesium silicate — gives as chief product mag-
nesium silicide; the other substances formed being silicon, silicon
dioxide and a little magnesium oxide.
Such are the astounding changes wrought by simple heat upon
those substances which we are accustomed to regard as infusible. It
must be remembered that the range of temperature which chemists
employ in ordinary laboratory work is not very great and that the
conditions of work in the laboratory and of nature's work on the
earth's surface at the present day favor the formation of two
classes of compounds — the oxides and their hydrates. Although
air is a mixture consisting mainly of four parts of nitrogen and
one of oxygen, atmospheric nitrogen is generally inert at ordinary
temperatures, and it is the oxygen of the air which is the more impor-
tant factor in the growth of living things and in changes in lifeless
matter. Water, a compound of oxygen and hydrogen, is present every-
where, either in the liquid form or as vapor in the air; even in the flame
of the hottest fires there is water vapor in abundance, since water is
one of the chief products of combustion of most forms of fuel. Is it a
