PHASES OF THE EARTH'S DEVELOPMENT. 297
wonder that under such conditions we find the earth's crust to contain
the elements chiefly compounded with oxygen? Was this always so?
Are we justified in supposing that conditions may have prevailed — nay,
must have prevailed — in former times on the earth's surface, which
gave to other elements as important or more important functions than
to oxygen? The answer to these questions must he sought in the results
of the chemistry of high temperatures.
First let us consider the conditions of existence of the omnipresent
water. Water begins to break down into its components, hydrogen
and oxygen, at 934° centigrade; at 2,500° centigrade (4,500° Fahren-
heit) the decomposition is complete. In other words, water vapor
cannot exist at temperatures above 2,500°, but the hydrogen and oxygen
exist in the free state.
Astronomers tell us that refractory elements like iron, silicon and
carbon, perhaps disassociated into still simpler substances, are present
as vapor in the atmosphere of the sun and that many others of our
well-known elements, including hydrogen, are also present in this
glowing atmosphere, while the heat of the sun's surface and that of the
hotter stars is vastly higher than that of the electric furnace. Geolo-
gists believe that the evidence at their disposal points to a similar
period of great heat in the early history of the earth. It may be con-
sidered, then, that temperatures higher than those of the electric fur-
nace prevailed in former times on the earth's surface.
Let us now return to the study of the results obtained with the
electric furnace. The following reactions are especially important. If
metals, or refractory non-metals, or metallic or non-metallic oxides, or
complex silicates, are heated to the higher temperatures in contact with
carbon, boron, silicon or compounds of these three elements with
oxygen, the result generally is that* very refractory carbides, borides or
silicides of the metals or non-metals are formed. In other words, those
complex substances which form the chief constituents of the outer crust
of the earth at the present day are decomposed at high temperatures,
and simple compounds of two elements — so-called binary compounds —
are formed. Four classes of these binary substances seem to be espe-
cially stable at high heat — the carbides, borides, silicides and oxides;
but the oxygen of the metallic oxides tends to pass off as an oxide of
carbon, if carbon be present.
At somewhat lower temperatures nitrogen is very active and the
nitrides of many metals are readily formed. An excellent example is
shown by heating a mixture of carbon and of an oxide of titanium
(titanic acid). When heated by a feeble current the acid is simply
reduced, forming a lower oxide of titanium; with a more powerful
current the mass is completely changed into the nitride of titanium, the
nitrogen coming from the air; with a very powerful current this is
