298 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
changed into pure carbide, as the nitride cannot exist at the higher
temperature, and the nitrogen escapes, carbon taking its place. At
still higher temperatures hydrogen acts on many metals, forming
hydrides. The carbides and other compounds of some metals are not
stable at high temperatures, being reduced by gaseous carbon to the
free metals, which remain then in the gaseous form.
At that period of the earth's history when the temperature was as
high as that easily obtained in the electric furnace, we have the sanction
of geologists for picturing the earth's surface as an ocean of molten
matter surrounded by a glowing atmosphere. This molten surface must
have consisted of binary compounds such as those mentioned above, and
probably contained some refractory elements, metals and non-metals, in
the free state. The atmosphere contained free hydrogen, oxygen and
nitrogen, gaseous binary compounds like the oxides of -carbon, metals
in the gaseous form and many non-metallic elements like sulphur and
chlorine. In the atmospheric region furthest removed from the molten
surface violent chemical reactions occurred between the heated elements,
forming compounds which were again dissipated into their elements by
the heat given off in the act of formation or radiated from the glowing
surface below.
Under the enormous pressure of this atmosphere the liquid surface
of the earth solidified at very high temperature. Whether the earth's
mass solidified from the centre outward or by forming a solid crust over
a liquid interior, is a question to be decided by physicists and geologists.
We will consider only the outer crust and the atmosphere. As the
surface and the atmosphere above it gradually cooled, the formation
of nitrides, and later of hydrides, sulphides and chlorides, occurred.
The conditions now attained may have been fairly stable as long
as the temperature of the surface and lower regions of the atmosphere
were high enough to prevent the union of the atmospheric oxygen
and hydrogen, or to decompose the water forming in the outer regions
of the atmosphere. As soon, however, as by further cooling, water
came into contact with the earth's surface, very violent reactions
occurred, which were supplemented by other equally violent reactions
when the cooling process permitted the formation of the ordinary
mineral acids.
The reactions of water and of acids on many of the binary com-
pounds are so important in determining the present composition of
the earth's crust that they must be considered in detail. The carbides,
nitrides, chlorides, sulphides and hydrides of most elements, and some
silicides, are decomposed by water, or else by dilute acids, forming the
hydrogen compounds of carbon, nitrogen, chlorine, sulphur and silicon
respectively, and the oxide or hydroxide of the other element. Thus
calcium carbide and water give calcium hydroxide and acetylene, a
