PHASES OF THE EARTH'S DEVELOPMENT. 299
hydro-carbon. Aluminum carbide yields alumina and methane (marsh
gas), another hydro-carbon, the chief constituent of 'natural gas.'
Other carbides yield crude petroleum. The nitrides yield ammonia,
which is the hydrogen composed of nitrogen. The chlorides give
hydrochloric acid, the sulphides sulphuretted hydrogen and the silicides
the hydrogen silicide. The metallic hydrides yield free hydrogen.
The violence and the magnitude of some of these reactions almost
baffle the imagination. Let the reader drop a piece of calcium carbide
as large as a small marble into a little water in a cup; there is a rapid
action, a gas (acetylene) is given off, which burns with a smoky flame if
a lighted match is held over the cup. (The experiment should be tried
in the open air.) So much heat is generated in the reaction that the
cup becomes hot. Nearly four per cent, of the earth's outer crust is
calcium; all this was at this period of the earth's history in the form
of carbide. Imagine all the vast limestone mountain ranges of the
present day as carbide, and try to realize the effect when water fell on
any considerable area. The heat generated would be so enormous that
in a moment the acetylene would ignite and burn, forming oxides of
carbon and water vapor, which would in turn decompose, throwing the
jets of glowing hydrogen and oxygen vast distances into the atmosphere,
there to cool and reunite to water. The decomposition of other car-
bides, of the hydrides and silicides, as well as -the formation of
hydroxides by the action of the lighter metals on water, would produce
similar phenomena, as the substances formed are combustible gases,
or liquids or solids easily volatilized. This is no wild fantasy, but a
conservative statement. Similar reactions are taking place at the pres-
ent day in those stars whose cooling process has advanced far enough;
a case in point is that of the so-called 'temporary stars.'
Extremely violent reactions are taking place constantly in the atmos-
phere of the sun. The sun's chromosphere, or outer layer of its
atmosphere, consists mainly of hydrogen, and jets of glowing hydrogen
are thrown to great heights above the chromosphere; these jets or
'prominences' have been frequently observed to have a height of 100,000
miles, and prominences of more than double this height are reported by
observers. The most conservative estimates assume temperatures of
the sun's surface so enormous that that of the electric furnace is insig-
nificant in comparison, and we can have no conception of the chemical
changes occurring under such conditions. Whether one believes, with
Lockyer, that the chemical 'elements' are disassociated by the sun's
heat into simpler substances or not, it is clear that very violent chemical
reactions are in progress, and if we realize that the known chemical reac-
tions increase in intensity with increase in temperature, it does not seem
strange that at the sun's temperature the reactions occurring should
cause disturbances like those observed.
