300 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Keturning to the earth, let us consider the products of these violent
reactions. The hydrogen and hydrides of boron, silicon, sulphur and
carbon, combined with the oxygen of the atmosphere, forming water
and boric, silicic, sulphurous and carbonic acids, which in turn acted on
the metallic oxides and hydroxides, forming sulphites, carbonates,
borates and simple and complex silicates; some quickly, some slowly,
some at low temperatures and atmospheric pressure, others at high
temperatures in liquid or semi-liquid condition and under the pressure
of rock masses above. To determine the relative age of existing rock
layers, or the mode of their formation, whether by eruptive action, by
surface heat, by deposition of finely divided material under water, or
by metamorphic changes of the cooled silicate under subsequent action
of water, pressure and heat, is the province of the geologist. The
present writer refrains from an opinion whether any of the first formed
solid crust could or could not survive to the present day in its primary
form, considering the exposure to water, acids, heat and pressure which
it suffered.
Yet an idea may be formed of the condition of the earth's surface
when it had cooled so far that the more violent chemical action had
ceased. It consisted chiefly of silicates, simple and complex; of some
of the original binary compounds, which are scarce affected by water
or acids, such as the silicide of carbon (carborundum), of stable oxides,
chlorides and sulphides, with other compounds in smaller proportion,
and free elements in greater proportion than at the present day.
Everywhere, from crevices in the surface, hydrocarbons, phosphoretted
hydrogen (phosphine) and ammonia were issuing as gases; the atmos-
phere was heavy with these gases and with carbon dioxide.
No scientific observations thus far show how or from what definite
compounds plant life or animal life was first evolved from lifeless mat-
ter; but it is certain that the materials were much more abundant and
the conditions more favorable at the period when it was evolved than at
the present day. An ocean much warmer and less saline than now, a
damp atmosphere like that of a hothouse, an abundance of plant food
and a choice of raw material, were at hand. The chief foods required
for plant life are nitrogen in the form of ammonia or nitrates, carbon
dioxide, phosphorus as phosphates, sulphates of lime, of magnesia
and of the alkalies, and water. As to the raw material for the first
formation of the living cell, it is impossible to say what compounds of
carbon were employed; suffice it to note that the known simple and
complex binary compounds of carbon were there ready for use; the hy-
drocarbons, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide were oozing from the
earth's surface, from the ocean floor as well as from the land, or hanging
heavy in the air above it. If warmth or increased pressure were de-
siderata, an ocean warm to its greatest depths could afford any pressure
