PHASES OF THE EARTH'S DEVELOPMENT. 301
required. From the decomposition of the nitrides and phosphides
below the surface, ammonia and phosphine were escaping into the ocean
and into the air. The conditions then during long periods of time were
especially favorable for marine life, and as sand and mud accumulated
on the rocky surface of the earth, for land plants; the absence of a thick
soil being more than compensated for by the abundance of plant food,
notably of carbon dioxide and ammonia.
The statement may be found in excellent modern text-books of
chemistry that ammonia is always formed by the decomposition of
plants and animals, accompanied by the further statement that ammonia
is a requisite for plant food. No plants — no ammonia; no ammonia —
no plants. If this were true, the beginning of plant life would indeed
have been a struggle for existence; that it is not true is shown above.
This decomposition of nitrides has ceased practically on the actual
surface of the earth at the present day because the nitrides have all been
decomposed; yet it may be mentioned that specimens of rock freshly
quarried in Sweden were recently found to give off ammonia when wet
with water, showing the presence of nitrides. Below the actual earth's
surface it is probable that nitrides still exist in large quantity, for
ammonia is one of the constituents of volcanic gases; to believe that vol-
canic ammonia is a product of plant or animal decomposition is difficult;
to suppose it formed by the action of steam on nitrides in the earth's
interior is simple.
Much the same may be said of the presence of carbides. While they
no longer exist on the surface, there is no doubt of their existence
in the interior of the earth, and the volcanic gases contain their decom-
position products. In this connection the theory — first put forward by
Mendeleeff and since supported by Moissan — of the origin of petroleum,
may be mentioned. These writers favor the hypothesis that it was
formed by the decomposition of carbides by water under pressure; and
while the evidence at hand perhaps favors the belief that the petroleum
of the more important oil fields owes its origin to decomposition of the
lower forms of marine animal life, yet there can be no doubt that
petroleum may be formed by carbide decomposition, and it seems prob-
able that natural gas is in part at least a result of the same action.
