302 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
A PRELIMINARY ACCOUNT OF THE SOLAR ECLIPSE OF
MAY 28, 1900, AS OBSERVED BY THE SMITH-
SONIAN EXPEDITION.
By Dr. S. P. LANGLEY,
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
PARTLY in deference to the report of the United States Weather
Bureau, from which it appeared that the chance of a fair eastern
sky on the morning of the eclipse was about 8 to 1, and after examina-
tion by Mr. Abbot of many stations in North Carolina, Wadesboro, of
that State, was selected early in April as the site of the Smithsonian
observations. The advantages of Wadesboro being also recognized by
Professor Young, of Princeton, Professor Hale, of Yerkes Observatory,
and the Rev. J. M. Bacon, of the British Astronomical Association,
it came about that four large observing parties, besides several smaller
ones and numerous excursionists from the surrounding country, were all
joined to produce at Wadesboro one of the largest company of eclipse
observers ever assembled for scientific purposes. It is a matter for
congratulation that the sky at Wadesboro upon the day of the eclipse
was cloudless and clearer than the average, so that the efforts of the
observing forces were not thwarted by any circumstances beyond then-
control. The provisions of the Mayor and authorities of Wadesboro
for preventing intrusion before and during the eclipse, and thus secur-
ing an undisturbed field of operations, deserve especial recognition.
Further than this, the many acts of courtesy and hospitality to the
visiting astronomers on the part of the townspeople will long be remem-
bered by the recipients.
The Smithsonian party proper consisted of thirteen observers, and
included Mr. Langley, Mr. Abbot, aid acting in charge of the Smith-
sonian astrophysical observatory; Mr. Smillie, in charge of photography;
Mr. Putnam, of the United States Coast Survey; Mr. Fowle, Mr. Men-
denhall, Mr. Child, Mr. Draper, Mr. Gill, Mr. Kramer and Mr. Smith.
Included with these, the Rev. Father Searle and the Rev. Father Wood-
man gave most valuable assistance. Mr. Hoxie, of Port Royal, S. C,
and Mr. Little, of Wadesboro, rendered valued assistance to Mr. Putnam
during totality.
Professor Hale, of the Yerkes Observatory, was a member of the
party, while still in general charge of the Yerkes expedition, and his
counsel and aid were of the greatest service. Mr. Clayton, of Blue
