THE SOLAR ECLIPSE. 305
the 38-foot telescope, was seen in the light of the moon, the extensive
field with these preparations, exhibited a still more picturesque scene
than by day.
Less imposing, and perhaps more ungainly was the combination of
four great cameras under the main shed, designed to search for new
planets and to depict the outer corona. These might well be described
as like a cabin and outbuilding, mounted on a polar axis, yet, despite
their awkward proportions, they were made to follow very accurately.
The morning of the eclipse dawned cloudless and very fairly
clear. Deep blue sky, such as the writer had seen on Pike's Peak, of
• course, is not among the ordinary possibilities of an eclipse, but the
milkiness of the blue was less pronounced than is usual in the summer
season, and all felt that the seeing promised well.
At fifteen minutes before totality a series of rapid strokes on the
bell called every one to his post, and one minute before the expected
contact five strokes were given as a final warning. Coincidentally with
the actual observation of the second contact by Mr. Putnam, the first
two strokes upon the bell sounded, and the work began. After 82
seconds (the duration of totality from the Nautical Almanac was 92
seconds), three strokes were given as a signal to stop the long photo-
graphic exposures. Scarcely more than five seconds after this the sun's
crescent reappeared. The duration of totality, as observed by Mr. Put-
nam, was approximately 88 seconds.
To visual observers the sky was notably not a dark one. No second
magnitude stars were observed with the naked eye, and most of the
on-lookers saw only Mercury conspicuously, though Venus was distin-
guished at a low altitude and Capella also was seen. So high a degree
of sky illumination can not but have operated unfavorably in the study
of the outer corona or in the search for intra-mercurial planets, and
this is to be remembered in connection with what follows.
Before Totality.
A deepened color in the sky, a fall of temperature and a rising
breeze were distinctly noticeable. No change in direction of the wind
was noted. Shadow bands were seen, but those who attempted to
measure their velocity found them too rapid and flickering for any
great exactness in this determination. There was tolerable unanimity
among independent observers as to their size and distance apart (about
five inches), though some thought this less as totality approached.
It was noticed that the birds grew silent just before and during
totality, but true to their nature, the English sparrows were last to be
still and first to begin their discussion of the eclipse, after the return
of light.
During Totality.
The attention of all visual observers was at once caught by the
