14 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
2.0 seconds only, generally one second being about right; the wet
plate will take the corona in eight seconds or less. The best time
of exposure should be tested on a bright star of about the second
magnitude, by trial before the eclipse. There is no rule about the
photographic focus, except to discover it by a series of exposures
at different distances near the supposed point. Eclipse work is a
practical matter, and many rough-and-ready methods must neces-
sarily be admitted. A good lens in a wooden light-tight tube, sup-
ported at each end, having the motion of the sun, the photographic
focal plane carefully determined, the time exposures very short,
and, finally, exceedingly slow development of the picture after the
eclipse — these form the prime requisites. Expensive telescopes,
clockwork on heavy iron piers, reflecting mirrors, and such like
apparatus are not needed. Ingenuity in practical details, with
great anxiety about the essential matter of the light itself, is what
is needed for a successful eclipse expedition.
Those persons who have no telescope for viewing the sun, or
camera for photographing it, can yet see the corona to great ad-
vantage by means of a good opera glass, and indeed this is really
the most satisfactory way to thoroughly enjoy the spectacle. The
object may be sketched on paper at once or from memory, and this
picture may well be of value to astronomy.
The tracks of the eight North American eclipses seen since
1800 are shown on Chart VI. It is noted that three have paths
very similarly located, and that five run in directions about parallel
to one another, but almost at right angles to the first group. This
comprises the eclipse of November 30, 1834, duration two min-
utes; August 7, 1869, two minutes and three quarters; July 29,
1878, two minutes and a half, which stretch from Alaska south-
eastward in a fan-shape to the South Atlantic coast. The second
group contains the tracks June 16, ISO 6, four minutes and a half;
July 17, 1S60, three minutes; January 11, 1880 thirty-two sec-
onds; January 1, 1889, two minutes and a quarter; and May 28,
1900, two minutes. These tracks all trend from southwest to
northeast, and cross the North American continent in different
latitudes, that of May 28, 1900, being the most southerly and of
rather short duration, lasting less than two minutes in the United
States.
The path of the total eclipse of May 28, 1900, after leaving the
United States, crosses the North Atlantic Ocean to Coimbra, Por-
tugal, and continues over North Africa to its end at the Red Sea.
Stations which are not situated on the path of the totality will see
the sun partially eclipsed, in proportion to the distance of the
locality from the central line to the northern or the southern lim-
