THE SOLAR ECLIPSE. 307
connected with these prominences, though the relationship of some of
them to the solar poles was abundantly manifest.
After Totality. Results.
Comparing notes after totality, all observers reported a successful
carrying out of the programme. The greatest interest centers in the
direct coronal negatives taken with the 135-foot telescope. Mr. Smillie
exposed six 30 x 30 plates during totality, with times ranging from one
half a second to sixteen seconds, and three others were exposed by him
immediately after the third contact.
At this writing only a part of the negatives taken have been devel-
oped. Their general quality may be inferred from the examples here
given, after due allowance for the great loss suffered by translation onto
paper even with the best care.
Fig. 1 is a view taken with one of the smaller objectives (6 inches),
, Fig. 2. Prominences on Southwest Limb of sin. Taken with 12 incii Lens of 135 feet
Focus. 8 Seconds Exposure.
given here to afford the reader an idea of the general disposition of the
coronal light. The upper part is the vertex in the inverted field.
Fig. 2 is a portion of one of the great 15-inch circular images ob-
tained with the 135-foot focus telescope. It was obtained in the great
disc in the last exposure during totality of 8 seconds, showing one of
the principal prominences then on the sun's dies, with the disposition
of the lower filaments near it.
Fig. 3 is a portion of one of the same set of plates, but taken with
a lG-second exposure. The part near the sun has, of course, been in-
tentionally over-exposed, in order to better exhibit the remarkable polar
streamers, extending here to a distance of about six minutes from the
sun, but seen still further in Mr. Child's telescopic drawing (not given.)
Fig. 4 is a view of a small part of the great apparatus on the field,
including the terminus of the horizontal tube with its canvas covering,
which has been described as like an extended 'A' tent. The photo-
graphic room is seen at the end of the tube, and beyond that the tube
