3io POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
MALARIA AND THE MALARIAL PARASITE.*
By PATRICK M ANSON, M. D., LL. D.,
LECTURER ON TROPICAL DISEASES AT ST. GEORGE'S HOS "ITAL AND CHA RING-CROSS HOSPITAL
MEDICAL SCHOOLS AND AT THE LONDON SCHOOL OF TROPICAL MEDICINE.
THIS lecture is devoted to a description of the parasite and of its
life cycles. The existence of a parasite in malarial disease has
been suspected for a long time, but only very recently have we had
absolute assurance that such a parasite exists. Some time in the
thirties Meckel described in the human blood certain black particles
which he found in leucocytes and in certain pale, leucocyte-like bodies
the nature of which he did not know. When he saw these bodies he
certainly saw the malarial parasite. His observations were repeated
and extended in the forties and the fifties by Ererichs and Virchow,
and they, too, undoubtedly saw the malarial parasite. But it is one
thing to see and quite another to recognize; discovery is recognition.
The discoveries of Laveran, Clolgi, Marchiafava, Bignami and others
resulted in considerable knowledge of the life history of the malarial
parasite and of the correspondence between its life cycle and the clini-
cal cycle of the disease. Laveran discovered the parasite; Golgi de-
scribed the cycle of the tertian and quartan forms; the others added
new data, especially concerning the more malignant parasites. The
malarial parasite in its mature form has the appearance — I shall take
the tertian parasite as a type — of a mass of pale protoplasm occupying
practically the whole of the red blood corpuscles. Scattered through
this mass of protoplasm are a number of black specks or little rods of
intensely black pigment. Later in the life of the parasite a peculiar
thing happens: all these little specks of black pigment concentrate
usually towards the center of the organism whilst the pale protoplasm
arranges itself into little spherules, the whole constituting what is
known as the 'rosette body.' Later in the life of the parasite the sur-
rounding blood corpuscle breaks away and this rosette body floats free
in the liquor sanguinis and then breaks up into its constituent spores,
setting free at the same time the black pigment clump. Phagocytes
attack many of these free spores and probably absorb most of them, as
well as the little pieces of pigment. The result is the pigmented
leucocyte, so characteristic of malarial blood. A few of the spores
escape and in virtue of some peculiar faculty, which is not at present
* Abstract of a lecture delivered at the Medical Graduates' College and Polyclinic, and printed
in the Lancet of May 19.
