MALARIA AND THE MALARIAL PARASITE. in
understood, enter fresh blood corpuscles and appear there as pale specks
in the haemoglobin. These pale specks, if watched in perfectly fresh
blood, are seen to be possessed of very active amoeboid movement.
They throw out pseudopodia in various directions and wander about
through the haemoglobin of the corpuscle. After a time they increase
in size by assimilating the haemoglobin. By and by there appear
somewhere in the parasite those specks of black pigment which we saw
in the mature animal. Later they increase still further in size until
they come to occupy half, and finally nearly the whole, of the blood
corpuscle. Again there is concentration of pigment and the forma-
tion of little sporules. This is the cycle, as described by Golgi, of the
tertian and quartan parasite. The cycle of the tropical or aestivo-
autumnal parasite corresponds in plan almost exactly with that of the
quartan and ordinary tertian parasite.
It was found that the life cycles of these parasites ran parallel with
the clinical cycle of malarial disease. It was found that when the
parasite had arrived at maturity the apyretic interval in an ague was
about to conclude, and that when the parasite had arrived at the
sporulating stage the patient had entered on the shivering stage of his
fever. During that and the succeeding hot and sweating stage the
spores had entered the red blood corpuscles, and when the parasite had
ensconced itself in the red blood corpuscle and begun to grow, the
fever had come to an end. It was found in tertian fever that the
cycle of the parasite took forty-eight hours to complete, exactly the
length of the cycle of the clinical phenomena. In quartan fever the
cycle took seventy-two hours, exactly the length of the clinical cycle of
that form of malarial disease. In the malignant or tropical fevers there
was found to be a similar correspondence between the cycle of the
parasite and the cycle of the disease. It was found that with each re-
curring paroxysm of fever there was a renewal of the life of the para-
site, and that in this way the life of the parasite was continued from
period to period and from cycle to cycle for weeks or even, especially in
the case of quartan malaria, for months. Now this explains very well
the way in which the malaria parasite contrives to maintain its existence
in the human body, but it does not explain how it passes from host to
host, neither does it explain certain appearances that Laveran and every-
body else who has studied the subject have witnessed. In malarial
blood you sometimes see that peculiar body, the flagellated body,
which I have already alluded to as consisting of a sphere surrounded
by from one to six or seven long tentacles or arms in a state of con-
tinual agitation. Neither does it explain the peculiar crescent-shaped
body which also so pointedly arrested Laveran's attention
. Golgi's scheme leaves the passage of the parasite from host to host and
also the nature of these two bodies unexplained. What relation have
