312 POPULAR SCIENCE MONT ELY.
these two bodies to the life of the parasite? Their nature and pur-
pose do not receive any illumination from Golgi's theory. You will
find in all forms of malarial infection, if you look enough, the flagel-
lated body; but, strange to say, you will not find it in malarial blood
immediately after it is withdrawn from the body. It is only after an
interval of minutes, perhaps a quarter of an hour, after the blood is
withdrawn that these flagellated bodies appear. Whence do they come?
If you make a preparation of malarial blood from a patient by prick-
ing the finger and spreading a little of the blood on a slide, fixing it
immediately with heat or alcohol and staining it, you will never see
any of these flagellated organisms. But if the slip be kept moist and
in a warm temperature for half an hour and then stained, the flagellated
bodies will be seen, proving that they develop only after the escape
of the parasite from the human body. Such a fact is very interesting
and obviously has some significance in connection with the life of the
parasite. Whence, I ask, come these flagellated bodies? If one of
the crescent-shaped bodies is observed continuously, the following
changes of shape may often be observed: It becomes shorter, loses
its crescent shape and gives off flagella, which may break off and swim
about by themselves. When they come in contact with a blood cor-
puscle they straighten themselves out and indulge in a peculiar vibra-
tory movement, as if endeavoring to penetrate the corpuscle.
Many years ago King, in America, and others too numerous to
mention suspected that the mosquito had something to do with malaria,
but in what way they could not say. Not only civilized observers had
this suspicion, but the savage natives of certain tropical countries had
the same idea. Koch tells us that certain natives of German East
Africa who lived in a mountainous, and therefore non-malarial, part
noticed that when they descended to the malarial regions on the coast
they acquired a fever which they called mibu.' They said that
they were bitten there by certain insects which they also called 'mbu'
— mosquito or gnat. They give the same name to the mosquito and
to the fever, therefore obviously these savages associate the insect and
the fever as cause and effect. Peasants in certain parts of Italy have
the same idea, believing that the bite of the mosquito may be followed
by the development of malarial fever.
Laveran, some years ago, in one of his numerous works on malarial
fever, said that possibly the malarial parasite was cared for by the
mosquito in the same way that the latter cares for the filaria of the
blood. He did not, however, formulate a definite theory on the
subject.
In 1894 I was engaged in working at malaria, following out Golgi's
work and that of other Italians. I was particularly struck by the
phenomena of exflagellation and more particularly by the fact that it
