MALARIA AND THE MALARIAL PARASITE. 315
body cavity of the insect, being over-distended, ruptured and discharged
the rod-like bodies into the body cavity of the mosquito. For a time
Ross could get no further than this. He could not find what became
of the rod-like bodies. One day, in dissecting the head of a mosquito,
he encountered two small trilobed glands the ducts from which united to
form a main duct. The glands lay on either side of the head and the
common duct he traced to the base of the proboscis of the mosquito.
This was the salivary gland of the mosquito. He found that the cells
of the gland contained rod-like bodies exactly like those which he had
found inside the parasitic capsules in the stomach-wall. He concluded
that somehow these 'germinal rods' (for so he called them) had managed
to find their way into the salivary gland of the mosquito. It imme-
diately occurred to him that this might be the route by which the para-
site escaped from the mosquito into its vertebrate host. No sooner
had the idea occurred to Eoss than he put it to the test of experiment.
He selected a number of sparrows in whose blood he satisfied himself
that there were no parasites and let loose upon them a number of
mosquitoes which he had already infected with malarial parasites. He
found after a week or ten days that the sparrows which were experi-
mented upon sickened and many of them died; and in their blood he
found the malarial parasite.
We now understand why the flagellated body is developed outside
the human host: because its function lies outside the human host. We
now understand why the flagella break away and enter the granular
sphere: they impregnate it and start it on the road of development.
We now understand why MacCallum's vermicule is beaked and endowed
with powers of locomotion and penetration: that it may approach and
penetrate the stomach of the mosquito. And we now know why the
sporozooites, the 'germinal rods,' enter the mosquito's salivary gland:
that they may be injected into vertebrate issue and so pass the parasite
from vertebrate to vertebrate.
This is one of those fairy tales of science which people are inclined
to doubt, but any one who has worked at the subject and taken the
trouble to go through the long series of preparations which have been
sent home from India can not for a moment have the slightest doubt
that what Ross stated was absolutely true, and that not only for bird
but for human malaria. So soon as the idea got abroad that the key
to the way in which the malarial parasite is propagated had been found
the Italians immediately set to work with renewed vigor and with the
utmost skill. Almost at once they demonstrated that what happened
in the case of Ross's sparrows happened also with the human subject:
that the appropriate species of mosquito fed upon the human malarial
subject and subsequently allowed to feed upon a non-malarial subject
conveyed the malarial parasite and malarial disease, and that the ap-
