316 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
propriate species of mosquito belonged to the genus anopheles. There
can not be the slightest doubt that the mosquito acts the part of trans-
mitting agent as well as definitive host of the malarial parasite.
This is a piece of knowledge of the utmost importance to mankind,
for we know that malarial disease in tropical countries — which, after all,
in the future will be the most important parts of the world, seeing that
they can produce more food than temperate countries and can therefore
support a larger population — causes more deaths and more disposition
to death by inducing cachectic states predisposing to other affections
than all the other parasites affecting mankind put together. We know
now in what way this parasite is acquired. Depend upon it, in time,
in virtue of this knowledge, we will get enormous power over the
disease and sooner or later we will be able to prevent the infection of
man by the parasite. It is only a question of study and the application
of the knowledge already acquired, only a question of money and per-
severance and a little ingenuity, and these results will come. It may
not be in ten years or twenty years, but sooner or later the energies
of a considerable portion of scientific mankind now being expended in
endeavoring to devise means for preventing the infection of men with
the malarial germ by the mosquito will bear valuable fruit.
You can readily understand that it is of great importance to be
able to recognize the special species of mosquito which convey malaria.
The effective species as regards human malaria belong to the genus
anopheles; species of the genus culex are effective in the case of
sparrow malaria. Fortunately, these two genera are easily recognized
even by the amateur zoologist. If you find a mosquito clinging to the
wall or other surface you can tell which genus it belongs to by its
posture. If the body is stuck out nearly at right angles to the surface
on which the insect is resting, it is an anopheles. If the body is almost
parallel to the surface, it is a culex. There is another test which is
easily applied if you have a pocket lens; in culex the two organs known
as palpi are rudimentary and very short; whereas in anopheles those
organs are almost as long as the proboscis. It should be remembered
that the male mosquito is not a blood-sucker and therefore is not dan-
gerous. It is the female anopheles which transmits the disease. The
mosquito larvae inhabit stagnant or slow-running water. If a mosquito
larva be found with its head downwards, the body hanging at right
angles to the surface of the water, it is a culex; if the body lies parallel
to the surface of the water, it is an anopheles. There are other points
of difference with which I need not now trouble you; those referred
to suffice for diagnosis between the innocuous and the dangerous
mosquitoes.
The facts regarding the malaria parasite which I have described
are of great importance for many reasons. First, because they help
