3i=
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
NEW SOURCES OF LIGHT AND OF RONTGEN RAYS.
By HENRY CARRINGTON BOLTON, Ph. D.
AMONG the general laws of physical science, none seems more
firm!}' established than that of the conservation and correlation
of energy; according to this the various forms of energy that constitute
the domain of experimental physics, heat, light, electricity, magnetism
and chemical action, have reciprocal dependence and "can not originate
otherwise than by devolution from some preexisting force," or rather
energy. That motion is convertible into heat, heat into light and both
the former into electricity are phenomena familiar to every one who
uses incandescent bulbs or rides in a trolley, and we do not usually
recognize any production of light unaccompanied by heat. True, the
little fire-fly is possessed of a mysterious power that enables it to emit
light without enough heat to affect Langley's most sensitive bolometer,
but the eminent Secretary of the Smithsonian has to admit that the
"cheapest form of light" is produced by "processes of nature of which
we know nothing." This little understood property called phosphor-
escence is shared by many living organisms, both animal and vegetable,
as well as by substances of the mineral kingdom; to the former belong
coelenterates, mollusks, Crustacea, fishes and insects, and decaying
wood, certain mushrooms, etc.; to the latter the Bologna stone, so-called,
and the commercial article called 'Balmain's paint.'
In the case of the mineral substances, barium or calcium sulfids
and the like, the light-giving power is not an innate property, but is
set in operation by exposure to the energy of sunlight, the light of
burning magnesium or to some other source of actinism; moreover,
the power thus acquired by insolation is a fugitive one, the substances
exercising it after three or four hours become 'dead' and lose their
activity. Excepting then these living beings and these phosphorescent
bodies, light as commonly known to ns is always correlated with heat;
within the last four years, however, discoveries have been made in
France that seem to modify the position taken by philosophers and to
necessitate new views concerning the manifestations of that energy with
which the universe is endowed. A group of French savants have found
mineral substances that apparently give out light perpetually without
any exciting cause, realizing the dream of the alchemists — a perpetual
lamp consuming no oil. These substances also emit rays having the
penetrating properties of X-rays, other rays affecting a photographic
