NEW SOURCES OF LIGHT. 3*9
plate, and fourthly, rays causing air to become a conductor of elec-
tricity. The history of these discoveries can be briefly given.
Kontgen's discovery of the rays that pass through metals and solids
opaque to light was made in 1895, and in the following year, Becquerel,
a distinguished French academician, discovered that salts of the metal
uranium (substances that had long been used in coloring china and
glass) emit invisible radiations capable of discharging electrified bodies
and of producing skiagraphic images on sensitive plates; he found that
potassio-uranic sulfate emits rays that pass through black paper and
give photographic impressions in the same way as Eontgen rays. This
property is not limited to the brilliantly fluorescent uranic salts, but is
shared by the non-fluorescent uranous salts, and is exhibited by com-
pounds whether phosphorescent or not, whether crystalline, melted or
in solution, as well as by the metal itself. The permanence of this
activity is amazing, substances kept in a double leaden box more than
three years continuing to exert the power.
Shortly after the announcement by Becquerel, experimenters found
that other substances have the power of emitting 'Becquerel Kays,'
such as calcium and zinc sulfids and compounds of thorium. In 1898
Mine. Sklodowska Curie, working in the laboratory of the Municipal
School of Industrial Physics and Chemistry in Paris, devised a special
apparatus for measuring the electrical conductivity of the air when
liiider the influence of 'radio-active bodies,' and by its means studied
the behavior of pitchblende (uraninite), and of other uranium minerals;
iinding that some specimens of pitchblende had three times as much
energy as uranium itself, she came to the conclusion that the peculiar
property is due to some unknown body contained in the minerals and
not to uranium. Examining the mineral with the aid of her husband,
the two found a substance analogous to bismuth, four thousand times
stronger than uranium, which was named 'Polonium,' in honor of the
native land of Mme. Curie. In Pecehfber of the same year, the lady
received the Gegner prize of 4,000 francs awarded by the Academy of
Sciences, as a substantial appreciation of her discovery, and later in the
same month Mme. and M. Curie announced that they had found a
second body in pitchblende, which they named 'Eadium.' More re-
cently, M. Debierne, working under the auspices of Mme. Curie, has
discovered a third body, which he calls 'Actinium,' an unfortunate
appellation because 'actinium' has already been used for an element
announced by Dr. Phipson and since discarded.
These three 'radio-active' substances do not possess identical prop-
erties; their rays are unequally absorbed and are differently affected in
a magnetic field; moreover radium emits visible rays, while polonium
does not. Nor have they the same chemical affinities; polonium be-
longs to the bismuth group, radium to the barium and actinium to the
