320 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
titanium series. They have not been separated perfectly from their
analogues, and consequently their chemical properties and the actual
intensity of their physical activities is very imperfectly known. The
difficulties of securing even small quantities of crude materials are
enormous; Fritz Giesel obtained from one thousand kilograms of raw
material only fifteen grams of active compounds, and Mme. Curie,
operating on half a ton of the residues of uranium from a chemical
manufactory, got about two kilograms of barium chlorid rich in radium,
but the percentage of active substances in these mixtures is unknown.
Eadium is spontaneously luminous, and all the bodies emit rays
that excite phosphorescence in gems, fmorite and other minerals; they
communicate radiant energy to inactive substances, and they exert
chemical action, transforming oxygen into ozone and producing changes
in the color of glass and of barium platino-cyanid.
Through the enterprise and liberality of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, and by the courtesy of Professor Langley, I have enjoyed the
opportunity of studying small specimens of these rare and costly sub-
stances; they comprised ten grams of 'radio-active substance' prepared
by a manufacturing chemist of Germany and smaller quantities of
'radium' and of 'polonium' from Paris. On removing the wrappings
of the German specimens in a dark room, they were seen to emit
greenish-white light that gave to the enveloping papers a peculiar glow,
similar to the fluorescence produced by Eontgen rays. Simple tests
of the radium showed that it gave the usual reactions of barium; on
boiling it with water it lost its luminosity, but on heating to dull redness
this property returned in the dark. It also caused a barium platino-
cyanid screen to fluoresce.
Experiments to test the actinic power of these bodies gave inter-
esting results; on exposing sections of photographic plates, at distances
of five inches, from two to twelve minutes, bands were obtained varying
in intensity with the duration of action. By exposing sensitive plates
behind negatives to the radiant materials from two to three hours,
excellent transparencies were secured; on substituting Eastman's bro-
mide paper good prints were obtained.
The penetrating power of the rays emitted permits the production
of skiagraphs; the plates were enveloped in Carbutt's black paper
(impermeable to light), and on them were laid pieces of tinfoil cut in
openwork pattern; after one hour's exposure negatives were secured
plainly showing the pattern. Analogous experiments were carried on
with the specimens from Paris, but they were only one fifth as strong
in effects; that labelled 'polonium sub-nitrate' had positively no action
on the plates used.
The primary source of the energy manifested by these extraordinary
substances has greatly puzzled physicists, and as yet remains a mystery:
