DISCUSSION AND CORRESPONDENCE.
325
rection. Of course the whole notion
that the 'velocity' of the human 'mass,'
i.e. the space it traverses in a given
time, has any connection with human
progress or is of any value to anybody
or anything, is absurd.
Mr. Tesla has enjoyed considerable,
excellent repute as a gifted student of
certain electrical phenomena and one ex-
pects a good deal from his "electrical
experiments, now first published." Mr.
Tesla, too, expects a good deal from
them. It would take too long to even
note here all the important scientific
discoveries which Mr. Tesla expects to
make or all the benefits which he ex-
pects to thereby confer upon mankind
in general and in particular upon
those who exploit his inventions. Some
samples may be given. War will be
rendered harmless by being reduced to
a sort of game between 'telautaumata,'
machines which behave "just like a
blind-folded person obeying instructions
received through the ear," any one of
which is "enabled to move and to per-
form all its operations with reason and
intelligence."
Says Mr. Tesla: "I purpose to show
that, however impossible it may now
seem, an automaton may be- contrived
which will have its 'own mind.' and by
this I mean that it will be able, inde-
pendent of any operator, left entirely to
itself, to perform, in response to ex-
ternal influences affecting its sensitive
organs, a great variety of acts and
operations as if it had intelligence. It
will be able to follow a course laid out
or to obey orders given far in advance;
it will be capable of distinguishing be-
tween what it ought and what it ought
not to do, and of making experiences or,
otherwise stated, of recording impres-
sions which will definitely affect its
subsequent actions. In fact, I have al-
ready conceived such a plan."
Inasmuch as the interest in this
telautomatic warfare is to be purely
aesthetic, it would seem as if inter-
national bull-fights or kite-flying or
spelling matches or potato-races might
do as w r ellj and have the added ad-
vantage of leaving Mr. Tesla's expecta-
tions free to wander among the follow-
ing prospective discoveries.
New sources of energy, Mr. Tesla
thinks, may be opened up, such as a
wheel which shall perform work without
any further effort on our part than that
of constructing it. "Imagine a disc of
some homogeneous material turned per-
fectly true and arranged to turn in
frictionless bearings on a horizontal
shaft above the ground. This disk, be-
ing under the above conditions per-
fectly balanced, would rest in any posi-
tion. Now, it is possible that we may
learn how to make such a disk rotate
continuously and perform work by the
force of gravity without any further ef-
fort on our part To make
the disk rotate by the force of gravity
we have only to invent a screen against
this force. By such a screen we could
prevent this force from acting on one
half of the disk, and the rotation of the
latter would follow."
Into further particulars concerning
the nature of such a screen Mr. Tesla
does not enter, though it would seem a
matter well fitted to engage his peculiar
gifts. The 'screen against gravity' idea
has already entered into a popular
story, but scientific men have probably
not given it much consideration.
By producing a 'sink' or reservoir
of a low temperature, thereby inducing
the heat of the ambient medium to
transform itself in part into other forms
of energy (e.g. electrical), Mr. Tesla
hopes to "get any amount of energy
without further effort" beyond the
amount needed to create the 'sink.' We
should thus employ "an ideal way of ob-
taining motor power," and incidentally
rebuke the narrow-minded physics of
Carnot and Lord Kelvin.
By means of his electrical oscillator
Mr. Tesla has satisfied himself that he
can transmit electrical energy in large
quantities without wires. He expects
that this can be done to great economic
advantage. Then would come the gold-
en age. "Men could settle down every-
where, fertilize and irrigate the soil
