326
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
with little effort, and convert bar-
ren deserts into gardens, and thus the
entire globe could be transformed and
made a fitter abode for mankind."
The golden age figures largely in
Mr. Tesla's article; he offers us all that
is entrancing and wonderful. He is
generous. We ask for the bread of defi-
nite facts of science and intelligible
evidence, but he gives us the amethyst
and topaz and diamonds of an ambient
medium doing all our work and the at-
mosphere transporting all our motive
power and the tyrant gravity held
powerless by a screen, and Mr. Tesla
correcting Lord Kelvin's errors. Still
amethyst and topaz and diamonds are
only stones. They may dazzle the
magazine reader, but they do not
nourish the student of science.
The editorial department of the Cen-
tury Magazine perhaps felt that these
jewels were a bit too bright. We read
there that "much that must seem specu-
lative to the layman can take its proper
place only in the purview of the scien-
tist." Some conservative scientists will
feel like growling, "And much that
must seem bosh to the man of science
can take its proper place only in the
purview of the editorial departments of
popular magazines." Leaving aside the
present case, it is a fact that the same
care which is exercised by editors to se-
cure in their contributions excellence
of style and syntax, a proper moral tone
and freedom from advertisement of
business ventures, is not exercised to
secure accuracy in statements of fact or
decent credibility in matters of theory.
The editors apparently impute to their
readers a desire to be entertained at all
costs. They descend to a footing with
the Sunday newspaper instead of trying
to rise to the level of such scientific
literature as Huxley or Tyndall gave us.
They evidently often do not know
science from rubbish and apparently
seldom make any effort to find out the
difference. They should at least sub-
mit their scientific literature to com-
petent men for criticism and revision.
The general public is helpless before
any supposedly scientific statement. It
may judge vaguely by the standing of
the paper or magazine or book contain-
ing it, by the name of the writer or by
the general tone in which the article is
written. But it cannot judge definitely
by comparison with relevant facts or
by critically examining the logic of the
deductions, for the general public lacks
both knowledge of the relevant facts
and training in logical criticism. That
a man should invent a microscope which
will enable one to see objects a million
times as small as can be seen with the
naked eye seems no more questionable
to the general public than that a man
should cause unfertilized eggs to de-
velop. Yet the first would be impos-
sible while the second has been possible,
probable, and still more lately proved.
Guidance in scientific matters should be
welcome if only for the protection thus
given against fraudulent medicines,
bogus inventions and nonsensical enter-
prises. Physicist.
