SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.
327
SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.
MATHEMATICAL PHYSICS.
The memoirs presented to the Cam-
bridge Philosophical Society on the oc-
casion of the jubilee of Sir George
Stokes, have been published in a stately
volume by the Cambridge University
Press. A year ago some four hundred
men of science met at Cambridge to cel-
ebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the ap-
pointment of Sir George Stokes to the
Lucasian professorship of mathematics,
a chair held by Newton and a distin-
guished line of mathematicians. An of-
ficial account of the proceedings, with
a portrait of Professor Stokes, is given
in the volume now issued. The seventy-
two institutions sending delegates are
arranged chronologically in the order
of their foundation, and it is not un-
worthy of note that among the sixteen
oldest institutions, the United States
has five representatives, whereas Great
Britain has thirteen universities and col-
leges younger than the Johns Hopkins
University. The Rede lecture given by
M. Alfred Cornu and entitled 'La the-
orie des ondes lumineuses,' is published
in French, even the quotations from
Newton's 'Opticks' being translated into
that language. M. Cornu states that by
'une etude approfondie' of the 'Opticks,'
his lecture shows that Newton favored
Descartes's undulatory theory of light,
rather than the emission theory usually
attributed to him. The twenty-two
memoirs that follow cover a wide range
of subjects, nearly all of which have,
however, a connection with the re-
searches of Professor Stokes. They in-
clude three contributions from the
United States, mathematical papers by
Profs. E. W. Brown and E. O. Lovett,
and a description by Professor Michel-
son of his echelon spectroscope.
In addition to this memorial vol-
ume, the Cambridge University Press,
which is represented in America by
The Macmillan Company, is at pres-
ent publishing the collected papers of
three eminent students of mathemat-
ical physics. The first volume of Lord
Rayleigh's 'Scientific Papers' contains
seventy-eight contributions published
from 1869 to 1881. The early papers show
the influence of Maxwell, Lord Bay-
leigh's predecessor in the chair of exper-
imental physics at Cambridge, but it
was apparently not until 1881 that he
fully appreciated the importance of
Maxwell's electro-magnetic theory of
light. The papers on acoustics were fol-
lowed by the publication in 1877 of the
classical work on the 'Theory of Sound.'
Lord Rayleigh, at an early period,
treated various optical subjects, includ-
ing some of the phenomena of color vis-
ion. His explanation of the blue color
of the sky and his treatment of the
resolving power of telescopes are well
known. The contributions on optics and
acoustics have been continued to the
present time, but they by no means
limit his interests. There are important
papers on hydrodynamics and mathe-
matics, and longer and shorter contribu-
tions on a great range of subjects in
mathematical physics, the science which
at the present day is perhaps of supreme
importance.
The second volume of Professor
Tait's 'Scientific Papers' contains those
published since 1881. The first volume
consisted of sixty papers, and this vol-
ume, which has followed with but little
delay, adds seventy-three. As must be
the case in collected papers, some are
elaborate treatises while others fill only
part of a single page; some are ex-
tremely technical while others were first
published in the 'Encyclopaedia Britan-
nica' and the 'Contemporary Review.'
Among the more elaborate papers are
