328
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
those on the physical properties of wa-
ter contributed to 'The Voyage of H. M.
•S. Challenger,' on the kinetic theory of
gases, on impact and on quaternions.
The third series just published by
the Cambridge Press is the 'Papers on
Mechanical and Physical Subjects', by
Prof. Osborne Reynolds, of Owens Col-
lege. The first volume contains forty
papers from transactions and journals
issued from 1869 to 1882. The most
elaborate memoir is that on certain
dimensional properties of matter in the
gaseous state, which includes experi-
ments on thermal transpiration of gases
through porous plates and a theoretical
extension of the dynamic theory of gas.
Many of the papers, such as those on
meteorological phenomena and the
steering of vessels, are of popular inter-
est. The Cambridge University Press is
performing a work of the utmost value
to science in undertaking the publica-
tion of these great volumes, and we can
only regret that, in spite- of the begin-
nings made at Johns Hopkins, Chicago,
Pennsylvania and Columbia, American
men of science have no such opportuni-
ties for the publication of their works as
those afforded at Cambridge and Oxford.
BOTANY.
That a large amount of popular in-
terest centers in the study of tree life
and all subjects incidental to forestry
and horticulture is evidenced by the ap-
pearance of a second book on the sub-
ject under the title of 'Our Native Trees
and How to Identify Them' (Scribners),
by Harriet L. Keeler. The volume in
question takes up the trees native of
northern United States east of the
Rocky Mountains, together with a few
well-known foreign species which have
become naturalized in this region.
The book opens with a key to the
families of dicotyledonous species based
upon leaf characters, and every species
receives not only a full technical de-
scription, but also comes in for inter-
esting comments upon habit and general
ecological relations. Numerous draw-
ings and half-tones add to the accuracy
and clearness of the descriptions. It is
not too much to say that the photo-
graphic reproductions surpass in beauty
and presentation of detail any recent
botanical publication, and the venation
of leaves is shown in most instances by
this method quice as well as it might
be done by means of pen and ink
sketches. Tne value of the descriptions
is heightened by the inclusion of notes
of economic interest. It is not unex-
pected that some errors should creep
into the discussions on almost all phases
of botany which are interspersed
throughout the volume.
The appearance of a new botanical
dictionary is most timely, and it is for-
tunate that the task of its preparation
should be undertaKen by such a skilful
bibliographer as Mr. B. D. Jackson.
His 'Glossary of Botanical Terms' (Lip-
pincott) contains fifteen thousand
words, or three times as many as have
been included in any previous work of
this character. This is indicative of a
most energetic pursuit of investigations
in all departments of the subject, and
also of a lamentable tendency to the
coinage by botanists of new and unnec-
essary terms upon the slightest pretext.
A legitimate factor in the increase of
the contents of such a work consists in
the inclusion of words in common use
which take on a technical meaning in
botany: such, for instance, as altitude,
abnormal, abrupt, absolute, accidental
back, etc.
Derivations are given, but the his-
tory of the terms has not been at-
tempted. According to the author,
'anlage' may be variously rendered as
rudiment, inception or primonMum.
'Chlorophyll' receives the double conso-
nant at the end of the last syllable
againsl the popular extra-botanical
practice. Regarding 'medullary' the au-
thor says: "I have given the accent as
it is always spoken (medul'-lary)
though all of the dictionaries (botani-
cal f) accent it as med'-ullary except
Henslow's." In this the author had in
mind the practice among his insular
colleagues only, since the latter pro-
