SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.
329
nunciation is given in the Standard,
Century and Webster "s Dictionaries and
is followed by nine tenths of the Amer-
ican botanists. "Mycorhizome = mycor-
rhiza-like structures in Corallorhiza and
Epipogum roots," and "Mycorrhiza =
symbiotic fungi on the roots of plants,
prothallia, etc.," are not only incon-
gruous with orthography and botanical
fact, but also with the usage of all re-
cent writers on this subject.
While many other errors of this
character could be adduced, the general
value of the book is scarcely lessened,
and it will be of the greatest service to
the working botanist, not only in rais-
ing the general literary tone of his
writings, but also in placing at his
command a choice of all of the estab-
lished terms dealing with any phase of
the subject; an aid which will be
greatly conducive to increased accuracy
of statement.
A decade since, the majority of the
botanists engaged in the study of the
distribution of plants on this continent,
as well as the strict systematists, were
quite unanimously of the opinion that
the territory within the boundaries of
the United States had been quite thor-
oughly explored, and that the task of
the collector are well-nigh done. De-
spite this discouraging conclusion a few
enthusiastic workers have not inter-
mitted their labors in a more critical
consideration of the floras of the newer
and less thickly settled regions, with
the result that scores and hundreds of
new species have been brought to light
each year, and the awakening interest
in the subject promises a re-explora-
tion of the great West.
A striking example of the results
awaiting the student in this line is af-
forded by Dr. Rydberg's 'Flora of Mon-
tana and the Yellowstone Park' (New
York Botanical Garden), which has re-
eently appeared. Although the first col-
lections of plants in this region were
made by the Lewis and Clarke expedi-
tion nearly a century ago, Dr. Ryberg
finds 163 new species and varieties in
the 1,976 which he lists in this volume.
Of this number 487 are found on both
the eastern and western slopes of the
continental divide, 268 on the eastern
side only, 520 on the western side only,
42 of which are arctic and inhabit the
high mountain summits, and 659 which
have originated in the exact region un-
der discussion. Seven hundred and sev-
enty-six of the species listed were not
included in Coulter's 'Rocky Mountain
Botany,' published a few years ago.
The symposium on the 'Plant Geog-
raphy of North American,' to be given
at the coming meeting of the Ameri-
can Association for the Advancement of
Science, will do much to systematize in-
vestigations of this character and
broaden the method of treatment ac-
corded the subject in the future.
BIOLOGY.
The 'Biological Lectures from the
Marine Laboratory of Woods Holl,
1899,' make up a volume of about three
hundred pages which represent fairly
the present tendencies of biological in-
vestigation in this country. The most
striking things about the lectures are
the wide range of topics which they
treat, and the first-hand quality of the
subject matter in each case. This is
most clearly seen by a careful reading
of the text, but a mere enumeration
of a few of the sixteen titles and lec-
tures makes it fairly obvious. Thus,
D. P. Penhallow writes on 'The Nature
of the Evidence Exhibited by Fossil
Plants, and its bearing upon our
Knowledge of the History of Plant
Life;' D. T. MacDougal writes on the
'Significance of Mycorrhizas/ Edward
Thorndike on 'Instinct,' Herbert S. Jen-
nings on 'The Behavior of Unicellular
Organisms,' Alpheus Hyatt on 'Some
Governing Factors usually neglected in
Biological Investigations,' T. H. Morgan
on 'Regeneration,' C. B. Davenport on
'The Aims of the Quantitative Study of
Variation,' Jacques Loeb on 'The Na-
ture of the Process of Fertilization.'
To the professed scientist these lec-
tures will furnish expert opinion on cer-
tain important topics; the general
