330
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
reader will find in them a presentation
not too technical or detailed. Professor
Loeb's lecture, for example, is for such
readers the best account yet given of his
experiments in artificial fertilization.
The range and originality which
characterize these lectures are really
characteristic of the general work and
spirit of the Woods Holl Laboratory.
Few people realize the amount of re-
search work which is done there from
summer to summer. Yet last year
there were seventy-one investigators
there. Moreover, these represent a su-
perior ' selection from among the in-
structors and students of the various
colleges.
It is a symptom of a healthy, vigor-
ous condition in biological science that
the best workers of the country are
glad to devote their vacation season to
research, and it is highly creditable to
the Woods Holl management that it
offers them such attractive facilities.
Similar summer laboratories are now
being established in other parts of the
country, and are to be reckoned with
as very important factors in the prog-
ress of biology.
CYTOLOGY.
It is a somewhat surprising fact that
among educated people of scientific
training there prevails generally the
greatest ignorance as to some of the
most important problems of biology. We
refer to those problems connected with
the structure and functions of the ani-
mal and plant cell. Men who can un-
derstand and appreciate recent discov-
eries in astronomy, physics, chemistry
and geology are usually wholly lost in
cytology. In fact, in general writing or
speech it is not safe to use this name
without at once defining it, since it is
commonly supposed to be a mispronun-
ciation or a stupid misspelling of 'psy-
chology,' while to most people nuclei,
chromosomes, centrosomes and mitotic
spindles are words without meaning,
signifying nothing.
The reason for this is twofold: First,
cytology is one of the newest of the
biological sciences and it has but re-
cently found its way into college curri-
cula, and second, there have been few
text-books or general works on this sub-
ject to which an intelligent layman
could turn for information.
And yet, in spite of this fact, there are
few fields of scientific work possessing
more general interest than that of cy-
tology. At the present day the greatest
problems of biology are centered in the
cell. Assimilation, growth, metabolism,
reproduction, differentiation, inheritance
and variation — these are at bottom cel-
lular phenomena, the result of the struc-
ture and functions of cells. It is not
surprising, therefore, that "all the
searchlights of science have been turned
upon the cell," and that cell studies
during the past ten years have received
an amount of attention which is com-
parable only to that devoted to evolu-
tion under the stimulus of Darwin's
work.
Professor Wilson's book on the cell,*
the second edition of which has just
appeared, is a work of more than ordi-
nary interest, not only to the biologist,
but to all persons who are interested in
the general advance of science. Al-
though there are several other good
text-books of cytology which have ap-
peared during the past five or six years,
Professor Wilson's book, in thorough-
ness of treatment, in philosophical in-
sight, in clearness and forcefulness of
style and in wealth and beauty of illus-
trations, easily surpasses them all.
It is impossible in this brief note to
give any adequate summary of the vol-
ume or of the position of the author on
questions of general interest; the sub-
jects of the chapters, however, may
serve to give some idea as to the scope
of the work. After an introduction
which gives a brief historical sketch of
the cell theory and its relation to the
: The Cell in Development and Inheritance.
Edmund B. Wilson. Second Edition Revised
and Enlarged. Columbia University Biologi-
cal Series IV. New York and London, The
Macmillan Co., 1900. Pp. xxi, 483 with 194
Figures in the Text. $3.50
