SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.
evolution theory, there are taken up in
successive chapters a general sketch of
cell structure, cell division, the germ
cells, fertilization of the ovum, the for-
mation of the germ cells and the halving
of their nuclei preparatory to fertiliza-
tion, cell organs and their relations to
each other and to the life of the cell,
cell chemistry and cell physiology, cell
division in its relation to the develop-
ment of the egg, and finally, some
theories of inheritance and development.
In addition, there is appended an ex-
cellent glossary and a list of all the
most important literature on the sub-
ject up to the current year.
While the work is undoubtedly in-
tended as a reference book for investi-
gators and advanced students in biology,
being marked by the thoroughness of
treatment of an original communica-
tion, it is yet so well written and so
copiously illustrated as to make it not
only intelligible but also intensely in-
teresting to the general reader.
EDUCATION.
The most important recent book on
education is undoubtedly 'Education in
the United States,' a book prepared in
connection with the educational exhibit
of this country at the Paris Exposition.
It consists of a series of monographs
which cover all the important phases of
educational endeavor in the United
States. The two volumes include nearly
a thousand pages, almost all of which
present definite and reliable facts. Only
rarely is there any indulgence in expres-
sions of private opinion, and still more
rarely is such opinion questionable. The
editor is justified in his statement that
the book is 'a cross-section view of edu-
cation in the United States in 1900.' It
will be of great value to the student of
American institutions or of education
in general, and should be of interest to
any citizen who desires to be well in-
formed about his country. The quality
of the monographs will be evident from
the list of the author's names. For in-
stance, those writing on higher educa-
tion are Prof. A. F. West, of Princeton;
Prof. E. D. Perry, of Columbia; Presi-
dent Thomas, of Bryn Mawr; Director
Parsons, of the University of the State
of New York; President Mendenhall, of
the Worcester Polytechnic Institute,
and Prof. H. B. Adams, of Johns
Hopkins.
