332
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE.
The conditions in the United States
have been favorable to the development
of geology. The varied forms of the land
have offered abundant opportunities for
research, whereas the practical value of
the work has led to the establishment
of surveys, the magnitude of whose con-
tribution to geology is only known to
special students. The Geological So-
ciety of America has about two hundred
and fifty members, nearly all of whom
are actively engaged in geological re-
search, perhaps a larger number than in
any other science. The U. S. Geological
Survey is the center of this movement,
and its great efficiency is in large meas-
ure due to Mr. G. K. Gilbert, now presi-
dent of the American Association for
the Advancement of Science. He was
born in Rochester, N. Y., in 1843, and
after graduating from the university in
that city, acted for five years as assis-
tant in the Ward Museum, where a
number of eminent naturalists have
been trained. He then became geolo-
gist in the Ohio Survey under Newberry,
was engaged in the Wheeler and Powell
Surveys, and has been geologist in the
U. S. Geological Survey since its es-
tablishment in 1879. In the arid west,
where the face of the earth is bare, Mr.
Gilbert made the observations and dis-
coveries in dynamical and physical geol-
ogy which have done so much toward
the making of the science of physiog-
raphy. His monographs on the Henry
Mountains and on Lake Bonneville, the
name he gave to the ancient lake that
once filled the Utah basin, are models,
both in regard to their original discover-
ies and the methods of presentation. He
has extended his studies to the basins
of the Laurentian Lakes and to other
regions, always with important results.
Mr. Gilbert has been president of the
American Society of Naturalists, the
Geological Society of America and the
Philosophical Society of Washington,
and has received the Wollaston Medal
of the Geological Society of London.
His presidential addi'ess. before the
American Association will be given at
the American Museum of Natural His-
tory, New York City, on the evening
of June 26, his subject being 'Geologi-
cal Rhythm.'
The meeting of the American Asso-
ciation in New York City, opening as
this issue of the Monthly is published,
promises to be of more than usual im-
portance. The preliminary programs
of the different sections show long lists
of valuable papers and promise the at-
tendance of leading men of science from
all parts of the country. A movement
of interest is the increasing tendency of
special scientific societies to meet in
conjunction with the Association. No
less than fifteen societies will this year
hold their sessions at Columbia Uni-
versity, some of them joining with the
sections of the Association, and others
holding independent meetings. The
members of these different societies
have the advantage of the reduced rail-
way rates and other arrangements
which can be made once for all, and the
still greater advantage of meeting scien-
tific men in other departments. As
science grows in details and in range,
there is on the one hand an increased
specialization, making it desirable for
small groups of experts to meet to-
gether to discuss their special problems,
while, on the other hand, almost every
scientific question has ramifications ex-
tending to many sciences. Hence, the
need of many separate societies and at
the same time of a common meeting
ground. When the American Associa-
tion was organized, in 1848, its members
could meet in one body; later they
