THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE.
335
stitutions established by private in-
itiative have been assisted by the State,
and State institutions have received
large sums from private individuals.
The New York institutions referred to
above — the American Museum of Nat-
ural History, the Metropolitan Museum
of Art, the Public Library, the Botani-
cal Gardens and the Zoological Park —
are in almost equal measure supported
by the city and by citizens of the city.
Johns Hopkins University, the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania, Cornell University
and other privately endowed institu-
tions have received assistance from the
State, without any decrease in private
gifts, while the State universities, Cali-
fornia for example, are receiving large
private endowments in addition to their
support from the State. These condi-
tions may not last, but at all events
they obtain at the present time, and we
find the country in which the largest
gifts from private individuals are made
for education and science to be the
country in which they are most liber-
ally supported by the Government.
Never before has any government
made such great appropriations for the
development of the resources of the
country or for the advance of science
as the Congress which has just ad-
journed. We may take for example
the Department of Agriculture, for
which the appropriation is $4,023,500,
an increase of more than $280,000 over
the appropriation for the preceding
year. Every one familiar with the con-
ditions at Washington and throughout
the country will know that this large
sum of money is expended with the ut-
most economy, and there is no doubt
but what the money invested by the
nation is returned to the people many
fold in the course of every year. Some
of the items of the bill deserve special
notice. Thus, a new agricultural ex-
periment station is to be established in
the Hawaiian Islands, and the work of
the Weather Bureau is to be extended
to them. The agricultural resources
and capabilities of Porto Rico are to be
investigated, and bulletins of informa-
tion in English and in Spanish are to
be distributed to the inhabitants. The
division of chemistry is to investigate
the use of food preservatives and color-
ing matter, determine their relations
to health and establish the principles
which should guide their use.' The
division of forestry receives an increase
of $40,000 and the Weather Bureau an
increase of over $35,000. Other items of
the appropriation act are as follows:
Biological Survey, $30,300, an increase
of $2,740; Division of Botany, $43,080,
an increase of $14,280; Nutrition In-
vestigation, $17,500, an increase of
$2,500; Division of Pomology, $18,400;
Public Road Inquiry, $14,000, an in-
crease of $6,000; Division of Statistics,
$146,160; Library, $14,000; and Mu-
seum, $2,260.
While American men of wealth
have given freely of their means for the
promotion of education and science,
they have not so often devoted their
own time to its service. This is nat-
ural, as the wealth has in most cases
been acquired by the present generation,
and it is in succeeding generations,
when families have been established,
that leisure and wealth will give a class
similar to that which has accomplished
so much for Great Britain and to a
lesser extent for Germany and France.
Still, it is the case that the heads of
two of our chief universities are men
of great wealth, who have devoted not
only their means, but also their services
to the cause of education, and there are
in our universities and other institu-
tions many who hold their positions
purely out of interest in their work,
not as a means for their support. In
the next generation there will probably
be more representatives of a class to
which belonged the Duke of Argyll,
whose death we were compelled to re-
cord last month. Another man has since
died of a somewhat similar type. When
Colonel Lane-Fox somewhat unexpect-
edly succeeded to large estates in Wilt-
shire and Dorsetshire and assumed the
