336
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
name Pitt-Rivers, his chief . interest
seemed to be in the earth works and
tumuli of Cranbourne Chase, and the
extensive memoirs he has published
and the museum he has established
show what good use he made of the ex-
cavations. Some of the results of his
earlier work will be found at Oxford,
but he built at Farnham, in Dorset-
shire, a museum which contains collec-
tions of the greatest possible value.
The communication in this issue
signed 'Physicist' is worthy of note. If
what its writer says is true, it is evi-
dent that a reputation as a brilliant in-
ventor does not insure that its possessor
is a safe writer about general physics.
Our correspondent, who represents
fairly the opinion of scientific men in
general, finds fault with Mr. Tesla's
article in the June Century in many
important particulars. During the
years since Mr. Tesla's notable inven-
tion of the polyphase alternate current
transformer, he seems to have become
less definite and exact in his think-
ing, and less productive as an inventor.
The speculation and rhetoric of the
Century article are certainly disap-
pointing to every one who is trying to
bring about an intelligent and sound
view of science on the part of non-
scientific people. Men of science every-
where should certainly make it their
business to instruct people in general
about the progress, and even the pros-
pects, of science through the press, but
it takes wisdom on the part of both
writers and editors to know what is
instructive and what is misleading.
Honest criticism such as that of our
correspondent is therefore highly de-
sirable.
It is generally agreed that the most
important advance of last year in the
science of medicine was the discovery
that the parasite causing malaria was
transmitted from person to person by
mosquitoes. Dr. Manson describes this
discovery fully in this number of the
Popular Science Monthly. This
summer a crucial experiment is being
made of a somewhat dramatic charac-
ter. A mosquito-proof tent has been
constructed, which is located in Italy,
in the Campagna. In this Dr. Luigi
Sambon, lecturer of the London Trop-
ical School of Medicine, and Dr. G. C.
Low will live until October, taking the
utmost care not to be bitten by mosqui-
toes. If they escape malaria it will
serve as corroborative evidence that the
mosquito is the means of infection.
On the other hand, several Englishmen,
including Dr. Manson's son, have of-
fered themselves as subjects for the
complementary experiment. They will
live in a healthy district, but will
definitely allow themselves to be bitten
by mosquitoes which are known to be
infected. These experiments will prob-
ably be particularly useful in demon-
strating to the public at large the
validity of the hypothesis derived last
year from technical bacteriological evi-
dence.
