340 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
stract work was consciously for the benefit of the community, and he
ever sought opportunity to make its results directly available. In pro-
moting the interests of the people of his adopted State he incidentally
accomplished much for a larger community by helping it to an apprecia-
tion of the essential beneficence of the scientific study of nature and
man. As an individual he was a diligent and successful laborer in the
field which the association cultivates, and when the association selected
him as its standard-bearer it made choice of one who was peculiarly its
representative.
The subject to which I shall invite your attention this evening is by
no means novel, but might better be called perennial or recurrent; for
the problem of our earth's age seems to bear repeated solution without
loss of vigor or prestige. It has been a marked favorite, moreover, with
presidents and vice-presidents, retiring or otherwise, when called upon
to address assemblies whose fields of scientific interest are somewhat
diverse — for the reason, I imagine, that while the specialist claims the
problem as his peculiar theme of study, he feels that other denizens of
the planet in question may not lack interest in the early lore of their
estate.
The difficulty of the problem inheres in the fact that it not only
transcends direct observation, but demands the extrapolation or exten-
sion of familiar physical laws and processes far beyond the ordinary
range of qualifying conditions. From whatever side it is approached,
the way must be paved by postulates, and the resulting views are so
discrepant that impartial onlookers have come to be suspicious of these
convenient and inviting stepping stones.
That vain expectation may not be aroused, I admit at the outset
that I have not solved the problem and shall submit to you no esti-
mates. My immediate interest is in the preliminary question of the
available methods of approach, and it leads to the consideration of the
ways, or the classes of ways, in which the measurement of time has
been accomplished or attempted.
Of the artificial devices employed in practical horology there are
two so venerable that their origins are lost in the obscurity of legendary
myth. These are the clepsydra and the taper. In the clepsydra advan-
tage is taken of the approximately uniform rate at which water escapes
through a small orifice, and time is measured by gaging the loss of
water from a discharging vessel or the gain in a receiving vessel. The
hour-glass is one of its latest forms, in which sand takes the place of
water. The taper depends for its value as a timepiece on the approxi-
mate uniformity of combustion when the area of fuel exposed to the
air is definitely regulated. It survives chiefly in the prayer stick and
safety fuse, but the graduated candle is perhaps still used to regulate
monastic vigils.
