RHYTHMS AND GEOLOGIC TIME. 34*
The pendulum, a comparatively modern invention, excelling the
clepsydra and taper in precision, has altogether supplanted them as the
servant of civilization. Its accuracy results from the remarkable prop-
erty that the period in which it completes an oscillation is almost ex-
actly the same, whatever the arc through which it swings. It regulates
the movements not only of our clocks, watches and chronometers, but
of barographs, thermographs and a great variety of other machines for
recording events and changes in their proper order and relation in
respect to time.
I must mention also a special apparatus invented by astronomers
and called a chronograph. It consists ordinarily of a revolving drum
about which a paper is wrapped and against which rests a pen. As the
drum turns the pen draws a line on the paper. Through an electric
circuit the pen is brought under the influence of a pendulum in such
a way that at the middle of each swing of the pendulum the pen is de-
flected, making a mark at right angles to the straight line. The series
of marks thus drawn constitutes a time scale. The electric arrangements
are so made that the pen will also be disturbed in consequence of some
independent event, such as the firing of a gun or the transit of a star;
and the mark caused by such disturbance, being automatically platted
on the time scale, records the time of the event.
No attempt has been made to characterize these various timepieces
with fullness, because they are already well known to most of those
present, and, in fact, the chief motive for giving them separate mention
is that they may serve as the basis of a classification. In the use of the
clepsydra and taper, time is measured in terms of a continuous move-
ment or process; in the use of the pendulum time is measured in terms
of a movement which is periodically reversed. The classification em-
bodies the fundamental distinction between continuous motion and
rhythmic motion.
Passing now from the artificial to the natural measures of time, we
find that they are all rhythmic. It is true that the spinning of the
earth on its axis is in itself a continuous motion, but it would yield no
time measure if the earth were alone in space, and so soon as the mo-
tion is considered in relation to some other celestial body it becomes
rhythmic. As viewed from, or compared with, a fixed star, the period
of its rhythm is the sidereal day; compared with the sun, it is the solar
day, nearly four minutes longer; and compared with the moon, it is the
lunar day, still longer by 49 minutes. As the sun supplies the energy
for most of the physical and all the vital processes of the earth's surface,
the rhythm of the solar day is impressed in multitudinous ways on
man and his environment, and he makes it his primary or standard
unit of time. He has arbitrarily divided it into hours, minutes and
seconds, and in terms of these units he says that the length of the
