BHYTHMS AND GEOLOGIC TIME. 345
The oldest known fauna, the Eocambrian, does not- represent the begin-
nings of life, but a well-advanced stage, characterized by development
along many divergent lines; and by comparing Eocambrian life with
existing life the paleontologist is able to make an estimate of the rela-
tive progress in evolution before and after the Eocambrian epoch. The
only absolute blank left by the time ratios pertains to an azoic age which
may have intervened between the development of a habitable earth
crust and the actual beginning of life.
Erosion and deposition have been used also, in a variety of ways, to
compute the length of very recent geologic epochs. Thus, from the
accumulation of sand in beaches Andrews estimated the age of Lake
Michigan, and Upham the age of the glacial lake Agassiz; and from the
erosion of the Niagara gorge the age of the river flowing through it has
been estimated. But while these discussions have yielded conceptions
of the nature of geologic time, and have served to illustrate the extreme
complexity of the conditions which affect its measurement, they have
accomplished little toward the determination of the length of a geologic
period; for they have pertained only to a small fraction of what
geologists call a period, and that fraction was of a somewhat abnormal
character.
Wholly independent avenues of approach are opened by the study
of processes pertaining to the earth as a planet, and with these the
name of Kelvin is prominently associated.
As the rotation of the earth causes the tides, and as the tides expend
energy, the tides must act as a brake, checking the speed of rotation.
Therefore the earth has in the past spun faster than now, and its rate
of spinning at any remote point of time may be computed. Assuming
that the whole globe is solid and rigid, and that the geologic record
could not begin until that condition had been attained, there could not
have been great checking of rotation since consolidation. For if there
had been, it would have resulted in the gathering of the oceans about
the poles and the baring of the land near the equator, a condition very
different from what actually obtains. This line of reasoning yields an
obscure outer limit to the age of the earth.
On the assumption that the globe lacks something of perfect rigidity,
G. H. Darwin has traced back the history of the earth and the moon to
an epoch when the two bodies were united, their separation having been
followed by the gradual enlargement of the moon's orbit and the gradual
retardation of the earth's rotation; and this line of inquiry has also
yielded an obscure outer limit to the antiquity of the earth as a habit-
able globe.
One of the most elaborate of all the computations starts with the
assumption that at an initial epoch, when the outer part of the earth
was consolidated from a liquid condition, the whole body of the planet
