346 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
had approximately the same temperature; and that as the surface after-
ward cooled hy outward radiation there was a flow of heat to the sur-
face by conduction from below. The rate of this flow has diminished
from that epoch to the present time according to a definite law, and
the present rate, being known from observation, affords a measure of
the age of the crust. The strength of this computation lies in its
definiteness and the simplicity of its data; its weakness in the fact that
it postulates a knowledge of certain properties of rock — namely, its
fusibility, conductivity and viscosity — when subjected to pressures and
temperatures far greater than have ever been investigated experiment-
ally.
A parallel line of discussion pertains to the sun. Great as is the
quantity of heat which that incandescent globe yields to the earth, it is
but a minute fraction of the whole amount with which it continually
parts, for its radiation is equal in all directions, and the earth is but a
speck in the solar sky. On the assumption that this immense loss of
heat is accompanied by a corresponding loss of volume, the sun is
shrinking at a definite rate, and a computation based on this rate has
told how many millions of years ago the sun's diameter should have
been equal to the present diameter of the earth's orbit. Manifestly the
earth can not have been ready for habitation before the passage of that
epoch, and so the computation yields a superior limit to the extent of
geologic time.
Before passing to the next division of the subject — the computa-
tions based on rhythms — a few words may be given to the results which
have been obtained from the study of continuous processes. Eealizing
that your patience may have been strained by the kaleidoscopic charac-
ter of the rapid review which has seemed unavoidable, I shall spare you
the recitation of numerical details and merely state in general terms
that the geologists, or those who have reasoned from the rocks and fos-
sils, have deduced values for the earth's age very much larger than have
been obtained by the physicists, or those who have reasoned from earth
cooling, sun cooling and tidal friction. In order to express their results
in millions of years the geologists must employ from three to five digits,
while the physicists need but one or two. When these enormous dis-
crepancies were first realized it was seen that serious errors must exist in
some of the observational data or else in some of the theories employed;
and geologists undertook with zeal the revision of their computations,
making as earnest an effort for reconciliation as had been made a gen-
eration earlier to adjust the elements of the Hebrew cosmogony to the
facts of geology. But after rediscussing the measurements and readjust-
ing the assumptions so as to reduce the time estimates in every reason-
able way — and perhaps in some that were not so reasonable — they were
still unable to compress the chapters of geologic history between the
