RHYTHMS AND GEOLOGIC TIME. 347
narrow covers of physical limitation; and there the matter rests for the
present.
The rocks which were formed as sediments show many traces of
rhythm. Some are composed of layers, thin as paper, which alternate in
color, so that when broken across they exhibit delicate banding. In
the time of their making there was a periodic change in the character
of the mud that settled from the water. Others are banded on a larger
scale; and there are also bandings of texture where the color is uniform.
Many formations are divided into separate strata, as though the process
of accretion had been periodically interrupted. Series of hard strata
are often separated by films or thin layers of softer material. Strata
of two kinds are sometimes seen to alternate through many repetitions.
Borings in the delta of the Mississippi show soils and remains of trees
at many levels, alternating with river silts. The rock series in which
coal occurs are monotonous repetitions of shale and sandstone. Belgian
geologists have been so impressed by the recurrence of short sequences
of strata that they have based an elaborate system of rock notation
upon it.
Passing to still greater units, the large aggregates of strata sometimes
called systems show in many cases a regular sequence, which Newberry
called a "circle of deposition." When complete, it comprises a sand-
stone or conglomerate, at base, then shale, limestone, shale and sand-
stone. This sequence is explained as the result of the gradual encroach-
ment, or transgression, as it is called, of the sea over the land and its
subsequent recession.
In certain bogs of Scandinavia deep accumulations of peat are tra-
versed horizontally by layers including tree stumps in such way as to
indicate that the ground has been alternately covered by forest and
boggy moss. The broad glaciers of the Ice age grew alternately smaller
and larger — or else were repeatedly dissipated and reformed — and their
final waning was characterized by a series of halts or partial readvances,
recorded in concentric belts of ice-brought drift. Of these belts, called
moraines of recession, Taylor enumerates seventeen in a single system.
In explanation of these and other repetitive series incorporated in
the structure of the earth's crust, a variety of rhythmic causes have been
adduced; and mention will be made of the more important, beginning
with those which have the character of original rhythms.
A river flowing through its delta clogs its channel with sediment,
and from time to time shifts its course to a new line, reaching the sea
by a new mouth. Such changes interrupt and vary sedimentation in
neighboring parts of the sea. Storms of rain make floods, and each flood
may cause a separate stratum of sediment. Storms of wind give destruct-
ive force to the waves that beat the shore, and each storm may cause
the deposit of an individual layer of sediment. Varying winds may
