348 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
drive currents this way and that, causing alternations in sedimenta-
tion.
To explain the forest beds buried in the Mississippi silts it has been
suggested that the soft deposits of the delta from time to time settled
and spread out under their own weight. "Various alternations of strata,
and especially those of the coal measures, have been ascribed to succes-
sive local subsidences of the earth's crust, caused by the addition of loads
of deposit. It has been suggested also that land undergoing erosion
may rise up from time to time because relieved of load, and the charac-
ter of sediment might be changed by such rising. Subterranean forces,
of whatever origin, seemingly slumber while strains are accumulating,
and then become suddenly manifest in dislocations and eruptions, and
such catastrophes affect sedimentation.
A more general rhythm has been ascribed to the tidal retardation of
rotation and the resulting change of the earth's form. If the body of
the earth has a rather high rigidity, we should expect that it would for
a time resist the tendency to become more nearly spherical, while the
water of the ocean would accommodate itself to the changing conditions
of equilibrium by seeking the higher latitudes. Eventually, however,
the solid earth would yield to the strain and its figure become adjusted
to the slower rotation, and then the mobile water would return. Thus
would be caused periodic transgressions by the sea, occurring alternately
in high and low latitudes.
Another general rhythm has been recently suggested by Chamberlin
in connection with the hypothesis that secular variations of climate are
chiefly due to variations of the quantity of carbon dioxide in the at-
mosphere.* The system of interdependent factors he works out is too
complex for presentation at this time, and I must content myself with
saying that his explanation of the moraines of recession involves the in-
teraction of a peculiar atmospheric condition with a condition of
glaciation, each condition tending to aggravate the other, until the
cumulative results brought about a reaction and the climatic pendulum
swung in the opposite direction. With each successive oscillation the
momentum was less, and an equilibrium was finally reached.
Few of these original rhythms have been used in computations of
geologic time, and it is not believed that they have any positive value
for that purpose. Nevertheless, account must be taken of them, be-
cause they compete with imposed rhythms for the explanation of many
phenomena, and the imposed rhythms, wherever established, yield esti-
mates of time.
The tidal period, or the half of the lunar day, is the shortest imposed
rhythm appealed to in the explanation of the features of sedimentation.
* An attempt to frame a working hypothesis of the cause of glacial periods on an atmospheric
basis. Journ. Ge»l., Vol. VII., 1899.
