RHYTHMS AND GEOLOGIC TIME. 349
It is quite conceivable that the bottom of a quiet bay may receive at
each tide a thin deposit of mud which could be distinguished in the
resulting rock as a papery layer or lamina. If one could in some way
identify a rock thus formed, he might learn how many half-days its
making required by counting its laminas, just as the years of a tree's age
are learned by counting its rings of growth.
The next imposed rhythm of geologic importance is the year. There
are rivers, like the Nile, having but one notable flood in each year, and
so depositing annual layers of sediment on their alluvial plains and on
the sea beds near their mouths. Where oceanic currents are annually
reversed by monsoons, sedimentation may be regularly varied, or inter-
rupted, once a year. Streams from a glacier cease to run in winter, and
this annual interruption may give a definite structure to resulting de-
posits. It is therefore probable that some of the laminae or strata of
rocks represent years, but the circumstances are rarely such that the
investigator can bar out the possibility that part of the markings or
separations were caused by original rhythms of unknown period.
The number of rhythms existing in the solar system is very large,
but there are only two, in addition to the two just mentioned, which
seem competent to write themselves in a legible way in the geologic
record. These are the rhythms of precession and eccentricity.
Because the earth's orbit is not quite circular and the sun's position
is a little out of the center, or eccentric, the two hemispheres into which
the earth is divided by the equator do not receive their heat in the same
way. The northern summer, or the period during which the northern
hemisphere is inclined toward the sun, occurs when the earth is farthest
from the sun, and the northern winter occurs when the earth is nearest
to the sun, or in that part of the orbit called perihelion. These relations
are exactly reversed for the southern hemisphere. The general effect of
this is that the southern summer is hotter than the northern, and the
southern winter is colder than the northern. In the southern part of the
planet there is more contrast between summer and winter than in the
northern. The sun sends to each half the same total quantity of heat in
the course of a year, but the difference in distribution makes the climates
different. The physics of the atmosphere is so intricate a subject that
meteorologists are not fully agreed as to the theoretic consequences of
these differences of solar heating, but it is generally believed that they
are important, involving differences in the force of the winds, in the
velocity and course of ocean currents, in vegetation, and in the extent of
glaciers.
Now, the point of interest in the present connection is that the
astronomic relations which occasion these peculiarities are not constant,
but undergo a slow periodic change. The relation of the seasons to the
orbit is gradually shifting, so that each season in turn coincides with
