RHYTHMS AND GEOLOGIC TIME. 351
eventually be established or disproved, and should they be established
it is possible that similar correlations may be made between events far
more remote.
The studies of these several rhythms, while they have led to the
computation of various epochs and stages of geologic time, have not
yet furnished an estimate either of the entire age of the earth or of any
large part of it. Nevertheless, I believe that they may profitably be
followed with that end in view.
The system of rock layers, great and small, constituting the record
of sedimentation, may be compared to the scroll of a chronograph. The
geologic scroll bears many separate lines, one for each district where
rocks are well displayed, but these are not independent, for they are
labeled by fossils, and by means of these labels can be arranged ir proper
relation. In each time line are little jogs — changes in kind of xock or
breaks in continuity — and these jogs record contemporary events. A
new mountain was uplifted, perhaps, on the neighboring continent, or
an old uplift received a new impulse. Through what Davis calls stream
piracy a river gained or lost the drainage of a tract of country. Escap-
ing lava threw a dam across the course of a stream, or some Krakatoa
strewed ashes over the land and gave the rivers a new material to work
on. The jogs may be faint or strong, many or few, and for long dis-
tances the lines may run smooth and straight; bat so long as the jogs
are irregular they give no clue to time Here and there, however, the
even line will betray a regularly recurring indentation or undulation,
reflecting a rhythm and possibly signiticant of a remote pendulum whose
rate of vibration is known. If it can be traced to such a pendulum
there will result a determination of the rate at which the chronograph
scroll moved when that part of the record was made; and a moderate
number of such determinations, if well distributed, will convert the
whole scroll into a definite time scale.
In other words, if a sufficient number of the rhythms embodied in
strata can be identified with particular imposed rhythms, the rates of
sedimentation under different circumstances and at different times will
become known, and eventually so many parts of geologic time will have
become subject to direct calculation that the intervals can be rationally
bridged over by the aid of time ratios.
For this purpose there is only one of the imposed rhythms of practi-
cal value, namely, the precessional; but that one is, in my judgment, of
high value. The tidal rhythm can not be expected to characterize any
thick formation. The annual is liable to confusion with a variety of
original rhythms, especially those connected with storms. The rhythm
of eccentricity, being theoretically expressed only as an accentuation of
the precessional, can not ordinarily be distinguished from it. But none
of these qualifications apply to the precessional. It is not liable to con-
