PHOTOGRAPHY OF SOUND WAVES. 355
less than the speed of a modern rifle ball, yet ten times faster than the
fastest express train. The wave, even if it were stationary, could be seen
only by adjusting the illumination with far greater care than was neces-
sary in the case of the hot air, and we consequently can easily understand
why we never see the waves under ordinary conditions.
While it is true that laboratory appliances are generally required to
render them visible, I should like at the outset to cite an example to
show that in the case of very loud sounds occurring in the open air
the wave can be perceived by the eye, without the aid of any
apparatus whatever. I will quote from an article by Prof. C. V.
Boys, which appeared in 'Nature,' June 24, 1897. Mr. Boys first
cites the following letter from Mr. E. J. Eyves: "On Tuesday,
April 6th, I had occasion, while carrying out some experiments with
explosives, to detonate one hundred pounds of a nitro-compound. The
explosive was placed on the ground in the center of a slight depression,
and in order to view the effect, I stationed myself, at a distance of about
three hundred yards, on the side of a neighboring hill. The detonation
was complete, and a hole was made in the ground five feet deep and
-even feet in diameter. A most interesting observation was made dur-
ing the experiment. The sun was shining brightly, and at the moment
of detonation the shadow of the sound wave was most distinctly seen
leaving the area of disturbance. I heard the explosion as the shadow
passed me, and I could follow it distinctly in its course down the
valley for at least half a mile; it was so plainly visible that I believe
it would photograph well with a suitable shutter."
Professor Boys at once made preparations for photographing the
phenomenon at the first opportunity. On May 19th the experiment was
made. One hundred and twenty pounds of a nitro-compound were
exploded, and an attempt made to photograph the sound shadow, both
with the camera and the kinematograph, the latter instrument designed
and operated by Mr. Paul. Writing of the experiment, Professor Boys
says: "On the day on which I was present, about one hundred and
twenty pounds of a nitro-compound were detonated, and ten pounds of
black powder Avere added to make sufficient smoke to show on the plate.
As the growth of the smoke cloud is far less rapid than the expansion
of the sound shadow, no confusion could result from this. At the
time of the explosion my whole attention was concentrated upon the
camera, and for the moment I had forgotten to look for the 'Eyves
ring/ as I think it might be called; but it was so conspicuous that it
forced itself upon my attention. I felt, rather than heard, the explo-
sion at the moment that it passed. We stationed ourselves as near as
prudence would allow, at a distance of one hundred and twenty yards,
so that only about one third of a second elapsed between the detonation
and the passage of the shadow. The actual appearance of the ring
