356 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
was that of a strong, black, circular line, opening out with terrific speed
from the point of explosion as a center. It was impossible to judge
of the thickness of the shadow; it may have been three feet, or it may-
have been more at first, and have gradually become less in thickness,
or possibly in depth of shade."
Unfortunately, Professor Boys's apparatus did not work satisfac-
torily, but a most interesting series of pictures was secured by the kine-
matograph. This instrument had been constructed especially for taking
ipctures at a very high rate of speed, viz.. eighty exposures a second, or
four times the usual number. The sound wave appears in the first
dozen pictures as a hazy ring of light, opening out from the center of
explosion. The ring, though not very conspicuous when the pictures
are viewed singly, becomes a striking object when they are projected in
rapid succession on the screen. We see the rush of smoke along the
ground to the box in which the explosion is confined (the smoke of the
quick fuse); then comes the burst of the explosion with such startling
realitythat we involuntarilyjump. The image of the sound wave flies out
in the form of a white ring, and is gone in a moment; and there remain
only the rolling clouds of smoke. It is interesting to observe the de-
velopment of the explosion by running the machine quite slowly, and by
thus magnifying time to follow the changes which ordinarily occur in
such rapid succession that the eye is unable to perceive them.
Of this series of pictures, Professor Boys says: •■The kinematograph
fails to show any black ring; and this is not surprising, as with the
exposure of about one one hundredth of a second the shadow would have
to be at least eleven feet thick in order that some part should remain
obscured during the whole exposure. As a fact, there is clearly seen
a circular light shading, which does — so far as one can judge from the
supposed rate of working and the known distances — expand at about
the same rate as the observed shadow, but it is lighter than the ground
and shaded, instead of being dark and sharp, as seen by the eye."
So much for the visibility of sound under ordinary conditions. In
the laboratory, by means of an optical contrivance due to the German
physicist Toepler, we can secure a means of illumination so sensitive
that the warm air rising from a person's hand appears like dense black
smoke. Moreover, since we are working on a small scale, we can use
the electric spark as the source of light, and dispense with the photo-
graphic shutter. This is a great advantage, for the time of the exposure
is, under these conditions, only about one fifty-thousandth of a second,
during which time the sound wave will move scarcely a quarter of an
inch. During the past year I have made a very complete series of
photographs of sound waves, which illustrate in a most beautiful man-
ner the fundamental principles of wave motion. It is not practicable to
give here a full description of the apparatus used, but a brief outline may
