?62
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
a hyperboloid. Exactly the same thing happens when light strikes a
block of glass. We have rays reflected from the surface, and rays
transmitted through the block, the waves which give rise to the latter
moving slower than the ones in air.
A complete discussion of all of the cases that have been studied in
this way would probably prove wearisome to the general reader.
Prisms and lenses of collodion filled with carbonic acid and hydrogen
gas have been made, and their action on the wave surface photographed.
Diffraction, or the bending of the waves around obstacles, and the very
complicated effects when the waves are reflected from corrugated sur-
faces, are also well shown. I shall, however, omit further mention of
them and speak of but one other case, possibly the most beautiful of all.
In all the cases that we have considered, it must be remembered that
we have been dealing with a single wave — a pulse, as it is called.
Musical tones are caused by trains of waves, the pitch of the note corre-
sponding to the distance between the waves, or to the rate at which the
separate pulses beat upon the drum of the ear. For studying the
changes produced by reflection,, wave trains would have been useless,
wm #^>## |W| WiPp
Fig. 8. A Musical Tone.
owing to the confusion which would have resulted from the super-
position of the different waves. Moreover, it is doubtful whether an
ordinary musical tone could be photographed in this way; for the
distance between the waves, even in the shrillest tones, is four or five
inches, and the abrupt change in density, necessary for the perception
of the wave, is not present. It is possible, however, to create a wave
train or musical tone which can be photographed. The reader may
perhaps have noticed that on a very still night, when walking beside a
picket fence or in front of a high flight of steps, the sounds of his foot-
steps are echoed from the palings as metallic squeaks. Each picket,
as the single wave caused by the footfall sweeps along the fence, reflects
a little wave; consequently a train of waves falls on the ear, the distance
between the waves corresponding to the distance between the pickets.
The closer together the pickets, the shriller the squeak. In point of fact,
the distance between the waves in such a train is twice the distance
between the palings, since they are not struck simultaneously by the
footstep wave, but in succession.
This phenomenon, of the creation of a musical tone by the reflection
