CHAPTEBS ON THE STABS. 387
length 343 c. m. Two sets of plates are taken, one to include all the
stars that the instrument will photograph near poles, and the other only
to take in those to the eleventh magnitude. Of the latter it is intended
to prepare a catalogue. Some portions of the German and English cata-
logues have already heen published, and their results will be made use
of in the course of the present work.
NUMBERING THE STARS.
Closely connected with the work of cataloguing the stars is that of
enumerating them. In view of what may possibly be associated with
any one star — planets with intellectual beings inhabiting them — the
question how many stars there are in the heavens is one of perennial
interest. But beyond the general statement we have already made, this
question does not admit of even an approximate answer. The question
which we should be able to answer is this: How many stars are there
of each easily visible magnitude? How many of the first magnitude,
of the second, of the third, and so on to the smallest that have been
measured? Even in this form we cannot answer the question in a way
which is at the same time precise and satisfactory. One magnitude
merges into another by insensible gradations, so that no two observers
will agree as to where the line should be drawn between them. The
difficulty is enhanced by the modern system — very necessary, it is true —
of regarding magnitude as a continuously varying quantity and esti-
mating it with all possible precision. In adjusting the new system to
the old one, it may be assumed that an average star of any given mag-
nitude on the old system would be designated by the corresponding
number on the new system. For example, an average star of the fourth
magnitude would be called 4.0; one of the fifth, 5.0, etc. Then the
brightest stars, which formerly were called of the fourth magnitude,
would now be, if the estimate were earned to hundredths, 3.50, while
the faintest would be 4.50. What were formerly called stars of the fifth
magnitude would range from 4.50 to 5.50, and so on. But we have
meet with a difficulty when we come to the sixth magnitude. On the
modern system, magnitude 6.0 represents the faintest star visible to the
naked eye; but the stars formerly included in this class would, on the
average, be somewhat brighter than this, because none could be cata-
logued except those so visible.
The most complete enumeration of the lucid stars by magnitudes
has been made by Pickering ('Annals of the Harvard Observatory,' Vol.
XIV). The stars were classified by half magnitudes, calling
M. M.
Mag. 2.0 all from 1.75 to 2.25
2.5 " " 2.25 to 2.75
etc., etc.
For the northern stars Pickering used the Harvard Photometry; for
