THE MOST EXPENSIVE CITY IN THE WORLD. 21
it was not, and the demand for more money from the public treas-
ury has extended to every class of expenditure.
The city of New York is a purchaser in the open market of
supplies exceeding in value $5,000,000 a year. This figure applies
only to articles purchased without competitive bidding. There is
in the charter a provision that all purchases of supplies and labor
in excess of $1,000 shall be made by open competitive bidding.
This leaves a wide field for fraud and favoritism, and it is an easy
matter to evade the spirit and letter of the law relating to com-
petition. If a department requires material and supplies amount-
ing to $10,000, or even $50,000, it is often possible to make the
purchases in lots of less than $1,000 from day to day, and thereby
obey the letter of the law while permitting the grossest frauds
against the city treasury.
Under the system that has grown up, protected by this imper-
fect legal restriction and opinions and decisions to the effect that
the city has no defense against excessive claims unless fraud and
conspiracy can be proved, robbery of the public treasury has not
only been legalized, it has been made respectable. The comp-
troller, who is by law the auditor of accounts, may be able to show
that the city has been charged double or treble the market rate for
supplies purchased, yet under the legal opinions and decisions that
have prevailed for two years he is not permitted to interpose any
defense to an action to recover unless he can prove that there was
a conspiracy or agreement to defraud. In the very nature of
things it is next to impossible to secure legal evidence of such
agreements; therefore the city has been robbed with impunity.
The methods of the Tweed ring have long been out of date in the
city of New York, and fraud upon the public treasury has become
a respectable calling.
It is not easy — in fact, not possible — to determine accurately
how much the expenses of the city have been increased in recent
years by the lax interpretation of an imperfect law and the toler-
ance of a public sentiment that demands proof of crime on a large
scale before becoming aroused to a condition of effective action. It
is safe to say, however, that a perfect system of buying in the open
market at the lowest prices obtainable, if honestly enforced, would
save to the taxpayers more than $1,000,000 a year.
Honest and intelligent administration in every department of
the city government would reduce expenditures, but the extent of
the reduction that might be made would depend largely upon the
proper amendment of certain laws, and to an even greater extent
upon the development of a thoroughly informed public sentiment
that would sustain retrenchment and economy. The expenses of
