390 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
COLONIES AND THE MOTHER COUNTRY (III).
By JAMES COLLIER
THE relations between a great state and its subject peoples will vary
according to the status of these, as the relations between father an$
son differ according as the latter is self-supporting or still under tutel-
age. Roman provinces under the empire were classed as imperial when
they were directly controlled by the Emperor, or senatorial when they
were governed by the Senate and possessed a simulacrum of self-govern-
ment. The dual status in this mother country of nearly the whole world
foreshadows all subsequent relationships between a mother country and
its dependencies. Spain and Portugal governed their colonies imperi-
ally, appointing all officers, immediately or through their representative
mediately enacting all laws, and leaving almost as little freedom to
their own countrymen as to the down-trodden indigenes. More hu-
manely, indeed, but in spite of conceded French citizenship and
theoretical equality, the French have ruled their scattered dependencies
with as little of the reality of public life. The Dutch colonies are
similarly controlled. The British Empire presents a variegated picture
where every color is blended and every form of policy known among
men is displayed. From it alone an Aristotle might delineate the meta-
physics of government or a Spencer construct its physics. In Egypt
and Crete, with practical possession, imperial England is vassal to the
Sultan, and she now holds the conquered Soudan jointly with Egypt,
but acknowledges no suzerainty. She is herself suzerain of the two
South African Boer republics and regent of Zanzibar. In her magnifi-
cent dependency of India, 692 sovereignties and chiefships form a
'protected' girdle around her own possessions, or interlace or approach
them. Between these beneficent despotisms and the free states of Aus-
tralia, South Africa or North America there seems to be every possible
variety of mingled absolutism and self-government. Certain territories
are governed by chartered companies; one (Rhodesia) by a chartered
company under the control of the Crown. Three native territories are
governed by officers under the High Commissioner of South Africa;
four others by the officers of Cape Colony. The status of Crown
colonies administered more or less directly by the Imperial Government
is almost as various. One colony may be dependent on another, as
Natal was for years on Cape Colony. Others exhibit in an ascending
scale the acquisition of the attributes of self-government. The gover-
nor rules at first alone despotically, then with an executive council, next
