COLONIES AND THE MOTHER COUNTRY. 391
with a nominated legislative council, further with the latter partly
elected, and finally with it wholly elective. At these successive stages
the colony is in a decreasing degree under the control of the Imperial
Government, and a scale might be drawn showing groups of colonies
indefinitely arrested at one or another of them. Only colonies destined
for complete freedom victoriously pass through them all and emerge
into full political manhood.
The duration of their infancy and youth is determined by internal
and external circumstances: (1) AVhen a colony is systematically
founded and quickly peopled it may rapidly traverse the period of
dependence, and (like New Zealand or South Australia) be granted
responsible government in about fifteen years. (2) Convict colonies,
like Tasmania and New South Wales, may have fifty or sixty years of
pupilage. (3) A colony of retarded growth, like West Australia, may
be nearly as long a minor. (4) Colonies that have long to struggle with
an overwhelming mass of indigenes, like Cape Colony, may take half a
century to ripen, and even then, like Natal, may retain traces of the
earlier state. (5) When the mother country is herself despotically
governed, as England was under the Stuarts, the Commonwealth and
the early Hanoverians, colonies that possess every attribute qualifying
them for freedom, like many of the North American colonies, may be
forcibly retained in partial dependence. (6) The New England col-
onies, free from the start, were connected with Britain by a shadowy
tie of nominal allegiance, tightened at times into real subjection.
Lastly, a colony may revert, like Jamaica, after years of Parliamentary
institutions, to the dependent position of a Crown colony.
So various and so intricate, so weak here, so strong there, and
withal so marvelously compacted, is the network of relations forming
'jhe anatomy of the wonderful new type of social organism constituted
by a mother country, its free and its subject colonies, its protected states
and its dependencies.
The brain sometimes inhibits natural movements and enforces
injurious actions, as a morbid conscience often prescribes irksome
duties and forbids innocent pleasures. Fathers have misdirected the
career of their sons, and the unwisdom of mothers (Lady Ashton, in
'The Bride of Lammermoor,' is a tragic, but far from a rare example)
has destroyed the happiness of their daughters. So governments in-
evitably hinder and blunder, worry colonies by vexatious interferences
or goad them into insurrection. For more than thirty years Bishop
Fonseca, the president of the Council of the Indies, lay like an incubus
on the Spanish colonies in South America. His main object seemed to
be to throw impediments in the way of the great discoverers and rulers
— Columbus and Cortez. When Cortez planned the conquest of Mexico
he experienced protracted opposition from Fonseca, who "discourager!
