392 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
recruits, stopped supplies and sequestered the property" Cortez sent to
Spain. The conqueror bitterly complained that he "had found it
harder to contend against his own countrymen than against the Aztecs."
The story of Spain's South American colonies is one of injustice,
oppression and downright robbery. The natives naturally suffered
most. They were condemned to forced labor in the mines under cir-
cumstances of extreme barbarity, in order that large sums of money
might be sent annually to Spain. This insatiable demand neutralized
all the efforts of the best-intentioned viceroys and rendered all attempts
at good government nugatory. The Indians had further to submit to
grinding oppression by the local officials and to the exactions and
tyranny of the priests. The Spanish colonists had their own grievances.
Articles of commerce were excluded, or had their prices heightened by
the monopoly of the Cadiz merchants. They were oppressed by the
military despotism of the government. The political development of
the colonies was made impossible by the continued use of them for the
purposes of the mother country. What Spain was for three centuries,
that was she till the other day in her few remaining colonies. Lord
Brassey writes of Cuba: "The casual visitor can not fail to be im-
pressed with the evidences of inefficient administration. The fiscal
policy is intensely exclusive. The taxation is heavy, and the govern-
ment absolutely despotic. The police maintain a system of intolerable
espionage. Every salaried servant of the local government is a Span-
iard, who regards Cuba as a vassal state, over which Spain has unlimited
rights, without reciprocal duties or obligations. The system has
already severed all her noble settlements in South America from the
mother country. In time it must involve the loss of Cuba."
If it were the case that the genesis and growth of the myriad buds
formed round a prolific hydroid were accelerated by magnetic shoots (so
to speak) from the parent zoophyte, and 'persons' were thus differ-
entiated, we should have a true analogue to a kind of action exercised
by the mother country on its colonies. For it long supplies them with
the greater part of their brain power, governing force, culture, science
and experience of all sorts, and when these have done their work a new
political, intellectual and moral center is created, which is henceforth
self-subsistent; the colony has received a soul, a mind, a heart. First,
the governor is usually sent out by the metropolis. Of six hundred and
seventy-two rulers of South America, from its conquest to its independ-
ence, only eighteen were Americans. In French and Dutch colonies
there are possibly no exceptions. Many of the charter and proprietary
colonies of North America elected their own governors, and the insurrec-
tionary governor of a Crown colony, New York, was popularly elected.
The lieutenant-governors of the provinces of the Canadian Domin-
ion are locally appointed. With these and one or two other exceptions,
