COLONIES AND THE MOTHER COUNTRY. 395
in a manner enlarged. The policy of the mother country is even
now being modified by its colonies. "The paramount object in legis-
lating for colonies should be the welfare of the parent state," frankly
avows the law officer of the Dutch East India Company at the Cape
of Good Hope, in 1779. The Ashburton Treaty and the Oregon
Agreement were entered into as if England and the United States were
alone interested in their provisions. Treaties are now concluded in the
interests of the colonies. Treaties are 'denounced' in order to allow
them freedom to tax foreign commodities. They are represented by
commissioners, on an equal footing with those of Britain, at conferences
preparatory to the conclusion of treaties, and colonial conferences are
summoned in order that the general views of the colonies may be
ascertained.
There is a more direct reaction, resembling the adoption by an
admiring father of the sentiments and opinions of a son who is rising
in the world. The Greek cities that had planted colonies imitated the
republican institutions of these and deposed their kings. "The Amer-
ican colonists," says Bancroft, "founded their institutions on popular
freedom and 'set an example to the nations.' Already the . . .
Anglo-Saxon emigrants were the hope of the world." The filial free
colonies of Britain are exerting an influence on the domestic policy
of the father-land. An aged colonial ruler used to console himself for
exclusion from the English Parliament by cherishing the belief that
ideas and measures of his had passed into the public life of England.
Kuch of this is mere hallucination; some of it is reality. The testimony
of a sagacious and experienced statesman on this subject is decisive:
"To the influence of the American Union must be added that of the British
colonies. The success of popular self-government in these thriving communities
is reacting on political opinion at home with a force that no statesman neglects,
and that is every day increasing. There is even a danger that the influence
may go too far. They are solving some of our problems, but not under our con-
ditions, and not in presence of the same difficulties. Still, the effect of colonial
prosperity — a prosperity alike of admirable achievement and boundless promise
— is irresistible. It imparts a freedom, an elasticity, an expansiveness, to Eng-
lish political notions, and gives our people a confidence in free institutions and
popular government, which they would never have drawn from the most eloquent
assumptions of speculative system-mongers, nor from any other source whatever,
save practical experience carefully observed and rationally interpreted."*
The New Zealand system of local government is a model which
Great Britain, at one time famous in that line, has not been ashamed to
imitate; the English county councils have been molded on those of her
colony. From the same colony the mother country borrowed her First
Offenders' act. The restriction of electors to the exercise of a single vote
— unimportant excepting in principle in populous England, but impor-
* Morley, ' Studies in Literature,' pp. 126-7.
