396 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tant in young countries where property is widely held — was persever-
ingly proposed, and at length carried, by the aristocratic leader of the
democratic party in New Zealand, whence it is spreading to the adjacent
colonies; it has been for some years adopted by the British Liberals as
an article in their programme, and it is also a plank in the European
socialist platform. The general adhesion to an eight hours' day in the
Australasian colonies is having an effect in England and is probably the
measure to which Mr. Morley refers as likely to be dangerous; his
opposition to it cost him his seat at Newcastle. The adoption of female
suffrage in two of these colonies and the certainty of its adoption in
others are habitually cited by the advocates of the cause in England
as an argument for its adoption in England. The nationalization of the
land has been a popular notion in these same colonies ever since Henry
George's famous book was published, and the large extent of private
lands bought back by the governments of New Zealand and Queensland
has strengthened the hands of the land-nationalizers in Europe. The
advanced government socialism of most of these colonies, made in-
evitable by the lack of private capital, and its apparent success, furnish
socialists of the German type with weapons and encourage them to
prophesy 'the dawn of a revolutionary epoch.'
The spiritual reaction of the colonies on the mother-land is much
less considerable, yet is not nil. One or two instances stand out
prominently. Jonathan Edwards is one of the giants of British as well
as of American theology, and his treatise on the freedom of the will
has counted for as much as Butler's Analogy in the development of
English theological thought. Sam Slick has been the father or foster-
father of the portentous overgrowth of humor by which the United
States balances the devouring activity of its public and the overstrain of
its private life, but he has been practically inoperative on the very
different quality of English humor. From South Africa have come
influences of a sterner sort. "Who could have foreseen," asks Mr.
Stead, "that the new, and in many respects the most distinctive, note
of the literature of the last decade of the nineteenth century would be
sounded by a little chit of a girl reared in the solemn stillness of the
Karoo, in the solitude of the African bush? The Cape has indeed done
yeoman's service to the English-speaking world. To that pivot of the
empire we owe our most pronounced types of the imperial man and
the emancipated woman" — Cecil Rhodes and Olive Schreiner.
