CAUSES OF DEGENERATION IN BLIND FISHES. 397
CAUSES OF DEGENERATION IN BLIND FISHES.
By Professor CARL H. EIGENMANN,
INDIANA UNIVERSITY.
IT may now be profitable to take up the causes leading to the small
degree of degeneration found in Chologaster, the degenerations of
the eye in Amblyopsis, Typhlichthys and Troglichthys to a mere
vestige, together with the total disappearance of some of the accessory
structures of the eye, as the muscles.
In the outset of this consideration we must guard against the almost
universal supposition that animals depending on their eyes for food are
or have been colonizing caves, or that the blind forms are the results
of catastrophes that have happened to eyed forms depending on their
eyesight for their existence. This idea, so prevalent, vitiates nearly
everything that has been written on the degeneration of the eyes of
cave animals.
Another word of warning ought perhaps to be added. The process
of degeneration found in the Amblyopsidae need not necessarily be ex-
pected to be identical with the degeneration of the same organs in an-
other group of animals, and, however much the conditions in one group
may illuminate the conditions in another, cross-country conclusions
must be guarded against.
The degeneration of organs ontogenetically and phylogenetically
has received a variety of explanations:
1. The organ diminishes with disuse (ontogenetic degeneration) —
Lamarck, Eoux, Packard), and the effect of this disuse appears to some
extent in the next generation (phylogenetic degeneration — Lamarck,
Roux, Packard, Kohl).
2. Through a condition of panmixia the general average maintained
by selection is reduced to the birth mean in one generation (ontogenetic
— Romanes, Lankester, Lloyd Morgan, Weismann) to the greatest pos-
sible degeneration in succeeding generations (phylogenetic — Weis-
mann), or but little below the birth average of the first generation
(Weismann's later view, Romanes, Morgan, Lankester).
3. Through natural selection (reversed), the struggle of persons, the
organ may be caused to degenerate either (A) by the migration of
persons with highly developed eyes from the colony living in the dark
(Lankester), or (B) through economy of weight and nutriment or lia-
bility to injury (phylogenetic purely — Darwin, Romanes).
4. Through the struggle of parts for room or for food an unused
