398 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
organ in the individual may be crowded (ontogenetic — Roux). This
may lead to the development of the used organ as against the disused
through a compensation of growth (Goethe, Saint-Hilaire, Roux); this
ontogenetic result becomes phylogenetic through transmission of the
acquired character (Roux), or is in its very nature phyloblastic (Kohl).
5. Through the struggle between soma and germ to produce the
maximum of efficiency of the former with the minimum expenditure
to the latter (ontogenetic and phylogenetic — Lendenfeld).
6. Through germinal selection, the struggle of the representatives
of organs in the germ (ontogenetic and phylogenetic — Weismann).
The idea of ontogenetic degeneration is intimately bound up with
the idea of phylogenetic degeneration. Logically we ought to consider
first the causes of individual degeneration, and then the processes or
causes that led to the transmission of this. Practically it is impossible
to do so, because many of the explanations are general. Only No. 4 of
the above may be taken in the ontogenic sense purely, though it was
certainly also meant to explain phylogenetic degeneration. In many
of the explanations of particular cases of degeneration more than one of
the above principles are invoked, though only one was meant to be used.
In most cases, however, the discussions of degeneration have been in
general terms, without direct bearing on any specific instance of de-
generation in all its details. It must be evident that such discussions
can only by accident lead to right results.
By the Lamarckian ontogenetic degeneration is considered the result
of lack of use and consequent diminished blood supply. The results of
the diminution caused by the lack of use during one generation are
transmitted in some degree to the next generation, which thus starts at
a lower level. A continuation of the same conditions leads finally to
the great reduction and ultimate disappearance of an organ.
No one, so far as I am aware, has succeeded in accounting for the
degeneration of the eye by means of this view. Packard's* explanations
are evidently a mixture of Lamarckism and Darwinism.
Packard says: "When a number, few or many, of normal-seeing
animals enter a totally dark cave or stream, some may become blind
sooner than others," some having the eye slightly modified by disuse,
while others may have in addition physical or functional defects, espe-
cially in the optic nerves and ganglia. "The result of the union of such
individuals and adaptation to their Stygian life would be broods of
young, some with vision unimpaired, others with a tendency to blind-
ness, while in others there would be noticed the first steps in degenera-
tion of nervous power and nervous tissue." Packard evidently had in-
vertebrates in mind. He clearly admits the cessation of selection or
* American Naturalist, September, 1894, vol. xxviii, p. 727.
