CAUSES OF DEGENERATION IN BLIND FISHES. 399
panmixia in that those born with defects may breed with the others.
He supposes that the blind fauna may have arisen in but few or several
generations, a supposition that may be applicable to invertebrates, but
certainly is not to vertebrates. At first those becoming so modified that
they can do without the use of their eyes would greatly preponderate
over those 'eongenitally blind.' "So all the while the process of adapta-
tion was going on, the antennae and other tactile organs increasing in
length and in the delicacy of structures, while the eyes were meanwhile
diminishing in strength of vision and their nervous force giving out,
after a few generations — perhaps only two or three — the number of
congenitally blind would increase, and eventually they would, in their
turn, preponderate in numbers." Packard seems here to admit the
principle of degeneration as the result of compensation of growth, the
nervous force of the eye giving out with the increase of the tactile and
olfactory organs. It is somewhat doubtful in what sense the term
'congenitally blind' is used, but it probably means born blind as the
result of transmitted disuse, rather than blind as the result of fortuitous
variation. The effects of disuse are thus supposed, through their trans-
mission, to have given rise to generations of blind animals. The con-
tinued degeneration is not discussed.
Romanes maintained that the beginning of degeneration was due to
cessation of selection, and continued degeneration to the reversal of
selection and final failing of the power of heredity. Selection he
supposed to be reversed because the organ no longer of use "is absorbing
nutriment, causing weight, occupying space and so on, uselessly. Hence,
even if it be not also a source of actual danger, economy of growth will
determine a reversal of selection against an organ which is now not only
useless, but deleterious." This process will continue until the organ
becomes rudimentary and finally disappears.
Roux* attempted chiefly to explain degeneration in the individual.
Degeneration is looked upon as the result of a struggle among the parts
for (a) room and (6) food. Without doubting that both these principles
are active agents in degeneration, it may be seriously doubted whether
they are effective in the degeneration of the eyes in question. Certainly
there can be no question of a struggle for room, for the position and
room formerly occupied by the eye is now filled with fat, which can not
have been operative against the eye. The presence of this large fat mass
in the former location of the eye, the large reserve fat mass in the body,
the uniformly good condition of the fish and the low vitality, which
enables them to live for months without visible food, all argue against
the possibility that the struggle for food between parts was an active
agent in the degeneration of the eyes.
* Gesammelte Abhandlungen, 1895.
