22 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the city are far greater than they should be, but it is going to be
a difficult matter to make even an appreciable beginning in econ-
omy so long as the State Legislature is permitted to exercise prac-
tically unlimited power to regulate the financial affairs of the
municipality. Persons and corporations, be they honest or cor-
rupt, when they seek to obtain money from the city treasury for
any purpose, are going to proceed along the line of least resistance,
and the smooth and open way has long been the Legislature at
Albany. Every session of that body adds something to the ex-
penses of the city, and it is a short and dull one that does not add
many thousands of dollars to the burden of the New York tax-
payers.
The revenues of the municipality are so small in comparison
with what they should be that it is a difficult matter to find any
excuse for the theory of government that existed in the days when
perpetual franchises were given away. It is small consolation that
the policy of municipal ownership is at last to prevail after so much
of the public property has passed into the possession of private cor-
porations. If all the outstanding franchises that were the property
of the people had been sold on short terms for percentages even
as large as have been fixed in recent cases, the city to-day would
drive from that source an annual revenue of more than $5,000,000,
instead of the paltry $300,000 now collected.
The mistakes of the past, however, are beyond undoing, and
the taxpayers must look to the future for relief from the burdens
they bear. They are paying now $15,000,000 a year for the senti-
ment that demanded a city great in all save honesty and political
wisdom. Consolidation in fact as well as sentiment must result
to prove the material advantage of the arrangement. Public opin-
ion and politicians must realize sooner or later that income and
expenses are to be adjusted the one to the other upon sound and
enduring principles of business, honesty, and intelligence. There
must be a union of public and political interests. Every section of
the great city must be brought into close touch with every other
section by cheap and rapid transit.
The possibilities of the future are greater than the dreams of
to-day, but new policies and new methods must and will prevail.
The development of Greater New York must not be hampered by a
financial system antiquated and imperfect. The city should have
power to develop its material resources into revenue-yielding im-
provements, and then, with honest and intelligent government,
the burden of taxation will be reduced to a minimum, and the
ideal of the grandest municipality in the world will have been
achieved.
