CAUSES OF DEGENERATION IN BLIND FISHES. 401
in the shape of a continuous evolutionary process determined by inter-
nal causes, in the ease of which there can be no question whatever of
selection of persons or of a survival of the fittest — that is, of individuals
with the smallest rudiments. The gradual diminution continuing for
thousands and thousands of years and culminating in its final and ab-
solute effacement" can only be accomplished by germinal selection.
Germinal selection as applied to degeneration is the formal explanation
of Romanes' failure of heredity through the struggle of parts for food.
"Powerful determinants will absorb nutriment more rapidly than
weaker determinants. The latter, accordingly, will grow more slowly
and will produce weaker determinants than the former." If an organ
is rendered useless, the size of this organ is no longer an element in
personal selection. This alone would result in a slight degeneration.
Minus variations are, however, supposed to rest "on the weaker deter-
minants of the germ, such as absorb nutriment less powerfully than the
rest. This will enable the stronger determinants to deprive them even
of the full quantum of food corresponding to their weakened capacity of
assimilation, and their descendants will be weakened still more. Inas-
much, now, as no weeding out of the weaker determinants of the hind
leg [or eye] by personal selection takes place on our hypothesis, in-
evitably the average strength of this determinant must slowly but
constantly diminish — that is, the hind leg [or eye] must grow smaller
and smaller until it finally disappears altogether. . . . Panmixia
is the indispensable precondition of the whole process; for, owing to
the fact that persons with weak determinants are just as capable of life
as those with strong, . . . solely by this means is a further weak-
ening effected in the following generations."
This theory presupposes the complex structure of the germ plasm
formulated by Weismann and rejected by various persons for various
reasons. But granting Weismann the necessary structure of the germ
plasm, can germinal selection accomplish what is claimed for it? I
think not. Granting that variations occur about a mean, would not
all the effects claimed for minus variations be counteracted I)y positive
variations? Eye determinants, which, on account of their strength,
secure more than their fair share of food, and thereby produce eyes
that are as far above the mean as the others are below, and leave de-
scendent determinants that are still stronger than their ancestry would
balance the effect produced by weak-eye determinants. It is evident
that a large, really extravagant development of the eye in such a fish
as Chologaster would not effect the removal of the individual by per-
sonal selection; still less so in Amblyopsis, which not only lives in com-
parative abundance, but has lived for twenty months in confinement
without visible food, and in which the eye is minute. It seems that all
the admitted objections to degeneration by panmixia apply with equal
VOL. LVII.— 26
