402 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
force to germinal selection. This, however, would be changed were
the effect of disuse admitted to affect the determinants, and this it seems
Weismann has unconsciously admitted. So far we have considered
germinal selection in the abstract only. All its suppositions are found
to be but a house of cards when the actual conditions of degeneration
are considered. We find that degeneration is not a horizontal process
affecting all the parts of an organ alike, as Weismann presupposes, not
even a process in the reverse order of phyletic development, but the
more vital, most worked parts degenerate first with disuse and pan-
mixia; the passive structures remain longest. The rate of degeneration
is proportional to the past activity of the parts, and the statement that
"passively functioning parts — -that is, parts which are not alterable
during the individual life by function — by the same laws also degen-
erate when they become useless'* finds no basis in fact, and is an example
of the inexact utterances abundant in the discussion of degeneration on
which it is entirely unsafe to build lofty theoretical structures. As one
example of the unequal degeneration we need only call attention to the
scleral cartilages and the rest of the eye of Troglichthys rosse.
All are agreed that natural selection alone is insufficient to explain
all, if any, of the processes of degeneration. All either consciously or
not admit the principle of panmixia, and all are now agreed that this
process alone can not produce extensive degeneration. All are agreed
that the important point is degeneration beyond the point reached by
panmixia, the establishment of the degenerating process, whatever it
may be, in the germ, or, in other words, the breaking of the power of
heredity. It. is in the explanation of the latter that important differ-
ences of opinion exist.
Weismann attempts to explain the degeneration beyond the point
which panmixia can reach by a process which not only is insufficient,
even if all his premises are granted, to produce the desired result with-
out the help of use transmission, but has as its result a horizontal degen-
eration which has no existence in fact.
Eomanes supposed degeneration, beyond the point which may be
reached by panmixia, to be the result of personal selection and the fail-
ure of the hereditary force. The former is not applicable to the species
in question, and is denied by such an ardent Darwinist as Weismann
to be applicable at all in accounting for degeneration. Moreover, the
process as explained by Eomanes would result in a horizontal degenera-
tion which has no existence in fact. The second assumption, the failure
of hereditary force, is not distinguishable, as Morgan has pointed out,
from the effect of use transmission.
The struggle of parts in the organism has not affected the eye
through the lack of room, since the space formerly occupied by the eye
is now filled by fat and not by an actively functioning organ. It is not
