412 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
From 1845 up to the early nineties, a period of nearly half a cen-
tury, very little was done in the way of developing the automobile.
From time to time inventors in various parts of the world devoted
themselves to the subject, but they were generally looked upon as
visionary cranks, and their work attracted little attention. During
this period there was an almost universal prejudice against the use of
any kind of mechanical power upon the streets or public highways, and
it is even possible that if during these years any one had invented a
horseless carriage, perfect in every way, he would have failed to obtain
proper recognition. Prejudice against mechanically-propelled vehicles
has gradually worn away, probably because of the introduction of cable
and trolley cars, and at the present time the majority of people desire
to see the substitution of mechanical for animal power. As a result of
this change in public opinion, self-propelled vehicles are accepted as
entirely satisfactory, which a few years ago would have been regarded
Fig. 10. Scott Russell's Steam Carriage, Made in 1S-15.
as failures. Notwithstanding this tolerant feeling, however, it is very
doubtful whether the cumbersome coaches of the early part of the
century would be received with favor at the present time when taste
and requirements are entirely different. What is now desired is a light,
fast-running and attractive vehicle, which could not be constructed
along the lines followed by the inventors of former days. The auto-
mobile of to-day is a far more perfect device than its predecessors,
although it can not be said to have reached a state of perfection. As
motive power, steam, gasoline and electricity are used. Which of the
three is the best, taking all things into consideration, it would be
difficult to say, as each one has its defects as well as its advantages,
and the evident superiority of each one in a certain direction is offset
by deficiencies in other directions.
In every civilized country, where the mechanic arts are far enough
advanced, automobiles are now being manufactured, but France is the
country where modern development first began, and up to the present
