A BUBBLE-BLOWING INSECT. 23
A BUBBLE-BLOWING INSECT.
By Prof. E. S. MORSE.
MANY years ago, while preparing an elementary book on zool-
ogy, I had occasion to make a drawing of the little insect
which is found on grass and other plants immersed in flecks of
froth. This substance is commonly known as frog spittle or cuckoo
spit, and, being found in the spring, is known in France as " spring
froth."
"Works on entomology gave the general statement that this
insect emitted the frothy mass from its body. Curious to ascer-
tain what peculiar gas-secreting apparatus was contained within its
anatomy, I dissected a number of specimens, without finding a trace
of any structure that could produce from within the body a single
bubble of air. On the contrary, I found that the little insect
emitted a clear, somewhat viscid fluid, and by means of appendages
at the extreme tip of its tail secured a moiety of air by grasping it,
so to speak, and then instantly releasing it as a bubble in the fluid
it had secreted. At the time of this observation — twenty-five years
ago — I supposed that entomologists were familiar with this fact,
but, on the appearance of my little book, I received a letter from
the late Dr. Hermann Hagen, the distinguished entomologist, stat-
ing that he had ransacked his library and failed to find any refer-
ence of the nature of my statement. Doubtless the whole history
of this insect has since been published, but a somewhat superficial
survey of the literature has failed to reveal any reference to the
matter. In this connection it is interesting to observe how often
the more easily accessible facts of Nature escape the special student.
The history of science is replete with such instances. One can
hardly take up any subject connected with the life history of ani-
mals without finding lacunae which ought to have been filled long
ago. The facts in regard to the ossification of the hyoid bones
in man is a case in point. The persistence of these erroneous con-
cepts or half-truths comes about by the acceptance at the outset
of some fairly trustworthy account by an authority on the subject,
and ever after the statements are copied without a doubt being
expressed as to their accuracy.
If we look over the literature of the subject under discussion,
we find that in nearly every case the statement in regard to the
spit-insect conveys the idea that the creature secretes the froth in
which it is immersed. Beginning with De Geer in the last cen-
tury, we quote as follows: " One may see coming out of the hinder
part of its body a little ball of liquid, which it causes to slip along,
