422 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
The most important discovery was the oceanic depth of the Arctic
Sea, where for hundreds of miles this unknown ocean disclosed a
depth of oyer two miles. Naturally the absence of land limited the
phases of the scientific work of the expeditionary force, which devoted
itself to recording the phenomena of the air and the sea.
Nansen in his separate journey utilized his brief opportunities in
Franz Josef Land so successfully that his contributions to the geology
of that region are of no small importance.
The world has looked forward with a degree of impatience to the
publication of the scientific results of this expedition, and now is
favored with the first volume, a beautiful quarto of some 479 pages, with
46 fine plates. It consists of a series of memoirs on the building of
the ship, on the birds of the air, on the crustacean forms of sea life
and a geological study of the southern part of the archipelago of
Franz Josef Land; It is a striking tribute to English-speaking scien-
tists that the work will appear in English text only. Although printed
in Christiana, such has been the vigilance of the editors that typographi-
cal errors are comparatively few.
The account by Colin Archer of the construction of the Fram is
not without interest, in view of the fact that this vessel was built on
novel lines calculated to cause the ice to meet a sloping surface, so that,
pressing down under the bilge, it would cause the vessel to rise and
thus insure its immunity from destruction.
Archer says: "In order to utilize this principle, it was decided to
depart entirely from the usual deep-bilged form of section and to adopt
a shape which would afford the ice no point of attack normal to the
ship's side, but would, as the horizontal pressure increased, force the
attacking floes to divide under the ship's bottom, lifting her as described
above. . . . Plane or concave surfaces were avoided as much as
possible by giving her round and full lines. This, while increasing
the power to resist pressure from outside, also had the advantage of
making it easy for the ice to glide along the bottom in any direction."
As great length is an element of weakness, the Fram's length was
cut down as much as possible, with a tendency to make its form circular
or oval. Various expedients were adopted to reduce the dead weight
of the ship by a judicious arrangement of materials. While economiz-
ing weight, the cargo-carrying capacity of the ship could not be too much
reduced, and the great strength of the ship must be preserved. Inas-
much as the broadside of the ship, both structurally and from its shape,
is its weakest part, it was necessary to adopt extraordinary measures to
strengthen it. This was done largely by adding stays of yellow pine
placed nearly at right angles to the ship's sides, and securely fastened
with wooden knees. These were supplemented with upright stanchions
tied by iron straps.
