THE NORWEGIAN POLAR EXPEDITION. 425
Nansen says: "Through Jackson's kindness and Koettlitz's valuable
assistance, I was enabled to make a collection of fossils and rocks from
the Jurassic deposits of this locality."
"(Koettlitz) took me to places where, before my arrival, he had al-
ready found fossils, or had observed anything of importance. Had it
not been for him I should certainly not have been able to do what little
I did during the few days at my disposal. I agree with Koettlitz on all
essential points, and have nothing new of importance to add to what he
has already said."
As Nansen elsewhere remarks, the memoirs of Pompeckj and Na-
thorst supplement the papers of Koettlitz, Newton and Teall, which
appeared in the Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, 1897, pp.
477-519, and 1898, pp. 620-651.
Pompeckj describes fully the various fossils, illustrates them with
wealth of detail, discusses their stratigraphical relations, and outlines
the paleographical history of Franz Josef Land.
Of the twenty-six species collected by Nansen no less than seventeen
are new as compared with the Jackson-Harmsworth collection, which
contains five species lacking to Nansen. There are representatives of
single species only of echinoderms, vermes and gastropods, the scarcity
of the last named being generally characteristic of the Jurassic fauna
of the arctic regions, whether in Siberia, Greenland, or Arctic America.
On the other hand, at Cape Flora the cephalopods and the lamelli-
branchs predominate very largely. This fact makes most notable the
absence of the lamellibranch genus Aucella, with all other forms that
are especially characteristic of the higher Jura.
The following new species have been determined by Pompeckj:
Pseudomonotis Jachsoni, an ornamented shell of a remarkably large
Aviculid form. Macrocephalites Eoettlitzi, a shell with a very narrow
umbilicus and almost completely encircling whorls. Cadoceras Nanseni,
an ammonite showing a flat disc-like growth, with moderately thick
whorls of which cross-sections are nearly elliptical. Another ammonite
may possibly be a variety of C. Nanseni, but Pompeckj considers that it
is a separate species owing to its wider umbilicus, less pronounced in-
volution and somewhat asymmetrical lobe-line.
Pompeckj's outline of the paleontographical history of Franz Josef
Land is worthy of careful consideration by all interested in this depart-
ment of science, although many may differ from some of the conclusions
reached by him. Commenting on the stratigraphical studies of Prof.
E. T. Newton, Pompeckj states that his own investigations compel him
to differ materially from the inferences drawn and theories advanced by
that scientist.
Pompeckj says: "The occurrence of these three genera of Ammonites
proves that the marine fauna of Cape Flora contain representatives of
