426 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the Callovian. More recent marine horizons have certainly not been
formed at Cape Flora, as far as I can judge from the collection of fossils
before me. . ... The^Oxfordian and all the more recent Jurassic
horizons do not occur as marine deposits at Cape Flora."
He finds species pertaining to the Lower Bajocian, Lower, Middle
and Upper Callovian horizons. It is most interesting to note that only-
one other part of the arctic regions, Prince Patrick Island, Parry Archi-
pelago, has produced fossils, described by Haughton as Lias, that are
certainly older than the Callovian. It is, however, recognized as pos-
sible that Lundgreen's fossils from East Greenland may form another
exception.
Pompeckj points out that while the Bajocian fauna of Cape Flora is
without analogy in the arctic regions, it nevertheless presents distinct
affinities to the Central European Jura, and especially resembles the
Russian Callovian.
Moreover, this Jurrassic collection from Cape Flora is of special im-
portance in outlining the geographic distribution of that system. Pom-
peckj adds: "Hence the existence of a Bajocian sea in the north of the
Eurasian Jura continent is proved beyond all doubt. ... As early
as the Bajocian period, there existed a Shetland Straits, which separated
the Eurasian continent, existing through the Lias period until the end
of the Bathonian, from the nearctic Jura continent."
The comments relative to the transition of Nova Zembla, Spitzber-
gen, Franz Josef Land, and possibly Alaska, from land to sea and sea to
land, are of marked interest, indicating as they do that large areas of
polar regions were exposed in the mesozoic period to repeated and
very considerable oscillations of the sea level.
The more interesting of the Jurassic fossils, found at Cape Flora,
are shown in the accompanying illustration. Cadocera Nanseni (n. sp.),
1 , 2, 3, 5, 6. Cadoceras, sp. ex. aff. Cad. Nanseni (n. sp.), 4. Cadoceras
Tchefkini, d'Orb, 7. Cadoceras, sp. indet., 8. Quenstedoceras vertum-
num, Sintzow, 9. Cadoceras Frearsi, d'Orb, 10. Macrocephalites, 11.
Macrocephalites Koettlitzi, n. sp., 12.
The collections of fossil plants, made by Nansen in Franz Josef Land
through the courtesy of the Jackson-Harmsworth expedition, are of
scientific value as indicating the fossil Jurassic flora of Franz Josef Land
as compared with that of Spitzbergen. These collections fill in a not in-
considerable gap in the Arctic regions, and Nathorst's investigations
serve to confirm the opinions and statements made by Professor Heer,
whose five volumes of Flora Fossilis Arctica constitute a monumental
work. As is well known, research has established the fact that at one
time Spitzbergen was covered with a luxuriant miocene vegetation —
cypresses, birches, sequoia?, oaks and planes. It moreover appears that
tin's growtli was coincident with the period when Spitzbergen. Green-
