24 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
bending it under its body. Beginning again the same movements,
it is not long in producing a second globule of liquid, filled with air
like the first, which it places side by side with and close to the pre-
ceding one, and continues the same operation as long as there re-
mains any sap in its body." Kirby and Spence, in their Entomology,
describe " the white froth often observed on rose bushes and other
shrubs and plants, called by the vulgar ' frog spittle,' but which
if examined will be found to envelop the larva of a small hemip-
terous larva {Aphropliora spumaria), from whose anus it exudes."
In Westwood's Insects we find the following statement: " One of
the best-known insects in the family is the Aphropliora spumaria,
a species of small size which frequents garden plants, the larva and
pupa investing themselves with a frothy excrementitious secretion
which has given rise to various fancies. A species of Aphropliora
is also found in great quantities upon trees in Madagascar, the
larva of which has the power of emitting a considerable quantity
of clear water, especially in the middle of the day, when the heat
is greatest." Here the statement is definitely made that the froth
is excrementitious, and the Madagascar insect is shown to be differ-
ent from Aphropliora in that it exudes a clear water. In Dr. Har-
ris's Treatise on some of the Insects Injurious to Vegetation, of
Massachusetts, we find a most definite statement as to the origin
and nature of this froth. He says: "Here may be arranged the
singular insects, called frog hoppers (Cercopididw), which pass their
whole lives on plants, on the stems of which their eggs are laid in
the autumn. The following summer they are hatched, and the
young immediately perforate the bark with their beaks and begin
to imbibe the sap. They take in such quantities of this that it
oozes out of their bodies continually in the form of little bubbles,
which soon completely cover up the insects." In Dr. Packard's
admirable Guide to the Study of Insects the statement is made that
" Helochara and Aphropliora, while in the larva state, suck the sap
of grasses and emit a great quantity of froth, or in some cases a
clear liquid, which in the former case envelops the body and thus
conceals it from sight. It is then vulgarly called ' toad's spittle.' "
In other accounts it is stated that the larvas live covered by
masses of froth which the insects produce by expelling from their
beak the juices drawn out of the tree.
The above extracts are sufficient to indicate the common belief
among entomologists that the insect in some way emits this froth
from the body. A most cursory examination of the creature, how-
ever, shows that its only secretion is a clear fluid.
The so-called frog spittle or cuckoo spit (Fig. 1) appears as little
flecks of froth on grass, buttercups, and many other plants during
