THE NORWEGIAN POLAR EXPEDITION. 429
These fossil plants tell the story of tremendous physical changes
which have produced very important modifications in climatic condi-
tions in the Arctic regions. The changes in the types of vegetable life
are apparently as extensive in high as in low latitudes. The lower
cretaceous flora is almost tropical, as is shown by the predominating
forms of this vegetation. Carboniferous formations obtain extensively
in the Arctic regions, as they occur in the Parry Archipelago, Spitzber-
gen and in Siberia. During the carboniferous age there was a great ex-
tent of land near the North Pole closely resembling that of the tem-
perate latitude of the same period, as is shown by the small number of
fossil plants that are peculiar to the Arctic regions. In the tertiary
period miocene flora flourished in Spitzbergen, where even the lime, the
juniper and poplars have been found near latitude 79 N. Then also
throve sequoias, which closely resemble trees growing in the southern
part of the United States. The miocene flora gives evidence of a very
great contrast between the climatic conditions at that epoch between
Europe and the Arctic regions.
The cretaceous flora throws important light on the changes of
climate in the Arctic regions, and, as has been pointed out, the tropical
forms predominate in the vegetation of the Lower Cretaceous flora.
Heer's prediction that the plants found on the west coast of Spitz-
bergen would also be found on the East Greenland coast has been fully
verified. Miocene plants have been found from Spitzbergen westward
through Iceland and Greenland to Banks Land and in the Parry Archi-
pelago, and it is interesting to note that more than one fourth of the
Arctic plants are common to the miocene of Europe; in Greenland and
on McKenzie the percentage is nearly one half.
In all probability, the paper which is of the highest popular interest
is the account of the birds by Eobert Collet and Dr. Nansen. The full
notes regarding Arctic birds testify fully to the fact that the observers
had in view the principal points of ornithological importance. These
comprise not only a mere record of the presence or absence of certain
species, but also additional observations regarding them in their Arctic
habitat.
Certainly the reproach can not be brought against the expedition of
the Fram, which has obtained in the case of many Arctic expeditions,
that it has added nothing to ornithological Arctic data.
The account of the birds, prepared by Mr. Eobert Collet, has been
compiled from the various journals of the expeditionary force, supple-
mented by verbal comments of Hansen. The memoir contains such
specific data as enable students to determine not only the general
character of the avifauna as one moves northward in the Siberian ocean,
but also the arrival and departure of the migrants and the presence of
stragglers. Among the birds of special interest which were observed are
