THE NORWEGIAN POLAR EXPEDITION. 435
portance as a means of supplying nourishment to the marine animals
of the western Arctic Ocean. This food supply, microscopic algae
chiefly Diatomeae, while very abundant on the surface of the Siberian
Sea, diminishes gradually towards the west. "Indeed," says Sars, "with-
out such a constant conveyance of nourishing matter, there could be no
such rich animal life in the Polar Sea."
A very remarkable fact was the presence of certain pelagic Copepoda,
which hitherto had only been observed in southern waters, and a Cala-
noid of the genus Hemicalanus Claus, previously known only from the
Mediterranean and tropical parts of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans.
Two species of the genus Oncoea, which accord perfectly with species in
the Bay of Naples, were found in great abundance north of the New
Siberian Islands. Another copepod, of the genus Lubbockia Claus, here-
tofore only known in the Mediterranean and tropical oceans, was found
in the same locality, with which was a small perfectly hyaline copepod
of the very remarkable genus Mormonilla, of which heretofore only two
species have been recorded, both in the tropical Pacific and south of
the equator.
Perhaps the most remarkable forms are those mentioned by Doctor
Sars, when he says: "The very close and apparently genetic relationship
between the two polar species of the amphipodous genus Pseudalibrotos
and those occurring in the Caspian Sea, is another remarkable instance
which seems fully to corroborate the correctness of the assumption of
geologists as to a direct connexion in olden times between this isolated
basin and the North Polar Sea."
Both species, taken near 85° N., are regarded as the primitive types
from which the Caspian forms are descended. The more remarkable of
the Arctic forms, P. Nanseni, is reproduced on page 430.
To conclude, this volume is a most valuable contribution to the
scientific literature of the Arctic regions. It has but one marked objec-
tion, its publication in such beautiful form and high price as necessarily
places this series beyond the means of many scientific students.
