436
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
DISCUSSION AND CORRESPONDENCE.
LEGISLATION AGAINST MEDICAL
DISCOVERT*
Dear Sir: I observe that a new
bill on the subject of vivisection has
been introduced into the Senate, Bill
No. 34. This bill is a slight improve-
ment on its predecessor, but it is still
very objectionable. I beg leave to state
very briefly the objection to all such
legislation.
1. To interfere with or retard the
progress of medical discovery is an in-
human thing. Within fifteen years
medical research has made rapid prog-
ress, almost exclusively through the
use of the lower animals, and what
such research has done for the diagno-
sis and treatment of diphtheria it can
probably do in time for tuberculosis,
erysipelis, cerebro-spinal meningitis
and cancer, to name only four horrible
scourges of mankind which are known
to be of germ origin.
2. The human race makes use of
animals without the smallest compunc-
tions as articles of food and as laborers.
It kills them, confines them, gelds them
and interferes in all manner of ways
with their natural lives. The liberty we
take with the animal creation in using
utterly insignificant numbers of them
for scientific researches is infinitesimal
compared with the other liberties we
take with animals, and it is that use
of animals from which the human race
has most to hope.
3. The few medical investigators can
not, probably, be supervised or in-
spected or controlled by any of the or-
dinary processes of Government super-
vision. Neither can they properly be
licensed, because there is no competent
supervising or licensing body. The Gov-
ernment may properly license a
*An open letter from President Eliot of Har-
vard University to the Chairman of the Senate
Committee on the District of Columbia.
plumber, because it can provide the
proper examination boards for plumb-
ers; it can properly license young men
to practice medicine, because it can
provide the proper examination boards
for that profession, and these boards
can testify to the fitness of candidates;
but the Government cannot provide
any board of officials competent to tes-
tify to the fitness of the medical in-
vestigator.
4. The advocates of anti-vivisection
laws consider themselves more humane
and merciful than the opponents of
such laws. To my thinking these un-
thinking advocates are really cruel to
their own race. How many cats or
guinea pigs would you or I sacrifice to
save the life of our child or to win a
chance of saving the life of our child?
The diphtheria-antitoxin has already
saved the lives of many thousands of
human beings, yet it is produced
through a moderate amount of in-
convenience and suffering inflicted on
horses and through the sacrifice of a
moderate number of guinea pigs. Who
are the merciful people — the few phy-
sicians who superintend the making
of the antitoxin and make sure of its
quality, or the people who cry out
against the infliction of any suffering
on animals on behalf of mankind?
It is, of course, possible to legislate
against an improper use of vivisection.
For instance, it should not be allowed
in secondary schools or before college
classes for purposes of demonstration
only; but any attempt to interfere with
the necessary processes of medical in-
vestigation is, in my judgment, in the
highest degree inexpedient, and is fun-
damentally inhuman.
Yours very truly,
C. W. Eliot.
Hon. James McMillan.
