DISCUSSION AND CORRESPONDENCE.
437
THE HIGHER EDUCATION FOR
COLORED YOUTH.
Prof. Shaler's article in the June
number of the Popular Science
Monthly was in many ways sensible
and timely, but it seems to the writer
that in common with many other peo-
ple he is misleading in his remarks
about higher education for the negro.
One would think from the great out-
cry against the higher education for
young people of the colored race, that
scarcely any other kind of education
was being given them. On all sides we
hear the familiar refrain: "The higher
education for the negro has been a fail-
ure." Now success is a relative term.
If a mere handful of colored college
graduates, in a few years, ought to have
settled the race problem, and induced
their white fellow-citizens to treat these
graduates and all members of their race
fairly, then it has been a failure. But
if the higher education should simply
give added power of mind, enlarge the
mental grasp and capacity for useful-
ness, lift up, socially, morally, relig-
iously and financially, not only its dis-
ciples, but also thousands who have
been induced to look upward by the
force of their example, then the higher
education for colored youth has been a
tremendous success. Is not the latter
the fair test? Of course the higher edu-
cation of the few has not eliminated
crime. It has not done that for the
white race. The writer is a colored
man and a college graduate. He can
not see that the higher education has
any different effect on the colored
youth from what it has on the white.
If there be any difference it is this: It
raises the colored youth from a lower
social level, as a rule, and places him
on a social plane, relatively, among his
own people, higher than it does in the
case of the white youth. The higher
training, therefore, should be more val-
uable to the colored youth.
In a recent address before a grad-
uating class at Howard University, the
Hon. W. T. Harris, Commissioner of
Education, submitted statistics which
showed that the proportionate number
of secondary and higher students to the
whole number of children attending
school in the United States had in-
creased from 2.22 per cent in 1879 to
5.01 per cent in 1897, nearly two and a
half times; while the proportion of col-
ored students in secondary schools and
colleges had increased very little indeed,
from 1 per cent to only 1.16 per cent.
But the story is not yet half told. Ac-
cording to the report of the Commission-
er of Education, 1897-98, Vol. 2, page
2,097, the total number of students tak-
ing the higher education in the United
States, as a whole, was 144,477, being
1,980 to each million of the total popu-
lation. The same report, page 2,480,
gives the total number of colored stu-
dents pursuing collegiate courses in
these much discussed colored colleges as
2,492. This is only 310 to the million
of colored population, whereas the
whole of the United States, as shown
above, had 1,980 to the million, nearly
six and a half times as many in propor-
tion to population. This does not look
as if the entire colored population were
rapidly stampeding to the higher edu-
cation, or as if the labor supply in the
Southern States were falling off from
this cause.
This is an age of higher education
for the masses. The increase in the
number of students taking the second-
ary and higher education in the United
States during the last ten years has
been phenomenal — unprecedented. Is
the person of color so much superior to
the white that he does not need so
much educational training? I think
not. In view of the history and pres-
ent condition of this race, there is an
obvious necessity for a large number of
educated and trained teachers, minis-
ters, physicians, lawyers and pharma-
cists; and in view of the fact that this
race has only one fifth of its quota
pursuing studies above the elementary
grades, what fair mind will not say that
there is great need of more of the sec-
ondary and higher education for colored
youth, instead of less of it?
