438
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
According to the report above cited, I
161 academies and colleges for colored
youth in the United States reported.
The total number enrolled was 42,328,
of which 2,492 were reported in colle-
giate grades, 13,669 in secondary grades
and 26,167 in elementary grades. Even
in these colored colleges less than 6
per cent of the students are pursuing
collegiate courses. Of these, perhaps
not more than 2 per cent are pursuing
a college course equal to that offered at
Howard. Nearly two thirds of the total
enrollment in these colored colleges are
receiving elementary instruction in the
three R's. Classified by courses of
study, 1,711 — 217 in a million — were
taking the classical course; 1,200 — 150
in a million — the scientific; 4,449 — 555
to the million — the normal course in
preparation for teaching; 1,285 — 160 in
a million — professional courses; 9,724
the English course, and 244 the business
course. In each of these courses the
colored race has only about one fifth or
one sixth of its quota. Is there any-
thing in these figures to alarm the na-
tion?
About one third of the total number
of students in these 161 colored
schools and colleges are taking indus-
trial training. When we consider the
great demand for educated colored min-
isters, teachers and physicians, and the
quick reward for ability in these lines,
on the one hand, and the exclusiveness
of some trade-unions in shutting out
colored workmen, on the other, the
wonder is that one third of the total
number of colored youth in these
schools have chosen the industrial
course. For it is by no means certain
that they will be allowed to work at
their trades after they have learned
them.
The number of colored students who
have had even a smattering of the
higher education has been shown to
be ridiculously small, and the total
number of colored graduates with the
college degree proper does not at the
most liberal estimate exceed one thou-
sand. Many of them are dead. Of the
number now living, almost every one
can be located in some useful and up-
lifting employment as ministers, teach-
ers, physicians, lawyers, business men,
or as wives presiding over nappy, pros-
perous, cultured homes which white per-
sons seldom enter except on business.
Our critics seem to know nothing of
these homes, which, as a rule, are owned
by their occupants. For the most part
these homes are scattered throughout
the South, and are centers of culture
and refinement that elevate the moral
and social status of the entire com-
munity.
To deprive the youth of the colored
race of the higher education is to de-
prive them of all the nobler incentives
to study, to sacrifice, to struggle to get
an education. Every thoughtful person
knows that these incentives are neces-
sary for the white race; they are
equally necessary for the colored race.
Neither the white youth nor the col-
ored, in large numbers, will toil and
struggle and apply himself to get an
education, unless he sees that education
brings power and a better living to its
possessors.
The colored race, like every other
part of our population, needs all kinds
of education. It is a sheer fallacy and
a grievous wrong to them to hold all
of them down to the rudiments of an
education, with industrial training. All
can not profit by the industrial training
any more than all can profit by the
higher training. There is no conflict
between the advocates of industrial
training and the higher education. Both
are right. Both are good in their re-
spective spheres. At any rate, it is not
necessary to disparage the magnificent
achievements of colored persons who
have received the higher training to
make an argument in favor of training
all of them in the manual trades, or
to justify their elimination from pol-
itics.
Andrew F. Hilger,
Washington, D. C.
