A BUBBLE-BLOWING INSECT.
2 5
the early summer. These flecks of froth may be found very com-
monly at the junction of the leaf with the stem. Immersed in this
froth is found a little green insect, sometimes two or three of them,
concealed by the same moist covering. This little
creature represents the early stage of an insect
which in its full growth still lives upon grass, and
is easily recognized by its triangular shape and its
ability of jumping like a grasshopper. There are
a number of species; the one living on grass ap-
parently confines itself to the grass alone, though
I have seen one species that frequents a number
of different plants. A species found on the white
pine is dark brown in color, and the froth in which
it is found not only hangs pendent from the
branch, but the lower portion appears as a large
drop of clear water.
Let one provide himself with a good hand lens,
a bit of glass (a watch crystal is especially suit-
able for this purpose), and a common camel's-
hair brush, and he is ready to make a preliminary
study of Aphrophora. The brush is convenient
for easily removing the insect from the froth
which invests it. If the insect is cleared from the
mass of froth, it will crawl quite rapidly along the
stem of the plant, stopping at times to pierce the
stem for the purpose of sucking the juices within,
and finally settling down in earnest, evidently ex-
erting some force in thrusting its piercing appa-
ratus through the outer layers, as shown by the
firm way in which it clutches the stem with its
legs. After sucking for some time, a clear fluid is
seen to slowly exude from the posterior end of the
abdomen, flowing over the body first and gradually filling up the
spaces between the legs and the lower part of the body and the stem
upon which it rests (Fig. 2). During all this time not a trace of an
air bubble appears; simply a clear, slightly viscid fluid is exuded,
and this is the only matter that escapes from the insect. In other
words, its secretion of clear fluid is precisely like that of the Mada-
gascar species referred to by Westwood and others.
This state of partial immersion continues for half an hour or
more. During this time, and even when the insect is roaming up
and down the grass or twig, the posterior segments of the abdomen
are extended at intervals, the abdomen turning upward at the
same time. It is a kind of reaching-up movement, but whether
Fig. 1. — Grass stalk
and leaves, show-
ing appearance of
froth.
