SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.
439
SCIENTIFIC LITEEATUEE.
GEOLOGY.
In accordance with the general re-
sults of Mr. G. K. Gilbert's investiga-
tion of recent earth movements in the
Great Lakes region — that the whole dis-
trict is being lifted on one side or de-
pressed on the other, so that its plane
is bodily canted toward the south-
southwest, and that the rate of change
is such that the two ends of a line one
hundred miles long, running in a south-
southwest direction, are relatively dis-
placed four tenths of a foot in one hun-
dred years — certain general conse-
quences ensue. The waters of each
lake are gradually rising on the south-
ern and western shores, or falling on
the northern and eastern shores, or
both. This change is not directly ab-
vious, because masked by temporary
changes due to inequalities of rainfall
and evaporation and various other
causes, but it affects the mean height
of the lake surface. In Lake Ontario
the water is advancing on all shores, the
rate at any place being proportional to
its distance from the isobase through
the outlet. At Hamilton and Port Dal-
housie it amounts to six inches in a
century. The water also advances on
all shores of Lake Erie, most rapidly at
Toledo and Sandusky, where the change
is eight or nine inches a century. All
about Lake Huron the water is fall-
ing, most rapidly at the north and
northeast; at Mackinac the rate is six
inches, and at the mouth of French Riv-
er ten inches a century. On Lake Su-
perior the isobase of the outlet cuts the
shore at the international boundary;
the water is advancing on the American
shore, and sinking on the Canadian. At
Duluth the advance is six inches, and
at Huron Bay the recession is five inches
a century. The shores of Lake Michi-
gan are divided by the Port Huron iso-
base. North of Oconto and Manistee
the water is falling; south of these
places it is rising, the rate at Milwau-
kee being five or six inches a century,
and at Chicago nine or ten inches.
Eventually, unless a dam is erected to
prevent it, Lake Michigan will again
overflow to the Illinois River, its dis-
charge occupying the channel carved by
the outlet of a Pleistocene glacial lake.
The summit in that channel is now
about eight feet above the mean level
of the lake, and the time before it will
be overtopped may be computed. For
the mean lake stage such discharge will
begin in about one thousand years,
and after fifteen hundred years there
will be no interruption. In about two
thousand years the Illinois River and
the Niagara will carry equal portions of
the surplus water of the Great Lakes.
In twenty-five hundred years the dis-
charge of the Niagara will be intermit-
tent, failing at low stages of the lake,
and in thirty-five hundred years there
will be no Niagara. The basin of Lake
Erie will then be tributary to Lake
Huron, the current being reversed in
the Detroit and St. Clair channels.
GEOGRAPHY.
Relating to the Royal Geographical
Society the story of his exploration of
the Bolivian Andes, Sir Martin Conway
spoke of his journey by way of the Are-
quipa Railroad, Peru, to Lake Titicaca.
That remarkable sheet of water is four-
teen times the size of the Lake of Gen-
eva and twelve thousand feet above the
sea, and might be regarded as the rem-
nant of a far greater inland sea, now
shrunk away. Driving from Chililaya,
he reached the snowy mountain called
the Cordillera Real — the backbone of
Bolivia — which he had come especially
to visit, and in the region of which he
spent four months. To the east the
mountains fell very rapidly to a low
