440
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
hill country and the fertile valleys that
send their waters to the river Beni. On
the other side lay a high plateau, at a
uniform altitude of from twelve thou-
sand to thirteen thousand feet, from
which the tops of low rocky hills here
and there emerged. This plateau had
obviously been at one time submerged;
evidence was plentiful that in ancient
times the glaciers enveloped a large part
of the slopes that led down to it from
the main Cordilleras and reached down
many miles farther than now. In the
immense pile of debris left by the gla-
ciers deep valleys were afterward cut by
the action of water, and into these val-
leys the glaciers of a second period of
advance protruded their snouts, depos-
iting moraines that could still be traced
in situ as much as four or five miles
below the present limit of the ice. Con-
trary to the apparently general impres-
sion that the peaks of the Cordilleras
were volcanic, the author had not been
able to find any trace of volcanic action
along the axis of the range. The Cor-
dillera Real had been elevated by a
great earth movement, and the heart of
the range consisted of granites, schists
and similar rocks. The whole range
might be described as highly mineral-
ized. Gold was found at several points,
but the chief auriferous valleys were
those on the east side of the range.
Just below the snowy mass of Cacaaca
on the west was a really enormous vein
of tin; and antimony, cobalt and plati-
num have been found in different parts.
The great copper deposits were not in
this range, but farther west. The flora
of the high regions of the Cordillera
Real was apparently sparse, but is prob-
ably more abundant in the rainy season.
Bird life was more prolific and birds
were numerous, at suitable places, up to
an altitude of seventeen thousand feet
above the sea.
ZOOLOGY.
The most recent elementary text-
book in zoology is from the press of
The Macmillan Co. Professor and Mrs.
Charles B. Davenport are the joint
authors. It is recognized now-a-days
that what the general high school or
elementary student in zoology needs is
not professional training in that sub-
ject, but rather an opportunity to view
the field so that he may have as wide
an acquaintance as may be of the forms
of animals and of their doings. This
he needs that he may have an interest
in the things of nature and that he
may be a more intelligent member of
society in the things pertaining to his
welfare as affected by animals. The
book is therefore an attempt to restore
the old natural history in a newer garb.
The text is divided into twenty-one
chapters. The first of these deals with
'The Grasshopper and its Allies,' fol-
lowed by others upon the butterfly,
beetle, fly, spider, etc., similarly treated.
Each chapter has one or two 'keys' — ■
that is, arrangements whereby the
families of animals may be determined.
The book is richly illustrated by means
of half-tone and line reproduction: a
number of photographs are from life,
and one of these is a flash-light photo-
graph of a slug and an earthworm
crawling upon a pavement at night!
Outlines for simple laboratory work
and a list of books dealing with the
classification and habits of American
animals are to be found in an appendix.
Many good things might be said of this
contribution to zoological text-books.
This ought to be said, that it will be a
book which will be of value to any
person who, while upon his holiday
trip, wishes to learn about the animals
he may come across.
ORNITHOLOGY.
Mr. Chapman is equally at home
with camera or pen. In 'Bird Studies
with a Camera, with Introductory
Chapters on the Outfit and Methods of
the Bird Photographer,' he gives us
some of his many experiences from
Central Park to the swamps of Florida
and the bare rocks of the Gulf of St.
Lawrence. The first two chapters are
devoted to a brief discussion of the
outfit and methods of the bird photog-
