SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.
441
rapher, and these any one thinking of
taking up this branch of art will do
well to read carefully. Mr. Chapman
considers that a 4x5 plate is the size
best adapted for general purposes, and
notes that while a lens with short
focus may serve for photographing
nests and eggs, for the birds them-
selves a rapid lens with focus of four-
teen to eighteen inches should be used.
The rest of the book is for the general
reader, and contains many facts of in-
terest concerning the haunts, habits,
and home life of a number of birds from
the well-known sparrow to the unfa-
miliar pelican, the accounts of the Bird
Rock and Pelican Island being the most
interesting. Some of the illustrations
are a little disappointing, and empha-
size the difficulties of photographing
wild birds, but there is ample compen-
sation for these in the excellence of
others, particularly those devoted to
Perce, Bonaventure and Bird Rock.
This is equally true of birds and
scenery, the views of Perce Rock being
the finest that have fallen under our
notice. Mr. Chapman's estimate of the
feathered population of Great Bird
Rock, which he puts at 4,000, is by far
the smallest yet made, and probably
has the soundest basis, and shows a sad
diminution from the hosts of fifty years
ago.
'Bird Homes,' by A. Radclyffe Dug-
more, seems well adapted for its stated
purpose of stimulating the love of birds,
helping the ordinary unscientific person
to get some closer glimpses of them, and
aiding in the study of their wonderfully
adapted nests and beautiful eggs. Fur-
thermore, it will probably create a
strong desire in the reader to become
a photographer of birds and their nests.
To further these aims we have a first
part containing half-a-dozen chapters
devoted among other things to birds'
nests and eggs, photographing nests
and young birds and the approximate
dates when birds begin to nest, this
being adapted to the vicinity of New
York.
Following this is the bulk of the
volume, containing brief descriptions of
the birds, their nests, nesting places
and eggs, and here the author has con-
fessedly borrowed from Bendire, Davie
and other well-known authorities, al-
though one might wish that Mr. Dug-
more had introduced more of his own
observations, since those given inci-
dentally in the first part are very in-
teresting; where he indulges in theory
he is less successful. In place of the
usual method of studying the nest
from the bird, we have that of study-
ing the bird from the nest, and for this
purpose the nests are grouped in classes,
a chapter being devoted to each class;
thus we have nests open, on the ground
in open fields, marshes and generally
open country ; open nests in trees : nests
in bridges, buildings, walls, etc. By
this plan any one finding a nest can,
with a little care and observation, iden-
tify the bird that made it. The illus-
trations, largely of nests and eggs, are
a noteworthy feature of the book, al-
though the three-color process which
succeeded so admirably in Dr. Hol-
land's Butterfly Book, is here as equally
distinct a failure, the least bad of the
colored plates being that showing the
nest of the yellow-breasted chat, the
worst that of the nest of the Baltimore
oriole. Those in black and white, how-
ever, merit the highest praise, and this
includes the smaller cuts introduced as
decorative features in the first portion
of the book. It would seem difficult in
a half-tone to improve on the plate of
young crested flycatchers for clearness
of detail, while among others that de-
serve special mention for artistic effect
is the wood thrush on nest, and the
nests of the chestnut-sided, yellow,
blue-winged and worm-eating warblers.
The general 'get- up' of the book is ex-
cellent, and the printing of the plates
separately permits the use of a dead-
faced paper for the text, which is
pleasant to the eye.
