442
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE.
We are able to publish in the pres-
ent issue of the Monthly the address
given by Mr. G. K. Gilbert as retiring
president of the American Association
for the Advancement of Science. The
problem that he discusses is one of the
most pressing for scientific workers,
while at the same time it is of interest
to everyone, and the address is at once
an important contribution to the sub-
ject and an exposition that all can un-
derstand. The mathematical physicists
find that as an abode fitted for life the
earth can not be allowed a history in-
definitely long— not longer perhaps than
20,000,000 years — while the geologists
with equally strong arguments claim a
much greater antiquity. The biologists
are also concerned, owing to the time
taken up by the processes of evolution,
and their facts and interests range them
with the geologists rather than with
the physicists. The man not versed in
science would also prefer to assign a
long history to the earth, for while he
may be ready to let the 'dead past bury
its dead,' he looks forward even to the
distant future, and the shorter the past
history of the earth the less the time it
will continue to be habitable. We have
thus a question in the solution of which
all the sciences are concerned, and one
possessing a dramatic interest that ap-
peals to everyone. The unity of science
is well illustrated by such a problem.
It was the subject of the address of the
retiring president of the Association, a
geologist; it might be taken as the sub-
ject for the address of the newly elected
president, a biologist and student of
the processes of evolution; and it is one
to which the president of the meeting,
a mathematical physicist, has given
special attention.
Dr. Robert Simpson Woodward,
who presided over the New York meet-
ing of the Association, is professor of
mechanics and mathematical physics
and dean of the Faculty of Pure
Science in Columbia University. He
was born at Rochester, Oakland County,
Michigan, July 21, 1849, and spent his
early life on a farm with the exception
of about two years of experience in mer-
cantile and manufacturing pursuits. He
was prepared for college at the
Rochester Academy, entered the Uni-
versity of Michigan in 1868, and was
graduated in 1872 with the degree of
C. E. Twenty years later the same in-
stitution conferred upon him the degree
of Ph. D. While yet an undergraduate
he entered the U. S. Lake Survey, and
immediately after graduation he was
appointed assistant engineer in that
service. He was employed in the as-
tronomical and geodetic work of the
Lake Survey until its completion in
1882. He then accepted the position of
assistant astronomer to the U. S. Tran-
sit of Venus Commission and accom-
panied the expedition of Prof. Asaph
Hall, U. S. N., to San Antonio, Tex.,
to observe the transit of December,
1882. He remained with the Transit of
Venus Commission until 1884, when he
resigned in order to take the position of
astronomer in the U. S. Geological Sur-
vey. After four years of service in this
bureau he resigned to accept the posi-
tion of assistant in the U. S. Coast and
Geodetic Survey. This he held until
1893, when he retired from tne public
service and accepted the call of Colum-
bia University to the chair of mechan-
ics. In 1895, and again in 1900, he was
elected to the deanship of the graduate
faculty of pure science in that insti-
tution. Professor Woodward has pub-
lished many papers on subjects in as-
tronomy, geodesy, mathematics and
mechanics. He edited, and contributed
several chapters to the final report of
