THE PE OGRESS OF SCIENCE.
445
know that our ways of thought and
habits of life are chiefly based on the
results of modern science. This has not
been the result of a sudden revelation,
but of a continual growth, scarcely per-
ceptible until viewed from a distance.
The importance of current political
events is magnified by the common in-
terest they excite, whereas in art, litera-
ture and science time is required before
things can be seen in their right per-
spective. We can, however, take the re-
ports of the three committees of the As-
sociation to which small grants were
made for research and use these as ex-
amples of the scientific work described
at the meeting. These committees were
on 'Anthropometry,' on 'The Quantita-
tive Study of Variation' and on 'The
Cave Fauna of North America.'
The committee on anthropometry is
undertaking to make measurements of
the physical and mental traits of mem-
bers of the Association, and to encour-
age such work elsewhere. At the pres-
ent time there exists but little exact
knowledge of how people differ from
each other and of the causes and results
of such differences. Much has been
written regarding men of genius, crim-
inals and other classes, but without an
adequate foundation of fact. The mem-
bers of a scientific society are a fairly
homogeneous class, regarding whose
heredity, education and achievements
correct information can be secured. The
measurements made at the New York
meeting, determining such traits as size
of head, strength, eyesight, quickness
of perception, memory, etc., will supply
the standard type for scientific men and
their variations from this type. When
other classes of the community have
been measured, comparisons can be
made and we shall know whether scien-
tific men are more variable than others,
have larger heads, better memory and
the like. Work of this character has
been carried on at Columbia University
for some years. The freshmen, both the
men of Columbia College and the women
of Barnard College, are measured and
tested with care, equal attention being
paid to mental and physical traits. Then
the measurements are repeated at the
end of the senior year. Anthropometric
work has also been done in Great
Britain under the auspices of Dr. Gal-
ton and Professor Pearson, and we may
perhaps hope that the time will come
when we shall have as exact knowledge
about human differences as we now
have about different kinds of butter-
flies.
Although geologists and botanists
have defined hundreds of thousands of
species, they have not as a matter of
fact until very recently attempted to
secure exact measurements of differ-
ences, and the committee of the Asso-
ciation on 'The Quantitative Study of
Variation,' of which Prof. Chas. B.
Davenport is the recorder, aims to en-
courage such work. It is now over
forty years since the facts and argu-
ments presented in Darwin's 'Origin of
Species' paved the way for general ac-
ceptance of the doctrine of evolution.
But the objection is hardly less valid
to-day than it was then that the evi-
dence for evolution is almost wholly in-
direct. Over and over again naturalists
have been challenged to cite one case
where a species in nature has changed
within historic times and repeatedly
they have taken refuge in the plea that
the historic period is too short for a no-
ticeable change to have taken place.
This plea can be accepted, however,
only so long as we have no exact way
of measuring race change. When we
can express quantitatively the condi-
tion of a community to-day, we may
hope to be able to say whether any
change has occurred after five, ten, or
a hundred years. The committee of the
Association has especially concerned it-
self with a piece of work which may be
considered typical. In the headwaters
of the Tennessee River there lives a
univalor mollusc which is found no-
where else in the world and which be-
longs to a family of molluscs that was
early separated from its marine cogen-
