446
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ers as a fluviatile species. This genus,
Io, varies greatly in different parts of
the Tennessee basin. In some places it
is smooth; in others, spiny; in others,
long drawn out. Under a grant of the
Association, Mr. C. C. Adams, of Bloorn-
ington, 111., visited this region; trav-
elled down one of the tributaries in a
boat, collecting samples from every
community of Ios ; and went by train up
a second river collecting at every stop-
ping place. The results of this trip
were, in a word, that in passing from the
mouth to the headwaters of the two
parallel tributaries the shells vary in
parallel fashion and show a uniform,
continuous change from the spiny, elon-
gated condition characteristic of the
mouths of the rivers to the smooth,
more globose condition characteristic of
the headwaters. The additional grant
by the Association of one hundred dol-
lars will assist Mr. Adams in making
further quantitative studies on varia-
tion in the genus Io.
Hardly any fact has excited more
interest among evolutionists than the
blindness of cave animals; and various
theories have been advanced to explain
the fact. It is known that the blind
condition is due to a degeneration of
formerly fuctional eyes. The difficulty
has been to understand what ad-
vantage is gained by losing the
eyes even in a locality where eyes
are of no use. It has been affirmed that
'Nature is economical' and will not ex-
pend energy in building an unnecessary
organ. Weismann has suggested that
the only reason why we have eyes at all
is because Natural Selection is constant-
ly weeding out poor eyes. Withdraw
the necessity for good eyes, and poor
eyes and good eyes will have an equal
chance of surviving. According to a
third theory, the functional activity of
any organ is essential to its mainten-
ance. Just as the unused arm withers
so the unused eye degenerates. Of
course all these theories assume that
the ancestors of the blind species — for
instance, of the blind fishes — had orig-
inally no inherent tendency to blind-
ness or degeneration of the eyes. This
assumption has, however, be«n recently
combatted by Professor Eigenmann,
who has shown that although many
kinds of fish are accidentally swept into
caves, only one kind has become blind:
of this kind the nearest allies which
live in open streams shun the light,
live in crevices and under stones, and
have less perfect eyes than other fishes.
Some of the allies of such light-shun-
ning fishes have made their way into
caves, and have there worked out their
tendency to a reduction of eyes. That
has been the history of eyeless fishes.
To continue the researches of Professor
Eigenmann, so auspiciously begun, the
Association last year granted one hun-
dred dollars to a committee on the cave
vertebrates of North America. With
the aid of the grant Dr. Eigenmann has
during the past year penetrated into
numerous caves and obtained much
additional material for his researches.
The American Association will meet
next year at Denver, beginning on Au-
gust 26th. The newly elected officers
are:
President.
Prof. Charles Sedgwick Minot, Har-
vard Medical School.
Vice-Presidents.
Mathematics and Astronomy: Prof.
James McMahon, Cornell University.
Physics: Prof. D. D. Brace, Univer-
sity of Nebraska.
Chemistry: Prof. John H. Long,
Northwestern University.
Mechanical Science and Engineering:
Prof. H. S. Jacoby, Cornell University.
Geology and Geography: Prof. C.
R. Van Hise, University of Wisconsin.
Zoology: President D. S. Jordan,
Leland Stanford Jr. University.
Botany: B. T. Galloway, U. S. De-
partment of Agriculture, Washington,
D. C.
Anthropology: J. W. Fewkes, Bu-
reau of Ethnology, Washington, D. C.
Economic Science and Statistics;
