THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE.
447
John Hyde, Department of Agriculture,
Washington, D. C.
Permanent Secretary.
L. O. Howard, U. S. Department of
Agriculture, Washington, D. C.
General Secretary.
Prof. William Hallock, Columbia
University, New York.
Secretary of the Council.
D. T. McDougal, New York Botani-
cal Gardens.
Secretaries of the Sections.
Mathematics and Astronomy: Prof.
H. C. Lord, Ohio State University.
Physics: J. 0. Eeed, University of
Michigan.
Chemistry: Prof. W. McPherson,
Ohio State University.
Mechanical Science and Engineer-
ing: William H. Jacques, Boston, Mass.
Geology and Geography: Dr. R. A.
F. Penrose, Pierce. Ariz.
Zoology: Prof. H. B. Ward, Uni-
versity of Nebraska.
Botany: A. S. Hitchcock, Manhat-
tan, Kan.
Anthropology: G. G. McCurdy, Yale
University.
Economic Science and Statistics:
Miss C. A. Benneson, Cambridge, Mass.
Treasurer.
Prof. P. S. Woodward, Columbia
University.
The National Educational Associa-
tion, which held its annual session at
Charleston during the week beginning
on July 9th, is the leading representa-
tive of the many educational associa-
tions of the country. Its membership
includes the ablest teachers of educa-
tion in colleges and the most successful
school superintendents and teachers.
Its meetings give occasion for discus-
sions of matters of educational theory
and practice in many ways comparable
to the discussions in scientific societies.
The program of the present meeting
shows that like the scientific associa-
tions, the National Educational Asso-
ciation has become differentiated into a
number of practically isolated sections
with differing interests. There are sep-
arate departments of Kindergarten Edu-
cation, Manual Training, Child Study,
Normal Schools, Libraries, etc. The
Department of Superintendence now has
a special meeting at a different time
and place. There are also general ses-
sions, and these have not become mere
formal business meetings. The leading
topic for discussion this year seems to
have been the proposed National Uni-
versity at Washington. The most ob-
viously important service which the
Association has rendered to educational
endeavor has been its elaboration
(through efficient committees) and pub-
lication of reports on Secondary Edu-
cation, Elementary Education, Rural
Schools and College Entrance Require-
ments. These reports represent if not
demonstrable facts, at least the well-
considered opinion of competent judges
and they have had a highly beneficial
influence. Dr. J. M. Green, of Newark,
will preside over next year's meeting.
The decision in regard to the place has
been left to the executive committee,
the claims of Detroit, Cincinnati and
Tacoma having been especially urged.
The opening of a summer school at
Columbia University and the attend-
ance at Harvard University of a large
proportion of all the school teachers of
Cuba are important steps towards in-
creasing the usefulness of our institu-
tions for higher education. The
grounds, buildings and equipment of
Columbia University have cost in the
neighborhood of $10,000,000, and to let
these lie idle and rusting for nearly one-
third of the year is evidently wasteful.
But it is not only a question of the
most economical administration of these
trust funds that is at issue. The teach-
ers of the country, perhaps 500,000 in
number, have had just enough educa-
tion to profit particularly by attendance
at a university. They are engaged at
their work during three-fourths of the
year, but their summers can be spent in
no more pleasant and useful way than
by attending a university summer
