44 8
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
school. It would be good business pol-
icy for school boards to send their teach-
ers to the summer schools, except that
the benefit might not be reaped locally,
as each teacher would soon deserve a
better position than he now has. It is,
however, not only for teachers that uni-
versity sessions during the summer are
needed. The long vacation is largely a
tradition from the time when boys were
most usefully occupied on the farm dur-
ing the summer. It is doubtful whether
students now come back to college in
the autumn in an improved physical
or moral condition. They might spend
their time to advantage, but are not
likely to do so at the ordinary summer
resort. It is admitted by everyone that
young men are too old when they leave
college and the professional schools.
Reforms are needed in various direc-
tions, but an obvious one is not to take
four years for three years' work.
Though university professors, who for
the general good need freedom from
routine teaching for other work, should
be allowed leave of absence for a part
of the year, it does not follow that they
should all be away at the same time. It
seems probable that the example set by
the University of Chicago, which holds
four sessions extending through the
year, will be followed by all our uni-
versities.
The third International Conference
on a Catalogue of Scientific Literature
was held in London on June 12th and
13th. It will be remembered by those
who are interested in the organization
of science that a conference on this sub-
ject was called by the Royal Society in
1896 at which it was proposed to under-
take by international cooperation a
catalogue of contributions to science.
Certain details were arranged and others
were left to a committee of the Royal
Society. Under the auspices of this
committee schedules of classification
were drawn up and estimates of the cost
secured. A second conference was held
in 1898, and after various changes in
the plans for the catalogue it was at
the recent Conference definitely decided
to proceed with its publication. It is
estimated that the cost will be covered
by the sale of three hundred sets, and
different governments or national agen-
cies have made themselves responsible
for a certain number of sets, Germany
and Great Britain for example, sub-
scribing for forty-five sets, each cost-
ing £17. The Catalogue will be published
in seventeen volumes devoted to as
many sciences, and will be both an au-
thor's and a subject index. The collec-
tion of material is to commence from
January 1, 1901. While all scientific
men welcome improvements in cata-
loguing scientific literature, the arrange-
ments proposed by the Royal Society
and by the different conferences have
met with some criticism. The serious
mistake has been made of entirely ig-
noring the catalogues and bibliographies
already existing for most of the sciences,
and it is not certain that the elaborate
and expensive machinery proposed will
be as useful as some plan would have
been for unifying the existing agencies.
Still in the end there must be some
international and uniform method for
cataloguing scientific literature, and it
is to be hoped that our Government will
do its share toward supporting the pres-
ent undertaking.
