2 6
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
Fig. 2. — The insect first emitting a clear fluid which fills
up the interspaces between its body and the stem of
grass upon which it rests.
this action accompanies a discharge of fluid or is an attempt at
reaching for air I have not ascertained. Suddenly the insect begins
to make bubbles by turning its tail out of the fluid, opening the
posterior segment, which
appears like claspers,and
grasping a moiety of air,
then turning the tail
down into the fluid and
instantly allowing the in-
closed air to escape (Fig.
3). These movements go
on at the rate of seventy
or eighty times a min-
ute. At the outset the
tail is moved alternately
to the right and left in
perfect rhythm, so that
the bubbles are distrib-
uted on both sides of
the body, and these are
crowded toward the head
till the entire fluid is
filled with bubbles, and
the froth thus made runs
over the back and around
the stem (Fig. 4).
Even when partially
buried in these bubbles
the tail is oscillated
to the right and left,
though when completely
immersed the tail is only occasionally thrust out for air which is
allowed to escape in the mass apparently without the right-and-
left movement, though of this I am not sure. It is interesting to
observe that in half a minute some thirty or forty bubbles are
made in this way — a bulk of air two or three times exceeding the
bulk of the body — without the slightest diminution in the size of
the body.
If the insect is allowed to become dry, by resting it upon a piece
of blotting paper, and is then placed upon a piece of glass and a
drop of clear saliva be allowed to fall upon it, it proceeds to fill up
this fluid with bubbles in precisely the same manner as it did
with its own watery secretion. It is quite difficult to divest the
creature of the bubbles of air which adhere to the spaces between
Fig. 4.— Entire fhrd filled witli bubbles, and the froth
thus made enveloping the stem.
Magnified Figures of Apiirophora, showing Succes-
sive Stages in the Production of Froth.
