THE MODERN OCCULT. 451
well while bearing in mind the particular form of occultism or mysti-
cism, or it may be merely of superstition and error, which one or another
of the occult movements exhibits, to emphasize the importance of the
intellectual motive or temperament that inclines to the occult. It is
important to inquire not only what is believed, but what is the nature of
the evidence that induces belief, what attracts and then makes con-
verts, what the influences by which the belief spreads. Two classes of
motives or interests are conspicuous; the one prominently intellectual or
theoretical, the other moderately or grossly practical. Movements in
which the former interest dominates contain elements that command
respect even when they do not engage sympathy; they frequently appeal,
though it may be unwisely, to worthy impulses and lofty aspirations.
Amongst the movements presenting prominent practical aspects are to
be found instances of the most irreverent and pernicious, as well as of
the most vulgar, ignorant and fraudulent schemes which have been
devised to mislead the human mind. Most occult movements, however,
are of a mixed character, and in their career the speculative and the
practical change in importance at different times or in different lands,
or at the hands of variously minded leaders. Few escape and some
seem especially designed for the partisanship of that class who are seek-
ing whom they may devour; and stimulated by the greed for gain or the
love for notoriety, set their snares for the eternally gullible. For-
tunately, it must be added that the interest in the occult is under the
sway of the law of fashion, and many a mental garment which is donned
in spite of the protest of reason and propriety, is quietly laid aside when
the dictum of the hour pronounces it unbecoming.
Historically considered, the occult points back to distant epochs and
foreign civilizations; to ages when the facts of nature were but weakly
grasped, when belief was largely dominated by the authority of tradi-
tion, when even the ablest minds fostered or assented to superstition,
when the social conditions of life were inimical to independent thought
and the mass of men were cut off from intellectual growth of even the
most elementary kind. Pseudo-science flourished in the absence of true
knowledge, and imaginative insight and unfounded belief held the office
intended for inductive reason. Ignorance inevitably led to error and
false views to false practices. In a sympathetic environment of this
kind the occultist flourished and displayed the impressive insignia of
exclusive wisdom. His attitude was that of one seeking to solve an
enigma, to find the key to a strange puzzle; his search was for some
mystic charm, some talismanic formula, some magical procedure, which
shall dispel the mist that hides the face of nature and expose her secrets
to his ecstatic gaze. By one all-encompassing, masterful effort the cor-
rect solution was to be discovered or revealed; and at once and for all,
ignorance would give place to true knowledge, science and nature be-
