THE MODERN OCCULT. 455
purpose were in large measure not original. The rappings are in accord
with the traditional folk-lore behavior of ghosts, though their trans-
formation into a signal code may have been due to the originality of the
Fox children; the planchette has its analogies in Chinese and European
modes of divination; clairvoyance was incorporated from the phenomena
of artificial somnambulism, as practiced by the successors of Mesmer;
the 'sensitive' or 'medium' suggests the same origin as well as the popu-
lar belief in the gift of supernatural powers to favored individuals;
others of the phenomena such as 'levitation' and 'cabinet performances'
have counterparts in Oriental magic; 'slate-writing/ 'form materializa-
tions/ 'spirit-messages' and 'spirit photographs' are, in the main, mod-
ern contributions. These various phenomena as ordinarily presented
breed the typical atmosphere of the seance chamber, which resists pre-
cise analysis, but in which it is easy to detect morbid credulity, blind
prepossession and emotional contagion; while the dependence of the
phenomena on the character of the medium offers strong temptation
alike to shrewdness, eccentricity and dishonesty. On the side of his
teachings the spiritualist is likewise not strikingly original. The rela-
tions of his beliefs to those that grew about the revelations of Sweden-
borg, to the speculations of the German 'pneumatologists' and to other
philosophical doctrines, though perhaps not intimate, are yet traceable
and interesting; and in another view the 'spiritualist' is as old as man
himself and finds his antecedents in the necromancer of Chaldea, or in
the Shaman of Siberia, or the Angekok of Greenland, or the spirit-
doctor of the Karens. The modern mediums are simply repeating with
new costumes and improved scenic effects the mystic drama of primitive
man.
Spiritualism thus appeals to a deep-seated craving in human nature,
that of assurance of personal immortality and of communion with the
departed. Just so long as a portion of mankind will accept material
evidence of such a belief, and will even countenance the irreverence,
the triviality and the vulgarity surrounding the manifestations, just so
long as these persons will misjudge their own powers of detecting how
the alleged supernatural appearances were really produced and remain
unimpressed by the principles upon which alone a consistent explana-
tion is possible, just so long will spiritualism and kindred delusions
flourish.
As to the present-day status of this cult it is not easy to speak
positively. Its clientele has apparently greatly diminished; it still
numbers amongst its adherents men and women of culture and educa-
tion and many more who cannot be said to possess these qualities. There
seems to be a considerable class of persons who believe that natural laws
are insufficient to account for their personal experiences and those of
others, and who temporarily or permanently incline to a spiritualistic
