456 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
hypothesis in preference to any other. Spiritualists of this intellectual
temper can, however, form but a small portion of those who are enrolled
under its creed. If one may judge by the tone and contents of cur-
rent spiritualistic literature, the rank and file to which Spiritualism
appeals present an unintellectual occult company, credulously accept-
ing what they wish to believe, utterly regardless of the intrinsic signifi-
cance of evidence or hypothesis, vibrating from one extreme or absurdity
to another, and blindly following a blinder or more fanatic leader or a
self-interested charlatan. While for the most extravagant and unrea-
sonable expressions of Spiritualism one would probably turn to the lit-
erature of a few decades ago, yet the symptoms presented by the
Spiritualism of to-day are unmistakably of the same character, and form
a complex as characteristic as the symptom-complex of hysteria or
epilepsy, and which, faute de mieux, may be termed occult. It is a type
of occultism of a particularly pernicious character because of its power
to lead a parasitic life upon the established growths of religious beliefs
and interests, and at the same time to administer to the needs of an un-
fortunate but widely prevalent passion for special signs and omens and
the interpretation of personal experiences. It is a weak though com-
prehensible nature that becomes bewildered in the presence of a few
experiences that seem homeless among the generous provisions of mod-
ern science, and runs off panic-stricken to find shelter in a system that
satisfies a narrow personal craving at the sacrifice of broadly established
principles, nurtured and grown strong in the hardy and beneficent at-
mosphere of science. It is a weaker and an ignorant nature that is
attracted to the cruder forms of such beliefs, be it by the impulsive
yielding to emotional susceptibility, by the contagion of an unfortunate
mental environment, or by the absence of the steadying power of re-
ligious faith or of logical vigor or of confidence in the knowledge of
others. Spiritualism finds converts in both camps and assembles them
under the flag of the occult.*
*To prevent misunderstanding it is well to repeat that I am speaking of the gen-
eral average of thorough-going spiritualists. The fact that a few mediums have
engaged the attention of scientifically minded investigators has no bearing on the
motives which lead most persons to make a professional call on a medium, or to join
a circle. The further fact that these investigators have at times found themselves
baffled by the medium's performances, and that a few of them have announced their
readiness to accept the spiritualistic hypothesis is of importance in some aspects,
but does not determine the general trend of the spiritualistic movement in the direc-
tion in which it Is considered in the present discussion. It may also prevent misun-
derstanding of other parts of my presentation to continue this footnote by adding
that I desire to distinguish sharply between the occult and what has unwisely been
termed Psychical Research— unwisely because such research is either truly psychologi-
cal and requires no differentiation from other allied and legitimate research, or it is
something other than psychological which is inaptly expressed by calling it 'psychi-
cal.* I admit and emphasize that the majority of such research is the result of a
scientific motive and Is far removed from the occult. I therefore shall say nothing
of Psychical Research and regret that it is necessary even to deny its possible inclu-
sion in the occult. Such inclusion is. however, suggested by much that is talked of
