THE MODERN OCCULT. 457
The wane in the popularity of Spiritualism may be due in part to
frequent exposures, in part to the passing of the occult interest to pas-
tures new, and in part to other and less accessible causes. Such inter-
est may again become dominant by the success or innovations of some
original medium or by the appearance of some unforeseen circum-
stances; at present there is a disposition to take up 'spiritual healing'
and 'spiritual readings of the future' rather than mere assurances from
the dead, and thus to emulate the practical success of more recently
established rivals. The history of Spiritualism, by its importance and
its extravagance of doctrine and practice, forms an essential and an in-
structive chapter in the history of belief; and there is no difficulty in
tracing the imprints of its footsteps on the sands of the occult.
The impress of ancient and mediaeval lore upon latter-day occultism
is conspicuous in the survivals of Alchemy and Astrology. Phrenology
represents a more recent pseudo-science, but one sufficiently obsolete to
be considered under the same head, as may also Palmistry, which has
relations both to an ancient form of divination and to a more modern
development after the manner of Physiognomy. The common char-
acteristic of these is their devotion to a practical end. Alchemy occu-
pies a somewhat distinct position. The original alchemists sought the
secret of converting the baser metals into gold, in itself a sufficiently
alluring and human occupation. There is no reason why such a prob-
lem should assume an occult aspect, except the sufficient one that or-
dinary procedures have not proved capable to effect the desired end.
It is a proverbial fault of ambitious inexperience to attack valiantly
large problems with endless confidence and sweeping aspiration. It is
well enough in shaping your ideas to hitch your wagon to a star; yet
the temporary utility of horses need not be overlooked; but shooting
arrows at the stars is apt to prove an idle pastime. If we are willing
to forget for the moment that the same development of logic and ex-
periment that makes possible the mental and material equipment of
and written under the name of Psychic Research, and there can be no doubt that
the interest of many members of Psychic Research Societies and of readers of their
publications, is essentially of an occult nature. Whatever in these publications seems
to favor mystery and to substantiate supernormal powers is readily absorbed, and its
bearings fancifully interpreted and exaggerated; the more critical and successfully
explanatory papers meet with a less extended and less sensational reception. Unless
most wisely directed, Psychic Research is likely, by not letting the right hand know
what the left hand is doing, to foster the undesirable propensities of human nature
as rapidly as it antagonizes them. Like indiscriminate alms-giving it has the possi-
bilities of affording relief and of making paupers at the same time. While I regard
the acceptance of telepathy as an established phenomenon, as absolutely unwarranted
and most unfortunate, and while I feel a keen personal regret that men whose ability
and opinions I estimate highly have announced their belief in a spiritualistic explana-
tion of their personal experiences with a particular medium, yet my personal regret
and my logical disapproval of these conclusions have obviously no bearing upon the
general questions under discussion. The scientific investigation of the same phe-
nomena which have formed the subject matter of occult beliefs, is radically different
in motive, method and result from the truly occult.
