THE MODERN OCCULT. 461
error and misapplied partial knowledge. It is not necessary to go back
to early civilizations or to primitive peoples, among whom the medicine-
man and the priest were one and alike appealing to occult powers, nor
to early theories of disease which beheld in insanity the obsession of
demons and resorted to exorcism to cast them out; it is not necessary to
consider the various personages who acquired notoriety as healers by
laying on of hands or by appeal to faith, or who like Mesmer introduced
the system of Animal Magnetism, or like some of his followers, sought
directions for healing from the clairvoyant dicta of somnambules; it is
not necessary to ransack folk-lore superstitions and popular remedies
for the treatment of disease; for the modern forms of 'irregular 1 healing
offer sufficient illustrations of occult methods of escaping the ills that
flesh is heir to.
The existence of a special term for a medical impostor is doubtless
the result of the prevalence of the class thus named, but quackery and
occult medicine though mutually overlapping, can by no means be held
accountable for one another's failings. Many forms of quackery pro-
ceed on the basis of superstitions or fanciful or exaggerated notions con-
taining occult elements, but for the present purpose it is wise to limit
attention to those in which this occult factor is distinctive; for medical
quackery in its larger relations is neither modern nor occult. Occult
healing takes its distinctive character from the theory underlying the
practice rather than from the nature of the practice. It is not so much
what is done as why it is done or pretended to be done or not done, that
determines its occult character. A factor of prominence in modern
occult healing is indeed one that in other forms characterized many of
its predecessors and was rarely wholly absent from the connection be-
tween the procedure and the result; this is the mental factor, which may
be called upon to give character to a theory of disease, or be utilized
consciously or unconsciously as a curative principle. It is not implied
that 'mental medicine' is necessarily and intrinsically occult, but only
that the general trend of modern occult notions regarding disease may
be best portrayed in certain typical forms of 'psychic' healing. The
legitimate recognition of the importance of mental conditions in health
and disease is one of the results of the union of modern psychology and
modern medicine. An exaggerated and extravagant as well as pre-
tentious and illogical over-statement and misstatement of this principle
may properly be considered as occult.
Among such systems there is one which by its momentary prominence
overshadows all others, and for this reason as well as for its more ex-
plicit or rather extended statement of principles, must be accorded spe-
cial attention. I need hardly say that I refer to that egregious mis-
nomer, Christian Science. This system is said to have been discov-
ered by or revealed to Mrs. Mary Baker Glover Eddy in I860. Several
