462 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of its most distinctive positions (without their religious setting) are to
be found in the writings and were used in the practice of Mr. or Dr. P.
P. Quimby (1802-1866), whom Mrs. Eddy professionally consulted
shortly before she began her own propagandum. On its theoretical
side the system presents a series of quasi-metaphysical principles, and
also a professed interpretation of the Scriptures; on its practical side it
offers a means of curing or avoiding disease and includes under disease
also what is more generally described as sin and misfortune. With
Christian Science as a religious movement I shall not directly deal;
I wish, however, to point out that this assumption of a religious
aspect finds a parallel in Spiritualism and Theosophy and doubtless
forms one of the most potent reasons for the success of these occult
movements. It would be a most dangerous principle to admit that the
treatment of disease and the right to ignore hygiene can become the
perquisite of any religious faith. It would be equally unwarranted to
permit the principles which are responsible for such beliefs to take
shelter behind the ramparts of religious tolerance; for the essential
principles of Christian Science do not constitute a form of Christianity
any more than they constitute a science; but in so far as they do not
altogether elude description, pertain to the domain over which medi-
cine, physiology and psychology hold sway. As David Harum, in speak-
ing of his church-going habits, characteristically explains, "the one I
stay away from when I don't go's the Prespyteriun," so the doctrines
which Christian Science 'stays away from' are those over which recog-
nized departments of academic learning have the authority to decide.
Mrs. Eddy's magnum opus serving at once as the text-book of the
'science' and as a revised version of the Scriptures — Science and Health,
with Key to the Scriptures — has been circulated to the extent of one
hundred and seventy thousand copies. I shall not give an account of
this book nor subject its more tangible tenets to a logical review; I must
be content to recommend its pages as suggestive reading for the stu-
dent of the occult and to set forth in the credentials of quotation marks
some of the dicta concerning disease. Yet it may be due to the author
of this system to begin by citing what are declared to be its fundamental
tenets, even if their connection with what is built upon them is far
from evident.
"The fundamental propositions of Christian Science are summarized
in the four following, to me self-evident propositions. Even if read
backward, these propositions will be found to agree in statement and
proof:
1. God is All in all.
2. God is good. Good is Mind.
3. God, Spirit, being all, nothing is matter.
