ELECTRIC AUTOMOBILES.
487
end, the parts are brought into proper position with reference to each
other. The shaded portion II is the lever C at the right side of Fig. 10.
The left-hand end of Fig. 12 shows a design for front axle wheels
which is one of the many modifications of the general arrangement just
described. In this construction the wheel swings round the stud C,
which is placed within the huh, and in a line, or nearly so, with the
center of the rim. The rod A is the axle and F is the lover extending
from the inner part of the wheel hub by means of which the steer-
ing is effected. The left-hand side of Fig. 12 is a view as seen from
the front and the right-hand side shows the device as seen from above.
In this last drawing it will be observed that as the lever F is attached
to the inner portion of the wheel hub, if it i~ moved to one side or the
other of axle A, by pulling or pushing on rod G, the wheel will be
swung round. The advantage of designs of this type is that there is no
strain whatever brought to bear upon the steering handle, and the
5l \
r r
rf^f —
3 r-K
I
St a ■
1 v
J
Wig. 13. * "onstri
,s Showing Power Applied to Front W
objection 1- that the wheel [nib i- made much larger and the whole
construction is somewhal mure complicated.
The arrangement of the front axle, so as to swing the wheels round
a center close to the hub or within it, as described in the foregoing para-
graphs, is used on all types of automobiles and is not a distinguishing
feature of the electric carriage. In some of the lighter vehicles the
front wheels are held in forks of a design substantially the same as that
of the front wheel of the ordinary bicycle, the tops of the Fork- being
connected with each other by means of a rod, as in the lower part of
Fig. 10, so as to obtain simultaneous movement of the two wheels by
the movement of a single steering handle.
In the majority of electric vehicles the power is applied to the rear
axle, but some are made with the motors geared to the front axle. In
a few of these designs the wheels and axle are made the same as in an
ordinary carriage, so as to swing round a pivot or king bolt located at
the center of the axle and reinforced by a fifth wheel. When this con-
struction is used the steering, gear is made so as to hold the axle in
position more firmly than in the other designs; but even with this
assistance the driver has a harder task than with the independently
swinging wheels. The advantage derived from swinging the whole
