492 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
series of copper pipes within the chamber, and coming out considerably
warmer than it entered. So delicate were the regulating devices that
the temperature could be maintained constant, hour after hour, to
within one or two hundredths of a degree. In some cases the man under
investigation worked regularly eight hours a day, the work done being
measured by apparatus designed for the purpose.
Food and drink were passed into the chamber three times a day
through an air-tight trap. Both were accurately weighed, their tem-
perature recorded and samples reserved for chemical analysis. Solid
and liquid excreta were likewise weighed and analyzed. The observa-
tions, analyses and computations of a single experiment thus involved
a vast amount of labor and expense, which was only justified by the
importance of the question under investigation. In order to be able to
understand just what this question is, let us see what is meant by the
conservation of matter and energy in the physical world.
The impossibility of creating or destroying matter is very generally
recognized. Its forms or properties may be altered, chemical and physi-
cal changes may be effected, it may, indeed, vanish from sight, but its
quantity remains unchanged. Thus ice may turn to water and water
to invisible steam, but the total quantity or mass of the substance re-
mains constant; and if by refrigeration the steam be brought to the
condition of ice again, there will be precisely the same amount as before.
These are physical changes and are easily effected. We simply apply
heat to melt the ice and then more heat to vaporize the water. Con-
versely, withdrawing heat will condense the vapor to water, when a fur-
ther subtraction of heat will change the water into ice.
Again, wood disappears when burned and seems to be destroyed.
And yet we know that the weight of the resulting smoke and ashes is
exactly equal to that of the wood. The matter has been changed in
form and composition, but its mass cannot be altered. It is not so easy
to bring the smoke and ashes into combination again and so restore the
matter to its original form as in the case of ice and steam. But this is
done by nature. Ashes go to the soil, smoke into the atmosphere. The
forces of nature bring these elements together again in plant and tree,
and so it comes about that the materials resulting from the burning of
wood again become wood, and over and over again the cycle is repeated
as time rolls on. Many other examples might be cited to show what is
meant by the indestructibility of matter, or the conservation of matter;
but these will suffice to show that the one essential fact is that the mat-
ter or stuff of a body cannot be destroyed.
Although matter is protean and its transformations limitless, there
are certain changes which cannot be made. Iron cannot be turned into
silver, nor silver into gold, nor oxygen into nitrogen. There appear to
be indeed about seventy or eighty distinct kinds of matter, and so far as
