THE HUMAN BODY AS AN ENGINE. 495
tender into the boiler and in pumping air into the reservoir for the use
of the air brakes. This may be called the internal work of the engine.
A second portion of the heat is therefore expended in internal and ex-
ternal work.
"». The steam after expanding in the cylinders of the engine es-
capes into the atmosphere. Although it has been cooled somewhat by
expansion, it is still hot, and carries a large amount of heat away with
it. Moreover, the smoke and hot air which pass out through the
smokestack carry away a large quantity of heat. Hot ashes Likewise
carry away heal. Hence a third portion of heat is lost through smoke
and steam and ashes. And this is the largest portion of the total
quantity of heat generated by the burning coal.
When coal is burned, oxygen of the air unites chemically with the
carbon and hydrogen of the coal to form carbonic acid, or carbon
dioxid, as it is technically called, and water vapor. The incombustible
mineral matter of the coal remains as ashes. Hence smoke contains
carbonic acid gas and water vapor in addition to fine particles of un-
burned coal carried away in the draft of air.
When the grade is steep a great deal of work must be done by the
locomotive, much steam is required, and the quantity of fuel burned is
large in proportion. When the road is level fuel burns less rapidly, and
when the train stops, still more slowly. At night the locomotive rests,
fires are hanked and combustion is very slow. This process so briefly
and incompletely sketched, is more interesting as one examines it closer,
and a locomotive seems almost living when one considers minutely its
wonderful performance.
But interesting and instructive though the operation of the locomo-
tive may he, it is not for its own sake that E have mentioned it. It is
rather in order to point out a remarkable parallel between its operation
ami that of a human body. A parallel, indeed, between the operation
of a complex inanimate engine of iron and steel, and a still more com-
plex living engine of flesh and hone and blood: both obeying the law of
the conservation of energy, as well as the other laws of physics and
chemistry.
Consider now a human body as a living engine. That man is more
than matter is. of course, conceded. But we here regard only the ani-
mal body, guided by the brain as its engineer. The day begins, as with
the locomotive, by taking a store of fuel and water, namely, food and
drink. Food is not. however, burned in the body in a confined re-
ceptacle, like coal in the fire box of an engine, hut is digested, assimi-
lated and distributed through the body by means of the circulating
blood. And while some of it goes to repair bodily waste, becoming
tissue, other portions are oxidized or burned to produce heat. Non-
digestible parts of the food pass away from the body as refuse, like ashes
