3°
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
cast them down. Those of the poorest imaginations looked for
forty acres of land and a mule. In the resulting political corrup-
tion the native whites and blacks endured even greater losses than
the war had inflicted, the most grievous being a great unsettling
of the relations between the races. The way in which the white
men of the better sort met this trial is fit to be compared with the
best political achievements of their folk. Gradually, on the whole
without violence, for they had to abstain from that, working within
the limits of the Constitution to which they had been forced to
trust for their remedies, they rewon control of their wasted com-
munities, and brought them back to civilized order. There was a
share of terrorism and shame from such devices as tissue ballots to
lessen the dignity of this remarkable work, yet it remains a great
achievement — one that goes far to redeem the folly of the seces-
sion movement. The full significance of this action is yet to be
comprehended.
The overthrow of the carpet-bag governments, quietly yet ef-
fectively accomplished, removed the only danger of war between
the blacks and whites. We can not well imagine another crisis so
likely to bring about a conflict of that kind. The blacks were
driven from power. Their desperate leaders would willingly have
led them to fight, but the allegiance to the ancient masters was
too strong, their trust in the carpet-bagger, for all his affectation
of love, too slight to set them on that way. The negro fell back
as near as might be to the place he held at the close of the war.
His position was thereafter worse than it was at that station in his
history, for the confidence and affection which the behavior of their
servants during the rebellion had inspired was replaced in the mind
of the dominant race by an abiding sense of the iniquities in which
the ex-slaves had shared. Thereafter, and to this day, the black
man is looked upon as a political enemy, who has to be watched
lest he will again win a chance to control the state. In the greater
part of the South this fear is passing away. In several States new
laws concerning the franchise have made it practically impossible
for the negro vote to be a source of danger for some time to come —
until, indeed, the negro is better educated and has property. There
is a share of iniquity in these laws, as there is apt to be in all
actions relating to a situation that rests on ancient evils, but their
effect is better than that of terrorism and tissue ballots which it
replaces. They will afford time for the new adjustments to be
effected.
In considering the present conditions of the negro, we may
first note the important fact that he is hard at work. The pro-
duction of the South clearly shows that the sometime slaves, or
