THE HUMAN BODY AS AN ENGINE. 497
setting free a definite quantity of heat for every pound of fuel so burned.
So, in exactly the same way, oxygen, which has been taken up by the
blood from the air in the lungs, unites with carbon and hydrogen in the
tissues of the body and forms carbonic acid and water, yielding pre-
cisely the same amount of heat as though the combustion had occurred
in a furnace. This idea of food, that it is literally fuel, is a very sug-
gestive one. And as fuels differ in the quantity of ash contained and
the amount of heat produced, so food materials differ in the quantity of
undigestible residue and in their heat-producing power.
Remembering the analogy of the steam engine, let us now inquire
what becomes of the energy supplied to the body in the fuel foods eaten,
and which is turned into heat by this process of combustion constantly
going on.
1. A large amount of heat is constantly being expended in keep-
ing the body warm. Like the locomotive, the body is warmer than the
surrounding air, and is constantly losing heat to the atmosphere. Un-
like the locomotive, however, the body has a nearly uniform tempera-
ture throughout, namely, 98 degrees Fahr. The delicate regulation
of temperature which is automatically maintained in the animal body
is one of the wonders of physiology.
2. A second portion of energy is required to do the mechanical
work of the body. When a locomotive hauls a loaded train up grade,
or steams up grade alone, it is doing work in proportion to the total
weight and the height to which it is carried. So when a man walks
up hill or climbs a ladder he is lifting his body against the force of
gravity, and hence doing work. If his weight be 200 pounds he is
doing twice as much work as though he weighed only 100 pounds. If
a man weighing 150 pounds climbs Bunker Hill Monument (220 feet),
33,000 foot-pounds of work will then be done; and if he succeeds in
making the ascent in one minute, he would be doing work at the rate
of one full horse power for that minute. If he climbs a mountain two
miles high in three hours and twelve minutes he would be doing work
in so lifting his body at the rate of one quarter of a horse power. This
is, of course, a faster rate of work than an average man could maintain.
In all the functions of daily life the body is necessarily doing some
mechanical work. Even dressing and eating require a certain expendi-
ture of energy, and in ordinary business and manual labor the amount
of mechanical work done is considerable. Moreover, a large amount of
work is done by the heart in pumping the blood through the circu-
latory system, and by the chest in respiration. This, then, the internal
and external work done, as in the locomotive, represents the second
portion of energy derived from the food eaten.
3. The warm air, carbonic acid gas and water vapor passing away
from the lungs in respiration carry with them a large amount of heat.
