498 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY. .
This corresponds to the loss of heat in the locomotive through the
smoke passing out the smokestack, and in both cases the loss is greater
when work is being done and less during inaction. The refuse products
of the body (as the ashes of the locomotive) also carry away heat. This
is the third portion of heat and is a large one.
Work is done in the locomotive by the expanding steam in the cylin-
ders of the engine. The steam is cooled as it expands. Hence heat dis-
appears when work is done; that is, is converted into mechanical en-
ergy, and a steam engine is hence called a heat engine; an engine for
converting heat into work, according to the law of the conservation of
energy. As the pistons are pushed to and fro by the tremendous
pressure of the expanding steam, the reciprocating motion is communi-
cated to the great drivers of the engine by strong arms of steel. But
how is work done in the body? That is a question of prime importance
and of surpassing interest. When muscle contracts and force is ex-
erted, as when the body is lifted or an oar is pulled, muscular tissue (or
material stored in muscular tissue) is oxidized; that is, burned, and heat
is produced; yet not as much heat appears as would have appeared on
the combustion of the same amount of body material if no work had
been done. Apparently, then, heat has been converted into work. But
we cannot trace the process with the same clearness as in the cylinder
of a steam engine. Whether the potential energy of the body material
is directly converted into work, or whether combustion first produces
heat and a part of this heat is then converted into work, we do not
know. In other words, we do not know whether the animal body as a
machine for doing mechanical work is a heat engine or some other kind
of engine. This is a fundamental question, as well as a very difficult
one, and to a student of thermodynamics and physiology it prompts all
sorts of speculation.
When one tries to picture to himself how the potential energy of
food or body tissue can be directly converted into mechanical work, he is
apt to turn to the other alternative and imagine that in some way the
body is a heat engine. For we know that heat results from the oxida-
tion of tissue, and we also know how heat can be converted into
mechanical work. But we are at once confronted with a difficulty.
One of the fundamental laws of thermodynamics requires that when
heat is converted into work there shall be a difference of temperature
between the source of heat and the place to which the heated material
employed passes after doing the work. In other words, in a heat en-
gine, whatever the mechanism, there must be a fall of temperature,
which is greater as the relative amount of work, or efficiency, is greater.
In the human body the efficiency perhaps surpasses that of the best
steam engines; hence there should be a fall of temperature comparable
with that between the boiler and condenser o-f a steam engine. This
