CHAPTERS ON THE STARS. 501
the sun light of certain definite wave-lengths is wholly or partly want-
ing. This fact has been observed for more than a century, but its true
significance was not seen until a comparatively recent time.
If, instead of using the light of the sun, we form a spectrum with the
light emitted by an incandescent gas, say hydrogen made luminous by
the electric spark, we shall find that the spectrum consists only of a
limited number of separate bright lines, of "various colors. This shows
that such a gas, instead of emitting light of all wave-lengths, as an in-
candescent solid body does, principally emits light of certain definite
wave-lengths.
It is also found that if we pass the light of a luminous solid through
a sufficiently large mass of gas, cooler than the body, the spectrum, in-
stead of being entirely continuous, will be crossed with dark lines like
that of the sun. This shows that light of certain wave-lengths is ab-
sorbed by the gas. A comparison of these dark lines with the bright
lines emitted by an incandescent gas led Kirchhoff to the discovery of
the following fundamental principle:
Every gas, when cold, absorbs the same rays of light which it emits
when incandescent.
An immediate inference from this law is that the dark lines seen in
the spectrum of the sun are caused by the passage of the light through
gases either existing on the sun or forming the atmosphere of the earth.
A second inference is that we can determine what these gases are by
comparing the position of the dark lines with that of the bright lines
produced by different gases when they are made incandescent. Hence
arose the possibility of spectrum analysis, a method which has been ap-
plied with such success to the study of the heavenly bodies.
So far as the general constitution of bodies is concerned, the canons
of spectrum analysis are these:
Firstly, when a spectrum is formed of distinct bright lines, the
light which forms it is emitted by a transparent mass of glowing gas.
Secondly, when a spectrum is entirely continuous the light emanates
from an incandescent solid, from a body composed of solid particles,
which may be ever so small, or from a mass of incandescent gas so large
and dense as not to be transparent through and through.
Thirdly, when the spectrum is continuous, except that it is crossed
by fine dark lines, the body emitting the light is surrounded by a gas
cooler than itself. The chemical constitution of this gas can be deter-
mined by the position of the lines.
Fourthly, if, as is frequently the case, a spectrum is composed of
an irregular row of bright and shaded portions, the body is a compound
one, partly gaseous and partly solid.
It will be seen from the preceding statement that, in reality, a mass
of gas so large as not to be transparent cannot be distinguished from a
