CHAPTERS ON THE STARS. 509
though this motion is, it would require nearly 150,000 years for the star
to. make a complete circuit of the heavens if it moved round the sun uni-
formly at its present rate.
The fact that the stars move suggests a very natural analogy to the
solar system. In the latter a number of planets revolve round the sun
as their center, each planet continually describing the same orbit, while
the various planets have different velocities. Around several of the
planets revolve one or more satellites. Were civilized men ephemeral,
observing the planets and satellites only for a few minutes, these bodies
would be described as having proper motions of their own, as we find
the stars to have. May it not then be that the stars also form a system;
that each star is moving in a fixed orbit performing a revolution around
some far-distant center in a period which may be hundreds of thousands
or hundreds of millions of years? May it not be that there are systems
of stars in which each star revolves around a center of its own while all
these systems are in revolution around a single center?
This thought has been entertained by more than one contemplative
astronomer. Lambert's magnificent conception of system upon system
will be described hereafter. Madler thought that he had obtained evi-
dence of the revolution of the stars around Alcyone, the brightest of
the Pleiades, as a center. But, as the proper motions of the stars are
more carefully studied and their motion and direction more exactly
ascertained, it becomes very clear that when considered on a large scale
these conceptions are never realized in the actual universe as a whole.
But there are isolated cases of systems of stars which are shown to be
in some way connected by their having a common proper motion. We
shall mention some of the more notable cases.
The Pleiades are found to move together with such exactness that
up to the present time no difference in their proper motions has been
detected. This is true not only of the six stars which we readily see
with the naked eye, but of a much larger number of fainter ones made
known by the telescope. It is an interesting fact, however, that a few
stars apparently within the group do not partake of this motion, from
which it may be inferred that they do not belong to the system. But
there must be some motion among themselves, else the stars would
ultimately fall together by their mutual attraction. The amount and
nature of this motion cannot, however, be ascertained except by cen-
turies of observation.
Another example of the same sort is seen in five out of the seven
stars of Ursa? Major, or The Dipper. The stars are those lettered ft, y,
S, £ and 3. All five have a proper motion in E. A. of nearly 8"
per century, while in declination the movements are some-
times positive and sometimes negative; that is to say, some of
the stars are apparently lessening their distance from the pole, while
