510 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
others are increasing it. But when we project the motions on a map
we find that the actual direction is very nearly the same for all five stars,
and the reason why some move slightly to the north and others slightly
to the south is due to the divergence of the circles of right ascension.
It is worthy of remark that the community of motion is also shown by
spectroscopic observations of the radial motions described below.
The five stars in question are all of the second magnitude except 3,
which is of the third. It is a curious fact that no fainter stars than
these five have been found to belong to the system.
From a study of these motions Hoffler has concluded that the five
stars lie nearly in the same plane and have an equal motion in one and
the same direction. From this hypothesis he has attempted to make a
determination of their relative and actual distances. The result reached
in this way cannot yet, however, be regarded as conclusive.
There are three stars in Cassiopeia, ft, // and /', each having a large
proper motion in so nearly the same direction that it is difficult to avoid
at least a suspicion of some relation between them. The angular mo-
tions are, however, so far from equal that we cannot regard the relation
as established.
In the constellation Taurus, between Aldebaran and the Pleiades,
most of the stars which have been accurately determined seem to have a
common motion. But these motions are not yet so well ascertained that
we can base anything definite upon them. They show a phenomenon
which Proctor very aptly designated as star-drift.
The systems we have just described comprise stars situated so far
apart that, but for their common motion, we should not have sus-
pected any relation between them. The community of origin which
their connection indicates is of great interest and importance, but the
question belongs to a later chapter.
MOTIONS IN THE LINE OF SIGHT, OR RADIAL MOTIONS.
No achievement of modern science is more remarkable than the
measurement of the velocity with which stars are moving to or from us.
This is effected by means of the spectroscope through a comparison of
the position of the spectral lines produced by the absorption of any
substance in the atmosphere of the star with the corresponding lines
produced by the same substance on the earth. The principle on which
the method depends may be illustrated by the analogous case of sound.
It is a familiar fact that if we stand alongside a railway while a loco-
motive is passing us at full speed, and at the same time blowing a
whistle, the pitch of the note which we hear from the whistle is higher
as the engine is approaching than after it passes. The reason is that the
pitch of a sound depends upon the number of sound beats per second.
