CHAPTERS ON THE STARS. 511
Now, we may consider the waves which form light when they strike
our apparatus as beats in the ethereal medium which follow each other
with extraordinary rapidity, millions of millions in a second, moving for-
ward with a definite velocity of more than 186,000 miles a second.
Each spectral line produced by a chemical element shows that that
element, when incandescent, beats the ether a certain number of times
in a second. These beats are transmitted as waves. Since the velocity
is the same whether the number of beats per second is less or greater, it
follows that, if the body is in motion in the direction in which it emits
the light, the beats will be closer together than if it is at rest; if moving
away they will be further apart. The fundamental fact on which this
result depends is that the velocity of the light-beat through the ether
is independent of the motion of the body causing the beat. To show
A B X
®
®
the result, let A be a luminous body at rest; let the seven dots to the
right of A be the crests of seven waves or beats, the first of which, at the
end of a certain time, has reached X. The wave-length will then be one
seventh the distance A X. Now, suppose A in motion toward X with
such speed that, when the first beat has reached X, A has reached the
point B. Then the seven beats made by A while the first beat is trav-
eling from A to X, and A traveling from A to B, will be crowded into
the space B X, so that each wave will be one seventh shorter than before.
In other words, the wave-lengths of the light emitted by any substance
will be less or greater than their normal length, according to the motion
of the substance in the direction in which its light is transmitted, or in
the opposite direction.
The position of a ray in the spectrum depends solely on the wave-
length of the light. It follows that the rays produced by any substance
will be displaced toward the blue or red end of the spectrum, according
as the body emitting or absorbing the rays is moving towards or from us.
This method of determining the motions of stars to or from us, or their
velocity in the line of sight from us to the star, was first put into prac-
tice by Mr. — now Sir William — Huggins, of London. The method has
since been perfected by photographing the spectrum of a star, or other
heavenly body, side by side with that of a terrestrial substance, rendered
incandescent in the tube of a telescope. The rays of this substance pass
through the same spectroscope as those from the star, so that, if the
wave-lengths of the lines produced by the substance were the same as
those found in the star spectrum, the two lines would correspond in
position. The minute difference found on the photographic plate is the
measure of the velocity of the star in the line of sight.
It will be seen that the conclusion depends on the hypothesis that
