512 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the position of any ray produced by a substance is affected by no cause
but the motion of the substance. How and when this hypothesis may
fail is a very important question. It is found, for example, that the
position of a spectral ray may be altered by compressing the gas emitting
or absorbing the ray, and it may be inquired whether the results for
motion in the line of sight may not be vitiated by the absorbing atmos-
phere of the star being under heavy pressure, thus displacing the ab-
sorption line.
To this it may be replied that, in any case, the outer layers of the at-
mosphere, through which the light must last pass, are not under pres-
sure. How far inner portions may produce an absorption spectrum we
cannot discuss at present, but it does not seem likely that serious errors
are thus introduced in many cases.
These measures require apparatus and manipulation of extraordi-
nary delicacy, in order to avoid every possible source of error. The dis-
placement of the lines produced by motion is in fact so minute that
great skill is required to make it evident, unless in exceptional cases.
The Mills spectrograph of the Lick Observatory in the hands of Pro-
fessor Campbell has, notwithstanding these difficulties, yielded results
of extraordinary precision. Quite a number of investigators at some
leading observatories of Europe and America are pursuing the work of
determining these motions. The determinations have almost necessarily
been limited to the brighter stars, because, owing to the light of the
star being spread over so broad a space in the spectrum, instead of being
concentrated on a point, a far longer exposure is necessary to photograph
the spectrum of a star than to photograph the star itself. The larger the
telescope the fainter the star whose spectrum can be photographed.
Vogel, of Potsdam, who has made the most systematic sets of these
measures that have yet appeared, included few stars fainter than the
second magnitude. With the largest telescopes the spectro of stars
down to about the fifth magnitude may be photographed; beyond this
it is extremely difficult to go. The limit will probably be reached by
the spectrograph of the Yerkes Observatory, which is now being put
into operation by Professors Hale and Frost.
THE MOTION OF THE SUN.
When a star is found to be seemingly in motion, as described in the
last section, we may ascribe the phenomenon to a motion either of the
star itself or of the observer. In fact no motion can be determined or
defined except by reference to some body supposed to be at rest. In the
case of any one star, we may equally well suppose the star to be at rest
and the observer in motion, or the contrary. Or we may suppose both
to have such motions that the difference of the two shall represent the
