CHAPTERS ON THE STARS. 515
From all these results it would seem that the most likely apex of the
solar motion is toward the point in
Eight Ascension, 280°
Declination, 38° north.
This point is situated in the constellation Lyra, about 2° from the
first magnitude star Vega. The uncertainty of the result is more than
this difference, four or five degrees at least. We may therefore state the
conclusion in this form:
The apex of the solar motion is in the general direction of the constella-
tion Lyra, and probably very near the star Vega, the brightest of that con-
stellation.
It must be admitted that the wide difference between the position
of the apex from large and from small proper motions, as found by
Porter, Boss and Stumpe, require explanation. Since the apparent
motions of the stars are less the greater their distance, these results, if
accepted as real, would lead to the conclusion that the position of the
solar apex derived from stars near to us was much further south than
when derived from more distant stars. This again would indicate that
our sun is one of a cluster or group of stars, having, in the general
average, a different proper motion from the more distant stars. But
this conclusion is not to be accepted as real until the subject has been
more exhaustively investigated. The result may depend on the selec-
tion of the stars; and there is, as yet, no general agreement among
investigators as to the best way of making the determination.
The next question which arises is that of the velocity of the solar
motion. The data for this determination are more meagre and doubtful
than those for the direction of the motion. The most obvious and
direct method is to determine the parallactic motion of the stars of
known parallax. Eegarding any star 90° from the apex of the solar
motion as in a state of absolute rest, we have the obvious rule that the
quotient of its parallactic motion during any period, say a century,
divided by its parallax, gives the solar motion during that period, in
units of the earth's distance from the sun. In fact, by a motion of the
sun through one such unit, the star would have an apparent motion in
the opposite direction equal to its annual parallax. If the star were not
90° from the apex we can easily reduce its observed parallactic motion
by dividing it by the sign of its actual distance from the apex.
Since every star has, presumably, a proper motion of its own, we can
draw no conclusion from the apparent motion of any one star, owing to
the impossibility of distinguishing its actual from its parallactic motion.
We should, therefore, base our conclusion on the mean result from a
great number of stars, whose average position or center of mass we
might assume to be at rest. Here we meet the difficulty that there are
