THE PSYCHOLOGY OF RED. 517
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF BED. (II.)
By HAVELOCK ELLIS.
The facts and considerations we have passed in review fairly indicate
the physiological and psychological preeminence of red among the
colors of the spectrum to which we are sensitive. What is the cause
of that preeminence?
It seems to me that two orders of causes have cooperated to produce
this predominant influence, one physical and depending on the special
effects of the long-waved portion of the spectrum on living matter, the
other psychological and resulting from the special environmental in-
fluences to which man, and to some extent even the higher animals
generally, have heen subjected. It is possible that these two influences
blend together and cannot at any point be disentangled; it is possible
that acquired aptitude may be inherited or that what seem to be
acquired aptitudes are really perpetuated congenital variations; but
on the whole the two influences are so distinct that we may deal with
them separately.
On the physical side the influence of the red rays, although there ia
much evidence showing that it may be traced throughout the whole
of organic nature, is certainly most strongly and convincingly exhibited
on plants. The characteristic greenness of vegetation alone bears wit-
ness to this fact. The red rays are life to the chlorophyll-bearing
plant, the violet rays are death. A meadow, it has been justly said, is a
vast field of tongues of fire greedily licking up the red rays and vomiting
forth the poisonous bile of blue and yellow. An experiment of Flam-
marion's has beautifully shown the widely different reaction of plants
to the red and violet rays. At the climatological station at Juvisy he
constructed four greenhouses — one of ordinary transparent glass, an-
other of red glass, another of green, the fourth of dark blue. The glass
was monochromatic, as carefully tested by the spectroscope, and dark
blue was used instead of violet because it was impossible to obtain a
perfect violet glass. These were all placed under uniform meteorological
and other conditions, and from certain plants such as the sensitive
plant, previously sown on the same day in the same soil, eight of each
kind were selected, all measuring 27 millimetres, and placed by two and
two in the four greenhouses on the 4th of July. On the 15th of August
there were notable differences in height, color and sensitiveness, and
these differences continued to become marked; photographs of the
