518 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
plants on the 4th of October showed that while those under blue glass
had made no progress, those under red glass had attained extraordinary
development, red light acting like a manure. While those under blue
glass became insensitive, under red glass the sensitive plants had become
excessively sensitive to the least breath. They also flowered, those under
transparent glass being vigorous and showing buds, but not flowering.
The foliage under red glass was very light, under blue darkest. Similar
but less marked effects were found in the case of geraniums, strawber-
ries, etc. The strawberries under blue glass were no more advanced in
October than in May; though not growing old their life was little more
than a sleep. It appears, however, that the stimulating influence of red
light fails to influence favorably the ripening of fruit. Zacharewiez,
professor of agriculture at Vaucluse, has found that red, or rather
orange, produces the greatest amount of vegetation, while as regards
fruit, the finest and earliest was grown under clear glass, violet glass,
indeed, causing the amount of fruit to increase but at the expense of
the quality.
Moreover, the lowest as well as the highest plants participated in
this response to the red rays, and in even a more marked degree, for
they perish altogether under the influence of the violet rays. Marshall
Ward and others have shown that the blue, violet and ultra-violet rays,
but no others, are deleterious to bacteria. Finsen has successfully made
use of this fact in the treatment of bacterial skin diseases. Reynolds
Green has shown that while the ultra-violet rays have a destructive
influence on diastase, the red rays have a powerfully stimulating effect,
increasing diastase and converting zymogen into diastase.
While the influence of the red rays on the plant is thus so enormous
and easily demonstrated, the physical effects of red on animals seem to
be even opposite in character, although results of experiments are some-
Avhat contradictory. Beclard found that the larva? of the flesh fly raised
under violet glass were three fourths larger than those raised under
green glass; the order was violet, blue, red, yellow, white, green. In
the case of tadpoles, Yung found that violet or blue was especially
favorable to the growth of frogs; he also found that fish hatch most
rapidly under violet light. Thus the influence that is practically death
to plants is that most favorable to life in animals. Both effects, how-
ever, as Davenport truly remarks in his 'Experimental Morphology,'
when summing up the results of investigations, are due to the same
chemical metabolic changes, but while plants succumb to the influence
of the violet rays, animals, being more highly organized, are able to
take advantage of them and flourish.
At the same time the influence of violet rays on animal tissue is by
no means invariably beneficial; they are often too powerful a stimulant.
That the violet rays have an influence on the human skin which in the
