520 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
on the nervous system. From time to time experiments have been
made as to the influence of various colored lights, chiefly on the insane,
as first suggested by Father Secchi in 1895. Even yet, however, the
specific mental influences of the various colors are not quite clear. It
has been found by some that the red rays are far more soothing and
comfortable, less irritating, than the total rays of uncolored light, and
Garbini found that angry infants were soothed by the light through red
glass, only slightly by that through green and not at all by other
colored light. On the other hand, it is stated that a well-known dry
plate manufacturer at Lyons was obliged to substitute green-colored
glass in the windows of his large room for the usual red because the
work people sang and gesticulated all day and the men made love to
the women, while under the influence of green glass (which also allows
yellow rays to pass) they became quiet and silent and seemed less
fatigued when they left off work. We need not attach much value to
these statements, but in this connection it is interesting to refer to
the results obtained some years ago by Fere and recorded in his 'Sensa-
tion et Mouvement.' Experimenting on normal subjects as well as on
nervous subjects, who were found more sensitive, with colored light
passed through glass or sheets of gelatine, he found notable differences
in muscular power, measured by the dynamometer, and in the circula-
tion as measured by plethysmography tracings of the forearm under
the influence of different colors. He found in this manner with one
subject whose normal muscular power was represented by 23 that blue
light increased his power to 24, green to 28, yellow to 30, orange to 35
and red to 42. The dynamogenic powers of the different colors were thus
found to rank in the spectral order, red representing the climax of
energy, or, as Fere puts it, "the intensity of the visual sensation varies
as the vibrations." Fere found that colors need not be perceived in
order to show their influence, thus proving the purely physical
nature of that influence, for in a subject who was unable to see
colors with one eye, the color stimulus had the same dynamogenic effect
whether applied to the seeing or the defective eye. Increase of volume
of blood in the limbs, measured by the plethysmograph, so far as we
can rely on Fere's experiments, ran parallel with the influence on mus-
cular power, culminating with red, so that no metaphor is involved,
Fere remarks, when we speak of red as a 'warm' color. On the insane
the results attained by tbe use of colored glass do not seem to be quite
coherent. Some of the earlier observers described the beneficial effects
of blue glass in soothing maniacs. Pritchard Davies, however, was not
able to find that red light had any beneficial effect, though on some
cases blue had, while Roffegean found that, in the case of a somber and
taciturn maniac who could rarely be persuaded to eat, three hours in a
red-lighted room produced a markedly beneficial effect, and a man with
