32 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Before endeavoring to go further with this account of the pres-
ent state of the negroes of this country, it is well to note the fact
that while much has been done to blend the original diversities of
their stock, these differences have by no means passed away. The
seekers after slaves in Africa were not choice as to their purchases
or captures; they reckoned as black if he were no darker than
brown, and they were not at all careful to see that his hair was
kinky. Thus it came about that from the wide ethnic range of
the Dark Continent there came to us a great variety of people — a
much more diverse population than we have received from Europe.
It might be supposed that the conditions of slavery would quickly
have effaced these differences, but even in that state there was
choice in mating, and certain stocks have such prepotency that a
small share of their blood stamps those who have it in a definite
manner. The result is that, under the mask of a common dark,
though really very variedly tinted skin, we have an exceeding
diversity of race and quality.
It is discreditable to our students of anthropology that as yet
there has been no considerable effort made to determine the varie-
ties which exist in our negro population or the source of their
peculiarities in the tribes whence they come. In a small way, for
many years, on numerous journeys in the South, I have endeav-
ored to classify the blacks I have met. For a long time I kept
these results in a roughly tabulated form. Although such obser-
vations, including no measurements and giving only eye impres-
sions of the general form, can have no determinable value, they
may, in the absence of better work, deserve consideration. The
result of this rough inspection of many thousand of these peoples
in nearly every State in the South has been to indicate that there
are several, probably more than six, groups of so-called negroes
which represent original differences of stock or the mixed product
of their union. The more characteristic of these I will now briefly
describe.
For convenience I will first note those who are termed mulat-
toes, in which there is an evident mixture of white blood. Such
admixture seems to be distinctly traceable if it amounts to as little
as one eighth; it is said that one sixteenth of negro blood, or less,
will be revealed on close study of the hair and skin. The pro-
portion of the negroes in our Southern States who have white
ancestry in any degree does not, in my opinion, exceed one tenth,
and may be as small as one twentieth of the whole number. Judg-
ing only by the hue of the skin, the observer will be likely to make
the proportion larger, for the reason that he will include many
persons who, because they come from stocks that were not black-
