THE PSYCHOLOGY OF RED. 521
delusions of persecution became quite rational and was even in a con-
dition to be sent home after a few days in the same room. He also
found that a violent maniac wearing a strait jacket, after a few hours
in a room with blue glass windows became quite calm and gave no fur-
ther trouble. Osburne has found, after many years' experience, that in
the absence of structural disease violet light (for from three to six
hours) is most useful in the treatment of excitement, sleeplessness and
acute mania; red he has found of some benefit, though to a much less
degree in such cases (it must be remarked that violet light as usually
applied is not free from red), while he has not found any color with
which he has tried experiments (red, orange or violet) of benefit in
melancholia. The significance of these facts is not altogether clear;
the influence, as Pritchard Davies concluded, seems to be largely moral,
though it may be that the colors of long wave-length are tonic and
those of short wave-length sedative.
So far I have been chiefly concerned to point out that the immense
emotional impressiveness of red has a basis in physical laws, being by
no means altogether a matter of environmental associations. It is true
that the two groups of influences overlap, and that we can not always
distinguish them. We can not be sure that the greater sensitiveness to
the red rays may not have been emphasized in the organism, not neces-
sarily as the result of inherited acquirement, but probably as the per-
petuation of a variation of sensibility, found beneficial in an environ-
ment where red was liable to be especially associated with objects that
were to be avoided as terrible or sought as useful. In this way the
physical and environmental factors would run in a circle.
We have to bear this consideration in mind when we take into ac-
count the susceptibilities of animals, especially of the higher animals, to
red. The color sense, it is well known, is widely diffused among ani-
mals; indeed this fact has been brought forward, especially by Pouchet,
to prove that there can have been no color evolution in man; this it
can scarcely be said to show, since evolution does not run in a straight
line, and it is quite conceivable and even probable that the ancestors
of man were less dependent than many lower animals, for the means
of living, on a highly developed color sense. Thus a color sense that
among some creatures is so highly developed as to include even the
ultra-violet rays, was among our own ape-like ancestors either never
developed or partially lost.
Graber, in his important investigation into the color sense of ani-
mals, showed that of fifty animals studied by him forty showed strong
color preferences in their places of abode. In general he found, without
being able to explain the fact, that animals which prefer the dark are
red lovers, those which prefer the light are blue lovers. The common
worm, with head and tail cut off, still preferred red to blue nearly aa
