522 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
much as when uninjured. (This would seem to indicate the same kind
of susceptibility to unaccustomed violet rays which we have already
encountered in the phenomenon of sun-burn.) The triton and cochi-
neal, with eyes removed and heads covered with wax, still had delicate
sense for color and brightness. The flea infesting the dog had a finer
color sense than the bee, while nearly all the animals Graber investi-
gated were more or less sensitive to the ultra-red rays.
Among insects it scarcely appears, nor should we expect that there
would be any peculiarly marked predilection or aversion for red. Cock-
erell and F. W. Anderson, from observations in various parts of the
United States, believe that yellow (i. e., the brightest color) is the most
attractive to insects, and the former doubts whether insects can dis-
tinguish red from yellow. Among the higher animals, and even among
fishes and birds, there is not only a color sense, but a highly emotional-
ized color sense, and red appears to be usually the color that arouses
the emotion. There is a proverb, 'Women and mackerel are caught
by red,' and perch is also said to be caught by red bait. Sparrows
appear to be repelled by red; the case is reported of a hen sparrow, kept
in captivity for ten years, which though otherwise a fearless bird 'would
on seeing scarlet show painful signs of distress and faint away.' The
lady who records this observation has noted the same repugnance to
red, though in a less marked degree, in other sparrows, one of which
showed a predilection for blue objects, and she remarks that when
feeding outdoor sparrows from the window they flew away when she
wore a red jacket, while a blue jacket inspired them with confidence;
other birds, she found, except a cockatoo, were unaffected by colors.
Red, it is well known, is very obnoxious to turkey cocks, while the
fury aroused in various quadrupeds by red was known at a very early
period; Seneca referred to it in the case of the bull, the most familiar
example; it is seen in buffaloes, sometimes in horses, and also, it is said,
in the hippopotamus.
The phenomena of color aversion and color predilection among
insects may possibly be in some degree a matter of physical sensibility,
varying according to the creature's tissues, habitat and needs, but as we
approach the vertebrates and especially the mammals there can be little
doubt that it is mainly a matter of environment and association; in
other words, that it is accounted for by the color of food, the color of
blood and the color of the chief secondary sexual characters.
Let us, however, confine ourselves to man, and consider what are
the chief colored objects that are of most vital concern to the human
and most closely allied species.
One of the earliest groups of such objects — some would say the
most important group in this connection — is that of ripe fruits. Cer-
tainly among the frugivorous apes and among many races of primitive
