TEE PSYCHOLOGY OF RED. 525
other sources it may have, is always regarded as especially the ensign
of love. The rose is the flower of love, as the pale lily is of virtue.
This association is quite inapt, and many people who are sensitive in
such matters feel that the lily and many white flowers are far more
symholical of rapture and voluptuousness than the rose. It is, however,
the color and not the scent or other qualities that has exerted decisive
influence on the choice of the symbol. In the Teutonic symbolism of
fourteenth century Europe red was the color of love, as also, with
yellow, it was the favorite color for garments. In more modern times
this last tendency has survived. Sardou decides, it is reported, the
color of the dresses to be worn in his plays, on the ground that if he
did not the actresses would all wear red to attract attention to them-
selves, as once occurred at the Odeon. Eighteen hundred years earlier,
Clement of Alexandria had written: "Would it were possible to abolish
purple in dress, so as not to turn the eyes of the spectators on the
faces of those that wear it!" He proceeds to lament that women make
all their garments of purple (the classic purple was really a red) in
order to inflame lust — those 'stupid and luxurious purples' which have
caused Tyre and Sidon and the Lacedasmonian Sea to be so much in
demand for their purple fishes. Similar phenomena are noted on the
other side of the world. Thus the Japanese, as the Eev. Walter Weston
informs us, have a proverb: 'Love flies with a red petticoat.' Married
women are not there supposed to wear red petticoats, for they are too
attractive, and a married woman should be attractive only to her hus-
band. The aesthetic Japanese may be thought to be specially sensitive
to color, but in Africa also, in Loango, as Pechuel-Loesche mentions,
pregnant women are forbidden to wear red, and it would doubtless be
possible to find many similar indications of this feeling in other parts
of the world.
We have now passed in review all the influences which, by force
of their powerful attraction or repulsion, have during countless ages
impressed on man, and often on his ancestors, the strong and poignant
emotions which accompany the sensation of the most vividly and per-
sistently seen of all colors. We find evidence of the reality of the in-
fluences we have traced — especially those of fire, blood and love — in
Christian ecclesiastical symbolism, according to which red variously
signifies ardent love, burning zeal, energy, courage, cruelty and blood-
thirstiness. To the antagonism and complexity of these influences we
must doubtless attribute the disturbing nature of the emotion aroused
by the group of red sensations and the fluctuations in the predilection
felt towards it. It is at once the most attractive and the most repulsive
of colors. To enjoy it we must use it economically. The vision of
poppies on a background of golden corn, the glint of roses embowered
in green leaves, the sudden flash of a scarlet flower on a southern
