EXPENDITURE OF THE WORKING CLASSES. 527
THE EXPENDITURE OF THE WORKING CLASSES*.
BY HENRY HIGGS.
THE prime concern of the economist and of the statistician is the
condition of the people. Other matters which engage their at-
tention — particular problems, questions of history, discussions of
method, developments of theory — all derive their ultimate importance
from their bearing upon this central subject. The statistician measures
the changing phenomena of the production, distribution and consump-
tion of wealth, which to a large extent reflect and determine the ma-
terial condition of the people. The economist analyzes the motives of
these phenomena, and endeavors to trace the connection between cause
and elt'ect. He is unable to push his analysis far without a firm mastery
of the theory of value, the perfecting of which has been the chief stride
made by economic science in the nineteenth century. When we read
the 'Wealth of Nations' we are forced to admit that in sheer sagacity
Adam Smith is unsurpassed by any of his successors. It is only when
we come to his imperfect and unconnected views upon value that we
feel the power of increased knowledge. J. S. Mill supposed in 1848
that the last word had been said on the theory of value. In his third
book he writes: "In a state of society in which the industrial system
is entirely founded on purchase and sale . . . the question of value is
fundamental. Almost every speculation respecting the economical
interests of a society thus constituted implies some theory of value; the
smallest error on this subject infects with corresponding error all our
other conclusions, and anything vague or misty in our conception of it
creates confusion and uncertainty in everything else." And he adds:
"Happily, there is nothing in the laws of value which remains for the
present or any future writer to clear up; the theory of the subject is
complete."
We know now that he was wrong. Thanks in the main to econ-
omists still alive, and especially to the mathematical economists, we
have at length a theory of value so formally exact that, whatever may
be added to it in the future, time can take nothing from it; while it is
sufficiently flexible to lend itself as well to a regime of monopoly as to
one of competition. Yet our confidence in this instrument of analysis
is far from inspiring us with the assurance which has done so much to
discredit economics by provoking its professors to dogmatize upon
* Address by the President to the Economic Science and Statistics Section at the Dover meet-
ing of the British Association for the Advancement of Science.
