528 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
problems with the whole facts of which they were imperfectly ac-
quainted. Given certain conditions of supply and certain conditions of
demand, the economist should have no doubt as to the resulting de-
termination of value; but he is more than ever alert to make sure that
he has all the material factors of the case before him; that he under-
stands the facts and their mutual relation before he ventures to pro-
nounce an opinion upon any mixed question. He must have the facts
before he can analyze them. A small array of syllogisms, which, as
Bacon says, "master the assent and not the subject/' are not an ade-
quate equipment for him. He sees more and more the need for careful
and industrious investigation, and prominent among the subjects which
await his trained observation are the condition of the people and the
related subject of the consumption of wealth. Training is, indeed,
indispensable. Every social question has its purely economic ele-
ments for the skilled economist to unravel, and when this part of his
task has been achieved, he is at an advantage in approaching the other
parts of it, while his habit of mind helps him to know what to look out
for and what to expect.
It is a curious paradox that, busying ourselves as we do with the
condition of the people, we are lamentably lacking in precision in our
knowledge of the economic life and state of the British people in the
present day. Political economy has, however, followed the lines of
development of political power. At one time it was, as the Germans
say, cameralistic — an affair of the council chamber, a question of the
power and resources of the king. Taking a wider but still restricted
view of society, it became capitalistic, identifying the economic inter-
ests of the community to a too great extent with those of the capitalist
class. It has at length become frankly democratic, looking consciously
and directly to the prosperity of the people at large.
Thus, then, we have at once a more accurate theory, a livelier sense
of caution as to its limitations in practice, and the widest possible field
of study. So far as most of us are concerned, we might as well spend
our time in verifying the ready reckoner as in tracing and retracing
the lines of pure theory. These tools are made for use. Economic
science is likely to make the most satisfactory progress if we watch the
social forces that surround us, detecting the operation of economic
law in all its manifestations, and in observing, coordinating and record-
ing the facts of economic life. It is not enough, to borrow the language
of the biologist (part of which he himself borrowed from the old econ-
omist), to talk of the struggle for existence, the survival of the fittest
and of evolution. We want, above all, his spirit and his method — the
careful, minute, systematic observation of life as affected by environ-
ment, heredity and habit. Different problems are brought to the front
by different circumstances and appeal to different minds; but at all
