THE NEGRO SINCE THE CIVIL WAR. 33
skinned, appear at first sight to be mulattoes of some degree.
These Eu- Africans, as we may term them — imitating in the term
the useful word Eurasian, which is applied to the mixture of Euro-
pean and Asiatic people in India — are in appearance exceedingly
diverse, the variety being caused by the varying share of the blood
of the two races, as well as by the diversities of the stocks to which
the parents belong.
Besides the mixture of the European and black, we have an-
other less well known but not uncommon between the negro and
the Indian. This is often met with among the remnants of the
Indian tribes in all the eastern part of the United States. The
two groups of primitive people appear to have found their despised
lot a basis for a closer union. The dark skin of the Algonkins,
however, makes the remnants of that people appear to have more
black blood than they really possess. Not only did stray negroes
resort to the Indian settlements, but some of the tribes owned
many slaves. The result is that in many parts of this country, but
particularly in Virginia, the Carolinas, Elorida, and Georgia, the
attentive observer often will note the Indian's features stamped
on those of the African.
Coming to the diversities of the stock among the pure Africans,
we may first note the type which, in the rough judgment of the
public, is the real or Guinea negro. That he is so taken is doubtless
because he is the most distinctly characterized of all black people.
The men of this well-known group are generally burly fellows,
attaining at a relatively early age a massive trunk and strong-
thighs; they have thick necks and small though variedly shaped
heads. The bridge of the nose is low, and the jaws protruding.
The face, though distinctly of a low type, very often has a very
charming expression — one in which the human look is blended with
a remnant of the ancient animal who had not yet come to the
careful stage of life. The women of this group are well made,
but commonly less so than the men. In general form the two sexes
of the group are much alike, a feature which also indicates an essen-
tially low station. These people of the Guinea type form perhaps
one half of the Southern negroes.
Along with the Guinea type goes another much rarer, which
at first sight might by the careless observer be confounded with
the lower group. The only common features are the burly form
of both, the deep-black hue, and the general form of the features.
The men we are now considering have a higher and in every way
better head. Their foreheads are fuller, and the expression of the
face, to my view, quite other than that of the Guinea men. In
place of the sly, evasive child-animal look of the lower creature,
VOL. LVII —3
