EXPENDITURE OF THE WORKING CLASSES. 535
longevity is owing to the use of open fireplaces"; probably a consider-
able part is owing to it. We all know how close and stifling is the
atmosphere of a room heated by a stove, and how much more difficult
it is to keep a room perfectly ventilated in summer than it is in winter,
when the fire is constantly changing the air. It may be true that three
fourths of the heat of our fireplaces passes up the chimney and is lost
to us; but we gain far more advantage by the fresh air constantly in-
troduced into the room. Now, with improved grates and improved
fireplaces we may retain all the advantages of the open fire without so
great a waste either of the substance of the consumer or of the national
stock of coal; and attention is already being devoted to this fact in
middle-class households, but some time must yet elapse before the
advantage is reaped by the working classes. At a former meeting of
this Association Mr. Edward Atkinson exhibited a portable oven or
cooking-stove, which was a marvel of simplicity and economy. He has
described it at length in his 'Science of Nutrition,' 1892. He argues
that the attempts to combine cooking with the warming of a room or
house are absurdly wasteful; that almost the whole of the fuel used in
cooking is wasted; and that nine tenths of the time devoted to watching
the process of cooking is wasted; and he estimates the waste of food
from bad cooking in the United States at $1,000,000,000 a year. I
have not, however, heard of his oven being at all extensively used.
Upon the thorny subject of dress it is perilous to venture; but it is
impossible to be in the neighborhood of a London park on a Sunday
afternoon without feeling that the efforts of domestic servants to follow
the rapidly changing vagaries of fashion are carried to a pernicious de-
gree of waste. The blouse of the French workman and the bare head
of the Parisian factory-girl or flower-girl are infinitely more pleasing
than the soiled and frowsy woolens or the dowdy hats of their English
fellows, nor does the difference of climate afford an adequate explana-
tion of the difference of habit. We must perhaps admit a greater dis-
like in England to any external indication of a difference in wealth by
a costume different in kind. M. Lavollee, after referring to the low
price of the ready-made suits which the English factories "fling by the
million on the markets of the world, including their own," adds: "This
extraordinary cheapness is, however, not always without inconvenience
to the consumer. If the clothes he buys cost little, they are not lasting,
and their renewal becomes in the long run very burdensome. This re-
newal is, too, the more frequent in that the wife of the English work-
man is in general far from skillful in sewing and mending. Whether
she lacks inclination, or the necessary training, or whether the fatigues
of a too frequent maternity make her role as a housewife too difficult
for her to support, the woman of the people is generally, on the other
side of the Channel, a rather poor cook, an indifferent needle-woman
