EXPENDITURE OF THE WORKING CLASSES. $37
achieved in this direction. Dissociated from industrial enterprise it
might easily become popular in England. Some of its collective econo-
mies are certainly deserving of imitation, and the experience not only
of the Continent, but also of America, may soon bring us face to face
with the question whether the preparation of dinners, in large towns,
should not — at least for the working classes — be left to the outside
specialist like the old-home industries of baking and brewing. An ex-
cellent example of scientific observation is 'Les Maisons types,' by M.
de Foville, the well-known master of the French Mint. He describes in
detail the various forms of huts, cottages and houses scattered over
France in such a fashion that it is said the traveler in a railway train
may tell, by reading the book, through what part of the country he is
passing; and he gives the reasons, founded upon history or local cir-
cumstances, for the peculiarities in architecture to be observed. The
book is a useful warning against rash generalizations as to the best
type of house for a working man.
A well-informed writer shows, in a recent article in the 'Times/
that not less than about fifty million gallons of water a day might
be saved in London, "without withdrawing a drop from any legitimate
purpose, public or private, including the watering of plants." He
says: "The detection of waste is carried out by means of meters placed
on the mains, which record automatically the quantity of water passing
hour by hour throughout the day and night. The whole area served by
a given water supply is mapped out into small districts, each of which
is controlled by one of these detective meters. The chart traced by the
apparatus shows precisely how much water is used in each of the
twenty-four hours. It records in a graphic form and with singular
fidelity the daily life of the people. It shows when they get up in the
morning, when they go to bed at night, when they wash the tea-things,
the children and the clothes; it shows in a suburban district when the
head of the household comes from the city and starts watering his flow-
ers; it shows when the watering-cart goes round; but, above all, it shows
when the water is running away to waste, and how much."
I quote this not to multiply examples of the waste of wealth, but to
illustrate the insight which a few figures, such as those recorded by this
meter, give us into the lives of the people. How much more does the
account-book, a detective meter of every economic action, give us an
animated photograph of the family life. Nothing is so calculated to
stimulate social sympathy or to suggest questions for consideration.
Like a doctor's notes of his patients the facts are not for publication
in any form which will reveal the identity of the subject; but when we
have enough of them they will be of the highest scientific value. We
have at present too few to offer any useful generalizations. All that
