EXPENDITURE OF THE WORKING CLASSES. 539
us by the different experiences and habits of foreign countries. And
we are happy in a neighbor like France, with her literary and social
charms and graces, her scientific lucidity and inventiveness, and the
contrasts of her social genius to inspire comparisons, and in many re-
spects to set us examples. I have singled out one of her many writers
for attention, precisely because of this quality of suggestiveness. Other
investigators have, of course, attacked the subject. In Belgium and
Switzerland, Germany, Italy and Austria, and the United States, gov-
ernments and individuals have recently undertaken the preparation of
family budgets; but in many respects Le Play's monographs are the
first and greatest of all. They yield excellent material, upon which
science, in its various branches, has yet to do work which will benefit
mankind in general; and promises especially to benefit the people of
this country. The cosmopolitan attitude of the older economists was
largely due to their centering their attention upon the problems of ex-
change. To them the globe was peopled by men like ourselves, pro-
ducing the fruits of the earth, anxious to exchange them to the greatest
mutual advantage, but hindered from doing so by the perversity of
national governments. The facts of consumption, at any rate, are local.
They are often determined by geology, geography, climate and occupa-
tion; and, however fully we may admit the economic solidarity of the
world, and the advantage which one part of it derives from the pros-
perity of another, yet we may be easily forgiven for thinking that our
first duty lies to our own brethren; that our natural work is that which
lies at our own doors; that, as the old proverb says, 'the skin is nearer
than the shirt.' And we may fairly be excused if we attempt to make
our contribution to the welfare of the human family through the im-
provement of the consumption of wealth and the condition of the people
in our own land.
