540 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
THE CONQUEST OF THE TEOPICS.
By DR. GEO. G. GROFF, Late Major U. S. V.,
ACTING COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION, PORTO RICO.
THE most beautiful and the most fruitful portions of the earth are at
the present time in the possession of partially civilized, or barbar-
ous and savage races, to the exclusion of the more enlightened Caucasian.
Shall he ever remain unable to possess and occupy tropical lands to the
exclusion of dark-skinned and inferior races? Will the time never come
when he can rear a family of strong and vigorous children, of pure
blood, under the equatorial sun? Is it true that the white man re-
moving to the Tropics necessarily deteriorates?
The almost universal belief is that these questions must be an-
swered in the affirmative. That, owing to the great heat, and to evil
influences operating through the air, the water and the soil, it will al-
ways be impossible for white people to live in hot countries permanently,
and, at the same time, to retain the physical vigor of temperate lati-
tudes, and to rear healthy children. But these persons do not take
into account certain recent great discoveries in the domain of science,
medicine and hygiene. In the light of these discoveries, it is not wise
to say that the white man will never conquer the Tropics.
White races have, in the past, reached a high degree of civilization
in hot countries. Egypt, where the first civilization arose, is a land of
tropical heat. The valley of the Euphrates, where arose the civilization
of Babylon, and much of Persia, are both tropical or sub-tropical in
temperature. The people of Egypt, Babylon and Persia were white.
It would seem that to originate a civilization is more difficult than to
maintain it.
Many countries, now most salubrious, were once considered very
unhealthful. Health conditions were so bad in England, after the
withdrawal of the Eomans, that for nearly a thousand years there was
absolutely no increase in the population, and the most dismal accounts
of the reign of disease have come down to our times. What was true
in England, was in great part true of all of Europe throughout the
Dark Ages. Scurvy, rheumatism, fevers and plagues held high carnival
in recurring epidemics every few years. If we can believe the reports,
it was fully as dangerous then to dwell in the most favorable portion
of Europe as it is now in the most dreaded tropical regions.
New England was at first thought to be a very unhealthful land.
The early settlers in Massachusetts wrote to their friends in England
