THE CONQUEST OF THE TROPICS. 541
imploring shipments of ale and beer, because the water was 'wholly
unfit to drink.' What held concerning New England was doubtless
maintained about every other portion of the Continent settled by the
English, and, in some cases, these views prevailed until recent times.
It is well known that our ancestors thought it would never be
possible for white people, or, indeed, for any people, to live on the tree-
less prairies of the great West. The earliest settlers always occupied
the wooded belts, and only seventy years ago the prairies, which now
sustain millions of happy and healthy whites, were looked upon prob-
ably in much the same way as we regard the plains of the Amazon, of
the Orinoco, or even the Sahara of Africa.
Many persons yet living can recall the terrible struggles with dis-
ease which the first settlers passed through in Ohio, Indiana, Illinois,
Missouri, and even in salubrious California. The early settlers in these
States were doubtless as sallow, as cadaverous looking, and with as
little prospect of leaving vigorous descendants as the present white in-
habitants in Cuba, Porto Eico or the Philippines. The reputations of
Florida, Louisiana and Texas were no better.
Adults can live without deterioration in the Tropics. This has been
proven by English and Dutch officers in India, Ceylon, Java, Sumatra
and elsewhere. In the West Indies are men from the United States
and from all the countries of Europe, who have been in the islands
twenty, thirty, forty, and in some cases even fifty, years, who are to-day
the picture of good health, active and vigorous in their work. The
same is true in all parts of the tropical world. Adults can live in good
health there.
Children born in the Tropics, if educated in temperate latitudes, can
return to the Tropics, and this can continue indefinitely in the same
families without deterioration. This has been found true in India,
Java, the Sandwich Islands and in the West Indies.
It has been assumed, heretofore, that the bracing climate of the
north-lands has produced vigorous constitutions in the children sent
from the Tropics. That this was of some value will not be denied,
but it is insisted that of greater value is the education in the higher
ideals of the temperate latitudes. In the Tropics, ideas of morality, of
sanitation, of correct living, are very crude. A child born and reared
in the midst of low ideals unconsciously absorbs them, and as-
similates readily with the population around him. The Spanish idea
that everyone born in a tropical colony is necessarily a 'degenerate' is
practically true, if he is also reared among 'degenerates.' The custom
which exists in these colonies of giving each child born a 'degenerate'
native child as a companion and playfellow, only makes more sure the
outcome. Isolated families exist in Cuba and Porto Eico, where, high
ideals having been maintained and inculcated in the children, we now
