546
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
DISCUSSION AND CORRESPONDENCE.
POETRY AND SCIENCE.
In spite of the occasional croak of
prophets of evil, poetry is not in danger
of being crowded out of the hearts of
men by the materialism of science. It
is true that just now there are no poets
of surpassing genius with whom the
reading public is popularly acquainted.
It is true that the development of our
material civilization through the sur-
prisingly rapid advance of scientific
discovery is a thing which engages at-
tention to a very great degree. It is
true that the necessity of dealing con-
tinually with practical, matter-of-fact
details, whether of the office, or the fac-
tory, or the laboratory, is not in itself
distinctly poetical. It is true that plan-
ning practical uses for the Rontgen
rays or liquid air is not essentially
stimulating to a love for poetry, but
this is only one aspect of the case.
A great deal of the appeal of poetry
comes through what it suggests of the
unknown and mysterious, suggestions,
not of the strange and the fanciful, but
of the beautiful, hints of a something
beyond the beauty to which our eyes
have yet come, a beauty to which, per-
haps, for all our longing, they may
never come. A man for whom the prob-
lems of existence have ceased to be
problems, a man whose theology is a
settled thing, who believes certain
things definitely and rests with as-
sured ease in his belief, a man for whom
the vague anticipations of a world of
doubt as yet beyond his ken "make no
purple in the distance," such a man can
neither have appreciation for a wide
range of poetry, nor will he write verse
that can take any serious place as poe-
try for modern readers. The poetry of
a primitive people, dealing with primi-
tive emotions, finds in more elementary
things, like the boy in Wordsworth's
"Intimations of Immortality," hints
and suggestions of a "something that is
gone," "the glory and the freshness of
a dream." These emotions become our
emotions sympathetically, and not be-
cause they are quite the normal feel-
ings for the mature reader of poetry
to-day. The things that were a won-
der to the Greek of Homer's time have
ceased to be a wonder to us, and if a
poet would excite the same feelings in
us he must employ other means. Sci-
ence, in giving us absolute knowledge
in regard to many things which not so
long ago were full of strangeness for
us, has taken out of them the olden
poetry and the trees have nymphs that
direct their growth no longer, the
streams that were once dsemon-haunt-
ed are now merely water courses, and
the other spirits of the earth and air
have gone far away into the world's
forgetful ness. But while we have been
pushing out into the unknown and an-
nexing portions of it to the region of
the known, we have been merely en-
larging the boundary, not obliterating
it. More than this man never can do.
Always beyond the farthest vision of
his telescope and microscope will lie the
unknowable, growing smaller, perhaps,
but seeming larger as it gives up
some of its secret places for the inhabit-
ing of the dwellers in the known. And
this is the significant thing, that, as
our knowledge grows, our sense of what
lies beyond that knowledge finds an in-
creasing number of things that may
excite wonder. Every new scientific
discovery, at least in certain depart-
ments of science, simply acts as an in-
dex finger pointing the way to related
phenomena not yet tinderstood. And so
it will be ever. The most learned man
that the schools, and the fields and the
sky aided by the finest instruments
human skill can devise, can produce,
will only find himself awed by the vast
