DISCUSSION AND CORRESPONDENCE.
547
darkness of the unknown into which
his eyes cannot pieree.
There is another phase of the ques-
tion that must not pass unnoticed. As
the region of the unknown widens it
offers more objects of interest and may
thereby more fully absorb attention.
When reality is sufficiently rich in ex-
perience we do not care to indulge in
dreams. When the present satisfies us
and answers all our needs we are less
inclined to look forward to the future,
whether that glows before us with the
hues of promise or darkens with the
threat of coming storm. But the full-
est life may weary at times and wish,
for the mere rest of change, to go out-
side of itself and find in the strange-
ness of something new and not yet
known a relaxation and recreation for
the tired hand and brain. And so the
strenuousness of modern life with its
ceaseless outreaching for new pleasures
and new truths will be ready always
for the soothing restfulness of a poetry
that gives the form of beauty to things
just beyond the wonderland of the
known.
But how to make poetry of these
things is the perplexing problem. Truth,
whether of the world of fact or of the
world of imagination reaching out into
the spiritual realm, is not poetry until
in some fashion it is made beautiful in
its appeal to our sensibilities. A hun-
dred years ago the things that were
fitting subjects for poetic treatment
were much more elementary and as
emotional stimulus they reached con-
sciousness in a much more immediate
and direct fashion than the themes that
are fitted for poetry now. The poet who
would achieve distinct success in the
higher walks of poetry to-day must be
master of an art surpassing that of all
but a few of his brethren of the craft
who have gone before him. The world
of the known is so large, comparatively,
now, and the individual is so far re-
moved from the boundaries of the un-
known, save, perhaps, at one point, that
more art is required to induce him to
travel the longer distance out of the
world of cold fact into the borderland
of strangeness where suggestions of new
truth and new beauty may come to
quicken aspirations.
It is true that there are themes that
were new a thousand years ago and will
be new a thousand years hence, but a
poet to achieve distinct success must
strike a note not only individual, but
one closely attuned to the thought and
feeling of his time. Milton we know
rather as a voice of Puritan England
than as a poetic genius. We call Words-
worth a great poet and are conscious
as we do so, that he deserves the dis-
tinction rather because he interpreted
to men a new phase of thought and
feeling, than because he knew how to
make his verse wholly pure poetry
rather than bald prose. Even poets of
such spiritual elevation as Shelley and
Coleridge caught the feeling and the
tone of their time, and the revolution-
ary spirit and the love of nature that
was molding Wordsworth finds a dis-
tinct voice in them as well. Even
Burns, isolated as he was, is not alto-
gether an anomaly, and no one need be
told that Byron was in an extreme de-
gree the voice of the reactionary spirit
of post-revolutionary Europe. William
Morris, retelling old legends of Greek
and Saxon, none the less informed his
verse with the humanitarian and
aesthetic spirit of modern life, and ap-
plied his sense of the beautiful to the
problems of nineteenth century exist-
ence. Swinburne, too, is democratic
and in his vision the world moves on to
new glories even though the old be not
wholly faded from the earth.
Robert Browning is first and funda-
mentally a painter of character, a stu-
dent of the more subtle moods that
dominate the individual, and toward
this the reader of English fiction would
hardly fail to see that the development
of literature has steadily been advanc-
ing for two centuries. Even Mrs. Brown-
ing through the somewhat morbid and
mawkish sentimentality and the over-
strained art of "Aurora Leigh," in the
vague and uncertain way of a woman
