548
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
whose contact with reality was neces-
sarily slight, catches at the problems of
nineteenth century feeling. Tennyson,
as all men know, gave us poetry that
was inwrought of the latest word of
science, the last aspiration of religious
hope, the newest sure conclusion in the
field of social endeavor for the better-
ment of man.
And Tennyson in "In Memoriam," as
Browning in "Paracelsus" and Lowell in
"The Cathedral," has taught us that
abstract truth may be made into poetry
and that of the loftiest and most vital-
izing kind. And to such poetry the
world is ready to give a willing ear,
though it will not be satisfied with the
mere tricking out in rhyme and meter
of scientific truth. The difficulty for
the poet to-day is not merely that of
new knowledge, but that of a science
advancing so rapidly that the poet,
whose art is meditative, can hardly avail
himself of its latest revelations before
their significance has vanished in the
light of some new and revolutionary dis-
covery announced from some investiga-
tor's laboratory. This is so new a thing
that literary conditions have not yet.
been adjusted to it, as we may fairly
hope that they will be some time in the
not distant future.
A thing, almost if not quite, as dis-
tinctive of our time as the progress of
scientific discovery is the growth of the
democratic spirit. This latter has been
a thing of common observation for over
a century, and about that long ago
Wordsworth and Shelley, Burns and
Byron voiced with glowing enthusiasm
the new revolutionary gospel. Since
then it has been the theme of other pens
and has become a matter of common-
place, and yet, though it has not lost
interest because of the fulfilment of the
hopes of man, it is not now a vital
force in literature of the better class.
The reason for this is, perhaps, not far
to seek. In the domain of politics the
advance in thought and feeling from a
hundred years ago is a matter of no
great moment. The poet who would
voice for the world a message of broth-
erhood, thrilled with the spirit of a new
humanity, inevitably finds himself hark-
ing back; he is compelled to repeat the
sentiments of Mrs. Browning's perfervid
Italian poems, or Whittier's simple
songs, or Shelley's vague theorizing: he
ceases to be individual. Under present
conditions, strenuously vocal as the
world is with the voices of those trying
to be heard, failure to be distinctly and
positively individual is failure to gain
attention.
And it is significant that we are ap-
proaching the solution of social prob-
lems in the scientific way. The devel-
opment of a better state of society is to
come about, as we now realize, through
the operation of natural laws, and not
by the sensational process of awaken-
ing in the hearts of men a flashing en-
thusiasm for new forms of government.
Benjamin Kidd's 'Social Evolution'
indicates quite clearly the new point of
view from which all problems of society
are to be considered, and perhaps, not
less remarkable for a like significance is
Henry Drummond's 'Ascent of Man.'
As the laboratory gives up its secrets,
as the mysteries of biology and pro-
cesses of growth in the organic world
become less mysterious, we are ap-
proaching nearer and nearer to a knowl-
edge of the laws that are concerned in
all growth, whether of the star fish or
of the modern state. Assuming that
man is the most vitally concerned in the
organization of society here in this pres-
ent world, and with the problem of an-
other world, whether real or imaginary,
whether a perfect state, or state of
growth as that of earth, one cannot
escape the reflection that both these
problems have become in a measure
problems of science, rather than prob-
lems of intuition or authority or emo-
tional susceptibility.
And when science has come so close
to all the inmost convictions and aspi-
rations of man, there must follow a
poetry of science, fuller, richer, more vi-
talizing and more enduring than any
that has gone before it. It will appeal
to a nobler and loftier sense of beauty, a
