DISCUSSION AND CORRESPONDENCE.
549
finer and more perfect conception of
truth. It will clothe its utterances in
an imagery as much more varied as the
knowledge of to-day is fuller than that
of yesterday. It will be artistic beyond
the dreams of other days, and its art
will be something more than that of
mere intuition. It will glow with color,
but no crudeness of taste will guide the
artist's brush, and the intelligent,
aesthetic sense of a broadly cultured peo-
ple will find inspiration in it, as once
heroes did in the songs of the bards of
old. L. W. Smith.
Tabor, Iowa.
ANTIQUITY OF THE CHEWING
GUM HABIT.
In the letter of Columbus on the dis-
covery of America, facsimile edition,
1892, of the four Latin editions belong-
ing to the Lenox Library, the following
occurs in the translation (page 11) :
"Finally, that I may compress in few
words the brief account of our depart-
ure and quick return, and the gain, I
promise this, that if I am supported by
our most invincible sovereigns with a
little of their help, as much gold can be
supplied as they will need, indeed, as
much of spices, of cotton, of chewing
gum (which is only found in Chios),
also as much of aloeswood, and as many
slaves for the navy as their majesties
will wish to demand."
The date of this letter is March 14,
1493, — over four hundred years ago. It
will be seen by the above that the
chewing gum habit is by no means a
modern or recent one. and doubtless
antedates Columbus' letter by many
years.
The reference to Chios, an island in
the Grecian Archipelago, is presumably
for the purpose of indicating the char-
acter of the 'gum.' The Chios 'gum'
of the ancients has been described as an
earth of a compact character, probably
argillaceous, and had the reputation of
possessing medicinal qualities. Its
consistency and appearance may have
been such as to have led to its being
popularly called 'gum.'
That the chewing of gum, or some
other article or waxy substance suitable
for chewing, was in vogue at the time,
there can be no doubt, and that the dis-
covery of such a substance would be re-
garded as an important acquisition is
implied by its being specially mentioned
and promised by Columbus.
Years ago, more than half a century,
shoemakers' wax, so-called, Burgundy
pitch and crude spruce-gum were
chewed to a considerable extent, as the
writer clearly remembers.
Betel chewing, the leaves and the
nut mixed in certain proportions with
lime, as practiced in Asiatic countries,
naturally occurs to the mind in connec-
tion with the foregoing, as well as oc-
casional instances of chewing slate pen-
cils and lime mortar, an interesting ease
of the latter having been brought to my
notice several years since by a well-
known physician of Newark, N. J. But
these are rather exceptional and indi-
vidual cases, therefore not to be re-
garded as general or popular habits.
From the chewing of earthy substances
to the eating of the same, would appear
to be but a natural step. The latter
habit, so far as facts are available, is
of comparatively infrequent occurrence
and restricted to a much smaller num-
ber of persons. Beds of white infusorial
earth, resembling magnesia in appear-
ance, known as Bergmehl, occur in Lap-
land and Finland. This is, or has been
used in seasons of scarcity, mixed with
flour made of some kind of grain or
ground birch-bark, and clay-eating prob-
ably, to a greater or less extent, still
continues to be a habit in North Caro-
lina as in the past. The effect of this
habit, as any intelligent person would
suppose, is decidedly injurious to the
individual that pursues it. In several
cases that have come under my obser-
vation the results are exhibited in sal-
lowness of complexion, lack-lustre eyes,
distension of the abdomen caused by en-
gorgement or clogging of the liver, and
other intestinal derangement, listless-
ness and general debility.
Rob't E. C. Stearns.
Los Angeles, Cal.
