550
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.
A GRAMMAR OF SCIENCE.
The increasing specialization of the
sciences and the consequent occupation
with the details and technical manipu-
lations of a specialty render it possible
for many a student to secure the equip-
ment needed for his immediate activity,
with but little appreciation of the gen-
eral principles that give direction and
solidarity to his science, or of the more
general and fundamental conceptions
which the various sciences and the
spirit and progress of science as a
whole have in common. The student
runs the danger of gaining a certain
familiarity with the vocabulary and the
usage of the language of science, but of
ignoring its grammar. One of the pur-
poses met by Prof. Karl Pearson's 'The
Grammar of Science' is to give the seri-
ous student an opportunity to acquaint
himself with these underlying concep-
tions — cause and effect and probability,
space and time, motion and matter and
the composition of the physical and or-
ganic worlds. It discusses with him
and for him the nature of the knowing
process, and demonstrates how the sci-
ences stand — not for a literal copy of
reality, but represent a special abstrac-
tion and construction on the basis of ex-
perience, which serve the purposes of
intelligibility and logical system. A
law of nature is not an objective reality,
but "a resumS in mental shorthand,
which replaces for us a lengthy descrip-
tion of the sequences of our sense-im-
pressions. Law in the scientific sense
. . . owes its existence to the crea-
tive power of his [man's] intellect."
Science is thus not the mere reflection of
perceptual experience, but is dependent
for its advance quite as much upon the
formation of appropriate conceptions by
the exercise of insight and a keen logi-
cal analysis and synthesis. Hence, the
importance of the imagination as a
requisite for scientific discovery, which
leads Professor Pearson to regard Dar-
win and Faraday as superior in this
quality to the best of the poets and
novelists. Not only the content of the
sciences but the spirit and the means
that guide its advance form part of the
grammar of science. The nature of the
scientific method, the appreciation that
the scope of science is really coincident
with the scope of verifiable knowledge;
that science represents a mode of ap-
proach and of inquiry, and that the sci-
entist or the scientifically-minded indi-
vidual is characterized by a definite
logical attitude, by a manner of enter-
ing into relation with his surroundings
and of dealing with reality; that science
discountenances attempted short-cuts
and inspired revelations, or guesses of
the riddles of existence; that it avoids
metaphysic and impractical specula-
tion; that it justifies its existence and
the energies which are expended on its
behalf by the mental training it pro-
vides in education, by its illumination
of the problems of life and society, by
the practical benefits it confers in the
various fields of human activity, as well
as by the gratification it yields to some
of the most permanent and most worthy
of our intellectual and aesthetic impulses
■ — these and other propositions are ably
and interestingly presented and consti-
tute an essential portion of this very
stimulating and clarifying volume. The
success of the work is attested by the
appearance of this second edition; the
chief addition consists of a discussion
of the quantitative method as applied
to biological phenomena, which the
readers of others of the author's works
will recognize as one of his favorite sub-
jects of investigation.
THE TEACHING OF ELEMENTARY
MATHEMATICS.
The book with the above title, by
David Eugene Smith, principal of the
