SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.
55i
State Normal School, at Brockport,
N. Y., contains much of value, presented
in a very readable and attractive man-
ner. The subjects treated are arithmetic,
algebra and geometry. About half the
book is devoted to the first. The author
sketches the history of the teaching of
arithmetic from the earliest times, gives
a critical examination of the different
systems which have been tried and
aims to discover the correct general
principles upon which the instruction
should proceed. He notices the tend-
ency of many of our schools to follow
too closely the Grube method, or a
modification of it. The chapter on the
present teaching of arithmetic is full
of valuable suggestions. Algebra and
geometry are treated in the same way.
Much useless lumber is cleared away,
and the whole discussion is marked by
strong common-sense, an element not
always present in discussions of this
kind. The extreme differentiation in
the teaching of these three branches
which prevails in so many schools is
condemned. It is urged that the blend-
ing of algebraic method and notation
with the higher parts of arithmetic, and
the early introduction of the inductive
study of geometric form, both contrib-
ute to the substantial progress and de-
velopment of the student. Valuable
references are given to other writings
for fuller discussions on special topics.
These references cover works in English.
French, German and Italian.
GEOLOGY.
Peofessob Suess's great work, 'Das
Antlitz der Erde,' has been translated
into French with emendations and an-
notations, and thus becomes accessible
to an enlarged number of readers. No
strictly geological publication since the
time of the first appearance of Sir
Charles LyelFs 'Principles of Geology'
has brought together so many data con-
cerning the nature of the altitude of
the continents in relation to sea level.
Geologists have generally assumed that
it is the land which rises or sinks when
a change of level takes place in relation
to the sea. Professor Suess attacks this
view and endeavors to show that the
ocean has and has had its great move-
ments, now keeping up its waters in
the equatorial district, now accumulat-
ing about the poles and transgressing
the low lands of its borders. An ex-
haustive review of the geological struc-
ture of the known parts of the earth,
particularly complete with regard to
the borders of the oceans and the
the Mediterranean, is presented as a
basis for discussing the evidence of such
changes as the sinking in modern geo-
logical times of lands or islands in what
is now the North Atlantic. By the
sinking of the ocean floor, it is held
that the sea level is lowered around
the earth, thus giving rise to emerged
lands. Parts of these plateaus have in
turn sunk, and so the earth has ex-
perienced varied and often sudden
changes of the relations of land and
sea. The work is entertainingly writ-
ten, despite the laborious compilation
of geological details, which is made evi-
dent in its numerous chapters. The
geological explanation of the Noachian
Deluge is perhaps one of the most in-
teresting sections of the work. Aside
from the theory which the work sets
forth, it affords the best general survey
of the earth's surface which is at pres-
ent available in any language. It has
been supplied with numerous recent ref-
erences by M. de Margerie and his
able assistants in the work of transla-
tion.
A YEARBOOK OF BIOLOGY.
L'Annee Biologique for 1897.— Every
year the number of biological workers
increases, the number of repositories of
researches is multiplied and the diffi-
culties of keeping informed of the re-
sults obtained in even a restricted de-
partment of science are enhanced.
Hence, new bibliographical works are
ever welcome, especially if they give not
only titles but abstracts. L'Annee Bio-
logique does not only this, but more,
for its abstracts are likewise critical re-
views indicating the true place in the
