552
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
science of the results given in any paper.
It goes still further, in that it sum-
marizes the advance made during the
year in each subject, and the contents
of the volume are rendered still more
accessible by a thorough author-genus
subject index. Everything seems to be
done that is possible to make the re-
sults of general biological studies avail-
able. Occasionally figures are repro-
duced and comprehensive, synoptic ar-
ticles on the recent advances in one
subject are printed. In the present
volume there is a report on senile de-
generescence, by Elie Metchnikov; on
the urinary tubules in vertebrates, with
seventeen figures, by P. Vignon; and
on the conditions of existence in and the
bionomic divisions of fresh waters by
G. Prouvot. The reviews are all signed
by the authors, the critical remarks be-
ing bracketed. Many of the reviews
have the dignity of distinct contribu-
tions to science, as where a half-page
abstract is followed by a two-page dis-
cussion. The reviewers, or 'collabora-
tors,' are drawn from various countries,
America, Austria, Belgium, England,
Russia and Scotland being represented
in addition to France. This periodical
may be commended in the strongest
terms to biologists and to others inter-
ested in the results of biology. It is
surprising that the work is still so little
known in this country. Scientific men
have a right to take pride in the un-
remunerative efforts of the chief editor,
Professor Delage, to make accessible the
literature of the science of general bi-
ology in order to facilitate its advance-
ment.
ASTROPHYSICS.
The 'Atlas of Representative Stellar
Spectra, together with a Discussion of
the Evolutional Order of the Stars,' by
Sir Wm. Huggins, K. C. B., and Lady
Huggins (Wesley & Son), is not only
a sumptuous and beautifully illustrated
volume, but is also of great scientific
value. Sir Wm. Huggins belongs to
that group of men in England who,
unconnected with any university, de-
vote themselves to research for the pure
love of truth. His distinguished ser-
vices to science received recognition on
the occasion of the Queen's diamond
jubilee, when with only two other sci-
entific men he received the order of
knighthood. His accomplished wife,
who is his constant coadjutor, was the
only woman mentioned in the list of
Jubilee honors. Sir Wm. Huggins may
be said to be the founder of the so-
called 'New Astronomy,' for scarcely
more than a quarter of a century ago
his spectroscope, turned upon a newly
discovered star, first revealed the cause
of the sudden lighting up of these bea-
cons in the heavens, and turned upon
the nebula showed them to be of glow-
ing gas. Since that time the telescope
of the Tulse Hill Observatory, armed
with spectroscope and camera, has been
constantly and laboriously analyzing
the light of star, comet and nebula, to
solve the mystery of their constitution.
"We never go anywhere," said Lady
Huggins; "astronomy, at best, is a
heart-breaking object of devotion be-
neath English skies, and we are always
at home to catch every gleam between
the clouds."
This book gives, in charming narra-
tive, which would be read with interest
by one previously ignorant of the sub-
ject, the history of the pioneer work
"when nearly every observation re-
vealed a new fact, and almost every
night's work was red-lettered by some
discovery."
There follow full details of later
work, especially of the first detection,
by the shifting of the lines of their spec-
tra, of the motion of stars towards us or
from us in the line of sight. We learn
also how terrestrial chemistry has been
enriched by this study of the stars, and
how the nature of long known elements
like hydrogen and the existence of un-
discovered elements like helium have
been first made out from stellar spectra.
But, as the supreme problem for the
biologist is the development of man, so
the supreme problem for the astronomer
is that of the evolutional order of the
