THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE.
555
THE PEOGKESS OF SCIENCE.
The summer laboratories and the
scientific expeditions which are employ-
ing the vacation period of the men of
science in this country would make a
long list. A vacation from teaching
means to the scientific man a chance to
work, and at present there are numer-
ous organized means of enabling him to
profit by this chance. The most defi-
nite form which such arrangements for
summer work have taken is the summer
laboratory or experiment station for
biologists. Such a station affords con-
veniently the mechanical appliances for
scientific work in a good locality for
collecting material to work with. The
marine or other forms of life are thus
made accessible to those whose profes-
sional work during the year keeps them
in an unfavorable locality. Besides
the laboratory at Woods Holl, which is
the nearest American representative of
Professor Dohrn's great laboratory at
Naples, there is an important summer
station at Cold Spring Harbor, Long
Island, under the auspices of the Brook-
lyn Institute, and others cared for by
Leland Stanford, Jr. University, the
University of Indiana, the Ohio State
University and other institutions. It is
common to combine teaching with re-
search at these laboratories and in some
cases they become essentially summer
schools, though generally giving courses
of a higher order than the ordinary sum-
mer school for nature study. But re-
search is often the chief and sometimes
the sole purpose of these stations, and
a vast amount of work is done each
year. The most important of these
summer stations is the Woods Holl Ma-
rine Biological Laboratory, situated on
the southern coast of Massachusetts, be-
tween Buzzard's Bay and Vineyard
Sound. This laboratory has been for-
tunate in having been the summer home
at one time or another of a majority of
the leading zoologists of the country.
It has been usual for the advanced stu-
dents in universities to take courses or
carry on research there, and Woods Holl
training has been a valuable recommen-
dation. The reason is not far to seek.
The material advantages, the spirit of
zeal for concrete fact, the acquaintance
with superior men in the science and
with a large number of equals, all help
to give the best sort of professional
training. Such a place also serves as a
refinery where opinions and theories
may be purified by healthy criticism
and by the subtler influence of exam-
ple. There is a story of three eminent
biologists who got involved in a con-
troversy over a disputed question. They
argued for a while. Finally one of
them said: "Let us get the eggs in
question and study them together."
This was done, and the three men spent
the afternoon over their microscopes pa-
tiently working out the problem to-
gether; and they did work it out. One
of the great advantages of summer lab-
oratories is that they put fellow-stu-
dents in a frame of mind in which they
can work things out together.
The Woods Holl Laboratory has a
right to claim a large share in the
credit for three of the most important
developments in biology in the last dec-
ade — the study of 'cell lineage,' of re-
generation of organs and of the influence
of abnormal conditions on the develop-
ment of embryos. Workers there have
traced the development of the different
cells into which the egg-cell divides and
have discovered just what parts of the
body arise from each group of cells.
They have shown that the way in which
the egg divides and redivides is as con-
stant, is as much a part of the nature
of the animal, as its adult form and
structure are. They have replaced pre-
