5 56
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
vious vague notions of the development
of animals by exact accounts of the cell-
origin of different organs of the body.
Others have studied the abilities of mu-
tilated animals to reproduce the parts
lost and the conditions and limitations
of such regeneration. Such studies have
greatly broadened our views of the na-
ture of animal tissues. Others have in-
vestigated the results of artificial con-
ditions on the development of animals,
especially in the earliest stages. For
instance, from eggs broken into pieces
there have been developed twins, trip-
lets and monsters of various sorts. Such
experiments as these are producing data
concerning the very fundaments of liv-
ing matter and are leading biology be-
yond the mere description of animal
structures and functions towards an in-
sight into the elementary principles of
development. Among the numerous re-
searches, some seventy in all, which are
being carried on at Woods Holl this
summer, those of the most general in-
terest are Prof. C. O. Whitman's study
of hybrids and Prof. Jacques Loeb's
study of artificial fertilization. Prof.
Whitman has been breeding pigeons of
a large number of species for several
years, as a means of studying the phe-
nomena of heredity shown in hybrid
forms. More or less incidentally, he has
discovered many notable facts about the
instincts and habits of the birds and
about various physiological functions
connected with reproduction. Biologists
everywhere are coming to realize the
necessity of systematic and continuous
study of families of animals through a
number of generations. Prof. Whit-
man's is the most extensive of such
studies in this country. The detailed
results of Prof. Loeb's continuation of
his experiments on the action of various
salts on unfertilized eggs will naturally
be awaited with great interest. We
have already noticed his success in caus-
ing unfertilized eggs of the sea-urchin
to develop into normal individuals as
far as the pluteus stage. He has this
year succeeded in producing artificial
parthenogenesis not only in starfish
(Asterias), but also in worms (Chaetop-
terus). Through a slight increase in
the amount of K-ions in the sea-water,
the eggs of the latter can be caused not
only to throw out the polar bodies as
Mead had already observed, but also to
reach the Trochophore stage and swim
about as actively as the larvae origina-
ting from fertilized eggs.
In the courses of instruction offered
at Woods Holl there are two of more
than ordinary interest. Professor Loeb's
course in physiology departs from the
traditional study of physiological func-
tions in the frog and in some mammal,
and offers instead experimental work
on the simpler invertebrate forms. The
phenomena of life are there presented in
diagrammatic form, and are interpreted
as far as possible in terms of physics
and chemistry. The course in nature
study, given this year for the first time,
offers to students without technical
training a chance to learn about ani-
mals and plants from specialists. It has
shown clearly that the best science is
popular, that really scientific work can
be done without previous drill in ter-
minology or technique. A novel fea-
ture of the course has been the sys-
tematic experimental study of the in-
stincts and intelligent performances of
animals. The method of offering to in-
telligent men and women, who wish to
know about animal life, but have no
time or need for special technical train-
ing or detailed anatomical work, a
chance to get something better than
mere book knowledge or haphazard
personal observation, should be widely
extended.
The laboratory of the Brooklyn In-
stitute of Arts and Sciences, situated at
Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, is
nearly as old as the Woods Holl Labora-
tory. Prof. C. B. Davenport, its direc-
tor, is probably the most active worker
in this country in the quantitative
study of variation, and one of the
leading lines of research at Cold Spring
Harbor is now and will probably be for
