THE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE.
557
some years the attempt to get an exact
estimate of normal variation in differ-
ent animals, of the production of ab-
normal variations and of the laws of
inheritance. Professor Davenport is
himself breeding mice extensively and
thus securing data. Of the courses of-
fered two deserve special mention. One
is the course for teachers of zoology in
high schools, a chief feature of which is
the study of living animals. The other
is a course on 'Variation and Inheri-
tance,' which gives advanced students
a chance to study the most important
question of biology and by the most
exact methods. The Cold Spring lab-
oratory has been growing very rapidly
of late and seems likely to continue to
grow. In general the evolution of the
summer laboratory is of interest. An
enthusiast or a modest association gath-
ers a few sympathetic workers at some
favorable locality. The informality and
personal contact are inspiring and
the place becomes famous for good
work. Then come numbers and with
numbers a rapid complication of the so-
cial life of the school. The eminent
leader is replaced by a dozen different
instructors; one no longer knows every
one else; organization becomes complex
and what was at first a sort of sci-
entific family may turn into a formal
institution. The summer laboratory
should not become a big summer col-
lege at the cost of its single-mindedness.
While special laboratories are open
for work in biology, and the universi-
ties are extending their sessions through
the summer, the common schools are
also beginning to realize that they
must adapt themselves to an urban civ-
ilization. Country schools should ad-
journ in the summer for obvious rea-
sons, but in the city nothing is gained
by turning the children from the schools
into the streets. The vacation or play
schools now in session in New York
City are in every way to be com-
mended. The only drawback is that
they cannot hold half of those who wish
to attend. Set free from the traditional
curriculum the children learn more in
the five weeks of 'play school' in the
summer, than in twice that period of
'work school' in the winter. Swimming,
open-air gymnastics, team games, chess,
visits to parks, piers, museums and li-
braries, excursions in barges and into the
country, sketching, whittling, cooking,
sewing and the rest do not lose their
educational value because the children
like them. Such exercises will do a good
deal toward curing the indigestion
caused by being fed for five years on
the three li's, and toward correcting the
anti-social atmosphere of the ordinary
school-room. Among the commonplaces
of modern psychology are: It is not
what a person knows but what he does
that counts; the way to learn is to act;
progress follows from the pleasure of
partial success; an individual only ex-
ists in his relations with others. Such
maxims seem to be as clearly kept in
view by the New York Department of
Education in the summer as they are
forgotten in the winter. The committee
on the New York Play Schools consists
of Messrs. Seth T. Stewart, John L. N.
Hunt and A. P. Marble, to whom and
to the teachers who have carried out
their plans much honor is due. The
report for 1899 is an educational docu-
ment of importance. Copies can prob-
ably be obtained from the Department
of Education of the City of New York.
The Paris Exposition and its con-
gresses may be regarded as a great sum-
mer school. The applications of science
exhibited for amusement, for instruc-
tion and for the advantage of commerce
and manufactures are bewildering in
their multiplicity. It is interesting to
note that the group 'Education' heads
the catalogue of the Exposition. In the
exhibits representing higher instruction,
the United States received nine grand
prizes and nine gold medals, ranking
second to France. On the motion of
a French juror, three Americans were
mentioned as worthy of special dis-
tinction: Prof. H. A. Rowland, Johns
Hopkins University; Prof. Nicholas
