55 8
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Murray Butler, of Columbia University ;
Director Melvil Dewey, University of
the State of New York. More than one
hundred and fifty international con-
gresses, dealing with various subjects of
scientific, industrial and social impor-
tance, are held this summer in Paris,
and form no small part of the interest
of the Exposition, supplementing as
they do the exhibits, furnishing the
theory, as the exhibits set forth the
accomplishments, of art and industry.
The magnitude of these congresses may
be seen from the fact that the thir-
teenth International Medical Congress
had a registration of over six thousand
members, of whom over four hundred
were from America.
Friends of scientific investigation
and the teaching of science will rejoice
at the recent decision in the courts con-
cerning the Fayerweather will case.
For the eighth time the grant of $3,000,-
000 to the colleges has been confirmed.
The case will probably be appealed to
the Supreme Court of the United States,
but the probability is large that Mr.
Fayerweather's wishes will in the end
be carried out. At the present time,
money left to colleges is likely to be
used to a very large extent to promote
the progress of science. Required
courses in linguistics are decreasing,
and the extension of college teaching
and university research is largely along-
scientific lines. New departments, such
as those of physiography, physical chem-
istry, anthropology and experimental
psychology are being established, while
economics and sociology are becoming
less speculative and more like the nat-
ural sciences in their methods. The
college student of to-day gets propor-
tionately more training in the professed-
ly natural sciences than ever before, and
gets scientific training in connection
with courses which were once mere ex-
ercises in learning the opinions of more
or less important people.
We called attention last month to
the completion of the plans for an in-
ternational catalogue of scientific lit-
erature, and stated that Great Britain
and Germany had each subscribed for
forty-five of the three hundred sets that
must be sold in order to defray the cost.
It is obvious that the United States,
with such a large number of libraries
and educational institutions, should
subscribe for its share of the sets,
namely, not less than forty-five. The
Smithsonian Institution has provision-
ally undertaken to represent the inter-
ests of the catalogue in the United
States, and will receive promises of sub-
scriptions. The catalogue will be issued
in seventeen volumes, comprising the
following subjects: Mathematics, me-
chanics, physics, chemistry, astronomy,
meteorology (including terrestrial mag-
netism), mineralogy (including petrol-
ogy and crystallography), geology,
geography (mathematical and physical),
palaeontology, general biology, botany,
zoology, human anatomy, physical an-
thropology, physiology (including ex-
perimental psychology, pharmacology
and experimental pathology) and bac-
teriology. At least one volume will be
given to each subject, and it is proposed
that not all the volumes shall be issued
at once, but in four groups, as soon as
possible after the first of January,
April, July and October, respectively.
The subscription price for a complete set
of the whole catalogue, in seventeen vol-
umes, is £17, say $85. The volumes will
vary in price and can be obtained sep-
arately, but it is necessary to secure
the guarantee of the sale of forty-five
sets in America during the month of
September, and all libraries used for
scientific research, and those individuals
who can afford the cost, should send
subscriptions to Dr. Richard Rathbun,
Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, Washington, D. C.
In the July number of the Monthly
Dr. H. C. Bolton gave an account of
the radio-active substances which have
been found in pitchblende, the chief ore
of uranium. The subject continues to
excite the interest of both chemists and
physicists, though just at present the
