THE NEGRO SINCE THE CIVIL WAR. 35
tures as indicating a tendency to albinism, or that change of pig-
ment such as now and then gives silver foxes or white blackbirds.
All things considered, it seems more likely that we have in these
red negroes the remnant of a people once distinctly separated
from the other black Africans. In favor of this view is the fact
that the members of the group are very evenly distributed,
as they would be if they were a distinct race, and not as we
should expect to find them if they were the result of albinism
or of a mixture of white blood. The number of this variety
of folk is small; it probably does not exceed one per cent of the
population.
When the observer has made the divisions above noted he has
set apart a little more than one half of the blacks he has tried to
classify. Among the remainder he will have remarked other but
indistinct types in a way that appears to indicate that several other
fairly characterized groups might by close scrutiny be established.
The greater part of this remainder, however, evidently consists
of mixed people, who have come from a mingling of the original
diverse stocks.
Imperfectly founded and inadequate as are the results of my
rough inspection of the Southern negroes, they fairly serve to show
some facts of importance to those who would helpfully foresee the
future of the black people in this country. We may first remark
that, notwithstanding the many distinct racial qualities and diver-
sity which, to my eye, far exceed what we may observe among the
whites of the United States, they are, with the exception of the
mulattoes, in excellent physical condition. They are of curiously
even, serviceable size, dwarfs and giants being very rare — much
rarer than among the whites. The percentage of deformed per-
sons is, so far as the eye can determine it, very low. I am fairly
well acquainted with the peasant class in most of the European
states, and I know of no region where the average condition of the
folk appears to be so good as it is among the Southern blacks. In
fact, this state is doubtless due to the rigid selection which was
had when the Africans were chosen for export; in part to the care
of their bodies during the time when they were slaves. The result
is a distinctly chosen people, well fitted to carry the burdens of
this world.
The variety of physical quality which appears to exist among
the negroes is important, for the reason that it appears to be asso-
ciated with mental differences even as great, thus affording a basis
for the differentiation of the people as regards occupations and
consequent station in life. It is even more difficult to get at the
mental peculiarities of the several groups of black folk than it is
