TEE PROGRESS OF SCIENCE.
559
largest amount of work is being done
by the chemists, to whom the question
is of extraordinary interest as to
whether these substances are or are not
real chemical elements. Bela von
Lengyel, of Budapest, as Dr. Bolton ex-
plained, has attacked the problem from
the synthetic side, and by fusing in-
active barium nitrate with uranium ni-
trate, he has obtained a barium sulphate
which has more or less radio-activity.
From this he concludes it is probable
that the radio-activity is due rather to
a peculiar state of the barium than to a
new chemical element. On the other
hand, Becquerel has in a somewhat an-
alogous way mixed inactive barium
chlorid with uranium chlorid, and from
the solution has obtained likewise a
radio-active barium. But he finds that
the increased activity in the barium
salt is attended by a corresponding de-
crease in the radio-activity of the ura-
nium. Hence it cannot be settled from
these experiments whether the uranium
salts possess a radio-activity of their
own, which can by certain methods be
communicated to barium salts, or
whether the radio-activity is due to an
impurity in the uranium which has
thus far eluded isolation.
The director of the Blue Hill Me-
teorological Observatory, Mr. A. Law-
rence Rotch, writes to 'Science' that the
highest previous kite-flight was ex-
ceeded on July 19, when, by means of
six kites attached at intervals to four
and three-quarters miles of steel wire,
the meteorograph was lifted 15,170 feet
above Blue Hill, or 15,800 feet above
the neighboring ocean. At the time
that the temperature was 78° near the
ground, it was about 30° at the highest
point reached, the air being very dry
and the wind blowing from the north-
west with a velocity of twenty-six miles
an hour. The altitude reached in this
flight probably exceeds the greatest
height at which meteorological observa-
tions have been made with a balloon in
America. The highest observations that
have been published were made by the
late Professor Hazen, of the Weather
Bureau, in an ascent from St. Louis,
June 17, 1887, to a height of 15,400 feet.
The U. S. consul at St. Gall, Mr.
Du Bois, sends to the Department of
State the following account of the trial
of the Zeppelin air-ship: At the invi-
tation of Count Zeppelin, I was present
at the trial ascent of his air-ship on the
afternoon of July 2, at Manzell, on Lake
Constance. At seven o'clock the great
ship, 407 feet long and 39 feet in diam-
eter, containing seventeen separate
balloon compartments filled with hy-
drogen gas, was drawn out of the bal-
loon house securely moored to the float.
At the moment of the ascent the wind
was blowing at a rate of about twenty-
six feet per second, giving the opera-
tors a good opportunity of testing the
ability of the air-wheels to propel the
great ship against the wind. The cigar-
shaped structure ascended slowly and
gracefully to about thirty feet above
the raft. The balances were adjusted
so as to give the ship an ascending di-
rection. The propellers were set in mo-
tion, and the air-ship, which has cost
considerably over $200,000, started
easily on its interesting trial trip. At
first the ship moved east against the
wind for about two miles, gracefully
turned at an elevation of about 400 feet,
and, making a rapid sail to the west-
ward for about five miles, reached an
altitude of 1,300 feet. It was then
turned and headed once more east, and,
traveling about a mile against the wind
blowing at the rate of twenty-six feet
per second, suddenly stopped; floating
slowly backwards three miles to the
west, it sank into the lake, the gon-
dolas resting safely upon the water.
The time of the trip was about fifty
minutes; distance traveled, about ten
miles; fastest time made, five miles in
seventeen and one-half minutes. The
cause of the sudden stoppage in the
flight of the ship was proved to be a
slight mishap to the steering apparatus,
but the colossus floated gently with the
wind until it settled upon the surface
