560
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
of the lake without taking any water.
The raft was then brought up and the
ship was easily placed upon it and
brought back to the balloon house. The
weight is 200 centners (22,000 pounds).
A joint meeting of the Royal So-
ciety and the Royal Astronomical So-
ciety has been held in London to hear
preliminary reports from several British
expeditions that went out to observe
the recent eclipse of the sun. Mr.
Christie, the astronomer royal, first pre-
sented an account of the observations
made by himself and Mr. Dyson at Ovar,
in Portugal. There totality lasted 84*
seconds, and though the sky was rather
hazy he secured some good photographs.
The corona seemed distinctly inferior in
brightness, structure and rays to that
seen two years ago in India. Sir Nor-
man Lockyer next described the obser-
vations made by the Solar Physics Ob-
servatory Expedition and the officers
and men of H. M. S. Theseus at Santa
Pola. Professor Turner spoke of the
observations he had made with Mr. H.
F. Newall in the grounds of the obser-
vatory near Algiers. From observations
on the brightness of the corona he con-
cluded that it was many times brighter
than the moon — perhaps ten times as
bright. Prof. Ralph Copeland described
the observations he made on behalf of
the joint committee at Santa Pola, en-
dorsing Sir N. Lockyer's remarks as to
the advantage of having the aid of a
man-of-war. Mr. Evershed presented a
preliminary report on his expedition to
the south limit of totality. His reason
for choosing a site at the limit of total-
ity was that the flash spectrum was
there visible very much longer. Unfor-
tunately, he accepted the guidance of
the Nautical Almanac Office, and found
himself outside the line of totality —
about two hundred meters according to
his informants, who said a small speck
of sunlight was visible all the time. He
was successful in obtaining some fine
photographs of the flash spectrum.
During the last session of Congress
a law was enacted, commonly known as
the Lacey Act, which places the preser-
vation, distribution, introduction and
restoration of game and other birds un-
der the Department of Agriculture;
regulates the importation of foreign
birds and animals, prohibiting abso-
lutely the introduction of certain in-
jurious species and prohibits interstate
traffic in birds or game killed in viola-
tion of State laws. Persons contem-
plating the importation of live animals
or birds from abroad must obtain a
special permit from the Secretary of
Agriculture, and importers are advised
to make application for permits in ad-
vance, in order to avoid annoyance and
delay when shipments reach the custom-
house. The law applies to single mam-
mals, birds or reptiles, kept in cages as
pets, as well as to large consignments
intended for propagation in captivity or
otherwise. Permits are not required
for domesticated birds, such as chick-
ens, ducks, geese, guinea fowl, pea fowl,
pigeons or canaries; for parrots or for
natural history specimens for museums
or scientific collections. Permits must
be obtained for all wild species of
pigeons and ducks. In the case of
ruminants (including deer, elk, moose,
antelopes and also camels and llamas),
permits will be issued, as heretofore, in
the form prescribed for importation of
domesticated animals. The introduc-
tion of the English or European house
sparrow, the starling, the fruit bat or
flying fox and the mongoose, is abso-
lutely prohibited, and permits for their
importation will not be issued under
any circumstances.
