562 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Bradford meeting as pleasant memories as did our colleagues of the
corresponding Association Francaise, when, in friendly collaboration at
Dover last year, they testified to the common citizenship of the Uni-
versal Eepublic of Science. As befits a leading center of industry in
the great county of York, the applications of science to the industrial
arts and to agriculture will form subjects of discussion in the papers to
be read at the meeting.
Since the association was at Dover a year ago, two of its former
presidents have joined the majority. The Duke of Argyll presided at
the meeting in Glasgow so far back as 1855. Throughout his long and
energetic life, he proved himself to be an eloquent and earnest speaker,
one who gave to the consideration of public affairs a mind of singular
independence, and a thinker and writer in a wide range of human knowl-
edge. Sir J. Wm. Dawson was president at the meeting in Birming-
ham in 1886. Born in Nova Scotia in 1820, he devoted himself to the
study of the Geology of Canada, and became the leading authority on
the subject. He took also an active and influential part in promoting
the spread of scientific education in the Dominion, and for a number
of years he was Principal and Vice-Chancellor of the McGill University,
Montreal.
SCIENTIFIC METHOD.
Edward Gibbon has told us that diligence and accuracy are the only
merits which an historical writer can ascribe to himself. Without
doubt they are fundamental qualities necessary for historical research,
but in order to bear fruit they require to be exercised by one whose men-
tal qualities are such as to enable him to analyze the data brought to-
gether by his diligence, to discriminate between the false and the true,
to possess an insight into the complex motives that determine human
action, to be able to recognize those facts and incidents which had exer-
cised either a primary or only a secondary influence on the affairs of
nations, or on the thoughts and doings of the person whose character
he is depicting.
In scientific research, also, diligence and accuracy are fundamental
qualities. By their application new facts are discovered and tabulated,
their order of succession is ascertained and a wider and more intimate
knowledge of the processes of nature is acquired. But to decide on
their true significance a well-balanced mind and the exercise of pro-
longed thought and reflection are needed. "William Harvey, the father
of exact research in physiology, in his memorable work, 'De Motu Cordis
et Sanguinis,' published more than two centuries ago, tells us of the
great and daily diligence which he exercised in the course of his investi-
gations, and the numerous observations and experiments which he col-
lated. At the same time he refers repeatedly to his cogitations and
