586 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
in 1630, the deaths from all diseases are said to have amounted
to 186,000. The Milan outbreak has been graphically described by
Manzoni, in his celebrated 'I Promessi Sposi/ Unrecognized, the dis-
ease entered Milan in October, 1629. The mild cases which were met
with during the winter months lulled the fears of the people and en-
couraged the mass of physicians to deny the existence of the plague.
But in April the disease began to assert itself in terrible earnest. The
frenzied populace, blind to the contagiousness of the disease, were pos-
sessed with the strange hallucination that obtained during former
plague epidemics in other Italian cities, that the pest spread because of
poison scattered about by evil-minded persons. Suspicious strangers
were, as a result, stoned in the streets, imprisoned and even put to
death by legal process because of such fanatical beliefs. To offset the
growing pestilence, the people demanded of the Archbishop that a
solemn religious procession be held, and that the holy relics of Saint
Charles be exposed. At first this was refused, but eventually it was
granted. The procession bearing the saintly body was solemnly held
on the 11th of June. The fanatical security which these devotions
engendered was rudely shattered when, a few days later, the disease
burst forth with renewed activity among all classes in all parts of the
city. Nevertheless, as Manzoni observes, the faith was such that none
recognized that the procession itself was directly the cause of the new
outburst of the disease by facilitating the spread of the contagion.
Again the belief asserted itself that the 'untori,' or poisoners, mixed with
the crowd and with their unguents and powders had infected as many as
possible. From that day the fury of the contagion continued to grow to
such an extent that scarcely a house remained exempt from the disease.
The number of patients in the pesthouse rose from 2,000 to 12,000,
and later reached 17,000. The daily mortality rose from 500 to 1,200,
then 1,500, and is even said to have reached 3,500. Milan, before the
epidemic, was said to have had a population of from 200,000 to 250,000.
The loss by death has been variously estimated at from 140,000 to
186,000. All these deaths were not due to the plague. Thus, large
numbers of children died as a result of starvation consequent upon the
death of their parents from the plague.
The horrors attendant upon such a dreadful visitation can well be
imagined. Scarcity of help in removing the dead and in taking care
of the sick made itself felt, to say nothing of the lack of food. Enor-
mous trenches, one after another, were filled with the bodies of the
victims, carried thither by the hardened monatti, the counterpart of the
Florentine hecchini, so well portrayed by Lord Lytton in his 'Rienzi.'
These bearers of the sick and dead "were naturally recruited from the
lowest criminal classes, and it can, therefore, cause but little wonder that
