THE BUBONIC PLAGUE. 587
an epidemic of the worst of crimes was associated with that of the
plague.
In 1656 Italy was again invaded by the plague, and on that oc-
casion Genoa lost 65,000 of its population by death. About the same
time terrible epidemics of the disease ravaged Eussia, Turkey and
Hungary.
London, in 1665, suffered dreadfully from the plague. The disease
appears to have been imported from Holland, where it was known to
have existed for some time. The progress of the disease in London has
been vividly portrayed by Defoe in the 'Journal of the Plague Year' and
in the 'Due Preparations for the Plague.'
It is supposed that the pest had been imported in bales of goods
from Smyrna into Holland in 1663. From thence it crossed over to
London, where the first deaths were reported about the first of Decem-
ber in 1664. Toward the end of that month another death occurred
in the same house, but during the following six weeks no new case
developed. About the middle of February, however, a person cTiecl of
the plague in another house. From that time only occasional cases
of plague were reported, although the weekly mortality was rapidly
rising and was greatly in excess of the usual rate. Thus, while the
ordinary weekly mortality ranged from two hundred and forty to three
hundred, this was gradually increased, so that in the third week in
January it had risen to four hundred and seventy-four. After a slight
remission, the mortality again rose, so that early in May plague cases
were reported more frequently. It soon became evident that the plague,
as in Milan in 1630, had slowly but surely gained a firm foothold. The
increased mortality was undoubtedly due to unsuspected plague cases
of either the pneumonic or the septicemic type.
During May, and especially during the hot weather in June, the
disease continued to spread. At the same time, the panic-stricken
people began to leave the city in large numbers. In July the condition
was truly deplorable. To quote Defoe :
"London might well be said to be all in tears; the mourners did not
go about the streets, indeed, for nobody put on black or made a formal
dress of mourning for their nearest friends; but the voice of mourn-
ing was truly heard in the streets. The shrieks of women and children
at the windows and doors of their houses, where their dearest relations
were perhaps dying, or just dead, were so frequent to be heard as we
passed in the streets, that it was enough to pierce the stoutest heart in
the world to hear them. Tears and lamentations were seen almost in
every house, especially in the first part of the visitation; for toward
the latter end men's hearts were hardened, and death was so always
before their eyes, that they did not so much concern themselves for the
loss of their friends, expecting that themselves should be summoned
the next hour."
