3 6 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
to ascertain those of their bodies, so what I shall now set forth
is stated with much doubt. It represents my own opinion, quali-
fied by that of others whose judgments I have sought. In the
Guinea type we have a folk of essentially limited intelligence.
The children are rather nimble-witted, but when the body begins
to be mature it dominates the mind. It seems likely that thus the
largest element of the race is to find its place in the field or in the
lower stages of craft work. The Zulu type appears to me fit for
anything that the ordinary men of our own race can do. They
remain through life alert and with a capacity for a vigorous reac-
tion with their associates. From them may come the leaders of
their kindred of less masterful quality. From the Arab type we
may expect more highly educable people than is afforded by the
other distinct groups. They have more delicate qualities. They
lack the wholesome exuberance of the ordinary negro, which is
commonly termed " bumptiousness." Their nature is often what
we may term clerical. They are inclined to be somber, but are
not morose in the manner of a " musty " elephant, as is frequently
the case with the Guinea and Zulu types. Of the red or freckled
negroes I have no sufficient grounds for an oi3inion, yet they as a
whole impress me less favorably than any other of the distinct
groups. As for the unclassified remainder of the blacks, it can
only be said that they seem to be as varied in their mental as they
are in their physical character.
The mulattoes of this country appear to be of less importance
to the future of the people with which they are classed than they
are in other parts of the world, where the white element of the
mixture is from other than the Teutonic stock. They are in gen-
eral of feeble vitality, rarely surviving beyond middle age. My
father, an able physician, who had been for nearly all of a long-
life in contact with negroes, was of the opinion that he had never
seen a half-breed who was more than sixty years old. There is
certainly a notable lack of aged people of a hue that would indi-
cate that they were anywhere near an equal mixture of the white
and black races. Those in which the blood of white stock pre-
dominates appear to be more enduring than the half-breeds.
While the intellectual qualities of the mixed white and black
are often very good and the attractiveness of the person and man-
ner sometimes remarkable, they have in general a rather bad repu-
tation as regards trustworthiness. Such a view of mestizos is com-
mon in all countries where they occur. Humboldt is quoted
(though I have not found the matter in his works) as saying that
all mixed races have rather the evil than the good of the races
from which they sprang. In the case of 4he mulattoes, at least,
