THE BUBONIC PLAQUE. 591
disease was introduced by troops returning from the Danubian prov-
inces. As so often has been the history of plague, the first cases were
not recognized, and the existence of pest was denied. When the plague
was demonstrated to be present, it is said by Haeser that three-fourths
of the populace deserted the city. The disease began early in March
and increased during the early summer months. In August over 7,000
deaths resulted, while in September the records show that 21,000
died. In October the plague decreased, but still 17,000 deaths at-
tested to its fearful power. Early in January it became extinct, after
a duration of ten months, and after having caused the death of more
than 52,000 people.
Toward the close of the eighteenth century, at the time of the
Napoleonic invasion of Egypt and Syria, the French armies came into
contact with the plague. Bonaparte's visit to the pest-stricken soldiers
at Jaffa has been perpetuated in the historic canvas which is to be seen
at Versailles.
During the nineteenth century the plague ravaged Northern Africa
on diverse occasions. Constantinople was invaded in 1802, 1803, 1808.
It was also present to a slight extent in the Caucasus and in Astrakhan.
A notable plague epidemic appeared in Egypt in 1812, and soon spread
through Turkey and Southern Russia. Constantinople and Odessa
were severely scourged. In Odessa out of a population of 28,000 there
died 12,000.
It is a noteworthy fact that the Napoleonic wars, with all their
incident hardships and misery, did not develop or spread the plague
in Europe. The outbreaks of the disease were limited during this
period to Africa and to Turkey, Bosnia, Roumania, Dalmatia and to
Southern Russia. Two exceptions, however, are to be noted. In 1812
the Island of Malta was infected and more than 6,000 of its people
yielded to the disease. The epidemic of 1815 at Noja, in Apulia, was
the first recurrence of the plague on Italian soil since 1743, and thus
far it has been the last.
The Balkan Peninsula and Southern Russia were visited from time
to time by the plague up to about 1841. For nearly forty years Europe
was wholly free from the disease, which, however, continued its exist-
ence in Northern Africa, in Mesopotamia and in India. The Russo-
Turkish war of 1878 brought the Russian troops into contact with the
disease in the Caucasus, and the epidemic at Vetlianka on the lower
Volga was unquestionably introduced by such returning soldiers.
Such, then, has been the history of the bubonic plague. No other
epidemic disease can be traced authentically as far back as the 'Black
Death.' The characteristic symptoms, the rapid death, the excessive
mortality are all features which have been noted through more than
twenty centuries. The plague bacillus discovered in 1894 by Yersin,
