GASOLINE AUTOMOBILES.
595
the shaft only once in every two revolutions it is necessary to provide
a heavy fly wheel 0, which will store up enough momentum to con-
tinue the rotation of the motor through the ineffective revolution.
Before the motor can put forth an effort it is necessary for the piston
to move downward so as to draw in a supply of explosive gases and
then to move up so as to compress them and produce an explosion;
therefore, the motor will not start of its own accord, but must be set
in motion. In the act of starting the wheel is turned by hand.
The combustion of the gasoline vapor within the chamber Q and
the upper end of the cylinder develops a large amount of heat, and
unless means are provided for dissipating it the temperature will soon
rise to a point that will interfere with the proper action of the motor.
Two ways are employed to carry off the heat. One is by surrounding the
cylinder with a water jacket, as shown in the diagram at NN; and the
other is to provide the exterior of the cylinder with numerous thin
Fig. 2. Petiuu.ki'm spirit Motor.
ribs so as to increase the surface exposed to the air and thus increase
the radiation.
The electric spark is a very effective igniter for the explosive mix-
ture, and, by properly setting cam n the explosion can be made to take
place just at the position of the piston that may be found the most
desirable; but the points at i are liable to get out of order, and the
battery that actuates the induction coil M and the coil itself can be-
come a source of more or less trouble, and on that account the igniting
is effected in some motors by means of a hot tube. When this is used
the cam n, the lever I and the electrical parts of the apparatus are not
required. In their stead a tube is placed on the upper side of the
chamber Q and this tube is maintained at a red heat by means of a
flame impinging against its outer surface. When the explosive mix-
ture is compressed it rises in the interior of the hot tube, and when it
reaches the portion that is hot enough to produce combustion an ex-
