596
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
plosion takes place. By many engineers this arrangement is regarded
as superior to the electric spark on account of its simplicity.
Gasoline motors are made with one, two or more cylinders, hut in
each cylinder the action that takes place is that described above. The
actual construction of a motor is not so simple as might be assumed
from the appearance of Fig. 1; many details are required which are
not here shown. A more perfect idea of the actual construction of a
gasoline motor can be had from Fig. 2, which is a working drawing of
a recent European invention. In this design it will be noticed that
the cylinder is cooled by radiation into the surrounding air, the ex-
terior surface being increased by numerous circular ribs and also by
extending a hollow trunk from the upper side of the piston, so as not
only to increase the radiating surface, but also to allow the hot air to
escape from the chamber T in which the crank discs revolve. In this
drawing E is the explosion chamber, corresponding to Q in Fig. 1, and
Fig. 3. Reversing Mkchanism.
the valve s is the counterpart of /, while s r corresponds to the valve
h. The upper pipe t is the pipe e of Fig. 1 and the lower pipe t' is the
pipe r of the same figure. Although the crank discs, connecting rods
and other details are different in shape, it will readily be seen that their
relation to each other is the same.
Since a gasoline motor cannot start of its own accord, it is neces-
sary in vehicles in which they are used so to arrange the driving gear
that the motor may be kept in motion all the time and always in the
same direction, hence, to reverse the direction of the carriage, revers-
ing mechanism, independent of the motor, must be provided. The most
simple mechanism for a gasoline vehicle employing spur gearing ex-
clusively is shown in diagrammatic form in Fig. 3. In this figure A rep-
resents the cylinder of the motor, B the crank disc chamber and M the
vaporizing receptacle, which is generally called the carburator. The
pinion C, on the end of the motor shaft, meshes into a gear D which
is mounted upon a sleeve E which revolves freely round shaft G. This
