THE NEGRO SINCE THE CIVIL WAR. 39
feet is the basis of this judgment. We have also to remember that
this offense when committed by a negro is through the action of
the mob widely published, while if the offender be a white man it
is unlikely to be so well known. I therefore hold to the belief that
violence to women is not proved to be a crime peculiarly common
among the blacks. I am inclined to believe that, on the whole,
there is less danger to be apprehended from them in this regard
than from an equal body of whites of the like social grade. This
matter is one of exceeding importance, for on it may depend the
future of the South. It is fit that in considering it men should keep
their heads clear.
In reviewing the condition of the Eu -Africans a third of a cen-
tury after the war that gave them their new estate, we have, I
think, reason to be satisfied with the results of the change. The
change has brought us no distinct economic evils, as shown by the
statistics of the industries. The labor of the blacks is quite as pro-
ductive as it was while they were slaves. Their moral situation is
not evidently worse than it was before they attained the measure
of liberty which they now possess. The first step, that which natu-
rally caused the most fear, has been taken, the people are free and
have not turned their liberty to license. In looking forward, how-
ever, we see that only a part of the task has been done. The ne-
groes have failed to acquire, save in very small proportion, the
capacity for a true political life. It has been found necessary to
deprive them of the control they once exercised, to the peril of the
States and their own great harm. The question is as to the ways
in which they are to be lifted into the safe plane of American citi-
zenship. They must be so lifted, or we shall in time see estab-
lished in the South a system of serfdom under the control of an
oligarchy — a state of affairs in some regards worse than that of
slavery, for it will lack the element of personal interest which did
much to help the black in the first stages of his life with us.
Faro II is a dog of fine breed and great intelligence, belonging to one
of the artists of La Nature, and has been engaged as an actor in the play
of Robinson Crusoe, at one of the theaters in Paris. On the stage his
name is Toby, and he knows it, and knows just what he has to do. He has
entered into relations with his fellow-actors, and obeys his cue instantly.
He does the stage business with strict accuracy, picks up the bird that is
shot and takes it to Robinson, looks up bis yams and the vegetable soup and
his pipe. He is grieved when Robinson is sad. exults when he is rejoic-
ing, and looks after his fellow-actors — the goat, the monkey, and the par-
rot — who are not so bright as he. Off the stage he knows nothing of Toby
or of Robinson Crusoe, answers to no name but Faro, and recognizes no
master but the artist, M. Weisser.
