6o 4 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
power of the motor, which is located under the seat, is transmitted
through friction wheels. In looking at the illustration it will be noticed
that the hind wheels have a circular rim attached to the inner side, and
of a diameter somewhat smaller than the wheel itself. Two small
friction wheels are placed so that either one may be pressed against the
inner surface of this rim. The 'shape of the rim, as well as that of
the small wheels, is such that they hug each other firmly, so that the
rim is carried around in a direction which corresponds with the direction
of rotation of the friction wheel. In operating the carriage the motor
is set in motion, and then one or the other of the two friction wheels
is pressed against the rim on the driving wheel, according to whether
it is desired to run forward or backward. While this arrangement might
not operate with entire success if applied to a heavy vehicle, it appears
to be all that could be desired for a light carriage.
Three-wheel vehicles have been used, but there is a difference of
opinion as to their value, as the construction has disadvantages as well
as advantages. It is evident that such a vehicle can be steered with
greater ease than one running on four wheels, but on country roads,
where the wagon wheels roll down a smooth surface, and leave the
space between in a rough condition, it is equally evident that the third
wheel, in passing over this uneven surface, would jolt the vehicle to a
considerable extent. On a smooth pavement the three-wheel vehicle
will run fully as well as the four-wheel; but, on the other hand, on such
a pavement the latter can be steered with as little effort as the former,
so that the question of superiority of design is one that probably de-
pends upon individual taste.
From the descriptions of automobiles given in this and the two pre-
ceding articles, it will be seen that although many of them are used,
especially in France, they are not entirely free from objectionable
features. The electrical vehicles are provided with the most simple and
durable machinery, and, being noiseless, odorless and free from smoke,
are all that could be desired in so far as their operation is concerned;
but they are heavy and can only be used in places where the batteries
can be recharged. The steam vehicles are light, have simple mechan-
ism and can run anywhere; but they exhaust steam into the air, which
is clearly visible in cold or wet weather, and the heat from the engine
and boiler is an objection, at least in summer time. The gasoline
vehicles run well, but are noisy, and the odor of the gasoline is disagree-
able as well.
