SOME PRINCIPLES OF WARFARE. 605
SOME SCIENTIFIC PRINCIPLES OF WARFARE.
BY WILLIAM J. ROE.
AS in boxing, fencing, saber and bayonet exercises, there are com-
paratively few postures, guards, thrusts and strokes, so in war-
fare, whether the numbers be large or small, the arms most modern or
ancient, there are just a few principles to whose steady adherence and
skilful manipulation all success is clue. In order that these may become
apparent without irksome study of military details, let us imagine a
command of say a thousand men, fairly well drilled, of good ordinary
intelligence and engaged in a cause worthy of being fought for. We
have been in camp for some time, but an order has now come to join the
main army. This is a long distance off, the railway communications
have been broken, and the intervening country, though possessed of
good roads, is more or less in the hands of the enemy.
Our scouts have kept us informed as to the condition of the country
for several miles around; our first day's march is, therefore, not ham-
pered with any especial dread of surprise. We move quickly and at ease.
Safe as everything appears to be, the commander relaxes none of the
needful precautions; at least fifty men, under command of an experi-
enced officer, are sent quite far to the front, the distance varying with
the nature of the country — the farther, the more broken it may be.
The best roads are followed; the men are allowed to march at ease,
though always preserving their company organization, while the officers
are always more or less on the alert. There is a small rear guard, but
it is upon the advance that the main responsibility falls. Of the fifty
thrown forward, about half will remain together; the rest are scattered;
some far to the front along the highway; others on either side of the
route, riding up the hills on either hand, making sure that no deep
gorge, dense growth of forest or thicket, nor even a field of grain con-
ceals an enemy. It is upon the alertness of those vedettes on front and
flanks that the safety of the force in great measure depends. History
records many relaxations of this principle of precaution, and for lack
of it sudden ambushes and deplorable disasters. It was thus, in spite of
Washington's repeated warnings, that Braddock fell into a cunning am-
buscade, and thus (not to multiply examples) that Custer and his com-
mand were massacred to a man among the high Rockies.
On the annexed map the men may be located at 'A' marching from
T)' in the direction of the village, 'F'. The advance is at 'B', the rear
guard at 'C. The commander rides with the main column, near the
