SOME PRINCIPLES OF WARFARE. 609
cluce better results than the project of some dashing subaltern, anxious
for the bauble reputation.
For such an attack an hour near midnight is usually selected, that
the information may be gathered or the mischief done and a retreat
effected under cover of darkness. A dark, wet, blustering, or — if the
time be winter — an especially cold night is chosen. The degree of suc-
cess to be attained depends naturally upon the element of surprise. Un-
less this be complete the attacking party will find their attempt usually
quite futile.
The other sort of attack — that which has for its object the capture
of the position — is usually planned to take place during the extreme
darkness just preceding daybreak. The enemy has perhaps crawled on
hands and knees up the slopes towards the line of sentinels. The van
of this force is composed entirely of picked men, officered by the coolest
heads. Signals are agreed upon, exact times for action arranged, and
everything calculated to a nicety to insure that suddenness which is the
very soul of success.
It is in the planning of such an expedition that true qualities of
generalship are shown. It is the fashion rather to decry the military
merits of Washington; yet I know of few events in history that show
more sagacity than the swift crossing of the wintry Delaware and the
surprise of Trenton. It was sagacious chiefly for the accurate com-
prehension of the probabilities. Washington knew the convivial habits
of Rahl's Hessians, especially at Christmas-tide; he reckoned upon find-
ing them in the midst of carousals, and the result proved the value of
his forethought.
Under ordinary circumstances, on the march, to quarter a com-
mand inside four walls is never advisable. The men are not as readily
under the eye of their officers; in case of surprise they cannot be called
into the ranks as quickly; discipline insensibly relaxes, and the machine
(for an armed force ought to be that, however intelligent its units) fails
to respond instantaneously to the word of the chief. In case of a serious
attack, however, the village may serve a most important purpose.
Should the houses be substantial ones of stone or brick, each may be-
come a most efficient, if temporary fortification. One consideration
which might have prevented its occupation has now no longer any
weight. Apart from any natural feeling of good will for our fellow
citizens, how unwise it would be to unnecessarily exasperate them. But
now in the face of the enemy, it will be surprising if any soul is churl
enough to grudge a patriotic hospitality. Most of the denizens will,
indeed, make haste to hide their precious persons in the cellar, but will
seldom grumble at the necessity.
With the utmost celerity the baggage and horses are moved to the
most sheltered spot; the guns, under strong guards, posted where they
VOL. LVII.— 39
