6io
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
may be best utilized; some of the men, previously detailed for just such
an emergency, are engaged in throwing up earthworks, piling logs,
stones, anything that can be utilized for barricades. The officer charged
with that duty, if possible a skilled engineer, goes quickly from place to
place, hurriedly indicating the lines of defense; these connecting the
several buildings in such a manner as to enclose the entire command
within lines of quite formidable intrenchments. All this time the
troops, having taken possession of the houses, have poured an uninter-
rupted fire upon the assailants, obliging them to retire, or at least giving
the diggers — or sappers, as they are called — time to complete their labor
of defense. Surrounded by a force sufficiently large to make resistance
in the field quite hopeless, we are at least in position to protract the
struggle, and one capable of defense, except against an assault in over-
whelming numbers, or against heavy artillery. The latter they are not
provided with, or the measures we are taking might all go in the end
for nothing. Several assaults are attempted during the day, but are
easily repulsed with no small loss. The enemy at last withdraws,
and we now see that he is busy throwing up intrenchments. Mean-
while, we have not been idle. To facilitate communication, and to en-
able us to concentrate our forces under cover, passageways have been
constructed between the various buildings, inner partitions prevent-
ing free access from room to room within the houses have been broken
through, and the debris, together with beds broken up, mattresses and
'any old thing 5 capable of arguing with a bullet, piled in the window
embrasures, leaving loopholes here and there, as occasion offers, while
galleries may be constructed with loopholes in the floor to fire down-
wards.
One of the most important matters to be attended to is the securing
of as many good positions as possible, from which fire may be concen-
trated upon exposed points. In a regular siege the points of attack
selected will always be those most exposed, on account of their project-
