SOME PRINCIPLES OF WARFARE. 615
August sun. It seems as if all chivalry had departed; it has but changed
its ways.
The object of 'flanking 5 a position is to so manage as to turn that at-
tenuated line into a mass of men upon which to let loose with dire
effect either the quick-firing guns or the sharp edges of our horsemen's
sabers.
Notice those long, bent, black lines, bending like fish hooks. The ar-
row heads indicate the direction of a flanking attack; from '¥', through
the woods, up the ravine, to fall upon the exposed end of the enemy's
front at 'K\ Such would be our most feasible method of flanking; the
foe might, however, have anticipated us, either by providing a bloody
hospitality somewhere in that ravine, or by a flank movement of his
own, as the bent black line shows, around the woods, to fall upon our
right flank at r E°. Such an operation, if successful for them, would be
utterly disastrous to us.
Surprised by a sudden and unexpected attack upon the weakest point
and unable to change front in time, men lose heart, forget discipline,
huddle in masses, confused and disorganized, or fly like sheep, in either
case food for firearms, gluttonous of such occasions. It requires some-
times but a very small force upon a flank to produce great results; the
appearance upon the field, even at a distance, of Joseph E. Johnston's
corps at the first Bull Eun was sufficient to demoralize the whole Union
army, and at the battle of Areola, Bonaparte completely flanked the
Austrians with a few flourishes of his trumpets.
So we have for a third maxim of war the necessity of protected
flanks. If we know or think that a Johnston lurks on either hand, we
ought to be sure of our Pattersons; if we apprehend an unfriendly visit
from a Blucher, we should see to it that our Grouchy is trustworthy.
Let us now broaden our view of operations, that we may see how
the principles established for a limited number of men on the march, in
the field, or behind fortifications, may apply upon a larger scale. To
this end a brief study of the map (9) will show four contiguous coun-
tries — 'A', very populous, powerful and wealthy, having a navy capable
of control of the high seas, and a large and efficient army; 'C repre-
sents a country even more populous, but not aggressive, 'D' an in-
significant power, while 'B' is a country considerable in extent, but
largely mountainous, and sparsely inhabited by a rude but warlike
people.
A cause of war comes up between 'A' and 'B'. In ancient times
the ruder nation would have been the aggressor, tempted by the wealth
and invited by the enervated populace of the larger civilization. Now
the conditions are likely to be reversed. However, war begins; the
forces of 'A' move hastily towards the frontier, while his fleet blockades
'B's' solitary seaport at the point 'E'. The maxim of caution now
