618 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
MODEKN MONGOLS.
By F. L. OSWALD, M.D., A.M.
THE political supremacy of the Caucasian race was supposed to have
been decided by the fall of Carthage, more than two thousand
years ago, but was thrice afterwards imperiled by an encounter with a
rival of long-unsuspected resources.
The Scythians of Strabo were probably not Tartars, but Slavs ('Sar-
matians'), or, like their allies, the Gets, Slavs, mingled with Teutons.
Parthia, too, had a semi-Aryan population; but the campaign of Attila
gave the champions of Europe a chance to measure their strength with
that of a new foe, as shifty as the Semites, and of far greater staying-
power. His Huns were undoubtedly Mongols, and came so near over-
powering the inheritors of Eoman strategy that at one time the fate of
western civilization hung upon the issue of a single battle. The western
coalition triumphed, yet its victory on the plains of Chalons (October,
451), was due to the numerical inferiority of their enemies as much as
to the predominance of their own skill or valor. The very retreat of
the vanquished chief established his claim to the prestige of a superla-
tive tactician.
Again, in 1402, only the accidental quarrel of two Mongol con-
querors saved Europe from the fate of its ravaged borders. Sultan
Bajazet had vanquished all his western foes, and the union of his forces
with those of Tamerlane would undoubtedly have sealed the doom of
the Mediterranean coast lands, if not all of Christendom.
A hundred years later the generals of Solyman II. came very near
retrieving the neglected chance. They vanquished Austrian, Hun-
garian and Italian armies, and in 1560 defeated the combined armadas
of the Christian sea-power at Port Jerbeh — so completely, indeed, that
the allies were eager to make peace by betraying each other.
And it would be a great mistake to ascribe these victories to a
mere triumph of brute strength. That same Solyman, with all his
fanaticism, was a patron of every secular science, and at a time when
western princes had to sign their names by proxy, Mohammed Baber
Khan, the conqueror of India, wrote essays in four different languages
and published memoirs abounding with shrewd comments on social and
ethical questions and problems of political economy. He was a poet,
too, and liberal enough to compose a dirge in memory of a prince
whom he had slain in single combat.
Ethnologically, there is, therefore, nothing abnormal in the out-
