MODERN MONGOLS. 619
burst of intellectual vigor that has lifted Japan to the front rank of
civilized nations. It is merely a revival, analogous to the dambreak
of pent-up energies that followed the collapse of mediaeval despotism.
Instead of having to work out their salvation by tentative efforts, the
Japanese, it is true, had the advantage of ready-made patterns, but
that difference has perhaps been more than offset by achievements af-
fecting the reforms of four centuries in as many decades, and by modi-
fications which, in more than one instance, have improved upon Cau-
casian models.
"The organization of the Japanese transport system," says a press
dispatch from Taku, "was a revelation to western staff officers; bodies of
troops, with their equipments of stores and camping outfit, were landed
without a hitch, in quick succession, and moved to the front without a
moment's loss of time. No delay, no confusion, no blockades of wharf-
boats and baggage carts; everything worked in smooth grooves and in
evident conformity with a prearranged and oft-rehearsed plan."
And in 1897, after the affront of the Eussian intervention, the vic-
torious islanders, compelled to forfeit half the rewards of their valor,
proceeded to make the very best of the other half, and their provoked
diplomats managed to preserve their dignity, as well as their complete
presence of mind. The Japanese police enforces law and order without
waging Blue-Law wars against harmless amusements; there are no as-
sociations for the prosecution of bathing youngsters, no anti-concert
crusades, no suppression of outdoor sports on the day when ninety-nine
of a hundred wage-earners find their only chance for leisure.
The 'Yankees of the Orient' have a code of honor without duellos,
trade syndicates without 'trusts', giant cities and ghetto suburbs without
anarchists. Their labor riots are settled by a dispassionate court of
appeal. Their schools, Professor Arnold informs us, are hampered by
'fads' and experiment committees, but not by boards of bigot trustees.
In spite of Buddhist conventicles, the emergence of the educated classes
from the shadows of religious feudalism is a complete emancipation.
The Japanese 'Council of Finance' has adopted American custom-house
methods and Belgian systems of graded taxation. There is, indeed, a
good deal of eclecticism in the supposed surrender of indigenous insti-
tutions; foreign methods have been adopted only on the evidence of
their efficiency, and always with a view to making them subservient
to national purposes. The key to the distinctive characteristics of
the North Mongols can be found in Sir Edwin Eandall's definition of
Terseverance combined with shiftiness.' The Asiatic Yankees can
turn, dodge and deviate while keeping a pre-determined aim steadily in
view, and it is by no means improbable that Mongol influences have
impressed similar peculiarities on the character of the northeastern
Slavs. Muscovy was a Tartar Khanate for a number of centuries, and
