RELIGIOUS BELIEFS OF THE CENTRAL ESKIMO. 627
The souls of the sea animals are endowed with greater powers than
those of ordinary human beings. They can see the effect of the con-
tact with a corpse, which causes objects touched by it to appear of a
dark color; and they can see the effect of flowing blood, from which a
vapor rises that surrounds the bleeding person and is communicated to
every one and every thing that comes in contact with such a person.
This vapor and the dark color of death are exceedingly unpleasant to
the souls of the sea animals, that will not come near a hunter thus
affected. The hunter must therefore avoid contact with people who
have touched a body, or with such as are bleeding. If any one who
has touched a body or who is bleeding should allow others to come in
contact with him he would cause them to become distasteful to the
seals and therefore also to Sedna. For this reason the custom demands
that every person must at once announce if he has touched a body or if
he is bleeding. If he does not do so, he will bring ill luck to all the
hunters.
These ideas have given rise to the belief that it is necessary to an-
nounce the transgression of any taboo. The transgressor of a custom
is distasteful to Sedna and to the animals, and those who abide with
him will become equally distasteful through contact with him. For
this reason it has come to be an act required by custom and morals to
confess any and every transgression of a taboo, in order to protect the
community from the evil influences of contact with the evil-doer. The
descriptions of Eskimo life given by many observers contain records of
starvation which, according to the belief of the natives, was brought
about by some one transgressing a law and not announcing what he
had done.
I presume this importance of the confession of a transgression with
a view to warning others to keep at a distance from the transgressor has
gradually led to the idea that a transgression, or we might say a sin,
can be atoned for by confession. This is one of the most remarkable
religious beliefs of the Central Eskimo. There are innumerable tales of
starvation brought about by the transgression of a taboo. In vain the
hunters try to supply their families with food; gales and drifting snow
make their endeavors fruitless. Finally the help of the angakok* is
invoked, and he discovers that the cause of the misfortune of the peo-
ple is due to the transgression of a taboo. Then the guilty one is
searched for. If he confesses, all is well, the weather moderates, and
the seals will allow themselves to be caught; but if he obstinately
maintains his innocence, his death alone will soothe the wrath of the
offended deity.
While thus the reason appears clear why the taboos are rigorously
* The medicine-man or shaman of the Eskimo.
