628 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
enforced by public opinion, the origin of the taboos themselves is quite
obscure. It is forbidden, after the death of a sea mammal or after the
death of a person, to scrape the frost from the window, to shake the
beds, or to disturb the shrubs under the bed, to remove oil-drippings
from under the lamp, to scrape hair from skins, to cut snow for the
purpose of melting it, to work on iron, wood, stone, or ivory. Women
are, furthermore, forbidden to comb their hair, to wash their faces and
to dry their boots and stockings.
A number of customs, however, may be explained by the endeavors
of the natives to keep the sea mammals free from contaminating in-
fluences. All the clothing of a dead person, more particularly the tent
in which he died, must be discarded; for if a hunter should wear cloth-
ing made of skins that had been in contact with the deceased, these
would appear dark and the seal would avoid him. Neither would a
seal allow itself to be taken into a hut darkened by a dead body, and
all those who entered such a hut would appear dark to it and would be
avoided.
While it is customary for a successful hunter to invite all the men
of the village to eat of the seal that he has caught, they must not take
any of the seal meat out of the hut, because it might come in contact
with persons who are under taboo, and thus the hunter might incur the
displeasure of the seal and of Sedna.
It is very remarkable that the walrus is not included in this series of
regulations. It is explicitly stated that the walrus, the white whale
and the narwhal are not subject to these laws, which affect only the sea
animals that originated from Sedna's fingers. There is, however, a
series of laws that forbid contact between walrus, seal and caribou. It
is not quite clear in what mythical concept these customs originate.
There is a tradition regarding the origin of walrus and caribou which is
made to account for a dislike between these two animals. A woman
created both these animals from parts of her clothing. She gave the
walrus antlers and the caribou tusks. When man began to hunt them,
the walrus upset the boats with his antlers and the caribou killed the
hunter with his tusks. Therefore the woman called both animals back
and took the tusks from the caribou and gave them to the walrus. She
took the antlers, kicked the caribou's forehead flat and put the antlers
on to it. Ever since that time, it is said, walrus and caribou avoid each
other, and the people must not bring their meat into contact. They
are not allowed to eat caribou and walrus meat on the same day except
after changing their clothing. The winter clothing which is made
of caribou-skin must be entirely completed before the men will go to
hunt walrus. As soon as the first walrus has been killed, a messenger
goes from village to village and announces the news. All work on
caribou-skins must cease immediately. When the caribou-hunting
