RELIGIOUS BELIEFS OF TEE CENTRAL ESKIMO. 629
season begins, all the winter clothing, and the tent that has been in
use during the walrus-hunting season, are buried, and not used again
until the following walrus-hunting season. No walrus hide, or thongs
made of such hide, must be taken inland, where is the abode of the
caribou.
Similar laws, although not quite so stringent, hold good in regard
to contact between seal and walrus. The natives always change their
clothing or strip naked before eating seal during the walrus season.
The soul of the salmon is considered to be very powerful. Salmon
must not be cooked in a pot that has been used for boiling other kinds
of meat. It is always cooked at some distance from the hut. Boots
that were used while hunting walrus must not be worn when fishing
salmon, and no work on boot-legs is allowed until the first salmon has
been caught and placed on a boot-leg.
The fact that these taboos are not restricted to caribou and walrus
suggests that the mythical explanation given above does not account
for the origin of these customs, but must be considered as a later effort
to explain their existence.
The transgressions of taboos do not affect the souls of game alone.
It has already been stated that the sea mammals see their effect upon
man also, who appears to them of a dark color, or surrounded by a vapor
which is invisible to ordinary man. This means, of course, that the
transgression also affects the soul of the evil-doer. It becomes attached
to it and makes him sick. The shaman is able to see, by the help of
his guardian spirit, these attachments, and is able to free the soul from
them. If this is not done the person must die. In many cases the
transgressions become attached also to persons who come in contact
with the evil-doer. This is especially true of children, to whose souls
the sins of their parents, and particularly of their mothers, become
readily attached. Therefore when a child is sick the shaman, first of
all, asks its mother if she has transgressed any taboos. The attach-
ment seems to have a different appearance, according to the taboo that
has been violated. A black attachment is due to removing oil-drip-
pings from under the lamp. As soon as the mother acknowledges the
transgression of a taboo, the attachment leaves the child's soul and the
child recovers.
The souls of the deceased stay with the body for three days. If a
taboo is violated during this time the transgression becomes attached
to the soul of the deceased. The weight of the transgression causes the
soul pain, and it roams about the village, endeavoring to free itself of
its burden. It seeks to harm the people who, by their disobedience to
custom, are causing its sufferings. It causes heavy snows to fall and
brings sickness and death. Such a soul is called a tupilak. Toward
the middle of autumn it hovers around the doors of the huts. When a
