MENTAL ENERGY. 633
You will observe that in our arithmetic we have ten numerals which
can be divided into fractions. In our music we deal with seven notes
and their variants. In our alphabet we have twenty-six letters. These
factors correspond in some measure to what we call elements in nature.
There is a limit to the number of combinations that can be made of the
numerals and their fractions, to the notes of music and their variants,
and of the letters of the alphabet; but in each case this limit is so re-
mote as to be negligible, like the exhaustion of the heat of the sun.
May we not deal with the elements of nature in the same way? Can
any one prescribe a limit to their conversion and reconversion to the
use of mankind? Is it not in these processes of conversion that we
derive our subsistence?
We make nothing. All that we can do is to move something. We
move the soil and we move the seed; nature gives the harvest. We
direct the currents of falling water, of heat and of steam; nature im-
parts the force or energy to which man has only given a new direc-
tion. We are now imparting new directions to the force that we call
electricity, and to what we call cold. What is the force from which we
derive this power of transforming physical energy? May we not call it
mental energy? Is not mental energy the factor in mankind by which he
is dinerentiated from the beast? Does not man only accumulate ex-
perience, and is there any limit to the power of mind over matter?
If these points are well taken, mental energy is the fourth and
paramount factor in providing for material existence, and the science of
political economy, which deals with land, labor and capital, becomes a
purely metaphysical science when we admit the force of mental energy
into the combination.
We deal, as I have said, with sixty elements, so-called, more or less,
but the unity of nature is the most important fact ever proved by
science; the correlation of all forms of physical energy leading logically
from the idea of manifold forces or gods to the unity of creation, neces-
sarily ending in the conception of unity of a creator, or the one God.
This modern development of mental science is but the Hebrew concept
of the creation in a new form. The Hebrew race was the first one of
the historic races with whom the unity of creation and the unity of the
creator became an article of faith. I doubt not that it was in that con-
cept and the power derived from it that the Hebrew intellect asserted
its preeminence in the history of the world. According to that con-
cept, to man is given "dominion over the fish of the sea and over the
fowl of the air and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth."
By what force does man hold dominion unless it is through his mental
energy and his capacity to accumulate experience?
All the industrial arts are antedated by the industries of animals.
The tailor finds his prototype in the tailor bird; the mason in the
