MENTAL ENERGY. 635
is maintained by the exchange of one form of service for another. The
measure of compensation is not the number of hours of labor put into
the product or service. The standard by which services are measured is
what the buyer is saved from doing, not what the seller does. Each of us
might possibly be able to house, clothe and feed ourselves if we were
cast upon an island possessing sufficient natural resources. If
a hundred persons representing all the classes in society were
wrecked upon such an island, each adult or each person above ten years
old would probably find a way to house, feed and clothe himself. Why
do we not house, feed and clothe ourselves, and why would not the
hundred representatives of different classes wrecked on an island each
do his own part of the work for himself only? Simply for the reason
that men are either endowed from birth with different aptitudes, or
different aptitudes are developed in their environment. Each one finds
out that by delegating to another certain kinds of work he saves his own
time and energy. Each one finds out what he can do for the next man,
while the next man finds out what he can do for him.
There is in every transaction of life an unconscious cerebration or
estimate of the services rendered to us, saving each of us mental or
manual energy, whenever we buy any product or service from another.
That unconscious cerebration affects the minds or habits or acts of both
parties in every purchase and sale. There may be errors in regard to
the service itself. The ignorant man will buy quack medicines that he
had better let alone, but what he pays under the false impression of
benefit to himself is his measure of what he hopes to save; while the
quack medicine vender, taking advantage of the ignorance of others,
filches from them the means of subsistence, even of wealth, under the
pretext of service. As time goes on, however, false measures of service
are eliminated with increasing intelligence, and true benefits constitute
more and more the vast proportion of the exchanges.
The same ignorance which leads the masses of the people of every
country to submit to military dictation, even in a bad cause, also leads
to the wars of tariffs among nations by which prejudice and animosity
are kept up. The false conception that in international commerce
what one nation gains another must lose, is promoted by the advocates
of protection, many of whom very honestly believe that through the
exclusion of foreign goods domestic industry may be promoted, wholly
ignoring the fact that arts and industries are developed by intelligence
and not by legislation.
The advocates of bounties and of special legislation also ignore the
fact that in this country, where mental energy is more nearly free in
its action than in any other, manufactures and the mechanic arts de-
velop in due proportion according to the age and the natural resources
of the territory or state, nine-tenths or more of the occupations which
