636 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
are listed under these titles being free in the nature of things from any
possibility of foreign competition through the import of a product of
like kind.
There may be nothing new in this essay, but until my own ob-
servation had led me to the conclusion that land, labor and capital were
alike inert and incapable without the coordinating power of mental
energy, the doubt continued to exist in my mind which is often ex-
pressed about the possibility of economic science having any real exist-
ence or right to the title. Also, until my own observation led me to
the conclusion that the cost of a man to the community is what he con-
sumes, and not what he secures in the way of income, the correlation of
wealth and welfare had not been satisfactorily reconciled. I think
that a very large part of what is written under the title of political
economy would be greatly modified, and perhaps never have been writ-
ten, had these concepts been derived by the writers from experience, as
they have been in my own observation.
I have not much patience with abstract or a priori theories, my own
method being one of observation, then referring to the various au-
thorities in order to find out whether my observations or their abstract
theories have been shallow and superficial.
Again, I find in the ideal of the continuous miracle of creation in
which man is a factor the solution of many intellectual difficulties. In
the face of such a perception of the methods of the universe, the larger
part of the dogmas that have been put forth under the name of religion
take their place with much of the historic rubbish which passes under
the name of history. When it becomes plain that every man has his
place in the progress of continuous creation, and is a factor in it; that
nothing is constant but change; that there is no such thing as fixed capi-
tal; all the doubts and fears regarding the future of humanity vanish in
the light of sure progress.
What greater stimulus can there be than for every man each in his
own way rendering service for service, his objective point being only
the welfare of himself and his family, when he attains the conviction
that by so much as his mental energy adds to the sum of the utilities by
which mankind lives, so may that part which he consumes and which
represents his cost to the community be fully justified, even though it
is earned with more apparent ease and less physical exertion than are
called for from his poorer neighbors.
Incomplete as his studies were, I have always found in the 'Har-
monies' of Frederic Bastiat the greatest encouragement and the greatest
incentive to the work which I have undertaken under the name of
political economy, leading more and more to the conviction that war
and warfare, whatever influence they may have had in developing
progress in the past, are now due to ignorance and greed; the war of
