MENTAL ENERGY. 637
tariffs due to selfishness and stupidity; and the contest of labor and
capital due to the errors of the ignorant workman and the ignorant
capitalist alike. All interests are harmonious. The evolution of
science and invention will surely bring them together on the lines of
righteousness, peace and material abundance.
This essay has been condensed from a lecture prepared and given
before a Clergymen's Club some months ago. In it I tried to show the
necessary connection of religion and life as developed by economic
study, the law of mutual service being the rule by which commerce lives
and moves and has its being. This lecture has since been read to sev-
eral clubs of very different types of men, and from the great interest
excited I am led to think there is something in it fit for the student of
facts and figures to say.
I may, therefore, venture to repeat the statement of two principles
which are presented in this treatise, which I think have been seldom
if ever fully developed in any of the standard works upon political
economy. To my own mind these are basic principles which when
applied may profoundly modify many of the concepts of students of
economic science. I join in the view that the family is the unit of so-
ciety, the home the center. The end of all production is consumption.
Nothing is constant but change, and there is no such thing as fixed
material capital of any long duration in the progress of time. The two
principles which I have endeavored to enforce are as follows:
First. The cost of each person or head of the family is what he and
his immediate dependents consume. His income, whether measured in
terms of money or in products, is, therefore, no measure of his cost; what
he distributes in payment for service rendered being expended by those
who receive it in procuring the commodities which constitute their
cost to the community.
Second. No person who is occupied or is in the employment or ser-
vice of others is paid for what he does. His work may occupy long
hours and may be applied to arduous manual labor, or it may be done in
a short number of hours per day, with but little physical effort. Neither
the hours nor the effort constitute any measure on which payment can
be based. The measure of payment is fixed by the measure of the work
saved to him who makes the payment, consciously or unconsciously
estimated.
These two precepts or principles, coupled with the theory that there
is no conceivable limit to the power of mind over matter, or to the
number of transformations of physical energy to which direction may be
given in the material support of humanity, bring the visions of the
Utopians within the scope of a law of progress in material welfare to
which no limit can be put in time or space.
