640
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
tween the periodic stars and the irregular variables to be hereafter
described.
Keturning to the tipper end of the scale, the contrast between the
great number of stars less than fifty days, and the small number be-
tween fifty and one hundred, seems to show that we have here a sharp
line of distinction between stars of long and those of short period.
But, when we examine the matter in detail, the statistics of the periods
do not enable us to draw any such line. About eight periods are less
than one day, and the number of this class known to us is continually
increasing. About forty are between one and ten days, and from this
point upwards they are scattered with a fair approach to equality up
to a period of one hundred days. There is, however, a possible dis-
tinction, which we shall develop presently.
The law of change in a variable star is represented to the eye by a
curve in the following way. We draw a straight horizontal line A X to
ti
abed
Fig. 1. The Law of Change in a Variable Star.
represent the time. A series of equidistant points, a, I, c, d, etc., on
this will represent moments of time. One of the spaces, a, b, c, etc.,
may represent an hour, a day, or a month, according to the rapidity of
change. We take a to represent the initial moment, and erect an ordi-
nate aa',oi such length as to represent the brightness of the star on some
convenient scale at this moment. At the second moment, &, which may
be an hour or a day later, we erect another ordinate W, representing
the brightness at this moment. We continue this process as long as
may be required. Then we draw a curve, represented by the dotted
line, through the ends of all the ordinates. In the case of a periodic
star it is only necessary to draw the curve through a single period, since
its continuation will be a repetition of its form for any one period.
We readily see that if a star does not vary, all the ordinates will be
of equal length, and the curve will be a horizontal straight line. More-
over, the curve will take this form through any portion of time during
which the light of the star is constant.
There are three of the periodic stars plainly visible to the naked
eye at maximum, of which the variations are so wide that they may
