644 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
It is found that several other stars vary in the same way as Algol;
that is to say, they are invariable in brightness during the greater part
of the time, but fade away for a few days at regular intervals. This is
a kind of variation which it is most difficult to discover, because it will
be overlooked unless the observer happens to notice the star during the
time when an eclipse is in progress, and is thoroughly aware of its
previous brightness. One might observe a star of this kind very ac-
curately a score of times, without hitting upon a moment when the
partial eclipse was in progress. On the principle that like effects are
due to like causes, we are justified in concluding that in the cases of all
stars of this type, the eclipses are caused by the revolution of a dark
body, now called 'Algol variables,' round the principal star.
A feature of all the Algol variables is the shortness of the periods.
The longest period is less than five days, while three are less than
one day. This is a result that we might expect from the nature
of the ease. The nearer a dark planet is to the star, the more likely
it will be to hide its light from an observer at a great distance. If, for
example, the planet Jupiter were nearly as large as the sun, the chances
would be hundreds to one against the plane of the orbit being so nearly
in the line of a distant observer that the latter would ever see an
eclipse of the sun by the planet. But if the planet were close to the
sun, the chances might increase to one in ten, and yet farther to almost
any extent, according to the nearness of the two bodies.
Still, we cannot set any definite limit to the period of stars of this
type; all we can say is that, as the period we seek for increases, the
number of stars varying in that period must diminish. This fol-
lows not only from the reason just given, but from the fact that the
longer the interval that separates the partial eclipses of a star of the
Algol type, the less likely they are to be detected.
STARS OF THE BETA LYRiE TYPE.
The star Beta Lyrae shows variations quite different in their nature
from those of Algol, yet having a certain analogy to them. Anyone
who looks at the constellation Lyrae a few nights in succession and
compares Beta with Gamma, a star of nearly the same brightness in its
neighborhood, will see that while on some evenings the stars are of
equal brightness, on others Beta will be fainter by perhaps an entire
magnitude.
A careful examination of these variations shows us a very remark-
able feature. On a preliminary study, the period will seem to be six
and one-half days. But, comparing the alternate minima, we shall find
them unequal. Hence the actual period is thirteen days. In this
period there are two unequal minima, separated by equal maxima.
