650 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
period of variation. It will be seen that the epoch of greatest negative
velocity, which referred to the center of mass of the system, is 16.2 km,
per second, occurs at the time of maximum brightness. The greatest
positive velocity, 23.9 km., occurs during the sixth day of the period
just after the time of minimum brightness.
Finally, the moments of inferior and superior conjunction of the
dark body with the bright one are neither of them an epoch of minimum
brightness, which takes place half-way between the two.
The most plausible conclusion we can draw is that the light of the
star is affected by the action of the dark body during its revolution.
But how the change may be produced we cannot yet say.
CLASSIFICATION OF VARIABLE STARS.
A classification of variable stars, based on the period of variation
and the law of change, was proposed by Pickering. It does not,
however, seem that a hard and fast line can yet be drawn between
different types and classes of these bodies, one type running into
another, as we have found in the case of the Algol and Beta Lyrae
types. Yet the discovery of the cause of the variation in these types
makes it likely that a division into two great classes, dependent on the
cause of variation, is possible. We should then have:
(1) Stars, or systems, constituting to vision a single star, of
which the apparent variability arises from the rotation of the system as
a whole, or from the revolution of its components around each other.
(2) Stars of which the changes arise from other and as yet
unknown causes.
The main feature of the stars of the first class is that we are under
no necessity of supposing any actual change in the amount of light
which they emit. Their apparent variations are purely the effect of
perspective, arising from the various aspects which they present to
us during their revolution round each other. If we could change our
point of view so that the plane of the orbit of Algol's planet no longer
passed near our system, Algol would no longer be a variable star.
Under the same circumstances the apparent variations in a star of
the Beta Lyrae type would cease to be noticeable, if they did not disap-
pear entirely.
The stars of this class are also distinguished by the uniformity
and regularity with which they go through their cycle of change.
The stars of the other class, which we may call the Omicron Ceti
type, are different not only in respect to the length of the period, but in
the character of the variation. There are certain general laws of
variation and irregularities of brightness which stars of this class go
through. Starting from the time of the minimum, the increase of light
is at first very slow. It grows more and more rapid as the maximum
