CHAPTERS ON THE STARS. 657
farther away that it may be regarded as having no parallax. In this
assumption lies the weak point of the method. Can we be sure that
the smaller stars are really without appreciable parallax? Until recent
times it was generally supposed that the magnitude of the stars afforded
the best index to their relative distances. If the stars were of the same
intrinsic brilliancy, the amount of light received from them would, as
already pointed out, have been inversely as the square of the distance.
Although there was no reason to suppose that any such equality really
existed, it would still remain true that, in the general average, the
brighter stars must be nearer to us than the fainter ones. But when the
proper motions of stars came to be investigated, it was found that the
amount of this motion afforded a better index to the distance than
the magnitude did.
The diversity of actual or linear motion is not so wide as that of
absolute brilliancy. Stars have, therefore, in recent times, been selected
for parallax very largely on account of their proper motion, -without
respect to their brightness. It is now considered quite safe to assume
that the small stars without proper motion are so far away that their
parallax is insensible.
Ever since the time of Bessel the experience of practical astronomer?;
has tended toward the conclusion that the best instrument for delicate
measurements like these is the heliometer. This is an equatorial tele-
scope of which the object glass is divided along a diameter into two
semicircles, which can slide along each other. Each half of the object
glass forms a separate image of any star at which the telescope may be
pointed. By sliding the two halves along each other, the images can
be brought together or separated to any extent. If there are two stars
in proximity, the image of one star made by one-half of the glass can
be brought into coincidence with that of the other star made by the
other half. The sliding of the two halves to bring about this coinci-
dence affords a scale of measurement for the angular distance of the
two stars.
The most noteworthy forward steps in improving the heliometer are
due to the celebrated instrument-makers of Hamburg, the Messrs.
Repsold, aided by the suggestions of Dr. David Gill, astronomer at the
Cape of Good Hope. The latter, in connection with his coadjutor,
Elkin, made an equally important step in the art of managing the
instrument and hence in determining the parallax of stars. The best
results yet attained are those of these two observers and of Peter, of
Germany.
Yet more recently, Kapteyn, of Holland, has applied what has
seemed to be the unpromising method of differences of right ascension
observed with a meridian circle. This method has also been applied
by Flint, at Madison, Wis. Through the skill of these observers, as
VOL. LVII.— 42
