66o
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
DISCUSSION AND CORRESPONDENCE.
THE MEETINGS OF THE AMERI-
CAN ASSOCIATION.
The American Association for the
Advancement of Science has a member-
ship ranging from 1,900 to 2,000. Of
this number probably at no one time
was there an aggregate of 300 persons
present at the recent annual meeting in
New York.
When the Association meets in an
Eastern city the attendance is gener-
ally twice if not three times as large
as when it convenes in the West. So
little was made of the recent meeting,
locally or officially, that an intelligent
resident of the city remarked: "Why,
I intended to have attended some of
the meetings, but seeing no reference in
the daily papers, it entirely escaped my
mind."
Of the 2,000 members, about 800
are fellows; the 1,200 and more regis-
tered as members are, presumably, per-
sons devoting little or no time to inde-
pendent research along scientific lines,
but persons who while not actively so
engaged are more than ordinarily inter-
ested in the discussion of scientific top-
ics. These have in the past paid dues
and attended the meetings of the Asso-
ciation with more or less regularity. It
is a question in the minds of some of
the 1,200 if their attendance at the
meetings is desired. Their membership,
so far as it relates to the five dollars in-
itiation fee and three dollars dues, is
without question acceptable, and to per-
sons reading papers in the various sec-
tions their presence is preferable to
empty seats, but in view of the fact
that during recent years the manage-
ment of the Association has eliminated,
so far as possible, the popular features
of the general programme, the question
is reasonably asked: "Does the man-
agement desire the attendance of the
1,200, or is their financial support all
that is desired?"
It was stated some years ago that
the purpose of the Association was to
furnish not only an occasion for scien-
tists to present original papers, but also
to interest the public by holding the
meetings annually in different parts of
the country; but if attendance is not
secured (by preparation and publica-
tion of interesting features of a pro-
gramme) no great interest will be awak-
ened by a meeting held in any part of
the country.
I should like to suggest the follow-
ing ways of increasing the interest of
the meetings:
The general daily sessions might be
made occasions of rare interest by the
introduction of prominent men of science
who would make at least brief remarks.
This would make it possible for those
who have limited time to become fa
miliar with the faces of those whom
they would like to know, and the little
'sample' of scientific thought thrown
out would doubtless awaken desire for
more.
It will be objected that the meetings
of the council immediately preceding
the general session prevent holding an
official meeting at that hour. The pub-
lic and the 1,200 would care little
whether the session were official or un-
official so it were interesting and in
structive.
The officers of the several sections
could easily secure distinguished rep
resentatives of their respective sciences
to give brief addresses followed by dis-
cussion, and thus the morning hour
would prove an attraction to citizens
and others who might be unable to at-
tend the sessions following.
Again, citizens, where the meetings
are held, would be pleased to provide
excursions to points of local interest
