44 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
ment of a substitute for a snowshoe on a non-migratory bird whose
habits keep it largely upon the ground, while no such development
would be expected on a bird that leaves us in the winter for warmer
climes.
In this connection I would say that while few of our native birds
change the color of their plumage as an adaptation to the seasons,
our pretty thistle bird, or American goldfinch, undergoes a radical
change. In summer he has a bright yellow body with black mark-
ings and a black head, while in winter his plumage is all pale brown
or sparrow-color, and we often fail to recognize in our somber win-
ter resident the brilliant goldfinch of our summer. These little
birds are gregarious in the winter, and as they fly in small flocks
into the trees by the roadside they are frequently mistaken for
sparrows, and in fact are usually called tree sparrows.
There are few things connected with the study of natural his-
tory more interesting than the tendency in animals to develop con-
ditions suitable to their environment, and it is surprising to see for
how long a time an acquired habit will sometimes survive after its
usefulness has ceased.
The common chimney swallows always build their nests in chim-
neys that are unused during their breeding season. They make a
semicircular nest of sticks, which they glue to the inside wall of
the chimney with a secretion from their mouths. It is interesting
to see the swallows gather the sticks for their nests, for they do
not alight on the ground, but, while flying, break off dead twigs
from trees without stopping in their flight.
This habit of building in chimneys must have been acquired in
a comparatively short time, for there were no chimneys in this
country before the arrival of the white man, and for a long time
afterward the settler had but one chimney in his house, which must
have been used, at least for cooking purposes, in the summer. So
perfect is this habit that the swallow looks and acts as though he
were made for the chimney; his color is a sooty black, so that he
does not tarnish his coat by rubbing against the chimney walls;
the feathers of his tail end in hard spikes, that he can use them to
prop himself against the wall. I have been interested on a sum-
mer evening watching these swallows in hundreds circling around
a church chimney in Plattsburg, until finally the birds in the
center began to enter the chimney, the circle growing smaller and
smaller as they apparently poured down in the vortex of a whirl-
pool of swallows. Many birds have acquired a habit of associat-
ing with man, and we rarely find them, except during the season
of their flight, far away from houses.
The barn swallows always place their nests under the eaves or
