APPLET ON S'
POPULAR SCIENCE
MONTHLY.
PROSPECTUS FOR J900
FOR a magazine whose field has no limitations except those of science, it is quite impossible
to make a comprehensive announcement of its contents a year ahead. The Popular
Science Monthly aims to keep its readers in touch with the most recent advances and dis-
coveries as they are applicable to the promotion of human welfare and social progress. We
believe that science is the force which has done the most in this direction in the past, and that
it is what we must look to for growth in the future. We take advantage of every opportunity to
secure articles that shall be entertaining as well as instructive without sacrificing accuracy, and
we especially seek those authors who have the ability to write upon scientific subjects in a clear
and instructive way.
The most characteristic feature of the nineteenth century, and especially of its latter half,
is the truly wonderful advance of science, both theoretical and practical. Coincident with
this advance, and very largely dependent upon it, has been the unprecedented development
of commerce and manufactures, of social organization and national wealth. A comparison of
the potentiality of an unskilled laborer of one hundred years ago with that of a like workman of
to-day brings out most strikingly what this scientific advance has accomplished in solving the
problems of life and raising the standard of comfort ; so that the luxuries of a few years ago are
the necessities of to-day, and new pleasures have been added and even become common which
were formerly beyond the reach of the most wealthy. In view, then, of this prominently
scientific aspect, the most important and instructive portion of nineteenth-century history will be
that of its scientific achievements, which, as Mr. Alfred Russel Wallace has so well pointed out
in his " Wonderful Century," far exceed in number as well as in importance those of all the
centuries that have preceded it.
A CENTURY OF SCIENCE.
Believing that no more appropriate and useful way of signalizing the completion of this cen-
tury could be adopted than that of publishing during its closing year a history of its scientific
work, we have arranged for such a series of articles from the leading scientific writers of the
world: Sir Robert S. Ball in Astronomy; President Arthur T. Hadley in Economics; Prof.
Joseph Le Conte in Geology; the Hon. Andrew D. White in University Education ; Prof. W. M.
Flinders Petrie in Archaeology ; M. W. Haffkine in Preventive Inoculation ; Prof. W. M. Davis in
Meteorology ; Prof. F. W. Clarke in Chemistry ; and others of like standing in their specialties.
NEW DISCOVERIES AND INVENTIONS.
The Monthly will continue to give accounts of the course of discovery and of new develop-
ments in pure science ; and careful writers familiar with their subjects will be engaged to
describe whatever occurs in this field as soon as it has assumed definite form. Recognizing
that the highest service that can be rendered by knowledge is in its use for the improvement of
man's condition, special attention will be given to the adaptations of discovery to practical ends
in the arts and industries, in the betterment of social life, and in the development of a wiser
statesmanship for the administration of civil affairs.
14
