THE PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS OF SCIENCE,
These are the tests by which science, and indeed any other like system, must be judged ;
and not only because the study of these applications is of value in leading to a general appre-
ciation of the beautiful correlation between pure science and practical life, but more, perhaps,
on account of the actual value of the information, we have always heretofore, and shall still
more in the future, devote a certain portion of our space to their discussion. Among the earlier
papers to appear will be a series of illustrated articles by William Baxter, Jr., C. E., giving a
comprehensive account of the automobile in its various forms, including a discussion of the
relative merits of the various types.
THE RACE QUESTION.
The question of the adjustment of the relations of the races will be considered as offering
some of the most serious and immediate difficulties our people have to confront, and one to
which the thoughts of the best students of affairs are anxiously directed. Among the articles
bearing upon this subject will be several by Prof. N. S. Shaler, of Harvard University, deaiing
with various aspects of the negro question. Professor Shaler, who spent his early life in the
South, throws much new light on its practical aspects.
CURIOSITIES OF NATURE.
No subject more quickly and universally enlists attention or holds it longer than that of natural
history. From the apparently inexhaustible store of novelties it affords, the curious blind fishes
of North America— those remarkable products of retrograde evolution — are marked for early
description in several articles, accompanied by numerous illustrations, from the pen of Prof.
Charles Eigenmann, who has made a special study of these fishes and is the acknowledged
authority respecting them.
THE ADVANCE OF WOMAN
Recognizing as one of the most striking social features of the life of the nineteenth century
the enlargement of woman's sphere and the extension of her privileges, the Popular Science
Monthly will endeavor to keep abreast of this movement.
COLONIAL QUESTIONS.
The important political questions arising through our recent acquisition of outlying territory
will receive considerable attention. Two articles which will appear in early numbers, under the
title Colonies and the Mother Country, take up the question of their proper relations.
MORALS AND EXPEDIENCY.
The drink evil, and vivisection, two of the most pressing moral questions now engaging the
attention of society, are scheduled for early treatment ; and we have already arranged for sev-
eral articles taking up important questions connected with modern religious tendencies.
EDUCATION
Of equal importance with all these branches of knowledge, and an essential prerequisite to
receiving and rendering them available for use, is education. The Monthly has in the past given
this subject prominent attention and preference, and will continue to do so. We have always
aimed to make the articles in this field not only of general philosophical interest, but more es-
pecially 'to select subjects and modes of treatment which should be suggestive and practically
valuable to the working teacher!
15
