The International Geography.
By Seventy Authors, including Right Hon. James Bryce, Sir W. M.
Conway, Prof. W. M. Davis, Prof. Angelo Heilprin, Prof. Fridtjof
Nansen, Dr. J. Scott Keltie, and F. C. Selous. With 488 Illus-
trations. Edited by Hugh Robert Mill, D. Sc. 8vo. 1088 pages.
Cloth, $3.50.
THE last few years have proved so rich in geographical discoveries that there has been
a pressing need for a resume of recent explorations and changes which should present
in convenient and accurate form the latest results of geographical work. The additions to
our knowledge have not been limited to Africa, Asia, and the arctic regions, but even on
our own continent the gold of the Klondike has led to a better knowledge of the region.
The want which is indicated will be met by "The International Geography," a con-
venient volume for the intelligent general reader, and the library which presents expert
summaries of the results of geographical science throughout the world at the present time.
The book contains nearly five hundred illustrations and maps which have been specially
prepared. It is designed to present in the compact limits of a single volume an authorita-
tive conspectus of the science of geography and the conditions of the countries at the end
of the nineteenth century.
" A compact, useful, and interesting handbook of geography. . . . The
attempt to present in one volume an authoritative modern summary of the whole
of geography as fully as space would permit has been admirably successful."
— New York Sun.
The greatest and most scholarly work on the history of the Ancient World.
The Passing of the Empires
(EGYPT, ASSYRIA, BABYLONIA, PEPSI A, AND MEDE A ) , 850 B. C. to 330 B. C.
By Prof. G. MASPERO, author of " The Dawn of Civilization "
and "The Struggle of the Nations." Edited by the Rev. Prof.
A. H. Sayce. Translated by M. L. McClure. "With Maps and
numerous Illustrations, including Three Colored Plates. Uniform
edition. Quarto. Cloth, $7.50.
I HIS monumental work brings the history of Egypt, Assyria, Babylonia, Persia, and
* Medea down to the victories of Alexander the Great, and completes Professor Mas-
pero's great series on the history of the ancient world. Like the preceding volumes, it
represents the latest results of the highest scholarship, and it is magnificently illustrated.
Professor Maspero's three volumes constitute a work which is, and must remain for some time
to come, the most comprehensive and trustworthy account of the ancient Eastern world.
" For learning and industry, Professor Maspero's epoch-making series on the
' History of the Ancient Peoples of the Classic East ' deserves to be called monu-
mental. . . . The work is a remarkably full encyclopaedia of the subject of which
it treats, though arranged in chronological and not in alphabetical order. . . .
' The Passing of the Empires,' whatever be its imperfections or blemishes, is the
completion of a prodigious achievement, and its usefulness will be in proportion
to the labor it has cost." — Philadelphia Sunday-School Times.
"With this magnificent volume Professor Maspero completes his great task,
which has extended over nearly seven years, of writing a history of the Oriental
world from the earliest times down to the death of Darius. The work has been
great, as the progress of Oriental research has been so rapid, and discoveries so
numerous, that to attain any finality seemed impossible ; but the author has
neglected nothing, and indeed the footnotes to these volumes show an almost
Herculean labor of research among authorities in every land and every tongue,
and add immensely to the value of the work." — London Chronicle.
D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, 72 Fifth Avenue, New York.
