THE LEADING
Spanish Dictionaries.
Seoanes Neuman and Ba7'etti Spanish Dictionary.
A Pronouncing Dictionary of the Spanish and English Languages, with the
addition of more than 8,000 Words, Idioms, and Familiar Phrases. In Two
Parts: Part I, Spanish-English; Part II, English-Spanish. 1310 pages.
By Mariano Velazquez de la Cadena. Large 8vo. Cloth, $5.00.
Velazquez's Dictionary, composed from the Spanish dictionaries of the Spanish Academy,
Terreros, and Salva, and from the English dictionaries of Webster, Worcester, and Walker,
is universally recognized as the standard dictionary of the Spanish language. A unique
and valuable feature of this dictionary is that it contains many Spanish words used only in
those countries of America which were formerly dependencies of Spain.
Seoanes Neuman and Baretti Spanish Dictionary.
Abridged by Velazquez. A Dictionary of the Spanish and English
Languages, abridged from the author's larger work. S47. pages. i2mo.
Cloth, $1.50.
This abridgment of Velazquez's Spanish Dictionary will be founri very serviceable for
younger scholars, travelers, and men of business. It contains a great number of words be-
longing to articles of commerce and the natural productions of the Spanish-American re-
publics, together with many idioms and provincialisms not to be found in any other work of
this kind.
A Dictionary of the Spanish and English
Languages. Containing the latest Scientific, Military, Commercial, Tech-
nical, and Nautical Terms. Based upon Velazquez's unabridged edition.
32mo. Cloth, $1.00.
This Dictionary, which is of a convenient size for the pocket, has proved very popular,
and will be found an excellent lexicon for the traveler's handy reference.
Spanish-and-English Dictionary.
In Two Parts. Part I, Spanish-and-English ; Part II, English-and-Span-
ish. By T. C. Meadows, M. A., of the University of Paris. i8mo.
Half roan, $2.00.
This Dictionary comprehends all the Spanish words, with their proper accents, and
every noun with its gender.
D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, Publishers, New York, Boston, Chicago.
24
