THE BIRDS OF THE ADIRONDACKS. 45
cornices of some building, usually a barn. These nests are built
of mud gathered by the birds from wet places on the ground, and
carried in their mouths to the sites chosen by them. Many of our
farmers have an unkind feeling for the barn swallows, as they think
the mud-daubed nests on the new red paint are not an artistic addi-
tion; but if our cattle could give an intelligent opinion they would
welcome the birds, for all swallows are entirely insectivorous, and
they must eat many flies and mosquitoes that otherwise would be
left to torment our animals.
Birds that build in inaccessible places seem to rely upon that
for security, and apparently make little effort to conceal their
nests, while those building on or near the ground are generally
careful to hide them, and they display considerable cunning in
preventing discovery. Robins, for instance, after the young are
hatched, never drop the eggshells over the side of the nests to the
ground, where they would attract attention and cause one to look
directly overhead and thus find the nest, but take the broken shells
in their bills and carry them off, dropping them while flying. Fre-
quently birds are very shy and easily frightened away from their
nests, but after they are well established they sometimes show a
good deal of tenacity in staying by them until the young are ready
to leave.
Some years ago we opened an old ore mine, where a pair of
phoebe birds had placed their nest on a shelf a few feet overhead,
a projecting rock protecting it from the flying stones of the blasts
that were fired several times a day, and the men were working so
near that they could almost touch it with their hands. These
birds did not desert their nests until the young were old enough to
leave. The site was not used the following year, as is usually the
case with the phoebe bird.
No bird has insinuated himself into our affections more deeply
than the bluebird. He charms us as he flits through the air like
a painted arrow, reflecting the sunlight from the metallic luster
of his wings, while he pours out his inspired song " in notes as sweet
as angels' greetings when they meet." He comes to us before the
unfolding of the first bud of spring, sings to us until our hills and
mountains are covered with the richness of their summer verdure,
and stays with us until this verdure is changed to all the beauty of
its autumnal glory. I am very sorry, but I believe our bluebirds
are gradually though steadily decreasing in numbers. Some years
ago two pairs nested in our yard, one pair in a hole in an old apple
tree and one pair in a box, but for several years these nesting places
have been unoccupied, and I know of a number of other former
nesting places that have been vacant for years.
