TO LEARN SPANISH.
DE TORNOS'S COHBINED SPANISH METHOD. NEW EDITION.
A New Practical and Theoretical System of Learning the Castilian Language, embracing the Most
Advantageous Features of the Best Known Methods. With a Pronouncing Vocabulary containing
all the Words used in the course of the Work, and References to the Lessons in which each one is
explained, thus enabling any one to be his own Instructor. Revised edition, with the new
orthography conforming to the rules of the Spanish Academy. By Alberto de Tornos, A. M.,
formerly Director of Normal Schools in Spain, and Teacher of Spanish in the New York Mer-
cantile Library, New York Evening High School, and the Polytechnic and Packer Institutes,
Brooklyn. i2mo. Cloth, $1.50. Key to Combined Spanish Method, 50 cents.
THE HARHONIC METHOD FOR LEARNING SPANISH.
Designed for Elementary Use. By Luis A. Baralt, A. B., M. D., Instructor in the Spanish Language
and Literature in the College of the City of New York, and in the New York Evening High
School. i2mo. Cloth, $1.00 net.
The harmonic method will be found of great assistance to students who are beginning the study of the
Spanish language. Based upon a natural and progressive plan, the student is conducted by easy steps through
t.iti, . .- -..,,1 if «+ *V»^ i-^ma timA AfiWnA 1*-. ^^v« ..-»..r. ~ * ," «— T~~ + _.~i ...Ml C 1 il.!- 1 l_
the intricacies of grammar and is at the same time dr
eminently satisfactory for elementary use.
Cervantes El Cautivo.
An Episode from " Don Quixote." Text based on
the edition of the Royal Spanish Academy.
Edited, with an Introduction, Grammatical
and Explanatory Notes, and a Spanish-Eng-
lish Vocabulary, by Eduardo Tolra y
Eornes, Professor Normal, University of Bar-
celona. i2mo. Cloth, 50 cents net.
" El Cautivo" is commended for the use of students
who desire to obtain a knowledge of the best in Span-
ish literature, and the ample notes will be found a great
assistance to a proper understanding of Spanish idioms.
Practical Methods to Learn Spanish.
With a Vocabulary and Easy Exercises for Trans-
lation into English. By A. Ramos Diaz de
Villegas. i2mo. Cloth, 50 cents.
This work is based upon the natural method of
acquiring a knowledge of a language. The exercises
are progressively arranged in parallel columns, Eng-
lish and Spanish, and present to the student a piactical
and simple method of learning the Spanish language.
Ollendorff's Method of
Learning to Read, Write, and Speak the Spanish
Language. With an Appendix containing a
Brief but Comprehensive Recapitulation of the
Rules, as well as of all the Verbs, both Reg-
ular and Irregular, so as to render their Use
Easy and Familiar to the Most Ordinary Ca-
pacity. Together with Practical Rules for the
Spanish Pronunciation, and Models of Social
and Commercial Correspondence. The whole
designed for Young Learners and Persons who
are their own Instructors. By M. Velazquez
and T. Simonne. Cloth, $1.00. Key to Ex-
ercises in Method, 50 cents.
A Grammar of the Spanish Language.
By M. Schele de Vere. i2mo. Cloth, $1.00.
An Easy Introduction to Spanish
Conversation.
By M. Velazquez de la Cadena. iSmo.
Cloth, 35 cents.
Mr,]
in conversation. Instructors will find this book
El Si de las Ninas.
A Comedy in Three Acts. By Leandro Fernan-
dez MoRATiN. Edited, with a Biographical
Notice, Explanatory Notes, and a Spanish-
English Vocabulary, by Eduardo Tolra y
Fornes, Professor Normal, University of Bar-
celona. i2mo. Cloth, 50 cents net.
This book is a model of tenderness and simplicity
and is one of Moratin's most successful comedies. It
has been thoroughly edited and the new Spanish or-
thography adopted. It will be found eminently satis-
factory as a reader for students learning Spanish.
Mantilla's Method for Learning
Spanish or English.
By Luis Felipe Mantilla. i8mo. Cloth, $1.00.
"The special feature of this Method consists in
teaching a foreign language by means of continued com-
parison with the native tongue of the learner ; employing,
for the expression of any given idea, the pure idioms of
each, with a view to obviate that unfortunate drawback
upon the study of other languages which is to be found
in the almost universal loss of purity in the use of
one's own." — Extract Jrom the Author's Pre/ace.
Spanish Reader and Translator.
By Miguel T. Tolon, Professor of Modern Lan-
guages and Spanish Literature. New edition,
revised and enlarged, 1899. i2mo. Cloth,
75 cents.
Spanish Grammar.
A Practical and Easy Method of Learning the
Spanish Language. After the System of F.
Ahn, Doctor of Philosophy at the College of
Neuss. First American edition, revised and
enlarged. i2mo. Cloth, 75 cents. Key to
Spanish Grammar, 25 cents.
The Spanish Phrase=Book;
Or, Key to Spanish Conversation. By E. M. de
Belem. i8mo. Cloth, 30 cents.
Progressive Spanish Reader.
With an Analytical Study of the Spanish Lan-
guage. By Agustin Jose Morales, LL. D.,
Professor of the Spanish Language and Litera-
ture in the New York Free Academy, and
formerly Professor of St. John's University,
Washington Institute, etc. i2mo. Cloth, $1.25.
A complete descriptive catalogue of Spanish Text-Books ,
any address on application to
Novels will be sent to
D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, Publishers, New York, Boston. Chicago.
