THE SANITARIAN
A MONTHLY MAGAZINE,
Established in 1873.
" The Sanitarian tor June, 1892, contains a life-sketch of its venerable and
distinguished editor, Dr. A. N. Bell, and several contributions upon ' The
triumphs of preventive medicine,' in the interest of which Dr. Bell has labored
so long and so successfully * * * No one has been so long, so patient and
so persistent in awakening public attention to an interest in this cause. No one
has filled so many positions demanding skill in practical work. No one ha=;
been more successful in practical work under great difficulties. The v/riter of
the article is Dr. Stephen Smith, the eminent surgeon and author."— Tennessee
State Board of Health Bulletin.
Based at the outset upon medical knowledge and sanitary service, over an
extensive field of observation in various climates in different quarters of the
world, large experience in dealing with epidemic diseases, and practical sanita-
tion for the maintenance of health under the most trying circumstances :
" The Sanitarian is **—
AS OTHERS SEE IT-
" The American authority for everything appertaining to the healthful co«
dition of the people at large. The contributions are from medical men whosp
writings are accepted as authority," (Virginia Chronicle); "The best sanitary
publication in America," {Mississippi Valley Medical Monthly); "Easily main
tains its superiority over all similar publications," (Medical World); "Has
accomplished more 'good than all of the other sanitary papers put together,"
Hydraulic and Sanitary Plumber); "The value of a good sanitary publication
can hardly be estimated. The superior of The Sanitarian we have never seen,"
(The Free Methodist); "The editor, Dr. A. N. Bell, is well known to the mercantile
community for his co-operation with the merchants in quarantine reform, and to
ais profession as a leader in sanitary science," (N. Y. Journal of Commerce).
"The Sanitarian has been the exponent of the most progressive science of
Hygiene for more than twenty years," (The Living Church).
Two volumes yearly. The volumes begin January and July ; subscription
at any time.
TERMS: $4.00 a year, in advance; 35 cents a number. Sample Copies, 20
cents— ten two-cent Postage Stamps.
%*B~Al\ correspondence and exchanges with The Sanitarian, and all publi*
cations for review, should be addressed to the Editor,
Dr. A. N. BELL,
337 Clinton St.. Brooklyn. K Y
26
