THE
POPULAR SCIENCE
MONTHLY
Established in 1872 by Messrs. D. Appleton
and Company, and Dr. E. L. Youmans.
The Popular Science Monthly will hereafter be published by
Messrs. McClure, Phillips and Company, New York, and edited by
Prof. J. McKeen Cattell, of Columbia University, with the assistance
of Dr. E. L. Thorndike, also of Columbia University.
The fifty-six volumes of the journal already published have per-
formed an important service for the' advancement and diffusion of
knowledge. Its issues have each month carried to all parts of the
country reliable information in regard to the advances of science, widen-
ing and deepening everywhere an intelligent interest in scientific sub-
jects. The journal represented the doctrine of evolution before its
tenets were generally accepted; it has done much to diffuse knowledge
of physical science and of the applications of science; it has been a
factor in the development which has reformed our entire educational
system from the kindergarten to the university; its contributors have
included many of the world's greatest men of science.
In the future, as in the past, The Popular Science Monthly
will aim to represent fully and accurately the advance of science; it
will permit the leading men of science to bring their work before the
largest public; it will set a standard to the popular press in its treatment
of scientific topics; it will secure the general interest in science that is
needed for its adequate recognition and support.
A journal with these aims is essential, both to men of science and
to the general public. It brings men of science into contact with those
whose sympathy and help they need, while it enables the general public
to follow intelligently the progress of science and its contributions to
civilization. This double service of The Popular Science Monthly
is fully recognized ; it has the largest circulation of any scientific journal
in the world, and it will be conducted with the support of the leading
men of science, including in America:
Cleveland Abbe, Professor of Meteorology, United States Weather Bureau.
Cyrus Adler, Librarian, Smithsonian Institution.
Edward Atkinson, Boston. *
W. O. Atwater, Professor of Chemistry, Wesleyan University.
J. A. Allen, Curator of Vertebrate Zoology, American Museum of Natural His-
tory.
L. H. Bailey, Professor of Horticulture, Cornell University.
Marcus Baker, United States Geological Survey.
J. Mark Baldwin, Professor of Psychology, Princeton University.
