Unpublished American History
We have engaged a series of articles on hitherto unpublished American
history by authors who write with authority. In this issue is for the first
time given to the public the full story of our recent cordial relations with
Great Britain. It is something of the highest interest to every American
citizen.
An International Wheat Comer
That Russia a few years ago seriously proposed to the United States
that the two nations get up a wheat trust and fix the price at one dollar per
bushel seems hardly credible. Yet it is true, and we will shortly publish
the most astonishing story of its kind ever printed, with some official
documents.
The End of the Confederacy
We have secured the private diary of the late Stephen R. Mallory, Secre-
tary of the Navy in the Confederate Cabinet at its fall. This diary was
expanded into a narrative by Mr. Mallory when a prisoner at Fort Lafayette,
while the events of a few weeks before were fresh in his mind. He tells
most vividly of the fall of Richmond, the flight of the Cabinet, the sur-
render of Johnston, and many other incidents of the time. It contains
many important contributions to history. After lying in a garret for
thirty-five years it is now to be published in McClure's Magazine.
In China and Siberia
To give our readers the facts about conditions in the far East Mr.
Frederick Palmer, the celebrated journalist, traveler and war correspond-
ent, is traveling in Asia, and will furnish a series of articles. Some of
them will be :
" Baikal, the Chicago of Siberia."
" Making a Russian out of a Chinaman."
" Russian Railways to the Pacific."
We are as a nation not only deeply interested in the Eastern question,
but we are in and of it. For good or ill our lot is cast in with those who
control that situation. A few years ago it was to most Americans a mere
abstraction. To-day it affects our national life.
Stories of the Woods, by W. D. Hulbert
Mr. Hulbert writes with undefinable charm of his animal friends as such.
He does not assume the role of a scientist or born naturalist. He has lived
many years in the woods and knows its people. To him they are not mere
dumb brutes, but living individuals, with hopes and fears akin to man.
Near to nature's heart in the forest depths the author lived and loved
the animal creation. These nature studies cannot fail of the highest
appreciation. The first two articles will be :
A Porcupine Story
The Story of a Beaver
