McCLURE'S Magazine has introduced to the American public not only
many of the greatest of English authors, but many of the rising generation
who are soon to take the first rank. A name is nothing to the editors. It
is the story that counts, whether it comes from the author of greatest
reputation or one utterly unknown. Among the forthcoming fiction is :
"The Jimmv Stories" by Robert Barr
This distinguished author has written a series of romantic tales of the
days of James VI of Scotland in his very best vein. Some of them are :
The Investigation of the King The King's Tryst
The Return of the Colquhoun The King Dines
Miss Edith Wyatt's Chicago Stories
Chicago's fame has not hitherto been without literary aspirations, but
Miss Wyatt, one of her brilliant women, has written a series of character
sketches which are of extraordinary interest. Better than sociologists or
historians, the author has described Chicago and its people in a series of
stories of unusual power and subtle discrimination. These will be illus-
trated by an artist who went to Chicago for the .express purpose and
worked under the direction of the author.
The Underworld
Josiah Flynt and Francis Walton have written a series of stories of
dramatic intensity which concern the criminal classes. These are written
not objectively, but after close association with the lawless classes. They
are truthful tales of life in the forbidden world which show the exact
view of the criminal toward officials and society.
Jack London's Stories
This brilliant young Californian has written a series of stories dealing with
life in Alaska and the Klondike which are of extraordinary power. His style
is unique and his treatment always dramatic. Some of these tales are :
"The Man with a Gash" "Grit of Women"
"Law of Life"
Other Writers of Fiction
Among other rising young writers whose stories have aroused great in-
terest and who will contribute to McClure's Magazine are :
ELMORE ELLIOTT PEAKE FRANK H. SPEARMAN WM. M. RAINE
G.K.TURNER SHAN F. BULLOCK NORMAN DUNCAN
E. E. KELLEY ALVAH M. KERR SARAH C. BRYANT
PASCHAL K. COGG1NS W. R. L1GHTON CLINTON ROSS
MARION HILL CHARLES WARREN and others
THE S. S. McCLURE CO.
1 41-155 East 25th Street, NEW YORK CIT1
