McClure, Phillips & Co.
PUBLISHERS AND BOOKSELLERS
1 41-155 East 25th Street, New York
Make the Jo I lowing announcements :
SOME IMPORTANT WORKS IN BIOGRAPHY
The Life of Abraham Lincoln
By IDA M. TARBELL
Drawn from original sources, and containing many speeches, letters and
telegrams hitherto unpublished.
" A portrait that helps us to understand better than ever before the manner of man
Abraham Lincoln was. . . . A narrative that is so intimate in its revelations as this of
Miss Tarbell's helps us to realize that, with all his greatness, Abraham Lincoln was
cast in the mold of our common humanity. . . . Her work presents a portrait of the
man that no student of history can afford to miss, for it is very human, and does full
justice to that homely side of Lincoln's character which has done more than anything
else to give him a hero's place in the hearts of the common people." — Brooklyn Eagle.
New Edition, with 32 full page illustrations. Index. 2 volumes.
8vo, 6% x-9%- $5-oo.
UlySSeS S. Grant. His Life and Character
By HAMLIN GARLAND
•' Besides the diligent scholarship of the investigator, Mr. Garland shows himself
possessed of the higher and rarer qualities of the biographer. . . . This life shows us
not a mere figure draped with certain qualities : it shows a living, moving man ; it
shows how a great man thought and felt and acted in things great and little, and that
is an inspiring sight to any one." — New York Times.
With 32 illustrations. Svo, 6x9)4. S2.50.
Life of Henry Drummond
By Dr. GEORGE ADAM SMITH
" What makes his biography admirable is his firmness in dealing with Drummond's
intellectual product, and in his loving appreciation of the man. So far as the former
is concerned, there is not the least exaggeration, and ... as for Drummond the man,
there is nothing fulsome in Mr. Smith's appreciation, but it is extremely cordial and
well borne out by the facts which are in evidence. We lay down the book with the
feeling that nothing that Drummond ever wrote is so morally inspiring as his char-
acter." — The Nation.
'Third Edition, with frontispiece in photogravure. Svo, 6x9)4. #3.00 net.
Dwight L. Moody
By HENRY DRUMMOND
With an Introduction by Dr. GEORGE ADAM SMITH
The First Impression— A New England Boyhood— His Early Church Work—
His World riinistry— His Training School— Results of His Work
With a portrait of Mr. Moody in photogravure, and decorative head and
tail pieces. i2mo, 5^x7^. $1.00.
