Nature Booksfor Summer Reading
Bird Neighbors b v neltje blanchan
With an introduction by John Burroughs
An introductory acquaintance with 150 of our common birds, with 50 superb full-
page pictures in color photography from the birds themselves, which has been
accepted as a standard. John Burroughs, the highest authority on this subject, who
has annotated the text, says of the colored plates, in his introduction :
When /began the study nf birds I had access to a copy of Audubon, which greath stimulated
my interest in the pursuit, but I did not have the opera-glass, and I could not take Audubon wi'h me
on my walks, as the reader may this volume, and he will find these colored plates q?rite as helpful as
those of Audubon or Wilson."
Twenty-third Thousand Size, 7%'x io^g ; Pages, 234; Strong cloth binding ; full
margins for notes. Price, $2.00.
By the same Author
Birds that Hunt and Are Hunted
Annotated and with an introduction by G. O. Shields, " Coquina" ; a companion
volume to " Bird Neighbors." This new book gives the life histories more com-
pletely than ever before in a popular work of 170 of our game and water birds and
birds of prey, and contains 48 colored plates. Literature says: "The plates are
probably the most valuable and artistic pictures of the kind available to-day."
Tenth Thousand. Size, 7%xio%; Pages, 359; Strong cloth binding; full mar-
gins for notes ; 48 colored plates. Price, $2.00.
" The Popular Ornithology" is a boxed edition of "Bird Neighbors" and
•• Birds that Hunt and Are Hunted." These two volumes cover all of our well-known
birds. With 100 colored plates. 2 vols.. 4to. $4.00.
Bird Homes b 7 a. r. dugmore
This book is a revelation of bird "personality." It is a popular and intimate
account of the nests, eggs and breeding habits of the land birds that nest in the eastern
United States, and this fascinating subject is here first adequately treated for the
general reader. Particularly interesting are the pictures — in color, and black and
white — showing different kinds of nests, nests with the mother bird on them, most
amusing young birds, etc.. all being made from life. The notes on bird photography
and the rearing of young birds give information not attainable elsewhere.
Size. 7 3 Xx ioy % ; Pages, about 200 ; Binding, cloth decorated ; Illustrations, 16 colored
plates and 50 other pictures, all ft om photographs by the author. Price, $2.00
net.
The Butterfly Book b 7 w.j. Holland, ll.d.
Dr. Holland, who is not only one of the first American authorities, but whose col-
lection of butterflies is the finest in this country, has prepared a popular book on our
butterflies, telling of their life and habits and how they may be identified and studied.
The illustrations are absolutely unique, as they show hundreds of specimens in color,
photographed from the butterflies themselves. These new plates, made exclusively
for this book, show the very highest mark yet made in color photography.
Fifth Thousand. Size, 7^x10%; Pages, 382; Cloth binding; 48 plates in color
and many text cuts showing over 1,000 American species. Price, £3.00 net.
These books will be delivered free "on approval," and no payments are
required until the purchaser has had a chance to examine them carefully.
The above books are published by The Doubleday & McClure
Co., but copies may be had of McClure, Phillips & Co.
