New Fiction
THE GREEN FLAG ^^LiXllt '
By A. CONAN DOYLE
" Few novelists of our time could have told the story (of ' The Green Flag') in
such stirring language, and the battle picture is perfect of its kind. Equally good are
the three pirate stories of ' Captain Sharkey.' ' The Croxley Master ' is a stirring
tale of the prize ring ; the ' Lord of Chateau Noir ' reads like a story of Maupassant,
and the ' Striped Chest' is as blood-curdling as the wildest of Poe's romances. Alto-
gether the volume is admirable."- — London Daily Telegraph.
Third Edition. With special cover design, nmo, 5)3 x 7%- $i-S°-
A New Story by the Author of " The Gentleman from Indiana."
Monsieur Beaucaire
By BOOTH TARKINGTON
A dashing story of an extraordinary episode in the society of an English watering-
place in the last century. The brilliant and pungent speeches, the disputes of game-
sters and duels of beaux, the poignancy of the satire on manners, the stately airs
and graces of the -Beauty of Bath, the wonderful sans-souci of the amiable and courtly
Beaucaire — these are only a few of the elements of charm in this graphic portrait of
the people of fashion and pleasure of a bygone age. But the characters are of real
flesh and blood, and talk and act like people of to-day.
Second Edition. With decorations by C. E. Hooper, and illustrations in two
colors by C. D. Williams. 121110. t,% x 7%. #1.25.
TJVO IMPORTANT BOOKS ON AN ABSORBING QUESTION
The Trust Problem
By Prof. JEREMIAH W. JENKS, Ph.D.
This book is a comprehensive compendium of facts regarding industrial combina-
tions, their relations with the industrial world, their evils and the possible remedies
for those evils. The information presented embodies the results of twelve years of
painstaking personal investigation of large corporations by contact with their officers,
employees, competitors, and the dealers in their goods.
With J charts in colors. Small 121110. $1.00 net.
Corporations and Public Welfare
A collection of addresses recently delivered at the annual meeting of the American
Academy of Political and Social Science in Philadelphia. Among the contributors
are Prof. L. S. Rowe, Comptroller Bird S. Coler of New York City, Senator William
Lindsay of Kentucky, Hon. John Wanamaker, President William H. Baldwin, Jr.,
of the Long Island Railroad, and Senator Nelson W. Aldrich of Rhode Island.
The work of each writer possesses authority, timeliness and weight.
1 2 mo. #1.50 net.
A UNIQUE VOLUME
The American Salad Book
By MAXIMILIAN De LOUP
A book containing the most valuable collection of salad receipes ever issued.
There are three hundred of them in all; and they will be found useful not only in con-
nection with social entertainments, but on less formal occasions as well.
i2mo, 5M x 7)21 £1.00.
