Refunding Six Per Cent. Bonds
By Ex-Secretary GEORGE S. BOUTWELL
A remarkable story of our financial operations abroad after the war, involving a tragico-humorous
THE FAR EAST IN 1900-1901
All eyes are now turned toward China, whose future is fraught with grave con-
sequences to the Eastern world. In order to give our readers' the exact situation in Asia,
Frederick Palmer
well known as a journalist and war correspondent, is spending some months in that part
of the world, and will furnish a series of articles of unusual interest. He will deal with
China and the surrounding powers, their relations to each other, and with the rest of the
world. No subject is of more interest to the American people at this time.
THE POWERS THAT PREY
A series of remarkable stories of criminal life begins in this issue. They are
written by one who knows the " Under-World" from long association with the lawless
classes. These stories are by
Josiah Flynt
in collaboration with Francis Walton. They are fictitious only in the sense that the
characters are fanciful. The incidents are true and the characters are actual types of
criminals known to the authors. In these stories the public learns the exact attitude
of criminals toward society, and their relations with the official classes. This is the
first time such an important work has been undertaken in so serious a manner. Mr. Flynt has travelled
with social outcasts for fifteen years and is an expert in this branch of sociology. His effort is to paint the
"powers that prey" just as they are. He writes with knowledge and with rare power. These stories are
not only of surpassing interest but of real ethical value.
SHORT STORIES
McClure's Magazine has the distinction of having introduced to the literary world some of its
most distinguished lights. Its constant aim is to discover talent.
The editors desire the best literature, whether by known or unknown authors. Some authors already
known to our readers, whose stories will appear in forthcoming numbers, are: —
FRANK H. SPEARMAN, whose stories of railroad life have given him deserved celebrity.
G. K. TURNER, a newspaper man whose stories are well known to our readers.
ELMORE ELLIOTT PEAKE, a promising young Wisconsin author, who has written many
short stories, and will this fall publish a novel of extraordinary interest.
E. E. Kelley
Paschal H. Coggins
Marion Hill
Gertrude Roscoe
Mary M. Mears
Alvah M. Kerr
Lillian Bryant
Chauncey Thomas
Sarah C. Bryant
William M. Raine
And Others
S. S. McClure Co., 141-155 East 25th St., New York
