THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY FOR JUNE
opens with an article on " Preventive Inoculation" by Dr. W. M. Haffkine, describing his discovery of
inoculation against the plague, said to be as important as Jenner's discovery of vaccination against small-
pox. Two timely topics are taken up in the article on "Colonies and the Mother Country " by James
Collier of Australia, and on the "Future of the Negro in the United States" by Professor Shaler of
Harvard University. Professor Davis, also of Harvard University, tells of the progress of physical
geography during the present century. The New Ymk Botanical Gardens, recently established, but
rapidly becoming one of the greatest gardens in the world, are described by the assistant-director, Dr.
D. T. MacDougal. Huberts. Wynkoop's article on "(las and Gas Meters " and Prof. Harold Jacoby's
article on the " Sun's 1 lestination " will interest every one. An article by Charles Darwin, containing obser-
vations on the development of his infant, which were made sixty years ago and are practically unknown, is
reproduced. Among other articles is one on the Penycuik experiments on telegony, that is the effect of a
sire on the offspring of a female mated with a subsequent sire, and one on Professor Loeb's discovery
that eggs may be made to develop chemically without the male element.
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY FOR JULY
opens with an article, the first of a series on "The Stars" by Pro!'. Simon Newcomb, one of America's
greatest men of science. It also contains an illustrated article on " The Recent Solar Eclipse " by Dr.
S. P. Langley, who perhaps ranks next to Professor Newcomb as an American astronomer. Dr. II. ('.
Bolton describes the remarkable discovery of substances that give out light and Rpntgen Rays even after
being kept for years in the dark. Next to the advances in preventive inoculation, a second article on which,
by Dr. Haffkine, is printed in this number, the most important recent medical discovery is the relation of
malaria and mosquitoes, which is reviewed by Dr. P. Manson, whose work on this subject is of such
importance. The number also contains an elaborately illustrated article on " Technical Education in the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology" by Prof. George F. Swain of the Institute, on the " Psychology
of Crazes" by Prof. G. T. W. Patrick, on the "The Earth's Development in the Eight of Recent
Chemical Research " by Prof. Edward Renouf of the Johns Hopkins University, and on "Washington
as an Explorer and Surveyor" by Dr. Charles D. Walcott, Director of the U. S. Geological Survey.
Among other articles is a severe criticism of Mr. Tesla's alleged inventions published in the June Century.
THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY FOR AUGUST
opens with the presidential address before the American Association for the Advancement of Science by
G. K. Gilbert, describing the methods which have been used to determine the age of the earth. Professor
Newcomb contributes the second of his series on " The Stars." General Greely, who ranks next to Nansen
as an Arctic explorer, gives an account of the scientific results of Nansen's North Polar l^xpedition,
which have just become accessible. Professor Wood describes his experiments on the photography of
sound which he recently by special invitation presented before the leading English scientific societies.
Mr. Havelock Ellis, the eminent English man of science and author, contributes an article entitled " The
Psychology of Red." There are, among other contributions of timely interest, an elaboratelv illustrated
article on " The Automobile " by Mr. William Baxter, and the number contains, as always, a large number
of reviews and notes describing the most recent scientific publications and advances of discovery. All the
numbers are fully illustrated. The three mentioned above have as frontispieces portraits of three distin-
guished American men of science: Dr. Wolcott Gibbs, President of the National Academy of Sciences;
G. K. Gilbert, retiring president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and
Prof. R. S. Woodward, President of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
Yearly Subscription, $3.00. Single Numbers, 25 cents
The reduced rate of the yearly subscription from $5.00 to $3.00 will bring THE POPULAR
SCIENCE MONTHLY within the reach of an even larger public.
McCLURE, PHILLIPS & CO
141-155 EAST 25th STREET, NEW YORK
