THE STRUCTURE OF BLIND FISHES. 53
the pigmented layer is insignificant, and no pigment is ever found
in it, while the outer and inner nuclear layers are still separate. In
both these species the ganglionic layer forms a central core of cells.
^ In Amblyopsis several or all the eye muscles are present; in Ty-
phlichthys nothing is left of them.
Scleral cartilages are not present in Chologaster or Typhlich-
thys; in Troglichthys they are very prominent, sometimes sev-
eral times as long as the eye. While there is no pigment left in
Typhlichthys, there is in Troglichthys. The eye in the former is
about 0.168 millimetre in diameter, while the entire eye of the
latter is but about 0.050 millimetre, or less than one third the diam-
eter, and less than one ninth the bulk.
The entire eye of Troglichthys is smaller than many single cells,
and I shall be pardoned for not going into the details of its struc-
ture here.
The Tactile Organs. — The tactile organs are among the most
important in the consideration of the blind forms. Their minute
structure will form the basis of a separate paper. The prominent
tactile organs about the head of Amblyopsis have been mentioned
Fig. 5. — Three views of the head of an Amblyopsis, prepared to show the tactile ridges.
by nearly every writer, and they have been figured by Putnam-
Wyman * and Leidigyf but the figures of the distribution of the
ridges are worthless. The description of Professor Forbes ^ of
Chologaster papilliferus is the only systematic enumeration of the
ridges that has appeared. The accompanying figures, drawn by
me with the camera lucida, and verified and copied by Mr. U. O.
Cox, give the exact extent and position of the ridges in Amblyop-
sis and Chologaster papilliferus. It will be seen that in the num-
ber and distribution of the tactile area the two forms agree very
closely, the eyed form having the same number and distribution
of ridges or rows that the blind forms have. In Chologaster
* American Naturalist, 1872, Plate II, Figs. 1 and 2.
f Untersuchungen z. Anatomie und Histologic d. Tiere, Plate IN, Fig. 28.
% American Naturalist, 16, 1882, p. 2.
