54 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
papilliferus most of the ridges are much less prominent than in
the blind species, being sunk into the skin. About the nose and
chin, however, the ridges are as prominent as in the other species.
In the small Chologaster cornutus there are no distinct ridges
at all, the tactile organs being arranged
as in other species of fishes. In speci-
mens of the same size the papillae are
not more prominent in papilliferus
than in cornutus. It is only in the
oldest of papilliferus that the papilla?
become prominent. The number of
individual papillae in each tactile ridge
differs considerably with age (size), so
that an exact comparison between the
Fig. 6. — Snout of Choloijuster pupil- , » 1 l • i j_i i n
lifer us, to show the tactile ridges. 1 arge Ambly opsis and the much smaller
species of Chologaster and Typhlich-
thys can not be made. From a number of counts made by Pro-
fessor Cox I take the liberty of giving the following: Ridge No.
6 contains, in Chologaster papilliferus, six organs; in Typhlichthys,
eleven; in two specimens of Amblyopsis, respectively eighty-three
and one hundred and six inches long, twelve and twenty.
Aside from the tactile organs in ridges, there are many soli-
tary ones not evident from the surface in Amblyopsis. When
the epidermis is removed by maceration, the dermal papillae on
which these rest give the whole head a velvety appearance.
In the young, at least of Amblyopsis, each of the tactile organ
of the ridges is provided with a club-shaped filament abruptly
pointed near the end. They wave about with the slightest motion
in water, and are so numerous as to give the whole head a woolly
appearance.
To recapitulate the facts ascertained concerning the eye and
tactile organs:
1. The eyes were degenerating and the tactile organs develop-
ing beyond the normal before the permanent underground exist-
ence began.
2. The eyes continued to degenerate and the tactile organs to
increase after permanent entrance to underground waters.
3. In the degeneration of the eye the retina leads; the vitre-
ous body and lens follow; the more passive pigmented layer and
sclera remain longest; the bony orbit is not affected.
Bearing of the Facts gained on the Origin of the Cave
Fauna. — The origin of the cave fauna and of the blind fauna
are two distinct questions. This was first recognized by Ii.
Garman. Before, the two questions were considered as one,
