A HUNDRED YEARS OF CHEMISTRY. 59
A HUNDRED YEARS OF CHEMISTRY.
By F. W. CLARKE,
CHIEF CHEMIST, UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.
[Concluded.]
IT is evident, from what has been already said, that chemistry and
physics are near akin — indeed, they can hardly be separated.
Avogadro's law and spectrum analysis are but two illustrations of
the relationship, but many other examples are equal to them in
importance. Take, for instance, the action of light upon chemical
substances; it may provoke union of elements, or effect the decom-
position of compounds; upon the latter phenomenon the art of pho-
tography depends. That salts of silver are chemically changed by
light was the fundamental observation, and upon this fact most
photographic processes, though not all, are founded. Thus light,
working as a chemist in the laboratory of the photographic plate,
has become the useful servant of all arts, all sciences, and all indus-
tries — an indispensable aid to invention and research. On this
theme a volume might be written; a bare reference to it must be
sufficient here.
Still another branch of chemistry, recently developed but essen-
tially an extension of the theory of valence, is also due to the study
of optical relations. That different crystalline bodies differ in
their behavior toward polarized light has long been known, and the
polariscope is recognized as an instrument of great value in chem-
ical research. To the analysis and valuation of sugars and sirups
it is most effectively applied, and commercial transactions of great
magnitude depend in part upon its testimony. Here is practical
utility, but the development of theory is what concerns us now.
The discovery of isomerism, of the fact that very different com-
pounds might contain the same elements united in the same pro-
portions, was easily interpreted by the theory of valence in a fairly
complete and satisfactory way. In the structural formulae the dif-
ferent atomic groupings were clearly shown, but with one essential
limitation — the arrangement was in a single plane. That is, the
linking of the atoms was considered, but not their relations to tri-
dimensional space. For the study of reactions, for the classifica-
tion of compounds, the structural symbols sufficed; but human
thought is not so easily satisfied, and more was soon required. One
class of isomers was unexplained, and an explanation was de-
manded.
A typical example of the difficulty was offered by tartaric acid,
which exists in two forms differing crystallographically and optic-
