62 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
supposedly permanent gases; nitrogen yielded to the attacks of
Wroblevsky and Olzewski in 1883, and hydrogen alone remained
unconquered. In 1898 Dewar overcame this last obstacle, and in
the year following he actually reduced hydrogen to an icelike solid
which melts at only eighteen degrees centigrade above the theo-
retical absolute zero. Every gas has been liquefied, and probably
the lowest degree of cold attainable by man has been reached.
Within the century the work began and ended; the future can
only improve the working methods and utilize the new resources.
Liquid ammonia has long been used in the manufacture of artificial
ice and for direct refrigeration; liquid air, with its temperature
of two hundred centigrade degrees below zero, is now almost a com-
mercial product, obtainable in quantity, but with its possibilities of
usefulness as yet practically undeveloped. The infant Hercules
will doubtless find no lack of tasks to do, each one more arduous
and more helpful to man than any labor of his mythical prototype.
To the chemist the possibilities thus opened are innumerable.
Pictet has shown that at the low temperatures which are now
easily attainable all chemical action stops, even the most energetic
substances lying in contact with each other quiet and inert. A
greater control of the more violent chemical reactions is therefore
within reach, doubtless to be utilized in many ways yet unforeseen.
At the highest temperatures, also, chemical union ceases, and com-
pounds are decomposed; each reaction is possible only within a
limited thermal range, of which the beginning and the end are
measurable. From future measurements of this sort new laws will
surely be discovered.
The first step in the upward scale of temperatures was taken
in 1802, when Robert Hare, an American, invented the oxyhydro-
gen blowpipe. With this instrument platinum, hitherto infusible,
was melted, a result of great importance to chemists. Apart from
recent electrical applications, platinum finds its chief use in the
construction of chemical apparatus, and Hare's invention was there-
fore of great assistance to chemical research. Later in the cen-
tury electrical currents were utilized as producers of great heat,
until in the very modern device of the electric furnace the range
of available temperatures has been at least doubled. Tempera-
tures of three to four thousand degrees of the centigrade scale are
now at the disposal of the chemist, and these are manageable in
compact apparatus at very moderate cost. Cheap aluminum is one
of the products of this new instrument, and the extraordinary abra-
sive substance, carborundum, is another. New industries have been
created by the electric furnace, and in the hands of Moissan it has
yielded scientific results of great interest and remarkable variety.
