THE FATE OF THE BEAGLE. 89
Beagle. To aid him, I gave him the following list of questions,
to which he sent me the answers given below months afterward.
My questions had gone through the regular naval channels. The
answers show how methodical the Japanese are, even if they are
slow. In these answers I use their language:
" ' Question. How did the Japanese Government happen to get
the Beagle? '
" 'Answer. The details of getting are not plainly known, but the
Prince of Kagoshima procured it on seventy-five thousand dollars,
at the 23d of July, first year of Genzi (1860), afterward he offered
it to the Government at the June of the third year of Genzi.'
" ' Q. Are there any good photographs of her as she was when
a war ship? '
" ' A. No, we have no one.'
" ' Q. Where is the Beagle now? '
" ' A. After out of use, she was applied as a Chastising Place for
seamen at the Yokosuka station, and then was auctioned at the
March, twenty-second year of Genzi.'
" ' Q. What was the date of her arrival in Japan? '
" ' A. She was received by the Prince of Kagoshima, at Naga-
saki, July, the first year of Genzi.'
" ' Q. What is her present name? When was her name
changed? '
" ' A. At the present this ship has no name in the consequence
of out of use, but after procured by the Kagoshima Prince the name
of Beagle was changed into Kenko Kan.'
" ' Q. Do you know how old this ship is, and what she was used
for by the British Government before the Japanese got her? '
" ' A. She was actually used during twenty-three years, after
which she was put out of use, having been constructed at Liver-
pool, and we can not know what she was applied for before got
by Japan, but she remained more or less than one year in Eng-
land.' (Darwin made his famous voyage in her from 1831 to
1836.)
" ' Q. What is the name of the captain who had charge of her
after she became the property of the Japanese Government? '
" ' A. Commander Sadakumi Shiba was appointed the acting
captain February, 2d year of Genzi; Commander S. Hamataki,from
December, 5th year of Genzi; Commander M. Omura, from No-
vember, 10th year of Genzi; Commander Sadakumi Shiba, from
December, 11th year of Genzi; then the last was dismissed on
the September, in the 14th year of Genzi.'
" ' Q. In what capacity did the Japanese Government use her
from the time she arrived up to the time she was dismantled? '
