9 o POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
" ' A. She was rated as the fifth class at the November, '4th
year of Germ, then the fourth class May the 8th year/
" "We found Yokosuka, and our party were shown every cour-
tesy by the Japanese naval officials; so at last we ran down the
Beagle, lying on the shore and showing not a vestige of her proud,
historic self. She was being torn to pieces, and the parts were
sold for ' old junk.'
" I reflected, as I stood among her spars and chains, her anchors
and her capstan, of the significance of the career of the famous
vessel, and of her associations with the man whose investigations
revolutionized scientific thought and spread consternation for a
time in the pulpits of the world. The attitude of these pulpits
has been modified by reason of those researches, and the blessings
of the world and of the Church now follow the author of them
for having shown the way to a juster and more rational conception
of the power and purposes of the Creator."
SCIENCE STUDY AND- NATIONAL CHAKACTER.
By ALBERT B. CROWE.
UNTIL very recently it had come to be a commonly accepted
view in America that the civilization of a nation is directly
proportional to the amount it expends for education, and inversely
proportional to the amount it expends for war. The budgets of
European countries have given Americans good reason to accept
this standard, since its application gave the most gratifying evi-
dence of our great intellectual and moral advancement. Less than
three years ago the President of the National Educational Associa-
tion proudly exclaimed: "England, six to one for war; Russia,
thirty-eight to one for war; America, four to one for education! "
Since that time our country has become involved in war proj-
ects, from which we can hardly hope it will withdraw, that have
increased our expenditure for war four times, and a policy has been
inaugurated which, if persisted in, will certainly almost at once
reverse our boasted ratio, making it " four to one for war " ! This
course has been supported by a great body of our people. Even
our Christian ministers have committed " The "White Man's Bur-
den " to memory, and breathe never a whisper of the sixth com-
mandment. If, as has been held by all wise and good men, the
victories of peace are more worthy to be sung than those of war;
if the ability to avoid quarrels or to settle them without force of
arms is nobler than that which achieves military success; if true
