SCIENCE STUDY AND NATIONAL CHARACTER. 9 i
enlightenment and education make for peace and not for war, then
our law of direct and inverse proportion has lately been scandal-
ously dishonored.
If we have expended so much for education and at the same
time have lowered our ideal of national greatness, something must
be wrong with that education. If the sharpening and quickening
of the intellect are accompanied by a blunting and atrophy of the
moral sense, the best and the worst thing that can be said of our
school system is that it gives daily rations to hundreds of thousands
of teachers. Evidence of disease of the national conscience must
raise in the minds of thoughtful men grave doubts as to the suffi-
ciency of our education to " insure national progress, prosperity,
and honor," whether because of inherent weakness of the system
or because of the strength of the forces opposed to it.
Has our system of education, then, failed to elevate our na-
tional character? He who would answer this question in the affirm-
ative would be a pessimist indeed: Incalculable " general good "
has come to us, we think, by the agency of our schools. Without
them our civilization could not be so far advanced as it is; our
national life might have ended long since. In every crisis, how-
ever black has been the storm, however fierce and ominous the
lightning flash, there has followed in good time the gentle rain,
soothing and allaying our fear, and giving renewed promise of pros-
perity and peace. It is the sober second thought, we are in the
habit of saying, which saves us, which takes the helm and sheers
us away from the half-hidden reefs in our first mad course. It is
not. It is the sober first thought which has redeemed us from
destruction time after time — the sober first thought of the few
who are truly educated, who have looked below the surface of
things and considered the hidden and obscure results, who have
weighed the right and wrong and stood immovable for the right.
It is the counsel of such men which has fallen like the rain that
follows the first bursting of the storm, and has given us courage
and power to restrain ourselves and to face our hardest duty. For
such men in our national affairs we may reverently offer thanks,
and for an educational system which is partly, at least, responsible
for them we may have sincere praise. But our safety must always
depend upon the presence of such men, strong enough in numbers
and in influence to control each difficult and dangerous situation
which may threaten us. Our work as teachers is not faithful if
we do not increase this number and strengthen this influence.
And if such men have been overpowered in the important events
of the past two years, if they have been entirely ignored, or if
they have been taunted and ridiculed, we have reached a danger-
