92 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
cms crisis, and our sacred duty is to stop and take our bearings. If
we have manifested certain national traits hitherto scarcely sus-
pected, and now unwillingly confessed, every motive of patriotism
and of prudence should impel us to study our case, that we may
effectively prescribe for it.
Are there not, then, certain signs which we may all agree are
discernible? Have not the waves of powerful feeling which have
swept over us, the storms of acrimonious debate which have raged
in our papers and forums, the paeans of praise which we have
chanted at our " peace jubilees " and hero parties, revealed the
prevalence and rapid growth of certain sentiments which we may
all, without regard to political belief, clearly recognize? I do not
in this place raise the question of the political wisdom or simple
justice of the course which the country has taken in its interna-
tional relations. I do not now challenge any belief as to these
matters which has been formed thoughtfully, honestly, manfully;
but I do maintain that the past few months have left lessons for
thoughtful, honest men to unite in studying.
Probably the most striking phenomenon which we have wit-
nessed has been the tremendous display of excited feeling. How-
ever careful our national leaders may have been, however honest
in basing their actions on what they considered sufficient informa-
tion, or however careless and dishonest, no man who has read any
considerable number of our papers, who has listened to the clamor
of the crowds, can doubt that the force of blind passion has been
in hundreds of thousands of men the dominant force. If during
the war with Spain you stood in the cheering, surging crowds be-
fore the bulletin boards, if you heard storms of hisses greet the
name of the innocent boy-King of Spain, or noted the cheer of
triumph which applauded the capture of a lumber scow by an
armored cruiser, you will have no difficulty in agreeing with
me. You will smile at the idea of imputing to such men the
credit of serious thought. On the birthday of the greatest Ameri-
can, whose life was a message of liberty — " who," said a great
Spanish orator, " laid down his life at the foot of his finished work "
■ — our papers printed jokes about the mistake of the Filipinos in
trying to fight Uncle Sam, and in our cities, at least, the report of
their slaughter was received with exultation. Whether they were
civilized or not, whether they were misled or not, whether they
were ignorant of America's carefully concealed intention or not,
the killing of thousands of men who thought they were fighting
for their freedom, who faced machine guns, and who crawled away
into the bushes to die for the cause for which they had fought, is
hardly a subject for jokes or for exultation, when people are gov-
