SCIENCE STUDY AND NATIONAL CHARACTER. 93
erned by reason and not by feeling alone. When the Maine was
sunk in Havana Harbor her captain, in a notable dispatch telling
of the disaster, urged a suspension of judgment until the facts
should be known. Facts! In an hour our battle-cry was, "Re-
member the Maine ! " Under that motto, within a few days, one
of the great Chicago dailies (the Inter-Ocean) hung out the pen-
nant of the wrecked battle ship and enlistment signs. "Who was
right — the Maine's captain or the paper? "Which appeal meant
safety, and which danger? Our own commission investigated the
wreck. After an examination, which was kept entirely within our
own hands, the commission reported that the ship had been de-
stroyed from the outside, but that there was no evidence to fix the
responsibility. Did we fix the responsibility? Though the investi-
gation board could find no evidence, though reason said that the
destroyer of the Maine, were he Spain's own king, was Spain's
worst enemy, we forgot the cause of deliverance, and went into
battle with the cry of vengeance on our lips. This is not a state-
ment of sentiment but of fact. Your motives, or the President's,
or mine may have been pure — your opinion may have been un-
prejudiced — but these things around us we all saw and all heard.
We know that many men were carried away by their feelings, and
did not think. We know that their feelings grew into a prejudice
which was absolutely certain to distort the facts and to drive them
far from the truth if they ever came to the point of thinking.
The ears of the multitude have been closed to all counsels, however
wise; their eyes to all consequences, however fatal; their minds
to all logic, however clear and simple.
We may consider more briefly, but not less carefully, other
tendencies which have been shown, seeing many of them in the
facts which have already been referred to.
From the fact that passion has so largely supplanted reason in
moving many of our people we have developed some wonderful
instances of credulity. The sequence is most natural. When men
become unwilling, or uncaring, to ascertain the truth for themselves
they inevitably display a great willingness to swallow any state-
ment which may obligingly be offered them by some one else. So,
with half of the Spanish navy sunk and the other half accounted
for, we spent hours of glorious, wild conjecture, in the dear dead
days beyond recall, listening to the awful sound of cannonad-
ing in the Windward Passage, which reached us by the w T ay of
Mole St. Nicholas. We believe what is sufficiently exciting to
be true.
Related to the phenomena we have noticed is another — the evi-
dent loss of individuality — of moral and mental independence.
