94 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
How striking is it to compare some of our newspaper editorials of to-
day with those of two years ago in the same papers, and to see how
their writers have been dragged, step by step, into line with those
whom they formerly opposed ! They have not changed their faith ;
they have deserted it. For them there is the defense of business
necessity; but if you will to-day talk to many men who gave you
their opinions a few months ago, you will find that they have broken
down and given up — surrendered to superior numbers. In our
bulletin crowds we have all seen the spirit of the mob, which meets
the newcomer indifferent or doubtful, thrills him with the mys-
terious influence of the men packed around and against him, and
sends him away an irresponsible monomaniac.
"With such forces at work, it is inevitable that we should act,
or be ready to act, quickly. Why not? Reflection takes time.
To learn the facts fully and certainly takes time. To feel — how
long? To take another man's word — how long? To give way to
a thousand other men — how long? We have all seen men cheer-
ing our war with Spain only yesterday. To-day Austria seems
friendly to the queen regent. We'll whip Austria, too. To-
morrow Germany is impudent to Dewey. We shall be ready by
night to whip Germany. If Europe combines against us, how long
shall we consider the cost of such a war as that? Write it on the
bulletin board — the crowd will be ready before the writing is done.
Near to this is the spirit of fickleness, of inconstancy, which
has been frequently manifested. We have not only made up our
minds on insufficient evidence, but we have unmade them in a
hurry on no evidence at all, showing a startling lack of confidence
in our own judgments and of respect for them. Attention might
well have been called, in a former paragraph, to the small amount
of our real knowledge of the character of Aguinaldo. On what
petty and inconsequential evidence have we first called him a great
liberator, and now a scheming politician! Men who could hardly
read his most remarkable appeal to this country do not hesitate to
call him an unprincipled, conceited, ignorant barbarian: what
reliable information have they received with reference to his mo-
tives? They have found no trouble in changing their opinions.
In the past few months we have been mercurial almost beyond
mercurial Frenchmen. Think of the revulsion of feeling that fol-
lowed Hobson across the continent; and, more recently, of our
sad lack of self-restraint shown by the vicious and ungrounded
attack upon Admiral Dewey, only a few days after he had been the
object of the greatest display of hero worship America has ever
seen. And how many important changes may we count, if we
carry back our comparison to the time before the war?
