98 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
and beneficently used it for the world. The spirit of science, which
sets infinite value on knowledge, can not fail to teach reverence
for those who have made it possible for us to know.
At every point, then, the scientist opposes the tendencies I have
deplored. Against them all he must stand, by training and by
instinct. Against them all he would teach others to stand, by giv-
ing to them his own training. Against them all we science teach-
ers may arm our countrymen if we are faithful to our duty. But
this end of our work is defeated if our students are allowed to
indulge in careless statements of what they see and do; if they are
permitted to use exaggerated description or inaccurate terms.
Right here is the crucial test of the teacher's honesty of purpose.
The careful examination of written descriptions and reports, the en-
forced correction of every inaccurate detail, the personal consul-
tation — all require untiring labor, and time never allotted in the
schedule. But such work carried out has its own reward. The
student first respects the truth, then learns to love it. He con-
scientiously avoids the vague, the doubtful, the unsubstantiated.
If in our schools we might insure to every boy and girl this atti-
tude of mind, this desire for strict veracity, we should have started
him well on the way to correct judgments and wise conduct; we
should have implanted in his nature the first elements of good citi-
zenship. As Tennyson says:
" Self- reverence, self-knowledge, self-control,
These three alone lead life to sovereign power.
Yet not for power (power of herself
Would come uncalled for) but to live by law,
Acting the law we live by without fear,
And because right is right, to follow right
Were wisdom in the scorn of consequence."
The fish called Lepidosiren (Lepidosiren paradoxica) is one of the only
three still existing survivors of the once prominent group of Dipnoi,
or lung fishes, which are characterized by the possession of well-developed
lungs in addition to their gills. Mr. Graham Kerr, who spent several
months in the swamps of the Gran Chaco, South America, a habitat of
these fishes, describes them as living among the dense vegetation of the
swamp, swimming in eel fashion, or clambering through the mass of
vegetation by means of their leglike limbs. In the dry season they retire
into the mud, and breathe entirely by means of their lungs. When the
wet season begins they are set free, and at once prepare to spawn. They
lay their eggs in burrows at the bottom of the swamp, where the eggs
develop into larva?. The phenomena of their development are of special
interest, because it takes place in seclusion, away from the disturbing
features due to adaptation to varied surroundings. It has been discov-
ered that the young lepidosirens become white and transparent during
the hours of darkness.
