POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
Hesiod's Works and Days to make
any society now existing a good
deal better than it is. When people
talk of new duties they generally
mean some new harum-scarum en-
terprise. The old duty would be
good enough if they would only con-
sider it closely and follow it faith-
fully. The Rev. Mr. Berle has spo-
ken words in season; and it would
be well if all who are like minded
would unceasingly proclaim the
same doctrines, if perchance they
may sink into the heart of the
masses, and give to this great people
a public policy founded on right-
eousness and the love of peace.
A HUMILIATING SITUATION.
. "How far, O Catiline, when all
is said and done, are you going to
abuse our patience ? " So said the
great Roman orator on a certain
famous occasion. Our Catiline is
no individual man; it is the party
system which has inflicted on us
the Puerto Rican disgrace. It was
obvious to the common sense of
every one that, having laid our
hands on the island of Puerto Rico,
there was no decent course to take
save to make it, for all practical
purposes, an integral portion of the
Union. We had cut it off from the
market it enjoyed in Spain, and left
it to contend with the hostile tariffs
of other countries — were we going,
in addition to that, to make it a
stranger to the land that had seized
it, and subject its products to our
own high scale of duties? The
President, in his message to Con-
gress, conceiving the proposition to
be almost self-evident, had declared
that it was " our plain duty to abol-
ish all customs tariffs between the
United States and Puerto Rico, and
give her products free access to our
markets." So thought nearly every
disinterested citizen, and yet what
have we since seen? The President,
terrorized by the cry of party unity
in danger, repudiates his former
emphatic declaration, and gives his
approval to a measure which virtu-
ally makes our unfortunate posses-
sion a foreign country. With the
" free access to our markets " which
the President had promised, the
island would have entered on a new
career of prosperity; but with its
leading industries weighed down
under an impost of fifteen per cent,
there is nothing in view but com-
mercial stagnation and general pov-
erty. That' the island has already
languished under American rule —
our revolutionary forefathers did
not expect that their descendants
would so soon go into the " ruling "
business — the most disinterested
witnesses attest. A leading journal
of this city, The Herald, prints
in heavy-faced type the following
statement of a correspondent :
" American military officials told
me at the outset that the year and a
half of American sovereignty had
been a blight on the island. This
was not the echo of Spanish or of
Puerto Rican feelings. They spoke
their own views with soldierly frank-
ness and sometimes with a word of
regret for their own position. Their
talk was more pointed than when
filtered through official channels."
It is in these circumstances that
our Legislature, at the instance of
a benevolent President, decides to
refund to the people of the island
two million dollars of duties col-
lected in our ports on their prod-
ucts. Our tariff system breeds pov-
erty in the population it oppresses,
and then we rush to their assistance
with a largess. They ask for justice
and we offer them alms — alms for
which the correspondent already
quoted says he can not find a single
individual who is grateful. We rob
the Puerto Rican Peter to pay our
own tobacco-growing Paul; and then
we rob the whole community in order
to pay back Peter. And, strange
to say, some of us feel very virtu-
