FRAGMENTS OF SCIENCE.
ous over the business. The coun-
tenance of the President glows with
satisfaction over the thought of all
the good he is doing. For our part,
we view the matter in a different
light. The money will, of course,
meet certain expenses of govern-
ment in Puerto Rico; but there is
reason to fear that it will do as
much to pauperize the island in one
direction as the restriction of its
trade will do in another. What the
Puerto Ricans want is not alms, but
commercial liberty. The repay-
ment of this money will not stimu-
late their trade; it will not stimu-
late anything except their helpless-
ness. It is an open question wheth-
er they will suffer more by our pro-
tectionist greed or by our wishy-
washy sentimentality. Meantime
what are we to think of the party
system whose exigencies place us in
so ridiculous a position before the
world ? How long shall it abuse our
patience ?
{fragments of jiktetuje
Ventilation of Tunnels. — The ques-
tion of the ventilation of tunnels forms
the subject of a series of articles, by
M. Raymond Godfernaux, published re-
cently in he Genie Civil. The principal
sources of definite information, upon
which the discussion of M. Godfernaux
is based, are the reports of the commit-
tee on ventilation of tunnels of the
Metropolitan Railway of London, and
of the commission appointed by the
Italian Minister of Public Works to in-
vestigate the tunnels of the railways of
the department of the Adriatic. Al-
though the vitiation of the air in a tun-
nel may proceed from three sources — -
i. e., the lighting, the respiration of the
passengers, and the combustion of the
fuel in the engines — yet the two former
sources are insignificant compared with
the latter, which alone need be consid-
ered. The principal products of com-
bustion which are injurious are carbonic
acid, carbonic oxide, and sulphurous
acid. Of these it is found that the pro-
portion of carbonic oxide should not
exceed 0.01 per cent, which corresponds
to 0.13 per cent of carbonic acid in
excess of the normal proportion of 0.03
per cent and to 0.00027 per cent of sul-
phurous acid. In practice it is found
that if the total proportion of carbonic
acid be limited to 0.15 per cent the pro-
portions of the other gases will be well
within the comfort and danger limits.
This is much lower than is often at-
tained in crowded auditoriums, where
the proportion of carbonic acid some-
times reaches 0.4 to 0.5 per cent, but in
such cases there is no carbonic oxide
produced, while in the case of tunnels
traversed by steam locomotives we may
assume that the carbonic oxide will be
about 1 to 13 of the carbonic acid, and
the sulphurous acid about 1 to 440. As-
suming a given limit of deterioration of
the air, it would be easy to devise a
system of ventilation if it were possible
to treat the tunnel as if it were a closed
room or controllable space. In prac-
tice, however, the conditions are pe-
culiar. The space to be ventilated is a
long, narrow passage, usually open only
at the ends, and traversed periodically
often almost continuously, by trains in
one or both directions, these trains emit-
ting the objectionable gases and also
disturbing the air currents best adapted
to proper ventilation. How best to rec-
oncile these conflicting conditions forms
the problem under consideration. Where
' there are but few trains it has been
proposed to close the ends of the tunnel
by doors, and provide a fan exhaust or
pressure system, but this method is
obviously limited in its applications.
The practical conditions which must
be considered are those in which fre-
quent trains in opposite directions pass
through the tunnel, and these condi-
I tions M. Godfernaux has analyzed
graphically in a very interesting man-
ner. Assuming a double-track tunnel
I eight hundred metres (a metre contains
