POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY
39.37 inches) in length, with an ex-
hausting ventilator placed in the middle
and with trains of a given gas-produc-
ing capacity passing on each track every
three minutes, he constructs a diagram
showing how the composition of the at-
mosphere of the tunnel varies at suc-
cessive points, and how, by an examina-
tion of the diagram thus made, it is
possible to discover the maximum vitia-
tion of the air, and consequently the
extent to which the conditions are satis-
fied. By one or two such constructions
any such problem may be solved to a
degree quite within the limits of prac-
tical work, and the effect of various
systems of ventilation compared. M.
Godfernaux discusses various systems of
ventilation, including those involving
the use of shafts, fan blowers and ex-
hausters, and air jets, and concludes
with a description of the Saccardo sys-
tem, in use in the Apennine tunnel of
the Bologna-Pistoia line, and to the St.
Gothard Tunnel. While all this inves-
tigation and discussion is of much value,
it certainly seems as if the true remedy
lies not so much in the removal of dele-
terious gases as in the absence of their
production. The substitution of electric
traction avoids altogether the fouling of
the air of tunnels and subways, and
electric locomotives are already used in
the Baltimore Tunnel in the United
States and elsewhere, and it seems as if
this remedy is the true one to be applied
in all cases.
Liquid Air.— The following warn-
ing appears in The Engineering and
Mining Journal of March 3d: "The ad-
vertisements which are now appearing
in the papers all over the country of
companies which are to furnish liquid
air on a large scale must be accepted
with a great deal of caution. The pub-
lic mind has been very adroitly worked
up for the reception of these by lectures,
paragraphs in the press, and other
well-understood methods. Undoubtedly
liquid air possesses some valuable prop-
erties, and many striking experiments
can be performed with it. It is not by
any means certain yet that it can be
prepared, transported, and used econom-
ically on a commercial scale, or that the
difficulties in the way have been over-
come. We do not say that they may
not be overcome in the future; but to
talk, as the advertisements do, of the
certainty that liquid air will soon large-
ly replace steam in furnishing motive
power is going entirely too far. Such
assertions have no present basis of fact
to warrant any one in making them.
The liquid-air people have a great deal
to do yet before they can establish their
claims or carry on business on a scale
that will warrant the organization of
ten-million-dollar companies. The ques-
tion of validity of patents is also quite
an open one. It is doubtful if there is
any valid patent on this subject."
Taka-Diastase. — The following is
taken from an interesting article, by W.
E. Stone and H. E. Wright, in The Jour-
nal of the American Chemical Society:
" Taka-diastase is, so far as known,
somewhat similar to malt-diastase in its
chemical character, viz.: a highly ni-
trogenous substance, readily soluble in
water, and dependent upon certain con-
ditions of temperature for its maximum
activity. Its action is also affected by
alkalies and acids. It is produced as the
result of the growth of a species of
mold (Eurotinm oryzw, Ahlberg) upon
rice, maize, wheat bran, etc. For its
production, as at present practiced in
this country, wheat bran is steamed
and, after cooling, is sown with the
spores of the fungus. After twenty-four
hours in culture" rooms, at a tempera-
ture of about 25° C, the fungous growth
becomes visible. In forty or fifty hours
the content in diastatic material has
reached the maximum, and further
growth of the fungus is checked by cool-
ing. The material, now consisting of
the bran felted together with fungus
mycelium, is called ' taka-koji.' It
may be mixed with grain or starchy
materials in the same manner as malt
is used, and, like malt, will speedily
convert the starch into fermentable
sugars. An aqueous extract of the mass
may be used for a similar purpose. For
the preparation of a pure product,
which, however, is not necessary for or-
dinary industrial purposes, the aqueous
extract is concentrated by evaporation,
and on the addition of alcohol the dia-
static substance may be precipitated as
a yellowish powder, easily soluble in
water, of stable keeping qualities, and
possessed of an unusual power of con-
verting starch into sugar. The medi-
