FRAGMENTS OF SCIENCE.
103
cinal preparation above mentioned is ob-
tained in this way, and represents a
fairly pure form of the diastatic prin-
ciple. This bears the name of ' taka-
diastase.' "
Professor Agassiz's Investiga-
tions on Coral Islands. — Having
steamed and observed for twenty-five
hundred miles among the Paumotu Is-
lands, Prof. Alexander Agassiz says, in
a second letter from the Albatross Ex-
pedition, published in the American
Journal of Science, that he has seen
nothing tending to show that there has
anywhere been a subsidence, but that
the condition of the islands does not
seem to him capable of explanation on
any theory except that they have been
formed in an area of elevation. All the
islands examined are composed of a ter-
tiary coralliferous limestone, which has
been elevated to a greater or less extent
above the level of the sea, and then
planed down by atmospheric agencies
and submarine erosion, and the appear-
ance of this old rock is very different
from that of the modern reef rock. In
these islands the rims of the great
atolls, after having been denuded to the
level of the sea, are built up again from
the material of their two faces, so that
a kind of conglomerate, or breccia, or
pudding stone, or beach rock is found on
all the reef flats. On the lagoon side
sand bars grow into small islands and
gradually become covered with vegeta-
tion. Whenever the material supplied
from both sides is very abundant the
land ring becomes more or less solid;
the islets become islands, separated by
narrow or wider cuts, until they at
length form the large islands, which
seem at first to be a continuous land
around the rim of the lagoon, while
they are often really much dissected. In
time water ceases to pass through the
channels, and only the marks of them
are left. Few if any of the lagoons ap-
pear to be shut off from the sea, as Dana
and other writers have supposed. They
simply have not boat passages. Unlike
other coral regions, the Paumotu reefs
seem to bear only a scanty life.
"Winking." — No satisfactory de-
termination has been made of the reason
we wink. Some suppose that the de-
scent and return of the lid over the eye
serves to sweep or wash it off; others
that covering of the eye gives it a rest
from the labor of vision, if only for an
inappreciable instant. This view bor-
rows some force from the fact that the
record of winking is considerably used
by experimental physiologists to help
measure the fatigue which the eye suf-
fers. In another line of investigation
Herr S. Garten has attempted to meas-
ure the length of time occupied by the
different phases of a wink. He used a
specially arranged photographic appa-
ratus, and affixed a piece of white paper
to the edge of the eyelid for a mark.
He found that the lid descends quickly,
and rests a little at the bottom of its
movement, after which it rises, but
more slowly than it fell. The mean du-
ration of the downward movement was
from seventy-five to ninety-one thou-
sandths of a second; the rest with the
eye shut lasted variously, the shortest
durations being fifteen hundredths of a
second with one subject and seventeen
hundredths with another; and the third
phase of the wink, the rising of the lid,
took seventeen hundredths of a second
more, making the entire duration of the
wink about forty hundredths, or four
tenths of a second. The interruption is
not long enough to interfere with distinct
vision. M. V. Henri says, in L'Annee
Psychologique, that different persons
wink differently — some often, others
rarely; some in groups of ten or so at
a time, when they rest a while; and
others regularly, once only at a time.
The movement is modified by the degree
of attention. Periods of close interest,
when we wink hardly at all, may be fol-
lowed by a speedy making up for lost
time by rapid winking when the tension
is relieved.
An Ingenious Method of Locat-
ing an Obstruction.- — The Engineer-
ing Record gives the following interest-
ing account of the scientific solving of
a practical commercial problem : " The
pneumatic dispatch tube for the deliv-
ery of mail between the main Philadel-
phia post office and a branch office at
Chestnut and Third Streets is a cast-
iron pipe buried below the surface of
the street, and in it small cylindrical
carriers, six inches in diameter, are pro-
pelled from end to end by air pressure.
At one time a carrier became lodged at
