104
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
some unknown point in the tube, and to
remove the obstruction it was desirable
to locate its position as closely as pos-
sible before digging down to the pipe.
This was satisfactorily accomplished by
firing a pistol at one end of the tube;
its report was echoed from the obstruc-
tion, and indicated its position by the
time required for the transmission of
the sound. The pistol was fired in a
hole in the side of the pneumatic tube
near the end, which was capped and
had a rubber-hose connection to the re-
cording apparatus. The end of the rub-
ber hose terminated in a chamber closed
by a diaphragm about five inches in
diameter, which had a stylus attached
to it. A cock in the middle of the rub-
ber hose was partly closed to reduce the
force of the explosion on the diaphragm,
and the pistol was fired. The sound-
wave immediately produced a move-
ment of the diaphragm, causing the sty-
lus to make a mark on the record dia-
gram. The hose cock was then fully
opened, and when the sound-wave had
traveled to the obstruction and been re-
flected back it again moved the dia-
phragm, and caused the stylus to make
a second mark on the diagram. The
lapse of time had been automatically
recorded on the same diagram, so to
determine the distance it was only
necessary to note the exact interval of
time between the direct and reflected re-
ports, divide it by two, and multiply the
quotient by the velocity of sound under
the existing conditions." The obstruc-
tion was indicated at 1,537 feet from
the diaphragm. Excavations were made
at this place, and the carrier was found
nearly at the calculated point. The
limits of distance at which this method
is applicable have not yet been deter-
mined, but Mr. Batcheller, the engineer
of the Pneumatic Tube Company and
the deviser of the above ingenious ex-
pedient, has found that in a tube 43.3
inches in diameter a pistol shot will
vibrate a sensitive diaphragm at a dis-
tance of 65,129 feet; decreasing the di-
ameter of the tube decreases the dis-
tance over which the pistol shot will act.
Diseased Meat in Paris.— The po-
lice of Paris, says the Lancet, have just
laid hands on a vast fraudulent organi-
zation for evading the precautionary
measures drawn up by the authorities
for inspecting the meat distributed for
consumption in the suburbs of Paris.
Both for Paris and the suburbs all ani-
mals destined for food have to be killed
in public slaughterhouses, where the
strictest watch is kept by the municipal
veterinary surgeons, who forbid the de-
livery to the butchers of any meat
which exhibits the slightest suspicious
signs. Elaborate regulations have been
laid down as to the various diseases
which render meat unfit for the food of
man, and naturally enough tuberculosis
is the complaint most rigorously watched
for. The swindlers who have been ar-
rested made up a vast organization
which used to buy up from the farms of
the eastern provinces and even in Ger-
many such animals as, owing to disease,
would have been refused for slaughter
at the abattoirs, and, moreover, they
bought them dirt cheap. These animals
were then conveyed in regular herds to
a small place near Paris and killed in
sheds built at the bottom of an old
quarry. Under cover of night the meat
was taken away by the accomplice
butchers and resold in the various sub-
urban shops. In connection with this
clandestine slaughterhouse the firm had
a kind of cemetery, where those animals
were buried the meat of which was too
bad for even the swindlers to risk its sale
in the market. Ivry was the place where
the fraud was discovered, and the offi-
cial inquiry shows that the organiza-
tion was singularly complete. It is ex-
traordinary that the slaughterhouse,
which was in full work, should never
have attracted the attention of the vil-
lagers, but it must be remembered that
all killing was done by night and that
the slaughtermen were all Germans who
did not understand a word of French,
and were therefore unable to engage in
imprudent conversation with the neigh-
bors.
How Aluminum is made. — In a
paper read before the Manchester Junior
Electrical Engineers, J. H. Henderson
describes the two commercial methods
of making aluminum: The agent which
has made aluminum a commercial prod-
uct is electricity. This is how electroly-
sis produces it (by one successful meth-
od) : In a metal, carbon-lined crucible
having two carbon electrodes, one of
which acts as anode and the other as
