FRAGMENTS OF SCIENCE.
107
races against which prejudice is strong,
and the growing habit of parents ex-
pecting their children to be restored to
them when their services become profit-
able. Placing out street waifs and
neglected and dependent children in the
homes of private families, the report
says, has been sadly abused. The deg-
radation and moral corruption of the
condition of such children are apt to
make them so refractory and unsuscep-
tible to the wholesome influences of
family life that an abrupt transfer is
liable to be attended with failure and
disaster. The children should therefore
be previously brought under the re-
straining and reformatory influences of
a training school. At the best, a plac-
ing-out work can not be exempt from
serious contingencies. " The second dec-
ade, the adolescent age, under most fa-
vorable conditions, is the period when
the will is apt to be wholly dominated
by the emotions, and unless the environ-
ment is peculiarly favorable, guardian-
ship becomes a difficult function. With
an indenturing system that prolongs
the term of apprenticeship for boys
throughout their minority, both appren-
tice and guardian must possess an ex-
traordinary measure of amiable quali-
ties to insure a continuance of their
relation through an extended period."
When the boy is old enough to earn
wages from strangers the temptation to
leave and go out for hire is very strong,
and must be met by a corresponding
degree of tact and liberality; and even
when interests are happily adjusted " a
placing-out system ought to take ac-
count of the tastes and aptitudes of
young people, and leave the way open
for the deserving at a suitable age to
start upon a new career.*'
Animals Helping One Another.
— While the ruminant animals as a rule
do not seem to have made any fur-
ther advance toward forming communal
groups than to post sentinels while pas-
turing together, a few marked cases are
found in which a division of labor and
some system of assistance seem to have
been given effect. One such instance is
cited in the London Spectator as having
been observed by Lord Lovat in the
Highland deer, where large stags have
smaller stags to attend them and serve
them very much as the English school
bully is attended and served by his fag.
Lord Lovat tells another story of com-
passion manifested and help afforded by
a stag to a younger animal. Of three
stags on the move, two jumped the wire
fence, and the third, a two-year-old,
halted and would not venture the leap.
The two waited for some time while the
little fellow ran along the fence, till the
larger of them came back to coax
him, and " actually kissed him several
times." Finally, the animal gave up and
went on, after which the little stag took
courage and made the jump. The so-
cial organization is very far advanced
with the beavers, and is quite elaborate
with the rabbits, which excavate com-
mon and interlacing burrows, and with
insects like ants and bees.
Geological Formations and For-
ests in New Jersey. — From a study of
the relation between forestry and geol-
ogy in New Jersey, Arthur Hollick finds
that two distinctly defined forest zones
have long been recognized in the State
— a deciduous and a coniferous — the
contrast between the two being so ob-
vious as to attract the attention even
of superficial observers. While the de-
ciduous zone is roughly confined to the
northern part of the State and the co-
niferous to the southern part, yet when
the line of demarcation is carefully fol-
lowed up across the State and beyond
its confines it is found not to coincide
with any parallel of latitude or isother-
mal line, and not to be entirely depend-
ent either on topography or the physi-
ographic conditions. " If, however, a
geological map of the region be ex-
amined, the line of demarcation between
the two zones will be found to follow
the trend of the geologic formations
whose outcrops extend in a northeast
direction across the State and south-
ward beyond. A coincidence was sug-
gested, and it became more apparent, as
the investigations proceeded, that the
two classes of angiosperms and gymno-
sperms were severally identified with
certain geological formations, and also
that the distribution of many species
within each of the zones was capable
of. being similarly associated, and their
limits of being more or less accurately
defined. The deciduous zone is roughly
located as lying north of a line between
Woodbridge and Trenton, and the conif-
