io8
POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
erous zone as being south of a line be-
tween Eatontown and Salem. Between
these two lines is an area about sixteen
miles wide where these zones overlap,
which the author calls the " tension
zone," because a constant state of strain
or tension in the struggle for existence
prevails in it. In the deciduous zone
the geological formations are numerous,
with various soils and every gradation
of topography, and the diversity of trees
is great. Its southern line is cotermi-
nous with the southern edge of the Tri-
assic formation. The coniferous zone
presents but little diversity in geology
or topography, and little variety of
trees. Its northern border is cotermi-
nous with the northern border of Ter-
tiary gravels, sands, and sandy clays.
The " tension zone " includes practically
the whole of the Cretaceous plastic
clays, and the clay-marls and marls.
MINOR PARAGRAPHS.
A conference was appointed, to be
held at Wiesbaden, Germany, October
9th and 10th, to promote the formation
of an International Federation of Sci-
ence — a scheme which was referred to
in Sir Michael Foster's presidential ad-
dress before the British Association.
This idea for the establishment of an in-
ternational association of great learned
societies appears, the London Athe-
naeum says, to be the outcome of dis-
cussions carried on at Gottingen in 1898.
For some time past the Academies of
Vienna, Munich, Gottingen, and Leipsic
have been federated into an association
or " Castell," each meeting in turn at
their respective headquarters to talk
over scientific matters of joint interest.
At two or three recent meetings ques-
tions were brought up, such as antarctic
research and the cataloguing of scientific
literature, which, besides being of suffi-
cient interacademic value to come before
the " Castell," were of prime importance
to English men of science. English dele-
gates were therefore invited to attend,
and did so; and out of this invitation
has grown a desire for a wider interna-
tional basis for the association. The
adherence of the principal learned socie-
ties of the world, including our National
Academy, is said to have been secured
to the movement.
The thirteenth season of the De-
partment of Botany at the Marine Bio-
logical Laboratory, Woods Holl, Mass..
will open July 5th and continue till
August ICth. Three laboratory courses
are provided, accompanied by lectures,
including the subjects of cryptogamic
botany, plant physiology, and plant
cytology and micro-technique. The
principal instructors are Dr. Bradley
R. Davis, Mr, George T. Moore, and Dr.
Rodney H. True. The department ex-
tends a special welcome to investigators,
and desires their co-operation in the de-
velopment of the laboratory. Woods
Holl offers great attractions in variety
of material and facilities for biological
research, and is proposed as an excel-
lent center of resort where the botanists
of the country may meet for a few
weeks. A six weeks' course in Nature
study, including both animals and
plants, and consisting largely of field
work, is a new feature offered this year
for the first time.
On Friday, March 9th, occurred the
death of two of the six surviving
founders of the American Association
for the Advancement of Science — Dr.
Charles E. West, of Brooklyn, and
Professor Oliver Payson Hubbard, of
Manhattan. Both were distinguished
teachers. Dr. West was born in Wash-
ington, Mass., in 1809, and after being
graduated from Union College, began
his career as a teacher in the Albany
Female Academy. He was afterward
principal of the Rutgers Female Insti-
tute, the Buffalo Female Seminary, and
the Brooklyn Heights Seminary, where
lie remained twenty-nine years. He
also assisted in preparing the original
courses of instruction of Vassar Female
College. He was one of the founders of
the Long Island Historical Society; was
a fellow of the Royal Antiquarian So-
ciety of Denmark ; and was a member of
the American Ethnological, the Ameri-
can Philosophical, and the New York
and the Long Island Historical Societies.
Professor Hubbard was born at Pom-
fret, Conn., in 1809, was graduated from
Yale College in 1828, and was appointed
Professor of Chemistry, Pharmacy, and
Mineralogy at Dartmouth College in
