FRAGMENTS OF SCIENCE
109
1836. He remained there, with an in-
terval, from 1866 till 1871, in which he
devoted himself to lecturing, till 1S83,
when he became professor emeritus.
He was made in 1871 overseer of the
Thayer School of Engineering at Dart-
mouth, and he was a member of the
New Hampshire Legislature in 1863 and
1864. Only four of the founders of the
American Association are now living —
namely, Dr. Martin H. Boye, of Coopers-
town, Pa.; Prof. Walcott Gibbs, of
Harvard; Dr. Samuel L. Abbot; and
Epes Dixwell.
The firm of Burroughs, Wellcome &
Co., says the Lancet, are to be con-
gratulated on the generous care which
they have taken to promote the mate-
rial and intellectual welfare of their em-
ployees. Their principal works are at
Dartford, where they employ more than
eight hundred persons of both sexes,
including some two hundred scientific
workers. For the purpose of establish-
ing a sort of club for these employees,
Mr. Wellcome succeeded in purchasing
the Manor House known as Acacia Hall,
and the extensive and beautiful grounds
in which it is situated. The Manor
House he has fitted up as a club for the
members of his staff. An old mill which
stands close by has been converted into
what is called the library building. The
upper floor is fitted out as a lecture-
room, and there is a library which al-
ready contains some thousands of vol-
umes. A third building, called the
Tower House, contains club accommoda-
tions for men. Then there are elaborate
bathrooms, and finally a large gymna-
sium. The grounds are most extensive,
being half a mile in length and very
tastefully laid out. There is a lake, a
river, and many pleasure boats for row-
ing, a large field for sports of all sorts,
a grand stand to witness the same, a
rich orchard and a beautiful pleasure
garden, several luxurious lawns, and
many superb trees.
A peculiar kind of glassy bodies,
known as moldavite or bouteillenstein,
is attracting the attention of Austrian
and Bohemian geologists. These glasses
are ovals from an inch to an inch and a
half long, and are characterized by vari-
ous markings, some of which suggest
finger impressions, while others form a
network of furrows, which may have in
part a rough radial arrangement. They
have been regarded by some authors as
relies of prehistoric glass manufacture,
but this view does not appear to have
been sustained. Dr. F. E. Suess, the fa-
mous Austrian geologist, finds resem-
blances between them and meteorites,
and the most general disposition of stu-
dents of the subject is now to consider
them of extra-terrestrial origin. Resem-
blances have further been pointed out
between them and some peculiar obsid-
ian bombs found in Australia. The mol-
davites in Bohemia occur in sandy de-
posits which are assigned to the late
Tertiary or early Diluvial period.
At the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, besides studies bearing di-
rectly on science and the arts, courses
are given in modern languages, as an
important means of access to foreign
works in the student's professional de-
partment: English, for the purpose of
training pupils to express themselves
readily, accurately, and adequately, and
of aiding them in the understanding
and appreciation of good literature; his-
tory and political and social science, the
instruction in which is arranged to con-
nect with that in biology, so that the
two departments shall present " an un-
broken sequence of related studies ex-
tending through three successive years,
and resting upon the fundamental
knowledge of living forms and of pre-
historic man that is presented in gen-
eral biology, zoology, and anthropol-
ogy," followed by comparative politics
and international law; and economics.
A witness recently admitted to the
British Government's Committee now
making inquiry into the use of color-
ing matters and preservatives in food,
that yellow coloring substances were
largely purchased without any discrim-
ination for the purpose of giving a rich
appearance to milk and milk products.
As a rule, no question was asked as to
the injurious or non-injurious charac-
ter of the dye so used. One of the best
coloring matters was known as Mar-
tius's yellow, naphthol yellow, naph-
thalene yellow, Manchester yellow, saf-
fron yellow, or golden yellow, and is
chemically the same as the dinitro-
alpha-naphthol prepared from the naph-
thalene that crystallizes in gas mains,
which is an important constituent in
