POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
the making of lyddite. It is slightly ex-
plosive when heated, is injurious when
it comes in contact with an abrasion
of the skin, and has been shown by
physiological experiments to be a highly
improper substance to mix with food.
A goose market is held regularly in
October at Warsaw, Poland, to which
about three million geese are brought,
most of them to be exported to Ger-
many. Often coming from remote prov-
inces, many of these geese have to travel
over long distances, upon roads which
would wear out their feet if they were
not " shod." For this purpose they are
driven first through tar poured upon
the ground, and then through sand.
After the operation has been repeated
several times the feet of the geese be-
come covered with a hard crust that
effectively protects them.
NOTES.
The first summer session of Colum-
bia University, 1900, will open July 2d,
instruction beginning July 5th, and
will continue till August 10th. The
work will be under the general direction
of Prof. Nicholas Murray Butler, and
will be conducted by a large corps of
instructors, in eleven courses, of thirty
lectures or other exercises or their
equivalent in laboratory or field work,
each. The concluding examinations
will be held August 9th and 10th.
Credits will be given for courses pur-
sued at the school in the requirements
for a degree at the university, and for
a Teachers' College diploma, and in the
examinations for teachers' licenses in
New York city.
An International Congress of Medi-
cal Electrology and Radiology has been
connected with the International Con-
gress system of the Paris Exposition,
1900, and will be held July 27th to
August 1st. The commission is com-
posed of representative men from vari-
ous universities, institutions, and hos-
pitals of France, with Prof. E. Doumer,
57 Rue Nicolas Leblanc, Lille, as sec-
retary.
A CUKious fall of " black snow,"
which was observed at Molding, Aus-
tria, at the beginning of the year, was
found to consist largely of the insects
known as "glacier fleas," which were
supposed to have come along with a
violent snowstorm from some of the Al-
pine glaciers.
How to write 1900 in Roman numer-
als is a question of the day that will
have to be settled. Three ways are sug-
gested by Mr. J. Fletcher Little in the
London Times, either of which is cor-
rect according to the Roman system.
They are MDCCCC, MDCD, and MCM.
But when we reach the year 1988, if we
use the first of these methods we shall
have to write the formidable-looking
formula MDCCCCLXXXVIII, whereas
if we use the third and shortest method,
it will only be MCMLXXXVIII— and
that is long enough. The third method,
therefore, which may be interpreted as
meaning one thousand plus another
thousand lacking a hundred, seems to
be the simplest.
Dr. St. George Mivart, Professor
of Biology in University College, Ken-
sington, died suddenly in London, April
1st, aged seventy-two years. He was
author of numerous scientific works, of
treatises critical of Darwinism and the
theory of evolution, and of demonstra-
tions of the harmony of Roman Cath-
olic dogma with proved scientific facts.
His name has been made prominent of
late by his recantation of his previously
expressed views of the consistency of
dogma with science, and the corre-
spondence with Cardinal Vaughan
which grew out of it.
An International Congress of Eth-
nographical societies has been arranged
for by the Ethnographic Society of
Paris, to be held in Paris, August 26th
to September 1st.
The Wollaston medal of the Royal
Geological Society, London, for the
most important geological discoveries,
has this year been awarded to Mr.
Grove K. Gilbert, of the United States
Geological Survey. This is the third
time the medal has been awarded to a
citizen of this country.
Among the recently announced pub-
lications of John Wiley and Sons we
notice a third edition, revised and en-
larged, of Allen Hazen's Filtration of
Public Water Supplies; a new and re-
vised edition of Olof's Text-book of
Physiological Chemistry; The Cost of
Living as Modified by Sanitary Science,
