FRAGMENTS OF SC1FNCE.
by Ellen H. Richards; Examination of
Water (Chemical and Biological), by
William P. Mason; and the fifth edition
of H. Van F. Furman's Manual of
Practical Assaying.
In a method of sterilization of water
by means of ozone, described by Dr.
Weyl, of Berlin, at the German Scien-
tific Conference, 1899, water is pumped
to the top of a tower and allowed to
flow freely over stones, meeting as it
falls a current of air charged with
ozone. The process appears to be like-
wise effectual in purifying peat and bog
water, the solution of the iron salts of
humic acid being decomposed and oxi-
dized, and the brown color disappearing
in consequence. The method, it is said,
can be advantageously used in connec-
tion with filter beds.
Our death list this month of men
known in science is large. It in-
cludes the names of M. Philippe Sal-
mon, archaeologist, subdirector of l'Ecole
d'Anthropologie of Paris, President
of the Ministry of Public- Instruc-
tion's Commission on Megalithic Monu-
ments and author of numerous mono-
graphs on subjects of his studies, in
Paris, aged seventy-six years; Dr.
C. T. R. Luther, director of the Observa-
tory at Bilk, near Dusseldorf, aged sev-
enty-eight years. He discovered twen-
ty-one of the minor planets and calcu-
lated the orbits of them all, as well as
those of several other bodies; Dr. C.
Piazzi Smith, formerly Astronomer
Royal of Scotland, author of studies of
the amount of heat given by the moon
to the earth, and of some famous specu-
lations upon the construction and pur-
poses of the Great Pyramid as an ex-
ponent of the standard of measure-
ment, February 21st, aged eighty-one
years; M. Fmiile Blanchard, dean of the
section of Anatomy and Physiology of
the French Academy of Sciences; Cap-
tain Bernadieres, member of the French
Bureau des Longitudes and Director of
the Observatory School of Montsouri for
Officers of the Marine, who had fulfilled
several astronomical and geodesic com-
missions ; Dr. Hermann Schaeffer, hon-
orary professor of Mathematics and
Physics at Jena, aged seventy-six
years; Leander J. McCormick, founder
of the McCormick Observatory at the
University of Virginia; President
James H. Smart, of Purdue University,
Lafayette, Ind.; General A. A. Tillo,
Vice-President of the Russian Geo-
graphical Society, founder of an exact
physical geography of Russia, based on
scientific data, and of many contribu-
tions on the science, at St. Petersburg,
January 11th, aged sixty years; Prof.
E. Beltrami, of the University of Rome
(Mathematical Physics), President of
the Accademia dei Lincei, and corre-
spondent of the Paris Academy of Sci-
ences; M. Emmanuel Liais, Mayor of
Cherbourg, France, also distinguished
for useful and very meritorious work in
Astronomy and Physics, aged seventy-
four years; Dr. Hans Bruno, Professor
of Mineralogy and Geology in the Uni-
versity of Dresden, Saxony, distin-
guished for his investigations of the
Paleozoic, Cretaceous, and Permian
rocks of Saxony, at Dresden, January
28th, aged eighty-five years; and Wil-
liam Thorpe, one of the Vice-Presidents
of the Society of Chemical Industry.
PUBLICATIONS EECEIVED.
Agricultural Experiment Stations.
Bulletins and Reports. Indiana (Pur-
due University). Twelfth Annual Re-
port. Pp. 150. — Michigan. Monthly
Bulletin of Vital Statistics, January,
1900. Pp. 18.— New Jersey: Bulletin
No. 141. Forcing Tomatoes. By Alva
T. Jordan. Pp. 18; No. 142. Pea-
Growing in New Jersey. By Alva T.
Jordan. Pp. 14. — New York: No. 162
(popular edition). Injury by Sun
Scorching of Foliage. By F. H. Hale
and F. C. Stewart. Pp. 6; No. 163
(popular edition). Canker, an Enemy
of the Apple. By F. H. Hall and Wen-
dell Paddock. Pp. 6; No. 164 (popular
edition). Divers Diseases discussed. By
F. H. Hall. Pp. 5; No. 165. Report of
Analyses of Paris Green and other In-
secticides. By L. L. Van Slyke. Pp. 10.
—Ohio: No. 10. The Maintenance of
Fertility. By C. E. Thorne. Pp. 91 —
United States Department of Agricul-
ture Comparative Range Grass and For-
age Plant Experiments at Highmore,
South Dakota. By F. Lampson Scrib-
ner. Pp. 10. — List of Publications for
Sale by the Superintendent of Docu-
