PREVENTIVE INOCULATION. 117
in them was infectious to others, and unprotected persons coming in
contact with the inoculated were likely to get infected from them. The
latter result was largely avoided by the practice adopted by the Brah-
nians of inoculating all the inhabitants of a family or village at the
same time. The benefits secured under the above precautions were
considered far to outweigh the risks of inoculation.
With the extension of smallpox westward the system of artificial
protection spread toward Europe through the intermediary of travelers
and merchants. The Arabs and Turks appreciated its benefits at an
early date. The slave dealers supplying the bazaars and harems
of Constantinople adopted the system to protect against disfigurement
their Circassian and other live stock. In the early part of the eight-
eenth century the method was made known to the English practitioners
by Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, the wife of the English ambassador at
Constantinople, who had her two children inoculated according to the
Turkish system. Curiously enough, it was soon afterward discovered
that a similar method was in practice among the peasants of some of
the districts in Wales and the Highlands of Scotland, and had long
been known there as 'buying the smallpox.' When inoculation was
given a more extensive trial it was found, in England as in the East,
that the effect of it was decidedly beneficial, but fraught with danger.
At first one in every fifty of those operated upon succumbed to the
consequences of inoculation. By improved methods the mortality was
gradually reduced to one in a thousand; but the most serious danger lay
in the spread of infection to healthy persons. The precaution of inocu-
lating whole groups of inhabitants at one time, or of keeping the in-
oculated apart from the healthy, as had been practiced by the Brahmans
ages ago, was overlooked, and the result was often disastrous to the
community.
It was at this time that Jenner achieved great progress and threw
a vast amount of new light on the question. As is well known, he
started from a belief that existed in the west of England, that cowpox
was a bovine form of smallpox, and that the milkers who attended on
cows suffering from that disease and who became infected with the
eruptions on the teats and udders, passed through a mild illness, which
rendered them immune against smallpox. Jenner determined to put
this tradition to the test, and succeeded in establishing, by a few accu-
rate and well-planned experiments, a series of most important facts.
He showed, first, that cowpox could be artificially given to the
cow by infecting it with virus from a smallpox patient, and that the
disease thus produced was transferable by inoculation from cow to cow.
He showed further, that by having been bred in the tissues of the
cow, the virus lost its intense infective properties for man. When
