PREVENTIVE INOCULATION. 119
period during which the protective effect of vaccination lasts extends
over from three to seven years.
Vaccination very rapidJy displaced inoculation, and spread to every
part of the civilized world. The results have been dwelt upon in
innumerable books and pamphlets. At present great outbreaks of
smallpox have become very rare, at least in the civilized part of the
world, and there is a tendency to forget or ignore the devastations they
used to cause.
The first successful attempt in extending the system of inoculation
to other diseases was made only after the discovery of the fact that
'infection' is caused by living animal or vegetable parasites, capable in
the majority of cases of being cultivated and bred in artificial media
outside the animal body. Pasteur found that he was able to effect pro-
tection against disease similar to vaccination against smallpox by the
use of such artificially bred micro-organisms.
It may be interesting to relate that this important discovery was
made unintentionally, and represents one of those happy 'accidents'
which occur to those who diligently search. Pasteur had been working
with cultures of chicken-cholera microbes, an extremely fatal form
of virus when it is introduced into fowls and small birds. It so hap-
pened that one of his cultures was left forgotten in the incubator
when work was stopped for the vacation. On the return of Pasteur and
his assistants the experiments were continued. When the bottle was
discovered, thinking that the microbes might have been exhausted
or dead from long starvation, Pasteur tried to make what is called a
fresh culture of them, by inseminating a sample from the old bottle into
a freshly prepared nutritious broth. The microbes were not dead, and
multiplied and grew luxuriantly; but when they were injected into a
fowl they caused only a transient and non-fatal disease. To make a
fresh start, Pasteur took some old blood, which he had drawn a
long time previously from a chicken-cholera fowl and preserved in a
cupboard in the laboratory in a sealed-up tube, and made a culture with
the material that was in that tube. The culture thus obtained killed
fresh fowls as usual, but when it was injected into the bird that had
resisted the first culture it resisted this injection also. Pasteur, who
excelled all men I ever knew in his ability of quickly analyzing and
discerning true connections between facts, required no further hints.
Others might perhaps have dwelt on the peculiarity of the fowl that
happened to resist the injections, or on some other circumstances.
Pasteur relinquished this and other suggestions at once, and thought
of the microbe. The fact that old specimens of microbes may
become impotent when injected into animals was known to him,
and was readily explained by the vitality of such microbes being lowered
