J 20 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
or exhausted by starvation. But, then, such a microbe when trans-
ferred into a fresh medium, if not dead, generally regains its vigor, and
after that, when inoculated into an animal, it produces its usual effect.
The remarkable circumstance about the culture left in the incubator
was that even when it was transferred into a fresh medium and its
vitality renewed, it remained still impotent. Pasteur concluded from
this that an infectious microbe possesses two distinct properties: one,
which it shares with .any other living being — viz., vitality — which may
be weakened or strengthened according to the conditions of life and
food; and another, which he considered as its 'virulence/ its power of
causing diseases, which may be also weakened or strengthened by special
means, but which is quite independent of 'vitality.'
The lucidity of thought of which Pasteur made proof on this occa-
sion was magnificent. Later researches confirmed and explained these
facts with a singular completeness, and now the idea, as is always the
case, looks simple and self-evident. One must remember that at that
time Pasteur had every reason to believe that disease is caused by the
mere fact of a foreign micro-organism of a given species penetrating and
settling down to live in the system of a man or animal. Its capability
of living there, i. e., its vital properties, seemed all that was necessary
for causing disease. It was only later that it was found that pathogenic
microbes cause diseases by producing so-called toxines or poisonous
substances distinct from their own bodies and separable from them.
The process may be illustrated by a comparison, for instance, with a
cobra or any other animal producing a special venom. By starvation
or some other treatment the vitality of the cobra may be temporarily
weakened. When it obtains fresh food again and gets generally in good
condition, it recovers, without its ability of producing venom having
been in any way impaired. On the other hand, a snake may be by an
operation deprived of its fangs and power of secreting poison without
its health and strength being in the least affected. Pasteur at once
asserted that in a similar way it was possible by starvation to weaken a
breed of microbes without their virulence being diminished, and, on the
other hand, to deprive them of their power of producing disease without
impairing their vitality, though what the above power consisted in he
did not know. He called the latter result attenuation of a virus. An
attenuated virus in his meaning is therefore a special breed of patho-
genic microbes which can be maintained, by suitable breeding, in best
conditions of health, but which has lost either partially or entirely its
power of producing poison and disease.
Pasteur extracted from the few experiments related above a further
most-important conclusion — viz., that such an attenuation was due to
and could be produced artificially by the effect of oxidation. This he
deduced from the fact that the microbes in the sealed-up tube had not
