PREVENTIVE INOCULATION. 121
lost their virulence, while those forgotten in the open bottle in the
incubator and exposed to the access of air had done so. Oxidation
proved indeed to be one of the most general methods of artificially pro-
ducing attenuated virus, to which method later on were added others —
the effect of light, of chemicals, of passage through certain animals, etc.
And, of course, the last and crowning conclusion was that an ordi-
nary, susceptible fowl that has undergone the injection with an at-
tenuated culture becomes immune against a culture which kills other
fowls; and that conclusion, in the particular circumstances under which
Pasteur was working, proved to be true.
Pursuing the new line of research, Pasteur demonstrated that a
protection similar to that obtained against smallpox and chicken cholera
could be secured also against anthrax, a disease which, by the destruc-
tion it caused among sheep and cattle, was entailing heavy loss on the
farmers of France. After a long series of experiments he prepared
two specimens of virus, different in strength, but both weaker than the
natural contagion, and worked out the proportions in which sheep,
horses and cows could be safely injected first with the weakest virus and
then with the virus of the somewhat greater strength, after which
they became capable of withstanding the strongest anthrax infection.
In honor of Jenner, who was the first to discover the way of pre-
paring a virus of a fixed strength safe to be used for the preventive
treatment of men, Pasteur proposed that all such artificially bred, so
to say, domesticated forms of microbes be called vaccines, while the
word virus be reserved for a contagion growing in nature in a natural
condition, or taken direct from an infected individual. The French
distinguish between 'vaccin,' which is used as a generic term in
Pasteur's sense, and 'vaccine,' which name they reserve for smallpox
vaccinia lymph. The word 'vaccination' has been also extended to desig-
nate inoculation with artificially vaccinized virus, while the word 'inoc-
ulation' is used for the injection of a natural, not vaccinated virus,
taken direct from a patient. The latter distinction is, however, not
yet strictly maintained in English literature, nor in the subsequent
pages of this paper.
Pasteur gave a memorable demonstration of the efficiency of his
method of anthrax vaccination. At Pouilly-le-Fort, in the midst
of an assemblage of scientists, delegates of agricultural societies, gov-
ernment officials, landlords, farmers and representatives of the press,
he performed the following experiment: Sixty sheep were taken; ten of
these were put aside, twenty-five were vaccinated with the two atten-
uated anthrax vaccines at an interval of twelve days, and twenty-five
were left untouched. Twelve days afterward the two groups of twenty-
five sheep were inoculated with virulent anthrax; and the result was
that at the next visit the twentv-five unvaccinated and one vaccinated
