[22 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
pregnanl female were found dead, while twenty-four out of the twenty-
five that had been vaccinated wore perfectly well, and exhibited during
the whole lime iliev were kept under observation the same degree of
health as the ten sheep that had. been put aside for comparison.
An impetus was given by these discoveries to researches having for
their object the protection of men against infectious diseases. The
most important of these researches was Pasteur's own into the nature
of hydrophobia and rabies, and the way of inoculating against that
disease. This was followed a few years later by the preparation of a
prophylactic against cholera.
Inoculation against hydrophobia was rendered possible by the dis-
covery of the fact that the rabies or hydrophobia virus is found in
a pure condition, free from other microbes, in the nervous centers of
animals. The material for inoculation is prepared from such nervous
matter, the virulence of which is rendered fixe, as will be mentioned
below.
The cholera microbe, which was subsequently named comma bacillus,
was discovered by Koch in- 1883, in the intestinal contents of cholera
patients. Two years later cholera broke out in Spain, and Dr. James
Ferran, a Spanish physician, began inoculating men with living cultures
of comma bacillus taken from patients attacked with the disease. The
procedure in its essential features corresponded to the pre-Jenner
method of inoculation. The failure to fix the strength of the virus
used for treatment rendered the method subject to the same un-
certainty as thai which was connected with inoculation with small-
pox virus taken direct from patients. It was impossible to predict the
effect of the injections. Comma bacilli taken from cholera patients
may, under cultivation, show themselves extremely virulent, or, on the
contrary, extremely mild. There are specimens which, when injected
into a Guinea pig, even in an insignificant dose, will prove fatal to it,
and there are others which will appear harmless when given in a dose
seventy times greater. The immediate effect, and the protection caused
by the inoculation, must, of course, vary accordingly. The attempt
made by Ferran caused great interest, and a number of scientific com-
missions were sent to Spain from different countries of Europe to
study the results of his work. They could, however, come to no con-
clusion, and the treatment speedily lost its position. Only some seven
years later a method was found of fixing the strength of the cholera
virus. I was connected with this stage of the work, and it may per-
haps present some interesl to the reader to relate the way in which
the problem was solved, and to show how gradual is the development
of ideas by which results in laboratory investigation are arrived at.
It has been mentioned already that the virulence of microbes changes
