PREVENTIVE INOCULATION. 123
under the influence of different agents in Nature — heat, light, chem-
icals. When a virus is first obtained from a patient or outside a patient
its preceding history, its antecedents, the conditions under which it
lived before, are extremely variable. Jenner's method of cultivating
the smallpox virus by transferring it from calf to calf secured for that
virus uniform conditions of life, and its strength could thus be main-
tained unchanged for an indefinite length of time. Pasteur, in the
preparation of hydrophobia vaccine, followed the same plan, and found
in the successive inoculation from rabbit to rabbit a method of propa-
gating the hydrophobia virus in a uniform condition. But attempts
made to cultivate in a similar way the comma bacillus by transferring it
from animal to animal failed.
The most susceptible animals for the cholera microbe are Guinea
pigs. There are two principal methods of ingrafting upon them the
virus: Koch's method of administering it through the mouth and
leaving it to develop in the intestines of the animal, and Pfeiffer's of
injecting it, not into the intestines, but into the abdominal or peri-
toneal cavity, where the intestines are lodged, by introducing there the
virus with a hypodermic needle not allowed to penetrate into the intes-
tines themselves. But by neither of these methods could the microbe
be cultivated in an unbroken series of animals, as it became gradually
weakened and soon lost its power of affecting such animals. For the
purpose in question, cultivation in the peritoneal cavity had the advan-
tage that in a healthy individual the peritoneum is free from other
microbes, whereas in the intestines there are always present a large
number of micro-organisms which interfere in variable ways with the
growth of the particular microbes.
But when one inoculates the peritoneal cavity of a Guinea pig
with a dose of cholera microbes sufficient to cause a fatal dis-
ease, it is found, when the animal dies, that the microbes have died
also. Thus, the attempt to ingraft the virus from a first animal to a
subsequent one is checked at the very beginning. This initial diffi-
culty was overcome by merely giving to the first animal a dose larger
than was necessary to cause a fatal effect. The animal then suc-
cumbs more rapidly, and the microbes have no time to disappear. At
the post-mortem examination there is found, in the peritoneal cavity, a
small amount of exudate liquid which contains large numbers of those
microbes alive. When, however, that exudate is injected into the peri-
toneal cavity of a second animal that animal does not succumb to the
infection, or even if it succumbs one finds that the microbes have again
disappeared in this second animal. By starting with % a still larger
initial dose one may have three, perhaps four, successive animals affected
by the virus, but it invariably ends by being weakened, and finally
dies out.
